

DXSWAB 7 S —SUPERB OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
mm
mmm
MS
We
Advance Money
ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
ON
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS and LOWEST INTEREST.
'' NS W- MONT DE PIETE D6l C? IT D
HEAD OFFICE 74 CASTLEREAGH SYDNEY 74
Next to "Daily Teleeraph” Now Bnildin®. And at s 0 Klne Street, Neiveo.tle, N.S.W. Telephone: City »3.0.
„„„ a. a. i, ut i 8 ,,,i„„ v 215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
186 Castlereagl St West, Sydney. , 40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
S EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says:—
"The Company is very
well managed-, and the
name is quite a house-
hold word in Sydney.
Its reputation is excel-
lent, and, although the
money-lender is gener-
ally regarded as a
vampire, the charge
cannot he laid at the
doors of the N.S.W.
Mont de Piete D. & I.
Co. Limited.”
The 16-page Booklet, “Safety First,” give*
you the experience of users of the
Montgomerie-Neilson
Sewage Disposal System
Their letters of appreciation should interest
you because they speak of satisfaction all
through. The Montgomerie-Neilson Sewage
Disposal System is the most economical, reli-
able and sanitary system, infinitely superior
to any Septic System. It means City comfort
and convenience to you wherever you live, and
the cost spread over the years of its lifetime
makes it cheaper to instal than to pay ordi-
nary sanitary cleansing rates.
Send for the book to-day and learn the
details.
MONTGOMERIE-NEILSON
Sewage Disposal System,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 8976.
9
ppLE
e
&
WOTHIKO
to Arcuc
About!
'^VsTbn c °^
Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as bemg
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
GEEHazH
J
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets a.ets
most beneficially when taken daily atter
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
AVON
/rn. TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
m
“Not the
same as
others j
'
ng
Floorcloth Dampcourse.
Samples and illustrated booklet post free on request.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Princej Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
Srfrthur
<5(3
MACHINERY.
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
“McCULLY” Gyratory Rock Breaker.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY FROM STOCK.
XO. 4 SIZE MANGANESE FITTED. (AMERICA’S BEST.)
Capacity—Smallest Product, li inches 20 tons per hour.
Coarsest Product,, inches 48 tons per hour.
Queensland Enquiries: JTt^AustralianJVlachmer^Co^^Ltd^Mary^Street^Brisbarie^
CANADIAN
BRASS AND COPPER
SHEETS AND TUBES.
BRASS CONDENSER. TUBES.
Manufactured in Canada by the Dominion Copper Products Co. Ltd.
Solid Drawn Tubes —
Brass and Copper.
Sheets and Circles —
Cold or Hot Rolled.
Tinned or Untinned,
Polished or Unpolished,
Any gauge, length or width.
Sole Representatives—
GILBERT LODGE & CO.,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
GIVE YOUR OWN
COUNTRY A SHOW!
TRY
: ■ . < '» Vi'
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
The Bulletin
VoL 39.—N0. 2020.]
[Thursday, October 31, 1918.
WAR-TIME PRICE, Bd.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


• ~ «-*.»vi,»»»»vi/vvvvvwvvvVUl(VW
CHARM OF MANNER
may be enhanced by beauty of the face. A
touch of SWAN DOWN gives just that
delicacy and purity to the complexion which,
being scarcely perceptible, is admired the more.
TETLOW’S
ml
ms
£7
FACE POWDER
Imparts a delicate bloom to •
the comp/exion. So 'Pure that
it wifi not harm the most <
delicate SHtl.
ENGLISH
' PRICE
?5
o per
** box
In Five Tints:
White.Cream.Pink,
Flesh and Brunette.
OTStores. Chemists
First C/ass Drapery Houses
& Perfhmers everywhere
Wholesale Agenfe:-
■ Messrs. ELLIOTT BIIOS.. LTD.,, ;
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL, {
PATTINSON & CO., Svdney. t
Messrs. ANTHONY lIORDEHN AND ■
SONS LTD., Sydney. *
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.. J
Sydney.
LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS:- I
Haire c. Quelch & Co. 4 & 5. Lutfota Sq„ London. E.C.I
ww^wi«AfiAWWWWi W /U»W'iMA.,X,™,.«..
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tlie Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
since 1596. CUR E S ’Write for Roolf
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
& GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on Singleton’s’’—refuse all substitutes.
Hi
*
Run-down
When your system is under-
mined by worry or over-work
—when your vitality is lower-
ed—when you feel “any-how”
—when your nerves are “on
edge”—when the least exer-
tion tires you—you are in a
Run-down condition. Your
system is like a plant that is
drooping for want of water.
And just as water revives a
drooping plant—so ‘Wincar-
nis’ gives new life and new
vitality to a “run-down”
constitution. Because ‘Win-
carnis ’ possesses a four-fold
power. It is a Tonic, a
Restorative, a Blood-maker,
and a Nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force, and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it doing
you good. You can feel your
whole system being sur-
charged with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘Wincarnis.’
Don’t continue to suffer
needlessly. Get well the
‘Wincarnis’ way —the quick,
sure, and safe way to obtain
the new health you need
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Win-
carnis Works, Norwich. You can
buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists
and Stores selling wines, prices
4/3 and 7/-, but if you experi-
ence any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Sole Distributing
Agents, Fassett, & Johnson, 233
Clarence Street, Sydney. N.S.W-
BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying- influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women and while perhaps a few—the more
stoical among us—can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, We
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of'face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Some Mints about tbe Hair.—An Excellent
Shampoo. —Few women realise how all-impor-
tant a really good shampoo is if the hair is
to be kept in perfect condition. To shampoo
the hair properly, sl.Ake it down, comb it out,
then dip the fingers into a little pure- olive or
almond oil, and thoroughly massage the
scalp. Then mix a teaspoonful of stallax
grannies in a cup of warm water. Fill a basin
with warm water, into 'which the ends of the
hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax mix-
ture into the roots in the usual way. Rinse,
and dry by fanning, or in the open air, if the
weather permits. Should the hair be excep-
tionally greasy, the- oil massage of the scalp
should Ise omitted. Stallax can be bought at.
any chemist’s in quarter-pound sealed pack-
ages. It keeps indefinitely, and one package
is sufficient for 25 or 30 shampoos,
A Tonic for Thin or Falling Hair.— When the
hair falls unduly, or has become thin and im-
poverished, a tonic should be applied every
night for six or eight weeks. To make a
simple and inexpensive but most efficacious
lotion., at home, take a quarter of a. pint, of
bay rum and add to it one ounce of boranium.
Shake thoroughly, and leave for 30 minutes;
then strain, and add sufficient water to make
half a pint. Every night massage the scalp
for 10 minutes, going over the entire head,
then dal) the mixture into the roots with a
soft- sponge. Regular brushing for a few
minutes every morning will also help to im-
prove the condition of the hair.
A Greasy Skin and Blackheads. —A greasy,
oily skin, with blackheads and enlarged
pores, is a sore trial, and many a girl goes
through life with her appearance entirely
spoiled with these unsightly blemishes, which
maj now be so quickly and effectively removed
with but little trouble. To remove blackheads
ami the dull, dirty look of the skin which
accompanies them, dissolve one st.vmol tablet
in a glass of hot water. Allow the efferves-
cence to subside, then dip a small soft sponge
into the liquid and bathe the face. Leave on
the skin for a few minutes, then dry with a
towel, and the blackheads will come right off.
For a greasy skin, bathe the face three times
a week with stymol and spray with cold water
every morning, using a vulcanite throat spray.
The Secret of a flood Complexion.—The secret
of a good complexion is so simple that, were
it only more widely known, there would be
no such thing as a rough, blotchy skin.
Nature has decreed that the outer cuticle,
When it shrivels and dies, Shall be removed;
but so many women fail to realise this.' To
remove, by absorption, the dead outer skin,
and preserve the complexion in all its pris-
tine beauty, mercolized wax is recommended,
ordinary creams and lotions being quite in-
effectual for this purpose. Smear the wax
over the face and neck, rub it gently into the
skin, and leave for the night. In the morning
wash it off. using a good soap, such as
•Pilenta, arid all the dead skin will be removed
with the wax. Then apply a lotion to re-
move any trace of greasiness and brace up
the skin, making it firm and white. The lotion
can lie made at home quite easily, by mixing
one ounce of cleminite in four tablespoonfuls
of hot water. Bottle, and. when cool, apply
to the face with a soft sponge, or the. tips of
the fingers, allowing it to dry. on the skin.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C.B. —Clynol berries will reduce your weight.
They are harmless, and no alteration need be
made in your diet. They have also one great
advantage over other flesh-reducers: they re-
duce so gradually that there is no fear of
loose, flabby skin and wrinkles.
ZTJLA. —No, I am afraid I cannot tell you how
to prevent yourself from biting your nails.
You must exercise your will power.
CONSTANCE.— : To remove the yellowness
from your skin, get a tin of mercolized wax
and apply it every night, rubbing it well into
the skin. Leave it on till morning; then wash
it off with warm water and a good soap. (2)
To give a color to the cheeks, get a little col-
liandum and rub some on a leather. Apply, this
to the cheeks. It gives a perfectly natural -
looking flush to the .face, and is quite unde-
tectable. (3) To remove the blackheads, take
a stymol tablet and dissolve it in warm water.
When the effervescence has subsided mop the
lotion over the face, allow to remain on for
a few minutes, then wipe off, and the black-
heads will disappear.
GKOKGIE. —I am not surprised to hear that
•the electrolysis treatments were not success-
fill. They seldom are. Get an ounce of phe
minol and a tube of tekko paste. Use them in
conjunction, and you will soon be rid of the
troublesome superfluous hair.
SHEILA. —To restore your hair to its original
color, get two ounces of tammalite and mix it
with three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair every night or morning. In a couple of
weeks there will be no sign of the greyness.
Tammalite is not a dye, but a natural re-
storer.
ELSIE.—To remove the roughness from your
skin, use a lotion made by mixing cleminite-
with warm water. Allow the lotion to cool,
then bottle, and use after washing the face
every morning. . [I
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
H.M. THE KINa
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc*
SCRUBS & CO, (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA*
.
GAPILLARINE
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver —healthy
sluggish—makes all
or clogged, active or
the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure*
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
CARTERS
ITTLK
IVER
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
HUDSON’S “EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
an ideal remedy. For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
4.Ua
C. HUDSON.
Sold by all Chemists. Tins I/O.
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the Preven-
tion of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bacterici-
dally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines “EUMENTHOL JUJUBES"
do not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic pro-
perties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food
when taken after meals, lOf
The Red Page
Lines
While the prose writer constructs sen-
tences and paragraphs, the poet builds lines
of communication —hard lines, like Tenny-
son’s “The shrill-edged shriek of a mother
divides the shuddering night” ; clothes-lines,
such as those on which Herrick was wont to
hang his Julia’s wearing apparel, and on
which Swift immodestly exhibited the soiled
linen of a lady friend; narrow-gauge lines,
which bump and jolt horribly ; fishing-lines,
like Wordsworth's: “Sisters and brothers,
little maid, how many may you be?”; or
lines of least resistance, in which the poet
tells “Pierrette” that he “is striving to for-
get,” or the “birds that pipe at morn pro-
claim the coming dawn,” or “the sea with
voice sonorous sings a grand eternal chorus,”
or words to that effect.
Generally speaking, great poems can be
identified by reason of the ease with which
single lines taken from them can produce
pleasure, though detached from their con-
text. All the same, many first-class poets
have been guilty of lines which workmanlike
minor bards would blush to father. Tenny-
son, who could produce wonderful lines like 1
“The long wash of Australasian seas,” could
also face the world with: “Out she went
while the wind like a broken worlding
wailed.” Our own Arthur Adams, who gave
us “The mighty calm of immortality”—
second only to Bedford’s “The.arctic pomp of
God” —also perpetrated : “And gaze and gaze
blankly at a blank face.” John Masefield,
like his great Australian rival, “Bellerive,”
favors telegraph lines, as* though every word
cost a penny :
His father clubbed
The girl on the head.
Young Will lipped
And shot him dead.
They hanged Will,
As Will said:
With one thrill
They choked him dead.
The foregoing, please note, is a quotation not
from “Bellerive,” but from Masefield.
Thomas Hardy, in his old age, has taken to
erecting clothes-lines
Oil, my pretty pink frock,
I shan’t be able to wear it!
Why is he dying just now?
I. can hardly bear it!
Oh, my pretty pink frock ;
Puff-sleeved" and accordeon-pleated !
He might have passed in July,
And nte uncheated !
Some poets deal in lines like shopkeepers,
who announce that they have new “lines” of
boot-brushes or sardines. This is the way
that Emerson (not Australian “Milky
White,” but the much-boomed Ralph Waldo)
brings some new lines under the notice of his
customers:—•
Hay,
corn,
roots,
flax,
apples
&
wood.
It looks like a storekeeper’s catalogue, but
Emerson puts it forward as a complete line
of poetry.
The most enduring lines —those which will
last as long as the world has' a sense of
humor—have been built by minor poets.
FTinstance, those in which Alfred Austin
mentioned that the British sceptre would
“never fade,” that the death of Queen "Vic-
toria left “a widowed world,” and that “A
mournful crowd round royal shroud is all
now left of him but yesterday a king”—
which was Alfred’s way of intimating that
all that remained in death of the person of
Edward VII. was a mournful crowd, which
yesterday had been a part of the king. Yet
Alfred, who is remembered chiefly for his
foolishness, could produce good Byronic
lines such as :
And all confess that none behave their best
Till the half-drunk lean over the half-dressed
which happen in “The Season”—a satire
upon London sassiety.
Among lines specially deserving of immor-
tality are Douglas Sladen’s “Her baby was
better and more cheerful. And condensed
milk appeared to agree with it” (which he
has attempted to excuse with the plea that he
was making a literal quotation from the
diary of his heroine) ; Ella Wheeler Wil-
cox’s “Be not afraid —the alftnony will be
promptly paid”; Arthur Bateman’s “Select
vour dresses and your underwear, and I
will send them on by carrier” ; and Jawbone
Nields “Eftsoons a nocent waterspout.”
HARRISON OWEN.
The Inky Way
(Continued, on page 26.)
THE POET’S RAW MATERIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bai cl Algernon’s a fickle wretch;
No fealty can bind him;
With no sweet girl for any stretch
Of time you’ll ever find him.
He drifts about from flower to flower,
From cot to cot, and bower to bower.
A maiden sweet
Engenders heat
In him more fierce than tropic suns,
First melts his heart, and then it runs.
You see him flit from May to June,
From Marguerite to Daisy.
’Tis Pearl at morn, and Ruby’s noon;
For each he’s seeming crazy.
With Olive and with Lettice dearly
He loves; but not with Prudence, clearly.
Not creamy blonde
Nor brunette fond
Has held the wicked vagrant true
For longer than a song or two.
Yet golden Flo was sweet and gay,
Dark Kate was tall and solemn.
Of Flo he made a merry lay,
From Kate he got a column.
In lyrics or a sonnet sequence
He rhymed a few, but none with frequence.
“What luck that sad
Old Dante had.
The modern Beatrice, all me!
Is so soon written out,” sighed he.
-OTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


<a
SUMMER STYLES at ANTHONY HORDERNS’.
PERFECT=FITTING SUMMER SKIRTS.
1
Ui
0055
927
No. 917. —Maternity Skirt (as illus-
tration), in Black Poplin, cable stit.ch-
ings and buttons, elastic band 23/6
Similar stvle in Black Serge—
-42/6, 45/-
No. 8085. —Smartly-cut Skirt (as
illustration), in Gabardine, plain front,
pleated at sides, finished buttons, in
Bronze, Grey, Light and Dark Fawn —
37/6
Also in out-size 42/6
Other new designs in same shades of
Gabardine, 27/6, 29/6, 42/-, 47/6
No. 1575.—Up-to-date Skirt, in
fine Serge, pleated at sides, panel in
front, Black, Navy or Cream.. 57/6
Also in out-size 65/-
No. 3386.-—Fashionable Skirt, in
fine Black Resilda, double box-pleated
front, finished cable stitchings. 49/6
No. 142.—Dainty Skirt, in White
Voile, trimmed Filet Lace and hem-
stitchings 18/6
Other designs in White Voile—•
15/11, 18/11
No. 541.—Fashionable Skirt, in
Cream Wool Gabardine, pleated at
sides, finished Silk arrow heads, 84/-
Other smart designs in Cream Wool
Gabardines—
-47/6, 57/6, 63/-, 79/6, 84/-, 92/-
In Cream Coating Serge—•
39/6, 42/-, 72/6, 75/6, 87/6
No. 604. —-Smart Walking Skirt
(as illustration), in White Gabardine,
double box-pleats in front, finished but-
tons 16/11
No. 963. — Neatly-cut Skirt (as illus-
tration), in White Gabardine, pleated
front, trimmed buttons and belt, 18/6
Other smart styles in White Gabardine —
14/6, 16/11, 17/6, 19/6
No. 814. —Fashionable Skirt, in
Cream Gabardine, pleated at sides,
finished tabs and buttons... •• ■ 23/6
No. 573.—We11-cut Three-piece
Skirt, in White Pique, trimmed self-
strappings and buttons 1.6/6
Other designs in White pique, 10/6.
11/9, 12/6, 13/6, 14/6, 16/6,
17/6, 21/-
No. 204.—Fashionable Skirt, m
Cream Poplin, self-strappings and but-
tons 19/11
No. 0395.—Divided Riding Skirt,
in Grey Tweed, trimmed tabs and but-
tons 29/6
Other styles in Hiding Skirts, in Grey,
Bronze or Fawn Gabardine —-
29/6, 32/6, 36/6. 39/6, 42/6
Black or Navy Serge 37/6
No. 883. — Useful Skirt. .in White
Linen, panel in front, gathered across
back 14/11
Ollier new styles in Linen —
12/6, 16/11, 18/6, 21/-, 24/6
No. 153. — Plain Skirt, in White Pique,
' with inlaid panels in front, finished
belt 14/6
oo
m
01 -
963>
ECONOHY IN SUnnER ATTIRE.
&*■
%
M
tlv &*\!
Jr 4&09
'jZ
Z
i)7S6f
109
w
O
/
o
5
■-o
43
o
tf*£l
mm.
y
521
53
Ladies should send for a copy of Anthony
Horderns’ Portfolio of Summer Fashions.
Posted free.
No. 4309.—Dainty White Voile Robe (as illustra-
tion), effectively, trimmed fine Eyelet Embroidery and Filet
Insertion ; skirt pleated at side of half panel 55/-
No. D 7561. —Dainty Plain Voile Robe (as illustra-
tion). The pleated apron effect, square yoke and sleeves
are hemstitched, buttons and cable stitchings in contrast
tones; Rose, Saxe, Sand and Grey 72/0
Similar style in Crepe de Chine, without pleated basque,
Mole, Grey, Navy and Black £6/16/6
No. 6325.—Attractive White Voile Robe, effectively
trimmed Filet Lace and Eyelet Embroidery, shaded with
Rose, Sky or Maize; skirt has double pocket effect on
hips 67/6
No. 109.—light-weight Dust Coat (as illustration),
of Natural Tussore Silk, seven-eighth length, large collar,
pockets and fancy belt trimmed self stitchings.... 37/6
Similar style, No. 904, in heavier Silk, belted at sides, 42/-
No. 837.—Inexpensive Natural Crash Dust Coat
(as illustration), welted sleeves, with gauntlet cuffs, new
collar and revel's, loosely belted at waist 17/11
Similar style, No. 947, with large pockets 21/-
No. 721. — Well-cut Coat, of Tussore Poplin, smart collar
and cuffs relieved contrast stitchings and buttons, also
panel effect at sides .... 47/6
Some style, in Natural Assam Silk, No. 708, at 69/6
Xo. 821. Smartly-cut Coat (as illustration), of Mer-
cerised Poplin, in Tussore shade, collar, belt and pockets
effectively relieved Brown or Navy Poplin 49/(5
Xo. 2221.—Extra-quality Tussore Silk Dust Coat
(as illustration) ; the sleeves are set in, new roll collar,
pockets, and double ribbon belt at waist 40/-
Xo. 882.—Practical Dust Coat, of Natural Holland,
with Linen finish, the large, square collar and cuffs outlined
with band of Navy and White Check, fancv pockets and
belt 19/(5
Similar style. No. 052, in Crash, with White Pique Pipings—
-22/(5
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.UE
Only Universal fi-oviders.
New Palace Emporium,
B r-ickfield
Sjy dn ey.
Hm,


Manufacturers!
Use
RE-INFORCED concrete
The Building' Material of the Ag'e.
'
11
'
MiHHHi
■
m m
1
M
3
~.-X-•-'sjf
•-'sjf , '. - .'
:V- : ’ ' ;
.
118
' ii .«x
■? ;**
Four Grain Silos, 120 feet high, 25 feet diameter, at Wagga, for the Murrumbidgee Co-operative Milling Co. Ltd.
The walls of these 4 great Silos are only 7 inches thick.
Built by Country Concrete Constructions Ltd., 47 King Street, Sydney,
General Scheme and Machinery Equipment by Thos. Robinson &. Sons, Rochdale, England; and Sydney .
Australia’s problem to-day is the preservation of wheat until ship-
ping becomes available.
Reinforced Concrete provides the cheapest, strongest, most durable
and fireproof structure that can be built for this purpose.
Reduces insurance to a minimum.
In buildings required for any other purpose, reinforced concrete has
outstanding advantages which save money. We shall be glad
to discuss any building proposition with you or with your
architect or engineer.
Our Indented Steel Re-inforcing Bars, rolled in Australia by G. $ C. Hoskins Ltd., are used
in all the Government Wheat Silos in N.S.W.
.
Reinforced Concrete construction, by means of Indented Steel Bars,
makes possible quick erection, on a permanent and economical
basis.
William Adams U Co. Ltd.,
Buildings, Tanks, Silos, Chimneys, Reservoirs, Floors, Retaining
Walls, etc.
Write for our book, “Reinforced Concrete in Australasia.”
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE —521-523 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE—Cr. Edward 8 Mary Streets.
PERTH—33 King Street.


Columbia
Hot Shot Batteries
are universally used for ignition purposes.
Being moisture-proof, they are especially adapt*
able for motor boat use.
Columbia Hot Shot Batteries eliminate the
necessity of connecting up individual cells. No
trouble from loose connections only two con-
nections to make in placing the battery in service.
The individual cells are already connected in
series and multiples-series to give the desired
voltage and current. Columbia Hot Shot
Batteries are made in various sizes to give volt-
ages of from 3 to 9 volts.
Satisfaction is guaranteed when you purchase
Columbias. They are backed by more than
a quarter of a century’s knowledge of battery
manufacture.
The Fahnestock Spring Clip Binding Post,
shown in the illustration, is a Columbia tea*
ture that sells bat-
teries. With this
Binding Post it is
simply a matter of
pressing down the
spring and inserting
the wire—and the
connection is made.
Deal ers-Immediate
deliveries can be
made.
Write
for cat-
alogue
and de-
tails.
HOT SHOT
aATTgEW
ES;
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY. Inc.
Export Department
Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A.
Cable Address:
"Carbon Cleveland"
p
'if*
saw*.
with
the new flavour
H.P. Sauce being rich,
thick and fruity, can be
taken with the meat,
just like mustard.
H.P. is such a welcome change to
the old-fashioned kinds of sauces.
Hill
itmi
[I
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY
BROOKE'S
i te/nofl squash
[LARGEST SALE IN THE WORLD
'
■m
, jltegra Jell Ik? Tate
ng. sJ|ars&
iiilii
a?;:
or 8, Allen’s
MEXICAN
WAtRUT
. . STAB
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.0.; Adrian lvnox, Esq., K.C., 0.M.G.; Samuel
Hordern, Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPEIILY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000. Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly £1.000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for the
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22.138,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
This is the Pen
for Active Service
—because it stands the racket .
The “ Swan,” like a rifle, is made
true and sure. The ink magazine is
ample and, at command, the pen is
ready for duty immediately. There is
no misfiring, and there are no parts liable
to derangement. When fluid ink is un-
obtainable the magazine may be charged
with ink pellets for use with water.
Send one to your soldier friend. It will make wri-
ting easier and encourage him to send more letters.
m
WAW
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with Safety Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 12/6 Screw-on Cap, from 15/-
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney —(Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory—3l9-329, Weston Street, S.E.
Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch: J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
a
ffig* A
JR
v-'
fi
The NEW EDISON
provides perfect entertainment.
The NEW EDISON in the home
means an unlimited program of the
world’s most famous musical talent
always at your disposal.
It makes home more attractive —there
is music to appeal to all tastes —and the
artists’ own voices are so perfectly
“re-created” that it is as though thev
O j
were actually present.
Lovers of real music should get a NEW EDISON
without delay. With this magnificent instrument
they can hear the greatest and the latest of all that
is finest in music W
Write for fully illustrated catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 3C4-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Midnight, Hobson’s Bay.
Greatness and littleness that speak together;
The mobile sea’s embraces, and the sky;
The dull old life slips oft' its cankering
tether;
I feel it is not possible to die.
The star-shine and the mystery of the sea
Make a dim twilight in the memory.
The winking city lamps, and Williamstown;
The soft insistence of the water breaking;
Profluent moon-rays in the deep sea drown —
Stirring the memory from the past to
waking—•
The sea embraces me —the sea’s caresses —
Around my body curl the long sea cresses.
The shore is hushed of all its noise and
laughter;
Ocean and sky are full blood-kin to me ;
Serene as they, for all that may come after,
Am I; serene of all that fate bears
stealthily
On the full tide, the starshine in it pearled.
All sorrow floats unto another world.
The midnight moon is wan to its downset-
ting;
The full, deep, silent tide heaves like a
bosom;
The crinkled water catches in its netting,
Star-flowers of sky, and every ocean
blossom;
The night sighs like a woman for her lover,
And for all shame and grief the sea is cover.
f /
Inter-related is all sense and sound,
Brother am I of sky, and earth, and sea;
Brother unto the ant upon the ground,
The eagle and the dove are friends to me.
The system’s music takes the song and
psalm—
Soul of the very weed; soul of the palm.
Soul of the man, and of the thistledown,
Greatest and least are equal in the sun ;
And the good thrush, singing in dress of
brown,
Knows not his message till the song’s
begun;
Nor knows that tree, air, sunlight, rose and
clover,
Are in his song until the song is over.
For who shall write the symphony of life
Shall use the sounds of life in all its
motions—
Lyric of lover, cry of the bedded wife,
Profluent light and fluxes of the oceans;
As from the sky above my face, while I lie
dreaming,
Music falls over from the moonlight stream-
ing.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Closed House.
Yon is a dwelling
Where one and his wife
Through the years eke out
What they misname life,
With never a joy or a joyous wind
To brush the cobwebs from ceiling or mind.
Closed are the windows
And drawn are the blinds,
Though the world without,
With its frank, fresh winds.
And song and color and scent, is rife,
And shouts aloud of the joy of life!
Rose of the morning
And gold of the day,
With the tides at work.
And the winds at play,
They know not, and seek not, as ever they
hide
From the big, brave fact of the world outside.
Little of beauty.
And little of love,
In the gloom have birth,
Though the shadows move ;
And ill is woven, and webs are spun,
By spiders shunning the light of the sun.
Hearken, O People !
The hour is at hand
When a voice shall ring
Through the waiting land :
And soaring, shouting, that voice shall say :
“Make broad the path for the Light-of-Day !
“Up with the windows,
Open the doors.
Let the sunlight in
On the walls and floors;
Too much of shadow and too much gloom
Make foul the corners of nation and room !”
N.S.W.
NOMEN.
Sky.
The Summer sky is just a bowl
Of old blue cbinaware;
The purple hills around the rim
Serrate a pattern rare,
And traceries of leaf and limb
All help to make it fair.
Those great airplanes some day will break
A gaping hole right through.
And showers of glittering shards will fall.
Then Philistine and Jew
Will sell the tourists souvenirs
Of bright enamel blue.
If one should climb up then and look
Out through the jagged hole,
What awful gulfs of void abyss
W r ould yawn beyond the bowl!
Such sights I do not think would be
Good for a human soul.
TASMANIA.
H. W. STEWART.


m
Summer Has Come at Last
and, with it, the necessity of constant hosing.
Have You Bought your
Perdriau Garden Hose?
It will be a constant source of satisfaction for years to come—no kinking
—no bursting—no peeling—a hose that will stand high pressure and hard usage.
The good red hose, guaranteed perfect—
“Watershed” (Reg.)
Price- 3-ply |=inch, I/- per foot.
3=ply f=inch, 1/4 per foot.
The best value inexpensive hose on the market is
“Prospe c t” (Reg.)
Price—3=ply |=inch, per foot.
3=ply J=inch, 9d. per foot.
Ask to see the registered brand on the coil. Samples and price list upon application.
Obtainable from all leading Hardware Stores, or from the manufacturers :
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd. ah states.
i
f*
m
3
The Eclipse Emasculator
Wo unhesitatingly claim that no instrument for the purpose of castra-
tion is quite so efficient as Denyer’s Eclipse Emasculator.
I lie Pattei n liiple Crush Action ensures a safe operation with the
utmost of speed.
Ihe Eclipse Emasculator is built of the best steel, hand forged to our own
design and under our direct supervision. Every instrument is thoroughly
tested and guaranteed perfect.
Price 50/-, postage m. extra.
Write for our Catalogue of Modern Veterinary Instruments and Appliances.
DENYER BROS.,
281 George Street, Sydney.
“The Veterinary
House of Australia.”
t.
M
V.
*0
i
w
tit
X
7m
Xv,
A
m
-m A '
m
7\
VV3NC//^j
<3
a
%
?VN
£
*9*.
=><C7
Sflfl
%
-< -*
fma
5R52
m
ccgl. J -ON
§5, c
Jor all
J^ankjc
For the Admiral gets turkey
The Colonel he gets duck.
The Officers get chicken
And think they’re out of luck.
The Sergeants all get beer and Cheese
And like it to a man —
But ail the poor old Private gets
Is bread and blanky jam.”
It's up to you to see that the
Private's lot is made as happy as
possible. You can relieve the
monotony of Trench Fare by send-
ing him plenty of
“Rex
>9
Luncheon Cheese
We'U guarantee they’ll all ask for more,
tor "Rex" Cheese is so tasty and nourishing
it always opens up fresh and remains so for a
long’time, that is if there’s any left to keep fresh
bend a few tins in the next parcel.
For meat nourishment "REX” HAM PATE
and "REX” VEAL and TONGUE PATE
cant he beaten. They are pure “spreads”
made from only the choicest meats.
Recipes from users to Box 2582 Sydney
will be appreciated '
FOGGITT. JONES & CO. LTD
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products
Curers of “ Rex' ’ Hams and Bacon
J. 388
g/.g ,• •
mST*
Pvr*
S»5
MnWl'i rliirtlHlffillii
GOODRICH
Black Safety Tread Tyres.
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”
When you buy a “GOODRICH” Tyre
you , are not paying for an
“experiment.”
Behind it you have the experience of
the largest rubber factory on earth.
You are on a “certainty” when you buy
GOODRICH BLACK SAFETY
TREADS—
The tread with its seven bars extend-
ing to the side walls
Ensures immunity from side-slip and
protects the tyres from blow-outs.
“ BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”
DUVAL <& CO.
145 Collins St, 13 Castlereagh St, 300 Adelaide St,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol 39. No. 2020.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1918.
War-time Price, Bd.
THE BIRTH OF A NATION.
THE GAMP IN SHINING ARMOR: “It’s a fine child, gentlemen, and will be a beautiful republic if it grows up, which it won’t.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 10s. per annum, you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Politiial, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
ivlrich has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgale Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., l/ljl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. — Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
rtoNO Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fori
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Iloxve Islands,
lOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bloz. to lOoz., 3d.:
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, joz., lid., and M. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1918.
SCRAPS OF PAPER.
Moke than 25 years ago The Bulletin
explained in many articles the advantages of
a Government note issue as a means of mak-
jing great wealth out of nothing. It advo-
cated State notes .before there was a Com-
monwealth and Federal notes when the Com-
monwealth hove in view. The theory was
that the joint stock banks should be re-
quired, as in Canada, to hold at least 40
per cent, of their cash reserves in Govern-
ment notes, and should pay out in that cur-
rency, unless gold was specially requested.
That would mean, of course, that they would
hold probably 50 per cent, of their cash in
Government currency to prevent payments
reducing the stock below the legal margin.
Government banks, if any, would hold the
same proportion —probably a larger one. As
the figures then stood this arrangement was
reckoned to offer the Government the use of
about £10,000,000 without interest —not the
temporary use, but the command of it per-
manently—and the amount would increase
with the increase of population. (As events
have proved, the figure was ridiculously
under-estimated, but this paper was careful
to keep clear of wild-cat finance.) The
money, it was proposed, should be used in
the purchase of State securities in the open
market —the cheapest ones available. It was
not to be used in subscriptions to new loans,
which would have merely been making the
existing loan jag a little easier. When secu-
rities fell due the Public Notes Fund was to
renew its share of the loan on no better or
w'orse terms than private holders. The fund
created out of nothing was to accumulate
at compound interest till it overtook the
aggregate debts and extinguished them—
whenever that might be. At the rate of
interest then prevailing the whole debt of
that time might have been extinguished in
60 years or a little more, all out of nothing.
And more than one-third of 60 years has
alreadv elapsed.
* * * *
The proposition aroused various classes of
opposition. The banking community was
against any interference with its note busi-
ness, not having sufficient foresight to realise
that interference was coming and that if it
didn’t support this scheme it might get some-
thing worse. Fossils talked vaguely about
the dangers of unredeemable paper currency.
The proposal was for a currency redeemable
on demand, and one which should have at
the beginning £25 of gold and £75 of old
well-tried securities behind every £lOO of
paper, with the prospect of having in 50
years £25 in gold and £450 of old well-tried
securities behind each £lOO of paper, but the
Fossils didn’t notice the point. A lot of
people didn’t really know there was any debt,
or any debt worth mentioning, to pay off.
One N. S. Wales Labor member called on
the editor of The Bulletin to state that
the public debt was necessary as a means of
investment for widows, being apparently
under the belief that there was so little debt
and so many widows, or such intensely
absorbent widows, that the supply of public
embarrassments was really unequal to the
demand. Possibly, however, he was a fraud
rather than a fool. The big trouble, of
course, was that a note issue, the profits of
which were to be rigidly set aside for the
extinction of old debts instead of being
available for new razzles, was not a thing to
be advocated or advertised or even mentioned.
The only party which wanted Government
paper wanted it on very different lines.
* * * *
At the end of 1910, when a good many
years’ interest had been lost, the business
was commenced in a half-hearted way. The
simple, well-tried device of requiring banks
to bold at least 40 per cent, of their cash
reserves in paper was omitted, so the paper
had no assured circulation. Because of that
it was only considered safe to reckon on a pre-
carious issue of £7,000,000, with a 25 per cent,
gold reserve against it. Against every £1
note issued above £7,000,000 a sovereign was
to be held, so the largest amount the Com-
monwealth could have to invest was
£4,500,000. whereas it should have been at
least £10,000,000. No 10s. notes were printed
for another three years, so a valuable and
vital feature of the business was neglected.
And there was no cast-iron rule about the
investment of the money at compound inter-
est for the ultimate extinction of the exist-
ing public debt. Possibly the weak Fisher-
Hughes Ministry didn’t care. Probably it
had orders from the caucus that the profits
must not be tied up so that they couldn’t
be seized by hungry Treasurers for new
works. It was all shuffle, half-heartedness,
side-stepping and apology.
* * * #
The Australian Notes Fund up to Septem-
ber 16 had made a profit of £4,271,656 —all
money made out of nothing. It might show
a profit of £8,000,000 or more if the idea had
been adopted in the first year of Federation,
instead of the tenth, and if it hadn’t been
a feeble botch in addition. But the earnings
are no provision against old debts falling due
in disastrous times. They are lent to wild-
cat Treasurers so that they may pursue the
wild cat more strenuously, now that the
animal is shy. also greasy about the tail.
Often the Federal Treasurer borrows from
the Federal fund for his own public works,
and puts the new Federal p.n. into it as
security. In the early days, when George
Turner was the most frequent Treasurer the
Commonwealth paid for its works out of
revenue. Now, when Webster makes
“poetry” for the Ministry, and Hughes
lives in England at the public expense, and
High Commissioner Fisher dwells in a
£1,000,000 palace in London, things are dif-
ferent. Even lighthouses are being charged
to loans, though a lighthouse isn’t a wildly
reproductive institution, and the obliging
Notes Fund finds the price of the sea-illu-
mination and takes a lien on the thing as
security. The great, idea has become a de-
moralising agency and an aid to extrava-
gance, like everything else that Australia’s
rulers lay their hands on. Even religion has
been pawned in Tasmania for £lOO,OO0 —
which seems a wonderful thing.
A few weeks ago it was announced that
the Westralian Government proposed apply-
ing to Britain for a suspension of its sink-
ing fund. The Gold State stands on a
different footing from its neighbors. By a
special and rigid agreement all its loans
carry a sinking fund, while in the case of
other States only a few of the older ones are
thus encumbered. Partly through the confi-
dence thus inspired Westralia contrived, until
1913, to owe money at a lower rate of in-
terest than any of its neighbors. But though
it had a bigger sinking fund than all its
neighbors put together it borrowed so hard
on the strength of the aforesaid confidence
that its debt, over and above the sinking
fund, is the biggest per head in the Common-
wealth. As already mentioned, it proposed
to keep the debt and abolish part of the
security, and the other States, bar Victoria,
decided to give it moral support by asking
permission from J. Bull to repudiate then-
obligations also. The amounts involved are
miserable enough. The States which are
rushing in to back Westralia added' less than
£240,000, or a quarter the price of Australia
House, towards their old debts reserve dur-
ing the year to June, 1917. equal to rather
less than :Jd. in the £. After falling back on
the Federal Notes Fund until it can hardly
be fallen back upon any longer, and borrow-
ing from the hard-pressed parent in England
for such purely peace purposes as school-
buildings and river improvements until
the hard-pressed parent in England
told the States to stop crowding, it
seems rather poor business to ask him
for permission to swindle their creditors
in a petty way by depriving them of a frac-
tion of their security. It is understood that
if Petty Repudiation Bills are passed they
will not be vetoed. All the same, the credi-
tor will probably add a bit per cent, to the
interest on next renewal owing to a new feeling
of insecurity, and in that way some more
of the glamor will be rubbed off the Note
Reserve and the wonderful Australia House.
Canada, the other big white dominion, has
lent .T. Bull a trifle of £120.000,000 or
£130,000,000 to help on the war, and the old
man. busy as he is, may have time to notice
the difference.
POLITICAL MACHINES AND
MACHINE POLITICS.
Everybody is weary at times of machine
politics, save those who live or at
least profit by machine politics. The
system is neither useful nor. beautiful, nor
has it, like many: plain females, the saving
grace of being honest. Its purpose, of course,
is not to get the majority party into office,
but to get “our” party into office, and if “our”
party with a minority of actual supporters
can secure a majority of seats there is all the
more glory and satisfaction. The system
starts with the creation of a bureaucracy of
party managers and organisers. These indi-
viduals don’t represent a productive class in
any sense of the term, and they use up a
great deal of salary and stationery. Their
duty is, in the first place, to deprive the
people by arts and devices of the right to
choose their own law-makers save in the
sense that they are allowed to decide between
two candidates for each seat —“our” nominee
who is necessary, and the other machine’s
nominee, who is an unavoidable evil and a
nuisance. Party organisers and managers
are usually men of an inferior type, with
cunning in place of wisdom. Their business,
as a rule, leads to nothing except in the end
a nomination as the machine candidate and
a billet as a machine hack in Parliament,
neither of which prizes appeals to a person of
high ideals with a desire to be keeper of his
own conscience. They exist, as already men-
tioned, to get into power the men whom the
people don’t really want, for in a community
which had no party machines the men whom
the people want would get in automatically,
and no back-door or back-yard agency would
collect salary or blackmail or “chout” (a
good Indian word that means a lot) for
getting them in. The party managers and
organisers arrange for the supply of candi-
dates, and also for the supply of two sets of
political principles, or at least propositions.
These being to a great extent furnished by
unproductive men of moderate intelligence
who like that kind of work, they naturally
represent that type of intelligence. They are
such as the managers, judging other p.eople
by themselves, think most likely to put men
like themselves in power. Nobody, or hardly
anybody, tells unnleasant truths to the people
about the people, however necessary it may
be to arouse the public to the fact that it is
on a downward road ; but unpleasant truths
about the rival machine are abundant —also
unpleasant lies. Thus, as every party for
the last 50 or 60 years has been a lazy,
easy-going, corrupt, borrowing party, neither
crowd of machine politicians will declare
that borrowing is an opium-eater’s disease
which should be sworn off. That would be
an act of repentance, and the machine never
repents. But each one declares that the other
one can’t be trusted with the loan money,
and that pure politics depend on Nielsen
instead of Beeby having the cheap trip to
America—or else Beeby having it instead of
Nielsen.
* •* # *
When matters have been so fixed that it is
hardly worth while for any candidate save
the machine article to run, and it is
hardly possible to get a chance to vote
for any principles save machine prin-
ciples, a certain degree of order or political
paralysis has been arrived at. At the last
N. S. Wales State elections four contests
were won by men who didn’t wear a machine
label except inside their clothes, and three of
them scraped in on a second ballot. This is
a device whereby, when there are three or
more candidates (generally two machine
nominees and a dark horse) for one seat, and
ho one secures aii absolute majority, the first
two run again while the third looks on from
the grandstand. Contrary to expectations,
the result at the N. S. Wales election of 1917
was that more voters turned up at the second
ballot than at the first. One theory was that
careful record was made of the absentees at
the first poll, and they were represented,
either personally or by unauthorised deputy,
at the second. Another unexpected result
was that out of eight second ballots six
shifted the second man into first place. This
may have been because the second man’s
crowd felt more desperate apd reckless. But
the result was much the same. The new
Assembly consisted of one machine party
which couldn’t denounce the outrageous
Norton-Gbiffiths contract because it had
been i n the deal, and another which was in
the same situation. Norton-Griffiths
being a huge borrowing proposition, both
parties had been in it, so the pot and the
kettle smothered their feelings.
The preferential voting idea, which is
now coming, into fashion, holds out the
blessed possibility that it may upset all
previous calculations and introduce an ele-
ment of the unexpected. That is, provided
it is done on whole-hog principles. There
may be devices by which the old party mana-
gers can work it to their own advantage in
the old way, but these ways haven’t become
apparent yet. The aim of preferential
voting (on whole-hog principles, as already
mentioned) is to encourage an abundance of
candidates and to give the dark horse a
show. If there are 10 applicants for one
seat the elector must vote for them all.
numbering them one to ten in the order of
his preference. That is going the entire
animal; half the animal is purposeless. If
he is a machine-made elector he will give
his first and best vote to his own party
hack, and his tenth and worst one to that
loathsome contemporary, the rival party
hack. Then there are left him eight votes
which he must allot to prevent his ballot
being null and. void, and the ordinary indi-
vidual will give them according to the
merits of the candidates as he understands
them. He may, of course, be so besotted
with rage at the innovation that he will give
his second suffrage to a person whom he
suspects of insanity, and the third to the
most immoral man on the list, but that is
unlikely. When the first count is indecisive
there ensues a counting of second and third
and other votes, with the result that a
man with only his merits or supposed merits
to recommend him may come out on top,
largely. through the secondary votes which
were given him to keep the loathsome con-
temporary out. What might happen if each
machine party put up 10 candidates, in
order to rope in the secondary votes, is
not clear. But at aN. S. Wales State
election the two old parties would have then
to find 1800 candidates between them, which
would be thrilling but improbable.' The
theory, on which real preferential voting is
based is that a number of men with no party
organisation, but with an idea To Dut for-
ward or a protest to antpr. might
together and put up 90 candidates on an
abolition-of-borrowing or extirpation-of-
Party-Government issue, and achieve sur-
prising results. They would have to get a
hearing. Many a hack voter, after giving
his first vote, as a matter of routine, to a
hard borrower who wore his party label,
might give his second vote to the non-bor-
rower, because he thought the idea worth
trying, or even out of pure astonishment. And
the evening of that eventful day might see
the two party machines in the debris heap
and an Assembly returned on an issue re-
garding which neither set of old managers
would have given the community a chance
to speak. There might be no such sensa-
tional results as these, but at least there
would be an opportunity to take a vote on
many matters which are now smothered. It
says a great deal for the preferential-voting
idea, whether it is whole- or half-hog, that
the Labor men are its strenuous opponents.
Labor, with the trades unions behind it, has
by far the more efficient, though not neces-
sarily the more dishonest, election apparatus,
and if there is a chance of apparatus being
ruined it has more to lose than its opponents.
A CITY WITHOUT LAND SALES.
On a recent day, which looked just like any
other day, a deputation, which looked just
like any other deputation, called on a very
ordinary-looking N. S. Wales Minister with
a grievance that is so old and frequent that
rabbits are rare historical landmarks by
comparison. What the deputation desired
to draw attention to is the habit of running
almost every kind of public enterprise in the
special interests of the importing and land-
owning and land-jobbing crowds of Sydney.
Also, of course, in the interests of the papers
which live on these folk and profit by them.
Likewise, of course, in the interests of the
Sydney Million Club, a purely city concern
which, when unpleasant comments were
made on it, hastily camouflaged itself as the
N. S. Wales Millions Club without changing
its character. The instance which the depu-
tation alleged was certain railway wheat
rates. If a wheat-grower at Tamworth
wanted to send a ton of wheat to a flourmill
at Glen Innes (141 miles from Tamworth
and 141 miles further away from Sydney)
the charge was 18s. 4d., or rather over l|d.
per mile. If wheat was sent from Glen
Innes to Sydney (423 miles) the charge was
12s. Bd., or less than -Jd. per mile. Flou
milling is a difficult industry to drag to the
city because Sydney doesn’t lie in a wheat-
growing district, and so is further from the
source of supply than the usual country mill.
Moreover, as a mere matter of weight and
bulk, it is more simple to grind wheat where
it grows and move the flour by rail than to
move the whole raw* article. Still, nearly
one-fourth of the milling business has been
persuaded to the One Big City. Seeing that
the One Big City has grabbed nearly three-
fourths of the State’s manufacturing indus-
tries in general it hasn’t done so well as
usual in this instance, yet it has done well
enough. In 1896 Sydney and suburbs stood
for 58 per cent, of the State’s manufactures,
judging by the number of workers employed,
while in 1917 the city grab had gone up to
72 per cent. So the movement cityward goes
steadily along.
* * * *
In a recent issue of The Bulletin
appeared a list of the perishing towns and
counties of N. S. Wales. There were half a
hundred towns on the list, not reckoning coal-
mining centres. Naturally the country towns
have to perish. If they weren’t discouraged
by careful differentiation between “up” and
“down” railway charges and such-like de-
vices, those which don't naturally fall within
the orbit of Sydney might demand that new
outlets. should have a chance to grow at more
convenient ports. It is explained, of course,
that Port Stephens is wanted, or may be
wanted, for Federal naval purposes, which
is a rather thin device. The Commonwealth
doesn’t show any sign of wanting the place
so badly as not to be open to argument,
especially seeing it has dozens of equally
suitable places to choose from. Also, it is
explained that Jervis Bay is required by the
same Commonwealth cormorant as an outlet
for the scarcely-born and already-dying capi-
tal. Also, that Coff’s Harbor and Grafton,
which were places of great promise till the
North Coast railway threatened to begin to
make them accessible, are really shallow
spots of no account. Also that Twofold Bay
is for some unexplained reason a place that
mustn’t be mentioned, possibly because it is
infested by devils. All these objections might
be over-ridden if a northern or southern
groun of country towns—those outside the
natural Sydney hinterland —became suffici-
ently strong to speak with effect. And if
new cities like Sydney were to arise, the
Labor party, and a good many non-Labor-
ites, couldn’t for very shame demand that
the ground on which they stand should be
privately owned, and that the unearned in-
crement should be a private grab and
private gamble and private boom and
private steal and private swindle. The
non-borrowing Labor principle has been
thrown overboard. Even the abolition
of State Upper Houses is rather dead.
But to directly oppose the principle
of public land-ownership would b 6 too much.
Public ownership of city lands, where the
unearned increment is, counts for far more
than public ownership of dusty backblocks
areas which run one ox to the square mile.
A sleeping dog of size is a dreadful animal to
wake.
So the Labor party, like the non-Labor
parties, is quite speechless about any rever-
sal of the One Big City policy. None of the
parties can be made aware of its existence.
For the idea opens up the horrible prospects
of the city without land sales. There would
hardly be a single land-agent in the place,
though there would probably be house-agents;
but then house-agency is a dreary thing.
There would be hardly a conveyancer or a
land company, for what dabbling there was
to do would be in country lands and would
gravitate to the country towns. There would
be 30 or 40 columns less of advertising in
the Saturday edition of the very big daily,
for the land-auction advt. would be missing.
The land auctioneer would be as extinct as
dodo. That cheery Saturday-afternoon


festivity, when hundreds of people are
beguiled by golden weather and free lunch to
places beyond the bounds of habitation,
where they buy bits of cow-paddock at more
per foot than the cow and the paddock were
worth a year or two before, and come home
feeling rich because they have 25J years in
which to pay the instalments —it would all
be as dead as the debris of Caesar's feast.
No spider would become suddenly affluent by
selling land-titles when the community was
in the midst of a paper-money boom, and no
fly would think he was suddenly affluent
through buying them. There would always
be some dealing in Government leaseholds,
but compared with the eternal gamble in free-
holds it would be like thin flat water com-
pared with over-proof rum. The dealing
might even be done by a Government office,
which would be the last straw.
* * *
Sydney has been for the past year or two
the centre of a boom. Very few people recog-
nise that a boom is a boom until it has
passed and become a burst, so as usual the
phenomenon has attracted little notice. It
has been assumed to be merely a develop-
ment of the great natural resources of the
country. With the population of the State
actually diminished by the departure of men
for the war and by other temporary causes,
and with building reduced some 50 per cent,
through high-priced labor and high-priced
imported materials, the rush for suburban
allotments is chiefly a poker game, but it is a
very pleasant game while it lasts. If drink,
opium and horse-racing were all abolished at
once it would hardly be a greater change
than if this great city industry of swapping
fictitious values for a little cash and a stack
of p.n.’s was extinguished. Labor members,
in proportion to their numbers, are
just as much addicted to this dis-
sipation as other members. The fas-
cination lies in the fact that, so long as a
city keeps increasing in population, there
must, on the whole, be more winners at the
game than losers. The new population
creates the stakes — i.e., the unearned incre-
ment —by its mere existence, and that part of
the population which runs the game or is
paid for advertising the game divides them.
And it is the biggest game going where, as
is the case with Victoria or S.A. or N.S.W.,
there is only one really big faro table in the
whole State. The creation of new seaport
cities on the private land ownership system
would mean the establishment of rival faro
tables with rival sets of players, which would
be annoying to the olcl crowd at the old
table. The competition might even make
the old table run at a loss for a while; in
other words, if the Big City had to live on
that part of the State which is geographi-
cally attached to it instead of on the whole
State there might be an actual decrease in
values, though there would be a bigger ex-
pansion elsewhere. As for the establishment
of rival tables with the stakes divided equally
among the people at large, there might as
well be no faro game at all. It was all very
good to “save face” by making the Federal
capital public property, for everybody knew
Canberra to he a hopeless place that wouldn’t
compete seriously against anything ; but with
a real new city the case would be different.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Habit of Prying into Things.
Last week the Australian newspapers re-
ported this
A. B. Piddington, Chief Inter-State Commissioner,
began an investigation into house rents yesterday.
He explained that his colleagues on the Commission
were engaged in a similar investigation in Melbourne.
It came as a revelation that there was still
to be found in the Commonwealth an open-
ing for Red Tape to make more investiga-
tions. The flight of N. S. Wales Minister
for Labor Beeby towards U.S. in order to
make investigations about something or other
seemed to confirm the apprehension that the
opportunities on the premises had been
worked to death. Anyway, inquiries appeared
to have been made by somebody or other
during the last four or five years into every
conceivable subject, point, commodity, matter,
rumor, allegation, complaint, supposition,
illegality and proceeding. From leaking
cashboxes to the price of meat, from the
habits of the weevil to the cost of Can-
berra, from investigations into the hygienic
conditions of soldiers’ camps to prolonged
study of booze, from Maryborough to Perth
Royal Commissions, committees and boards
have raged like a plague. Some of them have
been worth the expenditure. Most of them
have been just plain experiments in the art
of side-stepping. As the Inter-State Com-
mission has now got to the stage of doubling-
back on its tracks, so to speak, and starting
investigations into matters that have been
investigated on about 175 occasions, the time
appears to have arrived for appointing a
Board, or something, to examine a.nd report
upon (11 the causes of the investigating
mania, (2) the cost thereof, (3) the results
achieved by investigation up to date, (4) the
matters, if any. open to further investiga-
tion. (51 the possibility of preventing blither-
ing idiocy masquerading as a manifestation
of the spirit of inquiry. Unless something
of this kind is done it looks as if the whole
population will have to knock off work for a
couple of years and proceed to give evidence,
and burrow for several more years through
vast accumulations of report and documen-
tary exhibit. This “investigation into house
rents,’’ for instance, seems about the limit of
futility. Commissions beyond number have
at various times wrestled with the question,
and all the major and minor questions in-
cidental thereto. There is an easily avail-
able mountain of literature on the subject
available to everybody, and anyone who
wants more can find tons of it in the caverns
beneath the nation’s numerous Houses of
Parliament. The ink is scarcely dry on the
report of a Victorian Housing Commission.
The industrious Knibbs is busy every day
accumulating more statistics about rent.
Labor Department officials toil from morn to
night keeping pace with records relating to
the subject. The facts relating to the
influence of congestion on rents, to the preva-
lence of the slum, to the prices of land and
building material, to the existence of trans-
port facilities, and to Jerry Builder. Esq.,
have all been dragged out on multitudinous
occasions. What has not been dragged out
of his hiding-place is the politician capable
of making up his mind about what he wants
to do and how he proposes to do it. His
place is taken by the individual with a pas-
sion for getting a report, dropping the docu-
ment into the morgue and later on deciding
to get another report. Meanwhile the kind
of evidence that is secured at these inquiries
was cheerfully emphasised by the testimony
of a witness who appeared before Pidding-
ton in Sydney last week. He announced
that he had given the housing and rent pro-
teins close study, and that in order to secure
the steady construction of new houses it: was
desirable to —
1. Authorise the State Savings Bank to advance
more than two-thirds of the capital value on sound
house-building propositions.
2. Permit or encourage the payment of war bonds
and stock for the construction of houses.
3. Abolish the restriction of rent returns on pri-
vate house investments.
4. Fix the price of locally-produced building
material and furniture.
5. Restrain the excessive sales of suburban allot-
ments, so that more money may be diverted into
building on lots already purchased.
The boiled-down meaning of this is recom-
mendation of a public policy based on (.1)
no restriction upon the rent collected for the
slum or any place; (2) restriction upon the
wages of furniture-makers and other work-
ers; (3) an intensification of land monopoly.
It may be worth while paying Piddington
and other people to go round in search of
this sort of stuff. But The Bulletin would
not like to have the job of proving that
Piddington would be giving the nation less
valuable service if he did some more useful
work.
The Art of Using the Kaiser as a Stall.
Asked the other day in the House of Reps,
by H. Gregory, from W.A.. to give Parlia-
ment a chance of seeing a balance-sheet of the
Small Arms Factory, Partly Prime Minister
Watt repeated a much-worn gag. This was
to the effect that the information asked for
could not be supplied “because it would
enable other countries to know what we are
doing.” This answer has been so often given
to cloak muddle and waste in the past that
The Bulletin is disposed to strongly sus-
pect it of being used for similar purposes
again. In any case the allegation is dis-
honest. No reasonably sane citizen of the
Commonwealth can be expected to believe
that it matters 2d. whether the Turk or
the German are made familiar with the
details of the operations at Litligow. Nor
is it within the region of probability that
if the particulars were forwarded per aero-
plane to Berlin the German would waste
five minutes over them. He has important
matters to attend to. Wherefore Watt’s
talk about “the harm that might -be done”
is useless. No man knows better than
himself that the question is not whether
other countries might get to know of
what is being done hereabouts (mostly
because nothing is being done that would
interest them), but whether the people 0 f
Australia are entitled to know the facts
relating to their own business. There is a
huge annual expenditure on the Small Arms
Factory, and in view of that circumstance
alone it is a gross breach of duty for the
Government to persist in secrecy. How
many rifles have been produced at the fac-
tory? How many have been condemned?
How many have been actually issued for ser-
vice? How many retained by the men they
were handed to? How long has it taken the
factory to produce a rifle of service pattern?
Has the factory produced a single machine-
gun? If not —why? What has been the
cost of the output? Until Watt can get
out of the habit of publicly shivering at the
idea of the Kaiser finding out something
fresh about Pearce and can brace himself
up to recognise the difference between win-
ning wars and making foolish excuses for
untidiness, this paper is going _ to wait for
answers to the foregoing questions without
enthusiasm. Moreover, taking the Defence
expenditure all round, there is great reason
for the unhappiness that comes from dread-
ful forebodings. The recent report of the
Naval Commission concerning the outflow
of cash on various works is a dismal docu-
ment. Horrible waste was kept secret from
the Germans (and Australians) until the
other day, and there is mighty little guaran-
tee that more of it will not be perpetrated
to-morrow. The estimates for the year also
provide for enormous expenditure on machin-
ery and plant for the arsenal, a concern
which is apparently going after all to be
added to the collection of humpies at Can-
berra. The current votes under this head
amount to £172,820, and as somewhere over
a couple of millions will be needed to provide
housing for the arsenal employees (unless they
are supplied with houseboats on the ornamental
lakes) there ought to be quite a lot of money
available directly to fling after the millions
flung thereabouts before. As the Govern-
ment also announces that there must be a
lot of secrecy about the arsenal as well as
about the Small Arms Factory, The Bul-
letin suggests that the day fixed for taking
the lid off should at least be made a public
holiday. Spending money in the open has
usually been a momentous business in Aus-
tralia. The results of spending it down a
shaft ought to be worth hearing about.
The Caucus of the Anti-Caucus Party.
It seems no more than a day or two since
the Australian atmosphere was shattered in
frequent places with great regularity by the
yells of political sprouters about the horrors
ot the party Caucus. The tyranny of the
Caucus was a subject of violent denuncia-
tion. Freedom-loving citizens were ex-
horted to arise and banish the Caucus-ridden
push from the premises, to restore to Par-
liament its independence from the wire-pull,
to give juntas the boot, and thus slay
a brutal and irresponsible tyranny.
The evils of the machine-made process were
wept over daily by the S. M. Herald ; the
beauties of a Legislature in which every
man would stand four-square by lus prin-
ciples and be answerable to his constituents
only were held up to public admira-
tion by the moving prose of the Telegraph.
At the Federal and N. 8. Wales State
elections the electors gave the anti-
Caucus party what was reported to be
“an emphatic victory.” It is quite likely
that a lot of simple souls thought so. any-
way. Since then they have been able to
notice that the Caucus system, instead of
being buried, has flourished like prickly-
pear; that the party which was dead against
the Caucus before the polls has repented of
its oratory and become even more addicted
to the machine-in-the-cellar than the other
crowd. Not only is the anti-Caueus crowd
“taking control of the Legislature,” but the.y
are getting busy in municipal politics if
Richard Teece. late serang of the A.M.P.,
is to be believed. Teece had latterly de-
veloped an ambition to be an alderman of
Sydney, but because he objected to being con-
trolled by the Nationalist machine he dis-
covered that the machine had decided
to try to get someone else elected.
Also, during last week there were
cheerful revelations of the Caucus hav-
ing prevented certain proposals, formulated
by the Ministry, to control the Sydney meat-
market pirates being submitted to Parlia-
ment, and about a wildly-comic struggle in
the Caucus concerning preferential voting
and proportional representation. The case
of Teece is just about as bad as anything
the Nationalists could produce from the
records of the Labor Caucus. In the other
two instances both happenings turn a
thousand Nationalist speeches and resolu-
tions and pamphlets into ridicule. In both
the object of the Caucus has been to dragoon
individual members of the party and _ to
throttle Parliament. This paper has nothing
to say in defence of the Caucus system. It
is an evil thing, generated from evil methods
of government. The sooner the public
purges the political life of the Common-
monwealth of the causes which keep the
Caucus alive, the better for the people. But
the first move in that direction is not com-
menced by flinging out one set of Caucus-
mongers and telling another set to take
charge of the vacancy—especially when it
happens that the first set are the least dis-
reputable. They at any rate did not lie.
The Nationalists lied hard, and the. best
they can say about their Caucus perjuries
is that they are not ashamed of them.
The Voluntary Ballot.
“Syd Ney” : Over on the other side of the
world Billjim is doing his job, and not say-
ing much. But he sometimes wonders what
is going to happen when the constantly-
diminishing trickle of reinforcements dries
up altogether and leaves him stranded.
His favorite nightmare is a vision
of all the surviving Billjims being banded
together into a Labor Battalion, filling in
shell-holes and making roads behind the line.
At our end we try every dodge except the
right one to persuade the elusive slacker into
a fashionable suit. Making passionate
appeals to a crowd of old men, women, and
returned soldiers in Martin-place is one of
the least effective. The voluntary enlistment
ballot is well enough as far as it goes, though
i'c doesn’t go very far. But Minister for
Recruiting Orchard seems to be going the
right way to check its already dubious chance
of success. His pathetic appeal in the daily
papers to rejected men to rush in a body to
lend their support to the. movement savors
of a desperate desire to fill out the ranks of
the balloteers at whatever cost. He said :
“The physical standard is in no wise re-
duced ; rather it is more severe than hither-
to.” Obviously he holds out no hope to rejects
of getting into the army under the voluntary-
ballot scheme. What, then, i§ the object in
appealing so earnestly, to them to submit
their names? It is a waste of time on their
part and on his. Orchard said that the
scheme *‘is a nation-wide endeavor to bring
home to the eligible man the need of his
services and at the same time appeal to his
sporting instincts.” If the elusive eligible
had any sporting instincts he wouldn’t be
standing on the kerb cheering his cobbers
away. The voluntary enlistment ballot would
be an excellent thing if only it were not vol-
untary.
♦
No Bear Has Honor in His Own
Gum-tree.
This letter reaches The Bulletin from
New York: —
The Bulletin’s cartoons representing \V. M.
Hughes as indulging in a career of riotous living
and lavish festivities are as misleading as the German
communiques. I sat beside him at a dinner given
him—gratis—in New York, and I take my oath
that he did not eat anything but two spoonsful of
soup (thin) and four slices of pineapple, or drink
anything but ice-water. I never met a man who
would talk longer for fewer viotuals. If you think
Mr. Hughes has been over-eating just weigh him
when he gets back. As for his sumptuous suite, let
me say that he received the journalists —who, as you
know, are the most important people in any com-
munity—in a 10 x 12 bedroom, he sitting on the
bed, and his guests, such as could not get one of the
three chairs, also sat on the bed or on the radiator
or leaned against the wall. We used to think our
President democratic and unpretentious, but that
was before we knew the Australian and Maorilarid
Premiers. Also, while I have got your ear —if I have
—don’t you think you are over-doing the prophet-
without-honor-in-his-own-country business? We found
Mr. Hughes’s ideas about the partition of the Pacific
and preferential Protection mighty interesting. AVe
have, in the past, learned lots from Australia in
the way of labor legislation, land reform and other
matters of internal organisation. Possibly we may
also become your more or less docile disciples in
foreign policy.
To which The Bulletin offers a few words
in unobtrusive reply :
It is alleged, till the remark becomes boresome,
that a prophet isn’t honored in his own country.
Neither is a bogus nobleman honored in his own vil-
lage. When a romantic fraud sets up as the Earl of
Manhattan or the Count de Vanderbilt, he doesn’t
begin his adventurous career amid his childhood’s
surroundings, where everybody knows that he is plain
Smith, gifted with a mass of raven hair, a Grecian
nose, two attractive legs, a pleasant way with the
girls, and an air of mystery taken out of cheap
novels. The famous Ticiiborne claimant was a pass-
able baronet of high degree at Wagga (N.S.AV.).
AVhen he went to England to collect the estates he
didn’t pass at Wapping, where he immediately met
the fat girl he had mashed in his youth. Very
often, however, his own country is the only one in
which a prophet is honored —especially if he is a 3ft.
prophet in a 2ft. community. There he becomes
mayor and passes as a considerable rooster. The
time when he discovers that he is only an egg comes
later. That is when he goes out to a bigger place
to offer his services as Chancellor. However the
illustration has nothing to do with the Hughes
case. The Bulletin never accused or suspected
Hughes of being a heavy feeder. It always viewed
him as the skeleton at the feast, a skeleton being a
thing that doesn’t eat because it has no place to put
the food. Australia’s Prime Minister has some place
to put his food, but not much of a place. His indi-
gestion is proverbial. Even those who live with
Hughes, and know him—know his irritability, his
pomp, his limelight, his special police, his important
entrances and exits and all the rest —never accused
him of being a bad stage-manager. His appearance
in New York as the simple village maiden or as
Diogenes in his tub was the right thing to strike
the press. Apparently it did strike the press, and
the press was the right thing to strike. It was a
pocket-edition of the Abraham Lincoln style. The
objection to Hughes in Australia is his failure to
Do Things. If he had merely to talk in Australia
and had to do things in England the estimates of hid
value might be reversed. Hughes in England, with
a constituency to hold —perhaps a difficult constitu-
ency, with a dozen local interests worrying him, with
a department to administer and with 95 per cent,
of his oratory cut off, would be just our old Hughes
and no other. And seeing that there are in England
more than 30 full-blown Ministers to divide the
talking, and the whole lot don’t habitually talk
much more than Hughes does on his own, fully 95
per cent, of his oratory would be cut off. Then he
would be the same hot, testy and hesitating poli-
tician, balanced on one leg on the fiscal question and
a dozen other questions, mixed in his finance, igno-
rant of the value of money, filled with a boundless
faith in loan expenditure, hardly able to tell the
difference between loans and revenue, and impatiently
referring almost every difficult matter to a hew
“bureau” of expensive and badly-chosen men, with a
general instruction to look into the universe immedi-
ately and present a report—but a splendid party
engineer all the time.
The Prime Minister appealed to England as a
dauntless orator who could afford to be dauntless
because be had a whole Treasury behind him to
pay the libel damages and costs. He hasn’t had-
time to grow very stale. And he is a speaker of a
pattern that is unusual in England, so he has the
charm of novelty. In Australia there are many of
his type, though not many of so pronounced a type,
and that makes a difference. One reason why even
the chief bear often lacks honor in his own gum-
tree is that gum-trees with bears in them are numer-
ous. The same bear going abroad as a solitary or
rare specimen, with his secretary carrying his gum-
tree, has chances of his own while he is new.
■—■■■■ ♦
“Passenger”: Talking about the N. S.
Wales Railway Department—the marvellous
department that demands from the ordinary
citizen an electric torch wherewith to dis-
cover (1) its scheme of making its lines pay,
and (2) the lighting of its trains after sun-
down. If this isn’t the dead and ultimate
limit I would admire to be contradicted.
Some days ago I lost a first-class quarterly
ticket (paid for in advance, plus ss. deposit,
the metal ticket being worth, perhaps, decimal
0), which was the sign manual to checkers
that the department had contracted to carry
me to and from a Sydney suburb. After wait-
ing to see if the lost disc had been returned
to the department and placed in the lost-dog
office (naturally that is where the depart-
ment Avould put it) I applied for another
ticket; Having made a statutory declara-
tion before a ,T.P. that I had lost
my medal I was given a slip of
paper which informed guards, etc., that I
was a sound customer and had paid up. That
Convoy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fifteen ships from Halifax, we stride across
the seas,
And every mile’s a little mile beneath our
heavy tread;
For we have fought with distance and have
brought her to her knees,
And the bully armed merchantman is boom-
ing on ahead.
Fifteen ships from Halifax and little do we
reck
Of the wave’s thrust or the wind’s words that
echo on our steel,
For the singing of the Englishmen is ringing
from the deck,
And the naked strength of England’s arm is
living in the keel.
Fifteen ships from Halifax; we’ve dropped
the lights of town,
For the deep zones and the sky’s arch, and
the level plains of blue.
Our walk’s the walk of drunken men, we’re
painted like a clown ;
But the silver threads of Destiny are in the
winding screw,
And the crank’s leap and the bow’s lift and
the drift of funnel smoke.
Oh, fifteen ships from Halifax are driving
down the way,
With brown hands at the throttle and the
guiding tiller-spoke,
For the sun-white cliffs of England and the
glint of channel spray.
Amid the brooding midnight ’neath the mar-
vel of the skies,
When the drifting, shifting fog-hank puts its
fingers o’er the sight,
Our merry bells are pealing out like little
mellow cries;
And you’ll hear us calling, calling through
the shadows of the night.
The dark waves turn, the pale fires burn
along the gliding strake,
The knuckled fingers tighten on the tautened
whisfle-cord;
For ’tis tenderly and daintily the passage
we must make —-
The fifteen ships from Halifax with British
hearts aboard.
Fifteen ships from Halifax, we quest the
outer seas:
Oh, the grounders in the tide-rip that are
racking into foam !
But the yellow lights of London town are
flaring by the quays.
And the yellow lights of London town shall
guide the English home.
Fifteen ships from Halifax, we play our
honest part,
And brave upon the ocean roads our banners
are unfurled.
To the pulse-beat of our engines, like a beat-
ing British heart.
Me bear the English homeward from the
corners of the world.
ON TROOPSHIP.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


T\ e Farmers’ & Settlers' Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustraIia
Limited
The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of the Man on the Land to support this co-operative
company.
Write immediately for particulars.
Head Offices 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOOTH AUSTRALIA.
slip lasted for a few clays, and then it was
called in and in exchange I was given its
replica on cardboard. I didn’t want the
cardboard—the old slip of paper was doing
all that was necessary—but I was assured
that according to the regulations it was
essential that not only should I seize the
paste-board but that I should pay 2s. 6d. for
the privilege ! By this time I was feeling a
trifle uneasy, and wishing that I hadn’t been
so rash about war-bonds. However I ven-
tured to risk asking what would be the black-
mail when I applied for a renewal of my
ticket on the next quarter (a month ahead).
I was told that, in addition to the carriage
rate, I would be divorced from ss. as a
deposit on the metal work of art which I
would be given. When I hinted that the
department already held ss. of mine on
deposit I was referred coldly to Regulation
100118, which broke the news that, having
lost my ticket I had also lost the ss. which
I had handed to the department in good
faith. It boils down to this. On (Tquarterly
payment of (as in my case) £2 odd, paid in
advance, a passenger who loses the ticket
that is a mere convenience to the check-hand
on the train has wrenched from him IJfS, 6d.!
And yet some people try to convince me that
Ned Kelly and Ben Hall are dead.
»
Where the Enemy Stands.
The point of interest is swiftly moving from
the trench to the place where people are
talking. Germany is done. There can
be no doubt about that, for even though her
armies be still in being, so to speak, they
are incapable of defending her from the
forces they failed to defeat. Austria is
apparently dropping out of the fray, and the
empire of the llapsburgs looks to be broken
for ever. This collapse of his neighbor
leaves the Kaiser dejectedly contemplating a
heap of ashes and multitudinous cemeteries.
Talk about the power of the German to
resist invasion and the terrific price the
Allies would have to pay for breaking the
power of the German militarists is obvious
nonsense. The German can resist invasion
only by making it unnecessary. The mili-
tarism of Prussia will be broken by the
Germans themselves. They are smashing
it by degrees already. After getting a
little more encouragement to keep busy there
is nothing more certain than that they will
finish the job, and quickly, too. The Ger-
man is in all things a realist. He knows
what war is—or at any rate what war can
be. He knows what peace is—what Im-
perialists and Jingoes and Kaisers are —and
knows that fighting a losing battle for
Kultur and the House of llohenzollern
and all that these stand for can be taken off
the programme with great advantage to
himself and other people. And because he
knows this he can be depended on to make the
best of a bad job with just as great expedi-
tion as he would have forced the rest of
the world to take the worst of a job of
another sort.
♦
Why Hock Up Scientific Discoveries?
Are there any possible combinations of cir-
cumstances which could justify the State
withholding from the world a scientific fact
relating to preventive medicine? If there
are, quite a lot of people would like to know
what the combinations happen to be. Also,
they would like to know whether the Federal
Institute of Scientific Research proposes to
keep secret any or all of its discoveries or to
go in for compounding patent or unpatented
medicines and blight specifics and vermin
eradicators. Curiosity on these subjects has
been provoked by the extraordinary position
the N. S. Wales Government has been getting
in connection with the McGarvie Smith
vaccine for the prevention of anthrax in
sheep. Under the will of McG. Smith,
lately deceased, the State was made a sort of
partner with the Smith Vaccine Institute.
It appeared as if Smith had made a present
of his vaccine formula to the State. But it
transpired afterwards that there was a string
to the bequest or a fly in the ointment, or
something. Anyway, other people repre-
sented by the Board of Management of
the Institute (i.e., the vaccine factory) raised
objections to the State getting a sight of the
vaccine formula, and rushed the document
into a bank for safe keeping. All this appa-
rently was a proper proceeding, viewed in the
terms of Smith’s bequest. The result of it
was that the State had a share in a docu-
ment concealed in a bank safe, but couldn’t say
what was in the document—and the Smith
Institute had another share in the docu-
•ment, and knew all about the contents. The
suggestion then seemed to be that the Insti-
tute _ should go on preparing and selling
vaccine under “Government auspices.” After
prolonged and mysterious haggling this was
modified to the extent that the Institute direc-
torate, noticing that the Government was
being handed another process of making-
vaccine, offered to confide the Smith
formula to a Government bacteriologist on
condition of getting sole rights of producing
the germ annihilator under the aforesaid
Government auspices. It was represented
that there would be something “most injudi-
cious” in having two dopes on the market, as
this would "seriously affect the institute’s
affairs.” This would 'make it look as if the
McG. Smith bequest, for which he received
much posthumous applause, was a mere
device to get the State in as a sleep-
ing partner to sustain a monopoly.
Either the State did or did not re-
ceive from Smith, deceased, as a testa-
mentary bequest the anthrax vaccine for-
mula or a share therein. If the State did,
then its clear business is to treat that
bequest in the only way by which science is
distinguished from huckstering. If it did not,
or if the bequest involved a half-and-half sort
of deal, then the State’s clear duty is to
dissociate itself from an entanglement which
can bring it neither credit nor desirable pro-
tit. Should it be necessary in this case to
buy anyone out, or otherwise reconcile the
spirit of Mammon with that of Pasteur,
the thing should be examined on its merits.
The present position is preposterous, even
offensive. If McG. Smith had discovered
a vaccine for the prevention of Spanish ’flu’,
or tubercular disease of the lungs, or pene-
tration of the tissue by cancer, or leprosy, or
even for excessive agitation or the jaw, and'
if Smith had bequeathed the mystery of pre-
paration on whole or in part to the State,
projects to keep Science in the dark and run
the commodity after the manner of a proprie-
tary pill would not provoke much applause.
A Sarah Gamp in Armor.
Germany has now set up a Responsible Gov-
ernment after the British and Australian
fashion, and everything in the garden is
democratic and lovely. The Imperial Reich-
stag (House of Representatives), which runs
the show on paper just like our Reps., has
always been a manhood-suffrage body with
the secret ballot and other fixings; in fact,
the Hun had manhood suffrage before Aus-
tralia had it. Certainly Ministers were ap-
pointed by the ruler, as in the United States;
but this is regarded in the U.S. as rather
democratic than otherwise, for though Con-
gress has full power of legislation and con-
trols Ministers, they haven’t to waste their
time in the House answering fool questions,
and they don't make corrupt bargains with
middle parties in order to buy or keep then-
portfolios. However, the Hun reports that
he has adopted the British-French-Italian
custom of making Ministers sit in Parlia-
ment, and he assumes that this is a gigantic
reform or concession, and that there is now
a new, humane, reliable and indubitable Ger-
many, with which the Allies will naturally
treat on easy terms. In his own bland
fashion he proposed an armistice, or spell
of rest and deep thought, which wasn’t
necessarily to include an abandonment of the
foreign territory which the Hun occupies,
though if he abandoned part of it volun-
tarily and thereby got some of his armies out
of a tight, place, that would redound all the
more to his credit and show his reasonable-
ness. The spell of meditation wasn’t even
to include of necessity a complete abandon-
ment of submarine butchery, for it was care-
fully explained that some of the submarine
commanders might by accident not receive
news of the arrangement and might still
butcher. But it was suggested that the
truce should be based on the existing strength
of armies-—in other words, that no addition
should be made to the forces on either side.
The United States was to cease sending
250,000 or 350,000 able-bodied men to the
Front every month (a matter which could
easily be verified), and the Hun wasn’t to
put in training the new year’s crop of school-
boys (a matter which couldn’t be very well
verified). As a lavish return for these
arrangements the German people were in
future to speak through a one-man-one-vote
Parliament (as they have always done) and
a Responsible Ministry (which the Kaiser
can dismiss at any moment, just as George
Y. can—the difference being that the Germans
are accustomed to that sort of thing and the
British are not). It is a curious appeal to
the folk who pin their faith to written guar-
antees and scraps of paper. There is some-
thing grotesque in the old Hun gang, with its
uniform and its spiked helmet, assuring the
world that there has been a silent but com-
plete revolution over-night, and a new nation
with new ideals was born in the small hours
of morning with an armed Sarah Gamp as
midwife, and that they—the aristocrats with
uniforms and spiked belltoppers—are in per-
manent eclipse. It is almost as striking as
an Australian sinking fund, or as an Auditor-
General’s report regarded as a check on the
finances. Plain people in plain times have
sent the heads of the old Government to the
enemy in bags to prove that its eclipse was
really permanent and that the new Govern-
ment . was a genuine affair with power to
negotiate. Something of the sort is required
in the present instance.
- ■*>
“Ted C.” calls for cheers or something:—
The Military mind does move in a weird and won-
drous way. 0082 Pte. W. Blank, a young pommey
in the A.1.F., was invalided to England from France
18 months ago. In January, 1918, he was classified
C 3, which means unfit for all military duty and
due for discharge. Pending return to Australia he
was given a mild job at A.I.F. Headquarters, London.
Now, Blank’s father was a well-to-do landholder,
and, besides 0082, had two sons in the Tommy Army
and one in the Maoriland Forces. Owing to lack of
assistance he was much hampered in the management
of his business, and when news of son No. 0082’s
medical classification reached him he urged Blank
to seize his discharge with both hands and to get
released in England, as others had done. But when
the young man asked for his paper he came the pro-
verbial stummicker, and was told he’d have to get
it in Australia. He urged that he had no wives,
families or other ties in Australia, nor was any
job being held open for him there. He also pleaded
that his people lived in England and that they had
offered him profitable employment at work indirectly
of national importance. No use. Then dad
came to London, and stayed five days awaiting mili-
tary verdicts on. various points raised by himself. He
urged that his son was no longer of use to the
military, had no work to go to in Australia, so what
was wrong with releasing him in England, and
saving the expense of transporting him across the
world? Both dad and son, growing desperate, offered
that the latter would surrender all his deferred pay
for three and a half years’ service, and even relin-
-quish his right to the incapacitation pension awarded
him for the rest of his life! No use again; 0082
Blank would have to go to Australia before he could
be discharged. That’s as far as the story has gone
at time of writing, except that 0082 has since been
re-classified Cl, which permits him to be nominally
fit enough to remain in England on a Headquarters
job. But 0082 merely wonders what the use of
that is. And dad is dazedly trying to gauge what
sort of an institution it is that refuses a common-
sense bargain. Comparing this action with
the Government’s openhandedness in the matter of
despatching to Australia wives and fiancees, alleged
and otherwise; also, the casual way in which hun-
dreds of men have been enlisted, clothed, fed, paid
and transported from Australia to this country at a
great expense, only to be adjudged totally unfit for
soldiering when they arrive here, and then have to be
shipped back again, it makes me mournfully suspect
that military mental-balance is. not all it’s cracked
up to be by those who are handicapped with it.
“Pungawerewere” : One of the most bril-
liant surgeons in Maoriland, Dr. Cahill, of
Wellington, died a few days ago, and by his
death the poor of that city have lost a real
friend. “Tommy” Cahill, as he was affec-
tionately called, would give you the hat off
his head. His generosity, in the course of
a busy career as a medical man, was a
standing lesson to all men. Born and edu-
cated in Ireland, where he took his M.I).
degree, he came to Australia in 1844 when
a young man of 25, but went across from
Melbourne to Wellington, where he settled.
He had all his countrymen’s love of a horse,
and it was an unknown race-meeting around
Wellington at which he was not present.
Cahill was recovering after an operation on
the throat when his heart gave out.
“Figurehead” : Unless the ancient mariner
glued his telescope on to the buxom lass with
her left hand pointing the way from the bow-
sprit, and still as good as new, he would hardly
recognise in the Portuguese barquentine-
rigged Ferreira of to-day, the famous clipper
Cutty Sark, designed and fitted by Captain
John Moodie (who still thrives at Auchter-
muchty in his 93rd year) In 1869. In May,
1916, she was towed into Capetown Harbor
after being dismasted off Cape Agulhas on a
voyage from Delagoa Bay to Mossamedes
with black diamonds. No sticks could be got
for her till this year. During the long lay-up
old shellbacks boarded and wrangled over the
hoary-headed question as to whether the
Cutty Sark or the Thermopylae had been
the speediest. On one occasion an excited
inatelot threatened to finish the wordy war-
fare with a stiletto. He wound up the assem-
bly by hissing: “Whatta for a Thermopylae
nowa coala hulka if shea betta thana
Cutta Sark—eh ?” The Sark in 1875-76 estab-
lished a record run of 55 days between
London and Melbourne, and was actually
within 50 miles of Melbourne on the 50th
day out. The record has not been lowered
since. Others that go near it are a number
of Thermopylae flights, the voyage of the
Decapolis from London to Launceston in 56
days in 1869, and that of the Commonwealth
in 57 days in ’76. In the Sark’s record trip
the Line was crossed in 15 days, and 2163
miles of easting down was trampled in six
days, with one day’s run of 363 knots, and
the tally of the other five not far in arrears
of it. _ The Yankee hookers Flying Cloud,
Sovereign of the Seas, Lightning, and the
Liverpool-owned Marco Polo have each
recorded single day runs of over 400 knots.
The Sovereign of the Seas had a quota for
a day of 419 miles. That was on a voyage
from Sandwich Islands to New York, when
she covered a distance of 17.597 miles in
1896 consecutive hours —or just under 10
knots right through—precisely the same speed
as Billy Hughes’s first wooden packet for
Australia, the Cethana, accomplished on her
madden voyage, with the aid of the latest oil-
engines and the fruits of 60 years’ engineer-
ing and shipbuilding progress to work on.
There is a lot to be said for the clippers even
yet.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Katinka”
Criterion “The Great Divide”
Palace “Eyes of Youth”
Playhouse “Pierrot Pie No. 7”
Tivoli “Honi Soit”
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOUBNE SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hello, Everybody”
Royal “Business Before Pleasure”
King’s “Lucky O’Shea”
Tivoli “Everybody’s Doing It”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Mioi.ua Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Wirths’ Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
♦
The Melba-Verbrugghen concert in the
Town Hall (Sydney) was a great achievement,
and the huge audience got an artistic treat
it will long remember. Melba’s voice was
fresh, pure and limpid in its silvery clarity,
and showed no trace of the passing years in
its girlish sweetness. There may be a trifle
less volume in the lower register—or it
seemed so from a seat that overhung the
full blast of musical instruments —when the
orchestra accompanied the great soprano in
the early part of the programme. If this
were so, it was not apparent later, when
Melba sang, with the piano only, a group
of chansons. These, exquisitely portrayed in
every light and shade of which the vocal
chords are capable, roused the audience to
frantic applause. In the beautiful “Chan-
son Indoue” the great singer gave of her
best (as she always does), but added an
elusive charm to the words difficult to de-
scribe. Even the well-worn Tosti’s “Good-
bye,” in response to request, took on a new
life when she breathed upon its dry bones.
Verbrugghen and his orchestra were strong
in a magnificent programme. John Lem-
mone was recalled for a brilliant perform-
ance, in which his flute caught the fairy
delicacy of a “Melody” by Gluck. A new
Belgian pianist, Francis de Bourguignon.
immediately won public favor. The Lord
Mayor’s Fund for soldiers’ dependants ben-
efited by about £l5OO.
*
“The Great Divide,” at the Criterion
(Sydney) since Saturday, is new to Aus-
tralia as a “live” drama, though the writer
has a vague recollection of having noticed
the play per film. The piece was a great suc-
cess in America, and it is not difficult to see
why this should have been the case. It is
very American in setting, in sentiment and
in characterisation. And because of this, and
perhaps because of its artificiality, it is easy
to imagine “The Great Divide” making a
strong appeal to people who are able to appre-
ciate the local color. But the very reasons
which made a success in YVilsonland are
just those which may be found to limit its
staying power in Australia. Judging by the
shoes worn by the ladies and the cut of the
heroine’s skirt and blouse it appears that the
proceedings may have taken place last week.
“The Great Divide"
at Sydney Criterion.
Muriel Starr as Ruth
Jordan.
Now, if Arizona is
still in the habit of
capturing a wife
by force in the
middle of the night
from a lonely home-
stead, it would
seem as if there is
still a lot for
Uncle Sam to do
before Arizona is
safe for democracy
and experiments in
land settlement. It
is just there that
the Australian
audience finds its
sense of probabil-
ity, not to speak of
possibility, in vio-
lent collision with
the preliminary
episode. Ruth Jor-
dan, living with her
brother on a re-
mote selection, is
left on the premises
alone one night.
Three picturesque
males burst into
the humpy and pro-
pose a game of Yan-
kee grab with Ruth
as the prize. The terrified girl appeals to the
least tough-looking of the trio to save her
and expresses her readiness to pay him his
price. He buys off one of his mates, shoots
the other, takes possession of Ruth and de-
parts with her towards the distant peaks of
the Cordilleras. It transpires later that on
the way thither they were married. But six
months thence, though her husband has dis-
covered a rich deposit of gold, Ruth is living
in misery in a shack among the mountains,
with a great loathing for her proprietor and
much anxiety to see him cleansed of his
wickedness. Quite by accident her brother


ABBOTS
LAGER
Wi
vv
Made from
Malt i Hops
ONLY
A PERFECT
BEVERAGE
FOR A
summer's day
For Summer Bays.
Temperatures may run high, but you will find coolness and comfort
in a “No-Veste” (Regd.) Flannel Suit. The coat has no padding
nor lining—the material is light and is ALL-WOOL. Made with
soft, shape-retaining fronts, 2 buttons, 2 outside patch pockets.
Plain back, with seam only. Trousers: Side, hip and fob pockets
and permanent turn-up.
A distinctive Suit of Plain Light Grey All-wool Flannel.
Ready to ’Wear, 84/-
Please state height, chest, waist and inside-leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO. LTD ,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
|ppt^
It-s
«« , n J, J
:.':■ -■
~^\l
ai rives on the mountain top, has bitter con-
versation with the abductor and takes his
sister back to civilisation. The now anguished
husband follows at a distance, and while he
is waiting round unnoticed by the neighbois
in Massachusetts a son is born to Ruth.
Finally the husband decides to do the dis-
apnearing trick, manages to secure an inter-
view with Ruth just before the train leaves
for Arizona —and, of course, she finds out
that he has cast off his wickedness, and that
the time is ripe to say she has always loved
him and will henceforth refuse to be separ-
ated from him. It is all doughnut melo-
drama such as the movies demand by the
mile, and which gives to the movies ex-
traordinarily good opportunity for the pro-
duction of the film which tells its own story.
“KATINKA,” AT
SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Boris Storgoff (John Ralston) demands the
return of his wife from Thaddeus T. Hopper
(Phil Smith).
The dialogue incidental to the three acts of
“The Great Divide” is wholly commonplace.
In their most eloquent moments the inhabi-
tants of Arizona and the Cordilleras and Mil-
ford Corners (Mass.) talk the most amazing
fustian without the slightest provocation.
* * * *
“The Great Divide” is almost entirely for
Muriel Starr and Frank Harvey—the one
as Ruth Jordan and the other her over-
powering husband, Stephen Ghent. They
both act well, though the opportunities for
Stephen are much more numerous than for
Ruth. The actress seemed to be rather be-
wildered when The Bulletin attended the
show —to be not quite sure of what it was
all about. Harvey, as the strong-willed, hard-
living Westerner, cuts a fine figure, and
though the performance is entirely a theatri-
cal sequence of posing and rant, he manages it
with a fine semblance of human dignity. The
rest of the cast merely happen to come into
the story. As Polly Jordan, the wife of
Ruth’s brother, Miss Norma Mitchell is one
of the few bright spots. Polly’s femininity
is of that self-conscious kind which makes
the whole world sin. The sententious old
party who sits smoking outside Ruth’s shack
on the roof of the world is the other bright
spot.
Melodious “Katinka,” w’ith its everlasting
“Rackety Coo,” keeps tired people from
thinking too much and lazy people from
thinking at all at Her Majesty’s (Sydney).
It’s still Emelie Polini and “The Eyes of
Youth” at the Palace -( Sydney). The noble
Indian yogi who supplies the visions per-
spires beneath his stage tan these close even-
ings ; but the smart scene-shifting staff who
actually work the changes sweat unseen.
“Pierrot Pie No. 7” will be opened by
Sydney James at the Playhouse (Sydney)
on Friday. It is understood to be a strongly
patriotic dish.
s$ i $
“Honi Soit,” with Barry Lupino flickering-
in and out, is still keeping penury from the
door of the Tivoli (Sydney).
At the Crystal Palace (Sydney) “The
Better ’Ole,” Bruce Bairnsfather’s illustra-
tions of the doings of Old Bill, Alf and Bert,
is holding audiences this week with its
simple humor and pathos. The story cen-
tres round Old Bill’s discovery of an enemy
plan. Single-handed he frustrates that little
bit of Hun devilry, and returns to Blighty
with a decoration and a salutation from the
French Commander. At the finish all his
sorrows are forgotten when his missus pre-
sents him with a snug little pub, where he
can find refreshments after the heat and
thirst of active service. The film corpora-
tions have evidently bought up some hotel
property, for they have presented Mae
Marsh also with a grog-shop. Mae
is working in a doll factory when she hears
the glad tidings, but her ardor is damped to
find her bit of real estate is not in Respect-
able-street. However, she has a big heart,_ so
she sets to work to clean up the reputation
of the pub and the locality, and when she
marries the village lawyer you know that
she’s fairly on the job. The name of the
story is “AH Woman,” and its address is the
Strand. At Hoyt’s and the Ilaymarket,
“Let’s Get a Divorce” gives Billie Burke
great opportunities in the part of a whimsi-
cal, romantic young wife. She decides that
there aren’t enough thrills in matrimony, so
she sets off for Reno, where you can get a
divorce with a pound of tea. However, on
the way she thinks better of it, and returns
to her husband, who provides her with board
and lodging and a free pardon. Mary Bick-
ford is still a feature at the Lyceum, and
each visit to “Stella Maris” deepens the im-
pression made by her fine acting. “Ace
High” is the supporting yarn at the same
address. It shows Tom Mix in outdoor
sports amid wild and untameable scenery.
This (Thursday) afternoon, .T. and N.
Tait ring up the curtain on their first Reper-
tory production at the Palace (Sydney).
Producer Gregan McMahon is starting off
with Shaw’s “The Doctor’s Dilemma.”
“Pershing’s Crusaders,” given its first
Australian run at West’s (Adelaide), is the
new U.S.A. official war-film. It might have
been called “America Prepared,” for, after
a symbolical picture or two linking up the
present anti-Hun expedition with the old
anti-infidel crusades, it gets down to a repre-
sentation of what U.S. is doing to make
things easier for the Allies and more un-
pleasant for the enemy. It should make
Australia blush to see how ship-build-
ing is tackled. Everything is on the big
scale, even to the electric knife which cuts
about 60 thicknesses of khaki uniform much
as one cuts butter. Later pictures show the
U.S. boys fraternising with the populace of
Franee; but, like most other war-pictures,
these stop just where one wants them to be-
gin. The nearest they get to the actual
fight is a row of sulky prisoners—the first
that Uncle Sam bagged. The main value of
the film is the moral to be learned from the
sight of a whole nation in dead earnest about
the war. The Royal (which is just getting
back to musical comedy with “Oh, Boy”)
has had IJ. B. Irving giving effectively his
double part in “The Lyons Mail” with larger
effects (outdoor) than he was able to get on
the stage. At Wondergraph, Enid Bennett
shows what a very mild sample of naughti-
ness is enough to shock an American back-
block village, and Hayakawa puts up (in
a strong story) a fairly effective bluff at
being an African native. Leila Doubleday
is at the Town Hall, the Anderson co. at the
Tivoli is showing how Girls are brought to
Ruin (with a special request that every
mother and father shall come to learn), and
at the Majestic comedian Paul Stanhope
continues to lead a bright show, in which
the singing of the Grafters is conspicuous.
* :!:
Deprived of its glitter and girl, “Hello,
Everybody,” at Her Majesty’s (Melb.),
seems the hollo west apology of an entertain-
ment. There are altogether 17 scenes, and
the bulk of them are either scraps of rough-
and-tumble humor or are expensively em-
broidered backgrounds for unimpressive
songs. The music throughout is tinkly,
trite and tiresome. One or two of the items
are positively stupid, and emphasis is given
to their quality by the inability of singers
like Minnie Love and Nellie Payne to
warble them with any degree of comfort.
On the male side the vocal performance is
better, Cannot, at any rate, improving his
numbers by his impromptu “business” and
infectious bonhomie. Whether as the bogus
King of Neutralia, the dishonored husband
of the Stone Age, or any other of his half-
dozen characters, he often changes a
threatening yawn to a laugh by his mental
alertness and irresistible geniality. Clyde
Cook and George Welch are minor humor-
ists with greater physical resources, but of
more negligible personality. The value of
their effort is comparatively small. Minnie
Love is dressed in the wildest fancies of a
futurist clothes-artist. But that is Minnie’s
sole distinction. Pearl Ladd and Villiers
Arnold are more competent singers with
fewer opportunities, and Sydney Yates is a
useful auxiliary as a comedian and dancer.
He is the festive partner of Maggie Dickinson
in an Oriental feature, “Sesame,” wherein
Maud Arnery introduces a slim and shapely
leg. Maggie appears earlier as the presu-
mable spirit of agriculture in an ingeniously
arranged “wheat scene.” Also, she is the
personified vision of a Red Injun romancer
in the imaginative first act finale, sumptu-
ously illustrated by the Falls of Niagara
and a gaudy Red Skin chorus. All the poetry
contributed to the handsome picture comes
from her poised and perfect toes. None of
the foregoing, however, may deceive them-
selves that they are the revelation in this
, “revelation in revues.” It is the sustained
cleverness of the chorus and ballet, dancing
and moving with unanimous decision in
scenes like the. “Oriental Nights” and the
charming “Gathering of the Clans,” that is
the lovely surprise the entertainment affords.
The cumulative effect of the brilliancy and
beauty of these girls is a double-distilled
joy in comparison with the weakness revealed
in some of the leads.
Potash and Perl-mutter are still success-
fully dodging insolvency in “Business Before
Pleasure” at the Royal (Melb.). J. C. Wil-
liamson Ltd. declare that the partners pro-
duce GO laughs a minute, but as some of
their jokes often require five minutes for
solution, the management’s statement can be
accepted with caution. One night last
week, at any rate, the claim seemed absurdly
hyperbolical. Abe and Mawruss were not
averaging more than five laughs to the hour,
and they probably felt, like the writer, that
the theatre had been engaged by the Cale-
donian Society.
“Mum Dawson, Boss” having failed to
touch the popular fancy, Bert Bailey has
revived “Gran’dad Rudd” for the last week
of the season at the King’s (Melb.). Gran’-
dad is the despot of “On Our Selection,”
with 20 years of accumulated bitterness to
work off and a more rudimentary view of
domestic justice and good feeling. In the
present spasm of his history his factious ill-
nature produces heartless reprisals, and he
is the irreverent butt of a family that never
was strong in filial devotion. Also his age
has affected his judgment and, to gratify his
overweening autocracy, he is now ready to
desert the cause of unhappy virtue and
marry his granddaughter to the first fluent
miscreant w T ho “chews his ear.” Moreover,
his blessed descendants are willing to support
the outrage and dance at the wedding, which
shows a weakness of moral stamina not sus-
pected of the Rudds of 20 years before.
There are changes, mostly errors, in the cast,
but the aggregate shortage of talent is not
conspicuous enough to invite a shower of
bricks. To-morrow the Rudd family re-
treats from the King’s, and on Saturday
Allen Doone will tread the ould boards in
“Lucky O’Shea.”
s!; *
“Vanity Fair” seems suitable to the times
and the Tivoli (Melb.), but evidently the
management has another opinion. Anyhow
next Saturday the uncommon little show
will be withdrawn in favor of another revue,
“Everybody’s Doing It.”
ij: si:
Wirths’ Circus (Melb.) is as popular as
ever, though some of the horse acts are now
looking rather venerable and the lions and
the elephants have no new tricks. All the
novelties of the show are provided by the
aerialists, and those artists will gratify the
“HELLO, EVERYBODY!” AT HER
MAJESTY’S, MELBOURNE.
The inventor (Jack Cannot) engaging the
office hoy (Gus Bluett).
most pessimistic thrill hunter. The best
shock-producer is the whirling trapezist,
Montfort. When he is reaching the apex of
his flight, gradually approaching the momen-
tum that will swing him right over, the
gasps of the audience recall a gas-engine
demonstration.
** * *
Mary Pickford is the week’s sunbeam on
the De Luxe and Lyceum screens (Melb.).
She is the joyous “Amarilly of Clothesline
Alley,” and she has the lead throughout five
acts of the cleanest and cutest comedy
drama. .Jewel Carmen follows close on the
track of Mary as the fascinating little fraud
in “The Bride of Fear.” Hoyt’s also have
“The Country Boy” to warn good young men
that woman and wine are worse together than
singly taken neat. “The House of Glass,’’staged
at the Royal (Melb.) a while ago, is now a
film feature, with Clara Kimball Young m
the principal part. The picture was un-
rolled at the Majestic (Melb.) on Saturday,
and the silent agony of Clara in her endeavor
to keep her past from her railroad president
lifted her another mile in the opinion ot
movie connoisseurs. Zoe Rae, a clever
juvenile, supports Clara in a five-act comedy
drama, “The Magic Eye.” Also views of the
hills around Warburton, Healesville and
Marysville (Vic.) add some- welcome Aus-
tralian scenery to the largely foreign pro-
gramme.
Two side-shows :
Rumors of an approaching dress shortage are
confirmed by the Norman Lindsay exhibition at the
Fine Art Society, Alfred Place, Melbourne. The
various damsels scattered about can hardly muster
one garment between them. They are the latest
Lindsay wenches modelled to a gracious slenderness
of flank, a fine bust, and a delicious piquancy in
facial design. For the most part they are ignorant
of corsets and the Nonconformist conscience, and care
only to idle in their natural state in an Eden of
purple evenings and golden afternoons. Yellow and
blue and crimson are most frequently combined to
produce the necessary environment of rich and pagan
ease. One must frankly admire these nudes for their
irresponsibility and their halt-evasive charm, they
arrest attention in a number of gorgeous color-
decorations. They challenge the eye and abide in the
memory when robbed of their alluring pinkness by
Indian-ink. Also, they acquire a strange fascination
in the etchings like “Femininity” and “Ballet
Entrance,” in which Lindsay has found a new ecstasy
of expression.
Some 70 pictures by a new artist, Marion Jones, at
the Athenaeum, Melbourne, show the effect of a
National Gallery training. The large subject, “For-
tunes,” allegedly painted for the Travelling Scholar-
ship, reveals the sound drawing and unimaginative
vision that are pre-requisites for the capture of three
years abroad. Miss Jones has thoroughly absorbed
the artistic principles that often remain rigid and
unaffected through a lifetime of stolid effort. Her
regiment of portraits in oils shows the same staid and
conventional painting of unimportant people that in
England leads to extinction in the Royal Academy.
Miss Jones does better in pastels. Some of her
studies in this medium are handled with liveliness
and freedom.
Adelaide has discovered a remarkable child.
He managed to get enrolled before he was
15 years old, and saw two years’ active ser-
vice in Egypt and France before being dis-
charged as too young to enlist. Last week
he was charged in an Adelaide police-court
with assaulting the military police, but his
lawyer claimed that the veteran warrior was
of too tender years to be tried anywhere but
in the Children’s Court! So the scene was
changed, and the child was fined £2 for
“language” and violent behavior.
From the desert:—
Since the French occupation in 1830 East and
West have been fighting in Algiers. I was told (by
a Frenchman) that the West had indisputably won ;
I have been told that of many places, and I have
never believed it. The French Algiers is still the
Arab El Djezair. In the Rue de Rovigo and
on the quay side one is in a rather dan-
gerous and raffish quarter of some squalid
African Montemarte at midnight. Very high
lights; frocks in shops (the last gasp of chic);
trams, motors; people in cabs—all very gay; heaps
of distraction of all kinds, legal and illegal.
Out of earshot of this gaiety little rocky moun-
tainous streets and stone stairways creep precipi-
tously up to the Casbah, the great fortress on the
hill, through the Arab quarter. Grass and moss grow
between the pavement-stones and on the stairways,
and lichen dots the Casbah walls. The stars and a
few swinging oil-lamps light the cloistered fountained
courtyards, the flowers and the dark palms. The
tiled or marble patio the Spaniard inherited from
his Arab father is a great possession—he has a
garden of silence, broken only by the whispering
water-jet, always in his house. In the Arab city of Eli
Djezair the West watches the cool oasis, the imme-
morial peace and dark quiet—from outside the gate.
Diagonal cedar-wood poles support the overhang-
ing upper storeys of the houses, like multitudes of
gallows’ brackets. The stucco of the silent walls
has the same luminous surface as that of the Alham-
bra ; only an Arab plasterer can make his walls
shine in the dark. A few Arabs make a lisping,
slippered way through the alley; they stop and stare
at me (the conquering West) and go their way in
silent contempt. The tiny mosque they pass below
the walls is always full of women praying for babies
—Eastern babies. Outside, the Sahara heaves and
burns; past Karouan the Sacred City, and Sidi
Okbar’s onyx and porphyry, out to Morocco.
El Biar, the Rose Bay of Algiers, is Western. On
the shore of Mustapha SupSricur, it looks across the
lake, from its gardens of olives and almonds and
weeping pepper-trees and sycamores, to the
snow mountains of Kabylia, over the factories
and smoke and dirt which pay its Monte Carlo rents.
The suburb is dainty and French. Kept like an
English park or a boudoir. Tobacco fields in the
interior and roulette tables (and so on) in Algiers
help to keep it. And the Rue de Rovigo screams
raucously that all the world is Western. But the
mighty Casbah on the hill and the Arab town is
silent —silent.


-3: j Well, ld better fill
t sface 'today' Lets see,
whats doin^.vsomethin| about German atrocity. *
Whife "NlaT P Germans Surrendered 7
Confound if 1 Why* donT tile/ do
ttiincjs on TFiurddaygi ?"
'Tfy.ank heav/en |<or
India Rubber*,
arid baste.'
EH? (
V
Hasn't - sur- <
Gendered at sill?
JuiTa dirty -tf-iik to catch Vfeo' unawares ? I?,gh-fe' ‘
v PHeto! V\)i! son has jusT replied
* ttiat"\T airjt" good enough!"
OfP'CE Boy : He-y' Editor I y
sa/s “foe dtfier bloke is doin' ——
Wilson /oo potter d© &i(ly Hates ’
STRENUOUS TIMES FOR CARTOONISTS.


LEAD
British Owned and Controlled.
SILVER
The Bro Ken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Smelting Works : Port Pirie, S.A. Coke Works : Bellambi, N.S.W.
Branch Offices:
LONDON : 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building: SYDNEY :26 O'Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead Chemical Lead
Assay Lead (Bar and (iranulated)
Refined Silver (Uar and 0-irannlated)
Linotype Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY
FAVORABLE TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade*
Slags, etc., containing silver or lead
Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
Registered
JBHAS
Brand.
LITHARGE
AH Enquiries to
be addressed to
the Secretary.
ANTIFRICTION
LINOTYPE
METALS
PIONEER Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
makers: J. c. ludowici ®. son ltd.
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 10 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland State Government Insur-
ance Office. —Tlie managements of most
insurance cos. throughout the Common-
wealth are watching the growth of tins
young Sosli tiger with some concern as to
what is going to happen later on. The cos.
operating in the Northern State received
their lirst bad knock when the Labor Gov-
ernment gave the State office, a monopoly ot
all the workmen’s compensation business. of
the State. Certainly under the Act which
made workmen’s compensation insurance
compulsory it was provided that any co.
which was “approved” by the Governor-in-
Council could do business, but none of the
private cos. was approved, and the Privy
Council when appealed to upheld the Gov-
ernment’s action. The State office is still
in its infancy, but even the happenings of
the past two years threaten to affect the
future of insurance cos. not only in Banana-
land but throughout the Commonwealth. For
it is certain that if this Slate enterprise is a
success—that is, if it can considerably
cheapen the cost of insurance—the other
States are certain sooner or later to estab-
lish insurance departments. The Queens-
land office is not confined to workmen’s com-
pensation insurance, and is now doing fire,
life, annuity and miscellaneous accident busi-
ness. Insurance Commissioner John Good-
wyn has now presented his second annual
report, and it is as voluminous and informa-
tive as its predecessor.
Workers’ Compensation Department.
Owing to the fact that insurance is com-
pulsory and that the State office has a com-
plete monopoly of the business, this branch
is a very big affair. The results for the year
work out this way :
Premiums .. .. .. ..£242,633
Interest, etc. , . . .. .. 5,766
£248.399
Claims £107,078
Provision for unadjusted claims.. 44,637
Provision for claims not notified
at June. 30 .. .. .. 10,000
Expenses .. .. .. .. 27,789
189,504
Surplus .. .. £58,895
The year’s claims are given as £132,277, but
these figures include £33,403 of 191.7 claims
adjusted after the accounts had. been made
up. For outstanding and unnotified claims
£25,199 had been set aside. Thus the net
claims (including what is reckoned a liberal
allowance for outstanding claims) charged
against the 1918 revenue amount to £161,715.
Working on these figures gives a claim
ratio of 66.65 p.c. of the premiums received.
It was an unfavorable year; cyclones and
floods alone being responsible for 13 fatal
accidents. Though the department has not
quite got into its stride yet, . because
it does not have to pay commission or
taxation .expenses absorbed only 11.45 p.c.
of the premiums, but the Commissioner hopes
to further reduce this proportion by getting
power to charge dilatory employers with the
cost of pursuing them for returns and pre-
miums. After making allowances for bad
debts, etc., and including the previous year’s
carry forward there was £63,389 to be appro-
priated in accordance with the Act. The
premiums charged for ordinary risks “were
in all cases the published net rates of the
Accident Underwriters’ Association of
Queensland under the Act of 1905.” Policy-
holders received a 10 p.c. bonus absorbing
£22,000, and the household workers’ compen-
sation policy-holders got a 50 p.c. bonus
(£1030). General reserves are strengthened
by £30,000.
As to the results this department has so far
achieved, allow the Commissioner to put it
his own way :
By the granting of a bonus of 10 p.c. the rates
for insurance under the new Act have been substan-
tially reduced below the rates charged by the cos. for
the insurance of the much lower benefits of the pre-
vious Act.
During the year statistics have been compiled
which will enable me very shortly to make recom-
mendations for the revision of existing rates in
accordance with our actual claim experience. While
the bonus system was the only safe method in the
early stages. . . .unless accompanied by frequent rate
revision it is manifestly unfair to policy-holders, who
receive the same rate of bonus in all classes quite
irrespective of the adequacy or otherwise of the
rates paid....l propose to recommend the adoption
of a system of net rating.
One of the notable features of the Queens-
land Act is the provision for compensation
for disablement arising from miners’ phthisis
and certain industrial diseases. This busi-
ness is still in the experimental stage, and
though the present premiums (a maximum of
40s. p.c. for underground miners) and the
Government subsidy have left a small margin
after meeting claims and paying exes, a
revision of the rates may be necessary later
on. Net premiums last year were £20,375,
and claims £17,697 and exes. £2919. The
business done in this section is, as the Com-
missioner puts it, “entirely of a co-operative
nature, the Office merely acting as an inter-
mediary, paying compensation on the one
hand and assessing employers’ premiums and
Government contributions on the other.”
Fike Department.
At June 30 this department had been
established 17 months. Gross premiums for
the past 12 months amounted to £48,908, and
net premiums (i.e., after deducting reinsur-
ances and return premiums) £30,004. Net
claims amounted to £3353 —11.17 p.c. of the
net premiums. This low loss rate is due
partly to the fact that a very big proportion
of the policies cover dwelling risks, and also
to the fact that a lot of the business was
acquired late in the financial year. Ex-
penses, including commissions, taxation and
fire-brigade charges, together with adminis-
tration charges, absorbed 46.78 p.c. of the net
premiums. “This rate.” says the Commis-
sioner, “should decrease as the proportion of
renewal premiums to the whole increases”
—21,128 new policies were issued last year.
Of the year’s surplus £12,000 has been trans-
ferred to an unearned premium reserve.
There have been two reductions of rates since
this department started, the total reductions
on dwellings being 33$ p.c. and on business
risks 20 p.c. It is estimated that these reduc-
tions mean a saving of at least £140,000 to
the public.
Life and ivlxscellaneous Accident
Departments.
The Life branch had been operating only
six months when the accounts were made up.
This Life business will be one of the Office’s
most interesting activities, but so far it has
not been advanced to a stage on which any
comment is of much value. “The policy con-
ditions and rates,” savs the Commissioner,
“especially for non-profit insurance, compare
favorably with those of other offices.” The
first valuation is to be made as at December
31. 1920, and thereafter an annual valuation
will decide the division of sui’plus pi’ofits, all
of which “will belong absolutely to policy-
holders.” The Miscellaneous Accident branch,
covering personal accident and disease insur-
ance, guarantee, plate-glass risks, etc., is so
far only a small affair. Net premiums last
year amounted to £4112, claims £324, and ex-
penses £1485. Of the surplus an amount
representing 40 p.c. of the net premiums has
been reserved. The premiums, by the way,
have been reduced 20 p.c. on old rates, re-
sulting in an estimated saving of £20,000 to
the public.
Under the Act £lOO,OOO was appropriated
to establish the State Insurance Office. Rut
all the Commissioner required was a tem-
porary loan of £3571, which was repaid
almost immediately. The balance-sheet shows
general reserves of £58,020. Total assets
now stand at £200,126, £101,278 in public
securities, £65,331 in cash, £26,415 due by
sundry creditors, £6964 in motor-cars, furni-
ture, etc.
* * * *
Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd. (Adelaide),
pastoral finance and woolbroking people:—
Written To Re- Rc-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, £ .£ £ £ £
5905.. 36,532 10 p.c19,000 4,000 13,532 76,482
1906.. 45,940 10 „ „ 19,000 3,000 23,940 100,422
1907.. 60,674 10 „ ~19,667 1,500 39,507 139,929
1908.. 43,457 10 „ ~25,000 18,457 158,386
1909.. 51,266 10 „ ~25,000 26,266 184,652
1910.. 59,521 10 „ ~29,991 29,530 214,182
1911.. 73,784 10 „ ~30,000 43,784 257,966
1912.. 60,969 10 „ ~31,661 29,308 287,274
1913. . 79,206 10 „ ~35,000 44,206 331,480
1014.. 76,716 10 „ ~35,000 30,000 11,716 343,196
1915.. 68,282 10 „ ~40,000 28,282 371,478
1916. .102,037 10 „,, 40,000 62,037 433,515
1917. .105.833 10 „ ~43,334 62,499 496,014
1918. .112,102 12 „ ~67,417 44,685 540,699
Internal reserves disclosed, £90,000 . . 630,699
Reserves capitalised, £120,000 .. 510,699
This co. has had three gorgeous years. Pro-
fits are shown after amounts have been
written off securities, premises, etc., and last
year £14,520 was written off premises alone,
compared with £9761 for 1917 and £8604 in
1916, while, no doubt, there have been pro-
visions for contingencies which do not show
up in the balance-sheet. During the past
two years £200,000 of uncalled capital has
been got in, and the growth of income, less
provision for depreciation of securities and
premises, etc., has been as follows: 1916,
£231,059; 1917, £259,579; and 1918,
£318,179. Some of our products have been
disposed of at hitherto undreamt-of prices,
and the higher prices go the more Elder,
Smith’s get in commissions. But apart from
the handsome profits shown recently, this
year's accounts provide further reason for
shareholders to applaud. This is the dis-
closing of £90,000 of internal reserves. “Some
accounts that had been regarded as rather
unsatisfactory,” explained the chairman,
“had now been made good or been realised
.... so £90,000 had been introduced into the
P. and L. account from provisions that ex-
isted prior to June 30, 1914.” This amount,
together with £30,000 of undivided profit, is
being transferred to capital, which will then
stand at £720,000.
Since the war started the co. has been
piling up liquid assets. This shows how the
balance-sheet figures have moved during re-
cent years and also since 1901: —
1901. 1914. 1917. 1918.
Deposits, etc.. 554,426 1,620,494 1,671,702 1,995,130
Other liabili-
ties.. .. 97,320 40,075 129,077 98,212
Property, pre-
mises, plant,
etc... .. 54,130 139,590 154,921 210,080
Gov. stock and
cash . . 170,435 G 37.282 1,148,805 1,372,442
Advances, etc. 489,586 1,579,535 1,436,119 1,738,905
Other assets.. 177,626 04,859 79,803 44,614
Liabilities have increased by £432,773 since
1914, and £200,000 of new capital has been
got in; total, £632,773. In the same time
no less than £735,160 has been added to War
Loan and other Government securities,
deposits and cash. There are now liquid
assets amounting to £1,417,050 and liabilities
of £2,093,342. To meet the £676,286 of
liabilities not represented by liquid assets
there are the advances of £1.738,905 and
property, etc., £210,080. Shareholders have
done very well; since 1905 they have received
a 10 p.c. dividend each year, and on every
occasion there has been a substantial addi-
tion to visible reserves. After paying divi-
dends totalling £190,751 for the four war
years, no less than £287,503 has been added
to reserves, including the £90,000 recovered.
To what extent the management has been
providing for contingencies lately nobody but
those inside know, but in view of the abnor-
mal conditions the management admits that
it has been proceeding with extreme caution.
The fact that at this stage it can bring
£90,000 into the accounts indicates at least
that the management is thoroughly satisfied
with the position. A glance at the 1901
balance-sheet figures given above indicates the
co.’s rapid growth. It is still growing, and
lately the Elder, Shenton business in AVest-
ralia, in which the co. held a controlling in-
terest, was absorbed. The co. is now estab-
lished in every mainland State.
* * * *
Standard Mutual 6uilding Society
(Melbourne) :
Profits on
Property Re-
Profits. Sales. Dividends. serves.
July, 1911 . . £2626 £l7lO 8 p.c. = £1912 £26,008
Jan., 1912 . . 2714 2956 9J „ „ 2231 29,447
July, 1912 . . 3132 859 8 „ „ 2294 31,144
£9560 Reserves transferred to Capital.. 21,584
Jan., 1913 . . 3038 486 8 p.c. = 2294 22,814
July, 1913 . . 3237 122 8 „ „ 2294 23,879
Jan., 1914 . . 3295 423 8 „ „ 2294 25,303
Julv, 1914 . . 3471 778 8 „ „ 2294 27,258
Jan., 1915 . . 3612 3GO 8 „ „ 2294 28,936
July, 1915 . . 3400 139 10 „ „ 2868 29,607
Jan., 1916 . . 3622 10 „ „ 2868 30,361
July, 1916 . . 3268 360 10 „ „ 2868 31,121
Jan., 1917 . . 3304 - 10 „ „ 2868 31,557
July, 1917 .. 3289 10 „ „ 2868 31,978
Jan., 1918 .. 3317 10 „ „ 2868 32,427
July, 1918 . . 3343 11 „ „ 3155 32,615
The “profits on property sales” column of
that table is an echo of the big smash. In
1900 the co. held a post-mortem on the pro-
perties which had been thrown on its hands,
and when it revalued its assets a considerable
proportion of the capital was found to repre-
sent nothing more than the hot-air of the
boom days. So assets were written down
and the capital was reduced to correspond.
Later on, however, as some of these proper-
ties were unloaded, they returned more than
their book values, and these amounts were
added to shareholders’ funds. This compari-
son shows how the business has been built
up since just after the clean-up:—
July,’ol. July,’l4. Jan.,’lB. July,’lB.
Liabilities ..£37,015 £45,823 £31,242 £32,928
Advances . . 19,998 121,991 114,667 116,936
Foreclosures . . 72,305 10,576 3,693 4,391
Cash, etc. .. 2,778 165 5,738 4,828
The figures for 1914 are also given to show
how cautiously the management has been
working since the war began. Deposits at
July, T 4, were £42,570, and the co. owed the
bank £2909. Deposits now amount to
£32.(351, and there is a credit balance at the
bank of £635, while there is £4013 in War
Loan. Very few of the old properties still
remain on the books —£3693 six months ago
compared with £72,305 after the reconstruc-
tion. During the past half-year, however, a
further £7OO-worth has been acquired by
foreclosure. The position nowadays from the
creditors’ point of view is very safe —there
is £116,936 of advances to cover total
liabilities of £32,928. Business is now very
profitable, and reckoned on the past term’s
figures the advances are earning about 8j» p.c.
p.a. Capital is £57,357.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers, produce salesmen and suppliers of
station goods:—
Writ
Dividends and ton To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
July,’it.. 7,852 10 p.c.= 1000 3000 852 30,911
Jan.,’l2.. 10,445 10 „ „ 425( 6195 37,106
Reserves transferred to capitu, £10,000.. 27,106
Premiums on new shares .. .. 4000 31,106
July,’l2. . 10,742 10 p.c.= 4750 5992 37,098
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,000.. .. 58,098
Jan.,’l3.. 9,124 10 p.e.= 5000 4124 62,222
July,’l3.. 7,895 10 „ ~5000 2895 65,117
Jan.,’l4.. 8,532 10 ~ ~5000 3532 68,649
July,’l4.. 7,670 10 „ ~5000 2670 71,319
Jan.,’ls.. 8,662 10 „ ~5000 3000 662 71,981
July,’ls.. 8,203 10 ~,,5000 1000 1203 74,184
Jan.,’l6.. 9,121 10 ~,, 5000 4121 78,305
July,’l6.. 8,141 10 ~,,5000 3141 81,44 e
Inner reserves disclosed, £14,195.. .. 95,641
Jan.,’l7.. 8,526 10 p.e.= 5000 3526 99,167
Reserves transferred to capital, £26,000. . 74,167
July,’l7.. 8,125 10 p.c.= 6250 1875 76,042
Jan.,’lB.. 10,460 10 ~,,6250 4210 80,252
July,’lB.. 13,677 10 ~,,6250 7427 87,679
A very profitable half-year; and all the profit
is not disclosed, for the figures are shown
“after writing off all bad debts, the usual
depreciation, making liberal provision for
doubtful debts and placing ‘a bit up. the
sleeve,’ ” as the directors put it. The results
are very fine in view of the war difficulties
which, particularly in its carrying depart-
ment, the co. has to overcome. Inter-State
shipping is more scarce than ever, and a co.
like this, which takes delivery of goods for
clients and then has to chase round for cargo
space, has a strenuous time nowadays. But
besides being carriers and forwarding agents
tbe co. does a big produce and station-supply
business. In Victoria it is represented by
the McCulloch Carrying Co., Wright, Heaton
and Co. holding all tbe shares. There was
a time when this old Vic. concern was in a
bad way—. c lost half of its capital after a
big drought Nowadays, however, it is earn-
ing good profits for Wright, Heaton’s. Also,
tbe co. is interested in the Murray River
Saw Mills Co., which is also adding its bit of
profit.
The balance-sheet figures have moved this
way in 10 years : (
July,’oB. July,’l7. Jan.,’lS. July,’lB.
Liabilities?. . . . £57,832 £45,591 £44,642 £53,705
Premises, plant, etc. 18,084 20,944 20,242 20,581
Stock . . . . 30,418 53,167 61,481 58,396
Book debts .. 88,420 89,119 88,038 100,470
McCulloch Co. .. 20,037 39,519 41,332 43,502
Public securities .. 20,000 20,00,0 20,000
Cash . . . . 16,242 28,008 21,926 27,810
The co. is in a very strong position, and
though there has been a big increase in the
price of commodities, the management has
been able to finance the business without
going outside for financial assistance. The
first table shows the substantial amounts left
in the business after paying the dividend.
Capital 10 years ago was £70,000. The only
new money got in since has been £14,000 six
years ago, and £4OOO of that represented pre-
miums on shares. Thus of the present capi-
tal of £125,000, £45,000 represents capital-
ised profit. Liabilities are £4127 less than
they were 10 years ago; meantime fixed
assets and the interest in the McCulloch co.
has been increased by £25,362, stock by
£27,978, book debts by £12,050, and cash and
public securities by £31,568. The co.’s posi-
tion has thus been strengthened by over
£87,000 out of profits, and besides there is
the “bit up the sleeve” which the directors
admit holding to meet contingencies. Alto-
gether a very fine record.
The Melbourne Hydraulic Power Co. :
Reserves
Added (including
to Re- Sinking
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Fund).
1.90(i. . £11,736 8 p.c. = £8,400 £333(5 £38,903
£ 26.250, being one-fourth of capital, returned 12,653
1907.. 11,408 8 p.c. = 7,350 4058 16,711
1908.. 9,944 8 ~ „ 6,300 3644 20,355
Assets further written down, £10,806 .. 9.549
1909.. 9,666 8 p.c. = 6,300 3366 12,915
1910.. 10,193 8 „„ 6,300 3893 16.808
1911.. 8,739 8 „ „ 6,300 2439 19,247
1912.. 10,405 8 „„ 6,300 4105 23,352
1913.. 11,724 8 „„ 6.300 5424 28,776
Further £26,250 of capital returned .. 2,526
1914.. 12,363 8 p.c. = 5,250 7113 9,639
1915.. 10,427 8 „„ 4,200 6227 15,866
Net Profits.
1916.. 5,869 201 „ „ 10,762 10,973
1917.. 6,752 8 „ „ 4,200 2552 13,525
1918.. 8,738 8 „„ 4,200 4538 18,063
In another seven years this co.’s concessions
expire and the works are to pass to the muni-
cipal authorities. So, besides paying a div.
to shareholdei’s provision has also to be made
for a return of capital. The table shows
that.half of the original capital has already
been returned, and a bonus of Is. 3d. per
share (paid to 10s. each) was distributed in
addition to the div. two years ago. Capital, is
now £52,500, and the sinking fund amounts
to £15,432—£12,843 of it invested in public
securities. The net profits shown above in-
clude the additions to the sinking fund,
which two years ago stood at £10,964. Chiefly
owing to serious electric competition, gross
revenue is a little less than it used to be :
it was slightly in excess of £20,000 for the
three years 1912-13-14, and was £18,539 for
1917 and £19,963 for last year. This shows


The British Westinghouse Electric & M?g. Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse
Magnetic Brakes
With improved skid-proof attachment, absolutely
prevents skidding even at the highest speeds.
SPECIAL FEATURES i
Immediate and powerful action.
The wheels cannot be skidded.
Prevents motor “ flashing over.”
Reduces destructive arcing in the controller,, and
materially reduces the strain oft the car insu-
lation by preventing the voltage in the braking
circuit from reaching dangerously high values.
Head Office for Australia :
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Trafford Park, Manchester, England.
The spirit of coolness and comfort is ever atten-
dant upon the G.E. electric fan. It affords a clean,
safe and economical way of keeping cool during the
hot sultry weather. A" large shipment of all sizes
has just arrived, and these are being demonstrated in
our showroom. Call in and see them. Australian
General Electric Company, Wentworth Avenue, Syd-
ney ; and corner of Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt.
The approach of summer makes it imperative for
every stock-owner to give a thought to the purifica-
tion of drinking water for his stock. If he is content
to let them drirfk muddy, slimy water he cannot
expect them to keep in good condition. All over the
State careful stock-owners are using Aluminoferric in
the proportion of one pound to every 2000 gallons of
water. It ensures pure liquid water in dams, wells,
tanks, etc., at very low cost, by precipitating all
impurities and leaving the water clear and pure,
free from any ingredient injurious to man or beast.
Let us go into details telling you how it will be to
your advantage to use Aluminoferric. William
Adams & Co. Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also at Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Adelaide
—Advt.
* * * *
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Qtis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
* * * *
Above or below ground Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe
is the most. satisfactory conduit. No fluid can harm
it, neither can it' taint any fluid. As a pressure pipe
it is unexcelled. We also manufacture bore casing.
Send for illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd. (H. 0.), Burns Bay, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
P.O. Add.: Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Factories:
Lane Cove, N.S.W.; Footscray, Vic ; and Pt. Adelaide,
S.A. Contractors to all State Governments.—Advt.
* * *
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb.— Advt.
• “ The olll ' r way for the Germans to save their bacon
is to get behind the Rhine(d),” and the only way
for you to save and protect your iron roofs, tanks,
drinking-troughs and machinery is to paint with
Pabco, the hard-wearing red metal paint that resists
weather, sea-air, salt water and chemical fumes.
Two coats of Pabco protect better than three of
ordinary paint, so you save time, labor and expense.
Sold in one-gallon tins and five-gallon drums, 12/-
per American gallon. Write for booklet to Spriggs’
Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt.
*** ■ »
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
leceiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The F ederal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
lasmama, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
Ihe workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Svdney.—
Advt. v
McCully Gyratory Rock Breaker. Immediate de-
liyery _ from stock. No. 4 size. Manganese fitted
(Americas best). Capacity: Smallest product, 11
inches, 20 tons per hour ; coarsest product, inches,
48 tons per hour. Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Cir-
cular Quay, Sydney. Queensland enquiries: The
Australian Machinery Co., Ltd., Mary Street,
Brisbane. — Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
iTu eS ’ „^ al l or wrlte for Particulars. 11. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
* * * *
i i '^ IIEniCAN Expokteh. Published monthly,
sv™ G< tt P e f annum. Sample copy Is. Start now.
From Hamilton and Co., 34 Pitt Street Sydney.
—Advt.
Ve-aqeßoantc
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVR, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridge*
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS- IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
how the liquid assets have been built up
since the last return of capital:—
1914. 1918.
Liquid assets .. £7759 £17,732
Liabilities .. 3593 2,895
Surplus .. £4166 £14,837
In the same period buildings, machinery,
plant and mains have been written down
from £53,793 to £40,300.
* * * *
For the half-year to June 30 Kampong
Ivamunting (F.M.S.) produced only 3234
tens tin oxide, compared with 482 tons for
the previous term. No. 1 dredge was in diffi-
cult ground, but No. 2 was ploughing through
a very lean patch—shallow and irregular
ground with a hard bottom. The results are
shown in this comparison:—
No. 1 Dredge.
Bore Recov-
Value, ered,
Treated, Tin lb. per lb. per
Half-year to cub. yds. Oxide, tons. cub. yd. cub. yd.
Dec., ’17.. 504,500 204.8 S .95 .91
June, ’lB.. 453,550 186.99 1.07 .92
No. 2 Dredge.
Dec., ’37.. 460,500 277.10 .92 1.10
June, ’lB.. 461,750 136.59 .75 .66
With tin at anything like old prices a lot
of the ground worked by the No. 2 dredge
would have been passed by as unpayable. As
it is, this poor stuff has produced good pro-
fits. Despite the big drop in output,
owing to the record prices ruling the net
profit for the half-year amounted to £32,34G
compared with £33,929 for the previous term.
Two divs. absorbing £28,000 were paid.
With both dredges in good ground again—
and “it should be some years before another
lean patch will be dredged”—the outlook is
very bright. So bright that in addition to hand-
ing out the usual 2s. each quarter the direc-
tors propose to add a bonus of Is. so long as
profits permit. Including the September div.
and bonus, shareholders have received 19s.
Gd. on each of the 140,000 £1 shares. Six
months ago the" life of the show was esti-
mated at 11 years at least; since then a fur-
ther 40 acres of low-grade land have been
acquired to the south, adding another year
to the life of the mine, and also another 34
acres of 21b. ground 28ft. deep contiguous
to the main holding, which will help the co.
in cleaning up that particular corner. At
June 30 the co. owed sundry creditors £1522 ;
and it had £37,333 in War Loan, £4049 in
cash, £18.164 in stores, etc., sundry debtors
owed £llB5 and £7955 had been advanced
to the Asam Kumbang co.
* * * •
Kampong Kamunting’s latest report dis-
closes the arrangements that have been made
to finance the Asam Kumbang (F.M.S.),
which is also in the Freeman stable. At
Dec. last the Kumbang’s paid-up capital was
£74,820, of which £45,693 had been spent on
mine account, £16,554 on dredges, while
working account had absorbed £3BOO, and
£143 was in office furniture. That left £S63O at
the bank after meeting outstanding accounts.
Recently the big dredge being built by
Ruwolt’s was completed and shipped. To
help equip the show the Kampong Kamunt-
ing a while ago arranged to advance £35,000
at 7 p.c. p.a. on the security of the property,
at the same time securing the right during
the currency of the loan to take up 10,000
of the unissued shares at 255. per share.
Chiefly owing to the cost of transporting the
dredge to the Asam property it has been
found that a further £15,000 is required, so
the Kampong Kamunting has obliged on the
same interest terms. At June 30 £7955 had
been advanced, and the remainder is being
handed over as required. It is reckoned that
the Asam Kumbang will be in a position to
commence repayment about' the middle of
next year. There are 700 acres in the pro-
perty ; 234 acres of which were acquired
for £1493 last year. About 200 acres of
this ground averaged .71b. per cub. yard. Of
the original 490 acres, 442 acres were esti-
mated to contain 15,850,000 cub. yards of an
average, value of .91b. tin oxide, and 48 acres
containing 2,000,000 cub. yards, averaging
■sBlb. Reckoning tin at £l7O and working
costs at 4d. per yard, these 490 acres were
estimated to give an aggregate profit of
£295,000, giving a life of years with
one dredge.
* * * *
The new silver-lead show that caused
something of a stir in the Molong district
(N.S.W.) has been looked at by the Mines
Department. The occurrence consists of
irregular bundles of ore, confined to a single
formation, along the bedding planes of joints
of a limestone rock which have become chan-
nels for percolating solutions. The ore so
far revealed consists of galena and carbonate
of lead. The dolomite bed carrying it is from
20ft. to 35ft. wide, and was first thought by
the prospectors to be all lode matter; but
from present indications the minerals
appear to be developed in only the western
portion of the bed close to its contact with
the clay-shales. The ore bunches range from
Gin. to 2ft. 6in. wide. The patchy nature of the
ore is disclosed by cuts, which at the sur-
face showed little bunches that pinched out
within a few feet. All of which leads to
the conclusion that there is not sufficient jus-
tification for the highly-optimistic expecta-
tions of the discoverers. Still surveyor Jones
reckons that the prospects merit further in-
vestigation. Meanwhile the Prospecting Vote
is being tapped to subsidise limited sinking.
Samples since assayed show good copper con-
tents. with decent gold and lead, but with
low silver values.
Crushing has started at Mt. Dudley, near
Trunkey (N.S.W.), where the machinery
brought from the old Mt. David show has
been put into position. The co. had merely to
enlarge the hauling shaft, which goes down
along a perfect footwall. The mine had been
opened up by the previous owner, A. B.
Kirkman, to the 145 ft. level, where No. 2
drive is located. The top drive is at 80ft.
The co. has increased its lease area, and now
holds 45 acres. When full the dam at the
foot of the hill, from which the water-supply
is pumped, will hold a million gallons. Blocks
north and south of the co.’s area have been
taken up.
* * -X- *
A Sydney party with £3OOO to spend is
having a look at a bismuth show at Duck-
maloi, near Oberon (N.S.W.), held by Alex-
ander Riddel and Son, who have been ex-
tracting good values from the big ore body
since the beginning of the year. The field is
entirely new in that particular locality,
though earlier adventurers had a go at the
stone about the same region in the days
when profitable treatment methods had yet to
be discovered. The possibilities of the place
are said to have been put beyond doubt, so a
rush for areas has set in.
* * * *
White Crystal, Ardlethan (N.S.W.), has
been on the call list, and reports concerning
the various open cuts and shafts have been
too vague to enliven the market. A plain
statement of the quantity of ore raised and
its approximate value would do something
to inspire confidence. At Stackpool’s lease
a face of ore 12ft. wide is being worked
carrying “fair tin values.” Driving south
from the main open cut a face of kaolin ore
seems likely to provide something for the mill.
At Murphy’s shaft “good tin” values are
reported from time to time over a width
of 3ft., but. the quantity hauled towards the
next crushing isn’t mentioned.
* * * *
Carpathia tin (N.S.W.) recovered favor
after the slump on the strength of a winze
development from No. 2 level. Values im-
proved from 6 p.c. to 31 p.c. tin in the sink,
which is now 43ft. below the level. With tin
at £334, ore carrying 31 p.c. metallic tin
is worth big money. Still, the quantity of
this high-grade stuff raised week by week
is very small. Last half-year the Carpathia
treated 151 tons of special sulphides at the
Barmedman mill for a return of 46 tons of
tin oxide. Recently the management has
been sending only selected and special mill-
ing ore for treatment, and some lower-grade
stuff has been accumulating at the mine.
* » • »
For a whole year Langi Logan South,
Ararat (Vic.), has been either battling before
the Arbitration Court or bending the knee to
the A.W.U. in the vain hope of getting wash
stoped on contract. Justice Power was
agreeable, but allotted a minimum of 11s. a
day wages. To see how that would pan
out a party of panellers was given a job, and
tenders were asked for the extraction of
wash. The wage and work done is summed
up by George Bryant as “ridiculous,” while
the tenders sent in were over the fence in
price. That the lead isn’t barren is proved
by 262 fathoms giving 3680 z. gold. That
average with men on the job would mean
divs. The A.W.U. isn’t bothering about
efficiency, as it builds on pulling off a daily-
wage stunt for the field, although Alec
Peacock’s Board is fighting against anything
of the kind. All that can be done at the mine
under these conditions is to shove ahead with
the south-east drive down the gutter, so as
to open up the lead there and take the water
out of the gutter to the north. This bit of
luxury, with the added cost of pumping, now
eats up a monthly call of 3d. on 60,000 shares,
against a possible profit earning if miners
could be got to cut out the go-slow game. No
wonder Alec Peacock’s directors have got
snake-headed, for they have seen £54,350 of
calls, £11,666 of original capital and £lB,OOO
of gold tossed into the mine without the sign
of a div. So they are asking shareholders to
declare whether work shall be stopped. Share-
holders seem to be about equally divided on
the subject.
* * * *
N. S. Wales Chief-inspector of Mines
Jaquet has issued. his report on earth-
tremors at Kalgoorlie and, incidentally, the
Great Boulder collapse. He finds that the
earthquake shock, which resulted in a big dis-
placement of ground in the Boulder and the
death of a miner, was caused by the collapse
of a granite pillar surrounded by a large area
of worked-out ground, and that the pillar
did not give way on account of earth-tremors,
but that earth-tremors were caused by the
collapse of the pillar. In the western group
of mines, of which the Great Boulder is one,
Jaquet says that the walls of the lode worked
are exerting great side pressure below the
3200 ft. or 1400 ft. levels, and that there is
a slow general movement in a southerly
direction. He considers that in Hamilton’s
workings at the north end of Boulder ground,
and just outside the northern boundary of
the Ivanhoe shrinkage, stopes below 1350 ft.
should not be allowed while adjoining rill
and flat back stopes are being worked in the
Ivanhoe and Boulder, and that stopes worked
below 050 ft. should be filled. On the whole,
he finds that good and sufficient means of
supporting the workings are being employed
on the field, and that working conditions
there are not more dangerous, or even as
dangerous, as those on some other fields. The
presence of fire-damp, he says, is so small
that it is scarcely worth mentioning.
X- * * *
From Westonia: Central is faced with
heavy expenditure on development, including
main-shaft sinking, and future profit likely
to be derived from its economical manage-
ment will have to be expended on work
under the present bottom level. Holmes’
reef will be struck in the east drive 321 ft.
level next month, and this is almost certain
to be about as valuable to Central as it was
to Consolidated, that is, next to nothing.
It is unlikely that Deeps will turn out any-
thing more in the future than in the past.
Apart from its gold output, its production
to date has been as follows : One herd of well-
groomed and well-satisfied bulls, about the
same number of well-skinned bears, high
assays unlimited, many tons of optimism,
and unrealised prospects galore. In short.
Deeps seems capable of producing anything
but anticipated dividends.
* * * *
Stuckey, at the Edna Deeps, intends to
put out a £2500 yield this month ; but Novem-
ber is reckoned to see a recovery to £4OOO.
The reason given for bringing yields down is
that a slab of 700 tons of stone left in No. 3
level has to be broken out to switch work on
to the right track. But why is it that this
stone has been left to hold up results? Should
it not have been shifted when the run of the
mine output was being arranged? Actual
and estimated yields lately have been :
_ , Actual. Estimated,
duly ..£3400 I October ..£2500
August .. 3100 I November .. 4000
September .. 2900 |
* * * *
Edna May Battler (W.A.) claims to have
secured an. option on something promising
in the neighborhood of Southern Cross.
‘Careful sampling” of ore in the shaft and
an adjacent surface outcrop is stated to have
given assays ranging from 20s. to 84s. per
ton, and there is a lot of talk about “pros-
pects.” But is this property not identical
with the one that the Associated Northern
abandoned and others failed to make a living
out of? s
* * * *
Owing to the long arm of Italy having
reached out for all its able-bodied men, Leonora
Blocks (W.A.) has to go short-handed. Mana-
ger Jas. Gale testifies to being satisfied with
the developments spread over the past six
months. His joy doesn’t extend to the pallid
“l* of holders who still see that debts of
£3500 have to be met, and that the claim is
admittedly as much in need of opening up as
ever. This state of affairs can’t be altered
till another lift of 100 ft. is sunk. If that be
done, there isn’t anything in Cale’s screed on
the mine to prove that it is a certainty that
pay-dirt will be got.
* * * #
Clarks, Charters Towers (Q.), after hand-
ing out a sixpenny, reports a yield of gold
£^i and sands worth £4435 from
067 tons. In addition 23 tons of seconds
were crushed for a return of £59. This mine
continues to haul 100 tons of stone per fort-
mglit from a reef averaging less than lOin.
wide. Costs are high, so it takes very good
Pay sixpenny dividends quarterly on
90,000 shares. Prospects are more hopeful
IP the southern section of No. 8 level, but
No. 9 level has been in hard ground for the
snort distance driven.
* * * *
Manager Ryan, of the Pioneer (Tas.)
reckons that this sluicing proposition, which
has been handing out dividends at the rate of
os. od. a year, has a life of from four to
five years, but the payable period necessarily
depends on the tin market. Practically ail
the profits are distributed as they are earned
so the Pioneer has no reserve fund worth
mentioning, though the stock of unsold tin-
oxido on June 30 was valued at £9OOO. Share-
hoiders are candidly told to regard a portion
of the divs. as a return of capital.
* * * *
C.”: Many Peaks (Q.) has still about 50
men employed, and if the roasting process it
has in hand proves a success, the co. will
continue operations. During the September
quarter 491 tons were sent to the roasting
plant,_ and about 15,000 tons are dumped
awaiting treatment. The crudes contain
about 40 p.c. sulphur, which might, of course
be converted into sulphuric acid, for it is
from pyrites rich in sulphur that most of the
world s sulphuric acid is made. The fertiliser
trade is a large consumer of acid, but there
is an objection against pyrites containing
arsenic. Sulphuric acid and sulphur are too
valuable just now to waste.
(Continued on page 32.)


KEEPING THE HOME FIRES BURNING MEANWHILE.
FOREMAN STOKER: “What about that Peace spello?”
ROSS ENGINEER : “Carry on till we’re sure. You don’t know Potsdam as well as I do.”


FAUhPINfI?
1-SrOMfy
PERTH AND LONDON
-7^
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDING’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lcwt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful S minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay. 140 Rooms,
comprising Private Suites. Open-Air
Sunny Lounges. Billiard Room,
Tennis Court, Electric Light and
Lifts, Bathing, Roof Garden.
Illustrated Prospectus and all particu-
lars forwarded on application.
Telephones : Y2llB and Y 1266.
%
Don’t
Stay
DEAF!
You can hear —and we
will prove it by send-
ing you, post free, an
ACOUSTICON.
10 Days’ FREE TRIAL
No deposit or expense.
Over 329,000 deaf people now hear perfectly
with the “Acousticon,” including the Prime
Minister of Australia, Mr. W. M. Hughes.
For the “Acousticon” user there are no years
ahead of increasing deafness, no nervousness
caused by straining to hear. Convince your-
self at our expense—and DON’T S-TAY DEAF.-
Lamson
Store r.
Service
102 Daking House. SYDNEY
152 Olderfleet, MELBOURNE
WARATAH
Fencing Wire
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
The Austral Nail
Co. Pty. Ltd ,
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
A WIRE SUPERIOR
TO ANY IMPORTED.
Support Home Industries
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
From London:—
Winston Churchill, like our only William Morris
Hughes, seems unable to exist out of the limelight,
and, during recent months, has done his best—with
qualified success—to rise above the Dardanelles report.
Churchill resembles Hughes in possessing vivid powers
of oratory, but excels in having a great gift of apt
and scorching repartee. His command of words
failed him, however, on at least two occasions during
the stormy Home Rule debates in the Commons,
both defeats coming from
his political opponent
and personal friend, F.
E. Smith (“Galloper”).
On the first of the two
occasions Churchill,
doubtless intending to
explain that he “lived in
hope,” etc., had only got
out “I live.” Smith im-
mediately snapped out
“Yes, but wc fail to see
the necessity.” Churchill
recovered when F.E. took
him out to dinner. The
second time was when
Winston used the words
“I conceive,” and, losing
the thread of his argu-
ment, twice more re-
peated the two words,
when Smith up-ended
himself and interjected,
“Mr. Speaker, the right
honorable gentleman has
conceived three times
and brought forth
nothing.”
COMMANDANT
D’ANDRE, A.D.C.
to General Pau, of
the French Mission.
Lieut.-Col. Albert Holdsworth, just back
from France with the D.S.O. and a hand-
some Army Service Corps record, was one of
the few war-experienced Australians who
helped to push things ahead in Victoria
during the 1914 preparations for active ser-
vice. He put in a lot of monotonous work
in Egypt before the heads gave him a chance
to mix it with the enemy; but he was able
by-and-bye to take a part in the doings at
Tripoli, where he earned his D.S.O. Later
he went to France. Holdsworth’s previous
war-work was in 'the Boer diversion, for
which he collected the Queen’s medal with
six clasps..
The S. Aus. pioneers are rapidly thin-
ning out. Died at Torrensville a few 7 days
ago, John Ritchie, born in Scotland, 1833.
He had sailed around the world three times
before he was 20, and at that age he was
qualified to navigate a ship. In ’55 he landed at
S. Aus., where he ivas first employed on a
sailing vessel under his brother James, who
was captain. After a trip to Maoriland
John vrnnt to Goolwa, and for over 10 years
w 7 as skipper on a Murray River boat. He
then tried farming in the North, and was
also actively engaged at Methodist preach-
ing. Captain Barber, who stood by the
graveside of Ritchie, is another old Murray
navigator. He was born on the same day
and in the same village as Ritchie, and the
tw 7 o had kept in touch right through their
lives. They married sisters.
VERY UNFRIENDLY.
THE CIVVY: “Yes; things ’as gone up. It’s
took every bean I ’ad to buy these
clo’es."
THE OTHER: “Serves you right fer wearin’
em”
November birthdays: Prof. Skeats (Melb.
Uni.), 43, on Ist; Simpson Newland (author
of “Paving the Way”), 83, on 2nd ; Dr. John
Smyth (Teachers’ Training College. Mel-
bourne), 54, on 3rd; T. W. Ileney,
56 on 4th ; Colonel W. T. Reay (Melbourne
Herald, Lond.). 60, on 9th; Prof. Wood-
house (Sydney Uni.), 52, Prof. W. H. Wil-
liams (Speck’s Uni.), 66, R. H. Cambage
(Geological Dept., Sydney), 59, and ex-Chief
Justice Parker (W.A.), 72, on 7th; A. G.
Ralston. K.C. (Sydney), 58, on 10th; Hugh
R. Denison, Sydney, 53, on 11th; Rabbi
Cohen, Sydney, 56, and -J. S. Battye (Perth
Public Library), 47, on 14th; Justice Cooper
(Maoriland), 68, on 15th; ex-Gov.-Gen.
Denman, 44, on 16th; war-correspondent
Chas. Bean, 39, on 18th ; J. Lang Campbell,
K.C., 59, on 22nd ; Acting Prime Minister
Watt, 47. and Archgaiters I.owther Clarke
68, on 23rd ; Mark Cohen (Dunedin Star)
69, on 26th ; Astronomer W. F. Gale, 53, and
Dr. Ramsay Smith (Adelaide), 59, on 27th;
Justice Cussen (Vic.), 59, on 29tli: poet
Sydney Jephcott, 54. and Dr. Frank Gellatly
(Director of Federal Bureau of Science and
Industry), 46, on 30th.
Lieut.-Colonel R. A. Waddy, recently dead
in Sydney, obtained his rank in the old
Volunteer Force, of which he was an early
member. His father came to Sydney as an
ensign in the 50th Regiment in Governor
Bourke’s time. On a second visit of the
50th, many years after, the ex-subaltern was
Lieutenant-Colonel, and before his death he
became Major-General Richard Waddy,
K.C.B. Lt.-Col. Waddy was engaged all his
life in banking, the Commercial Banking Go-
of Sydney being the institution in which he
served. His last stand was as manager at
Morpeth.
“Simon’s” yarn :—•
John (Pasha) Barry, just dead at 86, after years
of coach-driving and managing for Cobb and Co. in
Victoria and N. S. Wales, settled down in Mudgee in
the Imperial Hotel. He was the despair of every
candidate for public office —Parliamentary and munfi
cipal. The vigor of his advocacy on the one hand
scorched everything in opposition, while on the other
hand his industry and invective was just awful.
His favorite way was to take his stand in front of
a candidate he didn't like and spear into him every
second or two with the interjection “If elected.”
Once a blue-ribbon coaehbuilder, who had in some
manner raised the wrath of John, became a starter
in a local council election. John went stark mad
and followed him everywhere, Sunday-school in-
cluded, for about 40 days, murmuring something
about white-washed suplecurs. The Pasha’s greatest
win was with Billy Wall for the Mudgee seat. The
Protectionists were hard-pressed for a candidate.
The man they had picked on had disappointed
them 10 minutes before closing of nominations, and
it seemed as if they were not to be represented in
the contest. Suddenly a cloud of dust was seen com-
ing over Mudgee bridge, out of which emerged John
Barry, and beside him Billy Wall fresh from the
handles of a plough. Barry had raced 30 miles to
get Wall that morning and landed his man on the
stroke.
Tom Carrington, who passed out at a
ripe age in Melbourne the other day, was
Australia’s first cartoonist of consequence.
As an admirer of John Tenniel he
made his old Melb. Punch pictures resemble
as closely as possible those of the London
artist, even the signature, “T.C.,” being
almost a facsimile of Tenniel’s “C.T.” But
Carrington on his own pictorial
ability, as was made manifest immediately
the zinc-process block was introduced. Car-
rington's drawings for the process prove that
he owed half his effect to the wood-engraver,
llis real talent was literary, and “T.C.”
might have written a book of the Melbourne
world of letters in his early Punch days
that would have been valuable and interest-
ing. Nobody knew journalistic Melbourne
in the Marcus Clarke-Lindsay Gordon period
as Carrington knew it; nobody could tell so
many good stories of the writers, artists and
actors of that truly Bohemian period, and
it is a tremendous pity that Carrington
did not write of those men and those times,
instead of wasting his ink on theatrical and
art criticism, for which he had no notable
capacity.
Just a year ago Raymond Evatt, the
well-known North Sydney Rugby Union
footballer and swimmer, was killed at Pass-
chendale. after three years of active service
with the A.I.F. Now his young brother,
Gunner Frank Evatt, of the same swimming
club, and a medical student at the Univer-
sity, has died of wounds after being two
years away. Both these lads enlisted on
their 18th. birthday. Raymond was a born
soldier. His brother was the student, and was
responsible for much able criticism of music
and drama and literature. Both were sons
of Mrs. Evatt, of Kirribilli.
“F.H.”: Writing of the late James Bal-
four (B. 17/10/T8), “Vic.” says that in
1852 Balfour came to Melbourne as a clerk
under engagement to Ilenty and Co., Henty
being a son of the founder of Portland. This
is not quite correct. The actual founder of
Portland was Edward Henty, though his
father, Thomas Henty, supplied the cash,
stock and plant necessary for the enterprise.
Edward had no children. Thomas Henty
settled in Tasmania (he died there), and
visited Portland only in a casual way once
or twice. Mrs. Balfour, who still lives, was
a daughter of James, one of Thomas’s seven
sons. All the young Plentys but two,'by the
way, came to Portland, soon or late. Of the
two who stayed in Tasmania, Charles pre-
sently became the State’s Colonial Secretary,
in the days before the Speck had a Parlia-
ment of its own ; and William, of whom a
tintype still hangs in the unpretentious
Parliamentary picture-gallery at Hobart, had
a seat in the Legislature when responsible
Government came into being later.
The influenza raging in Africa just now
carried off a good Australian a week ago—
Lieut. Stanley Williams (24), an Anzac, who
fought in Gallipoli, France and East Africa.
After the Evacuation he got a commission
in the Royal Fusiliers. He was wounded at
Delville Wood, and for a spell was an in-
structor in England. Later he got after the
Hun again in German East Africa. After
that he transferred to the Ist Nigerian regi-
ment, _ was stationed inland at Zaria, in
Nigeria, and there the epidemic caught him.
He was the only son of A. B. Williams, of
the New York Life Insurance Co., and an
old Sydney Grammar boy.
Being the varied record of William Groves,
proven by the Base Records Office to have
been the first Victorian to enlist in the
A.1.F.: Enlisted 12/8/’l4; camped in the
open at Broadmeadows till the tents and
other equipment arrived; had five months’
fighting on Gallipoli; returned to Egypt with
dysentery ; had an operation for internal in-
juries; held down a storeman’s job at Zie-
toun; presently passed for further active
service and saw same in the desert; acquired
a septic foot and went to England, where
he had three operations; recovered enough
health to take on a busy job of painting land-
scape targets for airmen, and was presently
made staff-sergeant at a hospital. Grove's
is. expected to return shortly to Australia
with a contingent of original Anzacs.
Archbishop Delany, of Hobart, whose
health has not been good of late, finds that
the job of tending the Speck’s R.C. flocks is
too strenuous, and has asked for an assistant
bishop to be appointed. He has been 25
ANOTHER POST-WAR DIFFICULTY.
J ILL: “No, I could never love a sailor. I
don't suppose you will come in again for
years."
J ACK: “Why, we’ll he hack quite soon."
J ILL: “I don’t mean in the harbor, silly. I
mean into fashion."
years in Tassy, arriving as coadjutor to the
late Archbishop Murphy, whom he eventu-
ally succeeded. Having avoided politics and
public controversy, the old churchman has
made many friends and few enemies. He
points to the establishment of St. Virgil’s
College, Hobart, as his mark on the records
of something accomplished.
Died at Dubbo (N.S.W.) last week, only
three months short of the century, Mrs. R.
J. Cross, as far as is known the oldest
native-born Australian. She came to light
ar Liverpool in 1819. Her father, William
Skene, was manager for J. .J. Moore at
Liverpool, and when he married, Governor
Macquarie granted him land on which Mrs.
Cross was born. She lived there up to the
time of her marriage to Ralph Jackson Cross,
in 1837.
Usually a solemn person who comported
himself in the Victorian Legislative Assem-
bly as if he were in the kirk, Robert George
McCutcheon, who handed in his checks a few
days ago, permitted himself to make a frivol-
ous and apt interjection in September, 1914.
Prendergast, a fellow printer, who at this
period was taking a spell from the job of
leading the Opposition, was contending with
characteristic vehemence that not enough
water had fallen to make it worth while to
have storage reservoirs for it, when McCut-
cheon chipped in with the remark: “What
you mean to say is that the rain has not
been worth a dam.” McCutcheon narrowly
missed inclusion as a salaried Minister in
the second Watt Cabinet (1913). He
accepted an honorary post w T hen Peacock
shed some of his colleagues in 1915, and
linked up with McLeod, McKenzie and Rob-
inson. Laborites respected McCutcheon be-
cause he was a decent employer, and his
criticism of their methods was not resented
as bitterly as that which came from some
other pillars of the Employers’ Federation.
Though 77, he was active to the last in
running a big printery in Bank-place, off
Collins-street, of which he was head. He
made way for Wynne at the last general
election.
After reading, will you please send this paper to
the Red Cross Book, Magazine and Newspaper Depot,
5 Wynyard Street, Sydney, or place it in one of the
receptacles provided for the purpose. All copies thus
received are divided equally between the Red Cross
Society and the War Chest Fund, and are posted
weekly to our soldiers abroad.
TAKE IT EASY
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
He dwells in Take-it-easy,
A pleasant place, ’tis true,
Loved well and sought by many,
But tenanted by few.
Full-length in Take-it-easy
He stretches through the days,
Around him silken breezes —
And this, at times, he says:
“Though others scratch and scramble,
I let the whole world be;
The tree grows, the wind blows,
The tide ebbs, the tide flows,
The hour comes, the hour goes—
And that’s enough for me!”
If jarred at Take-it-easy,
Where only sluggards bask.
You shake him by the shoulder,
And point him to his task,
’Tis he will turn to nothing
The world and all its ways,
The while, ’twixt shrug and gesture,
In careless wise he says:
“Though others scratch and scramble,
l let the whole world be;
The flower grows, the wine flows,
The dawn smiles, the noon glows,
The bee sucks the red rose—
And that’s enough for me!”
If still you shake his shoulder,
And still the theme pursue
With talk about his duties,
And all that he should do,
’Tis then, grown grave, he’ll answer
In accents, calm and cool,
As though lie were the wise man
And you, in truth, the fool:
“Though others scratch and scramble,
Why should I troubled be?
The light flies from Life’s eyes.
The flower fades, the wind sighs,
The tree falls, the man dies —-
And that’s enough for me!”
NOMEN.


m
Mm
h
mm - ,,, i
•- ' S. .
A
m
■v
#
s
■ v *:: ■
m-
-1
■■ :::i ' •
■■■:"
:v;&
X. ' '
••■/•;■ ■■■
1
••••• v>
Pi
a ,: j
•Ji-
>' "s
tm
as
.
m
-
J
■ r ~r',:
-
•A
®S®i
■■- s
m
.
iasssas
■
$
I
i
5=5)
A
m
[LrUJ
- A
?r;i
s ?
m-.i
>5
■XT
o
/
<
-
<2
[InJJ
m : j
CO
«s
lltjt 5 /
3G
Wi&kM
mmniis
m
L
m%
■
stt
9
•tm
m
►
'5
w
•m a
t
RS


LADIES! Your Complexion is Part of Your Attire.
A PERFECTLY STYLISH ATTIRE FALLS SHORT OF ITS EFFECT
if your skin is not in harmony.
EVERY WQMAN CAN BE COMELY by attention to those little details
whieh no one can afford to despise.
inter’s
m
&
s>!»
1
;«as
' O' !
l/l{ t
\VLi
NS
<?3*£Z.
TOILET PREPARATIONS WILL HELP YOU.
They have proved the greatest friend to womankind.
Powder (3 tints). New Face Cream (2 colors),
Fakslimi Cream and Lotion, Soap, Hair Foods (Oily
and N on-Oily), Carmine, Dry Shampoo, and Dental
Cream.
Ask for them at The Civil Service, Washington H.
Soul’s, Lassetter’s, McCathie’s, David Jones’, Hor-
derns’, W. T. Waters’, Farmer and Co.’s, McDowells
Ltd., etc., etc.
Send 3d. stamp for Booklet and sample of Soap or
Powder (name the color), or Dental Cream, or Face
Cream, to John Strange Winter (London, Paris,
Borne). Sydney Office: 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson
Street.
eltcmian
HIGH-CLASS
SPECIALTIES
Creams
?rd
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS ard SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Syrtney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE WORLD
USHER'S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegtintly-
Furnisited and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The recent Anglican Synod held in Perth
proved again what a fine old crusted body is
the Church of England. A reverend icono-
clast moved that women be permitted to hold
office in the church —not to invade the pul-
pit, but merely to become chuchwardens and
AN OPEN SECRET.
“Toby, your face is all lines to-night .”
“Keep it dark — they're my marriage-lines.”
do minor odd jobs. The religious troglo-
dytes fell on the proposal and threw hymn-
books at it, though the mover pointed out
that women supplied by far the larger pro-
portion of the congregations, and were conse-
quently entitled to a say in the management
of church affairs. The opposition could not
deny that most of the money dropped into
the plate came from the superstitious sex;
and being stumped for logical argument made
vague noises about woman's place, being the
home. One ancient lay brother with no eye
for business said that the sight of a woman
walking up the aisle with a collection-plate
would be horrible and calculated to drive the
occasional men away from the temple. Such
ignorance is pathetic. Under present cir-
cumstances, when the dish is hawked by
depressed-looking males dressed as shop-
walkers or undertakers, there is little in-
ducement to pay up. But if the collection
were placed in the hands of blue-eyed salva-
tion sirens with trim figures and black-silk
stockings, religion would bound ahead like
an eight-cylinder motor. It would become
the hobby of every blase sinner in the com-
munity. Even aide-de-camps and book-
makers would be in the rush on Sundays.
* * * *
The Anglican Church of St. Luke, Liverpool
(N.S.W.). is entering upon its centenary year.
The foundation-stone was laid in 1819. and
the building was completed two years later
by the contractor, Nathaniel Lucas. Before
St Luke’s, services were held in Liverpool,
by Parson Marsden. Parish records date
back to 1808. The first minister of St. Luke’s
was parson Cartwright, who came out in
1809.
* # # *
Everything possible should be done for the
fighting Australian who has lost a limb, and
bo should not be left in doubt for one moment
that his grateful country will provide him
with the best substitute procurable, making
no distinction between officer or private, or
between men with influence and men with-
out. It appears from a letter just received
by The Bulletin that a number of maimed
Australians now in hospital in England have
received the unhappy impression that dis-
abled men returning to Australia must put
up with rough substitutes unless they can
hunt up or acquire an influential friend or
two. This paper’s informant writes that the
astounding news reached London from an
Australian soldier who lost his right arm,
and, being offered a substitute limb with a
hook, refused it. He was then told frankly
that it was no use asking for a better arti-
ficial limb, unless he could get someone of
“influence” to speak up for him. The sol-
dier found a sympathetic Victorian and
eventually got a cork arm. But this was
more than balanced by a reduction of pen-
sion ! Apparently disabled men in hospitals
in Britain believe it. The Defence Depart-
ment ought to scotch the yarn.
“Centurion”: In reply to “Old Soldier”;
my description of the modern British cavalry
sword; if “curious,” as “0.5.” asserts, is
correct. I was put wise to the new weapon
at Zietoun, in 1917, at a school of instruction
for field-officers, and had to pass on my
acquired wisdom to my
squadron in due course.
This sword, by the way,
was introduced into the
British Army in 1912 or
1913. On foot the sword
is held out in a straight
line from the shoulder,
back of the hand to the
left, and therefore shell
uppermost. The point is
delivered with a straight-
arm lunge. On horse-
back the swordsman is
told to lie forward on his
horse’s neck with sword-
arm as described, the hilt
covering the head, which
should be held as low as
possible. The pace of the
horse and the lunge do
the rest. The parry is a
slight turn of the fore-
arm, difficult to describe,
but the wrist is not to
move independently. The
weapon is not the Court
sword or a battle-axe or
a crowbar, but exactly as
I have described it. The
Indian cavalry I saw in
Sinai and Palestine still
carry their curved cut-
ting swords. Whatever
was taught to cavalry in
the days of the Mutiny, it
is laid down now that the
point only must be used.
As to disengaging from
a prodded opponent, that
is left to the prodder’s
discretion. It is like marriage ; he must fend
for himself.
What should be the Kaiser’s punishment
is a topic that has been revived in Adelaide.
Governor Galway considers St. Helena too
pleasant a place for Wilhelm’s exile, but
knows a nice little spot where he would
not be too comfortable —AlcCarthy Island,
about 150 miles up the Gambia River in
Senegal, West Africa. Premier Peake opines
that, as wilful murder has been recorded
against the chief Hun, he should be hanged.
The lady war-workers seem to be the most
vindictive. “I'd put him in a cage and tor-
ture his life out.” “Take him to pieces inch
by inch,” were two expressions. One promi-
nent lady worker made this statement: “You
dare hot put in print what I would do to
him.” The young reporter let it go at that.
V.C. NEXT!
ESME : “How many did Jack capture ?”
G LALEYS: “ Two nurses, a V.A.D., a canteen
worker and his week-end hostess.”
“Trooper No. 529”: In the days when
there was no correspondent handy to tell
what our boys were doing in Palestine a
Light Horse regiment had a brush with the
Turks east of the Jordan. Abdul was driven
off leaving three prisoners and a machine-
gun. A young Billjim was detailed to take
the bunch back, and he was jogging along
unconcernedly when suddenly he rode into
a big party of Jaekos. llis first impulse was
to bolt; but he pulled himself together and
sternly invited the convention to come along
with him, assuring them that the regiment
was following up and that they were practi-
cally surrounded. As a matter of fact
(although the Aussie didn’t know it at the
time) the regiment was returning another
way and the Turks had a clear passage to
their own lines. The crowd went into com-
mittee and discussed the situation, while the
bluffer sat on his prad and wondered what
was going to happen. His hard face settled
the point. There was a sudden rattle of
equipment as the crowd sullenly threw down
their arms and joined the procession to the
rear—seven officers and 51 other ranks in all.
In N. S. Wales where the teacher, after
years of struggle, has had his salary raised
to a minimum of £3 a week to put him rather
below the man who drives a tram-car, the
cause of education has been advanced by the
appointment of a Professor of Architecture
at £2OOO per annum. The Professor will
now turn-to on a large scale and deal with
that scarcity of four-roomed houses which
afflicts the community.
One of the most interesting documents
Tiie Bulletin can remember seeing issued
from a State Printing Department has just
been placed in the Public Libraries of Maori-
land. This is a 12-page foolscap edition of
the works of the local Statistician’s office in
relation to poultry and bees. On the night
of October 15, 1916, while the rest of the
world was either asleep or fighting. Maori-
land took a complete census of the hen-
house, and the box containing the lady with
a sting in her tail. The results obtained by
the enumerators were handed over to the
statisticians. From these have been compiled
a fascinating story. A mass of figures'
on page 1 reveal that in 10 years the chook
in ALL. has multiplied by 376,496, a start-
ling indication of what may be done
by intensive culture, when one remembers
the large number of patriotic banquets con-
sumed over yonder. On succeeding pages the
reader is supplied with copious arithmetic
about the poultry in detail. At a glance
he can find out how many citizens keep
poultry in each horottgh and in each county
—how many chicks they reared during the
last hatch. For instance, at Whakatane 399
citizens are addicted to propagation of the
fowl. Their flocks roost to the number of
7018, and there were 1770 new ones in the
fluff stage. At Waipukurau the number of
fowl proprietors is only 177. This variation is
unaccountable. But there are other intensely
interesting facts about the laying-machine
concealed in feathers. The statisticians have
worked out elaborate tables showing the
division according to sex as well as locality.
The rooster is tabulated apart from his
harem ; the number of ducks is given in each
locality, likewise the number of drakes; the
gentleman turkey is distinguished from the
lady and the gander sorted out from the
goose. The turkey population of the boroughs
was very limited on the night of the count,
being only 919, of which 338 were husbands.
Most likely they were waiting for the guillo-
tine. But there was no apparent reason to
fear a shortage of geese, either in town or
country. The grand total of the Dominion’s
population of gander was 9231, and of the
goose which lays an egg occasionally 20,791.
Tha»drakes out-numbered the ganders 3 to 1.
A very singular circumstance disclosed by
the statisticians is that at Eketahuna 10
drakes and 111 lady ducks had a family of
CONSTANT CUSTOMERS.
“What is the rent of your studio, Henry? I
suppose they ash a lot for it?”
“Yes, almost daily, George.”
only 7. This is ominous of Eketahuna hav-
ing serious post-war problems to face before
long. But the arithmetic all through is very
encouraging and suggests that M.L. should
be able to face the future undismayed. The
statistics about the bees are extensive and
illuminating, but the enumerators seem to
have been shirkers. They didn’t count the
innards of the hives.
(Continued on page 18.)
PEACE AT THE GATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Belgian cavalry are at the gates of Bruges.”— Cable.
The belfry watches o’er the lane
Of parting foemen once again,
A(i round by Notre Dame’s grey tower
March beaten robbers, hour by hour.
The houses wake from haunted sleep
And hear the news ; and no more weep
In sorrow for the long lost balm
Of folded centuries of calm.
Beneath the plane-trees Memlinc prays
For quiet down the cobbled ways,
And in the halls where pictures glow
He made five hundred years ago.
In Gothic rooms the candles gleam
Before the kind-eyed Saints, who seem
To smile at hurried feet outside—
The mighty feet by Right denied.
And belfry bells that rang alarms
Of old, red fields and burning farms
Sway softly to begin the tune
That speeds the “blonde beast”, going soon.
Canals that ran in blood before
Sing now of Peace at hand once more,
And ripple at the secret jest— y
The brave loud word, the last and best.
N.S.W.
HILARY LOFTING.


1
a i!
I f
i
I •'
i.i
3 .$
‘f ••
fflßßtKttL
111
:»f:p
Sill
fSgt
mmmMm -'^
HHHHHHHHi
H 1
**
<: 3
|§g * p
i—
:• ■ V-
[Byde Cifcf*) j
...
C.3.A.riines Lf
. «
Reinforced Concrete
Chimney Shafts
where KANDOS
CFMFWT A,
JL JLd iV I 0/2 / O
was used.
>ned hy
.< -1.
X


ZANE ric _ entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplieate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured with un-
soßed originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
■m
m
t n
r, ;
II
A Former Chamber Magistrate, Clerk of Petty Sessions and Deputy Clerk of
the Peace speaks highly of Clements Tonic to those subjected to nerve strain.
Here is a copy of Staff-Sergeant Mac Nevin's letter, written from his home:
ouuj' oLieei.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD, “ U “J ' on ecu, jjarnngnurst,
Where I could not eat or sleep, I now enjoy my sleep and minis. d.fferent tale to tell.
and physical energy during the exhaustive trials at the Criminal Sessions wlmn \ nla 011 your tonic for mental
After leaving the service in 1893, and to aC^®? U t y Clerk of the Peace -
fine standard medicine. lam now in mv 53rd year and am Sergeant in o'ur’ L stjll 1^ oked u g on the tonic as
I nermit yen to use this letter as a token of my thanisZ-Ihe"g?eat benefit Q Ser ™ e
Jived from it, and mv recommendation of it to Ithn™ s oenent
« - —« w towvn ui mv Liictiijh
received from it, and my recommendation of it to others.
(Signed)
If you have any regard for your health keep this medicine beside you in winter or
summer, It is invaluable in cases of Brain-fag, Insomnia, Debility, Poor Appetite Weak
Nerves and Facial Neuralgia. Get it and try it, as thousands of other
Clements Tonic Ltd., RozeJle, N.S.W.
■All Chemists and Stores sell it.
Staff-Sergeant.
A./. : It the suggestion is made to an
employer of labor in Britain that the employ-
ment of women during the war may create
a difficulty when the men return, he jaughs—
if he. doesn’t boil-over and give a full history
ot lus skirted troubles. Women have hail
their chance and high wages; and, although
they have got through the work, that
they did it well or efficiently and
without being troublesome is only a
polite journalistic fiction. The public,
offices where women are largely employed
are places of vast confusion and inefficiency ;
departmental heads have to be contented
with the idea of getting the work done badly
or not at all. This is not to* say that some
women are not quite as efficient 'as the most
efficient of men ; but the bulk are not, and
have no wish to be even moderately
efficient. This was the boi’-ever (if
one harassed chief: “They have no
sense of fairness or responsibility. They
take advantage of you and the fact that the'v
are women. Whenever they feel inclined,
they take a holiday; and just when you most
rely upon them being present you find them
HIT ON THE BEG OIL.
THE MAJOR (who has just set her right):
“Bwains will tell, you know."
SISTER ISIE (humbly): “Yes, I suppose
it's the little things that count."
absent. They allow paltry matter of preju-
dice, liking or jealousy to interfere every
hour with business. They will work more
eagerly and well for a man who is unmarried
—for a time; but shortly they will decide,
unanimously, that it is quite‘time he was
married, and won’t work for him at all.
Work will never be more than a sort of
side-issue with them; and they seem to
regard it as a personal triumph if they can
place you in a hole, and then help you out,
possibly, as a particular favor.” Recently
there has come a demand from some of the
women workers for equal pay for equal
work, which is a fair enough demand, and
one that men, who want to be sure of their
jobs, should support.
THE PENALTY.
“Mamma, did yon love to flirt when you were young?"
“ I’m afraid I did, dear."
“And were you ever punished for it, mamma?"
“Yes, dear. I married your father."
Aaron Banks, president of the Melbourne
Hospital committee, has started a sort of
gamble connected with the prevailing peace
talk. He has issued a public appeal, asKing
for signatures to a pledge binding those who
sign it to make the hospital a stated dona-
tion, once peace is declared, “as a thank-
offering.” It is rather an ingenious idea,
though such appeals wouldn’t be necessary
if the State did its plain duty, paying for
the upkeep of the various public hospitals
out of revenue instead of out of the hat. It
is a shambling way of running anything, and
its results are humiliating. Melbourne Hos-
pital alone lias to face the clearing-up of an
overdraft of £26.770—a preposterous state of
affairs.
Adelaide is anxious to know who was
really responsible for its leg being pulled so
hard on Thursday, October 17, when the
Town Hall bells were rung, and Parliament
adjourned, under the impression that Ger-
many had “surrendered.” The daily papers
got the same cables from Rotterdam as did
the rest of Australia, and placarded them at
their front doors ; but they deny all liability
for the enthusiasm which followed. Lionel
Hill, in the Assembly, has since asked the
Premier whether Major Smeaton, chief of
the censors, gave the information to the
Cabinet. Peake replied that all the informa-
tiontion came _ from the newspaper offices.
We were a little previous in rejoicing. I
am not apologising in any way.” The same
temperament which keeps Adelaide from ex-
periencing anything like a riot also prevents
it from going on the maffick; and it feels
much hurt that when it did blow off it was
upon a false alarm.
* * * *
An Anzae who landed in Melbourne last
week, a hero with a single leg, was greeted
by a cobber, who cried : “What-o, Stalky.
liGwja like it?” “To tell you the truth, Syd!”
replied the pessimist, “I didn’t enjoy myself
as well as I expected to.”
expensive cablegram reports that
}\. M. Hughes in England (where he
is going to stay a while longer) has
delivered a speech denouncing the Hun-
peace swindle. In it he made the
quite unusual statement (from Genesis)
that the voice was the voice of Jacob, but
the hands were the hands of Esau. Which
was a silly inversion of things. In this case
the voice is that of Esau, who was honest
though hairy. It is the paw of Jacob, the
smooth liar, that gives the voice away as an
imitation.
* * * *
“Chudah”: It is agreed on all hands that
the Jews are to have Jerusalem and Pales-
tine. In the United States it is decided—
and nobody will gainsay Woodrow Wilson
backed by nearly a million New York Jews
—that there is to be a Jewish army in Pales-
tine. Already about 8000 Jewish soldiers
have been sent from the United States to
England, thence to Palestine, and they are
called the Jewish Legion, and will remain as
nucleus of the Jewish Republic—that is,
some of them will. The ofßers will be back
at the old address as soon as possible. That
England and France have given their approval
to the scheme is shown by the Legion fighting
under British direction.
“Bad Australian”: When the National
Kitchens were started a howl went up from
every Private Enterprise hashery in London,
and it was pointed out that this'was another
Socialistic experiment calcu-
lated to undermine the founda-
tions of social life by letting
loose a horde of amateur food-
ruiners. All good patriotic citi-
zens were implored to turn a
deaf stomach to the tempter and
stand by the old order of chops
in the interests of public safety.
The restaurant-keepers had just
proved to their own satisfaction
that the experiment must end in
financial ruin and national dys-
pepsia. when the National
Restaurant, New Bridge-street,
E.C., which hands out a better
feed at a more satisfactory price
than most of the private con-
cerns, weighed in with the re-
sults of its first three weeks:
Profits for first week, £5O 14s.
sd. ; second, £7O 13s. 9d.; third,
£73 7s. 4d. A communication
from the Ministry of Pood says
that at the rate of £7O per week,
which appears to be the main-
tainable profit, the. capital outlay will be
repaid within 18 months. Verily the poor
profiteer has no chance against the Socialis-
tic Tiger!
“M.H.”: Bean correctly reported at the
commencement of the August push that one
Australian battalion, which was right in the
business, only had three casualties. The
company that was at the head of the push on
that part of the line didn’t have a single
casualty. Bean didn’t mention, however,
that, after the show, there were only 34 men
left in one company of a neighboring bat-
talion. The difference was that that battalion
was held up in lines of which Fritz had the
exact range, while the line was being
straightened for a further advance. Actu-
ally it is seldom that many casualties occur,
nowadays, in the hop over; it is in the hang-
mg-on to captured positions subsequently
that the damage is done. In one operation,
where 150 of us went over and with com-
plete success gained our objective, occupying
the Germans’ front-line positions, there were
only two casualties in the actual advance;
but before the reliefs came out a couple of
days later the casualties had increased to
IUO, of which 70 were light wounds—walking
cases. The small operations are in fact
terribly expensive as compared with the big
shows that make the cable page crackle.
From Flanders:—
To see men “feeling their legs,” after the
manner of the . infant learning to walk, is a common
sight in London. The matter of providing artificial
limbs is of special interest to Australia, for the
number of our men who have lost their legs is a
subject of common remark in England. The ex-
planation lies irt the fact that the Australians have
made themselves notorious for their activity in
patrol encounters when there are no big movements
on hand. Invariably, when an Australian division
takes over a sector, the order comes through: “We
must be absolute masters of No Man’s Land”; and,
invariably, we are. In the fighting by which this
mastery is attained a lot of machine-gun fire is met
with, which, as it is directed on a low trajectory,
inflicts a lot of leg wounds; and a machine-gun
bullet, at close range, does a great deal more harm
to the bones than a piece of shell. But the substi-
tute limbs now provided are marvellous. I have
just seen two men who have lost both legs, all but
the slightest remainder of stump, walking about with
the aid of sticks, a little stiffly, on artificial limbs
that actually articulate at the knee. When they
get more confidence they will be able to discard the
sticks.
“Hamer”: The Sammies have heartily
seconded the Australian objection to the
saluting foolishness ; and although only quite
recently new orders were issued calling
attention to the necessity for the salute, the
practice is dying out. The Yanks—and
London is full of them now—don’t
salute worth mentioning, and their example
has strengthened the Australian con-
tempt for the parade-ground observ-
ance. No doubt many of the officers
are glad, although only the other day I saw
a fussy red-capped staff-officer (the real
London campaigner) hold up and rate a
lanky digger. “Beg pardon, sir,” he said
politely, “but I've been so long in France
that I’ve forgotten all about it.” Then he
saluted properly, leaving the staff effigy to
have his lit by himself.
The undertaker scores at last! The three
bags of human bones, preserved as Exhibit
A at the Edenhope (Vic.) police-stafion, in
case an old-time murderer should ever be
roped in, are about to have decent burial.
Ex-soldier Slater, M.L.A. for Dundas,
brought the matter before Vic. Assembly
QUITE LIKELY.
THE RICH GIRL: “I suppose you're like all
the others—after my money?’'
THE POOR CHAP: “My darling , if you would
only marry me, I assure you money
would be no object to me.”
recently, with the result that Chief Secretary
Bowser has given the necessary order for in-
terment. Incidentally, he is inquiring whv
the bones were not put underground rears
ago The probable reply will be that they had
gradually assumed* the importance of an
official heirloom.
THE ROYAL ONION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
~twl boUT J( apers> i n view of the great scarcity of
other vegetables and the profusion of silver-skins
are emphasising the fact that the late King Edward
ate two large Spanish onions everv night before
retiring. °
The onion, so long abjured,
A thing of scorn in many eyes
(Or noses), is at length assured
Respect. ’Tis said, and none denies,
The good King Edward ate a brace
Each night before retiring late.
This should old prejudice efface
And give it favor for a space,
If only history will state
How many Alexandra ate.
For ’tis a sociable root,
And makes for kinship in a sense.
If he eats, she must follow suit,
If it be but in self-defence.
Shall we, who are but plebeian mould,
Deny the gift a monarch brings ?
To eat the leek was held of old
An act contemptible. Behold
llow customs change ! The laureate sings
This fragrant favorite of kings.
The rose of England has her scent,
The onion hath flavor, too.
And who will ask for roses blent
With tripe or mutton in a stew?
The onion shall have her day,
And maidens fair and dames austere
Must bear it as a sweet bouquet,
And breathe its perfume too, that they
May claim each in a manner here
Exhales the regal atmosphere.
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


10.000 PANAMAS!
Sr':
:
K
<333i
9
«•/
a
'Cs,
No. 3
r
No. 4.
.
H
'f
1
No. 5.
MURDOCHS
BIG SCOOP
OF GENUINE
SOUTH AMERICAN
PANAMAS.
This special purchase by our South American buyer
comes as a big surprise, but it is none the less welcome
on that account. One of those rare opportunities that
demand quick action and spot cash. The details con-
densed in brief should interest Australians. Owing to
transport difficulties, due chiefly to commandeering
railroad rolling-stock for war purposes, a big Panama order for one of the middle-west States of tI.S.A. was
delayed. The South American manufacturer received instructions, first to hold, and then to cancel order, as it
was impossible to get them through in time for the .North American Summer Season. They were offered
to our buyer at a big reduction for cash. Sensing the whole position, and finding it possible to get shipping space
to Australia at an early date, he closed with the offer. That’s the whole story.
/
#
r
No. 1
They are Here Now.
Offering at Considerably
Less than Pre-War Prices.
We are passing on the advantage of this big pur-
chase to our customers. Come in early and share
the benefit. Don’t wait till the Summer is half
over —be prepared for Old Sol’s staggering rays.
BUY NOW AND
SAVE MONEY.
Come in and see the goods yourself —there’s a size
and a style to fit every man at a price that will
prime your pocket. If you can’t call —post your
order to Desk R. ISTo matter where you live —
WE POST FREE
TO YOUR DOOR.
At 12/11 8 15/6
Post Free
there is a fine selection of quality Panamas
genuine natives —just the idea for the scorch-
ing days ahead, neatly plaited and well
bleached, finished with black band and sweat-
leather; brim widths, 2\, 2f and 3 inches,
suitable for city or country wear.
GET UNDER ONE OF
THESE SHADY CROWNS
TO-DA Y.
WHEN
ORDERING
BY
POST
STATE
SIZE
AND
SHAPE
DESIRED.
Any of the Style
Illustrated are
Obtainable.
we offer you choice of a range of Super.-
quality Panamas, genuine natives, pearly
bleach, and fine finish throughout, trimmed
with black silk band and sweat-leather —
smart, dressy hats that give coolness and
comfort. Brim widths, 2, and 2$ inches.
SECURE ONE OF THESE
SMART, COOL CROWNS
WITHOUT DELA Y.
1
m
IN PARK ST LIMITED SYDNEY
Complete Outfitters
for wen <sl E>o c tis


Government Notice.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 14th October, 1918.
Medical Practitioners for Military
Hospitals.
A PLICATIONS are invited from quali-
/ * bed medical practitioners in Australia
for positions at Military Hospitals in Queens-
land, west Australia and Tasmania.
Rates of pay: Captain, 25/6 per day:
Majors, 33/- per day.
, Preference will be given to ex-members of
the Australian Imperial Force. Applications
should be forwarded addressed to Secretary
Department of Defence, Melbourne.
T. TRUMBLE,
Secretary.
wmm&smsmmEm
i
, Hli
j
s
0
s
lie
u
e
rs
e
e
a
“Leslie” Salt Licks prevent
Fluke and Black Disease and
make for robust health and
better fleece.
Stock-inspectors recommend
them as a preventive of sheep
ailments and the best tonic
for lambing ewes.
Obtainable from all Sad-
dlers, Blacksmiths, Produce
Merchants and Stores.
In 51b. marble-hard blacks.
22/6 per case of 12
POLITICAL
POINTS
Large ideas are being promulgated by the
Acting Prime Minister of this country having
“two or three Ministers in England to attend
to the demobilisation, repatriation and re-
ini! skiers at the end of the war.
'"he war may end at an early date, yet it
may not terminate for three years or more,
•so it may be necessary for these two or three
Ministers to stay on the spot for a long while
m a state of suspended animation—but not
suspended salary. Seeing that the soldiers
THE LAST STRAW.
MR. COHEN : “Vat’s this talk about combul-
sory subscribtions to var loans?”
MR. LONG : "Why, man, it means that we’ll
be forced to subscribe to the war loans
in proportion to our incomes.”
MR. COHEN : “Veil, it’s time ve had peace.”
\von t be either demobilised or repatriated in
England, two of the three jobs are misplaced.
It is stated in explanation that Canada, with
a larger population, has two, not three. Minis-
ters in England “looking after similar in-
terests.” But Canada has a large new side-
line in the sale of munitions to Britain and
the Allies, which may help to keep the Minis-
ters employed. Still Australia always
believes m doing the thing properly. Why
not send four Ministers, including Webster?
Repatriating Billjim with a debenture is
going to be auite a simple business—for a
day or so. Reports were issued last week
about seven privately-owned properties in
iV S. \\ales from which the owners are
ready to move when handed a p.n. Tiie
capital cost of_these properties to the State
is put at £355,064, and it transpires that
farms will be thus made available for 164
so.diers—£2l6s each, for land alone. Then
there will be more p.n. operations for stock
and implements and buildings, the result
being 164 more cockies, each earning a
blister or about £3060. Of course they may
weather the storm, but as on one place" to be
divided into 300-acre blocks The Bulletin
notices that the carrying capacity of the
nutriment is five sheep to four acres, or one
head of large stock to five acres, the amount
ot exercise needed to keep the back account
on an even keel seems likely to be fairly
comprehensive.
Not long ago Westralia’s municipal coun-
cils and roads boards held a conference, at
which they determined to agitate for a reduc-
tion in the number of members of Parlia-
ment. Of the 17 councils which took part.
14 were in favor of the proposal, and of 60
loads boards oi were for it. Then the only
three Chambers of Commerce in the State
endorsed the notion. The other day in the
Assembly a member had the nerve to try and
give, effect to the recommendation, and his
motion lapsed for want of a seconder!
A4c. Treasurer McPherson insists on talk-
ing about economy, and this is how, in part,
he is an example to prodigals. In his annual
statement and the Auditor-General’s report
there are nearly 300 pages, printed on sub-
stantial paper. Much of the document con-
s_sts of blank spaces, while the high cost of
paper is not in any way indicated by the
size of the margins. Many bored persons
througnout the State will receive copies of
this lavish print, according to ancient pro-
cedure, and they will put them in the waste-
basket or on some high shelf out of the way.
Ihen McPherson, having thus done his duty,
to his reputation as Somebody in the Cabi-
net, will probably go on making both
meet by pinching hospital-grants and holding-
over other departments the threat of drastic
retrenchments.
<iT^-l^ nr 'Tr >ar^es made a few remarks in his
fifty rears of Australian ITstory” which
neght have been intended for W. M. Hughes,
although it was actually a reflection on his
own action —■
When a political personage is commissioned bv the
Crown to torm an Administration it is never for a
moment contemplated that it is within his commis-
sion that he may forsike his post and speed away
on a journey to the other side of the globe. It is
impossible for. him while absent, and at, a dhtarice
to discharge the solemn functions which le has
undertaken. Such .a proceeding on the part of the
Prime Minister of England could not even be men-
tioned or thoug.it 0f....W T c stand in too much danger
ot inroads upon the Constitution and constitutional
usage for Prime Ministers to set the exarml" of
violating, ignoring or neglecting the grave responsi-
bilities inseparable from ,the trust reposed i-a them.
However, these are perilous times and some-
body has to save the Empire.
While a Bill providing for the extension of
the franchise for the S. Aus. Legislative
Council to soldiers and sailors and nurses
who have served in the present war was
being discussed by that bodv, a Labor mem-
ber made an attempt to get the franchise for
all adults, but he was put in his place by 12
votes to five. An effort was then made to
have included the mothers, wives and widows
ot certain persons who have been on active
service, and this was also passed out by 12 to
five. Another proposal to extend the fran-
chise to men who had volunteered but were
refused for service met the same fate. Every-
thing was cut and dried (very much dried)
m accordance with the best' traditions of
the Council. . However, Billjim gets his vote,
and Billjim is a mighty democrat.
Edo”: The Westralian Government is
speed ly and surely running the State into
the Bankruptcy Court. Lefroy’s policy is
more borrowing, yet in last financial year
the total revenue was only £4.622.536. while
the interest on loans and sinking fund dues
to £1,875.198. In the same period,
the revenue was £583 000 less than
m lJlo-14. Mining is the industry which
brought the State out of obscurity, and
early in 1917 Parliament authorised £2l 090
to i be nK t in lle] P ;r ig prospectors. But
only £9608 was doTd out. During the
same period (T7-T8) alleged agricul-
turists were given cash advances amount-
ing to £478,000 and heaps of indirect
help, although the Government was well
aware that it had on its hands about 10 000
abandoned farms from which the settlers had
lied., after borrowing all they could from the
nwin/Mo 8a2 1 , i- At the time of writing
UB/16/3.8) at Kalgoorh'e potatoes are £32
the ton, and onions £56. If the trans-
railway strike had lasted another week the
whole State would have been lamenting for
potatoes, on'ons, butter, cheese and even
eggs. Now Lefroy has a Bill before Parlia-
ment which will enable him to repurchase oM
estates at fancy prices and “settle” returned
soldiers on tile areas. Most of the present
owners are in the hands of banks and other
financial institutions, and they don't care
how soon the Bill passes.
A number of trades-unions which broke
away from Sydney Labor Council be-
cause of its pro-Hun and anti-Australian
attitude found an unexpected letter waiting
for them the other morning at breakfast. It
set forth that there was a great and Chris-
tian and oatriotic work to be done at restor-
ing the soldiers to the ranks of industry when
the army came back, and that the Trades
Council wanted to get on the job early, and
tope in the men whom it had abused, and
explain to them that Ccdlin is the friend, not
Short. It being obviously not to the profit
and glory of the bosses of the Coun-
cil that the returned men should take their
old places in trades-unions that had left the
THE END OF THE JAG.
Belgium will make heavy demands for compensa-
tion.”— Cable.
“Ach! Der heel! I vasn’t think of dat.”
Council, the sa'd unions were earnestly in-
vited to come back to the fold at once, right
off and immed.ately. Then the returned men
coindn’t resume their places in their old
unions without being automatically attached
to the Sydney Labor Council, and any remarks
they wanted to make on the subject would be
too late. In the name of true patriotism the
seceding unions were urged to take this view
of things, while a large number of members
who were likely to have strong language to
expend on the matter and might even want
to create a new Council were disfranchised
by absence. More than one union scratched
its head thoughtfully over the document, and
tlien cleared its throat dubiously and winked
its eye.
The X. S. Wales Government shut down
on I nee, M.L.A., when he tried to draw atten-
tion to the fact that the Railway Superan-
nuation Fund i s practically bankrupt, just
like the o,d Civil Service Fund and the Police
hund and most other affairs that the side-
stepping double-shuffle Ministries at Svdney
have control of. It is the usual story. For
the sake of temporary applause, which means
votes, a great deal more was promised than
the contributions would pay for, after the
manner of the swind'ing life assurance co.
which offers its £lOOO policy for almost
nothing. Price wasn’t allowed to spread
himself on the sordid top/c. Meanwhile
Minister James ha s given a “favorable reply”
to a deputation which asked that that stately
bunding. Yaucluse House, shall be turned
into an historical museum at a cost of pro-
bab!y £2OOO a year. Anything gilded and
frilly - always takes the eye of the Holman
£ an . g- it wotPd only devise a uniform and
cocked hat for Ministers its life work would
be complete.
From England :
A re-tion of the English press has been making a
long wad about the money that is being made and
spent by munition-workers. Writers contrast the lot of
the hard-living, low-paid soldier with that of the
man who makes the shells, but the differences don’t
impel any strong longing to substantially increase
the fighting man’s pay. Certainly it is a" tr'fle dis-
gusting to hear boastful talk of “making fifteen quid
a . pav” by hefty munitioneers before less able-
bodied men who have to go' into the line for
a mere pittance. But the soldiers are not
greatly disturbed, for the munition-workers are
not ungenerous in their spendings. Being generally
related to the fighting men, the soldiers get a benefit
from the big earnings, while they receive none at
all from the incomes of the fat profiteers whom the
press overlooks. The natural conclusion is that the
oiftcry is merely that of selfish people who are
shocked at the idea of “working men” having some-
thing more than a living wage. It is a state of
affairs that shocks the middle- and upper-clas>
Briton. But all the clumsy attempts to stir a feel-
ing of wrath amongst the working-class soldiery have,
so far, failed miserably.
Price, the youthful member for Port
Adelaide in S.A. Assembly, made one of
those “bulls” which unfortunately never die
when he carelessly commended a previous
speaker for having “hit the nail on the
point.”
“0.L.”: The National Federation, at its
recent conference in Melbourne, appointed a
pair of committees which are designed “to
encourage pastoral and agricul-
tural development, as well as
the industrial potentialities of
the State.” Great cheering, of
course; but precisiely what is
the Federation going to do?
Of late months the pretentious
concern has hardly been heard
of. Scarcely a murmur has
emanated from the central office
where general-secretary Ilumo
Cook, ex-M.11.R. for Bourke.
sits and weaves his “national”
webs when he isn’t elsewhere
attending to his own private
business. The Federation was
hatched to save Australia from
something or other in January.
1917. In the long, fateful inter-
val, what, sign has this body of
political hybrids given of any
really constructive good intentions
either towards the tiller of the
soil or to those who handle the
raw material afterwards? The
Federation has never urged its
Parliamentary nominees to give
the local industrialists a show
by blocking cheap foreign manu-
factures or indicated any special
desire to help the rural pro-
ducer,_ such, for instance, as
agitating for the wheat-farmer’s
direct participation in the
national wheat-business? Yet
the concern has the effrontery,
at this late stage in Australia’s
war-crisis, to put itself in the
forefront of the advance-Austra-
lia movement and invite the
farmer and manufacturer to seek shelter
behind its banner of bosh and broken-pro-
mises.
“Xz”; Billy Hughes, if you observed, was
m 1 aris last week,_ and the President of the
Republic handed him a love-token, or some-
thing. Next day the Commonwealth's official
correspondent blared over the cable:
Tlie Australian troops are pleased and proud at
ti u £»hes being singled out by the President for
the Grand Cress of the Legion of Honor.
As the Australian troops were at that time
scattered all over the landscape, most of
them in England and on the way back to
Australia, the opportunity for an official or
any other correspondent to observe their
pleasure and pride were, of course, excep-
tional. Had it been otherwise the hurried
assurance on the subject would sound just
the sort of tiling an official correspondent
might be unofficially reminded of.
i7/!n/m^ evertin ". t 0 ray paragraph (B.
.w/iu/ 18) concerning the harsh treatment
ot labor-union secretaries by their bosses. I
mentioned George Saunders, sec. of the Syd-
ney Milk and Ice Carters’ and Dairymen’s
Employees’ Union as being one who had
round the position too difficult; but as a
matter of fact there is no.position too diffi-
cult tor George Saunders when Labor needs
a hand. As far back as 1903 he organised
tne union of which he is now secretary, and
he was president until he took over the main
trick at the wheel. Throughout all the time
have known him in political and industrial
le ma y have made some enemies,
but it he did the addresses of them have been
carefully mislaid.
THE ESSENTIAL THINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Nothing- can be gained by leaving the essential
thing unsaid:”— America’s reply to Germany.
Y'oi ds have their place. Let free the muzzled lip
That softened truth to falsehood when it spoke.
Xm need for simpering now, nor censorship,
A spade’s a spade, a bloke is still a bloke.
Speak the essential thing and let it go ;
Tim man who fears it is our manhood’s foe.
Now let us say some things. The war is won,
Or will be ere another year has gone.
I he win-by-talk appeal is clearly done;
It is full time to get the last move on.
The ancient strife between the Outs and Ins
( an be no longer worth a row of pins.
Let us be plain. On military grounds,
They kept us in a heavy ignorance.
Rumor and falsehood went their daily rounds
To misinform us of affairs in France.
Now let us ask the one tremendous WHY
Australians fed Australians on a lie.
Let us be plain. Men we placed in power
Played to the foeman's hands by crushing speech.
They killed democracy in that red hour
When strong Australians held the deadly breach,
llt-re let the one essential be explained
hat that peculiar treason sought or gained.
Lei us be plainer still. The men we pay
To do the nation’s work usurped our place,
Set up autocracy and held a sway
That Freedom still regards as a disgrace.
Did they do this with any honest aim,
Or just to hide their idleness and shame?
The time to face the question has arrived.
No local dog-fight now could interfere
With Foch and victory, howe’er contrived.
The impudent assurance of last year
Fails at the happy word the cables bring—
Why was truth censored ?—that’s the essential thing.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


67? e PIANOLA
PIANO.
The PIANOLA is the Perfect
Piano that you can play.
of the player-piano the Pianola
has been the leader —the in-
ti ROUGH OUT the history
strument without a peer.
The infinite variety of touch the rich
tonal effects—the almost limitless range of
musical expression it makes possible
have brought the Pianola the patronage
and endorsement of the great musicians, of
the leading educators, of the men and
women foremost in every walk of life.
Such universal recognition is won only by
distinctly superior quality —by unqualified
supremacy in all essentials.
Pianola perfection is a product of many
minor perfections, but a few r of its featui.es
are outstanding and revolutionary.
The Metrostyle is an instance. This
wonderful tempo control is unapproached
in effectiveness. It aids the novice in
music to utilise with fine artistic effect the
wonderful technical resources of the Pianola
—this by guidance of the famous “red
line” interpretations recorded by the
most eminent of modern musicians.
Be careful and see that our trade-mark
“PIANOLA” appears on the piano of
your choice! You have a world-famed
selection for your consideration in the
Stemway, Stecß, Stroud,
Britisli Weber,
Farrand and Aeolian
Pianola Pianos.
Write to-day for Catalog and Price Cist,
>
mm
7
I
4
Sofeber
/ & '
>~r»
Hi
\i\ ■.
i«fr
'UP*/
384 GEORGE, STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 252 Collins Street, Melbourne 5 436 Queen Street, Brisbane 1
/58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.


BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN 8t -
CAMERON LIP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
&
' THEY GOME AS A BOON it A BLEBBINO TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAYERLEY PEN."
I
■
,4
i
Water Lifted 500 ft.,
Pumped a Mile,
at a cost of about id. per hour.
OUR FARM PUMP
ENGINE will do this as
well as cut chaff, saw
wood,_ work shearing-
machines, etc.. It can be
attached to a windmill of ■
almost any pump in three
minutes. Needsnomechanic
to fix or operate, and
works all day without
___________ attention. Hundreds sold
and giving satisfaction.
£lO DOWN, BALANCE VERY EASY.
If interested in water supply or irrigation
state your working conditions and we will
and* Hn^\- St p k Steam ’ Kerosene, Petrol
"Ot Air Engines, Centrifugal Pumps
h,L M) ( el ' S ’ 11 ‘ Gou ! d ’ s ” and “Deming's”
l or a i? services. Mackie’s Rock
and Water B °rer, Working Heads and
Pla f. ts H for de eP well and bore pumping a
specialty. Immense stocks Challenge
Windmills and Water Supply accessories.
twmf e c P lant if required and give easy
■ errns - _ Catalogues and. expert advice free.
n n B w ill Bros. 8 Davies Pty. Ltd.
110-1 U Sturt Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE
Near Princes Bridge.
King George IV
iUi A WHISKY
theTOP NOTCH'scoti-h
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
TROUBLE AHEAD.
MOTOR-CYCLIST: “Can I get through to Hell-
fire Dump this way?”
FOOT-SLOGGER: “Yes; hut you’ll find it a bit
rough when you turn off the main road.”
Ela : A gi'eat institution is the Papuan
vhlage. constable, or V.C., as ho is known in the
lossession. The job is a very favored one with
the brown gentlemen, though it must bo the hi«h
social status that attracts them, for the pay is only
at the rate of 10s. a year. Brown brother falls over
himself after the position. The uniform is of
thick blue serge, crimson waist-belt, heavy leather
pouch and sheath-knife. The V.C. is issued a pair
of handcuffs but not the key. At one time the kev
was handed to him, and he found it was a great
idea, for with a little judicious “squeeze” he
amassed quite a lot of wealth. Nowadays the R.M.
keeps the key locked up in his safe, and the V.C.
has to escort to headquarters those who fall within his
clutches. The V.O.’s duties are fairly numerous.
He is usually the official chief of three or more
villages, and has the general welfare of the people
to look after, the so-called roads to attend to
( i (nigh he has the assistance of the natives for
this work), cocoanut planting to enforce, as well
as the regulations governing life and habits genev-
aJly. In Papua there is a code of regulations speci-
ally for the Native Matters Court, and these are far-
reaching in their application, from adultery to the
administration of a deceased’s estate. Wherever a
V.C. is stationed, the Government has a rest-house
built, which the constable has to keep in order.
He has to assist the travelling white man, provide
carriers for travellers, canoes and crews when re-
quired, and report every month or so to the R.M.
The V.C. has been a great success, though during the
last few years a few of them have broken the
monotony of things. One was hanged, and another
was shot for reverting to savagery and attempting
to eat his maiden aunt.
, Forty years ago the African box-
tnorn was imported into South Aus. by J E
Brown Conservator of Forests, for hedge planting!
It has been considerably used for that purpose, but
where hedges have been neglected and allowed to
produce seed the berries have been scattered and
tne plants have become a nuisance. The S.A. Par-
hament has therefore declared it a noxious weed.
V ell-kept hedges will be exempted. Prickly-pears
are also used in S.A. for hedges, windbreaks, etc.,
but seemingly the climate does not suit them as
well as as they have not become a pest.
Myall : P act is,” said the boss, grudg-
ingly handing out some rations to the traveller “if
the number of you blokes keeps up I’ll have to start
out with Matilda myself.” “Well,” says the benevo-
ont stranger, I’ll give y’ a tip—if you have to put
tier, up, carry her collar-fashion.”
* * #
Conger”: Argued the point with a
gohanna t’other day. Was fishing. Heard a rustle.
Looked round. Saw gohanna sneaking up tree with
my bait-bag m its mouth. Vowed revenge. Next day
kmcd three big frogs, disembowelled ’em, filled
orifice with mixture of plaster of Paris and salt.
Sewed ’em up again. Put
’em in bait-bag. Gohanna
sneaked bag again. Ran
up tree, swallowed frogs,
bag and all. Very shortly
he got a thirst up. Sneaked
down tree, ran to river
and drank enough water
to submerge Hun murder
boat. Next day gohanna
looking very sick. Swing-
ing by tail from branch of
tree as if trying to get rid
of something inside. No
result. Put his front claw
down neck, clinched on to
something and pulled hard.
No go. Came slowly
down tree. Went to fence.
Piece of wire hanging
from post. Bent end of
wire in shape of hook.
Poked hook down his
throat. Twisted his tail
around a stump, jambed
his four legs securery in
the ground. Held ‘back
in the britchen and
scratched gravel, jerked
and tugged backwards for
half an hour. At last
something white and hard
showed out of his big
mouth. Suddenly he sat
down hard, leaving a solid
lump of plaster of Paris,
Sin. long, three thick, on
end of wire. Shook him-
self, gave me a devilish
stare and slowly climbed
tree. Have decided it’s no
use trying to kill a gohanna by strategy.
* * *
“Wal”: Scrub-itch is an easily-cured afflic-
'on, provided you can forget about it and not
scratch. f reshly felled scrub is the worst place
to wander about in when your tractors are not
enveloped in puttees. Nearly the whole of the
coastal littoral of Papua is infested with the
f H U r? I dl,ltei ? ted sava B' er y the inundated
foiests on the Fly and other western rivers, the
great sago-swamps behind Cloudy Bay, the Buna
In tS thefe d r, tS -°l t ! l °, Tufi distriet take the biscuit.
In these baaly-mfected parts it is only asking for
trouble to go about without puttees, for the attack
of. the insect brings on ulcers and sundry other
misery. Lse plenty of strong carbolic soap, and
ivtoZll 0 ™ &nC \ With the soa P before going
into the jungle. At night soak your socks and
puttees in lysol or carbolic lotion, and wear clean
socks and. puttees next day. If near the sea or tidal
water go m for a dip and soak your feet in the salt-
water, for it is itself one of the best means of
ftchTl ° PCSt To the sting and
itch, rub on plenty of sulphur ointment
PUTTING IT DOWN.
O'ROURKE, J.P. : “Yer oughta bin in coort this mornin’!”
MACHAGGIS, J.P. : “Yes. Why?"
O'ROURKE. J.P.: “Worst-case o' langwidge Oi iver hear-rd. And didn't Oi licture
Lignite”: Jock McCaffery, otherwise
Andrew James McCaffery, recently killed in France,
was champion henchman of the N. S. Wales
INorth Coast. He had the width of two
ordinary men across the shoulders and was
tall and strong' in proportion. 1 attended to report
a meeting of the employees of the Bucca Saw Mill
at which Jock was the prominent speaker. It was
decided to give each month 2 J per cent, from their
wages to the Belgian Fund, and as there
was a public holiday that week the gang
reckoned that they would work that day
and give their wages. At the momentous recruiting
meeting in Bucca Hall the big Australian mustered
seve;» or eight to enlist with him, and tried hard to
raise a squad. He was a white man right through.
* * * *
At the fleurite-niin.es on Burr in jack the
metal is carted to the water's-edge for transhipment
per motor-boat. Recently a carter backed his load
too far, and horse and dray, with its load of fleurite
(worth possibly £6O), disappeared in 100 ft. or
thereabouts of water. The boss came along soon
after and found the carter enjoying a smoke. Asked
as to the whereabouts of his horse and dray he pointed
the stem of his pipe. “There’s the bubbles,” he said.
“Pei-ilia”: Will Lawson (B. 3/10/’18) is
all adrift in his application of “gone west” to Maori
mythology. While it is unquestionable that in the
Maori belief no recognised Hell such as Christians
were taught existed, Bishop Williams, in his
Dictionary of the New Zealand Language,” pub-
lished in ’4.4, gives the Maori equivalent of Hell as
“Reinga.” Naturally one has great diffidence in
eiiticising such a scholarly authority, who had a
reference library unprocurable nowadays, for it was
the undefiled classic diction of the race, flowing from
its native source. Yet before the translation of the
Bible, appeared in M.L. Hell was unknown to the
Maori,, and even to-day is only used in parrot-like
imitation of the Christian brother as a sanguinary
conge to friend or dog. Hell is untranslatable into
Maori. The Maori legend, of death and thereafter is
characteristically poetical. The body dies, the spirit
lives, and on disintegration the latter is wafted
through space to Te Rerenga Wairua (departing
place of the spirits) a once sacred spot at the ex-
treme north of the North Island. There, momen-
tarily poising on the sea-sprayed heights, the dis-
embodied. spirit plunges through the Te
Moananui a Kiwa (the South Pacific) into Te Reinga ,
the shadowland—or, again to quote Bishop William/
the “place of departed spirits.”
<[ *., * * *
Azac ’: Now that various correspondents
have exhausted themselves and their knowledge in
attempting to describe a quick method of tanning fur
skins, I’ll explain how the job should be done. After
removing, the useless parts of a skin, soften it by
soaking, in order to enable all flesh and fat to be
scraped from the inside. A blunt knife will prove
useful for this purpose. Then soak the skin in warm
water for an hour. Mix water, borax, saltpetre and
Glauber salts so as to make a thin paste (the last
three substances should be in equal quantities). About
half an ounce of each ingredient will be sufficient for
an opossum-skin, and proportionately more will be
required for larger hides. When tile skin has soaked
in the warm water, lift it and spread it out flat so
that the paste may be applied with a brush to the
inside (more paste will be required for thick skins
than for thin ones). Double the skin together, flesh
side inwards, and place it in a cool place for 24
hours, at the end of which time it should be washed
cleaui and treated in the same way as before with a
mixture of loz. washing soda, }oz. borax and 2oz.
white hard soap. These must bo melted together
without being allowed to boil. The pelt should then
he folded together again and placed in a warm place
for another 24 hours. After this, dissolve 4oz. alum,
Boz. salt and 2oz. baking-soda in enough hot water
to saturate the skin (use soft water or rain water).
IVhen this is cool place the hide in it for 12 hours'
then wring and hang out to dry. The soaking ami
drying should be repeated two or three times until
the skin is soft and pliable, after which it might be
rubbed with fine sandpaper to secure a smooth finish.
NO HOLIDAY FOR HIM.
"Hullo, Bill, going to a funeral?”
“No; going to get me pictur ’ took.”
“Wart”: How is this for a record. H.
Smith has on a farm near Cressy (Tas.) 47 ewes.
Thirty-five of these had twin lambs; two of the young;
’uns died; the rest are healthy. The other 12 ewes
had 12 lambs, all doing well. That makes 80 lambs
trom 47 ewes. Last year Smith had 30 ewes 21 of
which had twin lambs. The breed is Border Leices-
ters.
(Continued, on page 24.;
THE BEAST OF PREY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rabbits were never worse than they arc in this
district. Coursing- at the plumpton is practical]v
abandoned. The rabbits have left nothing for hares.’’
—Me lb. paper.
'llic rabbit was at one time here
A creature free of blame,
So soft and gentle nought of fear
Possessed me when I came,
To sit and watch it loping by
Or peering from a tussock nigh.
I trapped it in the morning dew,
I stripped it of its skin,
And roast I had it; in a stew
I ate its kith and kin.
The rabbit now looms fearsomcly,
And in its turn ’tis eating me.
I see it larger than a bull;
ft seems to plot and plan;
Its spear-like teeth are bent to pull
The heart from out a man.
It plucks the pith from all I own
And gnaws my children to the bone.
I see the lion with no dread,
The tiger I despise,
For they are dead when they are dead
The rabbit never dies,
f shoot at one, with malice rife
The whole long hillside springs to life.
I'm going where the beaten men
In dismal rows are lain,
And nought will for my children then
But olden debts remain,
1-or where the rabbit feeds and bears
Starvation aj’e awaits the heirs.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


CARUSO will sing for yon
on this Delightful Instrument— —!
UNDREDS of happy and delightful
1 1 evenings are in store for you if you
buy one of these grand entertainers.
We stock everything worth hearing in song
and music. Come in and we shall be pleased
to play any of the instruments and records
over for you —or write for catalogues, free.
Easy terms arranged.
“ His Master’s Voice”
“ Gramophone ”
“ Studio Grand ”
Mode).
HEAR CARUSO-or any other of the
world’s greatest artists —as he sings
before enraptured audiences in the great
Opera Houses of New York and London.
“His Master’s Voice”
Celebrity Records
! introduce every artist of renown-- every
noteworthy selection from every opera that
has ever caught and held the popular
approval.
—And these great artists, paid fabulous
salaries, sing EXCLUSIVELY for “His
Master’s Voice.”
PALINGS,
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
Branches at Brisbane, Toowoomba, Newcastle and Lismore.
4&L
ASS
m
i.i, l Miii,i.iv,ii,;'iiiri-;nrirt.MMii.»iirir[TiTmiii!iiiiiiiiini i iTiii , H'ii;TiiiTiiiiiiiiin'inir
It’s the Wonderful Quality, Efficiency & Unusual Economy
of the
Machinery
THAT MAKE IT FAMOUS.
Cooper Shearing' Machines, Oil Engines, Pumping Outfits,
etc., are known throughout the world as “quality” products.
They are strong, practical, efficient, and wherever in use are
noted for their solid, satisfactory service and economy of
operation.
The Cooper Shearing Machines are favorites in every land
where wool is grown. We are constantly receiving letters
from clients in all parts of the world testifying to the wonder-
ful results these machines have given in actual use.
Isoop&i> Little Wonder
(ILLUSTRATED OX THE LEFT)
is especially poi>ular owing to its convenience, compact con-
struction and dependable, economical service. It is a com-
plete, self-contained, 2-stand shearing and crutching plant,
comprising: A 2b.h.p. water-cooled engine with high-tension
magneto, float-feed carburetter and latest attachments, 2 com-
plete stands of shearing machines, including the renowned
Cooper Air-cooled Handpieces, grinding machine complete, and
all extras ready for immediate work. Requires no special
shed or installing. Can be used at the shed or taken to the
sheep. A handy, compact machine for crutching, or for
shearing from 500 to 5000 sheep.
PRICE: £75 Portable; £65 Stationary
VOopefr QUALITY ENGINES
are powerfully constructed and very reliable. You can always depend on a Cooper for perfect and economi-
cal operation at all times. Their construction is so simple that with our book of instructions any amateur
in the bush can operate them without difficulty. They arc fitted with force fuel pumps, quick-start, oscillating
magnetos, lock-valve system, speed regulators, and other attachments which ensure ease of operation, economy
of fuel consumption and long life.
If you require Shearing Machinery or an Oil Engine of any description, write to-day for catalogue giving full
particulars.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. ETD.,
134 5usss x Street, SYDNEY.
486 Colli i. *s Street, MELBOURNE.
CLARK & FAUSET, Brisbane.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO., Rockhampton, Queensland. GEORGE P. HARRIS, & CO., Perth, W.A.
AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT & H. F. CO., Adelaide, S.A.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & M.A. LTD., Rockhampton, Townsville and Hughenden, Queensland.
W. HART & SONS, Launceston, Tasmania. BUCHANAN, DAVIDSON LIT)., Hobart, Tasmania.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists, and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN, ENGINEERS,
And Everybody’s Pencil Purpose.
Sold by High-class Stationers.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-3GO-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
ABSOLUTELY PURE AND SOLUBLE.
Hanufactured in Australia from the finest selected Beans,
u
Obtainable all Leading Grocers throughout the Commonwealth and N.Z.
Wholesale only from McINTYRE BROS., Sole Proprietors, Melbourne, Vic.
“Gouger”; About the toughest old uut
alive lives by himself on the summit of scrub-clad
Mt. Fraser (N.Q.). He roots among the huge
boulders in the ravines for alluvial tin. All the
wild creatures are his friends, from the tiniest insect
to the big 16ft. carpet-snake. One morning recently,
while he was walking ahead of me, the old man
halted. “Go on; git out of it,” he said. A bit
mystified, I peered over his shoulder. Lying at his
bare feet, in thick heavy coils, was a big greyish-
looking snake. “Git out of it,” ordered George
again. The snake looked stonily at him. Then
Georgy lost his block. He lifted back his foot, and
kicked the snake a sounding thwack where its coils
were thickest. As the surprised reptile uncoiled,
George got in another hooray kick, this time land-
ing the big serpent among some lawyer-vine at the
side of the track. “You’ve got to let these, cows
see who’s boss at times,” the old bloke growled.
“That fellow seems to think he owns the whole
d mountain, lately.”
*-* * •
“Bill R.”: All that “M.” writes (B.
■ 3/10/’18) about the kurrajong- being ornamental and
useful is indisputable, but has one serious detriment.
Ornamental trees should be rapid growers, and the
kurra.iong lags even more slowly than Hughes’s ship-
building scheme. This defect, however, may be over-
come by transplanting the mature tree. Grub him
out any old way. Lop off roots that run far and
superfluous branches and transport the trunk to its
new address, taking care not to seriously mutilate the
bark. All that is wanted then is a hole in the
planet and guy-ropes to hold the vegetable up until
it takes root. Kurrajongs so transplanted in a year
or two become beautifully foliaged and appear to
grow more luxuriantly than in the situation where
they started as seedlings.
“H.V.E.”: Have found the large domed
incubator of the lyre-bird on the ground among ferns
(usually near thy margins of mountain creeks), high
up on cliff-ledges or isolated boulders (these are
favorite sites), on the top of stumps (once on the
top of a sawn stump destitute of cover and within
20 yards of a main road), in open forest, perched
on fallen trees, at the butt of a tree-fern, in the top
of ditto, on a canopy of bush-lawyer and other vines,
in the fork of a tree about 18 feet from the ground,
and in a large tree-hollow. Greg. Mathews, by the
way, once remarked that since the advent of foxes
the lyre-bird had changed its ground-nesting habit
and began building on sttimps and other elevated
places; but as a matter of fact the bird camped on
stumps, rocks, etc., long before the introduction of
the fox. The lyre-bird, though a shy fowl generally,
loses its timidity when a chick occupies the nest —
that is, the lady lyre-bird does so. While I was
photographing a nest the proprietress scratched about
contentedly within four feet ef the camera. But
whenever the fluffy and sharp-clawed chick inside
the nest began the exercise of its high G, the mother
bird came fussing around my legs. Meanwhile the
old man, perched on a log, surveyed operations from
a safe distance.
* * * *
“Pick”: Though a somewhat unwieldy-
looking fish when towed ashore the porpoise is the
marine athlete. He swims rings around the fastest
vessels afloat, and when he abandons his customary
lurching movement through the water, either to
set out in pursuit of prey or to escape threatened
danger, he becomes a whirlpool of velocity. It is
when rough seas batter the shores that his club
Holds its sports meeting. Ranks of them ride
abreast on the incoming billows, racing, until whirl-
ing sands among the breakers warn them of the
shallows. Then they somersault backwards and
disappear, to rush in again on the crest of
the next giant roller. They are mighty hurdlers,
too. In single file dozens of them will often follow
each other over a rock that -stands five or six feet
out of the water, and with such precision that
often three or four will be in the air at the one
time. Anyway that’s what King Billy told me when
he was a small boy.
“Jay Pay”: At last a type of bovine has
been discovered that is practically tick-resistant.
This is the zebu or strain, derived from
India. I believe this strain is also diffused over
China, the east coast of Africa, etc. At the last
Townsville show a pen of these cattle was exhibited.
They had the zebu’s distinctive hump. W. McDowall,
of Christmas Creek station, bred them, and thev
were a Hereford-Devon cross, crossed with a
Brahmin bull. There is no fault to be found with
the quality of the meat. One of this pen, a cow,
when dressed weighed 8001 b., and I am sure the
bullocks would weigh much heavier. It is claimed
they would thrive along a bridle-track. They are
very wild and fast, and in hilly or rough country
would take some yarding.
■** * *
“Yaka”: It was a scorching day, but it
was further brightened for the deadbeats on the
verandah of the Emus’ Retreat shanty as the bush
missionary dwindled up on his moke. “Hev, mate,”
said the hardest case, “the hounds have gone the
other way.”
* * * *
“I.”: The stranger was mystified when the
hatter chewed some bush herbs reflectively. “How
do you know, mister, that they ain’t poisonous?”
“Eh?” says the new-comer. “Aw, that’s easy. Y’ eat
’em and see.”
TICKED OFF.
LATE ARRIVAL: “I fear, dear brother, my watch has betrayed me —a watch, too, in
which I have always had great faith.”
HOST: “You should remember, dear brother, that faith without works availeth not.”
“Syd Ney”: It is wonderful how birds and
animals get used to the unnatural and to them
unexplainable sound of gunfire. In many parts of
the Front if is quite common to see hares, part-
ridges and pheasants close to the line, seeming
to thrive in spite of the risks they run of sudden
extinction, llats, of course, are a permanent pest,
and grow to an extraordinary size on the hideous
food they find in those quarters. These animals are
often gassed and frequently stand stupidly to be
kicked to death bj soldiers. Horses become so
accustomed to gunfire that thej r know as much
about it as their drivers, and can tell whether
a shell is going to land near them. I once
saw a hare meet his finish in queer circumstances
near a once-beautiful but now sadly-battered town in
Northern France. He found his way into a field
populated by a regiment of Tommies. Somebody
raised the news, and in about two minutes the
whole battalion was in full tear after Bunny. He
led them round the paddock, causing a good many
casualties, and finished up gloriously with the whole
regiment piled atop of him. How far his mutilated
carcase went round among the successful, hunters I
don’t know. I was lucky to get away with a
starboard paw.
“Pick”: Bingfii first shapes out his boom-
erang flat. In that form, though a handy implement
fo- straight throwing, it will not “come back.” To
the most flattened end, by alternately soaking the
timber in water, then, while wet, heating it over a
fire, and frequently pressing upon it with his foot,
the armorer gives a slight twist, ending with a
lateral curve. Over this operation he will spend
hours, until, by trial shots, he has proven the weapon
to his satisfaction. The boomerang intended to
return is never thrown straight at the object, but
is sent on its way with a right or left curve to its
flight. Air resistance against the flattened screw-
blade causes the timber to whirl rapidly and con-
stantly “Screw away from a direct path. Thrown
with sufficient vigor, it thus circles itself back. It
may even pass two or three times around the thrower.
“T.S.” : In my district, Greenvale(Vic.),an
insect —I believe it is a relation of the gum-leaf
moth —is attacking the trees, and it is stripping
the leaves off 1 el-gums a century old, 10 say
nothing of young saplings. The sap of the vegetables
attacked seems to be drying up. I have known of
the existence of the enemy for about 30 years, but
it has increased enormously hereabouts within the
last two years. I don’t know if it attacks fruit-trees,
but if it does I reckon it will cause orehardists to
use some ragtime language.
“Eddyson”: This is how Olliver told the
story: “T’ show yeh wot a dirty seoundril that
McPhillamy is. We was workin’ a few acres iv
alluvial 30ft. down on the bit iv flat ’tween the hill
’n’ the creek there et Piedish. ’Twas Tommy Dow
discovered it, ’n’ he took McPhillamy in. They was
a coupler weeks ahead iv me ’n’ Peterson, but we
got the nex’ claim, ’n’ fair belted our shirts off t’
bottom ’n’ tear the wash out, me alwiz bein’ iv a
suspicionable nature so fur ez ginger-’eaded Scotch-
men is concerned. I didn’t like this McPhillamy;
not that he ever done me no ’arm, but he was
ginger, ’n’ Scotch, ’n’ mean about given credit et the
shanty he run up where his pub now is; so when
they’re haulin’ wash I slips along now ’n’ agin iv
nights, ’n’ ’elns meself to the fill iv a pillow-slip
’r so from their paddock. I stows it under me bunk,
’n’ the missus puddles it doorin’ the day. They was
oira. nice bit iv a gutter, ’n’ one way ’n’ another me
’n’ the missus cleans up eleven ounces ’n’ a few odd
’weights out iv McPhillamy’s dirt, ’n’ I’m foelin’
real frien’ly with meself, him bein Scotch ’n’ ginger.
All this time our claim ain’t pannin’ out too bad, ’n’
we're workin’ towards Dow ’n’ Mack’s pegs all We
know how. We broke through into them one
Chewsdee, ’n’ what yer think? That cow McPhillamy
’ad worked fully three feet of our stuff along the ’ole
length iv the boldin’! Of course I jumps into him
’n’ he outs me with the butt iv a shovel, ’n’ then
there's the law. We’re fer gaolin’ Mack ’n’ Dow ez
thievin’ Scotch scoundrels, apart from gettin’ our
own back; but when we’d gone to no end iv
expense, hirin’ iv lawyers ’n’ what not, up conies
McPhillamy t’ me, ’n’ he sez: ‘Olliver,’ sez he, ‘yer
a man of no hearrt ’n’ no gratitude. Wad yeh’no be
contentid V braw thankfu’ t’ the men who mined
yer own dirt for ye? Dinna ye be too impetuous
wi 1 the law, mon. ’Tis a canny bad plaything, ye
ken, ’n’ there’s five gude witnesses ’n’ true I have
that ye stole yer own wash awa’ as fast as we could
raise it’! What yell think iv that? That low
’ound’s bin watchin’ all the time, lettin’ a man go
to the trouble iv shakin’ his own stuff night after
night fer a matter iv weeks. Didja ever ’ear iv a
dirtier trick ? Iv course me mate Peterson roun’s on
me. He ain’t content with breakin’ me nose across
but must have his cut iv the gold I bin thinkin’ all’
this time was ’onestly mine, ’n’ calculates his ’art
out at twelve ounces, that infernal McPhillamy
havin’ got away with about twice ez much ez I
recovered. I’m out with law expenses besides, about
forty five quid, ’n’ we done nothin’ after all but
what was right ’n’ lawful. That’s a good many
years ago, but to this day I mistrusts a ginger-’eaded
Scotchman wherever I sees him.”
“D.F.”: Vagrant travellers have reported
at dubious times that they found tobacco in use
amongst native tribes far inland in New Guinea-
tribes that had never seen a white man and had no
trade lelations to speak of with the coast natives. It
tobacco is not native to New Guinea it seems to
have got there nearly as early as it was introduced
to Europe. The Dutchmen* Seliouten and Le Maire
visited the ssuth-east coast of N.G. in 1610, and it
is alleged that they found the natives had then
plenty of smoke-pipe.
“S.”: The cook in the mill hands’ camp
at Bumblefoot was a long, lean, immaculate old
gentleman who had been an actor once, when fancv
cooking was a hobby, and who now manipulated
corned-beef and cabbage, and rolled roly-poly or
rounded off a plain plum-duff in a manner that
endeared him to the hearts of men who had long
since abandoned the hope that these things could
be made to rest at ease and abide with mutual
satisfaction in the interior of humans. “Toff” Hal-
liwell also recited a good deal of Shakspeare to the
camp at odd times, “Othello” being a great favorite
of his. When Easter week came five of the boys
went to Melbourne, and one night found themselves
in a theatre awaiting a performance of the nature
of which they had small understanding. The plav
had been in progress about half an hour when
Tommy (most impressionable of the herd) arose in
his place in the gallery, dealt each of his comrades
an apple, and said: “Now, one—two—three, and get
to him!” He threw his own apple, and missed the
popular actor by a hair. “Never mind, we’ll wait
for him,” he said in a whisper like cement falling
into a tank. “He’s the cow what ruined poor old
‘Toff’ Halliwell’s life. It’s that lago what Halli-
well’s always goin’ on about!”
* * * .
The old question about the birth of a
maisupial has been revived in Adelaide Register,
and several bushmen cling to the teat theory. D.
E. Laurie, a Government expert, summing up, give'
judgment:—•
. marsupials there is insufficient nourishment
in the uterus, and the young are born in a very
immature condition. .. .How can a bushtnan or, for
That matter, the average man in the street appreci-
ate. the facts of science? Our friends who are so
positive probably do not appreciate the help of a
good modern microscope, backed up by skill in
technique... .Ver v likely, if one of our practical
friends did a little histological as well as biochemi-
cal study of this curious junction of the partially-
deveioped foetus to_ the mammary gland, he would find
'till another point in the marvellous chain of evolution,
lie should first of all study the intimate arrangements
for nourishing (in utero) the young of placentals;
then he would see the primitive analogy. The
young are, of course, transferred to the pouch (or
marsupium) by the mother. The idea of the forma-
tion of the embryo on the teat is too ridiculous for
words.
Anybody" in Australia may argue further about this
matter in The Bulletin’s old friend The Watchman.
* * * *
The gloomy news comes from Adelaide
that carbon dioxide is being used with great success
to kill weevils in the accumulating wheat which
can’t be disposed of for want of ships. It is pleas-
ing to read that the weevil is being slain, but it
sounds as if we might have to eat gassed bread for
quite a long time.
FIDDLIN’ ’ROUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'Tis too wet to work to-day—
All the world’s a mess of slush;
In the cowyard poddies play
In the sloppy, sticky mush.
An’ the dairymaids look glum
Fiddlin’ ’round !
Dad’s a heap o’ nerves just now—
Can't get any ploughin’ done.
Says the weather is a cow ;
An’ of harvest there’ll be none.
Says his luck’s in Kingdom Come
Fiddlin’ ’round.
Phil is trackin’ after Sis —
Chirps to call her ev’ry night—
Out to steal a squeeze or kiss
Seems to be his sole delight.
We have watched ’em (very dumb)
Fiddlin’ ’round.
Fiddlin’ ’round while Joy takes wing,
Fiddlin’ till our cake is dough.
What’s the use of anything?
What’s the answer ere you go—■
Fiddlin’ ’round?
VICTORIA.
RITA SUN-YA-SEE.


yr*n
vyVjTip ifrcirgualihes
P \
■m
m
M
VA
•rr&s
jr 4r£ :
Prp
ClC^
SESS
I
II
THE WORLD’S BEST MARKETS
are ransacked for the picked tobacco leaves,
huge reserves of which are kept in stock and
improved in quality. The standard of Tobacco
employed in tbe manufacture of
STiiTE^SPRESS
CIGARETTES
is tbus never lowered. Smokers can therefore
rely at all times upon obtaining' tbe acme of
quality, further enhanced by their unique
method of manufacture.
The Famous Red Packet
No. 333 Per Packet 62^'
STANDARD WEIGHT.
Obtainable of all High-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON, ENG.
[i
m
it
w


From the Youngest to the Oldest
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
is the Safest and Surest Remedy in the World for
Coughs, Colds, Croup,
Sore Chests
This Medicine can be given with Perfect
Safety and the Utmost Confidence to the
Youngest Children and most Aged Sufferers,
as it does NOT contain, and has NEVER
contained any Poison or Harmful Drugs.
The Reputation of and the Demand for
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure are
Bigger now than ever.
ip ~ m
m's'i
38
tU ' .!<
os
W
:§■
■
I
IS
zv//
n
I
16
£22*
Delightfully
Soothing
Price: 2/6 and 4/6
The Best is always the Cheapest in the end.
If not obtainable in your District, send
direct to
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branches at Sydney, N.S.W. & Wellington, N.Z.
“L.” : Northcliffe is giving every encourage-
ment to the freelance journalists of London.
The latest outbreak of his restless enterprise
is the setting apart every morning of a couple
of columns in the Daily .Mail for short
articles and sketches contributed solely by
outsiders. The minimum payment is three
guineas, and the length of article must not
exceed 400 or 500 words. By way of help to
amateurs and beginners he has published a
list of “useful suggestions” :
Avoid being local. Choose a subject with a wide
and general appeal. Always touch the personal
note. Never forget the feminine interest. Women
form the bulk of newspaper readers, and even men
enjoy reading about feminine topics. Under present
conditions military and naval subjects treated with
the inside knowledge and accuracy born of personal
experience have the best chance of “catching on.”
Always give plenty of thought to the first sentence
of article, story or sketch. Success or failure fre-
quently depends on the degree of interest that the
first sentence excites. It should be arresting and
contain one gripping fact. Conclude with a sob or
a smile. Marshal your information in attractive
order. Be simple. Use short sentences and avoid
long pars. Have copy neatly typed.
Wonder where he got the idea that women
form the bulk of newspaper readers?
“II.”: The latest number of United
Empire, the magazine of the Royal Clinical
Institute, contains the full text of the paper
on “Overseas Poetry” recently read by Her-
bert Warren, late Professor of Poetry at
Oxford. He says that: —
Australian poetry really began in 1842 with the
publication of the first volume of verse by Henry
Parkes, that great poetic Imperialist, the protagonist
of Australian Federation.
Charles Harpur is declared to be "the
first native-born Australian poet.” Then
Warren explains that “the gold rush in
the ’fifties brought a number of poets, includ-
ing R. H. Horne, Woolner, -Michael, Henry
Kingsley and Adam Lindsay Gordon.” It
was not gold that sent Gordon to Australia.
But let Warren get on : —•
Gordon, the gentleman-rider and pugilist, became
the best-known poet in Australia, some say the most
characteristic and natural poet of his adopted home.
Gordon played many parts in Australia, but
this is the first time I have seen him appear
in print as a pugilist.
“Jacko” : Recently-deceased Davy Buchan-
an’s Nation was not the first news-
paper to be published west of the Blue
Mountains. It didn’t appear till somewhere
in the ’sixties, whereas the Bathurst Advo-
cate had been born long before that. Ben-
jamin Isaacs started this paper in February,
1848, but was reckless enough to libel some-
one, which involved the surrender of £4O and
the prompt printing of the final issue of the
sheet. The Bathurst Free Press took up
the running with the material in 1849, with
William Farrand in charge of the pay-book,
and did <mod business for many years.
Bathurst later had three panel’s all in the
boom. Now it can just manage to support
two.
They are beginning to feel the jolt of war
on Uncle Sam’s Inky Way. Latest issue of
the American Newspaper Directory re-
cords the blow-out of GIG publications. The
price of paper and the enormously increased
postal rates have knocked out the profit.
Fred Broomfield, that picturesque way-
farer on the Inky track, has been on his back
in Prince Alfred Hospital for months past
through a fracture of the right leg. The
crack is mending slowly, and the proprietor
thereof hopes to get up in a week or two
and go in pursuit of a few good books, which
don’t find their way to the hospitals as weary
patients wish.
A Satchel of Books
The Oxford Book of Australasian Verse, chosen by
Walter Murdoch (H. Milford). —This book has been
compiled in Australia and printed in England to fill
a glace in a well-known series of anthologies. There
are already six or seven collections of'*Australasian
verse on the market, and the new one fails to justify
itself by superiority to its predecessors. The absence
of any of the work of Brunton Stephens, Essex Evans,
Boake, Farrell, Daley, Lawson, Paterson, Ogilvie,
O’Hara and Bayldon is a fatal defect, for which, no
doubt, the owners of copyright are responsible ; /.ora
Cross and Leon Gellert may have appeared too late
for the compiler. However, there was a gap in the
series, and it had to be filled, so a number of minor
writers were anthologised who surely would have
been left to bloom unseen if there had not been such
a. large vacancy in the Oxford editor’s collection, llis
order of merit is roughly indicated by the fact that Gor-
don and O’Dowd are each represented by eight pieces ;
Kendall, Harpur, Gay and Shaw Neilson by six ; Miss
Baughan, Miss Mackay, Louis Esson, F. Williamson
and A. Maquarie by five each. O’Dowd has been too
generously treated; Rodcric Quinn's four poems
might have been added to with advantage. Arthur
Maquarie (a pen-name, by the way) left Australia
at an early age, and his writings have not been in-
fluenced to any appreciable extent by the country of
his birth; lie therefore'should not* have been in-
cluded. While we take credit for the literature pro-
duced in Australia by Gordon, Clarke, Daley and
others who were born elsewhere, we cannot also class
as Australian the work of the native-born who emi-
grate early and have not been affected much by Aus-
tralian conditions or atmosphere. Although there are
many good Australians not amongst those nresent in
the Oxford book, it contains much that will be fresh
and interesting to readers of Australasian verse. The
editor, now Professor of English in Perth University,
used to write the weekly “Elzevir” column in the
Argus, and kept a friendly eye on Australian books,
lie could have written an attractive survey of Aus-
tralian poetry if copyright restrictions had not made
it difficult to avoid drawing attention to his losses ;
but as his book is intended primarily for readers
abroad he should have given them some information
about his selected poets. One or two of them are
unknown even in Australasia.
Sir I.‘umbras at the Ford, by D. 11. Broster
(John Murray, London). A rattling yarn of the
English military expedition to France in 1795. The
book is well written. Our copy is from Angus and
Robertson.
Cinderella’s Suitors, by Isabel Maude Peacocke
(Ward, Lode and Co., London). A novel by a well-
known Maoriland author who has already several
books to her credit. The yarn is about a type-
writing girl who comes into a fortune. Her aunt has
tied up the cash in such a way that she loses it all
if she gets married. This chases away all undesirable
lovers. But the right man, a poor but decent writer
of stories, takes the chances and gets the maiden.
Well written and thoroughly readable.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Two commercial visitors now in Melbourne
are F. E. Jocelyn, of Hongkong, and S. H.
Collett, of India, with experience of Ceylon,
Malaya and the Dutch Archipelago. Jocelyn
emphasises the Japanese capture of Chinese
trade. The Japs, they state have the
cotton trade and give John what he
wants, not what Nippon wants to sell.
Import of Australian goods to Japan has
largely increased, especially flour, tinned
meats, butter, jams and cereals. Yet Aus-
tralian exporters are hot careful enough in
regard to Japan, and careless to China, which
is supposed not. to be so critical. Collett
says: “It is to-morrow’s business that
counts.” Business for the asking, if firms
go out and get it. Also he confirms the
universal suspicion that trade missions run
by civil servants are not much good.
* * * #
“T. 0.1.” : I have an ancient Sydney curio,
in a fine state of preservation. It is a “Table
of Factors for Interest at 8 and 10 per cent.,
by Joseph Hyde Potts, of the Bank of New
South Wales, Sydney, 1821.” He was
accountant to the bank, which was then in
Macquarie-plaee, the house of Mrs. Reibey.
Potts Point and Potts Hill were named after
him.
* * * *
Some of the land purchases in Victoria for
subdivision among returned soldiers seem to
require a stack of explanation. The items
include four acres at £55 per acre ; six acres
at £4l 13s. 4d. per acre; IGO acres at £l7
10s., and such-like. Even the biggest of
these couldn’t stand very severe cutting-up.
* * # #
“0.L.”: Manufactured woollens being
scarce in Australia and staggeringly expen-
sive, the Defence Department gets its home-
supplies where it can. This is part of the
label on a rug issued to a returned soldier
camped on a job at Eildon Weir (Vic.) :
“Wool, cotton and shoddy. Made in Switzer-
land.” Imagine it! This soldier, coming home
to the great • wool-growing country he has
helped to save, takes an out-of-the-city job
under primitive living-conditions, and wraps
himself o’ nights in the faked product of a
foreign factory manned (probably) by Ger-
man-speaking operatives. We can and do
make fine rugs here, of course; but, so long
as Australian enterprise is cramped by the
fear of post-war dumpings from abroad, our
woollen factories will fail to multiply. The
Labor party didn’t sink the fiscal issue for
nothing.
“G. Arden Hill”: Re the meat scrim-
mage. If the Government would erect a
weighbridge and fenced race at Home-
bush, and weigh every beast for sale, the
trouble would be less heated. The buyer
would then know how much beef he was paying
for and whether or not there was a mar-
gin of profit at the proclaimed (and ignored)
retail prices. The idea is not impracticable.
When it was suggested, about 20 years ago,
to weigh every skip of coal at. the pit head,
there was a hubbub about decrease of out-
put, loss of trade, etc. Yet it is done to-day
without the slightest inconvenience to the
industry. With the weight of a bullock be-
fore him and a ready-reckoner in his hand,
a buyer could nod with a tranquil mind.
* * * *
Commendable example of commercial
candor from an Adelaide newspaper
(T5/10/’18) :
Stocks must g 0.... The house for bargains.... A
few examples.... Special value in good American
undershirts and pants, 2s. lid., worth 3s.
Thank Murphy, there’s one honest trader in
S. Australia '.
British West Africa supplies large
quantities of cotton to British markets,
and there is likely to be a big yearly
increase when the ease with which cara-
vcnica, or tree-cotton, can be cultivated is
fully recognised. This cotton is perennial,
and requires re-setting only every eight or
nine years, a great advantage in labor-saving
over "the annual cotton-plant. The lint is a
fine long staple and commands a ready sale
on European markets. With the high prices
now ruling it is worth about Is. a lb., but
should U.S. cotton fall as low as sd. this
lot would be worth 9d. Germany has largely
cultivated the caravonica tree-cotton in
the tropical and semi-tropical colonies she
once held, and many of the fine dress
materials, on which the Hun specialised,
contained large proportions of the article,
as did blankets and other so-called woollen
materials. Jas. Halcrow, F.R.G.S.. writing
in London Times, considers that Queensland
(and no doubt other places in Australia)
is suitable for caravonica, and urges the
Commonwealth to help England by plant-
ing it. There is a tremendous shortage of
cotton now, and it looks as if the Common-
wealth might be without fabrics altogether
it' they are not made locally. Anyhow, it’s
certain that we can’t get the industry started
without the raw material.
* * * *
Samuel Barnes, Vic. Minister for Mines,
has advanced £lOO to assist in taking out
clays at Ballarat suitable for making “white
pottery.” The enterprise is not a private
one, the prime mover being the Ballarat
School of Mines, which lately carried out
highly-successful experiments in the making
of household ware from district clays. As
imported teacups and dinner-plates have
reached top-rung prices, and the Australian
householder has to depend chiefly on rubbish
from the “East,” Samuel’s opening up of the
money-bag seems hardly adequate to the
occasion. Victoria, with its provenly-good
chances of being able to supply Australia
with essential crockery, should be given every
encouragement by the Government to the
producers to go ahead, even to the extent of
appealing to the Federal authorities to read
up Hughes’s passionate remarks about Pro-
tection.
A recent Senate return showed that
during the year ended June 30, 1917, Aus-
tralia imported from Japan dutiable goods
worth £2,893,971, as compared with £634,566
in 1913. Chief items were: Textiles,
£1,480,779 (1913. £415,280).; metals and
machinery, £197,884 (1913, £7163) ; earthen-
ware, £263,200 (1913, £20,553) ; jewellery.
£123,039 (1913, £19,140) ; and woodwork,
£181,754 (1.913, £34,580). The daily papers
frequently assure us that the shipping
scarcity and other war-results have given a
stupendous fillip to Australian industry.
Well, the. above figures show where the s.f.
really is. #
“C.P.”: Did you ever wonder why ten-
ders for Government contracts are so much
higher than those for private contracts of the
same nature? Reason is that the Govern-
ment standards are different to the ordinary
ones. If the Government lets a contract,
say, for a house, all doors, windows, etc.,
are of different heights and widths to the
regular ones turned out by joinery firms.
Hence all these fittings have to be specially
made. The Public Works Department is a
contrary animal. # #
“Edo”; The recent trouble on Federal
Government's east-to-west railway was not
caused through engine-drivers’ unjust de-
mands. During construction of the line the
men were distinctly promised a rise in pay
when the line became a going concern. Then
when passenger trains started, small-headed
officials tried to get out of that promise on
the quibble that the trains were not ‘ ex-
presses,” and this in face of the fact that
they are the fastest and most difficult to run
in the Commonwealth. Then, again, most of
the drivers with their families live out on the
Nullabor plains, remote from all comfort, and
they receive less than drivers in closely-
settled regions. The cumbersome Arbitra-
tion Act could not deal with their case.
Even if the steam-valve men had not come
out, the traffic staff would have done so
and hung up things, for almost similar
reasons. The only way to make things go
peaceably is for someone qualified to pick up
an axe and go after the pin-headed under-
officials who ran Commissioner Bell and his
Minister into trouble, and. incidentally, the
whole community.
* * * *
“II.II.” writes'; —
I submit that there is a great deal too much
circumlocution about the raising of wages. The
piecemeal way of doing it is ridiculously expensive
and keeps a whole herd of barristers and solicitors
and judges grazing in fat pastures of litigation. I
believe the legal herd is the .only one that is increas-
ing, and it can’t be frozen for export. Rather it
freezes its clients. A Court has decided that £3
per week is a minimum living wage for an adult
male worker. If the cost of living goes on rising
there may be another half-dozen pettifogging
increases. I suggest that the community looks ahead
for once and fixes the minimum at £6. It would
be necessary to raise the fixed prices of local com-
modities, of course, for a £6 man couldn’t supply
bread at the same cost as a £3 man —he couldn’t
grow or mill the wheat so cheaply, or carry it by rail,
or build the mill or the railway or the road leading
to the railway or the bakehouse so cheaply, or hake
or deliver or construct the delivery-cart, or feed the
delivery-horse so cheaply. Still the question of prices
would be a mere matter of adjustment. The aggre-
gate value of goods produced would naturally go up,
for the value of goods is, barring a mere fraction, the
cost of the labor employed in making and handling
them. The increase would look good in the statistics.
Certainly we couldn't make any corresponding increase
in the price of goods sent abroad. They would have
to be sold 4>t the buyer’s figure as usual, but the
price of goods used locally could be put up something
extra to cover the loss involved in selling cheaply
to the foreigner-—that is to say, exports could be sub-
sidised. It stands to reason, that our £6 a week
industries couldn’t manufacture under present con-
ditions in competition with the imported goods of
£2 a week outsiders, and there are always some £2
or even £1 a week outsiders. Probably if we had
the best industrial organisation and the best machin-
ery in the world the trouble might be got over, for
organisation and machinery can move mountains;
anyhow the case would have to be considered. To
facilitate consideration 1 would give every adult
citizen two votes instead of one, and I would give
him twice as many members to vote for. And if
there was any further scarcity after that, the only
device would be to push the living-wage rate a
little higher. The essential is to keep it always
ahead of the cost of living, instead of lagging behind
part of the time and coming up to the scratch in
spasms.
* * * *
“Eustace” : The other night the G.-G. and
his Lady Helen arrived at remote Swan Hill
(Vic.). At the inevitable reception his Ex.,
after saying his piece, withdrew. At the
local post-office a country youth sat bewail-
ing his luck in being detained to send press
telegrams to the citv papers. About 10.30
p.m. an affable stranger strolled in and asked
some questions as to the amount of press
wires to be transmitted. The youth, having
a stern regard for his departmental oath of
secrecy and being in a bad temper, answered
shortly and gave no information. This
failed, however, to ruffle the amiable visitor,
and after some efforts at small talk he de-
parted still cheerful. It was not until later
that the lad discovered he had disciplined
the G.-G. It quite cheered up his evening.
THE PAPER FAMINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A paper famine’s in the land,
The sufferers are many.
Their woes I hardly understand;
I’m not beset bv any.
If paper’s scarce enough maybe
The time extremely close is
When journal owners all must see
Creation’s news is served to me
In homoeopathic doses.
My “daily” will be so reduced
In minutes five I’ll con it,
And never poet will we boost
Who dares exceed a sonnet.
The “leaders” all will shrink until
They occupy inch places,
And scribes need strain no more their skill
To force an inch of thought to fill
The paper’s empty spaces.
But most it pleased me, I declare,
To note what this curtailment
Of paper uses everywhere
To each domestic male meant;
Behold the wretch our 'peace who kills,
And fills our lives with dolor,
Presenting his eternal bills,
Must now let up, or flout his jills,
The national comptroller!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


m
'4
/ X
wm
&p*s> Sm .
K'-IKS'
W’l
>*
mm
.4
:.
IF';-*
i • -
\
\
■£»
m-M
*
gs
HRS’ >;«
c«
Igv? -;C> SrSlsS
i
•t
ifj
*l® fcr
m
W J> * ! 's&’ Im
o
i I"-,
fig
: .
l
«£
ftffi
’
11
ior Summer
In theatres, churches, schoolrooms, dancing-halls, and wherever crowds of
people ai e gatheied, electiic fans are necessary aids to proper circulation of air.
Summei days and nights in the home are made really enjoyable by
an electric fan. Have you realised what the installation of a G-E" Electric
Fan would mean to you ?
WRITE US FOR PARTICULARS.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; Corner Queen & Little Collins Sts., Melbourne
"■“aisuviMsra rz wr- * »**—*>«
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkin, & Co. (W.A). L„l., Haj Street. T ASMAVU. n'T* Tn tTe t",‘f Welllngton -
ADELAIDE (S.A, : Unbehaun * Johnstone, ,00 Currie Street. Hohart.


TABLE APPOINTMENTS.
A. Saunders’ Sauce Boats and Frame, .fm'c Silver-
. plated, highly burnished, £3,
A. Saunders’ Hot Water Kettle and
Stand Pure Silver-Plated, handsomely
fluted, A 1 Quality, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Cake Is. wet. Pure Silver-plated,
A 1 Quality, hand burnished, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Baking Dish, Pure Silver-Plated, A 1 Quality, Enamel Lining,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Tea and Coffee Service, Pure Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, comprising
Tea, Coffee, Sugar and Cream, with Covers hand burnished and fluted, £6/10/*
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station.
Saunders’ Asparagus Dish and Sauce Boat, Pure Silvc
plated. A 1 Quality, hand-embossed edging, £5.
A.. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, A 1 Quality, Pure
Silver-plated, embossed border, £3.
Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure Silver-plated,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders Entree Dish, Pure Silver-plated, A 1
Quality, detachable Handle, plain design, 50/-
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .. .
THE PERMANENT OFN^^. WAL ' 8 ’
TRUSTEE COMPANY “ ISSS?.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
npHE thing that the people should have
I been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a linking. Are you going to
let the Rcivisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
safeguard you* health
0? J.Coflis Browne's
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
TIIE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, lis, Sl 5/-.
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
□
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
n 917* ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/G. Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola's including Nana, 2/- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle op the Uni-
vekse, 1/3, and all trie Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys op Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career op Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/6. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night op Temp-
tation, 1/9. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. Sa.n-
now’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History or the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Head Faces, 1/9. How to Train for
All Sports, 2/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught. 1/ G. How to Make
Sweets. Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions. 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 1/9. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 Posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. ‘ That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Kales for nil Gainesj, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/9. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society. 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ HakdyrOok, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, l/l. How McDougali, Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. _ Waxnan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide,.6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptameron. and many others, all at
4/6 each, posted. Leu’s Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne. 1/- posted.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 3;'-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
sat Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3, 2/-. How-
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/9 posted.
Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boileiis' Assist-
ant, 1/9. The Wipe's Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Slotors. 2/3.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12 6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Damaged
Goods, 1/6. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual. 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9, Three
Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (onui.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
jj
ft
m
4
V
•X
/ I
m
>..n
%
I
x i
%
r
x
M
m
■
-'■ssSS;
L
S 1
>
(//
X
///>
f
// i?
«
#
Cj
<2
ove
r
s>
s~"
O
m
<*
M’S
*
o
<s•
C*
H
1
X 7
1
n
/O
/
vf
IS
m
ill
m
1
II
j
mm.
* i
1
II
111
II
1
m
m
11
IS
m
m
m
m
11
as
t-i
m
m
m
m
l m
m
n
n
mm
ri
few!
til
*
n
x
&•&
m
m
JM
f 1
'C5«s
sas
S®
■ *• ; -
X
o r«J
57? e
olisn
9
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Helps great Woodrow
Wilson, too.
Chunder thinks it
Priceless fun
Taking Notes that
Shake the Hun.
Men will never
Sneer again
At the Presidential
Pen.
Quick as bullets,
9
Clear as light
Wilson’s Notes are
‘ ‘ C O B R A’ ’-bright.


Shaving with an old-fashioned
razor is nothing but a habit.
Once try a Gillette and you
would not go back to the old
style for ten times its cost. The
NO STROPPING NO HONINO
makes shaving easier, more
comfortable and cheaper.
Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia :
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street.
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
TRADE MARK
WORLD OVER
G
EORGE HOTEL.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
SPEED HIS XMAS HAMPER
ON ITS HAPPY ERRAND OF JOY & APPRECIATION RIGHT AWAY!
Brimful of good wholesome things and things he’ll like and wants to have—Values are excellent!
AT 10/6, POST FREE. AT 15/6, POST FREE. AT 21/-, POST FREE. AT 42/-, POST FREE.
Finney’s No. 1 Big Value Finney’s No. 3 Big Value Finney’s No. 4 Big Value Finney’s No. 5 Big Value
Soldiers’ Hamper. Soldiers’ Hamper. Soldiers’ Hamper., Soldiers’ Hamper.
1 Rich Xmas Cake.
1 Rich Plum Pudding.
1 Tin 50 Cigarettes.
1 Packet Chocolate.
2 Packets Chewing Gum.
AT 12/6, POST FREE.
Finney’s No. 2 Big Value
Soldiers’ Hamper.
1 Rich Xmas Cake.
1 Rich Plum Pudding.
1 Tin Choice Fruit.
1 Tin 50 Cigarettes.
1 Tin Camp Pie, or
1 Tin Pork Sausages.
1 Tin Luncheon Cheese.
1 Packet Chewing Gum.
1 Packet Chocolate.
1 Rich Xmas Cake.
1 Rich Plum Pudding.
1 Tin Choice Fruit.
1 Tin 50 Cigarettes.
1 Tin Chocolate & Milk,
1 Tin Pork Sausages.
1 Tin Cheese.
1 Packet Chocolate.
1 Packet Chewing Gum.
1 Tin Ham Pate.
1 Pair Socks.
X Rich Xmas Cake.
1 Rich Plum Pudding.
1 Tin Choice Fruit.
1 Tin Earn Pate.
1 Tin 50 Cigarettes.
1 Packet Chocolate.
2 Packets Chewing Gum.
Also Officers’ Hamper at 63/-
FINNEY, ISLES & CO. LTD.,
THE DRAPERS OF QUEENSLAND.
3 Rich Xmas Cake.
1 Rich Plum Pudding.
1 Tin Choice Fruit, or
1 Tin Asparagus.
1 Tin Condensed Milk, or
1 Tin Cream.
1 Tin 50 Cigarettes.
3 Briar Pipe.
3 Tin Tobacco.
? Packets Chewing Gum.
2 Packets Chocolate.
1 Tin Luncheon Cheese.
1 Tin Chocolate & Milk, or
1 Tin Butter.
1 Pair Knitted Socks.
1 Balaclava Cap.
1 Tooth Brush.
1 Tooth Paste.
/ K’jo«a»
r«nmtc 6iu QuttmiAMOt.
HVnrs»HLtm.n*t
«» Battalion
W**t***«- f ometi
ON A«Tive Sr«v«c
SPECIALLY NOTE.
All perishable goods in these
hampers are put up in airtight
tins. So it is impossible for the
contents to open up in any other
than a perfect condition. They are
then securely packed in specially-
made boxes, stitched in calico, and
clearly addressed.
POVERTY
POINT
CHARLIE
CHAPLIN'S
MILLION
DOLLAR
COMEDIES.
SUPER
FEATURES
The way of the producer of Australian
picture-films appears to be tolerably thorny.
On July 25, the Chief Secretary office, Syd-
ney, notified the proprietors of the photo-
play, “The Woman Suffers,” to release the
film. The statement, in writing, was to the
effect that “no objection will be offered” to
the exhibition of the picture. After being
shown for a couple of months, however, the
picture was withdrawn by order of the same
office. No reason was given; it just went out
flop. About the picture itself there could
easily be two opinions. It is fine photo-
graphy, picturing a yarn as suggestive
as the typical kind which comes from
U.S., and is shown frequently. But
the merits of the picture itself do not enter
into the question at all as regards the action
of the censorship. Either the film was bad
and the censors failed for months in their
duty to the public in allowing it to be shown,
or the film Is good and the censors have made
a mess of their job. Whichever way it is
looked at the censors’ action must stand
condemned. In South Australia, Vic-
toria and Queensland the picture has been
exhibited. The main point for Australian
cos. which are prepared to put cash into ven-
tures of this kind is that the written autho-
rity of the cino. censor lias now become a
mere “scrap of paper,” to be torn up at any
time. The officials concerned will give no
reasons for their actions.
“Melb”: “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” at the
Princess’s, drew two overflowing houses the
other Saturday afternoon and night. The
“The Great Divide ,”
at Sydney Criterion.
Frank Harvey as
Stephen Ghent, the bad
man who became good.
first notable per-
formance that I
know of was by
Marsh’s Juvenile
Comedians, from
America, at the
Lyceum Theatre,
Lonsdale-street, op-
posite the hospital.
The next notable
production had an
unexampled run of
SO nights at the old
wooden matchbox
Princess’s. Little
Fanny Wisanan,
IMrs. W. South)
was Topsy, and,
after the lapse of
very many years
played it at the
King's Theatre. The
present Topsy at
the Princess's is
Miss Emmie South.
The brothers Wil-
liam and James
South were well-
known Australian
comedians. There were three sisters Wise-
man, all small and all good performers.
“Shanghai,” when the mail left, had made
a big hit at Drury Lane, and the bookings
of seats on a prodigious scale for many
months ahead indicate that Australia is not
likely to see Dorothy Brunton again for a
long time to come. The Stage contem-
plates the likelihood of the show being run
right through the customary panto season. But
that would be a violent and revolutionary
break with the long-standing traditions of old
Drury. The national theatre without its
centuries-old Christmas panto is almost un-
thinkable, but “Shanghai” undoubtedly pos-
sesses some of the most attractive features
and elements of the Christmas fare relished
by generations of Cockneys.
“H.”: When the Russian Ballet comes
to London there is always a rush
of fashion and aristocracy to the boxes.
Some of the Asquiths, patrons of the
Arts, turned up to the Coliseum on
the first night, with Viola Tree, Thomas
Beecham and other celebrities. Next
to the opera the ballet has most attrac-
tion for the world of fashion ; but in the land
of the Bolsheviks dancing is universally
popular. Even the orthodox Marxists have
subsidised the ballet throughout
Russia. The Russians take
dancing seriously. Madame
Lydia, who has just come from
Spain, said Madrid was too stiff
and Barcelona too commonplace
to appreciate dancing. Seville,
she said, was a city of art. It
had a wise appreciation and fine
original dancing of its own.
London, not Lydia, was really
on trial. But London is at the
old place on the atlas.
“S.S.”: How came the cen-
sors to pass “Cleopatra,” the
film in which Theda Bara was
starring in Sydney and Mel-
bourne a couple of weeks back?
And since the censors did not
deem it essential to blot out
the bare places of America’s
more celebrated “vampire” in
these screenings, what is the
limit of undress permissible in
the opinion of those very excel-
lent gentlemen who are en-
trusted with the duty of running
the moral rule over the fig-
leaves in our picture-plays?
“Cleopatra,” as presented by
Theda, is merely a more or less
feasible excuse for the removal
of garbage. The garb Theda
begins with is so visionary that
sensitive spectators are re-
assured at the jump with a con-
viction that, at any rate, she
can go no further in the display
of h unpin cuticle unadorned.
But Miss Bara gives a barer
Cleopatra with every succeeding
vision, until a sort of nervous
disorder takes possession of the
audience. I would be the last
to interfere with a poor actress’s
efforts to earn a bare living, but
I do think the dress comp-
troller in America has made a grievous mis-
take in endeavoring to effect the whole war
savings of a nation of 100 millions out of
the wardrobe of one picture-artist, and a
medium-sized artist at that.
“D.”: We have had of late years
quite a number of plays manufactured from
more or less po'pular short stories, and not
one that I can recollect that was even a com-
mendable play, considered from any reasonable
artistic standard ; also they have a peculiar
resemblance. In each we get two or more well-
marked characters (“Business Before Pleas-
ure,” like “Potash and Perlmutter,” is a fair
example) about whom the interest circulates
and upon whom the dramatist places entire
dependence. The effort is always to weave
the attractive character figures in popular
sketches into a dramatic whole, and the
Sherlock Holmes play is the only one 1 re-
call for the moment that embeds the well-
advertised hero in a story that has even
interest of its own apart altogether from
dramatic qualities. The “Business Before
Pleasure” plot is not a bit better than those
utilised to rope Australian short stories for
theatrical purposes. That is to say, it is
pitifully weak. Why attempt plot in such
cases? The interest is wholly in the
comedy work of those characters whose suc-
cess in the literary field has marked them
down for stage work. It cannot be abso-
lutely essential from the producer’s point of
view’ to lift those characters out of a good
setting and dump them into a bad one.
“S.T.S.”: The extension of easy divorce
in the U.S.A. has given quite a new tone to the
drama, especially the- film-drama. A film-
man can now quite honorably propose mar-
riage to another man’s wife. Under the
old arrangement, when the husband over-
heard his friend saying, “You are too good
for him. Fly with me!” he reached for a
revolver. Nowadays, he starts guiltily and
soliloquises, “Gee! She’ll do it, too!” and
reaches for a diamond necklace for his
dissatisfied baby doll. The old cynicism
about a man not running after a tram-car,
after he has once caught it, has lost all
point. The position to-day is that he is
liable to be chucked out unless he keeps on
paying his fair.
At a recent lunch in London, indulged in
by the British Screen Club, it was claimed
that the cinema is a British invention, the
first patent for a “movie” having been
obtained by one Greene in 1889. The first
film was produced on paper immersed in
paraffin wax, which made it semi-transparent.
It depicted scenes around Hyde Park Corner,
London.
“Keith Kennedy”: There are various
ways of coaxing the public in. Recently in
our country tour, four men were standing
in front of the hall discussing whether they
would go into the show or play billiards.
The house was not filling up too quickly, so
the ticket-seller, who was Scotch, got
anxious. He heard the man who was most
in favor of billiards addressed as Fred.
Beckoning him over he said, “A young lassie
was lookin’ for ye a while ago ; she thought
ye were in the hall, and went inside.” “Was
she dressed in white?” asked Fred inno-
WHERE SILENCE IS GOLDEN.
SHE: “Isn't she just too lovely for words?"
HE: “Yes; perhaps she would be better in
the movies."
Gently. “Yes,” said the bird-limer. Fred
went back to his party. Presently I heard
him say, “I’m goin’ in. Liz is inside.” That
Settled it. The whole four lined up.
“Snell” : Encouraged by the big manager’s
public announcement of the fact that he was
simply famishing for Australian plays, I had
sent him a little four-act comedy of my own,
and he had written expressing himself de-
lighted with the thing. This character was
“superb,” that situation was “intensely
dramatic,” the dialogue was “uncommonly
clever,” but certain alterations in scenes
would have to be made to adapt the play for
his purposes. Would I call? Would I what?
I called. “Oh, yes, about your play, The eh
—eh—eh —The eh” To his secretary :
“Damn it, wake up! What’s the name of
the play?” “‘The Man Hunters,’” said the
private sec. dubiously. “Oh, yes, of course,
‘The Man Hunters.’ A fine thing, young
man; a good plot, good characterisation, the
talk is easy and natural. That character of
the eh —eh —of the—eh” He was get-
ting quite angry with the secretary. “Oh,
the Dutch beach-comber,” said the sec. “Yes,
to be sure, the Dutch beach-comber I thought
would suit T to the ground. I would
like to produce this play, The--eh—eh—
the” “ ‘The Man Hunters” prompted
the sec. “ ‘The Man Hunters.’ It should be
produced, and it will be produced, I’m sure,
but for many reasons we cannot handle it
just now. You will take it with you? Eh—
eh. yes, good day.” I was handed a script of
“The Man Hunters.” “But this is not my
play,” I said. “Not your play?” “No. My
play has a different title.” “Oh, very well,”
ejaculated the big manager, losing patience.
“There’s a basket of them in the corner.
Dammittall, help yourself!”
Henry Hamilton, joint author of a long
series of Drury Lane spectacular dramas,
most of which have been staged in Sydney
and Melbourne, passed out recently. “The
Derby Winner,” “Cheer, Boys, Cheer,” “Sins
of Society,” “Marriage of Mary Fair,” “The
Whip,” “Sealed Orders” and “The Best of
Luck” were some of his works. His last
piece, written in collaboration with G. R.
Sims and dealing with the Navy in war-
time, is booked for early presentation at
Drury Lane. Hamilton was originally an
actor and played in the companies of Henry
Irving and Wilson Barrett.
Les. Hoffman, conductor at St. Augustine’s
Orphanage Band at Geelong (Vic.), has been
offered a billet as conductor of a well-known
Sydney band. Hoffman —a champion on his
instrument —plays the cornet in the orches-
tra of the Geelong Theatre, and is an old
boy of the Orphanage. He picked up the
baton dropped by Percy Jones, another
musical old boy, whom he succeeded.
Decima and Eddie McLean, who as chil-
dren twirled themselves in many dances
before the Australian public, are now a big
draw in the'“Yes, Uncle,” programme at the
London Shaftesbury. They were booked for
Berlin in the summer of 1914, and just
managed to get clear before the curtain went
up on the war drama. Another old friend
headlined in London is Ivy Shilling. Her
stage partner is a Russian, Paul Jakovlieff,
and they are on the Shaftesbury programme.
As the “Spirit of the Green Jade God,” Ivy
scintilles to Howard Carr’s music.
“Melb”: “Stage Wait” writes (B.
17/10/T8) that I am at sea in giving casts
of the “Two Orphans.” I wrote that Bellew
was the original Pierre in New York. This
was on the authority of Belasco’s Auto-
biography, in Hearst’s Magazine. “Stage
Wait” quotes a later New York cast, with
Bellew in the small part of the Chevalier.
If so he must have been comparatively old
and grey, and with the gloss and bloom gone.
Iu his younger time Bellew was a New York
matinee idol, in which capacity he succeeded
Itignold, who followed Montague. The very
popular drama of the “Two Orphans” was
frequently acted with changes of cast, and
with the same performers in different parts.
It was more familiar in Sydney than in
Melbourne.
“N”: I think “S.T.S.” (B. 10/10/TSI
need not worry as to “gairl” being a perma-
nency. The pronunciation of her is as
mutable as the lady herself. About 18 years
ago W. F. Ilawtrey brought “A Message
from Mars” to Australia, and I was engaged
to make a few remarks. I had to allude to
what, in my ignorance, I called “girl.” When
I said it that way at our first rehearsal,
llawtrey’s Etonian sensibilities got a hor-
rible jolt:. He stopped the rehearsal to make
puffed remarks about my “colonial twang,”
and to explain that the real —haw! —refined
way to allude to a girl was “gell.” And he
took care that his large assortment of over
40 actors and actorines always said “gell”
in that show.
THE VEGETABLE FAMINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We here,” the good old actor said
To his companions of the bar,
“Are doing nought to earn our bread.
Let’s form a co. and journey far
To play infallible ‘East Lynne,’
And gather fast the shekels in."
They answered him with bitterness,
Aud cited instances of late,
Concerning pros, who’d felt the stress
Of rural ignorance and hate,
Who had been driven from the stage
With sprouts and such like foliage.
“ ’Tis well,” the good old actor cried.
“We’ll take with us a stock of sacks,
And play the drama far and wide,
Nor sorrow at the turnip thwacks.
We’ll weep not when we feel the power
Of carrot fierce or cauliflower.
“Nay, will we not with shrew device
Incur the spite of country men,
The rich tomato to entice,
The parsnip and the lettuce? Then
We’ll send our nightly tailings down.
These things are priced as pearls in town!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


BOND© Salt Licks
are Better and Australian.
TOREKEEPERS. The manufacturers claim
with absolute confidence that their Salt Lick is the
best on the Australian market to-day. Being
manufactured in Australia, it is cheaper and offers larger
profits to retailers.
s '. ' ' l
It is made in Australia for Australian conditions. It
is cheaper and better than Rock Salt.
*
This Lick fills a definite want in the food for all
animals.
Merchants and Country Storekeepers are advised
that the Bondo Salt Lick is the best-selling line on this
market.
Deliveries Guaranteed.
m urn
Wholesale Distributing Agents —
VICTORIA ... Dalg'ety Co. Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA ... Fotherg'ill (SL, Co. Ltd.. Fremantle.
BOND MANUFACTURING CO.,
72 and 74 Lonsdale vStreet, Melbourne.


Y >
k
/
:P5
WINCHCOMBE,
CARSON!
said the angry bull. “They’re the people
who shorten one’s life.”
High prices tempt owners.
Winchcombe, Carson never fail to secure top
market values for Fat Cattle and Sheep at
Homebush.
Consign Stock:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD.,
Flemington Siding.
NATION
r
OILS
I
comp^^v
Mot OR oils
omp »n»
III!
\m
MOTOR OliS
-For the Motor Car
-For the Motor Cycle
-For the Motor Trucß
-For the Motor Boat
-For the .Aerial Engine
lubrication with National Motor Oils is the
greatest safeguard against loss of power and
wear and tear. Their protective quality
never varies.
Obtainable all Storekeepers and Carages
in 1-gallon tins, 4-gallon tins and barrels.
Ask also for National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIE CO., LTD.,
4 Bridge Street. Sydney.
JAMES AVARDEE & CO.,
Adelaide.
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., ant titose arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites,
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in ts unsur-
pas ed merits. They know it to b’ a afe
and perf ct cure for all sk n an i blood ail-
ments; and the va t number of testimonials
received prov •it to be. Grassh pperO'nt-
mentpositivelydraws the po on- whichpro-
ciu-e these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should b> takrn in co junction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Store and
Chemists throughou the Commonwealth.
JOIN up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
Sydney’s Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
This beautifully-situated RESIDENTIAL
HOTEL is unique in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, beinar RIGHT ON THE HARBOR
FRONT, with its own secluded BEACH AND
GROUNDS and AMPHITHEATRE SWIM-
MING BATHS, the whole surrounded by
natural Bush.
25 Fine New Bedrooms have jmt
been ere ted, built over the water,
every room looking out to the Heads.
Daily service of Steamers, including Theatre
Boat, to and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular
Quay.
A Delightful Ferry Trip.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths.
Apply Manager,
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL,
Tels • YlO3l. MOSMAN, N.S.W.
Y 1952.
Electrical Repairs
Instruments.
Electrical Repairs
Motors and Generators.
Electrical Repairs
Induction Coils,
Transformers, Magnetos.
And Everything Electrical.
Testing and Calibrating.
Electrical Manufactures
Switches, Meters, Coils, Buzzers,
Telegraph and Telephone Apparatus,
Engraving and Small iTetal Parts
of all kinds.
The Australectric Company
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Telegrams: Expanse, Sydney,
[Conducted by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd.]
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.05% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
Is HAS,
BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc
/\HC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS;
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The O.C.S. Automatic Weighing Machine
FOR FREE RUNNING MATERIALS. NO POWER REQUIRED.
Manufacturers and Im-
porters of—
Boiler Flour Mill
Machinery
Oatmeal Mill Machinery
Brewers' and Malsters’
Machinery
Superphosphate
Machinery
Elevators of various
designs
Apron Conveyor s,
Gravity Conveyors
Adjustable Feeders
and Mixers
Flour and Bran Packers
Grinding Mills for all
Classes of Materials
Bottle-filling Machines
lor Piccalilli, etc.
Size F 4.
Farmers'
Cleaners
Grain
lank Belting
Sprocket Wheels
Elevator Buckets
Complete Grinding and
Dressing Plants for
Sugar, Spices, Starch,
Paint, etc.
Package Elevators
Bag Holders
Disc Grinding Mills
Malt Boiler Mills
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. SUPPORT OUR OWN INDUSTRIES.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [1
"■ Business is Business
Hven your pen can be a time saver. It is foolish to use an old-fashioned dipping
steel pen when you can use the f untain pen that fills itself and cannot eak.
Own an o l\l OTO - a d save your time and money. A perfect writing imple-
ment that never scratches nor splutters that is guaranteed by its makers.
Piice Y7/~ arid upwards : Also ONO ' o Valveless for those
who do not want a Self-Filling Safely Pen lii/6
of all stationers, Jewellers and stores.
Manufacturers: Thos. Dr La Rm: Jfr Co., Ltd , 35i Bunhill Row, London, E.C.
Managing Agents Norman Bakkr & Lonchttrst. Sydney
Ask for ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens
Electric Light Department of the
Sydney City Council :
Working Net In-
Revenue. Expenses. Revenue, tevest. Profit.
1906. . £40,983 £21,567 £19,416 £10,931 £8,48j
1907.. 65,808 31,899 33,969 15,025 18,944
1908.. 93,600 56,785 36,815 19,080 17,435
1909.. 128,980 67,338 61,642 24,575 3<,06/
1910.. 166,047 88,497 77,550 27,763 49,i87
1911.. 190,289 95,428 94,501 33,851 61,010
1912.. 234,324 111,562 122,762 42,324 80,438
1913.. 301,637 138,626 163,011 52,931 110,080
1914.. 350,145 156,338 193,807 64,595 129,212
1915.. 388,559 167,518 221,041 73,709 147,332
1916.. 433,996 211,263 222,733 89,938 132.795
1917.. 464,968 267,148 197,820 99,566 98,251
To arrive at the true net profit various small
amounts have to be deducted from the figures
in the last column. Thus last year £919(5 was
spent in turbine replacement and £4900 was
written oft' loan-flotation exes, and loan d.s-
counts and for damage settlements. The
term was full of trouble, especially the latter
portion, when the big general strike upset
everything. Fuel, for instance, cost the Depart-
ment 10.7 p.c. of the gross revenue from
lighting, etc., in 191(5; last year it absorbed
19 p.c. Electrical plant is almost unob-
tainable, and what can be got is at unheard-
of prices. Also £14,2 <2 went in allowances to
employees on active service, but as this
municipal enterprise has not to make divi-
dends for shareholders, the consumer was
not hit up to make good the heavy additional
expenditure. That is the difference between
municipal and private enterprise ; P.E. would
have pushed up rates the moment its usual
dividend was in doubt. However, the balance
of profit last year after making the sinking
fund contribution of £18,391 was insufficient
to cover the 3 p.c. on the capital expendi-
ture to be added to the deprec.atlon reserve,
as stipulated by the Council resolution of
1916.
Reserves now stand at £G54,509, made up
in this way
Sinking fund .. .. ..£138,960
Depreciation fund .. .. .. 424,690
Renewals reserve .. .. .. 113,300
Balance P. and L. account .. 1,791
Total reserves .. .. ..£678,741
Less loan flotations, etc. .. .. 24.212
Net reserves .. .. ..£654,509
The position of the enterprise is that it has
so far paid all interest on borrowed capital,
provided for repairs and renewals and also
for depreciation of plant through wear and
tear, has bought out private shows for
£140.315 and accumulated £138.960 towards
repayment of capital (£2.074 500). Total
liabilities now amount to £2.613,325: —
Due on Due on Due to Other
Debentures. Overdrafts. Companies. Creditors.
1907 .. £350,000 £23,005 £23,051 £9,987
1908 .. 475,000 Nil 85.457 17,632
1909 .. 560.000 Nil 50.034 11.712
1910 .. 759,000 Nil 57.530 22.033
1911 .. 750 000 153.922 42.693 27.067
1912 .. 1.000,000 161.077 27,812 49,123
1913 .. 1,251,600 279,474 Nil 38,924
1914 .. 1,654,500 71,330 1,100 40,312
1915 .. 1,879.500 187,061 Nil 60.987
1916 .. 1 954.500 428,573 Nil 90,736
1917 .. 2,074,500 458,055 Nil 80,770
Of the capital expenditure £1,662,485 has
been spent in the city, and £994,339 in sup-
plying the suburbs with light and power.
Assets have a book value of £3.273,457. The
enterprise has grown very rapidly: in 1912
22.701,056 units were sold at an average
price of 2.ISGd.; last year total sales were
57.260,795 units at an average price of
1.949 d. per unit.
The Modern Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne) :
Profit
Trading on To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Sales. Dividends, serves, serves.
1911.. £4819 £329 34p.c.= £3381 £1767 £23,863
1912.. 4954 1267 5 „ „ 4830 1391 25.254
1913.. 5733 2122 61 „ „ 6279 1876 27,130
1914.. 6944 7469 7 ~ „ 6762 7651 34,781
1915.. 8103 116 Si „ „ 8211 8 34,789
1916.. 8207 9 84 „ „ 8211 5 34,794
1917. . 8865 9 ~ „ 8694 171 34.965
1918.. 8694 238 9 „ „ 8694 238 35,203
That table goes back to the time when the
cc. had its big clean-up: assets were re-
valued and half of the capital was written
off. Some of the properties were evidently
written down too violently, for on realisation
they have brought more than their book
value. These profits are shown in the second
column of the table. Since 1910 the Modern
has gradually been building up its business
again. Here is a comparison of the balance-
sheet figures:—
1911. 1914. 1917. 1918.
Liabilities. . . . £29,558 £44,09S £46,821 £41,580
Balances owing . . 85,511 124,516 123,465 122,027
Freehold house pro-
perty . . . . 8,000 2,500 2,500 2,500
Vacant land .. 8,542 1,299 1,308 1,165
Premises . . . . 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000
Other assets . . 1,384 550 948 2,526
Liabilities are made up of deposits £13,954,
mortgage £25,247, overdraft £2161, and i 218
due to sundry creditors and for unpaid divi-
dends. Comparing last year's figures with
those for 1914 it will be seen how cautiously
the management is proceeding. Deposits
have been reduced by £3363 in the four years.
But though the amount out in advances is
less than in 1914, interest earnings (apart
from investments) have increased from £7686
for that year to £9928. What new business
has been nut on the books lately is, of course,
very profitable.
* * * *
Two pitiable sights on the Murchison field
(W.A.) are the Great Fingall and Black
Range rinnacles. Plant is being steadily dis-
mantled on the former, and the only sign of
life on this once great mine is a gang loading
machinery on to railway-trucks and two or
three tributors looking for leavings. The
fine plant on the Black Range Pinnacles is
still intact, but the whole of it is about to be
offered to the highest bidder.
•**•■*»
Option hunters are beginning to take an
interest in the new find at the head of the
Kurrawang woodline (W.A.). Small quan-
tities of alluvial and reefing gold have been
obtained since the rush set in some weeks
ago. and a large number of areas with and
without prospects are on offer. The locality
is between 50 and 60 miles north-east oi
Southern Cross, whence Charlie Jones was
making in 1910 when an impassabV ssft-
lake caused Mm to turn back and discover
Bullfinch.


■ .
>0
:
■
to
■ 1
m
m
m
m
I
m
U i
*: ,
U
M
i
m
«l*v
ti
THREE RIBBED
BOOMERANG
“square tread
BARNET GLASS
MOTOR TYRES
Economic Tyre Service depends on three things—the quality of
the material put into the Tyre, the care expended in manufac-
turing it, and most important of ail, to make a tyre suitable for
the climatic and road conditions.
A Tyre created under the above methods must necessarily mean
QUALITY—and Quality means more MILEAGE.
This is what we claim for BARNET GLASS TYRES —not an
extravagant claim as thousands of Australians can testify.
MILES CHEAPER AND AUSTRALIAN
IM I, iiiii ■■■l. mliiu ~n —r - """" 1 — llM —"—■ - in mil mi i '
BARNET GLASS RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED
Founders of the Rubber Industry of Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Christchurch, Auckland, Hobart, Launceston
mm
*" V : -
,
mm
i


The Light
■■ ■ OX ■• ■
Australia
Efficient Lighting
Is greatly to be desired in every
home where comfort and conveni-
ence is closely studied. No more
efficient artificial light has been
invented than that produced by
QUIRK’S SAFETY
AIR GAS SYSTEM.
In addition to the light being pure
and brilliant, it is far and away
cheaper than any other form of
artificial light. The closest analysis
gives the extraordinary result of
Quirk’s System, producing a more
efficient light than acetylene at
One=sixth of the Cost.
It is a steady light; no flickering so
distressful to the eyes; no erratic
pressure that causes the light to
jump. By a new and ingenious de-
vice which has been evolved by our
engineers, steady pressure is abso-
lutely assured. In a lighting system
this is unique, and places Quirk’s
Air Gas System on a higher plane
than any other.
No Complicated Mechanism.
This device simplifies an already
simole machine. There can be no
fear of the machine getting out of
order. That is one of the great
features of Quirk’s System. Once
installed it will run smoothly for
years, requiring practically no atten-
tion.
Fool Proof.
The great fear in the minds of many
who think of artificial light is the
danger of explosion, of combustion,
leakage and one hundred and one
other troubles of a home-made light,
but with Quirk’s Safety Air Gas
System all this is removed. It is
“fool proof.” There can be no ex-
plosion, no wastage of gas, no leak-
ing, no smell. None of those
disagreeable and dangerous elements
are even remote possibilities, let
alone probabilities.
The Summer Months
are dreaded by the housewife who
has to carry on the cooking, the
ironing, etc., under the old condi-
tions where artificial heat added to
the sun made home life a burden.
Quirk’s Air Gas System does its
work without heating the atmo-
sphere. It does not add discomfort
to the kitchen. On the contrary, it
affords the housewife an opportunity
of doing her work under the most
agreeable conditions.
For Country Houses
no better system can be installed.
The maximum result is achieved
with a minimum of discomfort and
expense. Nothing to get out of
order, nothing to explode, no smell —
all clear, bright and healthy. It
can be adapted to the largest as well
as to the smallest house. If acety-
lene gas was previously installed the
existing fixtures can be utilised.
A Competent Staff
installs every plant and sees it is
working satisfactorily before hand-
ing it over. Nothing is left to
chance. If you have any doubts
write to the Quirk’s Lighting and
Engineering Ltd. for an Illustrated
Pamphlet, and get a thorough
acquaintanceship with what the Sys-
tem can do in the way of economy
and efficiency.
ACCESSORIES —Large Stocks of the
Best-quality Mantles, Globes, Pendants,
Brackets, Fans, etc., always on hand at
reasonable prices.
WRITE TO-DAY TO
QUIRKS
Lighting 8 Engineering Ltd.
Sydney 245 Elizabeth Street
Brisbane 24-28 Wharf Street
Melbourne South .... 110 Sturt Street
Adelaide 112 Grenfell Street
Perth, W.A. . . . Alcock & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Asm
I
Vf
I
w
m
M @P«t*
:
m
.. •, •••
mt
m
~V»i
••■ •■• ••■ ■<* •••
m i
l
■ ?; V.
MH
-
n i
ill
■tlMl Igll
/*V j
s \.'P f
riT
CLd
jor l
t si?
ORIENT
Clothing for Boys
The Best Australian Made
David Jones' unhesitatingly claim that Roys’ “Orient” Suits represent
the soundest possible value, because: —
1. Highest-grade materials are employed in their manufacture,
they are well cut and substantially made, and will therefore
. give the utmost satisfaction in wear.
2. By importing materials in large quantities direct from
mills, and making Boys’ “Orient” Suits in their own work-
rooms, all profits but one are eliminated, therefore David
Jones’ sell them at the lowest price consistent with
dependability.
Above illustration shows one of the most popular “Orient” Suits for
Boys, being the “Cotswold” —made from dependable Tweeds in ser-
viceable Light Grey Shades. Sizes for boys 7, to 16 years... . 257-
Better qualities 30/-, 35/-, 40/- and 45/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LIMITED
Opp. G.P.0., Sydney.
The man of Hebrew faith seldom pushes a
barrow; he either owns the barrow or super-
intends it. It wasn’t possible for all the
Hebrews who enlisted up to the time when
the figures were made up (there were 323,000
enrolments then) to be officers, but they came
closer to it than any other folk. Out of their
total enrolment 62 per 1060 were officers.
People of no religion (atheists and such)
came next with 32 officers per 1000: Presby-
terians (a practical, strenuous folk mostly
named Mac) showed 28 per 1000: Anglicans
26 ; Methodists 17 ; Roman Catholics 12. So
when it was a case of “Onward, Christian
Soldiers,” as mentioned in the hymn, the
Hebrew captain was often in charge simply
because there were four times as many of
him as the Hebrew privates required.
Politics are miserably small potatoes in
this country. Some bones of people murdered
50 years ago have been lying in a Victorian
police stable since grandfather's time, be-
cause the full-blown Legislature of two
Houses, with Cabinet, Governor, etc., had
never heard of them and 9. long succession
of John Hops wouldn’t move on their own.
Then the local member got on the track, and
instead of telling John flop to get the needful
order from the nearest authority or to act
without it, he held up the Assembly—l3s
statesmen at £3OO each —over the dusty frag-
ments. That is the way to be an active
member. Some members aren’t active, but
nearly all of them are local.
Ivor MacGillivray, late member of the
S.A. Assembly—he was one of the oldest and
best-liked men there —was entertained re-
cently by the National party. In handing
him a cheque the chairman was indignant
that MacGillivray had been turned down at
the last elections because he put country before
self. He went out with John Verran and
other compulsory-service democrats. MacG
entered the S.A. Assembly as member for
Port Adelaide in 1803, and in 25 years was
only absent two days from the sittings of the
Chamber.
From Buda Pest:—
Hungary (or rather the Magyar caste in Hungary),
one of the boss criminals, tries to flee in a coat of
whitewash from the wrath to come by declaring
itself independent of Austria and abjuring its
Hun king at Vienna. Instead of being one of the
three thieves who are running away, it proposes to
drop back into the crowd and help to chase the other
two thievps. The proposition is too thin, for the
Magyar holds a front place among the most hated
individuals in Europe. In his good times he and
the German-Austrian have been two Legrees
oppressing the small nationalities of the
empire. In occasional bad times the German-
Austrian has been Legree, and the Magyar
has been Sambo, the' nigger-driver, oppressed by
the person above but a bitter tyrant to those below.
Hungary had a powerful Parliament when the rest
of the empire had none, and when it rose in the
great cause of libery in 1848 under the boss impostor
Kossuth and his crowd, it wasn’t the lack of Parlia-
mentary Government that was the chief trouble.
What it most wanted was greater scope to wallop
its slave. The little peoples made up more than
half the population of Hungary, but their differences
of race and language made then an easy prey to
the solid Magyar. When the Magyar was feeling
fresh ho prohibited the teaching, writing, preaching
or printing of their languages, prohibited all save
Magyar-speaking people from holding office, and
administered the higher justice (of a sort) in Mag-
yar. Anybody who couldn’t speak Magyar went
without justice. As for Parliamentary representation
the Magyar counted the vote. In these matters he
hasn’t much improved with years. A big fly in the
Magyar ointment in ’4B was that a certain amount
of justice could be got (if costs were available) by
appeal to the Hun courts at Vienna. The Hun
served out a very fair brand of equity, because he
had no sympathy with the Magyar’s swelled head or
with any swelled head, save his own swelled head.
On a general average it is probable that the Little
Peoples liked the German-Austrian a trifle better
than the Magyar. When the glorious war of freedom
began it was made clear to them by Kossuth and co.
that they weren't included; in fact by losing the
right of appeal to Vienna, poor as it was, they were
to be a shade worse off than before. The Croats, the
best fighting element among the fragmentary folk,
hesitated a while, but being told they were dogs and
should approach the Magyar on all fours if they had
anything to say, they barked violently and threw
in their lot with the Hun tyrant for preference, and
jumped on Hungarian “liberty” with four very
capable feet. The Magyar’s plausible dream of
getting out in time and taking the serf races with
him suggests the same obtuse intelligence with which
the Kaiser is afflicted. When New Hungary is mapped
out it will probably be rather less than half the
oil concern. It is an ingenious inspiration to pose
as one of the oppressed nationalities—just about as
ingenious as it would be for the Kaiser ,to cry to the
Allies for and on the pretence that he is habitually
trodden on by Denmark.
From an Australian ship in the North
Sea:—-
I’d like to call Australia’s attention to the
fact that whilst steps are being made to re-
dress the grievances of the A.1.F., the Australian
Navy isn’t even being asked if it has any grievances.
I may say at once that it has. The Australian Naval
Administration is either stoically apathetic or very
dull. The sailors of the Australian Navy are quite
as educated, intelligent and enfranchised as are their
military comrades-in-arms; but they have no cham-
pion to arise and expose their wrongs. Nothing
appears in the press, simply because the correspond-
ents visiting the ships are hurried round and have
no chance of conversing with the men, and are then
told “All’s well” in the wardroom. The ratings,
when on leave, do not care to air their grievances
in places where they would probably not be listened
to, and certainly not remedied. As an example of
official stupidity take the following episode, which
occurred on board this ship last winter: It is a cold,
raw morning, with about a foot of snow lying about.
An Arctic Sea wind is blowing great guns, penetrat-
ing and chilling almost to the marrow. The ship is
at anchor; and the men are ordered out to drill on
deck in thin white duck suits. The captain and
officers looking oh are warmly clad. Remember that
many of the saildrs have spent long years in warm
climates prior to the war, and you can imagine their
feelings out there in the show, half-frozen, Whilst
plenty of thick winter clothing is available in their
bags. The men have asked, time after time, to have
similar grievances redressed, but all their efforts
have proved futile. We don’t mind the unavoidable
hardships of the service, but we resent the stupidities
hallowed by tradition.


Shipping- ■
ORIENT LINE
with*\\® P reles8 UX “^Si-aphs-“ r ' f{^ neS a d n d
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding . sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Hnrd-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, fl Spring Street,
lift
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING. NOVEMBER 20,
A.M.S. SONOMA,
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Banking, l’ublic Companies. <Se.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. ,T. TIIYNNJ3, M.L.C.; THOS. !
WELSBY.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head OHice: Brisbane.
Sydney OHice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne OHice: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . .. .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hxrt, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Brancbes —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £130,000
Directors: MARK SUE!,DON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT It. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,983
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up . . . . . . 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON S CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian'United Steam Navigation Ck d .
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
Shipping:, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED" ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIIK
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES. GREAT LAKES
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER. VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH HOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
NEXT SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
R.M.S. NIAGARA, November 5; R.M.S. MAKURA, December 3.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA AVELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Throng'll Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around tile Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
‘mmoNOH oj Noisanoxa
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
NEXT CONNECTING STEAMER LEAVES SYDNEY 14th NOVEMBER.
A Tour of Seven AVeeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY — PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
: if ''
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Fiva and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 18X7.
Paitl-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Riabiii'j -
m
- £3,904,860
- £2,950,000
£3,904,860
£40,759,720
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MaeKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Bimiie lisq.
Robert L. Faithfull,_Esq., M.D.
Auditois: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidl ®y’J^ q ‘ . . . ... r
office—Georce Street Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agendes in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bill,
negotiated and eolleeted. Letter, of Manner
Commonwealth
JBank o( Bustralia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
for a".
General Banking Business
pjPnSSu
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Rankin- and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
axed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
1/-
Branches) and over 2750 Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific.
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
Interest at oy
per annum **/o
up to £3OO
1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor
HAVE YOU A SAVINGS ACCOUNT?
This Bank offers you every facility for Banking your Savings.
Deposits received
from 1/- upwards.
132 Branches and
500 Agencies
throughout the
State.
MMm
&
3
3
Os
4
INTEREST
c 2
ors
■nf
DEPOSITS.
Oj>
$
zv
Interest paid at 3 %
per cent, per annum
on every £ up to
£5OO.
No Agencies at Post
Offices.
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping-
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Inter=State Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
FOR BRISBANE AND OTHER QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
FOR NORMAN BAR, ALBERT BAR AND
THURSDAY ISLAND.
FOR HOBART.
Hvddart Parker L|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA. —From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
llemilar and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
('ommodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms.. .AVIItELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
lURT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane ;SIACDON-
\LD HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITII,
u,p!\PHARN & CO PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
NrwcirtleYELDEß, SMITH & CO LTD Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
-|-HE North Coast Steam
■ Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
nVEEU 1- RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA. MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COCK'S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are ir\ied in conjunction with
the N S. WALES and QUEENSLAND KAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class 1 ail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to MurwiUuinbah,
rail to Bvron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply;—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
Of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, AVoy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891,
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, B u ilde r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts 6! the World.


Charles
Neidsiecks
Vintage 1906
i
HE PLUS ULTRA
PELUSSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Dar**"
» em ,«ool Bt..> s |ydney
1 SSfc*“-"' £-SS
— 5" subur k>.
PAULINE et CIE
ANNOTTNOK their
SPRING AND SUMMER SHOW.
MILLINERY on and after Wednesday, August 7
(PATS and SKIRTS, FROCKS, etc., on and after
Tuesday, August 20. 3rd F | oori
Denison House Chambers, Caorge Street, Sydney.
SPECIALIST EXPLAINS CAUSE OF
STOMACH TROUBLE.
VALUABLE ADVICE TO SUFFERERS.
'There are many different forms of stom-
ach trouble,” said a well-known specialist re-
cently, “but practically all are traceable to
excessive acidity and food fermentation. That
is why the results obtained from the use of
drugs are usually so disappointing. Admit-
ting fermentation and consequent acidity of
the food contents to be the underlying cause
of most forms of indigestion, it naturally
follows that the use of a reliable antacid, such
as Usurated magnesia, which is so frequently
prescribed by physicians, will produce better
results than drugs or combination of dru«-s.
Accordingly I almost invariably advise those
who complain of digestive trouble to get some
j unrated magnesia (note the name carefully
as other forms are not so suitable for this
purpose) from their chemist, and take half
a teaspoonful of the powder, or two 5-grain
compressed tablets, with a little water after
meals. This, by immediately neutralising
the acid and stopping the fermentation re'
moves the cause of the trouble and ensures
normal and healthy digestion.”—Advt
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
soaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
/
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILINERY
Sydney, October 28, 191 S.
My Dear Arini, —
The Melba-Verbrugghen concert brought
ii prodigious crowd to the big Town Hall,
and devotees went hot-foot for seats long be-
fore the Dame was due. Melba looked radi-
ant in a pink gown with a long sash that
touched the floor as the wearer hurriedly
wormed her way through the crowded orches-
tra, to take another volley of applause. She
kissed her hand to Verbrugghen (who de-
served a tribute for supplying a brilliant
orchestral background to her voice) and
waved her arms to stop the clamor of the
crowd. A dense mass of humans was
wedged into every available niche, but, as
the evening wore on towards six o’clock
Philistines with a big mileage to cover for
home stole away like ghosts. Mercifully
' erbrugghen’s back was turned towards this
desecration, and the crash of orchestral
drums, fifes and fiddles drowned the sinners’
departure. _ A new Belgian pianist, Francis
do Bourgitignon, recently on active service,
was an acquisition to the programme. The
Lord Mayor’s Fund is likely to gain £l5OO
from the festival.
. The Tank, with Captain Browne in charge,
is continuing to knock down brick walls
and rattle the bones of distinguished per-
sons who ride within it. A temporarily-
dismantled State Excellency emerged with a
cheerful smile and more or less on all fours
after his jaunt in the elephantine contrap-
tion. Jack’s Day is getting half the takings
O' P-S promenades. Soldiers’ dependants are
credited with the other half. Saturday,
JNov. 2, is mentioned as the final appear-
mechanical animal on Victoria
I ark Racecourse.
The big aquatic carnival for Jack’s Day
ought to add £2OOO to the Fund. The after-
noon was ideal from a yachtsman’s point
of view. At one time, late' in the afternoon,
when several races were on the home stretch
at once, a fleet of over 50 boats came like
great white swans towards the Yacht Squad-
ron s moorings at Kirribilli. With the after-
noon sun blazoning their sails the spectacle
was entrancing. The exciting turn promised
for the afternoon, the blowing up of a
mine, went oil’ without any warning nearly
ail hour before its scheduled time. The
Davidson lady, floating around in a launch
with some returned wounded soldiers as her
guests, saw the eruption; but a greatly-
annoyed public, arriving later, was dis-
appointed. Mrs. Alfred Milson was a solid
worker on a big committee, and Gard Trou-
ton was general rouscabout.
Wireless-operator Bobbie Towns lent a
hand by demonstrating with the whispering
instrument at the Kirribilli fete for Jack’s
Day. He had 2A years’ active service, most
of the time with M.L. infantrv at the Front
and was gassed and knocked off the fighting
list. The young Sydney man is a grand-
son of Captain Bobbie Towns, the pic-
turesque pioneer merchant, shipowner, bank-
director, gold-miner and pastoralist who
married a sister of William Charles Went-
worth in 3833.
Private Jim Osborn, only son of Lieut.-
Oolonel Osborn, of the Permanent Artillery,
has been killed in France. Young Osborn
was through the., early.: days of the war as
/< V;- pt! }j n 111 *A.I.F., was wounded: at
Gallipoli and hit again later in France
Invalided out of the A.I.F. in England this
tine young Australian was determined to get
another shot at Fritz, and enlisted in the
Argyle and Sutherland Highlanders. He fell
m action on October 10.
Last week s clamor for Jack’s Day buttons
knocked the supply off its legs, in a manner
of ’-peaking. The Inky Way stall was short
of about ±2O worth of metal badges, which
wore on order, till the lady in charge un-
furfed her gamp for action. Incidentally,
Mr. D Alpuget s generous gift of fruit and
eocoanuts from the Islands (.cases of pine-
apples, paw-paws, bananas, etc ) gave the
presswomen’s effort a big help.
HALS. Warspite, with Mrs. Glossop as
Flag-Captain and a crew manned by the
I riendly Union of Sailors’ wives, will
anchor at the corner of Pitt and Moore
streets on Jaci< s Day. The cargo consists
or anything you fancy, from a bos’n’s whistle
to a home-made anchor. About the only item
unprocurable is bos’n’s language. There’s a
shortage in that since the submarining of the
Leinster.
Fergus Hume’s sister Bessie, who claims
hilly Dunedin (M.L.) as her native town,
came in for some recent notice in London
by presenting to the Belgian representative
(in London) a casket of M.L. woods for King
Albert and his Queen. The gift enclosed
some verses dedicated to Belgium.
Major Alan Wright, of this dusty town,
was married in England lately to Dorothy
Hislop.
Artist Francis Hodgkins’s exhibition of
oils and water-colors, hung in Anthony Hor-
dern's’ Art Gallery, is a riot of rainbow tints.
There are some charming pictures in this
Maorilander’s collection, with here and there
a daring canvas that borders on the grotesque.
The arresting effect in “Barn in Picardy”
and “The Lantern Dancers” required clever
draughtsmanship. The barn looks as if a
German army had passed through it. There
remains beside this phase of Miss Hodgkins’
splash-work such peaceful scenes as “The
White House on the Canal.” This is in the
modern English manner. Of the advanced
French school, “The Gypsies” is a bold and
powerful picture.
The Town Hall concert (Oct. 25) for Jack’s
Day was a comparative failure, although the
programme was strong enough to make up
two first-rate shows. The committee bristled
with names of note, but it didn’t bristle
with even one energetic publicity agent. So the
result was half-empty: galleries and many
empty chairs below. The Tingira boys’ drill
display was alone worth the entrance money.
Mrs. Alex. Gordon’s song, “In an Old-
fashioned Town,” was a C‘--q - ating item.
Lieut. McCulloch’s lecture. My Ship,” with
very poor pictures of .the. Butle of Jutland
(mostly smoke haze) was almost inaudible
at _ any distance. Captain Glossop ex-
plained, with pictures and pointer, his
adventures on the Sydney. Carrie Lanceley
v/as also included in the long programme.
The Davidsons were in the official pen ; but
not all the time. His Ex. mounted the plat-
form to offer a few remarks, and was closely
shadowed by A.D.C. Saltmarshe.
The Y.W.C.A. hall held an audience that
was mildly shocked at some of the statements
in Miss Garnham’s report of Indian women’s
life 1 in the coolie locations of Fiji. Much of
this unpleasantness was aired some months
ago, but the lady, who belongs to the London
Missionary Society (Calcutta), hasbeen en-
trusted with the job of adding to the details.
It’s up to Fiji, as a Crown colony, to deal
with .somebody, if the facts are as nauseous
as alleged.
The Commonwealth Treasurer floated the
seventh War Loan under the happiest con-
ditions. Australians reading the cables over
their breakfast bacon,
had their digestions
improved by rations
of good news from
every Front. Per-
haps the news was
too rosy to help the
Loan. Optimists
settled the peace
terms over a second
cup of tea, and de-
cided that a vigor-
ous pursuit of War
Bonds was not so
necessary as it had
been. Then Acting
Prime Minister Watt
sounded a warning
note that the mother
►State was lagging
behind her quota,
and trouble was coming up with both spurs
on. Women, and notably small fry who had
to scrape together the deposit money, re-
sponded eagerly, and ten-pound War Bonds
went off like crackers. Some industrious
pei son with a head for figures may inform
us later how big a part the average business
gji'l has played in lending money to her
*u Un L ry i this effort has been
the Sydney Commonwealth Bank. With
Governor Denison Miller temporarily out of
Australia, the Deputy-Governor, James Kell
has been the live wire. Born in Mittagong!
the son of a successful N. S. Wales farmer
young Kell deliberately chose a mercantile
career. The. bush called in vain. He began
ty add up ledgers in the N. S. Wales head
office of the Bank of Australasia. After
varied experience and continuous service in
one or other of its branches, the bank clerk
or ISS6 became the sub-inspector of 1906.
hew men know commercial Australia better!
In the course of business as sub-inspector
James Kell visited every city and every
important town in this continent. As the
Deputy-Governor of the Commonwealth Bank
he is one of the forces that count in financial
circles. His energy and ability have greatly
contributed to the success of the present
Loan. Photo by May Moore.
The new Chair of Pharmacology in Sydney
’Varsity got an official warming the other
evening. The occasion was Dr. H. G. Chap-
man’s first professional address in the Great
Hall. The Chair is an off-shoot of our b g
Medical School in the dusty ’Varsity pad-
docks. Through its medium the new don
will encourage N. S. Wales pharmacists to
tread the path that leads to a science cap
and gown. Australian plants—we may be
trampling useful drugs underfoot in every
bush wilderness—are going to be carefully
cross-examined.
From Brisbane: —
Patriotic parents should see the display of toys
in Smellie’s big window, opposite the G.P.0., all
made by returned soldiers in the Red Cross work-
rooms of our military hospitals. The makers are
eager for Christmas orders.
Jimmy Grant, who will take his pen to America
with Minister for Railways Fihelly, is still in the
thirties. He began his career as a railway porter,
and went to U.S. and Europe four years ago with
Railway Commissioner Evans as private secretary.
Two Brisbane girls who have coaxed passports
are off to England this week to be married to their
soldiers. One is Esme Lahey, daughter of the
David Laheys, who is to marry Lieut. A. W. Clarke.
The other voyager is Myee Harrison, daughter of
the late S. Harrison, well known in Ipswich . and
Charters Towers. Lieut. W. 11. Bryan, M.C., is
waiting for her.
In the basement of the Colonial Mutual Chambers,
Queen-street, is the Prisoners of War Gift House.
Gifts of plate, china, jewellery, old lace, etc., may
be left for sale. Cheques representing over £4OO
have been sent in, and a sympathetic soul paid three
months rent in advance. A small sub-committee of
the Red Cross is running the Gift House.
Capt. Leslie Blake, M.C., a Gympie boy, has died
of wounds. He was in the Geological Survey Depart-
ment, and was a member of Mawson’s Antarctic
expedition.
The A. S. Leslies, of South Toowong, lost their
third soldier son when Corporal Arthur Leslie was
killed in France, on September 30.
Drowned in the Leinster, Lieut. Frank Laracy, a
popular Toowoomba boy. He was a chemist by pro-
fession, and won the Military Cross as well as a
commission. His people were waiting for a cable to
say when he would be home.
Capt. Hayward Moffatt, M.C., one of the Camoola
Park family, has been killed.
Travellers from North Sydney were
accustomed for many years to see on one or
other of the “business” ferryboats every
morning a singularly handsome, erect and
well-groomed citizen, notable as an old
inhabitant of Bay Road in the hilly suburb.
The good looks, erect carriage and benign
presence changed very little with the pass-
ing years, but lately it was less frequently
seen on the accustomed seat on the sunny side
of the ferryboat; and last week Mordaunt
William Clarke, who arrived in Sydney when
he was about six years old, died in his old
home, aged 85. He was a leading man in
insurance circles and a son of North Syd-
ney s early Anglican parson. Mordaunt
Clarke knew Bay Road when a tang’ed under-
growth of primitive bush grew wild where
of recent years he caught the train to Mil-
son s Point.. When Sydney was beginning to
grow gas-lamps and call itself a city the late
Mr Clarke was a student at Trinity College,
Dublin. Some years later he married a
daughter of the late Captain Gother Mann,
of the north side of the harbor.
The Sydney Choral Society chose the
heavy music of “Judas Maccabteus” for its
concert in the Town Hall. A big audience took
inost kindly to the well-known semi-chorus,
See the Conquering Hero Comes.” and pos-
sibly substituted Allenby for Judas return-
ing from victory near Jerusalem. Phil New-
bury, the nrincipal tenor of the performance,
was m good voice. Reginald Gooud con-
ducted a choir which overflowed with re-
in for cements from juvenile Conservatoriura
students.
Mis. Ivethel, one of the leading voluntary
workers at Graythwaite Red Cross Hospital
Tu\^ e to take off cap and apron.
111-health is the cause.
The N. S. Wales Gould League of Bird
Lovers gave its eighth annual throstle call
in the King s Hall last week. Juvenile mem-
”£. ls , , ou .t their cheeks in determined
efforts to imitate the feathered chdir that
sings its matin song in every bushland. This
league, according to David Stead, has a mem-
bership of 78,000 in this State.
Mrs. Charles Lawrence, formerlv of AdQl-
aide, arrived in Sydney by a recent boat, after
two years absence in England. Son Jack is
still a gunner on the Western Front.
Sydney’s institution for the Deaf, Dumb
and Blind had its annual overhaul of
f™° U ?n 3 I* 8 . 4 I week ’ Governor Davidson
troin the chair drew attention to the Board’s
financial record in reducing the deficit of
the past year. This in possibly the hardest
1- mon ths of the war, he said, was a good
commercial achievement. Nearly inoo
knocked off the wrong side of the ledger is
something to brag about. S
The marriage of Mary Stevens, the eldesl
•Jw- mus^ cal family, of Dawes Point,
with Lieut. B. W. Millier, of the Maoriland
Expeditionary h orces. was celebrated at St
Patrick s, Church Hill, by Rev. Father Piquet.
Ihe ceremony was very quiet. The
bride was attended by Miss .T. Stevens
and Miss May Lyons, the ’groom’s best-man
was Henry Healey. The “breakfast” was
disned at the Wentworth, and the honey-
moon was spent on the Blue Mountains. Th ■
newly-linked couple will make their hom<
m Wellington (M.L.). The founder
of. the Stevens family settled in Wind-
mill-street, Sydney, a century ago on a
grant given in February, 1819.' by Governor
Macquarie, and it remained in the family
until resumed by the Government. The last
holder was J. M. -Stevens, musical composer
and father of the bride. The eldest. son.
Jack, a lieut. in the R.F.C., died of wounds
in France after a distinguished career in the
North Sea.
The summer frock is not all cobweb and
a cloud of ninon. There are new and stout
materials —chintz in particular—with pat-
terns as large as saucers, waiting to be made
up into this season’s skirts. Someone must
be anxious to look like a verandah blind, or
these goods would be bustled off to the fur-
niture departments.
The collecting
of scholarships has
become a hobby of
this youthful Corn-
stalk. Lena Chis-
holm put her dolls
away to nurse a
fiddle only a few
Short years ago. That
was when the Lis-
mure girl was get
ting on to solid
groundwork in her
pet study in Parra-
matta Convent
School. Wli e n her
elder sister, Maggie
(also a collector of
musical scholar-
ships), went to Eng-
land in March, 1914.
Lena was her cabin-mate. The great adven-
ture brought both girls to the front as
brilliant students of the London Royal Col-
' lege of Music. Lena (her latest photo beside
you) has just renewed a scholarship—won
and held for three years—at the R.C.M. The
late Sir Hubert Parry (whose death occurred
a few weeks or so ago) was, as chief of the
academy, warmly appreciative of the Chis-
holm sisters’ record.
Under the beguiling label, “Old Gold and
Silver Fund,” a patriotic curio-shop . (take
the lift at 62 Hunter-street) has contributed
£5342 to war funds in the two and a half
years of its existence. Hon. sec. ,T. E.
Richardson will grateful!v accept your best
tea-caddy or any trinket that you feel would
be more useful for the good cause than lying
in a forgotten box. Hair ornaments- —the
mid-Victorian vogue—will appeal to collec-
tors. The O. G. and S. Fund owns some of
these weird fancies, including ear-rings, pear-
shaped and about four inches long, made
from the brown locks of somebody’s great
aunt or small grandmother.
The October issue of the War Chest
Review is a well-balanced little record of the
comforts that go to cheer up Billjim on alien
shores.
Rev. L. M. Dunstan, who has enlisted as
a private, is a grandson of a tine old Hawkes-
bury farmer . who settled at Wilberforce
close upon a century ago, and gave four sons
to the. Anglican Church in N. S. Wales.
L.M. is son of Rev. T. D. Dunstan and
nephew of Canon Dunstan, of Mudgee. After
spending some years in the Union Bank he
PtiC on the reversed collar. Two brothers
are already at the Front.
The last news of Sub-Lieut. Cedric Outh-
waite, an Australian who got the D.S.C.
medal for gallantry at Zeebrugge, was that
he had been interned in Holland.
Perhaps the wonderful Spring dress of the
delicate wistaria (by the way, the old
Vaucluse House ia a poem in mauve, with
the dinging tendrils of the grape-like bunches
9,\ its blossoms) has caught the Summer
Girl s fancy. Anyhow the elusive shade is
first favorite, fluttering in long tulle ends, or
floating round in diaphanous draperies.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORLAN.


Hardy Brothers
Z/ LTD
JEWELLERS. ESTABLISHED 18S3.
A “SERVICE” WATCH.
m
] -
j s *
THE NEW “PROTECTED COVER” WATCH.
Strong Silver Wristlet Watch, with High-grade Swiss Lever
Movement, and Luminous Hands and Figures, specially
recommended for hard wear.
£5 10 0
The watch illustrated is fitted with an unbreakable glass, and new, jointed
silver cover, through which the hours and hands are plainly visible.
SELECTIONS FORWARDED ON APPROVAL, IF DESIRED.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 116-118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON.
CAMERAS for THE BEGINNER
and THE ADVANCED WORKER
in All Hakes —at All Prices —
at HARRINGTONS’.
The world’s best makers are drawn upon in order to enable us to place before you a
selection of cameras and photographic supplies from which you cannot fail to make a
choice that will be satisfactory in every respect. Our range includes —
ENSIGNS. ENSIGNETTES. KLITOS,
SANDERSONS. THORNTON-PICKARDS.
BROWNIES. KODAKS. HASCOTS.
Box-Form Ensigns and Brownies.
Daylight-Loading, for Roll Films —
10/-, 15/6, 18/6, 23/-
Folding Ensigns, for Roll Films —
45/-. 55/-, 57/6, 65/-, 72/6
Folding Autographic Brownies, for Roll
Films—37/6, 48/6, 62/-, 67/6, 78/6
Autographic Kodak Juniors and Kodaks —
67/6, 75/6, 80/-, 89/-, 97/6 to £l5/2/-
Magazine Cameras, for Plates—
-10/-, 14/-, 22/6, 27/6, 32/6, 40/-, 62/6
Folding Klito Cameras, for Plates —
35/-, 37/6, 45/-, 50/-, 55/- to £6/5/-
Harringtons’ Laboratories
Give Best Returns
from Sweeping's, Residues, etc.
The Residues and Waste Products will give an extra source of profit to the jeweller,
dentist, optician or other metal-worker who uses precious metals, or materials containing
precious metals, in his work, as the scraps, etc., if saved and sent to us for treatment,
will yield a return which will handsomely pay for the little trouble involved.
We specialise in this class of work; every grain of metal that is of value is extracted
and paid for at market rates, less a small charge for refinement; and, in order to
thoroughly protect our clients.
We Reserve Reference Samples of every order until settlement is
complete.
Materials collected in city or suburbs free of charge. Give us a ring, and our
traveller will call on you.
GP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants ,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland;
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney.
■vfa.;:
-••••a
*r;
HgSigpg
>*ss
8
iff
>kv ;
«?.. V
_j *f4 - a -~-l | q_* g g
—— <uA^te
t’K-r .•
rx:r
R«*
Wyn
VC
8&. Art/**
!&§*&*
in
!SW;'J><
pw47%x 3!
Sjv:
,r*V
SwEft
jßs3s
fiVK
'\ .V
fei3
IS
sf
sa
K 8
rf jfeXi .j&sns
J-^a
There’s NO Shortage of Good Sheep Dip NOW
A denial of the rumor about shortage of sheep dip must be made at once —NOW —for
Australasia has never been better placed in the availability of the right quality dip, no matter
how great the demand.
\aiXOSHEEP
POWDER
DIP
settles “once and for all” any possibility of a dip famine, because it cuts out all necessity for imported dips, no matte” what their claims.
“Vallo” Dip is an Arsenical Dip of the Highest Possible Quality, manufactured in Australia, and proven to be chemically and physically eiua'Q
to the best dip hitherto imported. It combines all the essential features necessary to an effective dipping compound, in that it exter-
minates Ticks and Lice, Minimises Fly Strike, and renders Flocks impervious to contagion from “dipping” to next shearing.
“Yallo” Dipped Flocks produce a BETTER and BIGGER Wool Yield —INCREASED Weight of Meat —and bring BETTER prices at the Sale
Yards. Of all dips, “Vallo” Powder Sheep Dip is the longest-lasting in its destructive action against sheep-infestingvermin.
Manufactured ly Victor Legao &, Co., Melbourne,
u
who own their own Arsenic Mines, and themselves prep are the whole of the ingredients used.
Agents for New South Wales:
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO.
LTD.,
9, 11, 13 Young Street, SYDNEY.
Agents for Northern Queensland:
CUMMINS & CAMPBELL,
LTD.,
TOWNSVILLE.
Agents for Central Queensland:
WALTER REID & CO. LTD.,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Agents for Southern Queensland:
BRABANT & CO.,
BRISBANE.
Agents for New Zealand:
The FARMERS’ CO-OPERA-
T I V E WHOLESALE
FEDERATION (N.Z.), LTD.,
CHRISTCHURCH.
Distributors for Victoria and
Tasmania:
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO..
MELBOURNE.
Agents for South Australia:
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
ADELAIDE.
Agents for West Australia:
MALEOCH BROS.,
PERTH.
Procurable All Stores.
as
vv9
*OF-
O'*
5<
»«?
>°:
>i&
Efw
m&
cs?


The Chateau Napier,
Leura,
Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
THIS modern Residential Hotel is unique
in its situation on the highest point in
Leura, commanding extensive views for over
60 miles.
A new wing has just been added, furnished
in the most modern and luxurious manner.
House heated with American ideal heating
system.
A new smoke-room with sunny open bal-
cony has been added.
Electric light throughout.
Tennis-court. Billiard-room. Motor-garage.
Golf Links and Bowling Green right handy.
Private Sitting-rooms.
Tel. 121 Katoomba
Leaves
the Hair Glossy and Soft
Farmer's “Gold Bar”
SHAMPOO
Powders
Success can only be expected from tbe coiffure if the
Hair is carefully attended. ** Gold Bar " Shampoo
Powders are specially prepared for Farmer's, being
delicately perfumed, suitable for dry or oily Hair.
One Shampooing leaves the Hair glossy and fluffy
and the head delightfully refreshed.
Price per packet, 6d. Per dozen, 5/b
Orders by post receive prompt attention.
FARMER'S, SYDNEY
We Pay Postage
“Best for the Chest.”
NAZETHA PASTILLES
Unrivalled for
Coughs, Sore, Husky or
Irritated Throats.
The Most Reliable Antiseptic as a
Prevention Against Diphtheria & Meningitis .
Ail Chemists sell NAZETHA PASTILLES for lj() Box.
[3
MELBOUNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, October 28, J. 918.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Governor Stanley and his lady grave a men-
only dinner-party on Wednesday night. A
reception followed, and the women folk were
allowed to attend that. General Pau and his
missioners were guests of honor. His Ex.
wore his most gorgeous uniform, a dream out-
fit with silver epaulettes. He spoke French
to his visitors, with half-amused, nervous
side glances at his wife, who is a fluent
French scholar. Dad was also put in the
shade by his small daughter, who chatters
French like a Parisian.
The Stanley dame looked even better than
usual in a trained gown which avouiul round
her figure in brocaded velvet of rose and sil-
ver. A diamond tiara flashed like an adver-
tising sky-sign. The drawing-rooms, wide
open to the terrace, were filled Avith roses
and lily-of-the-valley.
Governor Newdegate, in sending out invi-
tations to his dinner to honor the French
Mission, asked for “full dress” ; so Hobart
put on all the robes and gold braid it had.
Speaker Evans sent a special appeal to his
Ex. that wigs might be excused. It appears
Evans has only the Avig of his predecessor,
who was a man of the John Forrest build,
Avhile Evans himself is about as big as Billy
Hughes. The wig would have been an ex-
tinguisher for Evans, so he carried the horse-
hair in his hand during the function as a
guarantee of good faith. What he should
have done Avas to Avear it, filling in the blank
space with shavings. They’re a shiftless lot,
these politicians.
The G.-G. lately confided to a V.A.D. girl
Avho asked him what horse had won the
Caulfield Cup, that he “hadn’t been to the
races for four years.” Probably his Ex.
hears in the evening all he wants to know
about the game. Sporting niece Doris Black-
wood, home from watching the favorite doing
his best, must talk about something besides
the weather Avliile nibbling the evening tea
and toast. And what else has the gentleman-
help to do, I’d like to knoAV?
Mrs. Theo. Anderson, from Westralia,
daughter of our Harvie Patterson, is making
a round of visits here. From the Leding-
hams, Eobert Harpers and Winter Patter-
sons she is going on to stay with sister
Mrs. Feakes, wife of Commander Feakes, in
Sydney. Mrs. Tom Ledingliam gave her a
party to meet old friends. Mrs. Fairbairn,
Mrs. Tolhurst, Mrs. Archie Currie, the
Appletons, Jeffersons, Bowes Kellys, and
Eardley Wilinots all responded to the call.
There is talk of running our sometime
friend H. B. Irving for a seat in the House
of Commons, on the ground that theatrical
interests are urgently in need of a practical
and experienced representative at Westmin-
ster, and it is generally agreed that H.B. is
just the man. The statement he recently
drew up in connection Avith a Bill
before Parliament regulating the employ-
ment _ of children on the stage has been
described as a “masterly document,” com-
bining the qualifications of his legal training
with his intimate first-hand professional
knowledge of the stage. No doubt he Avould
make a picturesque M.P.; but the prelimi-
nary difficulty of finding a constituency and
fitting him into the party system is not
easily overcome. An independent, however
gifted, has not much of a show in England.
Some time ago tlie Charles Fairbairns
removed from their Banongil station several
vanloads of household goods, destined for the
family humpy at South Yarra. One load,
containing a lot of “priceless” table-frills,
rare old antimacassars and similar expensive
trappings, caught fire on the Bannoekburn-
road and was burned to death. The
anguished owners held the carrying-firm re-
sponsible for the loss, and presently took
the case before Judge Cussen, who assessed
the _ damage at £4OO, giving judgment
against the carriers accordingly.
The Town Hall was crowded for the
women’s welcome to General Pair. Im-
portant Leagueites occupied seats on the
platform and Lady Stanley was in the chair.
The General in starting ventured a few
words of English : “Women, ladies and
gentlemen,” he began, and then wondered
what the joke was. Dr. Siegfried interpreted
the rest of his remarks. The Leaguites had
prepared an illuminated address for the
guest. They fussed over the package on a
centre table before the visitors arrived, but
later became so excited that they forgot to
present it. Farewells were over and the Gen-
eral and his party were on the steps of their
motors when a flustered woman rushed after
them and thrust the trifle of painted white
satin into the old soldier’s hand.
Holy Advent Church, at Malvern, which
was helped into being by a fat contribution
to the building fund from the Septimus Mil-
lers, has had a succession of more or less
interesting parsons. Charles Perry, who
chose poetess Dorothy MeCrae as his chief
helper, was one of them. Another was Theo-
dore Redhead, sometimes known as “the
sporting parson.” In those days Redhead
was an active, husky sky-pilot, who went in
for yachting and took a personal interest in
the spiritual welfare of the local young man.
Now also appears Edward White, the pre-
sent vicar, as a somewhat different parson.
In spite of _ the high cost of paper and the
low rate of clerical pay, White has issued
a book of verse about his distant days at
Melbourne Grammar School. The Diocesan
Book Society is undertaking sales.
The Win-the-War Equiestrienne Club,
which has been wading through rather deep
waters of late, has decided to disband. The
girls, however, simply adore dressing up in
scarlet sashes and flamboyant badges, and
can’t bear the idea of being right out of the
game. Wherefore some of the association’s
very naicest members propose to join up in
an exclusive squad to be known as the Red
Cross Riders —that is, if the central R.C.
administration will let them. That import-
ant body hasn’t been asked its opinion yet,
though the new idea is so perfect a dream
that it seems impossible that its realisation
should be prevented.
The Syd Sands pair entertained Dr. Sieg-
fried at Heidelberg while the rest of the
French Mission were in Tasmania. They
motored him to Healesville, and then petrolled
him down to Flinders to the Watts.
The Hennessys are once more at the Grand
after an exciting motor trip from Sydney to
Melbourne. They recommend it as a thrill
to all adventurous motoi’ists.
Senator “Curly” Keating travelled through
Tassy with the French Mission and talked
to it in its own language all the way. It’s
a proud time for the language pluggers who
survived the depressing teaching methods of
years ago. •
General Pau exclaimed when, last week, he
saw the Comforts Fund flower-stall at the
Town Hall, loaded with large bunches of
lily-of-the-valley! It reminded him of the
Parisian flower-markets and Spring in
France. The fund, by the way, has been
doing very nicely from its flower receipts,
though the stall has always been a source of
substantial income.
The Walter Bayles family is soon to
have a permanent camp at Toorak, after
their long sojourn among the sheeu and poul-
try at Hexham, on the Western plains.
Walter, who is a brother of Norman, M.L.A.,
is building an up-to-date shack on a choice
block of the late William Bayles’s hillside
property over the big Toorak rise. He
watches the pile go up from his flat at
Myoora, the old Harper home near by.
This is Admiral
Creswell, who is re-
tiring from the Aus-
tralian Navee, in
order that an officer
with recent war ex-
perience may carry
on. The bluff old
officer has been a
sailor for 52 years.
He was born at Gib-
raltar in ’52, joined
the training-ship Bri-
tannia in ’66, and
had an exciting life
afloat before he was
appointed Director of
the Commonwealth
Naval Forces. He
was knighted i n
1911, when he was
made rear-admiral. In those days Richard
Ncvill was Chamberlain to the G.-G., and
it was part of his quaint job to sec to the
ceremonious detail of beknighting people.
Nevill had quite a bunch of knights to deal
with in Creswell’s year, and he gravely put
them through a rehearsal. It was like a
dancing lesson. “So many steps, sir, and
bow.” Creswell shook his head doggedly
and refused to prance and duck. It didn’t
appeal to the man who had started life fight-
ing Chinese pirates. This portrait of the
mutineer is by Ruth Hollick.
Lieut. Jack Gould-Taylor, of the Aus-
tralian Flying Corps, who was mentioned
the other week as having won the D.F.C.,
has been killed in. action in France.
Sister Gertie Munro, an Australian nurse,
died recently at Salonika from pneumonia,
following malaria. Secretary Munro, of
the big residential Nurses’ Club in Mel-
bourne for Military Nurses, mourns for her
niece.
Australian nurse G. Davis now ranks as
major, and has been made Matron-General of
Australian Hospitals in India. Last week
she was decorated for special services.
Major-General Legge, just gone to Sydney
on official business, had a very sad message
sent after him. Ilis second son was lately
killed in France.
Dr. and Mrs. Somers, of Mornington, have
just had news of the death in action of their
second son Gervase. He was only 19.
Sister Rachel Pratt came back on the
last troopship, after much hard work in
France. She was one of the first nurses to
be wounded, and has amongst her treasures
a letter from Birdwood thanking her for her
efforts.
An officer’s wife has received a voluntary
ballot-paper from the Recruiting Committee.
The officer himself has just returned to find
his wife classed as an eligible. What is the
lady to do?
full of threats and
confidence), will pro-
bably produce some
fine stories and
verses about it later.
A lot of this grace-
ful writer’s work
has been done away
from Australia, much
of it appearing in
English and Ameri-
can papers and re-
views. Some time
ago the Euston
Press (London) re-
printed, under the
title “The World of
Men,” a dozen brilli-
ant short sketches,
half of which had
appeared in the New
Age, Academy and Manchester Guardian.
They show Palmer to be an observant world-
traveller, and a writer of distinction. Mrs.
Vance (otherwise Nettie Palmer) drives a
well-informed pen occasionally for Melbourne
papers.
Captain Trevor Fetherstonhaugh, of the
R.A.M.C., who followed his dad, Dr. R. T.
Fetherstonhaugh, into the medical profes-
sion, is one of the many new M.C. winners.
He got the decoration for work under heavy
fire.
Brig.-General Walter McNicoll, a Gallipoli
D. 5.0., who stuck to his fighting job in
spite of much ill-health, has at last gone
back to England from France to take a
headquarters job.
Adelaide notes:—
Two Red Cross efforts were billed for Saturday: a
f6te which Lady Galway opened at the Richard
Smiths’ home at Glenelg, and a fancy-dress carnival at
Henley Beach. It wasn’t the weather you’d order for
outdoor frivols, but the usual crowd rolled up to
both shows. The Glenelg fete gave Mabel Law Smith
a chance of saying her good-byes. She left on Tues-
day for England, where she is to be married to
Captain Iludd.
Local musicians gave a complimentary concert in
the Queen’s Hall on Saturday to veteran P. A.
Howells, who has been 50 years in Adelaide.
Things are being put into shape for welcoming the
Anzacs on furlough. Free tram and train passes
are to be asked for, the families of country men
are to be given an opportunity of coming to town
to meet them, and as far as possible Billjim’s family
will share in any festivity that is arranged. All of
which will be far more to his taste than banquets,
speeches and huge demonstrations at which the
returned man is paraded to satisfy the curiosity of
the public.
Col. Powell, who has been on active service with
the A. M.C. for four years, is on his way home. Lat-
terly,he has been at Harefield, where he has been a
big brother to sick and wounded Billjims.
Another Australian back from England is Mrs.
Lyster Colley, the J. L. Stirlings’ elder daughter.
The Red Cross Society had barely emptied its col-
lecting-tins when the Navy League launched its appeal
with a Nelson Day celebration in the Town Hall. A
white silk ensign, which is to be presented by the
local branch of the League to the cruiser Adelaide,
was on view during the evening.
There died at Port Adelaide G. \V. Dempster, the
well-known sporting solicitor. What time he could
spare from law he gave to racing, shooting and bowl-
ing.
Spanish influenza has claimed Mrs. G. H. Wyatt
(better known here as Mrs. E. W. Oldham) as one
of its victims in South Africa. She was well known
in musical circles in Adelaide 20 years ago.
Marjorie Eadie (daughter of the Bendigo
doctor) is expected to remark “I will” to
Evan Pearce, of Strathfield. on November
14 After the honeymoon in Sydney the pair
will set about flatkeeping in Toorak.
Button Day realised nearly
45000. Mayoress _ Mrs. Frank Stapley and
tlx© councillors' wives made a haul outside
the Town Hall in elegant kiosks, while the
committee button-holed the charitably in-
clined at the centroway. Nurses from the
various hospitals, the Returned Soldiers’
Association and a baby elephant from
\\ irths Circus also kept the hunt going.
A testimonial should be sent by the Re-
patriation Department to the Victorian
Farmers’ Union, which of all the State’s
political concerns stands out as a practical
body of repatriators. At Koo-wee-rup re-
cently a gathering of Y.F.U. members
assembled, plough in hand, to prepare the
ground for a soldier to whom a farming-
block had been allotted; and during this
working-bee it was decided that in future all
returned soldiers in the Koo-wee-rup district
should have their land prepared in the same
way. The good example lias been followed
by numbers of other branches, and the prac-
tice is spreading all over the State, with the
V.F.U. in the forefront of the movement.
Here, at last, is a political outfit which is
making a systematic effort to do something
besides making semaphore gestures from
public platforms.
Cacialli, the baritone with the flashing
black eyes, has blossomed out as a tutor.
He gave a concert the other Wednesday
night and sang thunderously. Of four pupils
that lie presented, one was an Italian youth
struggling apparently with the idea he was
Caruso. He struck all the Caruso attitudes,
but lacked the Caruso chins and chests—
also the Caruso voice. It was a disappoint-
ing imitation of the original.
Alfter a fortnight’s postponement on
account of influenza, Stella Power had her
concert on Saturday night. Melba was away
in Sydney, so could not lend her more than
moral support, but Stella filled the Auditorium
and satisfied everybody. She sailed on to do her
job in a dress of burnt amber and green
with green stockings and shoes. Contralto
Ivy Phillips sang in a blue frock, elaborated
with lace. Florence Brown at her ’cello
wore black and green.
For the opening of her exhibition of pas-
tels and paintings Marion .Tones scored the
largest crowd seen at an art show for a long
time. Lady Helen bought a picture and
spoke a piece, voicing the forlorn hope that
the mere mob would some day take as much
interest in art as it does in a Cup favorite.
Among the numerous portraits are a genial
representation of etcher John Shirlow and
a pleasing study of poet Rupert Atkinson’s
handsome spouse. The artist won the Gal-
lery’s Travelling Scholarship at the begin-
ning of the year, and will go to Paris after
the war.
Actress Katlilene Macdonell is staying
with the Baldwin Spencers and putting in
her time saying sbulful good-byes as a prelim-
inary. to returning to Canada. She speaks
of doing a season in London and then com-
ing back here with a co. of her own.
Attractive reading matter is urgently
needed for the military hospitals. Please
remember this when you have finished with
your novels and magazines, and drop them
into the Red Cross bins or depots.
Urged by barrister Kelly, the State has
decided to give the scent-making industry a
helping hand, of sorts, by importing the
seeds necessary for growing certain oil-pro-
ducing plants. Oman, Minister for Rose-
mary and Lavender, has put his O.K. on the
plan, and the State laboratories are to be
available, when required, for making experi-
ments. Kelly is the president of the Associ-
ation for the Cultivation of Flowers for
Scents—a long, clumsy label —and it is
largely through his persistent gardening and
encouragement of gardening friends that the
Government is beginning to help. The con-
cern has already done a good deal in the way
of raising lavender and such prolific perfume-
providers, for sale to local distillers; but so
far the industry can’t produce its own seeds
iu adequate quantities. The retailing seeds-
man, of course, is either bare of supplies or
wants to make big profits on his stocks, which
are in many cases moribund pre-war stuff.
Hence the demand for State interference.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.
Vance Palmer, the quiet student-soldier,
who has gone across the world to take a
hand in the last chapters of the war (he
enlisted when the Hun was storming ahead


o
to
o-5
(M o
c;
O to
20 I
w
CSJtr.
<JJ «ra
A®
n v'
£
*55
£5?
■SS
\
BS:«V:USU^SMU:\:utt
WMI \
r«x i
■
c
i/cfl
/
m
t:i:i
w.§
«€£
sa?
I '
*rr.
J
iMi
St
v-
S;3
it
Wm^
F 2
v.
Friend in Blue: “A faithful friend Is the medicine of life.”
Johnnie Walker: “ Because ‘ the medicine
4 square ’ bottles.”
Johnnie Walker “ Red Label ” Whisky is now put up only in new and greatly improved Patent Bottles
which are easy to pour. These Bottles are commercially non-refillable.
It is not claimed that they are scientifically non-refillable any more than a Burgi.ar-proof Safe is claimed to
be absolutely burglar-proof.
But both Non-refillable Bottles and Burgi.ar-proof Safes give ample protection to their valued contents.'
GUARANTEED same quality throughout the world.
JOHN WALKER & SONS. Ltd.,
Scotch Whisky Distillers.
KILMARNOCK,


The war precautions regulation restricting
the use of paper is an unavoidable necessity.
In these days wisdom is a valuable com-
modity, and may be obtained from King
(Jeorge IV., the whisky of the wise.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redlern, Sydney.
Wanted.
MACHINERY.
WANTED. —NEW OR SECOND-
HAND STEAM-HAMMER, FROM
12 to 15 cwt. CAPACITY. State price and
all particulars to
Box 1149 G.P.0., Sydney.
Nothing contributes
more to secure happy
temper in a child
than correct feeding.
Get the diet right, and baby
is as happy as the day is long.
Mellin's Food is adapted for use with
the youngest babe, is light, easily
digested, safe. Besides, “Mfellin’s”
is a no-worry food hot water and
fresh cow's milk, and it’s ready.
Mellin's
Food
Baby’s Feeder is important. Mellin’s Feeding
Bottle is unique; hygienic,efficient,easily cleaned.
A Sample Bottle of Mellin’s Food, with Handbook
for Mothers, “The Care of Infants,” sent Free.
Messrs. Gollin & Co. proprietary, Ltd.
Sydney
BOSTOCK’S DRY CLEANER
FOR
Wfritg & Colored Sucd'&CaiWaS Sf)o?S.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
It never fails to give entire satisfaction, being easily applied, does not
mb off, and is unequalled in every way.
COLORS:—White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne.
BoStock’S Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
sypNey.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
From Tiie Bulletin’s Melb. prophet:—
In picking' a bunch for the Melbourne Cup a week
before the event the prophet is worried in the first
place by doubt whether the Caulfield Cup winner will
even arrive at the post. Had everything gone right
with him King Offa would have deserved a front place
in the Melbourne Cup market. But at time of
writing his fitness for the fray is very questionable,
seeing that ever since Caulfield he has been under
treatment for a sore leg. All things considered.
King Offa, though a natural stayer, cannot to-day be
thought of as a real good thing for the two-nrile race
next Tuesday. He may win, but is more likely
to fail in the last quarter of a mile. It doesn’t
often happen that the Moonee Valley Cup result offers
any suggestions for the big event at Flomington, but
the running last Saturday seems to give an outside
chance to both Rael Locin and Calais. If that
running was Court Jester’s best it looks as though
he may be counted out. Taking the two full brothers,
Estland and Finmark, together with Kennaquhair,
Arch Mareila and the best from Bradfield’s stable as
the most dangerous half-dozen, the writer expects
Finmark to win both Derby and Cup. Rael Locin
should have at least a rough outsider’s chance of
getting a shop.
* * * #
If Finmark wins the V.R.C. Derby, and
wins it decisively, he is practically certain to start
at a short price for the Cup. As own brother to
Estland, who won the Canterbury Cup (M.L.j last
year, and the A.J.C. Randwick Plate the other day,
Finmark holds an unwritten certificate for stamina.
A really good 3-vear-old is always a reasonable in-
vestment for the Melbourne Cup, and Finmark, not-
withstanding his defeat by Gloaming at Randwick
and by Woorawa at Rosehill, may be as good as the
average Derby winner. Anyway, Davis, his trainer,
who as a jockey rode some good Derby horses, and
has trained some really top-class animals, reckons
him a gcod dead better.
Arch Mareila has been the A.J.C. handi-
capper’s tip for Melbourne Cup from the time the
weights were issued, and the gelding’s respectable
effort in the Metrop. certainly justified the judgment
of the man who rated him 111 b. higher than his
Melbourne Cup mark. On paper a horse that runs
second for the Metropolitan with Bst. has a mighty
fine chance to win the 2-mile race at Flemington with
7st. 31b. and Frank Dempsey in the saddle. West-
court last year ran second for the Met. with Bst. 41b.,
beating Lingie at a difference of 61b., and he was
just able to do it again in the Melbourne Cup. This
year Arch Mareila was receiving a stone from Lingie
at Randwick. Over the longer course at Flemington
he will meet Lingie on 111 b. better terms, whilst
Kennaquhair gets 211 b. the worst of it as compared
with their previous handicap. There’s no arguing
against Arch Mareila having a chance. Seeing that
owner Sam Hordern has money to burn, he was wise
to engage Dempsey, at a fancy price, to steer his
promising candidate.
The backing of Night Watch for Mel-
bourne Cup was more suggestive of a stable doubt
about King Offa’s foreleg than of a sincere belief in
the merits of Wakeful’s seasoned son. Thusfar the
best performance to the credit of Night Watch was
the gelding’s defeat of Ashview at Caulfield the other
Saturday. Ashview was giving away a stone, and
was only beaten by a head. Bradfield’s followers, who
presently laid odds on Magpie for the Caulfield
Stakes, hadn’t rushed to back Night Watch as
though they thought it a good thing; so even with
the minimum weight Leslie McDonald’s gelding
doesn’t look very tempting.
After all said and done, assuming that
King Offa keeps comfortably on his legs until next
Tuesday, his chance of winning Melbourne Cup from
the best of the visiting horses (at the weights) must
remain a mere matter of guesswork. One may
assume that the good-looking Englishman won the
Caulfield Cup quite easily, in a racing way of speak-
ing, under the disadvantage of a sore foreleg, which
had slightly interfered with the finish of his prepara-
tion. Good. But as far as the respective qualities of
the “form” in the Caulfield Cup and the Metropoli-
tan there is no means of judging. Wolaroi was the
only "representative of recent Sydney form that ran
in the Caulfield Cup, and he merely confirmed his
brilliance of the previous week without making it
clear that he could have run. second, say, for the
Metropolitan with 9st. 31b. on his back. Could
Wolaroi have split Kennaquhair and Arch Marella in
the Metropolitan if he hadn’t been engaged in win-
ning the Shorts Handicap on the same day? Another
interesting query is: Did Wolaroi beat Eusebius by
two lengths in the Caulfield Cup as the judge made
out? A lot of people made the difference out to be
not more than a neck.
If Eusebius were not addicted to running
wide at the end of his races one would have no hesi-
tation in backing him to beat Outlook, if not Fin-
mark, for the V.R.C. Derby. Outlook certainly
shaped like a non-stayer at Randwick, and although
he beat Eusebius over 11 furlongs in the Eclipse
Stakes at Caulfield, the victory was nothing as com-
pared with the latter’s meritorious third for the Cup,
three days later. Winning the Eclipse Stakes is no
guarantee that the nag can last out a Caulfield Cup.
A good third in the Cup suggests the probability of
seeing a Derby' through.
The Tye Bros, have seemingly tired of
importing horses from England and getting com-
paratively few races out of them. Ethiopian and
their other representatives in training are announced
for sale after Cup week.
“Vic”: The lirst Melbourne races were on
the flat now occupied by the Spencer-street railway
yard. Batman’s Hill, since cut down, was the
grandstand. Kawkner had a booth there, for hard
and soft drinks and pies. The proceedings were
adjourned to Flemington about ’42, but not
till about ’GO was the advantage of the hill
on the north side detected. The stand was on
the south side by the Saltwater River. Then came
Bagot. It. is curious (or perhaps not) that neither
he nor Byron Moore, both surveyors, should have
cared anything about racing. The committee
wouldn’t have a racing man as secretary, and this,
both times, flung many out of the ballot. It. was
Bagot who shifted the grand-stand and finish over
to the hill.
“Halter” : Taking the poor muster of three-
year-olds at Randwick this Spring into consideration
perhaps there is nothing to be surprised at in the
character of the Caulfield Cup field. But it was a
field w*jich looked like a warning or something to
someone—a prize of £5OOO being run for by a
crowd of which at least half are scarcely up to
suburban handicap level. Not many times has there
been a weaker field at Caulfield than that saddled
up last week. Out of the 16 starters four were
“imp.” It looks as if the day is not far off when
the Melbourne Cup field may consist of 27 strangers
and 0 local horse.
* * * *
Suburban proprietary racing, interrupted
by happenings of more importance at Randwick,
was resumed in Sydney on Saturday. The menu
was served at Canterbury Park, where 150 nags
transpired, and during the afternoon battled out 10
races. One event was of four episodes, it being
necessary to find accommodation at the barrier for
65 maidens. Division winners took £62 10s. from
the club, seconds and thirds £l5 and £5. The
Flying was taken in two sections —winners £35.
The other events were worth £75 to the first arrival.
The spectacle of 150 horses pursuing a total prize
money of £BOO for 10 races (plus £l5O acceptance
fees) was not altogether a record for Sydney, but was
so near to being one as to again raise curiosity about
how much longer such proceedings are going to be
tolerated. The gag about such meetings as the
one held on Saturday being a necessary provision
for “the encouragement of the thoroughbred horse,”
or for “gratification of the sporting instinct prevalent
in the community” long ago became weevily. Horse-
racing on these lines is a mockery of sport. Tolera-
tion of it is equivalent to sanctioning a series of
leather-flapping gambles, through which men and
horses are diverted from useful work. There is
money in it, of course—for racecourse proprietors.
For owners and trainers there is the smell of an
oilrag. If the horses had to be nourished out of
the stakes offered by the proprietary clubs slings
would have to be provided to hold the bones up.
Meanwhile, the position of the Government calls
for harsh words. At this Canterbury Park meeting
£23,330 was handled by the totalisators. The
figures, a great increase on previous arithmetic
thereabouts, mean several things, but, at the moment,
the most important point about them is that the
Government rake-off amounted to £1630. This is
more than double the amount which the numerous
horses went in pursuit of, or pretended to. This
is bushranging with a vengeance. On a once-famous
occasion Premier Holman announced that the idea of
the State deriving revenues from “gambling” was
obnoxious to his soul. Wherefore he was opposed
to the totalisator. Holman is now, as Treasurer,
participating in a raid upon the totalisator which
for rapacity would do credit to a Ministry of Shy-
locks. The anomaly of a race programme of 10
events decorated with £BOO prize money and a Gov-
ernment revenue of £1630 from the proceedings
simply clamors for correction. If Holman and
others are unable to see that yn this matter they
are doing further injury to the only arguments by
which use of the totalisator can be justified, the
sooner they hire someone to impart some sense of
decency into their tote programme the better. And
if they cannot see that revenue derived like this
is smirched, then their dulness is incredible. In
this page’s judgment there is not even the sem-
blance of a ease to be made out for the proprietary
racing club, and from every point of view and in any
circumstances the 7 per cent. Government levy is an
outrage. Appropriated regardless of the stakes offered
on the racing menu —well, it was not for that anyone
ever asked for the totalisator!
Apropos of the Sydney proprietary alleged
racing outfits there is a scheme in the incubator by
which one will pass to the undertaker, its racing
dates being absorbed by the A.J.C. The matter has
some not unamusing incidental aspects. But these can
be passed. The main thing is that the passing-out
process having commenced, it should be encouraged
and the prevailing conditions cleared away. The
change had better be made a thorough one _as
quickly as possible, while the time is ripe for doing
it painlessly. Otherwise some of the alleged clubs
have a 0 to 4 chance of getting badly hurt.
Anyone backing a hurdler when there
isn’t anything to jump usually has reasonable cause
to suspect that the animal will omit to fall. But
not always. Swanker was made a 5 to 2 favorite
for the jumpers’ flat race at Canterbury Park on
Saturday. They started—and Swanker, discovering
there were no fences to tumble over, got so agitated
that he tumbled over his feet.
The once near-about Maoriland cham-
pion Bimeter had got so close on Saturday to recover-
ing his rapidity that he got third in a division of
the Flying at Canterbury Park (Sydney). Cerise
Colors and Hem were in front, but there were no
Biplanes behind. Bimeter started at sto 2. He
must have cost the discerning punter quite a lot
since he commenced being a certainty in Sydney.
Hitherto Bimeter’s main trouble was to get away at
the start. Latterly his difficulty seems to -be to stop
going astern at the finish.
“Trot”; Unless the talk of jockeys and
trainers and the evidence of one’s eyesight is all
wrong, the sooner the cinematograph as an assistant
stipe is recognised the better. Wherefore I beg to
suggest without demand for fee that a movie opera-
tor be located every 20 yards round the track from
the first turn to the last, at which point there should
be at least six on different angles. Then at the con-
clusion of a race, if anyone had any questions to ask,
the open book could be produced and the proceedings
examined in detail. Certainly questions are not asked
now frequently enough, though the stories told by
the boys afterwards are sometimes an antidote to
printable language.
* * * *
“Trot” : The description given by “Cleido”
(B. 10/10/’18) of the methods employed by jockeys
when wasting for a ride is fur too mild. Violent
purgatives, heavy continuous sweats and starvation
are all on the menu, and the way these remedies for
excessive weakness are at times applied i 3 so crude
as to be almost unbelievable. Scores of times I have
seen boys put aboard horses so weak as to make it
a physical impossibility for them to ride in any rational
sense. There are some lads so robust in physique
that even these dynamite methods fail. They make
weight so rapidly as to be more or less useless
except over hurdles, and that is a specialty which
few are suited to. There are others of lower natural
vitality who never recover from the treatment—
and all racing men know what become of them. As
a class jockeys are not a particularly well-informed
lot, to say the least. Considering their training, how
could they be expected to be, anyhow ? The problems
of nutrition and physiological change have no mean-
ing to them—nor to most of their bosses. Yet with
an intelligent diet the youth or man cast in the
right mould for riding would be able to easily do
ali and more than he now so often painfully struggles
to achieve and damages his constitution to per-
petrate. To the rider normally weighing from Bst.
to 9st. a 101 b. or 121 b. variation could be made a
simple and natural process, leaving him unimpaired
in strength and comprehension. But he must know
what to eat instead of what he likes —and must
stick to a menu all the time. If he knows his job
it is worth loading up the right instead of the wrong
stuff —and ever so much cheaper.
*• * * #
Norman Conrad, an Adelaide boy, wounded
at Gallipoli and France, now pursues excitement on
a motor-bike. The other day he won the mile handi-
cap at Sellick’s Beach (S.A.). in 42 4-ssee., which
is probably a world’s record for a touring machine
such as he rode. At the same sports Edgar Ferguson
lowered the one-mile passenger record (motor-
bicycle and sidecar) for Australia, time 55 2-ssec.
The previous best was perpetrated by 11. A. Parsons
(Victoria). Parsons and his passenger loitered 3sec.
longer on the journey.
* * * *
The ravages of the climate of Bananaland
seem to be having more disastrous effects on the
rising generation than ever. At the Military Col-
lege (Puntroon) annual sports the other day the
silver boomerang went to cadet-sergeant Dunbar, who
happens to be a product of the Cairns hinterland.
Dunbar could only manage to win the broad jump
(20ft. 6in.), the 440yds. (56sec.), the 120yds.
hurdles (17 2-ssee.), the high jump (sft. 9in.), and
arrive second in the 220yds. These proceedings are
a solemn warning against the awful weather.
“Dust-up,” on the same mournful subject:
Let me introduce another Bananalander, bred and
born—Sydney Curnow Ashby, just 23 years, and 12st.
His 1918 performances: Member of Valley Water Polo
Team, premiers for year, and most prolific goal-
thrower of season; member of Hamilton Cycling Road
Team, premiers of year; winner of the five-mile and
mile State cycling championships and several handi-
caps ; member of Valley Football Team. He scored
the two sensational tries of the final match which
won the League premiership. Previous performances
include winning track and road championships over
all distances—l 2 times of Bananaland. He represented
the State on track and road in Sydney, securing the
fastest unplaced time in the Speedwell 50-mile race
’l5, after spilling. Also he is holder of the unpaeed
grass-track amateur record of Australia (lmin.
5 l-ssec.), and of Bananaland’s half-mile hard-track
unpaced record (lmin. 2 2-ssec.). Has won run-
ning, swimming and jumping events in good company,
can use the gloves and rifle with the next, and can
play good cricket, bowling and batting left hand
like dad John Ashby, an old international cricketer
and Brisbane toeballer. This climate is simply
ruining the stamina of everyone over 97.
* * * *
One V. S. Murphy, had a busy day at the
first Westralian ’Varsity championship meeting the
other day. Out of the nine events on the pro-
gramme he won the 440yds., 880yds., 120yds. hurdles
and broad jump, and was second in the 100yds.,
throwing the cricket ball and the high jump. Of
56 points scored by Arts in the inter-faculty com-
petition Murphy accumulated 30. There seemed to
be nothing happening but Murphy all the afternoon.
* * * *
Sydney Grammar’s 561 for eight wickets
against Scot s College in G. P. Schools’ cricket last
week-end was a rapid performance. N. S. Langdon,
who caused most unpleasantness by making 121 with
the bat and helping himself to four wickets for 25,
has been a busy lad in school athletics. At the
G.P.S. championships this year he dead-heated for
the 100yds., and was second in the 220yds. and
440yds. ; and at Sydney Grammar championship
meeting he won at 100yds. and 220yds., and was
second in the 440yds. Sydney Grammar's win by
465, however, is only a good second to the debacle a
few years ago, when, strangely enough, the same
school walloped the Scots by 774. Even S.G.S.’s
tally of 848 on that occasion pales before Melbourne
C. of E. Grammar’s record of 961 against Geelong.
* * * *
F. G. Eager’s motor-car jaunt last: week
from Sydney to Brisbane in 19 hours 28}min. can
be written down as the greatest whiz of its kind in
Australia. Boyd Edkin’s record —which, by the way,
was put up from Brisbane to Sydney—had 6 hours
24fmin. chipped off it by the 40-h.p. Overland that
went through without a hitch. Compared with the
715 miles in 27 hours lOmin. perpetrated by the Bris-
bane express, the hurriedness of the ear is a moving
circumstance.
“Yarrum”: Dropped into Sydney Hippo-
drome the other night, and saw’ a go between a
couple of pigmies. They did love each other! Except
that it didn’t last the distance the go reminded me
of a fight I saw at Araluen (N.S.W.), when
Yankee Joe and a man from the Ovens went 94
rounds with the bare knuckles, and, assisted by their
pickers-up, consumed seven bottles of rum during the
six hours the disturbance lasted. Next morning, early,
the combatants were at work together, lip to their
waists in a race, just as if there had been no quarrel
and less ruin.
Chess is not wliat might be called an
excessively rapid game. Sometimes you score, but
usually you sit quite still thinking with great in-
tensity about what would happen in about 24 hours
if you did something different in 75min. to what you
cogitated over doing three hours previously. Nor
can chess be very aptly described as a sporting
game, because taking a chance with the Rook or
something means blue ruin. Moreover, no one was
ever detected going to play chess in clamorous
raiment or a motor-car behind a cigar. Chess is a
vice, not a sport. Its victims approach the pro-
ceedings with corrugated eyebrows and an intense
yearning to .commit homicide if anyone attempts to
start a conversation. The time between drinks is
long enough to give W. Hughes, Esq., a chance to
make 217 speeches. With which few remarks it is
hereby mentioned very much out of place, that the
conflict for the Westralian chess championship ended
in a dead-heat. Jim Sayers and J. Hilton fought out
a gruelling finish and emerged with an equal number
of wins. As Hiltcn couldn’t spare a month or so to
run off, they let it go at that. In 12 years Hilton
had triumphed on occasions and Sayers had all
the scalps on four.
“G.A.”: What is the distance limit for
the homer ? This flight (reported by the secretary
of the Flinders Homing Club, Port Augusta, S.A.) is
claimed to be an Australian record. A pigeon, a
hen eight months old, flew from Zanthus on the East-
West railway to its home at Port Augusta, airline
distance 827 miles, in 264 hours (taking flight-time
as from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. each day). Australian-bred
pigeons have a reputation for stamina, and this seems
to prove it.
“John Quill”: The first prosecution in a
long, long time for illicit fishing in the Macquarie
River (N.S.W.) occurred at Rockley recently, when
a fine was imposed on the offender. The Fisheries
Department falls far short of its duty in adequately
protecting the fastly-diminishing cod. In reply to
the Wellington amateur fisherman’s outcry against
the use of nets and cross-lines in “prohibited areas”
recently, the Department said that it was unable to
appoint an inspector, and hoped that interested citi-
zens would help the police in such matters. This is
no good, because most people don’t like playing the
rdle of informer. Some time ago I stated in The
Bulletin that, unless the Department became more
active, a decade or two hence the renowned cod
would be almost extinct in the north-western streams.
My prediction appears to be coming true, for certain
people at Bathurst have offered the Department to
finance an attempt to stock the Bathurst waters of
the Macquarie with Murray cod. Twenty years ago
the sending of cod to the Macquarie would have been
regarded- as being quite as ridiculous as sending coal
to Newcastle. The “prohibited areas” to-day gener-
ally represent about four miles of a river’s course
above and below a town. Outside these areas the
“professional” fishermen use all methods of capture
—from cross-lines to dynamite—-without interference.
Personally, I don’t see any reason why the entire
course of the rivers shouldn’t be prohibited areas.
The north-western Streams suffer most from the
unscrupulous ways of the professional; the Murray
and Murrumbidgee are larger' streams and more
capable of supporting the industry.
SPRING SONG OF AN OPTIMIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My creditors are clamoring for payment;
Each day are papers sent me blue in shade;
Babette is discontented with her raiment,
My own is also lamentably frayed ;
But despite unthinking scoffers
I’ve a plan to fill my coffers.
For I know where there is money to be made.
Though wroth the worried rent-collector waxes,
I mean to pay the robber all I owe,
And promptly square my water-rates and taxes,
And clothe Babette anew from head to too;
For I’ve given some attention
To a scheme which, I may mention,
Cannot fail to bring me in a lump of “dough.”
No longer will I be a prey to sorrow ;
Next week on fizz and oysters will I sup
If but a paltry tenner I can borrow —
Won’t someone kindly put the money up?
I’ve no plan for interfering
With a bank, or profiteering—
But I've pot a nap in pickle for the Cup!
VICTORIA.
GLEN HUNTLY.


Let Me Make You Stronger
and Healthier
by my perfectly natural and interesting system of scientific
exercises.
Exercise is the natural stimulant of the body. It
strengthens every nerve, muscle and sinew. It expels all
impurities, and nourishes with rich, pure virile blood laden
with life-prolonging oxygen.
BUT, in order to obtain these benefits, you must learn the
correct and scientific method of physical culture. You
cannot read until you’re taught—you cannot exercise
properly until you learn the correct methods!
My instruction will strongly appeal to you, on account of
its simplicity and the rapid results it secures. I aim at
building up the muscles, both internal and external, in a
thorough and scientific manner. No one part is built up
at the expense of another, but your weak spots will have
special attention.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will bring you renewed health and strength. The exercises
you receive will be those most suited to your individual
physique, just as the particulars you furnish tell me you
require.
My booklet, entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH FROM
SELF-CULTURE,” tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I
should like to send you a copy. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement, and send it to me, with
three penny stamps for postage. I will know what you
mean.
REG. L.( snowy )BAKER,
“The All-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,”
806 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
i
Armoured cars of the
Allies are run on ——
'SHELL'
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL Oil CO LTD. A
The Dog Medicines!
Beware of
Substitutes.
BEDDOME’S
EXTERNAL
STIMULATOR.
Indispensable for Rac-
ing Greyhounds, to
alleviate stiffness . and
fatigue. Used by the
leading Breeders.
Price, 3/6.
ALTERATIVE
MIXTURE.
Splendid tonic, creates
an appetite, gives a
fine gloss to the coat,
keeps the dog in per-
fect health, prevents
distemper.
Price, 2/6, 5/-
Booklet ” B,” “ Hints to Dog Owners,”
Price 6d., prst free.
R. YV. BEDDOMB & CO.,
THE DOG MEDICINE SPECIALISTS,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable from JOHN BRUSH LTD.,
George Street, Sydney. [4
WANTED
£JHEMIST, accustomed to Milk Products,
assist Factory Manager, Office and
otherwise. Salary, £3OO per annum.
Apply with testimonials to
“LITMUS,”
Box 704 G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
For Sale.
JjlOR SALE or To Let on Tribute as a
going concern, 80 acres of diamond and
tin-bearing freehold land at Copeton, near
Inverell, New South Wales, on which the
well-known old Farm Mine is situate, to-
gether with the necessary washing machin-
ery, plant, etc. Full particulars on applica-
tion to A. L. DAVIS, “Twyford House,” 17
Castlereagh Street; or to ASH & MACLEAN,
Solicitors, 99a Pitt Street, Sydney.
> r -~
m®
I=dL
&
Monarch
of all he
Surveys.
All the great green country-
side is the pleasure-ground
of the man who owns an
Indian Motocycle
Inspect the 1913 Models-the Greatest Motor-cycle the
world has ever seen.
Catalogue “D” with Pleasure.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor Cycle
Co. Ptv. Ltd., 109-113 Russell St.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros. Ltd.,
156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency Ltd.„ Adelaide & Creek Sts.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd.,
75-79 Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON: John King & Sons
Ltd,, Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle & Motor
Agency, Hay Street.
Sydney,
Melbourne,
Perth,
Brisbane,
London.
KlooB.—Diamonds
and Emeralds,
£l4/10/-
K 923. —All Dia-
monds, £35.
Stewart Dawson’s
10 Establishments
are daily devoting their energies to provide
their clients with the World’s Finest Values
in Precious Stones.
Gifts of
Precious Stones.
All these Mountings are Pure Platinum and
18ct. Gold.
No other Gift in the whole list of valuable
things has such personal appeal as a
Diamond Ring.
JBlB.—Three-stone
Diamond Ring,
£lO.
Auckland,
Wellington,
Christchurch,
Dunedin,
London,
D 3035- —-Diamonds
and Pearls,
£B/10/-
UmL
K 734. —Diamond
and Emeralds,
£55.
Call and Inspect, or Write for Catalogue.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Largest Jewellers of the Empire,
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
A\m
CalUe 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started»
Electric Lights
Callle 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
Marine Engines
For All Boats
faille Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies
one- to four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
Sole
Australasian
Agents—
Benson Brothers Limited
76-78 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
71-7 5 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, MELBOURNE.
138 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
■v/ry/s/ss.
Abo.=writers
produce their perkiest para-
graphs (and tallest stories)
when My Lady Nicotine
stirs the imagination.
There’s a subtle thought-
stirring influence in sweet
smoke indrawn through a
—the thinker’s pipe
Ask your tobacconist for a G.B.D.
There are many popular shapes.


I ■ M
1 SV ,//<
V; I
Va
In the public eye.
On the public neck.
The Defence Minister
leads the great administration
that stands to protect Australia.
COLLARS
as leaders in Australian Industry
conform to the Highest Ideals of
Protection.
SHAPE ILLUSTRATED:
The “MINERVA” Linen Faced. Price 1/-
Ileight, ljlin., ljin., 2in., 2-Jin.
Size, 13jin. to 18in.
WEAR
(P*£aco-.
3HIRTS& PYJAMAS
. ALSO
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA,
old by all
Leadfngr
Retailers. [4
Perfection
PINK RUBBER
“THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN."
35
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
bv HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success- i
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
82 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
In the Heart of
cJ^olbourno
—handy to everywhere—sums up the position
of the Queen’s Arms Hotel. You can choose
no better hotel for YOUR stay in Melbourne.
The Queen’s Arms offers modern, homely
accommodation and excellent cuisine.
Tariff, bv the day, 10/6. Write now.
QUEEN’S ARMS
HOTEL
’ " itmi ini
iiif «n inf
Claud 1C Kerr,
C? SWANSTON ST
& FUNDERS
LANE
til"
Proprietor.
STAMMERING can be cured—rarely is
it due to organic defect. Restore the
speech centres in the brain to normal adjust-
ment, and deliverance from the bondage and
handicap of stammering is yours. Thousands
have been successfully cured by Professor
Foote’s methods. Send for free Prospectus
O, containing full information.
JAS. RODGER. 12
159 E. Manchester Street, Christchurch.
Jj&ffisievy
CPECIALIZED
methods in desi&n-
in& and knitting pro-
duce in Luxite Hosiery
a closely woven tex-
ture of remarkable
durability and re-
splendent beauty un-
surpassed for the
money by any other
hosiery in the world.
Don’t accept substitutes anti think
you haye “Luxite.” Insist upon
the genuine. If your dealer is
unable to supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty.Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
Overlooking
All Balcony Rooms.
Botanical Gardens.
Tariff, 15s. per day.
Ulster Park,
Moss Vale.
poUNTRY MANSION, 2500 ft. above sea level. Ideal
home for guests. Terms on application.
Mrs. M. LIGON, Proprietress.
ABBEY
SHOES
Select footwear according to
QUALITY—not PRlCE—the sure
way to get the utmost value for
your money. Abbey Shoes are bf
superior quality—as dependable to-
day as heretofore.
We illustrate one of our popular
models —a choice Box Calf Bal.
with stout soles. Leather lined.
Price - 3 51-
Same style in Tan Willow Calf,
Price - 42/-
In half and full sizes, and narrow,
medium and wide fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Palmer CordTyres
for Light & Heavy
Motor Cars, Cycle
Cars. Motor Cycles
and Aeroplanes.
Palmer Fabric
Tyres for Motor
Cycles, Cycles and
Auto-wheels.
the Tyre of supreme
vitality
is the Palmer Cord Tyre- -for its wonderful
resilience, ease in running, and its freedom from
troubles. The Palmer Cord Tyre has the
Palmer Cord foundation, which saves your petrol
by eliminating internal friction, and it has the
toughest tread ever moulded on to a tyre. More
miles per gallon of petrol—more miles for every
Palmer Cord Tyre.
THE PALMER TYRE Ltd.
Chief Offices and Showrooms:
119/123, Shaftesbury Avenue,
London, W.C , 2 :: England.
I
IifISSSRSSInSu*
Enquiries for Cycle. Motor-cycle and Motor Tyros to
India Rubber, Cutta Percba and Telegraph Works
Co. Ltd.,
279 George Street, Sydney; 21-23 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
D '? <f>
r\
I®
SYDNEY’S LEADING SEASIDE HOTEL
The best place to spend a holiday.
CRONULLA BEACH HOTEL.
Table d’Hote LUNCHEONS & DINNERS, AFTERNOON TEAS de luxe.
Direction —Cronulla Hotel Ltd. J, A, (IRANI, Mgr.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except o] a hostile character ) t all he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and np MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
S.R.S.: No use sending us that kind of
verse. It has neither metre nor rhyme, nor
stamps for return, nor a match to set fire
to it M. 8.: Beautiful typewriting wasted....
B. : “Ah Fung’s soul” is not saved 0.A.: No
uso Kemo: “The Wail” misses, but not by a
mile F. 0.8.: Even the “Waster” has something
about him of greater interest than a verandah post.
. ... A.L.: Spoiled by the commonplace of the
moralising... . T.E.M.: Not up... .Ethel: Good intent
in miserable verse... .A.C.M.: No. .. .J.R.: Won t
do; but the verse-making is done we 11... .Z.P.: You
didn’t stop to find out ivhat you wanted to say,
much less how to say it S.R.C.: Says nothing new
and nothing we 11... .H.M.8.: What’s the good of
writing down to him in that superior way?....
R.F.G.: Dullest commonplace. .. .Koonkie: Poor
attempt... .R.A.P.; Not a starter.... M.N.> hot
enough in it. Watch your rhymes. Rhymes are
as difficult to keep an eye on as a year-old lover. .. .
M.8.J.; Not well enough done... .O.B.: The “War
Loan Campaign” does it: —
In remembrance of the seventh war loan campaign,
Praise to our people for their brave deeds ;
That there’ll never be a stain and Avithout pain.
Their deeds we’ll always know without further need.
May their patriotism be the keynote,
Of this seventh war loan to float;
So as that we will always note,
That Ave’ll paddle and row (sounded as in go) in
the same boat.
Now we have this Bank of Thrift,
May our people never go stiff.
. ...R.D.T.: Insane fragments thrown to the office
lunacy expert.... Boxer :As crude as greenhide....
G.E.D.: Too slight J.E.M.; Ugly yarn. .. .R.S.:
Averse wooden. .. .R.C.8.: Frame it and give it to the
village blacksmith Chanco: Convincing, but not
interesting—like an income-tax assessment.... (. hris .
Verse very bad. .. . A.8.C.: “Wallflowers” wont
bloom here R.E.: Verse far too rugged A.D.:
No use J.H.; Don’t care for the sonnets
W.J.L.: Dull M.K.: No V. Bolt: No record
kept of rejected paragraphs. ... 12 x 12; Junior: No
meat in that sandwich. .. .C.R.A.: Read it to your
maiden aunt. (P.S. —Perhaps you’d better n0t.)... .
C. : “Hector” doesn’t thrill. .. .0.H.L.: Don’t
like it H.D.A.: Verse very thin P.T.8.:
Kindergarten humor, and not too much humor... .
A. Turn-Up: Not nearly Gunyah: Bad verse
J. : “Fires” held for inquest R.A.S.: On our
honor it Avon’t appear. .. .J.A.W.: Your pious advice
to hand. Thanks: —
A plain, deal box for your bones, my friend,
So swear it like a man,
That ere the “Worst” doth come to the “Worst
That ere your race is ran,
Before Grim Death, with his cold, chilly grasp
Your Avret.ched spirit shall rob
That you’ll make things hum, and drink Oceans of
Rum,
And squander ’way every bob !
J.K.M.: Goes haltingly; like the Kaiser stripped
of his trappings, including his moustache... .F.V.E.;
Pleasant verses; but none of them tip the scale....
M.8.P.: No R.W.H.: That theme was ovenvorked
five and a half years ago Kemo: They miss
A.M.0.: We don’t publish books... .M.J.W.: Re-
write it.... Mary Ann: Try it again. .. . A.R,: Melo-
drama is good, but you don’t knOAV hOAV to handle melo-
drama ....Woodicus: Yarn has not enough weight.
....C. Davies: India, China and Japan alone Avould
bIoAV out K.; but if it’s the European Allies you mean
Ave couldn’t decide the bet. Think K. Avould lose.. . -
G. (San Francisco): Thanks; there’s no doubt in
Australia on that score Mrs. Carrie McCallum:
Thanks; they brightened up a very dull day....
K. (or as near as can be read): No use....
H. : You Avrite Avorse verse than Webster. Send
it to Governor Davidson.... Kennaquhair: Go and
back the lot.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J. 8.: Creaky joke and the drawing is as gloomy as
good resolutions.... Leo D.: The autograph-book must
be your hunting-ground for a few years.... Monty:
Sad thing. .. .W.W.M.: At first Ave thought your dove
was a whale. Maybe it i5...-R.S.H.: N0....F.G.:
Poor stuff J.A.J.: Is it a design for a stained-
glass window? C.S.N.: Conceal the hands next
time. If necessary put pockets on men’s bathing-
costumes G.C.M.: Your drawing isn’t good
enough yet....D.G.: Work is crude, but there’s a
possible idea hanging to one of your suggestions.
What’s your name and address?... .G.R.: Have met
that jest before. Diagram is hopeless H.C.: No
value.... Jas F.: Economise in material. Yours was
the largest reject of the week. .. .L.J.D.: DraAv
better and larger.
The anti-war and anti-Kaiser feeling that
has sprung up in Germany isn’t in any sense
a revolt against the horrors done by German
soldiery on the unarmed peoples that were at
their mercy. So long as the war went well
not a voice was raised in Hunland against
the worst of horrors, and the Hun “worker”
-—the private soldier —was just as brutal as
he knew how whether he had an officer —often
a "worker” like himself in peace time—by
his side to give orders or whether he had a
chance to be a detached brute. The rising
Hun is torn by two emotions —blind rage
against the rulers whose failure promises to
put an end to his enjoyment, and blind terror
lest he should fall into the hands of invaders
as inhuman as himself. He has no illusions
as to what sort of a time he will have in that
case.
The fiercest deputation that, had yet waited
on Minister Poynton came to complain that
he had described some of the men on the
Commonwealth shipbuilding job as “raw
hands.” What he said was that the work
done was really excellent especially as some
of the men were raw hands, which they cer-
tainly are-—raw to the building of steel
ships. The deputation declared that it tvas
insufficient to say that the men were angry;
“there Avas a storm.” An apology Avas de-
manded. Even the vanity of Caesars and
Kaisers and Czars isn’t ahead of the child-
ish and insane pomp of men who rage over
a compliment like that and feel that another
hideous jyrong has been done to “the worker.”
Yet the same crowd demands that the Hun
shouldn’t even be made to apologise or made
to pay a fine for rape, murder, torture, star-
vation and enslavement done on Belgian and
Serb workers. To ask such a thing would
humiliate the German people, including the
man who holds Poynton’s job in the Hun
country.


Stop Torturing
Toothache Quickly.
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
u
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring; Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
slopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just as good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfort.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
*7
m
N
S 3
91
"V
9
s?
%
m
m
m
m
iiiii
Hi!
lliiffi
mm
TO D/1 Vi
When you can’t work, feel all run down, under the weather, blue,
irritable, sick all over, it is a sign that your entire system is clogged up with the
dangerous poisons of dyspepsia, biliousness and constipation.
To obtain quick relief give yourself a thorough cleansing out with
Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and liver. Their action is quick, yet
mild and gentle. They strengthen the bowels and tone up the whole
digestive system.
Chamberlain’s Tablets do not form the pill habit, like most medicines,
but on the contrary help nature to re-establish the natural functions of
the bowels.
Chamberlain’s Tablets will make you feel like a new man—bright,
cheerful and fit for work. There is no safer or better medicine known for all
stomach and liver troubles and constipation than
CIUMEEELAINSTABLCT3
Jfe'- The Stomach &> Liver.
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
latal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness o_~ tie bowels will
save suffering and anxi ;j—a a loss of both
time and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when 'his remedy is at hand all danger
may be avoided.
Be Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
“I've Struck It—
The Real Thing in Razors. Gets through the job
in a quarter the time and makes the business a
pleasure. “The PLUM’S the Razor for me.”
THE “PLUM ” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted
The “PLUM”
Razor.
lit
N.
Let the Cool Breezes
Radiate from a
Banks’ Electric Fan.
The whirl of a Fan creates a nice cool
breeze in the office or home, and adds
much to your comfort. Don’t be without an
Electric Fan this summer. Get one of Danks'
we have a nice variety, economically priced
—see them to-day.
324 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
DANKS’
Near
Liverpool St.
f°r Office
4 ! or
ome
y
7*
r
I
/
jf
S
B
MOTOR LORRIES
I=2=3 and 5
Tons
Capacities.
The road clearance of the Denby axle is greater than that of any
other type.
Your driver will appreciate what that means when he gets off the
paved streets into sand or mud.
The wheels can be burie l up to the hubs, and as long as traction is
obtainable the truck will pull through without trouble.
There are many other points of Denby dominance 'which will interest
you.
A. HATRICK & COMPANY, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable Address: “DENTRUX.”
Cable Codes: Western Union and ABC sth Edition.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S.A.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium icin withof
lifting a handf


Amott's Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’S FOOD."
Amusements.
Ilnrry Rickards Tivoli Tiieutres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
J1V() I. I TIIKA T U K. SYI) N K Y
Evenings at 8. Matinees Wednesday and
Saturday at 2.30.
LONDON'S LATEST SENSATION,
H f>NI SOIT.
The Most Delightful lievue Triumph ever staged.
Plan at. Nicholson's and Tivoli.
Tivoxa tiiea ritii, m i;T7noi;itNit
NEXT SATURDAY, L OVEMBER 2, AT 7.50.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
-GAY CARNIVAL ATTRACTION.
The Winning Revue,
EVERYBODY’S DOING IT.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
Legal Notice.
TN BANKRUPTCY. IN THE SUPREME COURT
L OF NEW ZEALAND. NORTHERN DISTRICT.
No. 70/18.
In the Matter of “The Bankruptcy Act 1908” and
in the Matter of FRANCIS ARTHUR RICH, formerly
of Waimana in the said District but now of Parts
unknown, Surveyor, a Debtor.
EX PARTE BARNARD CLARKSON SHEPHERD,
a Creditor.
To FRANCIS ARTHUR RICH, formerly of Waimana
in New Zealand, Surveyor.
WHEREAS Barnard Clarkson Shepherd formerly
of Whakatane and now of Northern Wairoa in New
Zealand Contractor has filed his pet-ition in bank-
ruptcy wherein he alleges that you are indebted to
him in the sum of £35 2s. 9d. and that with intent
to defeat and delay your creditors you departed from
New Zealand about the month of October 1915 and
at present remain out of New Zealand with the like
intent being unable to pay your debts in New Zealand
out of your own moneys and whereas by an order
of this Honorable Court made on the 18th day of
October 1918 it was ordered that service of the said
petition and of the summons issued herein be served
upon you by publishing an advertisement notice
once in Tiie Bulletin newspaper published at Syd-
ney. Therefore take notice that unless you the said
debtor attend at the Supreme Court at Auckland in
New Zealand on Wednesday the 18th day of Decem-
ber 1918 at 10.30 a.m. or so soon thereafter as Coun-
sel can be heard the matter will be heard and deter-
mined in your absence.
A copy of the said Petition and Summons will be
supplied to you the said debtor upon your applying
for the same at the office of this Court at Auckland.
Dated at Auckland this 19th day of October 1918.
O. E. BOWLING, Deputy Registrar.
Norman Potts of Opotiki is Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner whose address for service is at the office of
Messieurs Bamford and Brown, New Zealand Insur-
ance Buildings Queen Street Auckland New Zealand.
Note. —Should any person know the address of the
Debtor he is requested to send this notice to him.
Business Notices.
CHARACTERISTIC
OF HUNT’S.
To dress well requires good judg-
ment, and good judgment favors
STETSON HATS
because of their rare combination
of irreproachable correctness of
style and quality.
Our Present Display of Stetson’s
is most complete, and includes
the popular colors in
Greys, Self and Black Bands,
Fawn-Slate Greys, Dark Bottle-
Green and Browns, etc.
Prices from 35/-to 63/-
Other Makes from 16/6
in
4
S.O
R. Hunt U Co.
Gentlemen’s Outfitters,
314 George Street,
(Between G.P.O. and
Hunter Street),
Sydney.
Amusements.
It ITKIt I <) N T II 15 A T It 15, SYI)NIC*.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
First production in Australia of William Vaughn
Moody's stirring Drama,
THE GREAT DIVIDE.
With MURIEL STARR and .T. C. WILLIAMSON’S
SPLENDID DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
V-| 15 It SI A .1 15 S X V ’ S, S Y I) N 15 Y.
1 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
.T. C. WILLIAMSON’S ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
In the latest and most delightful of all Comic Operas,
KATINKA,
Excelling anything previously introduced by this firm.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
Amusements.
PALACE THEAT It E, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
EMILIE POLINI,
with CYRIL MACKAY and HARMON LEE, in
EYES OF YOUTH.
A MASTERPIECE OF STAGE PRODUCTION.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
E a y h o u i e*.
Castlereagrh Street, between Liverpool
and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
NIGHTLY, with MATINEE SATURDAYS.
COMMENCING TO-MORROW (FRIDAY) NIGHT.
SYDNEY JAMES’S ENTIRELY NEW SHOW.
“PIERROT PIE NO. 7.”
PATRIOTIC PIE—“HOME DEFENCE.”
Book! Prices: 4/- (Res.), 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
• REM OIL
YOU could not make a better Invest-
ment than in a bottle of Rem Oil. One
drop judiciously applied to the wearing
surfaces of light machines will prolong
their usefulness and render them capable
of better service. Every household should
have a bottle of Rem Oil. For firearms it is
unexcelled, being at one and the same time a
lubricant, powder solvent and rust preventive
Ask your dealer for further particulars or
send for special descriptive circular, also
complete catalogue of Remington UMC
Firearms and
Cartridges. ‘
m
Wi
TO
33
3
?w
B-4
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative, Box 686, G. P. 0., Melbourne
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. G. EKO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
This remedy, which positively
prevents and cures SEA
SICKNESS and
TRAIN SICKNESS,
has been tested
on the English
Channel, Irish
and Baltic Seas
by the leading
London newspapers,
who endorse its un-
failing power to prevent
mal-de-mer. Used on L.B. &
<
o
ASIC
K
S
E
S. C. Ry. New haven and
Dieppe Route, I. of Man
Steamers, Atlantic
Liners, Polytech-
nic Tours, &c.,
ceived testi-
monials from
Royalty,
Nobility, Doctors,
Chemists, Army and
Naval Officers. Abso-
lutely harmless and produces no bad after-effects.
Of all Chemists, in two sizes. Mothersill Remedy Co., Ltd., Cor. Ciarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
GUARANTEED TO CURE OR MONEY RETURNED.
Necessity Forced Us
to make Gold Mateh-boxe- for vestas. Could not import them.
Glad now we could not, as we can make them here cheaper and
heavier than the imported, with its heavy Customs duty added.
We now have made the dies, and so the initial cost is over, and hence-
forth we will produce Gold Match-boxes, made from Australian Gold by
Australian hands and machinery, at fully 25% less cost than the imported
boxes.
Heavy weights, too, that will last a lifetime.
For Birthday and Xmas presents they are fine
Fairfax &. Roberts Ltd.
Plain Figures
Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Solid Gold Match-box,
to take full box of
vestas .. 52/6
Silver .. 12/- net.
Amusements.
j You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
lUNI (» N 1* 1CTl! It IS TIIISAT It K S
! w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
] big select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
|_|ER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON 1.71).
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the real Revue,
HELLO, EVERYBODY.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Til EAT It E It OYA L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
The Greatest of All Comedies,
BUSINESS BEFORE PLEASURE.
Featuring the London originals, ADAMS and
WATERS.
KING’S THEATRE. MEI,ItOII It N E.
Lessees: BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 2.
Reappearance of
ALLEN DOONE and EDNA KEELEY in
LUCKY O’SHEA.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
|y| VJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ON TRIAL.
The screen’s greatest dramatic achievement of 1918.
Matinees Daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOUIIKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
JEWEL CARMEN in
BRIDE OF FEAR.
MARSHALL NEILAN & FLORENCE
DAGMAR in
THE COUNTRY BOY.
LYCEUM (Over ITinces Bridge).
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday 2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURE:
MARY PICKFORD in
AMARILLY OF SUNSHINE ALLEY.
Prices as usual.,
yy IRTHS’ NEW CIRCUS LTD.
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WED., SAT., HOLIDAYS.
AT HIPPODROME, WIRTHS’ PARK.
|y|ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATIIK,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
gg»RITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
Business Notices.
Nervous Indigestion
Many Australian people suffer from ner-
vous indigestion. Worry, a deep grief, over-
work, lack of exercise or a general run-down
condition of the system will cause it. Among
school-children overstudy and confinement in
badly-ventilated rooms will bring it on.. It
is a disease of the nerves rather than of the
digestive organs, and is corrected by giving
needed nourishment to the nervous system by
building up the blood.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are an ideal tonic
for nervous people because they are non-
alcoholic, and nervous patients should avoid
alcoholic stimulants.
The treatment consists largely in rest,
recreation and the use of the tonic, the dis-
continuance of any practice that may have
caused the trouble, and abstinence from tea,
coffee and stimulants. As the nerves receive
their nourishment through the blood the
latter must be built up and made rich and
pure. Especially if there is loss of weight
and pallor indicating a weakness of the blood,
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are best adapted.
Write for the free booklet, “Diseases of the
Nervous System,” to the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., Box 594 G.P.0., Sydney. Your
own chemist or storekeeper sells the pills, or
they will be sent, post paid, at 2s. 9d. per box,
six boxes 15s. 3d. — xXdvt.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Austsalasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information withotrt
charge.


Quickly, Easily
and Cheaply
by Using
The Soap to
cleanse and puri-
fy, the Ointment
to soothe and heal.
Nothing better for
all skin and scalp
troubles, as well
as for every-day
toilet purposes.
Sample Each Free by Mail
With 32-p. Skiu Book. For samples address
post-card: "R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
•»~c-
/
■^7
CHRISTIE 3
SPEUALIM
rwo
l/A/ES
s
J# 5
fOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG E:S T SYDNEY
Z( EIOMTER ,3’ NEWCASTLE
M
4quaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenjta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.’' Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents: —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Teltigrapii Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled bry CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BEECH
mm
WORROCKSES’
ffla/isieletteA
FOR
SAFETY
WEAR AND
COMFORT
“HORROCKSES"’
ON SELVEDGE.
SKHS3
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States. 2Jd.
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone by taking
Uhosrormo
i THE ROYAI TONIC
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worry with a strong heart.
I
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton &C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
“Easy as Easy”
It requires no sleight of lnind on the part of the housewife to secure
good cooking results when —
IRELAND’S Baking Powder
is used. Even moderate cooks can produce tasty,
appetising scones, light, flaky and easily-digested pastry
and tempting cakes —at every attempt.
For IRELAND’S BAKING POWDER is mixed #
well-tried-out recipe—from pure, fresh ingredients.
Order a tin from your grocer to-day.
J. Ireland, Ltd., w
NEWCASTLE.
X
FOR RHEUMATISM AND GOUTY
AFFECTIONS AND OTHER
LOCAL PAINS USE
Vaseline
Trade Marie Registered
Camphorated
Petroleum Jelly
For sale at all chemists and general stores, in glass
bottles and tin tubes. Refuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
Montreal Moscow
London
C^s£BRo l |Q{'|s^j^CTlJWNCW
* COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE s
SEASON
SSvi?
.*«■
-'XKSSa*
■^a^ssg?*!
Barron Falls - Barron Gorge -eP
the wonderful hinterland.
Sunshine , Palm Trees .
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
and Scenic splendour
A.Booklet telling all about *t
S‘ss£«BS ! ®4* is yours for the asking
i. Sgft ,'*%e /?// in this coupon •-
Addrssi....
m
m
w m
i
y© A4<? Dtrccfor of
Intelligence &Tou’.rist Bu.reaau». —*'
Brisbane. «3ttJEEN4SJLAJ , «». , ‘l
The conviction grows stronger in Europe
that the Hun fleet must tome out. The idea
oi: retaining it as an a*set to barter with at
the Peace Conference is fading, for ie
signs are that there will be no bartering,
and that the Hun won’t get even a gallerj
ticket for the Peace Conference. The visible
possibilities are six: (1) The fleet ma.N
as before and wait to be partly
to pieces and partly captured; (-) “ m ‘•
be destroyed so far as it is Possibie to de
stroy such a vast and solid affan, but pio
bably the most strenuous efforts would onij
amount to a depreciation of oU per cent.,
(3) it may be sunk, which is rather con
cealment than destruction, if there is enough
deep water available to allow of it
sunk past recovery; (4) it may be surren-
dered by the Government, which doesn t look
profitable; (5) it may be surrendered or
sold for a soug to the Allies by its own offi-
cers; (6) it may come out to- take the hun-
dredth chance of beating the Allied fleet and
wrecking the Allied plans at the 11th houi
and 59th minute. Possibly the Huns waited
so long because defeat seemed almost cer-
tain, and they didn’t want a gr«it sea calam-
ity to happen just when the army aud the
people had enough bad land news to struggle
with. And possibly they may have waited
too long till land calamity has taken the
fight out of the fleet. If there is an igno-
minious collapse in harbor the lost fleet will
be the jest of history—the second greatest
navy that the world ever saw breaking up
without a single big fight to its credit, lhc
battles at sea have been- the merest skir-
mishes considering' the size of the fleet that
might have skirmished. Even Paraguay and
Peru, in their brief career as naval powers,
made a more dignified finish. They did the
Richard Grenville 1 act.
J. M. Paul, Bathurst native, who died
at Orange last week, was a brother of .Lieut.-
Colonel Paul, of Soudan fame (father of
Mick Paul, the artist) and of “Bill” Paul,
who represented Bathurst in the N. Is. Wales
Assembly, 1889-91. At the next election he
was pushed out by F. B. Stittor. He was
86 when the light failed.
“Vic”: I think General Pau and the
French Mission must have declared that the
Public Library is the greatest feature of
Melbourne. They had a quiet look around
it, without the disturbance of a crowd.
(Metaphorically they went do fyn on then-
knees and thanked Providence for the inter-
val.) I doubt that any library m.U.b. beats
Melbourne for French literature. Napoleon
the Third gave the Victorian Library a com-
plete reprint, in many volumes, of The
Moniteub newspaper, as published through-
out the yearjs ITB9-95.
“Melb”: The great Catholic conclave of
all the Australian prelates in Melbourne had
for its main business a discussion- on the
Eucharistic Congress of the World, to be
held in Sydney as soon as possible after the
war. It was to have been held in 1915- A
cardinal from Riome will preside, and Car-
dinal O’Connell from the United. States is
also likely to attend. It is certain that an
Australian Cardinal will be created. My. tip
is between Cattaneo and Mannix. Certainly
not both.
“Oldfield” : In the sane discussion that has
lately been given to venereal diseases I notice
no mention of a very simple manner of con-
tracting them. In the surfing season num-
bers of persons hire costumes on the various
beaches, little thinking of the serious risk
they run. If a surf costume be infected by
v.d. germs, one 1 has practically no change of
escape. At busy times the hirers-out have no
time to disinfect these dresses even if in-
clined that way. which is very doubtful.
AVliat about the Health Department taking a
hand?
“Solomon Matfaprop” looks in: —
As a matter of o ourse General Pau and the other
French visitors were taken to see Daceyville, Sydney’s
“garden suburb.” Everybody of importance or
otherwise is taken there. Recently the S. M. Herald
complained because a conference of bush mayors,
etc., visiting Sydney at the public cost, was allowed
to call at Daceyville without a Minister —a full-
blown Gladstone or Walpole or Disraeli—to take it
round, and the Abralnam Lincoln in charge of the
Three-roomed Qbttage Department wrote indignantly
disclaiming ai(y intentional disrespect towards the
bush aldermen. Some day, when the madness that
is impending comes upon me, I will burn Daceyville
simply because I am ifired of hearing about it. The
blessed place was started with 336 J acres of public
land, which gave it a cheap beginning. It was built
with loan money, awl the p'.n. having 1,860,000
signatures on the- back the money was got more
cheaply than a privateparson or municipality could
hope for. Being State property it escapes some
imposts which fall upon private property. The half-
square-mile place was calculated to hold 1437 cot-
tages, varying from three rooms to four rooms and
a kitchen. If they weie crowded on the same scale
as the average three- or foiir- or five-room suburb
the place would still hold fyr less people than the
said suburb, because the folk don’t live on top of
each other. If Balmain, Annandale, Darlington,
Glebe, Erskineville, Newtown, Paddington and Red-
fern were reconstructed on the same lines they would
spread as far as Granville or Liverpool, and the
inhabitants would be ruined in time and railway-
fares getting to and from theiir jobs. Daceyville is
a solemn solitary confidence trick. It shows how a
handful of people with small means can be Roused
without overcrowding within five miles of a city (and
even that is a long way) provided the fac-
tories, workshops, wharves, railway station, hospital,
police-station, gaol (possibly), lunatic asylum (possi-
bly), municipal and private offices, wholesale ware-
houses, travellers’ accommodation, etc., that ordinary
places have to make room for are kept out of the
garden or show suburb and left to overcrowd the
plain suburb next door. If the wonderful place was
made 10 times the size, so as to make the lesson
more impressive, the scheme would burst ; it would
be an attempt to make a plane about nine times the
size of Redfern with all the unpleasant but necessary
realities of toil and real life shoved over the edge
into Paddington, which has troubles enough of its
own. Daceyville pays a -modest dividend with cheap
land to start upon; with all the State to back its
municipal p.n.; with few repsiirs to face, for every-
thing is new; with no old hot se to replace ; and with
its balance-sheet drawn up by friendly people who
don’t need to prove its alleged solvency by not in-
creasing the rates. As an essay on the hovsing pro-
blem, it is a fraud, and lam tired of it. I wonder
if it is combustible.


UIM 3WUW
•Si
Nil
I
: ,;M|
J
O
paajmvjuaj
The Roof
That Endures
For factories, warehouses, office
buildings, hotels, stores, garages,
barns and out-buildings Certain-teed
is the most efficient roof. It is weath-
er-proof, clean, sanitary and fire-
retarding. Does not rust, corrode or
affect the taste or odour of water.
Does not melt under the hot sun.
Certain-teed is economical. Its
first cost is low. It is inexpensive
to lay and costs practically nothing
to maintain. And it is guaranteed
by the world’s largest manufacturer
of roll roofing.
Remember the name * * Certain -
teed” and ask us about it.
Australian Kepresentative— C. C. Mo C ANN,
Perpetual Trustee Ituilding, Sydney, N.S.VV.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
John Dunks & Son Pty. Ltd. Wunderlich, Ltd.
James Hardie & Co, Ltd. James Sandy & Co., Ltd.
Manufactured by
CERTAIN-TEED PRODUCTS CORPORATION
World’s Largest Manufacturers of Roll Roofing
AL
TRY
PATRIOTISM
Your
Ain? r
Then have
at smoking
|% at smoking
Referee
Tk Australian Tobacco.
1
z
X
■ ,
N
1
War
Service
Continues to engage the whole of the energies of
the Wolseley Factories, and we are still unable to
supply private customers.
We shall, however, be pleased to receive enquiries,
and to add your name to our rapidly-growing
Waiting List.
AGENTS:
F. H. GORDON & CO. LTD., 133-135-137
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KELLOW FALKINER MOTOR CO., Russell Street,
Melbourne.
HOWARD CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
G. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
WOLSELEY MOTORS LTD.
ENGLAND.
Prcprietors: VICKERS LTD.
p
Y
SEASON 1918-19.
Our stock comprises everything
for the Game. Now showing a
fine range of materials by the
world’s leading makers.
For full particulars of Cricket and all indoor
and outdoor Sporting Materials see a copy of
our new edition Sportsman’s Guide. Post
free to any address.
Military Training Quarters and Camps supplied with all
kinds of Sporting and Gymnastic Requisites.
MEN’S BATS.
Each.
M.S., All Cane, special value . i 8/6
M.S., Colonial Driver 10/6
M.S., Marvel Driver 1.2/6
M.S., Ilaymarket Driver, single rubber.. 15/6
M.S., Haymarket Driver, double rubber 17/6
M.S., Haymarket Driver, Spec. Selected 22/6
Ayres’ International, 30/-, Improved.. 32/-
Ayres’ International Improved Selected.. 35/-
C. G. Macartney Autograph 35 /-
City & Suburban Sport Co., 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
(C.S. Sport Co.’s bats are specially faced
for Australian wickets, and require no
prepararation before using.)
Clapshaw’s Cork-cased Handle 12/6
Clapshaw’s Spiral Spring 27/6
Dye’s Champion, 17/6; selected .... 20/-
Dye’s Champion, specially selected .... 22/6
Gunn and Moore’s Autograph 33/-
NiehoH’s Automatic 20/-, 32/6
Shaw and Shrewsbury’s A 1 25/-
Spalding’s London Club 25/-
Spalding-’s County Special 30/-
Spalding’s Hayward Record 35/-
Stuart, Surridge Rapid Driver ........ 25 /-
Stuart, Surridge Oval Driver ... . 17/6
Stuart, Surridge Standard Driver 22/-
Summers Brown P. Spoon, 27/6, 32/6, 35/-
Syke’s Yorkshire Driver, ord., 25/-; sel., 30/-
Warsop’s Conqueror, ord., 25/-; sel., 30/»
Bats, retail from 21/-, are guaranteed.
MEN’S STUMPS.
Set of 6.
Blackwood, very strong, plain 3/6
Brass Top, steel shod, ash 7/6
Half Solid Brass Top, steel shod 9/-
Solid Brass Top, steel shod, ash 10/-
Revolving Top, steel shod, ash 12/6
CRICKET BALLS.
All Match Weights, viz., C^oz.
Each.
Duke’s P.K. D.. 9/6; Best .... 10/-
M.S., Match, gut sewn 5/6
Eclipse Compo., 3/6; Eclipse Victory.. 4/-
Compo. Balls, 1/6, 2/-; Nicholson’s.. 5/6
FULL-SIZE CRICKET MATS.
(GREEN).
Made from Best Material.
In two pieces, for double wit ket, Gft. wide.
Bound Ends, metal eyelets and spikes, £5/7/6
Leather-bound £6/10/-
MEN’S BATTING GLOVES.
Pair.
Featherweight, felt protection 4/9
Buff Chamois, best tubular rubber..., ... 8/6
White Kid, Gold, cape points, hair-stuffed 5/-
Superior, ex. stout tubular rubber 10/6
Surry Shields, R. or L. Hand 5/6
MEN’S GAUNTLETS.
Pair.
Ventilated, very strong 7/-
Gold Cape, ventilated and padded .... 9/6
White Kid, ventilated, extra quality .. 9/6
All England, rubber palms, padded tips..2o/-
Celebrated Lilley, padded tips 21/-
The Giant Special 33/-
MEN’S LEG GUARDS.
Pair.
White Drill, strong- 7/6
Tan, continuous straps, good club guard 10/6
Tan, continuous straps, ventilated 13/6
Gold Cape, cont. straps, superior 12/9
Half Skeleton, Gold Cape, new pattern.. 15/6
Half Skeleton, White Buck 17/6
Best Skeleton, Gold Cape 17/6
Best Skeleton, White Buck 20/-
Gold Cape, ex. quality for wicketkeepers.. 17/6
CRICKET SUNDRIES.
Abdominal Pads ... 3/-, 5/-. 5/6, 7/- eacli
Bat Covers, waterproof canvas.... 4/6 each
Bat Oil specially prepared 1/6 bottle
Canvas Boots, welted soles . .. 12/6 pair
Club Kit Bags 15/-, 17/6 each
Cricket Belts, two straps 1/3 each
Cricket Nets 50/-, 60/- each
Gripolenej gauntlet solution 1/6 bottle
Handle Rubbers ... 1/-, 1/3- 1/6, 1/9 each
Scoring Books, full size .. 1/-, 1/6, 2/- each
Scoring Books, pocket size, 6tl-> l/-> 1/3 each
Bats of all kinds Repaired.
i
■
\
TENNIS
WE HAVE LONG BEEN RECOGNISED AS THE LEAD-
ING SUPPLIERS OP REQUISITES FOR THE GAME.
RACKETS.
M.S. Handicap 6/-
M.S. Standard 10/6
M.S. Champion 12/6
C. 8.8. Quadruple .... 15/6
Hay market 22/6
Haymarket Special, 27/6.37/6
Haymarket Selected. .. 40 / -
Haymarket Ex. Special—•
42/6, 55/-
(Postage on Racket —N.S.W., 9d ; other States, 1/2.)
BALLS,
Each. Doz.
Challenge, covered 1/6 17/6
Ay re’s Champion 2/7 30/-
Each. Doz.
Slazenger’s Champ. 2/7 30/-
Spalding’s Champ. 2/2 25/-
(Postage on one doz. : N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/S.)
TENNIS NETS.
Full size, well made—lo/6, 16/-. 18/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-
Tennis Nets under 25/- are suitable for school use.
PRESSES. MARKERS, TAPES & ALL SUNDRIES STOCKED.
Rackets Re-strung and Repaired.
'IC.
J
AUSTRALU3S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
AND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
99 King St also at
Newcastle l Brisbane


“Pas” Caricatures Himself
:: and ::
Praises
<0
CO
■
Digestive Tabules
It is with mingled emotions that we see how a Cartoonist
caricatures us, for while we think we know ourselves, it some-
times shocks us to see how others see us. The noted Carica-
turist “Pas” (Donald Macdonald) has favored us with a
caricature of himself. He has added a few words, giving his
experience of the use of DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE
TABULES, which we feel sure will carry great weight with
all our readers, coming- from this eminent artist.
“My profession demands such alert attention and
close observation that I have freouently, in following a
study, quite forgotten the flight of time. Then hurrying
over meals I have naturally suffered from severe twinges
of indigestion. In New Zealand a leading chemist gave
me some of your Digestive Tabules, and from that time
I have always carried a few in my pocket; and, as anti-
dotes to the effects of worry, I have never known any-
thing like them.” —Yours faithfully,
[Perfect Digestion Means Perfect Health
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are sold everywhere at 1/6 per
tin of 36 Tabules and 3/6 per tin of 80 Tabules. Buy a tin, eat a
good square meal, and then take the Tabules according to
directions, and note the result. You will forget all about it if
vou are not careful, for there will be no pain or disturbance
and the food will lie digested just as it used to be when your
stomach was well and strong. Furthermore your stomach will
soon be restored again, if you keep on taking them, just as
thousands upon thousands pf other Jmv e *
sole and exclusive use of »«• SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE
TABULES.
DIGEST
WHAT YOU EAT
The Brand and the
Texture, both protect you.
u
Underwear
Is British through and through—the
Brand protects you against inferior
German-made goods.
New “Olympic" Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers:
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 66
For JLhie Shafting,
Machine Tools,
Mining Machinery,
Saw Milling ami
Factory Equ i p-
ment, etc., etc.
i >
U-
-p -
R-
MUm
s
1
ii
B —
i
*
The SKF Self-aligning: Ball-bearing Plummer Block saves 50 to 90 per cent, of
frictional resistance over the ordinary Journal bearing, and practically eliminates
lubricating and maintenance costs.
Thousands of factories throughout the Commonwealth are now wholly equipped with
this bearing, saving our producers many thousands in hard cash per annum.
GARDNER, W4ERN & CO.,
Chief Agents and Ball-Bearing Specialists,
MELBOURNE—
Office, 384 City Road, S. Melbourne.
Showroom, 369 Flinders Street.
BRANCHES—
SYDNEY . .
BRISBANE
225 Clarence Street.
. . 367 Queen Street.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
.
still may get a licking. Are you (joins to-
let the Ravishcr -of Belgium win without-
lifting a hand* ,
Marshal Neigh V.C.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE came from tumbled country past the
humps of Buffalo,
Where the snow sits on the mountains
and the Summer aches below. _ > ;
He’d a silly name like Archie. Squattin
sullen on the ship
He knew next to holy nothin’ through a gor-
forsaken trip.
No talk he had qf women, no refreshing
thoughts of beer;
If he’d battled, loved or suffered, vital facts
did not appear;
But the parsons and the poets couldn t teach
him to discourse,
When it come to pushiu’ guyver at a pore,
deluded ’orse.
If a nag got sour and kicked agin the rules
of things at sea,
He’d tickle him, and flatter him, and kid
him up a tree.
“Here’s a pony got highsteries —pipe the
word for Privit Rowe,”
The sergeant yapped, and all the brood came
cluckin’ to the show.
He’d chat him confidential, and he’d pet and
paw the moke;
He’d tickle him, and flatter him, and lit him
with a joke;
And presently that neddy sobers up, and sez:
“Of course,
If you put it that way, cully, I will be a
better ’orse !”
There was one partic’lar skewbal’ known
aboard as Marshal Neigh
Whose monkey tricks Avith Privit Rowe was
better than a play.
He’d done stunts in someone’s circus, and
he loved a merry bout,
Whirlin’ in to bust her boiler, or to kick the
bottom out.
Rowe he sez: “ ’Struth, theres an idjit!
Oh, yes, let her whiz, you beauty.
Where’s yer ’orse sense, little feller? Where’s
yer bloomin’ sense of duty?
Well, you orter serve your country !” Then
there’d come a painful hush,
And the nag would droop his mapper, and, so
’elp me cat, he’d blush !
We was heaped ashore by Suez, rifle, horse,
and man and tent,
Where the land is sand, and water, and a
blazin’ firmament.
We had intervals of longin’, we had sweaty
spells of work
In the ashpit of Gehenner, dumbly waitin’
for the Turk.
We goes driftin’ on the desert, nothin’ doin’,
nothin’ said,
Till we get to think we’re nowhere, and half
fancy we are dead ;
And the only human interest in the red
horizon’s rim
Is Marshal Nfeigh’s queer fancy for the lad
that straddles him.
When plain livin’s bored us stiff, the Major
calls on Artie Rowe
To devise an entertainment. What his
skewbal’ doesn’t know
Isn’t in the regulations. Him and Rowe is
brothers met,
And that ’orse’s sense of humor is the oddest
fancy yet.
But the Turk arrives one mornin’ on the
outer edge of space;
From back of things his guns is floppin’
kegs about the place,
And Privit Artie Rowe, along with others of
the force,
Goes pig-rootin’ into battle, holdin’ converse
Avith his ’orse.
Little Abdul’s quite a fighter, and he mixes it
with skill;
But the Anzacs have him snouted, and, oh,
ma, he’s feelin’ ill!
They wake the all-fired desert, and the land
for ever dead
Is alive and fairly crawlin’, and the skies
are droppin’ lead.
But they’ve got the Ot’man goin’, an’ the
gaudy hunts begin—
It’s for us to cliiv his Trousers, and to
round the stragglers in.
Cuttin’ closest to the raw. and swearin’
blithely all the way,
Is Artie from Moolinga on his charger,
Marshal Neigh.
We’re pursuin’ sundry camels, turkey-trot-
tin’ anyhow,
With the carriage of an emu and the actions
of a cow,
When a sand dune busts and belches arf
a million of the foe.
They uncork a blanky batt’ry, and it’s
Allah, let ’er go!
We're not stayin’ dinner, thank you. Lie
along yer ’orse and yell.
While the bullets pip yer britches, and you
sniff the flues of Hell.
Here it is that Artie takes it good and solid
in the crust,
And he dives from out the saddle, and is
swallered in the dust.
I got through and saw them pointin’ where
the skeAvbal’ faced the band.
He Avas goin’ where we came from, sniffin’
bodies in the sand,
Till he found Rowe snugglin’ under, took
him where his pants was slack.
And by all the Asiatic gods he brought his
soldier back !
With a bullet in his buttock and a drill ole
in his ear,
He brought Artie in among us. Square and
all, hoAV did we cheer!
There’s no medals struck for ’orses, but we
ruled there orter be, . .
And the pride of all the Light ’Orse it is
Marshal Neigh, V.G.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.
Judas Iscariot.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. JOSEPH HOLT, the celebrated
Irishman —and justly celebrated —
reined in his horse on the slope of
Castle Hill, and turned in the saddle to look
back at Parramatta. , „ . f
It was a beautiful day, m the Spring of
1807, and the lovely valley m which the
second town of Australasia nestled on the
banks of its winding river was very fair to
look unon. The gleam ot water show-
ing between green trees, the white cottages
with their dark roofs of shingle and ot
thatch, the bluish foliage of the tall eucalyp-
tus and the golden glory of the new wattle,
whose sweetness filled all the atmosphere—
it was a view that always delighted the soul
of Mr. Holt. And this afternoon it soothed
it a little, when it was in need of something
soothing. , ' . . ..
“Well, then,” he muttered to himself,
“’tis too elegant a prospect for them that’s
in it, so it is. I’ll wager me boots ’tis lost
upon Billy Bligh, now.”
Mr. Holt at this time was a sturdily-built
man of middle-age, strong and active-looking,
with a sunburnt face encircled by a fringe
of reddish chin-beard. Great dignity, a
touch of truculence, something of a whole-
some self-appreciation, and unmistakable
benevolence were its characteristics. He held
himself with a martial uprightness and
air of command that fitted his own concep-
tion of what he was above all else—a sol-
dier, a strategist and a tactician. Nothing
was more agreeable to him than to be ad-
dressed as “General.” In no capacity did he
consider himself more eminent than as a
leader of men. It was true that the United
Irish were only a memory of failure —though
a present nightmare to those who had the
governance of such of them as were banished
to New South Wales. It was true that his
career as a general had been short and un-
successful, though not unsweetened by the
joys of transient victory. It was true that
he was an exile in a distant and disorderly
land where most men were either tyrants,
slaves or go-betweens. And it was true that
he was a very upright man who gloried in
being an Irishman, a Gentleman and a Pro-
testant —with capital letters.
Mr. Holt was on his way to visit his late
employer and kindly friend, Mr. William
Cox, of Clarendon, near Richmond. (One
would give much to see his face and hear
his comments at the sight of the constant
flight of aeroplanes that take place over the
roof of the old farmhouse to-day.) He had
been into Parramatta to call upon his Ex-
cellency Governor Bligh, deeming it politic
in one who had been so unjustly suspect
during the regime of his predecessor, Cap-
tain King, to take frequent opportunity of
demonstrating his loyalty to the existing Gov-
ernment. Unfortunately, he had struck the
choleric post-captain upon one of his bad
days, when nothing could sweeten the feroci-
ous ill-temper of that irascible vice-regent.
“And what do I care, Mr. Holt, for your
devotion to law and order? Damme, sir—•
what do I know of ye?
for being a rebel, wasn’t ye? Ye was i
sent to Norfolk Island three year ago for
being suspect of still being a rebel,
wasn’t ye? How do I know ye’re not a
With a hauteur that carried no weight
with the Governor, Mr. Holt had protested
his good behaviour and his good intentions.
“Your Excellency,” he said, with great
impressiveness, “I may have been unfortu-
nate, but I have not become deceitful. My
honor, sir, is untarnished. When I assure
your Excellency of my devotion, your Excel-
lency may rest assured that I am devoted.
On the word of a soldier, sir”
“A soldier, by God!” roared Bligh. “Don’t
talk to me of soldiers. The scum of creation,
sir! What is our motto. ‘A sailor before
a marine, a marine before a dog. a dog
before a soldier.’ And what sort of soldier
was ye, pray? Why, a d —-d, bog-trotting,
hedge-soldier in Ireland. A croppy,
sir. ’Twas only by luck ye escaped hang-
ing”—
“Sir!” began the outraged Mr. Holt.
“Silence, sir! Look ye—get back to your
pig-farm, and stay there. I don’t wish to
see ye. And have a care, sir, have a care.
I am not to be hoodwinked, sir. Damme,
no! Mind your ways, sir; mind your
ways!”
With bitterness in his heart Mr. Holt
had repaired to James Larra’s inn, and
there discussed a bottle of wine and his
grievances with his friend Major Abbott,
who had done his best to pour oil upon the
troubled waters of the Irishman’s mind.
But his anger still rankled as he rode away
from Parramatta in the early afternoon.
He shook his fist at the little town in
the valley. “Bad luck to ye, Billy Bligh.
Go to Hell y’r own bad-minded way. ’Tis
an enemy y’d make of an angel from Heaven
sent for to_ help ye! An’ ’tis friends ye
need,” he murmured, “ ’tis friends, indeed,
ye’re needin’ this day. An’ ’tis meself was
willin’ for to help ye.”
From amongst the trees by the roadside
a man stepped quietly into the highway.
Mr. Holt turned his head and looked at
him.
“Jonas Absalom!” he cried in astonish-
ment. “I thought ’twas at th’ Coal River
ye were?”
“No, General —not this three weeks.
They’ve let me back —on good behaviour.”
“Then I hope, me man, that ye’ll conduct
y’self well.”
The other laughed. He was a tall, sal-
low fellow with one bright eye. Over the
other he wore a black patch. His features
were sharp, with the suggestion of a ferret’s
in them, and his lean body was clad in a
faded black tail-coat and worn and shiny
pantaloons that were too tight and too
short. He looked like a seedy undertaker’s
assistant.
“I mean to, General. ’Tis just at the
present moment I’m planning how to make
myself good with them. Oh, I’ve an excel-
lent plan”—he rubbed his bony hands
together and grinned—“an excellent plan,
General!”
Mr. Holt looked at him with disfavor.
“And are ye back in the same job, then?”
he asked.
(Continued on next page.)


/
/
/
SCALP SORES,
AFFECTIONS.
ECZEMA & KINDRED
TREAT Ringworm, Eczema,
Scalp Sores and Honey
Scab with Zam-Buk
immediately the first
itching spot or pimple appears.
As Zam-Buk’s splendid record pro res,
even most obstinate cases that 1) ave
defied prolonged medical treatment
• , < l i ... i- /l « /11 CllPl I ’ i'll O’
yield to this great disease-dispell’ ing balm
Zam-Buk first brings soothing ai id speedy
relief to the raw, Itchy skin sui face, and
renei iu tut? « . ~ . ...
then, by penetrating to the root of the trouble, kills
the disease parasites and causes the disfiguring patches
to die away. Mothers say th at occasional shampoos
with Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap a re splendid for warding
off disease and keeping a chib l’s skin and scalp in a
sweet, healthy state. Beware of aggravating the trouble
bv the use of coarse, impure of ailments and imitations.
Times out of number, when Doct ors said the X-Rays were
the only remedy, Zam-Buk has been tried with the most
successful and happiest results.
IB
RINCWORN CU.IED.
Mrs. F. Harrison, 111 Alice Street, Nevrtown,
Sydney, writes:—“Some time ago my eldest
child, Elsie, had an attack of ringworm on the
head, and although I used an ointment, made
up at the Hospital and tried many s< /-called
remedies nothing did her the slightes t good.
Then I was induced to try Zam-Buk, and after
a few applications she was completely cured.
“My other little girl, Alice, fell and cut her
knee badly, hut. Zam-Buk healed it i n a re-
markably short time.”
SCALP SORES HEALED
Mrs. M. Warner, Webbers Road, Carlton, Syd-
ney, says:—“AVe have found Zam-Buk splendid
for soothing pain, reducing swelling and inflam-
mation, and for rapid healing. One of our
children suffered from a disfiguring scalp
disease, which defied all usual treatment. AVe
tried Zam-Buk, and it speedily healed every sore
and cleared away all traces of the outbreak.”
I THE SOOTHINU EVER-BEAPY HEALER, j
Zam-Buk is invaluable for Outs, Bruises, Burns, Scalds, Abrasions, Boils, Eczema,
Pimples, Sores, Scalp Diseases,, Poisoned Wounds, Bad Legs, Ulcers, Abscesses,
Ringworm, Teething Sores, Barber’s Rash, Stiffness, Itch, Pace Sores, Sore Pips, and
Injured and Diseased Conditions of the Skin. Zam-Buk is obtainable from all Chemists
and Stores at 1/6 per pot, and 3/6 family size, or from C. E. FFUFORI) FTD
39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I
: ' 7
amßuk
“RUB
IT IN.”
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize MedaKL
Works: Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
/k
V) <
SUNBEAM
experience of standardising extra-efficiency
in the guise of the increasing numbers of
UNBEAM-COATALEN
IRCRAFT ENGINES
being supplied to the British and the Allies’
Air Services, involving, as it does, perfection
of design, methods, workmanship and
materials, must inevitably exercise its
influence on our post-war production
of motor carriages for the public.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62, Oxford St. London, England
WORKS « • • * Wolverhampton, England
0,
/k
‘SSStP'
“Yes —I’m still schoolmaster at Parra-
matta. Some influence Avas brought to
bear, and they alloAved me to re-open my
school. I have resumed tuition,” he said
pompously, “in the Arts and Sciences and
the use of the Globes. DraAving lessons
extra, and elegant deportment—that is extra
too.”
"An’ Avhat’s your plan, Jonas Absalom —
Avliat schame do ye have to get favor Avith
them high up?”
The man came close up to the off-side of
Mr. Holt’s horse and laid his hand upon its
wither. The horse snorted, and shied away,
as though he did not like the looks of the
unpleasant person avlio took such liberties.
The unpleasant person Avas also roundly
cursed by Mr. Holt.
“D—n y’r fool’s soul. Jonas Absalom—
have ye no sinse? To come up on the off
side like that! Stand y’r distance, me man.
I’m not likin’ ye any closer than Rory does.
Well, what devil’s work are ye plottin’ an’
plannin’ now?”
“You will joke, General! ’Tis no devil’s
Avork at all, as you call it. ’Tis the work
of an honest citizen, of one anxious for the
Avelfare and safety of the community, and
ready to put himself to some inconvenience
to ensure such safety and welfare.”
“As ye did in Dublin, Jonas Absalom?”
“Not quite, General—but something like
it. You allude, no doubt, to my eAddence
in the Turnbull case?”
“1 do. I mane when ye saved y’r own
dirty skin be turnin’ King’s evidence, 4n’
bangin’ y’r brother-in-law. That’s what I
mane. Is it the like of that?”
“I was young then, General, and life was
sweet. ’Twas not necessary that both of
us should suffer.”
“Faith, no. xVn’ ye took good care ’tAvould
not be y’self that suffered.”
Mr. Absalom shrugged his shoulders. He
peered up at Mr. Holt’s sarcastic counte-
nance with a little smile.
“Ah, w T ell —what was, Avas, General. ’Tis
ten year ago—leave it rest. I’m minded
to tell ye now what’s in me mind. ’Twill
benefit you as Avell as myself. You are
not in good odor with the authorities.”
“How do ye knoAv that—an’ what’s it to
ye. annyway?”
“I heard every word the Governor said to
you this morning. I was waiting to speak to
him. I, could not but hear. He bellows
like a bull when his temper’s ruffled. I
Avalked out here to meet you on your way
to Richmond Hill. I’ve a proposal to make.”
Mr. Holt looked at him doubtfully. He
knew Jonas Absalom —Irish .JeAV, informer,
renegrade and confidence-man of his day.
But he kneAV him to be a clever rogue, and
perhaps he might have some suggestion that
would help him to a better understanding
with those who distrusted him. He had his
Avife to think of. So he prepared to listen
to him-
“ Speak up!” he said. “What is it?”
“’Tis this. You’re not loved by Govern-
ment, General. No more am I. They dis-
trust all the Irish —because they fear them.
They distrust you because, if you Avished it,
you might be the chosen leader of all the
lads from the old sod that’s in the colony.
They know that. I know, and the rest of
us knoAv, how you’d have nought to do Avith
the uprising in eighteen-four. But Govern-
ment never believed that. They’d not have
believed it if Jehovah himself had vouched
for you. But they could prove nothing. So
they sent you to Norfolk Island for a year
and a half. And a proper time you must
have had there!”
“Well, Avell,” broke in Mr. Holt impati-
ently. “Come to th’ point, can’t'ye !”
“ ’Tis that I’m coming to. You wish to live
in peace, I take it? Quiet, unmolested?”
“I do. ’Tis all I want, then/’
“Well, there’s but one way for you—and
’tis the same for me. We must prove to them
that we’re on their side. We must show ’em
Ave’re to be trusted. Only then Avill they
leave us alone.”
“And hoAv’s that to be done, Jonas
Absalom ?”
The JeAV lowered his voice, and came a
step nearer to Mr. Holt. His unprepossess-
ing features worked with suppressed excite-
ment, and he glanced swiftly dowm the empty
load and into the depths of the forest, as
though he feared to be overheard or over-
looked. With a little huskiness in his voice
he went on.
“Listen to me, General Joseph Holt. ’Tis
this way—’tis so Ave must do. We must
organise a conspiracy.”
“What! I’ll have nought to do”
“Patience—have patience, my dear Gen-
eral. Listen to me.”
Mr. Holt frowned at him. So intent Avas
Jonas Absalom upon his explanation that he
did not note the frown, nor the fierce clench-
ing of liis riding-Avhip in his right hand, as
Mr. Holt gently urged his steed a little way
towards him, so that the JeAV was within his
reach.
“Yes. We must delude these fools of crop-
pies with a plan of rebellion, and at the
proper time must come foi'Avard and give the
plot away to Government. That’s what we
must do. I’ll undertake” -
But he did not finish. With a roar of fury,
that wms at first an inarticulate bellow and
then developed into a torrent of oaths, Mr.
Holt slashed him across the face AAdth his
whip. /
“By God, ye scum—by God! Ye dirty
spaAvn of Hell! Ye d—d informer ! Traitor !
Dog! May God strike ye dead where ye
stand! Out o’ me way, ye foul carrion—out
o’ me way!”
He beat Mr. xVbsalom —cowering and try-
ing to shield his head with his bent arms—
mercilessly.
“Take that, Jonas Absalom !” he screamed.
“Oh, ye d—d villyan, ye! Ye’d betray Christ
himself. Judas Iscariot!” he hissed, a« he
spurred his horse over the sobbing Jew, and
galloped up the road.
Peter McGill. Thomas O’Shaughnessy and
young Patsy Riordan stood in dire peril of
their dives. Heavily ironed, they aAvaited,
outside the courthouse at the Green Hills—
as Windsor, N. 8. Wales, Avas then called—
the arrival of the magistrate Avho would
commit them for trial for High Treason-
Peter was an old man of 70, infirm with
rheumatism. Tom O’Shaughnessy was blind.
Young Patsy Riordan was half-witted. Never-
theless, they Avere about to be indicted with
the atrocious crime of haA’ing conspired to-
gether and with divers other ill-conditioned
persons—to wage war against their sovereign
lord King George the Third, his throne and
person, and Mr. James Absalom, the school-
master at Parramatta, was going to expose
the villainous plot which they had fabricated
against the peace and good government of the
realm. As surely as the sun would set to-
night, Sam Marsden would commit them. xVs
certainly as it would rise to-morrow, the Judge-
Advocate’s Court would find them guilty. And
as undoubtedly as the fact that after sunset
came the black night, would one of them
swing in each of the three settlements —-at
the Hawkesbury, at Parramatta and beside
Port Jackson. For the very worst charge
against them, which was not in the indict-
ment, would assuredly accomplish that. They
were Irish.
Burly Sam Marsden rode up to the court-
house. Dismounting, and handing his bridle-
reins to an obsequious bystander, he went
inside. X scowl passed across his red face
as he glanced at the prisoners. They were
hustled into the little building by the con-
stables, and the motley groups of onlookers
crowded in after them. The last couple were
startled by the sound of galloping hooves, and
turned to see Mr. Joseph Holt, in a state of
some excitement, and Major Abbott arrive
in front of the courthouse, Avith all the
evidence of hard riding in the aspect of
themselves and their steeds.
The little room was crowded almost to its
capacity when the newcomers forced their
Avay in and approached the table at its fur-
ther end, behind which sat the Rev. Samuel
Marsden, Senior Chaplain and Magistrate
of the Territory, drumming his fingers im-
patiently, as he aAvaited the commencement
of proceedings.
“Hullo, Major!” he exclaimed heartily, as
he rose and extended his hand, “xVnd Mr.
I-Iolt! Are ye interested in the doings of
these scoundrels?”
“Scoundrels!” snapped Mr. Holt. “Say
rather, your Reverence, poor innocent vic-
tims of a d—d scoundrel!”
“Tut, tut,” grunted the chaplain, “if they
be innocent ’twill, no doubt, be easy for
them to prove it. I only knoAv that they
stand charged with treason and sedition. I
must call the case.”
“Mr. Marsden,” said the Major, taking his
seat beside him —as Avas his right as a mem-
ber of the bench of magistrates, while Mr.
Holt frowned before the table —“Mr. Mars-
den, I beg you to give consideration to what
Mr. Holt will have to say. There is no doubt
in my mind that this fellow Absalom has
plotted the destruction of these poor men for
his oAvn ends. He seeks to curry favor with
Government. ’Tis as Avieked a business as
I’ve come across.”
“’Tis so, indeed, y’r Honor!” said Mr.
I-lolt.
“Well, Avell,” grumbled the parson doubt-
fully. “We must hear what he has to say.
I’ll give ye an opportunity to speak, Mr.
Holt. But I must say that I have little
favor for your turbulent countrymen. They
make endless trouble in the community.”
“God’s mercy, sir—look at them ! Turbu-
lent! A cripple, a blind man and an ijit!”
Mr. Holt waved his arm at the unhappy
group in chains. McGill, bent nearly double,
seemed to be apathetic. O’Shaughnessy, his
empty and unsightly sockets turned towards
the rafters, was as much so. And the vacant
Patsy Riordan dribbled in his adolescent
beard and grinned foolishly.
“They don’t seem very harmful, certainly,”
assented the chaplain. “However, we must
proceed. Ye shall have your say, Mr. Holt.”
The clerk read the sonorous indictment,
with its majestic phrasing and its deep con-
cern for the safety of King George; and
Jonas xVbsalom was called.
Mr. xVbsalom told his very circumstantial
tale. He had, he said, witnesses and
documents in confirmation of it. It
was the usual story of a projected
uprising and the proclamation of a republic.
Very happily Mr. Absalom produced the
draft of a treaty with France, which pro-
posed the handing over of New Holland to
the Emperor Napoleon. Inferentially, he
claimed to have saved the colony for Britain.
And then arose Mr. Holt—wrathful, fiery,
eloquent and convincing. He told the story
of his encounter with Jonas xVbsalom, near
Parramatta, two months before. Striking a
dramatic attitude. Avith a hand alternately
pointed toAvards Heaven and Mr. Absalom,
he concluded with this magnificent perora-
tion —which he did not feel bound to credit
to its original author, Mr. John Philpot Cur-
ran, the great advocate of the Dublin Law
Courts, avlio had declaimed it of an informer
named O’Bryan. But Mr. Marsden did not
know that.
“HaA r e you any doubt,” he demanded passi-
onately, “that it is the object of Absalom to
take down the prisoner's for the reAvard that
follows? Have you not seen with what more
than instinctive keenness this bloodhound
has pursued his vict-ims? How he has kept
them in view from place to place until he
hunts them through the avenues of the court,
to where the unhappy men stand now, hope-
less of all succor but that which your verdict
shall afford? I have heard of assassination
by sword, by pistol and by dagger; but here
is a wretch who would dip the Evangelist in
blood —if he thinks he has not SAVorn his vic-
tims to death he is ready to swear without
mercy and without end. But oh ! do not, I
conjure you, suffer him to take an oath ; the
arm of the murderer should not pollute the
purity of the gospel. If he will swear, let it
be on the knife, the proper symbol of his pro-
fession. Mr. Marsden, reverend sir,” he con-
cluded, pointing at the trembling informer,
“that wretch’s name is not Jonas Absalom.
’Tis Judas Iscariot!” he thundered forth.
The prisoners were discharged.
***•'•*■
As he led his tired horse up Prospect Hill
that evening, Mr. Marsden, returning to
Parramatta, overtook the discomfited Mr.
Absalom and discomfited him still further.
“Come here, you !” he bellowed.
The unhappy creature approached, cring-
ing. Deftly the burly Yorkshireman—ex-
blacksmith’s striker, and muscular apostle—
seized him by the collar. With vigor and
deliberation he beat him soundly with bis
hunting-crop, and then flung him down by
the roadside.
“Ye dog!” he bellowed. “’Tis indeed
a Judas ye be! Come not into my sight
again, or I’ll fine ye worse!”
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


«*Bi
mkt
* J i
WSf*® :
IS
fK
iff ■•:■-,
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHCUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
91.2. Office—93-107 Featherstou Street, Wellington.
Vlotorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
ORLICK'S
■IALTED
IK
MW** 1 ?
StowpTß*
, X
'■' ; "
S;
.«“•£
needed.
Th® Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat, 1
and Malt). Keeps'
for years and never ’
becomes stale or loses j
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made;
a moment, any-
where. Only water j
In hot climates it isj
invaluable.
Wo Shortage. Ample Supplies.
I :
n id n
[l ,
' noA sav
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? uo you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will sfnd you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
Thi3 is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
sJ*
®«g
AC
■m
This delicious, lone - lasting
sweetmeat has always been
a BIG bargain in benefit.
*5
m
e
-v
£
a
b
NOW you get 6 bars in each
packet for 3d. It is econom-
ical and. best of ail. it’s
good for you.
Helps teeth, appetite,
digestion, allays thirst,
soothes throat and
stomach.
Get it wherever confec-
tions are sold.
J. C. Gambles & Coy
Sole Australa:**n Agents
Rosebery, Sydney
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
5
SEALED TIGHT - KEPT RIGHT
The Flavour Lasts
m
E '3?M==
Lm
LT 3^
t ' V -* -1
/ i I
cr
! (y
o
V-
JSSSsp^s
For your Infant or Invalid
Benger’s Food is appetising and delicious. Even the fresh new
milk used to prepare it is made lighter and easier to digest!
In the tin one food may look like another, but there the
resemblance of any other food to Benger’s ends. You prepare
# i
Food
in a way different from others ! Fresh new milk is always
used, and in a few minutes (see directions) both the Food and
the milk become blended into a dainty cream by a gentle first
process of digestion, self-contained in the Food.
To this, and to its great nutritive power, Benger’s owes its
unique position as “ the Food the Doctor orders. ”
Benger’s Pood is entirely British *n origin, ownership, and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when prepaiing it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from :
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD., MANCHESTER, England
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY
And at New York iU.S,A.) 90, Beekman St. Depdts throughout CANADA.
1
f MOTORISTS!
Are you prepared to meet the advance in your running costs when
PETROL GOES UP
by any means other than paying the extra cash?
Why not BURN MORE AIR
and thus increase your mileage per gallon by at least 10% ?
Fit to your carburetter manifold
A Hand-controlled Extra Air CocK.
Can be easily installed in a few minutes.
Besides being A SPLENDID GASOLINE SAVER
this device can be used as an efficient air brake when coasting hills.
PRICKS:
|in, FuU Bore, Straight Nose, Extra-Air Cock,
with ell Unions, Clips, &c., and 4jft.Flexible Hose
Jin. ditto, ditto, ditto
Jin. Foil Bore, Bent Nose, ditto, ditto, ditto
Brass finish. Nickel
15/- 15/9 comp.
18/3 19/- comp.
19/9 SO/6 comp.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.. ,
304 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.


IMangrovitel
IELTII
It Clips the Pulleys
and thus transmits maximum power. Prove it
on your power-plant.
Mangrovite Rawhide Belting
is supreme for difficult drives. Get Man-
grovite and ensure satisfaction. Tanned by
us for belting purposes.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowicl),
49 Wynyard Square (near C.P 0 ),Sydney N.S W
Western Australia: Gibbs. Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
m wm .
CIRCULAR SAWS
Manufactured from BEST SHEFFIELD
CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
12in. to 54in. usually kept in Stock.
SAW SPINDLES
lin. to 31n. with Bearings ami Fast and Loose Pulleys.
The Eagle U Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
37Q
Kent Street,
Sydney.
201 Latrobe Street, Melbourne;
Charles Atkins & Co.j Adelaide.
John Reid & Nephews, lirisbane.
Kalgoorlie and Fremantle., W.A.
Paul & Gray Ltd.. Newcastle
TRADL
MARK
Registered
THE “ALWAYS BUSY” MACHINE.
Keeps overhead down pfheieecv uo. See
to it that evnrv itv'yo is equipped with
Dick’s Balata Belting ffigggS
Its jrreat strength and flexibility minimises
breakdowns, conserves power. Costs least for
upkeep. Send for booklet and full particulars.
Sole Importers:—
JAMES H ARDIF. & CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cr. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
581-3 Little Collins Street. Melbourne
Also at Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling' factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—'which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong-
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
. We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at vour service.
Ail
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, ISI.Z.
Latest Motor Jack.
Endless chain, quick and easily worked. Strong, com-
pact, 10- to 18-inch extension. Lift 1 ton. Size
over all, lOin. x sin.
Price 25/-
For up—Place under car, stand clear from dust and
grease, pull endless chain.
For down —Pull chain opposite way.
Useful other purposes. Highly recommended by
D. § W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.,
Ironmongers, 276-294 BRUNSWICK ST.. FITZROY, MELBOURNE
PUMPS -Good Pumps Only
We manufacture wliat is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12in. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include: —
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
SES
c
■tUADe M A&h
0
o
y
&
*
m ?fsTt I
<s* ON
$
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron. '
Sold ill tins: lib., 50/-; Jib., 25/-; 20z., 7/6.
lib. Flux will braze broken casting; 15 feet long; by
1 inch thick—instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth Ask your hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN OASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street. St. Hilda, ViAoria.
DELCO-LICHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
Q
«.a| 11///-
»“* “
Kefosen*
Safe.
Reliable
' One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4)4 hours.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANK! LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 350 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
FAIRBANKS
MORSE
Semi-Diesel Marine Engines
DIRECT REVERSING ELECTRIC STARTING DEVICE
IMPROVED CYLINDER HEAD CONSTRUCTION.
The photo, inset is the
well-known “Albatross,”
now converted to a motor
schooner and fitted wit I ,
twin 60-h.p. Fairbanks
Morse Type “Co” Semi-
Diesel Engines.
The owners express the
highest satisfaction with
the work of these Engines
and say that, despite ab-
normally rough weather
on a recent trip, she aver-
aged 6 knots on sgals. oil.
Length of this iron ves-
sel 131 feet, width 21
feet, depth 10ft. 7in.,
mean draft fully loaded
10 feet.
Particulars and Prices from
Used in Large Numbers by U.S.A. Navy Dept.
& GO.
■»
9-13 YOUNG STREET,
Circular Quay. SYDNEY
-
m
M
mm
z *
> *
■
gjgMMlfal
m
pure: water is as essential to health as pure air.
fSfe
AU 31
5hjb coc&
Pressure Filter and Receiver.
The “Abbot
L 99
PRESSURE.
Household Nos.l &2,
Bar,
Counter,
Tank,
Large Service o
Pocket Filter in
Nickel-plated Case.
FOUNTAIN.
Glazed Stone,
1 to 8 Gallons.
Glass Portable,
Pocket,
Water Bag.
with
'•Jew Style Improved Cylinder (or Candle)
supply, please write direct to the Sole Manufacturers—
■*
%
f
NEW RAPID
for
Large Factories,
Boiler Feed=
Water,
Aerated Water,
Laundries, etc.
CAPACITY :
Up to 300 gals, per
hour.
N. GtITHRIDGE LTD. City Office : Equitable Building, 350 George Street, SYDNEY.
