

DEWAR’S —THE SPIRIT SUPERB
M
Machinery Merchants,
107 Kent Street;, Sydney
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always availa e.
WSif.
PS
m
m
m
We Advan.ce Money
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS and LOWEST J INTEREST .
NSW-MONT DE • PIETED&IO? EP
HEAD OFFICE 7 A CASTLEREAGH S T SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building. And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Telephone: City 9335.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
215-21*7 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General
40 Adelaide
Manager.
THE “AUSTBAEIAN
REVIEW’ ways i—
“The Coni! >hy is very
well manage'!, and the
name is quite* a house-
hold word in Sydney.
Its reputation is excel-
lent, and, although the
money-lender is gener-
ally regarded as a
vampire, the charge
cannot be laid at the
doors of the N.S.W.
Mont de Fiete 1). & I.
Co. limited.”
£
©§sf§*C , .l
■: -
Sssci
A HEALTHY HOME
Oxidising Sewage Disposal.
Over 400 Successful Installations in New
South Wales. Leading Doctors, Hospitals and
Convents have this Process Installed. Other
Systems easily converted to Oxidising Process.
Prices based in ratio to number of persons,
as few examples quoted: Six Persons, £4O; 50
Persons, £100; 600 Persons, £275 ; 1000 Per-
sons, £540. We take over and maintain our
installations from One Guinea per annum.
The MorPgamerie-NeUsort Process,
50 Young Street (late Offices of the Education
Department), Sydney Tel., City 8975.
9
PPLE
5
;■
■<p
3
Nothiwo
to Argue
About!"
'‘'!!Giiii»i;rr.
[
Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
u
HANSENS
M
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
M
roofing:
M
By using Malthoid you ensure the complete success of any roof.
Malthoid is handsome, very enduring, and costs less than half the price
galvanised-iron.
P. & B. Building Paper
for roofs,
is dust- and damp-
Write at once for samples and illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Paint Company (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Ohal lis House, Sydney.
E CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron <& Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
Arthur
A3NOAS
‘anil in neau
<s 0
MACHINERY.
“ROBEY” Portable Steam Engines:—
Immediate delivery from Sydney stock , can be given of the following latest models from the
English Works: —
8 Nominal h.p. (20 to 30 Brake h.p.), SINGLE CYLINDER.
14 Nominal h.p. (36 to 52 Brajte h.p.), DOUBLE CYLINDERS.
16 Nominal h.p. (40 to 60 Brake h.p.), DOUBLE CYLINDERS.
CANADIAN
BRASS AND COPPER
SHEETS AND TUBES.
BRASS CONDENSER TUBES.
Solid Drawn Tubes —
Brass and Copper.
Sheets and Circles—
Cold or Hot Rolled.
Tinned or Untinned,
Polished or Unpolished,
Any gauge, length or width.
GILBERT LODGE & CO.,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Enquiries solicited. Correspondence invited.
M
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
M
WATER.
The Bulletin
VoJ. 39.—N0. 1988.]
[Thursday. March 21, 1918.
Registered at. the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Don’t Be A ‘Wisher’,
Some men keep on wishing they had an Onoto Self-fillin®
Pen so hard thst if the pen grew with the wish they
couldn’t see it all. .
The Onoto does not leak. It FILLS ITSELF in a flash— without any
<* r A perfectly-balanced fountain pen-
filler.
QUIT WISHING-GET AN
-&S
Self-filling
f.afety Fountain
M
Manufacturers : Thomas Dk La
Rue & Co., Ltd., Buiihill Row,
London, E.C. Managing Agents:
Norman Baker &, Longhurst,
Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK Best for all Pens
L
M
M
and upwards
Also ONOTO
Valveless for those
who do not want a Self-Filling
Safety Pen, 10/6 of all Stationers,
Jewellers and Stores.
m
t&IJPh
I mark
TRADE
Certain DEATH
TO ALL
INSECTS.
Not a German Powder.
MUSTDIE.
non poisonous powder.
THE6REBT TOOT DESTROYER.
I Flics. ;
Fleas.
Bugs.
Mosquitoes- L
Tina
FULL DIRE
Sold Everywhere.
The Red Page
LI
Li Hung-chang, we learn from J. O. P.
Bland’s adequate biography of the Chinese
diplomat and profiteer (“Makers of the Nine-
teenth Century” series; Constable, 65.),
would have made an admirable party politi-
cian ; but unfortunately he was born into an
era and a community when and where party
politics did not exist. “But had the materials
for party government existed in China —that
is to say, a politically semi-conscious elec-
torate, a stock of catch-words for its mysti-
fication, and party funds for its demoralisa-
tion—Li would have made an ideal party-
leader and Prime Minister. He might have
had no constructive policy (except for the
distribution of the loaves and fishes), but he
would assuredly have been a pastmaster in
the game of ‘ins’ and ‘outs.’.. . .For Li Hiing-
chang combined the wait-and-see tempera-
ment with remarkable flair as to the direc-
tion in which the political cat would jump at
any critical emergency. . . .which would have
made him an ideal manipulator of the party
machine and a graceful exponent of public"
opinion after the event.” It was evidently'
an irony of fate that Li had not been born a
white Australian. However, even in China,
he did pretty well. But doubtless the “wily-
old gentleman,” now in the flowery fields, is
suavely smiling at the posthumous honor
conferred upon him by his biographer _in
making him one of “The Makers of the Nine-
teenth Century.”
Li was a product of his antecedents, a
typical mandarin. The outstanding feature
of his genius as a statesman is that he, alone
of liis countrymen, recognised the shattering
force of the impact of the Western Barbar-
ians upon the ancient empire, and realised
the paramount necessity of meeting that
shock by radical modifications of the em-
pire’s system of government. The old walls
were toppling: it was necessary not to prop
them up, but to build newer and stouter
ones. Unlike his • brother mandarins, Li.
though sharing their dislike and distrust of
the outer barbarians, did not share their
contempt. And though Li labored to awaken
his country' to its danger of Japanese and
European encroachments, lie never forgot to
fill his own pockets. However, in China his
countrymen never judged his methods
severely : “On the contrary, the admiration
which his career evoked and the power which
he wielded were largely due to the adroitness
of his methods of amassing and increasing
wealth.” (A curious sense of unreality often
comes over the Australian reader of this
volume : frequently it seems as if J. O. P.
Bland were not discussing China, but another
State: and the yellow-jacketed mandarins
that pass through his pages have curious
features of resemblance to politicians of
another color.)
J*
Li began in the usual way. He passed
third out of 4000 competitors in the exam-
ination for graduates in ancient classical
lore and penmanship. After that there was
nothing remarkable (in China) in the fact
that he rose speedily to the command of the
Imperialistic forces in Kiangsu, and then to
the governorship of that province. He took
all the credit of Gordon’s victories over the
rebels, though he too often forgot to pay the
troops. “His fundamental idea in military
finance was payment by results, with the
proviso that what the troops lost by official
short payments they might make good by the
looting of captured cities —Chinese cities.”
And even at the beginning of his career. Li
“displayed all the qualities of subtle intelli-
gence, complacent ignorance, and unbounded
audacity, which distinguished his subsequent
career in diplomacy.” (Again comes that
haunting suggestion of another land.) The
most important period of Li’s career w T as his
25 years’ Viceroyship of Chihli, when he was
the leading man in the empire, and the
richest, the one Chinese in the continual
contest with Europeans capable of saving
China’s “face.”
Of course, his fellow mandarins—and the
Japanese—knew that, behind the imposing-
looking fleet and the frowning forts, the man-
darin “squeeze” system w-as flourishing and
extending; in other words, the mandarins
knew that Li was one of themselves, “an
unmitigated Chinese official.” In the period
immediately preceding, the Japanese war, his
countrymen admired Li chiefly for “the
ability with which he had discovered and
exploited for the benefit of his family and
friends new fields of profitable ‘squeeze.’ ”
He was “China’s chief word-warrior at the
portals of Peking.” (Now, where have we
heard of another “word-warrior”?) Often in
his career Li fell into disfavor with the
Palace —which meant that the Chief Eunuch
wanted a larger percentage of Li’s profits.
Li wisely paid up, and back came his honors
and titles —paid for.
There is one factor of Chinese govern-
ment which Australia —to her detriment-
lacks. This is the official censorship. (We’ve
got censors, too, but their job is to censor
us, not their bosses.) The Chinese censors
play the game in their own way: unless a
man is down and out, and possesses enough
money to make his impeachment appeal to
his rivals’ covetousness, the censors do not
usually wash dirty mandarin linen in pub-
lic. But occasionally a censor takes the risk
—and it is a risk. In one delightfully frank
impeachment of Li, the censor, after de-
manding Li’s head, adds a postscript: “At
the same time, I would ask you I the
Chinese Emperor]to be so good as to behead
me also, as a fitting punishment for. this
plain speaking.” Not for his denunciation
of Li, but for an uncomplimentary reference
to the Dowager-Empress, this censor was
punished, though his sentence was merely
dismissal and banishment. (It is a curious
thing that none of the Australian censors in
their memorials demand their own execution ;
and it has never occurred to the Chief Censor
to plead for the removal of his own head.)
In 1805 Li fell headlong from his proud
position to depths of derision. But in the
six remaining years of his life he was able to
recover much of his former prestige. In this
refusal to accept any defeat as final lies one
of Li’s'chief claims to greatness.
Li was quick to see his opportunity in the
anti-opium crusade of European and Ameri-
can “benevolent idealists” to stop the impor-
tation into China of Indian-grown opium.
What happened was that Id and his wealthy
friends merely acquired a liighly-lucrative
monopoly in the native-grown poppy ! “His
cynical blindness to the persistent hypocrisy
of the Chinese Government’s attitude in the
matter was after all no worse than that of
the British and American missionaries and
politicians who have persistently chosen to
ignore, not only the obvious purposes of
Chinese official policy, but the unpleasant
fact that English and Japanese enterprise
has widely substituted morphia for opium,
with deplorable results.”
In 1881 Li wrote to the Society for the
Suppression of the Opium Trade an unctu-
ous letter asking for the Society’s support of
“China’s efforts to escape from the thraldom
of opium”; but in 1804 Dr. Morrison found
the poppy growing everywhere throughout
Central China —and the largest growers
of the poppy were the family of Li Hung-'
cluing ! Still, T. O. P. Bland reminds us
that Li was merely acting in strict accord-
ance with the traditions of his class.
Early in his career as diplomat, Li realised
that the Japanese were different. “The de-
vices of evasion and circumlocution which
usually served his purposes in dealing with
Europeans were useless when applied to the
Japanese, themselves pastmasters in the arts
and crafts of Oriental diplomacy.” His
real sentiments were expressed in a letter not
intended for publication ; in it, he said it was
wise policy “to conceal from the Japanese
what we knew concerning their lack of sin-
cerity” ; and added: “There is no human
agency capable of putting a stop to the ex-
pansionist movement of Japan.” And in
dealing with the Japanese Li rarely adopted
the semi-genial, semi-hectoring attitude with
which he was wont to impress European
diplomacy.
To the Shimonoseki negotiations, after the
defeat of the Chinese by the Japanese, Li
went with a card concealed in his wide
sleeve. He knew that Russia meant to de-
prive Japan of the chief fruits of her victory:
he handed over territory with a grim smile,
knowing that Russia would insist upon it
being handed back. Here, J. O. 11.I 1 . Bland
tells us that “for several days the destinies
of Japan hung perilously in the balance.”
The Russian Fleet, backed by French and
German squadrons, was ready to attack the
Japanese. Japan would have been com-
pelled to fight, and, had her fleet been de-
stroyed, her armies on the mainland would
have been at Russia’s mercy. But England
remained a dangerously doubtful factor, so
the crisis was averted. Japan prudently
yielded to the joint demands of Russia,
France and Germany, and agreed to the re-
trocession of South Manchuria. Once again
Li had saved China’s face.
But Li’s life was in danger from his horde
of enemies. It was advisable to place him
out of danger; and he was deputed as Special
Envoy to attend the coronation of Tsar
Nicholas 11. So with his yellow jacket and
his peacock’s feather and his purple rein
restored, Li, with a large suite and his lordly
coffin, set out, in 1896, for the first time in
his life, to visit the world of the outer bar-
barians. Id reality he was in disgrace, and
in danger of political extinction with its in-
variable concomitant, assassination or execu-
tion. It was to give Li a breathing space
to recover “face” that he w r as packed off.
Naturally, the outer barbarians received the
impression that this diplomatic mission was
the crowning honor conferred on China’s
most distinguished statesman. (Haven’t wo
heard of another distinguished statesman who
hopes to leave behind him an unsatisfactory
community, to recover “face” at the other
side of the globe V) But by the time of his
world-tour Li’s prestige among his own
countrymen had collapsed. It had been built
up on the gorgeous sham of his naval and
military preparations. Its collapse involved
the author, who had paid into his private
purse what was meant for his country's de-
fence. The foundation of Li’s military
reputation is neatly expressed by his biogra-
pher : “Brilliant theories about strategy, a
strong dislike for dangerous places, a pretty
talent for despatch-writing, and constant at-
tention to his duties and perquisites as Pay-
master-General.” At the battle of the Yalu,
China’s two ironclads went into action with
three heavy shells between them. “It is
strictly correct to say that the battle, of
Yalu was lost by reason of the peculations
of Li’s son-in-law.” And Li knew all about
that. The same cause was responsible for
the fact that at Wei-hai-wei, out of 104
rounds of shell in one fort, only four were
found to be filled, one with powder and three
with sand. Nor did the mandarins alter
their ways after the exposure in 1894. In
1900 at one arsenal the Allies found and
seized an accumulation of unused war
material, bought not because the army
wanted it, but because the -officials needed the
pickings from these transactions. This sur-
plus stock was valued at over £2,000,000.
(We seem to have heard that amount men-
tioned before.) Li is, however, exonerated by
his own countrymen, since every Chinese
tacitly accepts the fact that “the whole art
of government lies in skilfully-organised
deception, the creation of a vast framework of
illusion, and division of the profits.”
-
In summing up Li Hung-chang, his bril-
liant and genial biographer concludes: “The
ship of China’s State had become water-
logged, her compasses unstable and her crew
unnerved, long before Li was called upon to
take the helm.... But the fierce winds that
burst upon her in the middle of the 19th
century had left her hopelessly unseaworthy.
. . . .The best of pilots with the best of luck
could defer, but could never finally avert, the
day of dissolution : what China needed was
a master-builder, and the task was be-
yond the power of man or super-man.
Li left the ship of State in many
respects better than he found her • for
years, by lavish use of paint and bunting,
he gave her a brave outward show of
seaworthiness; nearly all that her officers
learned of navigation in uncharted seas they
learned from him. More than once he was
compelled by stress of weather to jettison
some of her cargo, both territory and sov-
ereign rights, and on such occasions, no doubt,
he was unduly mindful of his private goods
and ventures. But, when all' is said and
done, he was the best and bravest steersman
in the empire, and for 30 years kept the
ship 4n commission under the Dragon flag.
With his passing from the scene, there was
no strong hand to take the helm. To-day,
the ancient craft lies waterlogged and help-
less. ...”
(And once again comes that vague im-
pression that J. O. P. Bland is writing of
some other State, some other Constitution,
some other democracy.)
Li died with the sincere opinion that, for
all its humiliation of physical weakness, the
civilisation of China constitutes a more
rational and humane science of life than
anything that has been evolved by the outer
barbarians ; and if he had been alive to-day
the xaresent condition of Europe would cer-
tainly confirm his faith in that Celestial
system of moral philosophy “upon which has
stood the test of ages, unconquered and un-
conquerable. a non-militant civilisation more
stable than that of Greece or Rome.”
And in the concluding verse of another
little piece
Sprigs, of wattle blown and quiver, lover mine,
Little winds around thee shiver, heart of mine ;
And i thank the wattles blooming-
And the scented breezes roaming
For the kiss that they must give tliee, till I meet
thee, lover mine.
i>ut Eva M. Manning never qu.te says al
she means—-or doesn't mean enough. Her
range of emotion is small, but within thai
iange she is at home. Many of these brie
verses are trivial; but they'will please the
author s triends.
&
The most comprehensive and most illumin-
ative description of the Trans-Australian rail-
way, its conception, its construction and its
meaning, appears in that most Australian of
all, Australian magazines, The Inlander
(Gordon and Gotch, Is. per number). Like
other bush travellers this magazine of the
Inside of the Continent, appears as best it
can. The present (February) issue is the
second of Vol. 4; and most of it is devoted to
“Spanning the Continent.” The photo-
graphic illustrations of Unknown Australia
are, as usual, its most characteristic ai.d
valuable feature. *
d*
Teaching of Sex Mygiene, the report of a
conference organised by the Workers’ Educa-
tional Association of N.S.W., held at Sydnev
University in November, 1!)1G, together witii
three public lectures delivered by Prof.
Welsh, Mrs. James Booth and Dr. J. Smyth
is now in its second edition (Govt!
trinter). Every aspect of this most
important subject was fully discussed by
experts at the conference; and the book
reproduces the full text of the papers read
and lectures delivered. But the book unfor-
tunately shows little signs of being a book.
H e can always trust the printer of a Govern-
ment publication to give it the least attrac-
tive and least artistic cover and binding;
bu: the x>ublic that this work hopes to
approach, after it has surmounted the real
obstacle of its forbidding cover, is not to be
reached by this mere Hansard of the pro-
ceedings of a conference. The gist of the
book could be loaded into a volume half the
size and such a book would be read by a
public 10 times as large. It is true that
some attempt at editing has been made by
Meredith Atkinson, who provides a useful
summary of the results of the conference.
Ihe main task before the nation is to “pre-
pare the minds of the young and stiffen their
moia. fibre against the pitfalls that await
those ignorant of their physical functions.”
On the following main issues the confer-
ence was in agreement: That it is necessary
and possible to foster self-restraint from the
tenderest years; that the mere imparting
of physiological fact is utterly inadequate;
that of overwhelming importance is the
spirit in which this knowledge should be
conveyed ; that too much should not be at-
tempted : that very little physiology mixed
with a great deal of commonsense is what
is required ; that the earlier the child be-
comes acquainted with his nature the better;
that the instruction should .be graduated to
the child’s age; that the ideal instructor
would be th e ideal parent; that much is to
be hoped from various schemes of teaching
1 a rents how to teach their children; that,
failing the ideal or instructed parent, the
school-teacher is the most desirable in-
structor of sexual hygiene; that it is doubt-
fnl if the clergyman is fit to undertake this
role, but that it is highly appropriate that
he should discharge a task so consistent with
tlm high aims of his calling; that the doc-
tor s part should be mainly the instruction
oi parents and the general enlightenment of
the community. But no decision can yet
be given on the question of individual versus
class teaching, since the stage of experiment
is still in being.
J*
George M. Mollison (late 6th Battalion)
insists tnat his are Poems. We differ. Most
of these sincere but unpretentious rimes were
put together while in hospital in Egypt,
London and Australia, the result of a severe
wound received at Gallipoli, in 1915. The
best verse of a poor collection is:—
Smile) when the struggle is hairiest,
Smile! when care is nigh,
Smile! when luck’s against you,
Keep smiling till you diel
J*
The Squatters and the Bloivflies, by W. E.
Abbott- and Lewis Carroll (Andrews, Syd-
ney), is a pleasant parodv of “The Walrus
and the Carpenter,” in Through the Loot-
ing Glass. Apparently W. E. Abbott con-
siders the blowfly pest to be due to Govern-
ment inspectors and the poisoning of the
bush birds. The humor will doubtless be
appreciated by any squatter that has escaped
being flyblown.
■J*
Vagabond Verse, by Arthur Wade (Foster,
Melb.)', promises well with its opening
“Poems of Papua.” Papua hasn’t produced
o - fathered many poets; and if Arthur Wade
likes he need fear no competition for the
Papuan Poet-laureatesbip. This concluding-
stanza upon a Papuan storm is agreeably
done:—
A sudden peace;
Stirred by a mighty hand the forest lies
When all the ragings cease;
Stars creep back to the skies,
Life quickens in a thousand timorous hearts
As Nature starts
To make repair;
A world refreshed now breathes a wholesome air.
But his miscellaneous vagabond verse shows
merely a tepid humor and a facility for topi-
cal and alliterative verse.
Australian
Eva M. Manning writes simply and sin-
cerely in her booklet, Wings ( published by
the author, Toowoomba, Q.). She touches
the war, with its distant dead, devoutly, as
in “Pro Patria” :—•
Can you hear me calling you,
Half the world around ?
All the seas lie in between,
And five feet of ground.
Can you hear the spears of rain
Falling on your bed,
Silver arrows of the Lord
Blessing his own dead?
Do you know the myrtles grow
In the sun above,
Reaching with their tender roots
To the dead they love?
High upon a cliff you lie
Guarding English sea.
Gulls are wheeling o’er your grave,
Six feet by three.
Summer heat or winter snow
Pass unnoticed by.
As for me you fought and fell,
You can never die.


M
ANTHONY HORDE
f.r MEN’S WANTS
ECONOMY IN BOOTS
k
MEN’S CALF BOOTS.
BOX CALF BALMORALS, whole goloshed, me-
dium toes, sewn soles 14/0, 15/6
BOX CALF DERBY BOOTS, stout soles, leather
lined, wide toes, with or without toecaps,
19/6
BOX CALF DERBY BOOTS, goloshed, American
toes, welted soles 18/9
STOUT BOX CALF BALMORALS (as illus-
trated), leather lined, welted soles,, whole
goloshed, medium toes . .. . 18/9
BOX CALF DERBY BOOTS, stout welted soles,
wide toes 22/6, 23/6
BOX CALF BALMORALS, whole goloshed,
leather lined, welted soles 21/-
GLACE KID LACE BOOTS, medium toes, sewn
soles 13/9
GLACE KID DERBY BOOTS, medium toes,
welted soles 13/9
GLACE KID BOOTS, no caps, full medium toes,
15/6, 16/6, 21/- and 25/6
OAKITE SOLED BOOTS.
The Boots that follow have OAKITE LEATHER
SOLES. OAKITE wears much longer than
ORDINARY SOLE Leather, and is pliable and
waterproof, and will not slip).
GLACE KID BALMORALS, patent toecaps,
round toes, Goodyear welts, OAKITE Soles,
21/-
BOX CALF DERBY BOOTS, leather lined, Good-
year Welts, round toes, OAKITE Soles, 21 /»
GLACE KID DERBY BOOTS, Goodyear welts,
round toes, OAKITE Soles 21/-
ECONOMY IN PYJAMAS
MEN’S FLANNELETTE PYJAMAS—
Light Weight, Fancy Stripes.... 7 6, 8/-
Mcdium Weight, Fancy Stripes,
6/9, 7/6, 8/6, 9/6
MEN’S COTTON OXFORD PYJAMAS —
Light and Medium AY eights, 6/9, 9/6, 11/6
MEN’S MERCERISED COTTON PYJAMAS—
Light AA'eight, Smart Designs,
8/6, 10/-, 18/6
MEN’S .TAP CREPE PYJAMAS—
A durable fabric, in Smartest Stripes.'. 8/9
MEN’S CEYLON PYJAMAS—
Always soft and serviceable,
9/-, 11/6, 13/6, 16/6
MEN’S CRIMEAN PYJAMAS—
Strong, warm and durable,
12/6, 15/6, 22/6
ECONOMY IN GLADSTONE BAGS.
ACME OF SUIT VALUE.
IN ALL SIZES
Prices
65/- #7O/-
£
'
Kv
ft
Oil
f!!w
a
s©?
!«
3*5
MSI III
ge
wi
III '
gUUSfllf
in ina
|| nag
1
Navy
Serge
(Indigo Dye)
or
Selected
Tweeds
in Neat
Patterns
The Palace Suit has been created to meet the demand of the well-dressed
man who prides himself upon his personal appearance. It is a smart suit,
faultless as to style and finish, and is made in navy serge—indigo dye—
or in good-quality tweed. The materials are thoroughly shrunk, cut by
skilled tailors, in our own workrooms, and every detail to ensure excellent
finish is provided for. The navy serge is selected because of its pure dye,
and there is a pleasing assortment of tweeds in quiet and effective patterns.
The coat is single-breasted and half-lined with best Italian Cloth, and is
finished with an outside breast pocket. The single-breasted vest has four
pockets, while the trousers can be had with either side or cross pockets.
In All Sizes. Prices - 7 O 7O j“
BEFORE SUNSET BUY WAR LOAN BONDS.
ECONOMY IN HATS.
«»
I Ml
MEN’S FINE FUR SOFT FELT HATS (as illus-
tration), brims 2in. to 2Jin., with Plain Cut
Edge, in a large assortment o£ colors,
including Blacks, Light and Dark Browns,
Fawns, Slate, Steel, Grey and Greens, with
Self or Contrast Bands, and Bow at back or
side 10/6 anti 12/6
MEN’S FINE FUR SOFT FELT lIATS, with
brims 2in. to 2iin., with Turnover Welted
Edge. Cplors include Black, Fawn, Beaver,
Slate, Steel, Grey, Cuba, Brown, Light and
Dark Green, with Self or Contrast Bands, and
bow at back or side .... 12/6 and 15/6
MEN’S SOFT FELT lIATS. Brims 2Jin. and
2iin., Self or Contrast Bands, with Bow-s at
back or side, in Black, Light Brown, Dark
Brown, Fawn, Slate, Steel Grey and Drab—
9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
MEN’S FINE ENGLISH VELOUR HATS, in a
large variety of Shapes and Colors, with Plain
or Turnover Edge.... 21/-, 25/-, 29/6
Similar Style in American Stetson’s... . 39/6
MEN’S FLEXIBLE HARD HATS, with Low,
Medium or High Crowns, brims lfin. to 2in.
wide, with Shapely Curls, lined or unlined —-
7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
ECONOMY IN SHIRTS
.M
w
MEN’S COLORED FASHION SHIRTS, Soft
Body, with Dressed Cuffs and Neckbands. Sizes,
14 to 164. Larger sizes, 3d. each extra.
STRIPED CAMBRIC FASHION SHIRTS, in
choice vertical effects of Black, Blue and
Helio, on White Grounds, 4/-, 4/11, 5/6
STRIPED ZEPHYR FASHION SHIRTS, a reliable
fabric, in all the latest colorings, on White
Grounds 5/-, 5/9
Also with Ref.qrm Fronts 5/9
STRIPED ZEPHYR FASHION SHIRTS, neat
Blue or Black Yertical Stripes on Buff
Grounds, Reform Fronts 5/9
MADRAS FASHION SHIRTS, real dressy stripe
effects, on White Grounds .... 7/6
STRIPED ZEPHYR FASHION SHIRTS, Reform
Fronts, made from Horrockses’ Best Shirting.
The smartest Black, Blue and Helio Stripes
on White Grounds 8/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Manufacturers !
Use
Reinforced CONCRETE
The Building' Material of the Ag'e.
r .
r"fa
1, ; •
■
!
ft; vrj
3p
%*
m
urn
7f*
r
-v ; .
■ ■ •
4IJSII
HJp
m
m
IS
i ; *
1M
v>:> ... :i
„ '*/■ * iy . - ''4
■' v&;\
*
-- *
•*
IX
Reinforced Concrete Chimneys at Ryde, N.S.W., for the Metropolitan Beard of Water Supply and Sewerage.
The first Reinforced Concrete Chimneys in Australia. Cheaper and far stronger than brick. Less than half the price of Steel.
Our Indented Steel Reinforcing Bars, rolled in Australia,
are used in all the Government Wheat Silos in N.S.W.
We will give you Designs and Estimates for all Reinforced Concrete Work, free of charge.
BUILDINGS, TANKS, SILOS, CHIHNEYS, RESERVOIRS, RETAINING WALLS, FLOORS, etc.
So/e Agents for Indented Steel Bars
Write for our Book, “Reinforced Concrete in Australasia.’
Villiam Adams 8 Co. Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY*
MELBOURNE-521-3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE—Cor. Edward 8 Mary Struts.
PERTH —33 Ring Street.


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s—all chem-
ists sell them—and you will, within a very
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
Blood—like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color; —a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others —you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief —every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
M
M
Distinction is a VENUS
virtue, for you cannot
mistake the comfort in
handling the smooth, polished
VENUS Pencil —you cannot
mistake its pleasing marbled-
green exterior.
Then you remark the quality
of the Venus interior —every
inch of lead giving smoo h
gliding service and every inch
of wood consistent in grain.
Of all Stationers, Stores,
&c„ throughout the World
M
M
Hansen’s Rheumatic
“For three months 1 suffered from chronic
Rheumatism, and was given up by doctors. Mr.
Hansen’s ‘Rheumatic Remedy’ cured me in three
weeks.” (Signed) A. REYNOLDS.
(Witness) 0. A. ROSLER, J.P.
ALL CHEMISTS, 57-
Wholesale: ELLIOTT BROS., SYDNEY;
ROCKE, TOMPSITT, MELBOURNE.
CELEBRATED
9.
CT
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble,' no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Samsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K- W. Bradley, Worando Buildings. Adelaide
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney
L. Susman & Co , Merchants, Hobart. [1
NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
Two or three drops on
sugar slowly dissolved
in the mouth produce a
most soothing and cura-
tive effecfl in all cases of
Coughs, Bronchitis,
Asthma (Si All Chest
Affections.
1/6 of all Chemists.
If not procurable, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward post tree
SN
m
m.
$
M
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
M
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1 3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc*
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
M
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL ®. CO.,
Manufacturing Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacturers of all Kinds of Oil Engines for Farming and General Use.
Makers of all Kinds of Motor-car and Lorry Parts.
The Largest Machine=Tool Shop in the Commonwealth.
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
Power Built In
Power of hold that makes your car
travel safe and sure over rough and
slippery roads. Power of resistance
against wear that means economical,
generous mileage. We urge you to
try Firestone Tyres, because they
are dependable—built for wear and
tear on all roads, in any season.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney,
New South Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co.,
Melbourne, Victoria;
and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.,
Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia,
Anderson & Adams, Ltd.,
Perth, West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing’
Co., Ltd., Brisbane,
Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd.,
AVanganui and Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garage»
Write for Illustrated Literature
a
m
«,SC*H
<y,\
'A\
s%£
'
r>:
«
t wm -mmw
pF^
rmi
■'?
f *A \
4
; ..*
Ji
SSI
S^fs
**
$6
111
wwa
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Snow Peaks.
When frosty stars in the morning pale
And the light is grey in the larches,
The snow-peaks loom in their gleaming mail,
As lords of the lonely marches;
The light grows white on their vizored
crests
When Night still moves in the meadows;
On mantled shoulders the red dawn rests,
When the lakesides dream in the shadows.
The bright noon burns on the grey moraine
And shines on the steep snow-faces;
A million light-points gleam again
Where the loosened ice-fall races.
But the snow-peaks tower, like gods who
stand,
All-wise in this old earth’s story,
With the light of a world in each upraised
hand
And bent brows lit with glory.
The evening comes to the valley soon ;
The lakes, that are jewels splendid,
With singing river and long lagoon,
In grey, warm mists are blended.
But the snow-peaks shimmer, like spires of
gold,
In a city far and holy,
Till every star of the Night’s unrolled,
And the moon wheels westward slowly.
If we might do as the chosen do,
And stand in those lofty places,
And touch the clouds where they dim the
blue,
And feel God’s hand on our faces,
Would there be aught we could yearn for
then,
’Neath the heavens’ wide-reaching
arches?....
Yes, I would long for your lips again
And the evening breeze in the larches!
MOUNT COOK, M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
The Bridge Builder.
My love has built a bridge for me. Oh ! high
and wide and strong,
From Fairyland to Sydneytown he’s thrown
a bridge of song.
And trippingly and daintily as summer rain-
drops beat,
I hear the tinkling patter of the fairy
travellers’ feet.
Pixy, elf and merry sprite, gnome and danc-
ing fay,
Over the bridge of song they come to laugh
my tears away.
My love has built it fair and true of golden
word and phrase,
With airy arch of stately thought to span
the nights and days.
And kings and queens of Fairyland and gal-
lant prince and knight,
When dream-shine gilds the parapet, come
flashing through the light.
Holding high their banners bright, trolling a
merry stave,
Marching over the bridge they come to bid
my soul be brave.
My love has made it beautiful with fretted
fancies fine,
With arabesque of ancient dream and curve
of rhythmic line.
And soothingly and healingly as summer
raindrops’ beat,
Adown the bridge from Fairyland comes
Love on rosy feet.
Softly crooning an elfin song, wuth wonder-
misted eyes,
Gaily over the bridge he comes to make me
la ugh ter-wise.
N.S.W.
MARGARET FANE.
The August Child.
You were a child of August;
With the heralds of Spring you came
When she polished her summer armor
Till it shone in a shield of flame,
Ere she challenged the door of winter
And would not be denied,
With the fans of her flower petals,
With the flow of her blossom tide.
You were shaped for a child of August
In the song of the singing leaves,
To the rise of sap in the forest,
By the nest-cones in the eaves.
You came on a wild-rose budding,
You came on a brown lark’s wing,
For you were the’ child of August
On the trail of the feet of Spring.
And still in the heart of August,
With her dreams and her golden sky,
There is always the touch of winter
That was left from a bleak July!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Grace.
In an old passion-fruited place,
Dark-shaded by dark leaves of grace,
There is a light, a sign—her face;
Grace of her soul and heart and mind,
Grace of her royal hands and kind—
All grace, full late, full sweet to find,
As a late bloomed rose, Mother mine!
Dark grape crying the grace of wine,
There is her face, a- light, a sign.
Lo! It is she, Mother o’ me !
Look down, look down to me! For she,
On an old heaven flowered lea,
Hath bowed in pride her royal head,
Softly, “Lo ! it is he” hath said.
Mother mine, the long nnin is dead !
N.S.W.
HILARY LOFTING.


n
n
Experienced Motorists Recommend
PERDRIAU TYRES
They know them by mileage results. Mileage is deliberately
designed and manufactured into Perdriau Tyres.
Finest seasoned Para Rubber, highest grade Egyptian Cotton
Fabric, and unfailing care in manufacturing to suit local conditions
are all factors of Perdriau mileage records.
Made in Australia.
Obtainable through your local Garage,
or from the manufacturers
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd „ All States.
“Keep the Home Tyres Turning.”
.(&?■
c''
m
A Truss Triumph
of Valuable Interest to the Ruptured.
Denyer’s Elastic Truss
is an altogether different thing to the usual Steel Band Truss, which never
fails to let the wearer know it is on. ■:
Wear this New Style Truss and be comfortable, safe and free from anxiety.
You forget the Truss and -the Trouble.
Price—Single, 20/-; Double, 27/6.
Write for Free Pamphlet in closed envelope,
SAVE A LIFE—BUY WAR LOAN BONDS.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 George Street, Sydney.
I I“ P
rrr
m
ri%r
r/rK
I' • lA
m
ft
*
I
n
*£?/£T
K
You’ll “Label” it in Class A
Forty odd hours per week in any factory is high pressure
work—and not always under the best conditions.
Give the working members of your family good nourish-
ing food like ..
“REX”
CAMP PIE
It's the best “packing”
that tired,famished bodies
can encompass, for it is
all meat in a practically
premasticated form.
“Rex” Camp Pie is made
from the choicest morsels
of Meat compounded to
make digestion easy, sea-
soned and cooked to a
(@£111301)
toothsome piquancy and packed in a tin with a firm jelly
surrounding the contents. Enough for 5 persons in each tin.
Slice thin for Sandwiches or serve with a Salad. Needs no
cooking , Sold by all Grocers.
Try “Rex’ Ham Pate and (( Rex”
Veal and Tongue Pate
7wo all-meat sandwich fillings, made from the
choicest meats.
Your soldiers fight for you. Your
War Loan Bonds fight for them.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.,
Packers of Rex Pure Food Products,
Curers of Rex Hams and Bacon
J.IS3
farts*
is*
A Nimble Tyre— —-aivd Strong
GOODRICH
FULL-SIZED
Never sold “ by the pound.”
Never sold by the layer —or on “ Thickness ” (which
means stiffness).
Always sold on its true Pneumatic Tyre performance.
Sold on the Quality of its materials — not on their mere
quantity.
A Light-footed, Springy, Quick-acting Tyre which yields
to sharp obstacles on the road that would cut into stiffer,
thicker, shorter-lived tyres.
■■ "y
Made with a .flexible Backbone—that Mileage-adding
Safety Tread which checks side skid and
forward skid, without the use of such unabridged pro-
jections as would separate Fabric layers through uneven
pressure and vibration.
AND —made FULL-SIZE to the branded size thereon,
which comparison with other makes will show.
DUVAL ®L CO.
145 Collins St,
MELBOURNE
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
300 Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.
Atlas Tyre Co., Adelaide; A. C. MacCallum, Perth;
Robt. Nettlefold, Hobart.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 39.-NO. 1988.
THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 1918.
Price <>u.
THE RIVALS.
THE LITTLE MAN: “What, you want to start making ships? Nonsense, go away! I want to get up there and make a speech.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia for the White Man.”
Pl i 1 r tec * published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum, you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week jor a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to ant
adouess in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to ant address abroad, £l 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Fditor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “•Correspondence’ > column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding tiro columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS, when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending' MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
lesponsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
, T o Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
winch has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
ai tistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency,; Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
Vancom er, B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News. Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.: J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building. U.S.A.
Honolulu.. —Home News Agency, ,763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet—otherwise: Boz., Id.; 8102. to 10oz., 2kd. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, 1/oz., Id., and M. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 1918.
MISSING AT LLOYD’S.
If the present disturbance ends as the Hun
hopes it will, there are likely to be quite a
lot of nations posted as Missing at Lloyd’s.
The war, in this respect, is different from
any other armed clamor among white races
for many centuries. Germany plans to ex-
pand by adding territory on which
millions and millions—very many millions —
of new Germans may grow up. Now, more
Germans can always be found by reason of
a liberal birthrate, if there are desirable
and convenient and commodious places to
put them. So while the Fritz country wants
more Germans it wants a great deal fewer
other people—the kind who are sufficiently
virile to rally for a new argument in years
to come and interrupt the spread of Kultur.
Even if the firm of “Me and Gott” wins for
the time being, great leaders and organisers
might arise to turn the tables on “Me” and
to annex “Gott” as an allied deity—pro-
vided there were sufficient men to follow*
them and means to support these men. Hence
the Hun view that the fewer white men who
aren’t Huns the better. They eat food and
breathe air that the Hun should have; they
occupy space which is the natural heritage
of the baby Hun ; they possess all kinds of
wealth, which the Hun would find handy.
And if their existence keeps the Hun awake
at night they will further interfere with his
plans for expansion. No Hun who has
had a bad night can be a completely
energetic ruffian next day. “Never maltreat
your enemy by halves” said Frederick the
Great, and the Prussian has pasted that in
his hat.
* * * *
If sufficient people can be killed off in the
countries on which the Hun lays his hands,
then there will be room for Hun colonisation.
If all the people can be killed off, there will
be heaps of room for Hun colonisation. Even
Belgium, which is, bar Saxony, the most
densely-populated land in Europe,- would be
an empty place, just like Australia when the
British came to it, if the Belgium nation was
obliterated. And it would have advantages
over Australia. Saying nothing of the
plunder. Belgium has the attraction of being
absolutely alongside. When the old people
were cleaned out and the new savages had
come in, it would be a solid part of Germany
sending its members to the Federal Legisla-
ture, wearing the spiked helmet as one to the
manner born because it would be its own
helmet, and saying “Hoch” with a good grace
because it had said "Iloch” from infancy. It
would be a source of strength instead of being
a land of irreconcilables which had to be held
down at great expense of men and anxiety.
There would be house-room as well as land-
room ready for the new population when the
Belgian was sufficiently dead. It would be
a case of finding a new country without the
discomforts of pioneering. The same logic
applies to northern France if the Prussian
Hun can keep it, and to Serbia if the other
Hun can keep it, and to any other places
that either of them can get and keep. The
process of clearing the land for settlement
has gone farthest in Serbia, and. unless the
process is stopped one little people will pre-
sently •be Missing at Lloyd’s. During
the actual conquest the slaughter was
just as extensive as there was time to
make it. Even since the occupation was
effected a more leisurely process of destruc-
tion has been going on. A great number of
the able-bodied males have died in slavery
through over-work and ill-usage and short
rations, and the rest of the slaves will die by
and bye, after earning much money for their
masters by digging in the mines or cultivat-
ing the land. More slaves are being requisn
tioned as they can be caught. An honest
copper has been turned by the sale of desir-
able girls to the Turkish harems. A social
difficulty has been got over by sending other
girls and women to the army for the use of
the Austrian soldiers. And the rest is a
record of dull butchery with or without frills.
The chief frill consists in making the victims
dig their own graves and then lie down in
them to be bayoneted. Also there are frills
which are worse.
*** . *
The Austrian soldier may. not have got
down to this level of brutality all at once.
But he is a military machine with orders to
clear the land for settlement. Possibly it
took the machine some time to get used to
being a butcher, a little longer to become
reconciled to it, and a little longer still to
learn to enjoy the work and to decorate it
with trimmings which were not actually on
the bill. But it isn’t worth while to inquire
into mental attitudes. The experience of
Belgium hasn’t been quite so bad up to date
as that of Serbia, because it is less isolated.
Still, a requisition was recently made there
and in northern France for 10,000 more
male and female slaves to do hard labor in
Germany, and 1000 more girls, presumably
for a purpose that need not be specified. And
these, requisitions are periodical. They will
certainly go on till the war is finished. They
will almost as certainly go on after the war
is finished if the Hun and the Gott that
ho has manufactured come out on top.
It can hardly be otherwise. The Hun has
learned that he is no great success as a colo-
niser in the ordinary sense of the term—-the
Canadian and Australian and Maofiland
sense. He has also discovered that he is a
rank failure at the work of assimilating an
alien race and making it a source of strength.
In that respect he seems to grow worse in-
stead of better. If by much annexation he
brings it to pass that there are more enemies
than friends inside his gates, then there will
be a large and permanent worm at the root
of his tree. The only way to make a united
Germany is by getting rid of these enemies,
and. for years past he has made no secret of
his intentions. The order of a German com-
mander at the beginning of the war to kill
all wounded and prisoners and “leave no
living man behind us” was only one of many
orders all smelling of the shambles. But it
isn’t so widely recognised as it might be that'
slavery is intended to be a steady institution
after the, war. Several Hun writers have
outlined the future of Australia, which is the
example that most concerns us. The men are
to work for their German masters under
careful German supervision. They are to be
paid with, food, clothes and lodging—the
lodging being in barracks or compounds
guarded by soldiers or armed police. They
will own no property; men who live in a
sort of perpetual prison with hard labor have
no use for property. They will not be allowed
to marry, for it is no part of the programme
to perpetuate a hostile race. Some of the
women will be allowed to marry Germans;
the rest will remain single. In this way the
carefully devised Hun slavery system will
differ from that in old Virginia and the Cot-
ton States. Sambo’s owner had no ulterior
political motive. He wanted his black
brudder to increase and multiply for the
owner’s profit, and he hated to see Sambo
die except from old age. The slave whose
death is considered desirable, and who is
merely making a little money for his proprie-
tor as a temporary sideline, is in a new cate-
gory Certain Hun writers consider that this
winding up of our race will be an easy
matter when the affairs of Europe are dis-
posed of. Australians, they say, are a silly,
credulous people ivho can always be kept
busy with industrial quarrels through the
hidden devices of Hun agents. Considering
the strange, hypnotised fashion in which the
workers follow the lead of I.W.W. propa-
gandists, many of whom may very well be
the Hun agents alluded to —considering the
practical stoppage of Recruiting, the unac-
countable breakdown of business at the
Federal arms factory, and the way in which
a shapeless Something coming from Nowhere
always gets in the road when an attempt is
made, or alleged-to be made, to build even a
single ship to carry food to England—it
assuredly.looks as if the Huns who talked in
fashion were not discoursing through
their hats. Last year the N. S. Wales coal-
miners, who seem to lend the most copious
ear of all to the I.W.W. person, and who are
more useful than, any other class in the com-
munity for holding up industry, had 182
strikes (in fact, they spent more than a
quarter of their time on strike),-and yet no
big grievance was adduced in explanation.
* * * *
The war isn’t ended yet, and Australia has
still a fine chance to be among the peoples
who are posted as missing.
ARE THE SENTINELS BLIND OR
ARE THEY DRUGGED?
The Federal Parliament is to meet soon
after next week’s bun has been undigested.
There is an official fiction that the meeting
will be for the “despatch of business” ; but
the circumstantial yarn in the newspapers is
to the effect that the session will be a more
or less barren proceeding incidental to
authorising the expenditure of large masses
of money and hurriedly shutting up while
Hughes and Cook despatch themselves
across the Equator. As for the past five
years the Federal Parliament has been sys-
tematically loafing on the job, The Bulletin
puts forward for serious consideration the
theory that the time is ripe for doing some-
thing, and that for this Parliament to pro-
ceed to further achievements in shirk and
holiday-making would, in the circumstances,
be a gross offence against public decency.
The old stunts and stalls are played out.
People who were sickened by the dodges and
evasions of a Labor majority feel no less dis-
gust at contemplating similar performances
by the other crowd. .Most of them are stead-
ily advancing to the conclusion that from
Ministries of any sort under the existing
system there is nothing better to be expected
than exhibitions of twist; but a fairly sub-
stantial number are still waiting to find out
whether the Commonwealth Parliament is
capable of shaking itself free of the demoral-
ising lethargy that has fallen upon it and
insisting upon its obligations to the nation
being discharged. This Parliament owes a
solemn duty to Australia which is not even
touched by blithering about duty to the
Empire and other irrelevant topics. The
Commonwealth is up to the neck in a war of
unexampled magnitude, including in its
hazards the very life of the nation. Arising
out of this war are questions whose import-
ance it is impossible to exaggerate. They
are not questions in any ordinary political
sense—they are vital issues. Parliament
knows this. The people know it. Parlia-
ment knows, too, that these issues are being
clowned with, and that the Commonwealth
is rapidly sliding into the position of having
neither government nor. purpose. What
should it matter if a couple of party touts
want to go to. London? What reason is
there in such a circumstance for letting every
other consideration slide?
Apart from Hughes and Cook' and their
“mission” to the other side of the world,
there are half a dozen subjects to which
Parliament should turn with resolute inten-
tion to clear up the 'prevailing muddle and
get down to the bedrock of policy and ad-
ministratidn. They are these
1. The War.
2. The Defence Department.
3. Recruiting.
4. Finance.
5. Repatriation.
6. The Censorship.
Every informed citizen of Australia knows
that the position in regard to any and all of
these matters is a mixture of farce and
tragedy as dangerous to the Commonwealth
as strychnine to an infant. Never since this
war began has the Australian Parliament
had anything nearing remote resemblahce to
an explanation of the war’s progress, the
military and naval position of the Allies, the
policies relied upon to resist defeat or the
effect of various happenings. If Lloyd
George or someone makes a speech Australia
is provided by Private Enterprise with sun-
dry bits thereof. The comments of various
“experts” are provided also. But from the
Australian Government Australia hears
nothing. For all practical purposes t'he
Commonwealth is carrying on a war with its
head in a bucket, without any official know-
ledge of the proceedings, or of what countries
on the same Side of the fence are doing. The
fortunes of war. the handling of the war,
should be as earnestly explained and dis-
cussed by the Australian Parliament as by .the
Parliament of Britain or France. The case
against that, if there is one, rests upon the
supposition that Australia is a mere joint in
the tail of another country, without individu-
ality, rights or responsibilities. And if
Parliament has a right to claim first-hand
knowledge and information about the war. it
has more right to insist that not another
week shall go by with a Defence Department
in the condition of the calamity controlled by
the poor limpet Pearce. For members of the
Legislature to rant about the “perils of Aus-
tralia,” “the need for reinforcements” and all
the rest of it and yet give sanction to the
ghastly muddling and criminal ineptitude of
this Department would be far more easily
reconcilable with treason than loyalty. In a
very large measure this matter will be the
test of whether the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment possesses even a fragment of moral
right to existence. The evil example and
blighting influence of this Department have
spread far and wide throughout the country.
It has wasted the public estate. It lias
chilled all military effort and enthusiasm. It
is destroying our system of Home Defence.
Is Parliament going to fold its hands, bow
before the Party joss and let the slide to the
Devil continue?
The same considerations apply to Finance,
Repatriation. Recruiting and the Censorship.
The last of these matters The Bulletin
passes on with the comment that what has
ftor.n done and is still being done comes
within the category of the unbelievable. So
far as Finance is concerned it is well within
the region of truth to say that things are
mixed. At a time when war is imposing
upon the nation a bill of almost incredible
magnitude, Waste and Bloat stalk arm and
arm through the land. There are loans for
war and loans for peace. The people are
being taxed to meet losses in battle, losses
on railways and losses on fish-shops. Issues
of p.n.’s darken the sky. and from seven
cashboxes the public credit is pouring like
so much water, and seven taxing authorities
are holding out insistent hands for more.
All this may be part of a policy of winning
wars.. It may also be part of a policy of
hanging on the tail of a Gadarene swine.
The main thing is to discover whether the
Legislature realises where it is going and
whether it considers itself under an obliga-
tion to permit the country to be bled white.
Most of the current talk about “our wealth”
is sheer piffle. The essential point about
the matter is the manner in which such
unpawned “wealth” as w T e have is being used
and how far the combined efforts of the
Commonwealth and the States are assisting
the country to ruin. The Federal Parlia-
ment has the most ample powers to bring
the current saturnalia of public extravagance
to an end. If it does not do so, if it con-
tinues to cower away in a funk hole, drop-
ping from nerveless hands the trust it holds,
what are the people of the Commonwealth
to look forward to? It is no use maundering
about the ignorance and the apathy of the
public and groaning over the average citizen’s
; 'waste” of half a crown in taking his family
to tlie pictures. So long as Parliament is
lazy and wasteful, these other considera-
tions are hardly worth thinking about. And
so long as Parliament sneaks away from its
duty, abandons its right of control and by
raising wild party shouts tries to camouflage
its shirk, it will be entitled to claim about
as much loyalty to Australia as an intern-
ment camp.
MOTHERHOOD.
Dear Bulletin— -Don’t you think it about
time the woman was allowed to present her
side of the case when parsons and professors
and such-like people of importance are bully-
ing her about the birth-rate? Hardly a day
passes but a howl goes up from someone or
other about the wickedness of these women
who won’t have babies as profusely as they
used to. Now it’s Professor Berry telling
the Victorian Methodist Conference a tale so
dire he blanches its collective cheek with
horror. (I’ll have more to say about its
collective cheek later on.)
There were 100,000 fewer babies born in Great
Britain in 1915 than in 1914.... The limitation of
families was deliberate... .The matter was so serious
that on present birth-rate figures they could calculate
the year in which the British Empire would be
extinct.
And much more to the same effect. Then the
Conference 'unanimously passed a motion —
“That the Commonwealth and State (iovern-
ments be urged to take the question into their
immediate and earnest consideration, and to
bring in such legislation as may effectually
restrict the manufacture and sale of preven-
tives and abortifacients.”
Professor Berry is pained and astonished
at the British birth-rate for 1915. “One
fully expected,” he says, “that it would have
been much higher on account of the war.”
An extraordinary attitude for an M.D. or any
other man in full possession of his faculties.
Hundreds of thousands of potential fathers
had gone from the country and hundreds of
thousands more were to follow. The women
were left, tormented by fear and anxiety for
the men in the firing-line or on their way
there. They were, moreover, appalled by the
fate of an invaded country only a few score
miles away, arid went about in constant
dread of a similar inroad on their own
coasts. What more natural, then, in such
circumstances, that many women should wish
to avoid the further anxieties and perils of
pregnancy? Yet Professor Berry considers
it very remiss of them to have had 100,000
fewer babies than usual. The wonder
is that there could be found so many
women willing to take the risk! Does
the Professor think that children born
of such mothers, many of them probably ner-
vous wrecks throughout the greater part of
the period of pregnancy, are such valuable
assets to the race that these women should
have had maternity forced upon them willy-
nilly? There was a still further decline of
20,000 in the births for 1916, and the 1917
and 1918 figures will surely show an even
greater diminution. The possibility of famine
is not an inducement to parenthood.
There seems to be an almost girlish sim-
plicity about a Methodist Conference. Prof.
Berry said: “It is now almost universally
admitted by scientists that the limitation of
families is deliberate.” If this was news to
that guileless body he should have added a
rider that Queen Anne was quite indispu-
tably dead. And, anyhow, what does this
deliberate limitation of families mean except
that people don’t want to have so many
children, and if they don’t want tp have
children why should they? Is there any
other sound reason in the whole wide world
for having children at all except that one
wants them ?
Is it for the good of possible children to
force parenthood on people against their will,
as the Methodist Conference appears to wish
it could? If people are too selfish to become
parents, aren't they going to be the very
worst of parents a child could have? If they
are too poor, why should they bring into
the world a child to whom they cannot give
a fair chance? And if they are degenerate
stock, parenthood for them is nothing less
than a crime. Surely if the business of
child-bearing is left to those who really want
to undertake it, it will be, on the whole, more
satisfactorily performed than if it is forced
on those who emphatically do not want or
are unfit for it. -Are not children whose
parents have wanted them, and have given
them a real affection and proper care when
they got them—-are not such children much
more likely to become good parents_ in due
course than are the unwanted, and is there
not here a key to the solution of the problem ■
“It seems almost incredible,” says Foret.
who is at least as competent an authority as
J. IT. Berry, “that in some countries medical
men who are not ashamed to throw young
men into the arms of prostitutes blush when
mention is made of ante-conceptional
measures.” He gives examples showing the
results of the unrestricted fertility of the
degenerates that should make even a Metho-
dist Conference sit up and think. Thisfaimh
tree, traced back to 1740 from 1815. is par-
ticularly instructive. A woman of that time,
a drunkard and degenerate with an heredi-
tary taint, left 834 descendants. The live®
of some of these have been officially recorded
as follows: 106 were illegitimate, 142 were
mendicants, 64 were incapable of supporting
themselves. 181 of the women were prosti-
tutes, seven were convicted _of murder am
69 of other crimes. All within a
years, at a cost to the State of £250,000; an
this country would have paid £5 a time toi
such people, and does so cheerfully every da.'
in the week ! c
Mvself I am a healthy, normal woman
26. I fully intended at the time of m,'


marriage to have any number of children. I
bore my .first son shortly after the outbreak
of the war, and presently saw that the slogan
was going to be raised “Back to the Breed-
ing Pen” for women, and I therefore post-
poned the balance of my family for the
period of the war. I will not breed children
to order, and no resolutions of a Methodist
Conference—no, nor regulations under the
War Precautions Act, either —will make me
do so. If I cannot do the job my own way
and under conditions the most favorable for
my offspring, I will not do it at all. Even
dumb animals have that much sense.
Even if it were possible to abolish preven-
tion the population would not increase, as
Professor Berry seems to think. The imme-
diate and inevitable effect would be to make
abortion infinitely more prevalent and popu-
lar than it is to-day. Already I find a well-
known preventive device labelled “For the
prevention of disease only.” This means
that a man who vipits a prostitute, though he
may have a wife of his own, may use this as
a safeguard against disease, while a married
woman is forbidden to use it as a safeguard
against pregnancy. It entitles the man to
indulge a completely illegitimate sexual
appetite with impunity, while it forbids to
the woman the satisfaction of an uiulispu-
tably legitimate one. This is almost as
degrading to the mothers of the race as the
baby bonus under the present plan of dis-
tribution. Could anything be more idiotic
than this system which will give £5 for any-
thing as long as it remotely resembles a
baby? It may be rickety, deformed, imbecile,
blinded by gonorrhoea, rotten with congenital-
syphilis ; but a paternal State hands out the
fiver without demur as long as the thing lives
long enough to get it. Do you wonder we
decline to bring any more children into the
world to be swamped by the spawn of degen-
eracy like this? It’s better babies this coun-
try wants, very much better babies, not
merely more babies.—Yours, etc.,
LYSISTRATA.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia v. America.
The cry of “-Wilson Hill” :
After four years’ hard sledding in America I find
Australia a happy picnic-ground, little changed
from early 1914, except for the prevalence of soldiers
and an increased political parasitism. This is not
i cry of Stinking Fish. My exile, like that of our
ooys abroad, grew in my heart a passionate devotion
to Australia. Her worth and great possibilities
stand out in bold relief, accentuated by knowledge
gained in America. Yet in one day here I have
seen more drunks, or drink-affected people, than
during all my absence. Horseracing continues to
be a greater topic than the war or the fate of our
country. We are out of focus with the world’s
movements and passions; isolated, narrow and self-
satisfied.
Australia to-day appears to be a nation living
on the fighting reputation of her finest sons, paid
for with their agony and sacrifice. The willingness
to suffer, to sink self-interest, to sacrifice, to strive
to gain through co-operative endeavor and combined
strength, as displayed by our soldiers, is markedly
absent from the actions of those who stay behind.
Australia is not “giving till it hurts,” either to
win the war or to make herself more self-supporting
and a greater part of the Empire.
State v. State; Party v. Party; Capital v. Labor,
or vice versa; Union v. Non-union; Government v.
Industry—it is all one damnable confusion of throttle,
waste and inefficiency, while our men and Allies die
and German influence gains a stronger footing.
In September, 1917, Hoover shipped France 200,000
tons of sugar taken from America’s normal con-
sumption. The writer was one of millions who volun-
tarily gave up using sugar. Candy-makers were
cut down 60 per cent, on supplies; hotels were lim-
ited to 10 days’ supply and householders to a dollar’s
worth once a week. The tariff was replaced on
sugar, and refineries sprung back into vigorous action,
refining the beets from millions of acres which paid
the grower to farm. Tuesday was declared a meat-
less day; Thursday a white-breadless day. The fry-
ing-pan was abolished and people were taught how
to stew or pot-roast steaks and chops to conserve fat.
Men from various great business organisations were
called to Washington to run the departments in
the War machine; they work for nothing or a dollar
a year—their previous employers pay their usual
salary to them. Here we have politicians and
“eushies”; there brains and efficiency. Elwood
Mead, formerly directing Victoria’s irrigation policy,
is out on the many unsettled irrigation areas of U.S.
with capable assistants, placing men on big. areas
to grow wheat, with grain and implements supplied
by the Government, who guarantee 9s. 4d. per bushel.
Others are growing the castor-bean—loo,ooo acres—
to get the oil for America’s big Aviation Army
engines. Here we talk and feed the wheat to mice
and weevils, whereas if fed to pigs we could supply
the English order of 2000 tons of bacon monthly.
America has standardised ship plans, and to any
men who can guarantee a slip and labor, the Govern-
ment gives an order to build, attends to supply of
necessary material, pays cost plus 10 per cent., and
says “go to it.” Cost does not matter; they want
ships. Riveters make up to £2O per week; ship
carpenters 295. 6d. per day of eight hours; mechanics
255. to 295. 6d. per day. The lowest wages are 18s.
6d. per day. On the San Francisco bay shores,
the Columbia River, Seattle and Vancouver, can be
seen boats galore being constructed without any
buildings or “shipyards” worth writing about.
Naturally the high wages offered attract the men, and
ships are the result. The Government now is con-
scripting the further supplies of men necessary.
Prohibition being nearly general, workers are able
to put excess earnings into War Loans, Red Cross and
Y.M.C.A. Here we talk of ships.
To progress properly we need more leaders—men
to whom Australia’s advance means more than power,
party and tainted money; leaders in every line of
industry that we have or should have. We lack
them now. After our children leave school their
education is haphazard and mostly unsatisfactory.
People who can afford to do it send their sons to the
Universities to follow some “profession.” Agriculture
and industry are starved. The best-paid positions go
to imported men, not because our men are less intel-
ligent, but because they have not the broader
experience and close acquaintance with modern
methods that the importee has. If the Australian
went abroad and studied these methods, he would be
figuring them out from the point of suitability to
his home conditions; he would not have to consider
himself infallible like the import has to in order
to hold inh • alon ha would tret alonz better with
his own people than the import can, as he under-
stands them.
Competition is stagnant here under wages boards;
the good artisan and the poor one get the same pay.
In America a dozen others are hunting the dollar
hot-footed, and competence alone holds the job. If
a couple of thousand of our young men were yearly
pushed abroad, to England or America, started in
whatever branch of work they desired, offered big
salaries to return home when they were proficient
and take responsible positions in our industries or
in schools where they could impart their knowledge
to others, there would be a tremendous development
in all business here. Japan is doing this—has been
doing it for years.
Then we, too, can foster growing industries with
sufficient tariff; assist in the general organisation
of production and marketing, that we may replace
imports with the home product, and greatly increase
our foreign trade, making places and employment
for the 15 million people that Australia must have to
make her “safe for Democracy.”
Our Legacy of Cheerful Idiocy.
The party ass broke away from his moorings
in Victoria Iffst week and before an unof-
fending public knew what had happened the
brute was careering all over the State, kick-
ing the local institutions to pieces and pub-
licly wrecking the cherished delusions of the
Argus. To The Bulletin the incident
seemed like the fulfilment of a divine,
prophecy. Nothing more bizarre could very
easily be imagined than this give-away of the
party fraud, nor anything more appropriate to
the moment. For a week or so there had been
wrangle in the Assembly about whether the
Government should keep a promise given by
Peacock to vote £200,000 to the railway em-
ployees or whether £llO.OOO met the case
and was appropriate to the state of the
purse. On Wednesday when the Assembly
met 45 members were present out of a total
of 65. Labor-leader Elmslie’s amendment
moved on the preceding day to “reduce the
estimates by £10,” so as to give the Assem-
bly a chance of expressing its views about
the Ministry, came up for discussion. Nobody
spoke— Elmslie’s side because they noticed
the gaps in the enemy’s trenches, and Min-
isters because they imagined their reserves of
man-power were in the refreshment-room. So
a snatch division was taken, and as Peacock;
and his little coterie threw in with Elmslie
and the refreshment-room was barren of
Bowserites, the Ministry was defeated by one
vote Under any system bearing resem-
blance to sanity this division would have been
taken to mean what it said. But according
to the rules of the game on which Australia
depends for getting on with the job, it was
interpreted to mean “the defeat of the Min-
istry,” the arrival of a crisis, the deliberate
throwing of everything up into the air, the
necessity for resignation, dissolution, howls
and yells in the constituencies and a general
election. Four months ago Victoria struggled
with an election, in the course of which it
fired Peacock out and handed Bowser a
majority. _ Now because in the absence of
nearly a third of the members there happened
at a given moment to be one more member
ready to say “Yes” -than were prepared- to
shout “No,” the effort to elect a Parliament
and all the cost incidental thereto is alleged to
go for nothing. The thing is almost incredible ;
but there it is, and on the whole The Bulle-
tin rejoices. The dullest-witted citizen must
surely see what a mockery of the theory of
government by Parliament is the practice
to which Australia has been fat-headed
enough to become addicted. No question is
determined on its merits under this system
nor can it be. The Legislature is the slave
of a fetich, and by it the people are tied hand
and foot. There may be nothing much to
admire about a Bow-ow Ministry or one
that bolts away from blank cartridges, but
that has nothing to do with the matter. The
tragedy rests in the circumstance of the
people sending 65 representatives into Par-
liament and discovering that, unlike any
other body of men, they cannot do what they
were appointed to do. It is out of this that
the Australian democracy is trying to con-
struct its future. It might as well try to
fish Sennacherib’s army out of the Red Sea
with a frozen sausage.
Why Not Open All the Doors?
It is comforting to know that after Chief
Justice Griffith has toiled at his Commis-
sion there is going to be a distribution of
cards, and multitudinous persons will carry
them to the post and back again and make
schedules of the answers and have every-
thing filed away in pigeon-holes pending
developments in this crisis of our national
history. But this is all going to take time,
and what follows will take more time, and
additional time will be consumed meeting the
new situation. Therefore it is a wise precau-
tion to have some sort of recruiting scheme
while the months are disappearing. So far
as The Bulletin can make out, recruiting
at present is only another word for chaos,
with the doors slammed in the face of pos-
sible candidates. If a citizen yearns to join
the mounted forces he is not now wanted
unless he abandons the yearning and joins
up to go into whatever section of the service
he may be dumped by an official. If he
hankers after an infantryman’s, kit he cannot
be a soldier unless he ceases to hanker and
takes the chance of becoming a stretcher-
bearer. If a thousand men rushed forward
to-morrow morning to announce that they
wanted to join the artillery they would dis-
cover that there was nothing doing—that
they must enlist first and hear about what
they are going to do later on. There may be
good reason for this. Also, there may only
be a fool of a reason. In. the opinion of this
paper, the system is ridiculous to the point
of madness. The very essence of voluntary-
ism is that it allows the widest choice to the
individual. It is only stupidity that would
try to hamper this or discount the force of
that personal appeal which can be made by
individuals who are prepared to say “Come”
instead of “Go.” Not far back a “Sports-
man’s Unit” was raised. Before that “the
Carmichael Thousand” had been made a
reality. It may not be the ideal way of
raising men to promise to keep them together
or issue invitations to join particular
branches of the service. But men can be
obtained that way who would not volunteer
under other conditions —and it is men that
count. Pending the judgment of Griffith,
are any men wanted for the mounted forces,
, for artillery, for infantry, for the medical
corps, and so on ? If they are, what can be
the objection to saying so and taking men
for the special service that appeals to them?
If men are not wanted for one or other of
these particular branches, it is obviously
absurd to keep the matter secret, since the
citizen who yearned to be on a horse might
then, in the light of a more complete under-
standing, contract a yearning to carry
stretchers or a bayonet.
«
The Boiling of Fitzpatrick.
Fitzpatrick, who is Assistant-Treasurer of
N. S. Wales, has made a statement which
should live in history and reverberate like
the clatter of a patient animal’s hoofs down
the corridors of Time. He said it “made his
blood boil” to hear farmers complain about
the low price they receive for wheat. These
wretches growl that they have so far re-
ceived 3s. lid. per bushel for the 1915-1916
crop, and 3s. per bushel for the two suc-
ceeding crops; that this is subject to heavy
deductions for alleged defects, and the boss
tyrants in charge deduct at their own sweet
will, and without appeal to any Arbitration
Court; that the price which they get from
the Government in theory isn’t large and
that it simmers down to a sham in practice;
that they have been warned that the Govern-
ment, which has constituted itself the only
buyer, may presently supply no price at all
because it can’t get wheat away for want of
ships; and that it professes to know how to
build ships but won’t get a move on—in fact,
when the State Government and the B. 11.
Prop. Co. were about to build ships it inter-
fered and the business stopped. Compared
with these things, the complete boiling of
Fitzpatrick would, to be quite frank, be a
mere trifle to the wheat-grower. He also
wishes to tell the at present underdone Fitz-
patrick that in a good year he (the farmer,
not Fitzpatrick) now makes less than the
wages of a coal-miner, though he works long
hours and has hundreds—often thousands —
invested; that this is largely borrowed money
and he has to meet his liabilities or burst;
that he isn’t like a politician who carries
two ounces of plant and implements under
his hat and can be a Treasurer to-day and
a book canvasser to-morrow; that his costly
machinery ties him down to grain-growing;
and that the idea that he can use his ploughs
and reapers and chaffcutters for raising sheep
is quite wrong. Besides, the wheat man
seldom has enough land for sheep-growing,
• nd the price of lambs to start with is pro
hibitive. He would fain add, while Fitz-
patrick is simmering, that the price of
everything he buys, including labor, has gone
up, while the value of his own product has
gone down, or rather has been pushed down,
and if even a moderately bad year happens
he will make less than nothing. Of course
Fitzpatrick can reply that the wheat muddle
is a Federal matter, for which he isn’t re-
sponsible, but* in that case why should he
rise up in the middle of his shockingly mis-
managed financial job, with his liberal salary
in his hand, and be supercilious and boil?
Why doesn’t he stop at the Treasury and
boil at the sight of the terrible deficit and the
loan expenditure and the 5f per cent, interest
rate?
T 1
The Ships of Fact and Fiction.
As from the day Hughes started talking
about shipbuilding this paper prophesied
that he would still be wagging a valiant jaw
when an exhausted and bloodstained world
sat back to count up its horrors and draw
new maps, it cannot pretend to be either
disappointed or amused at what has hap-
pened since. But it can claim the right
to entertain profound contempt for the
political parties and the individuals who
one way and another have aided and abetted
the shocking exhibition made of Australia.
It is bad enough that the Commonwealth
should see what it sees to-day in relation to
recruiting. Yet what it has contemplated
in connection with shipbuilding is even
worse, for there is a side to this business
which makes the long record of talk and
piffling uncertainty look like a conspiracy
in the interests of the German. Two years
ago it was known to the Federal Govern-
ment, the Kaiser, the little boy at Manly,
the deadbeats in Sydney Domain and the
Censor that shipping was a vital factor in
the war. Soon after the same individuals
and most of their relations knew that, if
complete victory for the German did not
turn on the Allies’ shipping defeat, for some
of the Allies it most certainly did. And the
net result of this knowledge is that Austra-
lia, with enormous reserves of foodstuffs
awaiting shipment, has not driven a single
rivet into the frame of a ship. Mere state-
ment of the fact ought alone to be justifica-
tion for suspending someone on the end of
a rope. Our responsibilities in the matter
have been enormously increased by the un-
expected difficulties which Britain has met
and is still meeting in her struggle to replace
the sunken tonnage. Of course the facts
relative to the construction of new vessels
and the uses to w T hich available ships are
put have all been heavily obscured. “For the
last four months of 1916,” Bonar Law
was reported to have said lately, “the net
loss was greater than in the same period of
1917.” That sounded very well; but in 1916
the output was only 538,000 tons, which
represented a disastrous falling off in con-
struction, being less than a third of what it
had been in 1913! Plain information about
(1) the tonnage sunk and (2) the new ton-
nage launched in successive monthly or
quarterly periods has been carefully camou-
flaged. And because of that circumstance,
and because Minister for Labor Barnes
announces that the “workshops are in a fer-
ment and that there was more talk about Bol-
shevikism than wmrk,” it is to be feared that
the dinkum details about construction in
Britain and the Allies’ losses are as cheerful
as the scent of camel.
The Waste of Shipping.
“Pitt Street” : It is vain for the Minister
for the Navy to allege that everything pos-
sible has been done to divert shipping from
the coast to overseas. One-lmlf the inter-
state trade could easily be dispensed with.
For the most part it consists of transporting
produce from one part of Australia to
another, when the stuff carried could just as
well be grown in one State as another. One
has only to look at the stacks of potatoes and
chaff landing in Sydney from other States to
realise how disorganised or unorganised we
are. It may not be sound economics for
every man to grow his own potatoes when
he has perhaps more profitable work to do,
but it is certainly not economical in a time
of war to be hauling potatoes and oniony
and chaff and cabbages all over Australia by
land and sea when they can be grown almost
against one’s back door. Mr. Hughes and
Mr. Cook have done a fearful lot of talk
about co-ordination and the need for putting
every ounce of strength and effort into the
war; but they appear to be quite unpracti-
cal men, who spend all their energy in
speech. We are still being regaled every
day with items of news about the shipbuild-
ing programme, which will probably take no
tangible form until Messrs. Hughes and
Cook are transported to England and the
reins are held by men who do things instead
of talk things. We had some great hope in
Senator Millen and his Repatriation
scheme, but he too is talking much and doing
little. Indeed, the whole political machine
looks like a great piece of bluff and make-
believe at present. The only thing certain
is that Ministers are taxing and borrowing
and spending the money like water. The
truth is we have enslaved ourselves to a
political machine, which is manipulated by
wirepullers and produces nothing but ex-
travagant expenditure and bad blood through-
out the community. You must not criticise
or censure your own men, lest you bring
the other devils into power, and the other
devils khow quite well that their criticisms
and censures carry no weight, simply because
they are the other devils. How is a com-
munity to save itself from such humbug and
imposture? Is it any wonder that men are
losing faith in political institutions and
looking for more direct methods to achieve
reforms? We cannot go on much longer as
we have been going; there will be a smash
somewhere or other.
Our Revolution: To Be or Otherwise?
Let it be imagined that the voluntary sys-
tem of recruiting develops into an unex-
pected success, wfiat may be expected after-
wards? There will be a large exodus to the
war Front of the best section of the com-
munity, and the bad or middling or unfit
elements that remain will form a greater pro-
portion of the population than usual. Pro-
bably they may form a greater proportion
than at any time since the old ticket-of-leave
and bushranging days. There will be the
men wnose cnaracters can’t bear inspection,
for the theory that no one save a person of
good character should be shot in Flanders or
Palestine has been carried rather far. The
criminal, in or out of gaol, will be with us;
the hoodlum ; the chronic loafer ; the interned
enemies, including the crowd of Huns at
Berrima (N.S.W.) who play tennis, and run
a general sports club, and hold high meat-
and-drink revelry on the Kaiser’s birthday ;
and the Huns who are not interned. We
will still possess the I. W.W., and the crowd
to whom Simonoff, the new Russian “con-
sul,” lectures on the advantages of Bol-
shevikism, apparently in the hope that they
will go and do.likewise; and the disaffected
in general. The very old and the very young
will remain; the lunatics; the men who can’t
go. however willing, because they have a duty
to perform in organising strikes and hanging
up industry; the invalids, and the “conscien-
tious objectors.” Added to these will be a
number of returned soldiers with good inten-
tions, but more or less incapacitated by
wounds, and a number more who passed
muster here 'but were found to be incapaci-
tated on arrival. The moral of all which is
that a wholly successful voluntary system
will presently make the able-bodied Bol-
sheviker a much stronger force than ever he
has been as compared with the able-bodied
anti-Bolsheviker. A compulsory system
would remove many of the latter under mili-
tary discipline; the voluntary method
won’t. Experience has shown that the Bol-
shevik movement has room for all the lop-
sided people, from the philosophic visionary
with plans and specifications for a new
heaven and a new earth, down to the lout
who throws rocks at a Chinaman. And it
can keep them together long enough to do
almost unlimited wreckage. Without doubt
the solitary Federal policeman at Bowen—
the one whom W. M. Hughes appointed in
his excitement when an egg was thrown at
him—would put up a gallant fight against
the hordes of disorder, and would receive an
impressive funeral with wreaths if the Pro-
visional Government permitted; but it would
be a public sorrow if that officer fell facing
fearful odds single-handed in the grass-grown
street. One way and another, there are
gusty chances aoout voluntaryism.
A,
A Sermon with a Tired Woman for the
Text.
The case of a soldier’s wife, the mother of
four, who was said to have vainly raked the
Sydney suburbs for many miles in search of
a habitation (cottage variety) at 18s. a
week, was lately ventilated in the press. It
sounds melancholy and it doesn’t sound im-
possible. but what else do the rulers of the
land expect? There are 671,300 people in the
Sydney suburbs and about 106,000 in the
city; total 777,300. Every year, despite the
exodus to the Front, the number increases.
In 1917 it increased by 12,700 and in five
years it has grown by 52,000. Even in 1916,
when the population of N. S. Wales in gen-
eral diminished by 21.500, that of Sydney
grew a little. Nobody except the farmer and
the rabbiter is encouraged to live anywhere
except in Sydney. No other deep-water port
save Newcastle has been opened to commerce
by railway communication, and much of the
trade which would naturally go to Newcastle
is attracted to Sydney by the simple device of


To Farmers and Pastoralists.
T h i Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.of A“ stralia
Limited
Is YOUR Insurance Company.
Thousands of farmers and pastoralists throughout the Commonwealth have already co-operated
for your benefit. ‘
It is to your advantage to support the company established solely
On all risks the Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. offers the same
But the I armers & Settlers’ Co.—being a co-operative company—offers this furth
That means that the co-operator secures his insurances at absolute cost price.
as any other reputable insurance company —absolute security at standard rates,
er advantage: The entire profits are available for distribution amongst shareholders.
WRITE THE MANAGER FOR FULL PARTICULARS.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PLACE* SYDNEY
BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
carrying it the extra 100 miles of railway
journey practically free. Also the export of
wool from Newcastle has been stopped by a
regulation under which it must come to Syd-
ney to be “appraised.” The pure atmosphere
of Sydney is the only atmosphere in which
wool can be appraised. So almost everybody
comes to Sydney where the industries are,
including the slaughter-yards and the Gov-
ernment Astronomer with his six assistants,
all looking for a new comet. Cottages are,
naturally, in demand. But nobody makes
cheap cottages now, because land is dear, and
materials are dear, and labor is dearer than
it ever was before, and taxes have gone up
and the interest on the mortgage has sprung
and the Fair Rents Court has to be consid-
ered. The grasping metropolitan landlord
actually put up only half as many new build-
ings in 1917 as he did in 1913 —not that he
has left off grasping, but ..because there is
mighty little to grasp under present condi-
tions. Wild horses and terraces of elephants
wouldn’t have torn him away from the good
work of supplying a soldier’s grass-widow
with a nice, sanitary, one-storey dwelling, fit
for humans to live in, for 18s. per week, if
it wasn’t that he would make a dead loss by
it. So he prefers to be a natriot and buy 5
per cent, war bonds. There is room for
100,000 or 200,000 hypothetical people to live
at much less cost in the non-existent and
indefinitely-postponed cities which aren’t
allowed, through Sydney influence, to rise at
Jervis Bay and Port Stephens—cities beside
splendidly deep harbors where the Govern-
ment might be sole ground landlord from
the beginning and the sweet flower of State
Socialism might bloom in the spring. But if
a fool people allows a fool Parliament to
make a fool Ministry whose policy is that
everybody should live in one spot, then the
spot must be paid for. Overcrowding is
one of the most costly and breathless luxu-
ries on earth. You can’t have it, with a
garden and a decent bathroom, for 18s. per
week.
■ «
The Warwick Egg Hatches Something.
Whether Ryan won by a 5 to 2 majority
or a bit under matters next to nothing. What
counts is that the other crowd was swept off
the face of the earth again, and Ryan’s
man-power is more than enough for all pur-
poses, reasonable and otherwise. It is not
likely that anyone expected a different result.
The circumstances were all in his favor.
He was able to offer the public something
definite even if most of it was tripe; and
because it is much more profitable to offer
tripe than to mention the bill, and be-
cause the bill will have to be mentioned pre-
sently, Ryan recognised that the time was
just ripe. Therefore very wisely, in the
tactical sense, he rushed the election, and
secured great impetus from the Warwick
egg, the secret police and the riotous conduct
of Hughes. Until an agitated little Welsh-
man again went bersark a few months ago,
the Ryan Ministry was drifting to perdition
and knew it; and if it is anxious now to do
the graceful thing, a unanimous vote of
thanks to Hughes and his Win-the-War
Government, in the form of an illuminated
address, would be appropriate. So far as the
election can be regarded as a triumph for
any particular principles, the brutal truth
is that every other principle except the one
of letting the rest slifle and capturing votes
was treated to an early application of the
axe. In this respect Ryan and his friends
were only following a fashion common to
the whole of Australia, while their opponents
struggled hard to do the same thing. It is
surely something like a tragedy that while
the world is being shot to pieces and finan-
cial problems of ghastly size' are sitting on
the doorstep, the Labor party should be iden-
tified, as it formerly was in N. S. Wales and
now is in Bananaland, with policies and
practices designed to annex votes at the
price of debauching the constituencies. So
long as they can hand round jobs and p.n.’s
and keep wild cats alive, this paper appre-
hends that the Ryanites will find the job
of hanging on as easy as falling off. But
compared with the trouble they are making
for Queensland and themselves the last
cyclone was as tame as a bag of cabbages.
That Breach of the Peace Over Yonder.
On what is happening or going to happen
on the Western Front the official explainers
have lately been as dumb as frozen jumbucks.
Particulars handed out by others have in the
main consisted of trimmings for what is of
no importance. According to these it wbuld
appear that the German is feeling very miser-
able and the Australians very enthusiastic.
If we let it go at that for the moment it will
hurt nobody, anyway. Apparently the dis-
turbance on the French Front has been in-
tensified ; and as General Mud is taking him-
self off, the probabilities of an extension of
the riot increase. Whether the German is
going to fall on the Allies or whether the
Allies are prepared to fall on Yon Hinden-
burg, or whether all hands intend to simul-
taneously rush one anoth.er, are matters to
be heard about when something occurs. In
the interval the suspicion that shorter-range
conversations relating to peace have been in
progress is at least given color by a state-,
ment reported to have been made by Von
Bulow. This is that Germany is prepared
to talk about concessions and adjustments if
given “a free hand to deal with Russia.”
That means carving up the Bear to furnish
a German banquet. The Allies may not be
disposed to agree; but if they cannot dis-
suade the Bear from carving himself up, pro-
longation of the war to save him from
similar attentions from an outsider may not
provoke much enthusiasm. This paper is
persuaded that more is going to be heard
about this subject before long, for Russia is
clearly falling into a more inchoate mess,
and each step in the tragedy adds to the
difficulties of the Allies —or most of them, at
any rate. Incidentally, the commandeer-
ing of Dutch shipping by the Allies opens up
a new prospect for neutrals in future wars.
But what is more important at the moment
is that the use of these vessels will give John
Bull and others time to get their second
wind in the race against the submarine. Old
Von Tirpitz is alleged to be confident that
if the torpedo is kept working overtime all
will be well for his boss. He may be wrong;
but if the hurry-up of new construction in
England is not attended to with less muddle
than there has been in the past, he may be
horribly right. Shipbuilding is absolutely
vital, as W. Hughes has frequently men-
tioned while omitting to do any.
For the time being, at any rate, and so far
as State politics are concerned, Party is
pretty well smashed in. S. Australia, and
there is what those who can’t get out of the
old ways of thinking call “confusion.” This
means that the machines have not succeeded
in limiting the choice of the electors to two
men—neither of them much good, as a rule,
except as party wirepullers. For suburban
East Torrens there are nine nominations, and
for Sturt 10 (three seats available in each
case). In the country, Murray, Burra and
Barossa show the same rush. Among the
surprises is the absence of Clarence Goode,
brother-in-law of Crawford Vaughan and
member of his recent Ministry. Vaughan
himself is in the list, though it was thought
that his absence in America might
keep him out. He is in the Sturt 10,
which includes also Blackburn, V.C., and
Mrs. J. F. Young, who barracks for Propor-
tional Representation. Another less-known
lady is nominated for Adelaide, for which
also. Denny, wo<unded and in England, stands
again. For the Leg. Council, ex-Attorney-
General “Jim” Vaughan, now in the
trenches, is renominated. Kirkpatrick, the
veteran Labor leader and ex-Agent General,
has put aside his expressed wish to retire,
and Styles stands as an Independent. Pro-
bably the election is more important to
Styles than to anyone else in all the lists.
When he was made the scapegoat for the
costly land purchases by Vaughan’s Govern-
ment, he resigned from the present Coalition
Ministry, claiming and expecting a fresh in-
quiry. This having been refused him, he is
presenting himself as an utter Independent
to get into the Council and demand a hearing.
It is a queer platform on which to ask a dis-
trict to elect you as its representative. But
certainly the man ought to have had the
inquiry he asked for.
The plaintive contention of the squatter
that he will be simply ruined by “interfer-
ence” with the price of meat, gets badly
bumped by a report in Sydney Telegraph,
wherein N. C. Buck'nell, a station owner
in the Inverell district (N.S.W.), gave a
frank and edifying account of how the poor
sheepowner is doing in war times. Buck-
nell has some 24,000 acres, on which he
carries an average of 20,000 ewes and 500
to 1000 head of cattle. He has never carried
less than a sheep to the acre, and as to re-
sults, the Telegraph says :
For 10 years before the war his wool sold from
12}d. to 13Jd. His 1914 clip realised 14£d., 1915
clip 1916 clip 224 d., and the 1917 clip has
yet to be sold. In 1916 his 20,000 ewes, with 11,000
lambs at foot, averaged 101 b. of wool, which realised
a total of £16,000.
“The wool ! look upon as all profit,” Buck-
nell candidly informed the newspaper, and
it is fair guessing that, as his story was fur-
nished at the moment when a determined
effort was being made to keep up the price of
meat and the stockowners’ profits, the In-
verell man was heartily cursed for giving the
show away.
Dear Bulletin, —Mr. “Harrison O.” (B.
7/3/T8) has evidently missed the intention
of all my questions re Miss Rout’s proposed
sanitary bagnio. He says “Miss Rout
would. doubtless secure as her employees
recognised practitioners,” and incidentally
suggests an analogy between these and
trained nurses. There is no such analogy,
neither in the occupation nor in the training.
Prostitutes have all been innocent girls at
one time, and they neither require nor re-
ceive any training. To argue that securing
the services of prostitutes is different from
“procuring healthy girls” is a quibble. If no
one made use of prostitutes there would be'
no prostitutes. The responsibility for their
existence rests with those who use and pay
them; so one might as well procure the
innocent girl as wait till someone else has
done it for one. And then “Harrison O.’s”
other analogy—one person paying rates and
letting another work in a sewer —is quite
false. Work in a sewer is honest and neces-
sary. Prostitution is neither. All the rest
of his letter is answered by the trainers of
racehorses, who will tell you that sexual rela-
tions are not necessary for stallions when
racing. I can assure Mr. “O.” that at least
the great majority of medical men agree that
those relations are not absolutely necessary
for health in man. As to the possibility of
keeping an aseptic house for the purpose
referred to, the bacteriological examination
and suitable treatment of the women alone
would be absolutely useless. The proprietor
would be out of business in a week, for she
would have to submit every customer to sim-
ilar examination and treatment. And, lastly,
I remark to Mr. “O.” that the writer is a
middle-aged doctor, and knows something of
what he is taking about, and is not in the
habit of asking “foolish questions.” He leaves
that to his natients. —Yours, “Dr. Nil.”
♦
“That all capital be nationalised forthwith ;
that all incomes over £5OOO a year be taxed
95 per cent.; that all private banks be elimi-
nated ; that rents on property be done away
with ; that peace be sought on a basis of no
annexations and no indemnities; that all
war debts be repudiated, except in cases
where undue hardship would be caused ; that
six hours constitute a day’s work; that all
candidates for public positions place an
undated resignation in the hands of the
executive.” Though they appear so at first
sight, these are not resolutions of the
Russian soviets ; they are merely a few of
the 304 proposals to be submitted to the
Easter Conference of the Vic. branch of the
Australian Labor Party. Probably not one
of the brilliant ideas will receive more con-
sideration than a dog gives to Orion’s Belt;
but if Labor has any intention of getting
into office again, it is time it appointed a
committee to go through conference propo-
sals and rule out those'that have no chance
whatever of acceptance, but are greedily
seized upon by opponents and held up for
public inspection as Labor ideals. There is,
indeed, a strong suspicion that that is what
some of them are there for.
To show how thoroughly he believed in
economy, the now-dispossessed Bowser of
Victoria passed bills to borrow £1,834,200,
which at 5 per cent, means an annual inter-
est charge for ever of £91,700. The “repro-
ductive works” on which the money is to be
spent include new schools, public buildings,
railway trucks and bridges damaged by
floods. No wonder Peacock cackled at the
joke.
Despatch from a returned Billjim now on
recruiting work: —
On Tuesday and Wednesday we were at Leeton
(N.S.W.) show and ran into trouble. Leeton is a
“dry” area, but on special occasions such as this
permission is granted to ran a booth for the sale of
liquor, and as a result there were more hogs in
Leeton than were ever bred there. The Holman
Government transplanted a lot of the turbulent
Broken Hill irreconcilables to this place, so you can
imagine what we were up against. As soon as we
got on the platform they set about trying to upend
things and break up our meeting. They hurled in-
sult after insult at us and at last got out of hand.
The climax was reached when one of them made a
blow at a member of our party and missed. But
he was not missed in return by one of the boys, and
took the count. In the end we were all at it, and
if you people could have seen it you would have
witnessed one of the finest examples of comradeship
ever. There were returned men coming in towards
us, fighting their way, from all directions, and
shouting, “Stick it, cobbers! we’ll soon be with you.”
And that is one of the things we are trying to make
the eligibles of Australia see—the meaning of true
comradeship. I may say that we hardly knew any
of our rescuers; but the mere fact of us being in
khaki and in a tight corner was all the argument
they needed.
“Talaponsi” : “Vandorian’s” reference to C.
F. Andrews’s report on indentured labor in
Fiji (B. 7/3/T8) recalls the ex-parson’s
sensational address to the members of the
Feminist Club in Sydney on the question
of the coolie women’s lot on the Fiji planta-
tions. The newspaper reports, or some of
them, were referred to the C.S.IL, and that
is possibly why the stuff was never printed.
The indignation of the Feminists also came to
naught, although on the night of the address
they were at white-heat to protest against
the degradation of little brown sister. The
C.S.R. is pleased to regard Andrews as a
paid spreader of sedition on behalf of the
Indian nationalists, and considers the
Empire’s present perilous condition should
be sufficient to stifle him. As against that
however, is the awkward fact that the Indian
Government has declared it to be in the best
interests of India that no more indentured
labor should go to Fiji. Andrews told the
Feminists that both sexes, married and
single, in some cases live in sheds fitted
with bunks without any attempt at privacy.
The fact that women are nearly 50 per cent."
less in number than the men makes woman
such a coveted possession that no husband
can keep his wife to himself; consequently
murder and suicide following paroxysms of
jealousy are frequent. But the green-eyed
monster does not only lurk in the environ-
ment which Andrews blames. Only last mail a
horrible story of murder came from beautiful
Tairuni. A planter’s wife heard the terri-
fied screams of her little daughters issuing
from where they were at play with their
Indian nurse. The mother rushed out, to
see the nurse (a prized possession of three
years, married and considered a model of
virtue) lying dead with* her head almost
severed, and her small charge unhurt in her
arms. The murderer (who was not her hus-
band) was standing by; but before the be-
wildered woman could do more than pick up
her baby he snatched a piece of rope and
ran into the bush, where he hanged himself.
That horror cannot be laid at the door of the
barrack system.
“All his mistresses died poor.”— Obituary
of a Prussian Icing, one of Kaiser William’s
ancestors.
The most poignant thing in the procession
on Our Boys’ Day in Melbourne was a lone
female holding a huge sword in one hand and
a pair of scales in the other. She was
supposed to represent “Justice to our
Soldiers,” and the lady was blindfolded!
Perhaps it’s right.
Red tape is often abused in connection
with lav/; but it has its uses. A ship at
the wharf at Port Adelaide was lately
“arrested” for debt. The established pro-
cedure is to nail the warrant to the mast;
but the modern steel things do not lend them-
selves to that. The red tape came in here.
A length of it was produced, and with its
help the document was firmly “served.”
There was one fewer of the old-time
whaling captains left in Hobart when John
Christopher Jones answered the last signal
at Hobart the other day. Born 72 years ago
he had been in the Speck since 1853, and in
his day commanded the Marie Laure (mostly
called the Mary Laurie), the Derwent
Hunter, the Lady Emma and other whale-
chasers. Of late years he had been a signal-
man.
“Croson”: Being an advanced democracy
and in need of population, we look after the
public health. We provide infectious dis-
eases hospitals and insist on patients being
treated there; also we possess Health
officers and inspectors and Boards of Health
—and then this sort of thing happens. A
Collingwood (Vie.) mother was attacked by
diphtheria, was taken to the Infectious Dis-
eases Hospital and died there. Next a
daughter who had helped to place her mother
in the ambulance got the disease and also
died. Then a son followed, and he died, too.
At this point the family concluded that the
locality was unhealthy, and left the house;
also considerable bedding. It being appar-
ently nobody’s business to fumigate the pre-
mises and burn the bedding, the latter was
stacked in the yard and left, so that the sun
and wind might ripen the germs and waft
them abroad. Various prospective tenants in-
spected the “desirable detached cottage,” but
made inquiries as to the unusualness of so
much bedding at large and went away hastily
on learning the facts. /
“Gunner”: “Whist” on the subject of
hearing shells coming (B. 7/3/T8) is all at
sea. Sound does not travel at 40ft. per
second, but at 1120 ft.; and a muzzle velocity
of 80ft. per sec. is equally absurd. Here
are a few British gun muzzle velocities:
ISpt. Q.F., 1610 ft. per sec.; 60pt. 8.L.,
2080 ft. per sec.; 4.5-inch Howitzer, 1010 ft.
per sec. “Whist’s” statement about hearing a
shell pass overhead and at the same time
seeing it burst 100 ft. further on is a “flight
of fancy.” I don’t know, either, why he
should consider the “muzzle velocity” in
making a calculation at the end of the pro-
jectile’s _ flight. The “remaining velocity”
is what is then required.
The. Senate’s committee which is inquiring
into liquor and the army has been taking
evidence in Adelaide. Blackburn, V.C., the
returned men’s president, favors a wet can-
teen and believes that the frequency of
French estaminets has an enormous influence
in keeping the Australians contented. Drink
has affected discipliile very little, he thinks.
But Forsyth, Commandant in S. Australia,
has an idea that drink is “the worst enemy
a soldier has, so far as efficiency is con-
cerned.” If that is so, this paper has to con-
clude with deep regret that the medical and
other Defence Department services in S. Aus-
tralia can be rarely sober.


GANCIA’S
EXTRA DRY
ASTI SPARKLING SWEET
AS SUPPLIED TO THE KING OF ITALY AND ALL ROYALTIES.
/GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1900.
AWARDED (GRAND PRIX, BRUSSELS, 1910.
CIVIL SERVICE STORE AND ALL LEADING HOTELS. ASK FOR IT.
Sole Agents for Australasia : LUBRANO (El FERRARI, 32 O’Connell St., Sydney
ALL OTHER ITALIAN WINES KEPT IN STOCK.
flquaperia
(HARROCATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunvadi Janos and other
'•-German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents :—R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
r-^hxri
but he may think you have
forgotten him unless you
send him a regular supply
\of Cigarettes. Be sure you
send “De Reszkes ”
he's worthy of the very
best. Post them yourself
—then they must reach
him safely.
Sold Everywhere
/"
3fl
The Shirt for Workers
Peapes’ popular “Warrego”—a strong, neat shirt, made as
illustrated, from stout cotton material with tiny pinhead-
square pattern in Buff or Grey; and in a new Blue-grey
shade with diagonal stripe effect. These shirts would to-day
cost more to make than we quote for them. Order early
before the stock sells out. Absolutely the strongest and
best worker’s shirt available.
READY TO WEAR 6/6
Peapes’ pay postage. Please state size of collar usually worn.
New Catalogue sent on request.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “Mrs. Dot”
Her Majesty's “The Bing Boys Are Here ’
Palace “Aladdin
Tivoli “Samples”
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Wirths’ Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “You’re in Love”
Royal “Within the Law”
King’s “Turn to the Right”
Bijou “Robinson Crusoe”
Tivoli “Jack and the Beanstalk”
Hoyt’s Dg Luxe Si Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Auditorium “20,000 Leagues Under the Sea”
The Playhouse (26th) “The Madras House”
Though the scenery is overstocked with
strident lavenders and greens, Fuller’s panto,
of ‘‘Kobinson Crusoe” at Melbourne Bijou
seems likely to haunt its supporters’ memo-
ries for some time to come. The show is
not rigidly decorous in jokes and jingles, nor
distressingly refined in other particulars, but
it provides the right amount of innuendo and
.assault to catch the good silver of the Bloke
About Town. The songs are mostly gay
exposures of defective vocabulary, whilst the
principals are nearly all rough and hearty,
and there is no visible difference in effect
between Clias. Zoli’s Pirate Chief, Walter
Cornock’s Dame, and several others who are
too humorless to mention. The leading boy,
Nellie Kolle, gets the large help of a hand-
some exterior, but her Warble might have
been trained by Mons. Rabbiteau. All the
same, she is the Bijou’s Melba, and fills
many a heart with rapture during her deaf-
ening chorus upheavals. Nellie Fallon, the
principal girl, looks dainty, Dorothy Hastings
catches the ear with a clear and pleasing-
soprano, and Maud Fanning, as a Cannibal
Queen, dashes into Coonland with all her old
ardor. Victor Prince fits out Robinson
Crusoe with his physical plenty in chest and
chin, but there is never a moment when
Victor is anything more than an incident in
the scheme of things. The best turns in the
performance are a whirlwind bike act inside
a steel-ribbed globe, and an intelligent
appearance by two monkeys and a dog.
* * *
For one more week the professed exponents
of tender passion at Melbourne Majesty’s
will sing “You’re in Love” to the artless
William Greene, after which he will marry
Maude Fane under the stern supervision of
Connie Ediss. Auntie’s efforts to keep
Maude, though married, from the “clutches
of God’s noblest animal, Man,” are not vei’y
humorous material for a musical comedy to
work on. In the reflected light of her extra-
ordinary authority the young people present
all the appearance of chumps; and a chump
hero and heroine have no air of sentimental
importance. Also the audience’s taste for
waltz-time music gets somewhat cloyed by
monotonous references to Love, and Dreams,
“Within the Law,”
Melbourne Royal.
Eddie Griggs
(Harold Moran).
and Day - dreams.
Mingled with so
much simple sweet-
ness the acidity of
Connie reminds one
of lemon- j u i c e
squeezed into honey
for cough-cure pur-
poses. But no mat-
ter —the sticky melo-
dies cling to the
public ear, a number
of pretty girls are
always ready to
come along without
explaining their pre-
sence, and Madge
Elliott is a dancer
with a personality.
Ages ago there was
a certain .Violet
Cameron who had
all the dukes and
earls of Britain talk-
ing about her. Madge
Elliott is very like
the unshrinking
Violet used to be,
and the duke who
writes this notice
sees much to admire in the slim Australian
syren.
** * *
This night week will see the present Mel-
bourne Royal bill off the premises. Till then
the New York magnate’s wife will continue
to lift some lace by stealth from Gilder's
counter, and be treated for kleptomania
rather than crime. Mary Turner will per-
severe with her endeavors to make a lady
out of Aggie in order to improve her black-
mailing prospects, and “Within the Law”
will complete its satisfactory revival. People
who don’t remain slaves to their first im-
pressions are speaking nicely of this revival.
It is not so rbugh on the police as the first
production was, and by calling- further atten-
tion to the story it awakens interest in the
fate of Aggie and the other crooks whom
Mary loved. The end of Joe Carson is not
left in doubt. The Law wipes out Joe for
stool-pigeon shooting. But Aggie and the
others? In what way does Mary get rid of
them after her marriage into the Gilder
family? If she pays Aggie to remain good
it must cost her considerable dollars per
annum.
** * *
At Melbourne Tivoli the city’s insatiable
appetite for panto, is getting two meals a
day as before. “Jack and the Beanstalk”
doesn’t disimprove on acquaintance. Items
like the song to the kiddies and “My Gramo-
phone Girl’* have some charm as well as
noise in them; in fact, if the latter had
only half as much of Mabelle Morgan’s per-
sistent top notes it would be twice as pleas-
ing. The Cow still answers to the name of
Jessie, which is the name most panto, cows
are christened by. The curtailment of the
Giant’s trousers is still a widespread pro-
ceeding, and the King has abated none of
his native unimportance. Considered as a
crowned monarch he is about the nearest
approach to a casual bloke that any panto,
ever struck. On the other hand, Daisy
Sylvester is a graceful Spirit of the Times
(of long ago, when columbines were in
fashion) and the crudity of Dame Trot is
“Within the Law,”
Melbourne Royal.
Aggie Lynch
(Norma Mitchell).
tempered by a husky
gaiety that helps the
show along. The
Vardel Brothers, acro-
bats with a chute-dive
specialty, were added
to the hard-working
entertainment last
Saturday. And 12
times a week the ballet
reveals a commend-
able anxiety to do its
best*
❖* * *
The Melbourne Play-
house will be open
next Tuesday night
for one consecutive
performance of “The
Mad r a s H ous e.”
Gregan McMahon
wishes to draw intelli-
gent public attention,
as well as the best
highbrow patronage, to
Granville Bar k e r’s>
comedy. There is a
public that wants good
plays. The trouble is
to make it realise its
soul’s desire.
Ye crooks, who in a devious way
Are seeking dollars all the time,
Go ye to see the Yankee play
That draws from Muggs and Gilly’s crime
A moral to improve the mind.
Good felons, looking for the Light,
Can here a plain direction find—
“ Turn to the Right,”
“Turn to the Right.”
Up Bourke-street, from the G.P.0.,
A bloke wot eighteen months deserves,
May, in a chastened spirit, go
To learn the worth of peach preserves.
With resolute and rapid feet
Walk up that highway any night,
And when ye get to Russell-street
Turn to the Right,
Turn to the Right!
The dramatist, in merry tones,
This maxim teaches at the King’s:
“A burglar may, on stepping-stones
Of peaches, rise to better things”—
May join, through Jam, a wowser sect,
And then, his erring past despite,
Preserve his peach-like self-respect.
“Turn to the Right,”
Oh, turn to the Right!
:!' :)< *
The corpse of the fatuous millionaire who
loved vermilion moments with red-haired
females is demanding an explanation all this
week at Melbourne Britannia. The feature
of this narrative, christened “Empty
Pockets,” is some of the choicest Tenderloin
scenery that Noo Yark can offer." At the
Melba “The Soul of Satan” fastened hordes
to their chairs for the first three days this
week. In this frenzy Gladys Brockwell as a
soiled dove comes to bring not peace but a
brick to the man who discarded her. To-day
Mrs. Vernon Castle reopens the floodgates
of her mannerisms in “Sylvia of the Secret
Service.”
Current shadows in action at Hoyt’s Mel-
bourne houses are Jack Pickford and Louise
Huff in “What Money Can’t Buy,” adapted
from a George Broadhurst play, and afford-
ing some pretty adventures to the two young
people. Louise is the vest-pocket edition
of an Anthony Hope princess, and Jack
represents American muscle and money that
wrest her from her position of insecurity
and want. There are no unhealthy moments
in this incredible story, and the sentiment is
as artless as kiss-in-the-ring. “Out of the
Wreck,” in which a lady’s past is photo-
graphed in the manner of “On Trial,” yields
some excitement in the earlier scenes and
keeps the lead, Kathleen Williams, busy
throughout.
$ $ $
“The Bing Boys” will score 100 perform-
ances at Sydney Majesty’s before the “Dick
Whittington” knocks at the stage door
on Saturday, March 30.
** * *
“Aladdin” is now settled down at Sydney
Palace and ready for the Easter crowds. The
country people who howled over Dad when
“Our Selection” was on tour will break a
fresh button from its moorings when • Mrs.
Bert Bailey Twankey comes up through the
trapdoor as a burlesque Fairy Queen and
rescues the bald and garrulous pill-fakir from
the magic cave.
** * *
“Mrs. Dot” at Sydney Criterion will con-
tinue her delightful husband-snaring till
Easter Saturday, when Marie Tempest will
appear in “A Pair of Silk Stockings”—and,
presumably, her roguish smile.
$* * #
This paper has still to have the pleasure
of meeting the Perfect Pierrots. Strollers
and Dandies come and go, all with clean,
smart, artistic performances; but always
there are dull moments. There is one comic
man who isn't comic, or one singer who sings
one song too many, or one burlesque act
that is a dud. Still, if the English Pierrots
who opened at Sydney Playhouse on Satur-
day in “Pierrotland” don’t score the longed-
for 100 per cent., they climb to a level of
mirth-making and music that is at least as
high as the average. From what this critic
could see in a back seat in the O.P. corner,
the best points are Elsa Langley’s piquant
personality, her pleasant voice and the art-
istry of her acting (her two Dutch songs
are most excellent, and she makes of a duet
with Leslie Austin a poem of refined gesture
and daintiness) ; Billie Wilson’s impersona-
tion of a kiddie reciting (most actresses
impersonate a grown woman impersonating
a child) ; Roy Cooke’s dramatic rendering
of a charming Maori song; the quaint turn
of Mitchell, Lawrence and Turner, who Sim-
ultaneously sing three different songs; the
cleverness of Charles Lawrence at the piano;
and the ensemble work of the melodious
company. The show is quaintly staged and
the dressing is admirable. For those who
like crude burlesque there are two passable
attempts; and those who want the famous
trio from “Faust”—not a burlesque—will
find it forcibly rendered, though the item
seems out of place in a programme of mirth.
** * *
The Australian spy film, “The Enemy
Within,” which is chiefly an excuse for
Snowy Baker to display some thrilling acro-
batics, has adjourned to Sydney Lyric for
this week. The Royal is giving the movies
another brief innings, and a Goldwyn version
of Re-x Beach’s “Auction Block” is at the
wickets. Albert Goossens and other concert
artists help to brighten the proceedings of
the popular marriage-market story. Another
fine novel, Robert Hitchen’s “Garden of
Allah,” is being shadowgraphed at the Crys-
tal Palace, a feature of the film being excel-
lent glimpses of the sort of country that Bill-
jim of the Light Horse and Camel Corps
has been frying under. “What Came Out of
the Wreck” is for inspection at Hoyt’s,
blackmailers and bigamists suffering heavy
casualties in this Paramount thriller. For a
dainty round-off to all Sydney screen excite-
ments this week there’s Marguerite Clark,
who, as “The Valentine Girl,” at the Hay-
market, discovers a lot of things a college
miss doesn’t have to know to get five A’s.
* * *
In the long ago the Wirths contracted a
habit of falling upon Sydney at Easter-time,
after the manner of Noah paying a visit to
Ararat. And when they unpack the ele-
phants and the lions and the educated ponies
and the sheep and the dogs and the muscular
ladies and gentlemen, and when the pliocene
witticisms of the humorist with the red nose
and the astounding clothes have been un-
tangled and the complicated apparatus inci-
dental to the aerial gymnast -has been fixed
up, the proceedings commence, Welby Cook
conducting with a half-mile whip. Where-
fore, the appointed time having again
arrived, the Hippodrome in Campbell-street
is now inhabited by some old friends and
numerous accomplished strangers and the
aroma of wild animals. It is a cheerful show
decorated with doubt as to whether the lions
are going to consume the trainer in full view
of the audience, and speculation as to whether
50 tons of elephant will sit on the orchestra.
The first circus seen by the writer was at a
place called Babylon, and though elephants
and horses were at that entertainment there
was certainly nothing on the programme so
good to watch as the work of some of the
performers who have lately come to Sydney.
The Flying Winstills, who do things in the
vicinity of a trapeze; Belle Onra and Les
Monforts, two gymnasts of exceptional nerve
and grace; the Zandil Sisters, billed as the
“human aeroolanes,” and the Cevine troupe
of wire walkers are entitled to the respectful
admiration which this journal hands them.
It would give them, an illuminated certificate
of merit but for the great scarcity of paper.
“THE BING BOYS,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Oliver Bing suggests that the transformation
of Emma (Minnie Love) is due to the
winning of a raffle.
Renee Adoree, the dainty little French
dancer who has been ill, is again whirling
with her American partner on the “Samples”
counter at Sydney Tivoli. Charles Workman,
late on the J.C.W. salary list, started to draw
his Tivoli screw last Saturday, and earned
it. The black-and-white “Garden of Eden”
ballet still scores heavily, and the agfcd mes-
merised man who dances more or less like
Gen6e is one of the joys of the show.
** * *
Adelaide Majestic has a bright bill;
Sylvia has a fine voice, and Phrozo causes
a lot of guessing, though she is not as un-
guessable as the Fuller management makes
out. The Tivoli has been giving a week to
“A London Arab,” with good parts for the
children Gladys Gaul and Eileen Murphy;
Darcy Kelway and Beaumont look after the
relief. This theatre now promises a play
that “makes you think.” A new team of
“Humoresks” has come in at Austral Gar-
dens—with great pluck, considering the time
of year and coolness of evenings. The chief
feature of the picture-shows is good, hard
fighting. Desmond as an Irishman at West’s,
and Fairbanks at Woudergraph, use their
fists (and other weapons) as though they
really enjoy the exercise. The Pav. has
Ethel Barrymore and the always enjoyable
O. Henry storyettes. The Royal keeps on
being crammed with the Williamson “Dick
Whittington” panto.; it is brilliant as a
spectacle and remarkable for its dancing—
Maggie Dickenson, Maude Amery and Syd-
ney Yates leading. But the biggest audience
of the week attended a free show thrown on
to the balcony of the Criterion Hotel from
the Prince Alfred opposite: it is an attrac-
tive picture of the life of a soldier after
recruiting, and lasts over an hour.
** * *
Of a Melbourne art show :
Forty-four drawing's by Ida Rentoul-Outhwaite at
the Fine Art Society’s rooms show a weakening
imagination and a discursive pen. Really the lady’s
adventures in Fairyland are recorded with the. soulless
precision of an anatomical chart-maker. She
describes everything to the last leaf of a forest and
the ultimate curl on a fairy’s neck. In meticulous-
ness of detail she is the Arnold Bennett of pictorial
fiction. Yet her technical equipment is good, and
she has a dexterous pen-line, demonstrated in such
examples as “The Cradle of Dreams” and “Election
Day,” that is always the main feature of her
achievement. Also her water-color is pleasing in
some tinted efforts, though it is as transparent as her
intention, and rarely arises above the simplicity of
washes. Of all her creations the least satisfactory
are her much-vaunted fairies; they lack the ethereal
and the breath of life, and might be members of the
best families got up for a birthday party.
Mary Marlowe, who figured as heroine in
some early Bailey-Grant productions, has
blossomed as a novelist, with “Kangaroos in
King Land,” a vivacious account of the ad-
ventures here and in England of a bright
quartette of Australian girls. The book,
published in London, has been favorably
noticed.


LADIES!
Always Get the Best.
\NUI4V
&
ohn
inter s
trange
OMNIA
LABOR
VINCIT
TOILET PREPARATIONS
HAVE WON SIX GOLD MEDALS.
D° not fail to see our EXHIBIT in the INDUSTRIAL HAUL at
the ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOW, SYDNEY, from March 26
to April 6, where you may purchase our goods and get free
samples and full advice, of
THE BEST THE WORLD HAS PRODUCED.
Send 3d. stamp for sample of Powder (name the tint), or Soap, or
Dental Cream, and Booklet, to John Strange Winter (London
Paris, Rome), 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
Melt Oman
I T 1 HIGH-CLASS
ISPICIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne. 42
©
E. DROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly*
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
“Mirrool”: Norman Lindsay’s picture of
the little kids asking the War Monster
“Why do you want to hurt us?’’ recalls the
most pathetic thing I saw in my IS months
in France. The French civilian population
hung on to Armentieres in a most remarkable
fashion. Generally when a town or village
is within easy distance of the guns some at
least of the people fall back; but very few
left Armentieres, and live days a week ypu
could see the youngsters going to school with
their satchel over one shoulder and their gas
mask over the other.
“Frank S. It.” : How’s this for the Homing
Stakes? In December, 1914, a Testament
left for Egypt with a sergeant of the 6th
L.II. Both eventually reached Gallipoli,
where the sergeant was killed. The Testa-
ment was returned to Australia through
official channels. It arrived in time to be
taken to France by a nephew. At
Bapa-ime the lad was wounded in the arm
and chest. A piece of shell cut open the
tunic pocket and allowed the Testament to
fall unnoticed to the ground. A Tommy
from a Middlesex regiment picked it up and
started it oft' per registered post to the pre-
vious owner’s address in Australia. On the
way the mailboat Mongolia was torpedoed.
The Testament was in one of the 30 mail-
bags washed ashore. Six months later an
early-morning fire totally destroyed a large
weatherboard house. The occupants escaped
in their night attire. The Testament was
one of the few articles they snatched up
as they ran. It had passed unharmed
through shot, shell, water, fire and the bags
of P.M.G. Webster.
Want to know what Black Brother really
thinks of the German? Tiie Bulletin
can’t tell, but this is just as it comes from
a half-caste abo. of the Burnett (Q.) :
The list time up in the line I killed five German.
I did it because they held up their hand till we got
about ten yard off them and then the dirty bruits
threw bombs at us so that’s why I killed them. If
they hadn’t thrown bombs at us we would have taken
them Prisnors and they would have been alright.
This ten for me since I been in France.
By the way, it is frequently mentioned that
this wounded man or the otfyer was carried
back by German prisoners. ' Don’t because
of that run away with the idea that these
prisoners are necessarily kind-hearted chaps
who want to give their wounded enemies a
hand. They simply rush the job because it
offers themselves the greatest possible pro-
tection till they get well back behind the
lines.
* * * »
The Methodist? of S. Aus. (and anybody
is liable to be a Methodist in S. Aus.) are
beginning to wonder whether the proposal
for settling things up after the war by let-
ting communities determine their own fate is
what it is cracked up to be. “Conference,”
which sits annually, decides for every
Methodist pulpit who its boss preacher shall
be Over this there have often been rum-
blings in the pews and grumblings out in the
porch ; and now the congregation at suburban
Hindmarsh, where the bricks come from, has
gone on strike almost unanimously because
it has been shorn of the parson it has had
for a couple of years and still wants. Actu-
ally pickets were posted or posted them-
selves, their tale of woe being that Confer-
ence had hit their man under the belt not for
being a poor parson, but for taking the Anti
side, against the vast majority of his cloth,
in the Conscription fight.
* * * *
“Spare Field-Marshal”: It’s about time
“H.G.T.’s” majah, who invited the orderly
to drop his buckets and salute
(B. 14/3/T8), was taught his
job. Any man employed on
fatigue work is not supposed to
salute when his hands are occu-
pied—he is to turn his eyes
right or left, as the case may •
be. If a non-com. be present,
he should give the order “Eyes
right” (or left), or in certain
cases the privates stand fast
while the senior non-com.
salutes the officer. The igno-
rance amongst some of the so-
called senior officers is appall-
ing. I have seen more than
one of them salute with the head
bare; I have even heard of them standing
at ease while the National Hymn was being
played.
♦ * * *
Military Headquarters in a southern dis-
trict was raided the other day by a simple
cabman in search of a revolver. He wanted
SHE COULD NOT LET HIM GO .
HE: “Hullot Clarice and young Softheadde look as if they're engaged! I wonder what
induced her to have him.”
SHE: “Oh, I suppose he made himself so cheap she thought she was at a bargain sale.”
the shooter to finish off a horse which had
just broken its leg in a street accident, and
reckoned the barracks was the likeliest spot
to get one. But though there was khaki
everywhere, no firearm smaller than a cannon
could be discovered. The disgusted astonish-
ment of the cabby became vocal when they
offered him the loan of a fire shovel. What
he said doesn’t matter; but it appears that
if the Wolf’s aeroplane had lobbed in that
barrack-yard the garrison would have had to
repel the raiders by pelting stones at them.
* * *
“Penzance”: Pte. Ennis was deaf, very
deaf. Under the observant eyes of doctors
and pals alike he had
“swung it” for two long
months in Blighty.
With his pals when on
leave he carried on a
quiet monologue, but to
all questions he turned
the unvarying, slightly
pathetic stare of the
uncomprehending. Books
dropped hehind him with
unnecessary violence
did not disturb his
beautiful calm. But
Dr. “Charley” Ryan
did. Ennis failed all
the auricular tests, and
Ryan grunted, “Well,
that’ll see you home. I
think,” as he wrote d 3
(“Australia and dis-
charge”) on Ennis’s
paper. Ennis saluted
stolidly and marched
out, disregarding a
shouted reminder to
shut the door. Then
Ryan slipped through
the other door and met
him at the end of the
passage. There he
leaned over and whis-
pered, “What did the
old mark you?”
“C 3, I think,” responded
Ennis, promptly and
joyously, and the next
move was Ryan’s.
• •
The clergy are mak-
ing a specially strenu-
ous attack just now on
the Australian wine
industry. Still they call
themselves “toilers in
the vineyard.” Per-
haps they mean that
they are a species of phylloxera. It also
toils in the vineyard.
* * * *
“Snaffle”: The Bulletin reports
(7/3/T8) that a regiment of Hebrews has
joined the army in France. Their motto is
“No advance without security.”
“E,L,S.” r Just out from Victor Harbor
(S.A.) there is an old cemetery. Almost
next to one another are the graves of the
respective spouses of a man and woman who
afterwards married. The woman, over the
grave of her dearly beloved, swore eternal
loyalty to her departed. On the day she mar-
ried No. 2, lightning, thrown by an unknown
hand, split the tombstone of her late hus-
band, and the stone of her husband’s dead
wife tilted over.
BY PROXY.
" Er — don’t you think some of the money we
spend here ought to go to the War
Loan?”
“Oh, well, give the waiter a good tip—I
heard him say he was saving for a
bond.”
WHEN THE ANZAC DEAD CAME HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lik(> a gust of leaves they drifted, by vagrant eddies
blown ;
They hung above their continent, lost, loved, known.
They hovered there uncertainly; they could not
understand:
They had fought, failed, fallen for an unremembered
land.
Some drifted down the town streets; they saw a
cheerful throng—
. Fair women swathed in fripperies, tall men that
slouched along;
Sweet girls that clung round windows like bees on
honeycomb,
Behind the counters sleek males. To this they had
come home!
And one soul noticed bright upon a soldier’s empty
sleeve
His old battalion c010r5.... his mate! It must be
Steve!
That soul about his mate hung ere it was wafted
far....
Strange the pain that stabbed his pal, an ache in
that old scar!
And Steve did not look prosperous; his pallid face
was grim.
He wasn’t even selling shirts—no limousine for him!
And the dead soul knew, amid that alien host,
His pal was more than pal now, a living fellow-
ghost.
One fluttered through the Councils, and found them
just the same:
Big word-warriors still played the Party game;
They nobly planned campaigns of words, and deemed
their speeches deeds,
And fought fierce offensives for strange old creeds.
And unions mui’dered industry, and men downed
tools,
And profiteers grew wealthier, making all the rules.
And one soul wandering about the wharves forlorn
Met baby-souls of ghost-ships waiting to be born 1
And all the souls blown inland at last to earth came
down—■
A strange snow-fall on a bare plain brown ;
And they muttered to each other, and their vague
murmur said:
“ ’Tis we who are the living; this continent is dead!
“Australia, that we loved so, has all our hopes
denied;
She hasn’t kept her end up; the darned old cow has
died !
Australia that we lived for, and for her fighting fell,
Is but am empty corpse now—let’s heave it into
Hell 1”
SHE HAD CLAWS, TOO.
“If you catch the same train to-morrow
night you will see my girl.”
“If you go to the war you may see my hoy.”
By its far four corners they flung it into Space;
They cheered the ancient pancake as it settled to its
place....
And though it’s damned for ever in the deepest lake
in Hell,
Australians don’t discuss it now —perhaps it's just as
well!
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
A CLASSICAL MASTER’S LETTER to CLEMENTS TONIC
Mr. G. A. Lundie, M.A., formerly Assistant-Headmaster High School, Palmerston North, N.Z., writes of this Medicine
And recommends it to all professional people, especi-
ally to teachers in the Educational service of Aus-
tralia, who suffer from weak nerves, insomnia or
brain fag.
“Palmerston North,
“New Zealand.
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“I am an unsolicited witness to your remark-
able remedy.
“I suffered for years from a form of nervous
complaint, which manifested itself in profound
melancholia which I could not throw off.
Clements Tonic Ltd.. P.ozelle, N.S.W.
“My appetite was capricious to a degree, and
I developed ill-health, till life was a real burden.
“I was, furthermore, threatened with a com-
plete nervous breakdoAvn. I could hardly fol-
low my duties as a high-school master, much
less give attention to serious teacher’s duties.
“I can honestly say your potent medicine
came to me as a revelation in healing, for I
regained my health completely through its con-
sistent use.
“For teachers engaged in mental strain and
arduous study, your tonic is indispensable as a
stand-by.
“I have recommended it to dozens of other
teachers, with most beneficial results.
“I am, Sirs, your faithfully,
“G. A. LUNDIE, M.A ”
There are hundreds of teachers of both sexes employed in
the N.S.W. Educational Service to-day who suffer from weak
nerves or acute nervousness, through continuous nerve strain in
teaching > and study, who never really enjoy good health. It is
as much the worry of keeping their schools up to the educa-
tional standard as the work which accounts for their feeling of
general ill-health. They should keep Clements Tonic on hand
as a “stand-by” medicine, feeling certain that in its possession
they will have a sweet soother of the nerves, a promoter of
keen appetite, and a general healer of the rundown and over-
wrought system. It makes weak people well and strong people
stronger. Get it to-day.
ALL chemists and stores sell it everywhere.
“Fax”: With all due admiration for John
Madden as a husband, father, courtier and
social-functioner, this writer had too keen a
recollection of the lawyer’s past to entertain
any illusions about him afterwards. To
begin with, lie was mainly a Crim. Court
barrister, who didn’t stick at much to save
his client. As a judge he was notorious for
giving decisions that were quashed by a
higher Court, and one of his decisions in the
first year of the war had to be quashed by
Federal Government order within an hour or
two of its utterance. Madden ruled that the
Government had no power to intern influ-
ential enemy aliens moving in the best Mel-
bourne sassiety, and the scandal of his ruling
(which the High Court laughed to scorn)
was emphasised by the fact that family
friends of the Judge were waiting to rejoice
with the disinterned person as soon as he left
the court. This is why the truth about
Madden ought to be told and remembered;
it is the best illustration of the objections to
the system of appointing a judge to be the
< lovernor’s lodum-tenens. Madden had a
large family circle that revelled in the oppor-
tunities to vice-regalise; and in the end it
was practically impossible for him to be con-
fronted in court with any expensive peti-
tioner, or defendant, or worthless bounder
of a culprit, who hadn’t been a more-or-less
honored guest of his at Government House.
It wasn’t, in the nature of the man to be
coldly impartial under such circumstances.
No judge should be exposed to the demoral-
ising influence of Acting-Governorship. And
least of all should a judge who hasn’t a
cold, impartial judgment to begin with.
Unless he is a particularly unimaginative
Hun, the first thing the Wolf’s skipper did
when he got home from his raid was to call
for Hochs for Marconi. Without wireless he
would have gone home a very lean Wolf —if
he had got home at all. He had a general idea
of the Matunga’s whereabouts, but it was
only when his installation picked up a
message to Rabaul announcing the time of
her probable arrival that lie knew exactly
where she was. Then he pounced on Irel-
and found badly-needed coal and sundries.
Similarly lie got wind of the Hitachi Maru’s
position, and nailed her. Off Trinidad
Islands an intercepted message gave him the
hint to quit, because a Chilian warship was
nosing around. And several times in the
Pacific he might have bumped trouble but for
the messages exchanged between imminent
cruisers. The Wolf sent out no messages
herself, but was always ready to take one in.
What a grimly-satanic picture of patience is
that German wireless-operator, crouched day
and night over his instrument, receiver on
ears, listening, listening! Old Carlyle might
have been dourly delighted to give him a
niche among his Immortals, alongside the
Bronze Lamplighter of the Bastile!
* * * *
“Trallwm”: The area-officer had a trucu-
lent youth up before the P.M. for defying
his military authority.
The lad had, in defiance
of orders, left the parade-
ground, caught a horse
grazing near, and with a
companion mounted it.
The usual happened, and
in falling the companion
broke his leg. The
parade had to be broken
up while the officer took
the injured lad to the
hospital. “This boy was
the cause of it,” said the
'Gallipolean, “and I had
to pay 10s.!” “You had
to pay 10s.!” said the
astounded P.M. “What
for’” “I don’t exactly
know*, sir,” replied the
man who left half a lung
on Lemnos. “It’s a regu-
lation ! Of course I had
broken up the parade!”
Apparently, if you are an
area-officer and an acci-
dent happens on parade,
you either let the injured
suffer until the parade is
over or you pay a fine of
10s. It is a brilliant
department.
“Trooper Bluegum”: Can The Buixe-
tin’s Religious Editor tell us which is the
original Mount Sinai? The archaeologists
and Egyptologists and theologians in the
Camel Corps are squabbling over it, and
four prominent peaks in the interior of Sinai
ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
“What kind of a fellow is Willowanap?"
“I don't know. I've only seen him when his wife has keen present."
are dividing the honor. Erudite opinion
varies between Jebel Mousa and Jebel Ser-
bal. The German explorers and divines
favored Serbal, but the English, American
and Greek favor Mousa. The chief argu-
ment against Serbal is that there was no
place handy for the Israelites to camp and
MORE HORRORS OF WAR.
“She seems very cut up."
“Yes, poor thing. She had had news from
France yesterday. Her husband is com-
ing home on the next boat."
receive the Law. But round about Jebel
Mousa (= Mount of Moses) are wells and
open glades and green slopes and wadies
admirably suited for a vast encampment.
Evidently the Justinian monks in the third
century had no doubt of the site, for at
Jebel Mousa they established the quaint old
Convent of. St. Katharine. The ancient
Greek, Arabic and Hebrew Bibles, the quaint
paintings and mosaics, the gorgeous vest-
ments and works of art, the splendid effigies
and relics, to say nothing of the glittering
gems and jewels, are well worth a visit.
Rut only millionaires could afford the trip.
The records for 100 years show no recognis-
able Australian names; and our patrol was.
we believe, the first of our people to visit
the Mount. Indeed, old Father Polycarpus
assured us that no Billjim or civil Austra-
lians had ever before ventured there. We
were 50 all told, and all had three or four
days’ growth of whiskers on, so we' looked
like bushrangers. Maybe that’s why old
Polycarpus set all the joybells ringing in
the convent —after we left.
“The Hangman’s Understudy” discourses:
A tenant of the condemned cell in the Melbourne
Gaol has little or no opportunity of “racing the rope.”
Two cells —sleeping-room and living-room—are pro-
vided for his use. He has no mattress, but plenty
of blankets make a comfortable bed. Belts, shoe-
laces, straps and string are forbidden articles ; quills
instead of steel pens are given to him to write with.
A sleeping suit is provided, thereby enabling the
warder to frequently examine his lodger’s clothing.
Smoking is allowed, the tobacco being cut up ; but
chewing is tabooed. Tea, coffee and cocoa are avail-
able at any hour, but the common belief that a con-
demned man is allowed grog, and the rumors of mis-
guided gentlemen meeting their doom practically
drunk, are false. Intoxicating drink is strictly for-
bidden. A close supervision is kept over visitors, and
when deemed necessary they are searched. As
“the prisoner’s feelings are to be respected,” work
on the gallows is not to be done within his hearing.
Two or three days before the real performance the
boss has a rehearsal, measures the drop, stretches, the
rope, and tests it with a weight corresponding to that
of the leading man. Thus satisfaction is guaranteed,
and there is no grumbling when the Old Man and I
get our little bonus.
The Turkish troops, which are under Ger-
man command, now own the Russian town
of Trebizond. Of the population which
failed to get away some were crucified, some
were burned, some were killed in various
xashions, and a number of children were put
into bags and drowned. So Trebizond is now
available for colonisation. Incidentally,
and apart from any question of drowning
infants in Sydney Harbor, an influential
German writer has just stated that after the
war one of Australia’s duties will be to sup-
ply Germany gratis with zinc, wool, wheat
and frozen meat, so apparently there will be
no lack of work in days to come. Just here
it may be mentioned that the over-fed Hun
prisoners at Berrima (N.S.W.), who enjoy a
brass band and a tennis court and a great:
extent of well-kept garden, held a royal
blow-out to celebrate William’s birthday.
This brutal Government, however, still re-
fuses to supply them with a wireless appara-
tus. <•
* * * *
“Bedside-Manner, M. 8.”: The other night
a Sydney pal who holds up a special post
got a late message from the police that there
had been a row down in an unfashionable
quarter and a woman was lying injured.
“Better take a constable with you,” ran the
postcript. “It’s a very rough house.” “Um,’
said the old campaigner, “if that's the way
of it she can wait till morning.” Some time
after daylight he collected a young police-
man and started off. Arrived at the house
they found the front of it locked. The doc.
sent the constable round to the back, and he
presently returned with the news that they
could get in that way. The two explorers
entered and found, gracefully arranged on a
bed, a youmr woman. She was unconscious
and undressed. Both visitors stared; but
the policeman stared harder when the med.
started tickling the soles of the poor victim’s
feet —a well-known method of restoring con-
sciousness. Presently Beauty’s eyelids flick-
ered and she woke up with a tired smile.
“Well, my girl,” said Brass Plate, “what’s
the matter with you?” She yawned prettily.
“Nothing that I know of, old sport. But if
you’re the doctor, the girl that was hurt last
night has gone home to her husband.”
* * * *
I)r. Birks, of the Broken Hill Hospital,
concefning an obstreperous inhabitant:—
The germ of the disease known as X enters the
blood through the air passage, and is carried to
various organs, especially the brain. The germs
burst through the little blood-vessels and rapidb
set up inflammation round the point where they broke
through. In most cases death is so rapid, through
interference with the vital centres of the brain, that
nothing but minute areas are affected. We know
that the germs break through the blood-vessels in
many other parts of the body—for instance, the
kidneys, spinal cord and intestines. The patients
are, however, usually killed by the process in the
brain, before the germs have time to affect the other
organs.
Some other idiosyncrasies of X are that he
seems to toil only during the first two or
three months of the year; he seldom assaults
females, and never adult females; and ho
kills 90 per cent, of the unfortunates upon
whom he calls. The brevity of his “season”
suggests that he probably arrives and goes
with some fruit.
SAME THING.
SHE: “What caused his failure?"
HE: “Slow horses and fast women.”
S HE: “But I thought he didn't go in for
racing."
HE: “Oh, no, he didn't; hut the fast women
did."
DEATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One came tip-toe, silent, at the dawn—the hour when
God awakes
And breathes His fear upon the hearts of men.
This one, I say, came softly to my bed,
And bended low, so calm, so soothingly....
Then pounced with hell-hot hands and strangled met
N.S.W.
JOHN BARR.


HUMANITY AND THE WAR MONSTER: WHICH ARE YOU GOING TO HELP?


THE STICK-UP.
“Unless the Ministry could obtain bv some means the co-operation of the leaders of the Labor party, which would enable the recruiting scheme to be successful. it would
have no right to say that it represented the people of Australia, either for the purpose of the Imperial Conference or for any other purpose.”— Irvine.
“ ’Sense me, but ’ave yer got a job about yer fer me an’ me mate?”


>0
The
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
scaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
LEWIS&WHITTY
m
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
ACID STOMACHS NEED MAGNESIA.
Drugs may give temporary relief from the
pain which usually results from an excess of
acid in the stomach, but drugs do not elimi-
nate the acid, and in consequence the pain
returns—worse than before. To effect a cure
you must first eliminate the acid which is the
cause of all the trouble, and a sure way to
accomplish this is to take a little bisurated
magnesia after your meals. This quickly
neutralises the harmful acid; prevents the
food turning sour and fermenting, soothes
and heals the inflamed stomach and enables
you to again eat and enjoy the foods you
fancy, secure in the knowledge that no pain
or discomfort will result. Of course it will
be understood that ordinary forms of mag-
nesia, such as the citrates or sulphates, will
not accomplish these happy results, neither
will crude mixtures of bismuth and mag-
nesia. You must get the bisurated mag-
nesia, which is a form prepared specially for
use in cases of digestive and stomach trouble.
This can readily be obtained of high-class
chemists everywhere in both powder and
tablet form, the latter being especially suit-
able for travellers and others compelled to
take meals away from home.— Advt.
ROYAL Easter SHOW
and PATRIOTIC CARNIVAL,
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
11 DAYS 9 NIGHTS
26th March to 6th April, 1918.
£ll,OOO PRIZES £ll,OOO
GREATEST PROGRAMME OF CONTESTS IN AUSTRALIA.
MAGNIFICENT DISPLAYS OF HORSES, CATTLE, PIGS, POULTRY, DOGS,
FARM AND DAIRY PRODUCE AND WOMEN’S INDUSTRIES.
EXCURSION FARES ALL PARTS. H. M. SOMER, Secretary,
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
As in the case of the Chief Justice of
N. S. Wales, the late John Madden’s pro-
spects at the Bar once looked so dull that he
was a candidate for a small University billet.
The job that C.J. Cullen was lucky enough
not to get was at Adelaide.
John Madden wasn’t the only Chief Jus-
tice and Lieut.-Gov. who used to put on the
“mits.” Edward Stone, of Westralia, in a
little volume of reminiscences which Frank
Henty has just seen through the press for
him, confesses that “when I was a young
man boxing amounted almost to a passion
with me, and to this day I glory in having
had the privilege of seeing the late Tom
Sayers in a match,” and Heenan, too. Stone
was Westralia’s best all-rounder in his day—
footballer, cricketer, oarsman and something
extra as a rough-rider. For lighter recrea-
tion the gay young spark sang in the Cathe-
dral, where he was afterwards choirmaster.
There was a period when the Westralian
Supreme Court might at any rate have chal-
lenged any other Supreme Court in Aus-
tralia to a sort of South-street competition.
Besides Stone there was Onslow, the Chief
Justice, who at one time was Perth’s favorite
baritone; and Hensman, J., was a violinist
who conducted the Perth Musical Union.
Victoria has had only four Chief Justices.
The first two, a’Beckett and Stawell, had
retired on pension and died out of Australia
—-a’Beckett in England, Stawell in Naples.
Iliginbotham and Madden died in office. The
vacancy, according to the gossip of the corri-
dors, will be filled by an Australian native,
either Isaacs of the High Court or Cussen
of the State Supreme Bench. Isaacs is 62 ;
Cussen 58—a chicken among very old birds.
“Lantana”: Thousands of us women in
Sydney don’t care a hairpin what brand of
religion or politics Dr. Mannix recommends;
but what we would love to know is just
what he eats —or doesn’t eat. He has the
slenderest, most elegant figure I have ever
seen in a man’s clojfhes. In fact, it might
be described as a silhouette. Fasting evi-
dently has no terrors for his Grace, nor
would it have for lots of sinners if they
could thereby get their clothes to “set” like
his. And his biretta! The exquisite
shade, like the heart of a pomegranate, with
a fluffy pom-pom that wouldn’t be safe to
hang up in a mixed crowd!
It was Hugh Mahon, lately Minister for
Home Affairs, who wrote the address to
John Redmond which the Orange (N.S.W.)
people presented to him 30-odd years ago and
which led to those signatories who were
J’s.P. being struck off the roll.
Frederick Halcomb, Clerk of the S. Aus.
Leg. Council, is 81, which is not old in
Adelaide; but ill-health prompts him to drop
work. J. C. Morphett, a youth of 74, now
Clerk of the Assembly, takes his place. He
is Australian born. So is Alfred Searcy,
who moves up from being Sergeant-at-Arms.
Searcy is best known by his experiences in
the Northern Territory and the jolly books
he has written about them. His brother
Arthur is chairman of S.A. Harbors
Board ; their father was once Chief Inspec-
tor of Police in Adelaide. Morice and
Freeborn are the other Parliamentary offi-
cials who get a step. Both are experts in
Parliamentary library matters. Freeborn
used to be tutor to the Teck children, one of
whom is now Queen Mary.
“P.X.” sees a good soggarth off: —
Archdeacon Connelly, who died in S. Aus. the
other day, was for 20 years the best beggar West o’
Darling. Coming to Australia from India, where he
was born, and where he worked for years as an
army chaplain, he took a rich brogue and a long
head to Broken Hill when the silver town was very
young; and he knew hundreds where his recluse
bishop, Dr. Dunne, knew only dozens. When a
new father arrived it was Connelly who showed
him the ropes. One, a Russian, imported to reach
the polyglots in the mines, knew English as the
books taught him; and Connelly proceeded to teach
him the other kind. “Now, look you here,”' said
the Man who Knew, “the Bishop will send you out
to get in a thrifle for the poor nuns. Now, do ye
know what this is?” “A sovereign,” said the book-
man. “Tut, tut,” said Connelly, “ ’tis a quid.
And this is half a quid. And this is a dollar; and
this is half a dollar. And this is a sprat.” “And
how did you fare?” said the correct old bishop as
the new priest came back from his first subscription
hunt. “Oh, ryebuck,” said he. “From Mr. O’Mal-
ley I got a quid, and half a quid from his good
lad}', and a dollar from this one,” and so on
through the list. “Ah,” said the old bishop, shak-
ing his head, “Father Connelly has been teaching
you, I see.”
Died at the convent, Nicholson-street,
Melbourne, on the same day as John Mad-
den, a nun who was born in the same year
as he. Madden was a student at St. Pat-
rick’s College when Mary Borgia McGinnis
became the first boarder at the Nicholson-
street Convent, and she was professed as
Sister Mary in the first year of Madden’s
practice at the Bar. They made a remark-
able contrast in contemporaries.
The John Madden who was a whole-
hearted patron of the prize-ring, who was
something of a tough nut himself with 4oz.
gloves, and who had often gone in and
refereed a mill, was almost forgotten in the
titled Chief Justice of Victoria; nevertheless
the early predilection continually cropped
out. Again and again the C.J. showed
fellow feeling for an accused who had been
guilty of a little readiness with his dfikes.
and in all his public moralisings the Chief
never wowserised about pugilism. John
Madden had no delusions about his superla-
tive merits as a lawyer. His private hobby
was carpentering, and when raised to the
Bench he said to a tableful of friends: “I
have always a sneaking suspicion that I
would have done better behind the bench —
with a mallet.”
Starting out with a 10-gallon copper and
a great, smooth, laughing face, Henry Jones
JAM JONES,
of Tasmania.
has preserved more
fruit than Ivnibbs
could reckon. Just
at present he is
perspiring 16 hours
a day organising
the apple-evaporat-
ing scheme, which
is to relieve the
Speck of half a
million bushels dur-
ing the next six
months. Six or
seven years ago he
and his old part-
ner Palfreyman de-
cided to form
Henry Jones Co-
operative Ltd., and
now that concern
includes most, but
not all, of the big
jam factories in
three States. Then,
looking for more
worlds to conquer,
they pushed to
S’Africa and are
building up a very
big business there.
Incidentally, the
Tongkah, which
started the Malay
tin-dredging boom, was originally the I.X.L.
—Jones’s brand —and it was practically a
Jones and Co. business, too.
Just-arrived Prof. Mitsuji Koide, Sydney
University’s first teacher of Japanese, is a
graduate of the Imperial University (Tokio),
and put in, at the Government’s expense,
about four years at the Heidelberg, Gottin-
gen, Edinburgh and Oxford Unis. Lately he
was Professor of Agricultural Economics at
the Government Rural College, in South
Japan. His fellow-immigrant, Mineichi
Miyata, who is to give the new subject a
start in the N. S. Wales secondary schools
(North Sydney and Fort-street at first), is
also a graduate of the Imperial University,
where he won a foreign-language teacher’s
ticket.
“Snort”: Strange that the death of plain-
clothes man Davis (B. 28/2/TS) should have
happened at almost the same time as Clifford
Mars Miller’s successful appeal against a
conviction in Sydney. C. M. Miller was the
“young squattocrat” whom Davis charged
with insulting behavior 20 years ago, when
snobbish Panton, P.M., sided with the “well-
connected” defendant and attempted to
squash the presumptuous constable. Davis,
as The Bulletin v par. stated, took his case
to the Supreme Court and won an order for
a re-hearing, but the costs of his legal pro-
ceedings were a blight on his life. Clif.
Mars Miller turned up again in Melbourne
lately, and maybe the news of his triumphant
reappearance helped to hasten pobr Davis’s
end.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Re John
Batman and Port Phillip (B. 14/3/T8).
Alexander Wilson romances for the benefit of
the Historical Society when he alleges that
Batman did not come to Port Phillip in
1835. The sure answer to Wilson’s assertion
is that John Pascoe Fawkner never denied
that Batman had got in before him. In the
Cornwall Chronicle of June 13, 1835, is a
paragraph announcing the return of John
Batman from Port Phillip, where he had
secured 500,000 acres of land, and is it not
in cold type that he rushed into the big
parlor of the Cornwall Inn, Launceston,
kept then (1835) by John Pascoe Fawkner,
and, raising his arms aloft, declared himself
the biggest landowner in the world?
Fawkner never claimed to be the founder of
Victoria, which he would have done had he
preceded Batman to 'Port Phillip; but he
did claim —and the claim has never been dis-
puted—to be the founder of Melbourne.
M.L. Minister for Justice Tom Wilford,
who makes good jokes and laughs immod-
erately at them, comes, nevertheless, from
Quaker stock. His
chief claim to local
fame rests in a
frank, unblushing
audacity and air of
good-humored con-
descension towards
black-beetles and
Providence. That
chin of his is the uni-
versal property of
all men who butt
their way in and get
off with a bone at the
finish. His innermost
yearning is to achieve
a reason for being
addressed as Sir
Thomas —to sit in
some high place on
a spacious chair,
where, decorated
with ornate milli-
nery, he might wave
a fat white hand in
acknowledgment of
admiring obeisances.
The wig incidental
to the Speakership
of the House of
Reps, would fit him
to a hair. His fine,
round voice would
treat the supplication
to the Almighty with
which they start the
play over yonder
TOM WILFORD,
recently appointed
Minister of Justice,
Maoriland.
with generous unctuousness. And giving re-
spectful consideration to Thomas’s chin, this
paper feels disposed to expect that it will
happen.
Eric B. Nelson, lately dead in France,
met the Beast on the Doorstep as an elec-
trical engineer in the Postal Department
(Sydney). He got his commission after
training at the Laverton (Vic.) Flying
School, then went to England and grew his
“wings” last July.*. Formerly a lieutenant
in the Engineers (Sydney), during the first
five months of the Big Eclipse he helped to
run the South Head searchlights. Incident-
ally he was the 82nd North Sydney Church
of England Grammar boy to make the Big
Sacrifice. He went out at 26.
Big Bill Cameron, who has received the
N. S- Wales National’ party’s selection for
the Upper Hunter seat about to be vacated
by Abbott, M.L.A., is a doughty lad, both
with his hands and his cricket bat. He was
in the S. African war, and used to be rather
famous for throwing out sparks of wisdom
and otherwise. On a wet and weary outpost
they were without rations, and naturally got
talking about the alleviating circumstances
of life, including food, tobacco, beer and
girls. “Ah,” said Bill with emotion, “there’s
one thing about the good old Backbloeks. If
a man’s got a side-saddle he is never short
of a girl!”
“O’Phimerty” : Re the Hobart Town hang-
ings. “Wart” says that Dogerty’s record
was nine men in one morning. A Hobart
ancient assures me that he saw this artist
account for a batch of 11. One of them was
allowed the privilege of making a speech
from the gallows. He was a politician.
Gone to his rest, after giving Australian
industry most valuable help for more than
half a century, Wm. Frederick Harrington,
for many years
chairman of direc-
tors of Walkers,
Ltd., the Mary-
borough (Q.) engi-
neering firm. Born
in 1840, at Ros-
common (Ireland),
at 25 he went to
Ballarat and
started a mining
agency. A year
later he took over
the books of John
Walker, of the
Ballarat Union
Foundry, which
was turning out
mining machinery
for the field. Later
on he became a
partner, and when
Walkers decided to
go north to Mary-
borough to supply
the Queensland
fields he went off
to secure the neces-
sary plant, and
while on that trip
in c i dentally
arranged for a
direct service of
sailers to Mary-
borough. In the
early ’eighties John
Walker dropped
out and a co. was
“ TEXAS " GREEN,
M.L.A. for Kalgoorlie,
the central figure in
the Westralian
House's last little com-
motion.
presently formed with Harrington as
managing director. Besides building up a
fine reputation for Walkers’ products, this
fine old citizen did splendid work for Mary-
borough, and a whole string of institutions
are due to his energies. Hubert Harrington,
of Sydney Crown Law Office, is the only
surviving son.
“Kola”: Ted Tapp, manager of Yan-
cannia, away back in the far nor’-west of
N. S. Wales, has gone to meet Bill, with
all hands from the station. The run
having been sold by Shaw Bros, to Syd
Kidman, Ted said to two of the men
that it was a good chance to go to the war.
“Righto,” was the reply, “if you go, too.”
“I’m willing,” said Tapp, and so said all the
others. Thus 13 set out from Yancannia —
including three half-castes and one full black.
A dozen rode on through Broken Hill to
Adelaide, were all passed, and reached Egypt;
but there two of them were stopped—for old
age or something. They are at work behind
the lines. The rest are out with the Mounted
Rifles near Jerusalem, Most of them were
born in the saddle, and they are all great
bushmen.
“T. 0.1.” : Apropos the blown-out objection
that the N. S. Wales Judges’ Retirement
Bill should not apply to the present holders
of office. When, nearly 60 years ago, the Tas-
manian Parliament passed the Anti-State
Aid to Religions Bill, the Queen, under
advice, disallowed it on the ground that it
would be unfair to cut out the Ministers
then in receipt of Government salaries.
Parliament amended the measure, allowing
the salaries to remain for the life of the
clergymen then on the list. In N. S. Wales
the promoters of a similar measure profited
by the lesson, and in their Act (1863) they
allowed the salaries to remain. After 55
years one man is still collecting the ancient
screw.
There was a whole lot in a name when
Christopher Fitzmaurice St. John Horton
Eyre Ellis came before the beak in Hobart
the other day on a charge of bigamy.
THE NEED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They drove the God from His supernal tower.
No more He shone resplendent in the day;
Was left no hint of Him in dappled flower,
No hopeful star along- the weary way.
Yet man cleaves still to God, in secret cries
A blessing out of Heaven on the eyes
Of one rose-tinted babe that smiling lies.
Fierce hunter Science stalks the moonless past,
An Alp minute as atomy, a grain
Like Andes, cryptic, cavernous, and va^t,
He searches inconceivably in vain.
No rest for God is here, yet man, with wild
Uplift of soul, to Him is reconciled
That He may warm the white cheA of a child.
To fortify our doubt we slowly trace
First causes out, till God and all we lose
In measureless minutiae of space
Where stir the primal pulses in the ooze;
But as when first the cave-born baby cooed,
By wee, soft hands and joyous prattle wooed,
Man, godless, loathes his sheer ineptitude.
Because to-day I am so weak, so blind;
Because to-morrow nerveless as the clod
That hides me I may lie; in wave and wind,
In rose, and ray, and cloud, I set a God
Of love unforced, Who, in the swirling run
Of dread perplexities, where life is spun,
May guard thee ever, sweet, my lovely one!
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


Huh
111
ft
n
mwm
m
MfeWl
ra
w
■
to
II
J
• •vir!?
n
s®
Sft®S
M
,: : ■
Vvi?
x;
x":
«A3f:
SsSsSs
P*TQN 8401
The Men
of other
Nations
envy him
his smoke
CUT (FLAKE or MIXTURE)
Also in Plug Form
M
TOBACCO
AUSTRALIA’S
NATIONAL SMOKE
LM
PIPES
400
DO NOT CRACK OR BURN.
m
LMN
■
tve ry P'P e Guar «nt eecl


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS; Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S W
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: G 2 Brookman’s Buildin-
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street. ' ‘
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding jLead
Antimonial Lead
Assay Lead (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (liar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,:
Dust,
Registered
BHAS
buyers ox a speciaeey favorable
tariff of—
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade,
a »s, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
Bead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
ALD inquiries to be addressed to the secretary.
Leather PIONEER Belting
FOR 60 YEARS THE LEADING POWER TRANSMITTER.
makers: J. c. ludowici <a son ltd.,
117 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
' PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA
SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The City Mutual Life Assurance
Society (Sydney) :
Added to
Written Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
1905. . £70,242 £27,515 £15,615 £1971 £25,141
1906.. 76,874 31,955 18,666 2006 24,247
1907.. 82,388 33,001 18,875 2055 28,457
1908.. 93,442 29,894 24,162 562 38,824
1909.. 106,089 34,512 27,078 5805 39,294
1910.. 121,588 39,352 28,961 7388 45,887
1911. .*150,250 173,844 27,774 6087 42,545
1912.. *166,049 161,070 30,482 7005 67,492
1913. .*184,834 175,991 30,708 6862 71,273
1914. . *207,565 183,967 33,521 8863 81,214
1915.. *230,727 1107,188 33,740 9029 80,770
1916. .*253,903 1108,811 36,145 3000 106,007
1917 . . *282,008 114£,900 41,105 2271 95,732
*This includes “premiums purchasing paid-up policies
allocated from cash bonuses not drawn.”
iThis includes “cash bonuses”—£l7,22l for 1911,
£19,612 for 1912, £22,770 for 1913, £28,317 for
1914, £33,687 tor 1915, £38,472 for 1916, and
£44,167 for 1917.
Until 1914 the bonus employed in buying
paid-up insurance with included with the
revenue from single premiums; since then
the amount has been shown separately:—
Total Bonus Bonus applied to
Declared. Purchase Insurance.
1914 .. .. £28,317 £26,979
1915 .. .. 33,687 31,995
1916 .. .. 38,472 37,036
1917 .. .. 44,107 42,521
Thus only 3 p.c. of the bonus for last year
was called for in cash; the policy-holders
preferred to buy additional insurance with
the other 97 p.c. It shows that enthusiastic
managing-director George Crowley has in-
spired his clients with his own confidence in
the office.
It is a very human office. It even talks
plain,, household Anglo-Australian in its
directors’ reports, and The Bulletin won’t
be a bit surprised if some day the City
Mutual says “damn” in the middle of
its most formal announcements. In addition
to the usual life-insurance benefits it offers
(1) “an arrangement whereby the society
pays the fees incurred by any of its mem-
bers seeking hospital attention”; and (2)
“the concession of full payment of the policy
moneys and bonuses in the case of a member
losing the use of his limbs or eyes or becom-
ing otherwise totally incapacitated.” This
liberality may have been the cause of a
little trouble that the office has fallen into.
The directors explain it: —-
Some of the provisions have been suspended.in the
Case of newly-issued war policies. To grant the hos-
pital and accident privileges in the case of soldiers
on active service would be manifestly unjust to the
non-combatant policy-holders without a very heavy
loading. This the directors were disinclined to
impose.
The elimination of the concessions referred to has
been accepted without demur by incoming policy-
holders without exception and has met with no
opposition from any of the State Governments of
Australia in respect of policies Issued to civil
servants.
The sole exception has been the Commonwealth
Government. It is, the directors trust, not too much
to say that the Prime Minister’s knowledge of the
limitations of a life office is not superior to that of
medical and actuarial experts. But Mr. W. M.
Hughes thought otherwise; for on learning of the
society’s intentions in this matter the City Mutual was
immediately consigned to life insurance oblivion
without the formality of being called on for an
explanation, by having its name struck off the list of
Commonwealth approved life offices. Various remon-
strances addressed to the Prime Minister on this
subject since August last have been simply, received.
It is a monstrous thing that it should be in
the power of a Prime Minister to take action
of this sort without informing the office im-
plicated of the charges against it .and giving
it an opportunity to answer them. In this
case there is the very serious suspicion that
no action would have been taken if the City
Mutual had not been thought of by a good
many people as more or less Irish and R.C.
For the City Mutual to cut out some of
its benefits from new policies issued to men
going on active service is as proper a thing
as for other offices to demand from 5 to 10
p.c. extra premium. That they should take
this, action is no discredit to either. On the
contrary, if any offiefe went ahead as if there
was no war, insuring men who were just
stepping aboard a troopship at the old rates
of premium, there would be good reason for
calling it up to show cause why it should
not be struck off the list of approved offices.
Of course the action of the Government
has been used by the agents of other offices
to discredit it. An office that isn’t good
enough for the Commonwealth Government
may reasonably be represented by a rival
agent as not good enough for the citizen ,of
the Commonwealth. There is no reason to
suspect that it is not as sound as the A.M.P.
It is of course much smaller: while the
AM.P. has 37 millions of funds, the City
Mutual has only just passed the million
mark. But slow progress and solidity mean
almost the same thing in life insurance. You
can show rapid progress, as the big American
offices did a few years ago, by spending a lot
of money to get the business. The Equitable,
in the days when the “gilt-spurred rooster”
King O’Malley was one of its agents, spent
in Australia in some years over 300 p.c. of
its receipts. The City Mutual has gone
slowly; and its expense rate has been kept
reasonably low. Assume that old (renewal)
business (including the management of in-
vestments) cost 7 p.c. and single-premium
business 3 p.c., then the new business cost
74 p.c. There are very few offices which
show better results than that —especially
small offices, where over-head charges, are apt
to be heavy. And in this case there would
be an excuse for an expense rate a bit above
the average, because the office looks after the
little fish in the matter of investments. Last
year the interest earnings were £52,333,
which was equal to £5 7s. 3d. p.c. on the
mean of the funds, exclusive of the contin-
gency reserve—a remarkable rate, especially
considering that 21 p.c. of the total funds
are in War Loan and other Government
stock. It is largely this exceptional rate of
earnings that allows the entirely uncon-
ventional City Mutual to pay bonuses which
make the bigger offices quite uneasy at times.
* * * v . *
The Melbourne Steamship Co.:—
Added Nomi-
Gross * to Re- nal Re-
. Profits. . Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., ’O9. .£13,869 8 p.c. = £6,800 £7,069 £72,644
Jane, ’lO.. 15,488 8 „ „ 6,800 8,688 81,232
Dec., ’lO.. 16,749 9 „ „ 7,650 9.099 90,331
June, ’ll.. 16,978 9 „ „ 7,650 9.328 99,059
Dec., ’ll.. 12.968 9 „ „ 7,650 5,318 104,977
June, ’l2. . 17,900 9 ~ „ 7,650 10,250 115,227
Premiums on new shares. . 6,800 122,027
£5OOO written off .. .. 117,027
Dec., ’12.. 8,715 7 p.c. = 6,843 1,872 118,899
June, ’13.. 20,107 8 „ „ 8,160 11,947 130,846
Dec., ’13.. 21,164 8 „ „ 8,160 13,004 143,850
June, ’14.. 16,906 7 ~ „ 7,140 9,826 153,676
Pref. Ord. Total.
Dec., ’14.. 17,409 6p.c. Bp.e. 8,463 8.946 162,622
June, ’15.. 29,371 6 „ 15 „ 10,079 13,292 175,914
Transferred to capital, £51,000 124,914
Dec., ’15.. 32,433 6p.c. lOp.c. 13,530 18.903 143,817
June, ’l6. . 33,045 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 19,515 163,332
Dec., ’16.. 27,598 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 14,06? 177,400
June, ’17.. 29,201 6 ~ 10 „ 13,530 15,671 193,071
Dec., ’17.. 48,950 6 „ 10 ~ 13,530 35,420 228,491
Dear, dear, what a dreadful time we’re hav-
ing ! And, while a few people are making
fortunes, behind them and protecting them
stands a Government which has built no
ships to carry food to the Allies, which actu-
ally stood in the way when the Broken Hill
Prop, proposed to start shipbuilding, which
destroyed all possibility of Conscription and
has now watched recruiting gradually shrivel
to next-to-nothing. Seriously, what can
be made of all this? And isn’t it
time that the business men of the
Commonwealth Parliament who are loyal
to the Allies sat down together and
thought about it, not as members of this
party or that, but as citizens? When a tor-
pedo strikes a ship and there is great danger
of an awful disaster, you can’t conceive of
a sane chief-officer inquiring of the second-
officer whether he voted last general election
for the Ins or the Outs before asking him
to get to work. Yet that insanity is what
the Commonwealth Parliament is guilty of.
Note that in the first table profits are
called “gross” and reserves “nominal.” The
gross profit for the past- half-year was made
u p as follows:
Transferred to reserve for depreciation,
special renewals and replacements and
contingencies . . . . . . . . £30,064
Ditto to insurance fund . . . . . . 6,845
Balance of P. and L. account .. .. 12,041
Total' £48,950
This paper doesn’t know how much of that
£30,064 ought to be struck off to counter-
balance depreciation or how much of the
£6845 is fair premium to cover whatever
risks the co. is itself taking. But it gets
these results by making some comparisons:—
Dec.,’l2. Dec.,’l6. June,’l7. Dec.,’l7.
Steamships and
other non-
liquid assets £330,090 £346,749 £349,779 £312,328
Liquid assets. . 53,189 159,211 201,176 267,893
Liabilities .. 53,436 33,529 62,854 56,700
In five years net liquid assets have increased
by £211,440. Meantime* however, £26,000
of new capital has been got in. (The .cap-
ital has 1 gone from £204,000 to £281,000;
but £51,000 was transferred from reserves.)
Deduct £26,000 from £211,440, and you get
£185.440 as the more or less liquid assets
accumulated by the co. in five years. Mean-
time. certainly, there have been some changes
in the fleet. The Kapunda, Sydney and
Brisbane have been 501d—6205 tons the lot —
and the Woolgar (3051 tons) has been added.
Not merely the profit is in this £185.440;
that includes tim cash received on the sales
in excess of the amount paid for the new
ship and for other property ashore and
afloat. How much of this £185,440 is really
undivided profit, and how much of it will be
mopped up in building up the fleet to its old
strength this paper can't say. According to
the books the steamships and other non-
liquid assets are worth only £lB,OOO less
now than they were five years ago. Actu-
ally, no doubt, the 16,056 tons of shipping
which the co. has now (exclusive of tugs,
lighters and other bric-h-brac) is worth more
than the old 19,210 tons; and still it might
bite £45,000 or more out of the accumula-
tions to replace the vanished 3200 tons.
Even so, however, the co.’s recent experience
has b'een very fat. You can put it that,
besides recently paying 6 p.c. on prefs. and
10 p.c. on well-\jiatered ordinaries, the co.
has made net very nearly as much more, dur-
ing the past five years. In the past three
years alone the record has even better.
The Western Australian Insurance
Co.(Perth) :
Reserves
(including
Reserve for
Towards Unexpired
June, Profits.* Dividends. Reserves. Risks).
1913.. £1,233 Sp.e. = £-500 £733 £ 473
1914.. 215 Nil 215 688
1915.. 20,512 Gp.c.= 3600 16,812 17,600
1916.. 26,963 6 „ „ 3600 23,363 40,963
1917.. 183,832 7 „ ~ 4200 179,632 220,595
*Subject to remarks hereunder.
Those are as astonishing as any figures issued
by an insurance concern in Aftstralia. The
co. had barely made a modest beginning on a
capital of a few thousands when the war-
thunder sounded. The chairmap and moving
spirit was S. W. Copley,' a Perth man who
had been taking chances most of his life.
With what looks like extraordinary perspi-
cacity he saw that war offered big chances
for a venturesome underwriter in London,
and he soon had a ticket' in his pocket. He has
stayed in England ever since, and the general
manager now has. his office there. Mean-
time business has been extended to eVery
State in Australia, and agencies have been
established in various parts, mainly in con-
nection with shipping risks. The resulting
figures are remarkable, and would, of course,
be practically impossible but for the mari-
time-war conditions :
Net. Xoss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1913.. £1,790 £874 1.2 p.c. 48.8 p.c.
1914.. 3.519 770 3,429 21.8 „ 97.4 „
1(915.. 52,061 17,424 16,074 33.4 „ 30.8 „
1916.. 180,716 116,763 40,118 64.6 „ 22.2 „
1917.. 727,868 522,217 27,095 71.7 „ 3.7 „
The nature of the business is pretty well in-
dicated by the expense rate: to get this pre-
mium income of £727.868 and to manage the
business has cost only £25,851.
But since the premium income has in-
creased during the year by over half a million
it follows almost as a matter of course that
the unexpired risks at the end of the year
Were much greater than at the end of the
previous year; which means that a large
but at present unknown proportion of the
£183,8;v2 shown as tentative profit may yet
be. called for to meet claims. Recognising
this, the directors have transferred from this
and the balance brought forward a, total of
£200,000 to a reserve for unexpired risks and
contingencies. If as much as that should be
required to meet claims arising out of last
year’s business, then obviously no real profit
at all was made. The directors did not issue
their accounts till a few weeks ago (the
auditors’ report is dated February 19) : so,
nearly eight months after the accounts closed,
they should have known pretty well how the
business had panned out. Even so, how-
ever, it does not follow that they reckoned
£200,000 would be wanted ; they call their re-
serve a fund for contingencies as well as
unexpired risks. The risks having outgrown
the capital, it w«s decided during the year to
issue another 160,000 shares; this makes
400,000 of 10s. all paid joss. The new
shares do not, however, carry dividend for
the past year. Even now the funds are
much smaller than those of most cos. in pro-
portion to risks; but when the war is over
the income (and of course the risks) will
probably come down with a run. One; can
get some idea of the inflation of insurance
premiums from this: before the war insur-
ance of silver-lead bullion cost approxi-
mately 6s. per cent. The present cost is
approximately £5 12s.
The balance-sheet figures are not much to
go by because of the large amount of uncom-
pleted business. There are, except for a
trifle of furniture, etc., only three lines —
mortgages.and investments. £133.094; sundry
debtors (agents’ balances), £312,317; cash
(less sundry, £77.898. Interest
earnings during the vear were £s27s—more
than enough to pay the dividend. No con-
clusion of much value as to the future can
be formed upon the present accounts: one
can tell neither the amount of ordinary busi-
ness the office has nor what part of the
above-mentioned £200.000 it is likely to hang
on to. But this paper won’t be surprised if
the co. comes out of the war with undivided
profit at least equal to the present capital. It
is a gamble, of course.
* * * *
The Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.: —
Dividends. Written Nominal
June, Profits. (Pref. Shares.) Off. Reserves.
1904.. £65,512 74p.c.r= £41,250 £22,005 £96,613
1905.. 102,422 10 „ „ 55,000 50,030 94,005
1906.. 136,364 10 „ „ 55,000 41,904 133,465
1907.. 117,257 10 „ „ 55,000 116,480 79,242
1908.. 39,842 10 „ „ 55,000 31,293 32,791
(All Shares.)
1909.. 178,331 10 p.c. = 96,250 24,949 89,923
1910.. 235,495 15 „ „ 144,375 53,518 127,525
1911.. 207,959 15 „ „ 144,375 48,940 142,169
1912.. 340,938 30 „ „ 288,750 63,870 130,487
1913.. 315,442 20 „ „ 192,500 66,995 186,434
1914.. 158,875 10 „ „ 96,250 16,147 232,912
1915.. 282,551 20 „ „ 192,500 28,000 294,963
1916.. 376,404 30 „ ~315,000 39,000 317,367
1917.. 420,578 25 „ „ 262,500 134,264 341,181
This co. deserves a lot of good luck. It was
formed 21 years ago primarily to work an
electrolytic process evolved by E. A.
Ashcroft, the B. H. Prop.’s electrical engi-
neer ; and incidentally the Central B. H. mine
was bought to supply the ore. Ashcroft wife
a few years ahead of his time, and, partly
because the mine didn’t bulk according to
sample, the works, upon which a heap of
money was spent at Cockle Creek, were a
failure, and the co. was on its bfeam ends.
But it had more than good financial back-
ing : it paid well for brains and got them,
and it set to work to slowly evolve a new
process for the recovery of everything the
ore contained. Incidentally, when every
other Broken Hill co. was pursuing the Ger-
man ore-buyers, it struggled against tremen-
dous odds to make the metal business Brit-
ish. When it could no longer decently ask
for more capital itself it side-stepped the
difficulty by promoting and guaranteeing
another co. to smelt zinc concentrates in
England; and' when other managers failed
to make a do of that co.’s works at Seaton
Carew, it sent one of its own young Aus-
tralian metallurgists, J. C. Moulden, to take
charge, and he is there still. A couple of
years ago, being now affluent, it bought out
the Seaton Carew co.; and of the £134,204
of profit shown in the last line of the table
as written off (this, by the way, is addi-
tional to the usual amortization —£32,946
charged to working costs), £55,201 was
spent on duplicating the works, so that they
may treat 30,000 tons of concentrates a year. ’
Also, having the money, it added to its
superphosphate plant at Cockle Creek
(£27,025) and to its acid plant (£36,053)
and put in a refinery to separate its silver
and lead (£23,990). All these things it has
done during the past year out of profits,
thus making the best possible use, from the
national point of view, of the big prices
which the war has given to metals. And it
hasn’t finished yet: arid as long as the policy
of its management is what it has been
thus far, it probably never will be finished.
For instance, it uses a very big producer
gas plant at Cockle Creek, and, since it there
extracts a very large quantity of tar, it is
now at work to obtain from the tar a fuel
oil to be used in the refinery. Now also it is
going back to its electrolytic first-love;
general-manager Courtney reports
The initial difficulties in connection with the pro-
duction of electrolytic zincs from oxide were over-
come, and it is expected that the small experimental
plant will produce sufficient zinc for future refinery
requirements. Over eight tons of high-grade zinc
have recently been produced, and consideration can
now shortly be given to the treatment of the large
tonnage of slag available at the works.
There are approximately 400,000 tons of
slags, and probably the concentrates from
which they have been produced have aver-
aged 9 p.c. zinc and somewhere about 60 p.c.
lead. As the latter has been practically all
extracted, zinc must constitute a big per-
centage of that 400,000 tons. Until now
this zinc has been regarded as lost.
Really what Australia lias done in zinc-
recovery during the past 20 years is magni-
ficent; and the. Sulphide Corp. from first to
last has led the way. Until about 20 years
ago the zinc in the sulphides was simply ft
bugbear. The object of the processes in use
was to get the lead and silver away from
the zinc and the non-metallic gangue, Then
the flotation processes came along to get the
zinc out of these “tailings.” The first (lead-
mill) process last year at this mine got out
60.4 p.c. of the silver and 78.7 p.c. of the
lead ; and 10.1 p.c. of the zinc remained in
this concentrate. Now the zinc section does
more than get out a zinc concentrate. It
saves another 4 p.c. of the silver and another
5 p.c. of the lead. In the zinc concentrate it
saves 81 p.c. of the zinc in the original ore.
In the three lots of concentrates are con-
tained all but 8.4 p.c. of the silver. 5.6 p.c.
of the lead and 7.6 p.c. of the zinc. Of course
they are not all where they ought to be: in
other words, there is still some zinc in the
silver-lead concentrates and some silver and
lead in the zinc concentrates —say an aver-
age of 10 p.c. zinc in the former and 1240 z.
silver (27 p.c. of the total) and 5.7 p.c. lead
(10.1 p.c. of the total) in the zincs. But
these are not gone for ever. So far as the


.®ri.*.*®h 'Vestinghouse Eicctric and Manufacturing Co.^^L.td.ll
Westinghouse Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
offer an economical solution to the medium and small power problem.
They give highly satisfactory service in driving generators for small
electric lighting installations, industrial and agricultural machinery,
etc. Reliability, economy, simplicity and durability are the teatures
that have been aimed at and obtained, as proved by the large number
now giving efficient service in all parts of the world.
Ask for
literature from
M
gtoppw
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne,
■puvi3ua ‘jajsauaußW V c d :s HJOA\
iiitiiiimiiiiuimii mini hi mi l II l 111 111111 111 III) tllllllil 111 11 11111 111 1111 It 111 1111 i 1111 H H III II IIIIIII i 11111 il
Every engineer should be a subscriber to the
General Electric Review. It is a monthly maga-
zine containing descriptions of the latest develop-
ments and practical applications of electricity in
every sphere. No library is complete without it, as
the contents are original, instructive and complete in
every detail, being contributed by the leading engi-
neers of the world. The subscription is only ten
shillings (10s.) per year, so subscribe now, or write
to the Australian General Electric Co., Wentworth
Avenue, Sydney, for a free sample copy. — Aiivt.
* * * *
Water is a necessity for life, but water containing
impurities is the cause of much ill-health. Many
country water supplies draw their water from rivers,
and a ‘ifreslp? causes turbidity or often brings down
vegetable matter. One ton of Aluminoferric will
clear 8,000,000 gallons of water. It is cheap and
effective. Used on Transcontinental Railway, Kal-
goorlie Mines; Sydney, Newcastle, N.S.W. Public
Works; Victorian State Rivers and Water Supply, etc.
Follow the lead of experienced people. Write for
particulars to sole agents. William Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney; 521-3 Collins
Street, Melbourne; corner Edward and Mary Streets,
Brisbane ; 33-35 King Street, Perth ; 96 Currie Street,
Adelaide.— Advt.
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically "driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— 'Advt. [2
The claims of wood pipe. We claim for Pioneer
Wood Pipe that it has more points to recommend it
than any other water-supply pipe on the market in
the wajy of durability, large capacity,' ease of installa-
tion and economy' Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd. (II.O.), Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. address; Box 15.76
G.P.0., Sydney. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
Footscray, Vic.; and Port Adelaide, S.A, Contractors
to all State Governments. — Advt.
* * * *
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
♦ * * *
The manufacture of the Australian “Skandia” Crude
Oil Engine continues apace, and Nelson & Robertson
report inquiries from mining, dredging and other in-
dustries. The econom.v in the running cost of these
engines combined with the small amount of labor
required appeals to all power users, and all interested
are invited to forward particulars of their require-
ments. “Skandia” engines are designed for both
industrial and marine work, and the stationary type
is unrivalled for pumping, hauling, compressors and
all mining and general work. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlorpagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane,. Melba— Advt.
• * * *
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines. Latest models
from English works. Immediate delivery from Syd-
ney stock of 8 nominal h.p. (20 to 30 brake h.p.),
single cylinder; 14 nominal h.p. (36 to 52 brake
h.p.), double cylinders; 16 nominal h.p. (40 to 60
brake h.p.), double cylinders. Catalogues, specifica-
tions and further information from Arthur Leplas-
trier & Co., Circular Quay (East), Sydney. Queens-
land inquiries to The Australian Machinery Co., Ltd.,
Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
¥ * * # .
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * # *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles. Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. 'B.
Selby k Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
ARIBOANTO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live- Stock.
Insure in
»* 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\Y. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fusti
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
zinc in the silver-lead concentrates are con-
cerned, mention has already* been made or
the successful experiments made at Cockle
Creek to get the metal out of the slag; and
at Seaton Carew the retort residues are con-
centrated and a rich silver-lead smelting
product obtained. So all that is irretriev-
ably lost is in the residues from the zinc
section; for as that stuff carried last year
1.90 z. silver, 1.5 p.c. lead and 2.1 p.c. zinc,
no treatment that is at present conceivable
can be applied to it. It goes underground for
filling depleted stopes.
The Central mine hasn't been doing much
development work since the war started,
though owing to the unsettled upper work-
ings it has had to drive a good many new
levels; but it still has 1,692,000 tons of ore
in reserve down to the 1300 ft. level; and
the 1400 ft. will be tapped this current year.
llow much this will add it is not much use
guessing. Last year's mine extraction was
167.210 tons; the previous year's 14,782 tons
more. Add to the value of the mine
£705,000 net of assets other than mine and
works (approximately half of this is War
Loan and cash), a valuable custom-smelt-
ing connection (though it is doubtful whether
there is much profit in it at present, in spite
of what look like heavy charges), a growing
superphosphate 'business, the English zinc
works and an organisation of which any co.
in the world might be proud, and you get
approximately the value of the concern. To
express it in figures is a different and difficult
matter. There are 1,200.000 shares, half
pref. and half ordinary.
Talking at the annual meeting of the
Sulphide Corporation in London chair-
man Ivintore said that they still had 10
years’ ore reserves at last year’s rate of ex-
traction. “We are not very sanguine,” he
added, “of any large developments below our
present levels,” though “some further bodies
will doubtless be found to supplement our re-
serves during that period.” x\lso
With a view to setting at rest the conflicting
opinions that arc? held as to the continuance of pav-
atile shoots of ore at greater depth along the Broken
Hill lode, we understand that a new survey of all
workings on the lode is shortly to he made by the
N. S. Wales Government, which will in connection
with this survey carry out also deep-boring opera-
tions that will be of great interest to the whole
field.
Geological-surveyor Andrews, a first-rate
man, has been at Broken Hill on this very big
job, and has thoroughly interested the techni-
cal men of the companies’ staffs in the work.
Incidentally the Sulphide Corporation is
looking well ahead. After mentioning the
additions to the super, plant, etc., at Cockle
Creek, the chairman said
In this and in other directions which are under
consideration we wish to see our Cockle Creek works
become an important centre of chemical industry in
Australia, and to develop there an industrial side to
our business which, when in the fulness of time
our mine ceases to be productive, will enable us to
continue a useful and profitable existence.
* * » *
C.S.A., Cobar (N.S.W.), has entered
upon a fairly big venture at Ivaudos. on
the Mudgee line, where upwards of £lO,OOO
is going into a copper-refining plant. The
crude product will arrive via Dubbo-Merry-
goen-Mudgee, and a hundred men will be
on the premises from the start. Ivandos,
which didn’t exist a few years ago. lias
rapidly become the centre of much of the
West’s mining activity. The N.S.W.
Cement, Lime and Coal Co. has practically
built the place, having got down on a big
slice of freehold early and cut it up into
township allotments. These were readily
taken up at good figures. The co. lias offered
to light the whole show with electricity.
Work has been hindered by the late arrival
of the imported plant, but the second unit
has now been put in position and is under
steam. Argument is meanwhile proceeding
over the Railway Department’s refusal to
provide a staff for the place.
The Ivandos works of the N.S.W. Cement
Co. have been making a dust for about 18
months, though for some time the output was
limited. Part of the plant was from
Krupp’s, and being on the water when the
war started was detained for many months.
Ivandos is on the Mudgee railway line, about
50 miles beyond the Portland works. Four
raw materials are required in cement-making
—limestone, shale, coal and (in much lesser
quantity) gypsum. At these Australian-
owned works the shale and coal are under-
foot, and the limestone is brought about 24
miles over rough country by an aerial tram
of very simple construction, which is work-
ing quite satisfactorily. The coal is appar-
ently the Lithgow seam, and, so far as ex-
plored, is quite as thick and good as it is at
Lithgow. The limestone and shale are
ground and thoroughly mixed, and on this
'operation much depends. The mixture is
tthen fed into long revolving furnaces —there
ere two of them —slightly tilted, and pow-
dered coal is blown in. The interior makes
::i wiery good imitation of the hottest corner of
;IHide's. The mixture, on the point of chemi-
•cal fusion, comes out as clinker. This is
then ground, with about fcwt. of to
the ton, and the result is cement of as good
quality as Australia ever imported.
Cobar Copper, Ltd., originally Young Aus-
tralian and Mount Pleasant, was wiped off
the slate recently, when the ieases (except-
ing Mt. Pleasant, which was forfeited some
time ago), plant, water supply, etc u, . were
nracticallv given away for about ioUU to tne
!SSe Sopper Tribute Co Thus ends
another chapter in the long story ot Am
tralian mines used by London sharks, etc.,
to take down the Englishman. What cash
was put up in this case was wasted and
shareholders never had a run for then
money. It is rumored that the syndicate in-
tends spending between two and three thou-
sand on prospecting, etc., as soon as the
leases are transferred, and no doubt .it will
make a far better job of it than the English
co., which from the outset did the maddest
things that Cobar ever laughed at.
The crude platinum obtained at Fifield
(N.8.W.) is realising Bs. per dwt. The
best clean-up has been 840 z., valued at iOS,
from .10 loads; but the average yield is
about 4dwt. platinum with ,dwt. gold. In
the old lead at Fifield, worked years ago,
some small nuggets were obtained, but
generally both gold and platinum were m fine
grains. * The crude platinum was really an
alloy of iridium, a metal more valuable even
than platinum.
« * *
The mostly-American co. which is. going
to see whether the shale deposits in the
Blue Mountains don’t mean a flow of oil at
their base has started a bore near Penrith.'
The plant is just as good as the heap of
money and American experience behind the
co. can make it.
* Everton (Vic.) molybdenite propositions,
offered to Melbourne, get more attention
because the B. FJL Prop, lias taken an option
over half a dozen blocks. The country is
quartzite and granite, and the locality has
a mining history that goes back to the days
of the Ovens gold rush. Then two of the
old hands tried the formation for gold, but
onlv struck spangles of molybdenite and let
go. because the Lands Department advised
that the minei'al had no value. The present-
day prospectors are Frank Moore and a pub-
keeper, who got on to the track of the old
fossickers and lured insurance-man Williams
into the gamble. Now the field is dotted
with more pegs than gum-trees. The hold-
ings include the Everton, East Everton and
North Everton. These have . 400 shares
apiece and blink across the railway at the
B. II Prop.’s option blocks and at the modest
150 shares of the Central Everton. Vendors
haven’t been more modest than usual.; they
have mopped up half the issues. V> hether
Swinburne will sanction this division of
spoil is not known. Anyway, Collins-street
isn’t on fire because of the
Things in the alluvial line at Ararat
(Vic.) are not cheerful. Justice Powers has
had to settle a row over the cutting up of
the 44 hours that in future is to mean a
week's work in a Victorian mine. When that
trouble was squared, Toole and Bryant,
for the New and the South Langi, had to
think out how panelling was to go on at all.
There is a mild suspicion that the South
wanted to slow down. Jim Mackay’s friends
could see that such a policy would put the
pot on so far as New Langi was concerned.
So things are to go on as usual. That means
that Hebbard’s plan of driving north and
south from the two New. Langi shafts isn t
to be swerved from even if six months’ calls
have to be faced. Meantime Toole will be
out after men, and as pumping will continue
the wash will be the better for waiting. His
latest sampling gives 21dwt. to the Langi
gutter wash and 80dwt. to the Cathcart lead.
Handled on a big scale, and with the dirt
dry, wash of that grade will turn out trumps.
The crux of everything is plenty of panel-
lers, but they are as scarce as sovereigns.
Lower down the gutter South Langi isn’t
better off than New Langi; but the crowd is
backing Bryant’s luck, which in the past has
always been a reliable amount.
Martin Hannah, Victorian M.L.A., mourn-
fully pointing out to an indifferent House
the mounting cost of arsenic, told some
pretty good news to shareholders in at least
one struggling mine. Hannah complained
that arsenic had crept up from £l2 to £47
per ton since the outbreak of war, and
lately had made a dash to £BO. A day or
two 'later South German shares were once
more quoted, after a long absence from the
list, the old Maldon concern being now well
on the way to become a producer of arsenic.
* * * *
“H. B. Perth” on a Westralian fe-shuffle:
H. S. King, the new Surveyor-General and head' of
the Westralian Lands Dept., was the man who intro-
duced business-completed-while-you-wait methods to
the Mines Department and thereby fairly staggered
people who had grown accustomed to the slow un-
winding of red tape that distinguishes most Govern-
ment officers. M. J. Calanchini, who takes over the
Mines Under-Secretaryship, has been King’s under-
study for many years —ever since he left Kalgoorlie—
and has shown himself a good administrator and
warden. Both of these men have had to refuse, on
the reports of the technical advisers to the Govern-
ment and the mining inspectors, impossible demands
for subsidies and assistance from the hangers-on of
mining, and it is from such and those with an axe
to grind that the agitation for a “practical man’’ has
arisen. The specific instances given of “unsympa-
thetic treatment” by King’s detractors are unfortunate
for them, as they deal with matters administered by
totally different departments—water supply, taxa-
tion, etc. The Department has in Alex. Mont-
gomery a highly-capable State mining-engineer, a
competent geological staff and numerous mining
inspectors to attend to the practical side of its
duties. The secretary should be a practical admin-
istrator. Recently it was proposed to shift Greenard,
the mines inspector whom the Kalgoorlie Trades
Hall wants to make Under-Secretary for Mines, to
Coolgardie. On representations from the people
who are now advocating his removal from
Kalgoorlie he was allowed to remain, because
it was claimed that his knowledge of the
mines and work in connection with their
ventilation made him irreplaceable. Now they
want to put him in an official job in Perth ! It
will be a matter of surprise if the Government
yields to this clamor; but the incident is a fine
example of how Labor bodies can be made use of as
a catspaw to advance personal ambition.
The blister on Nullagine (W.A.) turns
out to be £BOOO due under a bill of sale held
by the fat men wbo financed things for a
while. So the shareholder hasn’t more than
the ghost of a chance of getting a div. out
of the assets. J. .T. Hunter’s final report on
the mine shows that out of No. 1 paddock
13,500 cub. yds. gave 38.1-Joz., and from
No. 2 10,800 cub. yds. yielded 4200 z. gold.
This averages 2s. 3d. per cub. yd., but as
costs were 2s. Bd. the co. could only drift.
Labor was paid 10s. Bd, per day, but even
then the co. could not maintain an efficient
team. What killed the show was not poor
fuel or want of water, but short supply of
labor and heavy stones in the drift. Over
25 p.c. of the material had to be removed by
hand. The nozzle never had a chance. So
Nullagine passes into the hands of the re-
ceiver.
North Mt. Farrell (Tas.) has just in-
stalled its new gas-power plant (OTOli.p.)
and everything is working well. The smaller
silver-lead shows in the Speck are marking
time, the smelting combine only treating
enough ore to enable them to just keep going.
Some Hobart people interested in the shows
are talking of forming their own smelting co.,
and have been looking at possible sites at
Burnie and Devouport.
The well-known Ballarat metallurgical
firm of Edwards intends to give the old
C'urtin-Davis group of mines in the N.
Dundas district (Tas.) a trial. This is con-
sequent on an examination by Major
Lockyer and others some time ago. At the
West Curtin-Davis there is a continuous
lode from 2ft. to 3ft. wide heavily charged
with copper and arsenical pyrites. A bulk
test of GO tons will shortly be made at
Ballarat.
* * * *
Another six mouths’ delving into the
schist at Lyell Blocks (Tas.) has brought
forth 447 tons ore, averaging 6 p.c. copper
and soz. silver. The lot was worth £3 Bs. Id.
per ton. or a total of £1522; but as the
development account shows £6035 spent, it
is a luxury to do mining of this sort. Man-
ager Carroll has got together another 300
tons which promises over 9 p.c. copper, and
he i*eckons to get other shipments at fre-
quent intervals this year. Even so, it’s a
poor game to carry on mining this _ way.
Therefore the plan of drilling to prove if the
three small ore bodies at 13Q0ft. are likely
to make into anything of promise, as well
as to test other untouched portions of the
claim, is the sanest move made for years.
* * * *
Chris Hanlon is the latest mining engi-
neer, assayer, metallurgist and geologist to
have a go at Mount Jasper (Tas.). He is
about the tenth man called in to get things,
straight at the much-talked-of show, and as
“he thinks highly of the value of our mining
properties and of the way in which both the
copper and the silver-lead lodes are develop-
ing,’’ the Board has a new idea. This is to
part with the Mt. Stewart leases, allowing
some generous people to form a co. with
£lOO,OOO capital “to work the ground on a
large scale.” In view of the past history of
Mt. Jasper, no shareholder could be such an
ass as to frighten off any band of enthusiasts
who might want to take on the job. The capi-
tal to be put to the credit of working account
isn’t disclosed; but the Federal authorities
will see that it "is a fair proportion. Mt.
Jasper’s 2354 £2O shares are now paid to
£l7 6s. 6d., making a paid capital of £40.615.
Liabilities total £506, and £25 is all that is
left in the cashbox.
» * * *
The value of minerals produced in the
Speck last year, £1,584.390, was a record,
thanks to war prices. Blister copper gave
£842,583 and tin ore £427,917. The feature
of the year was the production of 48 tons
of electrolytic zinc worth £1968. Scheelite
wortli £12,230 was also a new entry on
the State’s mineral list.
* * * *
Tyrconnell, Kingsborough (Q.), last month
crushed 300 tons for a return of 4060 z.,
which is the best yield for some time.
Despite the fact that the mine has been
worked intermittently for the past 40 years
the deepest level is at 265 ft. Most of the
ore reserves are between the 265 ft. and 200 ft.
levels, but the management is sinking the
shaft another 100 ft. The Ilodgkinson gold-
field between 1877 and 1912 produced
154,7480 z. gold from 130,358 tons stone.
("‘Wild Cat” continued on page 34-)


Heelings
Est. 1818.
Cop
en
e/2
A
to'SSik
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
H'
foU° w '° 8
I Br^ SUOpS
obtain*'
XKr'<
W 1 n 9: Street - dn ey . t
&&&&&
0»» St^.l,4^
ittol'
•°SttStte^- S gdney
)V> P The Stra« d ; Ldney
-iS».S •
No
256
PAULINE et CIE
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
George Street, Sydney,
Announce their AUTUMN AND WINTER SHOW
of MODEL MILLINERY on and after WEDNES-
DAY, MARCH 6. MODEL EVENING and DAY
FROCKS, COATS and SKIRTS, etc., on and
after TUESDAY, MARCH 19.
WORLD-FAHED.
NEVER GETS BITTER.
Cash Coupon on Every Packet.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 7th March, 1918.
Tenders for Goods and Passenger
Elevators for the Commonwealth
Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island,
Sydney.
riTENDERS will be received for the sup-
X ply, delivery and erection of two (2)
Electrically-operated Elevators of Australian
manufacture for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Sydney, until 12 noon on Friday,
sth April, 1918.
Plans, and specifications may be seen and
all particulars may be obtained at the Office
of the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne; at the Commonwealth
Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney;
and at the Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane,
Birkenhead (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
M
“Better
than Either”
The Only Genuine Worcester Made in Australia—
GET A BOTTLE.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, March 18, 1918.
My Dear Arini,—-
There was a big audience in Iler Majesty’s
to hear the statement of the lied Cross execu-
tive. Lady Helen, in mourning for a second
brother —the war hits hard —made an elo-
quent appeal which had as text: "Our best is
not good enough.” (I wonder if that’s why
the maimed boys at George’s Heights Hospi-
tal, a mile from any tram, have to hobble
over the distance —some of it a vile track —as
best they can.) The Davidson lady, who
reads hei* notes, lifted her silvery voice to
advertise the great rally on April 26. On
the stage, J. J. Cohen, E. B. Harkness and
A. L. Blythe, joint hon. secretaries, were
shrouded in silence till the hist, of the trio
spoke up for finance. The big man rolled
out with sonorous tones the letter from
veteran Sam McCaughey. It bristled with
golden promise. The Squire of Yanco offers
to repeat his Australia Day donation —
£lO,OOO, payable in 10 monthly instalments.
The French-Australian League, with its
usual unselfishness, is organising a big effort
for Australia Bed Cross Day. With charac-
teristic modesty, Mrs. Playoust (president)
and hon. sec. Mrs. Jewett sat uneasily on the
edge of steps in Her Majesty’s Theatre at. the
big rally on Friday afternoon. They were
steering for a better place, but an usher soon
put an end to that!
Saturday was as good a time as any for
the new Governor to visit the new Zoo, on
which his Ex.’s advisers and their predeces-
sors spent a surreptitious hundred thousand
or so in order to Win the War. You remember
the big shingled refreshment-rooms and other
quarters that ate up a few of the thousands V
Well, having fulfilled their purpose by giving
somebody the work of building them, they
now continue to be a public benefactor by
requiring somebody to pull them to pieces.
After about 32 months’ use it was found that
somebody had forgotten the drainage.
There was little to-do when his Ex.’s party
arrived. usual, the politician has col-
lected whatever limelight the Zoo can supply,
and it was Fred Flowers, President of the
Council and chairman of the Taronga Park
trust, who welcomed his Ex., Lady David-
son and the two girls—the latter physically
not much credit to the Newfoundland climate
—and showed them round. They saw the
youngest lion in Australia (really, he isn’t
much of a credit to our climate). But Pansy
wasn’t there.
I wonder if you’d like a pet boa-con-
strictor? A nice, plump boa-constrictor, a
dozen feet long—they’re rarely more, I’m
sorry to say—and weighing as much as a
small ox? They are very cheap this season.
Because Hamburg, the wild-animal exchange
of the world, is out of bounds, beasts of all
sorts are, so to speak, piling up in the
Asiatic and S. American "and African ports
which the dealers frequent; and you can get
a pet boa-constrictor for £3, Mr. Le Souef
tells me. Hamburg so completely had the
wild-animal business in its hands that if the
Sydney or Melbourne Zoo wanted a North
Australian specimen it was actually cheaper
to buy the thing in Hamburg than in Port
Darwin.
In spite of a soft collar, a boiled shirt and
a light sac suit. Governor Davidson had to
mop his perspiring brow at the Journalists’
lunch the other noon. In the hazy warmth
of a cigarette-smoked atmosphere, his Ex.
gave some precarious arguments to back his
claim to belong to the brotherhood. He had
once, he mentioned, sat at a similar func-
tion between two editors, one of whom,
the editor of the pro-Ally Providence Jour-
nal (U.S.A.), considered one of the most
daring pressmen in America, was an Aus-
tralian. Though playfully complaining that
his wife had told his best stories on the pre-
vious day, the genial speaker contrived to
toss very good copy down the long table.
The dreary and asphyxiating old Muni-
cipal Library goes to the scrapheap in the
scheme for renovating and lighting the Q. V.
Markets in which they were housed. On
Monday afternoon Joynton Smith, standing
on a small rostrum, formally handed over to
the People their new possession. It is on the
same floor as the former sarcophagus, but at
the Market-street end of the building.
The People will hardly credit their luck
when they see the spacious premises where
Chief Librarian Bertie reigns over the ebb
and flow of about 26,000 volumes. For the
festive opening great bowls of flowers
bloomed on every ledge, and tall pot-plants
—permanent boarders—fluttered in the breeze
from widely-opened windows. The news-
paper reading-room is a floor higher. Above
—you mount a handsome staircase of
Queensland maple to reach it—-are the offi-
cial rooms where the catalogues will be kept
up to date and old books re-b_ound. An inno-
vation long needed is the Children’s Library,
where no grown-up, save the lady librarians,
dare intrude.
At the opening of the Society of Women
Painters the Minister for Education sup-
plied the oratory while those present stole
side-long glances at the worst and best of
the exhibits. Amongst the limited black-
and-white section is the not-for-sale work
of Ruby Winckler, dealing largely with the
adventures of Ulysses. This was understood
to be an American commission. Kate
Thynne, a Queenslander, signs two strong
oils—“An English Farmer” and “An Italian
Model.” Alice Norton (Mrs. Allan Stephens),
a Sydney woman, recalls her recent residence
in Westralia in “Wild Flowers” and a coast
scene. In pastel Stella Macnab strikes an
original note in "Peer Gynt in the Hall of
the Troll King,” and show’s, besides, an
"Impression of the Operating-theatre” which
is more suggestive of a cathedral choir and
heavenly wings than nasty anaesthetics. But
the society will have to take its courage in
both hands and throw out the worthless if
it w'ants to be taken seriously.
The Munro Fergusons sampled a Phil. Pop
on Saturday night, being seated in the
Eastern Gallery, with Haskett Smith on
duty in the background. In the distance
conductor Bradley’s white waistcoat was
presently lost to view’ in the frenzy of his
swallow-tails as they urged the fiddlers on.
Wynifred Carter’s harp w r as one of the even-
ing’s attractions. Lili Sharp hit the Town
Hall rafters with impressive topuotes, while
her Rafalewski kept the accompaniment in
its proper place. Bryce and Mowat Carter
(violin and ’cello) and tenors and basses
plunged neck-deep in the chorus, with
feminine voices to add to the glad noises.
Mrs. Tom Willsallen, now in England, has
lost a son ahd a daughter within a few’
W’eeks. The former collapsed after a hope-
less operation in U.S.A.. as you’ll remember.
The latter, Daisy, widow of Lt.-Colonel Ber-
tram W atts, D. 5.0.. died the other day in
London. Heart failure. Poor Watts was
killed in France before his firstborn opened
its eyes on this troubled earth. The Gunne-
dah family hasn’t seen much silver-lining of
late.
Amongst the new members of the Most
Excellent Order of the Empire is Miss Kate
Egan, one of the all-the-year-round heads in
the Red Cross packing department. As regu-
larly as 9 a.m. this indefatigable woman
steps into her niche in tall Warwick Build-
ings. All day and every day except Sunday
she superintends the sorting' and the packing
of the comforts that help our w’ounded.
There’s no doubt about the services of most
of those who are in the lower classes of the
new “distinction.” But so far as the upper
classes are concerned, the civilian’s best hope
will no doubt, as usual, lie in serving the
Empire by making a lot of money out of its
needs.
This little Judith
Fletcher photo, of
Elsie Middleton
shows one of the
younge r pettied
artists who are
pushing into the
open. Though the
Women Painters’
Exhibition has been
too easy-going, it
contains this year
the wmi’k of many
who deserve honor-
able mention. Miss
Middleton is one of
them. A pupil of
Sid Long, Julian
Ashton and Dattilo
Rub b o, she has
worked hard in
black and white and other mediums, and in
a quiet studio at Hornsby has recently
finished some of the oils that attract atten-
tion in the Women’s show.
Ex-Mayor Meagher has got a consolation
cheque for £l5O5 —the goods were handed
over by his successor, Joynton Smith, last
week. The money has been in hand for some
months, but apparently the time w 7 as not
ripe. The strenuous person, who just missed
being great, lost his seat in Parliament and
the Speaker’s w’ig for standing out- as a Con-
scriptionist; hence the token of practical sym-
pathy. To Mrs. Meagher went a gold wrist-
let watch set in a glitter of diamonds.
Maoriland Joe Ward’s friend, Owen Cox,
of Birt and Co., and of goodness knows how
many other shipping concerns, is among the
first half-dozen in Australia to get one of the
new “Empire” knighthoods. Presumably for
helping Hughes solve the shipping problem.
Some years ago a mild and gentlemanly-
looking young man, who enthused on the
subject of the Bush Brotherhood and looked
nice a very nice parson in embryo—his name
was Frank Lamb —used to round _up
stragglers for the Brothers’ Sydney drawing-
room meetings. In his business hours he was
a senior clerk in Dalgety’s. As one of the
lion, majors who do a useful work on the Red
Cross Commissioners’ staff abroad, he now
pins the order C.B.E. (a new war-time
decoration) on his esteemed coat lapel.
Lieut.'-Commander Jackson, R.N., is dead.
Sydney will remember that, according to his
colleagues, he did some smart work in cap-
turing the German Komet in New Guinea
waters. He was one of the younger sailors
on this station, and so small and youthful in
appearance that at 30 he might easily have
passed for a middy.
Lady Davidson
has allowed her nom-
ination as president
of the Society of
Women Painters.
The vice-president is
Mrs. F. W. Parsons,
whose water-colors in
the present show in-
elude some charming
impressions of our
coast scenery. A
sister of Florence
Fuller—more widely
known because she
has roamed the world
TWonY
1 arsons spent ne
TZ
Melbourne Gallery
classes in the days when Folingsby was direc-
tor, she occasionally wandered on the Inky
Way—chiefly disguised in verse for McKin-
ley’s Punch. At one time she was an exhibi-
tor in the R. A. Society’s shows, but other
interests have kept her too busy tb devote
much time to her brush. The founding of
the Women Painters’ Society, however, sent
her to her studio to literally lend a hand.
She’s an active member also of the Arts and
Crafts Society. I send you with this a stern
photo, of a usually-smiling countenance.
The Assembly Hall in the Education
Building was thick with knitting-needles the
other afternoon. Some of the early birds
are supposed to have caught front chairs an
hour before opening time. The bait was
Lady Davidson’s story of Red Cross work in
Newfoundland. The heroine, in dove-grey
touched with flecks of black, read her notes
and gave a vivid story of the fisher-folk on
icebound St. John’s. New A.D.C. Paine,
lately A.1.F., wrestled successfully with a
window that had locked its jaws, while the
Red Cross dames purred round the Lady in
Grey.
A son of Justice Bring leaves shortly for
the Great Uproar with artillery. This is
one of the last lots to get some technical
training in Australia under the new edict.
How popular that is I’m not allowed to tell
you—it might overwhelm the Defence De-
partment with recruits. Mrs. Pring was
president of the committee which hurriedly
got up a good little amateur show in St.
James’s Hall under the eye of Myee Kenyon.
A big house—the chief artilleryman at
Liverpool brought his departing ’forcement to
swell the applause. Cash to a comforts fund
for the smart-looking lads.
The manager of the Asiatic Petroleum Co.
in Tientsin is a Queenslander —Norman
Leslie, a Rhodes scholar, who went from
Oxford to oil. An Australian who recently
came across the Bananalander said, “Why
oil?” Leslie explained that the co. had years
ago decided to test the worth of ’Varsity
training in business. Hence the Oxford or
Cambridge heads of the concern. “And,
strange as it may appear,” the ex-Rhodes
man added, “the co. is making money !”
There’s to be a ball in the Town Hall on
April 3, with a bridge party, to help the
6th and 7th Light Horse Comforts Fund.
The Cricket Ground carnival to help the
Alexandra Hospital for sick kiddies is fixed
for March 22. And there are so many sick
kiddies to help just now.
The War Chest Depot' in Elizabeth-street
had a visit from Lady jDaviason the other
morning. Captain Paine, who treads in the
sub-regal shadow on these occasions, is a
plump, well-set-up young man, ouite new to
the job. There’s joy in the tents of the
Susies, by the way, at Mrs. Mary Antill’s
war decoration. The hon. superintendent,
who has stuck to her task since the War
Chest was the size of a thimble, is smiling
over the top of a ton of congratulations.
Mary Stevens, the eldest of the musical
Dawes Point family, has promised to wear
orange-blossoms for Lieut. B. W. Millier, of
the Ist 'Wellington (M.L.) Regiment. The
soldier-boy, who is home from the Front
after two years’ fighting, is in the Maori-
land Public Service.
After dinner recently on one of H.M.
cruisers on the China station, the gramo-
phone was let loose. "Possibly the best
record,” says an Australian woman who was
a guest, “was that of Rosina Buckman in
‘The Tales of Hoffman.’ ‘lsn’t that a
splendid record?’ said a Gold Lace. ‘You
can’t even drown the Australian voice! That
record, with the instrument, was with me
through the Battle of Jutland in a sub-
marine, and it was submerged—well, a very
long time—and suffered many of the casual-
ties of war. But your soprano still sings like
a lark.’ ”
Sylvester Browne’s boy writes concerning
roads between Longreach and the southern
towns. “Mostly bad and generally worse.”
he says; “but I will have the best mate in
the world to take home to Julia Creek with
me.” She’s Monica Little, only surviving
child of Frank Little and his wife, of
Albion, Brisbane. Her brother, a pal of
young Browne’s in the Light Horse, was
killed in France. Of the four Browne bro-
thers, one fell in Gallipoli, where Miss
Little’s champion also v did his bit. There’s
another, a surgeon-major, on service with
the A.M.C., and the last is a lieut. in the
Irish Guards. They are nephews of the late
Rolf Boldrewood.
Verbrugghen is not back from the U.S.A.
yet, and the name of the chosen has not
leaked out. When it does, local talent will
have a chance to read the references of the
new singing master for the Conservatorium.
Meanwhile Alfred Hill takes the absent
director’s baton.
The Rose Bay golfers are organising a big
Red Cross corroboree on their velvet la\Vns.
E. P. Simpson is chairing it.
An occasional passport can still be
snatched from the dragon who guards the
gangway of outgoing steamers. A busy Red
Cross girl, Molly Merivale, leaves shortly for
Egypt to lend a hand to those who help our
veterans in that flybitten kingdom.
There’s money in the rosebush. H. Y.
Braddon took the best chair at the War
Chest Flower Shop’s financial wash-up. In
15 months a profit of about £l2OO had come
mostly from the sale of posies. There’s a
side-line of toothsome produce, and you can
help the cause by stepping into 126 a Pitt-
street and leaving the change for a pot of
honey.
“Australia Jane’s” note from Brisbane :
The four new baby clinics supplied by the State
were opened last week. Premier Ryan’s wife un-
locked the one in the Valley and was presented by
the Home Sec. with a pretty brooch as a souvenir.
Similar dainty mementoes were pinned to Mesdames
Huxham, Theodore and Fihelly for their services in
blessing the others. Miss Chatfield, who has man-
aged the Diamantina Sanatorium for some time, has
been appointed supervisor of the institutions. She
has gone to Sydney to see how the Ma State handles
its babes.
E. B. Wareliam, the popular manager •of the
Adelaide Steamship Co. here, goes to a better billet
in your city next month. An only son was killed
at Gallipoli.
Dorothy Buchanan, a pretty Southport girl, is to
be married very shortly to Jack Laird, son of the
Mathew Lairds. The bride is to be decorated with
about £5OO worth of diamonds, a gift from father-
in-law elect.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
%/ LTD
JEWELLERS.
DIAMOND BROOCHES
FOR EASTER GIFTS.
A Large .Selection in New and Attractive
Designs.
All Diamonds are set in Pure Platinum.
Platinum-frontecl and loct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
with fine-quality Diamond Cluster, in case,
£l5.
Platinum-fronted and 15et.
Gold Circle Brooch, set
with six fine-quality Dia-
monds, in ease,
£l6 10 0
15ct. Gold Circle Brooch,
set with fine-quality Dia-
mond and Pearl, in case,
£7 10 0
Platinum-fronted and 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
with three ftne-qualitv Diamonds, in case,
£8 8 0
Platinum-fronted and 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
with five fine-quality Diamonds, in case,
£l2.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY FOR THE EASTER SEASON
ARE INVITED TO INSPECT THE COMPANY’S SHOWROOMS.
13 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
MM
Take an Ensignette
on Your Easter Trip.
e
British - made,
Daylight-
Loading,
For Roll Films.
Easter, 1918, will
have many pleasant
recollections for
you if you take an
En s ign ell e
Camera on your
holiday trip.
simple in its movements; a novice can take a photo, with it after a few minutes*
demonstration, w,hich we will be pleased to give, and it is so small you can carrv it
anywhere without the slightest inconvenience—it will fit comfortably in your vest or‘hip
pocket.
The body \of the camera is made of dull-polished Oxidised Rustless Metal, with
Leather Bellows and Nickel Fittings.
It is fitted with a Lens which gives clear, crisp negatives, from which enlargements
up to 10 x 12 can be made if necessary, Brilliant View Finder, and a Shutter giving
Time and Instantaneous Exposures.
No. 1, takes photos 2J4 x 1% in 307-
No. 2, takes photos 3 x 2 in 37/6
Complete in Leather Pocket Case, with Book of Instructions.
The Treatment of Residues and Assays
is Scientifically done
at Harringtons* Laboratories.
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers and other Metal Workers entrusting their orders to
us can do so in the full confidence that they will get the best results possible, as our
Laboratories are equipped with every facility for the scientific and economical treatment
of Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis, and are
Manufacturers, in conjunction with Messrs. Johnson & Sons, London (Assayers to his
Majesty’s Government and the Bank of England), of their world-famous “Seales” brand
Silver Nitrate and Gold Chloride.
Materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum purchased, and we can supply those
materials pure, or in their alloys, in Plate, Wire or Granulated.
We invite your enquiries—a 'phone message or letter addressed to any of our
branches will receive prompt attention.
lIP
Photographic anti Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts anti Assayers,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY .
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St. North, Sydney,
IRB
inn
pen
mi
THE STROUD PIANOLA
Superior to all players of other
make, regardless of price.
The Stroud Pianola provides you with all the power of musical
expression, all the varied musical effects which the skilled pianist’s
talented fingers can attain.
But the Pianola does not stop at endowing you with a tech-
nique that is equal to the difficulties of the most tremendous musical
compositions ever written for the piano; it gives you also simple,
accurate guidance that enables you to employ your new-found power
with a subtle artistry that few amateur musicians ever develop.
Even though you have never played any instrument, the
Metro-style, a device exclusive with the Pianola, is a clear and easily-
followed path to perfect interpretation. It is the master’s prompt-
ings and teachings simplified so you may understand without
tedious study.
The beautiful tone shading—the power of varied emphasis
which gives the Pianola touch such a startling semblance to that
of human fingers—is due to another of the exclusive Pianola devices
—the Themodist.
Many other important features and improvements have given
the Pianola a superiority over every other instrument of the Player
type, that is recognised and endorsed by practically every great
musician of the present generation.
Yet the Stroud is not an expensive instrument.
It is Placed in Your Home
by a Cash Payment of only
£lO.
CONVENIENT AMOUNTS PAID MONTHLY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
PIANOLA SPECIAL PURCHASE PLAN MAKE THE INSTRUMENT YOURS.
YOUR PRESENT PIANO taken in Exchange for the Pianola*
To the PIANOLA COMPANY
Please send me catalog and price list of Pianola Pianos,
showing how I can purchase an instrument for cash or easy
terms, and what allowance you can make on my present piano,
which is a
Bought about
Name
Address
She
31L
m
iEPB
#THE
im
Lie:
Sydney
MM
Co.Pty. Ltd.
384 George St.. Sydney.
THE CENTRE
FOR THE WORLDS
GREATEST
ACHIEVEMENTS
• o ||N o .
/MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS.
“Aeolian"
Reg* Trade Mark
IS
m
B
IS
And at 252 Collins Street, Melbourne;
436 Queen Street, Brisbane; and 58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
WE ARE OPEN ON FRIDAY EVENING*


Mr. A. CARLSON (from a photo.).
FREE SAMPLES
HAIR GROWER
and Shampoo Powders.
CJo Mrs. M. Tobin. Boarding House,
Florence Street, Port Pirie, S.A.
Mr. John Craven-Burleigh.
My Dear Sir, —/ thank you for your letter and offer.
I am very pleased to state that my hair has im-
proved wonderfully since I got the last supnly of
your remedy. I am quite satisfied it is a True Hair
Grower. My scalp is now full of fine, silky hair,
and I still have 2$ boxes left, so I won’t need any
more. I am recommending your True Hair Grower
to all my friends. 1 am sending you the last photo.
I have, as l serl all the others to my friends and
people, to let them see how my hair has grown. You
may publish this if you please.—Yours truly,
A. CARLSON.
Mr. Craven-Burleigh has received thousands of
unsolicited testimonials from people who have suc-
cessfully used his preparations. They are all
genuine, and open to the fullest investigation. In
order to ensure a fair test he desires everyone suffer-
ing from Hair Troubles to obtain from him a Free
Trial of his hair-growing compound. Send full
name and address, enclosing three penny stamps for
postage and packing to
JOHN CRAVEN-BURLEIGH (DEPT. 7a), 321 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Hotel Sydney
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE*
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
„ (Daily) „ 11/6
Bed and Breakfast „ ' 6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
GAGE Hats
are the
Correct
Expression
of
Good Style.
Obtainable only at Leading
Shops throughout Australia
and New Zealand.
*
[2
Tongkah Harbour Tin Dredging Co. N.L.
-vrOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a Dividend (the
-*■2Bth) of 10 per cent., or Two Shillings per share,
together with a Bonus of 5 per cent., or One Shilling
per share, amounting in all to £22,500, has been
declared, payable on the 22nd April, 1918, and for
this purpose the Share Register will be CLOSED
from the 15th to the 22nd April inclusive.
By order of the Board,
H. J. WISE, Manager.
Dated at Hobart this Bth day of March, 1018.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, March 18, 191 S.
My Dear Yarrte, —
Our Boys' Day, on Friday, produced a
record crush. Collins-street was impassable
except by the most valiant fighters, and as
none but foot traffic was allowed down the
Block, it was one huge bazaar. Big posters
by Victorian artists hung high between the
big grey buildings. A fine bit of color by
Mclnnes decorated the Swanston-Collins-
street entrance. Somewhere in the mtdee the
Dominion stall was showing beautiful Cana-
dian goods, and crowds tussled for each article
as at a bargain-sale. Manson engineered
another popular kiosk with Maori ware for
sale. The Americans (with Mrs. Wallace
helping) were near the Equitable, and the
Rennies ran a fisli-o and poultry stall at the
Royal Bank corner. The Stock Exchange
had a spinning-jenny outside, and members
dashed up occasionally to buy the whole
“turn,” just to encourage the multitude.
Indoors, theatrical stars were singing and
demanding money instead of encores. Scott’s
shut out the intrusive feminine rafflers and
only allowed the sale of boomerangs. Menzies’
gave itself over to a big cafe chantant. The
lounge was a # tea-party, and was packed with
women chattering and munching and listen-
ing to other women trying to sing. A few
belated males looked in over the outermost
Best Hats. The day was stormy and the
electrics were lowered. Captain Waters’s
monocle gleamed in a lonely way among
oceans of feminine frills. Colonel Syd Sands
bravely faced the fearful odds. Rupert
Clarke watched from the safety of the smok-
ing-room. Russell Gabb gave an expensive
Royal Worcester tea-set, and his wife raffled
it for over £5O.
Gambling is now an inevitable feature of a
Button Day. Patriots have got beyond hav-
ing roulette wheels indoors. They at last
expect to find old Spinning Jenny at the kerb.
On Friday there were dozens of huge red
wheels set about at the corners of blocks,
with returned soldiers shouting as they man-
ipulated the rakes and drew in the cash.
_ One of the Our Boys’ Day events was a
big theatrical entertainment' at the Royal.
Mrs. Tallis was organiser. The usual pro-
gramme went on in the front of the stage,
but behind that were bridge and poker tables.
Sassiety “came on” to possess these, and
showed incidentally the value of stage make-
up. Sassiety’s very best face-enamel looked
green. Also its dresses were badly hung for
stage effect, and viewed from the house
there was not an effective rig in the lot. The
usual sweets and programme 'vendors were
there. They mostly stood at the back of the
circle and shouted, remarks to each other
while the stars sang or recited.
On Friday night some Naice people hopped
valiantly for Our Boys’ Fund. Mrs. Scott,
Miss Shepherd and Mrs. Green arranged
the dance at the Francatelli, and two
of the ladies guarded the head of the stairs
so that only those, who had been sold tickets
might enter. The O’Hara wedding revellers
seem to have cauaht the secret of perpetual
motion. They were at the dance (as they are
et-enywhere) in one complete mob, circling
dizzily together. Even the bride and her
’groom came out of honeymoon oblivion on
Friday and joined the peripatetic grooms-
men and maids. Nan wore a sheath of gold
tissue and some frills of white tulle. The
Coopers put in a very tired two hours, and
then plodded home to bed, like Gray’s
ploughman : they had been working hard all
day for the cause. Hugh Ward blew in late
with manager Westmacott. Mrs. Buesst, in
blue ninon and some startlingly valuable old
lace, came with sister-Mrs. Kerr.
Returned soldiers provided a fine musical
programme, and so'me crack pupils of Mrs.
Green gave solo dances. Margo Lester and
Jean Clack were particularly noticeable for
their beautiful hair and armor-plated toes.
There was auctioning, of course. Banana-
landers down for the races are noticeably
good marks for bushrangers. A corner lot
of them offered pounds for single bottles of
wine. The air of Xaiceness was so strained
that some mere Bohemians who had blown in
hoping for frivolity were driven away crushed
and saddened. Even a jealous fight was stopped
in the first round.
A big flurry at the Oriental last Wednes-
day to gather funds for Our Boys’ Day in-
cluded a two-step, a concert and the popular
gambles. Dorothy Low arranged the musical
programme and played song accompani-
ments. Claude Hall, the Perpetual Bach-
elor, lifted up his artistic tenor, and Uulcie
Donald and Vida Sutton also made music.
The Oriental opened its heart completely
and even gave up the billiard-room to the
raiders.
It was while in Mount St. Evin’s Hospital
that Mrs. Arthur Woolcott received the tid-
ings that the royal George had been pleased
to make her a commander of “the Most
Excellent Order of the British Empire.”
The handsome Button Day autocrat has been
troubled by her throat for some time and is
now recovering from an operation.
While Guido Baracclii, the plutocratic
socialist, is “doing time” in Melbourne Gaol,
the lady who recently became Mrs. Guido
is amusing herself in Sydney. She retired
from the chorus of the “Aladdin” panto,
before that show left Melbourne.
Dear, dear, one ought to be more careful
these times. Last week I told you that
Howard Hadley, the examiner for the Lon-
don musical bodies, who had just given us
a recital, was a “young Englishman.” A
friend of his, remembering that it’s war-
time, implores me to make it “middle-aged.”
He is 43. The time has come when, if you
mention a man as having done sotnething
except kill somebody, it is advisable to fol-
low the old police-court plan: “John Jones
(27) and Thomas Smith (41) were charged
with,” etcetera.
The late Franklin Peterson’s son Frank
drilled back into the social whirlpools this
week. The young man has been in hospital
for an operation, and had a convalescence
near Mansfield. He wandered through the
big crush of the Menzies’ Friday party look-
ing for tender sympathy.
A conspicuous series of dress fancies were
flung at Melbourne race-frivollers by Mrs.
Harper. Willie married a big, handsome
Californian girl, and brought her home to
Australia some months ago. She has
paraded wonderful New York costumes—
more conspicuous because the wearer is of an
athletic type and amazonian in size.
The Stanleys have sent pasteboards abroad
for a garden party on Wednesday, March 20.
Meantime, fashionables who starve for such
affairs are putting up a daily prayer for fine
weather.
Mrs. Henry Cornish gave a Braille party
last week and invited the blind returned sol-
diers. Tea, music and supper.
Three of the bhoys tripped off London-
wards last week. Jim Alison of Sydney
goes to see his son Seppy, who has been
released after being a prisoner in Hunland
for many months; “Doc” Masters floats
round on some A.M.C. stunt; and evergreen
Billy Bayles, who wears his 50-odd sunlmers
jauntily and is now’ a confirmed Londoner,
hies, home to see if his Jermyn-street flat
still stands and to take up the baton of the
special constable again.
There is no pleasing everybody. The
poor old Austral Salon has been closed by
the Board of Health because of its insuf-
ficient exits; yet for long past there are
plenty .of women who would gladly have
closed it because of its insufficient entrances.
. Dr. Mary Delprat, one of a trio of clever
sisters, is just back from America. The Del-
prats can’t be idle, so Dr. Mary lectured for
a while, at the medical school of Berkeley
University, in San Francisco, and practised
in Rochester, N.Y.
The cold, aloof Fliclie, who stalks rigidly
through the duties of French Consul, has
just presented an armful of French books to
the library of the Alliance Francaise.
Twenty-one of the volumes are by Frederic
Masson, the Napoleonic historian.
The sudden passing of Mrs. Gibney Roche,
at Malvern, was a distressful affair. Her
marriage with land-agent Roche was only a
recent happening and her death followed a
visit to a “health” resort in the high hills,
where shfe acquired scarlet fever. Julia
Doyle she was, the only daughter of wine-
merchant Lawrence Doyle, who retired some
years ago with a weighty bank balance and
went to dwell among the elect of Mercer-
road.
Mrs. Edward Argyle, dead at South Yarra,
full of years and honor, was the relict of a
hard-living old early bird of the Kyneton
district, who settled on the Campaspe in the
days When that region was the wildest of
backblocks. Three sons keep the family
name well before the public—Reginald, ex-
M.L.A. for Dalhousie, who works the soil in
the old spot in the intervals of trying to get
back into Parliament; Charles, who pursues
Costs in the ancient township; and medical
Lieut.-Col. Stanley Argyle, who took the
first N-ray outfit from Australia to the
Egyptian desert. There was a fourth son,
but he was drowned when a little chap.
Algernon Wakefield, once Melbourne’s best-
known shopwalker, left Melbourne with the
10th Battalion and went a-missing last
May. Now it is known that he trod his
final steps upon the path of glory at Bulle-
court, on the third of that magnificent month.
The tawny-headed Wakefield was probably
the subject of more chaff than any young
man of his years in Melbourne during his
this-way-madaming career at Ball and
Welch’s; but the stuff was there all right—
all wool and a yard wide, t
Fashionables have just found out that head-
master Franklin, of Melbourne Grammar,
whose enlistment provoked many lioorays long,
long ago, hasn't left yet. How could 7*e go
without a commission? So he has been held
here month after month, month after month,
and is only now saying his farewells. Per-
haps you can explain the ways of the
Defence Department. I can’t.
Dr. Kent Hughes is coming home. He
had booked for Petrograd, but no one knows
if he ever got into the blood-stained capital
or argued with the Bolsheviks. Son Billy,
an original Anzac, and now a major on brief
leave in Australia, hopes to sight dad before
sailing-time.
Sister Adelaide’s intrusion :
Surg.-Col. W. T. Hayward, who has been two and
a half years with the A.1.F., is homeward-bound on
transport duty. Lieut.-Col. Butler and Lieut. Napier
Birks are also returning—the former invalided and
the latter on duty.
The Trench Comforts store in Bowman’s Arcade
has made in its first year a profit of over £3OOO.
The total expenses were only £3OO, and that includes
rent for one of the shops—the other is given rent-
free by Keith Bowman.
The F. H. Snows have had word that their Wil-
fred, who is with the R.F.C., has gained the
D.S.O. He got the Military Cross some time ago.
George Williams, one of the founders of the Com-
mercial Travellers’ Assoc., died on Wednesday. He
was born in Brighton (Eng.) 76 years ago and came
to this State in ’64.
The State War Council won’t allow any nonsense
with regard to the regulations drafted for the
control of patriotic funds. M. G. Schluter, of
Greenock, has been fined for his share in holding
sports to raise money for the Red Cross without the
authority of the War Council. The maximum
penalty is £5O, but Schluter was let off lightly, as
the law hasn’t yet soaked in.
News has come of the death of Major H. N. Hen-
wood, one of the most promising of the younger
men in the Education Department, who was Secre-
tary to the Director when he enlisted in 1914, He
joined the ranks and won his commission at Gal-
lipoli.
On the vexed question of soldiers and drink, which
a Senate Committee is inquiring into, J. J. Virgo put
the matter concisely. When he sees a few drunken
men in khaki he “thinks of the millions who are
sober.” If the authorities don’t want to see Billjim
slip the best thing to do is to give him occupation
as quickly as possible after his discharge and see
that he can live in decent surroundings. A step in
the right direction is being made by building the
hostel at the rear of the Cheer-Up Hut. For this
the State War Council is footing the bill, and a
Button Day at the end of the month will meet part of
the cost of furnishing.
There’s a whole sermon on disillusionment in the
mere omission of a figure from No. 2 “Honor Board”
at the Adelaide Railway Station. Board No. 1 is
headed “1914-191—”; room was left to add one
figure when the “Cease Fire” sounds. But No. 2
board opens “1914-19—,” with room for two figures.
If a No. 3 has to go.up we may not chance anything
beyond “1914—.”
Pauline Curran, one of Hobart’s beauty
girls, is engaged to Captain Fitzgerald, the
new genthelp on Governor Newdigate’s staff.
He is fresh from the Big Smoke and has
also been well seasoned in war smoke. Paul-
ine is the last of the handsome Curran sis-
ters ; they have all married and flown from
the island.
Nancy Chisholm (Sydney) is to be
married to Ivan Young, son of John, of the
big Victorian clan, who died at Nhill three
months ago. Ivan was wounded in war
aviation and discharged, but has re-enlisted
and is marrying his girl before he returns
to the aerial fray. Nancy is an orphan—
niece of our Bishop Langley. Several of
the Victorian Young clan are journeying to
Sydney for the ceremony.
H. A. Luke, the jolly bubble who directs
the circulation of the Gippsland Mercury,
has just given his son Andrew into the cus-
tody of a popular Melbourne girl, Lois Gil-
lespie. Mrs. Luke is a daughter of J. M.
Gillespie, who is conspicuous in recruiting
circles, whilst her young apostle owns three
stars in the Army Medical Corps.
The Sydney Sketch Club has recently
altered its name and enlarged its scope, be-
coming The Australian Arts Club, with mem-
bers in the other States, and hopes of repre-
senting all the arts and acquiring a club
house of its own before long. Beginning as
a small group of artists who worked during
the day and pooled their half-crowns in order
to pay for a model and a room one evening
a week, it has grown quietly and now in-
cludes some of the best men in three States.
It wall celebrate its transformation by an
exhibition at our Fine Art Society’s rooms on
April 8. The show will be a very interest-
ing one, with the latest work in color and
black-and-white of Norman and Lionel
Lindsay, Carter, Collins, G. V. F. Mann,
George and Alfred Clint, Mclnnes, Heysep,
Shirlow, S. Ure Smith, David Low, Leason.
McNally, Jackson, Bancks, Burton, .Lloyd
Rees and others.
Harold Brodsky, who first dabbled in paint
in these parts, has been exhibiting at a big
water-color show in N’York, and getting very
decent notices.
Artist Ellis Rowan is back from New
Guinea suffering from malaria, but full of
enthusiasm for the country’s flora. “I have
travelled all over the world,” she says, “but
never —never have I seen more beautiful
flowers than in New Guinea.” And she has
pictures of over GO birds painted from life.
Sergeant Penleigh Boyd—no need to intro-
duce "Pen”—has made a number of sketches
of life on the Western Front, which the
British Australasian is going to publish
in London, in book form, with the title of
“Salvage.” A man who has seen some of
the proofs says he got from them an extraor-
dinarily vivid impression of many of the
places made famous by Australian gal-
lantry.
The University Conservatorium of Music
started its 1918 series of concerts this week
with a programme headed by Handel and
ended by Liszt. Bach, Schubert and Chopin
came in between. The programmes of the
20 concerts are almost wholly German; yet
the prospectus invites attention to the
“catholicity of the selection of works.” Prof.
Laver’s idea of the meaning of the word
“catholicity” seems to be “more than some-
what Teutonic.” But in the vocabulary of
his predecessor, Marshall Hall, there was no
such word at all.
The big draw at the Oriental concert was
Guido Cacialli, the basso-baritone of the
Gonsalez Opera Co. Cacialli thundered at
his very best from the romantic music gal-
lery.
Walter Kirby, smooth but chastened-look-
ing, is back in his familiar Melbourne cafes.
At the final recruiting-concert held in the
City Hall, Hobart, the Newdigates vice-
regally demanded that Walter and his
moustache be brought before them to be con-
gratulated on his wonderful singing and
thanked for his recruiting work.
.Mrs. J. E. Mackay, the Speaker’s wife,
will lend her genial weight to the cast of
“Madras House.” Isabel Handley and Allie
Robson will appear for the first time since
their jaunt to America. Tall and blonde
Mrs. Eccles, Mary Curtain, Audrey Ander-
son, Evelyn Cook and those seasoned Reper-
torians Norman Carter, Helton Daniell, Tom
Skewes and Teddy Holroyd will all appear.
One scene is enacted in the showroom of a
big shop, and Gregan has arranged for a
dress parade of mannequins, garbed in the
latest screams in toggery. If Art can’t fill
the Playhouse Drapery may.
The Old Girls of the Scotchbyterian Col-
lege (Melba is one of ’em) are going to found
a War Scholarship for the daughters of
soldiers and sailors who have fallen or been
incapacitated. The scholarship is to run for
three years, but may be renewed at the end
of that period. Subscriptions to the fund,
from half a crown up, may be left at the
Red Cross Work Room, No. 6 Assembly Hall,
Collins-street. Mrs. Sutherland, of Camber-
well, is hon. sec.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Buy
Your
M
Ss
In order that you may be fully prepared for the Holiday Season select Clothing and Travelling Require-
ments at flurdoch’s. We have the goods that will prove suitable for every occasion, and the values are
particularly attractive.
You can save money on holiday needs at the riammoth Store.
There’s no time for hesitation —you can’t afford disappointment. Call and make an early selection, or
send your order to Desk R.
and
Save
Money.
Men’s Ready-to-Wear Suits
Made from N.S.W. Tweeds.
45 1-
These suits are distinctive in cut, and every garment is well
finished. Materials are in neat designs—Mid Grey, Dark Grey and
Fawn shadings. For business or holiday wear these suits are
ideal. Every size in stock —call and try on yours to-day.
Murdoch’s “Nucut” Suits
Ready for Immediate Wear.
65
In these nobby suits we have reached a high standard —style, fit
and finish are excellent —made from selected Tweeds in designs
and shadings that are popular and fashionable. We have a size
to fit every man.
M
M
Murdock’s Famous Golf
Shirts.
Just what you want for holiday wear. Smart,
serviceable and up-to-date. Smartly cut
from reliable materials, neat stripe designs—
well finished in every detail.
516 each.
Murdoch’s Special Ail Wool
Travelling Rug, 25/-
will prove a boon and a blessing to-travellers.
(srand for cosiness and comfort, snug and
satisfactory.
In a wide variety of neat designs, and attrac-
tive colorings.
Call or write for one to-day.
m
w
Travelling Requisites
PACK UP YOUR WEARABLES IN A
MURDOCH BAG.
You'll find it an advantage. Here are values
that will please you.
KIT BAGS. —Solid Cowhide, best finish —
Min. 16in. ISin. 20in.
19/- 21/6 24/6 27/-
KIT BAGS. —Solid Leather, best nickel
fittings, w T ith two straps round ends of
bag—
20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
33/- 36/- 39/6 42/6
ALL-LEATHER GLADSTONE BAGS—
20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
24/6 27/- 29/6 32/-
FIBRE SUIT CASES.
Best Quality.
20in. 22in. 24in. 2Giu.
29/- 31/6 34/- 36/6
Postage on Bags, 2/- extra.
Murdoch’s
Famous
“Armourite”
Boots.
These boots are fitted
wi t h “Armourite”
Soles, which wear
twice as long as
ordinary soles. Get
a pair and test their
wear. You'll find
them an economical
proposition.
Black. 22/6.
Tan, 25/-
M
Australian-made
Soft Felt Hats.
These attractive Australian-made Hats are
in all the latest shapes and popular shadings
—New Fawns, Browns, Slates, Steel, with
self or black bands; side, back or elbow
bows —finished with best trimmings—splendid
values.
7(6, 9(6. 12|6.
Postage Bd. extra.
ft
Smart Stetson Hats.
These plain, soft felts feature supreme
quality—fine finish and attractive shape.
Fashionable colorings and splendid value
recommend them to men of popular tastes.
SOI-
Post Free.
Stetson Velours.
The acme of smart headgear-—all the
newest shapes and shadings. Smart dressers
will appreciate the quality and distinction
of these hats. Get a Stetson now for the
coming season.
Post Free.
V
Straw
Boaters.
Ideal for holiday wear —just the hat
for men who care. Up-to-date shapes
with silk bands and sweat-leather —
light, cool and easy fitting.
5/6.
Postage Sd. extra.
M
Hard Felt
Hats.
N )
Smart, dressy hats for the season ahead —
latest Derby shapes—with smart bands.
Careful dressers will appreciate these hats.
Splendid value,
-7|6 & 9(6.
Postage Sd. extra.
R
I
IN PARK ST LIMITED SYDNEY
Complete Outfitter#
for Men 15 curs


Miss DOROTHY BRUNTON says“l have derived
such wonderful benefit from the use of HEENZO
(Mean’s Essence), and HEENZO COUGH DIAMONDS
for the throat, that I shall certainly never venture on
a tour without taking a plentiful supply with me.
At present I am busy recommending your excellent
preparations to my friends.”
HEENZO
is the famous Money-Saving Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, CROUP, CATARRH
and other Chest and Throat Troubles.
Costs 2/-, SAVES 10/-
Each bottle of HEENZO makes a pint of the finest-quality
Cough Mixture, and only costs 2/- per bottle.
HEENZO COUGH DIAMONDS are lozenges medi-
cated with HEENZO. They are fine for the VOICE and
Throat. 1/. per tin.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES-
Australia and New Zealand.
M
A Signal Success
wr
King George IV
wjkmseot
The TOP-NOTCHScotcK
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Wart”: Of the Tasmanian blacks only
the East Coast tribe planted the dead; the others all
cremated the lamented and buried the ashes. They
still continued the practice while in captivity on
Flinders Island. When a black felt that he was
S'oing to die he would ask to be carried into the
open, where he could superintend the building of the
funeral pyre. No matter when lie died the others
would not consider he was quite dead until sun-
down. Then they would put him on top of a heap
of logs in an erect position and pack a pile of brush-
wood round until the body was completely hidden.
All the other sick in the crowd would then be
brought out and placed round the pile with the idea
of taking the “devil” out of them. Before sunrise
the pyre was set on Are, and when it was burned
down the ashes were collected, some being sewn up in
kangaroo-skin bags as charms, the rest buried. Very
likely this practice accounts for the scarcity of
aboriginal skeletons compared with skulls —there are
only some ha.lf-dozen complete skeletons known, com-
pared with some 70 skulls. The top-piece was nearly
always saved as a charm. Captain Batman, of the
•'rig Tamar, who took 40 of the blacks to Flinders
Island, states that they brought on board quite a
HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
CHARIMAN (at the camp ): “I 'ope, Hokes, as yer’ll all vote for our worthy friend 'ere.
' E can tork like a bloomin’ gramerphone, mix it with anyone ’is weight, an’ is
game ter promise yer twice as much as the other bloke. ’E is willin' an’ able to
stoush out anyone as don’t agree with him in his principles as a true-earted. peace-
at-any-price Australian workin’-man."
bushel of old bones, and as the boat began to move
they rattled these together to keep the debbil-debbil
from running off with the ship. Davis states that no
eases of burying weapons with the bodies were
known, but in that he is wrong; two cases are
recorded, one by Braim and the other by Jorgensen.
The latter-—an untrustworthy party, as a rule. I’ll
admit states that Mungo, his black guide, showed
him a cave where there was a pile of large stones with
a spear sticking up from the centre. Mungo explained
that it was the grave of a chief, and objected to its
being tampered with. The spear, he said, was for
the chief to fight with while he was asleep. Braim
states that when it was not convenient to carry off
the dead body to some place of interment, it would
be put into a hollow tree, in as upright a position
as possible, and to preserve it in this position a
spear was stuck through the neck into the wood.
Another spear was left with the dead.
*****
“Bill Bowyang”: Australian buckjump
riders of a few years back are doing their bit. Billy
" a *te, who won the Australian championship from
Lance Slcuthorp in Brisbane about six years back, :’s
horse-breaking for the army in Canada.' Jack Demn-
sey, who went to Egypt with the first Billjims, is
lolling in a remount camp near the Suez Canal, and
Major (“Banjo”) Paterson is his boss. Dave Black,
one of the best horsemen N.Q. ever turned out, was
lighting the Hun in East Africa some months back :
and Jack Goodfellow, of W.Q., is somewhere north
of Jerusalem with the Light Horse.
* * * *
“Bareoo” : Put this down and let no man
cast the eye of suspicion upon it. Forty-three
shearers at Terriek Terriek (Q.), one time owned
by Donald A\ allace, of Carbine fame, shaved 8970
jumbueks during one day in 1916. Jim Ashwood
led the way with 256. About the same time at
Alice Downs 19 men put through 39C0. I believe
the Terriek run was made on the day the shearers
gave their scores to the Patriotic Fund.
“Kalibionba”; “Jimmie Pannikin”. (B.
14/2/’18) has my support when he barracks for the
domestication of native flowers and trees. Not to
mention the kurrajong, which in many ways is the
best of all trees for artificial planting' and responds
quicker to intense cultivation than any other vege-
table I know, 1 can thoroughly recommend the
common grevilleas, known as wax-flower, and the
native fuchsia. When I was a kid I planted one
of these in my father’s garden, where it soon
attained to thrice the size it grows to in the bush,
and through the later winter-time and all the Spring
was covered with adorable coraline blossoms. 1
knew a man, too, who grew a scarlet-flowering correa,
from the Snowies, as an ornamental hedge, and it
was the loveliest thing of the kind that I have seen
in Australia. This correa grows about 4ft. high and
is thick with brightly-shining lanceolate leaves among
which for months the warm-red blossoms “burn in-
sensibly,” as Shelley sings. To come down from
hedges to edges, let me recommend a wee white
heath, whose liliputian bells are almost if not.
quite the first flower of Spring.
FAMILY ECONOMY
LITTLE JOHNNY: “Say, Bill, Father's got a new set of false teeth."
BILL: “do on! Wot will lie do with the old ones?"
LITTLE JOHNNY: “Oh, I s’posc mother'll cut 'em down and make me wear 'em."
“Barcoo”: The Australian station that
nowadays shears the greatest number of sheep in
one shed is Wellshot, on the Barcoo-Thompson
watershed (C.Q.). Three seasons ago the barbers
removed the overcoats from 265,000 jumbueks, filling
5000 bales of greasy wool of the best. Time, 12
weeks. TJhe “run” being- a dry one, the 40 operators
performed on the 60 working days. This station
does its own shearing as against the general custom
of contracting. Twenty years ago it shore 416,000
sheep at the one shed. Sixty men operated. Time,
18 weeks. This was another dry shearing. The
same season Milo (W.Q.) peeled 510,000, but did
it at three sheds.
.* * *
''Quidam” ; Re the policeman-tiy (B.
28/2/’18). I had a par. in The Bulletin some-
where about 1901 concerning the insect, and it started
lemarks about the useful little assassin from pretty
well all over Australia. When I saw him at work
he was on the Crocodile goldfield (Q.), and lie
cleaned out the flies in our camp in about a week,
being the most active and efficient Force I ever
struck. Since then, greatly to my regret, I have
not met him again; but there should be a large
fortune for anyone who can domesticate him and
sell him in large numbers to the residents of the
Blue Mountains (N.S.W.), where there is ample
scope for his energy. He might also be a valuable
addition to the Commonwealth Police Farce.
“Kola”: The man who lately wrote about
dragon-flies overlooked one of their principal failings.
They are hogs on bees. Mention dragon-fly to a
Grampians (Vic.) bee-farmer and watch him jump.
The fly is well known all over the. Grampians. He
finds out the address of an apiary. Then he is
right. He gets fair over it and watches for honey
manufacturers. As soon as one comes out of the
hive the fly gets busy, and soon the bee’s innards are
sucked out. Then he lets the bones fall and watches
for another toiler. A’ fly will seriously reduce a
hive in a very few days. I know one man who had
to shift his hives three times because of dragons.
* * * *
Bad Australian”: The beds of the rivers
flowing east from the Andes almost without exception
are higher than the surrounding country for several
leagues after leaving the mountains. These rivers,
fed by the immense Andean glaciers, have an average
fall of about 3 per cent, where they debouch from
the great cations to the pampa or flat country, and
during the summer months especially, when the
sirocco-like “zonda” blows from the north, the
waters bring down immense quantities of silt.
When the river reaches the flat country, and is no
longer contained by the walls of the eafion, the silt
is precipitated in the form of a long, fan-shaped
| ridge. The main current keeps a channel clear on
| the top of this ridge, and the periodical overflows
• deposit more silt and sludge on either bank. This
gradually raises the ridge, and the river-bed rises
in proportion to the quantity of silt deposited by the
flood. When I saw the longitudinal section of a
proposed railroad which had been located parallel
to the foothills of the Andes, with the bridges
shown on the tops of the ridges instead of at t'hjjj
bottom of the intervening valleys, I felt certain that
the engineer had been mixing his drinks; but that
was my miscalculation,
RIGHT UP TO DATE.
ENGLISH HOSTESS : “This was an ancestor of
mine who fought in France, just as you
have been doing.”
BILL: “My word, he wasn't taking on any
risks about shrapnel.”
“H.G.T.”: A lady jnmbuck belonging to
R. Peng illy, of Aldinga (S.A.), is helping Hughes
to win the war. During the past 12 months she
has produced four lambs (two sets of twins) and a
fleece. Value of the lot, just under £7. The
patriot is broken-mouthed now, so she isn’t likely
to repeat the performance.
(Continued on page 24.)
A PEACEFUL MAN FROM MERRIGOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rowe called himself a neimeful bloke.
He looked it; so we had a drink,
And walked the town. He little spoke.
We had a couple more, l t' ink.
Rowe said they gave him n .dal; for
His peacefulness at Morrigo
Then came a man who glanced a while.
In tin's Rowe some incentive found.
He smote that man with subtle guile,
And left him prone upon the ground.
“No peaceful bloke could stand,” said he,
“The way that josser stared at me."
Then on the station platform sat
A chap regardless of us both,
W ho day-dreamed underneath his hat.
Rowe’s passions stirred. He breathed an oath,
And, setting on the thoughtful gent.,
lie gave his chin an awful dent.
The smitten one in wild surprise
Attempted no expostulation.
Rowe took him then before my eyes,
And with him dusted out the station.
Tn proper wrath “I’d like to know
Who you’re ignorin’ ?” thundered Rowe.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


M
M
M
mi'JMl
mill.,ill
llulr.it
inmillHul
MDYtoWE^G
CLOTHE/ 3
■
m
Xi
RP2
=nm
For Easter.
Easter is but a week away, anti to those men
who have still their Easter Suit to choose
Farmer’s “Victor” Ready-for-service Suits offer
the highest possible value. With character and
distinction in every line, “Victor” Suits, made
in form-fitting sizes, give the utmost style, satis-
faction and economy. In Sac Suits there are
many Excellent Tweeds and Worsteds, whilst a
wide Range is offered in English Home-spun
Tweeds, cut in the popular Sports Style.
Choose a “Victor” Sac or Sports Suit,
Ready to put on.
lIP! —“VICTOR” SAC SUIT, 2-button front,
soft roll collar, centre seam, with or without vent;
Vest, med. opening, 4 pockets ; trousers, side and hip
pockets, cuff or plain bottoms. Fancy Tweeds—
-40/-, 45/-, 55/-, 65/-
All-wool Tweeds and Worsteds—
-75/-, 84/-, 90/- to 110/-
Rough Cheviot Serge, 75/-, 110/-
Fox’s Navy Serge, 75/-, 90/-, 95/-
RP2—SPORTS SAC AND
TROUSERS, half-belt at back,
patch pockets; trousers, straight tops,
loops for belt, brace buttons inside,
side and hip pockets, cuff bottoms.
Drab and Fawn Gabardine-
-70/-, 75/-, 95/-
English and Scotch Homespun Tweeds,
55/-, 65/-, 75/-, 84/-
Fine Rib Navy Serge, 75/-, 84/-
We Pay Carriage over Australia.
%
i
m
RPI
i
'4
COOPER “IDEAL” ONE-
STAND SHEARING OUTFIT.
Complete with everything
ready for work.
As illustrated, £4O.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
COOPER “LITTLE WONDER”
2=STAND SHEARING PLANT.
Complete with everything
ready for work.
Stationary, £57/10/-
Portable, as shown, £67/10 -
HIGHEST IN
QUALITY.
LOWEST IN
PRICE.
voopefo
HIGHEST IN
QUALITY.
LOWEST IN
PRICE.
SHEARING MACHINERY
WILL BE EXHIBITED AT
R.A.S. Sydney Show,
STAND 26.
Cooper Shearing Machinery is known in every country
on the Globe for its sterling qualities of construction,
absolutely dependable service and low cost of upkeep.
They are in constant demand from North Queensland
to West Australia. Every machine is constructed on
the policy of the highest quality that can be produced
and delivered to the user at a fair price.
There is a machine made for every size flock, and every
owner of one hundred or more sheep should have a
shearing outfit.
Write us to-day and give us the size of your flock, and
let us send you full particulars and price of an outfit to
suit your requirements. '
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 Sussex St., Sydney. 488 Collins St, Melbourne.
CLARK & FAUSET, Brisbane. W. HART & SONS, Launceston, Tasmania.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO., Rockhampton, Queensland.
GEO. P. HARRIS SCARFE & CO., Perth, W.A.
AUSTRALASIAN I. & H. F. CO., Adelaide, S.A.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & M. A. CO. LTD., Rockhampton, Townsville and
Hughenden, Queensland.
COOPER SILENT BELT-
DRIVEN OVERHEAD GEAR.
Strong, Efficient and Simple.
ns
COOPER 2-STAND“BIG GUN.”
Complete with 3=8.t1.P. Engine
and all Extras.
Stationary, £BO.
Portable, £9O.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. P>e sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southamj ' m. —Advt.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office—
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-0 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGEE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
CARLTON ALE
FOSTER’S LAGER
“Mac”: If anyone feels inclined to do the
Gippsland scrubcutter a good turn, let him hand in
a remedy for dogwood itch, or scrub rash ; also, an
explanation as to why the rash is particularly irri-
tating at night. (P.S. —I have just slung a job
cutting scrub because of this infernal complaint.)
* * * *
“11.G.T.”: Drifting about the Mallee dis-
tricts of South Aus. I have often heard it said
that where the turpentine bush grows good crops of
wheat are sure. Any Abo. know the Sunday name of
this turpentine bush, and is its presence an indica-
tion of good wheat-growing land?
* # * *
“F.Y.Z.”: Ruminating about flying-foxes
I’m back on the Buna Bay-Yodda roads (Papua) in
a camp where the flat coastal country
begins to join up with the foothills
of the Astrolabe range. These foot-
hills carried a fairly heavy native
population which grew taro, yams and
bananas in profusion, while the flat
forest country was inhabited by an
inconceivable population of flying-
foxes. At evening, as the sun began
to slide behind the range, a vast emi-
gration of the foxes began from the
forest swamps to the banana-laden
highlands. Often we watched them
till long into the night, and as far
as the eye could see, to right and left
and in front, the air was black with
them. By the way, don’t let anyone
ever persuade you to go into a flying-
fox camp to take a pot shot at the
occupants sleeping in the trees. It
was a favorite trick to play on a
newchum years ago in N.Q. As to
the consequences of the first shot—
well, I don’t want to spoil your appe-
tite.
“D. A. Herbert”: “Jim” Carew (B.
28/2/’18) wonders why a crop of wattles springs
up after a fire in a place where there wasn’t a speci-
men before. Well, here’s the reason. The seed of a
wattle is surrounded by a waxy layer impervious to
water. Until that coat is removed or ruptured, and
water is allowed to enter, germination is impossible.
After a fire some of the seeds are slightly charred
without being killed, and these germinate. Others
germinate as a result of the softening of their coats
by alkali in the form of carbonates of soda and potash
from ashes. Filing of seeds and soaking for about
a day in strong sulphuric acid are about the best
methods of getting them to sprout without the
expense and inconvenience of a bush-fire. As to how
the seeds'get on to the virgin ground, ask the birds.
Prof. Ewart of Melbourne University found that seeds
could lie dormant for 60 years and still mature after
filing. The results of some of his experiments are
now health}' young saplings in the Melbourne Botani-
cal Gardens. By the way, the fruit cocky is no
friend of the wattle, because of its habit of harbor-
ing the root-borer, an insect partial to apple-trees.
THE ALL-SEEING EYE.
COUNSEL: “ There is no doubt in your mind that the bottle had contained whisky?”
CONSTABLE FLANAGAN: “Surrtainly not. Oi deticted the shmell at a glance.”
“Mrs. Lance Rawson”: Talking about
sagacious animals, I knew two in class A. One was
a williamgoat who used to take four small children
to school and back every day. The youngsters rode
him, and he took good care that they kept to their
turns. He was better than a help-maid to the
mother of that family. He carted in the wood and
water, took the clothes to the creek t,o be washed,
and danced to a tin-whistle to please the baby at
night. A circus man who came along looking for lost
horses, saw William and offered £1 for him. The
owner said that he wouldn’t sell the animal for a
gold reef, so the showman, being of an obstinate
nature, stole William. Two years later the circus
MILITARY TACTICS.
“Over the top, cobbers!”
came back to the near-by town, and our boy went
along with his whistle. When the goat turn came
on the lad piped the old tune that William used to
dance to, and in ten seconds there was enough excite-
ment to satisfy the crowd as to whose goat it was, in
spite of his having been clipped and dyed. Next day
the Court gave the boy £25 damages and his goat,
and the circus-man left the town trying to console
himself that he wouldn’t have so much to pay in the
way of income-tax that year. Another pot was a
pig that played hide-and-seek with the youngsters—
and went to school with them. While they were at
lessons he roamed about eating- up all scraps in the play-
ground. If a dog or one of the bigger boys attempted
to interfere with any of his charges he would face
the aggressor, squealing and charging with his mouth
open. 1\ hen he was a small sucker the girls used
to dress him in doll’s clothes and nurse him like a
baby. It was the funniest sight in the world to see
this little black piglet having his bottle in the arms
of a small girl of 10 years of age.
“Pick”: In these days of macadamised
roads shoes are considered as necessary for steers
as for horses. At Bibbenluke, a village 30 miles
from the Vic. border, a regular trade in ox-shoeing
lias brought good money to the local blacksmith.
He uses a crush of his own invention, with a side
winch for hoisting Baldy off his feet during the
operation. His four hocks (Baldy’s, I mean) are
then strapped to rear blocks, and the half-plates
are comfortably clinched on, while the bovine
squirms aloft in vain endeavors to kick the shoer
into the middle of next loading-day.
“John Quill”: Probably the most trouble-
some bushranger Australia has produced was Pigeon,
a native poliee-boy of W.A. He made his debut a»
an outlaw when he mur-
dered a policeman on Rott-
nest Island and liberated
16 blacks, whom the
trooper had arrested for
cattle-spearing-. It appears
that the captured niggers
overcame Pigeon’s fidelity
with liberal promises of
young gins and other ob-
jects of dissipation highly
prized by blacks. After
this deed he fled to the
hills with firearms, ammu-
nition and a large mob of
supporters, among whom
he occupied the position of
chief or king. His activi-
ties were generally con-
fined to attacks on teams,
which he robbed of sup-
plies. His marksmanship
was excellent, and this,
together with his bush-
craft and native support,
enabled him to avoid cap-
ture for a long time. He
baffled (or intimidated)
the police until his supply
of ammunition ran out.
Then, of course, the troopers achieved a capture.
“Wart”: “Pick” (B. 21/2/”18) inquires
the name of a pest which is chewing up his cherry-
tree leaves. The pear slug, I expect. The progeni-
tor is a fly which lays its microscopic eggs on the
leaves of cherry, plum, pear and hawthorn trees,
and as soon as the slugs hatch they start to demol-
ish the foliage. The cure is to spray with arsenate
of lead, a quarter of a pound to six gallons of
water, as soon as the first insects appear, repeating
the dose about a month afterwards. If you have
the bad luck to strike a very heavy shower immedi-
ately after a spraying, you may have to repeat the
job. This spray is also the best enemy of codlin-
moth and of caterpillars and other insects tfiat chew
fruit and leaves. The pear slug was introduced to
the Speck about 15 years ago, and for a couple of
years the growers almost gave up in despair; but
with systematic spraying the pest has been com-
pletely got under. Dusting with lime or ashes is
also a remedy. The white-eye is the only bird I
know that will touch the evil-smelling curse, and
for that and other pest-destroying qualifications
should be encouraged by every orchardist. I do
not say that the white-eye does not occasionally make
a mefil of fruit, but anything harder than a ripe
mulberry or grape must be first pierced by some
bird with a stronger bill.
* * * *
“Azack”: Know this kind of trap for
mice? Cut the top off a kerosene-tin and bore two
holes, one in each of two of the opposite sides,
about two inches from the top. No. 8 fencing-wire
is inserted through one hole, then passed through a
round tin with lid (treacle tin will suit), and
finally through the hole in the other side of the
kerosene-tin, so that the tin on the wire will
revolve easily. Then sink the kerosene receptacle
in the ground, half fill it with water and rub a
little fat on the roller. Lean a board on the side
of the kerosene-tin so that the mice can run up it,
and as soon as they jump on to the roller after
the fat it will revolve and throw them into the
water. As it has been found that many mice
are infected with a disease called favus, which
will also infect man, setting up a species of ring-
worm disease, it would be well, if you handle the
mice caught, to disinfect the hands in a weak solu-
tion of formalin (one part of commercial formalin
in 500 parts of water) and the head and neck with
a weaker solution.
“Billy T.” : I have never met a loafer to
equal Afrat. His mother ran cows, so he could
afford to lie about and take his ease. lie always
declared that he was the original discoverer of the
Native Youth. Iloleman was the first owner of the
reef, it is true, and made all the money
out of it; but Afrat —well, this is his story.
He was lying in the grass under a gum
near, an outcrop. “The quartz was stickin’ up
out o’ the grass ’n’ gum leaves,” said Afrat. “There’d
been rain, ’n’ she was washed clean, ’n’ the gold in
her was fair blazin’. I cud see it, ’n’ I was sayin’
to myself: ‘That’s gold all right’; ’n’ then I’d say:
‘No ’tain’t, it’s just broken glass.’ ‘No,’ I sez, ‘it’s
gold all right.’ ‘Might be a bit iv old copper plate,’
I tells meself; ‘or a brass nob, or somethin'.’
‘Gerrout,’ sez I, ‘it’s gold for certain.’ An’ I’m
wishin’ I wasn’t so tired so’s I could get up ’n’
settle it. Then along comes Iloleman. He was
goin’ t’ have a pitch with me, but, his eye catchin’
the glitter, he slouches over ’n’ knocks a bit off the
reef. ’Struth, it’s gold all right!” Then people
say to Afrat: “Suppose you’ve been mad with your-
self ever since for what you lost?” “Not me!”
yawns Afrat. “No blessed fear ! Look at the trouble
Iloleman’s had worlcin’ her.”
“Australia Jane”: A moth on view
amongst a recently-exhibited collection in Brisbane
is claimed to hold the Australian record. It tapes
lliin. across the wings, and was obtained by F. P.
Dodd, who has been bug-hunting up north since 1885.
SYMPATHY.
SECOND (to battered scrapper): “Ycr doin'
fine, Jim. Stick to ’im; 'e's beat!"
SCRAPPER: “Am I winnin'? Then, Gord, 'e
must be sufferin'!”
THE GOLDEN GILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 he brassy skies were turned to blue, the bluest ever
seen;
1 he grey-green nnilga scrub assumed an ultra tint of
green;
lhe breeze that but a day before smelt anything but
sweet
Became as though it passed where blooms were trod
by fairy feet.
’The Plains that stretched north, east and west and
south to God knows where
Had shed their hopeless greys and browns, and rain-
bows shimmered there;
The pad the camel caravans beat hard in single file
Became a pixie avenue—a blossom-bordered aisle.
Brown necks that were of collars free for weeks and
mouths and years
Became abodes for linen white, instead of holes for
beers;
And faces flecked with desert dust were scrubbed
until the skin,
As tough as leather, all but showed the ruddy flesh
within.
'The hopeless stare left sombre eyes, and in its place
there shone
The light which midnight planets spread a silver
beach upon;
The frowns that looked like chronic things were
changed to glowing smiles
That spread across each face and out across the
Plains for miles.
The dusty bottles on the shelves like opals seemed to
gleam;
The hatter’s canine wagged its tail and ceased to
doze and dream ;
The pictures on the bar-room walls that once were
faded prints
Suddenly seemed to resurrect their lights and shades
and tints.
Old Piker even brightened up ; his spit upon the floor
Seemed like unto the jewels that the Queen of Sheba
wore.
And why this metamorphosis, out there amidst the
scrub ?....
The Golden Girl from Sydney-side had come to
Piker’s Pub !
CAMEL LAND.
R. J. CASSIDY.


*
\-<.r
\ x
5V
u
1
Wfi&l tfie 1
ig to fne n<\vy,50are
i)
@PRKS
7
to fne fob
•evcco world
fbe Their unique system of
manufacture, fne superb qualify of
tobacco Used & fneir delicate aroma
&fl avour place 1 fie in apart from
any other in the world.
No. 333 6d.
STANDARD WEIGHT.
So/c/6y a//Tobacconists CStores throughout 'AuStrcr/cus/\
PER
PACKET.
ARDATH
TOBACCO
1
C9.LT?, LONDON.
ENGLAND.
w


From the Youngest to the Oldest
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
is the Safest and Surest Remedy in the World for
Coughs, Colds, Croup,
Sore Chests
This Medicine can be given with Perfect
Safety and the Utmost Confidence to the
Youngest Children and most Aged Sufferers,
as it does NOT contain, and has NEVER
contained any Poison or Harmful Drugs.
The Reputation of and the Demand for
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure are
Bigger now than ever.
Delightfully
Soothing
m&k
SS*-p> «* I
c* V.
ny?
K '*n\
ZM
r 1:
a
£TS'>
-V,
/'■
C K.iMC|ll/
vw&zmmssk
i \
16
■1
taWiLW [f^
Price: 2/6 and 4/6
The Best is always the Cheapest in the end.
If not obtainable in your District, send
direct to
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Blanches at Sydney, N.S.W. & Wellineton. N. 2.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Jim One” : Any returned Billjim in quest
of a ready-made cattle-run, unafflicted by
rent, rates, taxes, lawyers’ fees or agents’
perks, might be successful if he took a trip
to Amsterdam Island, in the Indian Ocean,
midAvay betAveeu Australia and Good Hope.
This island, on Avhicli the French flag Avas
hoisted by Eure in 1893, when he made a
depot there for shipAvrecked mariners, Avas
discovered by Magellan’s comrades in 1451
(Magellan himself had been killed previously
in tiie Philippines). It derived its name
from the NieuAV Amsterdam, the vessel in
which Van Diemen visited it on a voyage
from Holland to Java some 200 years later.
It contains about 10 square miles, and
abounds in low, thick grass, which makes
excellent food for cattle. Rabbits are re-
ported to exist in one part, Avhile fine fish of
the rock-ccd species and crayfish are plenti-
ful. Fresh water is also, I believe, abun-
dant. In 1880 10 fishermen from Reunion
were residing on the island engaged in curing
fish. Remains of their hut can still be seen.
Cruising round there recently I noticed quite
a respectable herd of cattle of all sizes, from
calves to immense bulls, in good condition,
grazing away contentedly.
“Jobber” : Am I too late to enter two pubs
for the Queer Names Stakes? One’s The
Case is Altered; the other The World Up-
side I )own, both here in the Cold Country,
the latter on the Old Kent Road. On New
Year's Eve I heard some of ours whooping
it np in an estaminet, and next morning I
saw a strip of Avhite calico nailed across
the signboard. I Avent down to have a nearer
look, and belield, in large letters, “Anzac
Arms. Australia Will Be There.” But, of
course, some solemn military ass had ordered
it to be taken down.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant” goes exploring:—
Apropos Sydney Directories (B. 28/2/'’18). The
earliest, published in the ’thirties, were mostly
termed “Almanacs.” In 1839 Macelhouse published
a directory only, which catalogued the best-known set-
tlers at fort Phillip. In 1844-5 Francis Low pub-
lished his “City of Sydney Directory,” a long,
narrow volume of 200 pages, with a number of
illustrations of business places. In 1847 Low
published another of Sydney and district. A feature
of the 1844 book was a “street key,” the .first in
Australia. It showed the public buli,dings—and
the pubs. Thus we find that the Brown Bear was
on the corner of Brown Bear-lane (Lower George-
street), The Crooked Billet on the corner of George
and Queen streets, and the Jew’s Harp on the-corner
of Goulburn and George streets. This was printed
by E. Aleock, Hunter-street. Next came “Ford’s
Sydney Commercial Directory for 1851,” a 6 x 4
book of 156 pages. In 1855 Waugh and Cox pub-
lished a directory of Sydney and suburbs, and 1858
saw the first of “Sands and Kenny’s Commercial and
Sydney Directory,” the pilot-fish of the big book of
to-day. John Sands was a Sydney man; Thomas
Kenny managed in Melbourne. The firm dissolved in
the early ’sixties, Sands keeping Sydney and Kenny
sticking to the South.
«■ * * 4
“Tuan Bongsu”: Just before the war a
companion and I, with a camera, did the
north coast of New Guinea through Dutch
and German territory in a canoe manned by
Pintados. We found that the further avo
travelled from our border-line the more dog-
tooth necklaces the villages possessed. At
last the necklaces becames so numerous that
avo concluded that, as only the four canine
.teeth proper are used, New Guinea must
once have contained millions of dogs—all
the older men of the villages appeared to
possess a necklace apiece. Presently, how-
ever, I had an opportunity of handling one
of the treasures, and then the mystery
vamoosed —the teetli bad no nerve ducts, but
Avere solid ! When Ave reached the first Ger-
man settlement, Ave found that the plantation
store contained boxes full of the porcelain
shams.
“Petrol”: On the Booleroo line, 63 miles
from Port Pine (S.A.), trainloads of Avheat
spoilt by rain and mice were thrown out
along the embankments between Wirrabara
and Booleroo Centre, like so much ballast,
during the time the 1915-16 and 1916-17
Avheat Avas being moved to the seaboard to
make room for this season's grain. More
Avheat was lost during the tAVO seasons on
this line than was gathered in the drought
of 1914-15. Yet the muddling politicians
had the nerve to tell the man on the land
that the loss due to Avet weather and mice
Avas very small! The stacks from Gladstone
to Wilmington showed an average Avaste of
15 per cent., the said stacks being mostly
uncovered and not mouse-proof. Now at
Port Pirie there are 2,500,000-odd bags of
wheat waiting shipment; and the stacks are
falling almost as fast as they are rebuilt.
The scandalous thing is that, though all
this wheat was taken out of the farmer’s
hands, so that he had no control over it
whatever, he has to bear the loss—every
penny of it. Anything more like highway
robbery was never practised by a Govern-
ment smyAvlfpre. >
Lea, insect-expert of Adelaide Museum,
has been exposing the immoral life of the
weevil to the Wheat Commission in S. Aus.
In Lea’s experience the beast lias never
attacked wheat in the field, though he has
seen it do so Avith maize. It seems to prefer
maize to any other grain. The main breed to
go for stored wheat is .the so-called rice Avee-
vil, which can fly freely, and has been found
all about Australia, even expeditions to Cen-
tralia bringing specimens back. The; only
cure for it, in Lea’s opinion, is intense (and
in practice impossible) heating,; or the silo
system, the airless, packed, underneath part
being fatal to ifisect life. Drowning, even
in spirits, seems to be a mere joke to a
Aveevil, which comes up alive and hungry
after hours of submersion.
«■ * * *
“G. Arden Hill”: Blackberry-picking is
noAv an established industry in Illawarra
(N.S.W.) during the couple of months that
the fruit is “in.” Before the season starts
some of the greedy coal cos. invite tenders
for the right to pick on their leases. In other
cases agents for Sydney jam cos. come to
terms with property-owners. Pickers pitch
tents in localities where the vines are most
abundant and accessible, and work from
dawn till dusk. This year the harvest has
been a particularly good one, and the return
to the gatherers is expected to be about
£3OOO.
* * # #
“Tin Pot Bill”: Some time ago various
ancients disputed regarding the oldest tub
afloat in Australasian waters, and the Lady
Barkly, Governor Barkly’s one-time yacht,
was entered for the old buffers’ race. This
fossil has been renovated and done up, and
is iioav the Hina, trading between Nelson
and CollingAVOod (M.L.). She is herring-
gutted , and narrow-chested, and ought, by
the laws of shipbuilding, to turn turtle; but
her record speaks for her seaworthiness, and
in her class she is still hard to beat. A
stranger gets a tlirill when the skipper of
one of these river boats tells all the passen-
gers to go aft Avhile he takes a running butt
at the river bar; if the tub jibs all hands
must run to the bows. In low neap tides the
boat is often toppled over the bar in this
manner.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: ' Long before Wallingford
began his business of getting rich quickly,
Eustace Ball struck Drybone. Ball was a
man of portentous manner and gentlemanly
address. He put up at Kellow’s, and Avhen
a suitable stage in Kellow’s fever of curi-
osity was attained, he admitted, Avith the
utmost candor, that he was a rich investor,
and bad his eye on a great money-making
proposition; but before going further must
have certain rights over some land in Kel-
low’s possession, said rights to be null and
void if Ball’s operations failed to bring
Kellow satisfactory remuneration. “Fact
is,” said Ball, “I am forced to let you in. I
had hoped to work the scheme on my OAvn,
but it strikes me now that the co-operation
of a few substantial men of Drybone Avould
be advantageous. Besides, you hold the abso-
lute essential —-the land.” IvelloAv agreed, and
Quine and Wylow came in on the same
terms. Then Ball let his friends into the
mystery. He had cornered the granite ridge
at Drybone. Drybone granite Avas the most
magnificent granite he had ever seen, and
for 20 years he had specialised on building
material. “The whole world will clamor for
this granite,” said he. “It is superior to the
finest marble for decorative purposes. We’ll
have a railway through from I’eafield. That
Ave will make a mint of money is the only
absolute certainty I Avill admit in this un-
certain world.” Bali had Drybone in a sweat
of expectation. The granite was there all
right, millions of tons of it. . Ball knew all
about granite. Europe and America were
literally clamorous for granite of this sort.
It only remained for Drybone to sell granite
and become preposterously rich. Then Ball
began calling up scraps of capital for inci-
dental expenses, etc. He also began trading
off trifles of interest in the enterprise to
eager inhabitants, always as an act of friend-
ship. In this way he may have got hold of
£5OO. Then he Avent away. A fortnight
later KelloAV received a letter with a Mel-
bourne postmark. It was brief: —
Dear Sir, —Some four years ago, when I was a
poor wanderer, footsore and weary, you threw me
over your slip-panels at Drybone. AVhile I lay
unconscious somebody else stole my last shilling. A
little later a third person stole my dog. I am
pleased to be even with Drybone. Your granite is
not worth a damn. —Eustace Ball.
ANTONIO: A TALE OF R-BEVENGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 scorned John for the dear, dark-eyed,
And pale-faced one so dignified
We met down at Sorrento, where
Mamma had taken us to bide
The passing of the glad New Year.
John had been well enough in town—
A man of dealings, rough and brown —
But seemed too earthly, on the whole,
Beside this one, whose thoughtful frown
Implied immensity of soul.
ilis sweet name was Antonio,
And whispering he told me so,
And that in far, fair Italy
His people ever richer grow,
Of higher social degree.
AVe walked together by the shore,
Undying Jove three times he swore;
We bathed together in the sea ;
Then, when our holiday was o'er,
He bade a fond good-bye to me.
We were to meet again. I knew
Dull days a whole long fortnight through,
And no word came from Love o’ Mine;
But John had written thrice to sue
That 1 just once with him would dine.
1 went, and in a pink-lit room,
With music glad, and bright with bloom,
AVe dined, and at our table gay
Were many happy people whom
We’d met on my dear holiday.
I too might have been happy there,
Forgetting love, and free of care,
But ’mid the napery and flow
Of lights, I saw a face so rare—•
Ah, heart! it was Antonio !
I saw his deep, dark eyes again,
His pale face, and his sudden pain,
And though the rest might happy be
I knew no joy was for us twain,
No jesting ease for him and me.
He haunted me —his raven tress,
His attitudes, his hands, his dress,
Although my eyes were on my plate.
That night John bade, with cutting stress,
Farewell for ever at the gate.
Antonio but once came near
Throughout the meal, but, oh, I fear
To hear those words he spoke again—-
Those awful words breathed in my ear:
“Consomme, broth, or julienne?”
VICTORIA.
S. S.
The Inky Way.
“Third Billjira”: I was witness to this
vindication of art. First Billjim commenced
to read “The Songs They Used to Sing."
After perusing a few lines he paused and
appealed to Second Billjim. “This Henry
Lawson’s a ——. Why don’t ’e say straight
out she’s a ?” Second Billjim, medi-
tatively :* “It’s like this. Bill. [Pause.] It's
same as a dinner. [Pause.] Decent people
like a flash meenu card with a fancy name
in gold paint on it. But you’d like the
waiter t’ push it at yer an’ say, ‘Righto!
Here's yer stew’ !’’
Hodder’s, the London firm that is publish-
ing J. B. Cooper’s “Leg Bail,” a romance of
the early days of adventure in Bass Straits,
wrote in flattering terms to the author about
Australian brain-workers on the Inky Way:
We have been much struck with the general high
standard of MSS. received recently from Australia.
There is undoubtedly a growing school of Australian
literature, and to our mind your people in this
respect are miles ahead of the other colonies.
No doubt due to the splendid encouragement
given to Australian story-writers by the
“great” dailies!
“Norbell” : I wished to register a literary
copyright the other day in Sydney, and went
up to the Registrar-General'S in Queen’s
Square to do it. A young man told me I’d
come to the right shop but the wrong
entrance, and directed me to the big door
facing St. Mary’s. I went there, and another
very affable young man told me that they
kept tl\c copyrights library, but the address
for registration was Warwick House, Hamil-
ton-street. When I got to Warwick House
the liftman, having his doubts about it, oblig-
ingly hoisted me up to the inquiry office on
the first floor. The inquiry clerk explained
courteously that what I really wanted was
the Patents Office, which he said was some-
where in the Customs House. So I went to
Circular Quay. The inquiry clerk at the Quay
was very sarcastic about all the' others, and
told me that the dinkum address was c/o
the Commonwealth Bank. The fever of ex-
ploration was in my blood by now, so I went
uptown once more. One of the Common-
wealth Bank’s shopwalkers directed me to
the fifth floor, and there, camouflaged at the
end of a passage, I found my goal. Next
time I want a Government office I’ll employ
a private D three weeks ahead.
* * * *
Another Inkywayfarer to prove that the
Lewis gun is mightier than either is L.-Cpl.
Jamieson, 14th Battalion. He is a son of the
man who owns the Footscray Advertiser, a
Melbourne suburban rag that had its first
birthday 44 years ago ; and he fingered type
and spiked copy for dad before joining up
nearly three years back. One of his feats was
the leading of relief parties at Messines in
June last, and other daring work in Sep-
tember clinched his hold on a Military
Medal. He has been in the Lewis gun
“suicide club” almost from the day he
reached France after the Evacuation, and
has never suffered a scratch.
Leading publishers have been interviewed
on the state of business in 1917. Without
exception they were agreeably surprised.
Instead of the expected and predicted slump
from shortage of paper and other adverse
war-time conditions there has been a booin.
Rarely has so much poetry been written and
published, and rarely has the average of
merit been so high. Macmillan’s report “a
distinct trend towards works of theology in
the broad sense.” John Lane declares that
the taste of the reading public has wonder-
fully improved since the outbreak of the war.
“First-class fiction, also biographical, histori-
cal and descriptive works, find a better
market,” he says, “than before the Avar, and
novels specialising on the development of
character Avere never in more eager demand.”
* * * *
“Y.Z.” : The Argus on a recent Saturday
published a half-column sketch headed “Phil
May.” It purported to recount the career
of the humorist, and explained lioav he got
work on the Penny Illustrated Papek
and on the Pictorial World. “Then, as
his health Avas giving Avay, he removed to
Australia.” Of his work in Australia not
a word; readers are left to assume that his
career on the English Penny Illustrated
was of sufficient consequence to deserve
mention, whereas his brilliant development
in this country, extending over years, is not
to be spoken of at all. Will Australia ever
grow up? Will she ever be big enough to
be ready in all cases to recognise her own
existence? If she does, it aaIH not be AVith
the consent of the “great” dailies, the Argls
especially.
THE POET’S WIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poet’s Avife is very good ;
She loves his verse, and tells him so;
She says that when he’s understood
He to the very top will go—
And earn a mint of money, too.
Then, while he seeks with ardor fine
The splendid word, she hustles through:
“I’m looking everywhere for you!
Do come and fasten up the line!’’
She wants her Jack to make his mark,
And let “those other wretches” see
lie has a semblance of the spark
Of inspiration. In conies she.
“Oh, put that horrid pen away,
And come out shopping with me, Jack!
I’ve got to hurry—cannot stay.
A ton of things I need to-day,
Much more than I can carry back.”
He is a literary star
She says. His lightest rhymes enfold
A boon to all mankind that far
Exceeds the worth of pearls and gold.
And when at last he’s in the swing,
And feels, that with a chance he could
Wake all the world, she’ll sharply sing:
“Oh, I say, Jack, you dear old thing.
Do come and split a bit of wood !”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


L
——
sli*
<*t
P
mm '
•gjSP»
TYPE P FORM K2O OIL SWITCH
WITH SERIES TRIP COILS
AND LOW-YOLTAGE RELEASE
TYPE F FORM K2O OIL SWITCH, WITH
SERIES TRIP.COILS, LOW-VOLTAGE
RELEASE AND R 6 AMMETER
Simple and compact, making handling
and installation easy and economical.
Ready accessibility of all parts for inspec-
tion or adjustment.
Quick positive action.
Long life, safe and reliable under recom-
mended conditions.
Liberal striking distance and oil space.
SELF-CONT AIN ED TRANS-
FORMER for low-voltage trip fur-
nished when low voltage trip is used
on voltages of 220 or above.
FRAME is an iron box which
supports all parts of switch.
LOW-VOLTAGE TRIP furnished
when desired. This is a mechanical
trip and operates independently of the
overload trip coils.
FIXED CONTACTS are flared at
lower ends to form arcing tips. This
construction reduces to a minimum
the burning or pitting of working con-
tact surfaces.
MOVABLE CONTACTS are
wedge shaped and confine arc to top
of blades and flared portion of contact
fingers. Contacts are kept clean and
bright by rubbing action when
switch is operated.
BARRIERS of laminated wood
separate the poles of the switch when
closed and furnish additional insula-
tion between phases.
OIL VESSEL of sheet steel marked
with line which indicates depth vessel
should be filled for best operation.
M
M
M
M
M
M
M
GUARDS cover dashpots and calibrating
tubes and protect them from injury.
IRON COVER is fastened to frame
by four screws. Easily removed for
examination of connections or mech-
anism.
MOUNTED on any flat vertical
surface on side opposite operating
handle.
CALIBRATION over wide range.
Figures in white on black calibration
tube. Each trip coil individually
calibrated.
AUTOMATIC TRIP coils in series
with line and act directly on mech-
anism. With inverse time dashpot
trip, switch will not open on motor
starting current, but will trip if over-
load is continuous or if motor runs
single-phase. Automatic switches
cannot be held closed on overload or
short circuit.
OPERATING HANDLE held in
dosed position by locking latch which
is lifted to open switch by hand.
DUST CLIP prevents dust or lint
collecting in calibrating tube and
interfering with operation of time-
limit overload trip.
WIRING: Switches arranged for
open or conduit wiring. When shipped
all but two entrances are closed by
removable metal disks.
The Type F Form K2O switch is in line with safety first principles. All the live parts are enclosed,
the connections inside the cover and the contacts under oil. Recommended for use in textile,
flour and powder mills, coal mines, gas works, oil refineries, etc., where inflammable material or
explosive gases are prevalent.
M
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY. C? OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS 5T MELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS
B\!.SBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PCftTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins Sc Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun Sc Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND : The National Electrical 8c Engineering Co.. Ltd..
Auckland, Christchurch. Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd.. Launceston ; Messrs.
Oliver 8c Oliver, MacQujtrie Street, Hobart.


USEFUL GIFTS.
■3 ■
A. Saunders’ Shaving Roll, finest-quality Sheffield Razor and
Fittings, 12/G.
A. Saunders’ real Morocco Leather Motor
Bag, leather-lined, with double handles,
21/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Dressing* Case, fitted with
every convenience, 10/6.
A. Saunders’
Swan Fountain
Pen, 14ct. Gold
Nib, with two
Oct. Gold
Bands, 25 /-
A. Saunders’ L
Mirror, Cloth
lady's real Ebony Brush Set, complete with Hair Brush,
Brush and Comb, extra-quality silver-drawn bristles,
£-3/15/-
c J&jjfiuvnJjgAj
%
A. Saunders’ real Ebony Gent.’s Brush Set complete
with two Hair Brushes, Cloth and Hat Brushes and
Comb, extra-qualitv silver-drawn bristles and Silver
Shields, 25/-
Send for Illustrated Catalogue, Post Free.
ALL ORDERS POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller,
805-815 GEORGE ST. (opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Ebony Military Brush
Set, sterling Silver Shield, finest-quality
bristles, in solid leather case, 25/-
Others, 22/C, 30/-, 40/-
'“S
A. Saunders’ Pocket Wallet, real Morocco Leather,
solid Silver Mounts and Shield, 21/-
Others, 25/-, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Safety Razor,
in leather case, 6 %xtra
blades, 10/6
A. Saunders’ solid Nickel
Collapsible Cups, K>lt-
lined, in solid leather
case, 7/C, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Smoker’s Companion, bevelled glass base, brass-
mounted Cigar, Cigarette, Ash and Match Holders, 25/-
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
25 O’Connell St.
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
SE
'/2
Lime Juice _
Brings to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human -Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. ' PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS <& SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Mehrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/0 posted. Dii. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larg’d! edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. llow to
Dance, 1/0 posted. How to 'Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders, a rare book by Defoe, 1/3,
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy. 1/'-. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 , posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/9 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 10d., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics-’ Work-
shop llandybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/31 For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/3. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple test's for minerals), 3/6.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price If-, posted 1/3.
•How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1.- Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-.. Sax-,
dow’s Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 5/- posted. Mysteries
of Paris, 1/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and. the Flagellant: (scarce),. 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, -5/-.-
Not Guilty (Blatchford), 1/-. The Art of
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and My Neighbor,
9d. Britain and the British, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets. Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/6. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’. Secrets and . How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, etc.,
1/6 posted. How to'Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. , How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. The Doctor, Cures for All Diseases.
1/6 posted. Letter-Writer Up-to-Date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming; illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boe-
CACcio. Heptameron, and many others, all at
■3/6 each, posted.' Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/9
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
NO MATTER WHAT BOOK YOU
WANT, I’VE GOT IT.
Don’t be fooled into paying more:
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. Established over 25 years.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bcsii Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's . Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer; 1/6, All About Incu-
bators, 1/6. Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed,
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY
STOCK CAN BE GOT FROM
THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Ashing.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER. OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST, NO
DUTY. ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSE-
WHERE SENT.
Ivey to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/6. posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 10d., 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 8/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, mv price 17/6 post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/6.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Songs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, lOd.
posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/6 posted.
One Day, 1/3 posted. The Night of Temptation,
1/9. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store,
67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
® m-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


Missing Friends.
Dick i son, b. Charles—would
anyone knowing his address —last heard
of in Perth, W.A. —kindly communicate with
his Mother, Montana, Arthur Street, North
Sydney.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres J.td.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSII.
TIVOtI T H E A T It 12, S Y 1) N I? Y
Nightly at S. Matinees Monday, Wednesday and
Saturday at 2.30.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents (by arrangement with
Andre Chariot) the Greatest and Gayest of all
London Revue Successes,
SAMPLES.
"piVOI.I THI2ATRE. MEEIIOCRNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WILLIAM ANDERSON presents, by arrangement
with HUGH D. McINTOSII, the Up-to-date Panto-
mime,
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
H
E It M A .1 E S T Y ' S, S Y I) N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
The Brilliant Spectacular Revue,
THE BING BOYS ARE HERE,
A Gorgeous Spectacle eclipsing anything hitherto
staged.
(> It ITEIt I <) N TIIISAT It K. SYDNEY.
w Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
MISS MARIE TEMPEST,
Together with Mr. GRAHAM BROWNE, in Somerset
Maugham's delightful Three-act Comedy,
MRS. DOT.
SATURDAY, MARCH 30.
A PAIR OP SILK STOCKINGS.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 7.45.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
J. and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT’S
GORGEOUS PANTOMIME.
ALADDIN
In 19 Scenes of Dazzling Splendor.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
T. JA M E S’S HAIL, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY, MARCH 30 TO APRIL G.
“THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE”
and “SINGING SOLDIERS” (Dennis).
LAWRENCE CAMPBELL.
GOOD FRIDAY NIGHT.
DICKENS’S
“A CHRISTMAS CAROL.”
(Reserved), 2/- and 1/-. Plan Paling’s.
3/
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
MNI O N I* ICTU It E TIIE A T RES
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to ll'p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Mii.i.ri;, General Manager.
WIItT H S ’ NEW CIRCUS
(Limited).
WIDTHS’ HIPPODROME, HAYMARKET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY . & SATURDAY, 2.45.
COMPLETE NEW COMPANY & 25 NEW ACTS,
including the Latest American Sensation,
„ . MOTOR MADNESS.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 2/'-, vlna tax.
Children Half-price. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Amusements.
HEIi .MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in
YOU’RE IN LOVE.
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
Til EATIt IS It OV A 1.. MELBOURNE.
* Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MURIEL STARR
in
WITHIN THE LAW.
U OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOIJRKE STREET.
Continuous Diiiiy from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Matmd.es Saturday at 2.30.
FAMOUS PLAYERS-LASKY, MAX
SENNETT, ARRUCKLE, etc.,
FEATURES.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
JACK PICKFORD & LOUISE HUFF in
WHorT MONEY CAN’T BUY.
Also
KATHYLN WILLIAMS in
OUT OF THE WRECK.
Prices as usual.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBO U R N E.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT’S
Brilliant New Comedy Co. in
TURN TO THE RIGHT,
A MASTER PLAY OF MIRTH.
Prices as Usual.
Plans at Allan’s.
Amusements.
AUDITORIUM, melboukne,
n Direction W. J. SHEPHARD.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, 23rd MARCH.
Matinees 2.30. Nightly 8 p.m.
20,000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA.
Jules Verne’s Wonderful Prediction come true to-day
in the most marvellous, awe-inspiring, spectacular
picture of the century.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
D I J O IT THE A T R E. M E I, B O U R X E.
Direction: BEN & JOHN FULLER.
TWICE EVERY DAY.
Fuller’s Gorgeous Spectacular Production,
ROBINSON CRUSOE PANTOMIME.
Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
WILLIAM DESMOND
in
THE SUDDEN GENTLEMAN.
Plan at Allan’s.
IUI ELBOURNE REPERTORY THEATRE CO.
(Direction GREGAN McMAIION.)
at
THE PLAYHOUSE,
in
THE MADRAS HOUSE.
Comedy by GRANVILLE BARKER.
TUESDAY, MARCH 26.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING TTTE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATIIE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Ess*
' The World-famed House
FOB QUALITY GEMS.
Quality, Value, Design and Beauty are Outstanding
Features of Our Unequalled
Diamond Rings
Buying for Eight Australian Houses and Two of
the Largest in London, our Diamond Purchases are
ten times greater, and our Diamond Ring Sales many
times more, than those of any other Australian Firm.
This Extensive Buying for Cash makes possible our
Low Prices and Splendid Values.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
/V STRAND SYDNEY CORNER. '
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne. 14th March, 191S.
Tenders for the Supply of Condensed
Milk to the Royal Australian Navy.
1 Uv
TENDERS will be received until l2noon
on Friday, 5th April, 1918, for the
supply of Condensed Milk to the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy until 80th June, 1919.
Tender forms, specifications and any
further narticulars may be obtained on ap-
plication at the Office of the Director of Navy
Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne; the
Victualling Store Officer, Royal Edward
Victualling Yard, Pyrmont, Sydney; and at
the Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birken-
head (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
Joseph coop:,
Minister of State for the Navy.
WEEDY BOYS AND SICKLY GIRLS.
It is a mistake to think that anaemia is
only a girl’s complaint. Girls show the effect
of it more plainly than boys. Delayed de-
velopment, pale lips,- breathlessness, sick
headaches, and frequent sharp pain call
attention to them. But many boys in their
teens grow thin, weedy, and have pimples on
the face, showing that they have not enough
blood. The anaemic boy is just as likely to
become a victim to consumption as the pale,
breathless girl, with her headaches and worn-
out look. Let him catch cold after cold and
he will lose strength until his health becomes
precarious.
To prevent this serious disaster to those of
the rising generation, let both boys and girls
be given the new blood which Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills are famous for making. Watch
how soOli the appetite returns and how the
languid girl or lazy boy becomes full of
activity and high spirits. Remember that
the boy has to develop, too, if he is to make
a strong and hearty man. Give both of them
a fair chance by starting a course of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills —and, to make sure of
it, take care to ask at shops for Dr. Wil-
liams’. Most chemists and stoi'ekeepers sell
them at 2/9 per box; six boxes 15/3.
A valuable little book on “Building Up the
Blood” will be sent free to any address on
application to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Box 594 G.P.O., Sydney.— Advt.
M
<?
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
The results obtained from the use of CAPIL-
LARINE as a moustache-grower are regarded
as wonderful by all who have experienced its
merit. It is a genuine moustache-producer.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
■ ' === ,
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years. \ '
o
Shaving
Efficiency
nsmerfs
SHfIRIMC CRMM
jWSKV
[|lW
sHfluiri
I CRlftll
CHEMICBLC(§
I N^BRK.rUUj^
✓Vi
r^~
m p
K
rr
Thousands of business men who strive for 100 per cent efficiency in the office
are still content with from 40 to 50 per cent efficiency in the bath-room.
The demand for more speed, less muss, less of the tedium of relathering,
rubbing-in, and slow, difficult shaving, and less smart, bite and irritation, has
caused many men to discard successively the mug, the stick and the powder
as they would discard a wasteful, antiquated machine in the factory.
Mennen’s Shaving Cream overcomes every objection to mugs, sticks, and
powders. It is sanitary. It actually softens the beard. It leaves the skin
soft, cool and refreshed. There is not a bite or a smart in a tube of it.
Mennen’s Shaving Cream costs but little more than bar or stick and lasts
longer than powder. A tube, if used according to directions, will deliver a
shave a day for months.
Obtainable at dll leading chemists and stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
109 Pitt St., Sydney 17 Victoria St., Wellington
N. S. W. N. Z.
This coupon brings you a FREE sample of
MENNEN’S TALCUM FOR MEN
/?' To G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
/ - Enclosed please find penny stamped addressed envelope for free sample
/ of Mennen’s Talcum for Men.
Name.
Address.


Net result of Bolshevikism: Betrayal of
Allies, ruination of Russia, prolongation of
war, self enslavement. All through lack of
that topnotch wisdom so generously inspired
by King George IV. topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
BROOKE'S
Jill
nmnum
SQUASH
M
Paramount Stars
The Worlds Greatest
include
Mary Pickford
Pauline Frederick
Billie Burke
Elsie Ferguson
Dorothy Dalton
Louise Huff
Margaret Clarke
Vivian Martin
Bill Hart
Doug. Fairbanks
Mack Sennett
Wallace Reid
Charles Ray
and many others
foremost in the
screen firmament.
MM
*»W
SSMB
mmßmm
MRS Oflß
2msMn£ : . 2t&£A?k:*rkM
:
a,,mwm
iMmm?.
mm*
Theatres of Discriminatioa-
—Where Paramount
Pictures are.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The manager of the Commonwealth Bank
estimates the w 7 ealth of Australia and Tas-
mania at £1,640,000,000, which is grateful
and comforting, like somebody’s cocoa, and
makes the debt look quite reasonable. But
the artificial values created by the scattering
of , loan moneys, paper currency with a
purely local circulation, the artificial values
which it creates while it remains good, the
goodwill of businesses and companies which
is onlv faith and hope and optimism capital-
ised and put on the market, the fancy prices
attached to racehorses and prize dogs and
roosters and public-house licenses—these
and a thousand other things are quite in-
tangible. If any large “conscription of
wealth” blew on the edifice it would double
up < unless the Government was willing to
take out much of its demands in racehorses
and public-house licenses and the goodwill of
land-jobbing concerns at their paper value.
If it wanted real money, and everybody was
selling to raise his share, the Melbourne Cup
winner would be just meat.
NOT THE ALLY HE WAS.
“Time is on our side;"—Early war consolation.
THE FIRST TO VOLUNTHEER: “You see, I’m
getting shorter every day. You’ll have
to hurry if you want to make any use
of me.”
Instead of the returned men being a help
to recruiting, the more of them we get the
w 7 orse the figures are. There is something
radically wrong to produce this result. The
vast majority of these men belong to what
are called the working class —those from
whom the Labor party in politics is drawn.
If that party were represented in the Govern-
ment these men would at least feel that their
rights or w 7 liat they believe to be their rights
were being looked after. The further we go
the more certain it is that we cannot make
a success of the voluntary system under
Party Government. Hughes asks for sugges-
tions to help recruiting. There is only one
suggestion that will carry the movement any
distance: the retirement of the present Min-
istry and the arrival of one that will repre-
sent the whole nation and not something less
than half of it.
Some coincidences coincide too much to be
pleasant. Now 7 that Russia possesses an
alleged Government wffiich has
dispersed the army that was fight-
ing on our side, repudiated its
debts to Britain, admitted the
German tyrants unopposed into
its most valuable provinces, made
a more brutal hash of civilisation
than the Czars did in 100 years,
entered into a treaty with the worst
autocrat on earth, and incurred
a strong suspicion of being a mere
hired Hun agency—now that
these things have happened the
Melbourne Trades Hall and the
“Socialist party” are clamoring
after a passport so that a repre-
sentative may he sent, to a “So-
cialist” conference iu Russia.
What for? Is he to go to an un-
friendly country to study for
future use the disastrous methods
of Bolsheviks? Or to supply
valuable information to Bolshe-
viks and their masters? If, on
the other hand, his mission to
what is practically a ’ Hun de-
pendency is merely the harmless
one of discussing the Brotherhood
of Man, that can surely stand
over for a while. There is no
haste. The Brotherhood of Man
won’t run away.
Again the Vic. Health Board
has shown its occasional likeness
to 71b. of putty. An outbreak of
scarlet fever lately happened at a
greatly-favored health resort in
the hills. At the first signs of
trouble the local hasheries packed
off their sore-throated cases —
back to Melbourne by train. So
far, there have been a couple of
dozen cases of fever among these
returned trippers, with one death.
Yet not a murmur has been
uttered by the Board of Health to
warn prospective visitors against the beauti-
ful plague-spot, nor has there been a line
in the daily press about the scandal. Ap-
parently local vested hash-interests have
managed to keep the matter as quiet as
business demands.
“Where is Mr. Tudor?” the S. M. Herald
asks. Well, the S. M. HeralD ought to
know. He is exactly where it helped to put
him.
The U.S.A. will launch over 220,000 tons
of new' shipping in March—an improvement
on the record for January and February.
That is 31 ships—one per day. On a popu-
lation basis Australia should launch over
11,000 tons of shipping this month, but it is
more likely to launch over 11,000 speeches.
N. S. Wales is the centre of the coal-
mining industry. It supplies not only itself
but to a great extent the rest of Australia.
It is therefore in practical control of the
one industry whose stoppage can para-
lyse the continent. So the I.W.W. person
who poses as a well-meaning anarchist and
a harmless enemy of civilisation in general,
but w T lio is suspected of being very often a
concealed German agent—he and other con-
cealed Hun emissaries naturally concentrate
their attention on the Ma State and in par-
ticular on its coal-miners. The coal person,
who grows more credulous with advancing
years, listens attentively. He doesn’t really
know where the inspiration comes from, and
it isn’t intended that he should. During
1916 and 1917 the N.S.W. coal-miner- has
struck 381 times. In each of these years he
has spent a quarter of his time on strike
while his wife and children went short of
food and clothes. Yet not one really big
grievance can be discerned. No wonder dark
suspicion centres on that influence in the
background.
Hear the vice-president of Melbourne
Trades Hall Council on the subject of the
Federal Government’s commerce-organisation
proposals:—
We listened carefully to the scheme outlined by
Mr. Hughes, and were unable to find any mention of
what advantages (other than what might accrue
generally through increased production) would be
offered to organised labor to secure its co-operation
in the scheme.
Hughes’s scheme may be open to a thousand
objections; but if organised Labor doesn’t
want increased production and general ad-
vantages, it ought to be honest enough to
say so.
The Hun has more luck in the way of
food supplies—cheap food supplies, anyhow 7
—than the Allies. He cleaned out the victuals
of Belgium, Northern France, Serbia and
part of the great wheat-growing land of
Roumania without even leaving his lOL
behind him. He took whatever remained in
Russian Roland and parts beyond, and didn t
give common civility in return. Now he
has occupied Odessa (population 450.000),
where the surplus grain of southern Russia
is stored for export, without any Bolshevik
throwing a peanut at him. The ghost of the
Duke de Richelieu, the creator of Odessa,
THE Pit ELI MIN ARY.
“Wifen I have bled it white, I will carve It
to my liking.”
must have wept in its grave that day, and
Bostopschin, credited with the burning of
Moscow in ISI2, must have looked down —or
up, as the case might be —and asked in
anguish why he wasn’t the man in charge to
set Odessa on fire in 120 places when the
Hun approached. But Britain also gets its
food somahow. For the week ended March
9, N. S. Wales contrived to send away about
553,000 bushels of wheat, leaving only
45,600,000 bushels on hand that it can't get
into motion for want of ships. If the Hughes
Ministry could be entered for a race with the
Great Pyramid, the Pyramid being allowed
10 yards start, the event would be worth
betting on.
At a recent by-election for a Maori seat
in the M.L. Assembly Henare Parata was
challenged as to his views on the liquor ques-
tion. “It’s this way,” he said. “I want a
straight-out issue. If the Government
brings ‘ down a bill for straight-out prohibi-
tion or for .straight-out continuance, 1 will
vote as the case may be. But anyway it will
not be carried.” By the time the congrega-
tion had got that in. the candidate was
over the ranges on his way to address the
next kianga.
Frank Clarke, Bowser's Minister for Rab-
bits, had a few' unhappy moments after
he took on the job. Perhaps the unhappiest
was that which followed the news from
Ouyen, in the Mallee, about the grand open-
ing -of the mighty simultaneous-poisoning
raid fixed for the 4th inst. Four new in-
spectors had been appointed to see to the
operations, farmer-poisoners were employed
at 11s. a day, poison-carts were rolled along
to various chosen spots, and everybody w T as
good and ready to begin work on the Mon-
day morning.' There was only one real
defect. Somebody had overlooked the poison.
Blackburn, captain and V.C., is one of the
candidates for suburban Sturt at the S. Aus.
general election. He is branded Nationalist;
hut it is because he is president of the
Returned Soldiers’ Assoc, that The Bulletin
will be glad to see him top the poll. Nowhere in
the Commonwealth is Defence Department
administration less satisfactory than in S.
Aus., especially in relation to returned
soldiers; and if the men’s president is given
a seat in Parliament they may have a bit
more punch. Nationalist or Laborite, the
Sturt elector who wants to see the returned
men get a fair deal can’t do better than
mark Blackburn down for his (and especi-
ally her) first vote.
A profound lack of enthusiasm is one of
the Vic. Health Board’s chief attributes.
Having decided that sanitary conditions
seem to have nothing to do with the recent
outbreak of infantile paralysis, and after
noting that ‘"if serum were injected in the
early stages the disease might be checked.”
it declared that it “could do nothing further,
as all that was possible had already been
done.” London during the Great Plague
acted in much the same way when disaster
struck it—just said “Gramercy !” or “Odds.
bodikins!” and left the rest to an uncertain
Providence.
“Lou”: If Labor in Vic. doesn't soon
buck up, it will find itself pushed out by the
militant Socialist party. This group, the
result of Tom Mann’s efforts, is at present
a propaganda movement only, but a very
live one. It runs two Sunday-night con-
certs and lectures in the city, a brass band,
an orchestra, Saturday-night dances, a
Sunday-school, tin* weekly Socialist and the
children’s monthly Dawn. With Adela
Pankhurst giving the factory-girls short,
sharp doses of Goslowism at dinner-times,
Scott Bennett lecturing and teaching the
young red flags how to speak, and a member-
ship of close-up a thousand, including poli-
ticians and trade-union officials, the V.S.P.
will find it hard to resist the temptation to
stand its own candidates up at the next
elections. Meanwhile the Labor party pot-
ters along with a honeheaded determination
not to extend its operations beyond a Sun-
day-night meeting in the Gaiety Theatre.
The Bulletin rises to mention once more
that it believes in Sinn Fein. It was
among the first of the believers in
Australia, and it proposes to hang on
so long as there is anything left to
hang for. “Sinn Fein” simply means “Our-
selves Alone.” It is the, whole doctrine
of self-reliance in two words. This paper
has consistently preached that we —our-
selves alone —can build or spin or weave or
otherwise construct everything that we
want, provided this country produces, or can
produce, the raw material. It has even gone
so far as to say that this great gold-produc-
ing land has no need to go crawling to
Britain for loans in gold or otherwise, but
can do its own finance. “Sinn Fein” has
been perverted to signify the driving about
of other people’s cows by night, but it doesn’t
of necessity have any relation to driven
cows. If Australia doesn’t go in for a lot
more Sinn Fein it will be bankrupt one day.
day. j
HELPING A LAME DOG, ETC.
MR. SOUSE (reading news): “ Hulloa! Tank-
week, eh? Jolly good idea! I s’pose
that’s to give the boys spell-o who swore
off during the war!”
A PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When heat lias gone from the blood and friendship
dies,
When hopes and fears are fixed on the hereafter,
And neither rending pain nor rousing laughter
Can stir the soul behind my rheumy eyes ;
When wisdom only speaks through toothless gums,
And in the world no light is worth the winning;
When every cause seems lost from the beginning,
And ghosts of failure grin behind the drums;
When warning signs at every turn are hung,
And all God’s visible world has lost its beauty ;
When naught remains but lifeless creeds of duty,
Ami sage advice rolls easily off the tongue;
When 1 have spent my little store of truth,
And ardent Faith is riddled through by Reason —
Let not my mumbling lips drone forth their treason
To all the sacred vows Of marvellous youth !
But let this treacherous husk be quietly borne
Safe out of mischief, so that none can find me
Save in the rebel songs 1 flung behind me
When scaling hilltops in the mists of morn.
VICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.


Easter
THE VICTOR PRAYER PIANO.
The banislier of lonely moments. A
most delightful instrument, which
everyone can play.
THE PLAYOTONE.
A very fine Player indeed, at a most
moderate price. Ask for particulars.
THE ALL-BRITISH SAMES
PIANO. MODEL 105.
These pianos have a beautiful tone
quality and are handsomely designed.
Also Estey Organs.
Welcome to
PALING’S.
These illustrations are but a few examples of the beautiful
Player Pianos and Pianos sold by us. In their various
grades they fulfil the utmost expectation.
Bach instrument has been specially selected by our experts
and embodies over half-a-century’s experience. Tone-
quality and durability are special features.
Any model can be purchased on our time-payment system
if desired; this makes it wonderfully easy to at once purchase
a high-grade —fully-guaranteed—piano or player piano.
We sell Pianos, Organs, Player Pianos, Violins, Banjos,
Cornets, Flutes, Concertinas, Gramophones, Music and
Musical Sundries, Band and Orchestral Instruments of
every description at lowest possible prices. Catalogues
free for asking.
Will you call to-day? We shall be pleased to see you.
W. H. Paling & Co. Ltd.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, LISMORE & TOOWOOMBA.
THE BEHNING PIANO
Makes Home-life Happier. America’s
most artistic Player. Exquisite tone
quality and touch.
t
-
THE ESTEY PIANO. Model B.
Specially recommended for hot climates.
Stands in tune for very long periods.
THE WONDERFUL VICTOR.
Academy Model.
Renowned throughout Australia for its
remarkable durability.
Catalogues Free
ap-v.
-v/' .V s
%
//_
U
OS
III!
I
£
Ab\
■z
&
->e
r*J>
H’"-
o«fc
ftft)
J '^^f : -&i!!i'v^ ,B '^- ,L S£fc‘ -
%
&
fiWMf&
D
r
hh,;
re
# /# /
af 1 /# ■'■ #/J b L
W:
1
j> .■»
w
AT.-'
■f,
r
JiiP
X
'ir
/*
3F
A Vineyard of Ripening Grapes
In a CHATEAU TANUNDA Vinery is the first page
of the history of the productions of the famous CHATEAU
TANUNDA SPECIAL HOSPITAL BRANDY. The
matchless Brandy of incomparable purity and medicinal
excellence. It is the consistently high character of
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY which holds it on a
pinnacle of widespread popularity unequalled by any other
Brandy in Australia to-day.
What’s in the grape only is put into the bottle. That’s
the reason why CHATEAU TANUNDA SPECIAL
HOSPITAL BRANDY is pure, rich, wholesome and
stimulating. The warm, vitalising sunshine of vintage
time ripens and enriches the berries, which are taken from
the vine just in the right time —not a week too soon —not
a day too late. That is only one of the several reasons why
CHATEAU TANUNDA is famous for its medicinal
qualities and recommended by Doctors and Nurses
everywhere.
Insist on having “CHATEAU TANUNDA,” the Special Hospital BRANDY.
Obtainable at all the Best Hotels in quarts, pints, flasks and half=flasks.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES
TUCKER (SL CO. LIMITED SYDNEY. _ PROPRIETORS.
V
m
'S
HEAUMHP
ißrandYc
chateau tanunda
S SOumAuSTPKU'A lU 1
" '1
Mil
•r.’iimi


Win Fame as an Artist.
Study Drawing at Home
under Harry J Weston —Aus-
tralia’s famous commercial
artist. Every post brings
letters showing the extraordi-
nary success achieved by
pupils of the Weston School.
Beginners in art who started
the lessons “just to amuse
themselves” are turning out
work of merit and originality
beyond their most sanguine
expectations.
There is no
reason why YOU
should not become
a successful artist
—bring Harry
Weston into your
home to help you.
The Weston
Course carries
students through
every phase of
Commercial Art,
and so thorough
and explicit are
thp instructions,
so helpful and
personal Mr.
Weston’s criti-
cisms, that rapid
progress under
such able tuition
is certain.
“THERE’S MONEY
IN THE PEN.”
The above is
the title of the
booklet which describes m full the Meston
Postal School of Drawing both as a protession
and as a pastime. We should like you to
have a copy. Send us your name and address,
including three penny stamps to cover postage.
The HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
36 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
M
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Laser & Pilsener Beers
.....fULnan >,«■«.■ «.»■»»■» HOLME, *
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH3, LlfliTED, Redfern, Sydney.
-- SPECIAL MILITARY WIRELESS CLASS.
7m EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY TO JOIN A TECHNICAL UNIT.
an EAWi* g J ! class for those desirous of serving the Empire in the Army.
Our Instructors hav< rtofths-Instruction three evenings a week. The course will be made
The Tuition extends ot the installations in the school, also of an aircraft set now being
quite practical, use f be,n^ c ;® ir ° e . The instruction will include that essential for the Cavalry
and a Moto?-car Station! s ’ ££. r ° P o£ e 'FULL COURSE has been decided on.
, A S „ ann u ca tio™o tSe MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS, Dept. C, 97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
All particulars on appltoatto" QppORTUNITY TO SERVE THE EMPIRE. ;
Australian
Pure Wool.
Warm.
Small and
Medium size,
28 6.
Large size,
30J-
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
f S,
s "V
Slumber Suits.
Durable in texture, excellent in quality
and workmanship, a few of the many
features which add to the comfort o 1
sleeping in a SLUMBER SUIT.
Winter-weight “OXFOR,” Fine
Cotton, Warm and Comfortable,
Fast Colors
15/6
CEYLON, Wool and Cotton,
Non-irritant, Medium Weight,
Cosy
15/6
SIIJH
Or
D
e *CF
Mofia AHN3H
& CO.,
74 Swanstoa Street,
Corner
Queen’s Walk,
MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Considering that the mare had decidedly
tailed in her one previous- attempt to run away with
a two-mile race, plungers took a great risk in laying
7 to 2 on Desert Gold for the King’s Plate at
Klemington. She had practically only one horse to
beat, but that one was Wallace Isinglass. Were he
quite himself, and the mare disposed to make a hot
pace, Wallace looked more than likely to wear her
down at the finish. No animal of her temperament
—a free goer who runs best in front of the field- —
has ever acquired great staying power whilst racing
in runaway style. Wakeful was not a thorough
stayer until she had ceased to be a persistent pace-
maker. She nearly ran away with a Caulfield Cup,
but Hymettus caught her in the last few strides.
Desert Gold is not a first-class stayer. She has more
stamina than, say, Solution, a M.I;. mare that was
expected to win Melbourne Cun from end to end.
She is a lot better than Gladsome, also from M.L.,
who couldn’t last further than 104 furlongs. But
she is of the same type. Her easy impetuosity doesn’t
suggest a two-miler, nor did her record justify anyone
in laying 7 to 2 on her for a long race where she
would have Wallace Isinglass chasing her.
*****
Several likely handicap winners at the
late V.R.C. meeting were beaten by Interference. In a
crowded field he is a good friend to the books, especi-
ally as regards, the favorite. On the last day of the
meeting two favorites —Pah King in the first race
and Red Pennant in the third —owed their defeats to
him. Nowadays racing reporters seem to accept the
triumphs of this ugly competitor as a matter of course.
He starts in every event, apparently. And he usually
makes his strongest efforts at the back of the course
or coming round the turn for home.
* * * *
Two or three of the Victorians that have
some sort of chance for Sydney Cup ran at Caulfield
last Saturday. The talked-of Shadowland scored his
second win. In beating Blackwood and Lavendo
over 11 furlongs he did nothing brilliant, but at
least he showed a capacity for taking his own part
in fairly crowded and respectable company, and he
will have plenty of Melbourne followers if he goes
to Sydney for Easter. On paper, perhaps, the form
spoke better for Blackwood than for the winner. Old
Blackwood met Shadowland on 161 b. worse terms
than their Cup handicap, and was not far behind at
the finish. As to whether either of them is quite
class enough for the bigger job at Randwick, there
must always be a doubt until they are tested under
the different conditions. Two Blues, for instance,
heat the consistent Blackwood over 11 furlongs at
Caulfield recently as though he were a mere com-
moner. And when Wallace Isinglass downed Desert
Gold he was reckoned good enough to have won the
Australian Cup in a canter —on a dry course. All
things considered, it looks foolish to be very sweet
on anything for Sydney Cup until the weather is
guaranteed.
* * * *
Shadowland’s stable-companion and com-
patriot, Elsdon, 'onenecl his winning account in a
welter race at Caulfield. The son of Symington is
only a four-year-old at present, and may acclimatise
into a pretty good one. Ail the same, he has
already put one or two, disappointing performances
to his discredit and is possibly as uncertain as they
make them.
Just as punters were about to lose their
last bit of confidence in Hoprig the fickle quadruped
won a small six-furlongs race at -- Caulfield. He
went out at C to 1, a long price for a sprinter that
had started second favorite for the Newmarket. But
Hoprig, even on his best behavior, is hardly worthy
a place in the best sprinting class. He seemed to
owe this victory mostly to Foulsham, who rushed
him in at the finish.
The Linacre mare Dame Acre, who had
won over a mile with Bst. 121 b. in “40"’ during the
previous week, annexed the Railway Stakes, seven
furlongs, at Rosehill on Saturday with Bst. 101 b.,
incidentally clipping Golden S’liDper’s record for
the course and finishing in “26.” If this lady
Imps off in the Doncaster as quickly as usual, she
won’t be last over the line.
Volpi, a two-year-old brother of Thrice,
who on his first appearance ran third in the Breeders’
Plate at Randwick, has been growing up in peace
and quietness and looks all the better for it. On
the first day of the Rosehill meeting he was pro-
duced among 1 the juveniles, and they all left him
behind at the tape, another youngster in the same
stable winning the stake. On Saturday, carrying
the rider who bestrode the winner of the previous
week, Volpi made no mistake about the time-table.
He arrived on his own. Volpi has developed mto
a smart-looking animal that may be expected to
again leave his card with the judge some day.
Early last week the imported Publican,
trained at Randwick by D. O’Connor, pranced into
first place on the Doncaster betting cards I here
was money for him, and the way he left the scenery
behind over the last part of the Auburn Stakes at
Rosehill on Saturday had warned Isaac to beware.
He didn’t win the Auburn, which was six fuilongs,
but seemed sorry the journey was not longer. Last
Saturday he was given a chance in the KaUway,
seven furlongs, on the same course, and was solidly
backed That was the end of it. Though well
up for the run home he did the early-closing act
and finished away back. Perhaps he didn t like
being tangled up in the ruck most of the journey
but in any case the performance, regarded as a
Doncaster trial, caused no excitement. So they
scratched him. # *
That nobody knows what a good horse will
do was shown again in the Rawson *
mile and a quarter, at Rosehill (N.S.W.), on Satur
day. In point of quality there was a fair field.
But not more than two of the seven —Rebus and
Redfern, seemed ready for the job. This made them
favorites at 3’s with Thana, Chantemerle at 4 s, and
Wolaroi and Westcourt anything from 20 to 30. Of
the last two Westcourt was certainly the most
forward, but. the stable had no faith in either of
them. Wolaroi got chopped out early in the pro-
ceedings, and Westcourt toiled along unimpressively
in the rear to the turn into the straight. At this
stage Redfern was doing well, but was quickly run
down by Rebus, who a furlong from the line looked
a sure winner—until Westcourt was noticed.
McLachlan had moved him along on the outside
with great rapidity, and opposite the Leger he
came swooping up like a sprinter.. The last 100
yards was an all-in struggle to discover which would
crack first. It wasn't Westcourt. With three or
four strides to go the game but shabby-looking little
imported prad punctured, and the Melbourne Cup
winner pushed his head in front. The winner's was
a remarkably fine performance. He ran the dis-
tance in “53,” and if that is not a warning ,to
Wallace Isinglass to keep moving in the Sydney Cup
then time counts for nothing.
* * * *
At Sydney-suburban Kensington (pony)
on Saturday £11,300 went through the machines;
at ltosehill, where some of the best horses in train-
ing in Sydney were raced, £9BOO. The meaning
of this is that the dollars go on the machine and
the quids go somewhere else —and always will.
* * * *
An old-time jockey, Fred Martineer, died
a few days back at his home, formerly known as the
Melton Inn, near Parramatta. Before Local Option
got to. work he had kept the old place as a pub tor
35 years. Amongst Martineer’s victories in the saddle
were with Cooramin in the old N.S.W. Leger, 1? mile,
in 1853, and the first A.J.C. Derby in 1865, on
Judge Cheeke’s mare Clove. Martineer himself
owned some good racehorses* notably the steeple-
chaser Melton, with which he won some dozen events.
It has happened again ! Sydney police,
hearing a squeak the other day, found it came from
an individual who had parted company with £2OO
and was anxiously inquiring where the coves were
who had it. After restoratives had been applied the
weary old yarn was heard. It was all about; an
honest citizen from Bananaland who came down to
go to" the Show and met a stranger at the coffee-
palace and was introduced to someone else who
owned a vast string of nags that won several races
everv week. The owner of all this horse thought
the Bananalander might as well help himself to a
bit and undertook to get it from Israel. Meanwhile
he took £2OO to go on with and vanished into the
atmosphere, after recommending the trustful suckei
to buy a war bond before sunset. All this conies of
Bananaland not compelling the population to nail its
money down under the carpet and go holiday-making
on a prickly-pear selection with 17 bulldogs.
*** * *
“Jim "'Carew”: The deadliest betting
swindle I ever came across was worked on a book in
a Western N. &. Wales town. Ike is open
to bet on all races, and always pays on the report
in next day’s metropolitan papers. The punter made
a bet on a horse allegedly running at a small Out-
back meeting. Then he sent a report to the city ot
a fictitious meeting showing that the imaginary horse
had won. The report was published and he drew his
money. Ike on taking a tumble tried to bluff the
cheat into returning the money, but the punter
threatened to put the police wise to the gambling
room. The result was a draw, with the punter
attached to the cash.
If anyone wants a really good day’s sport
among the ponies the place to go seems to be Mount
Morgan. They do it in broad daylight up there,
too. In the first race one of the riders had to be
“cautioned.” The rext commenced by two of the
nags bolting, one of them the favorite. Eventually
they were started and after prolonged waiting tor
them to arrive the stewards came to the conclusion
that there were no triers, declared the race off and
cancelled the bets. For the next event Alice was
a red-hot favorite. She won in good style. The
stewards said it was robbery, put other jocks aboard
and had it all over again. This time Alice hadnit
a hope. After two more events had been run with-
out bloodshed the second race was ordered on again
and something else was favorite. Coming up the
straight an outsider seemed ready to beat the
favorite, whereupon the interloper’s bridle was
grabbed and the rider of the uncalled-for animal
started handing out stoush with his whip. These
proceedings led to this race also being declared off,
and everything went up with a bang. At last
advices there was a feeling in the neighborhood that
racing might be curtailed without any great harm
to the horse-breeding industry.
After years of profound consideration
Tatt.’s has at last decided that in future the drawer
of a starter in its sweeps shall be given the sole
privilege, hitherto shared by the lottery office, ot
advising the nag’s owner that the cheerful event has
happened. Now that a certain class of prad-pro-
prietor has reached the dizzy limit in his demands,
which are sometimes as high as “fifty-fifty, ’ backed
by the customary threat of scratching, the belated
decision should be of some value to latt. s in in-
creased subscriptions, not to mention the pleasant
effect it must have on-the concern’s conscience.
* * * *
“Lachlander”; “Jacko” (B. 7/3/T8), in
stating that Jimmy Frost rode his horse The Colonel
from Dubbo to Orange for a wager, and covered 96
miles in 15 hours, is out in his facts. Bob Frost
owned The Colonel—also Lucknow station. He
had so frequently announced that his big, raw-
boned chestnut could beat anything in the West
(NSW) over a distance that Ted Tarrant, well
known along the Macquarie, took him up. Tarrant
had a mare called Barmaid, and he put up £lOO to
say that his nag could heat The Colonel between the
towns, 104 miles from post-office to post-office.
Both were to carry 9st. Tarrant engaged Walter
Higginbotham, later on to be the trainer of Car-
bine, to pilot the mare. Roger Davis, an adopted
son of Paddy Power, of Orange, rode The Colonel.
Paddv rode with his son and used up three hacks
on the trip. The track was a rough one and
boss were encountered between Dubbo and Welling-
ton. At the last-mentioned place the horses were
ferried across the river in a punt. Refreshments
were given the animals at intervals. The Colonel
taking oatmeal and water and Barmaid sticking to
bottled ale. At Montefiores, a holding owned at
the time by Joe Aarons, the track could be short-
ened by a cut across the paddocks. A boundary-
rider, who had backed The Colonel, permitted Davis
to pass, but attempted to block Barmaid and her
party. .Tarrant was a man of few words at any
time and the rouseabout hurried into the scrub.
But the hills beat the Barmaid. She caved in at
Shepherd’s Creek. The Colonel finished up full of
running, taking just IOJ hours on the trip; but
as he loafed along after the other stopped, his per-
formance was regarded by Frost as being much
below the ordinary. Tarrant took his beating badly
and as The Colonel carried 41b. overweight he
entered a protest. Clibborn, of the A.J.C., to whom
the matter was referred, decided for Frost. This
race was run on July 14, 1870. The old chestnut
died years ago aged 30.
■** * *
In Svdney grade cricket Arthur Mailey
(Middle Harbor) and W. S. Dight (Western Sub-
urbs) are fighting it out. On Saturday Mailey took
three for 137 against ’Varsity; Dight five for 108
against Sydney. This season, Mailey been
smashed to and over the boundary for 1247 runs
for 05 wickets (averaging 19.18). Dight's figures
are 1024 for 47 wickets (average 21.78). But all
this isn’t a novelty to either of them. In ’l5-16
Mailev took 102 wickets for 1433, Dight 54 for 838.
In ’i6-l7 Mailey knocked over 49 for 712, and
Dight’s bag was 45 for 698. Three years’ figures
give Mailey 216 wickets for 3392, while Dight s
146 wickets cost 2886. It is many moons since
bowlers caught the face of the bat so generously.
While there are dozens of junior swim-
ming clubs whose members splash regularly for
trophies and baubles, only a few clubs troubled to
toe the platform at Coogee (Sydney) for the N..S.
Wales junior life-saving championship in connection
with the Hendry Challenge Cup. The event turned
out to be a good thing for North Wollongong (H.
Peterson, F. Thomas, L. Hallenan and W. Lance).
They travelled 50 miles and defeated the city lads
bv scoring 87.16 points. Burwood Boy Scouts were
next on the list with 79.82. North Wollongong won
the championship last year. The event, which was
for lads under 16, deserves more attention from
the enthusiasts whose job it is to see that Young
Australia understands the practical side of paddling.
* * * *
“Raiigan”: During Christmas I was at.
Brisbane’s popular seaside resort, Redcliffe, when the
cry for help went up and hundreds of fingers pointed
to" two heads moving steadily out to sea. Fortunately
the two in difficulties managed to just reach a reef
of rocks, from which they were rescued. “Pretty
close shave,” murmured the crowd, and went on
splashing itself. I thoughtfully got dressed and made
inquiries. “No,” said one of the inhabitants, we
don’t use life-saving reels here. This is the safest
beach in Australia.” Everybody was of the same
opinion. Later, I found that Queensland possessed
15 “safest beaches in Australia’’ and six reels. Up
till a year ago Yeppoon had “the safest beach in
Australia” ; then, during one week, a man was taken
by a shark and three people were drowned. Yep-
poon began to think, and while it was thinking
another woman was drowned. So it bought reel.
Southport and Tweed Heaijs had an average of two
deaths a year, before they were induced to instal
life-saving appliances. They now have five or six
rescues a year. The Royal Life Saving Society asked
the Home Sec. to make local authorities protect
bathers by supplying reels, etc. “Well,” said Hux-
ham, “you write and ask them about it, and if they
do nothing, I might think about it” ; and there you
have the spirit of Huxham’s administration.
* * * *
Jimmy H. Ashton, a tall, smiling son of
a N. S. Wales Leg. Councillor, is a promising High
School athlete. He is a' front-ranker at cricket,
football and swimming’, and with the mits won the
middle- and heavy-weight championships of C. of E.
Grammar last year. In the “heavies” final he
defeated G. S. Holcombe, captain of the School, and
the fine distance ,ped. Ashton is a two-handed
boxer, who springs on his opponents a wealth of
tricks put into his youthful head during a holiday
jaunt through America last year.
* * * *
There’s reason for the joy in Sydney High
Schools over the dash of L. A. Bannister, a 15-year-
old lad who recently gave other sprinters a fine view
of his flying legs in the 100yds. all-schools
colleges championship, which he won in 10 4 ; ssec.
The burst equals the time of C. Farquhar and A.
Carroll in High School efforts ; but J. B. Sandilands
N.S.W. 100yds. schools record (10 3-10 sec. j, put up
in 1912, is still on its feet. Bannister won the
junior 100yds. (11 l-ssec.) and 220yds. (24 4-ssec.)
at this year’s High Schools championships; and his
turn of speed has caused hard heads to ponder how
long it is since they saw his equal.
* # * *
Dick Coombes, of Sydney, the best-known
and certainly the best-informed writer on athletics
in Australia, reached the 60th pole the other day.
Richard, among other things, is vice-president of
the Great Public Schools A.A.A. and of the Uni-
versity Athletic Club —the only man not connected
with the schools or the ’Varsity who has been elected
an office-bearer on either.
* * * *
“Leg-bail”: John Madden was a button
that if pressed usually delivered the goods. Three or
four vears ago I was compiling a history of St. Kilda,
and wanting information about the first meet of the
Melbourne Hunt Club at St. Hilda Junction I wrote
to Chief Justice John, whose father was a hunting
man of 1857. He did not know me from a crow, but
that did not matter. He replied that he was brooding
over some Full Court judgments, but later he d have
ago at Early St. Kilda-—and hang the meet, ot
which he knew little! About three months after-
wards 20 sheets of foolscap came staggering along
under a penny stamp and a fine of eightpence. They
were full of good stories of Dicky Ireland, Butler
Cole Aspinall and other bucks of the ’fifties, who
stripped in the early morning in Captain Kenny s
bathing ship, seeking to cool their hot coppers
begotten of the night before at the Prince of Wales
or the George. The stories, with the history, he in
the St. Kilda Council’s strongroom.
* * * *
By way of a change, this year’s N.S.W.
sinatfe bowls championship was not won by a player
who decked a dilapidated old hat. In bowls, moie
than any other nastime, players turn out in the
oldest and quaintest headgear; and when their
skill gathers a title, the credit therefor is piled on
the troubles of the old hat. The men in the final were
J Morrison (Petersham) and J. J. Deane (Ryde),
and the Petersham player, in a clean bright hat (and
a necktie, even!), made every end a winner, finish-'
ir.g up 31-21. Deane's old hat looked like making
up the leeway at half-way (15-10) ; but “nerves”
finally wrecked the village blacksmith. Both were
new aspirants for the title. In the teams match
City and Ivuring-gai are to fight it out, Mosman
having gone under.
“45/90”: In spite of Bob Rogers (B.
14/2/ ; 18), 1 again assert that Livingston has killed
more ’roos than any three men in the game to-day.
As Bob apparently misconstrued my few remarks
into a reflection on him, let me say I know him to
be the best shot and hardest battler (with the excep-
tion, perhaps, of Jack Freich) in the Aramae district,
even though he sidesteps the Downs, which has
always been Livingston’s stamping ground. As to
Livingston’s “methods being slow and out of date"
—well, he is ' now about 60, and I have a notion
that if Bob puts in another 30 years at the game
and leads the life “Liver” has, Iris methods may be
a bit slow. In regard to “many of us getting four
to his one,” that may be true in 1918 —but, listen.
Away back in the early ’eighties “Liver” was pump-
ing a .44 on Northampton, Lome, Terrick and Home
Creek. That was before the railway reached the
West and the abos. were holding corroborees on the
sites of Barcaldine and Longreach. Somewhere about
’B5, on Ravensbourn, the book-keeper kept tag of
“Liver’s” ' earnings for six months, and found
he was making more than the manager, overseer and
book-keeper combined. Scalps at that time wfere 3s.
and tallies of 50 or 60 a day ths usual thing. In
the roaring days of the 21 mile in ’9O and "91
Livingston was reckoned to throw the fastest and
straightest gun in the West, and this at a time when
every third man packed a .44 and lived on the game.
And his name was known from the Barcoo to the
Flinders what time Bob Rogers was puzzling out the
mechanism of his first popgun.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,—This, my final argument,
I am prepared to back with hard cash. “Ranger”
(B. 21/2/’18) does not mention my 2 to 1 offer tlrart
a rifleman cannot hit the bull’s-eye without being
tied down in a sling in a position impossible, in
nine cases out of 10, on active service. Now, to
further prove what “a farce” sighting shots are and
marking each shot, I offer 4 to 1 for any number of
shots against the rifleman hitting the bull from
300yds. upwards without sling, si,"liters or marking,
none of which you can use on active service. Rifle-
shooting as now carried on teaches a man to load
and shoot —-but only to shoot accurately with artifi-
cial aid impossible when put to the tfist in the field.
—Yours, Geo. L. Hobson.
* * * •- *
“H.P.W.” : Captain McKeaehie’s rifle, re-
ferred to by “Pick” (B. 14/2/’18), was a Sharp’s old
model carbine, first used by the U.S. army in
Mexico, and, later, in the Civil War. An improved
model had a cap magazine, worked by the hammer
as it cocked, which enabled the weapon to be fired
10 times per minute. Some English cavalry regi-
ments were supplied with Sharp’s carbine in 1857,
but it was abandoned on account of the escape of gas
at the breech, which tended to clog the mechanism
after a few shots had been fired. In the ’sixties
Sharp’s co. got over this trouble by adopting a
metallic central-fire cartridge, and in this form the
rifle became the favorite of the buffalo-lnmter, and
had a large share in exterminating the American
bison.
* * * :•*
“Adelaide”: Killed my first dinner with the
car one moonlit evening lately in the hills —a fine
hare, which foolishly bolted across the road and was
dead meat the next moment. I have run down
kangaroos with the car, but it didn’t kill them.
Dogs don't count, and. the fowls that have committed
suicide per wheel were hardly worth gathering up
after it had done with them. This is the first prac-
tical game in the bag.


Are You a Real Man?
Can You Defend Yourself?
These are important questions to YOU. Unless you confidently feel
that you are able to take your own part, then you should certainly set
about gaining a practical knowledge of Scientific Boxing.
When it comes to a question between Man and Man you will realise what
a great advantage you possess. You will be able to convincingly assert
yourself in a manner that, will at once impress your opponent with YOUR
superiority. You will feel that confidence in YOUR power so NECESSARY
to ACHIEVE victory.
Why put off learning to defend yourself any longer?
I Teach Boxing by Post
There are 32 lessons in my course. Each tells in
clear simple words how to deliver a serviceable hit,
and the best way to block it. V -
Photographs and diagrams show exactly how the
hands, arms, head, shoulders, body and feet are used
in attack and defence. Well-satisfied pupils in parts
of Australia are constantly praising my methods.
This is an example of the letters I’m constantly
receiving:—
“I find your mode of tuition very easy to follow,
and I am HIGHLY SATISFIED with it, and pro-
gressing favorably.”
I am anxious to send you full particulars of my
methods, terms and also an interesting booklet, “Scien-
tific Boxing in Your Home.”
Hadn’t you better write for it now, while you
think of it, and send 3d. to cover the postage?
L
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
"The All-round Champion Athlete of
Australia.”
707 Belmont Buildings, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Sydney
Expr
Beate
55
37
BV
UT
Boyd Edk/ns
JOURNEY IN 2
DOES
RECORD
3 MINS
26
NRS
AnOth
Tn
ER
BUT
TO
SHELL
BENZINE-
v
mmsm
Samson Telephones
M
T 364.
Long-distance Bridging
Set, with 5-niagnet Gen-
erat o r, 10 0 0 ohm
Ringer, “Ericsson” type
Hand Combination and
2 Dry Cells.
Price £5/ 10/=
We also stock Table, Portable and
Mining ’Phones, Switchboards and all
accessories.
Ramsay Sharp 8 Co. Ltd.
217 George Street, SYDNEY.
sm
§
YOUR DENTIFRICE SHOULD
PURIFY AS WELL AS BEAUTIFY,
Permanently beautiful and thoroughly
sound teeth can easily be secured
and retained by means of regular and
effective cleansing. Immediately
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH OOWDER.
is moistened it oommenees to give
off oxygen, and this powerful active
force penetrates to every tiny crevice
and cavity of the teeth, destroying
all those food particles which are the
primary cause of decay and which
are beyond the reach of an ordinary
dentifrice, which merely acts by
local contact from the toothbrush.
At the same time Calox is remarkable
for the brilliancy it imparts to the
teeth, and for the rapidity with
•vhich it eradicates discolorations.
GET CALOX FREE.
A sample will be sent
anywhere in Australia to
all who attach name and
address to this advertise-
ment and forward to
, Calox Dept., Geo. Wills
1 and Co., Ltd., 480 Col-
lins Street Melbourne;
and ' 60 York Street,
Sydney, enclosing two
penny stamps to cover
postage.
Calox is procurable from
All Chemists &
Leading* Stores.
F. 21.3.18.
(Tint C HAmfi )
THE OXYGEM
I (TOOTH POWDER
Everlasting!
An
Never
wears out
INDIAN service makes the Indian Motor-cycle practically
everlasting. An Indian model can never become obsolete,
since, whatever the ravages of time and wear, ANY part
of ANY model is immediately replaceable* The Indian spare
parts investment in Australasia represents an outlay of £lO,OOO.
It provides parts for every leading model that Indian has ever
built, The heavy expense and large organisation essential to
such service deter many makers from a similar enterprise, yet
the matter is one of vital importance to the prospective motor-
cycle purchaser.
Catalogue D with Pleasure.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor Cycte Co. Pty.
Ltd.. 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros. Lid., 156 Castlereagh
Street.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd. s 75-79 Pirle
Street
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
i *irur>ccTnij d " and Creek Streets.
LAUNCESTON ; John King & Sons Ltd..
, Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency.
Hay Street
II
» 7
I m
m MJmm
Write for Particulars and Quotations,
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
# <MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
TheMo Refrigerators
The Electric Iceman
Automatically Starts and
Stops.
No Ice Required.
Makes Its Own Ice.
Low, Even Temperature.
Perishable Poods Preserved —No
More Spoiling.
The Isko can be fitted to any
Ice Chest at very small cost.
Visitors to the Royal Agricul-
tural Show should not tail to
inspect this wonderful Machine.
Can he seen in the Royal Hall
of Industries.
Stands Nos. 187 and ISO.
SOLE AGENTS—
Benson Brothers L'j;
76=78 Liverpool Street,
SYDNEY.
WtmwM
( '% • i'?
r v. m
1 llliil
g* r.
• : ■ ;
1
Wimmlmtiim
mmlmSam
\
$ tm.
m m
NORTH
BRITISH
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
"The Tyres that
are Superior”
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY.
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
New South Wales: William Crosby & Co., 20 Loftus St., Sydney
Victoria: Nortn British Tyre Agency Prop. Ltd.,
_ 525-527 Collins St., Melbourne
Queensland: Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Adelaide St.,Brisbane
South Australia: Phoenix Motor Co., 114-122 Pirie St., Adelaide.


See This Woolbale?
YM
It contains the Best Possible Advice
to Sheepowners.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
WOOLBROKERB, LTD.
Sydney AND Brisbane.
w*
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
US West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE , PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO ansi OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
BALL BEARINGS.
13,300 Series
Light Type
1200 Series
Light Type
2200 Series
Wide Type
[£H
1300 Series
Medium Type
2300 Series
Wide Type
400 Series
Heavy Type
1400 Series
Large, Extra Heavy Type
GARDNER, W£RN
& CO, . ■
Melbourne Head Office —
384 City Road, 5. Melbourne.
Showroom : 369 Flinders Street.
Sydney: 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane : 367 Queen Street.
fcHMAN
PUTS A SPARKLE
IN YOU
Because it is made from only the purest juice
of the World Famous Tasmanian Apple. It is
not only a delicious Drink, but has a most excel-
lent tonic effect on the system. Doctors recom-
mend it for its diuretic properties. Order a
dozen from your grocer.
Victorian Agents:
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD, Melbourne.
Cider
M
M
M
ASK FOR A
MAKERS:
CRESS k C° UP
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Wholesale Agente-
cox & MAILER.
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
Aft Imitation is Not a Substitute —
If it were it would Not be an Imitation
It is impossible to emphasise the mutual importance of this fact.
The Ready-roofing business has become a game of
‘ ‘ Follow Master
with more than three hundred trailers following every move made by
RU-BER-OID, mimicking everything but the quality.
These imitations resemble the parisitic vines that sap the life of the
great oak —they try to live upon what they cannot produce.
The Manufacturers of
*RU* as RUSV_ m ggttft
tasfefiiD
COSTS MORE-WEARS LONGER
m
THOUGHT FIRST —ACTED FIRST. RU-BER-OID GREW
ON ITS MERITS—IT SELLS ON ITS MERITS ENTIRELY.
“No roof roofs like RU-BER-OID roofs” is a bold claim. It
may savor of egotism, but fortunately it is just the plain,
unvarnished truth.
MAY WE SHOW YOU THE PROOF?
Send for Samples and Prices to—
Agents: KINGLOC LTD., Camperdown, Sydney.
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
E. RICH & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
Sixth War Loan'
Serve your Country by Subscribing
It is your duty as a Citizen.
If you have not the money on
hand the Commonwealth Bank
will make liberal advances to
enable you to subscribe. }
Bonds held in safe custody free of charge
For all particulars apply to any Branch of the
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralla
February, 1918. . DENISON MILLER, Governor.
The Ipswich Gas and Coke Co. (Queens-
land) :
To Re- I
Feb., Profit. Dividend. Reserves, serves. 9
19X0.. £1869 lOp.c. = £l2OO £669 £55371
1911.. 2181 10 „ „ 1200 981 65181
1912.. 2417 10 „ „ 1700 717 72351
1913.. 2020 10 „ „ 2000 20 72551
1914.. 2102 10 „ „ 2000 102 73571
Written off. £BOO .. 65571
1915.. 2366 lOp.c. = 2466 6457 S
Transferred to capital, £6OOO 4571
1916.. 3423 lOp.c. = 3150 273 730]
1917.. 3042 8J„ „ 2934 108 838 j
Dec., • .1
1917.. 3425 94 „ „ 2848 577 1415]
Under the Queensland Gas Act accounts]
are to be made up to December 31 in each
year; so those now submitted are for 10
months only. Avoiding an error of the
N.S.W. Act, the Queensland Parliament
didn’t fix a standard price. Instead it pro-
vided for a referee, who was to ascertain
(a) the cost of manufacture and (b) the
capital in the undertaking, add 8£ p.c. on
the capital to the total cost, and, after
making certain fixed allowances for cash-
discount and gas-leakage, arrive thus at the
price to be charged per thousand to the
public. It is a fairer scheme than that
contained in either the old or the amended
N.*S. Wales measure, though 84 p.c. is too
much interest to allow. If a co. raises a
lot of money on cheap debentures or by an
issue of pref. shares, it may easily pay 12
p.c. on its ordinary capital; and as the
referee in fixing the cost (and therefore the
selling) price had to allow for depreciation,
there is no visible reason why a Queensland
gas co. should ever pay less than 81 p.c. so
long as it has a monopoly. And by getting
the use of money for less than 81 p.c. it
ought generally to pay more. But it is not
compelled to charge the high rate which the
referee necessarily had to fix by following
the law: it may conclude that it will pay
better to encourage consumption by smaller
charges. The Ipswich Co., with a share
capital of £36,000, is financially very snug;
for though plant, etc., has been nearly
doubled during the past five years, the
directors have got in the. cash to do it with,
increasing the share capital from £20,000 to
£36,000.
The Wellington Trust, Loan and In-
vestment Co. (Wellington, M.L.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1907 ..£12,278 8 p.c. = £B,lOO £4178 £44,334
Property,written down, £l7OO. . 42,634
1908 .. 10,572 8 p.c. = 8,100 2472 45,106
1909 . . 10,460 8 „ „ 8,100 2360 47,466
1910 . . 11,369 8 „ „ 8,100 3269 50,735
Property written down, £877 . . 49,858
1911 .. 12,086 8 p.c. - B,lo*o 3986 53,844
Premiums on new shares .. 4744 58,588
1912 .. 12,091 B*p.e.= 8,766 3325 61,913
Premiums on new shares . . 3514 65,427 |
1913 .. 12,174 9 p.c. = 11,230 944 66,371
Internal reserves disclosed 200 66,571
1914 .. 13,632 9 p.c.= 11,260 2382 68,953
1915 .. 12,020 9 „ „ 11,250 770 69,723
1916 .. 12,413 9 „ „ 11,250 1163 70,886
1917 .. 9,375 1i„ „ 9,375 70,886
That is a slump of about £3OOO below recent
profits; but nothing else could be ex-
pected. First, there is the increased taxa-
tion. Land and income taxes have moved
along in this brisk way: 1914, £866; 1915,
£1956; 1916, £2535; 1917, £5510. Some
concerns can, of course, very well afford to
carry all the extra war imposts that are
being put upon them, as the war is booming
their business. But cos. like this are not in the
boom. This concern has over half a million
of mortgages and other securities, and as
the capital value falls while the demand
for money grows, foreclosures become more
frequent—except, of course, where a mora-
torium intervenes. So a new item drops in
among the outgoings: “Depreciation busi-
ness premises and other property”—not
much yet; only £507; but unpleasantly sig-
nificant.
• > •
However, the directors are apparently not
concerned about the future, and they con-
tinue to lend money, themselves borrowing
to do it. This next comparison shows the
movements: —•
1905. 1915 1916. 1917.
Capital & reserves 139,604 200,348 201,511 199,636
Liabilities.. .. 308,5.79 366,880 383,833 392,131
Mortgages, etc. .. 429,106 528,871 545,659 554,901
Freeholds .. .. 3,500 14,586 14,286 13,7*9
Interest owing .. 5,566 7.324 7,803 8,120
Liquid assets .. 10,011 16,447 17,596 14,967
Of the liabilities £386,535 is* debited to
“Deposits and interest and investors”; and
a lot depends on how ,that money is held.
Property values in Australia and Maoriland
are governed largely by the abundance or
otherwise of loan money; and as we go on
borrowing jags, followed by periods of whip-
ping the cat, property values see lots of
violent ups and downs. Finance cos.’ losses
are nearly always due to the fact that they
are not able to carry their bundle from peak
to peak, but have to unload when they are
down in the valley; and in nine cases out
of ten they have to do that because their
own creditors want their money. Hence
until one knows more about and
interest and investors” than the published
accounts tell him, one knows very little
about this co. That the depositors and in-
vestors are safe enough seems quite certain,
though. The co. owes £392,000. Deduct
£23.000. liquid assets in hand; arid you get
£369,000 of debt represented by £554,901 of
mortgages and £13,779 of business premises
and other property. There is a wide enough
buffer there to carry the creditors over
almost any conceivable bump.
* * * *
A man really has to be careful when he
is writing official reports about wayback
shows. Twelve months ago Oliver, Director
of Mines, Northern Territory, visited
Hatch’s Creek wolfram field, the most re-
mote working claims in Australia —over 300
miles from anywhere. Oliver’s report, which
lately arrived on the field, says the favorite
method of attack where the slope of the hill
is favorable is by open cut, the mullock
being disposed of by means of wheelbarrows.
Since then all Hatch’s Creek has been look-
ing for the wheelbarrows; and, curiously, one
can’t be discovered on the field. As a mat-
ter of fact the shifting of the spoil is ail
either shovel or windlass work.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.—
♦
/
fr
- t,i
At the War.
!
',cX
*
{
/ '
f/£f\ /,
M
. AH’*!*
mkkMi/u
WMJ .
M
imw’JMD* u
wm%%^
wz
MVr s
:V’t: > v -
Wm/,
V:
>v
£35
&
v/A
W/MM
M
Wfirl
W
//d
■ £
r
..
VJn
y
l€./ V
HKil
*
*5
ssr.ito»w
#?;
m
L M
n
*4C / d&&etfas&L
'k&m
<■;&&
«W
■M?
SfiS
/■.,
£«s®i
.
J
/ ■•f-*"
2P
. .p'-
"i
M<*A
J w 4
*>>-
(V- <a
|Pv. ; y w > r L‘
rVAI
2*' A .y
5
■il&f'P'sS*
£r ■•
i^'^3
3*V
;r y
—-w-'S-y
■ y
sf>
*
j
i&ZP *'><r« Jit
X’/
Mf > A .rx-S^li
4»T
H-fcL
€S
Cobra,” ~6he. Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim F 00,
Raids old Fritzie’
Trenches too.
Blows the yelling
H uns to pot.
Back they come,
The “COBRA” Three,
With a sample,
As you see.
When he’s told us
All he knows,
“COBRA” will
Wipe out our foes.


In the
EPSOM SHAPE
r WEAR
(P^£aco^
SHIRTS& PVJANIAS
ALSO
as illustrated, dignity and style
are both emphasised by the
smart, square-pointed effect.
The Epsom is one of the cele-
brated
family, and is made in sizes 13$
to 18 inches. Height lfin.,
linen-faced; price 9<3. each. A
higher-grade collar —same shape,
height and sizes—is distinguished
by the name “Austin.” Price
1/- each.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA,
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
M
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
mu 11 v times as efficient
ail'd powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the fir.ger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and Particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
Toy Dog Lovers 8 Breeders.
pOlt SALE.—ALL-BLACK
PUG PUPS, Coward
prize-winning stock; splendid heads, short
bodies. BLACK AND PAWN PUG STUD DOGS
AND BROOD BITCHES; PURE WHITE POMER-
ANIAN PUPS AND BROOD BITCHES: YOUNG
ORANGE POM. DOGS and handsome young PEKIN-
ESE DOG. Bargains—no reasonable offer refused.
Inspection invited. , „ T
KTRNTSANK, Arthur Street, Croydon, N.S.W.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
Si
Keep Cool.
Latest Improved Model.'
Runs on Methylated Spirits.
No Springs to get out of
order.
A producing a perfect
cool breeze.
Price £7/10/-
Write for catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
AIR GAS ENGINEERS,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
m
Worm
Powders
10/- Doz.
Alterative
Mixture
2/6, 5/-
Prepare Your Dogs for the
Coursing Season
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
AJso 'obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
» as announced by the Commonwealth Treasurer,
is prepared to
MAKE ADVANCES
to approved parties to enable them to subscribe to the
SIXTH WAR LOAN
up to V
90 PER CENT.
of the amount applied for upon the Security of the 4% per cent, and
5 per cent. Bonds or Stock.
INTEREST AT 4 PER CENT, PER ANNUM
1 ft
will be charged on the amount advanced —repayable by instalments
up to 18 MONTHS.
Particulars and all information available at any Branch of the Bank.
11th March, 1918. DENISON MILDER, Governor.
s *' i *3£3s
'SfiSS
Wfci
XX
From the
first mile
to the last
comfort is
ensured to
the cyclist
whose Saddle is a
BROOKS
Ask your dealer for con-
firmation and then test it by
comparison.
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his little way. He likes,
and must have, the best.
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the
battle. Then, what a boon to the
mother to use a food which requires
no tiresome cooking or preparation.
Mellin’s
Fbod
la made in a flash—needs no coolant
Send for sample of Mellin’s Food and Hand-
look fur Mothers ‘The Care of Infants’— Free
Messrs. Golt-im & Co. Proprietary
Ltd., Sydney
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & '
CAMERON UTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
£
“ they COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL 4 THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
M
DISTINCTIVE
APPEARANCE
is achieved more by good judgment
than money, and good judgment
chooses
ABBEY SHOES
as a rare combination of irreproach-
able correctness, and a fit that give,
the utmost comfort and makes tor
linger life of your footwear
geniune shoe service. v
We illustrate a- very smart Oxford
Shoe, in highest-grade Tan W ulow
Calf,
35/- and 4
Patent, 55/- and 42/-
In half and full sizes, and three
fittings—narrow, medium and wm •
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
abbey,
313 George Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney-
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
■Vo notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
Name and address must appear on the USS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no US. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
E.N.J.: But you don’t think that one
instance would alter the opinion of a man who has
formed his conclusion upon thousands of cases that
have come before him in 10 years, do y0u?....
Toare: Much obliged; will hold for reference when
that co.’s accounts next come up for dissection. By
the way, have you the accounts for 1915-16?
We find difficulty in getting them —naturally,
perhaps.... Aussie: No, thanks; we don’t want to
supply the gentleman with any more excuses for side-
tracking the shipbuilding question... .E.R.M.: Quite
true; they are still interned... .K.P.; Evidently you
don’t know who Andrews is... .Tom Smith: Archibald
started both of those pages. The only difference is
that, comparatively, less space is given to them nowa-
days... .Te Mata: Loaded in every line; and how
could we prove it a 11?... .R.A.Y.: Most mosquitoes
won’t breed in salt water; but parts cf the N. S.
Wales coast have a variety that will —probably the
only one in the w0r1d.... Dorothy L.: No, Dorothy;
it would shock the boys... .Lucius O’Trigger: Hay’s
dull brochure isn’t worth powder... .0.N.G.: If you’ve
got a good scheme for sending the paper safely to
your soldier-pal—and it is a likely scheme —keep it
dark....S. Simon: Ditto... .R.T.G. (Fiji): What it
comes to is this. Professor C. F. Andrews declares
that the conditions of the indentured Indians in Fiji
are deplorable and that their housing is abominable.
The Western Pacific Herald, complaining that this
is a mere sweeping generalisation, replies by saying
that “it is not only misleading but untrue.” Can’t
see how that clears the matter up.... Mark Lane:
Good copy! You have a nerve.... Somebody:
“Please tell ‘0.8.’ (B, 14/3/’] 8) that 1 wasn’t talk-
ing about Vic. Artists’ galleries, knowing nothing
of them, while apparently he knows nothing of any
others; so it was very rude of him to contradict
,me.” “O.B.” told accordingly... .J.E.: “Vintage”
and “Paths’’ are too thin.... A.D.: “Secret” doesn’t
move brightly.... W.J.P.: Nothing there G.L.:
We can’t find a yarn in “Wind and Wires.”... .Mono-
gram : It is stiff, conventional stuff without interest.
W.H.L.: Clumsy E.W.C.: N0....M.M.: Not
up. Winter doesn’t wed summer in May in this
country. Nor, by the way, has “hour” two syllables.
But keep 0n... .Culkah: You might have made a
yarn of that if you had taken pains... .Mina: It
hasn’t the feeling. .. .M.A.: Not quite... .J.H.C.:
No use slopping things down like that. Easy writ-
ing makes hard reading. .. .Bally: You have the
material; now get to serious work and use it....
J.R.: ‘‘Peas” not edible.... .A.F.0.: It would be
hard to do much worse... .Henry IX.: What’s it all
about, Nonus?... .Mag: “Rendezvous” no u5e.....
P. 8.: Very lame verse.... J.F.N.: Careless stuff
and spoiled by undisguised attempts to be mirthful.
.....A.E.H.; The yarn doesn’t go far.... Blue Bush:
We don’t care for it... .P.J.N.: Doesn’t really say
anything.. .O.B.: Nice open-air flavor about it: —
Here I am with Uncle Sam on the golden plain,
From morning to night we have to fight
In the dust and rust to gather the golden grain.
For it’s Uncle’s delight when he’s working half the
night.
Now from day to day you will hear. Uncle say:
“Shove the machinery along for it’s going to rain,
For-all time lost each day I’ll have to pay
So keep the cogs a-turning and there be nothing to
complain.”
. ...Blokey: Not nearly up. ...8.A.: The “Dream
Ship” carries a poor cargoG.H.: Not up....
Jamais: N 0... .C.D.S.: Verse far too rough....
E. Commonplace F.J.F.: “Northern Night”
boggles with grammar at the third line... .E.C.:
Cat-killing yarns are very numerous. And as a rule
very obvious J.C.“Suwarrow” is too long for its
interest L.8.J.: It seems too machine-made....
J.A.: Sorry, but none of the verses are up... .A.F.F.:
Shocking... .F. Mant: Will make a fine par.....
F. There’s a good yarn in “Macgregor,” but you
were in too much of a hurry to tell it... :F.L.H.:
“Audacity” and “Wage” are dull in thought and
movement. The others too rugged and irregular....
E.M.8.: “Midsummer” is slight and not too well
done A.H.L.: Commonplace verse of no merit....
E.J.G.: The verses are as dead as the “Days”....
Kangaretta: Those “ghosts” can’t walk here... .F.P.:
What on earth do you mean by “Her stiffened ears
doth hidey ?”.... J.G.J.: P00r... .D.P.M.: After care-
ful search we can’t find the “merit”... .L.H.: Can’t
undertake to discuss stuff like that by post... .Noona:
Nothing there... .Bellerive: Vivid fragment with a
wide appeal:—
Only a flea, a restless flea,
A flea of the sultry night;
Only a flea, a diabolical flea,
The flea that prancefli and bite;
’Twill boldly leap, deprive you of sleep,
Will cause you to wriggle and scratch;
Only a flea, a pest of a flea,
But a deuced hard insect to catch.
... .R.H.: “Old Jim” is a tedious person tied to bad
verse.... Abbie: If this paper had a bit more space
“Mr. Gummer” would occupy some of it.... Wm. J.
Undercliff: Sorry, but we don’t know enough of the
business to express an opinion. Remember this,
though: the value and success of a co-operative con-
cern can’t be judged by the amount of profit it
makes. That has to be gauged by the amount of
profit it keeps middlemen from making out of the
co-operators.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Jack II.: Thin little drawing'. .. .M.M.8.: The
lady’s toes must be made of iron. There isn’t a
trace of annoyance on her face..: . J.J.H.: You can’t
pour old gags into new drawings.... J.C.: Both gents
badly drawn and the stone balcony is wrong....
K.W.C.: No use to u5....G.R.: Flat as pancakes and
thin as water. Study for a year or two and try again.
. ...5.0.: Well, you filled in time.... J.V.G.: Small
scratches.... P.F.C.: Labored jest and your drawing
is primitive... .G.E.S.: Some promise in it, but you
have the excellent fault of being only a beginner....
C.H.: Gag about two years late L.R.T.: An im-
possible thing.. ..J.M.C.: Crooked, thunderstruck
people A.N.: Don’t care for your loungers....
T.R.: Old gag-—new drawing. ... D.D.T. : Early ex-
periments in faint pencil... .Westmorland: Uncle
Sam’s clothes don’t fit him. Nothing could fit the
sort of Uncle you've invented.
Randolph Bedford writes :
(Re Pearce and his Department of Expense and
“G.J.H.’s” complaint of tremendous deliberation in
the muddler’s correspondence. My son left Australia
early in November after a final leave to see me in
Queensland. After he had been four weeks on the
water, the alert Department wrote me saying it had
given him leave to proceed to Queensland. That’s
the way to win wars.


THIRTY-ONE CHAMPIONSHIPS
and
ONLY SIX YEARS OLD.
%• t.
X
2p
>
%
•. . V
fe
a
*
A
i
i
v
A
n ?
i
I
Hi
I
.
f# * | •# ~
Ml ... * 'i .... ft % ? 4m'W £
I
,1
B ' .WM
i
.. && 1$
:
■
MSSE* Mt; i «NHH
I
:<&' V vV;;j
$
m
i
nipA*
TPF?/ Y?J
“ KING OF DOMINOES/"
HI
CrV :
That is the wonderful record established by
Mr. LovelocK’s Friesian Bull "King£ of Dominoes.”
Mr. LOVELOCK says: —“l have used Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal ever since it teas introduced into New Zealand. I include it in the rations given to my pedigree Friesian
cattle, both for milk tests and in preparing them for shows. The Champion Friesian Bull ‘King of Dominoes,’ the winner of thirty-one championships and many more first prises,
has been fed on Meggitt's Meal.”
EQUALLY EFFECTIVE FOR SHOW OR SERVICE.
Mr. WHITE, Beenak, knows the benefit to be derived by Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal. He said: —“Since using your Linseed Meal my bullocks have done wonder-
fully well. After one week on the Meal their coats shone and looked glossy. Bullocks fed on Meal never get Compaction. They won’t eat the chaff now without the Meal.”
Commence feeding' your stocß with tHis Hig'Hly
t
GGITTS
PNSEEdoilmeal
MEEGITTII?
PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.
nutritious fodder, and obtain similar
results, with your horses, cows, calves,
pig's and poultry.
Quality tells.
That is why Meggitt’s gives results.
PAMPHLET No. 2, INSTRUCTING HOW TO FEED, MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents:
Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Wm. Adams Ltd., Perth; Clarkson Ltd. Adelaide; Blair Reed & Co., 0.P.0. Box 941,
Wellington; R. S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston.
or
MEGGITT LTD.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal Manufacturers),
26 Ring' Street, Sydney.


Snipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraph}'. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Eor all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
tares.
Apn’y
ORIENT S. N. CO.. Lta..
Tel.—City 424 G, 2 ,4, 6 Spring Street,
481 o! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY N
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
HUNDABKIiG
*IIOOKHAMPTON |
(Pt. Alina Wharf.) (.
MACKAY
TOWNS VI RLE
OATRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, March 27
Leaves Sydney, March 30.
BOMEALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, April 10.
Leaves Sydney. April 13.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping 1 '
S.A. and \V.A. por
"Passengers only.
*.}
ts) J
SOUTH.
BOMBALA f4OOO Tons).
Leaves Sydney, April 5.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etcl, from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ItanUiiiK, Public Companies,
). Itl t,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THUS. WELSBY (Chairman); The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (l)eputv Chairman) ;
William davies; e. h. macartney, m.l.a. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, Iv.C.M.G. ; lion. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Hear! Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
.London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies'Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, .Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HUAI* OFFICES - - - BRISBANE.
Brunches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £116,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman:
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager ; C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Walks
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. Mew Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Kiida, Melbourne.
Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping See.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
the “ALE-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIt
RAILWAY, Across the I-'ainous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKE'
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) ANF
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN TOINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
through Hookings to Any Part of tlie United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Paeiflc Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL. SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
\\ aikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
■
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital -
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
Directors:
£3,904,860
£2,875,000
£3,904,860
The Hon. Six Charles K. Maclvellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker*
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buekland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
- J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Petrol
costs too much. Economise by using “GASO-
LETTE.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Full, directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Miliars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
684 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the wo r ’
Invest Your Savings
at the highest rate of interest compatible with safety. This Bank gives
undoubted security.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
The STATE Savings Institution.
HEAD OFFICE: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/- upwards. Interest at 3f per cent, on every
complete £ up to £5OO.
2/6 paid in weekly will amount to £2O/9/9 in 3 years.
10/- paid in weekly will amount to £B2/5/3 in 3 years.
The Bank that Pays 3f% Interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. RUPARA, March 23.
S.S. MORIALTA, March 30.
S.S. PARINGA, April 6.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
j Your Boy is Fighting for Liberty. Back
him up—BUY WAR LOAN BONDS.
G. S. lUILI & CO., LTD
Agems. 6 HIUDGIi STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
.' 000 tons > eveiy four weeks, from Sydney, Mel-
bouine and Adelaide to West Australia and vice versa,
as advertised in daily newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
I? rom Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, applv
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN' SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERICA—CANADA
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:-, OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
, United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
barge airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRIiLESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; MelL WRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
I WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS: also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Comoniation Tickets are issueu in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Mtirwillumhah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Hough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
ire too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is-scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
HOOKE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne
k LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bkitisii Austkal-
aSlaN, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
■ ontaining mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the Kbitisii Austsalasian
Heading Room at the Offices. 115 High IJol-
born. London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
ebarge.


War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, op Money Order Post Offices
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 „ „ £5
£8 15 0 „ „ £lO
£43 15 0 „ „ £5O
£37 lO 0 „ „ £lOO
£875 O 0 „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6 9 War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank ok Australia. October, 1917 J
Don’t Experiment.
The Real Thing in Razors is the “Plum.” Gets
through the job in a quarter the time, and makes
the business a pleasure. “The ‘PLUM’S’ tire Razor.”
THE "PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 CEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
/established over SO years.
M
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold tn Ttns by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM
Razor.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non^a^erient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Biles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WOftui)
for BLEEDING PILES. Euab. 1891.
THE AUSTRALIAN
SKANDIA”
(f
&
%
Marine, Stationary & Portabb Engines
c • *
'' 1 « ' W
. ' t $
m
■»— , • iiji
Unlimited Supply
of Oil Fuel.
M
Loftus Street, Sydney.
CARTRIDGES
ForTbur Pistol or Revolver,
BS3
m
*O,
t a '°r
fi
7
A 3
REGARDLESS of tke make of your arm.
Remington UMG pistol and revolver car*
tridges give you maximum results. TLey func-
tion an automatic perfectly and are clean and
accurate. Try tkem. Catalogue upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMG COMPANY t |
D. D. BRYANT. Manner
Box 686. Melbourne
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
THE LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C'., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., ICC.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq. ’ *
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
„ J DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 ..£868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ..£21.560 000
Ihe Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards,
w rite for prospectus and full information with out delay.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Officesj 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DENBY
MOTOR LORRIES
II
1-7-3 and 5 Tons
Capacities.
crtiira cv.
TBk
7:4s
While the use of trailers cancels the guaranty on many trucks,
Denby encourages them.
That’s because the wonderfuli pulling power of the Denby motor,
and the sturdy efficiency of the Denby internal-gear rear axle,
enable Denby trucks to haul trailers without the slightest danger of
damage to the truck itself.
And there are many lines of business—perhaps yours is among them
—where trailers will cut the delivery investment in two.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable Address: “DENTRUX.”
Cable Codes: Western Union and ABC sth Edition.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S.A.
Edison BlueAmberol
Records for March.
M
Included among this month’s list are some very charm-
ing Easter Hymns, and altogether a fine range of records
is available.
“Gloria” and “Crucifix,” by Arthur Middleton and
Alice Verlet with Orphee Langevin respectively are
records of the highest type of beauty.
Popular items include “When You and I were Young,
Maggie” (Walter Van Brunt and Chorus) ; “Story of
Chicken Little” (A Bed-time Story, by Edna Bailey) ;
“American Eagle March” (New York Military Band) ;
“Aloha Oe” (Ford Hawaiians) ; and “Band Festival at
Plum Center” (Ada'Jones, Byron G. Harlan and Steve
Porter).
Blue Amberol Concert Records
282S7—Crucifix, Soprano and Baritone, in
French, orch. acc.
Alice Verlet and Orphee Langevin.
28258—Gloria—taster Hymn. Baritone, orch.
aec. Arthur Middleton.
Blue Amberol Regular Records ~
3130 —When You and I Were Young, Maggie.
Tenor, oreh. acc.
Walter Van Brunt and Chorus.
3134 —I’m Going Back to California (That’s
Where I Belong). Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard and Chorus.
3137 Naughty ! Naughty ! Naughty ! —Show
of Wonders. Soprano, orch. ace.
Gladys Rice.
3138 — Dancing the Du Da Du Da Dae—
Descriptive, oreh. acc
Byron G. Harlan and Chorus.
3141 — Waialae Medley—Waltz.
Waikiki Hawaiian Orchestra.
3142 American Eagle March.
New York Military Band.
3144 Jesus Lives 1 Easter Hymn. Mixed
Voices, orch. acc. The Calvary Choir.
3145 Angels, Roll the Rock Away—Easter
Hymn. Mixed Voices, orch. acc.
The Calvary Choir.
3147—Little by Little and Bit by Bit—Go to
It. Tenor, orch. acc. Billy Murray.
3148 — Songs of Other Days—No. 5, Mixed
Voices, orch. aec.
Metropolitan Mixed Chorus.
3149 Aloha Oe, B'aritone and Chorus, orch.
ace. Ford Hawaiians.
3150 One Kiss, and All Is O'er. Tenor, orch.
aec. George Wilton Ballard.
3151 Marie, My Own Marie. Soprano, orch.
acc. Gladys Rice.
3152 Band Festival at Plum Center (Rube
Sketch with Band).
Ada Jones, Byron G. Harlan and
Steve Porter.
3154—Sari Waltz. • Imperial Marimba Band.
3156;—Santa Lucia (Neapolitan Boat Song).
■ Baritone, in Neapolitan. Orch. aec.
< Fernando Guaneri.
3157 Story of Chicken Little. A Bed-time
Story. Edna Bailey.
3158 Coon Waiters, Vaudeville Sketch with
Banjo. Billy Golden & Jswnes' Marlowe.
3160—Shall We Gather at the River ? Mixed
Voices, orch. acc. Metropoli tan Quartet.
27039—Bouquet de valses.
Garde Republieaine (F Tench) Band.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Xent Street,, Sydney.


THE GRESHAM,
BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
Under the new management of T. M. Ahern, the
following improvements have been completed: New
Commodious Lounge, whole of Ground Floor;
New Dining-room, seat 150 persons ; New Kitchen ;
New Automatic Elevator; New Hot-water Sys-
tem throughout; New Bathrooms & Lavatories.
IT’S
M
how I find I can
get sway for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
R. R. Russack, S77a Elizabeth St., Syd-
ney; Philip Frankel & Co., Edward St.,
Brisbane; Eyes Sc Crowle Etd., Pirie
St., Adelaide; Geo. C. Carter, Box 300
G.P.0., Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto.
Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
Used the
World Over
3
MOTOR
...CARS
For Sale.
il> EAUTIFUL BEACH - FRONTAGE
-13 COTTAGE RESIDENCE, suit retir-
ing Farmer, etc. Handy to town, Gas and
Water, every convenience, nice boat. Price
£950—£350 deposit—£Goo can remain at
6i p.c.
Photos, particulars, etc., from
F. W. ROSE,
Primrose Avenue,
Sandringham.
~ m m\
>S
9
\
«PB
Sit down right away and send Finney’s
an order —keep the mailman busy bringing
you bargains from Finney’s Sale of Sales.
Working Trousers Reduced.
Men’s Hard-wearing- Cotton
Tweed Trousers, good patterns,
strongly made, side or cross
pockets; sizes 3 to 7.
Osually .. 7/6 8/11 9/6 11/6
Sale Prices 6/11 7/11 8/6 10/3
Men’s Trousers for best wear,
neat worsted designs, plain and
gauntlet bottoms; sizes 3 to 7.
Usually—
-14/6 15/6 16/6 21/- 22/6
Sale Prices—
-13/6 14/- 15/- 19/- 20/-
Flannel Shirts Reduced.
Flannel Undershirts, of soft Grey
Australian Flannel. Usually 6/6.
Sale Price.. /.
3 for
5/6
16/-
Better quality. Usually 8/6.
Sale Price
3 for
7/6
22/-
Ipswieh Flannels,
ally 8/11.
Sale Price
Grey. Usu-
7/9
Finney’s Pay
the Carriage.
Riding Trousers
Reduced.
Men s Venetian Twist Trousers,
o S ’! lta i ile 01 ' saddle use;
sizes 3 to i. in Fawns, Browns
and Greys. Usually 307-
Sale Price .
26/6
Men’s Cotton Garbicord Trousers,
sizes 3 to 7. In Fawn and Khaki
shades. Usually 10/6. /o
Sale Price.. u/0
WRITE TO-DAY EVERYTHING’S REDUCED
The Big Block,
BRISBANE.
ISLES f CO. LTD.,
The Drapers of
Queensland.
POVERTY
POINTS
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES
SUPCE
FLATURES
“Gallery G.”: Most amusing chaps, these
producers. One in Sydney has a cure of his
own for fainting. The other night, during a
particularly exhausting bit of stage “busi-
ness,” one of the. chorus girls flopped. At
the first opportunity Mr. Drivem made a
little speech to the co. and announced that
the next girl who fainted would be put off
for a week. Go on the stage, young woman
—go on the stage!
“Stargazer”: With regard to reflections
upon the utility of the surprise drama {vide
“Ibsenshaw” and some
others), can any line
be laid down and spiked
to hard-and-fast sleepers
with regard to this par-
ticular form of play?
You cannot say em-
phatically and forever
that it is right or
wrong, bad or good.
A play so fabricated
may be intolerable or
exceedingly pleasing. It
is all in the making.
If a drama gives you
good character and
strong or interesting
situations, the fact that
it is a surprise packet
is not going to destroy
your delight in it, any
more than finding a
sovereign in your box
of lollies prejudices you
against the sweets.
The surprise in the
play, as in the O. Henry
•story, should be an
added inducement.
TAYLOR
DARBYSHIRE,
J.C.W. Ltd.'s New
Associate Director.
Sol Bloom, who some years ago was well
known hereabouts as a Shakspearean
reader and (in his spare time) as a lawyer,
has been heard from with a Chicago address
to his notepaper. Sol has apparently got rid
of his Parliamentary ambitions (he once
gave ex-Labor leader Prendergast a good run
in North Melbourne), but is still keen on the
stage and takes a leading part in the “Little
Theatre” movement. Incidentally, Solomon
is full of admiration for Uncle Sam’s Navy
Department, but declares that so far as his
other war organisation is concerned he
hasn’t much to be proud of, and the cry of
“Graft!” is loud in the land.
“S.S.”: It was at a concert in Melbourne
a few nights ago. The portly soprano was
singing “The End of a Perfect Day,” and
was getting well down to it, with more
energy than art, and more vivacity than
voice, when a baby interpolated a protest.
The infant continued its cries, and presently
the singer stopped dead. Then came the
voice: “Ah, thanks! Now we can hear the
baby.”
A pretty youngster with large eyes named
Avery is understudy to Maggie Dickenson in
the Whittington panto., just gone on tour.
Understudy was given a solo dance in the
last hilarious week of the Melbourne run.
“T. 0.1.”: The first effort to establish sub-
scription opera in Australia was made by
George Coppin in Melbourne in September,
1856. When the public was appealed to no
less than £2OOO was promptly subscribed.
However, the promoter, to the disappoint-
ment of the subscribers, intimated that the
money would be returned, Anna Bishop and
Coppin having disagreed as to -terms. The
Theatre Royal, built by John Black, who
made a pile carrying tucker to the diggings,
was to have housed the co.
MELBOURNE BIJOU. “ROBINSON
CRUSOE .”
Robinson Crusoe
(Victor Prince).
Puren Chaste
(Percy Clifton).
“8.T.0.”: It’s a real get-ripe-quick vari-
ety of stage peach that makes everyone’s
fortune in “Turn to the Right.” The crop
is dead-ripe and threatening to rot when
the ex-crooks get going on it in the third
act; the fourth act comes 10 months later,
and then the alleged peach-trees are in full
blossom. So there are only a couple of
months from flowering to picking time. The
common or garden peach takes more than
twice as long.
t “Barbavano”: When did Stannis Leslie
sing for us in grand opera (B. 24/1/T8) ?
He sang in the chorus of “Faust,” when
Nellie Stewart was Marguerite at the Prin-
cess’s Theatre. He also carolled the Sen-
try’s Song in “lolanthe”; but you can
hardly call that grand opera. Stannis, 30
years ago, could sing “Drinking” and “I Fear
No Foe” with any baritone or basso in Aus-
tralia ; but his nervous system prevented his
advancement, and he has never sung a solo or
taken a part in g.o. in all his 35 years’ con-
nection with the Australian stage.
“Eddyson’s” tale of the track: —
Tom Bonnet at the sleeper-cutters’ camp at Jim-
erow saw him coming down the line, “walking the
timber,” a tall, bony figure shouldering a small
bundle on the end of a stick. He was a precise
replica of the broken tragedian of the comic press,
and obviously he was tramping back, a remnant of
the dramatic co. that had run on the rocks and gone
to pieces at Boolbool a week before. But his feet
were his most noticeable feature. They were done up
in linen bundles, reminding Bonnet of the roly-
poly puddings his mother made when he was a kid,
and their owner balanced on them as if the world
were red hot. The sleeper-cutter had gone “hot foot”
himself in his day, and this poor blighter was 100
miles from Poverty Point and 15 from anywhere.
Bonnet called him and he came hobbling down with
painful alacrity. Arrived in front of the sleeper-cutter,
he raised his battered belltopper and said: “You called
sir? Excuse me if I sit.” He sat straight down in
the dirt, took up his larger foot very fondly, sighed
deeply and said: “Ah, that is better!” “Come far?”
asked Tom. “Far?” said the actor. “Far? From
the uttermost ends of the earth, sir. I had boots
when I started. Observe I have now no feet.”
“What,” said Bonnet casually, “of a drink and a
bit of dinner?” The old actor thought it over. “A
drink ?” he said. “Are there still drinks ? And
dinner i I have forgotten dinner, sir. And did you
say boots, sir—boots ?” “I daresay that can be
managed.” “Boots —aha-a!” He smacked his lips.
“Boots! Misery, sir, is an empty stomach, two bare
feet and a long road. Boots —aha-a 1” Bonnet took
Harold Branston into the camp. Five other hard,
timber-stained bushwhackers welcomed him. They
gave him treatment good for sore feet. Don Stoney
fitted him out with clean, soft socks and a pair of
pliable and roomy boots. He had whisky and a
regular meal. He paid them with recitations from
Henley, and with “Denver’s Dream” and Shakspearean
fragments, and was put to bed in Rowe’s tent, Rowe
being away at Wellend on his semi-annual jag. Only
Stoney saw the show right through. He awoke
unaccountably at about two in the morning, and
the fierce glare in his tent brought him up and out.
Tom Bonnet’s tent was one great flame, Harold
Branston was darting from Rowe’s ten-by-eight. He
did the thing in the approved dramatic manner.
He stood a moment before the blazing tent in the
attitude the stage hero invariably assumed when
about to do or die, he threw two appealing hands to
Heaven. “Me Gardl” he cried, “he is within.” Then
he dived into the fire, and the next moment
reappeared carrying Bonnet as the splendid hero of
the play always carries whatever he has rescued from a
hideous death. Bonnet was smoking hot, so was
Branston. Both called for a great deal of attention
and both appeared next morning elaborately done up
in the fragments of four white shirts. Branston had
his arm in a sling, and his eyebrows were singed
off, a roast ear was done up in a neat bundle, and
one leg was raw. Bonnet expressed his honest
gratitude. “You saved my life,” he said; “well,
any damn thing I can do for you, now or ever, I’ll
do. You can have all I’ve got. There’s my camp—
it’s yours as long as you like.” Harold warded
off all this gratitude as the hero always does. “Not
so, my dear fellow,” he said. “No talk of reward.
I could not dream of it.” Harold swung across R.,
bowed elaborately R.C., and made his exit R.U.E.
That evening a trap was provided to take him on
to Wellend, but before leaving the eminent tragedian
plucked Bonnet’s elbow and drew him tinder cover.
“Eh, eh, private,” he said, “most important. You
eh-expressed some gratitude and eh-eh-appreciation
of my ah-little effort. You were serious—quite
serious? “I meant it,” insisted Bonnet, “every
woyd, of it.” “Thank you, sir—thank you. Then,
eh, privately, you know, and strictly between our-
selves, would you-eh— would you loan me a shilling?”
“11. J.”: “Snowy” Baker makes a strenu-
ous screen dgbut in “The Enemy Within.”
Many of the wonderful feats done by actors
in the American nfcovie dramas are faked;
but Snowy scorned anything but the dinkum
article. When the hero at Los
Angela wishes to climb up the face of a
building, the producer orders a replica of
the front of a building from the property
department. The director lays this flat on
the ground, and orders the hero to wriggle
across it, while the camera man, looking
down from a platform close by, photographs
it until the hero reaches the “top” of the
edifice. Snowy with honesty of purpose
climbed over the face of a cliff 300 ft. high,
dived 80ft into the sea, and rescued the
heroine from a watery grave. The result on
the screen does not justify the risk. Two
hundred yards or more from the spectator
a white speck is seen moving slowly down
the face of the rock. After he had made the
big dive, and got to the rock to rescue the
heroine, he found that she was scared stiff,
and that he was in for something strenuous.
Baker says he was never before so near
drowning. He is doing another picture, but
this time there will be a little judicious
faking, as, Mrs. Baker has tacked up the
motto: “Safety First.”
From London:—
Plays for children have become as much a feature
of Christmas as pantomimes. “Bluebell in Fairy-
land is one, and Ellaline Terriss, though now she has
a big daughter of her own, still plays the name-part.
On the other hand, this year’s “Alice in Wonder-
land” has a 10-year-old Alice; Hayden Coffin brings
his fine voice into the part of the Mad Hatter.' This
play has been running more or less for 30 years.
“Peter Pan” is now aged 13. Martin Lewis (of
Milestones and “Bella Donna” in Australia) is
this year’s Mr. Darling. A fresh piece, in
its second winter, is “The Happy Family,” de-
signed by the animal-painter Cecil Aldin; most of
the players are children, but William Cromwell (in
Australia long ago in “Miss Hook of Holland”) has
a big part as Peter the Pig. “Charley’s Aunt” and
“The Private Secretary” are regular and safe
Christmas pieces; the latest Secretary is Charles
Walenn, who played Gilbert and Sullivan comedy-
leads in Australia.
Peter Dawson is one of the fortunate
artists without any stories to tell of early
struggle. His family owns a prosperous
metal-working business in Adelaide, where
he was born in 1882. C. J. Stevens w T as his
chief teacher there, and the pupil sang in both
Orpheus and Choral Society, as well as in the
choir of St. Andrew’s (Presbyterian). At
19 he was sent by dad to London to study
under Santley; and when he came back to
Australia in 1908 his reputation was alreadv
made in grand opera at Covent Garden.
“L.11.P.”: “Glen Huntley’s” par. (B.
7/3/18) re Luscombe Searelle composing a
“ Aladdin ,” at Sydney
Palace.
Bert Bailey as Widow
Twankey.
fourth opera called
“Isidora” is wrong.
“The Black Rover,”
mentioned by “8.J.”
(B. 21/2/18), was
the name given to
“Isidora” when the
opera was presented
at the London Globe.
In Australia it was
known as “Isidora,”
and was first pro-
duced by Majeroni
and Wilson at Mel-
bourne Bijou on July
C. 1885. Florence
Saville was one of
the principals, and
had a rattling fine
song, “The Legend
of the Black Rover.”
Grade P 1 ais t e d
played Isidora;
Browning was the
Black Rover. I saw
it done at Dunedin
by the same co. early
in 188 G with a few
of the original prin-
cipals.
. “Mat”: The pictures look like wrecking
an old-time custom in India. The upper
classes hide their faces behind a heavy veil ;
but the film has got hold of higli caste its
well as low. To see the show the obstruc-
tion has to be got rid of somehow. Re-
cently a lady of high degree vaulted the
obstacle by hanging a mosquito-net from the
top of the box, through which she viewed
the show —and uncovered her face!
THE LAST LUNCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne publicans have definitely abolished the
free lunch.
His face was grave. He looked at me,
And in his eye there shone
A melancholy sore to see.
“The world is passing on,”
In low, sepulchral tone said he;
“My last free lunch is gone.
“The counter-lunch has had its day.
Its finish is a crime,
For ’twas the actor’s prop and stay.
Full often in my time,
When he was elsewhere turned away,
It fed the resting mime.
“The darkest hours of art it lit.
The actor gaunt and slim
Had but to bag a thrip’ny-bit,
When finding fortune grim—•
A mere threepenny-piece, and it
Was meat and drink to him.
“I’m growing old. With Punch and down
I’ll maunder in the calms
Of senile years, and speak renown,
And clap my withered palms
For days when any pub in town
Was still The Actor’s Alms.
“On that last lunch I worked my will,
Then spoke a grace: ‘O Thou
Who feed’st the little sparrow still,
As Scripture doth avow,
Is there on earth one left who’ll fill
The actor’s swallow now ?’ ”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
FILM FRENZY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A telephone, a double-bed, a vampire and a crook,
A millionaire, a tape-machine, a flapper with a book.
A mining-camp, a faro-bank, a pile that’s lost and
won,
A frame-up and a double-cross, a Greaser with a gam.
A bad man and a tenderfoot, a rough-house homi-
cide,
A lost soul of the underworld, a sheriff’s lonely ride.
A coyote and a cowboy, in chaparajos and slouch,
A train or two, a faithful nig., a half-breed with a
grouch.
A burro and a broncho and a million dollars cash,
A long-lost child, a precipice, a dreadful auto smash.
A calumet, a cocktail, a catastrophe, and then
A honeymoon, a happy end, and—mix ’em up again!
N.S..W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


3
* • ■*
The Studebaker Corpora-
tion offers the public a
motor-car which, as in
previous seasons, is what
we confidently believe
the most dependable and
most reasonably-priced
motor-car of quality on
the market.
This Series 18 Car, in
design, construction and
in the various improve-
ments which make it dis-
tinctive, is the result of
66 years’ coach- and car-
building experience.
You should see it yourself;
ride in it; open up the
bonnet and carefully
scrutinise the engine in
every detail; compare it
point by point most
exhaustively with every
competing car.
Then compare the Stude-
baker Corporation as a
manufacturer with the
builders or assemblers of
other cars.
Consider also the ability of
Studebaker to render
you quick and helpful
service in getting spare
parts in repair work and
in supplying needed
accessories.
We urge you, when buying
a motor-car, to see that
you get the largest re-
turns in actual service, in
satisfaction and in value
from your investment.
All over Australia and
New Zealand the de-
mand for Studebaker
shows a big increase in
the number of people
who are convinced on
the score of Studebaker
superiority.
In America the demand
for Studebaker during
last year over-sold the
output and of necessity
very materially reduced
the supplies available for
the Australian market.
Now the position is ren-
dered still more acute by
the shortage of shipping
space, which will cut off
our supplies for at least
four months to come and
probably longer.
This means that-no more
cars, outside present
limited and fast dimin-
ishing stocks,, will be
here for the intending-
o
purchaser to select from.
Therefore, we do again
. o
emphasise the wisdom of
selecting and reserving a
Studebaker now while
some at least of all
models are in stock.
Stocks of Studebaker Cars are at present held by our State distributors and by 200 Studebaker dealers throughout Australia and New Zealand.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Head Office: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. S- A. Branch at 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
Leonard Corrick, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston.
C. C. M. & A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Adams Limited, Tuam Street, Christchurch (N.Z.)*.
A. Hill, 72 Collins Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
ESTABLISHED 1852


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olcja A msdi’ll, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, hut how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For this
purpose pure powdered pheminol may he
applied directly to the objectionable hair-
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair, but to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol. obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
. Removing Her Skin.
The quickest and surest way "to make a
good complexion out of a bad one is to
actually remove the thin veil of faded or dis-
colored outer skin from the face. This can
be done easily, safely and privately by any
woman. The process is one of gentle absorp-
tion.
Get some pure mercolised wax from your
chemist and apply it at night like cold cream,
washing it off in the morning. In a few
days the mercolide in the wax will have
absorbed the disfiguring cuticle, revealing
the fresh young skin underneath; you will
have a beautiful, clear, natural complexion.
The process is pleasant and harmless, making
the face look brilliantly attractive and youth-
ful. It also effectually removes such blem-
ishes as freckles, tan, moth patches, liver
spots, pimples, etc. Every woman should
keep a little mercolised wax on hand, as this
simple, old-fashioned remedy is the best com-
plexioned beautifier and preserver known.
Blackheads Instantly Go.
A very simple, harmless and pleasant pro-
cess is now used to remove blackheads and
correct greasiness and large pores in the
skin. You have only to drop a tablet of
stymol, obtained from the chemist, into a
glass of hot water and bathe the face with
the liquid after the .effervescence has sub-
sided. The blackheads will then come right
off on the towel. The enlarged pores immedi-
ately Contract to normal and the greasiness
disappears, leaving the skin smooth, soft and
cool and free from blemish. But to make sure
that this desirable result is permanent it is
advisable to repeat the treatment several
times at intervals of say about four or five
days.
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily be
changed back to a natural color in a few
days time merely by the application of a
simple, old-fashioned and perfectly harmless
home-made lotion. Procure from your chem-
ist two ounces of tammalite concentrate and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this to the hair a few times with a small
sponge, and you will soon have the pleasure
ol: seeing your grey hair gradually darkening
to the desired shade. The lotion is pleasant,
not sticky or greasy, and does not injure the
hair in any way.
Naturally Wavy Hair.
Good stallax not only makes the best possi-
ble shampoo, but has the peculiar property of
leaving the hair with a pronounced natural
wave, an effect presumably desired by many
ladies. A teaspoonful of the stallax granules,
dissolved in a cup of hot water, is ample for
a luxurious head wash, and leaves the hair
with a peculiar lustre and fluffiness obtainable
from nothing else as far as known. It is per-
fectly harmless, and can be obtained from
most chemists, although since it has been but
little used for this purpose it comes only in
Jib. sealed original packages, enough to make
up 25 or 30 individual shampoos. [2
Neat Underwear.
*Jsu6fauum
‘ffieatitfwj&os'
WOYENNAMES,
m
j’ ca t Australia
stylish, y
May be procured throuch^
ANY UP-TO-OATE MERCER OR DRAPER
OUR NAME ON THE BOX
Is a guarantee of QuaMr^
12 dozen, 7/6; 6 dozen, 5/-; 3 dozen, 3/6.
W MW
The World’s
Appetiser
This new Sauce is
rich—thick—fruity,
and is such a wel-
come change to
the old - fashioned
kinds of Sauces.
Your part in the War,
We must all play some part.
What part are you playing?
[f you cannot get into the firing-line of battle —get into the firing-line
of finance.
HELP THE NATION WIN-
Buy a WAR LOAN BOND.
Every Bond bought is just so much ammunition towards the War for
Liberty and Democracy.
Do your part. Buy a WAR BOND.
Prospectus and all information at any Bank, State Savings Bank or Money Order
Post Office.
21st March. 1918. FORREST, Treasurer.
Why Throw BROKEN
We are specialising in repairs by the Oxy-Acetylene Welding Process, and can
repair corrosions in boilers, broken, cracked or worn motor-car parts, including
cylinders and pistons, any factory machinery or household machinery; in fact,
any castings or parts made of Steel, Iron, Cast-iron, Copper, Brass or
Aluminium. Nothing too small or too large. Carbon removed from 4-cyl.
Motor-cars, while you wait, for 10/-
NOTE ONLY ADDRESS-
ESTABUSHED 1911
A. L. WEST <EX CO.,
Tel. City
4178
Top of Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Rear of 187
Liverpool Street
Buy War Loan Bonds
Si
V//J
P
iv
\\
Si
m
N,o
L
C 0
'ill
V-
-7/ If
S>
v *=•
Xi .. 7
Without constant, every-day health, vigour is impossible—
your body must be kept to concert pitch. Vour mind cannot be
alert and vigorous if your body is slack, listless and enervated.
fcve r y day, as regularly as you wind up your watch, you
must wind up your system, in order that, purified
and vitalized, it shall run smoothly all day long.
Every morning the Kruschen habit —a half teaspoonful
of Kruschen Salts taken in hot water when rising—adds
to your life the pleasure that comes of a constant sense
of good health and abundant vigour.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers, and stores throughout
Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents,
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 Clarence St., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.,
68 Deansgate Arcade,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle.
Remarks of Sydney business-man T. W.
Heath at the annual meeting of the Aus-
tralian Association of British Manufacturers
(Melb.) :
Many business men in Australia were sending
registered designs of British goods to Japan to be
copied and put on the Australian market.
Shocking, of course; but so far as the Aus-
tralian workman is concerned, the fact to be
glued inside his hat is that he loses a job
equally whether the imported goods are made
in Birmingham or Kobe.
“Block 10”: N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment must have money to throw away. Two
years ago the teacher of a small 1 country
school applied for a supply of supplementary
readers. Six months later the school was
closed. La&t week, 18 months after kids and
teacher had said good-bye, the books arrived
at the nearest post-office. The shelves of
the p.o. are burdened with supplies of
blank forms, etc., which have been arriving
intermittently for the school ever since it
was shut.
The more uncommon the name the
greater the trouble when it happens to be
duplicated—as Pinero found out long ago
when he invented a Mrs. Ebbsmith as
“notorious,” and found a little after that
there was a real lady of that name who did
not like the ad. A respectable Adelaide
citizen with the quite unusual mime of
Summergreen lately appeared in the police
court just to mention that he was not iden-
tical with a man of that name found in S.
Aus. and badly wanted in Victoria. He
got nothing from the Bench except an obvi-
ous pun on his name, and left to advertise
his innocence and his misfortunes, in the
papers.
London, which has become a very apprecia-
tive customer, can’t get enough Australian
wines these arid days. To lessen the drought
and at the same time help along a useful
Commonwealth industry, High Commissioner
Fisher lately asked Colonial Secretary Long
to provide shipping space for 500 tons of
Australia’s liquefied sunlight. The proposal
gave the Australian Alliance Prohibition
Council a chance to advertise its patriotism
by cabling to Long a protest against the
suggested “waste of freight space,” which
should be filled with wheat. It’s a queer
sort of patriotism, though, which works
overtime to assist Germany’s post-war trade.
“Jimmie Pannikin” : Some of them are still
at. it. Recently the N. S. Wales State Child-
ren s Relief Department prosecuted a cow
cocky for merely kicking the base of an un-
fortunate State boy’s spine and for beating
him with a plough rein. (Somehow cocky
overlooked the ploughshare and the swingle-
tree.) The fine was 10 shillings. Evidently
State children are of little account in the
eyes of the law.. Had the brute been caught
slygrog-selling instead of putting the boot
into a small bit of hired-aut humanity, he
would have been fined anything from £3O to
£oo John Ruskin said: “Life is the only
wealth.” But he had never had the benefit
of a talk with the magistrate in this case.
This month the State Savings Bank of
South Australia will be three score and ten.
It started in a little office in Gawler-place
in 1848, spent most of its time in a King
William-street bank, and now has a fine
place of its own in Currie-street. Actually
two out of every three of the population of
the State are depositors. Its funds are close
on 11 millions. It has not paid as much as
5 per cent, for the past 30 years, but it is
again earning 4 p.c. for its depositors. S.
Aus. has long held the lead among the States
for the thrift that runs to a pass-book. In-
cluding the Commonwealth Savings Bank,
there are desposits of over £26 for
every man, woman and child in the
State. The figures for Victoria, N. S.
Wales and Queensland are all round about
the £22 mark. So is the average for the
whole of Australia. When Federation began
it was only £B, and the comparison would
look magnificent if it wasn’t for the fact that
then the public debt was only £53 and to-day
it is somewhere about £lO2.
“Hamer”: Here in England the lunch that
gets stale in its package before the time for
eating it arrives has practically disappeared,
like many of the 44d. eating dens, and the
workers crowd into canteens. The works,
public and private, which have not already
established canteens are rushing the system,
tor the very good reason that it’s a success
and attracts workpeople—or. anyway, the
absence of a canteen repels them. It’s only
the keeper of the surviving untidy 44d. joint
who is likely to talk about the arrangement
as an interference with the liberty of work-
people to eat where they like.
Castor-oil, having been requisitioned by
the Italian and British Governments, is now
at famine prices in Australia. In six months’
time nurses will be under the necessity of
bringing up babies without this detestable
but necessary cathartic, and the result will
not be advantageous to the Australian baby,
ihe oil plant, if oermitted, will grow here
with the profusion of Brer Bunnv ; but the
other oil plant is not available—in the
absence of Protection nobody has ventured
to put in the necessary machinery. And so
Australia has to run half-way round the
earth for a dose of oil every time babv has
a pang in his little bingie.
“Y.Z.’ : My wife brought home two hanks
• J' l * in S'Wool, for which she had just
given 2s. sd. They weighed precisely 20z.. and
thus cost 19s. 4d. per lb. No doubt it was
Australian wool that had been to Yorkshire
and back, aiid for the growing of which Aus-
tralia may have been paid lid. or so. Good
old primary industry run on these lines
means providing the importing thug with the
material to make a rope to choke you.
There are of course no pro-Germans in
the Defence Department, but even the most
bigoted enemy alien couldn’t do more to
make Australia’s compulsory training system
unpopular than some of the people who run
kfc °ther day an area-officer presented
to the Malvern (Vic.) Court a lad who had
missed some drills, and said: “His father
was killed at the war, his mother died from
the shock and he has a delicate youn-'
brother to support. I have tried my best
to have him exempted from drill, but the
Department will not do so.” And the Court
being allowed no discretion, had to send the
lad to Queenscliff for seven days. d tbe


11l
I
mm BELLS. FRAXER
1
a
All you need to do is to fit
the pieces together from the
Detail Drawings we supply.
We can send you
m
w\
BELL AND KBAZER.-Copyr.gsu
mm
...
m
mm
m
I
I
1
Pieces for making any Furnishing
Article such as Artistic Chairs,
Tables, Book racks, Lawn Swings, or
any Artistic Essential to Your Home.
VJ
WA
3^.
4^
Fx-
;•••#• ss
') J kJfc
r. 's I <
*l frmrfSFd
&3&
SSsfcS
m
■’• ?
-*,Vi
p»%
ws4m
m
.^r&ss
gflf
#«
3ESK
•4?V
IK
«
B£s
S®
■V ft
YOU
CAM
SAVE
MONEY
Because you can use your spare time in fitting the Redi=Kut Pieces together.
Because the timber, being in pieces, can be closely packed at low freight charges.
Because you save the high cost of factory expenses and high rents of shops.
You will be surprised at the economical
amount at which you can artistically
furnish your home with Redi-Kut Timber.
AsR for Circular A. It’s yours by return post.
vicui
mm
\tMk
'
The Redi-Kut Timber Specialists,
MM


Arnott's MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
EXZERMA
CURES
eczema.
llie Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.H., of Rand-
wick Presbytery, in a letter dated May 21, bears
testimony to the wonderful results achieved by appli-
cation of Exzerma in the case of a Papuan mis-
sionary who was suffering severely from Eczema. He
returned to the mission-field quite cured. All
Chemists, or froiin S. Fielder, Randwick,
Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
qUEENslamq;^
lli^offromisi
T-.—7 . rr-r-* % .' . *tVr. v^r- r^t-K: =
“•—•
S.B.
Afame
Address
QCSEC/VSIASyO fNr£LL/G£/VC£
&. aL/fIEA(J. BWSaAHE
A Book of
i 92 Pages
<Z M L_ t_ E D
‘POCKET
•QUEEMSLAfID”
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED.
'Tellirtj all about- rfx
Millions of Acres
of ferfile laod for
intending .settlers
will bes/ofyou
; by filling in fhe
<3oupc/n below.
u
I
•fl
f.
<r
19
sG
Weakness
Every movement of the
body uses up a definite
amount of vitality. That
is why you feel tired at
the end of the day. When
you overtax yourself, or
when your vitality is
undermined by illness,
your whole system be-
comes too exhausted to
recover its lost vitality
without assistance. Your
system is like a plant that
is drooping for want of
water. And just as water
revives a drooping plant—
so ‘Wincarnis’ gives new
life and new vitality to a
weakened constitution.
Because ‘Wincarnis’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restora-
tive, a Blood-maker and
a nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
fry
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force,
and new vitality. The
benefit begins from the
first wineglassful. You
can feel it doing you
good. You can feel every
wineglassful giving you
more strength than you
had before, and surcharg-
ing your whole system
with new vitality. That
is why over 10,000 Doctors
recommend ‘Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd.,
Wincarnis Works, Norwich. You
can buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all
Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 233 Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
r
v) ::
W. 1 *:
B*
i%g
w-/
For Your Building-
A Lasting Roof
NOT iron nor tin, that rust and leak;
not wood, that warps and rots.
Such roofings are everlastingly
expensive. But the last word in economy
Certain-teed
the modern
mineral roofing.
This weather-
proof, watertight
roofing, is made
of felt and Scien-
tifically-blended
asphalts. Will
withstand
changes of tem-
perature and the attacks of atmospheric gases without blistering, buck-
ling, creeping or cracking made to last. Certain-teed comes in
convenient rolls —easy to get and easy to apply. It is fully guarantaed.
Our local representative will be glad to show you samples and give
further particulars. See him soon, please.
Mr. C. C. McCann—Perpetual Trustee Bldg., Sydney, N. S. W„ Representative of
Certain-teed Products Corporation
Proprietors of: General Roofing Manufacturing Co.
Mound City Paint & Color Co. Gregg Varnish Co.
Wholesale Distributors.
NEW SOUTH WALES: John Danks & Son Pt.v. Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney,
VICTORIA: John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd., Bourke Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: James Campbell & Sons Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Gawler Place, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: McLean Bros. & Rig-g- Ltd., 104 Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: W. Hart & Sons, Charles Street, Launceston ; Tattersall & Co. Ltd
Wilson Street, Burnie; T. J. Cane & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Hobart,
NOTHING is TOO GOOD
—FOR HlM.—=
The brave loved one who has passed on is worthy of
being 1 framed IN GOLD, the imperishable.
His likeness and his heroism will be honored by those
left, and will be handed on to those unborn.
We therefore have made the photo, frames in Solid
Gold in all sizes, from the midget to the panel and
boudoir sizes. From 2 inches high to 2 feet high.
They are mounted on backs of Solid Oak. Australian
Wood, Australian Gold are used.
They are imperishable, fitting holders of the fame of
Australia’s soldiers.
Prices range from £2/2/- to £5O. They are rare
value.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain figures.
Cash only.
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
M
AVON
iIL TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
The Standard Remedy which hat outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and JJavy men.
suuiiiiiui:;
Used since 15!t6. CURES Write f«r Rnev
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGH?
«>• GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
insist on Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
DESERT
GOLD,
like BIPLANE,
WESTCOURT
and many other
famous racers,
finds a material
factor for the
building of her
superb condition
in
M
LESLIE
yam
;
is:
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat ia
store for you. Ask for it at the
Soda Fountain.
HORUCK’J
MALTED MILK
Rare you n
uptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
V
u
i Are You
Saying Money
by Cycling ?
A considerable proportion of
the money you are daily
spending on tram, train and
bus fares could easily be saved
by cycling. A bicycle pays
for itself over and over again
by stopping this constant
leakage of pence which rapidly
amounts to pounds.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
FUZTINC^
“THOROUGHLY BRITISH."
and ensure years of economical
cycling. It is far cheaper in the end
to invest in the famous B S.A.
quality material and workmanship,
than to risk the doubtful bargain of a
so-called cheap “pattern” machine.
B.S.A. FITTINGS ARE GUARANTEED
INTERCHA NGEA BLE.
M
B.S.A. Handbook
Free
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.


Itcluna Scalps
On retiring' touch spots of dandruff and
itching with Cuticura .Ointment. Next
morning shampoo with Cuticura Soap
and hot water. This treatment does
much to keep the scalp clean and
healthy and to promote hair growth.
Sample Each Free by Mall. Address post-card:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold by
dealers throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SPEOAUSP
s
/A/EE
|# 5
v
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES 7 SYDNEY
Z<T /iOTMTER S T NEWCASTLE
/
e'A
WM U
■i i
'CARTRIDGES^
Always Reliable
wrn
m
IM
ELEY ‘Comet’
A deep-shell, dark green
cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 grain) Smokeless Powder
and lis oz. shot.
ELEY 32
S. & W.
Revolver
M
ELEY
25
Automatic
ELEY 310
Cadet Smokeless
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS L? LONDON
This is the Pen
for Active Service
—because it stands the racket .
The Swan, like a rifle, is made
true and sure. The ink magazine is
am pie and, at command, the pen is
ready for duty immediately. There is
no misfiring, and there are no parts liable
to derangement. When fluid ink is un-
obtainable the magazine may be charged
with ink pellets for use with water.
Send one to your soldier friend. It will make wri-
ting easier and encourage him to send more letters.
•WAN
M
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with Safety Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 12/6 Screw-on Cap, from 15/-
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney— (Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street* London Factory—3l9-329, Weston Street, S.E.
Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago!
Dtii'il
B» ,l i||
lVi«
r'l
M
Australian Branch: J. A.. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The hest way to overcome
the feeling is hy being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone hy taking
Phosforino
I THE ROYAL TONIC
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worry with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
Buy War Loan Bonds.
/// 1 \
Prices
NDLES
For all Cl/a?£s
and all T/NILS.
PRICE’S PATENT
CANDLE CO LT?
London. Liverpool,\
MANCHESTER.GLASGOW.
“Cyez”: During a hot spell in the “new
Mallee” a citizen came into Ouyen (Vic.)
and got badly soused and very obstreperous.
The lock-up wasn’t finished, but John Hop-
kins didn’t worry. A big empty boiler was
lying handy, and the drunk was quite ready
to be good after he had roasted in there for
a few hours.
A son of Professor Butler, of Sydney
Uni., was officially reported killed on Gal-
lipoli. The report was greatly exaggerated,
and as a matter of fact Butler kept going
until a few weeks ago, when he was returned
to Australia. He had to ask for something
or other at Victoria Barracks, and then his
record was turned up. “Yes,” they said,
“but Butler’s dead.” lie assured them he
wasn’t, but they said he’d have to prove it;
and lie was op that job when The Bulletin
last heard about him.
“O. Blia”: Russian generals are agreed
that vodka played the leading part in the
weakening of Ivan’s punch. . In one retreat
Korniloff could only raise 800 out of a
Cossack division capable of intelligent
action. The rest had drowned their bellige-
rency in Russian beer and were massacring
one another with great enthusiasm. Alto-
gether, Korniloft’s report is a hair-raising
indictment of the Russian peasant when he
is satisfying a thirst that has been held long
in abeyance. Among other things, he men-
tions that his soldiers commonly knocked out
the teeth of dead officers for the sake of the
gold-fillings!
“F.C.”: “E.S.S.” (B. 14/2/’18) doesn’t
expose all the infamy of that recent importa-
tion of 54,000 cases of American apples.
Roughly, it means 1000 tons of shipping
space, at a time when shipping space is
about the scarcest and most valuable thing
on earth. And there was no justification for
Australia importing one solitary apple. Last
season’s apple crops in Vic. and Tas. were
good; pears and peaches were abundant;
and the Vic. cool stores only emptied out the
last of the crop just before Christmas,
after the new fruit was in. If the Federal
Government would pay as much attention
to organising fruit distribution and stimu-
lating consumption as it does to importers
it would be better for the man on the land.
But one can hardly expect that much wisdom
from a Government which is now trying to
exploit the foreign markets —especially
China and thereabouts —while it can’t cap-
ture its own.
“Plumber” : The heads of Vic. Education
Department are wasting themselves where
they are; they should be assisting Hughes
with his famous shipbuilding scheme. Five
months ago I told about the yards of red
tape with which the Department festooned
me in -my effort to collect a few shillings due
for work done to a State school building.
As I happily collected the cash, and gave
duplicate receipts—four months after the
work was done—l regarded the episode as
finished. But it wasn’t —I didn’t know the
Department. The other day I received a
note enclosing another official receipt for me
to. sign; this one was for the school com-
mittee to show that it hadn’t embezzled the
blessed 17s. 6d. As this was on a foolscap
sheet of better paper than I can afford to
buy and was'enclosed in an official envelope,
with an embossed stamp, and as another
equally chic envelope was enclosed for reply,
I signed the thing and sent it back. But I
want the Minister of Education to under-
stand that I’m tired of the foolishness. Three
receipts for 17s. 6d. is over the odds. If the
State is going to demand three receipts for
every note it pays there’ll be no ink left to
sign the lOU’s.
“Talaponsi”: Bill Massey’s Wellington
speech concerning the occupation of Samoa,
and his reminder that the Maorilanders car-
ried back in 1914 the British flag that was
taken from Samoa. in 1899, recalls an inci-
dent on the occasion of the hoisting of the
German flag at that time. The German
occupation certainly was not agreeable to
the whole of the native population; although
they enjoyed _ the gala day and helped to
make the rejoicings picturesque with dancing
and song. The flag was hoisted by the
same Dr. Solf ■ who is making such a row
about the Pacific possessions being restored
to the Hun after war. It was left
proudly floating over the green sward about
a quarter of a mile from Apia. Late in the
evening the reigning belle of Samoa, and
incidentally sister of the young native king,
cut the halliards and dragged the double
eagle along the dusty roadway to the
court-house in the main street of Apia. Here
she did the sword-dance on the bedraggled
ensign and left it in a mud-puddle, to be dis-
covered by its infuriated adorers. The
princess suffered exile for the act, and many
of her father’s tribe along with her. But
the Germans were diplomatic enough to make
little fuss over the matter.
Died recently, at an advanced age, the
widow of Nicholas Chevalier, an artist well
known in Victoria in the ’fifties and ’sixties.
In the middle of the ’fifties he came to Mel-
bourne on a mission for his father, and was
about to return to his studies at Rome when
the projectors of Melbourne Punch in-
duced him to remain. That settled him in
Melbourne for several years; but in 1866
his art took him to Maoriland, which he ex-
plored, always travelling with packhorses
and camping out. The result was several
hundred water-color sketches, which, after
being shown in Australia, were sent to Paris
Exhibition and then to London. Chevalier
was one of the promoters of the first National
picture galleries in Australia. Re gained the
prize (£200) given by the Victorian Gov-
ernment for a picture which formed the
nucleus of the Melbourne Gallery. From
the commencement of the Art Gallery in
Sydney he acted as honorary purchaser. In
1569, while preparing to return to England,
he accepted an invitation from the Duke of
Edinburgh at Melbourne to accompany him
in the Galatea ; he left the vessel at Colombo
and went to London, reaching there in 1870,
and settled at Porchester Terrace, where he
executed many commissions for the Duke of
Edinburgh. For the Queen he painted
“Thanksgiving Day at St. Paul’s.” The
wife was remarkable in her own way; she
accompanied her husband in many of his ex-
peditions, and to the end had a" warm love
for Australia.


I
feJ
!:!!!!!
i
ft*-
ORISItf
AiraX r ltVAO^ r, '^= 2^^^
m
Ariel Ascendancy in Australasia
Firmly Established.
An Ariel Agent in New Xealand says:
“When things are normal again we anticipate a good demand
lor Ariels. Without exception every rider we have is a
satisfied one.”
Arid W Ofks Ltd.* 36 Bournbrook, Birmingham, Eng.
Agents: TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY : 363 George Street. ADELAIDE: 152 Randle Street.
MELBOURNE : Elizabeth Street.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
%
%
TUJREJS ~/?7J3jBJZ& T'Y&ES
MM
M
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efticiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices -will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.
77-79, Cannon St.. London. England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE :
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.B. —7P
M
efi f'ltj.
M
Did it ever occur to you
that we die SPECIALISTS in
all kinds o f"
SPORTING
REPAIR
&
n
■■■?
i-^rrv.
2^
\m\
m
if
4
HI.
«
m
it
ft
QL Qorner
otcr
y*
ir
A
r
m
<V&
r*>
When your Tennis Racquet Breaks
—send it to MICK SIMMONS.
When something
happens to your'
Gun—send it to
MICK SIMMONS.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,
Tennis Racquets, Cricket
Bats, Golf Clubs, Hockey
and Lacrosse Sticks, Skates,
Fishing Rods, Reels, in fact
all Sporting Requisites re=
paired by Expert Workmen
in the finest equipped
Factory in the Southern
Hemisphere.=
SEND US YOUR REPAIRS NOW, and when doing so kindly attach name
and address to each article. First-class Workmanship. Lowest Charges.
Send for copies of Can't B Beat Sportsman’s Guide ( B 1) and “Sure Catch'' 1918
Anglers' Guide ( B 2). All Sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
1C
71VSTRm.Ta'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS
Tim TOB73CCOTHSTS
M
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Newcastle l Brisbane


I Think Your Remedy a Fine One,
writes MISS MURIEL STARR.
This Brilliant Actress says she will never again travel
without a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
Miss Muriel Starr, who has had a
wonderful career of star roles in America,
won a place for herself in the hearts of
all Australians during her previous visit
here. This talented and charming lady
is again delighting Australian audiences
by her powerful acting.
Miss Starr writes to the Sheldon Drug
Company, Ltd., as follows —
Dear Sirs, —I have been using; your
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for the
past week, and although I have never
given a testimonial for anything
before in all my life, I feel that it
is my duty now to write and tell you
what a splendid remedy I think Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery is.
I had such a nasty little cold, and
it bothered me so much and affected
my voice when speaking. I never
was so annoyed before, and I could
not seem to get rid of it—sometimes
it was a little better and then much
worse. At last I was told to try Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery, and 1 did,
and I think it fine. The very first
dose eased my throat and helped my
voice, and now every trace of the
cold is gone. There was no getting
better, and then worse again, with
that cold after starting with New
Discovery—l simply improved right
along, and I want to tell you that. I
think your remedy a fine one, and I
intend never to travel again without
a bottle in my grip.
Wishing New Discovery every suc-
cess,
I am, sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) MURIEL STARR.
M
MISS MURIEL STARR. }
(From May and M. Moore Photo.)
Men, Women and Children all over the country use and know the worth of Dr..
Sheldon’s New Discovery. Are you one of them? If not, don’t delay, but buy ..a
bottle at once, and be ready to pounce on to the first cold that makes its appear-
ance. Don’t forget Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the ever-ready friend that (liould
l o .'n every household, to protect you from all coughs and colds. Price 1 /O & 5?
D? Sheldons
New Discover
M
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
M
Works: Birming-harrs, England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide '
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box. - ,
*5
M
SUNBEAM
experience of standardising extra-efficiency
in the guise of the increasing numbers of
UNBEAM - COATALEN
IRCRAFT ENGINES
being supplied to the British and the Allies’
Air Services, involving, as it does, perfection
of design, methods, workmanship and
materials, must inevitably exercise its
influence on our post-war production
of motor car/iages for the public.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD
EXPORT DEPART MENT - 54-62, Oxford St., London, England
WORKS • • • * • Wolverhampton, Englanc
V
M
The Ruby in the Well.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
wrinkled carline sat and plied
Her distaff by the water’s brink ;
The king's son lighted at her side
And led his weary horse to drink.
But the tall roan did sweat and start
And twitch the bridle in his hand:
“Now, art thou faint or stout of heart,
Thou rider from a far-off land?
“Thy steed will venture not the well
Which runneth ghastly deep and cold;
But thou, and this is sooth I tell,
Mayst win therein more wealth than gold
“Lo, I have dropped my magic ring”—
ller knotted fingers clawed his arm
And bent him to that silent spring;
A red star drew him as a charm.
“Look down and see the ruby shine!
If thou canst catch it where it gleams
Straightwav this guerdon shall be thine,
The fairest damsel of thy dreams!”
His suit of mail be laid aside
By lance and helm and wrought surcoat:
llis goodly limbs with gentle pride
The aspen-checkered sunbeams smote.
He plunged, all hot for his reward;
The icy waters burned like flame,
Strange anguish pierced him like a sword,
And never near the ring he came.
Among the efts and slimy stones
No warm red jewel met his ken,
Only the horrid white of bones
And eyeless skulls of drowned men.
Undaunted rose he to the air
And rested on the daisied shore:
“Old mother, prithee point me where
The magic ruby lies, once more.”
“There, fool!” her laugh a raven’s scream.
“ ’Tis well within thy reach, I wis!”
From the still deeps the rosy gleam
Looked like a mouth held up to kiss.
He knew not if he waked or slept,
Certes, the water showed a maid
Most beautiful, who nearer crept
With weeping eyes and lifted blade:
But litliely swinging on his heel
He seized the hag in act to strike.
And laughing at the murderous steel
He kissed her lips full lover-like.
“Wise lord, the spell is broke at last!”
And in his arms, right sweet to see,
A dream-fair damsel he held fast,
As white and smooth as ivory.
He kissed her that she might not stand
Without his hold, or might not speak.
But sighed, and raised a snowdrop hand
And softly stroked his brow and cheek.
He kissed the tears from her bright eyes
As one who drinks for heavenly drouth.
“Now have I won a magic prize,
The ruby of thy lovesome mouth !”
The good roan bore them both away.
Whitethorn made bridal all the glen ;
The silver water shimmered gay
Over the bones of witless men.
VICTORIA,
ELSIE COLE.
Nemesis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HE fierce heat beat down on the white
roofs of the scattered houses and
on the huts of the natives on the
island. In the ti-trees near the beach a
few birds twittered now and again, then
sank to rest until the cool of the evening.
Like great crimson stars, the hibiscus
flowers alone seemed unaffected by the. in-
tense heat. Even the flaring poinciana
drooped in protest against a too-ardent sun.
In the distance the sea gleamed and sparkled
like a million gems; the white fishing skiffs
lying at anchor appeared like huge white
birds.
In the trader’s house upon the hill Jim
Carter turned uneasily in his afternoon
siesta. Like a great brown young god he
lay upon his sofa, one arm thrown back
supporting his head; his shirt open at the
throat; the whole body suggesting youth
and strength.
The door of the room gently opened, and
a face peeped in. Seeing the man asleep
a virl glided over to the sofa with a move-
ment almost snake-like in its grace and
silence. A half-caste islander, the daughter
of Carter’s housekeeper, she possessed that
indefinable grace and beauty seen only in
such wild creatures. Her hair hung down
her back in two long plaits, and pinned over
each ear was a frangipani bloom, no more
beautiful than her own flower-like face. Her
native costume of many colors lent charm to
her.
She sat down on the edge < f the sofa
and intently watched the man till, uncon-
sciously. she began to chant a native melody.
Line after line she crooned, her body sway-
ing backwards and forwards, each time bend-
ing lower until at last her face was close to
the sleeping man’s.
Half sobbing, half laughing, she bent still
closer, and, light as the touch of a butterfly,
touched his lips with her own warm red
ones.
Roused by her boldness she started back
with a little gasp as the man’s eyes flew
open.
“Tamerini!” he exclaimed. “What are you
doing here?”
“Ah, Meester Cartier,” she cried plain-
tively, “you seem so hot, I come and fan
you, see?”
With the cunning of her race, she had the
lie ready, and, picking up a fan, she sat and
commenced to wave it to and fro.
Somewhat mystified the man accepted the
explanation.
Tamerini, sitting on th floor and idly
fluttering her fan, gazed up into his face with
the artlessness of a child.
“Do you know, Tamerini,” ho said, bend-
ing down towards her, “this is the first time
I have ever had a proper look at you—
where does your mother keep you locked
up?”
The girl showed her white teeth in a
smile, but made no answer.
“Do you know you are very pretty?”
Carter asked, as he bent towards her.
The big brown eyes below gazed up into
his with the look of a faithful dog, and again
the ripe lips parted in a smile.
“Ah !” she breathed softly.
“And do you know, Tamerini,” he con-
tinued, taking one of her brown hands, “just
now I dreamt you kissed me. Perhaps it
was true!”
“Ah!” she breathed again, sharply.
“Anyhow, you’re such a bewitching little
beggar that I wouldn’t mind if you did it
again now—eh, Tamerini?”
“Ah, Meester Cartier,” she whispered as
he placed his arms around her shoulders,
and drew the head back on the sofa. The
warm red lips were raised to his, her arms
flew up and clasped his neck.
* * * *
That evening, at dusk, Tamerini lay
crouched among the shadows of the big poin-
ciana trees in the garden. At the foot of
the hill the sea muttered and growled
angrily, and on some of the white-winged
skiffs lights were burning.
Tamerini bit savagely at her little hands
and rocked herself from side to side. What
was this she had heard a while ago—heard
casually from some of the divers down on
the beach : that Carter was leaving in the
morning, going to Melbourne, for who knew
how long? Of course he would come back —
but how? Supposing—the girl shuddered in
the darkness —he should bring a white, clear-
skinned woman!
The girl sprang to her feet.
“No! no!” she whispered, passionately.
“He is mine—Jimmee!”
And Tamerini crept from the shade of the
trees.
Trembling with fear she stole into the
house and paused at the door of Carter’s
room. Her feet and hands were icy cold,
her heart thumping as she noiselessly opened
the door. His breathing came slowly and
evenly—ho was fast asleep. With a little
sob she kicked off her sandals.
“Jimmee!” she whispered breathlessly, as
h.er arms stole round his neck. “Oh,
Jimmee.”
“Great God!” The man sprang up
startled out of all sleep by the girl’s pre-
sence.
“Tamerini!” he cried in amazement. But
her arms were again around his neck, her
fluttering lips pressed to his.
“Oh, Jimmee, Jimmee!” she whispered 1
passionately. “You go away so soon. Tel!
me you come back soon —come back to
Tamerini.”
The dawn had spread across the sky and
in the east the first pink rays of the sir
appeared when Tamerini crept away. H<
heart was beating its pean of gladnes
Carter had promised, madly, to return —
her!
James Harrington Carter was in a fi
In fact, .Tames Harrington Carter wasfighi
ing the fight of his life, for the mpst unex- 1
pected of all tilings had happened—he was
in love.
They had both boarded the boat at Mel-
bourne, and for the first day or two Carter
had hardly noticed her. A plain, intelligent
face, hair brushed back, a pair of clear,
steady grey eyes and a winning smile. After
making her acquaintance it did not take
Carter long to learn that she was one of
those rarely-found women who measure nig
in all things. Essentially good in the truest
sense of the word, yet large in her views,
charitable towards all, she made a striking
contrast to everything which had hitherto
taken part in the man’s life, and it was
this which captured him. And he wanted
her. wanted her more than he had ever
wanted anything in his life.
The boat was nearing Cairns, where she
was to disembark ; but Carter’s idea was to
marry her and take her on to the Island
with him. And always, just when the words
were on his lips, just as he was about to
ask the vital question, Tamerini’s face ap-
peared before him, glowing, ardent, bewitch-
ing—and he had promised to return ! Some
finer instinct in him bade him keep true to
the girl who had so passionately declared
her love for him, even if it were only for a
little while, until he could explain every-
thing to her. But then there was Laura !
He wanted to take her on with him—now.
Either he must tell Laura and risk losing
her, or—he cursed angrily and threw away
the butt of his cigar.
“Damn it all!” he muttered fiercely, “why
should I bother about her like that —she’s
only a native girl, and surely to God noth-
ing could have happened ! A year is a long
time —perhaps she has forgotten.
But, asrain, suppose something had hap-
pened. Suppose he took Laura and Tame-
rini made a scene on arrival, and he had to
tell the whole story to his wife. Why had
he made that mad promise!
By the time the boat reached Cairns
Carter had come to a conclusion. He told
Laura Frazer everything, and then asked her
if she would marry him. The girl’s eyes
held a hurt, frightened look as she sent him
back to his Island love. Tamerini, she
declared, had a prior claim and he must
abide by his promise. Thus they parted.
The man was glad when the boat moved
again on its way. For him the door of hap-
piness was closed.
* * # *
The sea glistened and sparkled in the sun-
shine. The crowd of whites and natives
talked and jostled on the wharf. Away up
on the hill the trader’s house stood like a
sentinel.
Carter was in a black mood. Since leav-
ing Cairns he had cursed his luck, cursed
the hour he ever set eyes pn Tamerini, cursed
his own folly.
Slowly the boat churned and churned
away until the wharf was quite distinct-
till. one by one, he made out the forms mov-
ing about on the wharf. He saw the natives,
the few white men on the Island—among
them, Martin, his partner—and standing out
clear from them all. her long b’ack plaits
hanging, a flaring red hibiscus flower over
(Continued on next page.)


AN AXE
ACCIDENT.
Chopped His Foot, inflicting Frightful
injury—Perfectly healed by Zam-Buk.
Mr. JAS ROSE, who
praises Zam-liuk.
AWAY out Oil the farm, sheeprun ami out-
back selection, where the daily risk of
accident is ever present, Zam-Buk is as
invaluable and indispensable as in the
home itself.
“I met with a very nasty accident a few
years ago,” says Mr. James Rose, of 12 Henty
Street, Richmond, Victoria. “While chopping
poles the axe slipped and caught the right foot,
severing the sinews, and disabling me for six
weeks. It was fully this period before 1
could put my foot to the ground. I put oil
on it and this healed it, but the nerve was
injured and 1 suffered fearful pain, so I
applied Zam-Buk on the injury; the
first application took the pain away and
seemed to soothe it. Then it started to
heal properly, knitting the sinews and
also the severed nerves. The sinews were
protruding' from the wound, but they
joined up again in the process of healing'.
“My son Robert had a knock on both
his legs, and these injuries inflamed and
festered and were most painful. Zam-
Buk was applied, and the treatment per-
sisted in until the legs were completely
healed.
“We have used Zam-Buk for all sorts
of troubles, and my eldest son, Thomas,
had a cut of a very severe nature on the
leg with an axe also, and Zam-Buk proved valuable in healing it, too.
We have used Zam-Buk on many occasions, hut the above cures are the
most important of the lot.”
Zam-Buk is invaluable for Cuts. Bruises. Burns. Scalds. Scratches. Abrasions,
Boils, Eczema, Pinmles, Running Sores. Scaln Diseases. Poisoned Wounds. Pestering
Sores, Bad Regs, Ulcers. Abscesses, Ringworms, Barber’s Rash, Swellings, Stiffness,
Scabs, Itch. Bed Sores, Pace Sores, Sore Dips, and injured and diseased conditions of
the skin. Zam-Buk is obtainable from all Chemists and Stores at 1/6 per pot, and 3/C
M
M
M
M
EVERY HOME NEEDS A POT.
5
Invaluable
for Field Service
or Shipboard
Safety Razor
Every purchaser of a “7 o’clock
Safety Razor set retail is entitled to
nominate a friend who has joined
the colours, and to this friend
a set of equal value will be sent
absolutely FREE of Charge.
Ask your dealer for full particulars.
This safety razor is by far the most convenient and satis-
factory for use in Field, Camp, Barracks, or on Shipboard.
It is self-contained, even to the strop, which is hinged in the
case itself and cannot be mislaid or lost. With a single
touch it springs open for stropping or cleaning, and with
another touch it snaps together into accurately adjusted
shaving position. (See sketches at top right-hand corner.)
Sergeant L. J. VICCANS, hi D.C.L.1., writes: Price in Australia ... 12 6
“Up to the time of first using a"7 o'clock?’ Price in New Zealand ... I
Safely Razor out here shaving Was a task
to be avoided. Now it is a delight."
“7 O’CLOCK” STANDARD SET
Consists of heavily silver-plated stropping razor,
six finest lancet steel renewal blades in compact
blade sheath, special strop in hinged
partition as part -of the case —the
whole in handsome case measuring
only 5 in. by 2 in. by If in. deep
Managing Agent for Australasia!
RALPH ABERCROMBY
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
M
each ear—Tamerini! The blood leapt to Car-
ter’s face, flooding it and turning it crimson ;
then receded, leaving him deathly white.
Tamerini was not alone. In her arms she
held a child, and Carter saw that its
skin was fair. Almost immediately she caught
sight of him.
“Meester Cartier!” she cried frantically.
"Jiinmee, you come back!”
Carter sprang from the eangway and went
to her. His whole soul was in revolt against
the trick Fate had played him.
Tamerini stood there smiling her big broad
smile into his face, her white teeth flashing,
the dark eyes dancing. The cries of the
natives and sailors fell unheeded on his ears.
All he saw was a white wailing child clasped
tightly in the girl’s arms.
“Tamerini!” he whispered hoarsely. “Our
baby, eh?”
The girl threw back her head with a
laugh; and again he noted how the white
teeth flashed.
“No fear,” she cried shrilly. “You take
too long come back. Meester Martin he
marry me. This our baby—see !”
R.I.G.
The Son of Belial.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I AM one of the most careful navigators
that ever left one port to try to find
another. I seldom receive the sack for
merely getting wrecked. It is usually tor
something else as well. I am remarkably
unfortunate—*-more unfortunate, one would
imagine, than a man so intelligent deserves
to be. I think that I must have been born
at the wrong moment. It is extremely irri-
tating.
My worst misfortunes have resulted from
following the advice of people who had a
convincing way of not telling the truth.
This was the case, for instance, when the
steamer Kount of -Katoomba foundered. We
struck a rock that was too near the surface
of the water. I had gone out of my usual
course to oblige a passenger, who explained
that he grew walking-sticks for a living on
an immense island with a private wharf
from which fishing had been constantly pro-
hibited. Before we said good-night to each
other he showed me some post-cards of the
principal wharves and volcanoes, and gave
me a very nice cigar. I bought the island
from him. One afternoon when we hap-
pened to be passing near it he said he
wished to land there. As I needed several
pieces of pumice-stone for toilet purposes,
and some fish. I did not make any objection,
and we headed for Cockroach Island. But
just as I was getting ready to lasso a pile
on the private wharf from which fishing had
been constantly prohibited, nearly all the
bottom of the Kount of Katoomba suddenly
scraped off on the rock that was too near the
surface of the water. I knew that the ship
was doomed, and soon afterwards she sank
beneath my feet. The water, however, was
quite warm, and I was only bitten slightly
b.v one fish.
As we were loaded with Christmas pre-
sents for the heathen this wreck caused an
uproar of disappointment in irreligious
circles. I was blamed, and the owners (the
Methylated Wetliodist Mission) urged me to
find another vacancy at my earliest conveni-
ence. It was not at all convenient, but mv
plausibility is such that ultimately I suc-
ceeded. My next command was a vessel
called the Maiden’s Prayer, and my com-
mand with her would in all likelihood have
terminated similarly only for the fact that
she blew up.
No one was more relieved to be rid of her
than I was. The masts rattled when one
brushed against them, and her cockroach-
excluders were a signal failure.
She blew up because one of the engineers
turned the wrong tap on. But it did not in
the least surprise me, nevertheless, to hear
that I was considered chieflv to blame in the
matter. The Court of Inquiry found me
guilty of wilful neglect in allowing an un-
skilled mechanic to tamper witli the ship's
machinery. Somehow or other they managed
to find out that the engineer who turned the
wrong tap on was employed previously in
an umbrella hospital, where lie had studied
his profession insufficiently in the dinner-
hour. How was I to know that? It seems
to me that every second person one meets
nowadays is a liar.
Sometimes I feel that I would be much
happier if I wasn’t a ship’s captain at all.
Lots of people have advised me to give it
up altogether, and mind fowls instead, or
lead a life somewhat similar.
It annoyed me very much indeed when,
one morning about a quarter to nine, the
Son of Belial also sank. For one thing I
had the most comfortable bunk on board, and
for another I forgot my pet tarantula and
cigarette-card album in the turmoil of an
unpremeditated departure. My album con-
tained many interesting and curious cigar-
ette cards, some of which were issued with
brands of cigarettes not now procurable, and
my pet tarantula and I had many things in
common. Neither of us, for instance, could
swim, and I have always been noted for my
cunning wheil dealing with flies. There are
also times wlien I seem to be walking across
the ceiling. But I am chiefly grieved at the
loss of my cigarette-card album. I had in
it most of the English criminals who up to
iliat time had failed to elude capture, the
• hief waterfalls of Assyria, and a collection
uf unknown birds and animals which for
magnitude was said to be unrivalled. There
were also some foreign cigarette-cards for
the issue of which the distributors have since
been prosecuted.
The Son of Belial was an experiment.
She was built on the eight-day principle. It
was quite a magnificent idea. Instead of the
ordinary kind of machinery she had
works exactly like the apparatus of an
eight-day tliree-and-sixpenny clock. The
experiment, however, was a failure. In con-
nection with it many people spoke of me
with disrespect. This was unjust.
Lot us consider, slowly and in an unbiased
manner the facts of the case.
The Son of Belial was a tin-screw alumin-
ium steamer of 909 tons, lined throughout
with reinvigorated cardboard. She had
accommodation for a great deal of cargo ana
seven passengers. Very little wood was used
in her construction, because it was found
that reinvigorated cardboard was cheaper
and could be painted to resemble imitation
oak. Exteriorly she was painted hippopota-
mus color and patterned to resemble the skin
of an alligator. Her works, as the wholly
intelligent will already have divined, were
not the usual clink-clank-clangety-clunk
kind. They were on the tick-tock-tack prin-
ciple. The owners decided that as no fuel
would be needed neither would a funnel.
They thought that it would be nice to save
the expense, but I made a fuss. 1 detest a
steamer that hasn't got a funnel, so I had
one built out of my own banking account.
The mention of my banking account reminds
me, by the way, to comment on the neces-
sity for having a sinking fund. I never
travel without one.
Toy steamboats that you wind up for
voyages in the washhouse are much the very
same in appearance as the Son of Belial
In fact, I have often been struck with the
resemblance. The only real difference, so
far as I can see, is that toy steamboats are
much smaller, sink oftener and for no
reason at all when you put them in the
bath, and are seldom painted hippopotamus
color or patterned to resemble the skin of
an alligator. The Son of Belial only sank
once, and that was through an oversight.
Her clockwork speed was fourteen acres per
pound.
We left the Gulf of Carpentaria for Ant-
arctica with seventy-seven passengers and a
cargo of Polar bears, which it was thought
would very likely thrive there. We left on
Grandfather’s Day of that year. I forget
what year it was, but I remember very well
that most Gulf of Carpentarians were wear-
ing in their buttonholes the prawn-colored
marguerite which symbolised in that locality
a carefully-veiled disinterest in grandfath-
ers. I have a distinct recollection that on
the afternoon of our departure the tempera-
ture was 188.7 in bed.
At first, I must confess, I was charmed
with the innumerable constructional novel-
ties possessed by the Son of Belial, and won-
dered why they had never been thought of
before. I soon discovered, however, that
clockwork has several disadvantages. For
one thing, the tick-toclc-tacking of it is irri-
tating, especially when one wishes to sleep
On a moderately calm day the inhabitants of
any port we happened to be trying tiO find
were always aware of our approach the
afternoon before we were expected to arrive.
In the remoter and more savage islands this
was an inconvenience. We were regarded as
a nuisance and treated with contumely.
Winding up the clockwork every eighth day
at twenty-two minutes to three by means of
windmills was seldom simple, especially when
there wasn’t any wind and the winding had
to be done by hand. There were also times
when the supply of wind was found to greatly
exceed the demand, and a most sanguineous
likelihood that the Son of Belial’s mainspring
might overwind would then ensue.
Yet the failure of this experiment was not
due to the constructional differences which
distinguished the Son of Belial from other
vessels that previously had been or subse-
quently have been built, nor was it due to
any lack of observation on my part. The ex-
periment was a failure merely because it did
not. have time to succeed properly.
One morning before breakfast the last per-
son to have a bath in the Son of Belial’s
basement left the ship’s plug out. She slowly
filled with salt water and kept on sinking
until'she reached the bottom of the ocean. I
then got out of bed, and after entering the
occurrence in the ship’s log I put on a mac-
intosh and floated slowly to the surface. I
felt that what I needed most was a large
gulp of dry air.
People were a little annoyed, I think, be-
cause there were so few survivors and I hap-
pened to be among them. Those who were
rescued said that I was always the last per-
son to utilise the ship’s bath, and that there-
fore the ship’s plug must have been left out by
me. But I deny it. I remember nuite distinctly
that on the morning when the disaster occur-
red I did not have a bath. I was busy gum-
ming some rare cigarette-cards into my
album, and had issued instructions that I
was not on any account to be disturbed. I
hate being disturbed.
In connection with the loss of the Son of
Belial I was treated with a much greater
amount of disrespect and suspicion than ever.
My certificate was marked “Issued by mis-
take.” and the street collection society of
which, for years, I had been an honorary
receiver, wrote me an insulting letter inti-
mating that owing to circumstances over
which the shareholders did not exercise con-
trol, I was not invited to the next two
annual picnics. I think that this was unjust.
LES ROBINSON.
Gipsy-joy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LIGHTS are flashing through the wood-
j land trees.
■ Spangles glance
To a brown foot's dance.
Zithers breaking on the lilting breeze
Banish sorrow with their melodies.
Who’ll come roving to a Romany rhyme
Hand in hand
With a gipsy band,
Clicking fingers to the chestnuts’ chime.
Finding Fortune in the front of Time?
Trinkets tinkle to a restless tune.
File the load
For the open road !
Careless kettles ’neath a vagrant moon
Sing of horses to be jogging soon.
Who’ll leave fetters for the wild, free dir,
Strolling far
By a vagabond star?
Outlaw Laughter is the only care
Gipsies carry with the gold they share.
Join in, traveller, with the jingling dance.
Fairy Fate
Is a merry mate.
Luck is lurking in the cards’ romance.
Come and shuffle them and take your chance.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


M
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu=
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victor'an Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
SAFEGUARD roun health
ptJ.Collis BrotfDgfjs
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co ids, Asthma,
tuui in tUe Cough of BRONCHITIS anil
CONSUMPTION.
FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery ,
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, ijo, Bj-, o/-.
Made in England.
ISAP^TRIOTiSM
iocai™— m
Ilf?
.Your
AlMf f
Then have
at smoking
r- - The Australian Tobacco.
i mu
T
issuer
i
Os ter Screwing
Tackle, Dips
and Extra Parts
are carried in
stock by
Ironmongers,
Machinery and
Hardware and
Plumbing Supply
Houses.
No. 102
iirt. to 1 i'in.
(S sizes in
one tool.)
OSTEFS
bIILDOC
DIESTOCKS
HT HE: tools with five big features: (1) Self-
* looking, adjustable dies, (2) self-centring
guides, (3) no running back over newly-cut
screws, |-:1) no loose bushings to lose, (5) no
breakable small parts. Eleven convenient sizes.
Write for catalog.
Australasian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT, Box 251, G.P.0., Melbourne, Victoria.
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland* Ohio, U.S.A. p
FORESIGHT
s ®
Si;:>
m
• ■
wm.
HI
TAKE
PIL.:
We have just landed a large stocK of the
Well-Known American Brand of
MOSLER "SUPERIOR" SPARKING PLUGS
suitable for the “Ford" Engine*
These Plugs are a distinctly High-grade line, and we are offering them at the low
price of 2/9 each. (Special Prices for Quantities.)
This replenishment of our stocks comes at a most opportune time, on account of
the great scarcity of “Ford” Plugs. ___
PRICES OF OTHER MAKES OF PLUGS ARE:
“LODGE” Sparking Plugs, in Metric. Y% in., % x 18, A.L.A.M. . . 5/- each,
for “Fords,” 5/- each.
“SPHINX” Sparking Plugs, 3 point in Metric, and Vzin. . 4/- each.
“CHAMPION” Sparking Plugs, Hy. Stone, 5/- ea.; in Metric, H in., % x 18.
M „ “Reliance,” Sparks in water .... 5/6 each.
Platinum Points 6/6 each.
“REFLEX” Sparking Plugs, No. 1, 3/-; “Giant,” 4/-; “Extended,” 3/3 each.
„ No. 1, Mica, 3/9; Giant Mica 5/- each.
~ M ” ** ’ ' < 7 '
“VOSLER ” Sparking Plugs. “Vesuvius,” for Buick, 4/6; for Metz, 4/6;
and Ordinary, 4/6 each.
Robert C. Swan & Company Limited,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STEEL CASTINGS— Special Good Quality
#
%
We have made about 300 CAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Melb.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, etc. These
concerns require STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in weight, SUITABLE FOR ALL PURPOSES
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION. Send your enquiries to us.
CHAS. RUWOLT
H
Victoria Street,
Richmond, Victoria.


MANGROVTT
LEATHER
BELTING
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MAN GKO VITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World's Best Belting.
Manufactured onlv by
MANGROViTE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
g Le on ?■ G
CIRCULAR SAWS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We Have many other sizes and gauges in stock, but below
are some of the most useful.
18in. x 11, 18in. x 13, 20in. x 13, 24in. x 10.
26in. x 11, 26in. x 12, 26in. x 13, 26in. x 14.
28in. x 11, 28in. x 12, 28in. x 13, 30in. x 12.
30in. x 13, 32in. x 10, 32in. x 11, 32in. x 12.
36in. x 11, 38in, x 11, 42in. x 9,42 in. xlO
42in. x 11, 44in. x 10, 48in. x 10.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Ratrobe Street, Melbourne. Fremantle. Ivalgoorlie.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ud., Adelaide. John Reid & Nephews. Brisbane.
■ - i
■s° loK
mst
i^FF
Best Prices from Stock or Indent
Soda Ash
Caustic Soda
Sulphide of Sodium
Alum
Sulphate Alumina
Borax
Hypo Sods
Naphthaline
Bicarb Soda
Bichromate Soda
Carboiic
etc., etc.
British Aniline Dyes.
JAMES HARDIE 8 CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
Little Collins Street, Melbourne. [3
If Engineers and Steam-plant Owners would only
realise the importance of EFFICIENTLY insulating
their Boilers, Steam Pipes, etc., more attention might
be paid to this particular matter. Great economies
can he effected in this direction, in some cases the coal
consumption being reduced as much as 50%. But the
insulating material must be of the very best.
Carbonate of Magnesia is to-day recognised as the best
non-conductor of heat. Newali s Coverings are com-
posed of 85% of this material, and 15% Asbestos—the
Asbestos being used for binding purposes only—and in
addition possess innumerable advantages over all other
forms of lagging. Newall’s Coverings are used, practi-
cally exclusively, by the British Admiralty. N.R.W.
and Victorian .Governments, and have been used
throughout the UPimo. White Bay, Melbourne, Perth
and Canberra Power Stations.
SOMETHING
J, WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd., 9T Pitt Street, Sydney.
“NEWALL’S” MAGNESIA
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
SECTIONAL FOR PIPE, BENDS, TEES & FLANGES.
PLASTIC FOR BOILERS, HEATERS, etc.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z>
PERMASITE
Quality ALL AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.
GYPSUM and
PLASTER OF PARIS.
PER
CO. PTY.
9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
LTD.,
[i
B. A. Y. Z.
Embrace thi* golden opportunity of securing the two Best Oil Engines on the Market, viz.,
“FIELD W” & “BIG CHIEF”
Over 380 “Big Chiefs” working in one
district in N.S.W. $
Positively fool-proof, worry-proof—able
and willing to work whenever asked.
This is the type of Engine to suit
you.
Economical, simple and reliable at ail
times.
Write for particulars. Catalogs Free.
Easiest terms ever offered in N.S.W.
R.L.ScruttonSCo.L' 4 :
The Engineers’ Depot,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
R
g
*
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-: Sib., 25/-; 20z., 7/6.
lib. Flux will braze broken casting 15 feet long by
1 ind - thick—instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to us,
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, SU Kilda, Victoria.
F
<
v
NAOI,
O
o
y
\^Sfw
-
M
Ms ■- : f,'s „
„ & -'T, < *
SSIsl
as
3?. D. MoM ASTER, Esq., Dalkeith, Cassilis, writes, under date 24th January:
“I have pleasure in stating: that I have given both of the 2 Stand Portable
Crutching Plants I purchased from you an exhaustive trial, and with the
utmost satisfaction. They are handy to move about, economical to run, and
the Fairbanks Morse Engine is simplicity itself. Crutching at the different
sheep-yards is, in my opinion, a far better method than doing the work at
the wpolshed, as the saving for the lambing ewes in driving alone is very
considerable.”
SCORES OF SIMILAR TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Order Your Plant for 1918 now to ensure getting it.
DANGAR,GEDYE&CO. LTD.,
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD
9-13 Young St., Sydney
Eagle St.. Brisbane
is&3 2-Stand Shearing Plant
The Outfit that “ Swept the Poll ” in the 1917 Season.
MMM
rSELF LUBRICATING
BEARING
LEATHER FRICTION
cone engages smoorhly
ami silently
VONE PEICE SPINDLE (
wilh long bearings
bofh ends
New improved'Lister" Brack
/or 2 Stand ComWwsd Plants
NOTE THE FEATURES OF THIS
LISTER BRACKET.
HOT-AIR TUYERE
EFFECTS A SAVING OF 30 PER CENT. IN LABOR AND FUEL.
GIVES A QUICK,
CLEAN EIRE.
WORKS WITHOUT
WATER.
M
HEATS THE IRON IN
ONE-THIRD LESS TIME.
HENCE LESS HEAT AND
FATIGUE FOR SMITH.
Owing to Larger Sales we are able to announce a further Reduction in Prices.
No. 1, Suitable for Coachbuiiders, 25 -
No. 2, General Work, 30/- No. 3, Heavy, 401-
net F. 0.8. SYDNEY. IF YOUR STORE CANNOT SUPPLY WRITE DIRECT.
Victorian Agents * McPHERSON PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
M
M
Will Burn up Refuse of
all kinds, wet o dry,
without giving off any
offensive odor.
No skill necessary to
operate, and no expense.
Supplied to nearly every
State School in New
South Wales.
USED BY BOARDS OF
HEALTH FOR BURNING
RATS, AND BY SYDNEY
UNIVERSITY FOR CAR-
CASES OF ANIMALS
and OTHER OFFENSIVE
MATTER.
ADOPTED WITH GREAT
SUCCESS BY MANY
HOSPITALS.
SMALL SIZE FOR. COTTAGES, 50/- All Stores.
SojeJMa.ivu.fa.€&tii»ers ; N. GUTHRIDCE LTD,, 10-12 George Street, Camperdown, (Sydney
