

SUPERB OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
B. <3r- WATKINS «SC CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— . . .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR M ACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
mm
mm
M
mm
WmM
We
Advance Money
ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
ON
Neai
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS and LOWEST INTEREST,
NSW MONT DE PIETEDdIO? IT D
MEAD OFFICE 74 CASTLEREAGH S T SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building. And at < iB King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W
4< at Kv.lnev 215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
180 Castlereagh Stree t by i F- West Sydae y. 40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
nire EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Telephone: City 0325.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW" says:—
“Tlie Company is very
well managed, and the
name is quite a house-
hold word in Sydney.
Its reputation is excel-
lent, and, although the
money-lender is gener-
ally regarded as a
vampire, the charge
cannot be laid at the
doors of tho N.S.W.
Mont do Plete D. & I.
Co. Limited.”
to
• t -v
1
Residents
Living in the country or beyond the radius
of the water-sewer connection should not
condemn you and your family to suffer incon-
venience from the want of a healthful means
of disposing of sewage.
The Montgomerie-Neilson
Sewage Disposal System
gives you the same eomforte and conveniences
that city residents enjoy. It is far superior
to the less modern Septic System. The
offensive matter is treated by contact with
air, and is given off in the fora) of an
odorless vapor. Absolutely no offensive smell
even in the hottest weather.
Send to-day for HIKE BOOKLET, which con-
tains testimonials from many people who
are obtaining complete satisfaction.
Montgomerie - Neilson
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY.
Phono 8976.
'iporitA rg Ui
Nothino
to Argue
About!"
8
Are the Best "
JUNKET made from these genuine aameis
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for tbe
digestive organs.
EfAN SEN’S
Junket,
à
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Used the
World Over
3S
MOTOR
...CARS
Samples and booklet from
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC.
(F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
fit
i
: '
m
LSI
nr
m
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L ?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road IVletal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron &. Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Bat hs^Sinks^etc^
Arthur
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
6 (3
MACHINERY.
if
M A 'I'IAM A¥ J * World-Renowned ENGLISH-MADE
NAIIUNAL HORIZONTAL PETROL and OIL ENGINES.
Immediate delivery from Sydney at Prices BELOW PRE-WAR RATES
l«h.p. PETROL ENGINE £5O 3Sh.p. OIL ENGINE £75
Sh.p. „ „ 65 4Jh.p. „ „ £B5
NET CASH ON RAIL OR WHARF, SYBNEY.
CANADIAN
BRASS AND COPPER
SHEETS AND TUBES.
brass condenser, tubes.
Manufactured in Canada by the Dominion Copper Products Co. Ltd.
Solid Drawn Tubes —
Brass and Copper.
Sheets and Circles —
Cold or Hot Rolled.
Tinned or Untinned,
Polished or Unpolished,
Any gauge, length or width.
Solo Representatives—
GILBERT LODGE & GO.,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZOME
WATER.
The Bulletin
▼ol. 39.—W0. 2012.
[Thursday, September 5, 1918.
WAR-TIME PRICE, Bd.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Poßt a» a Newspaper.


a
aora
MIL
HOIOIOK
enable you to draw the
maximum of smooth-
running power from
your engines under ALL
conditions. They are
highly refined, give a
consistently cleanly
flow, have an unusually
HIGH FLASH POINT
a n d UNMATCHED
VISCOSITY.
Obtainable all
Storekeepers
and Garages
in one-gallon tins and four-
gallon tins and barrels. Ask
alsb for NATIONAL MOTOR
GREASES.
National Oil Co. I,td.,
4 Bridge St.. Sydney.
Janies Warble & Co.,
Adelaide.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
asm
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
“ THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.'
If you must
rear baby by hand
adopt a food which approaches
most closely to Mother’s Milk,
and which yields positive results.
Mellin’s Food is the tried and
proved equivalent to Mother’s
Milk; its success is evidenced
by world-wide recommendation
Simple to prepare; no tedious
cooking —it is alike a boon to
the nursing mother and satis-
fying to the child.
Meliin's
Food
Write now for sample of Meliin's Food and
useful Handbook—Care of Infants’—-Free.
Then there's his Bottle Meliin’s Feeding:
Bottle is the perfect and simple Feeder.
Messrs. Gollin & Co. proprietary, Ltd.
Sydney
á
HoIutOC^^^OHKOCKSiy'fftmHdCKStS'fIORROCKSIS
HORROCKSES'
Loiujfelotfo &nct CcUlcceA
tAORRQCKSiy nOKROCKStS
WILL PAY you in the END.
SHED 1791
WILI
ESTABLt
"HORROCKSES”’
ON SELVEDGE
■MOR [inrHSf svnoßßrK'KSrs- HORROCKSES' HORROCKSE
BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.’'
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
air of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few—the mere
stoical among us—can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Some Hints about the Hair. —An Excellent
Shampoo.—Few women realise liow all-impor-
tant a really good shampoo is if the hair is
to he kept in perfect condition. To shampoo
the hair properly, slnrke it down, comb it out,
then dip the lingers into a little pure olive or
almond oil, and thoroughly massage the
scalp. Then mix a teaspoonful- of stallax
granules in a cup of warm water. Fill a basin
with warm water, into which the ends of the
hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax mix-
ture into the roots in the usual way. Rinse;
and dry by fanning, or in tlie open air, if the
weather permits. Should the hair be excep-
tionally greasy, the oil massage of the scalp
should be omitted. Stallax can .be bought at
any chemist’s in quarter-pound sealed pack-
ages. It. keeps indefinitely, and one package
is sufficient for 23 or 30 shampoos.
A Tonic for Thin or Falling Hair.—When the
hair falls unduly, or lias become thin and im-
poverished, a tonic should he applied every
night for six or eight weeks. To make a
simple and inexpensive but most efficacious
lotion, at home, take a quarter of a piut of
hay rum and add to it one ounce of boranium.
Shake thoroughly, and leave for 30 minutes;
then strain, and add sufficient water to make
half a pint. Every night massage the scalp
for 30 minutes, going over the entire head,
then dab the mixture into the. roots with a
soft sponge. Regular brushing for a few
minutes every morning will also help to im-
prove the condition of the hair.
A Grcasv Skin and Jllackheads. —A greasy,
oilv skin, with blackheads and enlarged
pores, is a sore trial, and many a girl goes
through life with her appearance entirely
spoiled with these unsightly blemishes, which
may now be so quickly and effectively removed
with but little trouble. To remove blackhead*
and the dull, dirty look of. the skin which
accompanies them, dissolve one sty mol tablet
in a glass of hot water. Allow the efferves-
cence to subside, then dip a small soft sponge
into (lie liquid and bathe the face. Leave o»
the skin for a few minutes, then dry with a
towel, and the blackheads will come right off.
For a greasy skin, bathe the face three times
a week with stymol and spray with cold water
every morning, using a vulcanite throat spray.
The Secret of a Good Complexion.—The secret
of a good complexion is so simple that, were
it only more widely known, there would be
no such thing as a rough, blotchy skin.
Nature has decreed that the outer cuticle,
when it. shrivels and dies, shall lie removed;
but so many women fail to realise this. To
remove, by absorption, the dead outer skin,
and preserve the complexion in all its pris-
tine beauty, mercolized wax is recommended,
ordinary creams and lotions being quite in-
effectual for this purpose. Smear the wax
over the face and neck, rut) it gently into the
skin, and leave for the night. In the morning
wash it off, using a good soap, such as
Pilenta. and all the dead skin will be removed
with (lie wax. Then apply a lotion to re-
move any, trace of greasiness and brace up
tbe skin, making it firm and white. The lotion
can bo made at home quite easily, by mixing
one ounce of elominite in four tablespoonfule
of hot water. Bottle, and. when cool, apply
to the face with a soft sponge, or the tips of
the lingers, allowing it lo dry on the skin.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
berries will reduce your weight.
They are harmless, and no alteration need be
made in your diet. They have also one great
advantage over other flesh - red u cers: they re-
duce so gradually that there is no fear of
loose, flabby skin and wrinkles.
ZULA.—- No, I am afraid I cannot tell you how
to prevent yourself from biting your nails.
You must exercise your will power.
CONSTANCE.—To remove tbe yellowness
from your skin, get a tin of mercolized wax
and apply it every night, nibbing it well into
the skin. Leave it on till morning; then wash
it off with warm water and a good soap. (2)
To give a color to the cheeks, get a little col-
liandum and rub some on a leather. Apply tins
to the cheeks. It gives a perfectly _ natural-
looking flush to the face, and is quite unde-
tectable. (3) To remove the blackheads, take
a stymol tablet and dissolve it in warm water.
When the effervescence has subsided mop the
lotion over the face, allow to remain on f»r
a few minutes, (lien wipe off, and the black-
heads will disappear.
(iEOB<*IE.—=I tun not surprised to hear that
the electrolysis treatments were not succe*-
ful. They seldom are. Get an ounce of phe-
minol and a tube of tekko paste. Use them in
conjunction, and you will soon be rid of the
troublesome superfluous hair.
SHEILA. —To restore your hair to its original
color, get two ounces of tammalito and mix it
with three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair every night or morning. In a couple of
weeks there will be no sign of the greyness.
Tammalito is not a dye, but a natural re-
storer.
ELSIE.-- To remove the roughness from your
skin, use a lotion made by mixing cleminite
with warm water. Allow the lotion to cool,
I hen bottle, and use after washing the face
every morning. U
Hubby is a Lover of Scones.
r i £> L-A
, An i j\jq Uo
. v '
O w DEfi
54
2?% *is^i uncj * r * ho p ure isSc« , si
b* i Nei&Z*
Tic sits down to a meal. He breaks one of your scones.
He butters it. He tastes! Ah! how tempting they are
with their feathery -lightness. He eats and eats, and he
tells you how he likes your scones. Then you are proud.
But without
Ireland’s
Baking Powder
you could not give him such scories. For it is the Baking
Powder that never fails you—making scones appetising—
wholesome —pastry that is crisp, flaky and easily digested
and cukes tempting and cooked thoroughly right through.
Give Ireland’s Baking Powder a trial to-day, and put your-
self on the road to Baking Satisfaction.
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE.
INSIST ON GETTING IRELAND’S.
J. IRELAND LTD ~ Newcastle
BATH
a
BV
APPOINTMEN
â
TO
H.M. THE KING.
ã
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
L "" " * "" i """ nr
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
FOR THE VOICE t THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
HUDSON’S "EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
AN IDEAL REMEDY
J.uj
ON
Sold by all Chemists. Tins
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the Preven-
tion of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bacterici-
dally as is creosote.’’
Unlike cough medicines “EUMENTHOL JUJUBES"
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic pro-
perties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food
when taken after meals, £fil
The Red Page
Our Reptile Contemporary
I have before me a copy of our reptile
contemporary, the N.S.W. Government
Gazette, a struggling publication which
comes out occasionally. It has little to
recommend it. The style is formal, dry and
discursive. There is nothing continuous or
consistent about its argument. The lack of
lire, imagination, sentiment, high resolve and
poetic feeling is absolute. In fact, there is
no poetry whatsoever. No soldier could read
it in the; trenches and feel better for its peru-
sal. It isn't calculated to soothe anybody’s
declining years. It fails even to * awake
healthy indignation. The illustrations, con-
sisting of two animals on their hind legs, are
commonplace.
There is a great waste of pomp ami paper
and circumstance about our loathsome con-
temporary. These are not times for paper-
wasting or pomp-wasting. The two animals
should be cut out. The heading in four big
lines, “Government' Gazette of the State of
New South Wales, Published by Authority,”
should be condensed to “New South Wales
Government Gazette” in one line. If any-
one wants to say that N. S. Wales isn’t*a
State, it is up to him to prove it in the High
or Petty Debts Court. Or if anyone doubts
that the Gazette isn’t published by author-
ity, he can always get counsel’s opinion at
his own expense provided he approaches coun-
sel properly through a solicitor.
Next to its non-committal policy on the
great questions of the hour and its lack of
cablegrams, the feature of the effete and
time-serving contemporary is its circumlocu-
tion about persons in high places. One short
notice re the shop-closing hour on Wednes-
days and Saturdays in a town of ”8”> people
contains these superfluities :
PROCLAMATION.
New South I By his Excellency, Sir Walter
Wales J- Edward Davidson, Knight Comman-
to wit. J der of the Most Distinguished Order
, of Saint M-ichael and Saint George,
Governor of the State of New South
IV. 13. Davidson, Wales and its Dependencies, in the
Governor. Commonwealth of Australia.
Whereas under Section 4 of the Early Closing
(Amendment) Act, 1900 ....Now therefore, I Sir
Walter Edward Davidson, the Governor aforesaid,
with the advice of the Executive Council. . . .the
first day of August, in the year of our Lord One
thousand nine hundred and eighteen....
Given under my hand and the seal of the State
this twentieth day of June, in the year of our
Lord One thousand nine hundred and eighteen, and
in the ninth year of his Majesty’s reign.
By his Excellency's Command,
G. S. Bbeby.
GOO SAVE THE KING,
And it could all be put like this :
PROCLAMATION.
The Shadow of the King says:—
Under Section 4, Early Closing Amendment Act,
1900,... .August 1, 1918.
20/6/1918. G. S. Beery,
Twelve times in one issue God is asked to
save the King, once in a matter relating to
garbage, once re fish, once re a public holiday
at Gulargambone, and nine times over other
affairs. It seems to me that the profane and
degraded contemporary shouldn't throw the
name of the Almighty about in this silly and
profuse fashion, nor should it imply that the
King requires such a lot of saving. It might
be taken for granted that the King isn’t lost,
and that N. S. Wales is still in the Common-
wealth of Australia until someone sees it
stealing away, and then the business-like
idea is to run after it and drag it back by the
hair. .Just here it may be mentioned that it
is a meutally-deficient sort of contemporary
which declares three dozen times that N. S.
Wales is a State and then describes its
Treasurer as “Colonial.”
The perpetual “Advice of the Executive
Council” is sheer hypocrisy. Only a worm-
like contemporary would descend to such a
subterfuge. Often half the Council isn’t
there, and half of what is there doesn’t take
the trouble to open its mouth or its ear about
the fixing of a half-holiday at Mumble-bone.
Put truthfully, it might read
... ..With the advice of such of the Executive
Council as happened to be present and was taking
notice of the proceedings, one member having gone
to England at the public expense, one leaving all
his time occupied doing a recovery! one having been
seen leaving town in a , motor-car with a minor
actress, and a member without portfolio, who
doesn’t really matter, not having been seen at all
for two days.,,.
My idea is that in the interests of truth,
peace and economy the “Executive Council”
formality should be dropped altogether.
This derelict contemporary is, as already
hinted, without religion (apart from its hoarse
demand that God wilhsave the King), with-
out visible political principles, without art
or poesy or even the Higher Criticism. To
it a primrose by the river’s brim is merely a
vegetable growing on portions 81 and S 2 in
the parish of Bulalgee, licensing district of
Bobundera and Cowwallop. It never wastes
a chance to make three soulless lines serve
where one would do by spelling out dates to
the bitter end. and mentioning the county
with the longest name as often as possible, by
sometimes calling Fitzpatrick “Minister for
Mines” and sometimes “Secretary for Mines”
and sometimes not calling Ball anything at:
all. And the chances it misses are pathetic.
Even in its own dull rut It might brighten
things up when it advertises the new sheep
or bull reserve at say Jemalong, if it threw
in a brief summary re scenery, if any, which
there probably isn’t in a place with
a name like that; also, re noted bush-
rangers, mixed criminals, suicides and
ghosts thereabouts, local hangings, and
the illegitimate birth-rate of the surround-
ing districts. And the temporary appoint-
ment of Jones vice Smith and Brown vice
Robinson; also the resignation of Sclimidt-
etein and Boffin and .Jobb would be made
interesting if it ‘was explained that Smith
was away waiting till things blew over : that
Robinson was lying low on the original
Crown grant of Briggs, in the parish of
Hyandra, land district of Dubbo and Molong.
on account of a divorce summons; that it
had required three policemen to intern
Sclmiidtstein and one of them was badly
bitten ; that Boffin had fled . with the office
cash and another officer’s wife; while Jobb
(Continued on vet-ffe 26.)


nee
CHALLENGE OIL ENGINES
The CHALLENGE OIL ENGINE has been DESIGNED to MEET the
REQUIREMENTS of the MAN on the LAND, who DEMANDS an EFFICIENT,
RELIABLE, EVEN-RUNNING Engine. The CHALLENGE has MAGNETO
IGNITION, is QUICKLY started. EASILY operated, and REMARKABLY
economical in FUEL CONSUMPTION.
KT
CHALLENGE
WE STOCK THE CHALLENGE
OIL ENGINE in SEVEN SIZES,
as follows: —
Tile Challenge Oil Engine
is neat and compact, and
even tile lower-powered
types are capable of per-
forming- heavy work. We
quote the following as
having been done by a
2-h.p. model: —Drove a
21n. Centrifugal Pump,
giving 5000 gals, per hour
on 20ft. head; Sin. Centri-
fugal Pump, giving 11,000
gals, per hour on 12ft.
head; Dynamo, 20 lights;
Bone Mill, 100 to 200 lb.
per hour; Hay’s Corn
Shelter, 25 to 50 bushels
per hour; Cream Separ-
ator, any usual size;
Chdffcutter, up to bin.
mouth, 2 blades; Meat
Chopping Machines, 351 b.
in 5 minutes; Churns,
Wheat Grader, Milking
Machines.
ä
CHALLENGE WINDMILLS
THE MAN ON THE LAND has OFTEN to
LEAVE the FARM WORK he is doing to RE-
PLENISH the HOUSEHOLD WATER supply. The
ACTUAL operation of PUMPING daily from a
WELL to the HOUSE TANK does not take up a
GREAT DEAL of tifne, but in the AGGREGATE it
represents HUNDREDS of WASTED HOURS
YEARLY. He should install a CHALLENGE
WINDMILL to do the pumping for him. The TIME
SAVED would be REFLECTED in the MONETARY
RETURN from his farm. The UP-TO-DATE MAN
uses a CHALLENGE WINDMILL and CONTINU-
ALLY SOUNDS its PRAISES.
The CHALLENGE CONSTRUCTION is the
EMBODIMENT of SUPERIOR MECHANICAL
ELEMENTS. BROUGHT TOGETHER for the first
time in ONE UNEQUALLED COMBINATION;
and PRODUCING A WINDMILL of EXCEP-
TIONAL MERIT.
Briefly stated, these elements consist of an
INTERNAL GEAR, CENTRE ONE-PIECE
CRANK. ROCKER ARM, SPLIT BOXES, with
detachable, reversible BABBITT BEARINGS,
interchangeable with graphite. SIDE VANE and
MULTIPLYING SPRING GOVERNOR.
The internal type of gear is recognised by
mechanical engineers as superior to an external gear
in at least two respects. First, twice as many cogs
in mesh. Second, noiseless. These features secure
strength, long life and satisfaction—all that is obtain-
able in gear transmission.
tum
Vwrc
V.
STM
V
s
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ STOCK THE CHALLENGE WINDMILLS IN THE. FOLLOWING SIZES:
TOWERS' FOR CHALLENGE WINDMILLS.
4-post, in 10ft. sections—
20ft. 30ft.
£9/5/- £lO/18/6
Weight-
Gross 3981 b. 4851 b.
Nett 3151 b. 3601 b.
40ft.
£l2/15/6
7851 b.
6651 b.
Special 30ft. for 12ft. Mill.
£l2/15/6
7751 b.
6751 b.
ILLUSTRATED LEAFLET SENT ANYWHERE ON REQUEST.
RELIABLE OHIO ENSILAGE COTTERS
The OHIO No. 11 CUTTER and BLOWER, as shown, will DEAL with ALL
KINDS of DRY FEED, as well as ENSILAGE, at the RATE of from 3 to 5
TONS per HOUR. The model shown, the plain-table type, although a POWER-
FUL machine, requires but sor 6 h.p. to drive it. The OHIO No. 11 is STRONG
and DURABLY built, and is fitted with two knives of high carbon steel which retain
their cutting qualities. OHIO BLOWERS ELEVATE MORE ensilage per
horse-power than any other blower. The reason is plain. The same shaft that
receives the power from the engine carries the cutting knives and the blower fan.
No. 11 Cutter and Blower, with two 11-inch knives, cuts £, \ and 1 inch. £2B
Prices are for machines complete,
with Blower and Hood.
:s
B
1
<ggss
The OHIO No. 13 STANDARD FEED and ENSILAGE CUTTER is also
a NECESSITY on an UP-TO-DATE FARR. The good points which a farmer
looks for in such a machine are these—STRENGTH, DURABILITY and SATIS-
FACTORY OPERATION. The OHIO No. 13 contains all the latest IMPROVE-
MENTS, and is in EVERY WAY RELIABLE. From 4 to 6 tons of ensilage or
from 2500 to 3500 pounds of dry feed can be cut per hour. By substituting
shredder blades for the cutting knives, perfect shredding may be' accomplished.
With two knives it cut i, 1, 11, and 2 inch, and }, 1. | and 1 inch with four
knives. The speed is from 450 to 600 revolutions per minute. The train of
feed-gear pinions, clearly shown in picture, vibrate as the feed roller raises and
lowers, yet their movable bearings maintain the respective distances to each other
and keep the gears properly in mesh without friction, which gives a uniform motion
to the roller. The backwardly-inclined motion of the upper roller, as it raises,
assists in taking hold of the feed, and this, combined with other
good points, makes these machines strong feeders. Price ...
£l7/10/-
m
i
%
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.L™
Only Universal FVoviclers,
New Pal ace Emporium,
less*
EH-SSSK
iiK
s£/uve<*:
B
k 1 1
ric
i e
ney


mmmmM
/■ 1
::
m.
, r ~3t t ’'l'/-. ' I
.
1
1 : ... .• *vl
.
‘ «?; r
ii
h&®
!
■
'■ ,'V
11
=• : •? w
m
Bigg
mm
.
. ***** *"*
”*>•-** *
t -'
rr\
** & >
n ■ •
I
e»
iglwll
»•
:' i a:
* «
» * •
.
wwawfr
I
a r
*a
f cC <s «
i-rlii
'
‘i-
hmm
j ,
#
mbs*
.yr ;a
ISMS
L '* -<
...
~—«
IP
——.
m
11 if
ifelM
m
&
Adam&x Saves in First Cost, Freight,
and in Cost of Upkeep.
IL' Adamax Roofing did not live up to the claims we make for it the contract for the supply of
Adamax to the N. S. Wales Railways for 1917-1918 would not again, after careful analysis, have
been secured for 1918-1919. Neither Avould Adamax have proved itself, under critical examina-
tion and tests by experts, worthy of being used in the following “big jobs”:—-
43J miles of Adamax Roof Covering is being used on
wool=storage sheds erected in Wentworth Park, Sydney, by
Messrs. Stuart Bros, for the Central Wool Committee.
Again, recently, 13 miles of Adamax Roofing were ordered
by the Imperial Authorities in Perth for the West Australian
Wool Stores.
22,000 sq. yds. for use on the Commonwealth Buildings at Molongo, Canberra.
29,000 sq. yds. on the Leeton Canning Factories.
13,200 sq. yds. for W.A. Qovt. Freezing Works at Wyndham.
An order for 44,000 sq. yds. (25 miles) was placed for use on the South
Australian Wheat Board Buildings.
These are the proofs we give you of Adamax Superiority—not mere wordy talk that might be
applied to any other composition roofing.
Follow the lead of the master minds who were responsible for the placing of the above huge orders,
and order Adamax for roofing your factories, mine buildings, garages, sheds and homes.
Adamax costs One-tHird the price
of Galvanised-iron.
Get that fact embedded in your mind. Take note of the saving in freight—nearly two-thirds less
than on iron.
And Adamax, unlike iron, is not damaged by the elements —Rain, Wind, Heat, Cold, Sea Air,
Mining Gases or Chemical Fumes, Rot or Rust do not wreak their vengeance on it. Therefore,
Adamax will not pinhole or dry out and become valueless—because it contains no tar or fish-oil.
Pure mineral hydrocarbon is thoroughly impregnated into the long-fibred felt, which is then
finished by a process which makes it impervious to the elements.
“The Adamax Series” is a free Booklet, which explains the many merits and uses to which Adamax
can be put. Send for free copy.
William Adams Co. Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: Cr. Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH: 33 King Street.
ADAMAX
å
ā
a


liwi
m
?
pi
ofjuxite
“Unalloyed” Dyes
The dyes used in Hose
of Luxite are “unalloyed” —not
loaded with heavy metallic com-
pounds to give the hose a glossy,
heavy appearance.
The soft, full-bodied shimmer of
Hose of Luxite is gained by the
use of rich, fine-stitched materials,
pure-dyed.
That is why its elegance and
beauty last through repeated wash'
ings.
The wide range of styles and
prices will suit every purse and
purpose.
Don't accept substitutes, and
think you have “Luxite.”
Insist upon the genuine.
If your dealer is unable In
: apply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.,
York Street : : Sydney.
miiA a
is now
enjoyed daily by
those who previ-
ously never used
sauces.
Its new, thick, fruity
flavour is quite unique.
Try a bottle right away.
CONSTIPATION CURED
By Simple Home Treatment.
No medicines, trouble or expense; just an easy,
natural self-treatment discovered by a Mel-
bourne business man, after 25 years of suffer-
ing. Valuable explanatory booklet forwarded
FREE
to all sufferers who send 3d. postage
and this advt. to the author-
J. P. GALE, Cotham Rd., Kew, Vic.
&VJ? i> Jell ill.? <^ ; g§
j'e&r*. I
&§§jß<zst€>vQ ijcfut
If HI
Mi
•X^yr
or & auj
Mg&IGAM
WALNUT
§TAIi
ă
“Best for the Chest.”
NAZETHA PASTILLES
Unrivalled for
Coughs, Sore, Husky or
Irritated Throats.
77ie Most Reliable Antiseptic as a
Prevention Against Diphtheria & Meningitis.
All Chemists sell NAZETH A PASTILLES fpr \ j() Box.
FOR RHEUMATISM AND GOUTY
AFFECTIONS AND OTHER
LOCAL PAINS USE
wc
cox! I
3MJ
Vaseline
Trade Mark Registered
Camphorated
Petroleum Jelly
For sale at all chemists and general stores, in glass
bottles and tin tubes. Refuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Go.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New Ydrk, U. S. A.
Montreal
London
Moscow
“NATURE”
By Sir Thomas Lawrence , P.R.A.
Health is the natural birthright of every child, and of every
man and woman, too—for what are men and women but grown-
up children, after all ? Regularity of habit is the secret of good
health —yet many men and most women need an “ aid to nature ”
in establishing such regularity and in maintaining it.
Kruschen Salts, the famous home remedy for Constipation (and
the train of evils that Constipation brings) is an ideal aid to
nature —it determines regularity of habit, and by daily cleansing
the system of all impurities promotes a state of constant vigorous
good health. Get the Kruschen Habit—persevere with it!
It is the “ open sesame ” to health and general well-being.
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle
ą
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
MESSRS. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietors, E. Griffiths Hughes (Kruschen) Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester. England
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring Song—Variation.
There’s a voice in my heart whispering low,
There’s a wound in my soul that won’t heal;
There’s a something gone from me, a
preciousness sped,
A perfect soft music I miss as I go
With the other old dogs that are lonely and
feel
Regret for the days that are dead.
English lanes where the cowslips grew,
Dairymaids with plump cheeks a-bloom,
Pleasures of springtime and blossomy May,
Woodland, walks with the imp, Nell Grey
(Sweet to look at, but tricky to woo),
Cosy suppers in Grandmamma's room:
Nell again (a good memory this.'),
Tremulous under a boy's first kiss.
There’s a stir of Spring in the air,
A lilt of new mirth in the sea,
And out of my heart that is haunted by care,
From depths of my heart that are barren
and bare,
A delicate music comes back to me
And sings- of the days that were.
Tanjong Katong where skies are blue
And palms lisp down to the shining strand,
Ripples of green on the China Sea,
Java nights when youth stayed with me,
Pines that keep guard over Khatmandu.
Srinagar gemming a, wonderland,
Kinchinjvnga aloof and cold,
Old Rangoon with its mosque of gold.
So what does it matter at last?
Why can’t one grow old and be gay?
There are plenty of things for a codger to do
As the jolly old world winks past.
There are lips ’twixt the cup and the slip,
they say,
And one may live though the Fates boo-hoo/
George-street brave on a Saturday noon,
And Pitt-street frothing with frills and lace.
Red-lipped girls with the deep, deep eyes
That stir old age to new enterprise.
Pan who lingers to chuckle and croon
From, the dimple sweet of a roguish face.
Spring in the pageant and Spring in the air:
And Spring in my heart.... So what do I
care!
N.S.AV.
FRANK MORTON.
Getting Through.
I lay in sleepy wonder looking round
One day when Spring had decked the world
with green ;
It seemed as though all Nature’s voice had
been
Merged into one low-swelling, throbbing
sound
(The noise of bees, of insects on the ground,
The drowsy songs of birds singing unseen),
When suddenly a lark’s pure song serene
Filled all the air with ecstasy profound.
And so the drone of prayer clings to the
earth
In one low cadence' like the murm’ring sea
Which undulates beneath a summer sky,
Until some soul gives travail-maddened birth
Unto a concentrated prayer that he
Sends, like that lark’s song, to the Power on
high.
VICTORIA.
A. B. C.
Prayer and Curse.
Plumed and black through the golden noon
Goes a hearse to the burial-place;
Step for step with nodding heads
Sable horses slowly pace.
To and fro the people go,
Ceasing not from talk and task;
Who goes there and how he died
No one cares enough to ask.
Women on the pavement stand.
Watching while he rides in state ;
Women twain, with eyes that shine,
One with love and one with hate.
“Take my hatred,” mutters one;
“You have earned it, earned it well.
God be praised ! When life is done
There is Hell!”
Plumed and black through the golden noon
Hearse and horses onward move;
Neither do they bolt for hate,
Neither shall they stay for love.
To and fro the people go
Giving death no thought at all;
Women twain, of all that host,
Watch the noonday funeral.
As it passes, murmurs one:
“Take my love....’tis freely given.
God be praised ! When life is done
There is Heaven!”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Good-bye.
There can be nothing new in our Good-bye.
The platform with its testy, jostling crowd ;
Impetuosity in Custom’s shroud
Severely straiked and bound —just you and I.
Convention, shuttering Love’s lantern gleam ;
Fate, like a porter, shrieking “terminus!”
For the swift golden journey of a dream
And.... just a stumbling in the dark for us.
There shall be nothing new in our Good-bye—
A little quieter, belike, than most;
For we must part in silence, you and I,
Lest whispering near graves should raise a
ghost.
You to go north, and I to stay behind
And wave adieu, and flaunt a careless brow
(Some memory roses in with rue to bind),-
And wonder why all roads are empty now.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


H
mm
BBS
B m
Pure Seasoned Para Rubber —
Finest Egyptian Cotton Fabric—
Knowledge of Australian Road and Climatic Conditions—
Cong; Experience in tbe Manufacture of Rubber Goods, and
Tbe Earnest Endeavour to produce tbe Perfect Australian Tyre—
These have all helped to make Perdriaus to-day the best of all tyres for Australian Roads.
PERDRIAU Tyres
are better now than the Perdriaus of a few years ago, and if, some time hence, there
are going to be better tyres than the Perdriaus of to-day, then it is Perdriau who
will make them.
So, keep the Home Tyres Turning, and let them always be Perdriaus.
Obtainable through all Oarages or from the Manufacturers—
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
All
States.
Il
The Eclipse Emasculator
We have been fortunate in being able to land a further shipment of
the Famous “Eclipse” Brand Triple-crush Emasculators, and are now
prepared to meet the large and ever-increasing demand that the
superiority of these instruments have created.
The “Eclipse” Emasculator is accepted by Veterinary Science as the
most modern, efficient and satisfactory instrument of the kind yet
introduced.
They are superior in construction, ensuring quicker action with greater
safety.
Price 50/- each. Postage, 9d. extra.
Send to-day for our Free Catalogue.
DENYER BROS.,
Spscialty House,
281 George Street, Sydney.
in
U./
JY7S
The Office- Worker's Mid-da£ Meal
is a problem which worries many a harassed housewife.
Here’s a bright suggestion that'll stop many a worry
wrinkle —
“ REX ”
Luncheon Cheese
With this tasty sandwich-spread on hand you need never
worry over what to pack for HIS lunch.
Many kinds of appetising sandwiches can be made for school
lunches, business lunches and for home use with "Rex”
Luncheon Cheese.
It has valuable digestive properties, and is most wholesome
—even dyspeptics can thoroughly enjoy “ Rex ” Brand. It
spreads like butter and butter is not needed for its enjoyment.
Try it to-day and send a few tins to the Front also.
Also try “R F X” HAM PATE and “REX” VEAL AND TONGUE PATE
They are delicious “Spreads” made from the choicest meats.
FOGGITT. JONES & CO., LTD.
p ackers of Rex” Pure Food Products: Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J. 327
VViNCto-
-0
\
c=>^
JON
SSS!
y
*
CONSIDER
THIS TREAD
DESIGN
Mr.
Motorist:
You will see it only on
GOODRICH
Black m Tires
“Best in the Long Run”
‘SEVEN NON-SKID BARS.
It is no meaningless pattern or design.
It is built and designed for a definite purpose.
It prevents skidding and side slip.
The SEVEN BAR Tread extends well down to
the walls of the tyre,
Protecting the tyre from cutting and bursting
at the sides.
r •
You need only to see this tyre to appreciate
its worth.
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”
DUVAL ®. CO.
145 Collins St., 13 Castlereagh St, 300 Adelaide St.,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 59.-No. 201*2.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1918.
War-time Price, Sd.
THE “LAUGHING JACKS” AND THE CARRION FOWL.
“Australian air fighters are doing great work of destruction.”— Cable.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tiie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 10s. per annum, you can have Tiie Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
address. in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be- understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To, Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgale Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 4U Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Holing, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Iloue Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., Sid.:
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, hoz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1918.
THE GENERATIONS THAT WERE
BORN IN HELL.
It is a common boast among the strongly
pro-Hun elements of the Australian Labor
party that the party has sent a larger pro-
portion of its members to the war than any
other political crowd. If it is so, then the
proportion which didn’t go to the war is
smaller, and less representative, and less
entitled to speak for the body in general
than any other stay-at-home remnant. This
possibly accounts for the transformation of
Labor, if it can be judged by the talkers at
the top of things, from a strongly patriotic
body with a national spirit into_ a virulently
pro-Hun institution with an international
and Bolshevik and I.W.W. craze. It is a
case of the smallest tail here usurping the
place of the largest dog that is temporarily
absent. Anyhow it .has been decided that
this is a good time for a referendum. The
proposal is that the party should give up
recruiting (which its leaders have done
already) unless the British _ Government
asks the Hun for peace, promising him all
his colonies back, and no fines on account of
the £2,000,000,000 or so of expense that his
wickedness has caused. He may be called
upon to repair actual breakage of property,
but that isn’t certain; what is proposed is
that he certainly won’t be called upon to
pay any more than that. It being a friendly
arrangement on equal terms, the German, the
Austrian, the Bulgarian and the Turk will,
of course, sit at the council table and help
to assess the breakage. The Hun’s new
client kingdoms—Poland, Finland, Courland,
etc. —will doubtless also claim to be repre-
sented. On the other hand, such small out-
lying Allies as Bolivia, Guatemala, Ecuador,
Haiti, etc. —will presumably be ruled out
because they only contributed their good-
will. Brazil sent a fleet: and Cuba is pre-
paring an army, so they may, or may not,
have a voice. Anyhow, if the Australian
Government interferes in any way with the
holding of the referendum (the leaders will
decide what is interference) the said leaders
will declare the vote carried. They appar-
ently have the right to do this even if the
interference doesn’t alter the result of the vote
but merely creates annoyance (to them).
They already interfere by printing on the
ballot papers a recommendation to vote
against recruiting. Perhaps this is meant to
arouse the Government to action under the
law. As the thing is being done in rather a
hurry, a large section of the Laborites who
showed themselves in favor of recruiting by
going to the war—especially those in hospi-
tals or Hun prisons—will be disqualified.
It won’t make much difference to the
nations in the battle-zone —those that have
been through Hell. They know a thousand
times more about the affair than even our
men at the Front. Every man and woman
aged under 48 who was born in France or
Italy or Belgium or Russia or Servia was
born in Hell and grew up there. Their lives
have been a race of armaments, a carnival of
expense, and a terror of war. And always
the Hun set the pace. There were great
armies in previous days, of course. When
Napoleon I. had a sort of madness coming
upon him he raised nearly 600.000 men for
his very greatest effort, though he drew them
from at least half a dozen nations. Wallen-
stein, who was a sort of inspired madman,
collected over 100,000. In the bitterest days
of the U.S. Civil War Lincoln called for
300,000 new soldiers in one act. Britain
once, in the days of the great struggle with
France, had 300,000 under arms at once.
Even the idea of a permanently-armed nation
was familiar before the Hun arose. It was
recognised that though a big nation might be
content to arm and train one capable man
in 100, yet a very, very small one like Monte-
negro must train every man, for every possi-
ble enemy was at least 20 times its size.
But the Hun invented the idea of keeping big
nations permanently and wholly under arms.
Also, lie invented the idea of keeping weapons
always up to date. It had been a spasmodic
business before his time. The new Macedo-
nian spear, with the phalanx to wield it
and good leadership to direct it, made an
empire. The English long-bow (as distin-
guished from the previous short-bow and
cross-bow) made its debut on a big scale at
Crecy (1346), and so slow was the re-
arming process that until Flodden (1513) it
was the decider of battles. Only wonderful
commanders like Robert Bruce and Ber-
trand du Guesclin could argue against it.
Europe was just thinking, about 1864, of
scrapping the friendly old muzzle-loader of
Waterloo and before Waterloo. A practic-
able breech-loader had been invented by an
Englishman in 1859, but the Prussian
snatched the idea, and with it he
swept away the Danes in 1864 and
the Austrians in 1866, and put the fear
of death into Britain and France. France
hurriedly bought a breech-loader and tried to
turn its easy-going, mostly-voluntary army
into a big compulsory force. But it was
wrecked in 1870, when it was in the middle
of the stream changing from an old horse
that was worn out to a young one that was
not yet trained.
After that life became a life-and-death
race for every nation that was within the
Hun’s reach and which had anything to
lose. Two million soldiers were wanted
where 100.000 formerly looked sufficient. Two
million expensive rifles had to be scrapped
every few years to make place for better ones,
where 100,000 cheap blunderbusses were for-
merly melted down once in a half century
or so. As much money was spent on new
artillery in a year as would formerly have
sufficed for. a century. Things moved so
fast that in the Cuban war of 1898 three
generations of firearms met. The bulk of
the Spaniards, armed with the rifle of the'
day before yesterday, went down like grass
before the U.S. soldiers with the rifle of
yesterday. - But at El Caney, a mere few
hundred Spaniards armed with the wmapon
of to-day held a poor and hastily-entrenched
position through many long hours against
an overwhelming force, and only caved in,
after doing vast damage, when every man
was either killed or wounded. That was life
put in a paragraph. The European nations
shot away more ammunition in a year’s
training than would have previously sufficed
for a campaign. And yet every year, while
young men went away to spend their best
young days in training, and as the armies
grew bigger and the costs became more
impossible, the feeling of insecurity grew.
The forces of the Hun were always ahead in
numbers, unless the half-armed or wholly-
unarmed section of Russia’s paper reserves
was counted. They were always ahead in
weapons and training, for the -Hun was arm-
ing joyfully for an attack out of which he
hoped to make great profit, while the.
Frenchman and the Russian and the Belgian
and the Serb, 'and even the Switzer and
Dutchman and Roumanian were arming
reluctantly for a defence out of which the
best they hoped was that they might not
make ruinous loss. The initiative—the choice
of time and place—was left to the Hun. No
one cared to arouse the sleeping dog. Every-
body hoped that he might remain asleep or
bite somebody else when he woke.
The generation which was born in Hell
and grew up in Hell has no use for any
peace which won’t disarm the Hun so that
it may disarm also. And it must be such a
peace as will enable them to search him for
hidden weapons and look under his bed for
a concealed gun. The Prussian has been an
aggressor ever since the first king of Prussia
was crowned in 1701. and even before that.
It was the gibe thrown at the present
Kaiser before this war started that he was
the first of his line who hadn’t stolen some
territory, and the statement was nearly true.
Under Frederick the Great Prussia raided
Austria without any declaration of war, and
plundered it of its richest province. It de-
vised the partition of Poland. It invaded
France in 1792, and its generals published
fanciful bulletins about the capture and loot-
ing of Paris, the destruction of many towns,
and the wholesale execution of French poli-
ticians with torture thrown in. It went to
war again in 1806, and- was defeated and
disarmed and its army reduced to about
40.000 men. But within seven years it was
found that the nation had a gun hidden
under the bed. and lb at the whole able-
bodied male population had been drilDd and
armed when nobody was looking. Prussia
has had two spells at being the military
dictator of Europe—-in a moderate way as a
kingdom from 1740 to 1786: in a large wav
as head of an empire from 1871 to .1914 and
onward. And now the nations intend to get
out of Hell—if there is any door.
Any peace which doesn't disarm Prussia
effectually—and there is 217 years of his-
tory to show that that can only be done by
force, not by negotiation—will only mean
starting the old dreadful race of armament
afresh bv land and sea. The race will be
resumed with fewer resources, for Russia,
Belgium, Serbia, Roumania and Northern
France have been laid desolate; with a
crushing load of debt, and with the hopeless
feeling that Hell is to last for ever. If that
kind of pacification is established Australia
will almost certainly be called on to bear its
share of the burden of keeping the world in
arms, and that will multiply its defence
expenditure fourfold. .The old easy-going
days will be over. Every affluent white-man
dependency must sooner or later be invited
either to share with Britain, proportionately
to its population, in defending the empire, or
else to get out of the empire and defend itself
against the wolves as best it may. The
defence that a population of two persons to
the square mile could put up. especially after
the Hun had been re-established at its door,
partly by its own act. can be guessed at.
The case is one in which necessity knows
no tradition and not very much law. Assum-
ing that an arrangement is made which
doesn't effectively disarm the nation that
started the race of armaments, then Britain
will be facing the future with a war-interest
and war-pensions hill of anywhere between
£400,000,000' and £500,000,000 a year, and a
military and naval peace bill of perhaps
£100.000.000. Provided the defence bill
could be reduced almost to nothing by a
real disarming process, the situation would
be eased. Otherwise it may be necessary to
disclaim all responsibility for far-out places
which don’t help much financially, and which
can’t, like India or the Soudan, be forced to
help or even to give commercial preference;
and gather the British means of defence
closer together. The idea is unusual, but
then everything is unusual just now. Eng-
land itself was once turned adrift in the
same fashion —not put out of an empire, but
told that the centre of the emoire had to
draw in its horns because the Hun was in
the ofling. England was_ conquered shortly
afterwards, and the nation wiped out by
Germans save for some remnants in Wales
and other craggy parts.
THE WAR PROFITS BUNGLE.
When the Government can spare time to
have a lucid moment it might devote a
gleam of thought to its War Profits tax.
That affair was copied from an English law
regardless of the widely-different circum-
stances, just as anybody at Cooktown or
Darwin might have a fire at Christmas
because they have Christmas fires in Eng-
land. The British Government badly
wanted to prevent people who made or sup-
plied arms and munitions of war from reap-
ing huge profits from the public calamity,
but Australia doesn’t make these things —at
least not in any dizzy fashion. Canada made
and sold to the Allies over. £70.000,000 worth
of cartridges, explosives, steel plates, steel
goods, vessels of one sort and another in a
single year, but. we only had a strike in
our lonesome arms factory and didn’t export
any of these things. Then Britain desired
to prevent holders of food supplies cornering
the market, and British shipowners holding
up the people with ruinous freights—all to
their own profit. But Australia has so
much of the really essential foodstuffs —bread
and meat —on hand that would nearly take
a billionaire to corner the market, though an
artificial scarcity has been created by the
borrowing of immense sums to buy up and
store foodstuffs, for delivery to the Allies
when Noah’s Ark calls for another cargo.
As for looting the public with exorbitant
freights we have mighty few ships to loot
with, though we are looted ourselves badly
enough by outside shipowners, many of whom
are outside British jurisdiction. As for
restricting the rapacious manufacturer we
haven’t got much of a manufacturer to re-
strict, though we have importers (agents for
outside manufacturers) in plenty. Last year
the British War Profits tax was estimated to
yield £180,000.000. The Australian tax,
being on much the same scale, should
have yielded, population considered, about
£18.000,000. It really yielded £6Bo,ooo—less
than one-twentieth. The simple reason is
that there are no war profits, this being the
one big white man’s country that has missed
the ’bus. Importers have made a good deal.
Trading concerns have made a lot. Big
cattle and sheep men are a doubtful quantity.
Farmers have become very poor. Manufac-
turers on the whole have done badly. Cff
course w r hen Brown makes £lOOO more than
he was making before the war and Smith
makes £l2OO less, and Brown is taxed £750.
and Smith gets nothing, there are £lOOO of
war profits to show, but there is in the aggre-
gate a war loss of £250.
* * * *
The wretched return of the War
Profits impost suggests that there is
a big loss in the aggregate. A mere
shifting about of the old incomes would
far more than account for the miserable sum
collected. It is time to consider if the War
Profits tax isn’t really a traitorous device to
kill Australian manufacturers for the
importer’s benefit. If a manufacturer starts
a new industry—and this country wants them
badly enough—his profits are all war profits
and liable to tax. And whether he starts a
new industry or extends an old one he
requires to buy machinery at war prices and
thus tie himself and his capital down, with a
fairly good assurance that he will lose the
lot through cheap foreign competition when
the war is over, and the imports begin to pour
in again under the old fool tariff. Naturally
he is not in any haste. To buy say £5OOO
worth of new machinery ; and to make say
£lOOO a year out of it—the latest returns
show that the manufacturers’ earnings don’t
bear even that relation to the money spent on
new plant—except when there is a strike on.
and to pay £750 of that away in war tax, to
do this with no guarantee that the tax will
stop when the war ends, and with every pros-
pect that the oM importing competition will be
as fierce as ever when the war ends, and that
his machinery may become mere junk—-well.
.it isn’t an entrancing prospect. The. importer
can expand on the old lines or begin to deal
in new ones, without buying any machinery.
Nobody starts a strike in his business.
No Laborite inquires what wages are paid to
the people who make his goods. His trade is
only limited by the scarcity of tonnage and
the manufacturer is almost as badly handi-
capped, for he wants many imported raw
materials. A War Profits tax that charged
the manufacturer 25 per cent.- and the dealer
in foreign goods 75 per cent, might have
advantages, but our politicians were mere
cortvists who couldn’t understand that cir-
cumstances alter cases. Certainly they never
copied the British idea of not borrowing
abroad and of steadily reducing the public
debt in peace time, but these are rare hursts
of originality.
THE “S. M. HERALD’S” POOR JOKE
AT OUR DISTRESSES.
It is apparent to everyone that if the people
as a whole are to enjoy the same prosperity
and high standard of comfort the country must pay
for its share in the greatest war in history hv a
more efficient national economy, particularly in the
direction of encouraging production and INCREAS-
ING TRADE. .. .seeking new products and NEW
MARKETS develop the State’s official organisa-
tion for the stimulation of TRADE. The field is
unlimited. The markets of the world clamor for our
staple products.... new opportunities in the develop-
ment of our natural resources.
—S. M. Herald, August 30,
One of these clays the heartless old rag
which “pokes borak” at this country’s mis-
fortunes may find that it has gone too far.
Australia may lose patience with the insult-
ing stepmother in Hunter-street that talks
to it perpetually about “trade.” Just before
the war started to disarrange calculations
this country had more trade in pro-
portion to population than Great Britain,
Canada, the United States, France, Argen-
tina, Austria, Germany, Brazil, Denmark.
Italy, China, Russia, Spain, Japan, Sweden
or Uruquay—all, barring China, Russia and
Spain, really energetic countries. In fact it
came near to being the boss trader of the
world —in other country’s ships—the two
rivals whom it was impossible to beat being
Holland, which possesses the mouth of the
great river which carries the commerce of
Germanv and Belgium and counts that as
Dutch trade in passing; and Switzerland,
which carries the trade between Germany
and Italy, and counts that in passing. For
trade of its own —carried in other nations
ships, for it didn’t manufacture ships—
Australia bossed all the world, bar Maon-
land. It has so much trade even now
that it lately imported a consignment of
wattle-bark —which used to be an Australian
monopoly—from South Africa in a Swedish
vessel. And to pay for this accursed trade
.—carried at great cost and now at utterly
ruinous cost in other people’s ships, because
we don’t manufacture ships—Australia in-
curred the biggest foreign peace debt on
earth. It didn’t get a penny of money for
its debt, only goods that it avoided making
itself in order to deprive its people of work
—in other words it got a great deal ot
blighted trade. # *
Trade is a good, honest, desirable thing
when it pays; but. that is when a country
pays for its imports and generally when the
trading country has its own ships, and
makes the profits attached to carrying the
trade. When trade lands a country with a
debt of £243.735,171 due to outside creditors,
all acquired in the course of one reasonably
long lifetime, it is not a sign of health. It
is the hectic flush of disease on the counte-
nance of a bankrupt.
* * f *
As the jeering Foreign-trade publication
puts it, “the markets of the world clamor
for our staple products.” But we can’t eat
clamor or drink clamor .or meet our foreign
liabilities with clamor. Sheol clamors for
water all the time, and North Queensland
has the natural product for sale in cubic
miles, but there is no business doing. The
present position is that the wheat harvest of
1915-1916 has been sold, but not all deli-
vered ; that the harvest of 1916-17 has been
mostly but not all sold and not all delivered :
that the crop of 1917-18 is on hand unsold :
and that' the crop of 1918-19, which is
already in view doesn’t seem likely to sell at
all. unless ships turn up from somewhere,
and there is little prospect of them while the
war lasts, or unless we manufacture them
ourselves. It is rumored that Prime Minis-
ter Hughes is offering, or will offer, these
two crops to the clamorous in England at a
reduced rate, but what they want is raw
materials, and they don’t enthuse much about
paying even 4s. 6d. per bushel, for 'the news
that ihe stuff is inaccessible at the far end
of the world and likely to remain there.
About £14.000.000 have been borrowed—and
the interest on £14.000,000 is something
considerable —in order to give the farmers
whose wheat has been bought a bare living
wage to go on with. Unless the borrowing
can go on, which it can’t do for ever; or the
war ends and the outside nations that manu-
facture ships come to our rescue at their own
price, or we manufacture ships ourselves
much faster than we are doing, a great
natural industry seems likely to close up-
This isn’t a time for any fat old journal to
preach dependence on the great natural re-
sources. Its policy has been tested for the
first time and it has burst. Australia, wholly
enclosed by sea. further away from the
world’s big markets than any other great
raw-product country, and more dependent
than any other big country on imported
sroods, gambled at the instance of the S. M.
Herald school on two things—that somebody
beyond our control would always supply
vessels and that somebody beyond our con-
trol would always renew the loan. The first
proposition has practically broken down,
though we still get. a little freight at dis-
astrous expense. The real breakage may be
yet to come. The second proposition hasn t
broken down yet. though it may; meanwhile
we pay a hair-raising price for renewals.
* * • * *
The collapse of the shoddy snuffling gospel
of dependence on the great natural resources
is so bad that we begin to find a difficulty
in supplying ourselves with our own rav
material. The people of Australia are actu-
ally beginning to clamor for raw material.
Coal, bullocks and salt are raw enough, but
a country that hasn’t learned to manufacture
trains and ships finds them a great deal less


accessible than they were, and consequently
dearer. The two other big white-man coun-
fries —the United States and Canada —that
produce raw material on a large scale as
we do, and are in the war but outside the
devastation zone, like ourselves,_ are making
wealth these days, and even lending money to
the combatants. But they long since burned
the S. M. Herald’s Foreign-trade doctrine.
They combined a high tariff and great second-
ary industries with their wheat and cow and
hide and ore business. Being able to manu-
facture trains and ships, they were able to
furnish goods—not only raw material, but
manufactured goods—when the markets ot
the world clamored and offered high prices
for prompt delivery. The making of the
means of conveyance is a complex affair. It
requires iron mines in working order —not
mere undeveloped deposits or great natural
resources like those at Blythe river; huge
smelting works, steel mills of various kinds,
the capacity for making engines, boilers,
cordage of hemp and wire, complex machinery
of minor sorts, timber fittings of all sorts,
brass fittings, nickel fittings, bedding (unless
crew and passengers are to sleep in their
clothes), rails and bridges and signalling
apparatus, many kinds of tools, and' many
kinds of sundries. A country that can turn
out and fully equip a train or a big steam-
ship knows how to create almost anything.
A country that can’t do this sort of work,
especially when it is' the biggest sea-girt
country on the map and the one most remote
from the world’s big markets, finds itself at
the first emergency with millions of tons of
mouldering raw materials on its hands (the
smell of some of them is dreadful), with
decaying industries, impossible overdrafts
and an outlook that is very poor, and may
become worse. Above all. it finds itself
minus the most essential thing of all—the
habit of self-reliance.
* * * #■
Will the fat and complacent Foreign-trade
paper that publishes its out-of-date theories
in an out-of-date office where three crooked
streets meet state what is the merit of a
policy which collapses at the first real emer-
gency? What is the advantage of a gun that
will only shoot in time of peace, or an
umbrella that will only keep off the rain in
drought time?
THE CLOSED ROOM, 1918.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
After the North a Port Phillip summer looks
like autumn ; and if there were nothing else
to mark the change, there is the sap-green of
the caressing wave above the white sand of
Hampton—kindly to the eye after the dark
reflections of the sea-floor of Moreton Bay.
That sea, under another name, yet part of
the great ocean that washes around the
world, strikes oh some shore on the Atlantic
where are my son and all his old mates of
Hobson’s Bay. The haze towards Geelong ;
the nearer lucent sea ; the red, brown and
yellow of the cliffs; the mass of pines that
mark the old house inland ; even the kindly,
animated mat which is my old unforgetting
dog—these are here apparently changeless
as we are changeable.
Around the old house the black susurrent
pines; the feathers of the pampas-grass mov-
ing gently as to a breath; and because I
know where to look, the agapanthus bloom-
ing almost secretly in the long grass—the
flower of love shining in the wilderness. The
falling trellis dragging the rose to earth;
the stumps of the frees I felled three years
ago falling to dust; the great pines, strong
and unchanging, and a sleepy bird talking in
a nest. And night is here, and silence, where
there were sons and daughters singing ; some-
where in France the boys are waiting to
attack or defend. I was fond enough of this
old house once, and now I care nothing if I
see it never again.
In nly study, closed now a year and more,
all the onee-familiar seems foreign. Norman
Lindsay’s Bacchanal; the Islimael Club’s
.Toss; spears'", Solomon Island wasliie-washies
and arrows tipped with dead men’s bones;
limepots, and all the scraps of wanderings;
Dante and a Coolgardie miner’s-right and
other things as incongruous. All I want to
do is to get away from them. We never come
back; not the prize-fighter nor the actor, nor
the politician; not even the sentimentalist,
who finds the green grapes of his youth have
set the teeth of his maturity on edge. Yester-
day is a closed room, and no matter how
you desire you shall not return to it.
Poor, old human nature is fighting always
against that inevitability; yet is it mostly
glad when it fails. The dead rose asks you
to remember that once it had perfume ; the
widow is singing to her second husband in
the waltz-song fashion of last century : “Love,
I will love you ever; love, I will leave you
never” —a promise which that second hus-
band may yet wish to be withdrawn. It is
all change, endless and unchangeable.
Yet most of these changes are more appa-
rent than real; seeming to be changes more
radical than they are, because we have our-
selves awakened from the lies and illusions
crammed into us in our early miseducatlon.
I was taught some madly-impossible ideals
of life as if it weffe a Avorld of copy-books ;
and from life I expected too much. These
false lights .are most of the illumination of
the stodgy English home that did not admit
the general careless veniality of the world :
that taught of some cheap “royalty” as if it
were human; that had no prejudices but
against an easy freedom of living, and no
hatreds but of other “religions.” It pretended
that women are all angels, and all men
whales for virginities, and that ladies have
not legs.
Personally the most misleading lesson was
the most continually reiterated, that I must
“love my enemies.” This is surely the most
ridiculous and impracticable of advice. Apart
from the fact that such of our enemies as are
worthy of the necessary attention should be
hated like Hell, and waited for —revenge
being never well done in a hurry—apart from
these considerations, I say. if a man loves
his enemies, what has he left for his friends?
I was fertile soil for such a story—unself-
ish, open-handed, and ready to run a mile t~
win a smile. And that made me careless to
the fact that from the day a boy goes alone
into the world all his healthy desires for
pleasure aid the world in its job of dirtying
him, and if he have a temperament he helps
it with both hands. Then it is human nature
to be a saint and forgive the world, or to turn
upon it; and in such ways the pigeon
becomes the father of the hawk.
It is the false education which is to blame;
and of all education the book-learning which
is esteemed as being nearly all is the least.
For book-learning doesn’t make character;
habit does it, and then character makes that
settled plan, whose results the mentallv lazy
call “Destiny.” See the training consequent
on the English acceptation of the position of
woman in the human family. It was a con-
cept based on smug hypocrisy and impudent
refusal to accept facts. It resulted in the
working-class women being overfecund slaves,
and the leisured-class women sterile toys.
The good things of the past are matesliip,
and love while it lasts, and children while
yet you are all the universe to them; and as
we would both love and hate the past if we
could go back to it, it is just as well we can’t
go back. A lucky man is he who has drunk
the world with wine and spent it like water;
and Time shuts the successive gates of his
changing paradises behind him. The closed
door is a great and noble institution.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The War of Jaw and Votes.
It would be an easy and pleasant task to make
out a case in defence of a proposal that any
person found guilty of sedition, in so far as
the offence might have direct bearing upon
Australia’s war effort, should be prevented
from standing for election to the Federal
Parliament, but it wouldn’t be a simple job
to defend a project for, on the same ground,
taking away a man’s rights as a State elec-
tor, prohibiting him from sitting in a State
Parliament or being a member of a munici-
pal or shire Council while leaving him all his
national franchise rights. Premier Holman
appears to have the same idea. At any
rate, the case he made out for the Sedition
Bill he, introduced into N. S. Wales Assem-
bly last week omitted to give the document
a leg to stand on. The main objections to
this measure of his are: (1) That the
penalties for ‘sedition are already ample;
(2) that the exclusion of persons convicted
of sedition, or of discouraging recruiting or
of attempting to create disaffection, from the
State Legislature and the electoral roll and
the municipal and shire council gives no
more assistance towards winning the war
than would a measure compelling Holman
to become a vegetarian; and (3) that the
spectacle of a citizen being eligible for elec-
tion to or, if already elected, being able to
keep his seat in, the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, which has charge of the nation’s war
business and yet being excluded from outfits
having nothing to do with the war and
mainly concerned about sewers and foot-
paths and vagrant cows would be more or
less absurd, not to say grotesque. Further-
more, there is the consideration that “sedi-
tion” is nowadays being interpreted in a
way that would have caused Charles I. to
give three cheers. This Bill is obviously
drafted for political purposes. It may be true
enough that people who want to avoid the
consequences of sedition should not be sedi-
tious. This is Holman’s main point in
reply to criticism of his Bill. It is a point
that can be made in justification of any
penalty for any offence, and has been made
a thousand times in defence of the grossest
outrages upon public liberty. Holman’s
yarn about the connection of this Bill with
the war is a mere gag. The truth is that
he is using the war to work party dodges,
and the measure has been designed to help
the game along. It is not because this paper
has sympathy with the particular individuals
Holman is trying to torpedo that it looks
with disfavor on this Bill, but, among other
reasons, because it loathes every such tricky
attempt to surreptitiously score points off
the patriotic sentiments of the people. Any-
how, in trying to repress a number of indi-
viduals who could easily be attended to under
the War Precautions regulations, practically
all reasonable discussion about the war has
been prohibited and the doper and muddler
and trickster allowed to do their worst. The
injury done to Australia by all the alleged
seditionists in the land has not been a cir-
cumstance compared with the harm per-
petrated by shirking, incompetent politicians
and reckless custodians of the public purse.
—.— ——
Making Another Name for Himself.
“Garnishor” : Not many a man is pleased
by the receipt of the writ which makes him
defendant in an action at law, but if the
suit against W. M. Hughes proceeds to
judgment it will insure the little man an
unforgettable place in “case law,” The point
to be litigated in the action of Mertons
Ltd. v. Hughes is one of the few remaining
points in English law which is still practi-
cally “in the air.” It turns on the power
of a company to take an action in respect
of an alleged libel. There are only three
cases, and one of them is small and unim-
portant and another is not quite relevant.
In the first place, a company is a legal,
and not a physical, entity. As Chief Baron
Manwood put it: “Companies are invisible,
immortal, having no conscience or soul.” The
rule is that a company may sue for a libel
affecting its property, but not for one merely
affecting personal reputation. Hughes has
republished the allegeu defamation since the
issue of the writ, and, according to the
cables of 17/S/’lB, he says that Merton’s
Ltd. is “as much German as are the legions
of Germany on the field, and much more
dangerous.” In a judgment which still holds
it was laid down by Chief Baron Pollock
that a corporation “could not sue in respect
of an imputation of murder, or incest, or
adultery, because it could not commit those
crimes.” The reason why the Corporation
could not commit the crimes is that the law
assumes that it can only do those things
which its articles empower it to do. Apply-
ing the analogy to the allegation against
Merton’s Ltd., and assuming that Pol-
lock’s law is sound, it would imply mere hot
air to speak of the co. as German since it is
a registered British legal entity, and cannot.
in the nature of things, be anything other
than British. Pollock's judgment (deliv-
ered in 1859) was confirmed by two High
Court Judges— Day and Lawrance —in
1891. In this latter case the defendant had
published that bribery and corruption ex-
isted in the Manchester City Council. Day
said the question was whether such an action
would lie. He went on to say that it was
altogether unprecedented, and —
there is no principle on which it could be founded.
The limits of a corporation s right of action for libel
are those suggested by Pollock, C. 8., in the case
which has been referred to. A corporation may sue
for a libel affecting property, not for one merely
affecting personal reputation. The present case falls
within the latter class. There must therefore be
judgment for the defendantJ
The remaining case, not directly to this point
however, was decided by the Court of
Appeal in 1893. A newspaper had said of
the South Hetton Coal Co. Ltd. that the
homes provided by the co. for its workmen
were unfit and insanitary. As it was part of
the co.’s business to run such homes the
action lay. Tie main interest of the decision
in the South Hetton case is that the Court
confirmed the decision of Pollock as quoted
above. Although the law is at present as
stated, it by no means follows that the
Judges will not alter it when (and if) they
deliver judgment in Mertons Ltd. v.
Hughes. There is one pretty good indica-
tion that they will. One of the best authori-
ties in England on company law is G.
Spencer Bower, K.C., and he is also pro-
bably the best authority on libel. In his
Code of the Law of Actionable Defamation
he says he thinks
the dictum and decision of Chief Baron Pollock
(quoted above) are wrong, and that, as soon as they
come under review by the Court of Appeal, it will
bo declared to be so.
In his opinion the Court of Appeal would say
that a juridical entity can sue in respect of
an imputation of any conduct whatsoever of
which its agents, and therefore itself by its
agents, can be guilty. His argument is that
to contend the contrary is to ignore the
entire law of principal and agent, and its
main doctrine that every principle, whether
a natural or juridical person is liable civilly
for every illegal or wrongful act done by his
or its authority. He says that Pollock's is
an amazing argument because it assumes that an
artificial person cannot have a corporate or collective
reputation in respect of any acts or conduct except
those for which it could be punished in the same
way as a natural person could, and that, because a
corporation cannot be hanged, it is not actionable to
publish of it that it employs its members or agents
to perpetrate crimes for which they could be hanged.
If such things were said of a natural princi-
pal. employing such agents they would be
actionable. Why are they less so when said
of an artificial principal? It does not s g-
nify whether the natural principal does not
do the act himself because he is incapable of ,
doing it. Whether he is personally capable
or not, he is equally liable. If Bower’s
view is held to be the right one, then the
name, of W. M. Hughes will be permanently
associated with a very important alteration
in the law of libel. If, on the other hand,
Pollock’s judgment is upheld, there will be
permanent association with an equally im-
portant confirmation of the existing law. In
either event Billy’s name will become a
familiar one to students of case law.
The One Big Union.
From Arthur Rae, Organiser of the Aus-
tralian Labor Party:—
In your sub-leader (B. 22/8/18), “A Kingdom
inside a Commonwealth,” you say that the under-
taking is no less than “supplying the nation with a
new Parliament, a new Government and a new Con-
stitution.” Even so, what is the matter with that
beyond the size of the contract? A synopsis of
The Bulletin’s editorials of the last 10 or 15
years would justify a similar demand. Now, how-
ever, The Bulletin has taken to barking up the
same tree as the S. M. Herald and Telegraph and
other like organs that at one time it would not have
been found dead in the same paddock with. That
the scheme to unionise the whole of the industrialists
of Australia into one organisation is open to criticism
no one will deny, and probably no stronger critics
will be found than the officers and members of the
existing unions which will be asked to join. Their
criticisms, and the safeguards they demand, will
go as far to keep the imaginary “oligarchy” under
proper control as can be applied to any human form
of Government. So far as the principle of’ one
single organisation of industrialists is concerned,
why should The Bulletin lash itself into a fury of
scorn, while accepting without protest the One Big
Union of Capitalists which calls itself the Employers’
Federation in the industrial field and the National
party in the field of politics ? On another page of
tfie same issue, in commenting upon an utterance
of Judge Gurlewis, The Bulletin says: “Every
worker (who is neither a sponger nor the pliant tool
of the boss) knows that without his union he would
bo powerless to hold his own in the economic
struggle.” This sentence gives the reason and the
justification for unionism. The same economic rea-
son which compels the intelligent workmen to join
the union of his trade now forces on a union of
unions. The old craft union has done a vast
amount of useful work in its day, but with the
steady increase of big industries, which by reason
of the multiplication of wonderful mechanical de-
vices are constantly dispensing wdth skilled mechanics,
the craft union has become a clumsy and obsolete
institution, vastly better than none, admittedly, but
no more fitted to compete with modern industrial
problems than a bark canoe is fitted to carry ocean
commerce. Capitalism in its organised control of
trade and finance is not merely a kingdom wdthin a
Commonwealth, it is an empire dominating humanity.
The Trade Union Congress which passed the One
Big Union scheme is severely blamed for meeting
with closed doors. I am not aware that the
Employers’ Federation took the public into its con-
fidence in forming its constitution' nor on any
subsequent occasion, yet The Bulletin expresses no
alarm at the consequences which may arise from
this perennial secrecy. With the Labor Congress
there were specially good reasons why the press
should not be present. Only those parts of delegates
speeches which could be construed into hostility to
the scheme, or the chance remark of an indiscreet
speaker, would stand any chance of being published.
On the other hand the present fashion of “national”
Governments applying all the most despicable
methods of European autocracies in their administra-
tion of the laws, such as spies, detectives, a'gents-
provocateur, shorthand note-takers, etc., compels all
Labor gatherings to be more than ordinarily careful
whom they admit to their confidence. The “300
officiab” in the One Big Union and the average
wage of £3OO per annum, are simply guesses in
the dark, . and have no foundation. _ Tfie actual
■ number of officials, over the essential minimum,
■ will be entirely in members’ own hands to determine,
but in any case will be fewer than the aggregate
number of secretaries now employed. The Congress
did not touch the question of salaries. Further-
more, the principles of the Initiative Referendum and
Recall are embodied in every grade of the adminis-
tration so as to keen the union as democratic as
human ingenuity can devise. Of course the success
of the scheme and its advantages to the community
must in the last analysis depend upon the wisdom,
tolerance and honesty of the average membership, and,
like all man-made institutions, its powers may be
abused; but on the whole the advantages, not merely
to the present-day unionists, but to the community,
are calculated to far outweigh its possible dangers.
It would be as idle to advocate the abolition of
machinery, because steam-boilers occasionally burst,
and railway trains sometimes collide and thereby
destroy life and property. As to the objection to the
One Big Union because it may tread on somebody's
corns, nothing big can be done, or attempted without
taking risks, and the One Big Union is far less likely
to permit foolish strikes to take place, dragging
in others without rhyme or reason, than is the case
at present.
The mattet of a “Worker’s Bank” had nothing
whatever to do with the scheme, but was simply a
subject listed on the Congress agenda for discussion.
As for the Commonwealth Bank, the only adverse
criticism was that it had not begun to live up to
its possibilities in financing the Commonwealth, and
was avowedly a friend and backer of the private
banks ( vide Denison Miller’s recent speech in
London) instead of wiping them out of existence,
as it one day must do. As for the £220,000,000
sunk in railways making them “the property of
everybody,” (Jiat is all bunkum. Nominally, they
are “our railways”; actually, they belong to the
investors of the capital, mostly foreign investors at
that, and freights and fares are constantly going up
to meet tin growing interest bill.
The alleged breaking up of large estates is no
refutation of the statement in our preamble that
industries are concentrating in fewer and fewer
hands. Bank amalgamations are the order of the
day, and trusts, mergers, combines, “gentlemen’s
agreements” and “honorable understandings” are
all forms by which Capital not only functions
nationally, but has reached out internationally, and
when the present armed conflict has ceased will
become world-wide in its operations.
The One Big Union was not adopted by men who
“hate the politicians,” but in order to guide and
supplement political action by the united voice and
influence of organised industrialism.
The reply to which is: —
(1) The statement that The Bulletin barks up the
same tree with the Herald and Telegraph is a
falsehood. The Bulletin differs from them diametri-
cally in the biggest things—honest finance, stoppage
of borrowing for public works, reduction of the
public debt, real decentralisation by opening the
ports with, such railway facilities as Sydney
possesses, the establishment of cities there (granted
the facilities that made Sydney other cities like
Sydney are possible), with the State as sole ground
landlord. The Labor party stood for some such
policy once till it went into the same camp of
rotten finance and truckling to the money-lending
capitalist and privately-owned congested cities as
the Herald and Telegraph.
(2) The people who run the Employers’ Federation
and the National party don’t use their organisations
to advocate the restoration in the Pacific of Hun
power, with its militarism and its autocratic
monarchy. They aren’t obviously the agents of
the biggest military capitalist on earth. If they
were The Bulletin would object to them as much as
it does to the Big Union, or more.
(3) If everybody who keeps an eye and an ear
open for glaring treason and shameless advocacy of
the cause of our most dangerous enemy is a “spy,
detective, agent-provocateur and shorthand note-
taker,” then the Australian Governments do employ
them.
(4) Mr. Rae objects to the Commonwealth Bank
because “it hasn’t begun to live up to its possibilities
in financing the Commonwealth” and is “a friend and
backer of the private banks instead of wiping them
out of existence.” How would Mr. Rae have financed the
Commonwealth? If he knows a better way and
doesn’t publish it —in detail, not in mysterious bunkum
and generalities—he is a mean creature, and is neg-
lecting his country’s interests. But don’t let him
propose the old, oft-tried, oft-exploded schoolboy-
device of an irredeemable and unlimited paper cur-
rency. Better financiers have discovered that trick-
before and thought they had dropped on something-
new.
(5) For the rest the Commonwealth Bank has;
financed all the big war loans, and saved the country-
over £3,000,000 by doing it below the old joint--
stock bank rates. It has accumulated about
£25,000,000 of deposit business (apart from Savings
Bank deposits) that would otherwise have gone to
the private banker. It accumulated in its first 54
years over £760,000 of reserves, all belonging to the
people. It hasn’t cost the people a penny. And it,
is growing faster than ever now that it has got
over its preliminary expenses and other troubles.
It has put up probably a world’s record for progress.
But it didn’t ask Mr. Rae’s advice. And it didn’t
rush out and club the other banks on the first day
of its existence, and scatter their deposits and
securities in the street, and start a picnic which
would have closed up half the industry of the
country. It is a Bank of the People, not a gorilla
or a loutish anarchist with an axe, or an incendiary.
The Bulletin admires it as a really successful
attempt at Public Ownership. If it isn’t the right
kind of bank let Mr. Rae get his party to start
the right kind, with himself as manager, and show
how to do it.
(6) Mr. Rae is right in saying that the railways
are not really the property of the pe pie. They
belong to the money-lenders. So far as Mr. Rae’s
State is concerned they might have been making
progress towards being realty the people’s property
had not Mr, Rae’s party been such a dashed liar
and traitor, and gone into the S. M. Herald’s loan
camp. It once advanced a policy of reduced bor-
rowing—and borrowing was then down to about
£1,500,000 a year; no borrowing except for works
that would pay full interest ar.d sinking fund; and
its leader even promised a general sinking fund.
What does Mr. Rae propose by way of repairing this
carnival of waste, treachery, falsehood, fraud, truck-
ing to the money-lending capitalist and Judas
IscAßioTism? Does he propose that the party should
swear off now, and be honest? Or would he have
it pile a swindle on top of a lie and repudiate? Or
would he have it remain in the old ditch of sin?
(7) Bank amalgamations don’t necessarily mean
the concentration of capital in fewer hands. Joint 1
stock banks, large or small —-there are no private
banks in . Australia now that The Bulletin knows
of, and have been none for quite a while —are the
property of any and every Big Unionist who buy-s
shares. * Of course they don’t give away shares, for
they have none to give. The bank itself owns less
than an old age pensioner—the co-operative pro-
prietors own everything. They generally 7 favor the
small man, for the owner of lOOJHIO shares doesn't


.of A
The
JL
&
ustralia
• Limited
The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of the Man on the Land to support this co-operative
company.
Write immediately lor particulars.
Head Office: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES ia VICTORIA AND SOOTH AUSTRALIA.
have 1000 times the voting- power of the man with
100 shares —not by a long way.
(8) Income-tax returns, land-tax returns, probate
returns, sheep returns, etc., etc., all prove that
wealth is becoming more diffused. On the other side
will Mr. Rae give the address of a few “trusts” or
“mergers”—real ones, not shadows? There are
doubtless “honorable understandings”—quite unlike
the N. S. AVales Labor understanding on the loan
s .bject. It was dishonorable,
While Wilhelm Backs His Cart.
When last heard from Billjim had advanced
20 miles from the place he started from, and
had penetrated right into the heart of the
stricken country over which the harrow of
war is passing for the fourth time. What
that countryside is like now only Heaven
and the toiling, weary soldiers thereabouts
can tell. Broken up into shell holes,
trenches and graves, the towns and villages
mere heaps of dust, it is probably such a
locality as the world has never known before.
And while Billjim is fighting his way on,
the problem of who is going to take up
his gun when he drops out of the fray is
more acute than ever. He has the consolation
at any rate of knowing that a vote is being
taken by the Australian Labor party
which, if carried, would be a proclamation
of local quit and abandonment. That
the Australian army should be allowed to
waste away would be bad enough, and such
a tragedy is the not improbable result of
the mess the Commonwealth has been plunged
into by political tricksters and moral
shirkers; but that the party which stood,
at least, for the maintenance of the nation’s
battalions by the voluntary method should at
this hour deliberately desert not only this
principle and all it meant, but openly betray
the men it sent away and the cause for
which every democracy in the world stands
to arms would be a revelation of baseness
almost without historical parallel. Never
did men light in a more holy war than these
lads of ours, for they are defending the very
foundations of human liberty and national
freedom. The whole future of mankind
turns on whether victory shall go to a
boweriess autocracy or to them who stand
across its pathway in defence of Right. And
no mistake need be made about this victory
going to be an easy, simple thing because
the tide is running our way to-day. Baulked
though they have been, and by the grace of
Uncle Sam will continue to be, the German
armies are still a powerful instrument for
evil, and every man that the Allies can feed
and equip is wanted to see the last round
out. Meanwhile the German on the western
front goes steadily on the reverse gear,
bound apparently for the powerful line of
entrenchments he left in April, there to
spend the winter. To winter where he is
now would be an experience full of horror
and misery, even if it were possible.
Whether lie will be able to fall into the old
line and stay there remains to be seen.
Foch will probably be heard from even more
emphatically in a few days than during the
last week or two. Of the adventures going
on in Siberia the tidings are about as full
of illumination as- the inside of a well.
General Frost is due to descend on the
situation thereabouts in a few weeks. As
the German and Austrian troops are without
supplies and the Czecho-Slovaks are in the
same fix, and the Bolsheviks are alleged to
be living on vodka, and everything generally
is up in the air, the situation when the ice
and snow move off the landscape next yeai
ought to make a fairly interesting yarn. The
only definite news from Russia is that
Lenin has followed the Czar across the
Styx a local Charlotte Corday having put
a bullet in him. Perhaps he was not very
sorry. Russia seems a good place to be out
of just now.
The Case of Some Drab Insects.
When Premier Holman learned that the
teachers in N. S. Wales were dissatisfied
with their lot (or their scrap) and intended
getting, if possible, under the shelter or the
Arbitration and wage-fixing laws, lie was st
disappointed Treasurer. And one at least of
his colleagues spoke as if the teachers weie
exhibiting base ingratitude, and as if he had
been bitten by his pet, serpent. One woVitd
think As arbitration, in place of strikes, is a
notable feature of the .creed on which Hol-
man was brought up,, that he would be
glad, in this time of industrial upheaval
and veiled insurrection, that one large body
of men intended to' follow orderly and law-
abiding ways. Also, that these men m-
tended to adopt a principle that he has
preached ever since his youthful and well-
groomed head first appeared above the waters
of obscurity. Yet he wasn’t glad worth a
cent. He was mad. The, teachers say, among
other things, that there isn’t one of them
to-day whose salary is larger than that paid
for the same class of work 37 years ago ;
and that there were all these years ago over
30 teachers receiving £SOO a year while now
there are only nine. Tlie cost of living has
gone up. Wages in almost every line of
industry have gone up. sometimes more than
100 per cent. But the only difference to the
teachers has been that the prizes of the pro-
fession —very poor prizes at the best —have
become fewer. By reason of their calling
they are a scattered crowd that flocks separ-
ately, and they can’t in any single electorate
wield a vote worth considering. They aren’t
eligible for the Shearers’ Unjon or the Boiler-
makers’ Association. And because of these
disadvantages, the most valuable. kind o.
civil servant ever invented has received little
save applause, and not too much of. that.
Certainly it must be admitted in fairness
that Premier Holman disputed some of the
assertions of the pedagogues. He alleged in
a broken voice that £27,000 was made avail-
able last year-—not by way of a general in-
crease, for among about 8000 men and
women it would have been a mockery of
70s. per head every 12 months, but to help
individual cases. And this year £39,000 was
made available, part to increase the salaries
of the 8000 and the rest for something, or
other. The figures don’t seem much seeing
that the educational folk represent nearly
half the public service in point of numbers;
that last year the rise of salary for the other
half was about £200.000; and that toe
wealthy University which has no claim at all
was lately promised £300,000 for the mere
asking. But the Ministry is a creature of
habit. It gives in to demands from any big
organisation with a solid vote because it
loves ease and hasn’t the lower jaw of a
fighter. It gaily spends public money on a
banquet to an opera co., or a reception to the
Prime Minister’s wife, or on opening the
bear and laying the coping-stone. of the lion
at the new Zoo, or on a great children’s fete
at the same Zoo so that the kids may view
the crocodile, because it loves to be kind and
liberal and to make speeches and bask in
applause. And it takes little interest in the
dreary case of a body of useful men and
women who have no block vote to sell and to
whom it would be absurd to make speeches
—it feels this way because it has no time for
plain business. The teachers will be well-
advised to hang on to the Arbitration (’onto
and save the butterfly Premier the trouble of
considering the case of mere drab insects
such as they. He will be snared much hes -
itation and responsibility when the Arbitra-
tion Judge decides matters for him. Thru
he will only have the money to find, and with
all the profits pouring in from between
£50.000.000 and £60.000.000 of loan works
that he has helped to construct that should be
easy.
The Family at Australia House.
“Fax” : Some of the charges of waste and
extravagance which Melb. Age brings against
Andrew BTsiier seem rather ill-informed,
whereas one glaring fault in the administra-
tion of the High Commissioner’s office is not
mentioned at all. Most of the increased ex-
penditure is due to the establishment of a
branch to deal with war pensions, munition
workers, transports and war records. Also
the little army of temporary employees lias
gone up in wages owing to increased cost of
living: for instance, typists originally
engaged at 255. are now getting £2 a week.
There’s nothing riotously extravagant in a
payment of £2 a week to typists. As to the
fact that George Reid offered to continue
High Commissionering without salary when
his term of office expired, it is certain that
such an arrangement couldn’t have been
adopted. Australia wants its representative
in London to be a laborer worthy of his
hire. But a clear waste of £lOOO a year or
more is evident in the pensioning off
of two of George Reid’s principal offi-
cers, both of whom could have been
retained. A previous oflicial secretary and
assistant ditto are drawing pensions total-
ling £1132. The present official sec. at £lOOO
a year went to London as private sec. to
Andrew Fisher. Reid's personal secretary
had received £360, but the man at Fisher’s
elbow was given £5OO, in a partly camou-
flaged-form, Ilis salary was stated at £3lO.
and the other £l9O was called “allowance.”
There’s also a glaring fault in the annoint-
ment of clerks in the Hiah Commiss oner s
Office. A great proportion are . Engbsh-
men who have never been in Australia, whilst
several of the-born-Australians in Australia
House (outside of the public service! are
cadets of the ignoble Stinking Fish family.
Hiah Commissioner Andrew Ftsher has
made no effort to staff Australia House with
good Australians. As a man who is
unquestionably lacking in administrative
ability he leaves too much of the manage-
ment to his officers. The work of public-
service officers at Austraha House has never
been properly investigated on behalf of the
Public Service Comnrssioner. nor has there
been any careful grading of officers. The
system that was loose under the compara-
tively inexpensive, control of George Retd
has remained loose since Andrew Fisher
took over the. stout gentleman’s job. It
needs tightening.
Spring Fashions in Art.
The Royal Art Society of N. S. Wales has
opened its consignment of Spring goods at
the New Gallery, Department of Public In-
struction (where the powers-that-be raise
the teacher's salary), Loftus-street, Sydney.
Exhibits are in number 279, and the aver-
age is above- that of some recent years.
There are few masterpieces, but on the other
hand there is only one item which really
calls for the execution of the artist and his
burial at midnight where four roads meet. Lest
fie should feel lonesome his name is withheld.
The general tendency of the show is brown
or yellow with a leaning towards grey.
Green is scarce; and the waters are not
aggressively blue. Very few artists break
out in red, though
R. S. Waltelin does
something in that
way. His roofs are
of plain definite
colors, severely
accurate, and not
v e r y inspiring.
Still it is seldom
that a roof is in-
spiring.
Girl is, of course,
a predominant fea-
ture. She always
is in art, for a
girl’s skirts make
graceful curves
while a man’s pants
J. S. Watkins.
aon’t. Her hair is an inspiration, while a man’s
hair is mostly a bald spot. Also her blouse
is a work of art, while a man’s waistcoat is
merely a screen in front of his lunch. The
collection includes fair, dark, long, short and
medium girls; flapper girls, one of whom has
just arrived and is waiting with her bag for
the door to be opened; girls reading, girls
knitting, girls perpendicular or partially
recumbent, horizontal girls, and girls who
are just busy being girl. Likewise there is
a girl \yeeping with her head on the table
and a newspaper with no print on it drop-
ping from her hand. It is the work of James
R. Jackson, and calls for kindly mention.
Something to the same effect may be said
about J. S. Watkins’ girls who are looking
at a Buddha and other works of art. Tempe
Manning’s partially dressed and just-washed
girl, accompanied by a stove or bath-heating
apparatus, is only open to objection by
reason of insufficient flesh. Still that doesn't
imply that she is inartistic, for some girls
are built that way and fatten later on. The
flapper girl who has just arrived with the
bag is a water-color by Dattilo-Rubbo, and
would be worth buying even if the child had
lost her luggage. Joseph Wolinski’s girl in
Japanese clothes is a pleasant color effect
and a compliment to an ally, also he has
two other girls, one of whom is engrossed
in literature and looks as if she could spell
all the words,
The nudes, of
which there are
not so many as
usual, call for little
remark. The nudes
used to be mostly
lying down. Now
they are mostly
erect, having risen
up to make muni-
tions, perhaps. A
sitting nude gives
him the impression
of having sat down
too hard and flat-
tened a portion of
Joe Wolinski.
herselr.
Possibly there is rather much Sydney
Harbor, and the Heads, and the coast near
Newport. Sydney Harbor at daybreak, when
the water is dead calm, and the sun hasn’t
yet dragged himself out of bed and resumed
the struggle for existence, and the mosquito
curtain of haze is still hanging from the
bedpost of the sky, and an indefinite sort of
vessel—a brooner or schrig or full-rigged
auxiliary punt—is lazing on the surface, has
points about it, and so has .the adjacent
coast. Still they grow painfully familiar,
Dattilo-Rubbo, Lister Lister, James R. Jack-
son, J. Muir Auld, J. W. Tristram do justice
to the old subjects, and Alfred Coffey spends
much on them —time which isn’t wholly
wasted.
Will Ashton is largely represented. His
scenes are mostly
laid in England,
Scotland of France,
nrd his “Cornish
Farm in Winter”
is especially worth
stealing. In fact,
all his work is
worth stealing. The
S°ine isn’t very
different from any
other river of the
same size and
speed in the same
kind of flat coun-
try, but when he
James R. Jackson.
paints “Springtime” on it he almost persuades
the public that it has a springtime of its own.
Also he is massive and picturesque in his
“Pont Philippe IV., Paris.” R. de Mestre
is architectural but not massive in a street
scene of old Sydney, and looking at it one
feels so well pleased that the lack of massive-
ness is forgiven. In fact one is glad to do
without it. A. J. Daplyn supplies half-a-
dozen good things, including a church (218)
and a pub next door (219). They ai'e both
old, especially the church, and both rather
silent, for customers are scarce in each case.
Likewise they both look dry. Mabel Bar-
ling’s "Quick Sketches of Cows” suggests
that if she drew cow’s a little more slowly
she would draw very good cows. There is
no excuse for drawing cows quickly. They
are waitful beasts. D. S. Cohen is to be
specially commended for the head of a
Hebrew, whose honest old face suggests
philanthropy rather than finance. Among
the portraits that of the late Mrs. George
Black, by J. S. Watkins, stands out
conspicuously.
And in a general way there are six Dee
Whys—Marion I. Ferrier especially makes
this place a habit; three Narrabeens (par-
ticularly that of William Oates) ; three
Manlys (Ellis Gulliver’s and two besides) ;
two Inverells, both by Gordon Esling; a
pair of Kurrajongs, one Gerringong (Ellis
Gulliver again) ; some billabongs; a place
that looks like Humpybong; two Morns
(Early and Spring); four Days (two of
them Grey, one Long and one Spring—Mar-
riott Woodhouse’s is Spring) ; four Morn-
ings (Spring, Summer, Early and Sunny) ;
seven Evenings (four plain, one Golden, and
two Shades of ). a Noon and an Afternoon
(Warm). Further may be mentioned a
Low Tide, a Brimming River and a Bris-
bane River —this by John D. Banks. Vau-
cluse is a stately place, but five times is
too often. The faithful T. A. Crisp happens
four times in this connection and Fred E.
Foster once. As for Studies, including a
Brown one, and an interior that suggests a
library, they are innumerable.
“Trot”: Holman's Sedition Bill excludes
from political disqualification the person
convicted of the crime of sedition where such
“crime” consists “only of intention to pro-
mote feelings of ill-will and hostility be-
tween different classes of his Majesty’s sub-
jects.” As there is no caste system in Aus-
tralia yet, nor an official aristocracy, this
term “different classes” has great elasticity.
Is it sedition to promote ill-feeling between
the class addicted to malt and the class that
is pledged to lemonade ; to stir up the Ryan-
ites in Bananaland to hostility against the
other crowd; to tell the people who object
to unduly expensive chops that those respon-
sible are brigands; to speak disrespectfully
of the Wattites and the Oookites and sew
the seeds of discord between the men that go
to toil per boot and those who go merely to
the races by motor-car? If these disturb-
ances are not sedition within the meaning of
the Bill, what are they?
The Government, in its wisdom, has deco-
rated the military police with insignia of
red, white and blue, so that they may be
seen and dodged afar off. A policeman, like
a soldier, requires a uniform as a guarantee
that he is the real article and not a burglar
or confidence-man in disguise. But lie
doesn’t want a uniform like a bush-fire.
Once the British soldier was described as a
man who was taught to dress himself in
scarlet, wave a flag, give three cheers, and
then creep unseen on his enemy, but he has
got over that. He even uses smokeless
powder now in. order to avoid publicity.
Once the London detective or Bow-street
runner wore a red waistcoat so that he
might collect evidence by stealth. Now the
only way one can tell a detective is by his
obtrusive unobtrusiveness, and his effort to
look more like other people than they do
themselves. There is onfl improvement that
might be suggested in the matter of the red.
white and blue military police. They should
be taught to bray at short intervals when
their suspicions are aroused. They might
blow on the bagpipes while following a clue,
but the bagpipes might obscure the view of
the clue.
An English soldier who seems to have had
more than his share of bad luck is a lad
named Probert, of Tredegar, Whales. As a
boy of 16, under the name of Williams,
against the wishes of his foster parents, he
enlisted, and was sent to France. Not many
months later he was wounded and received a
commission. Then came the battle of Loos,
and in this he received a shock which has
caused all the trouble. He was sent to
Harefield Hospital, England, suffering from
loss of memory. By mistake lie was next
forwarded to Australia. At different times
out here he has answered to the names of
Gordon McDonald, Lewis, Probert. Williams
and Davis. Not being able to explain satis-
factorily to the authorities wffio he was, and
using at times the name of another man.
Gordon McDonald, 13 A.L.H.. who was still
on service, he was placed in Long Bay gaol
as an impostor. However Cffirke, of the
Vic. Prisoners’ Aid Association, has been at
work, and with the assistance of Boyd.
M.H.R., has succeeded in straightening things
out. Robert is now to return to England
and the hospital treatment that he needs.


CAPILLARINE
à
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
It has been before the public for years, and is
daily proving its efficacy and genuineness as
a true moustache-grower. The military
“swear” by it.
PRICE 10/e JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long. as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Itough powders, such as cuttle-
fish. crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne
WHITE RIDING BREECHES
Special Indian Make; Unique Value.
Better in quality, and less in price, than apv breeches obtainable
to-day. Made up to our own design and me isurements in India.
Seat seams and leg seams strongly sewn ; all inlays turned in and sewn
down by hand. Excellent cut and workmanship. A rare opportunity
to secure the old-time value and material.
Made with cross and hip pockets, laced legs, knee straps.
White Cotton Twill 16/6
White Cotton Cord 22/6
White Corded Moleskin 25/-
Ready to -wear, Peapes pay postage.
Please state waist, inside-leg and bare-calf measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
1
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOIt COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Jinks ,,
Criterion ‘‘Business Before I
Tivoli • •
Playhouse • “Fwrrot lie
Union Turaiui-.s Moving I icuiies
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MEI.BO(JUNE SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Oh! Oh!! Delphinel.!!”
Koyvl .... “The Thirteenth Chair
King’s “The Invisible Foe’
Bijou ' Fuller's Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli 7.7.' “Honi Soit’
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Movma Piclu.cs
Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving P'cimes
Auditorium (Aug. 31) Teila Doubleday
Town Hall Chappell Ballad Concerts
-♦ ;
“Gran’dad Kudd” reached the Palace (Syd-
ney) during the week. Dad, the human
volcano of “On Our Selection,” has now got
to the stage of life when he mostly dodders
and growls at ho in 5 in bedroom slippers
while grey-haired Dave acts as his. faithful
manager, coming in at intervals from the
paddocks to say “By cripes” and growl a
protest when the old man has made things a
bit hotter than usual. The busy helpful
Mum as a dramatic entity has faded away
into Gran’ma, a sort of pathetic .lay figure,
who, file anxious Rudd family think, should
be taken away for a change of air. It
wouldn't do the play much harm if she were
taken away and lost in the ranges. Young
Dave, son of old Dad’s first lieutenant, re-
presents the third generation at the cheeky,
leggy stage, and grand-daughter Nell is the
charming and (apparently) inevitable heroine
who drags hero and villain after her and
causes au artificial storm of melodrama to
rage round the hero’s potato-harvester. Nell
is very sweet and weak; but neither she nor
her suitors matter in the least, and the lurid
detective who finally harvests the unclean
potato villain on his wedding morn, and so
allows the meek hero to take Nell to the
church deserves imprisonment for life in
“East Lynne.” The strength and charm of
the play is in its Australian atmosphere and
the delightful characterisation. Daniel
Damascus Rudd, the family prodigal, comes
back early in the first act in a full set of
black bushman’s whiskers and adds himself to
the old portrait gallery. Fortunately, in
spite of family gibes, he doesn’t trim his
splendid beard or shave, but boldly wears
his face-hair, and so remains a gallant and
striking figure to the end. Finding there is
money in her family, he woos the local wow-
ser's smirking daughter, and the first linger-
ing embrace is slyly refereed as a wrestling-
match by Gran’dad, who sheds a lot of his
first-act senility as the action of the play
quickens. At one stage he even comes home
drunk on a horse with the well-corned wowser
double-banking behind him. The play moves
on merrily from incident to incident with
the stock melodramatic figures occas’onally
intruding unconvincingly on the familiar
bush types.
* * * *
Bert Bailey is completely satisfying as
Grah’dad, and Fred Macdonald, the other ex-
perienced character-builder, makes Dave
AT THE R.A.B. EXHIBITION.
Datillo-Rubbo propounds the true art
theories to R. S. Wakelin (Australia's first
post-impressionist ).
grown older a loveable character. William
Evans stutters as a' more mature Joe Rudd.
Louis Maehilton is the young player wdio
adds Daniel Damascus Rudd to the family
circle. He supplies a careful study of a
flash, prancing bushman, so that Dan looks
real and is always interesting. Edmund
Duggan is natural as a poor, plausible neigh-
bor. Willie Driscoll, as the good Mr. Banks,
is a scared rabbit of a man married to a
shrill Cold Tea fanatic played by Queenie
Sefton. Amelia Banks, their daughter, is
the grinning, drawling bush belle who makes
eyes at Dan. It’s a rich comedy part, and Yetty
Landau doesn’t waste many of its chances.
Lilias Adeson, as Lily (Dave’s wife), and
Alfreda Bevan, as Madge (wife of Joe), are
convincing as the strident, hardworking bush-
women. Grade Dorran, as Nell, is a charm-
ing feminine figure; but she and the other
melodramatic inventions walk about outside
the real and highly-diverting play of charac-
ter. Everybody should go to see that.
$ # :|;
“So Long, Letty,” ‘revived for six nights
only at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) on Satur-
day, found a big house waiting for it. Its
music is brisk and joyous, and in the sunny
first act the eight famous dancing girls, with
arms affectionately interlocked, describe a
complete circle in line, each dancer using one
unstockinged leg to hop on while the other
rosy limb is waggled tirelessly in the air.
Heaven knows who invented the strange
evolution; but the Sydney audience goes
crazy with delight as soon as it beg.ns, and
the well-trained girls have to continue doing
it until they and singer Connie Ediss are
tired out. The anthem to which it is per-
formed is “Here Come the Married Men.”
Maude Fane is dainty as Letty Bobbins, but
“fools” too much. The habit is growing on
Maude of late.
Some parts need
all the tricks an
actress has; but
there is no profit
in working them
overtime when the
librettist has done
his bit. Connie
Ediss is thoroughly
at home as fretful
Grace Miller, “the
ponderous domestic
person.” Field
Fisher repeats his
lifelike sketch of
the sporty, garden-
hating husband
who comes home
draped with cigars:
and George Wil-
loughby, in Work-
man’s old part,
wears the tight
gardening trousers
of the good suburb-
anite next door
and worries through
the singing. Frith
makes his brief and
joyous appearance
as the grinning
life-saver who re-
“Honi Soit,” at Mel-
bourne Tivoli.
John Junior as Billy
Wirth, the artist.
fuses to be a hero, and Cecil Bradley rag-
times gaily. “High Jinks” on Saturday
night.
Still at the Criterion .(Svdney), “Business
Before Pleasure,” and going strong. After
next week Abe and Mawruss shift down
Pitt-street to Her Majesty’s. Muriel Starr
being due to arrive at the Cri. again w T ith
“The Man Who Came Back.”
Sydney James serves the last of his
“Pierrot Pie” at the Playhouse (Sydney)
to-night. Beginning Friday is “Varieties”
and the policy is new artists and pro-
gramme every fortnight. Amongst the
new goods will be a romantic beilowdrama
ent.tled “The Fireman,” with comedian Joe
Brennan in the lead.
“S’nice” is keeping producer Espinosa
smiling at the T.voli (Sydney;, where lead-
ing lady Eve Kelland grows sentimental in
song over her young man at Kiama —not
that there are not equally nice youths further
inland, but because K ama, the N. S. Wales
coastal town, has a lilting name that tickles
the song-writer’s ear. By the way, if there
isn’t a coon song entitled “Take Me Back to
Old Pyjama,” it’s time somebody wrote it.
Pyjama is a nice, restful name, and could
easily be attached to an imaginary tropic isle
with palm-trees growing on it and a star-eyed
girl on the beach waiting to be encored seven
times.
%* * #
The Strand (Sydney) tells the story of
yet another of Alice Brady’s jaunts to New
York. This time she takes the step from
a New Jersey fishing village. The* inevitable
artist discovers her beauty and offers her
love minus matrimony; but Alice pauses.
The pause gave a chance to a wealthy
rancher, who butted in with the offer of a
ring and a bank balance. That was where
Alice ceased to pause. She took the cash in
hand and let the artist The Lyceum has a
b'g attraction in the De Saulles sensation.
Miriam Cooner as Blanquette, the dishonored
wife and distraught mother, is an outstanding
cino. actress. The Piccadilly this week has
another “Made In Australia” film —this time
from South Australia. It is broad comedy
with an English new-chum (not so very
new) as the victim of most of the jokes.
“Algie’s Romance” is the title, and it was
going well when The Bulletin started on its
wiy to the parsonage. “The Triumph of the
Weak” is the Crystal Palace feature, witn
Alice Joyce tne beauty in distress.
•s * *
The Adelaide shows are quiet this week,
but promise to
brighten up in a
few days. The An-
derson eo. at the
Tivoli, true to its
policy of rev? ving
successes of the
past, has warmed
uo “O u i d a ’ s”
••Jnde r T w o
Flags.” At the
Majestic the Jazz
Band jazzes with
satisfaction, th e
players being clever
musicians despite
their fooling. Leon-
ard Nelson has
some good new
songs; the Homaz
T hree add the
needed variety of
strong athletic
work; and New-
bury and MiSs
Murp li y ha v e
brought their fine
voices back for an-
other short season.
Pictures are power-
ful. West’s is
showing Lucrezia
Borgia, with a
pleasing suggestion
that a poisoner,
like Gilbert’s burg-
“Honi Soit,” at Mel-
bourne Tivoli.
Marie Eaton as a
swaggie on “The Old
Bush Track.”
lar, is quite human when not engaged
in active business. The Royal has
the strong, but gloomy “Miserables.” On
the lighter side are Chaplin at the Pav., and
.Taek I’iclcford giving another instalment of
Tom Sawyer’s adventures at Wondergraph.
Leila Doubleday, back from years of
education and successful achievement in
Europe, drew a large audience to the
Auditorium (Melb.) last Saturday and was
disappointing only to those who had expected
a more marked individuality in the accom-
plished artist. It is a pleasure to hear Miss
Doubleday play anything on her sweetest of
violins. She gets a wonderfully pure tone,
and charmingly melodious effects, in an
always free and easy way, but as a facile
and strikingly tuneful executant she lacks
force of character. She hasn’t the unruffled
calm, the air of suppressed feelipg, of, say,
Marie Hall. A London critic once declared
that Maud McCarthy’s virginal treatment of
a passionate theme was peculiarly interest-
ing. Neither the personality nor the in-
terpretive performance of this clever' Aus-
tralian girl is peculiarly interesting. It is
as though the tuition she received from an
Austrian master had been uncongenial to
her temperament. Her time might have
been better spent at Brussels. Miss Leila
is neither cold nor sensuous in her artistry—
just sweet and pleasing all the time. Of a
dozen things she played on Saturday the
Spanish Symphony (Lalo) was the most
important, and Tempo di Menuetto( Pugnani-
Ivreisler) the most happily expressed. At
the end of the concert oile felt that, in the
full and soulful sense of the term, the gifted
violinist has yet to “arrive.” As a rule she
would be more appealing if her utterances
were less rapid. Her broadest tones need
further broadening; her lightest are not
feathery enough. But she does everything
with an ease which promises well for the
future. Cacialli, whose voice is a basso-
baritone blend, sang two or three numbers
like the artist he is. and Harold Elvins sup-
plied a couple of little pianoforte solos as
well as the accompaniments. To-night
(Thursday) the performers will be the same
but the programme will be different.
Miss Emilie Polini is getting much credit
in “The Invisible Foe.” at the King’s
(Melb.), for her impersonation of the
daughter whose dead daddy makes frantic
efforts to put her in touch with the tell-tale
document. .Miss Polini is the life and soul
of the Invisible Ghost, story. The
sincerity of the actress lifts the
rather ridiculous into the almost sublime;
she introduces a leaven of crude super-
naturalism into the lump of stodgy
melodramatic narrative. The public that
declines to take the villain seriously, or feel
very sorry for his acquiline-noSed brother,
is nevertheless disposed to think of tearful
Emilie with gentle compassion. It’s a sad
thing for a young woman to be haunted by
the perturbed spirit of daddy, anyhow. There
are other sad things in “The Invisible Foe,”
but the predicament of the haunted spinster
is the saddest.
One more week of “The Thirteenth Chair”
will be*the last of that dark, but not entirely
dismal, drama at the Royal (Melb.). Mean-
while suspicion continues to be hurled by
the artful dramatist at several people who
; didn’t murder Spencer Lee, and enterprising
■ sweep promoters persevere in the game of
i putting the names of all the characters into
a hat and selling the tickets at a shilling
each, and deducting commission from the
one who draws the murderer.
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the end of
“Katinka’’ is fixed for Friday of this week.
To-morrow brings “Oh! Oh!*! Delphine!!!"
for the first time in Australia. The pro-
fusion in notes of exclamation suggest that
Delphine is a daughter of Ginger.
** * *
The production of Bucalossi’s comic opera,
“The Black Cloaks,’’ by the Vic. Opera Co.,
at the Palace (Melb.), on Saturday, was
passable enough in chorus and orchestral
work, but failed to establish any individual
reputation. The most attractive performer
was Phyllis Ashley, as Girola, who acted
and sang with a pardonable consciousness
of superiority. The show began agree-
ably enough under the vigorous baton
of Edward Hanstein, but occasionally yawn-
ing cavities in the dialogue through the
missing of cues and general slackness stirred
the gods to ribald comment, which quickly
changed into a gale of laughter when Don
Phillip, or Aragon, strode into view. Thk
Bulletin must say that the Don was the
nearest approach to a human hatpin it lias
ever beheld.
** * *
“Iloni Soit,” at the Tivoli (Melb.), lacks
the briskness and brevity of “Time, Please,’’
and employs the plagiarist more freely than
any previous revue. There are three or four
jokes that enjoy a blessed resurrection, but
great efforts have been made to conceal
their antiquity and give them tin 1
savor of wit fresh from the brain.
The laundry episode, however, has not been
retouched, and is the same undisguised
classic that tickled the ribs of the Pharaohs
in the long ago. The original humor in the
entertainment tends more than ever to dissi-
pated energy by Barry Lupino, quaintly sup-
ported by the miniature Rego, though John
Junior and Hugh Steynt occasionally lend
a hand. Junior is mostly a furtive frivoller
revealing all the creased profiles of a tailor’s
dummy, except in the tabloid drama with
Beatrice Holloway and John de Lacey,
where lie plays the misleading juvenile in a
strong, exultant fashion. Miss Holloway is
the same plump and composed exponent of
artless heartaches who engages the combined
genius of several dressmakers to add to her
beguiling arts. Marie Eaton’s part is song-
ful, but why she appears as an incredible
swaggie shrilling banal sentiments about
an old bush track isn’t clear. Noel Geddes
and Ethel Bennetto are nice girls, who seem
inconspicuous by their presence beside the
other humorists. The music is thin and
tinkly and the dressing and scenery rarely
fill tiie eye. For the most part the revue is
Barry Lupino and might be fined for loiter-
ing while he holds the stage.
The Bijou (Melb.) management lias
installed one or two new singers in the
first part, but otherwise the bill is about the
same as before.
Hoyt’s (Melb.) has secured Lina Cavalieri
for a week’s run in “The Eternal Temptress.”
Scenes are laid in Venice and Rome, but
all the glittering vistas Those cities can
offer are not to be compared *with the weird
glory of Lina in her full war-paint as a
temotress. “The Rise of Jennie Cushing."
which follows, is the fall of Elsie Ferguson,
who tumbles from her high pedestal as a
movie actress by giving overweight in the
emotional scenes. The other current Hoyt
stars are Jewel Carmen and Julian Eltinge.
Jewel lends her intoxicating glance to “The
Girl with the Champagne Eyes.” while
Julian buries his sex in feminine garments
in a comedy drama, “The Widow’s Might.”
* * *
The Majestic (Melb.) has Clara Kimball
Young in “The Reason Why” this week.
The film is from the yarn of Elinor Glyn.
and is full of the splendidly reckless people
who try to be giddy with discretion and
make dull vice a fashionable, conceit. The
one redeeming feature in the production is
Clara Kimball Young, who lavishes her art
and her dressmaker on an artistically puny
part. The follow-on is the Triangle feature.
“Station Content,” a romantic railroad
tussle in which Gloria Swanson is the cause
of the unpleasantness.
Sydney Telegraph’s latest Foreign-trade
gag is that this country wants ships to
come here to carry away our wool and meat
and wheat and lead, and if we shut out
imports by Protection these ships won’t
come because they will have no cargo to
bring. Which is a sad outlook, for the
things we sell are cheap and heavy and
the things we buy are expensive and light.
If we have to buy a ton of ladies’ foreign
clobber, brought in a foreign ship, every
time we want to send away a ton of lead or
beef, it would be cheaper to buy the dashed
ship.


LOST CANNON FODDER.
“The German infant death-rate has gone up 50 p.c.”
THE ALL HIGHEST: “Himmel! Cowards; when they might have died for ME!”


LEAD
British Owned and Controlled.
SILVER
Tlie Bro Ken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Smelting Works : Port Pirie, S.A. Coke Works : Bellambi, N.S.W.
Branch Offices:
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building:. SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead Chemical Lead
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and ( ran ulated)
Linotype Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
BUYERS OX A SPECIALLY
FA,VORABLE TARIFF OF-
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade?
Slags, etc., containing silver or
Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
lead
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
LITHARGE
All Enquiries to
be addressed to
the Secretary.
ANTIFRICTION
LINOTYPE
METALS
' FOR EVERY ENGINEERING NEED THERE IS A
PIONEER Leather Belt
makers! J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.,
PIONEERS and LEADERS SINCE 1858. 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS., ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Syd-
“ey): - To Re- Bo-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
At At At .At
June, 1912. . 69,002 15 p.c. = 63,750 5,252 419,270
Deficit.
Reserves transferred to capital, £424,998 5,728
Reserves.
Dec., 1912.. 82,765 10 p.c. = 63,750 19,015 13.287
June, 1913.. 58,035 10 ~,,03,750 7,5/2
“A”&“B" “C”
Shares Shares
10 p.c. 7 p.c.
Dec., 1913.. 74,514 03,750 5778 1/986 9,558
9 p.c.
June, 1914.. 68,288 57,375 8925 1,988 11,5.46
7 pic.
Dec., 1914.. 52,696 ' 44,625 8925 10,692
6 p.c.
June, 1915.. 53,463 ‘ 44,625 7650 1,188 11,880
Dec., 1915.. 55,472 44,625 7650 3,197 15,077
June, 1916.. 53,377 44,625 7650 1,102 10,179
Dec., 1916.. 51,525 44,625 7650 15,429
5 p.c. 5 p.c.
June, 1917.. 39,495 31,875 ,6375 1,245 16,674
Dec., 1917.. 26,341 31,875 6375 4,765
7 p.c. 7 p.c;
June, 191 S. . 60,286 44,625 8925 6,736 11,601
If the 3i p.c. p.a. on buildings and plant
which the N. S. Wales Gas (Amended) Act
now permits cos. to appropriate from revenue
for their "Special Purposes and Deprecia-
tion Fund’’ is a proper allowance, then
the increased profit shown for the
past half-year lias not been earned.
Chairman George Judah Cohen put the
matter this way to shareholders at
the recent meeting: “The profits would not
permit of the payment of the new standard
rate of dividend or provide the full con-
tribution to tin* Special Purposes and De-
preciation Fund.” The profit of £60,286 is
arrived at this way :—-
June, 17. Dec..’l7. June, 18.
Total revenue ..£440,319 £479,189 £499,948
Working expenditure 330,589 354,399 366,641
Working profit. . £109,780 £124,790 £133,307 _
Less net interest . . 85,541 38,193 36,713
Less written off . . 34,744 60,256 36,308
Profit .. .. £39,495 £26,341 £60,286
It was recently shown in Court that the
amount of depreciation in 1017 on this 3A p.c.
basis would have been £95,043, almost the
amount shown as written off in the above
table. Further, Supreme Court Judge Fer-
guson reported that “it appeared from the
evidence that approximately the same
amounts [£50,558 in 1912 and £95,043 in
1917 —calculated.on the 34 p.c. basis] would
be arrived at by adopting the accepted stan-
dard of allowances for depreciation in works
of this kind.” However, what the directors
have not written off for the past half will
probably come out of the profits of the
current term, which will be considerably
increased by the new proclaimed selling
prices. The result of not making the full
allowance as permitted by the Act —though
note that the amount Written off is practi-
cally the same as the directors usually allow
for each June half—is that the dividend ,on
old and new capital has been lifted to 7 p.c.
again.
Two important events marked the first
half of this year: (1) The amendment of
1912 Gas Act. and (2) the Supreme Court
inquiry into the cost of production and dis-
tribution of gas. Under the original Gas
Act the dividend on new capital raised was
limited to 7 p.c. The Amending Act in-
creased this rate to 8 p.c. A year ago the
directors claimed that it was “not possible
to obtain further necessary capital,” and
now it stated that this 8 p.c. “should attract
investors, and thus again place the co. in a
position to carry out the extensions re-
quired.” To be quite candid, it is not due
to the fact that the co. is now allowed to
pay 8 p.c. on new capital that investors will
rush any new issue. What counts is the
co.’s ability to earn and pay dividends at
something approaching that rate. It could
undoubtedly have got capital at the old 7
p.c. rate if it had been able to pay 7 p.c.
Actually for the years 1915 and 1916 it
paid 6 p.c. and for 1917 only 5 p.c. What
the investor considered a fair return is
shown by the , dealings in the “C” shares,
as limited to a 7 p.c. dividend. In June,
1914, when the full rate was being paid, the
£6 shares were sold as high as £8 each, and
on the average prices the investor was quite
satisfied with a return at the rate of 5 5-8
p.c. At June, 1916, when the div. had
dropped to 6 p.c. the shares were bought at
a price yielding 6| p.c. In December last,
when the dividend had got down to only 5
p.c., and the future was uncertain (and the
latter is a big factor), shares were bought
at a price yielding 7 1-8 p.c. Finally, dur-
ing last month, when the 7 p.c. dividend had
been restored and there was the promise of
an 8 p.c. in the future, the shares were
being bought at a price which returned
0 7-8 p.c. Not even in the darkest patch
did the investor demand 8 p.c. When this
increased rate is being paid it will be inter-
esting to see exactly what the market con-
siders a fair return. The result of the
Supreme Court investigation was the finding
that since 1912, when the Gas Act was
enforced, the cost of production had in-
creased by over Is. 2d. per 1000 ft.
The cost of coal and oil had ad-
vanced 50 p.c. in the five years. So the
standard price to the consumer was raised
from 3s. 6d; per 1000 ft. to 4s. Bd.. but the
Government stepped in and clipped off 3d.,
this “concession being made by the Board in
view of the very heavy burdens already being
borne by the community.”
A further glance at the balance-sheet
figures shows a very satisfactory increase in
the sale of residuals:—
1916. 1917. 1918.
Revenue —
Gas .. ..£353,713 £362,491 £404.410
Meter rents .. 8,764 8.568 9,176
Residuals . . 45,560 01,088 78,215
Expenditure —
Coal, oil, etc. .. 109,961 137,271 103,214
Wages, salaries ~ 66,881 69,079 65.512
Management .. 9,706 11,618 13,372
Renewals, etc. .. 67,261 71,116 84,448
Note also the further b ; g increase in
the amount set apart for the maintenance
and repairs of plant, works, mains and
meters, etc. As for the other figures, the
co.’s business is growing rapidly, gas con-
sumption for the past half-year being 71 p.c.
greater than it was for the similar term last
year.
Capital is now £1,530,000, £1,100,000 has
been raised in debentures, while the co. is
depending on temporary loans to the extent
of £342,366.
' The Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney) :
Dec., Net Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1904. . £12,200 10p.c. = £2500 £9.700 £44,376'
1.905.. 1,719 10 „ „ 2500 43,595
1906.. 6,408 10 „,, 2500 3,908 47,503
1907.. 8,621 10 ~ ~ 2500 6,121 53,624
1908.. 6,935 10 „ „ 2500 4,435 58,059
1909.. 7,322 10 „ „ 2500 4.822' 62,881
,1910.. 10,168 10 2500 7.668 70,549
1911.. 15,241 10 „ „ 5000 10,241 80,790
1912.. 14,344 10 „ „ 5000 9,344 90,134
June,
1914.. 21,427 10 „ „ 7500 13,927 104,061
1915.. 14,290 10 „,, 5000: 9,290 113,301
1916.. 13,381 1.0 ~ „ 5000 ) r RS , nq9 o 9
Written off.. 2500 1 119,232
1917.. .16,316 10 p.c. = 5000 „ ,98 287
Written off.. 22611 J ’ Udd
1918.. 15,619 10 p.c. = 5000 1 7 , 0 - B , q
Written off.. 3047 ) ‘’° lZ loJ > Bd9
The Sydney Perpetual has just done what
The Bulletin for some time has been sug-
gesting some of the trustees' might advan-
tageously do; strengthen their positions by
getting in a little of their uncalled capital
and investing it in War Doan. This co.’s
nominal capital is one million (100,000
shares of £lO each) and its paid capital
£50,000 (= 10s. per share). Now a further
ss. per share has been called up, and the
£25,000 thus raised goes into the new War
Loan. During the past four years, after
paying the 10 p.c. dividend (£5000) there
has been left an average of £7950 per annum
to add to reserves. So there should still
be a fine margin between net profits and a
similar rate of dividend on the increased
capital. Besides, the co.’s business is grow-
ing very nicely, the value of trusts adminis-
tered having expanded in this way
1898. . £3,367,255 I 1916. . £12,604,680
1908.. 6,739,048 | 1917.. 13,102,290
1912.. 9,791,590 | 1918.. 14,057,149
The co. shows its net profits in a somewhat
different way to the table at the head of
these remarks. The net profits for each of
the past four years is given as: 1915,
£10,970; 1916, £9490; 1917, £12,902, and.
1918, £14,031. The additions in the table,
besides including the amounts written off pre-
mises, are made up of appropriations to what
is termed a “Commission reserved account.”
A trustee co. gets its commissions in two
ways. The Perpetual, for instance, charges
from Ito p.c. on the corpus or capital value ;
2| p.c. on the first £50,000; 1| p.c. on the
second £50,000; and 1 p.c. on anything in
excess of £lOO,OO0 —a charge which on a
£50,000 estate administered for 20 years
works out at only one-eighth per cent, per
annum. Then on all income it charges from
21 to 5 p.c. Instead of crediting to one
particular year the whole of the corpus
commission on an estate entrusted to its
care, it reserves portion in many cases, and
draws on this reserved amount from time to
time as the estate is being wound up. This
reserved commission account now stands at
£45,446.
The balance-sheet figures have moved this
way in 20 years:—
1898. 1908. 1918.
Capital.. ..£25,000 £25,000 £59,^25
Liabilities .. 30 196 345
Liquid assets . . 23,067 24,622 66,289
Mortgages, etc.. . 8,031 45,084 17,642
Premises . . 10,050 16,050 114,000
The shareholders’, funds are thus snugly
placed. From the clients’ point of view the
position is equally comforting. The Per-
petual has a very fine record of 31 years
behind it; and besides the co.’s own funds
there is still £925,000 of capital callable to
protect their interests, in the remote possi-
bility of anything going wrong.
* . * * *
The Bank oe Queensland: —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
July, 1917. . £17,220 6 p.c. =£14,268 £'2952 £2952
Jan., ,1918.. 17,242 0 „ „ 14,175 3067 6019
July, 1918.. 17,298 6 „ „ 14,175 3123 9142
This is the third half-year of the amalga-
mated Royal of Queensland and the Bank
of North Queensland. The new bank seems
to be gradually getting into its stride, and its
disclosed gross profits steadily increase. Of
course, it is yet too early for the full advan-
tages of the amalgamation to show up to any.
extent. One very satisfactory feature of
the Bank of Queensland is that the cus-
tomers of the two old banks have complete
confidence in the amalgamated bank’s man-
agement, which is shown by the fact that
the new bank has .apparently lost practically
none of the business of both the old shows.
As in the case of the proposed amalgamation
of the National and Colonial, this confidence
is due not only to a belief in .the ability of
the management, but also to the fact that
prior to amalgamating each management
had gone thoroughly into the other’s affairs
and carefully valued every asset. In this
way shareholders and customers had the
guarantee of both managements that the
amalgamated bank’s assets were worth all
they were claimed to be.
Nominal capital is £1,000,000 and
£450,000 has been paid up. Visible reserves,
after paying the dividend, amount to £9142.
Deposits total £2,928,451, and other liabili-
ties, £230,962; total. £3,165,41.4. So the
bank holds about £6 18s. of the public’s
money for every £1 of the shareholders’
funds. Of the assets £1,244,530 is held in
liquid form, equal to over 39 p.c. of the total
liabilities. The position from the customers’
point of view is thus quite comfortable.
Advances, etc., a year ago stood at
£2,109,892, £1,930,220 six months ago, and
£2.230,094 as at July 31 last. Practically
the. whole of the increase represents ad-
vances to customers under the last War
Loan scheme. • Premises are still included
at £157,500, and apparently the management
has not yet realised on its unnecessary pro-
perties. As to the future, the Bank of
Queensland is operating in a field of very
big possibilities, and as Queensland expands
so will this bank’s business.
* * *. *
Robert Harper and Co. (Melb.), whole-
sale drygoods merchants: —
Reserves
(assets
Dividends. include
, a,— £BO,OOO
“A” “B” of
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- good-
Mar., Profits. 7 p.c. 6 p.c. 44 p.c. serves, will).
1914.. £17,084 £1671 £14,400 £291 £722 £7,638
Unexplained net additions . . 4,692 12,330
7 p.c. 51 p.c.
1915.. 29,380 8400 16,800 340 3,840 16,170
Written off, £3955 12,215
8 p.c. 6 p.c.
1916.. 42,349 8400 19,200 496 1
Voted to Employees’ Profit Shar- !- 4,253 16,468
ing Fund, £10,000.. .. j
7 p.c. 51 p.c.
1917.. 29,838 8400 16,800.434 4,204 20,672
8 p.c. 6 p.c.
1918.. 39,517 9450 19,200 496 10,371 31,043
The co. did much better last year, and the
ordinaries, which represent the holding of,
the original proprietors, are lifted to 8 p.c.’
again. Unsettling war conditions have dis-
turbed this co.’s trading: expenses have
increased in almost every direction, and the.
cost of goods has soared in such a way that
it has been difficult to adjust selling prices.
The high cost of stock and abnormal condi-
tions have made considerable changes in the
balance-sheet figures:—
1914. 1917. 1918.
Mortgages .. .. .. £27,500 £26,000 £38,858
Deposits . . . . .. 36,775 34,820 30,456
Overdraft 67,367 107,580 103,537
Sundry creditors . . .. 42,620 63,018 99,970
Freeholds .. • .. .. 109,602 119,251 137,152
Plant, etc .. 96,808 90,806.86,261
Leaseholds 1,110 773 681
Stock 150,564 196.529 221,408
Sundfy debtors . . .. 125,607 143,927 192,372
Cash and investments .. 121 10,529 14,888
Liabilities are thus £98,539 more than they
were four years ago, and £31,798 of new
capital lias been got in—total, £130,337?
Assets in the meantime have grown by
£168,950, the increases on the figures of 1914
being distributed in this way: fixed assets,
£16,574; stock, £70,844; book debts.
£66,765 ; and cash, etc., £14,767 (£14,500 of
it in War Loan).
! Last year, “in view of the co.’s invest-
ments and the necessity to hoid larger
stocks,” £30,000 further pref. shares were
issued. Paid capital is now made up of
150,000 7 p.c. cum. prefs. of £1 each and
248,268 £1 ords., 155,000 of which were
issued as fully paid to the vendors and
85,000 paid up in cash. The original Robert
Harper firm goes back to 1865, when it was
established in a small way in Melbourne.
The co. now has extensive establishments in
all the mainland States, and last year a fac-
tory site was purchased in Fremantle to
further develop its business in the West. All
the ordinaries are held by the old proprietors,
who got £BO.OOO 'for goodwill when the
present co. was formed. Accumulated re-
serves now amount to £31,043. so £48,957 of
the capital is not represented by tangible
assets, though the goodwill of the eo.’s vari-
ous branches is undoubtedly worth a lot.
From the point of view of “the public, how-
ever, who hold nothing but preference
shares, the matter of goodwill does not con-
cern them much. The valuation of goodwill
actually only affects the rate of dividend to
the. ordinaries.
The CastlemaiNe Brewery, Ltd. (Fre
mantle, W.A.)
Nominal
Dividend Written To Ito- lie-
Profits. and Tax. < >ff. serves, serves.
.Tune,-’12..£5626 10 p.c.-£315,0 £BO6 £1670 £17,911
Dec., ’12.. 5420 10 „ „ 3150 84!) 1421 10,862
June,’lS’. . 6181 10 ~,, 3150 851 2127 21,480
Dec.,’l3.. 6224 10 ~ „ 3150 904 2170 23,669
June,’l4. . 4954 10 „ 3675 873 106 24,065
Dec.,’l4.. 5476 10 „ 3675 855 916 25.01 1
June,’ls.. 4748 7J „ „ 2756 845 1117 26,158
Dec.,’45.. 4525 0 „ „ 1837 846 1842 28,000
June,’l6.. 3737 5 „ 1750* 825 1162 29,102
Dec.,’l6.. 4016 5 „ „ 1750* 826 1440 30,602
June,’l7.. 3448 5 „., 1750* 772 926 31,528
Dec.,’l7.. 4472 Nil 74.6 3727 35,25^
June,’lB.. 3586 Nil .869 2717 37,972
‘•Exclusive of dividend tax.
The co. does not seem to be at all concerned
about the future of the beer industry.
Since the war began it has continued acquir-
ing pub properties and swelling its bank
overdraft. Towards the end of last year
the directors purchased one. of Fremantle’s
most central properties, and when the
accounts were made, up shareholders didn’t
get a taste. Now it is announced that
Westralia’s thirst for the co.’s bottled ales
and stout has got ahead of the plant, and
that the directors have decided to make
some additions estimated to cost about £5OOO.
To help finance this plant extension the
shareholders are again asked to forego a
dividend. Trading profit has increased, but
the cost of manufacturing and other charges
have been making swifter pace, as will be
seen from a comparison of-recent June half-
years : —-
Prolits from
Sales. Bents. Expenses.
1913 .. .. £12,888 £B4l £7,808
1914 .. .. 11,807 ■ 852 8,010
1916 .. .. 13,738 736 9,353
1917 . . . . 12,641 883 9.477
1918 .. .. 16,073 1328 12,366
However, the management lately set out to
even things up a little by increasing its
prices.
The purchase of properties has naturally
weakened the cash position. Five years ago
the co. owed the bank only £B2 and sundry
creditors £14,794. The bank overdraft now
stands at £18,856 and other liabilities amount
to £7746. The co. thus owes £11,776 more
than it did five years ago. In the same
period more or less liquid assets have moved
front__ £17.040 to £23,687 —an increase of
£6647. Thus the cash position has become
£5129 poorer than it was five years . ago.
At June 30 last liabilities exceeded liquid
assets by £2915. In the five years the mixed
item of “freehold and leasehold properties,
plant and machinery, rolling-stock, goodwill,
water supply, etc.,” has grown from £104,856,
against which there was it depreciation re-
serve of £14,567, to £136,268, with a reserve
,of £17,255. That gives a net increase of
£28,724 in the book value of fixed assets.
So, provided ample allowance has been
made for depreciation, and after allowing
for the £lO,OOO of new capital got in during
1914, the co. is £13,595 better off than it
was five years ago. Whether going in for
more pubs was good business, only the
future can tell —and the future of beer is
very uncertain. The Cold Tea party is very
energetic nowadays, and there’s certainly
going to be a big scrap over the liquor ques-
tion when Wilhelm’s little affair is over and
the six o’clock war-time closing legislation
lapses.
* * * *
Australia Hotel Co., Ltd. (Sydney) :
The improvements and additions completed
during the year have helped profits consider-
ably. The net profit for the year to June 30
last was £21.427, which compares with
£13,933 for the previous year, £24,237 five
years ago, and £22,741 the year before the
Kaiser generally upset things. Capital is
£183,000 in 33,000 £1 cum. prefs., which get
6 p.c. (£1980), and 150,000 £1 ordinaries.
The dividend on the ordinaries lias this year
been lifted from 6§ p.c. to 8 h p.c. (= £12,500).
Even then there is a comfortable margin of


Tub America* Exporter. A guide for buyers of
American merchandise and machinery. Also “assists
in finding markets for exportable products of Aus-
tralia. Published monthly. Post free 12/6 per
annum. Sample copy 11-. From Hamilton & Co.,
Publishers’ Representatives, 34 Pitt Street, Svdney.
—A DVT.
Every engineer should be a subscriber to the
General Electric Review, it is a monthly maga-
zine, containing descriptions of the latest develop-
ments and practical applications of electricity in
every sphere. No library is complete without it,
as the contents are original, instructive and complete
in every detail, being contributed by the leading
engineers of the world. The subscription is only
ten shillings (10/-) per year, so subscribe now or
write to the Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney, for a sample copy. — Advt.
The approach of summer makes it imperative for
every stock-owner to give a thought to the purifica-
tion of drinking water for his stock. If he is content
to let them drink muddy, slimy water he cannot
expect them to keep in good condition. All over the
State careful stock-owners are using Aluminoferric in
the proportion of one pound to every 2000 gallons of
water. It ensures pure liquid water in dams, wells,
tanks, etc., at very low cost, by precipitating all
impurities and leaving the water clear and pure,
free from any ingredient injurious to man or beast.
Let us go into details telling you how it will be to
your advantage to use Aluminoferric. William
Adams & Co. Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also at Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Adelaide.
—Advt.
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
* * •* *
Pioneer Wood Pipe provides the most economical
and efficient means of carrying water over your land.
In first cost, freight charges and labor for laying,
money is saved. Made in all sizes from two inches
upwards. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd., H.O. Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. address: Box
1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Factories: Lane Cove,
N.S.W.; Footscray, Vic. ; and Port Adelaide, S.A.
Contractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? .If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb.— Advt.
* * * »
“The weakest goes to the wall,” said Shakspeare.
You see, he never heard of “Lottoid,” or he would
have said “it is the strongest that goes to the wall.’'
“Lottoid” Hard Wall Plaster Sheets for ceilings,
partitions and inner walls, resist the ravages of fire,
ants and vermin. It has a hard, snow-white surface,
<does not rub off, saves painting, and can be nailed
direct to studding or joists and sawn like wood. It
is easily fixed by any carpenter or handy man. Made
in 16. convenient sizes, price 2s. 9d. per square
yard. We stock Asbestos Cement Slates, blue-grey,
diagonal type; Asbestos Cement Sheets, etc. Write
Spriggs’s Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt Street, Svdnev.—
Advt.
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
lasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Svdnev.—
Advt.
Primary and secondary industries, including Tim-
ber, Industrial. Minerals, Metals and Chemicals.
Arthur H. Haseil, Queen Street, Melbourne; Hunter
Street, Sydney; Lipson Street, Port, Adelaide, is
prepared to finance same.— Advt.. [2
“National” English-made petrol and oil horizontal
engines, immediate delivery frdm Sydney at prices
below pre-wai- rates: Petrol engines,' If h.p., £5O.
3 h.p,, £65. Oil engines: 34 h.p., £75. 41 h.p.,
£B5, Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Head 'Office,
Sydney.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventbrs’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Asst
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertlinfi
Balances, Heights, Morgan’s Crucibles. Braun
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals,
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. 1
9°"„ptd,, 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; at
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
i
TOI m
ui sjnsui
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
AGENTS WANTED.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital . r 96,291
income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. It. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The British Westinghouse Electric and MTg. Co.,_ydL
T ram way Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical
construction to stand the shocks and strains of constant service.
Westinghouse Tramway Motors possess these qualifications
and represent the best motor practice—the result of long and
wide experience.
There are types to suit varying conditions of service, track,
guage, size of car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest
efficiency, longest life and a reliable service in all kinds of
weather.
n
fstinpljousE'
Manchester
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works s TraKord Park. Manchester, England.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS -IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
~oo4i between dividends and net profits, and
and undivided profit now total
t.;.!,80_. In view of all the troubles the
management has been faced with —-loss
*_ custom owing to the war (the overseas
tourist traffic has been knocked endways, of
course), increased wages, soaring provision
prices, added taxation, etc., the past year’s
profit is very satisfactory. Another view of
the co. s progress is given in this compari-
son ot the balance-sheet figures:—
........ 1914. 1916. 1917. 1918.
Inabilities. . . . £24,533 £14,928 £32,075 £32,111
Assets other than pre-
mises, plant, etc. 12,032 25,016 17,963 25,676
The excess of liabilities of £12,501 in 1914
had m two years been converted into a sur-
plus of liquid assets of £10,088; but this
has been cut into by the extensive renova-
tions and improvements made during the
past two years. However, last year the
SS*** of „ liabilities has been reduced by
£<6ii io £6435. The freehold and building
now stand in the books at £186,728 com-
pared with £175,000 two years ago. The
original remodelling scheme included the
addition of two storeys to the big building,
and the directors, no doubt with an eye
on the rush of business which will come
after the war, state that “it may become
advisable to give further consideration” to
the idea.
The 42-years-old Adelaide Steam Tug Co.
lias voted itself out of existence. At the
meeting which carried a motion for liquida-
tion chairman ,1. R. Corpe explained that
the Outer Harbor gave the eo. its first bad
knock, by enabling the largest ocean
steamers to tie up right alongside a railway
nne, instead of lying off several miles outside
imrgs and letting their passengers be con-
veyed to the jetty and their cargo lightered
op the Port Iliver. Since then the deepen-
ing of Port Pirie has further cut down the
need for lighters and tugs, and the co. has
’been reduced practically to the towing of
its own boats.” So it has arranged for the
Adelaide Steamship Co. to take over all its
little fleet and fixings for £55,000 in cash.
At .Tune 30 the co. bad 22 vessels of a book
value of £39,976; plant and stores, £7241;
freeholds, £4562, and net cash assets of
£30,849.
* * * *
A lot of attention has been given lately
to some of the older goldfields in the N. S.
Hales central west. The old Stuart Town
held has come into the limelight again, as
a result of an argument which is proceeding
over the possession of the old German Jack
mine, held by H. A. Hannelle.y, of Sydney,
since 1916, after being idle for 20 years.
Good stone was taken out of the show in
the old days, but the water was afterwards
allowed to pour in, and a lot of cash will
have to be spent before the picks can reach
the reefs _ again. Nevertheless there is
enough faith in the old place to cause a
syndicate to turn eyes towards the mine. 11.
Keith, of Dubbo, has accordingly moved that
Hennelle.v be no longer heard on the leases
for his failure to comply with labor con-
ditions. Tne issue has become complicated
by the fact that Ilennelley claims that liis
sop with the A.I.F. has an interest in the
mine, which brings into operation the
Department’s policy of excusing all such
absentees. Anyway, the Minister is to decide
the mattei\ The syndicate mentioned has
already taken an option over Hunt’s leases,
covering the old German Jack Extended, on
condition that the lessee unwaters the shaft
and exposes the reef, from which the syndi-
cate will extract a crushing and pay a lump
sum for the interest in the show if the gold
comes out. On the same field a mild rush
has taken place for the Post Office claims,
which were worked extensively a few years
ago, when a fine battery was busy. Better
methods of treatment have aroused the new
hopes in this area.
* * * *
The old Sunny Corner mine (N.S.W.),
which paid away £94,000 in dividends before
it closed down 20 years ago when copper
was about £4B a ton and silver at 2s. 2d. an
ounce, has got it,s wind again and is now
paying well. Wilkinson and party are
getting out a big body of the stone,
about 100 tons per week being treated.
The average ton contains 20oz. silver, 11
p.c lead, 14 p.c. zinc, 24 p.c. copper, and
4dwt. of gold. The present party has had
the mine 14 months and the returns
have paid from the start. Good offers have
come from old hands who know the geology
of the field, but Wilkinson isn’t selling.
A casual survey of the mine shows that
there are several years’ supply of ore in
sight on the 25 acres. With more labor on
the show the syndicate will erect a larger
treatment plant to avoid the greater part
of the £5 6s. a ton for transport to the coast
and treatment charges. The stuff can be
mined for 11s. a ton and treated on the sur-
face for about 28s.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) made a net profit
of £37,433 for 1917, and £32,500 was distri-
buted in dividends. The ore treated totalled
159.397 tons and the gold yield realised
£232,550. Ore reserves are estimated at
nearly four years’ suppiy at tne present rate
of extraction. With a production valued at
millions sterling to its credit the Gwalia
is one of the few remaining of the 90-odd
Westralian gold-mines that have maintained
dividends to date. Like most other mines
that can show payable ore and good pros-
pects the Gwalia did not at time of flotation
come before the public in the ordinary way.
It had a large capital, and a big sum was
set aside for working capital. But it was
all subscribed privately, and the shares only
appeared in the market at 100 per cent, pre-
mium. The reason for this was that a big
tonnage of payable stone was in sight, and
the outlook for good profits was very favor-
able. Dividends panl by the co. to date
amount to well over one million sterling.
What with cyanide vats wanted and poor
labor supply, Ghilde Harold, Laverton
W.A.), isn’t yet on the dividend list. Still
manager Ditchburn has not a doubt that
once he gets the plant complete and can
work full time things will so hum as to
ensure repayment of what has gone into the
mine and towards machinery. The debt
under those heads is £19,000. with £l9OO as
a contingent liability to vendors, and £l3OO
owing on current debts. Funds to square all
these items are to come from a modest
reserve of 10,000 tons opened up above the
200 ft. level, and the stuff to be opened up in
the future. Ditchburn has driven 355 ft.
at No. 2 level on a reef 7ft. wide and assay-
ing 245. With costs as they are in Westralia
and mine supplies at abnormal prices, there
can’t be much margin out of stuff of
that grade. Ditchburn has a shallow shaft
600 ft. south of the main shaft, and he is
itching to dive into the reef there, as he has
been picking out some Bdwt. prospects from
an Bft. formation. A shoot of that kind
would sweeten up the grade all round. That
is what the Childe needs to get a go on.
From Westonia: —
Edna May Deeps’ new manager is faced
with a very severe battle indeed, as when
he starts chasing* that £90,000 profit which
Stuckey says exists above the bottom level, he will
come to the conclusion it is not a mine manager
but a Hercules that is required for that job. Any-
how, it will probably be found that there are not
more than 1000 tons payable ore available above the
No. 3 level; not more than 3000 tons (not including the
block of ore which the Mines Department insists
must remain intact for safety purposes) above No. 4
level; and 10,000 tons above No. 5 or bottom level—
lOdwt. ore and over considered payable grade. The
rich ore shoot at No. 5 level does not exceed 50ft. in
length. In that case the total profit in prospect will not
approach anything near £90,000. The new manager’s
first detailed report to directors may be taken as a
basis to decide which are the more correct esti-
mates —Stuckey’s or those above.
By the way, it is not generally known that the
Deeps cementation process was tried and failed
utterly in the Central workings, the joint Edna and
Central deluge washing it out.
Mararoa directors are inviting share-
holders to enlarge the co. from 100.000
shares to 120,000, paid to Bs. Half the
new issue is ito go to the Light of Asia
syndicate for their Cue mine, besides £BOOO
in cash. The Itae party in the last four
years has sent 19,009 tons of lodwt. stone
out of the Asia to the mill, leaving the new
comers the job of proving whether the shoots
live down. Still the purchase looks well
on bottom prospects. Out of the Mararoa
possibly another 2s. may be scraped, but
w r ith £lO.OOO cash in reserve the co. ought to
be able to keep going at its own claim with-
out calls and put through a fair develop-
ment programme at the Asia. Off the winze
80ft. below the bottom 310 ft. level at the
Light of Asia, 500 tons of 30dwt. stone
have been beaten out, so it looks as though
Llenderson has good reason for advising the
Mararoa shareholders to try their luck in
the Cue mine. About £7500 will see develop-
ment work done and prove if the 600 ft. of
payable reefs worked in the upper levels of
the Light of Asia live down.
* * * * -
“Oof B’rd”: Strong exception is being
takeh in the West to a statement contained
in the Governor’s speech at the recent open-
ing of Parliament that the mining industry
is in a satisfactory condition. After steadily
dwindling for some years, the gold produc-
tion has since 1913 shown an alarming
decline, until now it is not half of what it
used to be, and the number of men employed
in the industry has decreased by over 50 per
cent. To state that mining in Westralia is
in a satisfactory condition when many of the
o’d-time flourishing camps have relapsed into
almost a wilderness and others are stagnant,
and not one is turning out the quantity of
gold it did a few years ago, is too serious to
be considered as a joke.
* , * * *
Floated with a whoop of optimism, New
Boddington (W.A.) now admits a loss on
last year’s operations of £632, arid adds that
one lode, which was spoken of so well in
the prospectus, has proved unpayable. The
co. has about £230 of its original capital
left, and in summing up the prospects the
manager says that so far as can be "t
present there is a shoot of about 200 ft. in
length at depth, but being some distance
fiom the share it is expensive to get at. He
lias no doubts about it going down, but offers
no opinion as to whether it is ever likely to
benefit shareholders.
Things are just so-so at the Ajax, Dayles-
ford (Vic.), for while 33000 z. have been got
from 5359 tons and Is. 6d. has been paid in
divs., it is clear that the big hole in the reef
above No. S and No. 7 levels means that a
new attraction is badly needed in the old
mine. To provide this, Lewis is crosscutting
to try for the North Ajax shoot. Some 100 ft.
of driving will show whether this punch is
to be effective. Values of the stone coming
from the reef at No. 6 south keep tantalis-
ingly close to the pay-line, but that is the
way with so many of the Daylesford forma-
tions. They prospect well, but in the battery
won’t tally out properly. The worst thing
for Ajax is that Larsen at the Ajax North,
next door, has practically shut down his
mine because the men won’t knuckle to
Arbitration Court award conditions. Pro-
specting in that quarter aids the Ajax. With
the drift of miners to other fields no North
developments are likely to happen along to
hearten up the Ajax. The Nuggetty couple
also are on duffer stone, so that generally
mining isn’t rosy on the Ajax line.
“Good Australian” : So T. I. Greenway is
out “to shake up oil problems in Australia”
and “incidentally to divert the local oil-flow
to the Anglo-Persian Co.” (B. 22/8/T8).
Isn’t Australia entitled to its own oil, and
should not the Australian navy have the
first call on Papua’s oil? When will this
business end of “diverting” all the best of
our products to London and Liverpool? The
Anglo-Persian Co. made huge profits out of
the. British Admiralty last year, and the
whole of its crude petroleum was* shipped
and used as oil fuel by the navy. There was
none available for refining as kerosene,
petrol and lubricants, the three articles Aus-
tralia must have. The likelihood of the
Anglo-Persian Co. erecting a refinery in
Sydney to treat local petroleum for kero-
sene and petrol, etc., is remote. Anyhow, it is
not a question of allowing outsiders into the
Papuan fields, but of allowing Australian
mining men to develop the known oilfields
there for the benefit of the Commonwealth,
its people and its Government and navy,
first, last and all the time.
Lateral deposits extending into the walls
are becoming quite a feature of lode forma-
tions in the Cloncurry district. Quite re- ,
cently a lateral deposit was discovered at
the 80ft. level from No. 6 shaft in the
Trekelano mine, and this new make is now
officially stated to measure 47ft., and
worth 14 p.c. copper. A similar deposit has
also _ been discovered at the Answer mine,
bulking 16 p.c. and extending 28ft. into the
footwall. It is mainly owing to deposits of
this nature that little St. Mungo has paid so
many dividends. Gougers frequently drop
upon deposits of ore bulking 20 p.c. copper,
and because these peter out quickly the
general impression is that all the Cloncurry
mines are shallow. The Hampden’s 600 ft.
north level is in 420 ft., and the end shows
5 p.c. ore over a width of 30in.
Bonnie Dundee, Charters Towers (Q.),
recently crushed 366 tons for an average
yield of £3 9s. per. ton, and the latest report
from the mine is more cheerful than usual.
No. S level, which is the deepest, has been
driven 24ft. east of the shaft and is facing
20in. of good stone, the quality having im-
proved. The western drive is also in 24ft.,
and the face shows 9in. of fair stone. Clark’s
realised £4912 for its crushing of 501 tons,
and although this is over £9 pe'r ton, it isn’t
quite so good as some previous returns.
Mount Malvern silver-lead (S.A.) has had
a good development at the 400 ft. level. The
main drive is in 172 ft., and the make of rich
ore assaying up to 77 p.q. lead and 16oz.
silver was met in crosscutting west. After the
workings have been timbered and secured it
is intended to open up the new make. Since
the mill started 775 tons of concentrates have
been sent to the smelter for a net return of
£9300. Charges are heavy, for metal con-
tents figure at £15,500.
* .* * *
The Speck’s carbide of calcium factory at
Electrona, near Hobart, had produced over
70 tons of carbide when operations had to
stop for want of suitable electrodes. Those
imported from Britain proved defective. The
Hun, with his capacity for taking pains,
made a special study of electrodes, and while
the easy-going British Freetrader could
secure the articles from Germany, even the
technical side of the business was neglected.
Now both the Britisher and the Australian
are studying the apparently simple art of
making sticks of hard carbon that will stand
a very high temperature. ’
(Continued on page 32.)


LOHENGRIN’S FAREWELL TO THE SWAN.


TO CURE COUGHS USE PINE TAR
AND SUGAR.
A SPECIALIST’S SUGGESTION.
Obstinate tickling coughs, the kind that
rack you to pieces and keep you awake at
night, can be quickly relieved by 10 or 15
drops of bitrate of tar on a lump, of sugar,
and letting it slowly dissolve in the mouth.
The specialist who recommends this plan
says it is superior to anything he has ever
tried, and may be used with perfect safety
and success on children. To make an excel-
lent inexpensive cough syrup which children
like, he says there is nothing better at any
price than half a pound of granulated sugar
dissolved in half a pint of hot water, and
then stir in 2oz. of bitrate of tar. When
cool pour into a pint bottle, and it is ready
for use. Prom half a teaspoonful to a tea-
spoonful every hour or two will quickly
relieve coughs and colds, and if regularly
used for a few days will give remarkable
benefit in cases of catarrhal and bronchial
affections.— Advt.
IF BILIOUS OR CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FI
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels
without griping or
discomfort.
An acid stomach, clogged with fermenting,
ill-digested food, means that the liver is not
doing its duty. Nature provided ripe fruit
juices to keep the liver up to its ; work.
California Syrup of lugs— Cahfig —is a
deliciously refreshing fruit laxative which is
always in season. You can keep it at hand,
and it will be an unfailing friend whenever
the tongue is coated, bowels sluggish, bieath
foul, throat dry or sore, stomach full of
wind, and head hot and aching. You can
take a dose whenever it is needed, as safely
as you could eat fresh fruit. In a short
while you will feel the benefit. The bowels
will be gently relieved, and the stomach
cleansed and" sweetened as the undigested
food is moved on and got rid of. The tongue,
will grow clean again and the head will be
cooled and cleared. There is no mistaking
the beneficial effects of California Syrup of
Fig S —“Califig-” Directions are with it for
adults and children of all ages. This
pleasant laxative is good for all, and cannot
possibly harm even the most delicate, but
you must ask for “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade-mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs—in bottles of two sizes,
1/1-J and 1/9. [1
fflU bDI Nfic
fraiaiit «wt»*
Aotuwj
1 STDNfy
PERTH AND LONDON
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDING’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packet*, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lcwt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
up
X
Don’t
Stay
DEAF!
You can hear —and we
will prove it! Let us
send an “Acousticon”
at our own expense for
10 Days’ FREE TRIAL
in your own home. No
deposit. No obligation.
Over 329,000 deaf people now hear perfectly
with the “Acousticon,” including the Prime
Minister of Australia, Mr. W. M. Hughes.
For the “Acousticon” user there are no years
ahead of increasing deafness, no nervousness
caused by straining to hear. Convince your-
self at our expense—and DON’T STAY DEAF.
Lamson
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Daking House, SYDNEY
152 Olderfleet, MELBOURNE
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNTS
LINSEED
OIL
Rockhampton (Q.) lost a strenuous citi-
zen when John Willis crossed into the
shadows a few days ago. He. was an
engineer, a Manchester man, who arrived in
Queensland in 1866 and did a lot of work
in his line. He also tried his hand at gold
fossicking, ran the tin-cutting machine at
Lake’s Creek, helped build bridges on the
Emu Park line, and did a bit of railway
construction and wharf-building. For some
years Willis was a vigorous Labor man and
a most painfully frequent and fluent inter-
jeetor at public meetings. He was 52 years
when the sand ran out.
Adelaide has borrowed Ambrose Roberts,
the handsome Welshman, who
was lately president of the
Council of Churches in Vic-
toria. Roberts looks like a
matinee idol made up for the
part, but is, as a matter of fact,
a fiery and effective preacher,
like his father before him. He
starts after the Devil in the
Manthorpe Memorial (Congre-
gational) pulpit in Adelaide
with the beginning of Septem-
ber.
Lieut. Harry Liddell Mack,
R.N.R., D.S.C., first saw the
light in Warrnambool (Vic.).
Before the war he was helping
to drag dredges across the
oceans to people who were too
tired or too something to build
them themselves, and it speaks
a lot for his confidence in these
unwieldly fliers that he took
his wife out in one for the
Launceston Harbor Board. He
navigated, al«o, the Cleveland
Bay for the Townsville Harbor
Board in 1911. When the war-
gong sounded Mack was on his
way back to the Cold Country,
after one of these pilgrimages,
and he sent word from New
York that he was ready to bear
a hand. He want to the Ork-
neys patrol in October, 1914,
and stayed there till December,
1915, when he was sent to the
Mediterranean, and has been there ever
since. His job is “escorting.”
Recentiv dead in N.-W. Tasmania. John
Newbolt Wilson, formerly a major-general in
the Indian army. He had lived in Tas. for
over 30 years, coming there on the flood of
immigration of retired Indian service men,
which also brought Edward Braddon. Wil-
son’s favorite hobby was the study of Orien-
tal languages, and amongst those who have
time for such light recreations he was some-
thing of an authority. He just missed the
81st milestone.
Warrant-Officer A. R. Falconer, who put
in three strenuous years on active service in
Egypt and France, recently stepped ashore
at Sydney wearing the M.S.M. decoration.
His son, Warrant-Officer L. Falconer, has
achieved the same distinction. Dad and two
sons met on many battlefields in France.
Two of the boys are still carrying on, and
dad is doing important military service with
the home garrison artillery.
“C. Plate”: When the numbers were
hoisted for the newly-founded Wilcannia-
Forbes R.C. diocese, the
surprise packet exploded
with a loud-echoing hang,
the two sections conpro-
mising on Rev. W. Hay-
den, of Dulwich Hill (Syd-
ney ). A Kilkenny man,
with the big pull of being
educated in Rome, his
chances seemed slender
against big brother Tom,
president of the Manly
priest - building institu-
tion, who has now run
several times. But the
hard-riding cleric will fill
the bill infinitely better
than many of his elders
of the wild places of
which he is the newly-
appointed overseer. Un-
like the cases of Ballarat
and Sale (Vic.), the
bishops didn’t exercise
their veto, because Cer-
relti, Apostolic Delegate,
approved. Archbishop
Kelly gives a spread on
Sept. S, when the episco-
pal brand will be affixed.
“ Jermyn Street,” about a cobber :
Passed out, “Dolly” Brunton (full title Captain
Laurence Brunton, M.C., 4th Divisional Artillery),
one of the wildest—and last—of the reckless old
First Division originals. At Messines rumor got to
him that there were refreshments in a dugout over
towards the Germans. The day was at about noon,
blazing hot and dusty. Accompanied by his batman,
who always followed him on his insane expeditions,
the bar was reached, and beside it was a brand-new
German field gun, fresh from the factory, undamaged
and all complete. Also, there were masses of
ammunition flying around, so Dolly and the bat-
man went into action straight away. When the
spoils of the battle were later assembled in Bailleul"
Square for inspection by George V., this capture was
the most complete and undamaged of the many pieces
of ordnance on view, and it was Certainly the only
piece that had been captured by a single Australian
hand. I believe it goes to Parramatta. On another occa-
sion one of Brunton’s pals had been killed early in the
battle of Bullecourt, at a point right in the front
THE GAY LOTHARIO.
MRS. McSOZZLE: “I sent a photograph of
meself to me old man at the Front, and
the Censor pinched it.”
MRS. McNOBBLE: “Ain’t they flirts?”
line. God knows how —and also God knows why—
but Dolly got a cross and started out—accompanied
by the same batman —Vo mark the place. On the
spot to which they were going the liun barrage was
coming down with the symmetry and rhythmic
monotony of waves on a storm-swept beach, and the
earth was churning to a boil with shell. Even if
erected the cross would not last five minutes in such
a place. But Dolly put it up, and both he and the
batman got back not only alive but unscratched.
The 419th casualty-list reports him as “Died of
Wounds.” The marvel is he lasted so long.
HAVING THE LAST WORD.
THE LIAR: “ The last raid I was in was in
the dark. I was coming back from
Fritz’s trenches with two squareheads
on me bay' nit, and”
THE UNBELIEVER: “ It teas dark? ’Ow did
yer know yer ’ad two on yer bay’ nit?”
THE LIAR: "Well, I ’card one say to the
other, ‘Move up a bit. Fritz, I’m slippin ’
off'. ”
The appointment of Rev. W. Hayden
to the new R.C. bishopric of Wil-
cannia-Forbes (N.S.W.) recalls the many
occasions that half-brother Tom has
missed the ’piscopal chariot. Irish traditions
invariably point to a College Professor —
Moran, Carr, Mannix, are examples. Hay-
den has been in the running more than once.
Of late he was badly beaten for Christchurch
(M.L.) by old pupil Matt Brodie, son of an
Auckland publican, and he was only a neck
ahead of Terence Maguire, the son of a
Macleay River (N.S.W.) dairy-farmer, for
Lismore. Tom’s ill fortune is due to the publi-
cation of such advanced views that lie was
duly reported to Rome after incurring the
displeasure of Moran. However, though his
episcopal prospects were dimmed, the highly
intellectual priest retained his post as presi-
dent of the Manly College.
“Z.” : When one hears the occasional glib
tipping of a “new Cardinal,” the re-
minder comes of how a card, ever got
here. When Moran was called back
from Australia to be Archbishop of Dublin,
such an almighty howl went up that
Leo XIII. heard it in Rome and squashed
the appointment. Stormy interviews resulted
in Moran being solaced with the Red
Hat and a return to his old job in Australia
—just as present Arch. Kelly, when lie set out
a few years back to see about a bishopric in
India or elsewhere, was glad to return. There
are confused ideas regarding the importance
of the Cardinalate. A man need only be a
deacon to be one, provided he’s ordained
priest within 12 months. Ceretti’s mission
here was to spy out the land and contrast
the two countries in their importance —
America and Australia. Evidently he was
satisfied a Roman candle wasn’t necessary
here, as he floated out and we got a smaller
man. Gazing at the present unimpressive
hierarchy I can see only one runner for the
Australian Hat —Mannix.
H. Y. Hodson, the latest chaplain to win
the M.C., is one of twin brothers who are
priests in the Anglican Bush Brotherhood
at Cloncurry (N.Q.). The decoration was
earned last May, near Salonica, where Hod-
son is chaplain with an English regiment. He
went alone 300 yards across “no man’s
land” under fire, and brought back two
wounded soldiers from the Bulgar’s wire.
On the third trip he found a man so badly
hurt that he could not be moved without
assistance. The fire was terriffic, but Hodson
refused to leave his wounded mate, and
stayed with him all day under rifle and
artillery hail. One shell buried itself under
the stretcher, but luckily proved a “dud.”
After -dark, Hodson went for and led a
rescue party out; but in the meantime the
Bulgars had carried the wounded man into
their lines as a prisoner.
W. B. Rounsevell (mentioned in The
Bulletin's list of September birthdays as
76 on 23rd), was four times Treasurer of
S. Aus. There were at one time three Ben-
jamins in the Adelaide House of Assembly,
and W.B. was distinguished as “Big Ben.”
He rarely misses his daily outing in his
carriage and pair.
Cuthbert Maclean, a Devonport (M.L.)
parson, reckoned that the Anglican sky-
pilot’s license which he held wasn’t enough
for war purposes, so he went in for more
practical training, and is now a squadron-
commander of the Royal Flying Corps in
France. He has just received the Cross of
the French Legion of Honor. Previously, as
lieutenant of the Fusiliers, he won the M.C.
Maclean was born and schooled at Wanganui
(M.L.), where his father was Anglican vicar
in the long ago.
Charles Goode, merchant and philanthro-
pist, of Adelaide, has decided to take a rest,
and has resigned his seat on the local Board
of the A.M.P. Society. He is becoming sadly
deaf, and is less able to attend to business
than he was when he pluekily accepted a re-
nomination two years ago, at the age of 90.
This leaves as the oldest member of the
Board Edwin Smith, a comparative juvenile
of 88, rather touched in the eyesight, but
otherwise almost as keen and regular a man
of business as ever.
Captain A. T. Pringle, V.D., who died
lately, aged 55, was an enthusiast in the old
N. S. Wales volunteer army. For a long
time he was in charge of the clerical branch
of the railway divisional engineer’s office at
Bathurst, where he joined the service 34
years ago. He started the cadet shooting
competitions, commanded the 42nd Regiment
at the last militia camp, got the V.D. when
lan Hamilton was here some years back,
and was a vastly disgusted veteran when
red tape, or something equally foolish, would
not let him go to the war.
Thomas Murdoch, master warden, Hobart
Marine Board, is conspicuous mostly in the
Speck by the galvanic shocks he administers
on behalf of progress. He inherits this trait
from his grandfather, Dr. Murdoch, who
arrived in Van Diemen’s Land nearly a cen-
tury ago, and was associated with Bishop
Wilson in easing the convicts’ lot. Mur-
doch has skimmed
over the principal
continents in one
capacity or another.
As well as being
master warden, he
is Consul for Bel-
gium, ex-M.L.C..
and ex-President of
the Chamber of
Commerce. lie w T as
organiser of the
Tourist Depart-
ment and has so
many schemes up
his sleeve that he
can hardly get his
arm in. For a crust
he bosses the firm
of Murdoch Bros.,
merchants.
TOMMY
MURDOCH,
Master Warden of
Hobart Marine
Board, and ex-
chairman Chamber
of Commerce.
HE AND L
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The rich man has his soft ease,
His gilt cars
And choice of many wines,
But I thank God for the big seas,
The bright stars
And the night-wind in the pines.
Though, being not of the one plan,
The same mould,
I sink where he may swim—-
A fig, I say, for the rich man,
His heaped gold
And the joy it brings to him.
Though into his mansion scents stray,
And friends throng,
To make his ease-hours bright.
Yet I’m content with the wind's way,
The sea’s song
And the pine-trees in the night.
Though he may have,what his gold buys,
And Joy find
In what his gold has bought,
lie may not think with the night-skies,
The cool wind,
And the dark seas lost in thought.
Yet, being not of the same plan,
The one mould —
As one at a glanqe may see —
’Tis little I care for the rich man,
His heaped g01d....
And ’tis, little he cares for me.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Tired of Giving'?
You don’t know what it is
to be tired.
What sacrifices we have
made pale into insignificance
when compared with what
others have sacrificed for us,
for our children, and for our
children’s children.
Until we have suffered their
agonies we shall not have paid
our debt to them or to civili-
sation.
To invest in the War Loan
is the least we can do—and
that we MUST do.
Buy 7th War-Loan Bonds!
and buy—buy—buy—until it Hurts !
In co-operation with tbe New South Wales Central War Loan Committee,
tbis advertisement is published by the Proprietors of
“CAPSTAN” and “THREE CASTLES” CIGARETTES.
This is one of a series of advertisements
prepared bij the N.S.W. Ad.-Men’s Institute.


The other day I heard pa say
He’d been by someone told
That I would be from croup quite free
If I reached eight years old.
And as I wish to live and grow
I’ve made my chance more sure
By recommending ma to give me
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. —Advt.
a
à
LADIES! Be Comely.
Here is A ROYAL ORDER.
London.
Dear Mrs. Stannard (John Strange Winter), —
I have been recommending your delicious preparations to
the Duchess and her daughter, and the Princess Beatrice has
ashed me to order the following preparations to be sent to
her Royal Highness at your early convenience, as they are soon
leaving for Europe. I have let them use some of my own
preparations and they are enchanted with them.
Yours sincerely,
MARY W. FITZWILLIAM
( Lady-in-Waiting to the Queen).
J.S.W. Toilet Preparations are THE BEST the WORLD has produced, and have
WON' SIX GOLD MEDALS —Eondon. Paris, Rome. Send 3d. stamp for Sample of
Powder (name the tint), or Soap, or Dental Cream, or Face Cream, and Booklet, to
John Strange Winter, 26-30 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
j^eltonian
HIGH-CLASS
SPECIALTIES
Creams
ird
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
á
E. DROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINURY
Following the lead of the British
Admiralty, the Federal Navigation Depart-
men is examining the eye-sight of a propor-
tion of the crews of every ship bound over-
UNDAUNTED.
HER: “Why don’t you enlist instead of get-
ting married?”
HIM: “Well, y’ know, the V.C. is not as
easy to get as y’d think.”
seas. Which is only commonsense, seeing
that in these times of submarines and pro-
miscuous mines a vessel’s safety may at any
moment hinge on her look-out’s promptness
of vision. But there’s another way in
which the department might do some useful
work. It might insist on periodic medical
overhauls of ships’ officers. The man on the
bridge might be medically fit for the job, or
he might not. There was the case of the
Makambo, awhile-back piled up on Lord
Howe Island while her skipper, who was in
charge on the bridge, was unconscious in a
fit, which the N. S. Wales Marine Inquiry
Court held was not due to any fault of his
own. Quite unsuspected by himself an after-
guard might be liable to collapse in a
moment of stress and a previous hint from
a doctor might save a big manifest of trouble.
Melbourne’s latest murder is mostly a
story of exceeding casualness. In ’l4 Roma
Thomas, tailoress, met and married Samuel
Smith, sailor, and became a happy bride for
24 hours. Then Samuel went to sea, and.
leaving his ship at Sydney, disappeared in
an offhand and unobtrusive way. Mrs. Smith
worked on at her trade and acquired sundry
casual friends, including one Barleycorn,
alias Tanglefoot. On the evening of August
20 she was noticed inquiring for Barley foot
or Tanglecorn in company with an unknown
stranger. They acquired four bottles, and
adjourned to the lady’s abode, in a Carlton
slum, where, a post-mortem, showed, she was
slain two hours later. That is all that is
known at time of writing. The only con-
crete, unchallengeable fact ascertained so far
is that Roma Smith is quite dead.
Half-way between Thursday Island
and the western Papuan port of Darn,
a dot on the chart indicates the posi-
tion of Yam Island, Torres Strait. It is
mostly hill, beaches, coeoanuts and niggers.
Lying, as it does, out of the track of the
pearling and beche-de-mer vessels, visitors
are infrequent and communications are not
overdone, yet on this lonely place lives a
white woman —Mrs. Smallwood, Government
teacher. She is delicate and elderly, but she
feels no fear at living surrounded by semi-
civilised blacks and with no other person of
her own color upon the island. She has been
there for years, and the natives treat her
with the greatest respect, and look upon her
as a mother. Which, suggests that despite
civilising influences some virtues remain to
the niggers. Mrs. Smallwood has had some
unique experiences. At Madras (India) she
witnessed the festival of Ram and Setha —
the wedding of Justice and Mercy—-and was
the first European so privileged for 50 years,
and the first white woman ever.
A ripple on the surface of events hap-
pened in London when George Heyl and
Jacob Stoner were accused of trying, under
suspicious circumstances, to dispose of cer-
tain goods, including 500,000 rifles, a Dread-
nought, and immense quantities of artillery,
etc. One theory is that they intended to
steal the Dreadnought from Brazil if they
could find a “fence” to take it. Stoner’s
real name was Stein, but a
detective said he was above
suspicion, so that suspicion
couldn’t fall on him unless
it flew up above him and
then dropped. It is a large
business. There have been
few larger since an Austrian
Minister of Finance retired
early last century, leaving a
deficit of four tons of gold
in his accounts.
#
* *
South Australia’s vintage
for the last season is easily
the best on record, going
well over five million gal-
lons, nearly doubling last
year’s. The previous record,
in 1913, was under four mil-
lions. The value of the pre-
sent lot may be something
over half a million sterling.
About half of it was made
in the Barossa-Tanunda dis-
trict. The famous show-
vineyards on the slopes be-
hind Adelaide had unexpect-
edly little to do with the
result (only 400,000 gal-
lons). There are officially
stated to be 73 wine-makers
in S.A., and 15 of them
turned out less than 1000
gallons each. Methods of
production are so much
improved nowadays that it is not likely that
any of the small growers will die through
drinking their own wine, as used to be said
of them in the early days.
What is believed to be the first Australian
will made by word of mouth has been
admitted to probate by S. Aus. Supreme
Court. The law seems to be quite clear that
a soldier on active service need not trouble
about the formalities required from other
people in making a will. In this case the
soldier had actually signed and dated a
printed form, in the presence of witnesses;
but as it did not contain anything else the
Court held it quite valueless. A definite
statement of his intentions, however, made
at the same time, was recalled in some strong
BUSINESS AND PLEASURE.
“Where did y' get the pin, Bill?"
“Swapped it with the wife for a washtub
affidavits, and admitted as a proper will.
Chief Justice Murray remarked that the in-
tention to make a will was clear, the wishes
for disposition of deceased’s property were
clear and the mere fact of his having taken
the oath and gone into camp made him tech-
nically on active, service. Such a will would
not apply to land, but in this case there was
none. The matter was piloted through the
Supreme Court by Talbot Smith, an Adel-
aide lawyer who has during the war made
the wills of nearly 4000 S.A. soldiers as a
friendly act.
* * * *
The recognition of the Papal flag as one
of the friendly banners that may be flown in
Australia has aroused much controversy of
an illogical kind. The Pope is still the elec-
tive monarch —perhaps the only elective
monarch left in the world—of a very small
State. He has his own army, but not his
own navy. (It was declared in the South
African war time that an inland country
couldn’t possess a navy, and that its flag on
the sea was a pirate’s ensign, so the Boer
fleet never sailed.) Above everything, the
Pope is the only monarch who is sole head of
a church, and a world-wide church at that.
The early Caliphs ruled all Islam spiritually
and temporarily, but after them, church and
State broke apart in many directions. Brig-
ham Young professed at least to be both
spiritual and temporal, but he was very
temporary, and he is dead. The Mahdi and
the Khalifa were not cases in point. George
V. doesn’t head the Anglican Church in
America, and anyhow his creed never set
up a flag. A Baptist flag is impossible, for
there is neither a Baptist king nor a king-
dom. Whether the Pope is a friendly sove-
reign has been disputed, but anyhow he has
never said anything to the contrary. The
really or nominally Roman Catholic peoples
who are in, or belong to, our fighting line—
counting Belgium. France, Portugal. Italy,
Brazil, Cuba, Poland, the British Empire
(8,000,0001, the United States (12.000,000!
are far more than those on the other side.
So we might as well recognise the unique
and very ancient banner which is, in a
sense, our banner, and get out of it any
benefit that is possible. It may not always
be unique, however. If conquered Palestine
is re-established as a neutralised or protected
Hebrew State, then the Jewish flag will be
on the same plane with that of St. Peter, for
the king or president at Jerusalem will be
the head of Jewry in a religious as well as
a political sense. And he will be a ruler
with a sea-coast, which the Pope isn’t, and
a Stock Exchange which the Pope hasn’t.
PUTTING HIM IN THE SHADE.
OLD BROTHER : “Now, that strikes me as a
silly hat. Why, you can't see where
you're going, and it doesn't shade the
hack of your head."
YOUNG SISTER: “Never mind my head or
where I’m going. The purpose of a
woman's hat is to make men look under
it.”
“G.T.”: I found him camouflaged in ban-
danges and cigarette-smoke. “The- old man
will stick his chest out now that you’ve got
the M.M., Bill,” I remarked. “P’raps he
don’t know yet; ’tain’t my turn to write,"
says Bill.
(Continued on page 18.)
KNOCKED.
(N.Y.D. Pulmonary Tuberculosis.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Deeper than wounds the war has struck in me;
Harsher than wounds the smart that I must feel,
Bearing, no proud scars that my mates may sec
And yet a wearing hurt that may not heal!
There is a soothing balm in warm blood let
To serve one’s country. But like this to fall
From the brave ranks of manhood strongly set
In Freedom's service, yields no ease at all.
How often in a weariness of hours
Of dust, suspense and dread, within my breast
Have visions stirred of wounds—scent pure as
flowers,
Washed limbs, clean sheets and placid seas of
rest!
And .then, when dread from dreariness was dead,
The war’s worst rage would leave me unalarmed.
Only a strange, strange hope from out me lied
Each time it passed, and left me still unharmed.
I, like a ship to proud adventure sent,
Unscarred by conflict, battered not by storm,
Drop from the line of battle imminent
A humbled victim to a boring worm.
Washed limbs, clean sheets —and yet no sense of
rest!
Record of service incompletely writ,
With no wound periods ; yet in my breast
A gnawing ill—-the bitterness of it!
Yet have I done at least as well as those
Who, safe at home, have bravely talked of death;
I, for my country, in the path I chose,
Have made a willing sacrifice of breath !
IN HOSPITAL.
HAMER.


WHY THE AEOLIAN-
VOCALION
is the Leader of all Phonographs
$35
h
m
/
*
is..
£:y-
-“It does this by increasing the energy and size of the sound-waves
THE PHONOGRAPH HORN.
HE horn of the phonograph is used to amplify the
tones produced in its sound-box. It does this by
increasing the energy and size of the sound-waves.
It should be understood that in the process of record-
ing the original sound-waves are taken from the air, as it
were, and translated into a microscopic line engraved in
wax, and that undoubtedly they are reduced both in
energy and size during the process. Also that when the
sound-box retranslates this line back into waves they still
lack both their original energy and dimensions.
The horn to perform its function must restore these,
and just to the extent that it is capable of delivering a
faithful counterpart of the original wave does it serve
its purpose.
THE SYMPHONETIC HORN.
HB Symphonetic Horn used in the Aeolian-Vocalion
is a clever and scientifically constructed device
made of ’cello wood sprung into position under
tension and amplified with metal.
The Symphonetic Horn is acclaimed by musicians
and experts to represent a notable advance in the develop-
ment of the Phonograph and Gramophone, because it faith-
fully reproduces the exact tone color of singer and instrument ,
and so perfectly does it accomplish this that it makes
The Aeolian-VOCALTON
“The Leader of Perfect Tone Reproduction.”
CALL AND HEAR THE
VOCALION
or write for Art Catalog “B.
Prices from £9
CONVENIENT TERHS
OF PAYMENT.
3
£
Other Exclusive Features:
THE GRADUOLA TONE
CONTROL, which confers
the new privilege of per=
feet control of expression.
THE AUTOHATIC STOP.
—Two movements only
are required to “set” the
record to stop at any
point desired.
15he PIANOLA CO. PTY. LTD.
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 252 Collins Street, Melbourne; Cr. Gawler Place & Rundle Street, Adelaide ;
436 Queen Street, Brisbane.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetie
Works, Leicester, England. [1
A Letter to Clements Tonic from a Well-known Glergyman
showing the
great value
of Clements
Tonic to all
Professional
People.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
A Further Great Endorsement of a Really Fine Medicine.
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD. “ The ?£Kr Avenue. Haberfleld.
Somehow the writer would never have anything to do with patent medicines of any description, having a decided
prejudice against any that were largely advertised.
A bottle of your remedy, however, was placed in my hands, and out of courtesy to my friend, who had an interest in
my welfare, I ventured to take it as advised.
With pleasure I write you that since taking Clements Tonic my system is braced up and my general health much
improved.
In such a calling as mine the nervous tension is always high, and I
assure you that it is good to find something that really benefits.
A good thing is always worth passing on.
I am, Sirs, yours sincerely,
(Signed)
á
Pastor,
Leichhardt Baptist Church.
A remarkable remedy when used consistently for weak nerves, brain-fag or want of sleep. Professional persons should
never be without it. All chemists and stores sell it.
“L.L.W.” : “The Pariah” asserts re learn-
ing Japanese (B. 22/8/’18), “I know men
who wrote and spoke it in two years.” I
now introduce “Pariah” to Tsuchya, a Jap
student of English and Esperanto. “We
Japanese ourselves require about eight years’
school education (of which six years is com-
pulsory) to write a presentable letter or
read a newspaper, another four or five years
are not too excessive to understand such a
speech as in the Diet. Even tbfe Japanese
language transcribed into Roman alphabet is
not properly pronounced by foreigners,
except by an Esperantist. Therefore should
anybody intend to learn the Japanese lan-
guage, I would advise him to learn Esper-
anto first; the grammatical construction of
the latter will serve as a stepping-stone be-
tween the former and the English.” “The
Pariah” alleges that 3000 characters are
“all” you want in Japanese. Tsuchya says
10,000 out of a total of 80,000 must be
learnt before one can read an ordinary
newspaper. In Esperanto there are only
27 characters! And let the educational fad-
dists who introduced Japanese chew over
this. The roll of Esperantists in both Japan
and Australia is increasing by hundreds
yearly, while at the Sydney University
“there are many defaulters” from the 70
or so enthusiasts who last year began to
learn Japanese. “The Pariah” naively says
there must be some reason for this. For
his sake let me state the obvious reason.
Learning Japanese is an impractical task,
commercially worthless except for communi-
cation in a doubtful future with one nation ;
learning Esperanto is a practical and easy
task now with every non-savage nation on
earth.
* * * *
A 14-year-old boy who deserved to be
tanned for nefarious improbability has tran-
spired in New England (N.S.W.). Nobody
could complain much of him laying a sleeper
on the railway. It was an old sleeper and
il: achieved no damage, and anybody might feel
called upon to do something with a sleeper.
After all a sleeper must be put somewhere.
FEMININE ARITHMETIC.
FIRST WAR ECONOMIST: “What extrava-
gance! You have two hats to match
that one dress!”
SECOND WAR ECONOMIST : “Oh, no, I
haven’t! I've only one dress to match
the two hats.”
Nobody could complain of him being, as
described by the police, “a stranger in the
neighborhood.” Every boy is a stranger in
A HELPING HAND.
MAY: “And they say you took twelve Hun prisoners in a batch.”
B ILLJIM: “Yes.”
MAY: “Without any assistance?”
BILLJIM: “Well, yes, excepting what the prisoners gave.”
a great many neighborhoods, and the more
boys are strangers and remain so the better
for the neighborhood. But this boy said he
was in the neighborhood because two men
seized him in Sydney; bound him hand and
foot in a motor-car, and fled with him mys-
teriously for many miles until he escaped.
Yet he was just a twopenny plain boy with
no apparent mystery about his parentage—
the sort of boy that anybody would gladly
lose in any street and forget about. He
seemed the sort of person who would grow
up in a brown suit and be dead two weeks
before people noticed that he hadn’t been
seen about lately.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The Germans punish desert-
ers by sending their womenfolk to tasks in
the front-line zone, but we do things more
humanely in Australia. Here the offender
may be shot or he is gaoled where lie is in-
capable of earning anything for wife and
children’s support, so they are faced with
nothing worse than prospective starvation,
his allotment being stopped forthwith and
his deferred pay forfeited in addition.
“Mac N.” : They were a dreadfully awk-
ward squad, and the wild sergeant-major
needed a breather, so he marched them into
the shade, ordered them to stand easy and
told them a story. “Look here, you boys;
when I was a tiny chap my dear old
mother gave me a little box of
soldiers. I liked them better than
any of my other toys and used to
play with them all day. But one
day we had to move, and in the
confusion they got lost. Well, I
was pretty near heart-broken about
it, and my mother did everything
she could to comfort me, saying:
‘Never mind, Sonny, some day you’ll get
your little wooden soldiers back again.’
And, by II — l, so I have! Squad— ’siiun!”
Business for the Twofold Bay (Eden,
N.S.W.) whalers has been slack for
some time, but it livened up a few days ago.
The men were bewailing their luck at miss-
ing one mammoth, reckoned by experts to
have been worth £9OO, when along sauntered
another “bumper” and calf. It didn't take
those well-known expert whalemen, the
Davidsons and mates, long to get busy and
they soon had the calf; but the mother was
another proposition. As soon as the har-
poon was fast, the monster promptly rang
up full steam and, with the boat in tow, set
off like greased lightning close in along the
shore. Suddenly the boat’s bows were
staved on a rock, one of the crew went over-
board and by the time he was picked up the
enraged lady was streaking into the southern
bay, still cuddling the shore. Another boat
was got out in pursuit. Agaiij the harpooner
made fast and again the nightmare tow pro-
ceeded, “humpy” tearing head-on for the
wharf. To dodge collision with the piles the
line was cast off for the second time. The
whale missed the wharf by a few feet, and
turned for the open sea, the whalers, again
having made fast, vainly trying to finish the
furious proceedings with the lance. Just
here the “killers” came into action with fine
dash and soon had the leviathan in a mad
frenzy that threatened to swamp the boat. In
the turmoil one of the chocks came away and
the line, running out with terrific speed,
jerked two of the crew overboard. They
were lugged aboard by good luck, and the
grand parade continued round the northern
bay and out for the rough open sea. Then
the whalers finally cut loose and watched
tlieir sturdy antagonist streak in a smother
of crimsoned foam for the horizon. The
fight had lasted over tea hours.
* * * *
“That's the first time I have heard strong
drink called a necessity of life,” said Judge
Powers in the Arbitration Court, Melb., the
other day. Necessity knows no law, and
law, it appears, recognises few necessities.
“Equal pay for women,” is going to be a
live subject. Till recently every woman
had a sporting chance of matrimony, for the
surplus female wasn’t very numerous.
Therefore woman was looked upon as a
dilettante worker, filling in time till a
husband came along, with a baby to come
along later —a person who wouldn’t wait
to learn her business thoroughly because it
wasn’t her permanent business, and whom
it wasn’t worth while promoting. But the
war has made men so scarce, and will yet
make them so much scarcer, that the un-
married woman must be viewed in a differ-
ent light. A very large proportion of the sex
is going to work for life, and is to be treated
as a permanency toiling for permanent
wages, and with her old age to provide for
-—not as a temporary bit of fluff earning
money to buy a trousseau with. It must be
equal pay for equal work —or else polygamy.
“Dial-Sight”: I hasten to back up
The Bulletin’s support (22/8/T8) of the
Y.M.C.A. abroad. In the huts as close to
line as the “exigencies of the service” would
permit I have had warm shelter, seats to sit on,
writing material ad lib., groceries, etc., at a
lower price than from private vendors in
Blighty or France (canteen goods are free
of excise and other duties, hence cheaper),
lectures and concerts, and always a warm
welcome, to which I look back with grati-
tude. Against this, all I’ve paid for at the
Recreation Huts was tea at 10 centimes (Id.)
a cup. and biscuits 2d. a packet. In the
front lines or thereabouts I have had warm
cocoa, biscuits and cigarettes gratis. Seems
to me some blokes wouldn’t be satisfied if
they had this planet brought to them on a
silver platter. A part of the adverse criti-
cism emanates from the persons who suffer
from the peculiar mental kink which causes
them to imagine they are always being got
at. A simple summary of their debit and
credit transactions with the Y.M.C.A. ought
to remove that idea.
* * * *
A serious interference with the birth-rate
is foreshadowed by Melb. Argus, in
the event of Chief Sec. Bowser bring-
ing about his proposed reform providing
for the exclusion of infants under a certain
age from pictures-shows. “There are few
young married women,” declares Grandmam-
ma, “who do not sometimes sigh for the
unrestricted freedom and the jollity of the
earlier days; and occasional pleasures and
outings are necessary for their physical and
mental health”—these being provided by
picture-show managements, cheaply and in
ample quantities. In future, with the penal-
ties of wedlock increased by the deprivation
involved by staying at home to rock the baby
to sleep, forethoughtful Gertie will naturally
pause and ponder before che rushes into
marriage with impatient Ernest. The birth-
rate will slump in consequence, and Bowser
will presently be forced to permit a return
to the old, jolly state of affairs, and all will
be well once more—all, that is, except for
the infant, coming out at 11 p.m. into the
cold night-air after a warm, stuffy, comfort-
less evening among the whoop-and-wheeze
germs.
* * * *
“Silas”: Saw a returned soldier near St.
Kilda (Vic.) railway station the other day.
He had a blue band about each arm, one
round each thigh, knee and ankle, another
round his hat, and the material of four more
floating steamer-wise from his shoulder-
blades. Need I add that the warrior
was so drunk that he asked : “Shay, cobber,
where have the tramsh gone that go to
Brighton?”
* *■ * *
“T.S.” : “ ’Eard about th’ noo gas Fritz ’as
got?” said Corporal Sydney to the staring
lad from Yorkshire. “Yer wanter look out
for it. It goes clean through yer tunic, into
yer pay-book and kills yer next-o’-kin.”
SHORT DRESSES AND SHORTER
TEMPERS.
ENTHUSIASTIC FRIEND: “By George, Fred,
your wife's looking younger than ever!”
SOUR HUSBAND: “ Well, she’s dressing like
a kid, isn’t she? If her bodice teas as
high as her frock bills you wouldn’t be
able to see her ears!”
THE PRICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Did I give
Part of my youth, part of my soul,
That the song might live?
Did I part
With a fragment of joy for the beggar’s bowl,
With a beat of the heart ?
Have I known *
Pain that would rend, grief that would sear
From seed I have sown ?
Have I felt
Passion to kill, blindness of fear,
Till torn I have knelt
To my God
Agonised? Blood and sweat
Piercing the sod ?
I must give
That my song through the ages’ rust and fret
Shall blossom and live!
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFEE.


FR?M THE
Zr
'S-
J
5§S?
ak
?-C
»Wj
JE
?saa&v
TROPICS
TO THE
Ki
%
r
14
e-
-€3st
W/-/J
Xrf
i
,*/"■
W/
X
m
W
w«
i
> if '
i
St,.
.
VI
%
\ \ v>/.
m A t) A/
V,.
Ws
m»>
/ %
ii f , 1\\ I r yjy /I
/ v i p r
y/////
n /»
, --’r
3
X
m
J,
l
\
\
i
V ~ / ,
A ,1;/, >1
r
Y
L
— I
U
l X s
o
-XI
Xj
<J>
\!
V
!/J
mill
SHOWS,
BARNET GUSS
BOOMERANG
TY-ItES ABE USED
TOUGHEST & BEST.
BARMET GUSS ROBBER C? Ii T - p » AIsE STATES & N.Z.


When you have a thing to do
Which it is your duty to,
Get to work and win it through,
your reputation to assure,
if you have a cold to cheat,
And you wish that cold to beat,
Pour a dose, and take it neat,
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. —Advt.
WHAT DOCTORS PRESCRIBE FOR
INDIGESTION.
Physicians who have specialised in the
treatment of stomach troubles are naturally
in a position to judge intelligently as to the
best thing to use. It is therefore a matter
of interest to those who suffer from indiges-
tion. gastritis, dyspepsia, pain after eating,
heartburn, etc., to learn that physicians who
have devoted their lives to the alleviation of
human suffering are more and more instruct-
ing these sufferers to get a package of Bisu-
rated Magnesia from the chemist and take
a half-tea spoonful in a little hot water imme-
diately after eating or whenever pain is felt.
Doctors who prescribe Bisurated Magnesia
do so because they know it gives quick relief
in nearly every instance—because it is not a
secret remedy, and because no ill-effect fol-
lows its use. For these reasons sufferers
from dyspepsia, indigestion and stomach
troubles generally are strongly advised to get
a package of Bisurated Magnesia from their
nearest chemist and begin its use without
delay.— Advt.
Lina Cavalieri.
ã
Watch for this Great Paramount Star
in your Town.
ä
In her wondrous beauty she stood above the world—the world at her feet—a pure beauty, with utterly
wondrous hair and dawning hazel eyes, and a mouth like a child’s first kiss.
“LINA CAVALIERI in THE ETERNAL TEMPTRESS.”
Men had lingered on those lips, basking in the sunshine of her radiance —love in their hearts, laughing
contempt in hers.
Lina Cavalieri, the world’s famous prima donna, is the most beautiful woman in filmdom. She is one
of the 16 new acquisitions for Paramount.
“THE ETEBNAI
TEMPTRESS” is now
being: released througrh-
ou t Australasia, b y
Paramount Pictures.
PARAMOUNT PICTURES
ALEC LORIMORE Managing director
THREE HUNDRED and TWO, PITT ST. Sydney.
if
A.*k your Theatre
Munurr to screen this
feature.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A Government with a sense of dignity
wouldn’t allow its leg to be pulled by all and
sundry. Recently an Oppositionist asked
Watt if it was a fact that two London
papers (copies not produced) had said that
Hughes had said that “conscription” would,
under certain conditions, come about in
Australia? Whereupon Watt had Melbourne
raked for copies of the alleged papers, and
not finding them he wasteu public money
cabling to Hughes, and Hughes wasted pub-
lic money cabling back that it was a lie.
A man with a less telescopic leg would
simply have told the Oppositionist to
produce the papers. Similarly Laborite
McGarry, in N. S. Wales Legislature,
asked Premier Holman if he was aware
that a harmless nuisance called the
Millions Club, was in the habit of giv-
ing costly dinners to the great aggravation
of the poor who had “neither breakfast nor
dinner”? Of course McGarry didn’t expect
to be believed, but the obvious thing was
to ask him for the names and addresses of
the people who were reduced to one meal per
day, and promise them relief if they were
genuine, and say that anybody who knew of
such people and didn’t get down to plain facts
about them was a deplorable citizen. Instead
Holman said lie would have inquiry made.
The inquiry will cost somebody’s time and
some stationery and perhaps stamps, and
the information, if any, will only evoke the
remark : “Fooled again !”
The spectacle of finance going up a ladder
was witnessed lately in the N. S. Wales
Assembly. Simon Hickey urged that the
savings bank system of lending to people
who wanted to build houses should be
extended. Fitzpatrick (Assistant-Treasurer)
said that £300,000 of the depositors’ money
was now authorised to be advanced each
year, and he was prepared to make it
£500,000, and to increase the maximum
loan from £5OO to £7OO. Bagnall wanted
£1.01)0,000 advanced each year, and that the
bank should lend the depositors’ money up to
90 per cent, of the paper value of the
security. Also it should “take up second
mortgages.” McGirr proposed that where
“workers” were concerned the State should
take the whole risk and have no margin of
security at all. Someone might have gone
one better and proposed that the worker
should have £llOO lent him on a £lOOO house,
but nobody thought of that.
Bananaland is sending two M’s.L.A.
to the Front—. James (Labor) and Elphin-
stone (National). As these are the only
two at present volunteering for active
service, the Assembly might do something to
honor their patriotism. Winston Churchill
suggested, in the case of British M’s.P. at
the Front, a name-plate should be placed on
the back of the seats they held in the
House. If this had been done, nearly half
the seats in the Commons would have been
so labelled. In the Australian Parliaments
the plumbers employed to screw on honor-
plates would have died of the tired feeling.
The Hun Reichstag will probably pass an-
other resolution in favor of peace without
annexations or indemnities. It did that a
while ago, explaining in an aside that as it
had already made peace with Russia and
Roumania it would of course keep all the
lands and indemnities it had got for them,
but it was prepared to give up Belgium and
Northern France and pay nothing for dam-
ages. and take back all its lost colonies.
Then affairs looked up, and the Reichstag
passed a resolution to the effect
that it was only lying on the
previous occasion. Now affairs
are looking down again, and it
will probably announce that it
was lying the second time when
it said it way lying the first
time. In his enormous con-
tempt for people who lack kul-
fur the Hun can’t realise that
everybody takes it for granted
now that he is lying, and no-
body cares much whether he is or not. Eveu
if he swore he was dead people would rather
drown him for a week or so to make sure.
Treasurer Gardiner, of W. Australia -
The situation is full of worries. The States will
have to finance themselves during the remainder of
the war. The Federal Treasurer does not think we
will be able to get any loan money after 1918.
The principal worry is that W.A. had got
into the habit of regarding Cohen as a per-
manent institution and living on the pro-
ceeds of the delusion. Like the other States.
W. A. built up an ornate superstructure of legis-
lation and administration on the crazy foun-
dation of the frequently cadged million and
having developed the great natural resources
by heavily mortgaging these commodities.
An end had to come to the beautiful scheme
some time or other, and whatever may be
the value of the p.n. at the moment the loan
fiends can make up their minds that the
chance of resuming the old jag by pawning
the Australian kid some more are not a
thousand to one.
“H.M.” : British Labor is wondering where
it is, how it got thei’e, and where it is going
next. Something of the same sort is hap-
pening to it as occurred in Australia when
democracy awoke to the fact that the Labor
party organisation gave it -the means of
political expression,
and, rushing in, took
charge of the machinery.
As in Australia, the
stalwarts of the party
in England are puzzled
and suspicious. At a re-
cent conference an at-
tempt was made to get
a list of the names of
the 300-odd candidates
selected by the executive
for the next elections,
whenever they occur.
One delegate who
snorted that he was
particular of the com-
pany he kept, suggested
that Lord Haldane was
on the list. Stranger
things may happen. The
political organisations of
women, seeing in Labor
a champion of their
ideals, have wedded
themselves to the party,
and even conservative
people and organisations
that have an honest
patriotism which sees
the necessity of making
Britain a better, health-
ier and fiscally-saner
country are looking
hopefully at Labor. Pa-
pers of aristocratic tone
now speak seriously and
with approval of the
party as a factor in
national life: it has
ardent press support
from quarters that
would have seemed im-
possible a few years
back. The dulness of
the British Labor
party's past is over and it has a very potent
future before it,
“0.L.” : McPherson, Vic. Treasurer, is an
economical soul, to judge by his frequent re-
marks on State finance ; but in some matters
he seems to take a narrow view as to the
real meaning of economy. For instance, he
doesn’t mind paying out a few pounds each
year to supplement the handsome sum
voluntarily given by private citizens for the
treatment of patients at the Children's Hos-
pital. Yet these moneys only till the main
purpose of attempting to cure. Prevention
is quite another matter, as the research-
committee of the hospital has found, having
been refused State aid in its attempts to
discover the origin of infantile paralysis.
Merritt, M.L.C., brought the matter up in
the Council, the other day, and showed that
FROZEN OUT.
“German newspapers show ever-increasing anxiety
as to Germany’s economic and political position after
the war.”
GERMAN MANUFACTURER: “Ach! I ros
colder and colder yet. and Perhaps dry
nod open der door dis vay.”
the committee’s research-work had already
had remarkable results and should be encour-
aged by the State. If McPherson fears he
hasn’t got the money he should consider the
fact, recently disclosed by Works-Minister
Robinson, that the last available figures for
IS IT THE LAST POST?
the Parliamentary refreshment-moms showed
a loss of £2l/(7 on a year's business. The
Victorian Parliament, though it won’t allow
a fair share of State money to be spent on
the care of sick children, is quite prepared
to sponge on the revenue for the cost of at
least a part of its daily meals—not to men-
tion cigars and wines.
The statement made the other day by
Treasurer Theodore about the Bananaland
cashbox is such a very unilluminating effort
that it might be mistaken for an experiment
in dullness. The financial year ended up
with a gap of £409,452 between revenue and
expenditure. During the current year Theo-
dore expects to get. increased revenue
amounting to £627,181 and to spend £210,347
more than before. Keeping strictly to this
basis he looks forward to having a credit of
£7382 at the end of next June and still have
tlu hiatus represented by £409,452 on the
premises. Under retrospective clauses of
new taxation bills £334,000 is hoped for
from land and income taxes. If this hope
is realised the idea is to apply the proceeds
to liquidating last year’s debt. If it is not
—well, there will be nothing for it. but the
reliable old p.n. The impression given by
contemplation of Theodore's budget is of a
citizen scraping along from day to day in
hope that the greengrocer may forget to call
round for a settlement. Of course as long
as they can go on spending a couple of bor-
rowed millions a year and helping themselves
from the boom,- Theodore and co. will be
able to continue talking about “buoyancy”
and all the rest of it, but they are building
on the same foundation as every other State
Government in the land.
WORRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Perth. —In the Legislative Assembly on Wednes-
day, the Colonial Treasurer, Mr. Gardiner, in intro-
ducing a Supply Bill for £1,451,000, which, he
said, would suffice to the end of September, stated
that the financial position was full of worries.
—Press item.
The job of making four-and-six
Perform the work of five-and-nine
Is now the pith of politics
And was since suns began to shine.
The surplus comes, the surplus goes
When days are fine and talk is bright;
Small figures set in lengthy rows
To boom and squander-lust invite.
Cash is forever in a hurry ;
The situation’s full of worry.
Our obligations must be met,
The thing we pawned we must redeem;
The court of fate is grimly set,
Our creditors for interest scream.
Cash wanted here, cash wanted there;
Ai*l still the figures swell and mount,
But never comes the chance to square
With one good cheque the whole account.
Time, that is gold, is in a hurry,
The situation’s full of worry.
We have had dreams of clean finance
With nothing left upon the slate.
The system never gives a chance
To any statesman to be great.
New debts for old is still the play;
And fast and fast the figures run.
THE DIFFERENCE.
N AVVY: “ 'Ow much did yer pay me last
year? I want ter make out me income
tax.”
PAYMASTER: “Tiro hundred and fifty
pounds.”
NAVVY: “I never earned as much as that.”
PAYMASTER: “I know you didn't; hut that’s
what ire paid you.”
The shadow of a reckoning day
Looks blackest in the brightest sun.
Get cash ! We need it in a hurry !
The situation’s full of worry.
Well, thank the stars that rise and set
For chance and change and all the rest.
The difficulties must be met—
Some other crowd will do their be t.
We can get out. That saving clause
Helps us to tread the well-worn way.
We wink a cheerful eye because
We know the public has to pay.
Yes, we can sidestep in a lihrry
And leave the other chap to worry.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMON WEALTH.


BEAUTIFUL PIANOS
v at PALING’S.
BEHNING
Sheraton Grand.
Possesses a remarkably
full and resonant tone
of liquid purity and
resonance, and a touch
which is perfection
itself. Undoubtedly an
artist’s Piano.
ESTEY
Piano, Model B.
Specially recommended
for hot climates.
Stands in tune for very
long periods. Delight-
ful in tone and a light
responsive touch. Sold
fully guaranteed.
BEHNING
Player Piano.
America’s most artistic
Player Piano. Beauti-
ful tone-quality, easy
pedalling, lightning
responsiveness and
marvellous expression
devices. Transposes
five semi-tones.
VICTOR
Academy Piano.
Renowned throughout
Australia for its re-
markable durability.
Pure sweet tone-
quality ; artistic in ap-
pearance ; soundly and
solidly made through-
out. Fitted with three
pedals.
SAMES
Boudoir Grand.
A small and compact
Grand eminently suited
tor the home where
space is limited. The
Durability of this in-
strument is assured.
BRITISH MADE.
Any of these glorious instruments may be purchased on our Easy Terms, if required. Catalogues free.
Your present piano taken as part payment and full value allowed.
W. H. PALING CO. LTD
338 GEORGL STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, LISMORE, TOOWOOMBA and NEWCASTLE.
'«(&»
• . ■ •*
f.lilv-s/'
•«-j; .r.£'' ■>
i>':*^"")fv
v' ..i
s%&'?'■ '. r
■r :
s*-/,
» •• • •
*V\
f r *
s?
i
W*f%W :: **F
‘ *aßr *-$£
mWlwm
r
rm
-mmmm- - ,**
•.-5 * sMaSSm
- ?•■«• ray amR d
te
,y a
?■/ .*. .v
e
Vi.
■A'Gii
;■*s?J
sc
' f ,
«SH
• <* >
4 'Z*\2S^s~JlL&h
6&jfass -v. -• , Ai> Si'v*s^3
iMBF>
4;
v
Hi
■«*
**?.
.•>£ j?
ga
|5: •
J.-',',-.- «£'" r ' 4 *S?SS
HgS&igf&M
BBMVtr>n:«.^li^4MusaßMKS
as?
V*
<A
r V-V
r ?**«><* 3
•o ?jir^%H4v
WSSj^Jys&sSV^
V
s*«£
,? v V T-J
.■*l V .£*££
\3?
ggsep
A STANDARD Dipping Preparation
of PROVED Quality
and Effectiveness
The Australasian Sheep Raiser can rest assured that there will be NO shortage of effective
“Dip’’ for the coming season, for there is now a Dipping Powder produced in Austia.ia
AN ARSENICAL “DIP”-OF THE HIGHEST POSSIBLE QUALITY —that at once
allays ALL possibility of a famine in RELIABLE dip.
TOLL
POWDER SHEEP DIP
is CHEMICALLY and PHYSICALLY equal to the Best Dip EVER Imported—a. claim provable by
analysis, and its quality guaranteed. Your actual use of “Vallo” Dip this season will convince y _
“once and for all” that it is second to none in its destructive action against Lice and a
sheep-infesting Vermin; and will prove to you that it reduces Fly Strike to a Minimum.
Australasia’s Largest Demands Can
be Supplied— —-On Time.
Important to YOU —at this time of “rumored” shortage—is the
fact that “Vallo” Powder Dip can be supplied to meet EVERY
demand Australasia may make —whether for part or the whole
of Australasia’s vast number of sheep. Further, “Vallo”
of Australasia’s vast number of sheep. Further, “Vallo’
Powder Sheep Dip is THE RESULT OF YEARS OF EX-
HAUSTIVE SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION, AND THE
APPLICATION OF EXPERT CHEMICAL SKILL, IS PRE-
PARED BY A SPECIAL PLANT, and manufactured by
A. VICTOR IjEGGO & CO., who own their own Arsenic Mines
in' Australia, thus avoiding any necessity for importing of the
chief essential ingredient for this STANDARD dipping prepara-
tion.
A. VICTOR LEGGO (Si CO.,
Works: Yarraville and Bendigo.
Mines: Southern Cross, W.A., and Queensland.
Head Office: 524-526 Collins Street, Melbourne.
u
Procurable
All Stores
Argents’.for N.S.W.
DAN GAR, GEDYE and
CO. LTD.,
9, 11, 13 Young Street,
Sydney.
North Queensland.
CUMMINS & CAMPBELL,,
LTD., Townsville.
Central Queensland.
WALTER REID and CO.,
LTD., Rockhampton.
South Queensland.
BRABANT & CO., Brisbane.
The Farmers’ Co-opera
tive Wholesale Federa
tion (N.Z.) Limited,
Christchurch.
Wholesale for . Victoria
and Tasmania.
A. VICTOR IiEGGO
and "CO. f
Agents being appointed
West Australia and
South Australia.
Powder^^O”
Dip
““sjraua * ~i*m > «
*"-..^,„ < „ o| REcrroNT = 7^r
•> us£ ■
is2**ei
ma*".,.- f *
“**»*vrw» «,
H
IS
”»X


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin. Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
HEENZO
COUGH DIAMONDS
are the outcome of a widespread demand from Singers, Public Speakers, Travellers
and others who cannot conveniently carry a liquid preparation for a lozenge
medicated Avitli Hearns Essence. They are pleasing to the palate, and, as Madame
Dolores remarks, “very efficient.”
HEENZO (Hean’s Essence) —price2/-, by post 2/3 —and HEENZO COUGH
DIAMONDS (Price 9d.) are obtainable from all leading chemists and
stores, or direct from the manufacturer, G. W. HEAN, Chemist,
178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
REMEMBER “HOMES DAY,” FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1918.
A Signal Success
<3S
King George IV
WHBSESSf
IhcTOP-NOTCHScotck
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Scott T.”: “Jobber” (B. 22/8/US) makes
me hilarious. He says that the way Billy Doyle
piloted his team of five in a coach from Bourke
(N.S.W.) to Wanaaring, “through the scrub on an
almost invisible track was a revelation to us.”
I had some experience with the sportive William,
Once when I was on the box-seat with him, just
after we left North Bourke, he remarked, “You
can drive,” and handed me 175 pairs of reins—-at
least there seemed to be that many. I lacked the
courage to tell him that I couldn’t drive a perambu-
lator, and hooked on. He immediately composed
himself for sleep, and did sleep. After eight miles
those reins weighed 7 tons 3'cwt. So I woke William
and told him to drive the condemned horses himself.
“Oh, that’s all right,” said he, and he tied them (the
reins) to the side of the coach —and went to sleep
again, remarking first, “You couldn’t pull those
blanks off the track if you tried to.”
“The Bagman”: Mount Elephant, in the
Western District of Victoria, was a white elephant
to its squatter owners until the Railway Department
bought a lot of Jumbo’s stone innards for ballast.
On one occasion the heap could have been purchased
for about a boh. Smoke was seen issuing from the
top (it’s an old volcano, of course), and Derrinallum,
the ancient village hanging on to its base, thought
it was going to be blotted out like Pompeii. But as
nothing happened for a while, a venturesome spirit
risked his life and discovered that a couple of sun-
downers (to whom the Mount is known as “The Light-
house,” as they always keep it in sight when circling
round the district) had selected it as a quiet spot
to camp. Derrinallum then unharnessed the horses
and resumed housekeeping.
“Pingin” : I nominate George Walters, of
Tamworth (N.S.W.), as the champion long-distance
Australian job-holder. Here is his record: Collar-
making at Denning Bros., saddlers, for 51 years; has
swept the Methodist Church out weekly for 50 years;
been in choir 50 years and in town band 40 years.
He is 70, and looks good for another 25 years.
“Rags”: Where does the Australian bit-
tern hang out these days? Years ago when the Reed-
beds (S.A.) were covered in reeds and flags the
birds were frequently seen. From a distance they
look like sharp painted stakes, owing to their
peculiar habit of sitting motionless on the ground
with bill pointed straight upwards, their dry-wood
color plumage adding to the illusion, but they are
never seen now that the thick growth has dis-
appeared. At nesting-time they send forth, noises
which are the limit in bird calls, being more like
Hie bellow of a bull than anything else.
* * * *-
“X. or M.”: The story of Holiepa, tbe
Maori chief buried at Maria Island (“D.F.,”
B. 25/7/’18), goes back to the Maori rising
of ’4O. Trouble arose near -Wellington from the eter-
nal land question, and one of the tribes lifted arms
against the pakeha. Rangitoto, who afterwards, as
“William King,” headed the Taranaki rising, was
friendly' at the time and lent a hand to settle tlie
squabble. Five of the two militant patriots captured
by him were sent to Hobart, with a request from
Governor Gray that they should be put to hard labor
as a corrective. Latrobe, the Tas. Lt.-Governor, refused
to do this or to herd them with criminal prisoners.
He sent them to Maria Island to be treated as poli-
tical exiles, whilst ho appealed to the Colonial Office
ALL HAPPY.
FRIEND: “Where y’r goin’ ter spend the ' oliday , Mrs. Gibbs?”
MRS. GIBBS: “The kids is goin’ to ther circus. Bill’s gain’ surfin’ an’ I’m goin’ to a
funeral.”
on their behalf. To the homesick Maoris, however,
the fact of their exile was more than they could bear.
They wandered about desolately or sat, gazing out
across Hie water and pining for their own land. The
Rev. G. Clarke says he thinks that either two or
three died before the order came for their release,
but ITohepa, to whom a stone lias been erected
in the little wind-swept cemetery, is the only one
of whom any record remains.
“L.-N.” : The magistrate wanted to ascer-
tain whether the Papuan witness understood the
nature of an oath-, so he inquired: “Hey, boy, you
Christian?” “No plurry fear, Taubada,” was the
answer; “me boat’s crew.”
HADN’T COT HIS CLEARANCE.
“Look, Digger, it’s a hit hot you writing love-
letters to my wife.”
“What! She hasn’t broken off her engage-
ment to me yet.”
“Camelero”: .Tack Dempsey, champion
buckjump rider, who is doing his bit somewhere;
near the Suez Canal, does not like camels. Still, the
average Billjim in the Camel Corps secured more
control over the animal than the Gyppos or Soudan-
ese. During the first month of the Corps existence
the camel had Billjim well bluffed, but later on
the animal became more afraid of Bill than the
Turks are. I’ve seen a mad camel chase half a dozen
fear-stricken Gyppos for a mile, yet Billjim, with
half a date-palm, would face the brute and bluff ii
in a qpuple of minutes. And he could ride a longer
distance on the beast than the average Gyppo. Take
the long 15-hour ride from El Arish to llafa; the
day’s fighting and the return ride the following
night without any sleep. The Gyppos gave in and
had to be conveyed back in ambulances, whilst Bill-
jim (those that were left of him) finished smiling.
In. all camel races that I witnessed the Australian
jockey defeated the Gyppo every time. At Mersa
Matruli, during the Senussi rising, one of our lot
and a Soudanese rider started out on camels on a
hurried dasli for an inland post with despatches.
The pace was furious, and Bill arrived six hours
in front. Our men extend much of the same ldndrtess
to a camel that they do to a horse, and rarely use
a rhino whip on its hide, as the Gyppos do. The
animal appreciates the kindness. We once captured
a fine big camel from the Senussi, and judging from
the sores and markings on its skin it must have
received an.overdose of cruelty. For a time we could
do nothing with it; but it learned what kindness
was and it took notice of the extra feeds of dhurra
that were issued to it, and particularly it noticed
the absence of the rhino whip and stick. When it
was blown to pieces with an aerial bomb at llafa
it was one of the best-tempered mounts that we
had in our company.
* * * *
“Sarto”: Can any Abo. find a use for the
leather-head? If so, 1 can give him the address of
millions of the partly-feathered raucous-voiced fiends.
They are bee-eaters, honey-eaters and fruit-destroyers.
In the vineyard they slash the grapes about until tbe
bunches are left bleeding to death, but nothing, not
even a starving cat, will eat them. They have a
special taste for the flower of the grevillea tree, and
I’ve seen them in the towns in hordes on the street
trees. They are black and grey, about the size of a
pigeon, and the head is quite bald and of a leathery
appearance —hence their name.,
“Spade” : Here’s something cheaper, safer
and just as efficacious as cyanide and sulphuric acid
for Indian wax-scale: 2-5 lb. common soda, loz, caustic-
soda, four gallons of hot water. Stir well and spray
it on the offensive. Fumes from this mixture will
riot injure plant or human life.
(Continued on page 24. )
GOD’S ANSWER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bannister, who lived for gain,
Counting love and mateship weak,
Bannister of Coolah Creek
Once, and once alone, ’tis said,
Bent his knees and bowed his head,
Praying God to send him rain.
Sheep and cattle were to him
Pounds and pence in wool and hide —
That, and nothing more beside ;
Gain, and gain alone, he sought—
Bought and sold, and sold and bought—
Bannister, the shrewd and grim!
Drought might slay ids neighbor’s sheep-
Leive his friends with stricken lands,
Starving stock and empty' hands,
Driving them to ruin’s brink—
Not by so much as a wink
Did it cause him loss of sleep.
Loving neither man nor maid,
Man and maid no pity showed
When the Drought, red-handed, strode
Through the land, and spared him not;
Then it was, by all forgot,
Bannister knelt down and prayed.
Hands entrcatingly out-thrown,
Jle,ad and shoulders bowed with care,.
Bannister sent up his prayer;
Did that prayer include a friend?
Nay; hut selfish to the end
For himself he prayed alone.
Scarce a stone’s-throw from his door,
Coolah Creek, dry-bedded, lay—
Day' and night, and night and day
Staring skyward, stark and dumb;
In its single river-gum
Sang tbe shepherd-bird no more.
Praying long and low, there ran
Through his mind a vision sweet—
Waters singing at his feet;
And his words a torrent poured ;
“Open Thou Thy floodgates, Lord,
Lest I be a ruined man!”
THE WARRIOR’S SPADE.
“I’m, thankful that there’s no tear in these
parts.”
“So am I. This ground round here would be
terrible hard diggin’.”
Then he rose and sought his bed,
Sighing as he sank to sleep,
While, Without, his famished sheep
In the darkness moaned their woe,
And his cattle, lowing low,
Sagged with droop of eye and head.
Dreams were his with splendor lit,
Golden dreams of days to be;
While his prayer limped Jeadenly
Through cold spaces, drear and lone,
Till, at last, it reached God’s throne,
And God, bending, answered it.
Hot and still the darkness was,
Hushed and hot the midnight air,
Drought and death were everywhere,
Thirst and hunger, pain and grief:
Stirless hung the wilted leaf,
Motionless the brittle, grass.
Mercy', pity seemed aloof,
God remote and cold to man,
When the whisper rose and ran,
■ And the sleeper woke to hear,
Low at first, then loud and clear,
Raindrops drumming on his roof.
Little things began to stir,
Little voices filled the night—
Whispers, murmuring* of delight,
Till the torrent drowned them all
In the thunder of its fa 11....
God had answered Bannister!
Thinking thus his troubles o’er,
Pleased with God, he slept again;
Bannister, unloved of men,
Loved of God most surely seemed:
Coolah Creek, awakened, streamed
Scarce a stone’s-throw from his door!
Dreaming dreams of gain anew,
Bannister reposed at ease,
Hearing but sweet melodies,
Free of loss and free of pain:
Gorged and swollen by the rain,
Coolah Creek a giant grew.
Foam upon its torrent swept,
Leaf and limb went down its flood ;
Like a beast athirst for blood
Through the dark it ramped and raged;
Like a lion long encaged,
Free at last, it roared and leapt.
Then it burst its banks and broke
Bar and barrier in its path
Shouting, foaming in its wrath....
Dreaming dreams of golden gain.
Hides and tallow, wool and grain,
Bannister too late awoke.
Never more to speak and stir,
Never more to strive and hoard—
Self, and self alone, his lord—
Veins no more with life aglow,
Body washing to and fro-
God had answered Bannister!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


t
§1
:
CLOTHES g/oPROVED
at Farmers
50 EXCELLENT a Tailoring Service is provided by Farmer’s that even the most
critical demands of well-dressed men are satisfied. Fabrics are chosen with an
eye to distinction and service, and in tailoring for the younger man, a “Farmer ”
Suit accentuates smart style and character ; whilst styles for the man of more mature
years are dignified and correct.' Self measurement forms and patterns on request.
RI —Present style Sac Suit, tailored from 12 to 15 oz. worsteds, in small
grey check, fancy mixtures or hairline stripes. Coats, 3-button style, fairly
straight fronts, slightly shaped at waist; vest medium opening; trousers
a little wider than heretofore. Price, to order, 105/- .and 189/-
QUALITY MERCERY NEEDS.
SHIRTS.
RR2—Light Zephyr Shirts, soft
double cuffs, good fitting neck-
bands ; white grounds, with black
and blue stripes. 6/6; 3 for 18/9
RR3—CambricTunic Shirts, neck-
bands, stiff cuffs; white grounds,
neat stripe effects. 7/6; 3 for 24/9
RR4— Cambric Lounge Shirts,
neckbands, double soft cuffs, and
detachable soft Peter Pan collar;
white grounds, colored stripes.
Price .. . • 8/6, 3 for 24/9
PYJAMAS.
RRS—Light Cotton Crepe Finish
Pyjamas, best make and finish.
Novelty stripe effects on light
grounds; Bradford collar, pearl
buttons. 36 to 42 ins., 11/6; 3 for
33/- ; 44 to 46 ins., 12/6, 3 for 36/-
RR6—Zephyr Pyjamas, superior
quality, made in own workrooms,
newest designs and colorings.
Bradford collar, pearl buttons.
36 to 42 ins., 14/6, 3 for 42/-;
44 to 46 ins., 36/-, 3 for 46/6
HOSIERY.
RR7 Interwoven Cotton Half
Hose, extra strong spliced heels
and toes. Colors —Black, white,
tan, brown, navy. Price, 2/6
RR8 —Black Cashmere Half Hose
medium weight; extra spliced
heels and toes, silk embroidered
sides. Price, 4/6, 6 pairs for 25/6
RR9—Bla,c.k Cotton and Wool
Half Hose, finely woven and
extra spliced heels and toes.
Price 3/6,6 pairs for 20/-
NECKWEAR.
RRlo—Batswing Ties, dark and
black grounds, with colored
figured designs. Price, 2/6
RRI1 —Fancy Foulard Batswing
Ties in the latest colorings, in
blue and red, green and red,
madder designs, navy and white
spots, black and white spots, 3/-
RRl2—Black Batswing Ties, for
tying into bow; in cord crepe,
matt, self figured. Price, 2/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
FARMER’S SYDNEY
SOLDIERS’
LEATHER VESTS.
RRI4 —Winter En Europe commences
about the middle of October. Early
in November the nights are frosty,
and then a Leather Vest will be in-
valuable. Eaclr vest is thoroughly
and faithfully made and finished
in the best style, iwith extra heavy
all wool lining. \We undertake to
carefully pack and' despatch to any
address at the front. Price, 37/6.
Postage, 1/- extra.
Vests with sleeves.,'from' ; 52/6
ITEMS* FOR
SOLDIERS’ PARCELS.
Comforts and useful needs are as-
sembled on the Special Soldiers’
Counters in the Ceorge Street Section.
Here in this spot, folk will find every-
thing the Boys need, without going
“ here, there and everywhere.” The
collection is very comprehensive in
its thought for their personal comfort.
To give some articles and prices:—
Money Belts, pliable leather, 8/6
Woollen Mufflers of generous width
Price .. •• 10/6
Cooee Writing Companions, paper,
envelopes and pencil Price, 1/-
Cigarettes—Three Castles, a favorite
soldier’s smoke; tins of 50, price, 2/6
Plum Cake, in 21b. air-tight tins, 2/9
Plum Pudd' >gs in tins,Al quality, 1/9
Khaki Shirts, excellent quality, 14/6
Tooth Brushes, each . from ,-/9
CARRIAGE EXTRA ON
SOLDIERS’ PARCELS
The Machines that have Revolutionised the Shearing World!
Not long ago machines were very expensive, they required the constant attendance of a
the cost of upkeep was considerable. Due to their genuine economy of upkeep, efiiciency and satisfactory lesul
â
SHEARING MACHINES
*
The Cooper “Bis Gun” 2-stan(l Shearing
Plant is a wonderfully strong and efficient machine.
It is fitted with a 3-b.h.p. heavy-duty engine. No
engine is more suitable for performing the heavy work
about the farm than the "Big Gun.
price—portable... £95
Stationary £B5
have established a reputation among Contractors and
Sheep-owners that was never considered possible a few
years ago. They are being installed to-day in the
smallest and the largest shearing-sheds throughout Aus-
tralia. Owing to their simple and practical construction
they are unusually light on repairs or duplicates. Some
of the largest contractors in Australia state without hesi-
tation the Cooper Machines cost at least 50% less for
upkeep than any other machine made.
The Cooper Silent Belt-driven Overhead Gear and
famous Air-cooled Handpiece are so simple in construc-
tion that nothing can go wrong with them in actual use
that any amateur in the bush, miles away from head-
quarters, cannot rectify or adjust immediately, without
any stops or difficulties in the sheds.
k
ā
The Cooper “Little Wonder”
2-stand Portable Shearing Plant.
This popular little shearing outfit is
giving satisfactory service year after
year on thousands of shearing stations
throughout the world. It is complete
and compact in every respect, ready
for work, requires no special shed
construction, and will shear just as
rapidly and as efficiently as any overhead
shed plant. It is fitted with a 2-b.h.p.
engine, grinding machine, complete
with discs and all extras. More than
1000 “Little Wonders” are now in use
in Australia! many for more than ten
years. p aicE _
Portable,
as
Illustrated,
£75
Stationary,
without
Lorry,
£65
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.,
cooO
4 Sussex Street, Sydney
5 Collins Street, Melbourne


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
ROBUST HEALTH FOR ALL.
WHY WEAK, AILING MEN AND
WOMEN SHOULD TAKE PHOSPHATE
WITH THEIR MEALS.
Life to the man or woman who is weak,
nervous, run-down and constantly ailing is
a mockery. Nothing can adequately com-
pensate for the loss of health and strength,
and to secure robust, glowing health and an
abundance of vigor and vitality there is
nothing an ailing man or woman would
withhold. It is claimed that a broken-down
constitution can be reconstructed, that weak
nerves can be made strong, and that the
dejected, debilitated and run-down can be
made bright, vigorous and Avell once more
simply by following a short but quite inex-
pensive course of treatment, consisting of a
sgr. Bitro-phosphate tablet taken with meals
three times daily. Knowing this, surely no
one will be content to remain weak and ill,
for the Bitro-phosphate tablets are obtain-
able at small cost of high-class chemists
everywhere. Thus the treatment is within
the easy reach of everyone who has need of
it, and in view of the remarkable results
already reported by users, we venture to
think that many of our readers will be
anxious to give Bitro-phosphate a trial.
—Advt.
CARLTON ALE
FOSTER’S LAGER
“L.”: “Pick’s” argument (B. 25/7/’IS),
favoring the display of crimson drapery under the
jaws of horses as a discourager of the bot-fly, does
not bear out the experience of vets, and the more
observant of bush-folk. The fly will deposit its eggs
on the neck, breast, shoulders, forearms and even the
tail of a horse when operations under the chin-
whiskers are interfered with. The fly does not sting,
and it is only its querulous buzzing, resembling W.
M. Hughes settling the metal question, that causes
the consternation of the most staid prad. A horse
taken from a locality where the bot-fly is unknown
to an area where it abounds will exhibit absolute
terror when he first hears the drone of the winged
nuisance, even though the insect may be yards away.
The rag Under the neck certaihly prevents any
depositing of eggs in that particular spot, from which
they might possibly drop into the feed and be subse-
quently taken into the stomach ; but as they hatch in
two or three days, and as the larvae are vivacious and
begin to crawl from the operculum to the skin on
the other parts mentioned, the itching so caused
impels the horse to lick and bite the parts that want
scratching, and in this way they gain the mouth. As
one fly deposits hundreds of eggs the neddy gets a
considerable number at each lick. After they have
passed into the interior, the larvae attach themselves
by means of little booklets arranged about their head,
and cause a small circular sore or depression in the
mucous membrane. I have seen horses hidebound
and emaciated from the acute affection of what a
subsequent post-mortem disclosed to be the larvae
of the bot-fly, and 1 once lost a good old stock pony
from peritonitis that was undoubtedly caused by the
perforation of . the membranes by the pests, although
the animal whs in normal health an hour before
death. Kerosene on the points of attack will keep
them at bay, and an occasional drench shifts the
larvae from his entrenchments and keeps the horse
well.
“Yannatherrg.”: Father O’Gracious was
making his periodical buggy pilgrimage between
Bogglewallah and Eulalia when his horse took fright
at a motor and bolted. Bill Redsoil, the groom,
promptly forgot the language restrictions and blas-
phemed and steered with great success for quite
two miles. The turnout finally hit a closed road
gate when doing even time. His Reverence spoilt
two anthills in his descent, and came to hear
Bill’s lurid address to his incompetent guardian
angel. “William! Stop that cursing! Why, it’s
praying we both ought to be.’’ “Praying be damned !”
snarled Bill, and, wildly contemplating the dis-
appearing wreckage in the dust haze, he added,
“Are you any blanky good at coo-ecing?”
* * * *
“Fitzbattleaxe”: Has any Abo. had the
good luck to witness a platypus fight? In a big
waterhole at Burke’s Crossing, on the Shoalhaven
River (N.S.W.), a fine specimen of the duck-billed
tribe had taken up his abode. During the recent
heavy rains the river became flooded, and another
big plat., probably on a tour of exploration, found
his way into the same hole. The original occupier
resented the intrusion, and dealt out stoush to the
prowler. The battle took place on the surface, there
being no diving. The water was lashed to foam,
and the slaps of the combatants’ bodies could be
heard a hundred yards away. Eor a quarter of an
hour the conflict raged, neither party showing any
weariness. The water and foam then had a bloody
tinge, showing to what effect the fighters had used
the terrible spurs on the hind legs. At last one of
the scrappers must have got a vital thrust,
for he dived. Presently he rose 50 yards away
near the bank and made for the edge, leaving a
bloody trail allthe way. Meanwhile the victor
cruised around where the vanquished had dived, look-
ing for him. Presently he got on the scent, and,
following the streak of blood relentlessly, located
the dying gladiator under the ti-trees. With Ilun-
nish savagery he hurled himself on to the defence-
less victim, and in a few seconds killed him. When
I overhauled the dead ’pus he was torn almost to
pieces. Have heard it said that a dog ripped by
the spur of a platypus can never get the wound to
heal. Any truth in this?
* * * *
“Terry Hy Hie”: Railway navvying
doesn’t kill off the worker in his youth. Rolled up
for the final pay at Casino (N.S.AV.) last week,
Thomas Cosgrove, aged 82, who twirled a “banjo”
on the Sydney-Parramatta railway in 1854, and who,
for the best part of half a century afterwards, pur-
sued the same occupation all over the Common-
wealth. The old warrior reckoned that Australian
railways would be all right if they hadn’t had a
lunatic asylum to fix the gauges.
THE EXPLANATION.
W IFE: “Well, what about it?"
HUBBY : “S’just about it, m ’ dear."
A MATTER OF FINANCE.
BOGGS: Er look here, Jaggers, it's about time you paid me that money you owe me."
J AGGERS: "My dear fellow, it s not a Question of time at all; it's merely a Question of
money."
“Azack”: If “J.G.’s” (B. l/8/’18) oint-
ment, namely, a mixture of vaseline, resin and
eucalyptus oil, is better than the following concoc-
tion, then I’m prepared to purchase a bottle. Mix
boraeic acid (one part) with vaseline (yellow pre-
ferred-three parts). While I’m on the job let me
prescribe for warts -and corns. Moisten them with
spittle immediately upon awakening- each morning
and then rub the corn or wart with a lump of wash
■ ing-soda.
* * * *
“Lagani-Namo”: One of the old brigade
used to blow into Port- Moresby about twice a year,
and have a blow-out on liquors. The beak used to view
the case leniently when it came before him, and send
the culprit to the gaol to sleep himself sober. On one
occasion the wrong-doer’s pal Bobbie saw hirn about
to be led to quod by the native court-orderlies, and
rushed up to the magistrate to protest. “I say,
Mister, strike me pink, y’r not goin’ to let
niggers put their hands on a white man, are
yer?’ “Mr. I fine you 10s. for contempt of
Court. “But strike me blue, this’s over
the - odds.” “Mr. , you’re fined two
pounds additional for contempt.” “By
7 > your W orship, ’ave a bit of *—— common-
sense about yer.” “Mr. you’re fined £5 for
contempt of Court.” Said Bobbie, turning to his
befuddled mate, “Hey! ’Ow much —— r money ’ave
y’ got?” “You cannot talk to the prisoner like
that, Mr. ,” interrupted the man on top. “I’ll
have to fine you again.” “But, strike me
sideways, I only arst him ’ow much ——- money
’e’s got so’s I’ll know how far I can go!” They’d
have lumbered Bobbie if he hadn’t leaped out of the
door and flld.
* * * *
“D.F.”: According to some of the early
settlers in W.A., the favorite tipple of the wild
natives was made by steeping the flowers of the
banksia or honeysuckle in water. Black brother-
dug a hole in the ground, lined it with ti-tree bark,
filled it with water, and put the flowers in to soak.
When the brew was ready they sat round it, each
with a small bunch of leaves, and dipped and
sucked till it was gone. The still more primi-
tive Tasmanian blackfellow is alleged to have tapped
the cider-gum for its juice and made a drink out of
it in much the same way. Old-timers talk of seeing
the “cider-holes,” carefully covered up with stones,
on the plateau of the lake country.
“Damper Bill’’: So someone wants to in-
troduce vultures to this importation-afflicted country.
Seven years’ veldt experience in South Africa taught
me a little of the ways of these birds. The vulture
shepherds every sick or wounded animal, and, as soon
as it is down, goes for its eyes, just the same as the
crow. In the sheep districts of the Free State and
the Cape it has long been outlawed for its
destruction of ewes and lambs. There the sheep-
farmer npstands before daybreak at lambing-time,
and, not even waiting for early coffee, takes his rifle
an d ; patrols his flocks. What a prospect for our
pastoral industry to face, though the race of early-
rising sharpshooters it would develop in time might
help to win the war. In the Transvaal tire protection
that vultures had enjoyed was removed about 12
months after peace was declared in the land, as the
evidence of such experts as Ur. Theiler convicted
them of spreading redwater. Of all the birds in
South Africa, with the exception of the ostrich, there
is only one that I would entertain the thought of
importing. That is the secretary-bird, and I would
not even have him unless a clean bill of health and
good conduct was supplied with him by duly-
accredited stock-disease specialists.
* * * *
“Oscar ’: Australia’s most beautiful trail-
ing flower 'is Sturt’s desert .pea. The bloom is very
showy -bright scarlet and black, and about three
inches long. It flourishes in the West. AH my
efforts to grow this good Australian in the coastal
district of N. S. Wales have failed. I have tried
the seeds in sandy soil and light loam, and have
resorted to soaking them in hot water before plant-
ing, but without success. It will not transplant.
SPRING FIRES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gold torches blazed in the blue above,
The bush was lantern-lit for love,
And all the sweets of earth burned there
In kiss and kiss of the maddening air,
For the wattle wind was blowing.
My Love came lightly running down
The road that leads away from town;
Round dreaming eyes, her hair’s bright floss
Like little flames was all a-toss,
For the wattle wind was blowing.
And my heart was all September fire
As I sought her gaze with dumb desire,
And her smile was kind, but “No!” said she,
“I want no mate to walk with me
When the wattle wind is blowing.
“Those gracious boughs cry down the breeze
A tryst with the forest ecstasies,
And the thrushes, hid in their golden foam,
Flute to my lonely soul, ‘Come home!’
When the wattle wind is blowing.”
victoria.
ELSIE COLE.


-
n
WKat tfie latest DrcaSnougfif
ig to fne n avy, 30 ore
sfisT§ (XPRESS
fo tfie tobacco worlcb pre-eminently
tfie Tfieir unique of
manufacture, ffie superb qualify of
tobacco & their deli cafe
any
aroma
avour place them apart from
other cigarettes in tfie world.
IS
No. 333
6d.
PER
PACKET.
STANDARD WEIGHT.
So/a/6y a//To/accon/sts 6 S/ores t/roayhout AuSfra/a 5 /a^>
ARDATH
TOBACCO
?, LONDON,
ENGLAND.
9


From the Youngest to the Oldest
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
is the Safest and Surest Remedy in the World for
Coughs, Colds, Croup,
Sore Chests
This Medicine can be given with Perfect
Safety and the Utmost Confidence to the
Youngest Children and most Aged Sufferers,
as it does NOT contain, and has NEVER
contained any Poison or Harmful Drugs.
The Reputation of and the Demand for
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure are
Bigger now than ever.
mm
M
Iw
?-4*
i-,.»('/'
S 2
m
C S^‘ Tk t
%\
I
w 7
16
Delightfully
Soothing
Price: 2/6 and 4/6
The Best is always the Cheapest in the end.
If not obtainable in your District, send
direct to
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branches at Sydney, N.S,W. & Wellineton, N. 2.
had married an exceedingly nice girl in spite
of the opposition of her parents, but that her
father had at last relented and taken him
into partnership, and the baby was the image
of its mother, and a bound volume of the
Gazette had been sent them as a souvenir.
With a few human touches of this sort, and
a serial and a literary page our sodden con-
temporary might look up. It needs a more
capable advertising canvasser among other
things, and an up-to-date Government would
enact that every trades-unionist must buy a
copy just as he is made to buy a copy.of the
local Labor paper.
Leaving the most serious matter to the
last, I hold that a royal commission should
be appointed to find out whether our dubious
contemporary is, or is not, in the pay of
Germany. It may not be actually sending
rifles to the Sinn Fein crowd in Ireland or
furnishing the enemy with information about
Foch’s reserves. It may not, but its failure
to condemn the Hun atrocities in any way
looks like tacit approval. If this attitude
is maintained it might be wise to intern
our dubious contemporary.
JAMES EDMOND.
The Inky Way
“Y.Z.” : Upstairs on the literary floor of
the Age office the other day during my tem-
porary presence, two very fine naval officers
appeared, asking to see Lachlan Mackinnon.
They seemed a little suspicious when lie was
not forthcoming, but presently took the
Age’s word for it and went off to seek the
Argus big gun where he really belongs, up
tlie street. In response to subsequent in-
quiries I was told that, the two. officers were
from the Intelligence Department.
“Bill Bowyang” : So Seiior Devila, the able
editor of La' Pbenza, the leading daily pub-
lished in Buenos Ayres, has gone west.
Eight years ago I turned my back on the.
pearling and trepang grounds of N.Q., and
worked my way on a Iloulder meat boat to
the Argentines. When I reached Buenos
Ayres I called at the office of La Prenza.
Editor Devila had a long conversation with
me and displayed much interest in. Aus-
tralia. Ilis paper had the largest circula-
tion and was the most powerful organ, not
only in the Argentine, but in all South
America. At the present time I believe that
Buenos Ayres boasts of two dozen dailies,
of which La It a/.on is the leading evening
paper with a circulation of 150,000. It is
printed in Spanish, as are most of the others.
A leading London bookseller says that the
character and personnel of his customers
have completely changed. The old-time book-
lovers and buyers have disappeared and their
places have been taken by crowds of well-
dressed munition-factory girls and Govern-
ment Department flappers. They are so
flush of money that they think nothing of
spending five or six shillings on new novels
every week. This particular publisher cannot
get sufficient supplies to satisfy their demands
for popular fiction. The buyers specialise
on stories about girls who come from the
country and meet with sundry adventures in
London. The writer who can turn out with
mechanical regularity the sort of tale that s
clamored for is sure of a handsome income.
Soldiers are also good buyers. Jack London
is a particular favorite of theirs.
A Satchel of Books
It is probably within the margin of fact to say
that 50 per cent, of small traders keep no books ot
account, and that half the remainder muddle along
with a collection of figures that are incomprehensible
to themselves and everybody else. It is certainly
true that carrying on business without a systematised
record of the incidental arithmetic is equivalent to
inviting ruin and a guarantee against going ahead.
These are strong arguments in favor of distrusting
memory and jottings on scraps of paper. The neces-
sity for compiling income-tax returns is another
argument. In order to bring an understanding of
simple book-keeping within the grasp of a reason-
ably intelligent citizen cumbered with a business,
Ernest Morris, a Sydney accountant, lias published a
24-page pamphlet, setting out in simple terms how
to keep track of the £ s. d. and identify profit and
loss. Smith and Lane are the printers.
No. 48 of Science Progress, a quarterly review of
scientific thought, work and affairs, is a solemn docu-
ment of over 700 serious pages. With the spread of
the scientific spirit one can assume the possibility of
such a publication taking native root in. Australia.
On the student it has no doubt a refreshing
influence. Yet science is not always dull.
There is an essay in this number on Meat
Production, in which a university investig'ator
discusses the phenomena associated with animal
growth of obesity which any reasonably intelligent
Australian grazier might digest with interest and
profit. “Fattening” by rule of thumb would appear
to be a. very wasteful process,, and the common ideas
about the pig are apparently open to grave suspicion.
Jail from Within, by. Vance Marshall, arrested in
Sydney Domain and sentenced for using words “apt
to- cause disaffection to his Majesty the King,” gives
the writer’s experiences at Long Bay and Goulliurn.
It is an unlovely picture. If there is even a reason-
able measure of truth in the story the gaol system
is a. mighty long way worse than quite a lot of
people suspect it of being. But Marshall heavily
discounts his statements of fact by such commentary
as this: “Of all the prisoners to-day serving sentences
in the gaols of Australia I am absolutely convinced
that at least 30 per cent, are not guilty of the crimes
alleged against , them. They are there simply because
the police.*.. .chose them as their victims.” There is
no evidence to support this sweeping allegation. It
is not one that anybody knowing anything of prisons
or what happens in Australian courts would give any
support to. The number of innocent men sent to
gaol can at the most be expressed only in decimals.
By tony s on Service, by Hector Dinning (Constable
and Go., London, 65.), is a collection of sketches,
written mostly for newspapers and here brought
together. Recovery of such work is always a danger-
ous experiment. Journalism has an interest of its
own, but it seldom deserves to live beyond the day.
Dinning’s book has all the defects that go with haste.
Yet it is in the main so good as to create a hope
that he may find the time later on to write more
consecutively and less discursively. For he can
write and is the proprietor of eyes that see. His
chapters about Egypt and provincial life in France
are close to being A 1 anywhere.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Dale”: Dave Milne, an early shipbuilder,
now in hospital in S. Aus., has samples of
his work chugging up and down the Murray
riverways. He did not go in for imported
experts and industrial troubles, and there-
fore cannot properly be classed as a really
efficient shipbuilder, but he got through a
surprising amount of work with a staff which
rarely ran to more than a dozen men and a
workshop and a slip at Morgan (S.A.). He
was employed by King and Co., then the big
shipping men on the Murray. In 1907 he
launched the passenger and cargo steamer
Ruby after working with seven men on her
for five months. The design was his own,
and the result is graceful and comfortable.
Her length is 128 ft., beam 18ft., and depth
Oft. lOin. Three decks, electric-light, and
an IS-h.p. engine to send the paddles round
are part of the equipment. Another job was
the barge Emerald (150 tons). A visiting
expert who saw her lying at Morgan classi-
fied her as “a masterpiece.” Her length is
131 ft., and she draws Oft. lOin. She was on
the slips for seven months, and for the
greater part of the time only three men
toiled at her. Other barges were the Ukee
(300 tons) and Moorabein (350 tons),
all composite wood and iron craft.
Quite a few other boats also left the slips,
but those will do as samples. The men had
other little jobs to attend to in between
times. On Friday morning the Gem came
in with 35ft. knocked out of her side and
paddle-bbx by a belligerent tree. As good as
new and fully loaded, she left Morgan again
on Saturday night. About seven years ago
Milne moved down to Goolwa on Lake Alex-
andrina and started in business for himself.
He continued his debates upon the shipbuild-
ing problem by turning out the trading
steamer Renmark, the big Carowe barge
(700 tons) and the Loxton barge (120
tons). He also made a mosquito fleet of
motor-boats. The Gem, still the largest
passenger boat on the rivers, was built at
Moarna (N.S.W.) back in ’7O. She has
since been practically re-built and lengthened
by 40ft., making a total of 133 ft. in all. Will
Westegaard was responsible for the original
craft, and the other work was carried out by
W. Gordon and Sons at Goolwa. There are
about 50 steamers of all makes and sizes on
the rivers, and practically all are locally
built. There is not the work in them which
is required for ocean-going vessels, but any-
one who has seen one of them hauled across
a bank in low water, with one end of the
hawser made fast to a tree and the other
end on the winch, will know that they’ve got
to be able to stand something.
“Curlew”: Red tape is still at it! Con-
siderable quantities of wheat having been
damaged and become unfit for human food,
and poultrymen and pig-feeders being unable
to obtain pollard and bran for feeding pur-
poses. a wise Wheat Board decided to make
available supplies of its damaged article,
some of it. by the way, most awful rubbish.
Now, all that is necessary is to make appli-
cation to the Wheat Board and enclose
cheque —for a truck-load. If a man wants
a bag or 10 bags he must buy a truckful or
go without. As a consequence, the small
feeder has to get his supplies off merchants
who are charging ss. a bushel and making
extortionate profits.
“Counter-hand”: The rise in calico hits
the working-man’s family mighty hard. For
instance: in August, 1910, it was retailed
at 4s. 3d. per dozen yards; in August. 1917,
it climbed to ss. lid. .Tnnnary> 1918> saw
it leap to Ss. lid. (50 per cent, in six
months. The present quote is 13s. 9d.
dozen (another jump of over 50 per cent, in
six months') ! Wholesale houses are quoting
it at 16s. dozen for next season, and there’s
no guarantee of supplies even at that price.
An enforced return from all holders of calico,
with the indent prices and present charges,
would let loose the most heartrending howl
of anguish that the parasitic middleman has
ever unloaded in Australia.
“Anti-Bunny’* ; “W." appears to he look-
ing for a scrap (B. S/S/MS). so I’m at
him. He said ; “Once more Australia’s AYin-
the-War Government comes down on the
unfortunate rabbiter. After removing for a
brief space the embargo on the free and
unrestricted sale of skins, the product is
requisitioned at about half the market price.”
He forgets to add that the object of the
“requisitioning” is to enable supplies of
certain needful articles to be kept up to
our boys at the Front. I’ll admit that the
trapper works six times as hard as some of
the city toilers (and by that I’m not admit-
ting very much), but I will not admit that
he does much good in the way of
checking a dangerous pest. “W.” ought
to go and look at some of the country
that is being trapped out now, and then go
and look at the same country in a few
months’ time, and he will find that trapping
is only an ephemeral check, or, rather, a
thinning out just sufficient to reduce bunny
to the right proportions to breed up faster
than ever, and thus perpetuate the scourge.
As for the rabbiter doing much good to the
Backldocks by spending his money there, “W.”
is equally wide of the target. Ask the Out-
back townspeople, the storekeeper, the baker,
butcher or saddler, which he considers the
best mark —the rabbit-trapper or the cocky,
and I’m right out on the end of a wire
fence if he doesn't plump for the latter.
“OX.” : Oman, Vie. Minister for Agricul-
ture, is always ready to turn over an
apparently good idea to sec if it is as smooth
underneath as it is on top. One of the mat-
ters now being considered by him is the
application of the creamery system to the
beet-sugar industry. Maffra, the present
headquarters of the beet-business, is the driest
spot in Gippsland, yet the State outfit there
has turned the corner and is now producing
a lot of sugar and paying its way. Under
the proposed plan, small extraction-plants
would be built in the likeliest parts oh the
country, local farmers being encouraged to
put in a few acres each, and thus supply
themselves with a bit of handy cash during
the slack part of the year, as well as getting
a lot of extra feed for their cows, pro-
vided by the beet offal. It is a rosy scheme,
of course, and if Oman is thereby able to
make 21b. of sugar grow where none grew
before, doing, it profitably for all parties,
be will have good reason to crow about the
matter —particularly as it hits taken nearly
a dozen Ministers to make a success of the
Maffra scheme.
* 41- * *
“8.T.” : I went in to buy a ne\v nib for
my fountain-pen the other day, and, was in-
formed that these nibs had gone rip to 6s.
As I can buy a very decent fountain-pen.
gold nib and all, for 65,, I protested with
some warmth. “But there isn’t two grains
of gold in them, and they were only half a
crown,” I said. “Ah, yes,” replied the bland
shophand, “but that was some time ago.
I suppose you’ve heard of the increase of
freight since then?'’
* * * *
“Hawkesbury”: Why do we import
tobacco, and send millions out of the_ coun-
try, when we might grow the weed in our
back yards? Because of the better flavor.
What is the cause of this flavor? Consult
alleged tobacco experts or text-books and
they are dumb. Yet the scientist has the
answer, and anyone may prove it. Natural
tobacco, grown and cured in a proper way.
has of itself little or no flavor; the flavor
arises, when it does come, from a micro-
organism, as in the case of cheese and wine.
These ferments have evolved in particular
districts, and give a distinctive flavor to
their products. Also, these ferments can
often be transported, and used to give their
flavor in distant countries. Before knowing
that this was an ascertained fact, the writer
discovered it accidentally. Putting some
cured and flavorless local leaf away in a
box for many months, I forgot all about it:
when found it had tbe flavor of a Havana
cigar. Search showed a broken cigar of
that kind in the box. It follows that in
the varied Australian climates, we can grow
any character of tobacco-leaf we like, and
by inoculation when it is cured and spread
loose on a loft floor, give it the desired
flavor. Probably after the floor, or loft, is
once infected no further inoculation would
be required. This ferment for flavor is very
slow, one, two or three years, and quite dis-
tinct from the quick-curing fermentation.
Those who have kept a box of cigars for a
long time may have noticed how, sometimes,
the flavor has greatly improved; this is
owing to the continued action of the ferment.
“Midnight Oil” : It seems easy enough to
run up a bill for motor hire. A recent I ic-
torian insolvent, whose debts were stated at
thousands while his assets were nil or there-
abouts, owed hundreds for being motored here
and there. At Sydney Central Police Court
last week a constant lady petroller pleaded
guilty to procuring three motor-cars by means
of false representation, and asked throusM
her lawyer to be sent to a convent, lhe
magistrate, after looking through a long list
of previous convictions, decided t.iat lie
wouldn’t trouble the convent. It was shown
that the excursionist only had to tell a
motor garage that she was a squatters
daughter, and she was wheeled 1000 miles
with 90 hours’ waiting. Her bill was a
trifle of £ll2 17s. 6d.
* * *
“Half-moon”: Thursday Island pearlers
have about a score of luggers out for shell,
and, so far, they have managed to freight the
catches —splendid shell, too —to U.S.A. But
the chances of ship space are decreasing
every day, and Sam wants the goods t.o.n.
before he unleashes the dollars. Trochus
shell, because of the shortage of m.o.p. sne
on the market, is now nearly £5O per ton ana
rising.
BY FORCE OF NATURAL LAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were four men from Stamper Town,
Four ragged men who thirsted.
Our efforts on the long way down
To get the wherewithal to drown
Our fever had been worsted.
A quarry in our fire we lighted,
And tales of beer each man recited.
Oh, hot the nighti was! Far we sat
From embers dim, condoling,
And every liar with his hat
Was fanning briskly, when, biff! bat! —
Came some strange object rolling.
It stopped by Sam. I snatched the quicker.
By Gott! It was a keg of liquor.
A little paunchy keg of rum
Had down the incline bounded,
And none knew whence the thing had come.
We lingered not, but sampled some,
And cries of praise resounded.
It but remained for Bill to mention
A Providential intervention.
I learned next day that Binge that night,
By Johns beset for stilling
Had rolled the kegs in aimless flight—
No miracle had brought one right
To four so fond and willing.
Resistless law impelled the action.
It’s called capillary attraction!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
“Bill Bowyang”: I'd advise McNorth
who wants 1:o know if something can-
not be done with the dugongs and
turtles of the Bananaland coast, to drop the
idea of making a living out of them. Fifteen
years back I tried to place dugong meat on
the Townsville market. At the start the
tiesh was taken for bacon, and business was
so good that I had visions of retiring at an
early age with a big banking account. Then
someone whispered around town that the
article was not pig, but plain dugong, and
there was a horrible slump in the market.
Others, such as “Yorkie” of Banfield’s
“Confessions of a Beachcomber, - ’ Ned
Flaherty and Jimmy Spooner tried to per-
suade Bananaland to cultivate a' taste for the
sea pig, but there was nothing doing. All
attempts to make cash out of turtles fared
the same way. Merinda (N.Q.) meatwmrks
once purchased several large turtles and sent
them in a frozen state to the Big Smoke, but
it did not encourage orders for further sup-
plies. One man tried canning the creatures,
but after struggling for two years he put
up the shutters.


§? lili
'
«
m
j
■
I
4
-•n/"
Kh
1
■
s *s>
.
■
»\ *&,
\
J
*
H j<s<
1
I,W
kd
•&si
■ :■!
sraps
EK*S
GEE
INSTALL a G. E. FAN for the Summer heat. Ecoiiomical, durable and inexpensive.
They constitute an ideal comfort for the trying conditions of the oppressive atmosphere
of our office, home, restaurant or club, etc., etc.
The G. E. way is the easiest way. Write us for particulars.
A
■lk
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY, G? OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) ; Chas. Atkins 8c Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun Sc, Johnstone, IQQ Currie Street,,
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW- ZEALAND : The National Electrical Sc Engineering Co., Ltd,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington. *’ ’
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tuilock & Co,, Ltd., Launceston; Messrs.
Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Necklet, 15ct. Gold,
£l5.
■££s<
A. Saunders’ Gent’s
Single Stone, pure
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O. Smaller dia-
monds, £lO, £l5.
A. Saunders’ rearl-set
Circle Brooch, 9ct.
gold, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid
Gold Wedding
Rings, 9ct., 20/-;
15ct., £2; ISct.,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent’s
9ct. Gold Signet
Ring, 20/-
Lady’s size, <
12/6.
A. Saunters’
pure, double-
cut Diamond
Cluster Scarf
Pin, 15ct.
Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
Larger diamonds,
£l2/10/-,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut
Diamond-set Medal, 15et.
Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £2/10/*
A. Saunders’ Pearl and
Aquamarine or Garnet
Brooch, Set. Gold, 25 / -
Select Jewellery Designs.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bracelet, set Pearls and
Amethyst, £3/10/-
&
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £o.
Others,- £3/10/-, £4, £5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-, £8/10/-, £10.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Nellie Stewart secret snap and
joint Bracelet, £2; heavier, £2/10/-. 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-; heavier, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold
Patent Expanding Watch Wristlet,
full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street
Railway I
Station *
Sydney
A. Saunders’
pure, double-
cut Diamond
Scarf Pin,
15ct. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Gent’s
Single Stone, pure
double-out Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O. Smaller dia-
monds, £lO, £l5.
L Saunders’ 9ct. . Gold
Circle Brooch, set
Aquamarine or Garnet,
17/6.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond and
Pearl Cluster Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
'£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Boat-shape Ring’,
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Crossover feing,
ISct. Gold, £lO.
Larger ’diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15c1. Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pearl and
Aquamarine oval-shaped
Brooch, l/ict. Gold,
£2/10/-. Pearls and
Diamonds, £4/10/-
a. Saunuers’ pure
Diamonds and Aqua-
marine or Tourmaline
Necklet, loot. Gold,
£5.
A. Saunders’ Solid
Gold Wedding
Rings, 15ct. Gold,
15/-; 18ct. Gold,
20/-
m
A. Saunders Lady’s
9tt. Gold Tablet
Ring, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Presentation Re-
turned Soldier’s Medal, 9ct,
Gold, 30/-; ■heavier, 35/-,
40/-; loot. Gold, £3,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .. .
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
25 O’Connell St*,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win ivithout
lifting a hand?
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
QtJ.Coltis Browne's
CWorodjwe
Tlie Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE' EOK
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
anti in the Cough of HKONCJHTIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, ' RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LTKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, iiS, sh, 01-.
Hade in England.
SCHUTE, BELL
CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
eriven to the world. ,^-. T
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917* ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
;r< i, Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3,
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s including Nana. 27- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1,'6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/-, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2s. Love
Letters of a Priest, 1/9. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/6. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller's Snort-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 1/9. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. _ Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength, posted 3/9. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. ■ History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas,and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 2/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6; God and My Neighbor, 9d. Hpw
to Read Faces, 1/9. How to Train for
All Sports, 2/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy .Self-taught. ,1/6. . How ■ to Make
Sweets. Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 1/9. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, .2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/9. . Man from Snowy River,
47-. Poultry Keeping. 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3, Every Man His Own Carpenter. 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and ■ Lightning Calculator,
1/T. Secret History of the Court op Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-AVriter Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/'-.
Self Instructor: Every' Man His Own School-
master, 2/- posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 2/-. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. W annan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide. 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptameron. and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s. Priceless .Recipes, 21-
posted. AVomen’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Busii Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9- Practical Palm-
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 1/-, 2/-. How
to, Bead Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/9 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3)6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 1/9. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3’ posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- lOO New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and ' its- Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 liras.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. ("W
pav 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors. 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, lj- P° s i, e( ■
Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses, 1/3. hie
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/- posted. Damaged
Goods, 1/6. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9. Ihree
Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 869 Market Street, Sydney «wld.
jp*"\
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
ă


In All Sizes
X
i r f : ' v --^y
'V •’“
i -
\
\
A
\
On Any C
road —in /4 m/
weather “FISK’
Non-Skids will give
a maximum service
of Miles and Comfort
and
A Road Grip of Safety
that NEVER FAILS.
■
mm£. *■ -
mm s,
/S
w
■:
1 1
■
a
•> ■
1
'.V y ,
- ;
.l®®-
■ ’
NEW SOUTH WALES —
JAMES WABDLE & CO., 4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
JAMES WARDLE & CO., West Victoria Square, Adelaide.
AGENTS
VICTORIA AND RIVERINA—
JOHN F. GOULDING, 515 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA—
JAMES WARDLE & CO.


Government Notices.
Queensland State Ironworks.
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons
qualified to fill the position of
GENERAL MANAGER of the above Works
about to be established in the State of
Queensland.
The salary of the position will be
per annum', with travelling expenses on the
same conditions as provided for positions of
similar salary in the Public Service.
The successful applicant will be required
to take control of the organisation and estab-
lishment of Ironworks, coke plant and all
subsidiary works connected with the proposed
undertaking. Applications must reach the
undersigned not later than 30th September,
1918
HENRY MARSHALL. Under-Secretary.
Department of Mines, Brisbane.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 7t.h August, 1918.
Tenders for the Supply of Machinery for
Launch for Spectacle Island.
TENDERS will be received until 12 noon
on Tuesday, 17th September, 1918, for
the supply of the above-mentioned machinery.
Tender forms, specifications and full par-
ticulars may be obtained at the Office of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; the Naval Ordnance Officer,
Spectacle Island, Sydney; and the Naval
Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birkenhead (S.A.),
Fremantle and Hobart.
A. POYNTON,
For Minister of State for the Navy.
AVIATION INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF,
CENTRAL FLYING SCHOOL,
LAVERTON, VICTORIA.
Temporary Appointments.
APPLICATIONS are invited for tempo-
rary appointment as AIR MECHANIC
in the Aviation Instructional Staff, Central
Flying School, Laverton, Victoria.
Applicants must be over the age of 18
years, and must have been engaged in one of
the following trades :
TURNER AND FITTER: MOTOR-
ENGINE FITTER; ELECTRICIAN;
MOTOR DRIVER; PATTERNMAKER;
TAILOR OR SAILMAKER; METAL
MACHINIST ; WOODWORKER ; WOOD
MACHINIST: INSTRUMENT FITTER;
C O P P E R SM ITH: SHEET-METAL
WORKER ; PAINTER.
Full particulars and forms of application
may be obtained from the Military Com-
mandant, New South Wales,
Preference will be given to returned soldiers
and returned munition-workers.
Pay on appointment, £l6O per annum, with
rank of Corporal.
Applications must be addressed to :
The Secretary,
Department of Defence.
Melbourne,
and forwarded so as to reach him not later
than the 30tli September, 1918.
T. TREMBLE. Secretary.
SPEED HIS XMAS HAMPER
ON ITS HAPPY ERRAND OF JOY & APPRECIATION RIGHT AWAY
Brimful of good wholesome things and things he’ll like and wants to have—Values are excellent!
AT 10/6, POST FREE.
Finney’s No. 1 Big Value
Soldiers’ Hamper.
1 Rich Xmas Cake.
1 Rich Plum Pudding.
1 Tin 50 Cigarettes.
1 Packet Chocolate.
2 Packets Chewing Gum.
AT 12/6, POST FREE.
Finney’s No. 2 Big 1 alue
Soldiers’ Hamper.
I Rich Xmas Cake.
1 Rich Plum Pudding.
1 Tin Choice Fruit.
1- Tin Ham Pate.
1 Tin 50 Cigarettes.
1 Packet Chocolate.
2 Packets Chewing Gum.
AT 15/C, POST FREE.
Finney’s No. 3 Big Value
Soldiers’ Hamper.
1 Rich Xmas Cake.
1 Rich Plum Pudding.
1 Tin Choice Fruit.
1 Tin 50 Cigarettes.
1 Tin Camp Pie, nr
1 Tin Pork Sausages.
1 Tin Luncheon Cheese.
1 Packet Chewing Gum.
1 Packet Chocolate.
AT 21/-, POST FREE.
Finney’s No. 4 Big. Value
Soldiers’ Hamper.
1 Rich Xmas. Cake.
1 Rich Plum Pudding.
1 Tin Choice Fruit.
1 Tin 50 Cigarettes.
1 Tin Chocolate & Milk, or
1 Tin Pork Sausagesi
1 Tin Cheese.
1 Packet Chocolate.
1 Packet Chewing Cum.
1 Tin Ham Pate.
1 Pair Socks.
Also Officers* Hamper at 03/-
FINNEY, ISLES & CO, LTD.,
THE DRAPERS OF QUEENSLAND.
AT 42/-, POST FREE.
Finney’s No. 5 Big; Value
Soldiers’ Hamper.
1 Rich Xmas Cake.
1 Rich Plum Pudding.
1 Tin Choice Fruit, or
1 Tin Asparagus.
1 Tin Condensed Milk, or
1 Tin Cream.
1 Tin 50 Cigarettes.
1 Briar Pipe.
1 Tin Tobacco.
2 Packets Chewing Gum.
2 Packets Chocolate.
1 Tin Luncheon Cheese.
1 Tin Chocolate & Milk, or
1 Tin Butter. '
1 Pair Knitted Socks.
1 Balaclava Gap.
1 Tooth Brush.
1 Tooth Paste.
fv--
/
P*ivatc B«lv QuElhwawi**
Id- Re'«»vrtciMti»’s
■i t* (JaT T*LIDN
AuSrilAuAN U-'**£«'Al
SPECIALLY NOTE.
All perishable goods in these
hampers are put up in airtight
tins. So it is impossible for the
contents to open up in any other
than a perfect condition. They are
then securely packed in specially-
made boxes, stitched in calico, and
clearly addressed.
POVERTY
POINT
CHARLIE
CHAPLIN'S
MILLION
DOLLAR
COMEDIES.
SUPUR
FEATURES
Melbourne iias been the Paradise of the
understudy of late. The sicknesses of Flor-
ence Young and Phil Smith were other
people’s opportunities at Her Majesty’s.
Then Cyril Mackay acquired laryngitis, and
was out of the cast of “De Luxe Annie” for
the last week of its run at the King’s, thus
making room for young John Fernside to
give a brisk, effective performance of the
“crook” who treats gentle Annie as a part-
ner in blackmail only. All that Fernside
lacked in the part was the breezy suggestion
of suppressed savagery which gave melo-
dramatic color to Mackay’s interpretation.
Two little sketches that had been Fernside’s
jobs were filled in by Charles Bertal.
Reading London notices of “Follow the
Girl,” the show in which Dot Brunton
made her bow in the U.S.A., one
ceases to be sur-
prised that Dorothy
failed to set Uncle
Sam’s towns on
fire. Anent the
London production,
the critic of
Vanity Fair
(Dorothy Parker)
observes: “I don’t
like to say that I
have seen worse
shows and more of
them than any
other living woman
—I do hate to be
boastful. I merely
wish to remark that
I saw ‘Let’s Go’
and ‘Follow the
Girl’ on two suc-
cessive nights.. . .
Onlv the fact that
“Gran’dad Rudd,” at
Sydney Palace.
Bert Bailey as
Gran’dad.
I saw ‘The Love Mill’ last month prevents
me from hailing ‘Follow the Girl’ as the
world’s worst show.”
“Clianco”: News that Stella Power is
booked to enter double harness at the end
of the year is rousing the old theme: Is
marriage the making or marring of an
artist? The veteran Patti, lively and flourish-
ing in her seventies with No. 3 of her reper-
toire of husbands, and Calve, the greatest
of Carmens, as happy as a schoolgirl, tied
to her adored Gasparri. are prominent liv-
ing examples on the affirmative side. On
the other hand two of the happiest matured
mortals and finest artists who have visited
these parts in recent years—tenor Dufault
and pianist Berwick —are bachelors. Of the
great creative music-makers, Bach, Wagner
in his second venture, Schumann and Grieg'
were ideally mated. Bachelors Beethoven,
Chopin, Schubert and Brahms provide many
heartrending biographical pages of loneliness
and neglect.
From London :
Dan Godfrey has been celebrating his 25 years’
condin torship of the municipal concerts at Bourne-
month (Eng.). The town gave him £5OO in war
bonds, Stanford and Edward German attended to do
him honor, Hubert Parry and Alexander Mackenzie
sent letters of admiration. Encouragement of Eng-
lish music has always been Godfrey’s strong suit.
German (who is thoroughly British in spite of his
name) lias had the honor of a special Queen’s Hall
concert. Manager Alfred Butt has added another
American success to “Very Good Eddie” and “Fair
and Warmer” (*doing well respectively at The Palace
and St. James’s), in “Going Up,” a musical play
made out of Montgomery’s novel “The Aviator.”
“Libretto by Otto Harback and music by Ilirsch”
does not sound well, but presumably they are good
Americans. Robert Evett, managing Daly’s for
the estate of the late George Edwardes, mentions that
“The Maid of the Mountains,” now at about 600
performances, has taken more money than even “The
Merry Widow,” Edwardes’s own best-seller.
Biggs left Australia eleven months ago
to exploit his peculiar gifts in Los
Angeles, U.S.A. lie writes that he is doing
very well, having secured a permanent en-
gagement at a salary which in his simple,
clerking days in Melbourne would have sug-
gested the dream of avarice. Biggs is now
a picture actor, tie went to
Los Angeles with the deliberate
intention of acting for the
movies. He never acted in his
life before, he had neither
theatrical inclinations no r
dramatic gifts of any kind, and
his attention was turned to the
films only by a casual tip from
an expert in a Swanston-street
bar. The expert said: “See,
here, Egbert, if I had a face so
like the, seven plagues I’d go to
America and make the picture-
managers feed me.” Apparently
Biggs’s face was the kind of
face there was a special demand
for in movie circles, the first
man who saw it in Los Angeles
jumped at it. It was originally
one of the ten ugliest faces on
earth, and its peculiar attributes
has been amplified by a kick
from a horse. Biggs writes that
his face value is 80 dollars a weejt.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : A Sydney news-
paper recently stated that while William
Creswick, tragedian, was playing King Lear
at the old Victoria Theatre (Sydney), some-
one threw at him from the gallery a bunch
of carrots, which fell at the feet of one of
the ladies. Creswick, so the paper said, took
the insult to himself and “raged” over it.
An incident of this sort did occur, but not
while Creswick was playing. A lady
in Lyster’s Opera Co. was unblush-
ingly familiar with an old Sydney solicitor,
and the lawyer’s son, himself afterwards a
solicitor and M.L.A., gave a lad half-a-crown
to propel the vegetables at the disturber of
the peace. The incident ended in Lyster
“firing” the giddy lady.
“0.K.” : The dark seance drama that Mar-
garet Wycberly plays in (at Melb. Royal
just now) can at least be commended for
its ample exposure of how criminal sus-
picion can be cast on anybody by “spiritual-
istic”. conspirators. And in most seances the
audacious “medium” has one or more con-
spirators in the circle. “The Thir-
teenth Chair” is instructive to the thought-
less, inasmuch as the detective who ulti-
mately arrives at wrong conclusions starts
on the correct assumption that the seance
was arranged by a person in league with
the medium. He takes the presence of * a
conspirator for granted. A better and more
subtle melodrama might have been con-
structed on the idea that the person who
questions the bogus medium re the murder
of Spencer Lee was tlie actual murderer of
that late citizen. The assassination of the
questioner in the dark is not essential to a
drama founded on the killing of Lee. It
creates what is practically an impossibility.
If the 13 sitters were all holding hands,
each linked left and right with the person
in the next chair, liow did one of them stick
a knife into lan Maclaren without somebody
knowing that the chain of hands had been
broken? And why doesn’t the detective work
on this question? The writer never sat in
a circle in the dark without being able to
swear that he was all the time holding a
hand on either side of him. They were small,
warm, sympathetic hands as a rule, and the
charm of the seance was in their squeezes.
Had either of them been violently withdrawn
in order to commit a murder the writer
would have protested that lie was being
robbed'-of - half; his pleasure in spiritualism.
Moreover, the person who committed the
murder might have sworn that the writer’s
hand was forcibly withdrawn for homicidal
purposes. Prudence dictates that you must
hang on to hands at a seance, or risk the
consequences of letting go. If all hold
on nobody can commit a murder except the
medium.
Oscar Asche and Walter Ilackett, who
w r rote “The Invisible Foe,” are collaborating
in the libretto of a musical show for Daly’s.
The plot (or words to that effect) is laid in
Egypt. Its present title —which is subject
to alteration —is “The Desert Maid.”
“Melb.”: This week the amateur Vic-
torian Opera Company puts on “Black
Cloaks,” in the Palace. This opera was
first performed in Melb. at the Opera
House in ’B3, and revived in ’SO, at the same
theatre. The original cast included Verui,
Knight Aston (Mrs. Gordon Baillie’s hus-
band), Appleby and Annette Ivanova. In
the revival there appeared Loredan, Edwin
Kelly, Appleby and Annette Ivanova. The
first conductor was Galli and the second was
Simonson, Appleby was producer on both
occasions, with Stoyle for his assistant.
Stoyle is producer for the V.O.C.
HOW WOMEN LOVE ONE ANOTHER!
“Reggie proposed to me last night, dear. If
you were I would you accept him?”
“ Probably, dear; though of course I refused
him when he proposed to me.”
Baritone Derek Hudson’s end came while
he was a prisoner at I’aderburn. lie was a
lieutenant in the Flying Corps, and when lhs
machine was brought down he sustained
burns that led to blood-poisoning. His widow
(Eileen DawnV is still a member of the
J.C.W. Musical Comedy Co.
“S.” : The once eminent Australian actor
told me how he was converted to spiritual-
ism, and why he broke away. “I was parted
a good deal from Helen, me little wife, sir,”
he said. “The exactions of me art drew me
from her side, and a pestilent neighbor in-
duced her to go to some infernal medium, a
Madame Cleo, a stained hag with a purple
wig, who told Helen everything on earth
about me, sir. I give you me honorable word
there was nothing I had ever done, or
thought, or said that that despicable witch
did not know. Be gad, sir, it gave a man the
creeps. Me little wife was bringing things
back at me that were calculated to blight me
life, sir. I loved that woman, and here she
was being induced to consider me as one of
the most despicable rascals unhung,-backed
by all the available facts. ; She was talking
of divorce. I saw meself the victim of a
blighted life, and, by .Tove. I was so flabber-
gasted with the truths advanced that I could
offer no workable defence, and what’s more,
I was getting superstitious. I began to see
there was more in this confounded spiritual-
istic business than I had imagined possible.
I saw that if it was to be introduced into
the: home in this way there was am end to
happy family life. I became painfully super-
stitious.'and one Sunday night sneaked away
to Madame Cleo’s seance. I came back
cured, and, thank God. Helen came back
cured too. -There should be a law against
former partners of one’s joys and sorrows
using their first-hand information _ against
one. Madame Cleo was my first wife!”
"The Deacon”: Andrew Mack always
maintained that no
one ever put the
greased skids under
mm quite so effec-
tively as the late
Cardinal Moran.
One fine Sunday
afternoon he looked
up the old R.C.
chief on his bal-
cony at Manly and
explained what
good news for the
local Irish he
(Mack) wa s.
Amidst the clatter
of his own press-
agenting he sug-
gested that the law
—more honored in
the breach —of the
clergy not attend-
ing theatres should
b e abrogated i n
favor of the more
timid clerics. Moran
listened and glared
for 30 seconds,
“ Gran’dad Rudd,” at
Sydney Palace.
Fred Macdonald as
Have.
then waving his
arm in the direction of the harbor, growled,
(‘What do you think of the view?”
Gertrude Elliott wife of George Robert-
son, who is going to tour Australia, has
taken the St. James’ theatre, London, for a
season by arrangement with the widow of
George Alexander, its late lessee. Gertrude
intends to produce there “The Eyes of
Youth,” a piece that has been a phenomenal
success at the Maxine theatre, New York,
which is run by her sister, Maxine Elliott.
“King’s Lynn”: The writer of a para-
graph in. “Poverty Point” (B. 15/8/T8) is
in error regarding the preaching of C. H.
Spurgeon at tin* Surrey Theatre. That
eminent divine commenced his London career
(being then about 20 years of age) as a
“boy preacher” at the Park-street Chapel
near Southwark Bridge, on the Surrey side
of the water, but the place was altogether
too small for the crowds who wished to hear
him, and he shifted to the large hall in the
Surrey Gardens, known as the “Surrey
Gardens Music Hall,” a very large building
in Walworth. Here he drew enormous
crowds. One Sunday a false alarm of fire
was raised, and in the ensuing stampede
seven women were killed. Just as two or
three years after there was a crush on the
gallery stairs of the Victoria Theatre (also
on the Surrey side of the water) that
resulted in the death of 15 boys and the
injuring of about 30 other people.
UNDYING HOPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Y knew him when a noble lad
Of eighteen years or so.
A heartfelt yearning then he had
i Upon tlie stage to go.
With simple, force he would insist
He was an elocutionist
Whose extraordinary gift
The modern theatre might uplift.
At twenty-five he lusted still
As Hamlet to appear,
And hoped the managerial will
To change within the year.
At thirty lie could stir the age
If giv’n a footing- on tlie stage.
Producers, dubbing him a bore
On fame and fortune slammed the door.
I met him yesterday by chance. -
He now is fifty-three.
His hair is grey,-and dull liis glance,
His boots winked up at me.
* lie scattered bills to advertise
“East Lynne,” a local enterprise.
“This is,” he said, “my humble part.
• It isn’t much, but it’s a start!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


ti CHUNDER ” TAKES A TRIP MOIVIE* At the Wars
M] '-{1
wv ■ ' ‘ V
Jj $4
Cs.y''"v-"V.
V^\
vn
V“V
%
//
0
. 4
• fe
"iBP
a?
x,
c IW'
L
*Vfa
|{!PP
X
, J 's .+*/ r .T v
/ ■-/ / ,V KV’cf&’X
|f ,v%*
i@s
ky
5*
,j - ,•
c\
* *
v ■
r&’rm
r#l
£»■<-> y / ts> <v~x~%
Cobra,” Sfte Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Fights on Italy’
Mountains, too.
When the snowdrift
Stops supplies
’Planes come swoopin
From the skies.
Each ’plane drops
Its welcome load —
Bombs of food
That don’t explode.
On they fly
With hand-waves gay
Clean and easy
“COBRA” way.


See This Woolbale?
It contains the Best Possible Advice
to Sheepowners.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
WOOLBROKERS, LTD.
Sydney AND Brisbane.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 2Jd.
QUEENS ARMS HOTEL
Inthe Heart of the
City of Melbourne
If contemplating a visit to Melbourne you
can confidently book accommodation at
the Queen’s Arms Hotel. This tine hotel,
situated a few seconds from trains, trams,
theatres, public buildings and business
centres —with modern accommodation,
excellent cuisine and pleasing service—is
the ideal “home” for visitors.
Tariff by the day, 10/6.
QUEEN’S ARMS HOTEL,
(Late Champion’s),
Cr. Swanston Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSES PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
BITES MAV be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for stein
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be • and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and shou d
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment, bold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
PHOTOGRAPHY !
AMATEURS—for OoocJ Results and Speed send your
Developing, Printing and Enlarging to
im
ą
STOMAS
278 Ceorge
Street.
SYDNEY.
Opp. Margaret Street,
Criticisms Free—lndividual Attention —Postal Orders
.-.v.-.v:;/?,'V"
::
fir
Your Mirron
will give
you
the pleasing <
assurance that
your Complexion
IS what It shoulv
be If you use
TETLOW’S
FACE POWDER
It imparts a delicate bloom to the
I Complexion, so pure that it will
not harm the most sensitive skin.
Soli In Five Tints
White. Cream. Pink. Flesh and Pronette.
by all Stores. Chemists, Perfumers and
First Class Drapery Houses
CNGLISH
ǻ
PRICE
Wholesale Distribute Agenrs:-
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., LTD.,
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS : -
HENRY C. QUELCH 65 CO.,
4 & 5. Ludgate Sq.. London. Eng.
ZINC
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC (a-Z
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
"Collins House," 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THRIFT”—the National Watchword
In these present days of economy, when apparel is required to give the utmost
service,
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
provide an excellent polish, which will increase the wear, preserve the leather and
give a bright and lasting shine. Bostock’s Violo Cream, for Patent Leather and
Glac& Kid, is a scientific emulsion of high-grade waxes, which keeps the leather
soft and pliable, thus preventing cracks and insuring added service.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Bottles and Tubes.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
Placed First
in order of merit by doctors, nurses, and mothers, through-
out the world ; prescribed by British doctors for 35 years';
used in all great hospitals, and convalescent homes ; ordered
by the Australian Red Cross for the Anzac hospitals.
This is the record of
æ
Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged.
Different from other foods and most highly nutritive.
Invaluable for backward and ailing children, in illness and
convalescence, and for aged persons.
Benger’s is a most interesting food to prepare. The changes it undergoes teach a lesson
in human digestion. It is all explained in our book, post free. Every mother should read it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from :
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, Eng and-
BRANCH OFFICE: Ix 7. Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at NEW YORK (U S.A.) 90, Beekman St. Depdts throughout CANADA.
«9 A
r
m
>
wH
i
m
/Jfter the smoke
of battle
Mght or day—just as soon
as safety permits of a match -
flare —the “Digger” looks
for his soothing smoke.
There’s a lot of comfort in it
—particularly in a sweet-
smoking pipe.
For more than fifty years
successive generations of
Australians have favored
the
D
□
pipe
Its genuine Briar wood —its excellent finish and
the many popular shapes keep it pre-ezninent as
“The perfect pipe.’''
Pipe the order: Smoke at ease
till you men caho have GBD.S.
ffi
A list of 50 N. S. Wales companies, with
their profits for four war years, was pub-
lished in a recent issue of Sydney Tei.-
egraph. Some concerns were excluded be-
cause they had called up so much new capital
that the earnings couldn’t be compared, or
they had amalgamated with other companies,
or bought up other companies, or sold out to
other companies. The net result was that
50 joint-stock businesses made idoi,4b4
more profit in the year to June, 1918, than
in the year to June, 1915. It was made up
in this way: Trading and finance and mi-
porting concerns did well; manutactuiing
concerns, which work to a great extent
abroad with cheap non-union colored labor
did well; while concerns that manufacture
or produce solely in Australia with white
Australian labor did badly. Thus J w o bhMKs
showed increases of £67,65 1 and £33,-69
respectively. A big shipping co., doing a
great foreign business and having a multi-
tude of side-lines of industry outside the
Commonwealth, improved by £119,94*. xne
great sugar co., with its prosperous 1 ljuin
and other business, was £89,571 better oft
on the year’s work in 1918 than in 1914. A
notable wool-trading firm improved to the
extent of £74,585. These five represented
£376.029 of extra profit, and many other
trading and importing firms showed very
solid but less sensational increases. On the
other side were manufacturing companies
employing Australian union labor. Iheie
weren’t very many of them on the list, and 11
of them showed £214,644 less profit in 1918
than in 1915. Some at least of the reasons
for this may be summarised: —
Militant unionism cultivates hatred of every
emplover as a robber capitalist. It concentrates its
hatred on the capitalist within reach because he is
within reach.
In its crude way it never seems to consider that
if it went in for strenuous Protection and for local
manufactures in place of imports it would have three
times as many capitalists within reach. To avoid
facing this big constructive problem (constructive
problems are not in its line), it consents that Aus-
tralia should be, in proportion to its population, the
biggest importer on earth, and thus one of the big-
gest employers of foreign cheap labor on earth ; for
the importer, with all the world to choose fiom,
naturally buys in the cheapest market.
Besides, the importer and the financier are hard to
hit. No Trades Hall has ever engineered a big strike
in the importing warehouses or the banks. And if
there ivas too much strike the big bank, having no
engines and boilers to remove, might simply shift
its head office to another State or to England and
look for foreign business; and if its shareholders
were hit by extra-heavy taxation here they
would find that their shares would fetch a
higher price in I.ondon or some other place,
and would sell out to foreign holders. The
importer also has no engines and boilers and looms
and ponderous steam-cranes and steam-hammers and
vast smelting appliances to anchor him down to one-
spot, and he is not one-tenth so dependent on skilled
labor as the manufacturer. Also, he deals in perhaps
200 lines where the average manufacturer makes one
or two, it being inconvenient to make hats and ships
and flour in the same mill. So it would take 100 or
200 strikes spread over the world to cut the roots of
the importer’s business. The head of his business the
distributing warehouse —is to some extent shiftable.
But the manufacturer who is wholly Australian can
be squeezed at any time, because he is wholly
dependent on union labor and his apparatus is so
heavy that it would cost more than it is worth to
take it down and remove it to Fiji, and re-erect it
among the niggers, \\ hen the grasping capitalist is
mentioned he (or the mine-owner) is always • the
individual meant, because it isn’t worth meaning the
other fellow. He gets most of the hatred that was
really due to the importer, because the only way to
hate the importer is to raise the tariff, and some-
how the Labor party would rather be poisoned than
“ do that. He might be a better manufacturer if he
worked on a bigger scale with better machinery, but
he can’t work on a very big scale when room must
be made for so much foreign cheap-labor produce,
and he feels too much like a temporary intruder to
take very heavy risks on new plant.
There is no evidence that the Melbourne
engineers who refused a 10 p.c. rise and
demanded 20 p.c. because of the increased
cost of living, were not justified, though it
is a dismal business to be drifting back to
the crude strike method at this late day.
But the Australian manufacturer in the
aggregate is getting nothing—in fact he
gets less than nothing—to make up for his
increased cost of living, however good a
wicket the importer and financier may be on.
And it is noteworthy that while 20 p.c.
may be dumped on to the charges of the
employer of purely Australian labor after a
fortnight’s shindy or a day’s disturbance, it
takes years to get 5 p.c. added to those of
the man who sells the same kind of goods,
but has them made by any kind of labor that
isn’t Australian. The one proceeding is as
sudden and informal as a counter-lunch.
The other is protracted and solemn and
reverent, like the building of a cathedral.
“Peter Pan”: According to American
technical journals there has been a phenome-
nal development in German banking during
the war. Deposits in the eight leading banks
rose from £250.000.000 in 1914 to
£500.000.000 in 1916. and to £820,000,000
in 1917. Of course, the main causes of this
expansion of credits are the same in Aus-
tralasia as in Germany—an inflated cui-
rency, and the creation of enormous amounts
of new capital by Government bond issues.
In the absence of foreign exchange transac-
tions. through diminished Stock Exchange
business, owing to the falling-off in trading
bills and the general constriction of com-
pany formation, banking profits must have
been seriously affected, yet it is asserted that
the eight leading German banks are all pay-
ing higher dividends than in 1914. Just as
in Britain, so in Germany, amalgamation to
reduce working costs and secure greater
soliditv is in favor amongst financiers,
v * * *
Capital has been found to open up some
gold-bearing formations in the Cosmo New-
berry hills, beyond Laverton (W.A.). Years
ago Carr Boyd declared that gold w-as to be
seen everywhere in this locality, but several
experts reported unfavorably on its pros-
pects. Now it is stated the Government
has agreed to give ".£ for £ subsidy and to
erect a 10-head public battery if required.


Of ( V
wo S Jypocc
L Qcampipsof
/YcJ LJrient
or MEN.
irtinr
WHHSH
\
m
aa
m
3
T.J. 2.—Men’s “Orient” Black or
Tan Lace Boots in fine calf of ex
ceptional wearing quality. Welted
soles, medium round toes and
finished strong drill
lining. Sizes 5 to 10
21 /-pr.
T.Y. I.—-Men’s “Orient ”
Pure Fur Felt Hat in dark
beaver, brown, slate or
grey. Cut brim, will turn
up or down. Fitted with
grease • proof
head leather. All
men’s sizes
15/6
\s/e "Pay Carriage
IDAVTD JCMES UP
OPP. G.P.O. SYDNEY.
l-?=3 and 5 Tons
Capacities.
DENBY
MOTOR LORRIES
<4 cuaiMsiuhsm cu
■Mum ZTc,
m
m
sn4>'*'
While the use of trailers cancels the guaranty on many trucks,
Denby encourages them.
That’s because the wonderful pulling power of the Denby motor,
and the sturdy efficiency of the Denby internal-gear rear axle,
enable Denby trucks to haul trailers without the slightest danger of
damage to the truck itself.
And there are many lines of business —perhaps yours is among them
—where trailers will cut the delivery investment in two.
A. HATRICK & COMPANY, .SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable Address: “DENTRUX.”
Cable Codes: Western Union and ABC sth Edition.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S.A.
We Have not increased
the price of a solitary diamond in our
enormous stock, notwithstanding that
Diamonds have risen fully 33 per cent,
lately.
When war broke out all jewels slumped
and we bought enormously, and so had
two years’ normal supply.
AVe could, of course, increase our prices
and profits by war conditions, but we
prefer to increase our customers rather
than profiteer. It will pay us better
eventually.
For the Higher Grades of Diamonds our
prices are far below those of London.
Selected Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum,
£6/10/-
:> Fine Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum.
£l6/16/-
Choice Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum.
£l2/10/-
Plain figures.
Cash only.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
i
GENUINE PALM BEACH
A FABRIC whose good points are legion—for warm-day
suits. A fabric entirely reliable, beautiful, durable.
A fabric that washes as readily as linen, and leaves
the tub fresh as new. A fabric cool and porous—that tailors
with wonderful ease.
The trade-marked Palm Beach label is on every garment.
In buying yardage look for it on the selvage. The name
Palm Beach is registered in the United States and Foreign
Countries. Refuse imitations.
Your local drygoods dealer or merchant tailor can supply
you.
In Australia trade-mark for piece goods is registered;
registration pending for clothing.
THE PALM BEACH MILLS
GOODALL WORSTED CO.
A. ROHAUT DEPT., Selling Agent, Div. S, 229 Fourth Ave.,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
R. W. CAMFRON & CO., Dept 5., SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
LOOK FOR
RCGISTEBED U.S. PATENT OrpICE
THE GENUINE CLOTH
MFD. BY eOQDAU, WORSIED CO,.
THIS MARK.


The Light
■■ ■ of ■■ ■
Australia
Safety Air Gas.
A Few Recent Large
Installations:
Balranafd Hospital,
Coff’s Harbor Hospital,
David Berry Hospital,
Soldiers’ Home.Bomaderry,
Commercial Bank, Cooma
and Wee Waa,
Campbell 8 Co. Ltd., Scone,
and Numerous Private
Residences, Hotels, etc.
These clients have been satisfied with
the undoubted efficiency of our System,
and we can do the same for you.
All Installations carried out by trained
experts from our Factory.
Remember we are Specialists in the Air
Gas Business.
THE QUIRK
AIR GAS MACHINE
is recognised as the best of its kind on
the market to-day, and sve have over
6000 users in Australia to bear testi-
mony to it.
If you have Acetylene installed, we can
convert it to our System, and the sav-
ing in your lighting expenses will pay
for the Installation within 12 months.
WRITE OR CALL FOR PARTICULARS.
ADDRESS —
QUIRKS
Lighting 8 Engineering Ltd.
Sydney 245 Elizabeth Street
Brisbane 24-28 Wharf Street
Melbourne South .... 110 Sturt Street
Adelaide 112 Grenfell Street
Perth, W.A. . . . Alcoek & Co. Pty„ Ltd.
This is the Pen
for Active Service
—because it stands the racket .
The “Swan,” like a rifle, is made
true and sure. The ink magazine is
ample and, at command, the pen is
ready for duty immediately. There is
no misfiring, and there are no parts liable
to derangement. When fluid ink is un-
obtainable the magazine may be charged
with ink pellets for use with water.
Send one to your soldier friend. It will make wri-
ting easier and encourage him to send more letters.
%%
WAM
ã
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
Australian Prices:
ain
Standard Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 12/6
Safety Pattern with
Screw-on Cap, from 15/-
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free on Request .
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—(Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory—3l9-329, Weston Street, S.E.
Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch : J. A,. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney..
A Battery
for All-
Round
Service
mM |
or 1
I IN
A
COLUMBIAS are all-round utility
batteries, suited for either heavy
or light work. They have higher
voltage and amperage than wet cells.
No liquid to spill; noglassjarsto break.
Dependable, uniform, and strong.
Columbia
Batteries
ring bells; operate telephones and sig-
nals; discharge blasts. And they run
engines, motor cars, motor boats and
m
ignito*?''
n «3 's.r/s.rs.l'. 7 5
y cfi^l
I
,rf 8
?OS
■SS&cturei^W
tractors. Columbia
Batteries are designed
to give satisfactory re-
sults under all climatic
conditions. Specially
packed to reach desti-
nation in first - class
condition.
Dealers : I m m e-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from us :
National Carbon
Company
Cleveland, Ohio, (J. S. A.
Export Department
Cable Address:
Carbon Cleveland”
jfquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents: —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King: St., Sydney.'
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
Ail Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
ǽ
YOUR
FOOTWEAR
either makes or mars your appear-
ance, therefore you should exercise
the utmost care in its selection.
ABBEY SHOES
are always correct in style, perfect
in fit, and give the utmost in long
service.
They are made in half and full
sizes, and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide.
We illustrate a special Patent.
Derbv Shoe, in a very smart, made-
to-order style.
Price - 42/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same
price.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
AVON
x &
TYRES.
More Miles for Yotxr Money.
The Outlook.
“0.K.” : Boiled down to dry fact, the result
of the brilliant strategical operations of the
three Allies on the West Front since the
middle of July means the recovery of one-
tliird of the territory captured by the Huns
since the last- week in March. It may also
mean an impairment of German “moral”
greater than what the British and French
suffered when they were retreating more
hastily, but it deals no death-blow to
the old military doctrine of the enemy
—that the one and only irresistible
manner of attack, on a large scale,
is the advance in massed formation.
Hun. "drives” accomplished three times as
much advance as the counter-attacks of the
Allies, at less than three times the expense.
That’S the dry fact. Military critics jnay
talk round about it, but they can’t alter it.
The rush in massed formation, where every-
body keeps everybody else from turning tail,
where it is a matter of “If we go forward
we die, if we go backward we die : better to
go forward and die,” is the only sure means
of pushing far ahead. It carried the Huns
to the Somme in August, 1914, and they
have remained thereabouts ever since. Our
babbling experts argued that the Huns were
beaten because they couldn’t push on till they
had captured at least a half of France and
the last remaining little bit of Belgium. The
Iluns boasted, and still boast, that they won
the war in three weeks because they were
already beyond the possibility of being driven
from conquered territory. Possibly the Hun
commanders have now had enough of trying
to end the war by further great attacks in
massed formation. It is certain that the
Allies will never adopt the system, for its
success depends on the intensity of discipline
in the massed forces, and the new American
troops are less slavishly disciplined than the
comparative veterans of “Kitchener's
Army,” who are less disciplined on an aver-
age than the French conscript army. The
massed method, the only method by which
either side could continuously rout the other,
is “off.” Whichever side may have the pre-
cious “initiative” that we hear so much
about it is unlikely to sacrifice hundreds of
thousands of men in irresistible advances,
i.e., advances which no amount of destruc-
tive artillery fire can stop. There seems to
be nothing left for the contending armies
but a policy of playing for safety as regards
ground fighting, whilst the rival air forces
are daring to do all the harm they can to
the enemy’s men, communications, munition
dumps and goods of every description. Only
by ruthless, systematic bombing can either
side force the other to throw in its alley.
Destruction of all the largest German muni-
tion factories of importance would inevitably
win the war, without even the assistance of
a steady drizzling rain of bombs on railways,
bridges, etc., within the Hun sphere of occu-
pation. A crushing superiority for the Allies
in air-fighting, if not already established, is
a positive certainty in the near future.
Wait till the Yanks get fairly going ! Its
possibilities have been only hinted at thus-
far. An unimaginative world has yet to be
staggered by the discovery of the fact that
no military strategical position on God’s
earth is as commanding as a dominant posi-
tion in the broad expanse of God’s air, above
the lines, and beyond the lines, and over the
cities, whence armies derive their means of
carrying on. One remaining German hope
there is (apart from the chances of food and
coal famine, and the intrigues of pacifism
and pro-Germanism) of averting the down-
fall of Hun ambition. The annihilation, or
even a considerable destruction, of the
British fleet by Germany’s warships would
do the trick by stopping supplies to the Allies
in France. If the Kaiser cannot win the
war by other means of exhaustion, he must
order out his fleet to face The Day, and do
or die. It seems his last chance of saving
his Hoiienzollern face. He has talked
so much about the necessity for a powerful
German navy, yet the war has lasted four
years and Germany is still waiting for evi-
dence of where, the usefulness of the
Kaiser’s Dreadnoughts comes in. The conflict
surely will include one desperate attempt by
the German navy to end the state of things
at sea whereby the Allies have the means to
continue their efforts ashore. The Channel
has remained an open thoroughfare to the
British, thanks to their navy. The Kaiser is
bound to challenge the all-important sea-
nower before he admits that Germany is
done. Public opinion will compel his navy
to justify the taxes that u«ed to be collected
from house-to-house on behalf of each new
battleship in turn.
The late engineer Catani’s biggest job
whilst in the employ of the Vic. Gov-
ernment was the draining of the Koo-
wee-rup swamp, undertaken about the time
of the boom-burst, the primary object being
to find work for the unemployed. The swamp
loomed largely in Binghi’s history, chiefly
because it was reputed to be the home of the
bunyip, and on that account black brother
gave it a wide berth. To the early settlers
around its margin it maintained its weird
reputation, and this wilderness of 75,000
acres of water and giant ti-tree was allowed
to remain undisturbed until Chaffey Bros.,
of Mildura fame, made the Government a
sporting offer of £7 per acre for it as it
lay for closer-settlement purposes. This
caused the Government to sit up and take
notice, and finally decide on a drainage
scheme. The recently-demised William
Bloomfield was the first contractor, but
whether the job was too big for him or the
price too small is unwritten history. Any-
how the undertaking was cancelled and it
became a State enterprise under the manage-
ment of Catani. That was back in the
’nineties, and the job is not finished yet;
but, all the same, the Koo-wee-rup is one of
the best-paying propositions the State has
to-day and a standing advertisement for
closer settlement.
Stated confidently in South Aus. Assembly
that during the present year from 7000 to
8000 seals .have been slaughtered on the
islands of that State’s coast, and that the
last lot of Skins fetched half a crown each.
The Government looked shocked, and re-
marked in a faint voice that it would inquire
into the matter.' : . "


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4Sio! Sydney.
Every Three Weeks.
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AinE R I C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
“SONOMA” sails SEPTEMBER 18.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Blinking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; lion. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; lion. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C. ; Til OS.
WELSBY.
General Manager: .1. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 2f>3 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending ■to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. '.. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since ISD3 specially protected.
Directors —Goo. Edwd'. Buiming, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon.. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OIIICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund . . ;L.. £130,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks,
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY 7 (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager : E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. IT. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales ,
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of j
Australia. Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fundand Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji', Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
a
ORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE,
THE "ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
NEXT SAILINGS:
R.M.S. MAKURA, early October; R.M.S. NIAGARA, October.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
ANt> PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific. ”
A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PEACH) SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
rwm
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers,
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send, for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors :
£3,904,860
£2,950,000
£3,904,860
£ 10,159,720
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. Macliellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfully Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq. ; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
CommonwdfbJfe Mvk “SMralta
HEAD OB’FICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Department
Savings Bank
Minimum
Deposit
1/-
Ml til I _ _ „ _
Branches, and over 2750 Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific.
Interest at o>°/
per annum **/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor
PROVIDE A RESERVE FUND
by banking your surplus earnings where they will
accumulate with interest at the rate of 3* per cent, per
annum, and be available when required.
Government Saving's Bank of
New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/- upwards.
Interest Limit £5OO.
132 Branches and 500 Agencies throughout the State.
No Agencies at Post Office.
The Bank that Pays 31% Interest on Savings.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Inter=State Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting’).
FOR MELBOURNE.
FOR IIOBART.
Huddart Parker L|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne, to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWKAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart. *
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to; —
TWEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are iOued in conjunction witli
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —-steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Us.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply;—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
Don’t waft to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins to
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter’s Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
man, woman
and child.
Camus
STYLE
IYER
PILLS,
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurleg.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
à
Used since 1 506. CURES Write for Book:
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist op “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.


Charles
Vintage 1906
NE PLUS DLTRfI
■r
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
t6fto"' ing
ate
jjv** 1 *
«?*°£
sS gydtiey
391 Oeo*«|*
C S VStS* 1 *
V S-G eot fs
r«ft VvVng .*?
int
cfvott
122
n S^asdwe?
B olld > gtou tf^ S aney
H e »""Ll St.,
®aso^**C«.
»hoP“
dTV lat^e ncV
d *mEverV
á
PAULINE et CIE
ANNOUNCE THEIR
SPRING AND SUMMER SHOW.
MILLINERY on and after Wednesday, August 7.
COATS and SKIRTS, FROCKS, etc., on and after
Tuesday, August 20. 3rd Floor,
Denison House Chambers, George Street, Sydney.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay. 140 Rooms,
comprising Private Suites, Open-Air
Sunny Lounges. Billiard Room,
Tennis Court, Electric Light and
Lifts,
Illustrated!'Prospectus and all particu-
larsfovAvarded on application.
Telephones : Y2IIS and Y 1260.
Missing - Friends.
ELLE N RODGERS ( daughter of JAMES
RODGERS), who went to Australia in
of about the year 1852 and has not since
been heard of, information is desired, if alive,
of her present address, and if dead the date
and place of her death.
KENNETH BROWN, BAKER, BAKER,
Lennox House, Norfolk Street,
Strand, London, England.
w
ANTED.—Address of HOTHAM
CHARLES JONES,
late of S.S. Kapunda.
Apply NATIONAL TRUSTEES CO.,
Melbourne.
T\/fURPHY, MARY, Daughter of EDWARD and
- LVI HANNAH MURPHY. Last heard of in Sydney
18 years ago. Communicate with THE TRUSTEES
EXECUTORS & AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED, 412
Collins Street, Melbourne, to her advantage.
MACKINTOSH, DOUGLAS REGINALD. Son of
IVI DOUGLAS FRASER MACKINTOSH. Last
heard of in Windsor 9 vears ago. Communicate
with THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
to his advantage,
After reading, will you please send this paper to
the Red Cross Book, Magazine and Newspaper Depot,
5 Wynyard Street, Sydney, or place it in one pf the
receptacles provided for the purpose. All copies thus
received are divided equally between the Red Cross
Society and the War Chest Fund, and are posted
weekly to our soldiers abroad.
/
K\^ 0 r
Pm
The
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
scaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILINERY
Sydney, September 2. 1918.
My Dear Akini, —
Tiie French Mission will give local society
every opportunity to air its irregular verbs
at the reception in its honor on September
13. This is a Government House function.
-V garden party in the same premises on
October 1 will be a bigger gathering, and
sheaves of paste-board -will flutter through
the post in a week or two.
In brilliant sunshine, with the warmth of
a summer day, Governor-General Ferguson
inspected a fine body of men at Liverpool.
The Camp parade-ground is a fairly level
patch of well-ti ampod-down grass, with
undulating hillocks, and while infantry and
Light Horse (the nags were mostly of the
heavy gun-carriage species, lent for the
occasion) went through their evolutions, a
line of recruitecs on the horizon added effect
to a brisk picture of soldiering in a first-
rate A.I.F. camp. Unfortunately lack of
publicity was responsible for a very small
attendance. His Ex., mounted on a sedate
chestnut, expressed mild wonder, at this
aspect of the occasion. Captain Barton
ambled along , with the Fairguson.
Red Cross dames have offered their con-
dolences t 0( Mrs. Shepheard Laidley, one of
their original members, whose eldest son, a
captain in the A.F.A., was killed in France
during the recent pursuit of Fritz.
Pastoralist J. R. Robertson, of Togan-
main, Hay, lias put his affairs in order, set a
manager to look after his flocks, and enlisted
for active service. Mrs. Robertson, after a
long bout of ill-health, is, in company with
her child, going for a short trip to the
Pacific islands to recuperate. She’ll return
in time to see her husband off to the war.
That done, the Toganmain missus will use
up her spare time in Sydney driving wounded
soldiers from Randwiek around the suburbs
in a motor-car which the head of the family
is leaving her for the 'purpose. Meanwhile
convalescent Soldiers will be welcomed as
usual at the up-country homestead.
The Davidsons are settling down to city
life again after a visit to the Riverimi. The
Otway Falkiners’ homestead, Boonooke. was
the sub-regal camp during spell-oh. Boon-
ooke has been rebuilt on the site of the old
home. Very little is left of the first dwell-
ing. Its surrounding country is hard to
beat in any part of pastoral N. S. Wales. A
kangaroo hunt was put on for the people
who represent George V. The Davidsons
bought two horses in the Riverimi. Her
Ex. is a capable horsewoman and can talk
horse with the best of them.
There’s a rumor of the probable departure
for U.S. of W. 11. Wood. ex-M.L.A. and
Chief Secretary in pre-war days. It’s a
Government mission of some kind. William,
who married the charming Mrs. Young, a
widowed daughter of General French, for-
merly N. S. Wales State Commandant, pays
his own expenses. Lately the Woods have
been living quietly at Wentworth Falls.
Sergeant Maurice Pear.se. killed lately in
France, was the youngest son of A. W.
Pearse, editor of the Pastokai/ikts' Review.
Dad lately returned from Egypt and there-
abouts, where be was a commissioner for the
Australian Comforts Fund. Young Pearse
was an “old boy” of the Arrnidale School
(N.S.W.), and was a clerk in Birt and Co.’s
Sydney office when lie enlisted at 20 in 3935.
He was in time for several smoky months at
Gallipoli, and afterwards went with the :53rd
Battalion to France, where, he was wounded
at Pozieres.
The Sydney presswomen’s stall on Homes’
Day will be at Waters’ corner (King and
George streets). Mrs. Fotheringhaine is
rounding up helpers, and Mrs. (Ethel
Turner) Cnrlewis is pushing ahead with the
purple packet scheme. The p.p. “stunt” (as
the flying boys would say) is on hidden-
treasure lines. The promoters, after naming
the patriotic infant, found that they were lip
against a famine in purple paper. So the
name remains, but violet ribbons will be
substituted for the missing wrappers.
Miss Soubeiran, one of the founders of
the French-Australian League, is expected
home within the next week. She was a
toddler in Paris when the German army
entered the city after it had fallen in 1871.
An orphan of the Franco-Prussian war, it
was her strange lot to once more hear the
same enemy shelling her beloved native city
not so many weeks ago. Since then the
Allied army has been tickling the Hun’s
heels while he flees towards the Rhine. Over
the good news the League will presently
mingle its congratulations, with the French
Mission as its guests. The party is to be
held on September 32 at the Australia.
The French Mission will have as inter-
preter on its country tour in N. S. "Wales
Mr. Ramsay, of Hansard staff, an accom-
plished spokesman in the language of Foch.
The new French Consul-General, M. Cam-
pana, expects his wife to unpack her Sara-
toga in Sydney in about eight weeks. The
lady will give a Slip to the Consulate which
has been without a madame since the war.
The late Patrick O’Brien, during the last
year or two of his life, lent to the Red Cross,
on one condition, his beautiful water-side
home, Reinga, Woolwich, as a convalescent
home for soldiers. The condition was that
Mrs. A. J. Hare, head of the Lane Cove
V.A.D.. should be lion, matron. How well
this strenuous honorary worker justified
this faith in her only the nerve* and shell-
shock patients, who found Reinga a haven
of peace, can tell; but the executive of the
Red Cross and the military made certain
drastic changes. Mrs. Hare, partly as the
reaction of nearly four years devotion toiler
self-imposed duties, became seriously ill, and
when she was “no longer required.” the Lane
Cove V.A.I). took off their pinnies and
downed brooms. Benefactor O’Brien’s
daughter, Mrs. Coberoft, now the owner of
Reinga. kept to the spirit of her father’s
wish and will use the place herself. The
end of the upheaval is that Russell Lea,
near Abbotsford, has been purchased by the
military. The late' Russell Barton made his
home there for many years. Standing on a
green knoll above the sloping banks of the
Parramatta River, it is an ideal spot for
sick men. Nevertheless the village of
Woolwich is feeling very sore over the whole
business.
Killed in the big push, Major Norman L.
Dreyer, D. 5.0., tt partner in the well-known
firm of Sydney solicitors, Stuart, Thom and
Co. He was one of a dozen or so who quali-
fied for their A.I.F. stars through the local
4th Field Artillery Brigade, and first saw
service in the sands of Sinai, where he
earned his captaincy. Later he went on to
France as adjutant, and after about a year
took over the command of a battery which
worked over-time in the great 1917 advance.
Dreyer got his majority towards the end of
1917, and the D.S.O. followed. A fine sol-
dier and a good fellow, Major Dreyer is a
big loss to the Australian gunners. He was
an old Sydney High School boy, served his
articles with Piggott and Stinson, and was
for some time associate to Arbitration Court
Judge Edmunds.
The Lady of the
Lamp, whether she
serves in the battle
zone or tends the
wounded in military,
hospitals, is estab-
lishing a magnificent
record of devotion to
duty. And so the
British War Office
very properly has
recognised the splen-
did work done by the
women who are giv-
ing their helping-
hand to the fighting
men. Matron Mar-
garita Veenman, of
Randwiek Military
Hospital, is one who
has been decorated.
No one was more astonished than she was
when the news came from London. Her
assiduous care and love for Billjim, and her
self-abnegation as matron—and therefore
always on dutv when there is a rush of cot
cases —has long been noted. At the cere-
mony in Martin Place the other day the
Governor-General handed over the Royal
Red Cross decoration to the original of this
little picture by May Moore —a handsome
silver cross inset with red, enamel. In the
centre is George V.’s head in relief. Above
are the words Faith, Hope and Charity.
Matron Veenman belongs to N. S. Wales and
was trained in Newcastle Hospital, where
she became, sub-matron. She has been in
charge of Randwiek Hospital since July,
1915. controlling a staff of 87 trained nurses,
including 46 massage nurses. The Rand-
wiek haven for our badly wounded houses
about 700 soldiers at present, but the new
building operations will provide beds for
1000 men —a large family of sick for any
woman to mother.
The Millions of Meals Club’s dinner in
the Voluntary Workers’ Cafe on Saturday
evening brought forth a good array of ora-
tors to advertise Homes’ Day—homes for
soldiers being the V.W.s’ specialty. The best
evidence of the work being done came from
Sergeant Buckley, a slender returned man
who was almost “given up” by the doctors.
A few weeks ago I saw his cottage on a
loamy lower patch of French's Forest. There
are, first, a capable young wife, six acres
(mostly under cultivation), between three
and four hundred good fowls and their cava-
liers, a steam apparatus to keep an even
temperature in the long brooders’ house, a
garden full of flowers and a cow or two. All
these good things (the Capable GirL ex-
cepted) came through the Voluntary Work-
ers’ Association.
Italy’s Day, which is still moving on to a
finish in the country, will add about
£60,000 to the Red Cross funds of our Ally.
That sum is in sight; £50,000 is in hand and
will be the amount of a cheque which Consul-
General Eles, who comes to Sydney from
Melbourne headquarters, will be asked to
forward. The remainder will follow later.
To keep the petrol tank full and for other
exes, in connection with the convalescent
soldiers’ car at Rose Hall. Grace Stafford
organised a smart show in St. James’s Hall.
One little comedy was - a brisk skit on the
brand-new English V.A.D., on her native
soil, who gives up being a duchess to boil
eggs, and make the cocoa (of knife powder)
for soldiers home in Blighty.
During the past
two years a Sydney
contralto wi t h a
luscious richness in
her voice has com*' to
the fore. As a ballad
singer, notably in
songs of sentiment
with crooning re-
frains. Lilian Gibson
is rapidly becoming
one of our most pop-
ular concert artists.
She began her studies
in the Goulburn Con-
vent, where, some
years ago. Ella Cas-
per’s fresh young-
voice attracted the
notice of the nuns.
Later, the Sydney
girl put in a long course of study under
Andrew Black, a teacher with a gift for
bringing out the organ tones in a genuine
contralto. But the Harbor tow T n thinks most
of Lilian Gibson for her unselfish efforts to
help every patriotic cause. So far as her
professional warbles permit she is always
ready to give her voice to the service of
any fund that is connected with the man in
the firing-line. Few concerts to collect com-
forts for the Aussies are complete without
her song. The photo is by Judith Fletcher.
You can, if you like, give yotlr Rembrandt,
your Gainsborough, or even your little
guinea hat to Jack’s Day. Beard, Watson,
Ltd., notify the generous that they’ll store
anything from oil paintings to a china
candlestick till October. Then the commit-
tee in charge (the Alex. McCormick lady is
president) means to sell the lot by auction.
Mayor Joynton Smith took charge of the
Town Hall meeting held to consider the best
way to raise money for the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital. A new Nurses’ Home is
the main objective of the present struggle.
Judge Backhouse, a persistent barracker for
this Cinderella amongst sister charities, ex-
plained that about £BOOO is urgently needed.
Have you seen the new Spring capes?
They’re rather smaller than the historic
coat over which the famous Cor'sican,
Napoleon, folds his arms in the prints of
the retreat from Moscow.
The Sydney Day Nursery Association
which cares, so far as its means permit, for
babies whose mothers have to go out to
work, in accordance with our villainous
social system, checked its annual debit and
credit the other afternoon. Her Ex. presided.
1 nlies Noad, M.L.C., outlined some schemes
for the future whereby the hope of Australia
might get a fair deal.
Coining home on four months’ furlough
Flight-Commander T. E. Gorman, of Nan-
gunia, Berrigan. The N. S. Wales man has
been peppering Fritz for two years from
the Western' Front. He is going to wed
Frances Haines, a Berrigan girl, during his
brief holiday.
Mrs. Rosalind Brown, who taught the
young vocalist how to reach top notes for
years in this town, has been packing up for
a new home. Goulburn will be her address
in future.
On September 2S there’s to be a rally on
the Cecil Purser’s green lawns at Wahroonga
for the benefit of the Edith Cavell Home
fund. The sub-regal lady is lending her
cherubs to help the other juveniles. En-
trance charge, one shilling.
The _ shady walks in old Hyde Park are
again in danger. Temporary chief gardener
Cooper (on loan from Melbourne) leans
towards dahlias. He hasn’t explained how
these handsome decorative plants are to pro-
vide us on a blazing summer day with the
shade we have been accustomed to in the
park.
On September IS the New South Wales
Voluntary Aids will bid formal farewell to
Mrs. Chris Bennett, who has done such
excellent work as hon. co-director with the
military head. Tea at Rose Hall and the
gift of an album containing groups of the
various squads will be included in the pro-
gramme of the leave-taking.
Brisbane notes: —
The Y.M.C.A. held its annual meeting the other
day, and all the speakers, including Lady Goold-
Adams, urged it to keep on passing the hat for
the £25,000 required for its new building. But
surely Billjim, his missus and kids have a stronger
claim on any spare £25,000 which happens to be
available for bricks and mortar. Appeals of this
kind should be postponed until Mrs. Billjim has
her roof.
Killed in action, in France, Lieut. A. S. West, soil
of the Rev. A. E. West, who is now anchored at
Dulwich Hill. An old Brisbane Grammar boy, he
had been twice mentioned in despatches before his
call came.
. Barrister-aviator Tom Macleod is a major now.
He managed to get back to France at the end of
June, and is in charge of an aviation park some-
where.
Our city fathers are clawing the air over thd
question of mixed bathing in the Municipal Baths.
Two or three of the more progressive fail to see any
harm in it. but the old-timers, led by Mayor McMas-
ter, tremble at the thought. Anyhow, the city
solicitor says the Council has no power to pass a
by-law allowing mixed washing, and the governing
Act will have to be amended before the dreadful
proceedings can take place.
Nurse Mauritz and her sister looked in front
Sydney this week on their way to the Northern
Territory. They have been sent North by the
Presbyterian Inland Mission to. take charge of the
little bush hospital at Marauboy, 160 miles front
Darwin, which was established and equipped some
time ago by the Federal Government.
Gunner W. S. Jeffrey, son of the Jeffrey who
manages the Blair Athol Coal Mines, is back home
in Rockhampton, after 10 months in a German prison
camp at Dulmen, Westphalia. He was reported
killed in action, but German stretcher-bearers picked
him up in the Bulleeourt wire entanglements. lie
declares that had it not been for the Australian
Red Cross parcels he must have starved to death.
Cyril White, Government Botanist, is in New
Guinea indulging his pet science, and is staying with
Judge Murray. Young White is a grandson ol
J. Manson . Bailey, the wonderful old man who was
Government Botanist here for so many years.
Died unexpectedly, this week, Percy Weston, lec-
turer in electrical engineering at the Bananaland
University, lie was a Sydney Uni. graduate, and
had held his position here since March, 1914. A
tiny scatch on the note resulted in blood-poisoning.
His wife was Miss Ivy Shields, a. clever Bananaland
girl.
This week is the appointed time to pass
in any small odds and ends for the IVss-
women’s Purple Packets. David Jones, Ltd-
have a receptacle to drop them into till Mrs.
Cnrlewis carries them off.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


sjamojg Xpraß
LTD
JEWELLERS.
FINE WHOLE PEARL NECKLACES
OF EXCEPTIONAL QUALITY AND VALUE.
Prices Range from
£2O to £2OOO.
u
m ■
Prices Range from
£2O to £2OOO.
Loose Pearls for
Improving and
Lengthening
Necklaces.
Specially matched
Pairs, suitable for
Stud Earrings.
Forms a
The Company’s Stock of
FINE WHOLE PEAKE NECKLACES
Very Special Display from which to Make a Selection.
INSPECTION INVITED.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 116-118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON.
TARE AN ENSIGNETTE
on Your Spring Outings.
■
WA
s>sey
THE
SMALLEST
OF ALL
VEST POCKET
CAMERAS.
British-Make.
Spring-, with its beautiful flowers, and glorious sunshine, is again with us, calling with
an insistent voice to be out of doors and revel in the realms of nature.
The pleasure you derive from those outings will be greatly enhanced, and live longer
in vour memorv, if you have an Ensignhtte, and take photos of the beauty-spots you visit.
* it is the ideal camera for holidays and excursions—easy to use, easy to carry. It fits
in a man’s vest or hip pocket or a lady’s handbag, aftd it takes clear, sharp photos, which can be
enlarged any size up to 12 x 10 if desired. .
It will stand any amount of knocking abopt, as the body is made of metal —dm
polished'oxydised—with Leather Bellows and Nickel Fittings. Shutter gives Time and
Instantaneous Exposures.
No. 1 takes pictures 21 x 1-1 inches 30/-
No. 2 takes pictures 3 x 2 inches 37 / o
Filins to suit—No. 1, lid.; No. 2, 1/3; per roll of six exposures.
Harringtons* Laboratories
Give Best Returns
from Sweepings, Residues, etc.
The latest scientific appliances for the treatment of Sweeps, Residues and other Waste
Products of Jewellers, Dentists, Process Engravers, and other Metal Workers are installed
in our laboratories, and every ounce of precious metal is extracted.
Every order is promptly executed, under the personal supervision of a qualified
chemist from the laboratories of Mesu-s. Johnson and Son, London, Assayers to his
Majesty’s Mint, the Bank of England, etc., and, m order to thoroughly protect our
clients, '
We Reserve Reference Samples until Settlement is Complete.
Materials collected in city or s üburbs free of charge. Give us a ring and our
traveller will call on you.
Photographic and Cinematogr■ phic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George St. North, Sydney.
M
REGISTERED\
. . NAME for . .
HE AN’S
(essence /
FOR
Coughs, Colds, Croup. Catarrh
and all Chest and Throat Troubles.
// J* IQiS
ilvoj w„
e* • Uo
QLi.A~9
THE treatment of Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Colds, Influenza and Sore
Throats calls for .something that
will destroy disease germs from tin*
throat and bronchial tubes, soothe and
heal inflamed mucous membrane, loosen
phlegm, and tone up the general system.
For this purpose, money cannot buy
a better medicine than that, a family
supply of which anyone may prepare in
their own homes in a few moments by
adding HEEXZO (registered name for
Heards Essence) to warm water and
sweetening as per easy directions, sup-
plied with each bottle. As HEEXZO
costs only 2/-, and each bottle produces
as much superior cough mixture as
would cost anything from 12/- to £l, if
purchased in a lot of small dottles, it
will be seen that a big money-sawing is
to be effected by making your own
cough mixture. HEEXZO is stocked
by chemists and stores.
If you do not need a family supply
of cough mixture, ask for HEEXZO
COUGH DIAMOND'S, price I/- per
tin.
Costs
Heenzo is obtainable from all
Leading Chemists or Stores,
Or by post from G. W. HEAN, Manufacturing
Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Worth
Remember HOMES DAY—Friday, September 13. Thousands of
homes are wanted. You can help by working, or with money.


Hotel Sydney
(Now Fully Licensed)
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE. SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
HOT AND COLD WATER SERVICE IN EVERY
BEDROOM DAY AND NIGHT.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
„ (Daily) 11/6
Bed and Breakfast ~ ... 6/6
Management—E. T. CIIEESEMAN.
Missing Friends.
JAMES BEESLEY, late of Drayton,
Berks., England, who left for Australia
about 30 years ago, or any person knowing
of his whereabouts, please communicate with
JOSEPH JAMES BEESLEY, Carpenter.
Ladybrand,
C.F.S.,
South Africa.
SSSSS!?
:
HH
mm
wmm
« •« * $ 'vw"
■ .. HP
x?Si5 :
mm
•is*-:.--
: ■is
LESLIE
A/d lA/a <=z Tf=- .
99
SALT
MCKS
lesome
SUPERCEDE ROCK SALT
/Vo Waste • Zhexpe/vs/xe • Wholesome
"hang THEM BV' the i_oof=>”
Obtainab/e from a// cs tones, Pnoduce Merchants, etc. throughout the Commonwea/th.
MELBURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rusts Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, September 2,191 S.
My Dear Yakkie.—
Of Melbourne’s shows on Saturday night
the most exciting was at the Palace, where
“The Black Cloaks” was put on by the
Victorian Comic Opera amateurs. The opera
itself has the scintillating qualities of dough,
and; this combined with the fact that the per-
formers were seen, but indifferently heard,
proved too much for that portion of the audi-
ence that had not paid to see its mother in a
short skirt, or applaud its brother or best girl.
Since those on the stag ■ failed to provide
entertainment, the crowd supplied its own.
Half-way through the first act the gallery
began jeering; in the second, things got
worse, and the noise was not confined to the
“gods” ; while during the third, anyone stroll-
ing in casually would have thought that an
election meeting or a wool-sale w*s in pro-
gress. The final curtain descent* d to an
accompaniment of groans and insults, where-
upon the producer rashjy took the stage and
announced that the house had been “packed.”
Voices from the auditorium assured him
that he was mistaken. Anyhow, no producer
qf a misfire should ever produce himself.
Leila Doubleday gave her first concert on
.Saturday night in the Auditorium. The
management used the Continental trick of
suddenly plunging the body of the hall into
darkness, leaving only the platform brightly
lit like a theatre stage. Leila was in white
under an amber-shaded light. A black piano,
a scarlet strip of carpet and a potted orange-
tree completed the picture. Young Leila of
years ago appeared again as a self-possessed
young artiste in a gown built like a white
surplice. There was a lace surplice over
white satin and a white silk stole hanging
sheer from her shoulders at the back. Her
brown hair was coiled close and massed
thickly over her left eyebrow. She soon got
the big house’s sympathy, so that after every
item ushers advanced and delivered bouquets
at her feet. An adoring family party sat in
the stalls. The Ballieux were in full strength.
(Leila has been staying with one branch of
the clan in Toorak since her return.)
The front-view of Leila’s quaint white
satin frock, with its apology for a waist
tending towards her armpits, was less satis-
factory than the side-view when she had at
last nestled her fiddle under her chin. Viewed
from the rear, as she walked off, the dr,ess
was mainly a mere length of material. Leila
might have been garbed in something more
adapted to her healthy Australian style.
Leila’s style indicates indifference to pictur-
esque platform effect. And in her treatment
of floral tributes she has a lot to learn from
Dolores or Ada Reeve. The supply was
bounteous at Leila’s first concert. A small
cart-load of baskets of blossoms and bouquets
was handed up after her first recall. She
got away hastily with as many as she could
carry, but there was nothing of the artist in
her selection of what to take and what to
leave in the foreground. A later consign-
ment of tributes was awkwardly placed at
the side of the platform, and finally the
usher came along with a plain cardboard box
which he deposited in the centre foreground
as though to invite the lady’s attention next
time she took up her position. A casual
glance at this mysterious offering was all
that Leila deigned to give it.
Melba’s pet singing girls lately gave a con-
cert _ in the Richmond Town Ilall, where
Nellie sang when she was a small girl. Rich-
mond is also the birthplace of Stella Power,
who was the star of the other night’s pro-
gramme. Melba played some of the accom-
paniments after receiving Lady Stanley. Her
Ex. wore a string of diamonds round her
hair, brought her lorgnette and muffled her-
self in a sable cloak. Melba’s own magnifi-
cent wrap had gold and large pastel pink
roses embroidered on it. When she peeled
this off for the stage, she was in an ex-
pensively simple frock of white chiffon satin,
with a rope of pearls about her neck and
dangling emeralds set in diamonds. An
emerald clasp held some f”lds of the white
gown. When she finished the last accompani-
ment and rejoined Lady Stanley, the house
began to clamor for her to sing; but she had
to refuse. She has had influenza, and her
doctor has ordered a rest for her vocal
chords. However her admirers didn’t know
that, and kept up such a clamor that the
diva finally had to get up and leave the hall.
Bourguinon, the Belgian who went to
America in Melba’s train, played some con-
cert music. He lias put on weight. Stella
Power billowed on in sails of white satin.
Pc-ggy Center showed very slender ankles
from under a crisp frilled white net skirt and
butterfly frills crisping out from shoulder
and waist. Miss Murdoch, a budding con-
tralto, wore a demure white frock with
ginger hair, and sang with a slight Scotch
accent. The Mitchell clan was thick in the
hall. The pretty Conservatorium girls who
were not singing acted as ushers and pro-
gramme-sellers. These girls have to dress as
smartly as a regiment of soldiers under the
eye of Melba.
Melbourne lost one of its identities last
week. Thomas Welton Stanford, of East
Melbourne, passed away to spirit-land at B>-
and if he is ever again to join the engloomed
circle in his rooms at Russell-street his his-
toric form will have to be impalpable.
Sixty-one years ago, T.W.S. Cs«re to Mel-
bourne from America, and the agency for
Singer’s sewing-machines made him very
wealthy ere lie retired from business' to take
up Spiritualism. Perhaps he didnff die as
rich as he was said to be, but he certainly
was pretty “warm” in a financial way of
speaking. Many years ago Ins home was a
house of call for anyone who could print an
admiring notice of the Stanford collection of
oil-paintings, some of them good, and mostly
old-fashioned. As a collector he was not a
man of up-to-date ideas. One could guess as
much from his extraordinary attachment to
his patriarchal beard, which had been jet-
black like his hair for almost as long as the
oldest inhabitant could remember. Stan-
ford’s impossibly black trimmings in contrast
with his pale face, together with his notori-
ous passion for spiritualism and his 60 con-
secutive years in Melbourne, made him a
conspicuous figure, aud the curious were
never tired of asking why he never revisited
America, what time his millionaire brother,
the late Leland Stanford, was a famous
philanthropist. But o’d Tom always grew
restless under any mention of his visi ing the
land of his birth. , He was a childless
w’dower for the last half-century, or there-
abouts.
Melba drew the raffle for the Kitchener
Flag on Thursday afternoon at the Town
Hall. The bunting went to ticket 162,882,
owned by C. 11. Lear, of Brunswick, an old
sailor of between 60 and 70. He gladly takes
delivery of the 2000 guineas offered for the
flag by Edward Solomon, of Westralia. A
diamond ring was awarded to Mrs. Ryan for
selling the largest amount of tickets. She
generously gave the circlet back to be auc-
tioned “for the boys.”
Edward Solomon, who made possible the
success of the Kitchener Flag Art Un’on,
by offering to buy the prize for 2000 guineas,
makes a hobby of collecting flags sold or
raffled for patriotic purposes. Four years
ago he acquired for 66 guineas a Belgian
flag auctioned at the Oriental Hotel by
Daisy Jerome. Since then he has attended
practically ..every patriotic function in Mel-
bourne at which autographed bunting was
on sale, and has bought flags by deputy in
other capitals. All the Allies are repre-
sented in his collection.
This is Rem-
brandt’s view of
Bombardier Waller,
the one-armed sol-
dier-artist who has
been recently show-
ing some of bis
battle pictures in
Melbourne. Waller
is a Penshurst boy
who originally
whetted his appetite
for art by drawing
illustrations to
Tennyson and Wil-
liam Morris. Coming
to Melbourne, he
entered the National
Gallery and wrung
from Bernard Hall
and the late Fred
McCubbin the mysteries of color and line
and the art of combining the same with
the painter’s creative fancy. In 1915,
when he was pushing along to big achieve-
ments. the war intervened and threw him
into France, -where a high explosive caught
him at Builecourt and smashed his right
arm. Though he now works well with his
arduously-educated left, he has gained
another right hand in Christian Yandell, a
young painter whom he married before he
went to meet the Hun.
George Allan’s sister is acting as secretary,
and Mrs. Tallis, Mrs, Robins, Mrs. Willis
and Mrs. George Fairbairn are with
her on a committee, to help The Girls, Who
Stayed at Home. These entertainers have
raised over £7OOO for the soldiers by giving
town and country concerts. They have been
at it since the beginning of the war, and
their “props” and costumes w’ant renewing.
So the above-mentioned Melbourne hostesses
(the Girls have helped them often) are
giving a concert in the St. Kilda Town Hall
on Wednesday, September 11. Part of the
proceeds will be used to equip the patriotic
entertainers; the balance will provide and
endow some cots in Caulfield Military Hos-
pital.
Captain Geoff. Grice was deprived of his
well-won M.C. in this column a couple of
weeks ago. and credited instead with the
Order of the British Empire. The battle
decoration is hereby pinned on again.
Chilian Consul Barros, is just back from
a convalescent trip to his country.
The venerable Henry Gyles Turner
dropped into the Lyceum Club the other
evening and lectured on “A Day in Mel-
bourne in 1539.” He mentioned that the
smart-dressers of that time banded their hair
like Queen Victoria and wore cottage bonnets
and Paisley shawls. We wouldn’t do that
now—that is, unless it -was the fashion.
Dolly Nicholson, one of Melbourne’s top-
notch tennis players, has been visible on the
Rose Bay (Sydney) courts this week. She
is staying with Mrs. Neville Dangar.
The Bland Holts have packed up and gone
to Sorrento for a long spell.
The photo, of Mrs.
James, lately from
France, presents
almost the ideal of
militarism in petti-
coats. She has the
f o l* c i b 1 y feminine
face of the master-
ful womanly man-
ner, which may be
partly due to her
baptismal name of
Britomarte. M r s.
James went to Eng-
land two years ago
to be as near as pos-
sible to two sons
then learning to fly,
and she soon became
an active organiser
of entertainments for
the Australians. The Brass-hats must have
had the little lady from Australia marked
as an exceptionally capable woman, other-
wise she wouldn’t have been allowed to
enlist for the Women’s Auxiliary Army
Corps on her own special terms. She was
appointed a Unit Administrator with march-
ing orders. She led her small force of 69
or .so girl soldiers aboard a boat at Folke-
stone, and debarked them at Boulogne.
Oddly enough the very first man who inter-
viewed her on W.A.A.C. business was a link
with home. She had to discuss the fixing-
up of her headquarters and he introduced
himself as- Captain Geach. “You don’t hap-
pen to know a Portia Geach, formerly of
Melbourne, and now of Sydney?” asked the
lady. “She’s my cousin.” replied the cap-
tain. After that the conference progressed
swimmingly.
Adelaide’s budget:—
Capt. C. E. Howell, whose M.C. was chronicled
last week, has added a Distinguished Flying Cross
to that decoration. He and his patrol encountered
nine enemy planes, finally accounted for seven of ,
them, and put an eighth out of control, Capt.
I-lowell being responsible for three of tile Huns. The
performance was staged at 18,000 feet. An M.C. has
also come to Lieut. Shaw, son of an ex-mayor of
this village.
Capt. Pollard, who has been A.D.C. to successive
local commandants for some time, has gone to Mel-
bourne and taken his smart wife.
The Returned Soldiers’ Association’s “indignation
meeting” was not regarded in official circles with
quite the lofty disdain that some people pretended.
The men have got one thing they demanded, i.e.,
representation on the board- of the S. Aus. Soldiers’
Fund. Mr. Blundell resigned his seat and nominated
the R.S.A.’s secret&ry as his successor, and the
Premier announced in the House that he (the see.)
will sit as a representative of the Association and
not of the Government.
An obstinate motor crunk cost William Morrow,
M.L.0., a double fracture of the wrist the qther
afternoon.
Private A. G. Crouch, one. of a well-known south-
eastern family has been killed in action. He enlisted
in Victoria and had. been only four months at the
front.
Lieut. Colin Duncan, who was put out of action by
Hun gas, has gone over to Melbourne to be initiated
into his duties as A.D.C. to the C.-G.
The Royal Red Cross (second class) has gone ,to
Matron Hancock, who has put in a long spell of
service as principal matron of the 4th Military
District and the No. 7 A.G.H.
The Brown dame’s appeal for male spinners of
wool for feminine knitters has’ had its result, and
the Tourist Bureau windows show photographs of the
spinners and some skeins of their handiwork. * One
of them is a south-eastern squatter who learnt his
job in two lessons and spins from wool grown on
his own premises.
The will of the late Dr. Bevan has been proved at
£7200 in this State. The money' goes to his widow
and family, with a legacy to his adopted daughter,
Mrs. Paul Joseph.
The Regimental Clubs gathered the next-of-kin of
the men at the front at the Town Hall on Thursday
evening to exchange news about their fighters.
The 9th and 11th Light Horse Regimental Club, at
its second annual meeting a few days previously,
elected as its president Mrs. Carew Reynell, whose
husband was the 9th’s colonel when he was killed on
Gallipoli.
The Mayoress has called the women’s patriotic
bodies together and urged them to do their bit
toward raising South Australia’s £3,500,000 slice
of the War Loan. The campaign is to be opened 1 \
a meeting in the Exhibition Building on September 10.
Major H. W. H. Seager, M.C., who was badly
wounded at Messines last autumn, has left to take
command of a transport.
Gladys Moncrieff, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. R. G. Moncrieff, of Double Bay, Syd-
ney, is engaged to Ellis Davies, of Mel-
bourne. Gladys is Katinka in that popular
comic opera; fiance Ellis is chief engineer
for Rmvolt’s, “engaged on work of national
importance.”
Fernie Aitken, daughter of the Mayor of
Rutherglen, has promised to marry Lieut.
Percy Fullerton, a flying officer now busy
over the retreating Huns. Percy also
belongs to Rutherglen.
Alfred Weston-Pett is prouder than ever,
for the engagement has just been announced
of daughter Beatrice, who is still in her
teens, to Flight-Lieutenant Victor Holyman.
R.N.A.S., a Launceston boy who has just
returned after two years of Hun strafing.
Several theatricals have lately committed
matrimony or are threatened with the indis-
cretion. Among the most recent to hire a
parson are T. W. Lloyd and Maisie Carte,
who are both well known in Melbourne and
Sydney. Lloyd is the useful small-part man
who years ago thrilled all feminine hearts
with his white-faced version of .Tacky in
“Sunday.” Maisie Carte is a promising
Maoriland actress who exercises a literary
gift in' secret and has an artistic nature
generally.
Mavis MacMillan was a pale pink bride
last week when she married Western Dis-
trict stockman Edgar. Miss Langridge was
a picturesque bridesmaid in a Pauline pastel
filmy gown. The rejoicings were at Scott's
Hotel.
Ray Bennett and bridegroom Leslie Ivos-
minsky are away honeymooning. The
’groom is the sou of Austral Hat Mills Ivos-
minsky, and has a sheep-run at Cootamundra
(N.S.W.). The wedding was as quiet as
that of two very popular young people can
be. Bert Monasli, daughter of the General,
•and Rewa Marks (Moss Mark’s daughters)
helped the bride with her gloves and bouquet.
Madge Kosminsky, Leslie’s sister, was the
third bridesmaid. Bride. Ray was dressed
in a short Dresden-China sort of frock.
There was great consternation in a Sydney
theatre the other night when the weight and
Influence in the latter half of the show was
found to be missing from her place in the
line. A frantic hunt by the staff failed to
locate the absentee, so after a wait of some
minutes with the orchestra trying to drown
the impatience of the audience, the curtain
was rung up on a substitute hastily com-
mandeered. The runaway turned up some
time later and declared yawnfully that she
had come into town early, and having an
hour or so to spare before going on, she had
turned into a picture-theatre and had
dropped off to sleep ! Some of these Yankee
film dramas would send an insomnia victim
to sleep.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


• ■
■
*'***-."'
' »
m
V
r ' >%
m
mm
i m
V
7!!%£
M
M
S*
•v;<
/
-ffs"-”
vjP
Si
... . >,
-a ■'“SvSa % -% \ v ;•,
v , H * v'-. Z W
%.; !t v
Gen Sir Douglas H/\ig
r iM
agagaßßOßsao Z'-^s^^ixiijSU^IOUBSBSBsSSMBLi
Copyright Watson's JVo. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
HE above portrait of General Sir Douglas Haig is one of a new series of drawings specially
ftatocrnA
ld'**
7vctfryor> <f &*
uurulra
'''s*ss//r//s//y////////^^^
am
m
m
mmm
mm.
mss*
■m%
m
mm/////";
’//mzmm
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being- entirely
free from advertising- matter, they make, when framed, a charming- acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir
Douglas Haig, General Sir W. Bird wood, General Sir W.
Robertson, General Foch, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D.
Sturdee, will be sent to any address on receipt of six penny (Commonwealth)
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., 26 King; Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
i
J
m.
7/ w/


The month of August, 1918, will be
enshrined in the history of the Allied nations
on account of the ever memorable deeds of
their glorious armies who marched from vic-
tory to victory fortified by that incompara-
ble spirit, King George IV. whisky.— Advt.
A few references despatched by cable: —
London Morning Post : “The Jeremiah from the
antipodes.”
Cologne Gazette : “The Wild Man of Australia.”
London Star : “The same glib charlatan.”
We’ll have to send an Australian to the
Old Country and see if that will please them.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
IV e SuppiiT—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worhj.
Legal Notices.
Statutory Notice to Next of Kin.
JDE JAMES HENRY BAKER, late of Brisbane, in
the State of Queensland, deceased, laborer.
Notice is hereby given that all persons claiming
to be next of kin of the abovenamed JAMES HENRY
BAKER, late of Brisbane, in the State of Queens-
land, deceased, who died on or about the second day
of August, 1917, A.n.j at Brisbane, in the said State,
are hereby required to forward proof of their rela-
tionship to The Public Curator, Brisbane, on or
before the first day of November, 1918. And that
after the expiration of the last-mentioned date The
Public Curator will proceed to distribute the assets
of the said deceased amongst the parties entitled
thereto, having- regard only to the claims of Which
he shall then have had notice.
Dated this twentv-fourth day of August, 1918.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Brisbane.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Ciwiot\
LEWIS&WhITTY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
SSI
m
X
&
ECONOMISE- !
Order Your Shirts To-day!
You will find in our Shirts the Highest Standard of
Workmanship. Our stocks are rapidly selling out, and
cannot be repeated at our present prices.
AL-Li shirts made in our own workrooms,
WITH REINFORCED NECKS. SLEEVE LIFTS.
The “Oxfor,” splendid-wearing Shirt, made from Oxford
Shirting. Black or Blue Stripes—ensures comfort and style
combined , 10/6 each.
The “Zeffa,” Famous light Zephyr Shirting, Stripe
Designs. Durable and comfortable 8/6 each.
SEND YOUR SIZE.
Enclose Postal Note.
We Pay Postage.
U
A
e *CF
HENRY BUCK & CO.,
Swanston Street,
MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
A determined raid on the Coq d’Or (Mel-
oourne) and King Offa (Caulfield) double
was made last week, with the result that
these two nags stand at a mighty short
price straight out, and there’s nothing much more
available on the combination. The unusual circum-
stance about this happening is that the pair are in
the same stable and both are imported horses. There
is the further coincidence that the same owners
supplied Lanins as a red-hot favorite lor last Mel-
bourne Cup, and what Lanius did is a pity to
remember. They also managed to just rnis3 the
Caulfield with Shadowland. Coq d’Or had a fair
vecord in England. Ilis best performance was in the
Column Produce Stakes at Newmarket, 1916, when
he ended up the mile in front of Gay Crusader, who
was giving him 111 b. In the same year he was
third in a mile and a quarter event anil unplaced
over a mile and a half. King Offa’s best to date is
a third in the Doona Trial at Caulfield a year ago.
Since betting on the Epsom started, odds-
merchants have kept Laddie Blue, a country nag
which invaded Randwiek in June and won a novice
mile in “37f,” on the safe side. Whether it will be
necessary to keep on doing this is doubtful. Any-
way Laddie Blue, starting in a mile at Maitland on
Saturday, with his Epsom weight aboard, only just
caught in the last stride a nag that wouldn’t be
given a chance in an Epsom under any weight, and
was giving him 101 b., finishing in “431.” In the
Epsom, Laddie Blue has Bst., and is Handicapped
to be a 41b. more'expeditious animal than Satin Bird,
winner of the race last year and winner of the
Exeter Handicap at Randwiek in June, when he ran
the mile with 9st. in “39.”
* -X- # ' #
Not long ago there was only one horse seri-
ously spoken of for the A.J.C. Derby—Outlook, Cer-
tainly at the end of the two-year-old proceedings
the outlook seemed to be that if this money-spinning
juvenile went on in the way he should he had a
mortgage over the stake. But it is not the first
time that bright outlooks of that kind have later
become dull and sadly disappointing. At present the
Derby is just about as open as could have been
looked for under any circumstances. Almoner, winner
of last Breeders’ Plate at Randwiek, and Finmark,
one of Lowry’s that was speedy enough to win sortie
good races over yonder, are coming from Maoriland.
Tragic Star, from Victoria, Red Fox and Sweet
Lady, and not impossibly, Woorawa, are open to
suspicion of being hard to beat. Also there are others.
And against Outlook is the circumstance of being
one of a race that takes unkindly to going very far.
Anyway there is certain to be a better field than the
one Biplane made an unholy exhibition of.
Desert Gold landed in Sydney on Tuesday
front Maoriland. Interviewed subsequently in her
boudoir at Randwiek the lady said she was quite
well, thank you, and expected to move her legs with
as much rapidity as usual on an early occasion.
* * * *
The 60, 20, 20 scheme with the tote seems
to be peculiarly suitable for pony courses and the
sportsmen who patronise these establishments. At
Ascot (Sydney) on Saturday there was a record
turnover for courses in N. S. Wales other than
Randwiek —-£18,264. There were a few things inci-
dental. One was that not a single stake-winner got
off with £lOO. Most of them got less than £5O.
Another was that the Government appropriated
£1275 from the day’s sport through the piratical
7 per cent, raid on the machine, and the club £450
—tasty additions to the ticket tax and bookmakers’
fees. Twelve races were run for £720, divided
among 36 place-getters. Now, what sort of game
is that to play, and the State to give its blessing
to besides taking, one way and anothe'r, over £l5OO
from it? Meanwhile tlie attempt to “improve sport”
and “encourage the thoroughbred” by Government
annexation of double the sum appropriated by' the
prads seems an interesting experiment.
* * * •*
“M.” : It is quite true the totalisator can-
not lie, and that, given competent clerks, it is
practically imnossible to make a mistake in the
division. But in this particular instance the tote
did lie—hard. At a Maoriland race-meeting when
the machine opened for business on next event, a
punter walked up and asked at £1 window for 11
tickets on No. 16. The ticket man had a few
words with the punter, and with No. 16 in his
mind handed out 16 HI tickets to the investor, who
waived off with his scraps of paper. Almost
immediately the clerk discovered his mistake, and
reported the matter to the totalisator proprietor,
who decided to “wait and see.” No. 16 just
long- enough to win, and paid a div. of over £2O.
The next incident was when an irate punter
demanded to interview the proprietor and wanted
to know why, when he had asked for 11 £1 tickets,
he had been handed 16 10s. tickets. The tote
prop, had a brain-wave on the spot. “Where are
your tickets ?” he asked, and tr - 16 were promptly
produced. “These are pound tickets all right,” he
went on. “Here are your 11 pound tickets,” and
he handed them over to the surprised punter. The
final incident was when the tots proprietor himself
put in the odd £5 worth of tickets for his dividend
—that was after he had paid £5 into the neglectful
clerk s total —and coolly pocketed over £lOO. Only
one or two of the clerks knew what had happened,
and they knew their jobs. The rest of the punters,
therefore, who backed No. 16 lost £lOO out of their
total dividend. That tote man evidently had many
of the qualities required to get rich quickly.
“Spreader”: Fietition, who will stand
during the coming season at Boggrawoggra, has
such a mass of Eclipse at the top of his lines, that
no authority on pedigrees could* fail to note the
marked influence this circumstance must naturally
have on his offspring. Besides being entered on
the English stud-book, Fietition, is entitled,'owing
to his superior breeding, to have his name on the
stud-books of Germany, France, America, and Aus-
tralia. Though never raced he can hardly fail to
transmit the wonderful vitality inherited from his
ancestors as the approved running lines 1,2, 3,4, 5
are beautifully blended with the premier sire figures
3,8, 11, 12, 14 right through a pedigree that is
dotted with the names of the world’s greatest tuff
wonders. Though the inbreeding to Blackloek may
at first sight appear to overcrowd an otherwise
faultless table, with a blood that is not generally
approved of by modern stud-masters, a second glance
reveals that the counter influence of Whalebone and
Whisker appears at the right place (and requisite
distance) for a perfect set-off. The splendid strains
of the brothers Selim and Castrel in Miss Kid (dam
of Fietition) shew on top of Birdcatcher at almost
the same remove as the peerless Pochahontas blood
is marked in Bunkum (sire of Fietition). Thus
a return of the Birdcatcher-Stockwell blood in
a sound mare is about the only thing necessary to
assure getting a foal which at the yearling sales
would have the right mixture in his veins to take
rank with the pick of the lots on offer.
SAVED!
“What the Sheol was that?”
“Another blanky shell.”
“Thank Gawd. I thought it teas the blinking
tyre busted.”
The old-timers’ run-out at the Rugby
Union carnival at Sydney on Saturday had a certain
novelty about it, but it was the kind of sideshow
which calls for the limelight about once a century.
The majority of the players were too old and too
tallowy. The excuse for the match was that it
would draw cash for patriotic funds; but the R.U.
has bid for gates long enough to know that, nine
times out of ten, nothing attracts a crowd except
something worth paying to see. Thp Union billed
three matches for the day. All it got to yawn at
them was about 3500 patrons.
“Post” : Though the finest effort in recent
years, A.. McPherson's (Western Suburbs) 50 goals
in N. S. Wales Rugby League this season is only
a good second to Dally Messenger’s great record in
1910. Messenger was then hooting at his best. He
scored 18 tries and 108 goals (270 points out of
518) during the season.
*.* * *
Young Jim McManamey (North Sydney),
who put some sparkle into N. S. Wales High School
football this season by scoring 14 tries anil a similar
tally of goals, is a son of the late Jim McManamey,
the old-time Rugby Union stalwart, and in his time
the finest umpire in Sydney.
* '* * *
W: G. Tasker, killed lately in France, was
a stout-hearted trier in peace and war. Wounded
at Gallipoli he returned home and, getting well, set
off towards Bei’lin again. At one time Tasker
played a brilliant eame as five-eighth for N. S. Wales
Rugby Union. He wore the blue jersey against
Maorilacd and Bananaland and tripped through
America with the team of 1912.
*• * * . *
Les Mclntosh, of Brookvale (N.S.W.),
gave a taste of his usefulness at the woodheap last
week. Jack Leahy (Tas.) had arrived to tackle
Mclntosh for the N. S. Wales 15-inch log champion-
ship ; but the local giant carried too much skill.
Mclntosh was also busy among other events. During
the evening he won the 15-inch axe handicap from
scratch; and with partner, Ned Higgins (Hornsby),
severed a log three times with the saw before two
other competitors could bite through the same thick-
ness once with the axe. Mclntosh and Higgins hold
the Australian sawing record for 18-inch logs
(23sec.), put up at Sydney in 1915.
Fred Jennings, who has the walking
mania, is again on the track. On Saturday he will
stroll it from Hill End goldfield to Bathurst, over 51
miles of mountain country, the time limit being 10
hours. This will be his most solid effort to date, as
the figures represent an average of nearly 51 miles
an hour. On the following Saturday Jennings moves
per boot from Bathurst ■ towards Sydney, 125 miles.
He starts at 5 a.m., and hopes to pull up at the
G.P.O. at 11 next morning.
From his 18th to his 21st year Ronald
Opie, killed the other day in a motor-cycle accident at
Christchurch (M.L.) stood right out on his own
among the sprinters over yonder. There were pro-
bably few peds of his time anywhere in the world
who could give him a start on the gun. He was
something in the way of a freak. Opie first came
into the limelight by annexing the 100, 220 and
440 yards at the University championship' meeting in
1909. At the same meeting in the following year
lie did the same thing again, setting up new records
for the two shorter distances. In 1911 at the M.L.
championship gathering held at Christchurch Opie
appropriated the three distahces some more, running
the 220yds. in 22sec. Later in the year he took
the 100yds., 220yds, and 440yds. at the Australasian
championship meeting (100yds. in 9 4-osec.). Sent
to England to compete at the Festival of Empire
Sports he had bad luck. Shortly after arrival lie
beat the Polytechnic crack, D’Arcy, in a scratch
100yds. at Crewe —‘but soon after had to throw up
training on. account of damaging one of his thighs,
and at tlic big meeting had only a leg and a half
to run on. Even with this handicap he got a second
and third. After returning home Opie got married
and except for taking an occasional championship
settled down to his job of school teaching. He hit
the tape at 27.
* * * •*
Off to U.S. the other day, “Snowy” Baker.
His fancy lightly turns on doing “stunts” for the
movies nowadays. He takes with him some potted
episodes of Australia, in which himself can be fre-
quently detected and he threatens to keep the
camera man busy over yonder. Meanwhile the
temples of bash in which he is interested are
waiting till peace gives an opening for the resump-
tion of hostilities, and the devastating effect of
the left hook. When that glad time arrives Snowy
hopes to appear at the old address.
C. Walker (Marrickville), winner of the
Cyclists’ Union 40-mile road championship at Enfield
(Sydney) on Saturday, is the fastest Ma State
pedaller out of khaki. A fortnight ago he gave
long starts and won the Marrickville 10-mile handi-
cap (from scratch) in 28min. 40sec. Also, he has
ticked up an array of fastest times during the
season. Walker did the 40 miles rush in 2hr. 3min.
35 2-ssec. Closest to him at the terminus were
J. R. O’Brien (Marrickville), and veteran Dick
Munro (Burwood-Enfield). The Union’s idea in pro-
moting these dust-raising episodes is to infuse life
into a fizzling pastime.
*• * * »
“Machete”: Let me censure “0.K.” (B.
29/8/’18) for stating that curling, Scotland’s own par-
ticular game, is a “Solemn dissipation,” consisting of
“giving a gentle push” to “polished iron weights”
and contains no feature worthy of the name of sport.
The usual curling stone (not a polished iron weight,
please) weighs from 22 to 30 pounds, and many
players use them heavier. If “0.K.” were to put
in an afternoon lifting these trifles from the' ice
and swinging them off from a stooping position, I
think he would alter his mind as to the game’s
athletic possibilities. As to being “solemn”-—well,
a curling match can give golf a long start and beat
it for embittered language. There is danger, too,
of catching cold or from sitting down suddenly.
“Pick”: The rifle performances they write
home about are sometimes mere matters of luck,
but the constable, a former African game-hunter,
and Zulu war veteran, who in the ’nineties had
charge of the Jugiong police station, was willing at
all times to back his bullet. For a wager he once,
with a sporting rifle, split a pipe bowl at 100yds.
That performance led to an argument about long
distance shots, whereupon the John Hop pointed to a
cockatoo 600yds. away and then assassinated the
bird with a Martini-Henry.
“Nimrod”: Recent talk . about long-range
shooting with shot-guns gives me a pain. The
function of the shot-gun is to kill moving
game at short distances. It will do this
cleanly arid certainly up to 40 or 50 yards.
Beyond that it cannot be depended on to do
more that! wound, except by a fluke. Amongst
real shooting men, anyone who starts talking about
long shots is put’down at once as an outsider. If a man
wants to shoot at long ranges, let him get a rifle
and learn to use it. Even then lid ought to know
that the aft of game-stalking consists in the hunter
getting close enough to his game to make sure of it,
not to wound it with pot shots at long range.
* * * *
The National Coursing Association wound
up its season last week with the annual picnic
meeting—and everything went wrong. It was blazing'
hot the first day till lunch time. Then .heavy rain
fell. On the second day one of the heaviest hail-
storms noticed around Sydney for a long time tran-
spired. The principal stake was the Hart Memorial-
Stakes —a hew name for the old Bookmakers’ Purse.
The field for this event numbered only 20, and after
a number of uneventful ruffs Vera White won from
Donald Dihnie. The last pair left in the Hart
Memorial for the dogs beaten in the first round of
the Stakes were Gold Beauty and Gipsy Prince, a
pair of London Swell-Gipsv Belle puppies. As they
were running in the same ownership thev divided
The Riverstone Stakes, an all-aged event,' was won
by the much-travelled Shy Mary, who came over
from Melbourne. Hope Australia, the winner of this
year’s Oaks, was a runner, but after a beautiful
course in the first round she went to pieces in the
first ties and was easily beaten by Tarcisius, who in
turn was beaten by Shy Mary. The August Stakes
fell to What-a-Wonder, an aptly-named pup bv
Wheatley Wonder(imp.)-Fanny Brown.
“Nor’-West” : The fish of blood-red color,
referred to by “Trist” (B. 22/8/’18), is the golden
carp, and is to be found in all the north-western
rivers, billabongs and creeks. It is a mistake to
attribute the mortality among the other finny resi-
dents of the Barwon and Mclntyre to this fish. True,
the carp laoors under an evil reputation for eating
the spawn of cod and other fish, but it is not car-
nivorous otherwise. Both gold and grey species have
multiplied to a great extent during the last five or
six years, and during a dry spell can be seen in
great shoals in the rivers. They are supposed to
have been put into the headwaters of the Gwydir
and Mclntyre in mistake for trout. The golden
variety is a beautifully-tinted fish—bright seavlei
on the back, shading down to orange and brass-
yellow on the sides. They are utterly worthless as
food. I have seen a few, mostly caught in drum
nets, up to two pounds’ weight,' but in the shoals
they are much smaller. Occasionally I hsye caught
a carp in the Gwydir with worm bait, but they very
rarely bite, and, having a very small mouth, they
are difficult to. catch with the hook. The flesh makes
good bait for night-lines for old-man cod.
“Chev.” : Poor old Hackenschmidt! That
par. from “M.P.A.” (B. 22/8/’18) gives the first
news I’ve had of an old pal since 1916. ( was then in
a military hospital in England, and a bad case. • One
day brought me a big square envelope, stamped all
over, postmarked Berlin and endorsed “passed by
Censor.” The familiar writing was good to see.
“Interned,” T said to myself; but, after telling me
how he had learned from a London Sketch (evidently
they got our illustrated weeklies in Berlin) that
I had been seriously wounded, and expressing sym-
pathy, Hack, told me that the Germans were making
much use of him. They had made him director of
a large sonneh-bad (an open-air sun-bathed enclosure)
on the outskirts of Berlin, where children were given
athletic exercise—Swedish drill, figure marching,
dumb-bells, clubs, and so on. He enclosed a picture
post-card of this sonnen-bad, and, on it, all Sparsely
clad, but virile, healthy and in fine condition, there
appeared hundreds of children exercising in the
full glare of the sun. Hack, hinted that the work
was heavy, but affirmed he was well treated. He
was allowed to live. in a flat in the city, but had
to report himself twice weekly to the police. There
was nobody in the world so thoroughly capable for
the job the Germans found for him. I wrote two
brief and plain letters to Hack, in reply, but botli
were “returned by Censor,” who was very careful
these days, as now. You see, in spite of the German
flavor in his name, Hackenschmidt was Russian,
born at University town of Dorpat. In 1909 i
spent a month’s holiday with him in Germany,
where we met a young medical student. Raffan bv
name, from Sydney. Wonder if he recalls a night
in the ton-halle at. a very military town, when the
very German comedian made disparaging references
to der Englische? And' the “certain liveliness” that
followed. In the years ago Hackenschmidt gave mo
a gold watch, inscribed, “To Dick from George.”
It is one of the few treasures I saved from the
mined Mongolia. I was wearing it when she struck.
•X’ ~ -X- . . X- *
Newcastle Surf Club and Life Saving-
Brigade has 183 of its members grappling in the
Big Undertow. It claims this to be a record for any
single - sporting club in Australia. What Manly
surfmen have to say to this will transpire later.
The Newcastle club is 11 years old.
THE WAGES OF SIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He said he’d do me 3 to 2.
“It’s 6 to 4 except to you.”
So I took the bet.
He’s running yet
The nag I backed. I fear it lacked
Persuasion. Yet, perchance had smacked
It been before the riders of the other mokes
Began to coax
More speed with’whip and spur,
That crossbred, loafing chestnut cur
Might have been noticed at the line
And filled those waiting hands of mine
From off the trusting Hebrew,
Who
Laid me the odds of 3 to 2
When “Thikth tuf’or, I can’t do more,”
Was the ringmen’s yelp on the loother.
N.S.IV.
THE CURATE'S UNDERSTUDY.


ARE YOU ABLE TO PROPERLY
DEFEND YOURSELF?
Suppose, for instance, some fellow insulted you, what would be your
position ?
Would you have to suffer such an insult to go unavenged, and so lose
vour prestige—your manliness in the eyes of your fellows 01 wou )
be able to deliver a sound thrashing to the man who endeavors to belittle
you in the eyes of your fellow-men?
There are times in every man’s life when he has occasion to defend
himself. Are you prepared for such emergencies? Then why not let m
teach you the noble art of self-defence?
I Teach Boxing by Post.
The instruction is practical, simple and easily
understood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates
every serviceable move in Scientific Boxing.
You reap the benefit of my many years’ experience
and keen observation of the moves of the worlds
best boxers.
You now have the opportunity of cultivating your
•natural ability—Of making good use of the means
Nature g'ave you for protecting yourself. You will
surely be fair to yourself and learn Scientific Boxing.
Write to-day for my interesting booklet, “S'cientmc
Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods,
terms, etc. Send three penny stamps for postage.
Just write your name and adddress across this advt.
and, send it to me. I will know what you mean.
Wr ‘
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
The All-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
780 BELMONT BUILDINCS, SYDNEY.
mm
SffiS6essft\
BRITISH IMPERJAL OIL CO.LTD.
ALL STATES 0 MEW ZEALAND.
The Dog Medicines!
Beware of
Substitutes-
%
BEDDOME’S
EXTERNAL
STIMULATOR.
Indispensable for Rac-
ing Greyhounds, to
alleviate stiffness and
fatigue. Used by the
leading Breeders.
Price, 3/6.
ALTERATIVE
MIXTURE.
Splendid tonic, creates
an appetite, gives a
fine gloss to the coat,
keeps the dog in per-
fect health, prevents
distemper.
Price, 2/6, 5/-
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
THE DOG MEDICINE SPECIALISTS,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable from JOHN BRUSH LTD.,
George Street, Sydney. [1
ARE YOU m
Ruptu reD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? o you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
in fact THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
,VET INVENTED. It does away altogether
<ivith galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the AnpliaPce,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
f? 49 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
•fin-**
**72
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat in
store for you. Adc for it at the
Soda Fountain.
o 2
ga
o<
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
[GREAT STUiXT 1
fSEE THAT
C.R/KDI-E
j3Pß.if>/C
,fr P.AKt*t£T
TWENTY-FIVE
rz
THAT «-<eW
iVALVE LIFTER!
ISN
iMPGovEMem
SHE
EH!
Some
STARTER"
BEaut
turn
A CHORUS OF PRAISE
AND ADMIRATION
HAS GREETED THE 1918
&ndim Motocycle
HAVE YOU SEEN IT YE I ?
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
Pty. Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros., Ltd.. 156
Castlereagh Street.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79
Pirie Street.
BRISBAXK: Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency Ltd.. Adelaide & Creek Sts.
LAUNCESTON: John King & Sons
Ltd., Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle & Motor
Agency, Hay Street.
life
If- *•
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Bali Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES BROS
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Marine Engines
r-U
For All Boats
Caille 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started,
Electric Lights
Callle Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 *5lO
Miles an Hour
CaiHe 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
A roost complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
80 h.p. This embodies
one- to four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ev e r produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing. please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
Sole
Australasian
Agents—
Benson Brothers limited
76=78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY ;
71=75 Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE.
fi
k\
_L
1
T
LOCAL
lif?
O/
A l' •
PATRIOTISM
Your
Aim?
JHOT
Then have a
at smoking
1EFEREE
The Australian Tobacco.
Be honest: pay what you owe
• ,
You are in debt.
It is useless for you to deny it. Every one of us is
in debt —to our boys at the Front.
Have you ever thought of repaying what you owe
them, or even a fraction of it? Surely you have; but
perhaps you do not know how.
There is an easy way. Pay your debt to the men
by lending to the nation.
Honor your debt : buy Bonds.
They will return you 5 per cent.
Any Bank or Post Office will give you full particulars.
Banks will help you to buy and will charge only
4 per cent, on the overdraft.
Commonwealth Treasury,
September, 1918.
w, A- WATt,


tl
3 s !
o-
“In the Public Eye.
On the Public Neck.”
The Prime
A LEADER
The Nation’s
“The Prime
Minister,
OF MEN.
Spokesman.
Favorite.”
ä
COLLARS
Leaders of Fashion. The World’s Best.
SHAPE ILLUSTRATED:—
THE "AUSTIN” LINEN FACED. Price 1/-
Heierht, lfin. Sirps njin. to 18in.
WEAR
(Pocrtco^
SMIBTS& PYJAMAS
ALSO
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA.
lold by all
.eadingr
letailers. [
Win Fame as an Artist.
Study Drawing at Home
under Harry J Weston—Aus-
tralia’s famous commercial
artist. Every post brings
letters showing the extraordi-
nary success achieved by
nupils of the Weston School.
Eeginners in art who started
the lessons “just to amuse
themselves” are turning out
work of merit and originality
beyond their most sanguine
expectations.
There is no
mm
reason why YOU
should not become
a successful artist
—bring Harry
Weston into your
home to help you.
The Weston
Course carries
students through
every phase of
Commercial Art,
and so thorough
and explicit are
the instructions,
so helpful and
personal Mr.
Weston’s criti-
cisms, that rapid
progress under
such able tuition
is certain.
“THERE’S MONEY
IN THE PEN.”
The above is
the title of the
booklet which describes in full the Weston
Postal School of Drawing both as a profession
and as a pastime. We should like you to
have a copy. Send us your name and address,
including three penny stamps to cover postage.
The HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
72 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
mmmm.
Ffpsh
ãa
a
Pma
■jjaiSaaMBMSSSBSWar
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN, ENGINEERS,
And Everybody’s Pencil Purpose.
Sold by High-class Stationers.
WIRELESS Instruction
FOR
Naval, Military and Mercantile
Appointments
AT THE
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
(Sydney and Melbourne).
Actual Apparatus Installed.
(Special Commonwealth License.)
MANY VACANCIES.
Excellent, prospects.
Apply for particulars to
SUPERINTENDENT,
97 Clarence Street, 422-24 Little Collins Street.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE.
The Gauntlet of Inspection
is run by all
Dominion Tyres
,
At every stage of
production keen=eyed
inspectors are watching.
Every Tyre that goes
through must be a
thoroughbred.
Stamina is the primary
essential of Dominion
Tyres.
Made in Canada.
Your Dealer will be glad to
procure if not 'in stock.
DISTRIBUTORS:
United States Rubber Company
(Australasia) Limited,
S 3 York Street,
SYDNEY.
Bennett & Barkell Ltd.,
Ca.stlerea.gh Street,
SYDNEY.
Dominion Tyre Agency,
Little Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.
Cheney Motor Company Ltd.,
Waymouth Street,
ADELAIDE.
A better article
at a lower price!
Rexirve
—the perfect leather substitute.
Looks like leather but is better in every way. It wears better
and never becomes shabby, as being impervious' to atmos-
pheric action it never peel? or cracks. It is stain, and grease
proof, and can be made like new by simply washing with soap
and water. A Rexine-covered suite has all the beauty of
leather upholstering without any of its disadvantages, and its
cost is only one quarter that of leather.
Do away with unhygienic, dust-collecting fabric upholsterings
and insist upon having Rexine.
Agents:
A. BUCKHAM & SON,
95 York Street, Sydney.
Sole Makers : REXINE Ltd., Hyde, nr. Manchester, England.
Makers of bags, suit cases, fancy goods, slippers etc., and bookbinders who are
using leather should write at once for samples of Rexine. It will effect a big
saving and give greater satisfaction.
rfi
~p
K9ls—Star-shape
Setting, all Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num and
Gold.
Price, £l5/10/-
K 962 —Ornate
Cross-over Diamond
Ring, finest quality,
set Platinum and
18ct. Gold.
Price, £32/10/-
KBlo—Fine quality
Diamond Circle
Brooch, set Plati-
. num and ISct.
Gold.
Price, £25.
K963—t'ii.o quality
Diamond Ring,
chaste setting,
Platinum arid 18ct.
Gold.
Price, £l6/10/-
WrSm
KsB7—Pretty Dress
Ring, Pearl and
Diamonds, set
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold.
Price, £5/5/-
Diamonds
of Intrinsic Worth.
Unexampled foe Beauty and Bril-
liancy, and fresh from the
Gem-setter’s hands.
ALL DIAMONDS SET IN PURE PLATINUM.
Call and Inspect our Stocks, or Write for
CATALOGUE.
Stewart Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER) SYDNEY.
R23l4—Superb
Diamond Ring, 3
large, finest-quality
Diamonds, set in
Platinum.
Price, £135.
Iv2o7—Five-stone
Diamond Ring, set
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold.
Price, £3O.
K 959 —Fine quality
Diamond Ring, set
Platinum and 18st.
Gold.
Price, £22/10/-
K 964 —New Design
Diamond Cross-over
Ring, set Platinum
and 18ct. Gold.
Price, £27/10/-
C9303—15ct. Gold
Brooch, set Pearls
and Peridots,
swing centre.
Price, 35/-
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going te
let the Ravi slier, of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
imless stamps accompany.
Aneb: The paper lias consistently declined
to be stake-holder or referee in similar challenges.
In any ease it looked a hopeless proposition....
Wealsman: Thanks... .Bacilli: Writer to C. H.
Souter, Annandale, Prospect, South Aus.... .C.H.S.:
Thanks Warp: Couldn’t* use it C.L.U.
(France) : Thanks, but the ’censor would chisel nearly
all of it out Agricola: Names and dates of what?
... .Vella'(Solomon Islands): It’s a common com-
plaint, and there seems no chance of stopping it
except by cunning wrapping... .George Johnstone
(Scot.): Skit no use to us. Always ready to read
copy, but make no promise of accepting it.... 777:
Feeble gag.... Gold Size: No good.... Eva Graham
Murray (London): Nobody at this enij.would listen
to such a silly charge against the women of Eng-
land. They need no defence in Australia on that
ground. .. .D.S.: Can’t trace it....E.C.: Don't like
those gnomes... .J. 8.: No use to anybody that we
know.. .G.J.: None of them further up than the rung
below... .J.D.S.: Only requires feeling and more
convincing language. .. .E.S.C.: Have a look at a
stanza
May our lives shed only gladness,
Knowing naught of gloom,
All sunshine, gold and fluffiness,
Like the wattle-trees a-bloom.
....Kemo: A sorrowfully small point. It’s so small
that the Microscope Union went on strike when it
was sent it... .Kenloti: But it isn’t a sonnet. It
defies the rules of the game... .E.M.L.: No use....
M.M.8.: Try to say something that would make
the day seem brighter.... M. It.: Not enough in
it, like Holman’s record time as Premier....
C. : “Fancy” is wide. Get your rhyme gauge
right... .E.H.: “Missing” hasn’t force enough....
E.V.K.: Commonplace thought in poor verse. Or
poor thought in commonplace verse. Have it your
own way... .A.A.E.: Not quite... .C.F.P.: Been said
better. (P.S. —Most things have.) .... Seedy : Old
idea; poor verse... .J. 11.: Not up, but some nice
phrasing in the “Magian.”... .V.1.C.: They don’t
appeal.... Hill 360 : Nowhere near.... Goldsbrough:
Wooden verse... .L.M.M.: N 0... .Picket: Not
enough force. He should have got more rage and
sundries into it... .H.S.L.: Still a bit off. . . .D.W.:
No g00d... .0.N.G.: “Even Song” misses.. * .B.:
“Kelly” doesn’t make a yarn... .G.R.H.: Don’t send
us chopped prose. .. .8.A.: Not for u 5.... Uloola:
Idea 5ma11.... Wangi: Returned... .H. 8.: Can’t get
excited over the fact that clover grows among the
grass.... 11.L.D.: No use... .G.G.G.: Too rugged.
....C. McE.: Not for purchase here. .. .M.J.L.A. :
Try it somewhere else.... A.J.C.R.: Feeble S.Q.:
Sloppy.... N. McL.: Nothing.'.. .E.M.K.: Very poor '
attempt... .S.L.: There’s a promise in them all.
Make it g00d... .O.B.: Certainly, certainly!:—
As its the fourth anniversary of entrance into the
* war,
Its his Majesty the King’s desire to devote a day
of prayer;
So may we all pray on that day so as we wont
au dfisespoir,
And to pray fervently for our Umpire that we will
conquer.
Oh! To see our prayer’s answered for the Allies
cause,
To save our soldiers and sailors out of the enemies
claws;
To pray' that we’ll soon see the end of this clause,
So as we’ll see them return in the best of gauze.
Oh! May that our prayers be heard for our boys at
the front,
So as to enable them to carry on to settle the enemies
wont
That we’ll pray for them to stand all the blunt
So as we’ll know the enemies as only a runt.
Oh! May our British peoples all pray to the High
Heaven,
To ease their burdens of sorrow and sufferings.;
So as we will hear that sweet Tintinubulation.
That our prayers have been heard with thank-offerings.
... .F.E.0.L.: For that easy loping measure fresher
and more vigorous thought is required.... Steam-
boat: Sentiment right, but verse bad. Stick to the
verse and let the sentiment go. Verse pays—some-
times —but sentiment is a drug on the market....'
A.S.A.: Very rugged... .A.M.H.: “Love” fails;
“Fever” gets near....A.0.C.: You haven’t the
knack... .W.C.: “Paper” won’t pass,.. .R.L.R,:
Musings go stiffly, with a frequent j01t.... ’Bus:
You’re not aboard yet. .. .8.G.: Not much in the
thought and less in the execution... .G.J.: Except
by a mir'c’e, trick verse of that sort has no hope.
...M.D.: Wobble-and-bump brand... .M.T.: Nothing
in it... .E.M.E.: Not bad verse, but utterly without
interest... .R.8.J.: Parson who lost his trousers has
been written up before. We’ve lost interest in
parsons who are so casual... .L.R.R.: Doesn't work.
.... Sirromec: It’s for the basket all right....
J.C.S.: N0....5.8.: Don’t write allegories. We
might chance an alligator or eten the Alcoran, but
the other beast doesn’t waddle in here... .A. 8.: No
thrill... .R.L.R.: Has the feeling, but not the skill.
W.W.: “Military Brand” makes dull reading....
M.D.L.M.: “Gus” goes cold.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.C.; Feeble experiments in pencil.... S.T.:
You’re only learning... .L. 8.: Raw beginnings....
D. : Too early... .Jack F.: Crude. ... A.S.M.:
Don’t want your blots... .M.J.M.: Why does the
tall man wear such a mad look?... .M.G.: It’s
going home... .G.L.: Egg joke cracked long ago and
the drawing is very depressing.. . ,K.F.: More study
required.... Rup: You’ve got a lot to learn....
Roderigo: Sad examples.... Sapper: Sorry, nothing
can use... .Robert M.: Study... .S.J.W.: Drawing
no good and the gag echoes in the memory of the
artistic chucker-0ut.... John M.: Write to Angus
and Robertson, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
“ Jacko”: Concerning The Bulletin’s
observations upon the preaching of economy
and the practising of waste by State Minis-
ters, let me add the fact that Ball, N. S.
Wales Minister for Works, recently spent a
few days coursing in a Government car
over the territory to be served some day,
perhaps, by th<j Tarana-Oberon railway, a
proposition that lias already been approved
fully, and which years ago was at the stage
of awaiting for the elusive cash for construc-
tion. Yet Ball had to travel all the way
from Sydney, spending good coin to tell the
poor cockies that there wasn’t any coin to
spend. James, Minister for Education, , was
in the same district the same week-end on a
similar jaunt, and all he had to say was
that the badly-needed High School hadn’t a
ghost of a show —in the scramble, by impli-
cation, with Ministerial joy-rides.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical.
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be. without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn't got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Rilev Streets, Svdnev.
Try This Corn Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
abl^ioidsi
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will 'dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everythin'* else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we wili refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with'bandages ; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling saiv.es
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
buiiion. It never fails.
Sold bv retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO. f
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
$
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Influenza
It is at this time of the year, when the
weather is very changeable, hot one day and
cold the next, that colds are caught and
influenza becomes prevalent.
Influenza invariably leaves the patient
weak and with thin blood, and this anaemia
is~Very stubborn in resisting treatment. It
mast be corrected, however, before any cure
can be considered permanent. As long as
the blood remains thin there will continue
the,relapses with which most sufferers from
influenza are familiar. Warmth and quiet
alone give comfort, and these not for long at
a time. Sleep is restless and does not re-
fresh the nerves which are always at high
tension.
The best way to correct this after-effect
of influenza is to build up the blood, and
there is no better blood-builder than Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills.,
As soon;as the revitalised blood courses
through the system you are aware of its
soothing influence. Gradually the color re-
turns to the pale cheek, appetite and diges-
tion improve and you are on the road to
health.
Any reader of this paper may have a
useful booklet bn “Diseases of the Blood” by
writing to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Box 59.4, G.P.0., Sydney.
/
,
7
ZZS
\:
V >
/
/
/
i
CROUP;
IWBESW
LUNGS
tnroM
Be careful!
NO matter how careful you are some of the
youngsters are sure to catch cold this winter.
You know what children are!
They will slip off to school in the rain without hat,
coat or goloshes and run round the school ground
without hat or coat when the cold winds are blowing.
When you know they have done these things nip the
Zranny' Chamberlain
(COPYRIGHTED)
probable cold in the bud by giving them Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
Very often the first intimation you have that
they sat all day in school with damp clothes and
wet feet is when oue complains of sore throat
and another has the snuffles.
But Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has never
failed you yet, and even if it is too late to nip the
cold in the bud it will soon be a thing of the
past if you give them this wonderful medicine
in frequent do&es.
Colds are the special bane of childhood and a
succession of colds, or even neglect of a common
cold, will often lay the foundation for chronic
bronchial affections of later life.
Don’t wait till your child is sick but keep
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy on hand ready
for instant use when needed.
J<n J'jfeoJtA {//MAW/(K&m&l&un.
Chamberlain's
COUGH REMEDY
BE
Iyike many other dangerous maladies diarrhoea often conies on unexpectedly and frequently
before the patient is aware of it some serious disorder his developed. During the warm
weather attacks of this kind are very frequent and often so swift in their results that life is in danger before the physician
can be summoned.
Those who have the interests of their family at heart keep a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy on
hand for immediate use in cases of this kind. It is without doubt the best medicine prepared for diarrhoea, dysentery and
other disordersof the bowels. If given at the first unusual looseness of the bowels the attack may be avoided but even in
advanced stages it is a quick and most effective remedy.
Never leave home without a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy in your luggage. The excitement
incidental to travelling and change of water and food often bring on diarrhoea, colic and pains in the stomach for which
speedy relief must be obtained and Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy can always be relied upon to do this.
'-’’■k'c •
!* -''l&t&gJjSL <£*
*~sgs
;
Site
COME UP TO \
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
■v
Barron falls - Barron Gorge.
the wonderful htnterlancL v
.Sunshine , Palm Trees. X
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
and scenic splendour
A Booklet telling all about it
is yours for the asking
/7// in this Coupon:-
N. A'ome
8.8.
X
Address..
/o tfio Director of
v Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
\ Brisbane.QUEENSLAND.
1
u
m
WB
mti
nmmi
m
i
/•-
SR
“I’ve Struck It”-
The Real Thing in Razors.
Gets through the job in a quarter the time
.and makes the business a pleasure.
The “PLUM” RAZOR
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6
Pair in Double Case 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle. . . 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 & 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing ... 1/-
All the above Ppst Free. Send for our
Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKILN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
Mothersill s
SEASICK REMEQY
Analysed by Sir Charles Cameron,
C. 8., M.D., President Society of
Public Analysts, England. Does
not contain Cocaine. Morphine,
Opium, Chloral, or any of the
Coal Tar Products.
NO BAD AFTER EFFSCT3.
Honourable Mrs. Lowthor, » ifi* of the
Speaker of the House o? Commons,
London, England, v rituSJ
Mrs. James Lowther is gla.l to testify to
“Mothersili's” being the most efficient remedy for
sea-sickness that she has ever tried.
C. D. Rudd, Vice-Commodore, Royal
Highland Yacht Club, Great Britain,
writes:
“Mothersili’s" Seasick Remedy was introduced
On my yacht, and all my own ladies and other
friends tried it and found it entirely effica.ioua and
without any unpleasant after effects
GUA R AN TEED TO C U R%-
S£A OR TRAIN SICKNtSi
OR MONEY RETURN L O
Jill Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes,
Mothersill Remedy Go.,
Cor. Clarence and Market Streets, Sydney.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are 66rdially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, ,115 High Hoi-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Amusements.
Hurry Rickards Tivoli Theatres I.UI.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSII.
T 1 von THEATIIK, SYI) N E Y
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, at 2.30.
EVE KELLANI)
in ESPINOSA’S Latest and Greatest Racy Revue,
S’NICE,
A TRIUMPHANT HIT.
“|"IVOIiI Til EAT ICE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT. AUGUST 31.
HUGH D. McINTOSII presents
the Sparkling and Spectacular London Revue,
HOM SOIT.
t catering Beatrice Holloway. John Junior and Barry
Lupino.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
U E It At A .7 E S T Y'S, S Y l» N E v 7
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OP SO LONG, LETTY.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 7.
ANOTHER POPULAR PRODUCTION,
FOR FIVE NIGHTS ONLY & MATINEE (Wednesday).
The Most Haunting of all Musical Plays,
“HIGH JINKS.”
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callosc’s.
'I I T E It I « N Tll EA T It E.~Sy77>TeY.".
W Direction .1 C. WILLIAMSON LTD
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
The Latest “Potash and Perlmutter” episode,
BUSINESS BEFORE PLEASURE.
Presented with considerable skill by the Two Famous
London Hebrew Comedians, ADAMS and AVATERS,
and J. C. Williamson’s .soecially-selected Cotnedv
Company, including MAGGIE MOORE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at AVhite Rose.
P U A Y H O V S E~.
■ Castlereagli Street, between Liverpool
and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
SYDNEY JAMES presents, and appears in,
HIS HIGH-CLASS
“VARIETIES”
COMPANY.
NEW ARTISTS AND PROGRAMME EVERY
FORTNIGHT.
MATINEE EVERY SATURDAY, 2,30.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
IJNION VICIt; It E T HEAT It E S
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
'Hie Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. •
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
HEIt MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 7.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE MUSICAL PLAY OF SNAP AND SPARKLE,
OH! OH!! DELPHINE!!!
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
TIIISA T It E It OYA L, M ELBOU ItNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
.T. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present •
MURIEL STARR in
THE THIRTEENTH CHAIR,
By BAYARD VEILLER, author of “Within the Law.”
The Drama that Stirred All New York.
ING’S THEATRE, M E LIIO U It N E.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
•I. & N. TAIT present
EMELIE POLINI
in
THE INVISIBLE FOE.
The Greatest Dramatic Success in Recent Years.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
|y| A.IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE!
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ALICE~ JOYCE
in
FIND THE WOMAN,
by O. HENRY.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8. Plan at Allan’s.
BI J OUT HE aTrE, MELBOURNIS.
Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER.
TWICE DAILY.
FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
The MYSTERIOUS SA-lIERA and FRED BLUETT,
DORA OBERMAN, BERT CORRIE, WILL DYSON,
CHARLES POPE, FALVEY GIRLS, FIVE LEWINS,
etc.
Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Even in?; Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
ELSIE FERGUSON in
THE RISE OF JENNIE CUSHING.
JULIAN ELTINGE in
THE WIDOW’S MIGHT.
LYCEUM (Over Princes Bridge).
Every Evening. Matinees- Saturday 2.30.
This week’s Feature:
LINA CAVALIERI in
THE ETERNAL TEMPTRESS.
Prices as Usual.
jyjjlSLBA theatre] MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICK. .
jgRITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.tp.
Price*; 3d. and Bd.
Amusements.
QHAPPELt BALLAD CONCERTS.
Next Concert at
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL,
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL,
Saturday, September 7, 8 p.m.
Special Engagement,
MISS LILIAN GIBSON
MISS LILIAN GIBSON
(Sydney Contralto).
Elsy Treweek (Soprano), Margery Gray (Violinist),
Fred Collier (Baritone), E. E. Hook (Tenor),
Harold Elvins (Accompanist).
METROPOLITAN COMPETITIVE CHOIR,
DR. PRICE (Organist).
Prices: 2/2 and 1/1.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Medical.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.8.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
■NK
War Service
Continues to engage the whole of the energies of
the Wolseley Factories, and we are still unable to
supply private customers.
We shall, however, be pleased to receive enquiries,
and to add your name to our rapidly-growing
Waiting List.
AGENTS:
F. H. GORDON $ CO. LTD., 133-135-137
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KELLOW FALKINER MOTOR CO., Russell Street.
Melbourne.
HOWARD CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
G. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
YVOESEEEY MOTORS LTD.
. ENGLAND.
Proprietors: VICKERS LTD.
555
t' : ’.vf* s SC.js
■j;~sw
The Petrol-Saving Tyre
with the original Three-
Rib Tread
Palmers minimise internal friction
because of their unique Cord Foun-
dation ; thus they give ten per
cent, more mileage per gallon of
petrol: Actual tests against canvas-
lined tyres have proved it.
And they have the finest, longest-
wearing tough-rubber tread ever
put on a tyre.
The
Palmer Tyre, Ltd.
Chief Offices and Showrooms:
119/123, Shaftesbury Avenue,
London, W. C., 2, England.
Palmer Cord Tyres, for Light
and Heavy Motor Cars, Cycle
Cars, Motor Cycles and Aero-
planes.
Palmer Fabric
Tyres, for Motor
Cycles. Cycles,
and Autowheels.
Enquiries for Cycle,
Motor-cycle and
Motor Tyres to
India Rubber,
Gutta Percha and
Telegraph Works
Co. litd.,
279 George Street,
Sydney;
21-23 Elizabeth
Street. Melbourne.
à
å
CQRBTmB
D/3<s
Business Notices.
TEAWATER
will Destroy Noxious
Plants and Rough
Herbage.
APPLY SEVERAL HEAVY DRESSINGS.
VIVIAN, Commerce Street, Auckland, Discovert
á
TkeEdison“AMBEROLA’
of perfect tone.
Like all other Edison productions the
“Amberola” is superb. No other cylinder
instrument has such a sweet, true-to-life tone
as the “Amberola.” There arc several models
—they all play the celebrated Blue Amberol
Records, and, being fitted with the Diamond
Stylus, there are no needles to change.
The Edison “Amberola” 30 is a low-priced
model, of wonderfully high value, in a
Golden Oak Cabinet. Price £9 10s.
Ask the nearest Edison dealer'to demon-
strate it to you, or write direct for illustrated
catalog, post free.
THOMAS A; EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale Only),
304-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
T.
*e*
t
» f v
r
mot
*
Weakness
Every movement of the
body uses up a definite
amount of vitality. That
is why you feel tired at
the end of the day. When
you overtax yourself, or
when your vitality is
undermined by illness,
your whole system be-
comes too exhausted to
recover its lost vitality
without assistance. Your
system is like a plant that
is drooping for want of
water. And just as water
revives a drooping plant—
so ‘Wincarnis’ gives new
life and new vitality to a
weakened constitution.
Because ‘Wincarnis’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restora-
tive, a Blood-maker and
a nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
m
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force,
and new~vitality. The
benefit begins from the
first wineglassful. You
can feel it doing you
good. You can feel every
wineglassful giving you
more strength than you
had before, and surcharg-
ing your whole system
with new vitality. That
is why over 10.000 Doctors
recommend ‘Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY ,
•Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd.,
Wincarnis Works, Norwich. You
can buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all
Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 233 Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. _
It any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your faney, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it,


e
v:
CUTICURA SHAVING
Is Up-to-Date Shaving for Sensi-
tive Skins. Trial Free
Prepare razor. Dip brush in hot water and
rub on Cuticura Soap (see cut). Then make
lather on face and rub in for a moment with
fingers. Make a second lathering and shave.
Rub bit of Cuticura Ointment overshaven parts
(and on scalp if any dandruff or itching) and
wash all off with Cuticura Soap and hot water,
shampooing same time. One soap for all
shaving, shampooing, bathing and toilet. It’s
velvet for sensitive skins and preventive. No
slimy mug. No germs. No waste of time or
money. Free sample each if you wish. Address
post-card: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
m
Ml
SPECIALISE
TWO
L/NES
# T$
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES 7 SYDNEY
if /IOMTER S T NEWCASTLE
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
'ELEY Smokeless’
A Cerise Cartridge
loaded with Eley
42-grain Smoke-
less Powder and
oz. shot.
Millions sold
annually.
s/i.
m
u
A
m
V 1
B
2%
a
a
ELEY
E.B. ‘Nitro*
Cartridge Case
loaded with
Schultze or any
other Standard
Smokeless Powder.
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS. L? LONDON
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone by taking
Dhosforino
I THE ROYAITOMC
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worry with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton &C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
For liime Shafting, •
Machine Tools,
Mining Machinery,
Saw Milling and
Factory Equip-
ment, etc., etc.
*
SKF
Ball-Bearings
are the very last word in
!-m4
i
i
k
f
Bearings.
Ball-Bearings
of all Sizes
for
Automobiles.
Steel Balls
of all
Sizes.
The SKF Self-aligning Ball-bearing Plummer Block saves 50 to 90 per cent, of
frictional resistance over the ordinary Journal bearing, and practically eliminates
lubricating and maintenance costs.
Thousands of factories throughout the Commonwealth are now wholly equipped with
this bearing, saving our producers many thousands in hard cash per annum.
GARDNER, W/ERN & CO.,
Chief Agents and Ball-Bearing Specialists,
MELBOURNE — BRANCHES—
Office, 384 City Road, S. Melbourne. SYDNEY . . . 225 Clarence Street.
Showroom, 369 Flinders Street. BRISBANE . . . 367 Queen Street.
SHALL
i mvtST
ML
A/
Trades Hall, Sydney.
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
Eig'ht-Hour Art Union
AND SPORTS.
PRIZES value £.3500
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 2, 1918.
FIRST PRIZE, value £650
SECOND PRIZE, value £3OO
THIRD PRIZE, value £2OO
And 397 other Valuable
Prizes.
CHANCE FOR 1918.
TRY IT.
First Prize in 1917 won by Mrs. T. A. Peterson,
Balmain, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of
One Shilling
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1918.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper, Nov. 7, 1918. To any
person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will be
posted. Tickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct from —
ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
The Perfect Pen for all who Write!
In every profession there is a glad army of ONOTO
users. They know what a true friend the ONOTO Pen
is to all who write—how swiftly and smoothly it
glides over the paper all the time.
Do you realise the merits of this wonderful pen
which fills itself in a flash and cannot leak ? If not, let
the pen itself convince you. Any dealer will let you
examine and try it.
tf-m
iratf
opun
Price
inwards, of all
stationers,
jewellers
t store/
â
Also ONOTO Valveless
for those who do not
want a Self-Filling Safety
Pen from 12/6 each
Ask for ONOTO INK—
Best for all Pens
Self-Filling -
Safety Fountain
Manufacturers:
Thos. De La Rue & Go., Ltd,,
Bunhill Row, London, B.C.
Managing Agents:
Norman Baker & Long hurst
Sydney.
“Mustard Gold”: Sydney and Melbourne
are congested places, but they are hardly in
it with the two diminutive townships of
Boulder Block and Gwalia Block in AATst-
ralia. Both were slices of surplus land
remaining after the surveyor’s lines had
extracted order from the chaos of leases
hurriedly staked in the prospecting days ol
the fields, and smart men immediately con-
verted them into freeholds.. The Boulder
fraction, known as “The Dirty Acre,” has
six pubs, four barbers’ shops, several grocer-
ies and draperies, and a shooting-gallery
crowded on to it. Gwalia Block failed to get
a pnb, after many efforts in the Leonora
Licensing Court; but the deficiency is made
up by a crowded collection of establishments,
including three draperies—one a large, ramb-
ling emporium with fabrics arranged in wild
profusion about the footpath after the
fashion of an Oriental rag bazaar —halt a
dozen cool-drink joints, two groceries, a
billiard saloon, and a haircutting ranch bear-
ing the proud boast, “Late of Paris and
Boulder Block.”
“Chap” : “Bad Bill” (B. 8/8/T8) is very
bad indeed when he says the AVestminster
dustmen have borrowed the shape of Bill-
jim’s hat. The hat is on the other head, for
the dustmen wore this shape in millinery as
far back as 1851. And it is just as well
known as the shawl and apron of the flower-
girls of Covent Garden.
“Bad Australian,” from Sierra Leone
(AVest Africa) :
This aggregation of crossbreed “comeback” and
straight nigger enjoys so much freedom that there
is nothing left over for the white sojourner within
its picturesque but insanitary gates. Free Town
is an eloquent testimonal to what may happen under
a well-meaning grandmotherly Government acting
in absolute ignorance of the right way to deal
with black brudder, if good results are looked for.
The British Government, out of its exceeding great
love for the poor benighted Ethiopian, started this
nondescript crowd on the road to liberty with a
full civilising outfit, including very decent schools
where the son of Ham is converted from good nigger
(if a nigger ever is good) into d —d poor teacher,
doctor, lawyer and somewhat corrupt magistrate.
Ev;en the common or bush coon has been so pam-
pered and protected in his aggressive insoleiice
toward the ordinary white that he is fully persuaded
that he is quite as good as, and in some cases a great
deal better than, any of the detested breed. Acting on
this notion he shows very little respect to his white
boss, and his language in reply to a peremptory
order is usually painful and frequent and free. If
the white man should deal faithfully with that nigger
and belt seven kinds of slieol out of him, he is
immediately grabbed by five or six black police and
yanked befo e a nigger magistrate, who, after giving
the plaint! (' and his discolored counsel a patient
and friendl) hearing, proceeds to land the mis-
guided while with the heaviest penalty on the
statutes.
The ordinary buck earns from 3s. to 6s. per day
and his “chop,” and when he sheds his working
suit, which usually consists of a gaudy but dilapi-
dated loin rag and a dirty over-ripe clay-pipe worn
bowl downwards, and puts on his glad rags, he is
just the juiciest cockroach on the Coast. He struts
into the best bar in the settlement, and flashing his
brummy “diamond” ring and wrist watch, orders and
consumes his poison on terms of equality with any
whites who happen to be taking their nourishment
at the same stand. The white man’s mana is at a
distinct discount in Sierra Leone.
“Bill Bowyang”: Chewing cordite is
becoming a dangerous habit amongst muni-
tion-workers in England. I met a young
man in Cairo yesterday who had just re-
turned from a small-arms factory near Bir-
mingham. Like many others, he at first
thought chewing the nitro-glycerine and gun-
cotton a harmless pastime; but eventually
it secured such a hold on him that his health
was affected, and he had to return to his
home in Egypt. He informed me that those
who take up the habit stick to it, for they
become so reliant upon the deadly stimulant
that they dare not drop it. It is one of those
drugs which must be used in ever-increasing
quantities if the “inspiring” effects on the
nervous system aye to be maintained; and
this means a decreasing moral and physical
strength.
“Bill Bowyang”: Those Australians (and
they are many) who threaten to settle down
in 'Palestine when the war is over would do
Well to consider the matter seriously before
they take tip land. For centuries the coun-
try has been denuded of its trees, with dis-
astrous consequences, and the heavy rains
at certain seasons, instead of now benefiting
the soil over more than four-fifths of its
area, carry away in rushing torrents down
the wadies and the many streams which tem-
porarily pour down the hillsides and ancient
terraces much of the little soil that the
almost sterile high lands and valley slopes
have left on them. An expert in forestry
and irrigation explained to me yesterday
how the absence of trees tends to reduce such
a country as Palestine to barrenness. If
the ancient forests were restored they would
form a catchment for the. rainfall, and in
time, by the decay of their leaves, form a
humus soil beneath which would be invalu-
able. The Australian eucalyptus is a tree
which might be utilised, and fruit and olive
trees could also be planted, Another impor-
tant measure would be the storage of water,
not by gigantic engineering enterprises, but
by the simple process of erecting small dams
across the higher reaches of wadies. This
work would create a series of small lakes or
reservoirs of from 500,000 to 2,000,000 gal-
lons of water that would last through the
dry season and add needed moisture to the
air. The replanting of the country will be
retarded if goats are not deported or kept in
compounds, for they devour every green
shoot available. All these schemes can-
not be allowed to overgrow the supply
of labor. On this point experience alone
can decide whether requirements will be
met by the Jews and the Arab population
adapting itself to the new conditions. The
country now possesses an advantage it never
had before in railway connection with
Egypt, where all the surplus agricultural
small crops, grapes and vegetables will find
a ready market in the growing Egyptian
cities and the shipping upon the Suez Canal.
For many years to come farming will be in
the hands of the Arabs, and it will be no
place for an Australian unless he opens a
pub in Jerusalem for the benefit of the tour-
ists who are going to flock to the Holy City
when Mars skies the towel.


reed
X.
A
Otrt*'*
H !•'
sff®
kM
r
sap
ess
mw*iJ
‘A**t
RK
&z
5 '■•
».&S\
sums*
Architects and builders
know that in every climate
Certain-teed
Roofing
has been proved wear-proof,
water-tight and weather-
proof; that it does not blister,
creep nor crack.
Certain-teed is made in
handy rolls, unmistakably
marked, in a variety of
weights and sizes. There is
a type for every building
for every roof, whether flat
or pitched. And it is easy to
lay. A hammer and nails are
the only tools necessary.
Our local distributor will tell you how this roofing
is made in the world’s greatest roofing factory: —
MR. C. C. McCANN,
Perpetual Trustee Building:, Sydney, N.S.W.
Representative of
Certain-teed Products Corporation.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
John Danks & Sons Pty. Etd.
Wunderlich, Etd.
James Sandy & Co., Etd.
James llardie & Co.
WRIGLEYS
The
TUVOU*
6VJM
PERFECT
the
&- (@!
6
Now
6 Bars in
each packet
for 3d.
This favourite, long-lasting,
delicious sweetmeat gives you
the greatest value in refresh-
ment you can possibly buy.
Get it at Chemists, Confectioners,
Tobacco Shops and other Stores.
Send it to the
Soldiers and Sailors
6 Bars
in a
sealed
packet
for
3d.
Two Flavours
RIGHT
kept
tight
sealed
J. C. Gambles & Coy.. Sole Aust. Agents, Melbourne
The Flavour Lasts
* .
.. -V :•- :
* >#;
Sporting
Rifles.
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere*
£
“A marvel at the price. ,,
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2,11 b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
20/
ã
“Splendid for all small game."
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model,
24in. octagon or round barrel, 22 calibre rim fire,
magazine takes 25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-
hardened receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; weight X? dittl
sJlb., take-down. freight paid
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
ä
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central five,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 711).
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £5/7/6
With Octagon Barrel- Freight paid, £5/10/-
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines, „ _ q ,
20in. round barrel, weight about sjlb Freight paid, »/ O
ā
“A good rifle at a moderate price.”
821. Savage 1904 Model Single-shot
Rifle, 22-calibre, bolt action. ISin. barrel;
eight about 31b.; bead front and adjustable rear sight
("Postage on 1 Rifle —N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.) uu i u
IE
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813 Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger.
-tvoiffht o-rip ladder rear sights, slide action, handles
shortflong. or long rifle cartridges; weight, aboiU <)Q/ m
å
•‘EVER READY” PATENT
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one.
PRICE 7d. POST FREE
ā
“Simple and extra strong in construction. ,,
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim lire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
olain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all. 37Mn.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip.
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b -if)/
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
ă
“A suitable weapon for the boy.”
B 2 Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R i'-
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges case-bardened frame, oiled walnut stock,
front and rear sights; weight, 41b • •
(Postage— N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
open
Owing to market fluctuations, the prices here quoted are subject to
change Without notice.
/
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
839. Remington Automatic Hammer less
Rifle Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel -2
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight ojlb _
Freight paid, /
i
83. Stevens’ Favorite Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F. round 24in.
barrel case-bardened frame, solid breech, block under lever
action; weight 4jlb., fitted with ladder rear sight and open front,
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/- ; other States, 3/8.)
40/-
m a
BA. —Browning Patent Automatic Rifle,
handles eleven 22 short smokeless cartridges; walnut stock,
pistol grip,. 19 J-inch barrel; length over all, 36in. ; weight, 4jlb. ; bead front and screw rear sight,
fitted with safety bolt; barrel may be dismounted by unscrewing quarter turn. o j _
Frei'dil: naid. o\Jf~
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List (Catalogue Bl), also 1918 "Sure Catch
Anglers' Guide ( Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write jor one or both
lists. They are money savers.'
1C
7WSTRALm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS
71ND TOBACCONISTS
m
City Sports Depot
99 King St, dlso at
Newcastle d Brisbane.


Another of our Gallant Heroes Praises
REXONA
m
■ ffivHP
i
*3
SA* "*
CORPORAL
R. J. STEVENS
(from a photo).
Corporal R. J. Stevens was the first Inverell
soldier to enlist. He sacrificed an independent
business at the call of duty and enlisted on the 10th
September, 1914, leaving Australia with the First
Division. After three years’ continuous service
he returned severely wounded in foot, wrist and
body. His mother, he says, is his only sweetheart,
and for her sake and the sake of his sisters he
hopes to go back to the Front again.
Dear Sir, —
I have much pleasure in saying that during
my three years’ active service in Egypt, Anzac
and France I constantly used your Rexona
Ointment for cuts and sores of all kinds
with wonderful results. While helping to save
an ammunition dump from burning on Anzac
Beach in May, 1915, I was severely burned
about the hands and face. As I had a supply
of your wonderful Rexona in my kit I was
able to obtain instant relief. You may be
surprised to learn that I always carry your
Rexona Ointment in my pocket. The soap,
too, is perfect.
Wishing you every success,
1 am, yours faithfully,
CPL. R, J. STEVENS,
Ist Anzac Mounted Division.
First at the Front and
First at Home.
The above is only one of the many letters we have received in praise of Rexona
the Rapid Healer from our boys at the Front. They all use Rexona, and find it
unequalled as a soothing- and rapid healing Ointment for the terrible wounds and
skin sores which they so often suffer from.
Rexona is first at the Front and first at home. The ever-ready friend of
all. Sold only in triangular pots at 1/6; or large pots, holding nearly
four times the quantity, for 3/-
o
0
o
THE RAPID HEALER
■
8
W////////A
I VM
mmami
VMM.
w/M
i
■
Invaluable
for Field Service
or Shipboard
ml
iltVl
Safety Razor
Every purchaser of a “ 7 o’clock
Safety Razor set retail is entitled to
nominate a friend who has joined
the colours, and to this friend
a set of equal value will be sent
absolutely FREE of Charge.
Ask your dealer for full particulars .
This safety razor is by far the most convenient and satis-
factory for use in Field, Camp, Barracks, or on Shipboard.
It is self-contained, even to the strop, which is hinged in the
case itself and cannot be mislaid or lost. With a single
touch it springs open for stropping or cleaning, and with
another touch it snaps together into accurately adjusted
shaving position. (See sketches at top right-hand corner.)
Sergeant L. J. VICCANS, Ist D.C.L.1., writes :
“ Up to the time of first using a “7 o'clock"
Safety Razor out here shaoing was a task
to be avoided. Now it is a delight.”
Price in Australia 12/0
Price in New Zealand ... 13/0
“ 7 O’CLOCK ” STANDARD SET
Consists of heavily silver-plated stropping razor,
six finest lancet steel renewal blades in compact
blade sheath, special strop in hinged
partition as part of the case —the
whole in handsome case measuring
only 5 in. by 2 id. by If in. deep
'Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY
380*2 George Street, Sydney.
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australasia.
Autumn Lovers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I KNOW the place they went with olden
feet
On crackling leaves below the branches
bare;
The kiss they kissed was very warm and
sweet
In the sharp autumn air.
Old were the trees; the moss about them
clung
A hundred summers ere those lovers came
Lilting old songs, with voices very young,
And whispering name and name.
An echo started from an old grey wall
Beside a broken hedge and twisted gate,
A hoarse old echo with a faltering call
Following the words too late.
Surely the world seemed all too old for love
When those old steps went very lightly by;
Half-hid in mist a cheerless sun above
Hung in a cold, grey sky.
Now is it older by a thousand Springs,
And yet the branch and bough are Autumn
bare,
That strange, cold place deserted of all wings ;
And love can' still come there.
Spring is for nesting, summer for the brood,
Autumn for lonely seeking without song,
And winter for the memory of good
That could not last too long.
But love goes whispering with the Autumn
leaf,
Its happiest dreams of blossoming and
Spring.
Love—and a thousand years of bloom and
sheaf
Leave it a song to sing!
cannot find the little graves they filled
I'nder a coverlet of churchyard moss ;
A drift of yellow leaves is lightly spilled
Where once stood cross and cross.
Their world was old—how old and far
away!—■
Yet as they walked they heard the footsteps
fall
Of other lovers in an older day
Beyond their dreams’ recall.
And now I hear them walk upon my heart—
Dry drift of leaves from autumns of regret—
Those lovers, talking in the grey apart,
That life will not forget.
Still I remember—nay, I never knew
The whispered words those older lovers said ;
Yet as we pass I say them o’er to vou,
Oh, sweet and wise brown head !
Sweet and most wise; for wisdom lives in
this
Through all dead leaves of years trod under-
foot :
The sacramental wonder of a kiss
Is God’s red summer fruit.
X.S.AV.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
His Sixpenny Bed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
little clergyman standing in the
shadow of the mission doorway was
very much annoyed. “You ought to be
thoroughly ashamed of yourself!’’ he chat-
tered in his quaint, old-maidish way, and
shook an admonishing finger at the surly
deadbeat rocking in busted boots out in the
sun. “To go and break the pledge in this
way within two days of taking it! You
ought to be ashamed of yourself!’’
“I’m orright!” gurgled the sinner, and, by
way of proving it, collapsed in a limp heap.
“Dear, dear!” sighed the little clergyman,
and laid helping hands on the feebly-strug-
gling sinner.
“I'm orright—tell -yer ! Leave me ’lone !
I get—up meself!”
The little clergyman, by this time very
red in the face with his exertions, put his
hands under the patient’s arms, and with a
tremendous effort dragged him gradually to
his feet. “There—you—are !” he gasped.
“Now come inside and go to bed ! You are
not fit to be out in the street!”
“ Won’t gorrer bed !” He reeled away a
few steps.
"Williams, if you dare to come back here
any worse than you are, I shall not let you
in.”
“Don’t warrer come in !”
“If you drink any more I shall report you
to the directors, and the committee, and have
you forbidden the Mission under Rule 79.”
The drunk, by way of reply, waved his
hand contemptuously and zig-zagged down
the street.
* ■ . * *• *
The distinguished English visitor stood at
one of the fourth-floor windows of the
famous hotel. The manager was humbly in
attendance to answer any questions the dis-
tinguished visitor or the distinguished visi-
tor’s wife might care to ask him.
“And what is that big building over
there?” murmured her Ladyship.
The manager stroked his moustache doubt-
fully. “That is now T used as a mission-hall
and cheap lodging-house, your Ladyship. I
think it is unfortunate it should have been
placed there. The work, of course, is neces-
sary, but I think it would have been wiser
if the church people had taken a place in a
side street. It brings an undesirable type
about the place.”
“You ought to try to shift them,” yawned
his Lordship, dragging at his moustache. “It
shouldn’t be impossible to move them —these
religious people will do anything for you if
you give them some money.”
“Well, we’ve done our best: but there are
some rich people behind that particular
mission, and one of them owns the building.
I can assure you I would give something to
have them out of it.”
His Lordship yawned as if the discussion
had quite emptied his head of ideas. “Oh,
well, I s’pose it can’t be helped. Damn
nuisance, though!”
A little later the distinguished visitors,
who really weren’t distinguished but were
merely idle strangers with a lot of money
they hadn’t earned, w T ent down in the- nit
and strolled out to inspect the city and see
if it would do. They promenaded down the
steep hill that led to the busy portion, and
there, while waiting for a chance to ge
through the traffic, his Lordship had the
dreadful experience that convinced him the
colonies were seething w. 'li Socialism, l ust
of all he was bumped violently trom behind
bumped so violently that he dropped .his
cane and had his panama hat knocked over
his eyes. Then, immediately after, came
the insulting query, “Why fell earn t yei
gitouter th’ way?” His Lordship turned
like a maddened sheep and discovered a
ruinous and besotted individual swaying on
his feet. “You bounder! I’ve a good mind
to give you in charge!”
“Ah-h, get work, yer immergrant.
sneered the disastrous person, and reeled
away just in time to avoid trouble.
The distinguished visitors proceeded on
their way. But their first morning had been
ruined for them by their unfortunate experi-
ence and they could find no good in any-
thing, #
The distinguished visitors had been gone
half an hour or so, and the manager of the
tall hotel was just about to tackle some
office work after his morning round of in-
spection, when he saw a little, black-coated
figure dive out of the mission building and
make straight for his side of the street. He
thought the little clergyman was hound
down-town as usual and would hurry past;
but he was astonished to see him turn into
the palm-decorated hall and rendered speech-
less when the brawny hall-porter knocked
and asked if he could see the Rev. Mr. Sav-
ing. of the Back Street Mission opposite.
“Yes, show him in,” growled the manager,
and the next minute the Rev. Mr. Saving
was seated before him.
“I’m afraid my business is not very
pleasant, Mr. —er —”
“Billsway’s my name.’’
The little clergyman, twiddled his curious
Hat hat nervously. “I wanted to appeal to
you. Mr. Billsway—to appeal to your better
feelings, sir, on behalf of the poor fellows
we are trying to help.”
“I’m sorry, but I can’t do anything for
you just now. All appeals for donations
have to be referred to our Board, and”—
“It is not a donation I want,. Mr. Bills-
way !”
“No?"
“No: it is this. I want you not to make
drink so attractive. This splendid monu-
ment of drink has a terrible influence on my
poor fellows! What use is it to preach the
wisdom of temperance when here we have a
sort of garish palace of drink luring them
on to destruction?”
That started the trouble fairly, and
presently the two principals were kicking up
such a row, and the staff were so engrossed
trying to overhear something, that the reel-
ing scarecrow, who had been watching tlm
entrance from the other side of the road ever
since the little clergyman dived in, drifted in
without let or hindrance and went upstairs.
If he had hesitated, he would have been
lost for a certainty; but, greatly daring, he
went right in and up without a second’s
pause—which would seem to indicate that his
hazy, alcoholic mind was filled with a definite
idea.
The manager’s room still contained a pas-
sionate duet when the distinguished couple
arrived back from the visit of inspection. They
made thqjr weary way straight to the lift
and were whisked upward to the cool and
quiet regions above. Two minutes later
shrill sounds of rage and panic were heard
aloft, the lift shot down, swallowed the head
waiter and shot up again.
But the panic sounds grew louder, and
the lift, with a horrified minion in charge,
slid down once more, engulfed the brawny hall-
porter and tore up with him. Presently loud
shouts and thumps were heard in addition
to the original shrieks, which had not sub-
sided. Then the flying lift came down again
like a hurried angel, and when the lift per-
son dashed back the iron screen, his Lord-
ship bounded out like a released lion and,
dashing to the manager’s office, beat upon
the closed door with both hands.
“What’s the matter?” shouted the en-
raged Billsway, as the door flew open. Then,
as he noticed who the intruder w T as, “Oh!
your Lordship! Is anything wrong?”
“Wrong!” screamed the nobleman. *“You
come to my room, sir! Just come up and
see what’s in my room ! By Gad, I’ll w T rite
to the Times about this! I’ll show up this
place!”
“Why, your Lordship! What is it? If
there’s anything I can do”— —
“Do!” screamed his Lordship, dancing in
the hall. “By Gad, if you don’t do some-
thing, I’ll —Oh, lieah, damn it all, you just
come and see what it is!”
They grabbed each other by the coat
sleeve and ran to the waiting lift. The
door slammed on them and they shot up
where uproar and bad language awaited
them.
By this time the downstairs portion of
the hotel was buzzing. The little clergyman
hovered nervously in the hall, and presently
the insatiable lift swooped down again and
the white-faced minion frantically becko c’d
him in and rushed him aloft till the white
upturned faces of the hotel employees below
were lost in the gloom. At the fourth floor
the lift stopped with a jerk, the collapsmlo
door clashed back, and the little clergyman
was shoved into the midst of a free fight.
A swaying, roaring figure in an elaborate
white nightgown decked with blue ribbons
was struggling in the grip of a distinguished
military officer of high rank (the hall-porter)
and a nobleman in evening dress (the head
waiter), while his enemy, the hotel manager
was arguing at the top of his voice with a
thin, fair-haired man who wanted to write
to the Times without a moment’s delay. In
the background was a tearful lady who
wanted to know' if something couldn’t be done
about it. She,, it seemed, was the owner of
the nightgown.
As the little clergyman stood surveying this
scene the manager turned on him. shouting:
“You see what you’ve done? He went to
sleep in his Lordship’s bed ! Get the filthy
brute out of that nightgown and take him
away with you.”
‘ Williams!” shrilled Mr. Saving.
(Continued on next page.)


Daily Mishaps
ACCIDENTS are always happening in the
kitchen, in the dining-room, in the garden,
at the children’s play, and during every kind
of work or athletic pursuit.
Directly Zam=Buk is applied to L wound or
sore it serves to alleviate the pain and
inflammation, reduce any swelling, and
prevent the place “taking bad ways.”
Zam-Buk also has splendid antiseptic
properties.
In a natural way belonging to the
natural extracts from which it is
manufactured, this balm stops
the growth of harmful microbes
that account for the festering
of a neglected or wrongly
treated sore, it kills or nul-
lifies all dangerous influ-
ence at once, and causes
the tissues, which it
has first made clean
in a medical sense,
to knit together
once more until
all trace of the
sore or injury
has gone.
Zam-Buk is
the ideal
healer for
daily
home
use.
O!
m
I
Trod
on a
Rusty Nail.
Poisoned Foot Healed.
Mrs. M. Delion, who lives
at 53 Little Albion Street,
Surry Hills, Sydney, says:
“One day whilst crossing the
yard I slipped, and a rusty
nail penetrated my foot and
caused a painful L.jury. Within
a few days blood-poisoning Set
in, and my foot and leg began to
be extremely inflamed and swollen.
Night after night I would lie awake
in agony, and often the pain made me
cry out aloud. For some time I was
too crippled to get about, or do anything.
After reading about Zam-Buk I sent for
a large pot of the balm. I began to apply
dressings of Zam-Buk to the injury twice
daily, and it soon effected a noticeable im-
provement. My foot was freed of pain, the
swelling and inflammation were greatly reduced,
and the wound began to look a lot healthier.
“I persevered with Zam-Buk until the wound was
thoroughly rid of all bad matter, and then it healed
rapidly and perfectly. I cannot speak too highly
of Zam-Buk.'’
For everyday skin sores, flesh wounds and injuries, Zam-
Buk is a reliable healer to keep always handy. Of all
chemists and storekeepers, at 1/6 and 3/6 per pot.
B
«
RUB IT IN!
C. BRANOAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
ą
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works a Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ă
ǻ
m
mM
SUNBEAM
experience of standardising extra-efficiency
in the guise of the increasing numbers of
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
being supplied to the British and the Allies’
Air Services, involving, as it does, perfection
of design, methods, workmanship and
materials, must inevitably exercise its
influence on our post-war production
of motor carriages for the public.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62, Oxford St., London, England
WORKS - • • • Wolverhampton, England
æ
ǽ
But TV llliams, struggling with his captors,
gi unted : “I’ve paid me sixpence, I tell yer.
I won’t be chucked out!”
The Rev. Mr. Saving laid hands on his
sinner and shouted: “You wretched fellow,
this isn’t the Mission !”
But rage and drink had obscured the men-
tal vision of the straggler. “I —tell yer—
paid me sixpence! If it ain’t th’ —Mission,
why you ’ere?”
“The drunken brute thinks lie’s in that den
over the way,” stormed his Lordship. “This
is the last time I’ll stay in this place. I
won’t live with vagrants 1”
Billsway flinched. “I’m sorry, your Lord-
ship, but”
The high soprano of her Ladyship rang
out above the shouting. “Oh, don’t let the
creature split it! Stop him kicking in it!”
“ Williams!” shrieked the little clergyman,
dodging the flying boots of the prisoner.
"\\ illiams, if you don't give up that garment
at once and come away with me quietly, I
shall report you to the directors and the com-
mittee and”
“Oh, don’t waste time forkin’!” growled
the major-general hall-porter. “ ’Old ’is legs
an’ I’ll soon ’ave ’im out of it!”
The Rev. Mr. Saving jumped forward like
a sparrow to obey ; but at that instant the
to.o-eontident porter relaxed his grip and
Williams broke away and dashed with the
bewildering speed of the determined drunk
at the stairway, lie fell with a crash on the
first landing, was pounced on by the porter,
fought him off with his feet and cascaded
down the next flight, where the same disas-
trous performance was gone through, to the
great detriment ,of her Ladyship’s expensive
nightgown. The rest of the company fol-
lowed the running fight down in the lift,
shouting useless advice between floors. But
they were in time to witness the last shameful
scuffle in the splendid hall, when the enraged
and fight-sobered ' Williams threw the hall-
porter heavily for the last time and, decora-
ted with ribbons and strips of fine linen, sped
out the front door, closely followed by the
little clergyman, who, as he ran, threatened
him carefully with Rule 79 and the everlast-
ing displeasure of the directors and the com-
mittee.
KODAK.
Charity.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BESSIE LYND dragged herself down
the sodden road from the tragedy of
her desertion by McNair, numbed by
the wind and sleet, but dead in heart and
brain except for a pitiful reiteration : “How
could he? How could he?”
Her one comfort had been that none in
the Valley knew her secret. Yet, unknown
to her, everybody but her stepmother and her
father had known of her meetings with
McNair, and thought they foresaw the result.
Returning from the scene of her brutal
desertion she felt only cold, for her self-
respect had been lost long before in the
necessity for rehabilitation at the hands of
such a man. The languor of her condition
becajne exaggerated by the utter dreariness
of the day. There seemed to be waiting for
her in the Valley all the gossiping and malevo-
lence of a one-street township—gossiping
not blindly, for McNair had taken a
companion into confidence, and this
savage had publicly laughed over McNair’s
intentions as to marriage as a thing splen-
didly humorous. And the women who had
been called together by the repetition of the
excellent joke gossiped in bunches and said
to each other, “There she is,” with never a
thought of pity for the limping wretchedness
that came to them through the drizzle
searched by the icy fingers of the wind.
When she saw them the last flicker of
pride came to give her courage. She lifted
her head a little higher and limped past them
silently while the whispers grew: “Did you
see? Didn’t I tell you?”
Somehow she reached the home that was
never home, and in momentary terror
gripped the fence before entering the garden.
There was a brugmansia with one late
trumpet upon it. A remorse which is the
fear of punishment came to her. And then
she reflected that nobody knew yet—at least,
none but the uncertain gossips of the one
street, and certainly nobody who could
matter.
Most people who live next a cathedral
never see the cathedral. The hovel crouched
in the shadow of the pyramid knows not the
pyramid. Use has the property of conceal-
ing vital facts longest from the people who
are most interested. Bessie had limped all
her life. A little limping more or less, a
duller languor, said nothing to the nigh-two-
himdred-pounds weight of selfishness which
was the second Mrs. Lynd—drugged with
sweets and the marvellous heroines of “Maria
Corley.”
The awakening of Mrs. Lynd called for a
blow with a sledge-hammer; and she had
received it that afternoon at the hands of
Miss Cloudy, the unpublished poetess, who
had been a virgin for so long that the
memory of: man knoweth not to the contrary.
When Bessie limped into the living-room
of the house she saw that all was known.
The word that drives even the harlot frantic
was spat at her. She did not dare to stop
and defend herself. She tried to run away,
and ended by limping quickly to the street
and up tfi the Higher Valley. She had no
plans, but the gate of the parsonage gave
one.
The wife of the Reverend Malachi Honey-
bee had heard much of the story. The
appearance of the girl confirmed all of it.
“As a -ifibral woman I must condemn her
fault,” said. Mrs. Honeybee. “As a Christian
I must forgive it.”
So Bessie stayed at the parsonage—a
something between a servant and a sinner.
Christian feeling made them give her shelter.
Outraged: virtue made them give her work
which purifies the soul, but no wages which
might tempt the body. So she had drabness
and winter, scrubbing and laundering—work
she had never learned, and now had to learn,
being fage to face with the Four Streets of
Poverty, which are Hunger, Cold, Waiting
and Contumely. She took it gladly, because
it dulled her out of thinking; but it did not
bring her sleep at night, because the future
was uncertain. So for the free horse—more
work though it be ever so lame; more work
and all the High Moralities.
Windy Jimmy Kelly, the publican—-once a
Californian of ’forty-nine, and therefore not
cousin to the snuffle-busters who made up
most of the people of the Valley, had
married McNair’s mother. His romance
had been suffered so late in life that
it had been without fastidiousness. When
the rumors about Bessie crystallised into a
coherent story, Tony Barfoot and Windy
Jimmy were almost too ashamed to talk of it.
“It ain't true,” said Kelly, when at last
somebody else introduced the subject. And
when the man had gone Tony Barfoot leaned
across the fireplace and tapped his friend
on the knee that wasn’t gouty.
“By God, Jimmy,” said he, “ ’tis true —’tis
true enough. It’s nacheral, an’ if it’s all
nacher, she’ll get stripes for breakin’
parsons’ law.”
“It ain’t parsons’ law—it’s right’s law.
It's ’ard an’ it’s ne’ssary. Y’ must make the
women scared, or the kids have got no
chance.”
“Anyway, I’d like to meet the man who
cheated her.”
And McNair’s mother, who knew, went out
very quietly as she heard him. A fortnight
later she died, giving little trouble to any—
after telling Kelly that her son Adam was
the man who deserted the girl. And
Kelly cursed his wife's sons and all their
works.
“Look to him,” said Tony Barfoot to his
wife. “Poor Jimmy Kelly—that was a
world-beater of a man. After he marries he
keeps his wife’s sons, an’ their kids, an’
their dorgs, and they have the run of his
bar, an’, if he tries to keep them away from
the til], they ups and slays him with a pick-
handle, or says they will.”
But a week after his wife’s death Windy
Jimmy Kelly took up all the strings of his
occupation as he had held them before his
marriage, and, being miraculously free of
gout, be made a sudden descent on John
McNair. This gentleman, a highly-disre-
spected cadger, had appointed himself his
mother’s residuary legatee, and translated
the duties of that position into the fattening
of himself on beer, and the eating of the
widower’s substance like some great and
voracious grasshopper on green barley. The
old prospector’s eyes blazed in fury. He fell
on John McNair and beat him so that he
ever after avoided Kelly’s as if it were a
quarantine ground.
This exercise made the avenger feel much
better, and he walked to the parsonage for
Bessie. Mrs. _ Honeybee, however, detained
him to talk in shocked tones of Bessie’s
crime, and of her condition, which, to Mrs.
Honeybee, became more shameful with time
because it became more apparent. She spoke
of it as being an unnatural event, and
one never before heard of, with the shocked
air of a Divorce Court Judge pretending
that he knows naught of human nature. She
told also of her own kindness in the provi-
sion of an asylum for Bessie, judiciously
-stressing the moralities, and keeping
secret the drudgery and the absence of
wages. Finally, and with that deadly
seriousness which is the testimonial of
strong respectability to itself, she said
that she had told Bessie that day to
find another home, as her husband’s position
demanded that she should give no counte-
nance to immorality.
Mr. Kelly said naught to her but “Yes,
mum,” and “No, mum,” but he regarded her
with a stare of wonder, so that she had the
grace to feel a little pity for her sister in
distress and a very little shame for herself.
She even promised to send Bessie’s box to
Mr. Kelly’s next day.
“If the Church turns her down,” said
Windy Jimmy, “the pub is ready to take her
up.”
Bessie, carrying a great bundle, joined Mr.
Kelly on the verandah. He took the bundle
from her, gave her his arm and led the way.
Her lameness was so exaggerated that it
became a disfigurement. She leaned heavily
on his friendly arm. The gaunt old man
looked down on her and said, with the pity
of four-score for the sorrows of twenty
years, “Poor little thing.”
At that rare tone of kindliness she began
to cry softly—not bitterly, but as if betrayed
to it by his sympathy and her own weakness.
“There, there, don’t cry—or do, just’s you
like,” said Mr. Kelly. Then he looked down
again at the limping figure and said'as if he
were alone:
“Poor little thing! It's a damned shame!
Poor little thing!”
That night the gossips had a new
subject. “What do you think? Did y’
ever hear such a thing? A single girl an’'a
widower, an’ she in trouble! Ah ! in my
young days girls were decent. Many a
time my mother give me a slap across the
face”
But up at Windy Jimmy Kelly’s a girl
began to learn to smile again ; awaiting her
harvest almost calmly, because she had
sanctuary.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
To-morrow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
~1 TOW many and how many threatening
I—l things
JL_l_ Lurk as we lightly mount and ride
away
Into the future from the known to-day?
What fate s whir over us on wheeling wings;
To what wild precipice the track-ledee
clings;
What gorge of windy darkness waits its prey •
What sorrow squats and what gaunt hopes
decay,
Below those uplands where to-morrow sings.
And yet we laugh along, or shout a brave
Chorus of challenge to the winds that rave,
The fates that circle and the hordes of
sorrow.
For though we have to rouse old Death and
ride
With that lank rattlebones to serve as guide,
We mean to climb those mountains of to-
morrow.
maoriland.
BARTLETT ADAMSON.


—.-.,0; '
il
r c 4
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book=
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z. Office- 93-107 Featfiereton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office- 99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil, spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
fte/nlneto/i
a
VMS
R
EMNGTON UMC cartridges
are made and tested for every
standard make of pistol and revolver.
Their uniform accuracy and absolute
reliability make them the favourites
among shooters of this class of fire-
arm, whether used by the expert marks-
man or by the casual purchaser for
self-defence and safety.
Write for special booklet
free upon request.
REVOLVER-'PISTOL
CARTRIDGES
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
Box 686. G. P. 0., MELBOURNE
a
B.!
FORESIGHT
;
m
8588
-
TAKE
BEECHAMS
PILLS
MOTORISTS!
Are you prepared to meet the advance in your running costs when
PETROL GOES UP
by any means other than paying the extra cash?
Why not BURN MORE AIR
anil thus increase your mileage per gallon by at least 10% ?
Fit to your carburetter manifold
A Hand-controlled Extra Air CocK.
Can be easily installed in a few minutes.
Besides being A SPLENDID GASOLINE SAVER
this device can be used as an efficient air brake when coasting lulls.
PRICES :
Sin. Full Bore, Straight Hose, Extra-Air Coik,
4 with 11 Unions, Clips, &c., and llft.Flexible Hose
Tin. ditto, ditto, ditto
4in. Full Bore, Bent Nose, ditto, ditto, ditto
Brass finish. Nickel finish.
15/- 15/0 comp.
18/8 10/-comp.
10/0 20/6 comp.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STEEL CASTINGS—SpeciaI Good Quality
m
We have made about 300 GAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Meih.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, etc. These
concerns require STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in weight, SUITABLE FOR ALL PURPOSES
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION. Send your enquiries to us.
CHAS.
Victoria Street,
Richmond, Victoria.


LEATHER
“THERE’S NOTHING LIKE LEATHER.’’
For efficiency under t,he most trying condi-
tions no belt lias ever given better satisfac-
tion than
“MANGROVITE” RAWHIDE BELTING.
This famous power-transmitter and power-saver
is dependable under all conditions.
Made from the best hides procurable. 'Panned
and Manufactured by the Mangrovite Process.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square, near G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
a LE ON N°
CIRCULAR SAWS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We have many other sires and gauges in stock, but below
are some of the most useful.
\ II, lain. X 13, Jiiii . V t ;, 2-1 in. x 10.
2Gin. x 11. 26iu. x 12, 26in. x I :. 26iu. x 1 I.
SSin. x I l. 28in. x 12. 2si«. \ la. 30in. x 12.
30ln. x 111, 32in. x 10. aim. x 17 32in. x 12.
36in. xll. SSiti. x 11. I35n. x n, 12fn. xlO.
4‘Sili. x 'll. Win. x 10, Ihin. \ in.
OH
tsrr*
t «*a—«k ti dg&a
t: ~'i“s
£9^l
£FFI
r ‘ - ‘t
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne. I'remiuille.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Paul & dray U<l.. Newcastle.
BALATA
ELTING
DicK’s Balata Belting
Conquers the defects of other belts, long'
considered as necessary evils.
The peculiar texture of DICK’S HAI.ATA
KELT INC (the original and genuine)
ensures wonderful gripping power.
SEND EDI! INTERESTING nOOKLET.
N.S.W. Government Railways Stores Depart*
ment. Dockyards, etc., have accepted our
tenders for 1918-11).
Sole Importers:—•
JAMES HARDIE & CO. LTD,,
“Asbestos House,”
Cr. York & Wyriyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (4 Lines).
Newcastle Agents -Paul & Gray Ltd.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity, Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give ‘’CONSISTENT SERVICE. Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at word to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not oniy to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience' we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
£
nm
Latest Motor Jack.
Endless chain, quick and easily worked. Strong, com-
pact, 10- to 18-inch extension. Lift 1 ton. Size
over all, lOin. x sin.
Price 25/-
For up—Place under car, stand clear from dust and
grease, pull endless chain.
For down —Pull chain opposite way.
Useful other purposes. Highly recommended by
D. 8 W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.,
Ironmongers, 276-294 BRUNSWICK ST., FITZROY. MELBOURNE
C
v:
o
o
2?
y
ft
*;
<6>0t MAiSs
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-; lib.. 25/-; 20r.„ 7 6.
Mb. Flux will braze broken casting; 15 feet long by
1 inch thick —instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and ait over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to ns.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St, Hilda, Victoria.
PUMPS-Good Pumps Only
II
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer , and
can at the present time deliver ail Standard Heavy lanes listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, hall valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation ; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from ljin. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required; Other Pumps
manufactured include: —
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALD Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRA CT WORK Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
|sr
m
i
wmm
SSI
n
agrafe
I*3^*:
ELECTRIC LIGHT FOR ALL
DELCO-LIGHT
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN
OPERATE IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand-
SOLE AGENTS:
N.S.W. and VICTORIA
WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE,
QUEENSLAND -
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
M
AY 1 ?
/V*:;
The Jisfer) Portable Shearing Plant
The Ideal Outfit for Small Shearing Contractors.
1,2, 3, or 4 STANDS. Shears are Friction-driven off Flywheels of 3- or 6-h.p Kerosene Engine.
Mr. C. BROADBEOK, Pillerene, (Jnnnenbene, writes: l am very highly satisfied with the
Plant. Have shorn over 2000 sheep and never lost a minute.”
Mr. F. 1). PHILLIPS, Merryulla, Coonamble, writes: “The plant went splendidly—not a
hitch from start to finish. The Lister Machines are the sweetest-running on the
market.”
HUNDREDS OF OTHER USERS ARE EQUALLY SATISFIED. Write for Bulletin No. TOO.
DANGAR, GEDYE & GO. LTD., 9-13 Young St., Sydney
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Eagfe Street, Brisbane, Agents in Queensland.
TWO INDISPENSABLE DOMESTIC ARTICLES
Manufactured by N. GOTHRIDGE LTD., 350 George Str
&
Abbot Filter
AN AUSTRALIAN FILTER of the Highest
Merit, approved by State Board of Health.
All Styles for Houses and Factories.
Also the
NEW RAPID FILTER
FOR LARGE FACTORIES,
BOILER FEED, WATER, etc.
Capacity up to 300 gal. per hour.
If your store cannot give you
catalogue, please write us direct.
Lilywhite Washing Machine
Will Wash Clothes Perfectly without injuring the Most Delicate Fabric.
200 ARTICLES CAN BE THOROUGHLY WASHED AND ON THE LINE ©T
ONE HOUR AND A HALF—BY TWO CHILDREN.
White Articles Come Out Spotlessly White.
Hundreds of letters from satisfied users, copies of which will he sent on
request.
We guarantee the machine to wash the finest lace, as well as quilts,
blankets, etc., without damage to any article, and with very little labor.
VICTORIAN AGENTS—For FILTERS: HOLLAND PTY. LTD., McKillop Street, Melbourne; For WASHERS: N. FIIRTIERE, 48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
