

DEWAR’S —SUPERB OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
B. Q. WATXUNS iSC 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 !K.ent Street, Sydney,
mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’“and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always avai a)
CSV.
Qdva*tce.
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS & LOWEST INTEREST
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.&I.C? LTP
HEAD Off ICE*. 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
Next, to “Wally Telegraph” New Bnilcling
186 Castlereagh Street, S; duty.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
20 King Street, Newcastle, N.B.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone : City 98SS5.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
I f
CHROMOL
99
(Trade Mark)
LEATHER BELTING.
THE SUPER DRIVING BELT.
CHROMOL BELTING is made by us from
mineral-tanned Leather— the Hide fibres are
impregnated with Chromium, which toughens
them as it does steel.
As a result of tests extending over 10
years, Chromol has been adopted by the
largest Mining and Smelting Companies in
Australia on all important Mill drives.
Sole Makers:
J. C. LUDOWICI 8 SON LTD.,
■stabliahed
in 18S8.
117 York Street, Sydney.
THE BEST !
u
e
&
-
mm
m
m
mmam
S 3
>"'■ &™d)
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious aud invigorating for the
digestive organs.
riESZSISa
Junket
hf
«, INDIGESTION
and dyspepsia
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
“Not the
as others .
»
MALTHOID
for your
bungalow roof.
Malt ho id combines all the essentials of a perfect roofing material for use on the modem
residence.
It imparts the correct bungalow effect, giving that desirable “flatness” which so well
harmonises with the general design of the building.
Malthoid will give better service than any other kind of roofing, requiring less attention
in upkeep—it does not rot, rust or leak —and the cost is less than half that of galvanised-
iron.
Malthoid therefore leads in appearance, wear, low cost of maintenance and real economj.
Samples and booklet post free.
Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Awstraiasian Manager), Chains House, Sydney.
The
A new and revised edition of the
“Referee” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
LYSAGHTS LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
e^ s
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
GIN
(The White Heart
on the Black Bottle)
ORME, HEIGWIN CSb CO. LTD.. SYDNEY Sole Agents.
NOYE*S BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD. (MELBOURNE) PROPY. LTD.
COPPER, BRASS and MUNTZ METAL RODS and BARS.
HIGH-GRADE ANTI-FRICTION METALS.
PHOSPHOR BRONZE, TIN and COPPER INGOTS.
aUstrat.ian m atitt PROMPT DE-LIVERY.
OPALOID
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
Concentrated Perfume
ut with the Delicacy of
the Fresh- Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
ToJ. 39.—50. 2009.]
[Thursday, August 15, 1918.
WAR-TIME PRICE, Bd.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


3073
Your engine will “purr”
over the crest of the hardest
hills, if lubricated with
mm
HOIOROIIS
which enable it to reach and
maintain its maximum of
powerful, smooth, sweet
“running.”
Obtainable ail
Garages and
Storekeepers.
NATIONAL OIL CO., LTD.,
4 Bridge Street. Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Adelaide.
London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beaut)
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amspell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Why Have Grey Hair?
Few people know that grey hair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can In
avoided without resorting to hair dyes. A
very old, home-made remedy will turn thf
hair back to a natural color in a few days
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few nights
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing the greyness disappear.
This recipe is perfectly harmless, is neither
sticky nor greasy and has given perfect satis-
faction for many generations to those in
possession of the secret.
Blackheads, Oily Pores, etc.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment rids
the skin of blackheads, oiliness and enlarged
pores almost instantly. It is perfectly harm-
less, pleasant and immediately effective. All
you have to do is to drop a stymol tablet,
obtained from the chemist, in a glass of hot
water, and after the resulting effervescence
has subsided dab the affected portions of the
face freely with the liquid. When you dry
the face you will And that the blackheads
come right, off on the towel, the large pores
contract and efface themselves and the greasi-
ness is all gone, leaving the skin smooth, soft
and cool. This treatment should be repeated
a few times at intervals of several davs in
order to make sure that the result shall be
permanent.
The Magnetism of Beautiful Hair.
Beautiful hair adds immensely to the per-
sonal magnetism of both men • and women
Actresses and smart women are ever on the
look out for any harmless thing that will in-
crease the natural beauty of their hair. The
latest method is to use pure stallax as a sham-
poo on account of the peculiar glossy, fluffy
and wavy effect which it leaves. As' stallax
has never been used much for this purpose it
comes to the chemist only in lib. sealed origi-
n.(l packages, enough for 25 or 30 shampoos.
A teaspoonful of the fragrant stallax gran-
ules, dissolved in a cup of hot water, is more
than sufficient for each shampoo. It is very
beneficial and stimulating to the hair apart
from its beautifying effect.
How to Remove a Bad Complexion.
Cosmetics can never really help a poor com
plexion; often they are positively harmful
Ihe sensible, rational way is to actuallv re
move the thin veil of stifling, half-dead scarf-
skin from the face, and give the fresh, vigor-
ous and beautiful young skin underneath a
chance to show itself and to breathe.
" his is best done in a very simple way, bv
merely applying mercolised wax at night, like
cold cream, and washing it off in the morning
Bood mercolized wax can be obtained from
any well-stocked chemist. It absorbs the dis-
figurmg cuticle gradually and harmlessly,
leaving a brilliant natural complexion. Of
course, this also takes with it all such facial
blemises as red blotches, tan, moth patches
sallowness, liver spots, pimples, etc. As a
freckle remover and general complexion beau-
liner this old-fashioned remedy is unequalled.
The Powder Puff Passes.
Every normal woman is always interested
m any plan by which she can quicklv enhance
her beauty, provided the plan is perfectly safe
and simple. Ever since the discovery that
ordinary cleminite. such as any chemist can
supply, is an instantaneous and harmless
beautifier, there has been a growing demand
for it from smart women everywhere. They
usually get about an ounce 'and add just
enough water to dissolve it. A little of this
perfectly harmless lotion gives a beautify
complexion to any face instantly. It renders
face powder quite unnecessary. Moreover, its
use cannot be detected. The skin is instantlj
beautified but appears perfectly natura
under the closest scrutiny. [;
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
/
• *§.
m
% \
W
“Before / Sit in a Chair l Like to Know Whether It Has
Been Polished with an Oily Substance or with
TV/fOST LIQUID POLISHES remain on the
surface, gathering every bit of dust and
dirt and soiling the hands and clothing. Dis-
criminating housewives add to the comfort of
family and guests by polishing their furniture
with Johnson’s Prepared Wax
“The Dust-Proof Polish”
Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a perfectly hard,
dry, glasslike polish of great beauty and durability.
It never becomes soft or sticky in the hottest weather
or from the heat of the body. Consequently it does
not gather dust or show finger prints.
Polish All Your Furniture
—including the piano and organ —with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. You will be surprised at the won-
derful improvement. It gives Craftsman Furniture
that soft, artistic polish so appropriate to this’style.
It entirely removes the cloudiness from Mahogany,
restoring its original gloss.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for
keeping dining room tables bright and tempting.
Hot dishes have no effect whatever on it.
Every family has dozens of uses for Johnson’s Prepared Wax. Keep
a tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos . Piano Woodwork
Floors Furniture Motor Car
. * K«l* a
1/
Obtainable from all good Dealers—or
- - - • Use this Coupon for Trial Tin - - - -
I enclose 6d. for trial tin of f I
Johnson’s Prepared Wax L J
sufficient for a good test. Also send book
on Home Beautifying, free and postpaid.
Name
Address
I usually buy from .
Fill Out this Coupon and Post to
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and w r ater are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay;.
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free l/o. Free sample posted. ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROAT
and the Prevention of Consumption.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
m
3?
S 3
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of Dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
LET THE BUYER BEWARE!—The latge sale for
“Eumenthol JUJUBES” has led to a number of
imitations being manufactured under the name n!
menthol and other jujubes. It is important, there-
fore, when buying- to be sure and get HUDSON'S
Eumenthol Jujubes. You may be asked to buy other
jujubes, and be told they are “just as goad” as
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves that these
imitations and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good repute
and high character of Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold by all Chemists in Tins. Price 1/6. or sent
post free on receipt of stamps (any State) by
manufacturers,
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY. t*
The Red Page
From Gobineau to Armageddon
The world lias never properly appreciated
the Prussian appetite for Penny Dreadfuls.
Melodrama is food to the Prussian mind,
and it revels in gay and gaudy effects even
among the highest levels of literature. It
is this fact that has made Fritz the dupe of
cheap theories that tend to excite his racial
vanities. Foreign publicists and philoso-
phers, who could get no hearing in their own
countries, won swift triumphs in Hun houses
of learning by accommodating their ideas to
the needs of Kultur. There was Houston
Stewart Chamberlain, the renegade English-
man who poured his shaky scholarship into
“The Foundations of the Nineteenth Cen-
tury” and gave Prussianism a stature it had
never yet attained in Uohenzollern circles.
Chamberlain made the Prussian power look
like a vast infant bursting from its clothes,
and the Kaiser was so charmed by the flat-
tery of the picture that he flung the book in
cartloads all over the Empire. Prior to
Chamberlain there was the windy Treitz-
schke, who, though born a Saxon, was one
of the first to give Frightfulness a definite
mission in politics. Too deaf to hear his own
nonsense, Treitzschke became the Dead wood
Dick of Prussian Weltmania. He started
the Hun looking beyond his frontiers and
inculcated the Will-to-Power with a series of
solemn. Hates. Yet the hectic professor was
only an echo of a more brilliant character,
Friedrich Nietzsche, whose Master philosophy
was the brindled offspring of Darwin, Schope-
uauer and Stirner. The last-mentioned, who
was a Bavarian of shrinking personality,
started the train of thought that carried
Nietzsche headlong on the trail of the
Overman. Stirner, a loose thinker without
an historical or social basis for his fervid
presumptions, was, like the others, a deadly
influence on the Prussian mentality which,
however, had received its first intoxication
and its first yearning for world-power from
a different and indifferent theorist, Count
Gobineau of France.
It shows the insular ignorance of the Eng-
lish that Gobineau is not mentioned in the
“Encyclopaedia Britanniea,” whilst his book,
“The Inequality of Races,” has only recently
been translated into the English language.
Even now it is almost unprocurable in Eng-
lish. has received small recognition in its
original French, and yet circulating largely
for many years in the Vaterland was the
germ of pan-Germanism and kindred fads.
But the eminence of Gobineau as a Teuton
best-seller was not due to any strength of
intellect or reasoning, but to a rather gro-
tesque assumption that the Teuton had been
destined by Nature to become the Master-
race of humanity. The Count arrived at
this conclusion by assuming that, as the
white was superior to the yellow and the
black, so was the white, who was freest
from racial impurities, the greatest in
courage, moral splendor and governing
ability to all the other sections of the Cau-
casian family. As Gobineau regarded the
allegedly flaxen-haired, blue-eyed Prussians
as least degraded by racial intermixture,
and had given their “superiority” an inevita-
bility unaffected by education, environment
or racial traits, he created an enormous Hun
audience for his opinions at once. But the
weakness of his argument was that if there
was any relation between racial purity and
political pre-eminence, the blonder and
equally pure-blooded inhabitant of the Scan-
dinavian peninsula was more likely to prove
the Master-type than the comparatively
mongrel Prussian, who was just as fre-
quently dark as fair, and often showed his
Caucasian features swamped-by the endur-
ing characteristics of Asiatic forebears. Fol-
lowing Gobineau’s reasoning further, the
racial integrity of the Basques should have
assured them a greater prominence in Euro-
pean society and the “white” Spaniards
should be laps ahead of the Asiatic Japanese
in the race for efficiency, just as the mixed
American civilisation of the present time
should disclose a lower record of achieve-
ment than the Magyars who had obtained
their nobility by the closest in-breeding.
But though Gobineau’s ideas were exploded
by history and experience, the Prussians
promptly gave him the first place in their
Deadwood Dick library. He was the man
who had called them the Best People and
had first confirmed their suspicions about
their place in the universe. To-day every
German soldier is alleged to carrv a copy of
Gobineau in his knapsack, and though that
is probably an exaggeration it is a fact that
the Frenchman has German statues erected
to his memory and is the subject of a wide
and embracing literature covering remote
points in his speculations. Gobineau’s was
a strange mental obsession, actually born of
an insane desire to find some ethnological
reason for his own aristocracy, but he pushed
his theory with a cold and calculating
ferocity to such an infectious finale that it
inebriated a whole nation and gave a stu-
pendous momentum to their philosophy of
Force. The earth has now had nearly four
years to regret that Gobineau happened to
be handy when a callow Prussian Frightful-
ness was looking for a Messiah.
JEAN SIBI.
The Art of Degas
The recent sale of the Degas pictures has
been the art sensation of the year in Paris.
Degas was a great critic as well as a great
painter; and, according to George Moore,
his collection was the most interesting in
i ans, as it represented the taste of one man.
t here was the painting of a pear by Manet
that was regarded as one of the wonders of
the woitd; and the canvases by Delacroix,
Ingies, Manet, Monet, Pissaro. Cezanne,
Gauguin and others all brought high prices!
mans being secured for the nation. George
notice till R ri t0 b^ ng T)egas to
nonce ot the British public. In an earlv
S I ’ ul,l ' essiona ancl Opinions,” he has an
ieS» Tnl?"ir n, hr artiat - «»*
tli. lr.I,...]' t 1 !"■ 1’" save a lecture on
,L en , Impressionists, including Dee-as
published, in part, in “Ave atque g |y
fC(.mtvnued on page 26.)


m
v
M
i h
Jssri.
ymw.
\
/-'V
i|s.
*
rlrjajnr.iij t; t::in >itii t;M
sm
rsl i
******
hfh
Anthony Horderns’
for EVERYTHING.
HE scarcity of printing- papers and the
fact that prices of every commodity
are constantly advancing make it
impossible for us to issue our big
general catalogue and the depart-
mental price-lists with the regularity of pre-war
clays. Write for prices of anything you want —
when Anthony Horderns’ quote prices business
invariably results, for Anthony Horderns’ Famous
Low Prices are the lowest in the land.
Buying goods to-day for future requirements
will prove a profitable investment to everyone who
adopts the wise plan of forestalling inevitable
advances in cost, for prices of almost every com-
modity are still rising, and many lines in every-day
demand are almost unprocurable.
FI ere are useful current lists, copies of which
will be posted free on request: —
Grocery and Perfumery.
Ladies’ Underclothing. Izod’s Corsets.
Electro-plated Ware.
Crockery and Glassware.
Saddles and Harness.
m
* ■
veStm*;
XX'v
SQ.VSE
ji<
ANTHONY HORDERN&SONS Ltd.
on \ y u«; versa] Providers,
BRICKFIE LD HILL,
N€? W Pal ace Emporium,
SYD N EY N.S.W.


w
m
m
fjji
T3EIJLSL FRAZER
All you need to do is to fit
the pieces together from the
Detail Drawings we supply.
We can send you
m
m
r " '
IPf
i
y
m
■ ■
m
m
BELL AND FRAZER
Copyrig&u
Pieces for making any furnishing
Article such as Artistic Chairs,
Tables, Bookracks, Lawn Swings, or
any Artistic Essential to your Home.
m
i
%
:
&:
1
1
&
■ i!
m
V
/7)
S/A
m
■
las
N
ij. i
o.''
'j -r 4
n‘i
m
I mm
m
MSS
$6
M
SbW
;S?.T;
1$
B*ss
n
Mg
«9j
!»»*
m
m
m
Sy*
HI
it
YOU
CAM
SAVE
MONEY
Because you can use your spare time in fitting the Redi=Kut Pieces together.
Because the timber, being in pieces, can be closely packed at low freight charges.
Because you save the high cost of factory expenses and high rents of shops.
You will be surprised at the economical
amount at wbicb you can artistically
furnish your home with Redi-Kut Timber.
AsR for Circular A. It’s Yours by return post.
1
The Redi-Kut Timber Specialists, ROSELLE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


an
rsl
m
m
!. :■
ofjuxife
Always Beautiful
The fine,closely stitched
silk has a rich shimmer, charm*
ing gloss, is full-bodied and heavy.
That alone gives Hose of Luxite its
superior elegance and beauty.
The same effect is often sought
by many makers by loading dyes
with heavy metallic compounds.
Such hosiery soon goes to pieces.
Hose of Luxite comes through
repeated washings fresh and beau-
tiful. It is always charming. Full-
fashioned or seamless as desired.
We are pleased to offer it to
a discriminating clientele. The wide
ranges of styles and prices will suit
every purse and purpose.
Should your dealer fail to
supply you, write us direct.
WALTER CATHRO Pty. Ltd.
YORK STREET :: :: SYDNEY
11l
:>H®'
Q
Ull
BS
Z
|||
X
6*
V'l’W
from England
has a new delicious
flavour, so different
from the old-fash-
ioned kind of sauce,
Try it for Yourself.
Of all Grocers and Stores.
“ THE SECRET OF HEALTH ”
A priceless treatise, written by a business
man who, after suffering for 25 years from
Stomach Troubles, Constipation and Nervous
Exhaustion, entirely overcame these distres-
sing maladies by simple, natural Home Treat-
ment without medicine, trouble or expense.
I?D'E , 'p' to Sufferers who send 3d. postage
* ■l'-L/JL/ an( j this advt. to the author—
J. P. GALE, Cotham Rd„ Kew, Vic. R
.'V &&& ■ ■
mm
mm
i Tl
\<tX
mm
'A'V.
mm
Mb
mm
mm
mm
Blli
10
2
9
3
8
Wikbc
165
Over-sleep Insurance
Sleep - Meter is a
good - looking, back -
bell alarm clock-
competent, punctual,
well-built.
The word Westclox on
Sleep-Meter’s face is the
best over-sleep insurance
you can buy. It is the
guarantee of the Western
Clock Co., who make all
their clocks by the patent-
ed method of clock mak-
ing, which is back of Big
Ben’s success.
Needle-fine pivots of polished
steel greatly reduce friction. All
Westclox run and ring on time.
That’s why they are known
as success-clocks of Westclox.
That’s why they have won so
many friends.
Sleep-Meter is five inches tall, has a
clear, readable dial and clean-cut hands.
Your clock dealer will supply you;
price 10/6.
Western Clock Co. —makers of Westclox
La Illinois. U.S.A.
Big Ben 1716, Baby Ben 17l6, America 716, Sleep-Meter 1016, Boyproof Watch 716.
fdh
To suffer with fortitude is
heroic, but to suffer needlessly
is idiotic. While most sufferers
regard pain as due to the
dispensation of Providence,
doctors see in it a certain
neglect—the neglect of simple
rules of health.
OF all rheumatic afflictions acute lumbago is the
most painful. It arises from a gradual accumu-
lation of excess uric acid in the system ; the muscles of
the lower back become impregnated until the muscu-
lar fibres stiffen and every movement causes agony.
The simple habit of taking Kruschen Salts every
morning cleanses the system of excess uric acid braces
the nerves and gives to the user the daily enjoyment
of natural vigorous health. Get the Kruschen habit.
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
fdh
Australian
Price
26
per bottle
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287.289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES CKruschen), Ltd.. 68 Deansgate Arcade. Manchester. England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
War.
Crosses and bars;
Crutches and slings;
Honors and scars
Destiny flings
From the clouds to the clods,
From the knees of the gods
To the feet of the kings.
Crutches and slings;
Crosses and bars ;
Glory on wings;
Pride in her cars ;
And the hope and the trust
Of a handful of dust
On its way to the stars!
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
Tinker Time.
Tinker Time is a merry old man,
Winding by with his creaky van,
Shouting, “Ho,”
As the people go,
“Richman, poorman, beggarman, thief.
Bring out your burdens and your world-old
Grief. .
Work is long and my hours are brief. ’
Out they run with their plagues unpacked,
Hope ahead with her kettle cracked.
Folly last
With his bells held fast,
Tuneless twanging by his tattered cap.
Young folk, old folk, hear the hammers tap!
Heap your troubles in the Tinker’s lap!
Who’s this running with a broken pot?
Fortune beggared of her last, lean jot,
Jogging by
To a pauper’s sigh ;
Luck beside with a cup to mend.
Come, all my hearties, with a dream to
spend!
Cares aboard for the rainbow's end !
Here is Love with a heart in twain,
Youth repairing it with tears in vain.
Fiddling Song
In the jostling throng
Waves the ribbon of a broken bow.
Tailor, sailor, passing to and fro,
Time is swift, bring your wares of Woe!
Down the road to a rollicking cry,
Off he goes with a winking eye.
Singing “Ho”
As the seasons go,
Soldier', sailor, beggarman, thief,
I’ve got a solder for your care and grief.
Joy wears long and your tears are brief.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
A Touch of Frost.
There’s a touch of frost in the air to-night,
A high white star marks the close of day,
And the stark grey hills in the cold moon-
light
Like a bowl of steel hold the steel grey bay.
There’s a touch of frost in the air to-night,
And afar on the hill in a Southland town
The drifted leaves with rime are white
And the dry, worn earth lies dull and
brown,
While the river below, in its sullen might,
By its pollard willows is thundering past.
No touch of frost in the ail- to-night
Has power for a second to hold it fast.
Caught in a mesh of Fate’s frost-bound hair
We wove our vows on that Southland hill,
And dreamed as our lips met shyly there
That the moon and the stars and the
world stood still.
France, they say, wears her Summer gown,
And field and grave with her flowers are
bright,
Only the hill in that Southland town
Stands etched out fine in the frost to-night.
A stronger love in the days to be
May thaw my heart in its warm sunlight,
But. Boy Love, buried beyond the sea.
There’s a touch of frost in the air to-night
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.
Parting.
Red rivers of sorrow ran flood.
At parting, under the twilight arches —
He to a horror of blood.
I to the pain that parches, parches.
Grey bitterness of good-bye:
Pale, tense lips, and the far drums rolling:
And ever and ever the cry,
Of a stricken ship-bell, tolling, tolling.
God; it is over and past!
I lie friendless here in the city.
Heart! you are dumb at last.
Numbed in the ice of a stranger’s pity.
I will go home to the West —
A mother’s arm in a time of sorrows —
Swiftly, ah swiftly, lest
I die ’neath the burden of dead to-morrows.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
In After Days.
In after days I hope to lie
Amid the blue-grass, waving high.
By some wide, shaded Lachlan bend.
Where from the camp-fires will ascend
Sweet incense to the evening sky.
Maybe I’ll hear the lilting cry
Of careless drovers, riding by.
Will they recall their old-time friend
In after days?
And when the black swans westward hie
On homing wing as dusk draws nigh,
And star-gleams in the shadows blend,
It may so chance that She will send
A thought. And will I hear that sigh
In after days?
N.S.W.
GORDON BENNETT.


'alii
c
ft
are experience-built and specially
suited to Australian road conditions.
PERDRIAUS are Quality Tyres.
The Perdriau Super Tread has three wifle ribs of high=grade rubber, thick and resilient, over
a strong and flawless foundation fabric.
Perdriau Tyres are buoyant and wear=resisting, giving mileage well over the guarantee.
Obtainable through your local garage or from the manufacturers —
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Adelaide Street , Brisbane
Flinders Street, Melbourne
Gawler Place, Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
v
c
§
A Complete—Safe—Economic Electric
Lighting System for Every Suburban and
Country Home or Station -!
In Every Suburban Home not Served with Municipal Electric Light
the “Lalley-Light” will prove an Ideal Investment in Every Respect.
Economical to erect —also for upkeep—it is clean—
efficient and so safe that a child can operate it by simply
turning on a switch, which gives a flood of brilliant
illumination of TO lights at one time or 40 lights con-
tinuously.
Its wonderful power enables you to instal all those
labor-saving appliances that make home-life convenient
and comfortable.
Housewives throughout the civilised world are gradu-
ally awakening to the tact that the toil and drudgery of
domestic work is unnecessary.
Electrical appliances for cleaning, ironing, washing,
sweeping, etc., have been found practical labor-savers—
whilst in the home where electric-lighting is used comfort
is enhanced.
_ Every convenience and pleasure that electricity can
bring may be yours if you instal the
LALLEY-LIGHT
Write to-day for full particulars.
Agents:
NEW SOUTH WALES—
FALKINER ELECTRIC CO., 5 Moore Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA, WEST AUSTRALIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, TASMANIA—
FALKINER ELECTRIC CO., 103 William Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—
THE CANADA CYCLE 8 MOTOR AGENCY (QUEENSLAND) LTD.,
1000 Watt Capacity, suitable
for homes up to 70 lights,
varying in eamllepower.
BALL-BEARING THROUGHOUT
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
Branches at Rockhampton
and Charters Towers.
The IJattery gives suflicicnt
storage for light at any time
(hiring the night.
Marine Engines
WwB
fd
Callle 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Startedi
Electric Lights
Caille 8 H.P. Dnit Power Plant
ReversirgGearon Same Baso as Engine
For All Boats
hf
Caille Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies
one- t o four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock; also
Spare Parts.
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers
Limited,
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE.
I he rich mellow flavor that delights
o
and gratifies —the choice of all
good judges of whisky.
I home’s has upheld the traditions
of old Glenhvet —the recognised
home of the best whisky—for over
80 years, and is most popular where
specially pure spirit is appreciated.
THORNE’S
WHISKY
O.H'IVE. “ Incomparable,”
For use in hospitals and in all cases of sick-
ness, Martell’s has always been in demand
—due to its richness in higher ethers.
For its piquancy and delicious flavor it is
relished as a beverage by connoisseurs.
KARTELL’S
BRANDY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
V oil. 39.—N0. 2009.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 15, 1918.
War-time Price, Bd.
POR REPUTATION’S SAKE.
THE BOSS: “That the General Manager? I’m going out. If that fellow Hohenzollern, or his ass of a son, or old Hindenburg
happen to call, send ’em away. This is not a pigsty!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
"Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Ml llktin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
to., 2] 1 George Street, Sydney. X.SAY., Australia.
IT BUSHED ONCE A WEEK.
m,s to sunscinbeiis.
(In Advance, Only.)
/or i tits, par annum you can have The Bulletin
* r nt regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDIiK.SS IN AUSTRAL ASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts , etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to bn addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters arc liable to be
refused. . .
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part (</ the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
(’ll contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
a-nd not, exceeding two columns in length, or, sag,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded, as strictly confidential,.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending _ MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the'preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but, unfitted for direct reproduction • — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn-—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Lvdgale Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ji'/l Bastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Rome News Agency, 703 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 10 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua.- —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Hates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; Bioz. to lOos., Sid.:
lOoz. to lftoz., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz.. Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
'tZZdztfi,
THURSDAY, AUGUST 15, 1918.
REPATRIATION, ALSO (VULGARLY
SPEAKING) “ROT!”
Next to appointing a royal commission to
inquire into a grievance the favorite remedy
is to put the aggrieved (or deserving) per-
son on the land. Therefore returned, soldiers
are being put on the land to the best of the
Government’s ability. It is a poor sort of
business, but it is a convenient way of bor-
rowing a good deal of money and washing
the official hands of a great deal of responsi-
bility. At present the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment is in the throes of the greatest irriga-
tion settlement business in Australia. It
was proposed to settle 100,000 people on the
land —but at present they are rather getting
off the land, despite the fact that the enter-
prise was subsidised last financial year to
the extent of £194,338 at the cost of the
general taxpayer or the loan fund. At Can-
berra an effort is being made to settle people
on 912 square miles of land, including a
Federal capital, and the diminishing popu-
lation runs to about 21 to the square mile.
The land is subsidised to the extent of about
£83,000 a year, and it seems to have rather
a vagrant and unsettled population at best,
judging by Statistician Knibbs’s figures, as
follows —
Apparently
Average Population Escaped for
Population at 31st Christmas
for Year. December. Holidays.
191-> . . 20.37 1940 97
1913 .. 2449 1988 461
1914 .. 2646 1959 687
1915 .. 2467 1829 638
1916 . . 2613 2223 390
1917 .. 2493 2104 '389
So people don’t go to the Federal capital
for a holiday; they flee from it. The area
of the Commonwealth under wheat, oats,
maize, hay and sugar-cane, which is practi-
cally the cultivated area of the Common-
wealth. was 1,721,854 acres less in 1917 than
in 1916. the drop being from 18,528.234
acres to 16.806,380. So far only the wheat
area has been officially announced for 1918,
and it shows a drop of 1.574.091 acres —from
11,532.828 acres to 9,958,737. The wheat
area has declined in two years from
12.484.512 acres to 9,958,737, a reduction of
rather over 20 per cent. In two States —
Victoria and South Australia—-the popula-
tion outside the One Rig City is actually
decreasing. In X. S. Wales it is practically
stationary. There is little profit in shoving
new people (who don’t know) on to the land,
when the old people (who do know) are
leaving it as if it was a serpent.
-X- if*--
For the first time in Australia’s history
the Foreign-trade policy of discouraging
manufactures, encouraging imports and re-
liance on "the great natural resources” has
been put to the test even in a small way,
and the result has been to make this country
the laughing-stock of the Empire, and the
jest of the world. Yet the test happened in
a very moderate way. Britain and its Allies
kept command of the sea, though with dam-
age and difficulty, so our ports weren’t block-
aded and our ship service wasn’t stopped—-
only reduced. If the command of the sea
had been lost, even for twelve months, the
results would have been incalculably worse
and the community would have relapsed
into barbarism. The verdict, even so far as
things went, was that reliance on the great
natural resources is an illimitable fraud,
and that putting people on the land is a
'vain thing- unless we put a corresponding
number of people into factories and work-
shops. Australia found that it had a vast
surplus of products which it couldn’t send
away, just when the most gloriously profit-
able market of a century was crying out
for them, because it hadn’t studied how to
manufacture big ships and plenty of them.
Also it hadn’t learned how to manufacture
the steel plates which are the raw material
for ships, and it was amazingly backward in
the matter of engines. Also it hadn’t learned
how to build the trains that take the great
natural products to the ships when there
are any. Consequently much of the pro-
ducts of the small man on the land were
sold for an old song, or when they couldn’t
be sold they were pawned for an old song on
the strength of loan money or paper money.
And because the business paid badly and
threatened to pay a great deal worse, the
man on the land began to be the man who
was getting off the land. He flatly refused
to be repatriated. At the same time manu-
factures are failing for lack of imported
“raw material,” which, in most cases, isn’t
raw at all, but the products of other manu-
factures. The fact that steel plates and
engines and boilers are the raw material of
ships, furnishes an instance. In other words
the few industries we possess are diminish-
ing because of the hundreds of industries
that we don’t possess.
* * * *
The net result is dispiriting. The number
of people employed in agriculture was prac-
tically stationary for three years before the
war commenced, and since then it has greatly
diminished. The number of ■ employees in
factories has diminished. The total profits
made by manufacturers has diminished; a
few industries are doing well, but they are
more than counter-balanced by those which
are doing badly, or have closed up altogether.
The shipping owned in Australia is declin-
ing fast, through losses and old age and
lack of replacement. That isn’t wonderful,
seeing that the most populous State
(N.S.W.) added to its possessions in the
year ended .Tune 30, 1917, one locally-built
steamer of 71 tons, eight locally-built motor-
boats averaging 33 tons apiece, one locally-
built ketch of 10 tons, and one locally-
manufactured leviathan in the shape of a
98-ton schooner. Canada, the other great
self-governing, English-speaking section of
the Empire (in fact Canada and Australia
are more than half the Empire), made, in
the third year of the war £57,800,000 by
supplying munitions to the Allies at war
prices, and £10,100,000 by selling them iron
and steel goods, and £3,100,000 by building
small vessels for them, and over £90,000,000
by selling them foodstuffs. But then Canada
is a very high tariff country which has cul-
tivated manufactures, and so can not only
produce the goods but deliver them, and
party because of its tariff it has acquired a
mighty pride in its industrial ability. Aus-
tralia is a low-tariff country with a poison-
ous gang of Foreign-traders, and a huge
debt incurred in payment for foreign
goods, and no industrial pride at all.
except its pride in raising people who
preach the reduction of the working day to
six hours and hold that anybody who is
found starting a new industry is a public
enemy. So it is selling its wheat at the sort
of price one naturally gets when the goods
may not be delivered till the need for them
is past. And it is buying common neces-
saries of life at the price one naturally pays
wdien one is buying in a scanty market in
the face of the world’s competition, and
must have the goods or go naked. And the
poisonous gang of Foreign-traders still sets
forth that though local industry may be
taxed in any and every way—-though railway
and tramway fares may be raised, also in-
come tax and land tax, and probate duties
and licenses and entertainment taxes and
other taxes, and 75 per cent, of the profits
o f any new manufacture may be seized as
war-profits tax —yet it would be nothing
short of treason to do anything to the thrice-
blessed importer. “The tariff, being a con-
tentious matter, must not be interfered with
till after the war.”
* * * *
So the only thing that can be done for
the returned soldier is, apparently, to shove
him into the perishing agricultural industry.
Sydney Telegraph, about the most notori-
ous of the importing rags, declared in a
recent issue that “Australia will not be
well-balanced economically until the propor-
tion of rural workers to urban workers is
greatly increased.” The statement is a
self-evident falsehood. Australia wants far
more urban workers —not less. But it.
doesn’t want half the population and practi-
cally all the urban workers of three great
States crammed into three overgrown cities;
they should be spread over a dozen or more
cities, so that the producer may have a
chance to be 300 miles nearer to one part
of his market and 10.000 miles nearer to
most of the rest of his market. And it
doesn’t want such a vast proportion of urban
workers to be importers’ clerks and the like:
it wants them to be producers of anything
or everything this country requires, from a
40,000-ton liner to a nickel watch. The
test of experience, when applied even in a
very limited way, shows that the rural
workey is in excess, proportionately, to the
real urban worker—the real one, not the
importer’s clerk. Hence millions of tons of
rural goods are left on our hands, and un-
saleable at any reasonable price, while
building is almost stopped for want of
roofing material even at 800 per cent, in-
crease. and new woollen factories can’t be
started because the machinery at 400 per
cent, increase hasn’t arrived from England
and isn't expected till Judgment Day. Cer-
tainly there should be more people on the
land. But there should be 400 per cent,
more people—productive people, not im-
porters’ clerks —in the towns. And there
should be a lot more towns.
THE FLOATING OF THE WE OWE US.
Circumstances beyond uur control havo
made the customary easy flotation of the
loan in London no longer possible. Most
circumstances are beyond the control of a
country which depends largely on foreign
loans and foreign imports, for the man at
the other end of the transaction fixes the
prices to a great extent, and also fixes the
interest, especially on renewal business, when
we must have the now loan at any price to
pay off the old one. So by reason of cir-
cumstances Australia is driven to depend
for its public-works expenditure almost
wholly on local borrowing. And local bor-
rowing, regarded as a steady business, really
seems a very great comedy—almost a greater
comedy than the foreign article. It has its
excuse in a time of great and wholly excep-
tional stress, when the sudden diversion of
great sums from their ordinary channels
might make trouble unless the money was
temporarily replaced by a bogus currency.
But local borrowing in Australia is part of
the regular order of things, as regular as
the sunrise or the income-tax or the
drought; so it is utterly inexcusable. It
consists in the people lending themselves
their own money on their own security with
many foolish complications, instead of pay-
ing themselves their own money and letting
the transaction end there. The community
first decides, or someone decides without tell-
ing the community, that certain public works
or public swindles are desirable. It next
decides that though it has the money it
can’t pay for the works, but that it can lend
itself the amount required to pay for them.
Consequently it inquires into its own charac-
ter, and being convinced by itself of its own
honesty, and assured that it won’t repudiate
its own securities and thereby put itself in
a hole, it solemnly advances the million or
two milljons or five millions on its I Owe Me
or its We Owe ITS. There is a good deal of
waste paper and waste printing over the
business, also some costlv advertising, com-
mission discount, etc. But in the end the
aggregate community locks away its own
liability, which is also its own asset, in its
own safe as a provision for its own old age,
and sets to work to earn the interest so that
it may pay itself its own income. At inter-
vals it gambles on the Stock Exchange with
its I Owe Me, or if it is temporarily short
it may deposit its debt due to itself in its
Commonwealth Bank owned by itself, and
get a loan of some of its own money on the
security of its own money already lent to
itself by itself on its own security. And
sometimes, when renewal time comes round,
there is quite a lot of fuss and expense, and
almost a panic before the nation contrives
to lend itself a new I Owe Me to prevent
the original I Owe Me going bankrupt and
starting a crisis which may destrov 20
times more paper value than the original
paper pretended to be worth.
* * * , x .
When a self-dependent country decides
that it requires £2,000,000 worth of railway
the process is simple. First it raises the
£2,000,000 by taxing itself. Secondly, it
builds the railway with its own labor and
its own material. Thirdly, it still possesses
the £2,000.000, for the money that was
taken from the people has gone back to the
people in wages paid to miners, foundry-
men, engineers, timber-getters, pick-and-
shovellers and many others, and thev have
promptly spent it. It is quite probable that
if Publican Jones or Grocer Jenkins
marked the £lO-note with which he paid his
share of the railway tax, he would find the
same bit of paper back on his counter inside
three months. Then, which is fourthly, the
country has a railway worth £2,000,000
unless it is a swindle, and bringing in, say,
£OO,OOO a year; also it has probably another
£2,000.000 of new land values. Therefore
it. is £4,000,000 to the good, with a lot of
healthy exercise thrown in. If the same
thing is done by local borrowing the country
puts up the money. It has the railway and
the new land values. It has the We Owe
Us, or naper security. It has the money
back again, provided the railway is built
with locally-produced material; but if it is
built with imported material the country
never sees the money any more. It owes
the money. It has the profits of the rail-
way. _ It pays away the profits or perhaps
more in interest. It has the pleasant sensa-
tion of owning a wad of dubious currency or
semi-currency.
* * * *
When the community pays itself its own
money for public works instead of promising
to pay it, a steadying influence is at work.
Any garish _ lunatic can run up the borrow-
ing—even if it is local borrowing—from
£1,000,000 to £9,000,000 a year for a time,
and the swindle buys him a lot of popularity
with the, fool multitude for the time being,
lie has supplied £8.000,000 more of public
works probably only worth £4,000,000, for
the* feverish demand for labor and material
sends prices up out of sight. xYlso he has
made the fool multitude feel good by putting
an extra £8,000.000 of bogus currency into
its safe. Any plausible public scoundrel can
get a Loan Bill for £9,000,000 through the
Legislature in a day, while a Tax Bill for
£2,000,000 would require much argument,
and would make _ enemies, and would lose
the plausible public scoundrel his job unless
he could demonstrate that the works had a
really good show of paying. The paper
securities begin to be traded away in foreign
markets because there is more of them than
the country can hold, and then they become
foreign liabilities drawing tribute from Aus-
tralia. instead of local income. The
£9.000,000 .of works don’t pay for axle-
grease, because there are more' works than
the population can put to good use. and be-
cause no works pay which are built at boom
rates. There is trouble when taxes have to
be put on to subsidise the works, because
they don’t pay expenses and interest. There
is more trouble when it is impossible to keen
the boom going at the old pace, and a lot
of workers who have been trained to no
work, except the work of working on un-
payable loan works, have to bo turned
adrift —trouble and bitterness and recrimi-
nation and slump and poverty q:nd threats of
insurrection. There is trouble when the man
who holds £lOO worth of the too-abumlant
paper security finds it quoted at £75, because
ic is a drug in the market. And there is
great trouble when the loan that was floated
at Si per cent, to build the work that only
paid 1 per cent., because it was altogether
too numerous, has to be renewed at (i per
cent. In fact there is trouble all round, and
nobody profits except the plausible public
scoundrel. Even his profit is short-lived.
As a side issue the floating of the We
Owe Us tends to create a separate creditor
class in the community, and the existence
of that class leads to anger and hatred later
on. In fact there is only , one good feature
about the We Owe Us; it is better than the
foreign loan or lOU, inasmuch as it is in a
small way an attempt at consuming our
own smoke.
WIRELESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wonder how many people who travel by
steamer and gaze curiously at the wireless
cabin, from which weird crackling sounds
occasionally emerge (at least, they did be-
fore the War Precautions Act tied all
wireless messages up), ever give a thought
to the strange, mysterious whispering which
is continually going on through space. Whis-
pering which extends for thousands of miles,
between people who are for the most part
totally unknown to each other, and which
will probably go on as long as the world
lasts. There is something very uncanny in
listening to this whispering, and it impresses
one vastly. It is rather like listening to a
conversation of ghosts. Of course, no actual
words are heard, as it is all done per medium
of the Morse Code ; but anyone who can read
and translate Morse can put in a very
interesting few hours at the receiver of a
wireless machine. We will imagine our-
selves in the wireless cabin of a steamer
“somewhere in the Pacific.” It-is midnight,
and we have just relieved the assistant-
operator, who has gone off happily to a
comfortable bed, and we have six hours of
duty to look forward to. We seat ourselves
in the operator’s chair and adjust the re-
ceiver to our ears. On the table in front of
us is a collection of strange electrical instru-
ments, dials, rheostats, indicators, volt-
meters, coils, etc., and all the thousand and
one things which go to make up a wireless
outfit. On the bulkhead at our right are
various switches, “tell-tale” lamps, etc.,
whilst inside an insulated and sound-proof
cabinet is the dynamo which generates the
necessary energy to transmit our messages
over a thousand or more miles of sea. Con-
veniently placed to our right hand is the
Morse key, similar in appearance to the ordi-
nary telegraph key, and there is also a pad
and pencil handy, as everything we hear has
to be recorded in the wireless log, .whether
it is addressed to us or not. As soon as we
have adjusted the receivers to our liking, we
immediately find ourselves in that wonderful
world of whispers. Just a faint “ping-ping-
ping-ping-ping-ping-ping-ping,” but to our
trained ears it at once conveys the news
that the “Liberty Loan” total is now
3,316,628,250 dollars; that all sugar must be
conserved, and .that the distribution of that
commodity will be in the hands of a sugar
administrator. Also that meatless days are
to be suspended in the meantime. We fur-
ther hear that Plugville has beaten Dead
Dog City at baseball by four to nine; that
bandits held up and robbed the First
National Bank at Bad Hat, Tex.; and that
Senator Hiram S. Doolittle has introduced
a Bill into Congress for the Suppression of
Soda Fountains. All this is interesting, so
far as it goes, but it is merely the press
news going- through to the island depen-
dency of a Great Power. After some time,
the press messages cease, and then we hear
a number of ship and shore stations .all
calling at once. Some confusion follows,
during which we hear someone asking “Is
that tigga?” Who “tigga” is we never know,
for the question remains unanswered. Soon
after this the traffic is interrupted for a
time by a distant thunderstorm, which sets
up that condition which is referred learnedly
to by wireless operators, as “statics.” This
is. a word which no wireless operator ever
misses a chance to use, and when in doubt
he always says “It is due to statics.” Nearly
everything, from a defective aerial to the
high cost of living, is, according to a wire-
less operator, due to “statics,” though occa-
sionally the more advanced brethren of the
Order speak mysteriously of “atmospherics”
instead. However, the statics in due course
of time pass away, and signals resume from
all directions.
A ship several hundred miles away from us
asks casually: “What ship is that on my
starboard side?” She is evidently an im-
patient ship, as two minutes later she re-
peats the question. The other ship is more
dignified, and maintains a severe silence.
She is a perfect lady, and refuses to speak
to a stranger without having first been intro-
duced.
Someone then observes apropos of nothing
at. all in particular, “No change in uniform.
Blouse contemplated for period of War
Presumably this refers to the new Naval
rating of Lady Yeoman, which a certain
Power has recently introduced.
About this time we hear an anxious appeal
from some very hard-up person. “Please
forward cheque. Have received no money
since January nineteenth.” This is pretty
hard luck, and we hope that she (somehow
we feel certain it is a “she” who sent that
message) gets her cheque all right and that
it is a big one.
A thousand miles or so away we bear a
steamer, telling her agents that her condenser
has broken down, and that she is coming along
at five knots an hour; and this is followed


by an infatuated male on a large passenger
line some live hundred miles in the opposite
direction, calling up a lady friend at the port
he is making for, and inviting her to dme
alone with him at the Hotel St. I rankie
next Tuesday evening. Can she be in the
hotel lobby at 7 p.m.V
Soon after this two large shore stations
get peeved with each other, and have a few
words. They are nine hundred miles apart,
and at that distance it is fairly safe to say
what you think to the other fellow. It seems
that one station (which we will call XYZ)
has been monopolising the air rather longer
than he should, and the other station (say
ZXY) is getting tired of it, and wants to
know what XYZ is going to do about it.
He remarks plaintively. “When will u b
thru? I have been trying to get about fifty
messages off. but cannot do a thing it u r
going on like this all nite.” (Note the
terse abbreviations and . phonetic spelling
adopted in this fascinating game of long-
range cross-talk.) XYZ remarks in an apolo-
getic manner, “Have been trying to
work YXZ.” Says ZXY rather sharply,
“Yes, but r u thru?” XYZ does not reply
to this, but continues to block the traffic,
to the great annoyance of ZXY, who,, after
standing it for some time, breaks in on
XYZ with “Please stop sending.” Unfor-
tunately we do not hear how this affair ter-
minates, for just then a long Government
cipher message comes through which effec-
tually shuts everyone up for a time, and
this is followed by the wail of a lovesick
swain on a steamer speeding away from, his
lady love, whom he has left the previous
day. lie feels so overcome with his own
misery that he sends off, “Fragrance of
flowers surrounds me with your presence.
Feel very lonely and miserable. When
his bride (we feel sure she is his bride, as
she bears the same name, and no man would
send a message like that except to his bride)
gets this she will probably weep copiously
into her cocktail or ice-cream soda, or what-
ever she is drinking at the time.
A Loud Insistent Voice asks: Does any-
one know anything about ABC?” ABC, it
appears, is the call-sign of a vessel some
four or five days overdue, and the Loud
Insistent Voice has been calling him every
half-hour or so. Presumably no one knows
anything about ABC, as no one replies.
It sounds like a gigantic game of Blind
Man’s Bluff. • ,
A -weather resort from a coast station
comes through shortly after this, and
is followed by a whole batch of commercial
stuff regarding prices, freights, charters, etc.,
in the middle of which we hear a Perfectly
New Voice remarking gravely to someone m
New York: “Arriving Monday morning.
Look out for Iv.” We wonder who K. is, and
why he has to be watched.
Then comes another long cipher message
which occupies some fifteen minutes to put
through, after which we again hear the Loud
Insistent Voice inquiring whether anyone
knows anything about ABC. . No one does,
and the Loud Insistent Voice dies away
again grumblingly.
XYZ and ZXY noiv appear to have settled
their differences in an amicable manner, as
both stations are now working in perfect
harmony. One gets the notion that having
had their few words with each other, they
have made it up again and are now the best
of friends and intend to live happy ever
after. Little scraps of disjointed sentences,
like disembodied spirits, come through all
the time, just scraps of ghost talk. Ihen
several ships spread over a few thousand
square miles of ocean start talking at once.
A humorous naval station breaks in on
this with a long series of “ping-ping-pmg-
ping-ping-ping-ping-ping,” which quite effec-
tually jambs all of them. This causes in-
tense indignation, and one ship states: I
* mnot hear you owing to this naval station,
which seems to take a delite in starting and
slopping all nite, so that neither they nor
anyone else can be understood.” The ship
he" is addressing replies sympathetically:
“These naval stations seem to think they
have a perfect rite to jamb mercantile
stations in this manner.” After a time, the
naval humorist, having bad his little joke,
gets tired of it, and goes off to bed, and the
traffic proceeds without any further inter-
ruption until we hear our friend with the
Loud Insistent Voice again inquiring after
the belated ABC. As usual, no. reply comes,
and we wonder whether ABC is still afloat,
or whether this is merely the prelude to
still another “ocean mystery.”
So it goes on all night. Never for one
minute does the Whispering entirely cease.
Always there is at least one slender aerial
sending its message out into the void.
By now it is getting towards morning, and
we look out of the port to see if the dawn is
near. It is not far away, as already the
eastern sky is showing signs of brightening,
and we know that soon the traffic will die
a wav, and then cease altogether. For it is
one of the many mysteries of. wireless that
except for higli-powered stations it is of
r'r.le use by daylight, and only at night can
it be used with best effect
SHANK PAINTER.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Terrors of the Censorship in
Germany.
The Censorship is being used with a fine,
democratic intelligence in Germany. And
knowing how stalwart a defender of the
public right to untainted information about
national affairs and what a stickler for free-
dom of discussion Acting Prime Minister
Watt happens to be. Tiie Bulletin sug-
gests to him the expediency of taking notice
of the system in force in that country. It will
no doubt then occur to him that great advan-
tages might be derived from copying at least
the salient features of the system. What
they are were lately set forth in • the
Amsterdam Coffmixchek. a journal of wide
influence thereabouts and of unquestionable
reliability in matters of fact. Says the
Coffmixchek (1/4/T8) :
The long dispute between the Wilhelinstrasse and
the editors of German newspapers relating to the
publication of matters having nothing to do with the
war, as well as of those intimately connected therewith,
has at last been ended by the issue of regulations
framed by the All Highest. These are so explicit
to remove all. cause of doubt and so complete as
have no room for -argument, because they pro-
hibit 1 argument. The regulations direct that nothing
about the military situation or happenings at the
Front shall be published, except such matter as
supplied through a bureau approved the lmpenai
Chancellor. Comment, except m terms of these om
ciallv approved communications is prohibited. H
further provided that the Chfef Censor may at any
lime direct the newspapers not to to any par
ticular subject, such, for instance, as (1) the shoot^
ing of Russians; (2) the price of meat, (3) the
trial of Belgian laborers; (4) The tnrks CSI the
potato supply; (6) the birth-ratfr-aud 1«4- other
subiects set forth in schedule XXXV I I, pait Hid oi
subdivision 243. The Censor shall .then himself
within 543 days of issuing a prohibition under his
hand supply an account of the matter or occurrence
in question. This shall be printed within 12 hours
of the receipt thereof as part of the news of the
ilav No question of its accuracy shall be raised, nor
any comment be made upon it, or statement or sug-
gestion made that such report had been furnishedl by
the Censor. Neither shall it be implied either
directly or indirectly that comment is not allowed.
If after the expiry of 543 days any report is not
received at a duly-licensed newspaper office the regis-
tered manager thereof shall be at liberty to ask
for an explanation of its non-delivery, but shall stand
prohibited from making any printed statement about
the missing report or to comment upon its absence
or to print any reference to the original incident.
Breach of any” of these regulations will be punished
by forfeiture of the newspaper premises and plant
and denial of all civil rights until seven years after
the war is over. The effect of the regulations is to
turn the Censor’s Department into a Control of News-
papers Bureau, and to convert all the newspapers iii
the Fatherland into State publications for the pro-
mulgation of officially-liberated instalments of fact
or fiction. One result of this is to completely end
the controversy carried on in the leading organs of
public opinion throughout Bavaria lately regarding
the reported action of a prominent citizen of Ham-
burg in giving a piece of sausage to a wounded
Australian. Vorwaerts says that the new regula-
tions embody the national will to victory, but the
other papers, less daring, are silent. Henceforth
Coffmixcher intends to take the contents of its
German contemporaries with caution.
Now, if we could only have something like
that in Australia, many dangers might be
removed from the national path. Perhapsif
Acting Prime Minister Watt could spare a
few minutes to explain exactly what we
have got, and why, the community would
realise more adequately. the freedom of the
Australian newspapers, in an hour of crisis,
compared with the rigid supervision exer-
cised over the German rags. The contrasts
between Germany and Australia cannot be
too often held up for contemplation.
The Cut Direct.
“It was with a feeling of shame that he opened his
newspaper and read that there were 50,000 people
present at the Easter races at Randwick ' while
their brothers were bearing the burden in the
trenches.... When he remembered that the whole
land was filled with sin and shame, etc.” — Rev. A. J.
Wai.dock, Superintendent of Baptist Home Missions,
at Lithffow ( N.S.W. ).
Yes, in all good faith the land is full of din
and sham. But why should the Church rage
and imagine a vain thing because 50,000
people were at the Easter races? Cer-
tainly racing is ridiculously expensive and
very useless and far from honest, but why
should it always be dragged in by the hair
as if it kept people away front the trenches l
Of the 50,000 some were women, who aren’t
expected to trench. Some were _ too old;
some couldn’t pass medical inspection; some
were possibly exempt because they were
workers in essential war industries; some
had probably come back as past service.
People don’t" necessarily go to races because
they are either shirkers or loafers. One com-
pelling cause is that Easter is a holiday time
—a Good Friday time, when most ordinary
forms of toil are forbidden through clerical
influence. Easter, in our language, is. named,
after a heathen goddess who hasn’t been seen
around lately, having possibly died of drink
or backing the wrong horse. It was founded
some 30 years, so far as can be remembered,
after the alleged date of the event which it
is supposed to commemorate. It required
about 250 years of unseemly wrangle to com-
promise on a date. ISow it is fixed as a
stop-work occasion, and people who don t
care for an indoor life have to go somewhere
or else commit, suicide —which is injurious.
So. many a strenuous toiler goes to the races
because church machinations make him
leave off earning money; because to go to
church means hearing a perfunctory ex-
planation by a very poor elocutionist who
has long since lost all his fire and enthusi-
asm. of an event of which the Scripture con-
tains four widely varying accounts; and
because he doesn’t like to rush into a state
of obliteration. By not attending church he
slights the cleric just as one might slight a
female friend by passing her unnoticed m
i he street, and the slight has happened so
often that the sacerdotal profession is in a
state of chronic bitterness. It is angry
because unappreciated. Strenuous efforts
~ro made to suspend everything except
church service on the clays when the church
is open, and to drive the multitude by in-
direct means to listen to what the preacher
likes to tell them, the old simple device of
fining or imprisoning absentees being out of
date. The “cloth'’ has little to say about the
man who simply stays away from the
trenches. But it has a lot to say about the
man who stays away from the trenches even
if he couldn’t get there by any possibility,
and goes to the races. The racecourse is the
only place where the church can find 50,000
people presumably non-churchgoers, in one
lot, and the iron enters into its soul. When
one man who thinks he has a divine mission
to instruct all and sundry sees or hears
about so vast a' crowd which, presumably,
has no use for his spiritual infallibility, he
is in the position of a lady who has had the
glassy eye from 50,000 possible admirers at
once.
A Strange Yearning for Conversation.
This eternal maundering about “ending the
war by negotiation” among Labor men in
Australia seems to be a survival of the
bizarre idea prevalent in the long ago that
the war could be won by speeches. Though
disagreeing on the really fundamental ques-
tion of fighting or quitting, they appear to
be unanimous on the expediency of
“summoning a democratic conference of the
belligerents to discuss terms of an honor-
able peace.” In the Vic. Leg. Assembly the
other day Labor-leader I‘kendergast
thought it worth while, when Premier Law-
son moved a rather futile resolution about
“the inflexible determination of the Chamber
to continue the war until victorious in the
righteous struggle for liberty and justice,”
to urge an amendment about an inter-
national conference and blithered about
“appealing to the German people, not .to
the jingoes and junkers.” An obvious criti-
cism of Lawson’s resolution would have
consisted of an intimation that it was merely
hot air, and that the Leg. Assembly of Vic. had
no more to do with the war than with the
prevalence of corns in Sydney. But as that
would also apply to any amendment thereof
P ken dergAST forgot to mention it and pro-
ceeded to supply more atmosphere. Mean-
while what Australia wants to hear is
a hit less about the expediency of democratic
conferences for vague, indefinite purposes
and a lot more about the practical side of
the project. How, to begin with, are “the
German people” to be asked to arrive at the
place of discussion? Is there a notion of
dealing with German Socialists? If there
is, are the bellicose Socialists to be left out?
If so, why? If not, why not? If only the
anti-war Socialists are . to be approached,
what measure of authority are they expected
to bring with them to the debate and where
are they going to get it? Also, as the jin-
goes and junkers are running the army and
navy and the war, what is to happen if
they persist in remaining at the old address
and carrying on the unpleasantness? These
simple preliminary questions seem to be
worth answering in order to clear up the
gloom created by mere talk, which begins
indefinitely and straggles away to incompre-
hensibleness. The brutal truth about the
situation happens to be that a conference
with Germany, democratic or otherwise, is
impossible until either side is persuaded it
has had enough. The German is not. so per-
suaded, nor are the Allies. .The time for
talk will arrive when negotiation is compul-
sory as the alternative to disaster. In the
interval prolonged conversations with nobody
iu ’particular are mere waste of time.
Concerning an ex-Brasshat.
“0.K.”: Reasonable critics of militarism
wouldn't blame Lloyd George if be were to
put the stopper into Major-General
Maurice. Since liis resignation from the
“ring” of gold-laced malcontents Maurice
has been giving himself away in the capacity
of a Tory newspaper oracle, and he seized
the opportunity of the 4th anniversary to
review the military situation with the same
old War Office cast in his eye:—
The Germans are not oar superiors in general-
ship. Our failures have been mainly due to the _ fact
that our statesmen have not realised that military
advice, to be effective, must be organised consulta-
tions by statesmen with individual commanders, not
discussion involving delayed action, etc. etc.
All of which is beside the point. The con-
tention of Lloyd George, at the beginning
of the present year, was that the British
Army in France had suffered more than
2.000,000 casualties since January, 3916,
without making any headway to speak of*
Its strength had been frittered away in
individual offensives that yielded poor results,
and at the dawn of 1918 it was admittedly
reduced to a condition of anxious waiting
for a great German offensive which it hoped
to, be able to cope with. The French army
was in much the same position, but the indi-
vidual efforts of the French army were not
Lloyd George’s business. What he sug-
gested was a complete unification of the
Allied forces under a French commander.
The British War Office League, including
Maurice, combated this proposal, and things
continued almost as before. On March 21
last the Huns fell upon the British like a
million of hogs and bad things almost entirely
their own way. On March 26 they fell upon
the junction of the British and French and
advanced some more, and then, on the 31st,
Focn was gazetted as generalissimo, with
power to order any of the Allied troops to
go anywhere at any time. What Lloyd
George had been asking for, in the teeth of
opposition from the party that Maurice
belonged to, was finally accomplished. He
had practically insisted on the thing being
done, and he openly took the responsibility
for it. Meanwhile the professional militar-
ists dumbly warned the nation to expect
disastrous results from this political inter-
ference in a business that only soldiers were
qualified to have any opinion about. The
public waited for results. The triumph of
Generalissimo Focn’s strategy over the Hun
hog-rushes is the result. Given full control
of the Allied forces, French generalship has
now, as at the first battle of the Marne,
proved itself superior to the German
Crown Prince’s generalship, anyhow. But if
Maurice and his friends had remained mas-
“Yers of the show, the commanding talent of
Foch might never have been given scope to
assert itself. What is to be said, then, of a
Maueice who writes
We must admit, after four years’ bitter experiences,
that we have not yet learned how to wage war?
It can only be said that he ought to he sup-
pressed by the Censor in the cause of public
enlightenment, but seeing- that he represents
the very militarism which controls the Cen-
sorship it is certain that Maueice will go
on writing and the cable to Australia will
go on being jambed with his uninteresting
remarks.
Bags!
From a man in the game:—
There is something’ weird about the position of
the Federal importation of wheat bags. Following
upon the unsatisfactory conditions of delivery last
wheat season (when early districts were without hags
and heaps of them were lying unused in the later
districts for weeks before there was any chance of
their being used) came a veil from the cockics
which secured a promise from the Federal Govern-
ment that steps would be taken in good time to
secure the importation of sufficient hags from India
for this crop. Accordingly contracts were made for
KlO,OOO hales, which, with private orders, made up
200,000 bales, and this fact was announced with a
proud flourish of trumpets by Senator Russell (Presi-
dent Australian Wheat Board) in the Senate more
than two months ago, but nothing was said as to any
important stipulation attaching to said importations.
Thereupon GraiuMß, of N. S. Wales Dept, of Wheat,
Hags and Sundries, secured great kudos by informing
the cockies’ conference in Sydney that he had
arranged with Senator Russell that N. S. Wales
State Wheat Office should have the distribution of (lie
bags for the Ma State and the cockics would share
in any profits over expenses of the distribution.
Russell made no remark at the time, hut some two
weeks later, while in Sydney, he delivered one in the
solar plexus of the cocky by announcing that the
State - Wheat Office would not distribute the bags
as the “Indian Government and the Calcutta
jute millers had insisted upon the bags
bein"- distributed through the usual trade chan-
nels!” Meantime the Wheat Office had spent good
money advertising the fact that they wanted the
farmers to hurry in with their applications for bags.
Up to date Graham® has maintained a' statesmanlike
silence, but the wheat-growers and many other people
arc asking in a disagreeable manner what lias the
Indian Government to do with the internal distribu-
tion of cornsacks in Australia, and why should it
make such a stipulation, and when was such
a stipulation made, and why did Russell take so
long to discover it after lie was able to announce
that the contracts liad been made?
A Domestic Menace.
In the resignation of the Director-General
of Food Production in Britain there was
something more than meets the views
of half-blind optimists. A while ago,
when the spectre of possible want and
misery was shadowed on the land, the
British Ministry was scared into promising
a policy of Protection for the national Stum-
mick. ‘ Hundreds of thousands of acres ot
idle grassland were to be ploughed up for
local grain and potato production, and a lot
of new labor was to be organised 111 the
cause of good husbandry under the War
Emergency Act. By which means Britain
in 1919 was to produce food enough to
ensure a sufficiency of local supply even
though the submarine menace were not over-
come. But the Government has backed
down on this policy of preparation vor the
worst, and Colonel Lee, Director of hood
Production, resigned his job, declaring that
he was not so convinced of the deteat
of the submarine peril or of the secur-
ity of food supplies in the future as
to be able to acquiesce in the Governments
reversal of the food policy which the Cabinet
had sanctioned. The day after Colonel
Lee's resignation came news that a gigantic
new White Star liner and the Messa genes
Maritimes boat Australien had been sunk by
the submarines so cheerfully alleged to be
defeated. Nothing more is needed to justify
the pessimism of the Colonel who had said
that the consequences of the Government s
change of policy “might be grave and irre-
trievable. The cause of that change is a
matter of grave concern to Australia, seeing
that Britain couldn’t possibly win the war
on an empty stomach. Why are the ex-
panses, of privately-owned grasslands not to
be ploughed, and the War Emergency powers
not to be fully enforced? If the influences
of aristocracy and plutocracy are opposed to
the utilisation of “large landed estates” for
the most vital of public purposes, and
the Lloyd George Ministry is dominated by
them, it is surely time for the Empire.Coun-
cillors from overseas to have a say in the
matter. Lloyd George has done great work
in arousing Britain from the self-com-
placency that brought her into peril. In
most respects he reversed the wait-and-see.
policy of his luxurious hen-checked old
friend Asquith, but now he is warned by
the late Director of Food Production against
the unwisdom of waiting to see the sub-
marine peril blown out by August, according
to cocksure naval predictions. Anyway the
programme for ploughing up grassland, and
enforcing good husbandry by means of con-
scripted workers, was a good programme.
Britain’s unemployment of agricultural land
forces has ever been one of the dangerous
results of her Tory traditions. Lloyd
GeorGe was looked to as the active and in-
telligent enemy of Tory tradition, and if
there is truth in the story that duchesses,
countesses and millionairesses have got to
his ear by a side-channel, it would seem that
the submarine peril is rivalled by a new
petticoat-government menace.
Ex-Premier of N. S. Wales Joseph Caretj-
thers had a brain rash the other
day, and promptly burst out a speech
advocating that the best minds in
Australia be summoned to discuss, ways
and means of climbing out of the shell-
hole at the end of the war. This ,seems a
very simple and promising suggestion. Obvi-
ously the job of selection would rest with
the Federal Government. Presumably the
first meeting of the Conference would be
chronicled this way in the daily papers:—
The Brains Conference sat in camera yesterday to
consider the agenda paper prepared for the first busi-
ness meeting. There were present : Dr. Hughes
(chairman), Messrs. W. Hughes, William Hughes,
W. Morris Hughes, W.M. Hughes and Wm.M. Hughes.
The general plan of procedure, was explained , by... . Dr.
Hughes, who was congratulated by Mr. W. M.
Over the Top.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“All the troops were talking about the beautiful
new world which would follow the war. That is the
only thing worth going over the top for, they said.”
—Bishop of London.
Over tlie Top d’ye think we’d go
To wreak our spite on a sullen foe?
To glut our lust or to raze a town,
Or pull the pride of. a Kaiser down ?
D’ye think we’d barter our dearest blood,
Or drown in droves in the Yser mud
To simply batter a madman’s rule,
Or break the back o’ the Potsdam fool?
If this were all we had stayed at home
And milked our kine i’ the peaceful gloatn,
And shed no blood, no never a drop,
And left to others the right to spring
And throw themselves at the fiery ring
Over the Top.
Over the Top we had nowise hurled,
But that we visioned a cleaner world,
Where Justice sat on a shining throne
And claimed the land as her rightful own ;
Where vistas new of a radiant day
Were spread instead of the olden grey;
Where Wealth was little and Man was king
And Woman more than a breeding thing;
Where children laughed at the tales of toil
And health was born o’ the teeming soil;
’Twas this that drave us with never a stop
To surge ahead o’er the pil&d dead
And leap to grips in a combat red
Over the Top!
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.


fd
The Premier Hotel of Aiotml'a. C V FINJ - V
Renovated from Roof to KaNoment. ' * ' < J * •
XEW PKAirKE'S ’ ATTR-Vt'TIVE S PKC'I \ t.TT f'
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
New Fireproof Flat Con- i
crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
B ths.
< • •ifuv'v ami Quietness. Every
i onvenienee and Quick Service.
Autoiuauc Telephone'!! in every
Room. Private Safe Deposit.
Stenographer and Private Office
for use. of Quests.
Choice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast or Pull Board.
New Famishing. i Meals —a la Carte or Table d'hote.
Apply .Manager. WHAT WE ADVERTISE WE SUPPLY.
17)
rO
- o
-Of
;'i 7 ;■
"|E
&
4
/
IWWM
9E
A
*
rf.j
m
n
m
7\
■
“GrfusiraJ/a"
Wfnter Garden
J
Hughes and Mr. William Hughes on the organis-
ing ability he had displayed and on the excellent
choice of members of the Conference. Dr. Hughes,
in reply, expressed his inflexible determination to
attend every meeting. This announcement eras re-
ceived with cheers. Interviewed later, Dr. Hughes
said that the action of Messrs. Pearce, Million.
Cook, Webster, Watt and Jensen in applying for
an injunction to the High' Court to restrain the
Conference front proceeding to business was uncon-
stitutional and called for drastic action.
The only drawback to the unanimity of the
scheme might be a few remarks from Pre-
miers Ryan and Holman. If they super-
vened, the P.rains Conference might explode.
—. ♦- - -
The Allies Recover Their I*lllloll.
There wits ;t change last week. Having
driven the armies of the Marne hack to tin*
Vesle and bored into the flanking bastion of
Soissons, Foch found the resistance stiffen-
ing, whereupon ITaig jumped forward round
the corner and inside half an hour the fre-
quently defunct Yon llindenbtteg had
anothej* heap of trouble on hand. The sur-
prise of the German seems to have been
complete. What is of more importance, the
organisation of the attack was adequate for
the purpose in view, and the Allies, instead
of hearing about a repetition of the calami-
tous proceedings at Cambrai, where the most
ample opportunity was mulled, heard about a
winning battle of great significance. Shoals
of prisoners were taken in a few hours.
Masses of material wore captured. At the
time of writing the advancing troops, with
IVillJim and the Canuck in the van, had
bitten deeply into the country they held
before the disaster of St. Quentin, and the
German was rushing up from afar to repair
Ihe damage to himself. The details of these
operations are of less interest than, the
general results achieved. From whatever
angle the German may contemplate the pro-
ceedings they are to him deplorable. Not.
only lias defeat fallen on him twice in a
month, hut the successes notched on tin*
Allies’ gun-barrel mean that for the present,
at any rale, the whole German plan of cam-
paign which opened with the drive along the
Somme ami the Oise, and was followed bv the
advance !,. (he Ourqe, has been shattered. If
he is going on with it he has to begin again.
dn H indenburg opened that campaign with
a great success and big plans. Briefly, his
object was to sever the British and French
armies, and striking at a vital point, which
crumbled before Vox Htjtier’s attack, he
"’cut within a whisker of success. But the
blow didn’t break in quite far enough. The
French repaired the breach. llaig managed
fe get his feet (irmly planted before Amiens
and got ready for what was likely to happen
next. His position was very perilous. A
further German success thereabouts would
have been something in the nature of a
tragedy for the Allies, and particularly for
Britain. But the German held olf —perhaps
because of the severe mauling he got from
the armies of Rawltxsox end Plumer to
the northward : possibly because of transport
troubles over thrice-ravaged countrv; but in
all probability because of the, to him, mag-
netic attraction of Paris. Anvway, instead
of persevering with the intention" to reach
the sea he swung downwards and outwards
to envelop ilu* capital. Now Paris is just
as far away as it was before, tin* coast is
more distant than it was two vears ago, the
Allies’ line has been greatly shortened, and
American soldiers are pouring into France
like ants. So far the occurrences of the last
month have been the best the world outside
the Fatherland has detected since digging in
became fashionable. By the time the cnomv
cleans up the mess and disentangles himself
from ihe prevailing confusion General Rain
will take command, a circumstance which
cannot by the wildest stretch of imagination
be likely to cause rejoicing in Potsdam.
I hero each winter is colder and more hungry
than the last, and Imperial promises of vic-
tory are a poor substitute for a square feed.
- ■
The Deserter’s Family.
Several reasons can be adduced why the
regulation, by which the wives and children
of Australian military deserters have their
allowances stopped, should be cast into the
dust-heap. For one tMag, it isn’t worth
while. Australian deserters -are not numer-
ous. and the amount saved by the thrifty by-
law would hardly pay the interest on our
new white elephant in London. For another
thing, the allowance to the convicted
deserter’s grass widow and grass orphan,
including bis pathetic little grass baby, is
simply paper money issued in Australia and
spent here. It isn’t a drain on the country’s
scanty gold supply, nor is it money that
goes away never to return, like the payment
for a shameless and unpatriotic imported hat
with a feather in it. Next, the business lacks
Ihe sanctifying atmosphere of precedent.
Other nations shoot the deserter so that the
widow may marry again. Of course, the
half-and-half system which only imprisons
him.permits his wife to sue fora divorce, but
some women dislike to take such a tale into
court and a great many belong to a church
which forbids divorce. Then, though it is
necessary to regard the deserter in war-time
as worse than any other criminal save a mur-
derer, because every army is liable to get
into such a strait that the funky part of it
can only be held together by making it more
dangerous to run away from the enemy than
to face him, yet if he merely funks he isn’t
worse. He isn't a man who started out to
do a bad thing. He is, in the case of a purely
defensive war like ours, a man who set out
to do a good thing and failed. He isn’t one-
tenth as virulent a sinner as the man whose
bit of defence lies in an arms-factory and
who deserts —otherwise goes on strike —for
the latter hasn’t the excuse of mortal funk.
The fact that the military sprinter to the
rear absolutely has to be treated as more evil
than the military striker is a misfortune. In
the circumstances it seems that he might be
divided into two in a manner of speaking—
considered in two capacities or viewed as a
man who led a double life. Regarded as him-
self, he should be heavily penalised to dis-
courage the others. Regarded as his wife’s
husband or his child’s father he should be
regarded as a soldier on service (stone-break-
ing service) pending his discharge (from
gaol). He certainly is serving (as a warn-
ing), and that should be taken into con-
sideration. By similar logic, which The
Bulletin holds to be good logic, in armies
where the deserter is shot his widow should
receive the same pension as if the enemy had
shot him. Something might be said' here
about common humanity. It is undeserved
suffering to be a deserter’s child, and face
the scoffs of the infant next door —a nefari-
ous creature who needlessly cumbers the
earth. To be a deserter's hungry child is
superfluous misery, especially if the infant
next door is fat as well as insolent.
The Latest Labor Gospel.
The Trades Union Congress, sitting in Syd-
ney as an incidental preliminary to the
One Big Union project, has come down flat-
footed with a preamble of comprehensive
scope and downright pledges. This founda-
tion for the new Labor temple consists of: —
(1) A declaration of belief in the class struggle.
(2) An affirmation that this conflict can only be
ended by the abolition of class-ownership, whether in
private hands or that of the State, with substitution
of social ownership.
(3) An allegation that long experience has proved
the futility of existing political and industrial
methods, which aim at rendering tolerable and
therefore perpetuating capitalism instead of ending it.
(4) An expression of belief that the interests of
the working class can be advanced only by an
organisation so constituted as to take concerted
action when deemed necessary, thereby making an
injury to one the concern of all.
(5) And a proclamation that as the working class
creates and operates the machinery of production i,t
should direct production and determine working
conditions.
IV herefore it is declared that the time is
ripe for revolutionary industrial and politi-
cal action, as by such means alone can the
situation be. saved. This, of course, is
purely Aiarxian, and in contemplating human
society through philosophic spectacles Ihere
is obviously quite a lot to be said for it—
in an academic way. It is quite conceiv-
able that somewhere in the illusive future a
social consciousness will be evolved making
the Marxian theories not only possible
but as inescapable as night and day.
And il is certain as either of these
phenomena that the capitalist concep-
tion of society is as untenable as a
belief in the earth being flat. But there is
a practical side to the repudiation of poli-
ties and the taking of revolutionary actions
and the setting-up of a “socially-operated”
machinery of distribution, and to their
application to the job in front of Aus-
tralians. It is the practical side of the
business that Australian Labor has either to
grapple with or let alone. There is. no get-
ting away from that, nor from the further
circumstance that Socialism, if it is any-
thing at all, . is. international, and that a
whole-hog Socialist Australia, standing alone
in the world, is as likely to come about as a
shower of elephants. It is for this reason that
The Bulletin awaits the development of
the One Big Union preamble into a pro-
gramme. If the idea’ is to convert the
Labor movement into a truculent instrument
for maintaining industrial riot—of cutting
out democratic government and substituting
kind of authority visualised bv the
I.W.W. evangelist—there are reasonable
grounds for suspecting that “the working
class ’ would quickly add to its collection of
sad experiences-. And if the notion that
political action is futile is to carry any
weight with the average citizen, it occurs
to this paper that he will first require at
least a plausible explanation of lmw it hap-
pens that Capital has been able to use poli-
tics for its great enrichment.
Profit-Sharing 1 .
Ax announcement by a Melbourne firm the
other day about its intention to introduce
a scheme of profit-sharing - between the Capi-
tal and Labor employed in the business has
been followed by resolutions from organised
Labor in general ‘denunciation of this sys-
tem of working. There is nothing new
about profit-sharing. The thing has been
tried and talked about in this and other
countries for many years. In some under-
takings the advantages it offers to both sides
are obvious. There are other and very
important enterprises to which its applica-
tion is impossible. Applied to the Aus-
tralian railwav services, for instance, profit-
sharing would be incomprehensible. The
main virtue of the profit-sharing theory re-
duced to practice is, in the eyes of Capital,
that it stabilises industry by reducing the
risk of strikes and introduces into particu-
lar businesses a powerful influence towards
efficient service. Some of the objections to
it in the eyes of Labor are that profit-shar-
ing identifies the worker with the capitalist
system, that it destroys the solidarity of
Labor, and that its general effect is to
impose obstacles between the workers and
higher wages. Another and perhaps more
valid criticism is that the majority of profit-
sharing schemes have a string to them which
is not in the workers’ hands and never likely
to be. To the Socialist, of course, profit-
sharing is anathema. To him it is no more
than a rather clumsy . experiment by the
Capitalist to camouflage the Pit of Indus-
trial Perdition. And it can be taken as a
certain thing that the industrial thought of
the world has, of recent years at any rate,
been moving along lines very different from
that, followed by the advocates of profit-
sharing as a solution of what is called the
Labor problem. But to-day is not to-
morrow, and the rational view seems to be
that as a practical contribution to the job
of keeping at least some industries reason-
ably free from turmoils, which are often
enough as disastrous to the worker as to
the other party, profit-sharing has many
attractive points. Meantime the profes-
sions of blank amazement of some people at
Labor’s professions of hostility to profit-
sharing, and their artless gags about loss-
sharing being a corollary of the dividend
need not be taken very seriously. Even from
their point of view there is more reason for
astonishment at Capital’s backwardness in
making experiments with this business. In
the loss-sharing part of the programme
Labor has always been the sole partner in
the firm.
The Commonwealth is out with the prospec-
tus of another War Loan---£40,000,000 this
time. It. is not a question of whether this
money should be spent; the point is that
the bill is there now and must be paid. And
we can make up our minds that there will
be more bills at the same address and the
account rendered for pensions is going to be
of. increasing rotundity. Subscriptions to
this new loan are invited at 5 per cent. The
terms work out to the equivalent of about
o J f. Instalments are due between date of
application and April. Very wisely the old
provision which placed War Loan invest-
ments outside the scope of the Federal income
tax has been abandoned, and income from
this issue will be subject to Federal tax
though not to State tax. This exemption is
an important one, though in view jf the
reconstruction that is inevitable probably it
means more now than it will, later on. ' As
an investment the War Loan carries a par-
ticularly strong appeal, merely on arithmetic.
Apart from that there is a heavy obligation
upon every citizen to support the loan,
mainly because the money must be found
one way or another, and because the country
is up to its neck in a struggle for life.
“N.C.”: Some recent remarks re import-
ing “small, expensive things like jewellery”
and the consequent waste of money are
rather misplaced. The writer is evidently
unaware that there has been an embargo on
the importation of jewellery for the past
three years, and on imitation jewellery for a
somewhat lesser period. It is somewhat of
an anomaly that a non-essential industry
like the manufacture of jewellery has in
effect been fostered by an embargo, and at
present js suffering from an acute shortage
of labor, whilst essential industries languish
for lackof such official stimulation. Australian
jewellery manufacturers have proved them-
selves equal to the emergency, and locally-
made decoration is now worn and appreci-
ated by those who formerly decried every-
thing but that which was imported. N’ot
only are Australian manufacturers sup-
plying their home market, but they are
building up a substantial business in Maori-
land, and there is no reason, if the prohibi-
tion against the export of jewellery is
raised, why fresh markets such as South
African should not be supplied. One
Melbourne firm is now making all the fine
go’d trace-chain for Australasian require-
ments—-a monopoly formerly held by Ger-
many.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Oh, Boy’’’
Criterion “Business Before Pleasure"
P'Omce . "The Nigger"
Tivoli “Samples”
1 layhoc.se “Pierrot Pie”
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hotts Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty's “Katiiika"
Royal “The Thirteenth Chair”
King's . “De Luxe Annie”
!>ijou Fuller’s Vaudeville Co.
i ivoli “Time, Please”
Hoyt's Dr Luxe „y Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia .... Moving Picture*
Auditorium (Aug. 17) Chappell Ballad Concert
-
“The Nigger,” coming down like night on
the end of the Guy Bates Post season at the
Palace (Sydney), is billed to last for two
weeks only. In the interests of art it should
also be limited to two acts only. * The Xig.
is melodrama, excellently mounted ami
played, but lacking comic relief. You can
almost hear the playwright holding the
stage-door against the black, cotton-picking
comedians with the sand-shuffle and the
banjo. The presence of these low but amus-
ing characters might have padded the play
out better, or, again, they might have
ruined the tragic atmosphere in which
Phillip Morrow, the almost-white coon, re-
nounces his white fianede and goes out to
face (1) the Southern moonlight, (2) the
“PIERROT PIE." AT SYDNEY
PLAYHOUSE .
Chef Sydney James
serves up his latest dish.
cheering crowd, and (3) the newspaper
in which his enraged distiller cousin, whom
he has ruined by assenting to the Prohibi-
tion Bill, tells the county the story of
Governor Morrow's unmarried quadroon
grandmother. Certainly the position isn't
much to be joyful about. Morrow’s grandpa
had a quadroon gal, and when his wife and her
baby died he took the quadroon’s baby and
sold the mother “down river.” Then he
went away and got himself shot at the
Mexican war. The play finds his “grandson”
enjoying the estates which really belong to
his distiller cousin and the love of the white
girl whom the booze-trader wants. Although
the liquor-maker has found a letter of the
slave woman’s that proves the black blood
in his rival, he doesn’t kick until the
usurper he helped to make State Governor
endorses a wowser senator’s Prohibition Bill
which dries up his business. Then he pro
duces the document (really the missing w'h
of melodrama turned upside down) and
forces the faithful old nigger mammy, who
was the quadroon girl’s sister, to swear to
the genuineness of it. Follows the great
scene in which Morrow tells his sweetheart
the horrible truth. When she shrieks “Nig-
ger!” he grows passionate in the worst
plantation manner and pursues her in a
frenzy. The entrance of the dignified mili-
tia colonel, who has brought his regiment
down to quell the town's race riots, ends the
tussle and the sobbing girl escapes. The
last scene is full of moonlight, sentiment
and noble resolutions for the future. The
dear old Prohibition senator, who persists
in uplifting the niggers by hand instead of
by rope, wags his white chin-whiskers at the
mournful Governor and talks to him like a
missionary between cigar-puffs. The dis-
tiller comes in, curses Prohibition and
the Governor for the last time, and goes off
to issue his special edition containing Mor-
row’s life story. Finally the fond white girl
arrives eager to take back her coon, but
finds instead a noble Southern gent, all ready


r
&
L
boQBPJ&o*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DTi
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 36/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIFJE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Oxy-Acetylene Welding & Cutting Classes,
SYDNEY SCHOOL OF ARTS, PITT STREET.
~ Jkis is practically a new trade, and now is your opportunity to learn it and qualify your-
. ter 16/- to 20/- per day. A complete plant has been installed and students may bring
their own work for repairs.
f „Jf or , fees and particulars apply at Libr ry, 9toB, or Mr. Carthew Wright, A.I.M.E. (late
° uT ers lowers School of Mines and Te hnioal College), at workshop in Quay Street, City.
„ , "nere are the parents who wish to gve their boys a good trade? Special class for youths
and non-tradesmen. &
The South Australian distributing’ agents for
the Liberty Magneto are Messrs McGregor, Ltd., not
Messrs. Duncan and Fraser, Ltd., as stated in our
Bulletin advt. of August 8. Richardson, Orr and
Co., Representatives in tile Commonwealth and New
Zealand for the Liberty Magneto, 325 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne. — Advt.
Geraldton Hospital,
Innisfail.
APPLICATIONS FOR SURGEON.
A PPLICATIONS are hereby called for the position
x -*- of Surgeon to the above Institution.
Salary £4OO per annum, free house (unfurnished),
light and fuel, good private practice. Three months’
notice either side terminates engagement. Applica-
tions, testimonials, etc., must reach the undersigned
by Tuesday, August 27, and to be endorsed “Applica-
tion for Surgeon.”
J. T. ROBERTSON, Secretary.
in
ii
Mi
WARRIGAL UNDERWEAR
Lightweight Weave for Summer.
Warmer days necessitate the wearing of lighter underwear; hut
most men will wisely continue to wear wool.
“Warrigal” Summer-weight Underwear is all-wooI—PURE WOOL —-
and genuine Australian manufacture. The great success of our
Winter weaves will be equally merited by this durable Summer-
weight Underwear.
UNDERSHIRTS —haIf-sleeves.
34. 30. 38. 40. 42. 44. 46.
11/- 11/- 11/6 12/- 12/6 13/6 14/6
UNDERPANTS to match —-full length.
11/- 11/6 12/- 12/6 13/- 13/6 14/6
The registered “Warrigal” Trade-mark is attached to every
garment.
Peapes’ pay postage.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 George Street, Sydney
for the sacrifice of his life’s happiness. Slow
curtain on the balcony to “The Star-Spangled
Banner” and cheers “off.”
The restrained methods of Post make the
one burst of savagery seem forced ; but his
is a tine gripping performance, and he shows
his quality in quieter moments, notably when
he is absorbing the letter of his quadroon
grandmother. Lionel Belmore, as Noyes, the
rugged, self-made distiller, is just the sort of
brutal type who might have made things
rudely uncomfortable for the desired
white girl in real life. Thais Lawton, as
the heroine, Georgiana, makes the usual
gracious appeal, and flees naturally through
the big scene: but her assumed Southern lisp
irritates at times. Katie Towers, as Jenny,
the old negro mammy, who tells her story
under protest, gets through with first-class
honors. Eardley Turner makes a brief appear-
ance as a grief-stricken father with a lynch-
ing rope on his shoulder; and stage-manager
Milano Tilden looks the breathless deputy-
sheriff. A. E. Greenaway preaches naturally
in the midst of the senatorial whiskers.
C
Sydney James opened “Pierrot Pie” at the
Playhouse (Sydney) on Thursday night, and
the hearty eaters of that kind of dish who
turned up found some of his old colleagues
with him as well as a set of new people.
Dancer Madeline Rossiter, comedian G. W.
Desmond and singer Josie Jackson were
cheerily welcomed. Lance Kennedy (flautist),
Laurie K. (’cellist) and Dorothy Mcßride
(a capable young pianiste) made a new musi->
cal group, and Kathleen Shearer (soprano)
had good opportunities and made the most of
them. But the most popular find of the
evening was Joseph Brennan, a young com-
edian who has carefully studied the village
idiot and reproduced his nervous gestures.
While he sings or pa tters, Brennan whirls his
arms jerkily like a semaphore and succeeds
in looking the complete imbecile. In a
second make-up he is a tall, tittering old
panto dame in a costume composed of small
flags. Two recent shows, “The Masquerader”
and “The Thirteenth Chair,” are burlesqued
togethlr in a mixture written by Kennedy
Alien, who himself plays Brook, private bar-
man to Guy Bates Loder (Sydney James).
Josie Jackson (as Rosalie La Grange in the
“Chair”) and Brice Rowe (as the bullying
Detective Donnahue of the same play) are
admirable. The biggest laugh is scored when
Donnahue, searching for the murderer of
Wales, tries to pick out the criminal by his
infallible “Eena-deena-dinah-doe” method.
The company, all yelling together, scornfully
refuse to have the guilt fastened upon them.
It’s a more ambitious and successful attempt
at burlesque than Sydney has seen for some,
time. A well-mounted show with an orches-
tra commanded by Lieut. Francis Blake, late
accompanist to Peter Dawson, the Pie should
be nibbled at by all theatre-goers.
Potash and I’urlmutter continue putting
Business before Pleasure at the Cri. (Syd-
ney), where the main complaint of the Firm
turns on the pleasure of getting all the busi-
ness inside. The laugh seems likely to linger
long.
“Oh, Boy!” is aged six weeks at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), but there is so much
gilt on the show gingerbread that it looks as
good as new. It is the sort of big, glittering
dainty that the theatre-going population has
a good excuse for sampling again.
Ben and John Fuller are still taking a
small commission in return for introducing
strangers to Allan Wilkie in his crowded
“Seven Days’ Leave” at the Opera House
(Sydney).
“Samples” is still drawing eager buyers to
the Tivoli (Sydney) counter. The first
bloom is off this revived show, but there are
good things in it and some capable people.
The dancing Magleys in particular are men-
tioned with justifiable pride by the mana-
gerial advt.
The Strand has a big attraction in this
week’s feature, “The Eternal Sin,” a screen
adaptation by Herbert Brenon of Victor
Hugo’s play “Lucretia Borgia.” Florence
Reed as Lucretia, in her fourth and final
marriage, brews the poisoned cup with great
charm and dignity. Only when she in vain
endeavors to save her own child, Gennaro,
from the ruthless fate to which she has con-
demned so many others, does she know
remorse, and then it is in a manner as tragic
as ever became a Borgia. Dorothy Dalton
has all the headlines at Hoyt’s and the Hay-
market. First favorite in the dance-halls
of Jim Town in the rough townships of
California, she is known as “Flare-up Sal,”
holding her honor above all price. Though
won over a pack of cards by Dandy
Dave, she is still mistress of her own soul;
and the morning she goes to church brings
relief. For the minister is a hold-up
known as Red Rider, and she and
Red had met before. There is a quick shoot-
ing dispute as to her ownership between the
men, and the card-sharp is the one who
doesn’t emerge from the smoke. Flare-up
Sal and Red Rider then find that the crooked
wavs are made straight, and the pair slips
off ‘the film into a rosy, spring-cleaned future.
At the same theatres Fatty Arbuekle has
the plump chuckle in “Moonshine/ and
George Breban provides tender interest in
“Jules of the Strong Heart.” Alice Joyce
fills in time —lucratively, judging by her fine
raiment—as a dealer in old clo’ (antiques is
the more genteel description), till she
acquires a wedding ring. Then the usual com-
plications transpire, mostly in the shape of
another man’s wife. The eternal triangle
will be found at the usual address, the Cry-
stal Palace. The Lee children are “The
Troublemakers” at the Lyceum. The “Just
Peggy” film, with Sara Allgood in the name-
part, is being reeled off twice a day at the
Royal this week. Both star and photo-
grapher have done creditably. The reel runs
out finally on Friday night.
* * *
“The Thirteenth Chair,” going stronger at
Adelaide Royal, triumphantly defies the old
convention that the public, which loves to be
puzzled right up to the last chapter of a
novel, will resent exactly the same treatment
in a play. Conventions, of course, have to
be broken when they become tyrannous; but
Bayard Veiller overdoes it. and adds a lot of
petty mystifications which worry slightly.
This short play—like most other recent
American work, it runs only about two
hours —would be the better for a preliminary
act, showing how A and B, suspecting C on
strong finger-print evidence, arranged with
D to deliver a faked message, hoping thus to
entrap a confession. (They must have done
this.) The two big surprises, the first and
third acts, which “make” the play, remain
unguessed and unguessable. In the “Chair,”
the grip of the story almost makes one forget
the players; but Miss Wycherly is great, a
feminine “Grumpy” without the tricks and
grunts; and other fine players make com-
paratively small parts stand out.
Of other Adelaide shows, the Tivoli has
had a week of a strong version of the mis-
deeds of Rasputin, powerfully played by John
Cosgrove, supported by a long cast of the
Andersonian stock co., which is now moving
on to Hall Caine. At the Majestic Leonard
Nelson has brought back some good new
songs, and in the latest revue-sketch Les
Warton is funny as an Irish-Americanised
Charley’s Aunt; also Vera Spaull has been
added to the cast, to its great advantage. At
the Town Hall is Alexander Watson; at
Wondergraph, the Jap Hayakawa pearl-
hunting on the screen; at West’s, “Tarzan”
and his ape friends. Animals are always the
best film-actors, and this unusual story—
which seems to have had several violent
deaths censored out of it —has been a strong
draw.
When “Bought
and Paid For” was
introduced to Mel-
bourne, less than
four years ago, its
appearance was
less unconvincing
than the revival at
the Royal last
Saturday. It is a
drama based on a
wild improbability
which requires a
color of strong cor-
roborative evidence
from three charac-
ters. Its structure
is a tissue of un-
truths to nature.
The trio of strange
visitors at the
home of million-
aire Robert Staf-
ford in the opening
scene (whose pre-
sence has to be
explained in their
dialogue, as though
they hadn’t dis-
cussed the matter
a hundred times
already) shows no
reason why Staf-
ford should propose
to marry one of
them and become
brother-in-law to
the other two.
“Bought and Paid
For," at Melbourne
Royal.
James Gilley (Louis
Kimball) receives a
rise in salary.
Muriel Starr is an unattractive figure in her
cheap and tasteless outfit, whilst Louis Kim-
ball aud Norma Mitchell, as family connections
in prospective, are over the odds. William
Harrigan and Dorothy Davies, who played
the hangers-on aforetime, were not such a
crudely assertive comic-relief couple.
Jimmie, as Harrigan presented him, was a
vainglorious idiot with no sense of humor
or notion of his own aggressiveness.
Kimball, in the part, is obviously
trying to be funny, and his self
assertion would be insufferable even to
Stafford in his most amiable mood. Then,
Frank Harvey gives a touch- of savagery to
the incredible financial genius who goes on
piling up riches whilst indulging his thirst
for liquor. The situations never appeal to
one’s reason. Everybody is in a false posi-
tion, except when the chastened millionaire
confronts his disconsolate Muriel in the
bumble abode where she grass-widows. All
she has to do is to open her arms and forgive
the rich man, who will take her back to
luxury and restore
her awful brother-
in-law to the fat
salary he has
never begun to
earn. The sad and
sorry heroine does
open her arms,
and the situation
is more than prob-
able. It is a cer-
tainty. Her vol-
untary return to
poverty was ab-
surd ; her scrupu-
lous regard for
principles was
utterly unwomanly
in a married
Muriel; but her
readiness to em-
brace the chance
of getting back to
marble halls in a
motor-car is true
to non-theatrical
life. The heroine’s
shiver of delight
as she pushes her-
self into a tremen-
dous fur coat
amounts to a
frank confession
that her principles
were no good for
“ Katinka ,” at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
Stage-manager Alf red
Andrea ; talcing the
part of Knopf.
keeping her warm. Miss Starr will restore
the millionaire to her bosom until Friday.
The following night comes Margaret
Wyehcrly in “The Thirteenth Chair.”
An attack of Katinkaitis, which retired
Florence Young from the cast of the opera
at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) has spread to
Phil Smith. In the part that well suited
Philip, Welch is more happily placed as
regards his feet and legs, but not otherwise.
In Welch’s former character of Knopf, who
engages the Circassian ballet for his cafe in
Paris, stage-manager Andrew now does his
best, hut his best is open to improvement.
Addie Lennard, in the place where Miss
Young used to be, has improved a good deal,
likewise the tall lady who took over Addie’s
former job. Gladys Moncrieff has not been
seized by indisposition as yet; but Olive
Godwin was suffering from a sprained throat
on Saturday, and her song at the harem
window was sung by a pleasing substitute.
The show is in its tenth week.
“De Luxe Annie” has but one more week
to go at King’s (Melb.). Everybody ought
to see Annie at least once, therefore the
belated few who have not yet done so are
reminded that a week is fleeting and that
life is uncertain.
A revival of “Arrah-na-Pogue” at the
Princess’s (Melb.) allowed George Cross
the pleasure of polishing his blarney in the
dear old character of Shaun the Post.
George’s drollery as Shaun is largely impreg-
nated with English phlegm, but he gripped
the heart of the local pathriot. The scene
where Shaun is tried for rebellion was not
less munificent than of yore in circus effects.
There are the same o d threats directed at
Michael Feeney, whom Harry MeDonna
presented with a brogue that sounded like a
man sawing wood. The language of some
of the others in the cast, notably of Colonel
O’Grady (Austen Milroy) and Beamish
McCoul (Fred Neilson), maintained the
fruity traditions of the stage Hibernian.
* * *
At the Tivoli (Melb.) the frivolity is still
“Time, Please,” and the finale to the first
part continues to be the most artistic portion
of the show. The chief conspirators con-
tinue the pretence that they are held together
by a thread of narrative, though it is rarely
visible and never of the least consequence.
Fuller’s impromptu minstrel party has dis-
appeared from the Bijou (Melb.), and a
fresh crowd of artists is now looking for
bouquets. As the newcomers opened too late
for consideration this week, The Bulletin
can only dismiss them with the caution that
anything they say or do may be used in
evidence against them next week.
Another Chappell ballad concert at the
Auditorium (Melb.) is announced for next
Saturday (17th). The Taits state, also, that
Leila Doubleday is on the water, and will
commence a series of violin recitals in a
fortnight or so at the Auditorium.
;• - *
Conspicuous in the current programme at
Hoyt’s Theatre (Melb.) is Dorothy Dalton
in “Flare-Up Sal.” Dorothy is the violent
divinity of a dance saloon, but like most ex-
plosive heroines she has a good heart. Gladys
Brockwell, in “The Moral Law,” is another
wild female who grows almost Borgiastic in
her efforts to remove a superfluous husband.
A gentler spirit of peace and happiness is in-
spired by George Bevan in "Jules of tbe
Strongheart.” The story is full of honest
impulses, and the scenery lends it an appear-
ance of bigness and breadth.
"The Man Trail,” which commenced a
short run at the Melba Theatre (Melb.), this
week, is an argument against the sin of
growing idle and fat. The hero is a typical
city dawdler who flees from the threat of
adipose tissue to the rough life of a lumber-
camp. In the other Melba feature, “The
New Janitor,” Charles Chaplin tells another
ridiculous story in the irresistible language
of two absurd feet. At the Britannia "The
Sign Invisible” hushes profane tongues and
ignites a glow in the bosoms of the godly.
Another Melbourne show :
Bombardier M. N. Waller is making the public
acquainted with his art at the Fine Art Society’s
Rooms, Alfred Place. A sound draughtsman with an
uninspiring style, Waller depicts the field in France
with a thoroughness that omits naught of the jostle
of conflict and reveals the full terror of high explo-
sives. Ilis largest subject is “The Recapture of
Guns, Bullecourt Farm,” and here the long struggle
between Billjim and Boclie only loses in ferocity
by the artist’s limited conception of the scene.
Waller is more successful in portraying the incidents
of warfare than in charting the peculiarities ot'
its human material. His Anzaes have a look of
wooden-headed good-nature and run to stockiness
and beef, with rather short, thick legs and a solid
torso that combine to give an appearance of comfort-
able inertia. Still, it is fine work for a left-handed
warrior who had previously lost his educated right
in battle. What are especially surprising are his
little impressions in color, one of the River Thames
(No. 24) showing his ability to snapshot a vanish-
ing effect.
11. Y. Uraddon, superintendent in Austra-
lia for Dalgety and Co., Ltd., has been
offered the job of “commercial repre-
sentative” of Australia at Washington. If
the directors of Dalgety’s are agreeable
Uraddon will advance on the States forth-
with. If anyone understood what happens
to be meant by “commercial represen-
tative” it might be possible to express
an opinion about this appointment. But
Acting Prime Minister Watt either knows
nothing or pretends to, and wraps him-
self up in a mantle of indefiniteness.
This, taken with- the Braddon explanation
of temporary absence from Australia, suggests
that lie might merely go away to be a warm-
ing-pan for someone else, though in certain
circumstances no more capable man than
Braddon could be named. Meanwhile par-
ticulars of what “commercial representative”
means are suppressed. Taking everything
into consideration, The Bulletin is pre-
pared to risk the prophecy that inside a year
Braddon, if he goes, will be back, and Aus-
tralia will see a politician smuggled into this
billet.
“Anti-Monopoly”: The Government is
allowing 50 per cent, of the 1915-16 imports
of “foreign” tea to again enter the Common-
wealth. This apparently innocent piece of
legislation means that the Government is
virtually granting a monopoly to a few
fortunate merchants who happened to im-
port China and Java tea in that year;
because these are the only persons who.
under the regulations, are allowed to do so
in the future. Take Java tea, which, owing
to lack of markets, can now be bought at
3d. per lb. less than similar Ceylon and
Indian growths. It would appear almost
certain that the greater part of this differ-
ence will go into the pockets of a few privi-
leged merchants as extra profit. I would
suggest, as a means of protecting the public,
that the Government take possession of this
tea, pay the importers a fair commission
for their trouble (not Id. or 2d. per lb. more
than usual), cancel all subsequent contracts,
and put the article up to public auction, or,
failing this, impose an extra duty of 3d. per
lb. straight out on all “foreign-grown” tea.




BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars. E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Lead
Antinionial Lead
Assay Lead (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (liar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
Registered
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade;
Slags, etc., containing silver or lead
Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
Brand.
BHAB'
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
STEEL CASTINGS.
We make the FINEST STEEL CASTINGS obtainable
ranging in weight from a Pound or so up to
SIX or EIGHT TONS; also MANGANESE STEEL
CASTINGS of best quality.
It will be to your interest to let us have your enquiries.
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.,
Victoria Street, Richmond,
Victoria.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Banking Co. of Syd-
ney :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 'O9. . 110,496 10 p.c.= 75,000 41,496 1,372,610
June, 'lO.. 117,000 10 ~ „ 75.000 42,000 1,414.610
Dec., 'lO.. 117,955 10 „ ~ 75,000 42,955 1,457,565
June, ’ll.. 118,095 10 „ ~ 75,000 43,095 1,500,660
Dec., ’ll.. 119,897 10 ~ ~ 75,000 44,897 1,545,557
June, ’12.. 123,983 10 „ ~ 75,000 48,983 1,594,540
Dec., ’12.. 132,011 10 ~ 86,302 45,709 1,640,249
June, T 3. . 1.34,122 10 ~ 87,383 46,739 1,686,988
Dec., ’13.. 138,242 10 ~ ~ 87,500 50,742 1,737.730
June, ’14.. 149,382 10 „ „ 99,258 50,124 1,787,854
Dec., ’14.. 138,107 10 „ ~100,000 38,107 1,825,961
June, ’15.. 126,773 10 ~ „ 100,000 26,773 1,852,734
Dec., ’15.. 128,236 10 „ ..100,000 28,236 1,880 970
June, ’16.. 133,568 10 „ ~ LOO,OOO 33,568 1,914,538
Dec., ’16.. 138,220 10 ~ ~100,000 38,220 1,952,758
June, ’17.. 146,336 10 „ ~100,000 46,336 1,999,094
Dec., ’17.. 151,160 10 „ ~ 100,000 51,160 2,050,254
June, ’lB.. 146,989 10 „ ~100,000 46,989 2,097,243
For the four years since the war began the
Commercial’s disclosed profits have aggre-
gated £1,119.389; for the previous four
years the profits totalled £1,033,887. So
during the war there has been an average
increase of about £10,700 in the half-yearly
profit. But the Commercial of Sydney has a
very cautious management, and while veteran
George Judah Cohen in his talk to share-
holders every six months has been emphasis-
ing the necessity for all hands making pro-
vision for the uncertainty of the future,
there is no doubt that the management has
been stuffing a little extra into the bank’s
stocking. This gives a view of the opera-
tions over the two four-year periods:—
Liabilities.
June, ’lO. June, ’l4. June, ’lB.
Notes .. .. £568,935 £21,804 £11,830
Rills . . . . 823,609 1,113,851 1,262,746
Deposits and other
liabilities . . 18,321,058 22,278,511 27,109,804
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 10,870,37.0 12,770,278 15,770,091
Advances . . 11,354,238 13,962,748 10,204,998
Premises . . 485,465 568,253 606,635
Thus since the war began deposits have
increased by > about £4,800,000. Of this
increase no less than three millions are held
liquid, and of the £2,240,000 tacked on to
advances, £1,085,000 represents money ad-
vanced under the Government wheat scheme,
and £1,063,000 temporary accommodation
(at 4 p.c.) to customers who subscribed to
the last War Loan. Altogether tin; Com-
mercial of Sydney advanced well over
£2,000,000. and the amount outstanding as
at June 30 will be met by two instalments.
On the question of advances the chairman
stated the management’s policy at the share-
holders’ meeting
Whilst meeting all reasonable demands by our
customers for assistance in connection with trade
and the producing industries of the country, we
do not encourage proposals for advances for specula-
tive and unproductive purposes. No one can say
with certaintv what is ahead of us, and, fully
recognising this, it has been and is the policy of
the Board to conserve our resources and keep the
Bank in its strong position.
The present position of the bank is cer-
tainly strong. Total liabilities to the
public amount to £28,384.380. and no less
than £15.770,091 is held liquid. In other
words, for every £1 of other people’s money,
the bank holds over 11s. in the till or within
easy reach. It is interesting to compare the
distribution of these liquid assets: —
June, 1914. June, 191 S.
Coin, bullion, Common-
wealth notes .. .. £6,393,276 £7,629,134
Money at short call in
London .. .. .. 1,831,564 770,000
Short-dated British
Treasury Bills .. . , 913,000
Public securities ~ . . 2,439,525 4,563,700
Bills receivable in London 2,068,614 1,864,379
Other banks’notes and bills , 37,300. 29,878
Thus well over two millions of the three
millions’ increase in the liquid assets have
been invested in public securities. Because
of the exceptionally solid holding of liquid
assets, the Commercial is in a good position
to give a helping hand and increase its
business when the time comes to expand.
Paid capital is £2,000,000 (160,000 £25
shares each paid to £l2 10s.). and the re-
serve fund now amounts to £2,400.000. Add
the P. and L. balance after paying the
£lOO,OOO dividend, and the total funds
amounted to £4,097 243. Liabilities to the
public totalled £28,384,380. So for every
£1 of its own funds the bank held less than
£7 of the public’s money. As to the future
it’s no use guessing. We are being loaded
down by an enormous war debt, heaped upon
a peace debt which the improvident, vote-
catching politicians piled up. lhe im m.
diate future depends on the seasons, on the
demand for our products, and on the manner
in which the politicians manage the con-
tinent's affairs. With good seasons, good
management, and a lot of luck, the settling
up rnav not be a very painful process. But
when the scattering of war-loan monej
ceases, there is certain to be a. cold speil.
Thus rigid economy all round and getting
solidly to work is the safest programme.
City of Newcastle Gas and Coke Co.
(N.S.W.). To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1912. . £6,739 15 p.c. = £4894 £1.845 £96,290
£66,370 Reserves transferred to
Unexplained additions to reserves . .1,377 31,30-
Dec.. 1912.. 7,089 10 p.c. = 6637 _ 402 31,<04
Assets written up 67,801 9J,500
£99.555 Reserves transferred to capita] —~
June, 1913.. 8.377 10 p.c. = 6637 1,740 1,/40
“A” & “B” “C”
Sliares Shares
8 p.c. 5 3-5 p.c.
Dec., 1913 .. 10,160 9292 187 681 2,421
June, 1914 .. 9,627 9292 80S 2< 2,448
Dec, 1914 .. 11,111 9292 168 13ul 3,/99
7 p.c. 4 9-10 p.c.
June 1915 .. 8,906 Sl3O 551 225 4,024
Dec 1915 .. 9.077 8130 091 256 4,280
June, 1916 .. 9.619 8130 8.32 657 4,93/
Dec., 1916 .. 9,677 8130 972 575 5,512
June, 1917 .. 8,313 8132 1111 4,582
Doc., 1917 .. 8,807 8132 1251 4,006
June, 1918 . . 9,876 8132 1380 364 4,3/0
The Newcastle Gas Co. was one of cos.
affected by that wonderful slice of N. S.
Wales Labor legislation designed to regulate
dividends and prices and the quality of
gas. For a start a standard price was fixed,
and it could be lifted only by proving that
the cost of production had increased. On
old capital the cos. were permitted to pay
up to 10 p.c., and on new capital 7 p.c., with
gas at the fixed price. If they desired to
pay dividends in excess of these rates the
price had to be reduced. To begin with the
cos. were allowed to capitalise their reserves,
and this Newcastle co. tacked no less than
£165,925 of reserves to capital, which now
stands at £289,657, made up in this way:—
66,370 “A” shares paid to £2 =£132,740
66,370 “B” shares paid to £1 10s. = 99,555
28,681 “O” shares paid to £2 = 57,362
To have paid the limit of the standard divs.
would have absorbed half as much profit
again as the co. was showing. 8o the chances
of the consumer getting a reduction in price
because of the fat dividends the co. was pay-
ing were very slight. Altogether the Act
was a ridiculous piece of bungling. At the
beginning of this year, however, the Govern-
ment swept away a few of the absurdities
with an amending Act, but some of the
damage done by the original foolishness still
remains.
Newcastle is a rapidly-growing industrial
centre, and this co.'s prospects of increased
business are bright. The gross revenue and
expenditure figures have expanded' rapidly:
June,’l3. June, T 7. June, ’lB.
Revenue ..£23,991 £29,803 £32,182
Expenditure. . 15,614 21,491 22,306
Whether the net profit shown by the co. is
the true net profit The Bulletin does not
know. One of the objects of the Gas Act
was alleged to he to prevent juggling with
profits. But it actually did nothing of the
sort. No indication whatever is given of
the amount written off for depreciation. The
balance-sheet figures have moved this way in
four years:—
.Tune,’l4. June,’l7. June,’lB.
Liabilities .. .. £12,462 £33.773 £31,064
Buildings, plant, mains. . 255,603 305,939 310,330
Stocks 10,330 13.273 14,165
Liquid assets .. .. 5,213 9.440 10,109
So in four years £54.727 has been added to
fixed assets and £8751 to more or loss liquid
assets. Meantime, liabilities have increased
by £18.602 and £43,022 of new capital has
boon got in. That shows an improvement of
about £lBOO in four years; blit as in the
case of disclosed net profits everything de-
pends on the allowance made for depreciation.
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1906.. £2171 6 pie. = £1590 £5Bl £5,895
1907.. 3060 . 8 „ ~ 2121 939 6,834
1908.. 3631 9 „ ~ 2380 1245 8,079
1909.. 2712 8 „ „ 2121 591 8,670
1910.. 2923 8 „ „ 2121 SO2 9,472
1911.. 3743 9 „ „ 2386 1357 10,829
1912.. 4193 10 „ ~ 2651 1542 12,371
1913.. 5496 15 „ „ 3977 1519 13,890
1914.. 5131 10 „ ~ 2651 2480 16,870
Written off, £5OO .. 15,870
1915.. 4746 10 p.c. = 2651 2095 17,965
1916.. 3691 10 „ ~ 2651 1040 19,005
1917.. 4829 -10 „ „ 2651 2178 21,183
Transferred to capital, £20,200 .. 983
1918.. 5044. 7 p.c. = 3341 1703 2,686
This co. celebrates its 30th anniversary by
transferring £20.200 of reserves to capital,
making the 101,000 £2 shares paid to os., or
a total paid-up capital of £45,450. On this
the co. pays a dividend of 7 p.c.. equal to
12 3-5 p.c. on the original capital. If anything
should go wrong there is still 31s. per share
which can be called up ; but this liability is
not likely to cause shareholders much loss
of sleep. The co. continues to expand
steadily, and trusts in hand now exceed
four millions. This shows how the figuies
have grown:—
1908 £1,528,345 | 1917 . . £3,908,382
1916 i. 3,617,30*3 | 1918 .. 4,049,379
Commission earnings have shown handsome
increases during the past few years: 1910,
£13,892; 1916, £14,027; 1917, £1u,900 :
1918, £17,459. But expenses have increased
rapidly also: taxes are much heavier, and,
further, the staff has had to be increased to
grapple with taxation problems.
The shareholders’ position is quite com-
fortable. Inabilities amount to only £3595 ;
wdiile £21,050 of their funds is invested m
Government securities, £29,400 in freehold
property. £2927 in secured loans, in\est-
ments and cash, and £695 in odds and ends
of furniture, etc. From the clients point
of view 7, besides the paid capital and reserves
there is £156,550 of capital callable to pro-
tect them if anything should go wrong. Fur-
ther they have the satisfaction of knowing
that their estates are being administered by
men of proved ability whose lives are de-
voted to the study of the trustee business.
And, unlike the old friend-of-the-family trus-
tee, the co. does not die or leave its affairs
in a muddle; nor can it pack its bag and
abscond with the trust funds. #
The Adelaide Steam Tug Co. (S. Aus.) ;
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1911.. £3092 Sp.c. = £2240 £852 £20,767
Dec 1911.. 3299 10 „„ 2800 499 21,266
June 1912.. 1841 5 „„ 1400 441 21,707
Pec’ 1912.. 4008 10 „„ 2800 1208 22,915
June 1913.. 3824 10 „„ 2SOO 1024 23,939
Pec 1918.. 6000 10 „„ 2800 3200 2/,139
June, 1914 .. 2848 10 „ „ 2800 48 2/,18/
Loss.
Pec 1914.. 1093 5 ~ ~ 1400 24,694
June, 1915:. 965 5 i, „ 1400 - 22,329
Profit.
Dec., 1915.. 985 5 „„ 1400 21,914
Loss. ■
June, 1916.. 1137 Nil 20,7/7
Profit.
Dec.. 1916.. 1735 • Nil 1735 22,512
June, 1917.. 1751 6 p.c. = JL6BO 71 22,583
Written off, £lBl7 . . • • 20,766
Dec 1917.. 3882 6 p.c. = 1680 2202 22,968
June, 1918.. 3660 10 „ „ 2800 860 23,828
Though overseas shipping is still scarce, this
co. lias been able to show considerably im-
proved results for. the past year with a
smaller beet. For the 12 months to June,
1017. the 26 tugs, launches, lighters, etc.,
showed a profit on working account of
£4648, while- expenses absorbed £3lOO. By
December last two lighters had been sold,
and a further two vessels have disappeared
from the list during the past term. Never-
theless, this reduced fleet earned a working
profit of £7512 for the year, while £3641
was paid in administration and general ex-
penses. Though the co. does not lose much
sleep over the U-boat menace, the tinfish
have, no doubt, had an indirect effect on
profits. The big cos. have been elevating
their charges, and probably the tugs, etc.,
that attend the overseas vessels are in their
turn also able to ask a little «more. Anyhow,
despite the lack of shipping at Adelaide and
the increased cost of supplies, coal and labor,
this co. has been able to get back to its
a\ erage pre-war profit. The later figures
may possibly be not all profit, for the co. has
adapted the method of transferring the entire
balances of its Profit and Boss accounts'.to a
special reserve fund, from which it pays
dividends but the directors consider the
position good enough to return to the old
10 p.c. div. Though recent years have been
lean, the directors do not seem to have neg-
lected to have made fair allowance for depre-
ciation. At any rate, the one steam-lighter
which the co. owns had a book value of
£16,761 as at June, 1914. but now it lias
been written down to £13,735. The fleet of
30 vessels four years ago was included at
£54.442; now the 22 vessels have a book
value of £39.975. The other balance-sheet
figures have moved this way :
June,’l4. Dec.,’l7. June,’lB.
Assets other than tugs
and floating plant ..£30,345 £38,582 £44,678
Liabilities. . .. .. 913 1,237 3,581
Surplus ..£29,432 £37,345 £41,097
Capital is £56.000 in 16,000 fully-paid shares
of £3 10s. each.
.T. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd., leather
manufacturers, etc., Sydney :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1912.. £8345 10p.c. = £2832 £513 £7061
June, 1913.. 3565 10 „ „ 2832 733 7794
Dec., 1913.. 2127 S .. 2266 7655
June, 1914.. 1719 7 ~ 1982 7392
Dec., 1914.. 1851 7 .. „ 1982 7261
June, 1915.. 2023 7 „ ~ 1982 41 7302
Dec., 1915.. 2399 7 „ 1982 417 7719
June, 1916.. 2243 10 „ „ 2832 7130
Dec.. 1916.. 2832 10 ~ „ 2832 7130
June, 1917.. 2832 10 ~ „ 2832 7130
Dec.. 1917.. 3116 10 „ ~ 2832 284 7414
June, 1918.. 3130 10 ~ „ 2832 303 7717
Ludowiei’s had built up a nice export trade,
but the British Government’s embargo on
the importation of Australian leather and
the scarcity of shipping have seriously inter-
fered. Nevertheless, the co. is not doing at
all badly, and the 10 p.c. dividend is paid
without difficulty. A couple of years ago the
management was not altogether a happy
family, and the Board-room disturbance was
not doing the business any good. However,
there was a cleaning up, and the crowd that
wanted to get control of the co. finally got
out. Since then the co. has done better, and
should continue to do better still. Besides
increasing its home trade, after the war it
should be able to extend its overseas busi-
ness. The raw material is here in almost
unlimited supplies, and the co. has proved
that it can turn out good-quality stuff. To
get its employees more interested in the
business, the co.' has extended its bonus
scheme, and has further placed £lOO to the
credit of a superannuation fund which it
intends to build up as circumstances permit.
Capital is £56,644, all in fully-paid. £1
shares, and liabilities total £15,604. This is
a business which does not require much out-
lay for premises and plant, and, including
freeholds, these items total only just under
£20,000. Book debts are also small, £11,050.
The lug item is stocks, £46,447; and the co.
is now carrying £lO,OOO worth more than it
was five years ago.
South Brisbane Gas Co., Ltd. —The
affairs of this co. are again in the lime-
light as a result of the Queensland Chief
Audit Inspector’s report, which was tabled
in the Assembly the other day. As far back
as February, 1014, The Bulletin urged
shareholders to find out if they were not
living in a fool’s paradise, and suggested
that they should call in a competent, account-
ant to report on the eo.’s affairs. The direc-
tors apparently became annoyed, and since
then The Bulletin’s requests for balance-
sheets have met with no response. Cer-
tainly, as the directors told shareholders,
“the co. is under no obligation to The Bul-
letin’’ to forward their reports, which they
have always looked upon as “confidential
communications to their shareholders";
nevertheless, the South Brisbane has been
the only gas co. in the Commonwealth that
has not provided this paper with its balance-
sheets when requested. The first bomb was
landed when the Gas Referee, appointed
under the Queensland Gas Act of 1016,
valued the c-o.’s assets to determine the price
of gas. The directors, in the balance-sheet,
claimed that the co. possessed assets worth
£318,588 ; but the Gas Referee fixed “the
present value of the amount invested in the
undertakings’’ at £160,051. Towards the end
of 1014 assets had been re-valued, and as. a
result the co. issued £lOO,OOO of debentures
free to shareholders. Commenting on the
Gas Referee’s report, The Bulletin pointed
out that either the Gas Referee had made a
tremendous mistake, or that the issue of the
£lOO.OOO of debenture stock to shareholders
as a bonus was not only unjustified but
highly improper; and, further, if the Gas
Referee were correct it looked as if the. co.
was trying to get in ahead of any possible
legislation similar to that then being passed
in N. S. Wales. Following on a discussion
of this paper’s article at the next general
meeting, the directors “fully considered the
question of taking action against The Bul-
letin for libel,” but in a circular, added :
There is not even a scintilla of truth in the
charges made, nor can we conceive there is a single
shareholder who will for a moment believe that the
directors and others aimed at would stoop so low as
to sully the reputations they have built up for
honesty and honorable dealings. Under the circum-
stances, therefore, we do not think anv good purpose
can be served by spending the shareholders’ money in
prosecuting The Bulletin.
A few months ago, however, the Govern-
ment, in consequence of “the disclosures
made in the report of the Gas Referee"
requested the Auditor-General to make an
examination and audit of the co.’s accounts.
Chief Audit Inspector W. 11. Austin
found that between .Tune, 1912, and Decem-
ber, 1917, the gross assets item had increased
from £111.529 to £326,831, and that the
increase in plant, land and buildings
amounted to £211,263, practically account-
ing for the total increase in gross assets. To
begin with, in 1912, 80,000 shares' were
issued at a discount of ss. in the proportion
of two shares for every three held, but such
shares as were not taken up were to be
offered for sale at a premium of 10s. The
cash received fell short by £14,662 of the
nominal value of the issue. But instead of
writing this amount off its reserve fund,
assets were written up. In addition to in-
specting the co.’s records and books, the
Chief Audit Inspector also obtained state-
ments from F. Nicholls and W. 8. Moore,
secretary and engineer respectively in 1912.
The ex-secretary slated —
that lie was instructed to make the journal
entry, and that he objected to doing so, as
he considered that, as there had been practically
nothing written off plant, instead of it being written
up it should have been written down.... He had
also obtained legal advice, and was advised that it
would not be legal to make the alteration, and it
might place him in an awkward position. It was
eventually arranged that he should get an indemnity
from the co. in the event of any further possible
action, and this was given to him by the directors.
The late engineer stated—
that he was asked by the chairman in December.
1912, to sign a statement to the effect that, in his
opinion. .. .if the sum of £15,000.t0 £20,000 were
added to the then book value of the co.’s plant, it


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MOS 2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
05 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO?>.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4,Jd.
1/6
/ 9d. (minimum
( 15/-, 20 words)
Canada .. 2/4
1/2
i 7d. (minimum
111/8, 20 words)
..2/4 to 2/S 1/2 to 2/4' -j
U.5.A...
/ 7d. (minimum
\ 11/8,20 words)
Week-end service with the United Kingdom
has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
•T. MiI,WARD. Manager in tb'> r> ''''’6c,
Z. 77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. ZZZ
Every engineer should be a subscriber to the
General Electric Review. It is a monthly maga-
zine, containing descriptions of the latest develop-
ments and practical applications of electricity in
every sphere. No library is complete without it,
as the contents are original, instructive and complete
in every detail, being contributed by the leading
engineers of the world. The subscription is only
ten shillings (10/-) per year, so subscribe now or
write to the Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney, for a sample copy.— Advt.
The approach of summer makes it imperative tor
every stock-owner to give a thought to the purifica-
tion of drinking water for his stock. If he is content
to let them drink muddy, slimy water he cannot
expect them to keep in good condition. All over the
State careful stock-owners are using Aluminoferric in
the proportion of one pound to every 2000 gallons of
water. It ensures pure liquid water in dams, wells,
tanks, etc., at very low cost, by precipitating all
impurities and leaving the water clear and pure,
free from any ingredient injurious to man or beast.
Let us go into details telling you how it will be to
your advantage to use Aluminoferric. William
Adams & Co. Ltd.. 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also at Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Adelaide.
—Advt.
For grinding,' all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes arid
dies for battery' work. — Advt. 13
Pioneer Wood Pipe provides tbe most economical
and efficient means of carrying water over your land.
In first cost, freight charges and labor for laying,
money is. saved. Made in all sizes from two inches
upwards. ’ Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd., 11.0. Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. address: Box
157 G G.P.0., Sydney. Factories: Lane Cove,
N.S.W.; Footscrav, Vic.; and Port Adelaide, S.A.
Contractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
Have You ax Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, arid 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stoca.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
olfice: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt,
* * * *
“National” English-made petrol and oil horizontal
engines, immediate delivery from Sydney at prices
below pre-w 7 ar rates: Petrol engines, l:j h.p., .£5O.
3 h.p., £GS. Oil engines: 3$ h.p., £75. 41 h.p.,
£B5. Arthur Leplasnier and Co., Head Office,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
# * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. IL B:
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 104,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
VV. It. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
When making a Will or Settlement
appoint The
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Your EXECUTOR or TRUSTEE.
The only Trustee Company with branches
in more than one State.
NEW SOUTH WALES. VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Office, 48 Young Street.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar.
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C. ; Hon. H. Y. Braddox,
M.L.C. ; F. B. S. Falkixf.r, M.H.R., James
Kidd ; W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, and
Dt xcan Sinclair.
V. G. Watson.
Assistant Manager.
J. Hair.
Manager.
Mining & Sugar Mill Machinery
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BOUGHT AND SOLD.
Inspection made of Plant with a view to Purchase. Rails and Portable Tram Lines.
J. S. WALLS, Lawson House, 49 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telephone: City 4375. Telegraphic: Walls, Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS -IRON § STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
would only represent in part the increased value in
cost of plant at that time as compared with cost
when the works were constructed. .. .After reading
the statement he refused to sign it, as, in his
opinion, it was incorrect, seeing that only £2OO a
year had been written off for depreciation since the
commencement of the works, which was never con-
sidered by him as anything like the proper amount
to write off for depreciation, and that the assets were
not in the co.’s land, plant and buildings to warrant
such addition to that item.
The Chief Audit Inspector gives it as his
opinion that the basis of valuation of the
assets of the South Brisbane Gas Co. should
be “the cost price after making due allowance
for depreciation, and from the information
I have obtained I believe that au all-round
charge of 24 p.c. on the reducing balance is
a very reasonable amount to allow for depre-
ciation of gas works, plant, machinery,
etc.” Thus, instead, of the value of the
plant, etc., being included in the balance-
sheet as at December, 1912, at £124,556,
"the value should have appeared at some-
thing like £72,000.” So in view of all the
facts (including “that only £3860 has been
written off for depreciation, instead of, at
least, £42,000 —the value of the plant being
thus overstated to the extent of £38,000”) the
Chief Audit Inspector reports:—
I hold that the action of the directors in inflating
the value of the plant by means of a book entry by
£14,062 was entirely unwarranted. In my opinion
the proper method of dealing with the amount in
question was undoubtedly to have debited it against
the reserve fund.
I submit for consideration by the State Income Tax
Commissioner, the question as to whether the co.
was not liable to pay income tax on the amount of
£14,602, by virtue of Section 7 (10B) of the
Income Tax Acts.
With reference to the issue in 1914 of
£lOO,OOO of debentures as a bonus to share-
holders and the consequent writing up of
assets to correspond, the directors report of
December, 1914, included a copy of a valu-
ation alleged to have been made by a Mr.
Tournay, showing that as on July 1, 1914,
the co.’s plant, land and buildings were
worth £274,000. The co.’s solicitor told the
shareholders that—-
that valuation was obtained on behalf, and at the
request of, the directors, by myself.... The directors
were recommended to engage Mr. Tournay as being
a man capable of satisfactorily carrying out the duty
of making such a valuation. 1.... arranged for him
to go carefully into the whole matter, with a view
to making the valuation.
The Chief Audit Inspector got a statement
from Mr. Tournay, summarised in the re-
port :
Somewhere about May, 1914, whilst engaged super-
vising a contract at the South Brisbane works, he
was asked verbally by the chairman whether he
would make a valuation of the eo.’s plant, etc. He
was told by the chairman that it was only a private
matter, and to keep it private.... The chairman
told him that he wanted the valuation made to
£290,000. He was supplied with information regard-
ing mains, meters, lamps, etc., and given figures and
quantities, which he worked 0ut.... He did not go
round the works and inspect everything and test the
mains, as he thought it was only a private matter
which the chairman wanted for himself and wanted
the amount of £290,000.... That it was a. valuation
made by him attaching values to the various items
to arrive at the £290,000 suggested by the chair-
man. ... He only gave a valuation of £274,000. .. .
He was offered and received 50 guineas for the work
he did at South Brisbane, which was payment for
the services rendered by him to the chairman, which,
he understood, was for his own private use. That
sum would not pay a man for a proper valuation, for
which he would want 200 guineas... .He did not
give evidence before the Gas Referee. He
did not want to be called, as the valuation of the
Chief Gas Examiner was the actual cost, and his was
not, so that there was no use meeting him.
In the balance-sheet of June, 1914, plant,
land and buildings stood at £179,387, and
the “valuation” figures were £274,000, an
increase of £94,613. Says the report:—
The actual position was that Mr. Tournay’s valua-
tion —inflated as it was —-was still insufficient to
enable the directors to balance their accounts by
£5387, and they simply wrote up plant, etc., to
make up the difference.
Reviewing the whole of the facts surrounding Mr.
Tournay’s valuation of £274,000, and the additional
entry of £5387, with the consequent writing up of
the plant by £lOO,OOO, in order to balance the
debenture issue, I can come to no other conclusion
than: —
1. The valuation was not bona ficle, in that it was
not obtained in a proper manner, or made correctly.
2. The entry of £5387 was fictitious, and cannot
be justified in any way.
3. The assets were not in the co.’s business to
warrant the issue of £lOO,OOO debenture stock.
I have endeavored to ascertain the true explanation
of the scheme for issuing the debenture stock to
shareholders, and the conclusion I have come to is
that, it was intended—
1. To anticipate legislation that was probable.
2. To endeavor to give consumers the idea that the
shareholders were getting only a small return for
their investment —which might possibly provide a
lever for an increase in the price of gas to the con-
sumers, and at the same time attempting to escape
income tax.
At the beginning of last year the directors
decided to amalgamate the various reserves
and transfer them to a “Capital Reserve
Fund.” Of the reserves of £52,073 as at
December 31 last, the report says:—
It would be difficult to ascertain where the reserves
of this co. are held—they are not represented by
cash or deposits, and they are certainly not in the
plant, which, as I have pointed out, is over-stated in
the balance-sheet by a sum more than double the
amount of this reserve fund.
The balance to credit of Capital Reserve Fund
should, therefore, I hold, be written out of the
balance-sheet.
It is a voluminous report, dealing with cost
of production and many other matters. In
addition to Chief Audit Inspector Austin’s
conclusions already mentioned, he also finds
that: —
The balance-sheets presented to the shareholders
from December, 1912, to December, 1917, have not
represented the true position of the co.
The directors must be held responsible for the
foregoing dealings with the co.’s accounts, and they
have been acting to a great extent on the advice of
the co.’s solicitor. ’
The auditors have failed to discharge their duty
to tlie shareholders in respect to the balance-sheets
December, 1912, to December, 1917.
Regarding the action of the directors in connection
with the accounts of this co., it appears to me that,
if such actions are outside the limits of the Queens-
land Companies Act, legislation is necessary to deal
with matters such as these—especially in the case of
monopoly cos. —in the interests of investors and the
public generally.
When The Bulletin published its com-
ments on the Gas Referee’s finding some
months ago, the directors circularised share-
holders telling them the article showed a
“combination of ignorance and vindictive-
ness.” What have the directors to say about
the Chief Audit Inspector’s report? Also,
what have the shareholders to say?
The latest figures from Mammoth molyb-
denite, Yetholme (N.S.W.), don’t give much
information as to what the big deposit as a
whole is likely to be worth. The addition of
a third shift allowed 699 tons to be put
through in 571 hours, and produced concen-
trates worth £1628. But with the treatment
charges (including the overhead items) at
235. lOd. a ton, on the basis of two shifts, the
profit is £1 2s. 9d. a ton. On present evi-
dence it does not seem likely that the general
deposit will exceed 1 p.c. by much. The
Mammoth reckoned that with 100 stamps
crushing 125,000 tons a year, a return of
£357,000 should be bagged ; but that is talk-
ing a long way ahead. The B. H. Prop, is
now getting busy with the bores and other
prospecting apparatus, having acquired the
full surface rights to the 128 acres taken
over under a 12-months’ option. The Mam-
moth is congratulating itself on the terms of
the agreement with the B. 11. Prop.—all the
stone displaced, and lialf profits if the option
is exercised, with the alternative of a 50 p.c.
cut of the shares in any new co. that the
Prop, might float.
* * * *
All the best-looking ground around the
recent rich copper find on J. D. Reid’s
station at Eurimbla. near Stuart Town, on
the Western line (N.S.W.), has been taken
up, and further samples of high-value stone
are being bagged. The frequency of the out-
crop suggests that there is plenty of ore
about, but there is nothing to indicate its
consistency. The specimens so far handled,
however, are as good as any ever seen in the
district, and the pronouncement of the Gov-
ernment geologist who is going to have a
look round is awaited.
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) has maintained
an output of 24 tons tin concentrates a
month, and the Board has been handing out
a regular sixpenny dividend (£3375). A
distribution of £3375 from 24 tons of black
tin is phenomenal, for it requires a net
profit on black tin of £l4O per ton, which
is only possible while the wash from Gordon’s
gutter is worth 2001 b. per cub. yd., and while
the tin market is booming. Reserves were
computed last April at 270 tons of tin oxide,
and if the lot can be produced under
similar conditions to the present, another
11 sixpenny divs. may be forthcoming.
* * * *■
New Baker’s Creek, Hillgrove (N.S.W.),
will start crushing shortly. The reserves
in the new shaft reef may be of consider-
able value, for the reef is 2ft. wide for a
length of 120 ft., and values are said to
average about 30dwt. An arrangement has
been made to pay for the new plant, which
has cost £l7OO. at the rate of 15 p.c. of the
gross gold value saved by the mill. At the
end of June there was £4123 owing to credi-
tors, including the £l7OO for plant. Assets
were less than £llOO. No. 18 level is show-
ing improved values, and the drive is
approaching a shoot of good stone, proved
by winzing from No. 17.
* * * *
Y-Water (N.S.W.) reports an output
of 36 tons tin concentrates for its No. 11
run. Altogether 115,000 cub. yds. were
sluiced, for an average yield of 0.711 b.,
which works out at about Is. 4d. per yd. The
previous, run returned 35 tons of concentrates
from 138.000 cub. yds.
The blast furnace at the C.S.A. mine
(Cobar, N.S.W.) is running easily on about
5000 tons of crude ore per month, producing
roughly 1000 tons of matte, containing 200
tons of copper. The ore is stated to be
easy to smelt, consuming a relatively small
quantity of fuel. This month’s div. of 2s.
follows a similar distribution in June.
* * * *
“Oof Bird”: A few months ago a U.S.
expert, said to represent the Vacuum Oil
Co., had. a look at Westralia and reported
that he had never seen a country less likely
to contain petroleum; and, long before, the
Government geologist, in answer to repeated
inquiries from their Ministerial heads, had
asserted that there was nothing to indicate
the occurrence of oil in the State. Yet in
spite of these pessimistic reports the Wes-
tralian Oil Syndicate claims (B. 25/7/T8)
to have found (1) bituminous clay contain-
ing oil at Busselton; (2) "heavy oil” in a
well near Pingelly; and (3) surface sand
at Esperance which yielded high-grade pure
bitumen. Well, as a local paper remarks,
if the Syndicate can locate pay oil in the
present bankrupt West its members will be
almost as famous as Moses, who smote a flow
of water from the barren rock. Nobody is
more sceptical about the chances of success
than the geological experts of the Mines
Department.
Westralia’s production of minerals other
than gold is steadily growing. For the first
half of this year it was worth £175,000,
nearly the whole of which was made up of
copper, tin and lead. The total output to
June 30 amounted to roughly 4| millions
sterling. to which copper contributed
£1.509,880, tin £1,340,993 and silver and
lead £1,300,000. Phillips River is at present
furnishing most of the copper, Greenbushes
the bulk of the tin and Northampton practi-
cally the whole of the lead. Silver is being-
got in small lots he remind there.
* * * *
Another gold-miming resurrection is re-
ported from the West. This time it is the
old Great Western, at Wilson’s Patch. This
show was first tackled by a Queensland syn-
dicate, which spent much capital on the
surface and too little underground, and when
funds gave out the shareholders gave in.
Others unsuccessfully tried to make money
out of it, and later on an English crowd
came along and took out a number of pay-
able crusliings. Then returns fell off. and
eventually the bank closed on the property.
Years later another English co. had a try,
but after spending a lot of cash in hap-
hazard prospecting, it went away wearing a
saddened look. Now a party of working
miners n'-e credited with having struck good
ore at 600 ft.
* * * «
Ivanhoe’s latest balance-sheet shows that
£158,037 is invested in 21 different stocks
and shares, but only £11,750 of this is put
into Australian ventures. The co.’s prefer-
ence seems to be for British, Canadian
and Yankee rails, trustee corporations,
petroleum stock and Yukon gold-mines.
When the year closed the tangible cash
assets were worth £150,000. The profit value
of present ore reserves must be nearly £2
a share, with the plant, which has cost over
a million and stands in the books at £54,295,
and odds and ends such as unclaimed divi-
dends £13,094, stores £44,000, etc., still to
be taken into account.
Many Peaks copper (Q.), having lost
Mount Morgan as a customer, has been ex-
perimenting with an open roasting process
with some success. Roasting will get rid
of sulphur and incidentally increase gold and
copper values contained in calcined ore.
During the .June quarter 1155 tons of Many
Peaks ore returned copper worth £1735 and
gold worth £39, but the quantity despatched
to Mount Morgan during the quarter was
only 575 tons, and shipments have now
ceased.
■* * * *
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) announces a 7s. 6d.
dividend, following several distributions at the
rate of ss. per month. Twelve months ago
Bischoff was struggling to hold its end up,
for the best refined tin only averaged £217
per ton for the June half of 1917. A jump
in the price to £387 per ton makes an enor-
mous difference to old Bischoff, which is still
able to turn out from 20 tons to 25 tons of
refined tin on its own account every month.
The co.’s smelters have met with keen com-
petition from Singapore and its cheap labor;
and if conditions are at present more favor-
able to the Australian tin smelter it is a
reward well earned after years of indiffei’ent
luck.
* * -X* *
James Gitsham, managing-director of
G.M.C. syndicate, an English crowd who in
tend making white-lead in Launceston, has
leashed a piece of ground adjoining the
wharves from the Council, fie is prepared
to buy galena which contains anything over
50 p.c. lead. The ore is to be crushed and fed
mechanically to an electrical furnace at a
temperature of 7000 degs. Fahr. The volat-
ilised lead and sulphur combine with oxygen
and form sulphate of lead, which is carried
along by the draught and captured b.v a
device designed by Sir Oliver Lodge, using
the electrical attraction of particles. The
white powder is then ready for immediate
use.
* * * *
South Bischoff (Tas.) reports an important
development on its 40-acre section, a continua-
tion of the South Bischoff lodes being cut in
the water-race channel. It has been proved
to be 63ft. wide, carrying appreciable quanti-
ties of black tin. Ten feet of green lode
stuff, which always carries the best values
in the open cut south, is also said to carry
good tin in the new find.


HAiR
GROWER,
SPRA/
For"
morale
(f"^,'/>/
__ -v
EXC^\V#OS\
fennovJui^
H^enche^
bodi^
ELECTRIC CHORUS GIRL
"for distracting "rtie attention
9(f^nsi\ie.
SUGGESTIONS TO THE WIN-THE-WAR PARTY.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to 5.8., Zanetie Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
HORROCKSES'
Lc7Ujfc6c>t/l£> and Gc£ccO&&
.jns>POaMOU-S3S)OOHHOU
WILL PAY you .n the END.
•t OLL
HORROCKSES'”
ON SELVEDGE
ESTABLISHED 1791
A Letter to Clements Tonic from a Well-known Clergyman
showing the
great value
of Clements
Tonic to all
Professional
People.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.VV
A Further Great Endorsement of a Really Fine Medicine.
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD. “The Mearns
. Somehow the writer would never have anything to do with patent medicines of any description'' having a
prejudice against any that were largely advertised.
A bottle of your remedy, however, was placed in my hands, and out of courtesy to my friend, who had an interest in
my welfare, I ventured to take it as advised.
improved 1 p]eaSUre 1 write you that since takin S Clements T onic my system is braced up and my general health much
In such a calling as mine the nervous tension is always high, and I
assure you that it is good to find something that really benefits.
A good thing is always worth passing on.
I am, Sirs, yours sincerely,
(Signed)
hfd
Pastor,
Leichhardt Baptist Church
ArcmarkaMe remedy when used consistently for weak nerves, brain-fag- or want of sleep.
never be without it. All chemists and stores sell it, f
Professional persons should
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Governor Newdegate got a toss off the
'chaser Tangerine whilst galloping across
the Hobart Domain the other Saturday.
Her Ex. was the first to sight the rider-
less mare returning to the stables, and,
setting out bareheaded, found hubby lying
where he fell. A fractured thigh was the
trouble. The Governor reckons to have
three months’ sick leave.
Died last week, at 68. Edward MacFar-
lane, late X. S. Wales Under-Sec. for Lands.
He was the second son of the late John
MacFarlane, M.D., who was a member of
the Legislative Council, 1858 to 1870, when
he resigned. Edward came into the lime-
light during the Land Scandals inquiry, A'.
U. Crick having brought him from Land
Hoard work Outback to be Assistant Under-
Sec. When MacFarlane retired from the
service he commenced business as a land-
agent. hut ill health and other causes handi-
capped him. The Chief Stipendiary Magis-
trate in Sydney is a brother.
Dead last week at a private hospital in
North Sydney, Edward Standish Cox, late
of Fernside, Ryistone (N.S.W.f, son of
Edward King Cox, M.L.C., who died in 1883,
and great-grandson of Captain William Cox,
of the old New South Wales Corps, who
superintended the construction of the first
road over the Blue Mountains. The late
E. S. Cox was born at Fernhill. Mulgoa, in
1856, and married his cousin, Alice Victoria,
daughter of Sloper Cox, of llobartville, Rich-
mond (N.S.W.).
Some notable Australians aged 70 this
year: Chief Justice Cooper. Queensland;
Duga Id-Thomson, formerly Federal Minister;
Lachlan Mackinnon, Melb. Argus ; Dr.
Alex. Leeper, of Melb.; Twelvetrees. the
Speck’s Government Geologist; Dr. E. C.
Stirling, F.R.S., Adelaide’s eminent scientist;
Langdon Bonython, Adelaide Advertiser ;
and S. Aus. ex-Agent-General Kirkpatrick,
now M.L.C.
A TIMELY HINT.
PERCY: “D' y ’ know, I'm passionately fond
of history."
PAULINE: “W ell, why not go and help to
make it?"
The Commonwealth Government has just
appointed a Melbourne broker, C. G. Lyon,
to be its shipping representative in India.
This young man served his commercial
apprenticeship with L. L. Lewis, a dressy
individual, whom Melbourne remembers for
his remarkable capacity in trading and at
the same time exhibiting more than an
amateurish knowledge of music and other
arts. Lyon’s mission is to try. to develop
additional trade between Australia and the
coral strand of the hymn-book. If he suc-
ceeds in bringing cornsacks down from
10s. Gd. a dozen, and woolpacks from 9s.
apiece to something more reasonable, be will
at least get a vote of thanks from the cocky.
Passed out recently at Ashford, Kent
(Eng.), Thomas Nottidge, M.A., J.P., the
man who brought clover into Maoriland.
In order to make it grow there it was neces-
sary to introduce a peculiar species of bee
for fertilising the flowers, and this involved
not only their collection in England, but
their maintenance alive during the long
voyage and their final dispersion amongst
the farm lands of the Shivery Isles. Nottidge
was called to the Bar and practised in M.L.
for some years, but subsequently he returned
to England and took up banking with an
Ashford firm, of which he became a partner.
Major It. A. Stanley, Divisional Signal-
ling Staff. A.1.F., who is reported to have
been awarded the D.S.O. after close on four
years’ service, was a Queensland militiaman.
He left as a oaptain in charge of the 2nd
Signalling PTnit in October, 1914, and has
served in Gallipoli, Egypt and France. He
THE FINAL NOTE.
“The dressmaker calls this gown a sym-
phong in pink."
"Ah, does she? I wonder what, I shall have
to pap to the tune of."
was wounded on the Peninsula. Barring a
spell to wrestle with an attack of double
pneumonia, he hasn’t left the line since the
start. In civil life he is in the Bananaland
Government Analyst's office, and is the third
son of the late Captain J. B. Stanley for
years engineer for Harbors and Rivers in the
northern State.
The manner in which the late David Har-
bison, well-known Melbourne insurance
agent and a strong Ulsterite, disposed of
the ±22,000 he had amassed, shows that
the hard-headed David’s heart was in the
right place. He devised three cottages at
I ootscray to the respective tenants occupy-
ing them. One or two other items of his
testamentary were striking for their uncon-
ventionality
To my brother, Thomas Harbison, in trust, to
divide the same equally between the two maiden
ladies (I do not know their names) tenants of his,
whom he has previously assisted for me, the legacy
of £lOO.
To Miss E. C._ Onians, City Newsboys’ Aid Society,
in trust, to divide same as she may please between
such societies carrying on work similar to her own
society, as she may select—£looo.
After handsome legacies to a well-discrimin-
ated . variety of homes (including Lost
Dogs), refuges and charitable institutions,
the residue of the estate (some £5000) goes.
m equal shares, to the Australian Red Cross,
the British Red Cross, the Salv’army and
the Y.M.C.A., all of Melbourne. A big slice
of David’s, fortune was garnered from the
Vic. Public Service. When compulsory
insurance replaced the oft-denounced pen-
sion system, he secured almost a monopoly
of the business created. He never married.
Prom Liverpool (Eng.) :
Rev. Leyton Richards, with whom The Bulletin
had a friendly scrap or two when he was pastor of
the Collins-street Congregational Church, Melbourne,
has resumed his regular line of business at Pem-
broke Chapel here. For a couple of years he has
been out of a ministerial billet, and has been
occupying an office in Red Lion Square, London,
from which he issued pamphlets and conducted a
pacifist propaganda. One pamphlet brought a lot
of trouble. Soon after retiring from Melbourne
Richards secured one of the plums of the Congrega-
tional ministry in England, but he did not keep
a grip on it. Whether he will be able to keep his
pacifist feelings under prudent restraint at Pembroke
Chapel remains to be seen. The London Christian
World, in giving him a complimentary send-off,
summed him up as a “preacher of uncompromising
fidelity to principle and stern adherence to truth
however unpopular they may be at the moment.”
That sounds like more squalls ahead for the Rev. Richard.
Old Collins-street friends may be glad to hear that
he is “still in the prime of life, tall, fresh-com-
plexioned, speaking fluently, rapidly and pleasantly,
with a wealth and variety of gesture characteristic of
the natural preacher.”
Ex-explorer Hamilton Robinson died at
Maitland (N.S.W.) lately, aged 80. He was
a member of the late Captain Mackay’s
expedition which, in 1859, located the
Mackay (Q.) district and discovered the
Pioneer River. He was the last of the party.
Archdeacon McGrath, of Rockley (N.S.W.),
who died on August 3, was born at
Tipperary 75 years ago, and went to
Bathurst in 18G6 with Bishop Mathew
Quinn, first bishop of the diocese. He was
the oldest priest in the diocese and one of
the oldest in Australia.
“Y.Z.” : The late Pastor Llewellan Bevan
was a great politician, as well as a valiant
pulpiteer, and believed Freetrade to be so
sacred a principle that it was the wonder
and sorrow of his life that it was not incor-
porated in the Ten Commandments. He ran
a sort of crusade against the policy of a
White Australia, too, contending that it was
flying in the face of Providence, all men,
white, black, brown, yellow, red and variegated,
being children of the one Father. At this
time his rich church in Collins-street
Melbourne, although a financial success,
held spare and infrequent congrega-
tions. Dr. Bevan had been
on a pilgrimage to the Far
East, and returned even more
splenetic than before with
regard to Australia’s empty
spaces and the desirability
of our opening wide arms to
our discolored brothers. He
had preached a sermon to
this effect one Sunday morn-
ing in the presence of a very
small, congregation in a
very large church, and when
silence fell for a moment a
small, scrubby, irascible
man in one of the
front pews arose, and,
beating the timber be-
fore him with callous
knuckles, cried : “Tell
me, sir, do your fears
of Australia's empty
spaces and your crav-
ings for alien blacks
spring from a desire
to fill your church
with a congregation of
d —d niggers V” Then
the little man stumped
through a skimpy gathering of thunder-
stricken spinsters to the door.
The Black Watch has lost Lieut. D. B.
Mackinnon, M.C., son of Donald Mac-
kinnon, Director-General of Recruiting. The
end came in a hospital in France last week.
He had served two years in Mesopotamia,
and was subsequently transferred to France.
Geelong Grammar was his old school.
“J.E.C.”: Enter John Betts as' Australia’s
most tenacious and versatile temporary pub-
lic servant. John started in the Speck’s
employ at the Port Arthur Model Prison in
’53, and has been on the job continuously
ever since. He has been everything from a
messenger to an acting-head, his longest
spells _ being as relieving schoolmaster and
council clerk. _ Although past 80, he is now
compiling official documents from which is
to be written an official history of Tas-
mania’s first century.
Jimmy Bennets. of Cornish origin, died in
the Broken Hill Hospital on July 5. A resi-
dent of the Barrier for over 30 years,
he had been a Methody local preacher
for more years than lie could remember.
In his own judgment he was 84 years of age.
but: 10 years ago he looked more than 100. His
sister-in-law vouches he is well over 80, a
bosom pal says he was 03 last birthday, and
the medical profession quotes him as being
over 90. The one thing certain is that he
won’t be any older than he is.
“Chasuble”: A remarkably energetic par-
son is Vicar Hollow, of Christchurch, Haw-
thorn (Vic.). He is from Geelong, and
though lie has only been scooting round the
parish three months, he has visited 1400
families—all that his spiritual paddock con-
tains. He announces that he is next going
to “double-bank.” It sounds acrobatic, and
the odds are that he’ll break his own visiting
record if he doesn’t first break his wrist
lifting teacups.
Ages of Australian High Court Judges:
Chief Justice Griffith, 73; Barton, 69;
Isaacs, 63 ; Higgins, 67 ; Duffy, 66 ; Powers,
65 ; and Rich, 55.
Brisbane lost a useful citizen when Leslie
Corrie pegged out the other day. He was a
Scotsman (Kirkcudbright) by birth, who
migrated to Australia in 1857 and settled in
Queensland some years afterwards to prac-
tise his profession as an architect, lie was
a man of both scientific and literary tastes,
and was for a while president of the Accli-
matisation Society and a member of the
Linnsean Society. In the year 1903-1904
Corrie was Mayor of Brisbane, and distin-
guished himself by zeal for city improve-
ments.
Surgeon-General Henderson, who is in
charge of Maoriland’s
Army Medical Corps,
was specially imported
from the Cold Coun-
try not long after the
outbreak of war for
the purpose of leading
an offensive against
an invasion of menin-
gitis microbes which
was causing havoc in
the camps of M.L.
lie wiped the invaders
out. The Maoriland-
ers, or as many of
them as come in con-
tact with the medical-
big gun, declare him
Icapai.
M.L.’s Director-General
of Medical Services
HENDERSON.
Prosper Ernest Cheers, who died lately at
Frederick ton (N.S.W.), was 72 and the
owner of a name Sydney has known for
130 years. The original Richard Cheers
started this way in the ship Guardian, of
the Second Fleet. She came to grief off
the Cape of Good Hope. Richard Cheers
had 30 acres granted him at Kissing Point.
Sydney, and later he was licensed by Gover-
nor Macquarie as an hotelkeeper, but he did
not hold the license long. At one time Cheers
occupied the w'hole of the Ilunter-street'
north frontage (Sydney) from George-street
to the Tank Stream. Say, Hamilton-street
now. Also he owned a very fine allotment
in George-street. He had a grant of 100
acres at what is now known as Freshwater,
near Manly, and other properties. A daugh-
ter married Daniel Egan, one-time Mayor oi
Sydney.
Everard Iligges La Touche, the militant
young parson of Sydney who fell at Lone
Pine three years ago, was remembered with
some dignified In Memoriam verse this
month. The La Touches are of Huguenot
origin, the family settling in Ireland on the
revocation of_the Edict of Nantes, b.v Louis
NIV. in 1685. A hundred years ago one
of the family was a member of the House of
Commons for an Irish constituency. The
Law, the Church and the Army claimed
many of the family. In Dublin the name
is best remembered bv the Bank of La
Touche and Co., for many years in Castle-
street.
Passed away a few days ago, Charlie Mar-
tin, a well-known pioneer in the Queensland
Labor party. He hailed from the Isle of
Wight, and had more than an ordinary share
of the variety of life. He took part in the
notorious campaign in Egypt against Arabi
Bey, and was awarded a decoration. In ’BB
he reached Maryborough, where his Labor
activities landed him into the middle of the
big maritime strike. In later years Martin
acted as secretary of the Buranda
W.P.0., and on one occasion ran unsuccess-
fully against then Premier Digby Denham
for the Oxlev seat. The Ryan Government
appointed him to a position in the State
Insurance Department, an office he held
when the Reaper overtook him.
GLOR Y.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lie dreamed of glory through his boyhood years:
Thousands of lancers in the morning-light
Charging behind him with tumultuous might—
A thundering cataract of cavaliers.
He dreamed of glory. Silver swords and spears ;
Banners of gold and purple, and the bright
Meadows of waving hats to left and right:
Ilis tall plumes tossing in a gale of cheers.
He dreamed of glory; but he dreams no more
Clory has made him her ambassador,
And there, erect among the rotten-ripe
Corpses that snuggle in their beds of blood,
He stands unconquerable, knee-deep in mud,
And fumbles for a match to light his pipe.
MAOItILAND.
BARTLETT ADAMSON.


K\tfl
o
rtSNS>cs>c:
hfd
Shape and Style are not pressed into
“Austral” made-to-measure Clothes.
These essential features are tailored into
them, and it is this thorough workman-
ship that marks an “Austral” Sac Suit
to Measure.
Moreover, this is the reason why the
o'arments of an “Austral” Sac Suit retain
&
their original shapeliness and style for the
full length of their life.
The fulfilment of a man’s expectations
usually means the satisfaction of his needs,
which is the test both of service and real
value in the clothes he buys.
Measured by such a rule an “Austral’
Sac Suit to Order, made entirely in
our own workrooms, reaches the highest
standard of tailoring excellence, and en-
sures the wearer’s complete and lasting
satisfaction.
“AUSTRAL” SAC SUITS TO MEASURE
7 51-, 85/-, 95/-, 1051-, 115/-, 126/-, 147/-, 168/-
Patterns and Self-measurement Forms are sent post free to any addiess.
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484=490 George Street, 3=17 Royal Arcade, 304=306 George Street,
SYDNEY.


IBSPSP
iHR
at§§
&0Z
m
?:-'i
X - .
«@s* ■
——
m,L mm
x^«s&BB9S&' V'' £«»'/'
ang
1 i
;-:::' i
, ■ >
J6s£§jr^
1
&
hfd
ie product ol Sea and Sunshine
for All Aniimals . Cheaper and Cleaner ihah Rock
Sail SPper Block or 2,2/6 per case of !£•
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
“Dial-Sight”: The new Australia House
in London is planted just where there are
several byways that lead off to the old spots
dear to Dickens, Lamb and others of that
school who found a lot of their copy there-
abouts. The Inner Temple, in which Lamb
and the Old Benchers spent their placid
days is close to the intruder. Right opposite
is The Temple Church, one of London’s old-
est kirks. A little further away is Fleet-
street. The Old Cheshire Cheese restaurant,
frequented by Ben Jonson and his cronies, is
hereabout and not altered from the days of
those good trenchermen. Drury-lane Theatre
lies just to the rear of the new structure; so
it has a lot of elderly neighbors. Right on
the corner of The Strand and Aldwych it
pushes its nose out like a promontory, with
IT HAN TO COME.
BELLA : “When Cissie came to the word
‘obey' in the marriage service she
stuttered.”
STELLA: “Well, she might just as well break
her word then as later.”
real Australian aggressiveness, into the main
stream of traffic that swirls past to Trafal-
gar Square and other big centres. Most of
the best-known buildings in London suffer
from obscurity, and even St. Paul’s has not
as good a site as Australia’s new lOU
fortress.
Dear Bulletin, —Speaking as a worker
who earns his bread by the sweat of his
pen, I would suggest that when the Censor
issues a new order, which he does frequently,
or perhaps oftener, to the effect that some-
thing or other must not be mentioned, he
might add the reason for it. I don't mean
in general terms, such as “It is held desir-
able for the welfare of his Majesty’s land
and sea forces,” or anything of that sort,
but the kind of simple, definite reason that
Briggs, K.C., might
use if he were arguing
before Judge Bugg on
the Bench. Then the
writing community,
seeing the strictly
logical aspect of the
case, w 7 ould conceive
a still higher opinion
of an already esteemed
official. The giving of
orders without stated
reasons is apt to cre-
ate a false impression.
For instance, the
Scripture forbids the
harnessing of an ox
and an. ass together.
In countries that
don’t possess an ass
this looks like silly
meddling on the part
of an official who was
inflated with a little
brief authority, and
the fact is missed that
it would be sheer
cruelty to the ass to
make him keep pace
with the stronger ani-
mal, just as it would
be cruel to harness a
woman and an
elephant together.
Even our dog-quaran-
tine laws seem rather
absurd to people who
have never lived in
countries where hydro-
phobia is known, and
have never known or
heard of people who
died barking and evad-
ing their dog-tax. A
little friendly explan-
ation from the Censor
would clear away a
cloud of misconcep-
tion and restore har-
mony—l don’t mean
outward harmony, for I suppose the
Censor has power to enforce that, but the
establishment of inward applause where
otherwise bile might supervene.—Yours, etc.,
Solomon Malaphop.
* * * *
No wonder the Unpleasant Sunday After-
noons rage! This joyous item is from the
Manly (N.S.W.) Daily (3/8/Y8)
To Let, Brick Cottage, 3 bedrooms, 2 loving-
rooms, and all convs.
What or where is that allegedly patient,
friendly, trustworthy German * people to
whose kind hearts the pro-Huns urge us to
appeal as against the army and the mili-
tary caste —the folk who long to take us
to their arms and bestow on us a be,er-
smelling kiss? In Germany, so far as all
the evidence goes, the army is the people.
* * * *
It still seems to be the exception for a
Victorian John Hop to catch an evildoer.
Of 768 offences reported in July, 641 remain
undetected. Cases of housebreaking and
larceny from the dwelling numbered 104,
and in only six instances did a conviction
follow. Of the cases reported of attempted
shopbreaking, indecent assault, attempted
housebreaking, maiming of cattle, robbery
under arms, killing cattle, uttering counter-
feit coin, being illegally on premises, false
pretences, larceny as a servant and im-
position, 100 per cent were undetected.
These figures, combined with facts that have
lately come to light regarding the falsifying
of ages in the police force, the bribing
of a man engaged on licensing work,
and a wild affray in the city in which a
John Hop handed stoush to a superior
officer, have induced an uncomfortable im-
pression that the force is afflicted with a
species of dry-rot.
Australian Historical Society has a scheme
for founding a research fellowship in Aus-
tralian history at Sydney University. The
fellowship is intended for graduates of the
’Varsity; but failing application by gradu-
ates and only then it may be awarded to a
member of the Society. In general, a most
excellent idea. Yet these conditions are a
reminder of two circumstances. One is that
the Australian who has researched most
assiduously and usefully of recent years
(Scott) is not a university graduate; and
the other is that the most famous English
historian (Gibbon) was not only an un-
graduated searcher, but had a horror and
contempt for Oxford University.
“Abe” Shannon, the bachelor squatter of
S.A., has the reputation in Adelaide of being
free with his money, but he acknowledges, in
writing home from New York, that the
charges in the U'.S.A. make him think hard.
His first shave cost him Bs., because mani-
curist and other outside experts closed in on
him without invitation. “That only hap-
pened once; now I get my 7 shave without any
frills.” And:—
The price of things over here is absolutely ruinous.
I have not had a decent, meal. I ordered some
THE WAY OF THE TRANSITION.
POETIC YOUNG MAN: “To think that some
day this miserable little grub will
develop into a beautiful butterfly! Oh,
that I could undergo some such change
and become a better and more perfect
being!”
PRACTICAL YOUNG WOMAN: “Well, you
could change color, you know, by becom-
ing a soldier .”
steak for breakfast; you could not see it, but they
charged me 10s. At the hotel where I am staying
the number of my room is 1213, and it is on the
25th floor. I pay 16s. a day. All meals are extra.
Bacon and one egg, tea and toast, cost me 7s.
But, for all that, Shannon admires the
country and the people. He bills New York
as the cleanest city in the world. Which is
very decent after the way N.Y. billed him!
“Wing”: The teetotal armbands got
a nasty one the
other day. A blue-
banded Billjim,
who had evidently
been wined pri-
vately, quietly
approached the
leading horse in a
Melbourne cab
rank and, calmly
removing his blue
insignia, placed
one on each of
the old nag’s fore-
legs. After gazing
on the result of
his action for a
moment, he patted
the horse’s neck,
saying, “ ’Sorlright,
old chap ; I’m just turning you into a camel.”
“S.T.S.”: This new “censored” writing
has an odd effect in fiction. Two actual
examples. “He mentioned his name. ‘Oh,
, come in!’ cried the other.” And “ ‘The
C.O. of the Royals is killed,’ he read out.
‘Poor ! I’m sorry,’ the doctor said.”
Doubtless it is merely a man’s name that
is suppressed in each case ; but it has the
effect of something too shocking to print; as
where the Bishop remarked that somebody
had a blank, expressionless face, and the
thoughtful printer rendered it “a
expressionless face.”
The latest Hun atrocity, the sinking < r
one more hospital ship, doesn’t improve* t!v
position of the “no indemnities and no annexa-
tions” crowd in our midst. It says that it
really means “no penal indemnities”; in other
words, that the wanton butcher must not be
asked to pay for more than material damage
therefore the destruction of a hospital or
hospital ship shouldn’t add anything more
to the bill than the value of the canvas and
timber and furniture in the hospital or 'the
cost of the ship, less depreciation. g 0 t i H ,
party which issues Labor programmes these
days isn’t called upon to feel angry about
the slaughter of wounded men and nurses
and doctors, it being a matter outside the
programme ; the wreckage of property is the
thing it is called upon to foam about. Un-
fortunately, in many, if not most, of the
published documents the word “penal” is
omitted, so it appears as if the party doesn’t
want the Hun murderer to pay anything at
all, either for murder, torture, moral and
mental wreckage done, or for damage to
goods and chattels. And when it does, for
once in a while, put in the missing word, it
doesn't say that the defeated Hun should be
called on to make good the wanton destruc-
tion he has done ; only that he should not
be called on to pay anything apart from
the bill for destruction. The payment of
even that property item —apparently it is
only property that the Labor leaders think
of, and the slaying in cold blood of thou-
sands of unarmed workers, with their
wives and daughters (often their outraged
wives and daughters) doesn’t get official
mention—is thus left an open question.
The said leaders froth at the mouth per-
functorily, rarely, and it would seem with
difficulty, when the Hun tortures Australian
prisoners in his camps, or slays wounded
Australians in hospital or on the sea, even
though these fellow-countrymen may he
workers like themselves. The fact’ that
they took up arras on behalf of the workers
of Belgium and democratic France against
the stupendous Hun capitalist has perhaps
put them outside the pale. But the same
leaders froth quite naturally over the
troubles of I.WAV. convicts and advocates
of compulsory military service and Premiers
who don’t borrow more money. Truly
“militant” politics are a curious business.
* * # *
The Czeeho-Slovak army in Russia is a
development which would be comic if it
wasn’t tragic. These compound people
deserted wholesale from the Austrian army
because they loathe the Hun and all his
works, and they were interned in Siberia
as friends in difficulties. When Russia
acquired that peace which was really smash,
it had no longer an excuse to intern any-
body, so the Czecho-Slovaks wanted to go
anywhere except Austria, where they would
have been hanged or worse. For preference
they desired to go to France and speak to
Foch. But the Lenin-Trotsky Government
released and armed its Hun prisoners and
sooled them on to the guests. So the crowd
with the double-barrelled name became a
lost dog at least half a continent from a
friendly doormat. What it lives on no one
knows, unless it eats wolves, but it seems to
get a crust and a cartridge somewhere, and
it is putting up a wild-cat fight. Some of
it has been heard of at Vladivostock, where
it might have stolen ships and escaped to
Japan; but it was headed back. It has
scrapped on the Volga and in the Ukraine,
in Europe, and some traces of it have been
seen, still doing the wild-cat act, in the
neighborhood of Archangel, which is adja-
cent to Sweden and the North Pole. The
TOURING LUCK.
“Have you ever seen active service, Mr.
Barnstormer?”
“Well, no. But in the course of my profes-
sional career I have done a good deal of
route-marching.”
lost army seems to have thrown its dauntless
brick in places twice the width of Aus-
tralia apart. The Ten Thousand fried-fish
men who fought their way out of Persia
weren’t a circumstance by comparison with
this adventure.
(Continued on page 18.)
FOR FRANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met a little, ragged lad
Upon the road to Loos one day;
A broken crust was all he had,
His home in blackened ruins lay;
But smiling, with uplifted head,
“M’sieu, it is for France!” he said.
In Rheims I saw a widow lone,
Her six sons dead upon the field ;
Yet from her lips there came no moan,
Her flashing eyes no tears might yield;
“The lesser spirits mourn their dead:
I glory—’tis for France!” she said.
I gazed o’er plains where, battle-worn
They lie, who fought this War of wars;
And from a moonlit waste forlorn
There rose a song that shook the stars
And triumphed o’er the silent dead :
“They died that France might live 1” it said.
QUEENSLAND.
R. A. SMITH.


sk; #
tm
> jp
* ■ '
IE «§*
* & ■
A,
- ■
#oc 1- **
*
h *?
*#;Jg
'V”’*
, f '?:>-'■ -r-
-:4iA
>JS*i
Kitu: j
J
if
'«
■•? Ac
*2^
E .
/ JS«?
m
®fl'> ■ ,<
-fxi t i -itffS K sll
sr>
:-•
«S
..JF«r.<
■
><
.
mm
SCwr
■
*'C.
EW
*§s&wAi&
J
n
- .
, , .«'■
f*
: /v 4 !
r_„ v M
V*>?
' N >
«r; rfv
SSi
•V..
'5 " iWi
m 3
'■■ '■ WaSSt?'
# 4
«R
s®
Ki :,M
Kwm
«*» * **“
:. V
/S 3
®!
1 i
V--
}<v-*V>--. -
pH* ■
<
E 4
m ißmt ■
■■?■'' v.
A Business Man in Fairyland
Tired and worn! That is the state of the average
business man w T hen he reaches home at
Too weary to £o out —too indifferent to seek the
relaxation which he needs and w y ould enjoy.
For such men, the Beale Player-Piano provides an easy step into
a fairyland of real pleasure. All the favorites in light operatic
music, ragtime, folk songs or old time ballads can instantly
be played. You arrange your own programme and play it as
your mood dictates. Bedtime comes in surprisingly quick time-
bringing with it the sweet slumber of a mind refreshed.
INFORMAL CONCERTS HELD DAILY
ASK TO HEAR A FAVORITE PIECE
Head Office «( Showroom* •
333 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY
'j^ecrle
& C" LTP
Factory !
1-47 TRAFALGAR ST..
ANNANDALE
Branches at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore Newcastle, Goulhfrn, W WTOBU: Maplesj. in
Taemnnia- Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. SOITH AUSTRALIA. >ionn r,vans
Queensland • 90-93 Queen St., Brisbane; Kent St., Maryborough: Flinders St., Townsville; Rockhampton
St Mackay- Cairns. WESTERN AUSTRALIA: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., 209 Murray St., Perth.
suburbs.
Adelaide.
: Sydney
h


The “BLIGHTY MAJOR”
ALBATROSS FLANNEL SHIRT
This is a splendid Shirt for service. English
Blue-grey Flannel of medium weight, soft
enough for the most sensitive skin. Turned-
down collar and pleated breast-pocket.
12/6 each; 3 for 36/9.
Please state Collar Size.
o
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
Toowoomba BRISBANE Townsvill
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
bave brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
A REMARKABLE INDIGESTION
REMEDY.
Owing to the excellent reports received
from dyspeptics and sufferers from indiges-
tion, gastritis, acidity, etc., who have been
using the ola-fashioned stomach and indiges-
tion remedy known among chemists as Bisur-
ated leading chemists everywhere
now keep this remarkable remedy put up
ready for use in both powder and tablet form.
It is supplied at a price which places it
within the easy reach of every sufferer, and
half a teaspoonful of the powder, or two tab-
lets taken with a little water after meals, will
instantly relieve and quickly ease practically
all forms of digestive and stomach trouble.
—Advt.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
A tall stripling, who was The Bulletin's
Melbourne office-boy before lie set out lo be
a hero in France, writes of the awful time
in March, when the Huns broke into the
British Army:—
The next big thing to happen was this great
MarathOh. We were out resting at the time right back
near the coast, but even there we all heard the guns
going and thanked our lucky stars we were not under
tlie barrage that Fritz must have put up. However,
we were not surprised when we had orders next
morning to got into it. It took us eight days to
get there and into it. On nearing the line the
sights were amazing; civilians going for their lives
and some who weren’t civilians racing them. Things
were properly bad. I thought I would be either a
stiffun or breaking stones in Germany within a few
hours. But no, we are holding him now.
Talking of the “Marathon” aforesaid, an-
other Australian who was rushed up with
the reinforcements, tells how he stopped a
flying soldier, and had to wait for the fugi-
tive to get his breath before he could explain
his haste. The man was wearing a
medal, and the Aussie asked him what he
got it for. “That’s the Retreat from Mons
medal,” said the winded stranger. “ ’Strntli,
you’ve earned a bar for it this time,” said
the reinforcer.
“Wart”: The Speck’s North-West Coast,
where the Cow is king, has for years held
the record for low school attendance. At
the last meeting of the Penquin Council, a
letter was put in by the Director of Educa-
tion from the head teacher at Riana.
Among other things the writer said that the
majority of the local parents took little in-
terest in the education of the children. He
believed the poor attendance to be the fault
of the parents entirely, who, in many cases,
were making farm slaves and rabbit-trappers
of their youngsters. As some of the kids
were earning from five to eight shillings per
day, the parents did not mind an occasional
five-shillings’ fine—which is very seldoih col-
TIME TO GO!
THE BORE: “Good gracious! What a noise
your dog makes?”
THE VICTIM: “Yes; he’s just been let loose
for the night, the lucky brute!”
lected. Perhaps the only thing is to give
the parents who keep their children away
from the school imprisonment without the
option of a fine. I do not believe that there
is any part of the Commonwealth where
there are so many children just over school-
age who are unable to read and write as
there are on the Speck’s North-West rim.
The Win-by-Jaw party has the padlock on
any attempt to revise the tariff. Just as
Australia wasn’t ready for war, so it won’t
be ready for peace. But America, Canada,
Japan—to say nothing of Germany—are.
Only one thing will hold the flood back ; and
the crowd in" office will not turn to and
erect it.
■* * * *
“Hamer” : Billjim in France loves to carve
his name in wood wherever he goes. There
i s an Orlando
amongst the carvers,
too, who, when he
sees an inviting
church door, a dug-
out wall, a table in
an estaminet, or any
old thing that will
make a pitch, cuts
out a pair of hearts,
runs an a r r o w
through them and
blazons the chaste
design with the
words, “I love May
Sm i t h.” I have
neve r caught u p
with the perpetrator
of this device, but
have met his handi-
work often, and so
recently that he
must still be going
strong. May Smith
is a fairly common
name, but every May
Smith in Australia
who knows a boy at
the Front is hereby
given full permis-
sion to be glad at
the honest advertise-
ment of her soldier’s
fidelity. In years to
come France will start to confuse May
Smith with Joan of Arc.
“Ornis” : Somebody should be indicted for
treeslaughter. Until recently Launceston
(Tas.) could boast of one of the finest
avenues of trees in the Commonwealth. It
was along Elphin-road, a tine, broad, well-
kept thoroughfare. Then some timber sub-
editor got to work, and now only the trunks
remain, the branches have been hacked off
until the once beautiful double row of trees is
a vista of stumps with a few short limbs and
a few twigs. Some of the trees have been
taken out altogether. The reason put for-
ward for the destruction is a problematical
interference with overhead wires. At one
time there was a fine avenue of blue-gums
along the Invermay-road, but they went to
make firewood. Why do some people hate
trees ?
* * * *
At its last meeting the Society for Pro-
moting Christian Knowledge, London, voted
£4O for a “theological studentship in the
Diocese of Bendigo, Australia,” also £750
towards the restoration of churches de-
stroyed by the recent cyclones in Northern
Queensland. Is the Bendigo diocese bank-
rupt, or has it become a clerical sundowner
on the London track by force of political
example?
According to N. S. Wales law everybody
receiving any kind of an income is bound,
under heavy penalties, to
send in a State income-tax
return, but for convenience,
and to save a ton of paper,
the law isn't enforced when
the income is from personal
exertion and is below £2OO
a year. So when a youth
earning only £lB2 per an.
was hauled to court lately
it was done by mistake.
Suppose a new Pharaoh
came to the Treasury, a
rule-of-thumb Pharaoh who
refused to recognise the
slipshod arrangement made
by Joseph? And suppose
he pro s e c uted 200,000
people, including mere boys
and girls, on several
charges, and collected
400,000 fines? , The only
satisfaction would lie in
having Pharaoh prosecuted
for over-crowding the Sum-
mons Court.
From Melb, Tribune
With true Celtic zeal, the members of the Young
Ireland Society are working in every part of the
Commonwealth to translate into concrete being the
aims and aspirations to which the society is pledged.
The Young Ireland Society holds the proud position
of being the premier society amongst the younger
societies that are being formed with increasing
rapidity throughout every important city in Aus-
tralia.
As there is no talk of Young England, Scot-
land, Wales or Channel Island Societies,
the other younger societies coming along
with increasing rapidity are presumably
Irish also. But, unfortunately, their aims
and aspirations do not make for Australian
nationalism or all-round peace and progress.
Instead they make for discord by challeng-
ing the rest of the community to form rival
societies with other dog-fight ideas. The
Young Turks formed a society a few years
ago. Owing to the war it has gone the way
of the local German clubs. What we want
is one great universal Society for the Culti-
vation of Australian Sentiment.
Quite a lot of good Australian material
was used in constructing Australia House,
READY FOR EMERGENCIES.
“When are you joining the A.I.F.?”
“When the enemy invades Australia I’ll
enlist for foreign service straight away.”
our jewelled white elephant in London.
Bowral trachyte, buff marble from Buchan,
white marble from Angaston, dark marble
from Orange, and woods from various places
are all in evidence. Even the lOU that
paid for the elephant was our own. lOU.
And our High Commissioner, imported from
Scotland, sits inside.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: An ancient
landmark of Sydney is now in the hands of
the demolisher. In the first
’sixties it was the private
residence of Rev. Robert
Bain, a Presbyterian minis-
ter without charge. In
1866 Samuel West opened
it as a pub, under the name
of Pompey’s Pillar, with a
picture of the pillar over
the main entrance. It was
said that a certain book-
seller and subsequent news-
paper proprietor had an
interest in the inn. He
was a frequent visitor
there, at any rate. West
held the license until ’74,
when he made way for
Edward Stone. In ’B2 the
premises were occupied by
Mrs. Margaret McMahon,
who, when the Masonic
Hall was built, changed the
name to the New Masonic
Hotel. But the new name
did not attract much trade. The license was
held until 1903, when it ceased.
* * * *
From The Bulletin’s old friend
“Gouger”:—
Have you ever seen a large body of men look aside
to laugh boisterously, with the fear of imminent
death close upon them? It was on the second Gaza
battle (19th April, 1917). The Light Horse
Brigade were guarding the rear of the attacking
Light Horse brigades and the cameloes. About
four in the afternoon, over the tops of the low hills
all around, suddenly swarmed thousands upon thou-
sands of Turkish cavalry. Their numbers and their
quick attack upon our rear was a complete surprise.
Only one brigade to withstand such a multitude!
Let our thin line be broken, and woe to our comrades
already heavily engaged with the enemy infantry
ahead of us. What a rush to the shallow trenches
we had just dug! A galloping away of led horses
to cover. Feverish jambing in of loaded strips to
th« Hotchkiss guns. The quick order from Brigade
H.Q. that the line was to be held to the last man.
The whine and crash of shrapnel as the Turkish
mountain guns swung into action against us. A
little distance away, in the dry wadi bed, a field
company of Engineers were peacefully digging wells
and erecting water-troughs. In the flush of the
excitement a hatless officer galloped up, yelling “Get
for your lives! All the Turkish cavalry are on us!”
Down went the engineers’ tools. A rush for horses.
Into the limbers went the scared animals. Some
men attempted to pull up the already filled troughs.
Others shouted to let the troughs go to Hell. The
drivers leaped into their saddles. The men rushed
the limbers. The officers and non-coms, steadied
their horses. And in a swirling cloud of dust the
swinging limbers were off. All that portion of our
line which had witnessed the little interlude laughed
and laughed until the tears came with satiation. It
was a great swing-away.
“K.”: Perhaps the alleged shortage of
Australian hats in Mesopotamia is due to
this: My brother, writing 29/4/Y5, says:
“Our O.C. and others are trying to
ape the English-officer style—even went
so far as to forbid us to wear our
Australian hats in Bagdad, and we
were forbidden to take them to India.
There was a kit inspection just before leav-
ing to make sure that we did not have them
with us. All the same, I can tell you that
most of the boys (including myself) have
them and wear them.”
* * * *
In the establishment of air forces there
seems to be the same rivalry between the
naval and military authorities of the Com-
monwealth that retarded the development of
aeroplane service in Britain during the first
three years of the war, and carried the
notorious Pemberton Billing into Parliament
on a wave of popular discontent. The navy
has imported a flight-commander from
Britain to create a “flying wing” for naval
defence, whilst the army has recalled a
lieut.-colonel from the Front to organise a
military aviation-corps. Britain suffered
from this division of control of the powers
of the air until the scandal of its absurdity
became intolerable. Then a Minister for
aviation, or a controller of warplane ser-
vice, was added to the Government, and all
the air forces were administered from the
one central organisation. The thing had to
be done, in spite of jealous naval and mili-
tary dislike to this new “civilian” form of
control. It is bound to be done in Aus-
tralia, but in the meantime the rival authori-
ties are acting as though the inevitable
ought not to happen. Conservatism, ever
since the time of Noah’s Flood, has acted as
though the inevitable ought not to happen.
THE SPENDERS.
SHOPING WIFE : “Isn’t it a sweet little hat,
Jack? Guess what it cost.”
MOTORING HUSBAND: “About one tyre, I
should say.”
TO ’LIZA, BEFORE BATTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
you never know what luck the gawds will send
When you goes out to strafe the wily ’Un.
So, Liza, if this proves to be the end,
Well—l ain’t sorry for the things I done.
W hen I met you my life ’ad just begun,
An’ then there conies this war, an’ I enlist.
I'm on’y sorry—if me course is run —
For them there things I might ’ave done but missed.
I bin a bloke to borrow an’ to lend ;
But, if I’m ’it. I’m payin’ fer me fun.
I’ve done the gay; I’ve bin too free to spend—
Still, I ain’t sorry for the things I done.
1 leans despondent like against me gun,
An’ meditates on life’s un’oly twist;
1 think ’em over careful one by one—-
All them there things I might ’ave done, but missed.
There’s times I ’aven’t always bin a friend ;
An’ I ’ave lied. (My Gawd, the yarns I've spun!)
Still, some bloke said it ain’t too late to mend
If y’ are sorry for the things y’ done.
There’s things that on me conscience weighs a ton —
Like women you don’t know I bin an’ kissed.
And standin’ clear against the settin’ sun
Are them there things I might’ave done, but missed.
’Liza, if I’m alive when we .’ave won,
An’ you’ll forgive me for the things I done,
We’ll start together down that bloomin’ list
Of them there things I might ’ave done, but missed !
LONDON.
DION TITHERADGE.


'
-
1
-■». . -
-
gH
Mmttm
Goodyear Conveyors Turn Loss into Profit
Many good products are barred from
wide and profitable markets by the high
cost of transporting material from stage
to stage in production.
Too much of production costs go to wearing out
hand-trucks and wheel-barrows, or other anti-
quated methods of handling.
Too little of the initial investment is devoted to
such saving and cost-cutting equipment as con-
veyer belts.
Then the consequent high price of the product
bars it from markets which conveyor methods
would throw open wide.
Within the last four months the demand for all
grades of Goodyear-made Conveyor Belts
exceeded our orders during the preceding twelve
months —practically a 300 per cent, increase.
Goodyear Conveyor Belts register an amazingly
low transport cost per ton of material conveyed.
The cover is tough and thick enough to withstand the
abrasion and wear of the material it is specifically
designed to carry.
The carcass is of specially-woven duck, giving maximum
strength per unit of weight, so that cover and carcass
last equally long.
If this were not the case, the belt would not be an
economical one, because after one part of a conveyor
belt is worn out the remaining part cannot continue
in service.
But in the Goodyear-made balanced belts the two are
accurately proportioned, and reach the end of theii*
usefulness, as nearly as is practicable, together.
As an investment to reduce the cost of production they
are exceedingly profitable, although their first cost is
more than that of wheel-barrows or hand-trucks.
Goodyear-made Belts may in some cases cost slightly
more than inferior belts, but for every shilling spent
they return longer, more continuous, more economical
service.
There is a Goodyear Conveyor Belt for every purpose
where Conveyor Belts can be profitably used. Our
experts will be pleased to discuss with you your Belting
problems and add to your experience their knowledge
on the necessities of Conveyor Equipment.
ELDER,
SMITH & CO., LIMITED
27-31 Currie Street,
Adelaide.
84-88 William Street,
Melbourne.
12 Martin Place,
Sydney.
334-338 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Western Australian Agents:
ELDER, SHENTON & CO., LIMITED, Elder Buildings, William Street, Perth.
N G - V A LV E S


Legal Notices.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Probate Jurisdiction.
In the Estate of MARY RUSSELL
PETERS otherwise Dorothy Russell
Peters late of Bronte in the State of
New South Wales Married Woman
deceased intestate.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in its Probate
Jurisdiction made herein on the thirtieth day
of April one thousand nine hundred and
eighteen ALL persons claiming to be next
of kin of the above-named deceased (a
daughter of William and Eliza Wheate de-
ceased) who died at Bronte in the State of
New South Wales in the Commonwealth of
Australia on the eighth day of February one
thousand nine hundred and eighteen are
hereby directed to send in their claims
addressed to the undersigned within four
months from the date of the publication of
this Notice supported by Affidavit sworn in
the above matter or in default thereof they
will after the expiration of the time so lim-
ited be excluded from participating in the
assets in the estate of the said deceased.
DATED this twenty-second dav of July
1918.
(x.s.) R. C. MONDAY.
Registrar of Probates.
Supreme Court House,
Sydney, New South Wales.
Australia.
Vivian Martin,
ULcd
The Captivating Paramount Star*
fd
There is an illusive charm about Miss Martin, a sort of mingling of shy
youth and mature depth, that has placed her not only among the big stars in
Paramount Pictures, but among the most popular artists of the screen.
Vivian Martin appears exclusively in Paramount Pictures.
These are the Trade-marks of PARAMOUNT and ARTCRAFT MOTION PICTURES
Paramount and Artcraft are the better pictures of the motion-picture art—supreme in stars, masterly
in direction and superb in mounting. .
Look for these trade-marks in advertisements, theatre vestibules, and also on the screen.
■«*»».
Cu£
PARAMOUNT PICTURES
ALEC LORIMORE Managing director
THREE HUNDRED and TWO, PITT ST. Sydney.
HP
POLITICAL
POINTS
“There are extreme men in all parties,”
said the plausible Opposition-leader I’ren-
dergast of Victoria, mildly and without
anger, when asked if he really wanted to
appeal to the better feelings of the crowd
which had just sunk a hospital ship with
his wounded fellow-countrymen on board.
Yes, there are extreme devils in some parties
and extreme Pecksniffs in others.
“Mustard Gold”: Among the old-time
politicians of Westralia to be seen rambling
about St. George’s Terrace, Walter James,
one-time Premier, provides the most con-
spicuous figure. James, after doing a spell
in London as Agent-General, returned to
embark on the old game, but was beaten for
the Beverley seat "by an almost unknown
man in Nat Harper, whose previous experi-
ence had been all on the goldfields. Throw-
ing up the sponge in disgust at the apparent
lack of gratitude and discrimination on the
part of the electors, James has never since
sought to enter the Parliamentary ring,
confining himself to practice at the Bar.
It was James who established State
pubs in W.A. A still more forlorn
political force of the past wandering
occasionally along the same Terrace is
C. J. Moran, a Queenslander, who won
the Yilgarn seat in the boom days and sub-
sequently became Minister for Lands. Moran
has long been coekying with limited success
in the remoteness of Wagin, where the
bucolic outcry for State assistance to the
farmer continues to be heard despite the
lavish money successive Governments have
devoted to the bolstering up of the industry.
Home-Secretary Huxham told a deputa-
tion recently that he noticed a remarkable
increase in the number of cases of venereal
disease locally. Yet Bananaland has provi-
sion for compulsory notification in its
Health Act, and if it is not sufficient for its
purpose, then the Act is apparently not
being enforced. So far, there is no evidence
of any prosecution for neglect or violation of
this useful piece of legislation; but there if
evidence of “a remarkable increase in the
number of cases of venereal disease.”
“8.T.”: It was freely admitted in Mel-
bourne that J. Cook, in going to England,
had fondest hopes of picking up the title that
Hughes had turned down. The fact that
Joey accepted with avidity where Billy had
declined with thanks accents the darkness
and coldness of the chasm between these
two strange political bedfellows. Cook goes
on to where glory awaits him as the apostle
of hopeless reaction, but Hughes still dreams
of working back, and knows that the Aus-
tralian politician who becomes a knight
relinquishes his day. He has told his inti-
mate friends: “Labor and I will come to-
gether again. I need Labor, but not so much
as it needs me.” But if Labor after the war
seeks to succeed without W. M. Hughes it
will be up against everything he can do to
block it. Billy will either reign in Heaven
or raise Hell. Heaven and Hell’s luck seems
to be out.
A procession passed quietly through Syd-
ney the other day— five members of the Vic-
torian Parliamentary Railway Committee.
The committee numbers six in all. and divides
£l2OO a year among them, with no known
limit to travelling expenses. The five were
bound for Northern Queensland, where the
weather is heavenly at this time of year, to
inquire at public cost into narrow-gauge
railway lines. Victoria has 12 miles of Bft.
line and 122 miles of 21ft. line, and Tas-
mania has 37 miles of the baby gauge of 2ft.
So some information might have been
acquired near at hand. But it is cold,
bitterly, beastly cold in Tasmania just now,
and the baby-gauge lines are among the
gorgeous scenery of the wet western hills,
and a Commission would get trench feet
there.
In the words of W. A. Holman, the airy
spender of N. S. Wales, the increase of ex-
penditure must go on unless Australian
civilisation is to die out. But *
(1) Why should Holman’s State want to snatch
two-thirds of the increased expenditure for itself?
It seems greedy not to leave a little more extrava-
gance for its neighbors.
(2) AVhen it is necessary for Holman’s State to
borrow £9,000,000 in one year, as it did at the top
of its boom, in order to prop up civilisation, is the
thing real or only a borrowed parasite?
(3) When in two States (S.A. and Victoria) the
process of congestion has gone so far that those
parts which aren’t Adelaide or Melbourne are actually
losing population, isn’t civilisation alreadv dying
out to some extent? Isn’t the article really being
shovelled away at great expense ?
“O. Blin”: Oue of the prizes for disinter-
ested patriotism can be given to young
Arthur Rogers, M.H.R. for Wannon. (Vic. 1.
Long before the Government had considered
repatriation, Rogers had hatched his own
private scheme, wms busily rounding-up the
important people in his electorate, and was
spending a deal of his cash in setting his
proposal fairly on its legs. One of his
arrangements is the establishment of volun-
tary inquiry bureaux throughout his constitu-
ency. At these small offices one can get more
information on military matters in ten
minutes than you could extract at the
Defence Department in ten weeks. The
success of these efforts is evidently impress-
ing the “heads,” for there is a tendency to
call on Rogers to help along the Govern-
ment’s own precious infant, which is not
doing at all well.
There are times when Truth is too envelop-
ing for even the oldest Tory newspaper to
evade it. In solemn journalese Melbourne
Argus states: —
A select committee, being composed entirely of
politicians, is surely not the most suitable body to
inquire into the drift of population to large cities.
Members have played too active a part in creating
the conditions which they now deplore to be able to
shake themselves free of their predilections.
That a lot of artificial centralisation in Mel-
bourne has been the scheming of capitalists
is a point that the Argus doesn’t insist upon.
During the first half of this year J. Bull,
despite his furious shipbuilding, saw his mer-
cantile marine diminish by 540,000 tons —
700.000 tons built and 1,300,000 tons lost.
PLAYING WITH IT.
PREMIER HOLMAN : “I haven't had ring prac-
tice at this flame, hut I daresag I
could get 'em in- that's if I tried.”
So the spurt (on paper) in Australian ship-
building doesn’t oomc a, minute too soon,
especially as the Commonwealth Government
is taking a census of (lie local stocks for fear
there may soon be a lack of paper on which
to put the spurt. The I.W.W. element in
Gabor circles promptly replies with a demand
for a reduction of the working-day to six
hours, so as to cut 25 per cent, off the spurt,
supposing there really is a spurt.
“F.C.”: From the latest Canadian budget:
Estimated revenue, £51.600,000; expendi-
ture, £40,600,000. Total war debt to the
end of March, TB, £175,600,000; total public-
debt, a trifle over £200,000,000. Last year’s
exports to Britain were £172,000,000; im-
ports from Britain, £16.200,000. Exports
to America. £388.000,000: imports from
America, £158,000.000. But Canada, of
course, hasn’t got the tariff traitors and
pawnshop runners that Australia has.
Prendergast, leader of the Labor Oppo-
sition in Vic. Assembly, is evidently doing
his best to please the pacifist crowd.
The late George Elmslie, on each of the
three war anniversaries prior to his death,
Consistently seconded the “fight on” resolu-
tion moved by the “Nationalists,” his fol-
lowers voting with him and thereby making
the voice of the Parliament unanimous.
This year, Prendergast being back again in
bis old place, Labor was asked to support an
amendment to the usual resolution, declar-
ing that “immediate negotiations should be
begun to call an international conference to
arrange equitable terms of peace.” Then,
as one united sheep, the party fol-
lowed its leader into the morass whence
no progress can he made. According to his
own statement, Prendergast wants to start
from scratch again on an agreement signed
by the German people “over the heads of
the junkers and jingoes”—on another “scrap
of paper,” in short. Yet he leads a party
which rather prides itself on trying to profit
by other people’s experiences.
“J.F.” : Seventy-six years on 12th August
since Melbourne was incorporated by an Act
of N. S. Wales Legislature. The first munici-
pal election took place on December 1 fol-
lowing.
Sam Manger still manages to keep him-
self in the light of the public eye. He has
just been given an honorary commission by
the Vic. Government to inquire into tfr
penal systems of Canada and the U.S. Om
of his heart-to-heart talks with the governor'
of Joliet and Sing Sing, the righteous
Samuel may possibly be able to evolve a
progressive policy for the gaol-bosses of Aus-
tralia. They could do with such a policy. As
chairman of the Indeterminate Sentences
Board, Mauger has a considerable influence
over the fate of Victoria’s leading criminals,
and if long-winded speeches will improve
matters Samuel is the man to be relied upon.
A daily paper which really meant to be
kind to N. S. Wales State Premier Holman
on his birthday told how, when a boy politi-
cian of 23 or so, he went out “organising” for
the A.W.U. On his return,
being even then intoxicated bv
the exuberance of his own ver-
bosity, he reported that he had
attracted large audiences and
roused great enthusiasm. Then
he was asked how many union
tickets he had sold and how
many subscriptions he had col-
lected, and he admitted that he
had forgotten all about his job.
The boy politician continued
that way. He has been elo-
quent yet oblivious to the money
ever since. The country never
before had a cashier with such
a brilliant peroration.
To be the guest of the British
nation in London implies pomp
and pride and good feeding and
soft lying, but there is much
more freedom for a politician
who pays his way at a quiet
family hotel and picks up his
meals in eating-houses. Prime
Minister Hughes chose the more
gilded way. and did the most
honest act of his life in preach-
ing straight-out Protection,
though he hasn’t practised it
much. Now the importers'
press throws his gratis victuals
in his face, and accuses him of
ingratitude to the country to
which he owes his chop and h,is
steak. One virulent Freetrade
paper, the Star, devotes a daily
article to reminding the Prime
Minister that he isn’t buying his
own food, which is specially rough, seeing
that Hughes is a cheap feeder, being a poor
trencherman and no drinker at all.
Daniel McNamara, one of the few Labor
men in the Vic. Leg. Council, elicited a
damning bit of information when he got
Solicitor-General Robinson to tell him how
many married men were employed in the
State’s departments at £2 10s. per week or
less. Apart from teachers, according to
Robinson's reply, “there are 86 of them —
53 in the Chief Sec.’s Department, 14 in the
Department of Agriculture, .10 in the Public
Works, and the balance scattered through
four other branches. A married man can’t
keep going on £2 10s., of course, particu-
larly as it uow takes nearly 305., according
to Statistician Knibbs, to buy what a few
years ago could have been bought for 20s.
Certainly, the missus can help to bring her
man’s wages up a little by doing a bit of
washing or sewing, and Willie can sell
papers in the streets; but it is a contempti-
ble sort of Government which allows itself
to be subsidised thus.
THE KAISER’S GAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The city plays the Kaiser’s game
In brick-built narrow ways.
The people crowded, dull and tame,
Through joyless nights and days
Murmur of freedom as they go;
Yet in the close-pent place
Her wide, sweet smile they never know
Nor look upon her face.
And to their lords it still seems good
To squeeze them for the price of food.
God made free lands for all free men
And taught His woods to laugh
With blowing blossom, twittering wren
And draughts of joy to quaff.
Ho taught his rolling seas to shout
In sport that none could tame,
And set the lure of Farther Out
To draw men’s hearts from shame.
But to the Kaiser and his friends
Bricks and more bricks are life’s chief ends.
Let us get down to plain tin-tacks,
And see with open eyes.
The smile they smile behind our backs
Is sleek and still and wise.
Afar a mighty war is fought.
Its thunderous surge of death
In the black wind of horror caught
Sweeps on with fiery breath.
We fight for freedom. Let us know
Who stands as friend and who as foe.
Whoever cramps the children’s play
Or stints the people’s food,
Whoever takes our rights away
And tells us it is good,
Whoever for Ids private gain
Exploits a mother’s tear,
Or from a weight of public pain
Can make a profit clear,
Whatever cloak iriay .hide his shame,
He plays at home the Kaiser's game.
THE WELL OF TRUTH.
“The full significance of the German retreat was
only made known to the public of Berlin early on
Monday. It increased the nervousness of the popu-
lace.” — Cable.
THE OTHER HOUND: “T ot price if I nod der
lid on keep? Hein?”
Watch, large exploiters of this land!
The German turns in flight;
But Truth, that fills the high command,
Has many foes to fight.
Keating's of “empire” will not stay
His vaster enterprise
When freedom smiles to hail The Day
And Kaiserism dies
With you its loud and steady friends
Who cramp the land to serve your ends.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


AUSTRALIA’S FOREMOST AUTHORS
R¥uarH»is
** BUCCANEER
LOUIS BECKE
are represented in
The “Bookstall” Series of
Australian Novels
nA uniform series of novels written by Australians, printed
in Australia, for Australians.
All One Price: One Shilling Each;
Is. Id. posted.
THE IDEAL BOORS TO SEND TO OUR SOLDIERS ON ACTIVE SERVICE.
Thousands of “Bookstall” novels have found their way to the Australian trenches,
and the X.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD., has received many congratulatory letters
from soldiers. “Bookstall” novels breathe the life of Australia and are just the read-
ing the Diggers like for their quiet moments. Send your soldier friends the late t
“Bookstall” novels—they will be appreciated.
Steele Rudd’s Latest Success
“The Memoirs of Corporal Keeley.”
Corporal Keeley is an Anzac—armed to the teeth with humor.
A Few of the Most Popular Novels
liOUIS BECKE—
“BuIIy Hayes”
“Adventures of Louis Blake”
ARTHUR WRIGHT—
“The Hate of a Hun”
“Over the Odds”
M. FORREST —
“A Bachelor’s Wife”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD—
“BiIIy Pagan”
“Silver Star”
THOS. E. SPENCER —
“That Droll Lady”
“Binda walla”
AMBROSE PRATT —
“Three Years with Thunderbolt”
“Wolaroi’s Cup”
E. J. BRADY —
“Tom Pagdin, Pirate”
RALPH STOCK —
“The Recipe for Rubber”
“The Pyjama Man”
Humorous Novels
“A Curate in Bohemia”
By NORMAN
LINDSAY.
“Loves of Lancelot”
By EDWARD DYSON.
“Aboriginalities” —gems from The Bulletin’s popular page of Outback Humor.
“The Knight of the Motor Launch”
By ARTHUR 11. ADAMS.
“The Sport from Hollowlog Flat”
By ATIIUR WRIGHT.
“With the Dinkums. pru> B i/e.
The humors of the A.I.F. in 35 drawings by Private Fred Knowles—a unique volume
of Australian humor. This collection of drawings by one of the Dinkums lias had
a magnificent reception from the reviewers. Thousands of copies have already been
sold, and a second edition has been.prepared. Order your copy from the nearest book-
stall or bookseller.
“Bookstall” Novels are obtainable at all bookstalls and booksellers
throughout Australia.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
10-INCH
DOUBLE “SIDED
BRITISH-MADE
12-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/each
N.Z. from 3/6
Columbia
$. Records 1
from
5/- each
N.Z. from 5/6.
SOME SPLENDID COLUMBIA RECORDS
PROM No. 36 SUPPLEMENT
NOW ON SALE.
71017-
71038-
71034-
7156
7155
12-INCH SINGLE-SIDED, 15/- EACH.
-Faust: “Salve! Din,ora casta e pura” (“Hail thou
(Gounod). In Italian, with Orchestra Hlpolito Ga/.aio, teno,
-Orfeo : “Che faro senza Euridice” (Gluck). Key 0. In lt ‘ lll:l / 1 ' jV 1 , 1 , 1 ' cont'rafto!
conducted by Sir Henry .T. Wood Ujia CO * lT ,
-The East Rose of Summer (Qui sola, vergin AI soprAno'-
tra * *
12-INCH SINGLE-SIDED, PURPLE LABEL, 7/0 EACH.
-Land of Hope and Glory (Sir Edward Elgar). Key B Flat. With . tuU
Chorus and Orchestra Uala J,UU ’ L 0
-It is Only a Tiny Garden (Ilaydn Wood). With Orchestra. gopvano
■INCH DOUBLE-SIDED, LIGHT-BLUE LABEL, <>/- EACH.
12-
T,1203
( when You Come Home (Weatherly ft [Cello Obligato,
| (a) Longing; (l») Nothin’ but Love (Jacobs-Bond)
1 ' ’ b ■ cio u Kiddle at lie niano.)
Hubert
Hubert
Eisdell.
lOisdell.
Lll9B
f Bxtase (Reverie). (Louis Ganne.)
I Miniatures: (al Minuet. No. 1: (»)
Sain in on s.
Sammons. Squire &. Murdoch
Hornpipe. !S«. 8 (Frank Bridge).
Squire & Murdoch (violin, ’cello, piano)
1,1199
[ Quartette in A n.nj.r
| Quartette in A major (Schumann), l art
Quartet.
1,1201
\ Handel’s I,argo (Handel). ■•••••
l Humoresque (Chanson a boire).
(Dunkler- Squire)
W. H. Squire, ’cello.
W. H. Squire, ’cello.
1,1196 Tannhauser: Overture, in Two Parts. (VS agner Henry j Wood’s Orchestra.
1,1197
( The Devil’s Trill, from “The Devil’s
| Romance, in G Major (.1- Svendson)
Sonata” (Tartini'l. ..
Albert
Albert Sammons
Sammons, violin
1,1174
Tosea: ‘
Strange
'No E.ves on Earth” Duet Rosina T.uckmnn ft
Harmony of Contrasts (I’UCCiIU)
Maurice lVOisly.
Maurice D’Oisly.
COMPLETE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
evn v F v TV s W —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Kawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Werttaeim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne. »
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
AD EI,AIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 12"! Pirie Street,
ppnrru \v A H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AITPKI AND N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wa kefjeld & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Weble.v Sons & Gofton, Ltd., „43 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. — Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
THE DANGER OF WORMS.
Stomach and Intestinal Worms are one of
tlie most common complaints throughout
Australasia. Indigestion is a primary cause,
or they may be produced by _ Constipation,
or through the eating of tainted food or
food improperly cooked. There is also the
possibility of their introduction into the
system in the form of cysts or germs m
fruit and meat; so that all classes of the
community, irrespective of age, are liable to
this complaint.
It is not alone the irritation and annoy-
ance caused by these parasitical animals
that infest the stomach and bowels, but the
more serious consequences which will follow,
that must be kept in view. From the
highly organised and sensitive parts which
they occupy, Worms give rise to great con-
stitutional derangements and produce a
variety of symptoms, more particularly
affecting the stomach and head. Many cases
of Convulsions, Epilepsy, Hysteria, St.
Vitus’ Dance, Melancholia, Nervous Diseases,
and even Insanity have resulted from this
cause.
If the patient has a tendency to any weak-
ness, the neglect to eradicate the worms
from the system must inevitably cause the
emaciation of the whole body and a general
breakdown of the whole organism.
NEVER TROUBLED SINCE.
“A chemist’s wife,” writes Mrs. Rose
Thomas, of 20 Parry Street, East Perth,
W.A., “recommended my trying Comstock s
‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets for my son
Jack, who was troubled with intestinal
worms. I had tried several mixtures with-
out beneficial results, and then came to youi
remedy. I found my son passed a very large
number of pin-worms for several days, then
his health was restored and rest became com-
posed at night. He has never been troubled
since with these parasites for over three
years now. I have since had occasions to
personally recommend this remedy to other
similar sufferers. You can publish this
testimony whenever desired/’
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT’’ WORM PELLETS
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation, com-
pounded on a scientific principle for the eradication
o r worms which infest the intestines. They contain
specific properties which destroy the worms but cause
no injury to the stomach or bowels and do not
weaken the system. The pellets are prepared in the
form of a confection or lolly, have no disagreeable
taste or smell, but, on the contrary, inspire children
to take them as they would an ordinary lozenge.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores, or
direct from The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., Lang
Street, Church Hill, Sydney ; and Parish Street, Wel-
lington, N.Z. Price 3s. 6d. per packet (6 packets
205.), post free.
THE BILE
Nature’s Great Ag£ent.
Many unsuccessful attempts have been made to improve Natures .method of
lubricating the Human System by substituting other agents to do this work
(such as Liquid Paraffin) or failing to understand that the Bile and its allied
secretions are Natures only way to aid the digestion and assimilation of food.
Many so-called remedies entirely ignore this fact and so disappear, because the
results obtained are unsatisfactory. What a difference between such remedies
and DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS, which act directly on the Bile,
increasing its flow arid thereby in Natures own way cleansing the system of
all its impurities. A test can easily be made, noting the after-effects between
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills and many other so-called remedies for Constipation.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin. Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
The most effective and
pleasing' Cure for
H ead Colds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/0 a Bottle from your Chemist.
If not availab’e, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St, Sydney
GI3SON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
Who will forward, post free.
Kri
[i
h
fdh
IheTOP-NOTCH'ScotcK
SayWtlEN Man!!
m
«r
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“F.H.L.”: At Federal Parliament House
during the last session a ’possum manifested
an interest in the doings of the Senate. On
three occasions 1 found him camouflaging himself
into the resemblance of a lady’s muff outside the
door of the strangers’ gallery. When I stooped to
pick him up he took the stairs three at a time and
disappeared through an open window. He seemed
to find the gums chilly, and enjoyed putting
in an hour or so strolling round the corridors of the
House. I suppose when he got back home he
spruiked at the Gum Club Tree about the scandalous
way we are mortgaging the future of Australia.
“Mac” : Any Abo.-liar ever heard of the
“cooeeing woman”? She is well and unfavorably
known to the tin-scratchers on Mount Cudgewa,
North-East Vic. The legend runs that in earlier
days a miner’s wife lost herself in the scrub, and is
still to be heard cooeeing for aid. At any rate, I can
vouch for the fact that for sheer weirdness the
“cooee” takes beating. The sound might be pro-
duced by two trees rubbing together, and many a
lonely tin-scratcher after being serenaded has sworn
to find and cut those uncanny vegetables if they
exist. So far, they remain unfound. Land is cheap
in the locality.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: They were considering a
bunch of willing lads recruiting for the Light Horse.
Said the Major to James. “Ever ridden anything?”
“My oath, have I!” James replied, with an express-
iveness that implied familiarity from childhood
.with capers of all the wildest whalers between Col-
lingwood and the Gulf. Eventually they put James
on a horse. The horse shivered, and James fell off.
They put James on the horse again. The animal
fled once round the ring and paused unexpectedly,
and James fell off again. “Out, without the count 1”
said'the Major. “Didn’t you say you'd ridden before?”
esir.” “What—a barrel?” “A norse, sir.’ "Vvnat
happened?” “I got on him, V he bolted a Hundred
yards, ’n’ broke me leg, sir.”
“Kitty Kitty” : Some few years ago when
the late “Jimmie Pannikin” had his headquarters: at
Taree (N.S.W.) he paid an official visit to the
Callaghan’s Creek school, and when returning came
upon a party of local cockies playing cricket. He
was invited to bat, but protested that he was a
novice. Finally he agreed to join them, took a bat
and slogged away merrily for half an hour. Then
he invited all comers, not to bowl, but throw, and
they threw accordingly, but couldn’t scatter his
stumps. It was a whirling display.
“Geoifred”: In case the missus or the kid-
is suffering with earache, let me hand in the
dinkum cure. Light your pipe, puff for a minute
or so as if your very life depended on making the
greatest amount of smoke possible. Then place
the stem of the pipe well into the troublesome ear,
Put a handkerchief over the pipe-bowl, and blow
gently but firmly. See that the warm smoke gets
well into the ear, and after a few blows wait awhile
to see how the patient feels. If not better repeat
the operation two or three times, at intervals of,
say, 15 minutes. If that doesn’t cure the ache,
get the ear cut off. 1 suffered for years with
excruciating aches in both ears, and tried onion-
core, salt, laudanum and dozens of other supposed
cures, in addition to hot milk and oil syringes.
Then I paid the Lord knows how many doctors’ bills
with no success before the country baker put me
wise to the smoke dodge.
“Tas” : The “tonguer” was a man of mark
in old Maoriland in the days when whaling was the
staple industry round the coasts. He was a kind
of pakeha-Maori, who acted as interpreter for the
whalers English, French and especially American
(the Sydney and Hobart Town craft generally had
men aboard who could patter enough Maori).
Through him natives were engaged to make up boats’
crews, provisions were bought and other business,
lawful and unlawful, done. One theory is that he
was called a “tonguer,” because, like present-day
politicians, he lived by his tongue, but more likely
he was so called because one of his perks was the
tongue of every whale killed on the coast by his
patrons.
EVERYTHING COMFORTABLE.
“Want a job?”
“Cotter job.”
“What sorter job?”
“Lookin' for a job.”
AUSTRALIA'S PRODIGALITY AGAIN.
SHE (the home product): “Oh, smell the eucalyptus!”
HE ( imported) : “ Yaas. Some silly ass must have spilt a bottle.”
“H.V.E.”: Re the night-jar, or “night-
hawk,” which “Lachlander” (I?. 4/7/’18) states isn’t
too popular with the brown people of Malaya, our
own abos. ascribed the sepulchral call-note of this
bird (rarely uttered, even by night) to an evil spirit
and weren’t overjoyful when they heard it near their
camps. The night-jar very rarely uses its weird
vocal organ in the daytime, but on one occasion
while I was examining its single egg a white-
throated specimen watching operations from a log
nearby groaned dismally at intervals. The abos.
said that when this bird called at dusk (“Hee-yar!
hee-yar!” they expressed it) their dogs sometimes
followed the sound and got lost in the bush, or mated
with warrigals and never returned to the camps.
Accordingly, immediately the croaking call was
heard, the gins would rush to the camp curs and
keep on pinching and pulling their ears, so that the
babel of yelps and howls thus produced might drown
the sound. Our night-jars, by the way, include two
species, the white-throated night-jar (Eurostopus
albigularis) and the much rarer spotted night-jar
(Eurostopus argus), the first ranging to New Guinea
and the second (“Lachlander’s” bird) to Malaysia.
The white-throated night-jar breeds annually on the
saddles of South Coast (N.S.W.) ranges, but I’ve
only struck the spotted variety once in that quarter,
and then a prowling cat brought it in. The owlet
night-jar, or “little moreporlt,” isn’t a true night-
jar, but a bird of the frogmouth family.
"Eddyson" : Spink had left the mill in a
rather truculent and bitterly critical condition that
morning. The hands thought they should have a
holiday for the sports at Horseback. Spink thought
otherwise, and he had his way. At least, he had
congratulated himself in that belief till the moment
of his return from Horseback at about four in the
afternoon, when to his amazement he found the mill
deserted, the fires raked out, and the whole sawn-
timber industry of Fowlrun <fnd district at a stand-
still. Spink was standing in the midst of this
desolation, cursing the fates, the working classes
and the cosmos when he was suddenly stricken dumb,
and with staring eyes and blanched face inspected the
bench before him, the log upon it, and the rip-
saw embedded three or four feet in the green timber.
There was blood upon the blade, there was blood on
the log and the sawdust below was red in patches.
Spink moved nearer, and a cry broke from his lips.
There was worse than blood upon the log, and on the
teeth of the saw; there were dreadful fragments at
the sight of which Spink's soul sickened within him.
He rushed his horse and fled headlong into the rail-
way township. Crowe and Noble were at the siding.
Yes, there had been a nasty accident at the mill.
The boys had carried Calder into a carriage on the
ten-fifteen, all done up in sheets, en route to Mel-
bourne Hospital. Crowe admitted that Calder must
have been in a hell of a mess. “Never saw nothin'
more like a. sticky end in ail me life,” said Noble.
Spink spent the saddest afternoon of an unhappy
life. It was borne in upon him with poignant regret
that he had never fixed the Idade-guard demanded
by law, and he realised every moment of the next
20 hours that if Calder was done in it meant a
charge of manslaughter against John William Spink.
“ ’N’ the cow was leavin’ this week,” wailed the
woebegone miller. “Why didn’t he leave last week?”
The men returned in a body at three o’clock on the
following- day. Spink received them submissively,
almost tenderly. “Eer Gorsalce how’s Calder?” said
he. “He’ll live,” Johns replied. “Maybe it’ll go
’ard with the pore blank, but he'll live.” “We.
done the best we could for you, boss,” Brown cut
in. “Kep’ the police out iv it, ’n’ pitched a tale
'bout Calder bein’ tight. Send a tenner to Calder
care iv Wilson, Bridge-street, Richmond, ’n’ I reckon
you’ll hear no more about it.” The rest of that
afternoon was given up to vivid word-of-mouth de-
scriptions of Calder’s injuries, from which Spink
gathered that what was left of his late puller would
have no commercial value whatever. Spink sent
the tenner, with expressions of remorse and sym-
pathy. Eight months later he met Calder in Bourke-
street. Calder hadn’t a mark or sign. “But,”
gasped Spink, “they said you were cut to bits.” “A
little joke,” Calder explained, “to get off to town,
’n' square up with you for cuttin’ out the llorsefall
sports.” “But my tenner?” snorted Spink, seizing
Calder—“the ten quid I sent to Walker, Richmond ?”
“I dunno anythin’ about no ten o.uid,” Calder re-
plied, “but Brown’s got a brother-in-law named
Walker.” Spink swore a vermilion oath. “But
there was blood,” said he. “A new-trapped rabbit,”
replied Calder, and walked on, leaving Spink staring
after him in speechless disgust.
“Machete” : There is one way of tanning
kangaroo and ’possum skins which beats all those
lately quoted in The Bulletin. It was practised by
the aboriginal Australians, who achieved results
which for flexibility and softness leave all tanning
processes down the course. Take a large, raw skin
which has been allowed to become a little mellow.
Sit round it and chew it steadily. When it is all
chewed, fold and refold it, beating it the while with
waddies. Then chew it again. Repeat the process
till the finished hide is soft and pliable as velvet
and bone dry. (N.B. —Chew only on the raw side.)
(Continued on pane 24.;
THE CAMP OVEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It hangs by a hook in the chimney
At the end of a rusted chain,
Swung from an old iron crowbar
And blackened with sooty stain;
It’s not joined up to a gas-pipe
Or linked to electric wire,
But in simpler ways it’s warmed on the blaze
Of the logs in a bush-hut Are.
With red ashes piled on the cover
And heating it through and through,
It’s used for the roasting and baking,
The boiling and frying, too;
Chops and pork that is pickled,
Bacon and beef that is corned,
A batch of bread or a whole sheep’s head
And dishes by town-folk scorned.
And what does it greatly matter
If the cooking be somewhat rough ?
If the soda-bread gets doughy
And the meat is inclined to be tough?
There’s a sauce in the toil of the Outback
That the town-folk never share,
When the camp-oven sways on the cheerful blaze
And the dinner is cooking there.
TASMANIA.
O’PIIIMERTY.


No Soles Like Armourite Soles
TRY THEfI YOURSELF.
Murdoch’s Famous Boots
with “Armourite” Soles
tire wonderful wearers and assure comfort, satis-
faction and economy to those who wear them.
“Armourite” is toughened bv a special process
which makes it wear-resisting, yet preserves its
pliability. Here's a fact that tells in favor.*
“Armourite” Soles
will Outwear
Two Ordinary Soles.
That is where economy comes in—because Boots
shod with “Armourite” cost no more than
ordinary boots. Get a pair and test their wear.
Mafle in a variety of smart shapes and styles,
comfortable and easy fitting. The uppers are
high-grade Box Calf or Glace Kid, and the Soles
are “Armourite.” These All-Australian Boots
are
Obtainable Only at Hurdoch’s.
Call and try on your size or send your order to
Desk It.
In Black, Box Calf
or Glace Kid
22/6
In Tan Calf
• • •
24/6
Post Free in N.S.W. Inter-State, 1/- extra.
Post
Free.
V?
f:
MURDOCH’S
in Park
St. Ltd.
Sydney
Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.
Leviathan
Tailoring
is renowned for its
unvarying excellence.
Men to-day are demandin
the sound value that
wearers of Leviathan
Suits have BEEN
GETTING for
66 years.
If YOU have
not been getting
satisfaction from
other houses,
allow OUR
Master Cutters
and their highly-
efficient Staffs
to produce your next
Suit, and you will
realise your ideals of
what a well-made,
perfect-fitting, long-
wearing Suit should he.
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
- -
1
S*<!
Write now for
free patterns
Of RELIABLE
Suitings at
70/-, 84/-,
90/- to 147/-
(togetherwith
Tape & Home-
measurement
Chart).
rv.
Leviathan
Cor. Swanston & Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
fdh
ASK THE MAN WHO OWNS ONE.
OVER 100,000 IN ACTUAL USE.
■Starts and Stops Itself SAFE and RELIABLE.
RUNS ON KEROSENE
Same amount of Kerosene used in lamps and lanterns will
operate DELCO=LIGHT and give four times as much light.
Electric Light
for
Everyone.
JtJI
m f
n
f, *
u
a*-"*.
«ss«;
I
W9M
.»
*w>j
•fp’
fi
So Simple
a Child can
Operate It,
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Warburton,
Franki Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
VICTORIA BTASMANIA
Warburton,
Franki Ltd.,
MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND:
Smellie 8 Co.
Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Parsons 8
Robertson Ltd.,
ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Geo. Wills
and Co.,
PERTH
NEW ZEALAND:
A. D. RILEY 8 CO. LTD.
WELLINGTON.
FARMERS’ CO-OP. Ass’n
CHRISTCHURCH.


My maids were up at peep of dawn
To beat the carpets on the lawn ;
But poor old cook still lay in bed
With gasping lungs and aching head.
I greatly value Missus Gee,
But careless in some ways is she ;
Last night I told her to be sure
And send for Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. — Advt.
Meggitt Ltd. Silos
at Parramatta.
fd
A LANDMARK —
of the Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal Manufacturers of the
Southern Hemisphere in the Pioneering Town—PARRAMATTA—of N.S.W.
MEGGITT LTD. LINSEED OIL and
One Quality Only
m
LINSEED OIL MEAL
—The Best.
Pamphlet No. 2. instructing how to feed, mailed free.
Full particulars from Agents:—Messrs R. S. Exton & Co.. Queen Streep Brisbane; Messrs. Harrisons
Ramsay Ltd., Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. Clarkson Ltd.. Adelaide; Messrs W Adams p„h,'
W.A.; .Messrs. E. \V. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; or
MEGCITT LIMITED,
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil
Meal Manufacturers of Australia),
26 King Street, Sydney
WORKS:
PARRAMATTA.
MEGGITTS
[JNSEEQ OIIHEAJ
: (W
MEGGITT L’“
PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.
“To Whare" : I admit that the bee-eater
dots sometimes worry apiarists and prey upon the
industrious honey-maker; but it is also a useful
insectivorous species, and therefore protected under
ta penalty. Instead of shooting this beau-
tiful swallow-like bird, it should be effectually scared
away by discharging a blank cartridge at or near it.
Birds which are shot at soon learn to steer wide of
human habitations. The common or dusky wood-
swallow. which kills bees occasionally, might also
be blanked. It, too, is a useful insectivorous bird
and a good friend to the farmer and pastoralist.
This wood-swallow is commonly christened “bee-bird”
(not bee-eater), or “.Tacky Martin,” and it belongs
to the shrike family. The ornate bee-eater—a color-
harmony in brown, black, pale blue and green—may
b<- easily recognised by two very fine stiff feathers
which project from the tail. I’ve watched him
perched on trees near rivers' and lagoons on the
South Coast (N.S.IV.) in wait for moths and flies,
ami in other instances he has been seen in orchards
feeding on a purple moth with white spots, which
was doing much damage to grape vines. The good
points of every bird should be set off against the
bad, and unless the latter greatly preponderate the
feathered citizen shouldn't be recklessly destroyed.
* , * * *
“D.F.”: Mark Twain’s ghastly story,
Cannibalism in the Cars,” had a prototype, which
Mark almost certainly never heard of, in Maoriland.
A Maori chief, named Tuakan told J. C. Crawford
that in the good old days 150 Waikato Maoris were
caught by a snowstorm while crossing yie shoulder
of Ruapehu. They took shelter in a cave and ate
the slaves and then the children, and kept narrow-
ing the circle until only two were left. These
escaped.
BELATED.
“Say, Boss, ain't this a trifle early ter call a
bloke up?"
"Early? Cripes, y' ouglitcr think yerself
lucky Y’ wasn't called up three or four
years ago."
“D.F.”: Bullocks can beat horses as.
long-distance homers, according to a yarn told by
J. C. Crawford, one of the pioneering settlers
at Wellington, and afterwards resident magis-
trate. lie declares that at the end of IS3B he
and a man named Coutts drove overland from N. S.
Wales to Adelaide a mob of cattle which included
some bullocks bought by Coutts at a station on the
Murrumbidgee. While the cattle were spelling at
Mount Crawford, near Adelaide, these bullocks got
away, and though Coutts tracked them to the Murray
he could not catch them. Later he went back to
-V. S. Wales for another lot of cattle, and when he
got to the station where he had bought the original
lot, about 800 miles from Adelaide, he found them
there waiting for him.
* * *
“Dug-out”: A farmer near Boorowa
(N.S.W.) rejoices in the possession of an old collie
dog, who is reputed to be the best weather prophet
south of the Equator. When rain is approaching
Nick emerges from his kennel, and, selecting a spot
in the open, reclines on the broad of his back with
all four logs in the air, dozing in that position for
hours at a time until the moisture arrives, which is
never later than 24 hours. About 100 meteorological
reports have been issued to date, without one mistake.
‘‘Mustard Gold”: Stowed away in a
Leonora (W.A.) yard are the crumbling coaches
which Cobb and Co. used to send through the
mulga until the speedier motor chased them off the
tracks. And with their scrapping- went the familiar
whips and old coaching hands who for 20 years were
part and parcel of the wayback communities. It
was a grilling- ordeal aboard the slow-going vehicles
(five miles an hour was their limit of speed) cover-
ing the long desert stretches between Leonora, Mount
Sir Samuel and Sandstone, but there were pleasant
associations en route not to be forgotten. Doyle’s
Well, a rendezvous of the Darlot rush days, and a
coach stage, sported a bush pub, with the customary
stool in front and a monumental heap of empties in
the yard, reminder of the Gargantuan thirst of the
period. Midway between Lawlers and Sandstone is
yet another noted halting-place, known in bygone
times as “The Microbe,” an appellation bestowed
on a weird spirit who ran the joint in conjunction
with the missus, an angular feminine of foreign
extraction. Bag stretchers and good rough tucker
were provided at the shanty. The Microbe and
the coaching men have long since gone. Jimmy
Nicholas, the principal of Cobb and Co., lives on
his accumulated wealth in Perth, varying life with
a healthy interest in the turf, from which he has
taken a Perth Cup or two, besides other important
races in the West. Of the old drivers, the best-
remembered arc Charley Chick and Dick Daly, both
masters of the ribbons.
“Boori*’: A man named Gamble chopped
down a tree at Port Kembla (N.S.W.) lately, and
in a dead limb which had been 50ft. from the ground
discovered a carpet-snake about Bft. long. Will any
bushman explain how the snake came to be hiberna-
ting iit such a distance from the ground, and how-
lie reached that far towards the Better Land ?
“Silas”: I noticed that the track from
Cope’s homestead at Copperfield down to the made
road, a mile off, took an abrupt sweep to the left at
a point a quarter of a mile from the house, although
there was no visible or conceivable excuse for not con-
tinuing on the direct route. I spoke to old Cope about
it. Old Cope was drowsing among his wild scrub
ol' mosaic whiskers when I spoke. lie did not look
up to reply. “There was two giant gums there up
to seven years ago,” lie said. “But they’re not
there now,” I replied. “Carr ' Me ’n’ me ’orses is
too old fer any d —d new-fangled ways!” said Cope.
‘Tick”: Inland lakes and waterholes
bounded by swamps are the favorite nest-
ing-places of the swan. On the still
water they construct a. huge raft of air-
filled reeds which, with rushes and grass
piled upon it, would weigh tons and is
sufficiently buoyant to. support the weight
of a man. In a basin-shaped hollow on
top, from 10 to 15 large white eggs
are laid, to guard which from raids of the
swamp-hawk the owner of the tenement
has a worryful time. On Black Lake,
near Bibbenluke (N.S.W.), I once
watched persistent efforts of the burglar
to secure for himself an omelet. He
hovered watchfully above until the swan
dived under the water for food. Then he
swooped for the nest. It was then I
learned that the usually slow and stately
swan can put a spurt on when required.
With long neck angrily outstretched, she
shot over the surface of the lake with the
speed of a torpedo. There was a whirl-
wind of flappings and a drift of feathers
through the air. Then a much bedraggled
hawk corkscrewed aloft, and the trum-
peters along the lake blew a great rally
for the lady.
Black Bonnet”: I have not yet come
across mention of one of the prettiest of the scrub
residents' in North Queensland, the “climbing kan-
gaioo. He is about the size of an ordinary wal-
laby, with bear-like hands and head, beautiful fur
and a long furry tail. He climbs like a bear and
rests, plays and feeds in the trees like a monkey.
The female carries her young in a pouch. The
animals are occasionally seen on the ground, but
when alarmed they make for the nearest tree, up
which they scamper and survey the intruder witli
inquisitive eyes. If a. tree is not handy the ’roo mav
easily be caught, for his gait on the ground is
clumsy and slow, like the National Debt when it is
trotted out for review.
“Ornis”: Tell “N. or M.” (B. 27/G/T8)
that I know the queer spider lie speaks of. Appar-
ently he has seen only one kind—the grey one. At
Campbell Town and one or two other places in north-
ern Tassy, I have come across another species with a
wonderful series of color variations. Some were
pink, others, green or brown, others mottled. They
are the most beautiful- little web weavers I had ever
recommended to the village curate. Their webs con-
sist of highly complicated geometrical figures from
which radiate the supporting threads criss-crossing
those of other spinners. The private address of
each spider is inside a curled-up leaf connected with
the chief nerve centre of the irregular-looking fly-
trap. Discussing this curiously-shaped little beast
with the curate one day, he gave it as his opinion
that the great grandmother-nth degree removed must
have been a freak, and that as in course of time
freak bred with like, so a distinctive scorpion-like
spider became a “fixed” species. The fact that the
spinnerat glands are in the usual position supports
the curate’s idea. And when it comes to spiders, etc.,
he’s got ideas to burn.
A FRIENDLY TIP.
THE HOUSEWIFE: “I would not have believed it possible that anybody could get so dirty.”
THE BEAT : “I can only advise dogged persistence, lady; dogged persistence.”
“Leo Lear”: In his description of the
nesting habits of the scrub-turkey, “Wandi” (B.
20/6/’18) omits one of the most important points of
all, i.e., the male bird’s share in the construction of
the mound. The contraption is built entirely by
the boss. If Mrs. S. T. attempts to put in her spade
he drives her off the premises. He is caretaker of
the nest after its completion, and tests the tempera-
ture by placing his head on the structure before the
missus lays an egg. The old girl is not even allowed
to cover her egg with sand, etc., when it is laid.
The old pot does all this by scratching in and tramp-
ing down hard. But he gets fed up with graft
before the chicks appear, so they are compelled to
scratch themselves out to sunlight.
NO USE ARGUING.
“Now, look ’ere; old Bill’s putting in three
shovelfuls to your one.”
“Well, I’ve told ’im about it, hut, ’e won’t
take any blanky notice.”
“Veg. Cat’’: For a grub to got into a plant
or fruit and eat the inside out of it is nothing un-
common, but, according to J. H. Kerry-Sficholls, who
wandered through the King Country (M.li.) in 1883,
the vegetable has its revenge at times. .He deposes
that the hotete, the grub of the large night-butterfly,
was found by him in the Rauporoa forest dead aiid
dried up with the stem of a plant about Gin. long
shooting out of its tail end. The theory is that the grub
eats the seed of some unknown plant, which germinates
inside it, when the creature buries itself in the
ground to change into a chrysalis. Some of the
Maoris told Nicholls that it was the seed of the
rata which got a start in this novel way, but he
honestly admits that he does not know if this is so.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: The deadly pea-rifle is still tliin-
ni ng out the population; but there would be fewer
funerals if the mechanism were less defective. The
locks are usually made of soft metal, which, after
very little use, become worn and consequently won’t
hold. All the gun licenses in the world wouldn’t
make the weapon any more reliable, unless they
pertained to the gun as well as the person using it.
Against the total prohibition of the pea-rifle it has
been urged that the contraption affords good train-
ing for defence to lads who are too y'oung to carry'
an ordinary gun ; but if they' are too young to carry
ordinary guns, it is damphoolishness to trust them
with cheap makeshifts. As to the training, that is
acquired at the sacrifice of valuable native birds;
the small boy, like the town sportsman abroad,
shoots everything that flies. The mischief wrought
in the bird world by the pea-rifle should alone have
been sufficient to condemn it.
* # * *
“Dormant”: Pigtail came to the farm
with his bamboo and two baskets. He bought a
porker from the cocky and killed it. It weighed
about 1151 b., and John was much concerned as to
carrying it home. He did not cut it down, but
after some hard thinking he got three big stones
and put them in one basket, then put the pig’s
carcase in the other. “Welly goo’ balance now,” he
explained.
“Xor’-West”: Remedies for catfish stings
mentioned recently in The Bulletin may be 0.1 v.,
but most of them are too much trouble to be bothered
with. Get on to this. Slightly scarify' the injured
part and rub in nicotine from your pipe. I have
proved the efficacy of this during 20 y'ears’ experience
on North-Western rivers. Non-smokers will obtain
relief by bathing the wound in very hot water.
THE WAY OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He’d come again to Austral shores.
Back, damaged from the horrid wars,
And “ ’Struth!” said lie, “some peace is near.
Now, rest, and an occasional beer.”
They put a blue band on liis arm,
The right from “hoisting ’em” to charm.
Said Billjim: “Though I’m sore bereft,
Thank Heaven, still my left is left.”
A blue band on his left now see.
“And that’s teetotal too?” said he.
Then fairly to observe the law
He sucked his liquor through a straw.
VICTC RCA.
BILLY T.


The Need
of Good Tyres
is quickly appreciated by Motor Cyclists,
particularly owners of powerful twins —some of these
develop. 15 h.p., so it’s little wonder that strong, sturdy
Covers with thick high-grade tough rubber wearing treads are
essential to satisfactory tyre service. In this respect you cannot
do better than follow the crowd and use . . .
DUNLOP TYRES
for they have proved the excellence of these reliable and durable
tyres. Greater mileage is obtained from the latest “Dunlops” than
from any other tyre on the market —and at the minimum cost.
The heavy thick rubber treads, strong casings and highest
quality of materials and workmanship ensure you these
results. Use “Dunlops”—there’s nothing to equal them!
k All Sizes. All Agents.
/
Vfl
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
All States
and N.Z.


From Snotty to Sub. :i good yarn of a middy’s dav-
by-day experiences in the Muck-lip. The Snotties
have the good hand from Australia for their gal-
lantry at the Landing. The little book was edited
by the mother of the adventurer —much better than
most mothers would do it. William Heinemann
(London) publisher.
The Aged and Infirm
are sometimes more susceptible to COUGHS and COLDS on tbe
CHEST than the young and vigorous. When an aged person gets
a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not only is the BEST
REMEDY taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that
does NOT cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution. In such a case, HEARNE S Bronchitis
Cure is just THE proper Medicine to use, a 3 it is the QUICKEST,
SAFEST and BEST— a Remedy that is just as elective with
YOUNG PEOPLE.
Heame’s
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest Remedy in the World
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
:aV//>
\ ini
W
57
r
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size)
From all Chemists and Stores.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to —
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Offices —
Sydney, N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
14,
Kn^<;.S<-*-y-V-V TV +A
Candid advt. from one of the Speck’s
dailies: —
A Beauty Specialist invites those who wish to
become more beautiful to consult her. Scalp treat-
ment, Manicuring, llair-waving. Coins removed.
that time Degas had come into his own,
though to the last he cared nothing for
popular opinion. He always had a supreme
contempt for the salon and other official ex-
hibitions; it was difficult to see his work, but
year by year his fame grew, till ultimately be
became an “old master,” a picture originally
sold for £2O bringing £17,000 in his own life-
time. The French Government has pur-
chased some fine works, one for £14,000, but
he is still poorly represented in Britain and
not at ail in Australia. Not so long ago
Sydney or Melbourne could have acquired
good examples of Degas at quite moderate
prices ; but our well-meaning business men,
who were then entrusted with the experts’
job of purchasing pictures for the nation in-
variably went to the Royal Academy, and
selected the honored pot-boilers of the
moment; £2OOO would be given for a picture
that is now worth £2OO, while for £2OO, ii
they had known anything about art, they
could have bought works that would
now be worth £2OOO. That is an
argument that should convince our trustees,
who still have implicit faith in the superior
virtues of the “business man,” some deen-
browed soap-boiler or importer of Stilton
cheese, that an artist is the best judge of
pictures. Degas’ own collection, that was
worth a fortune, proves thaf it is not a mat-
ter of luck, like mining, but of knowledge
and judgment. Half a dozen small works of
Degas himself would have been worth all
our fatuous Poynters, Leightons, Water-
houses, Alma Tademas, and the whole Vic-
torian crew ten times over. Degas, who is
probably one of the greatest draughtsmen
that ever lived, would have been a constant
stimulus and example to the young Austra-
lian artists. In comparison with his, most
other drawing looks almost amateurish;
whatever else it is it is not really drawing.
Because he was a painter of jockeys, washer-
women and ballet-girls, the Philistine was
unable to see that he was the legitimate
descendant of his master Ingres, the classic,
the academic, the painter of the most ex-
quisite nudes, and that his line was the last
word in subtlety and refinement. Degas
was never an Impressionist, like Manet or
Monet, any more than Whistler was an Im-
pressionist. Degas was a friend of the
Impressionists, but belonged to no school; he
was a solitary. His life will be a famous
record of an absolute devotion to art, for he
was a veritable fanatic, the Flaubert of
painting. His “mots” cut deeper than
Whistler’s, and are as ferocious as they are
profound. When gathered up they will take
their place with the “Gentle Art.”
LOUIS ESSON.
The Inky Way
“Vee”: For the first time in the history
of the N. S. Wales district of the A.J.A. the
annual election of chairman has been upset
by a general meeting of members. As a rule,
little interest is displayed in the election of
officials, but on the expiration of the last
term on June 30 a heated contest followed.
C. C. Faulkner, retiring chairman, an-
nounced his decision to seek re-election, while
Gordon Bennett (vice-chairman) and V.
Molesworth (who’d held the cash-box) and
S. A. Rosa also permitted their names to
appear on the ballot-paper. When about 20
voting slips were issued to country members
V. Molesworth enlisted, and notified the re-
turning-officer, requesting that his name be
deleted. This was done, and at the annual
meeting the R.O. announced the result as:
Faulkner 100, Bennett 40, Rosa G; informal
2. On the point that the ballot-papers
should not have been interfered with by
deleting Molesworth’s name, the meeting
ordered a new ballot to be conducted. Fresh
nominations were invited, and C. C. Faulk-
ner was declared elected unopposed.
“Bill” Dyson (Lieutenant W. Dyson now-
adays) is bringing out a book, “Australia at
War,” comprising sketches he made at the
Front and exhibited recently in London, at
the Leicester Galleries. Bill, whose literary
style is as virile as his draughtsmanship, has
written brief descriptions of the incidents
on which his drawings are based, and a
poem dedicated “To the Men of the A.1.F.”
An introduction is being done by G. K.
Chesterton.
THE HAPPY BARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My job, oft called the lot austere,
And wept upon in countless rhymes,
Is well enough as things are here,
And even has its charm at times.
1 wonder it' those others made
Their loud lament a stock-in-trade
Because the lamentation paid !
Most fortunate in our despair,
Whate’er our present trials be
We need but set them to an air,
And joy will follow with the fee.
What other craftsmen, being rid
By some foul hag, when they have chid
May trade the chiding for a quid?
Have I a headache, down I sit
And set it forth on paper white
(On one side, mark you, fairly writ) ;
My dentist hurts me, over-night
My anguish in sly verse I tell,
Each poignant throb, each piercing yell.
In that shape troubles always sell.
Where some can never part w 7 ith woe,
Mine brings me cash whene’er 1 will.
I welcome, say, a corn or so
To help to foot the baker’s bill,
if Care should come one day intent
On staying, I’d not have her sent—
I’d make my lodger pay the rent!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
No blind man would go on duty with his
cheque-book sticking out of km pocket and
some banknotes in his hand. Yet it is just
as bad for his business to be hauled to court
on a charge of obstructing the traffic and
have it published that he owns a house worth
£lOOO and has £2OO in the bank. A blind
match-seller, who for years has pitched his
camp-stool in Moore-street, Sydney, had Ins
reserves disclosed in court last week, and
had to agree to retire into a recess in the
Savings Bank wall —a much less conspicuous
business stand than his chosen pitch on the
kerb. * * *
“Wonga”: N. S. Wales Fruitgrowers’
Association is getting a stranglehold on itself
regarding the importation of American
apples. The Association for _ many years
was composed of Sydney district fruit-
growers who produce an early apple, which
comes into competition with the imported
article, and incidentally doesn’t fare too
well, mainly because it isn’t a popular sort.
Recently the Association has spread itself
(owing mainly to the threatened attack by
the Rural Workers’ Union, now swallowed
up by the A.W.U.), and has branches in
the country districts further out, including
Bathurst, where many acres grow very fine
apples which do not come into competition
with the American. So the Sydney branches
want the Americans kept out, and the
Bathurst growers want them left alone, as
they have hopes of building up an export
trade with America. At present the U.S.A.
bars our apples and fruit generally, nomi-
nally for fear of importing the fruit fly.
Those who know that country’s sound policy
of encouraging the local product, never ex-
pect that we will ever send many apples to
America, and logically argue that we should
follow the same course here, and give the
local grower a chance. Which is good Aus-
tralian. It seems ridiculous that Ave should
import cold-stored apples from America in
the hope that Ave will be allowed to send
cold-stored apples back. Why not cold-store
and seil our oAA r n apples on our own market,
and incidentally give the consumer a chance
of getting apples at a reasonable price?
Local growers reckon they would be well
paid with 30 or 40 per cent, below the
money handed out for the imported article,
and consumers would eat 200 per cent, more
apples if they were cheaper.
“‘Sox” : When some wharf-lumpers knocked
off loading frozen meat at Melbourne a
couple of years or so ago as a protest against
the expensive local chop, Judge Higgins
turned on an indignant remonstrance in the
Arbitration Court. Now when the owners
of stock are threatening to starve the public
into paying prices for meat fixed by jobbers
and market combines, influential citizens are
publicly giving three cheers and making
incoherent remarks about the law of
supply and demand. Whether, if the
meat-raisers go on with their scheme,
and as a result all the workers in the
Commonwealth down tools and go to bed
because of exhaustion through meat famine,
and returned heroes get no adequate nour-
ishment, and the death-rate bounds upwards
because invalids collapse on account of the
“beef-tea” being made of shavings—whether,
in the event of these calamitous happenings
afflicting the nation and Higgins, J., being
rushed into the breach to keep Australia win-
ning the war, he will turn the same sort of
handsprings as before and hit the man in
bluchers with a caveat, is in the meantime a
matter of speculative interest. What would the
Law do anyhow if industrial Australia was
too weak to get to work and nothing but
steak could restore the situation?
* * *
The public-trust hotel, at Eenmark, on the
Murray (S.A.) claims to be the first of its
kind in the Empire. This irrigation settle-
ment, founded by the American Chaffey
brothers long ago, has always been a great
place for experiments. The pub is managed
bv a committee elected from the local resi-
dents. Its latest balance-sheet shows the
bar takings for the last twelve months at
£11,600; other takings £4700; profit on the
working, £2826. The committee has allotted
£4OO to the Eenmark Hospital, and £25 to
the Institute; the rest goes to the reserve
fund, which is getting very handsome, and
as to the ultimate disposal of which there
are various more or less reckless suggestions.
* * * *
“Canuck” : After four years of war the
Defence authorities have discovered that, if
they give their minds to it. they can occa-
sionally save a bit of fat at the various mili-
tary camps, and have given orders that
“proper economy is to be exercised.’ But
there are more things wasted than fat. I
had a fairly intimate knowledge of the
Laverton camp when the compulsory
trainees were being shaken into shape at the
time of the first Referendum, and I saw as
much good food wasted and carted away to
a bone-mill as would have fed a whole
suburb. A publican or a steward of a liner
could have victualled that camp for a
quarter of what the military geniuses spent
on it. and probably have given more satis-
faction to the customers.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: Butchers have lately been
talking about bone as waste, but my meat
baron doesn’t waste anything. When I buy
a joint he weighs it with the bone in, then
cuts the bone out and retains it, unless I
ask to be allowed to take it home for my
imaginary dog. Then he throws the bone
down with an offended air. He seems to
think I’m a mean sort of person for not
presenting it to him to sell to the scrap-cart
or the bone-mill after he has charged me the
same price for it as for the meat. Most
customers leave their bones (that is, the
bones they buy, though the butcher would
find a profitable use for the bones they wear
if the owners had no objection) behind, even
though the robber leaves a lot of meat on
them to be cut off afterwards and made into
sausages. An employee told me, after he
got the sack for being too slow at weighing,
that his instructions were to make his wages
out of the scales. But these are not the clays
to quibble about trifles.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The death in
Melbourne, at the age of 80 years, of Mrs.
Greig-—a sister of the late W. B. Dailey—
recalls her late husband’s firm —Greig and
Murray. In the early ’fifties, in Collins-
street, between the then Hall of Commerce
and the Union Bank (corner of Queen-
street), was a mercantile auction-room run
by W. M. Tennent and Co. In those days
consignments were sent to Melbourne for
sale by public auction. In Collins-street,
between Queen and Elizabeth streets,
flourished many auctioneers, who sold for
the importers, Gemmell, MeCaul and Co.
(afterwards Gemmell, Tuckett and Co.),
Frazer and Cohan, Win. Easy and Co., Wm.
Perry and Co., Nat Levi and Co., and others.
Tennent’s sales were usually cargoes of
groceries and oilmen’s stores. Tennent
retired in the first ’sixties, and was suc-
ceeded by Greig and Murray, who carried
on business for many years.
“Ibis” : Out here, 400 miles from Sydney,
the wife paid Is. lOd. per tin for the par-
ticular brand of baby-food adapted to our
hopeful’s needs until the other day, when the
seller said “Two and sixpence, please.” She
retained enough presence of mind to urge him
to keep it. There are three stores and a
chemist’s shop in the town, and, finding the
other stores were out she tried the chemist.
“Two and sixpence, please” there, too. He
and the storekeeper, knowing themselves the
only holders of a scarce line, were making
the' most of it. The missus then ’phoned the
next town. “Yes,” said the store, “plenty
of it; Is. Bd. per tin. Will send along six
tins by to-night’s train.” Freight, 3d. on
the six tins. When one reads on the wrap-
per, “This food is guaranteed to contain
nothing but wheat, milk and sugar,” one sees
why it has to be imported from America.
* * , * ' *
“Senex”: A word re “Metacentre’s” (B.
20/G/T8) par. on coastal steamers’ develop-
ment, etc. With deference, I disagree with
his statement that the built-up steamer is
“stiffer than the old flush decker.” I don’t
think so. Th‘e lower the centre of gravity
is (i.e., the more bottom weight a ship
has) the stiffer she is, and the more she will
roll in a seaway. A heavy roller needs
careful stowing of the cargo,_ as in such a
ship the centre of gravity is well below
the metacentre, or centre of buoyancy, and
top weight is needed, especially in a wind-
bag, to prevent her rolling the sticks out of
herself. The old flush-decker would never
roll over, but her cargo might easily shift
if carelessly stowed and give her a disagree-
able list. The aiih in building a modern
passenger ship is to get the metacentre, and
centre of gravity close together (within
limits of safety). The ship then is steady
in a heavy sea, and you don’t get the lurch-
ing roll of a stiff ship. A boat with a high
centre of gravity is not necessarily danger-
ous by any means. When I was “goin’ a
fishin’ ” second mate of a tramp, we left
Kidderpore Dock, Calcutta, with bales. of
bags for Buenos Ayres, and passing
through the locks, it was necessary to
check her with the starboard quarter line.
When the weight came tin it, the ship went
over about eight degrees, gummy bags being
a light but bulky cargo and there being
about 100 tons of bunkers on her well
decks. As soon as the rope was let go she
came back sluggishly. Afterwards we had
very heavy weather crossing the Agulhas
Bank (S’Africa), but the vessel behaved very
well. All the same, ask any skipper which
sort of a ship he’d sooner be in during a
cyclone, and I bet he’ll plump for . one like
the old Aramac or Arrawatta.
* * * *
“Shop Girl”: Every woman who comes
in to buy a hat should have her head washed
by the floor-walker in the vestibule. I have
sold hats that had been tried on 17 heads
before they reached their final destination.
“Kookaburra” : Cyclones are not the only
fast things in North Bananaland. The other
day I went to the butcher to get corned
meat. Mr. Chops rubbed liis knife twice on
the steel, stepped towards a hindquarter, cut
out six pounds of gravy beef, rolled it twice
in coarse salt, and handed it back to me
quite corned. Time, 2|secs.
“F.N.T.” : Irr the days of our youth we
used to be acquainted with match-boxes
labelled “Paraphinerade tandstickor,” with
“Impregnated safety matches” printed under-
neath a trade-mark consisting of a group of
medals. The old, .familiar box has been
resurrected —-Scandinavian mystery-words,
facsimile trade-mark, English description
and all. But the label states that the goods
are “Made in Japan.”
The City Bank premises and those of the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Co.,
both in Pitt-street. Sydney, were put up at
auction recently and passed in, the former
at £BO,OOO and the latter at £90,000.
“F.N.T.”: Writing of soldiers’ parcels,
“Askari” (B. 27/6/T8) tells of a package
he received from Australia containing a full
line of imported goods—American chewing-
gum, Swiss chocolate, and so on. “Askari”
might have added that the supply of im-
ported goods to soldiers starts before the
recruit leaves Australia. For instance, one
of the items in every soldier’s kit is a
Jap toothbrush. A strange combination, by
the way, is now to be found in many shops—
a card of toothbrushes labelled at the top
“Made in England.” On each toothbrush,
across the handle just below the bristles,
there is what at first glance seems to be a
narrow, black line; it is “Japan" in micro-
scopical lettering.
“Jay Pay” : Bananalanders are to-day wit-
nessing something new in the dead-marine
business. Around the Bow r en dumps are to
be seen men gathering and bagging broken
glass, which is shipped to Sydney, remelted
and blown into beer envelopes. There used
to be unbroken bottles by the hundreds on
the Bow r en dumps, but they are as scarce
now as honesty in war-time trading—as rare
as the politician who is game to look the
profiteer in that person’s contemptuous eye.


II
“Adamax” is the ideal roofing
for Bungalow Construction. The
low-pitched roof is not only
attractive, but effects a big saving
in timber and studding.
A DA MAX
4
hfd
4
u
“Adamax” is used extensively
for roofing mine and other build-
ings. It is proof against Fire,
Rust, Rot and Decay by fumes and
chemical action.
adamax
ft
m
V
hf
£5
>V_'N
vs'-^xj
ro.
Wifi
r
For the Farmer and Man Out
West “Adamax"’ presents many
advantages. Hay Ricks, Stables,
Barns, Woolsheds, etc., can be
erected speedily and economically
by its use.
AJPHALTUM
MOM
'Adamax Performance Speaks
Louder Than Our Claims.
The Roofing that meets the exceptional tests and careful
analyses that roofing must be subjected to before it would be
accepted for such “Big Jobs” as the following, is the roofing
you can safely rely upon to give you the best service and the
greatest roof satisfaction, all the time and under all condi-
tions.
43f miles of “Adamax” Roof Covering are being
used on Wool=storage sheds erected in Wentworth
Park, Sydney,by Messrs. Stuart Bros, for the Central
Wool Committee,
Again recently, 13 miles of “Adamax” Roofing were
ordered by the imperial Authorities in Perth for the
West Australian Wool Stores.
22,000 sq. yds. for use on the Commonwealth Buildings at Molongo,
Canberra.
29,000 sq. yds. on the Leeton Canning Factories.
13,200 sq. yds. for West Australian Government Freezing Works
at Wyndham.
An order for 44,000 sq. yds. was placed for use on the South Aus=
tralian Wheat Board Buildings.
The Contracts for the N. S. Wales Railways for 1917-18, and again
for 1918=19 were secured for “Adamax” Roofing, the estimated
requirements for the year being 25,000 sq. yds.
“ADAMAX” ROOFING costs One-third
the price of Galvaiused-iron.
That wasn’t the sole reason why “Adamax” secured those huge
orders.
“Adamax” is the Roofing that best resists the elements, because of
its special process of finish, which makes it time-proof. Neither
Rain, Heat, Wind, Cold, Acids, Gases nor Chemical Fumes have any
ill-effect on it—neither does Sea Air cause it to pit or disintegrate.
It contains no tar or fish oil—so there is nothing that will dry out
or rot, thus leaving the roofing lifeless. It will not Rust or Pinhole
through exposure, consequently it has a great advantage over Iron—
because of its longer life and its saving in freight.
Its use as a roofing is reaching out everywhere—to the farm, the
home and the out-building. Here, too, its quality is a protection
against Fire, Rot and Disintegration. It is Australia’s safest and
most economical roofing.
“THE BEST VALUE THAT
MONEY CAN BUY.”
The “Adamax” Booklet gives facts in detail.
Send for Free Copy to-day!
dh
The illustration shows “Ada-
max” in use on Flat Roofs. It is
perfectly watertight and will
neither bulge nor rot.
ADAMAX
f
hfd
hd
fh
fdh
Factories, Warehouses and large
Public Buildings throughout Aus-
tralia are covered with “Adamax.”
Its use is now almost universal.
A DA MAX
fd
m
m
IT
£53
\uu'
a
m
Garages roofed with “Adamax”
give every protection from Fumes,
Fire, Sparks, Heat, etc. No
technical skill is needed to lay
“Adamax.” The illustration serves
a? a typical example of its use.
WILLIAM ADAMS
175 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE : 96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: Cor. Edward &, Mary Streets.
PERTH : 33 King' Street.


A. Saunders’ Hunting Kit-Bag, solid nickel fittings, canvas
lining: 18-inch, 35/-; SO-'iich, 39/-; -'--inch, 43/-J
24-inch, 47/6.
©t
A. Saunders’ Attache Writing Case, detachable blotter,
fitted with every convenience, £2/10/-
Others, £2, £3.
A. Saunders’ Smoker’s Companion, bevelled edge glass base, solid
copper mounts, 25 / *
Useful Gifts.
'"' l
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Canteen, containing 3-piece Carving
Set, 6 Table Knives, 6 Dessert Knives, 6 Table Forks, 6
Dessert Forks, £5.
m
mm
mrnumm
Afintmi
A. Saunders’ 3-piece Carving Set, Xylonite Handles, finest-
qualitv hand-forged Sheffield steel, 1,5/6.
Others, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
A. Saunders’ Swan Fountain Pen, 14ct. gold, iridium-
pointed nib, plain. 12/6.
2.9 ct. Gold Bands, 21/-, 22/6, 23/6, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’ Solid Leather Suit-case, solid nickel-fitting,
canvas-lined, cap corners. 20-inch, 48/6; 22-inch, 58/6;
24-inch, 58/6; 26-inch, 63/6.
A. Saunders’ Soldier’s or Tourist’s Canvas-fitted
Toilet Roll, all metal unbreakable fittings, 30 /-
Smaller size, 21/-. Larger, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pocket Wallet,
Morocco Leather, Silver Shield,
8/6.
Others, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-
SS»
KS-
>c&
A. Saunders’ Combination
Match Holder and Ash
Tray, pure silver-plated,
hand burnished, 5/6.
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
315
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes front
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay •
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
THE thing that the pe'ople should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a linking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win witt; )ut
lifting a hand?
safeguard yoo r health
0f j.Collis Browne's
CWorodync
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, IJS, SI-. 5/-.
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
f 1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6 Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
-x, L Flanders la rare book by Defoe), 1/3,
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s including Nana. 2/- each posted.
Educating the Horse. 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory 1/3. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Biddle op the Uni-
verse, 1/-, and all the Rational Press Repiints
(send for list). -Toys op Life, 2s. Love
Letters of a Priest, 1/9. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Career op Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/6. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler's Science op Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners' Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet's Fortune-Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow's Book of Strength, posted 3/9. Car-
lisle's Freemasonry, 5/- posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. History op the Rod Flagella-
tions and THE Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 2/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 31-. The Art op Jiu-Jitsu. 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/6. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/9. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/9. Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers' Secrets and How
to Win at Cards. 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads. 1/6. Soldering. Brazing, &c.,
1/9 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille. 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every M\n His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2 /-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speech .is and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6;'-.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own School-
master. 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver's Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heftameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- . posted.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook. 92 practical
illustrations. 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon’s Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6, All About Incu-
bators, 1/9. Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingeiisoll's Works, 1/-, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/9. The Wife's Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/9. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/9.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses, 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/- posted. Damaged
Goods, 1/6. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard's Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life's Shop Window, 1/9. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, (j 7 869 Market Street, Sydney (only).
BOOKSELLER TO THE COM MON WE ALT


ABSOLUTION —FOR THE WOMAN.
So there’s :i woman in the case!
I surely should have known it •
Wherever Hatred’s weed gains place
A woman’s hand hath sown it.
But for the silent gentler sex
I’d no such bad opinion
As to conceive that she’d annex
Heenzo from my dominion.
(Oh, shame upon me old grey hairs,
Aud on me bygone splendor:
1 thought I was locked in and safe
Against the female gender.)
But since she was in sore distress
And to the deed was driven,
I'm glad to know her cold grew less,
And so our souls are shriven.
— ARRY.
FORGIVENESS —FOR THE STROLLERS,
So thev write to confess, ami they write in dis-
tress,
And each letter increases the gloom :
For I didn’t let on that on different nights
There were tico bottles pinched from my room.
Well,
And
So the
And
a. mate's but a man who is fighting his
fate,
a crook lias his sorrow and grief ,
mate i'll forgive for the sake of a mate,
the thief for the sake of a thief.
And I’ll lot the Gallipoli Strollers so free
To pile up the takings (or bolt);
All players and strollers have had claims on me
Since the generous days of Bland Holt.
A KKI.
How to Make HEENZO Gough Mixture
and save much money.
Costs
2
OVER 7000 LEADING CITIZENS HAVE WRITTEN TELLING OF ITS GOODNESS
FOR ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, COLDS, CATARRH, AND SORE THROATS.
Obtain from your chemist or store a bottle of HEENZO (registered name for HeanV Essence)
it to warm water sweetened as per easv directions printed on the label, and von will at once have a a.
supply' of superior quality cough and sore-throat mixture. A like quantity of ordinary mixture, purchased in a lot
of little bottle would cost anything from 12/- to £l. HEENZO costs only 2/-. Ihus each bottle used
shows a big cash saving. Xo boiling or fussing is needed, the mixing being a matter of but a. tew moments.
If you experience any difficulty in obtaining HEENZO in your locality, or if an attempt is made to> sell
vou some substitute, send 2/-, plus 3d. for postage, and a bottle will be sent to you pci .etuui mail bj
G. W. HEAN. Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
If you prefer a lozenge to a liquid remedy, ask for HEENZO COUGH DIAMONDS. I’nee, 1/-
per tin.
Worth
£1
o*
€6
THE AUSTRALIAN
SKANDIA
99
hfd
Marine, Stationary &. Portable Engines
/
/A
A
a
Igigg/
Unlimited Supply
of Oil Fuel.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON, toftos Street, Sydney.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
Don’t Experiment.
The Real Thins in Razors is the “Plum.” Gets
through the job in a quarter the time, and makes
the business a pleasure. “The ‘PLUM’ is the Razor.
THE- “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE, 10/6— post free.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/C.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/C.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present. All the above Post Free.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2, post free.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
LARGE FAMILY TEAPOTS
Yes, we mean large families and large—extra large
—teapots for large families.
We are showing a number of these in the finest
quality of electro-silver ever made.
We are offering them at far less than smaller-size
teapots.
WHY ?
AVe do not mind admitting we bought a number
from the manufacturer at half-price.
He was stuck with them. Too large for ordinary
trade. Ales, but a perfect boon to large families.
Quality and design—the best.
Prices —one-half of ordinary.
MS
0*
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
Extra heavily-plated on hard white meta!, speciai
large size Teapot.. •• ■ in.
Less 20 p.c. discount . . • ■ • • __£stl
£3/12/-
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
THE TRAGEDY.
By HENRY LAWSON.
Oh, 1 never felt so wretched, and things never
looked so blue
Since the days I gulped the physic that m\
Granny used to brew;
For a friend in whom I trusted, entering m.\
room last night,
Stole a bottleful of Heenzo from the desk whereon
I write.
I am certain sure lie did it (though he never
would let on), .
For all last week he had a cold and to-day his
cough is gone;
Now I’m sick and sore and sorry, and f m sail
for friendship’s sake
(It was better, than the cough-cure that our
Granny used to make).
Oh he might have pinched my whisky, and lie
might have pinched my beer,
Or all the fame or money that I make while
writing, here—- , , , . T ,,
Oh, lie might have shook the blankets and d
not have made a row,
If he’d only left my lieehzo till the morning, any-
how.
So I’ve lost mv faith in Matesliip, which was all
I liad to lose ,
Since I lost niv faith in Russia and myself and
got the blues ; ,
And so trust-turns to suspicion, and so friendship
turns to hate,
Even Kaiser Bill would never pinch his Heenzo
from a mate.
A REPUDIATION.
By J. W. GORDON.
I never pinched your Heenzo—
On that I’ll take my oath;
But about the beer and whisky—
Well, I might have pinched them both.
I still have faith in Russia,
And I still have faith in you ;
But admit that Ilecnzo’s better
Than what Granny used to brew.
1 have shared your meat and damper
As we camped behind a log,
When the union was the puppv.
And the squatter was the dog.
[ have pinched your pipe and ’bae.ca
Where the Western rivers flow ;
But I never pinched your Heenzo
Where the lights of Sydney glow.
I have shared your beer and whisky
On the irrigated soil.
And have shared your rug and blanket
Where the western shearers toil;
But I fear I can’t convince you
(Since your love has turned to hate)
That I never stole the Heenzo
From my damned old mate.
The bloke that stole your physic—
He was nothing but a “cow
I could smite him on the whiskers,
I c ould smite him on the brow ;
T could vank him out to Aanco,
And there leave him to his fate.
Where he’d never more steal Heenzo
From my dear old mate.
A CONFESSION.
BY MRS. STAN ROBERTS.
I pinched your Heenzo, Harry,
And I'm feeling mighty blue
To think 1 made such mischief
’Twixt two old mates so true.
My eve fell on your whisky,
And to “hook” it I’d a mind,
But when I saw your Heenzo
I left t'other stuff behind.
Though I was sorely tempted
To go on a howling “scoot,”
The graveyard cough upon me
When 1 started out to loot
Made me pinch your blooming Heenzo,
For I knew ’twoulcl cure my cold,
So I pounced upon that physic,
Which I valued more than gold.
Sow that I’ve made confession,
Your pal you'll reinstate.
For he never stole the Heenzo
From his “dear old mate.”
Prav do pardon me, Jim Gordon,
Though I’m nothing but a “cow” ;
I’ve no whiskers to be smitten,
And I hope you’ll spare my brow.
As for yanking me to Yanco,
To meet a fearful fate,
If you’re never short of Heenzo,
Well —fix an early date.
A NOTHER CONFESSION.
BY PRIVATE HARLEY COHEN.
I have road your blaiiky squealin’
In the papers just, to hand ;
How yer blame yer clear old cobber,
Which I cannot understand.
Though he did pinch all my ’hacca
And he did pinch all my beer.
If a nasty cold near skittled
My old pal and kept him queer,
I’d have said, “Buck up, y blightei,
Here, what’s mine is yours, old paid,
Though to part with all iris lieehzo
Would have hurt a “digger” hard.
I’d have said, “This stuff is dinkum —•
Of it I’ve used a blinkin' lot :
It will make ver cold a quitter,
Come, take a dose, old pot.
I tell yer, Bill, this lleenzo’s rippm ,
And I bet yev’tl say the same;
Yes, yer’ll bless ver clear old cobber,
Just because he played the game.
So don’t blame poor Jim Cordon,
Nor wish him any ill
But listen, Henry Lawton -»
And take this as yer will—
I’ll make no bones about it.
But tell ver, frank and free,
THE GALLIPOLI STROLLERS shook it—
That’s straight to you from me:
Yes. we pinched yer Heenzo, Harry,
For that crime we take all blame;
There wasn’t very much of it,
But it cured us just the same.


To point the dangers of delay,
“A stitch in time saves nine,” we say;
An adage true, most wisely said
By some old sage of days long sped.
When winter coughs and colds are rife
A day’s delay may cost a life.
Prompt use of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
Makes wise precaution doubly sure.— Advt.
AUSTRALIAN CHILDHOOD PORTRAITS
COMPETITION.
EIGHTH SERIES.
SEVEN AND SIXPENCE FOR EVERY PHOTO USED.
T IE United Commercial Travellers’ Association of
Australasia, proprietors of the National Annual,
Australia To-Day, encouraged by the success of
their seven previous yearly competitions, when
several thousands of photos were entered from every
State in the Commonwealth, wish to include in their
coming Christmas issue at least FIFTY OF THE
MOST ATTRACTIVE PORTRAITS OF AUSTRALIAN
CHILDREN (Boys and Girls). They want them
from every State in the Commonwealth, and will pay
7s. Gd. FOR. EVERY PHOTO USED, while all the
others will bd" promptly returned after judging, post
paid. Ag-es of children to be from youngest baby-
hood up to 15 years, and photo must have been
taken during the last 12 months. Previous entrants
may compete, but ALL THE PHOTOS MUST HAVE
BEEN TAKEN DURING THE LAST 12 MONTHS.
The help of all Australians is cordially solicited in
making these pages of Australian child life worthy
of Australia. They will be CIRCULATED ALL OVER
THE WORLD, AND AMONG OUR SOLDIERS
ABROAD. No objection to receiving more than one
photo from same family. On BACK OF EACiI
PHOTO must appear NAME OF CHILD AND NAME
AND ADDRESS OF SENDER, and photos must reach
the EDITOR of Australia To-Day, Box 496 G.P.0.,
Melbourne, by Ist October, T9lB.
1
f V®
T\
(1)
Specimen Section of a
“COLO” Tyre.
Eight Points of t
(1) TEE AD.—Corrugated, presenting small sur-
face to the road, thereby saving friction.
(2) TREAD.—A great thickness of rubber, which
is practically cut- and chip-proof.
(3) BREAKER STRIP, which, being made of
loosely-woven, heavy fabric, binds the tread
to the carcase of the tyre.
(4) PURE RUBBER.—Pure Rubber is placed
under Breaker Strip.
(°) CARCASE.—Composed of five plies of heavy,
long-fibre canvas, heavily impregnated with
rubber.
(6) FULL AIE SPACE.
(7) SIDE WALLS.—Realising the severe work
tyres are called upon to do in the country,
we have placed a great thickness of rubber on
the side walls, preventing water from entering,
as often happens in other makes of tyres after
a few months’ service. Other makes have
very little thickness of rubber at this point.
(S) BEADS are heavily reinforced and skin-
coated with rubber, to prevent rust.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.,
162 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel. City 2567.
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES.
SUPED
FCATURES
THE DIFFICULTY OF UNDRESSING.
“It must be a terrible part to dress, dear.
She's practically naked, y’ know, and
has to change her costume four times
during the show."
The Surrey Theatre, which for a long time'
. was the leading playhouse of London, south
of the Thames, has suddenly closed down.
■ It’s stated that “Finis” is about to be
written to its theatrical history. At one
time when it was under the management of
Ellister and Creswick it produced Shaks-
peare and the legitimate drama in first-class
style. But it afterwards fell on evil days,
and its style of entertainment so degenerated
that “transpontine drama’’ became a byword
and a reproach. Latterly it has striven to
do business as a two-houses-a-night variety
house and as a picture-palace. William
Creswick, who was associated with it in its
palmy days, had a brilliant Shakspearean
season in Melbourne, and on the invitation
of Bishop Moorliouse gave a recital at
Bishopscourt, East Melbourne, to the clergy
and leading Anglican laity. Creswick is the
only actor who received such a compliment
in Australia, and he devotes a chapter to it
in his reminiscences, mentioning how Bishop
Moorehouse asked him to “moderate the
vigor” of certain Shakspearean lines so as
not to shock the susceptibilities of any Mrs.
Grundies who happened to be present.
Spurgeon, the great Baptist preacher, orated
in the Surrey at the outset of his career
and drew enormous crowds. The outstand-
ing success in its history was “Black-Eyed
Susan,” a long-time popular nautical play in
which T. P. Cooke made the hit of his life.
Its author, Douglas Jerrold, had been
engaged by a rival theatre to write plays at
£5 a week. As the result of a quarrel, Jer-
rold took the manuscript of “Black-Eyed
Susan” over to the Surrey, where it ran
for 400 nights, an unprecedented success in
those times.
Dorothy Brunton has been engaged by
Ivlaw and Erlanger for a New York season
on her return from London, and will appear
with Donald Brian, a prominent Broadway
favorite, in a new musical play.
“Adam”: Someone mentions the fact that
Mary Bickford started her stage career in
Australia. Mary came from Dunedin (M.L.),
where she attained some prominence as an
amateur under her correct name, Dolly
Nicholson. Dad being interested in the
fruit industry, the family migrated to Cali-
fornia. Dolly, aided by a letter of introduc-
tion from Johnny Sheridan to his brother,
became a member of tin' A.B. Company, with
Mabel Normand, Alice Joyce and others.
Later she changed her name to the now
famous one of Mary Bickford.
Some of the American cities pay gener-
ously for their musical culture. At Detroit,
which has lately swelled its population to
1,000,000 through the boom in motor-car
industry, the management of the
local Symphony Orchestra has
engaged a Russian pianist and
conductor to take charge of an
orchestra at a salary of thirty
thousand dollars a year.
“Yak”: What had happened
to the understudy I don’t know
—perhaps there wasn’t one that
night in the old Grand at
Islington, London. The bill was
Mrs. Lewis Waller’s co. in
“Zaza,” with herself in the title-
role. When the starting time
had long gone by the gods be-
came impatient, whereupon an
agitated manager announced the
sudden illness of the principal
man, and explained that, in the
emergency, Mrs. Waller had
’phoned to hubby’s theatre up
West for help, and that the said
help was then on the way (very
faint applause). Lewis sent
along one of his young men, and
the play proceeded; but 20
minutes is insufficient for an
actor to become word-perfect in
a long trying lead. The conse-
quence was that the poignant
and passionate scenes between
Zara and her flame were marred
by the latter having to refer to
the “book” at every other sen-
tence. In fact, the whole part
was read. Scenes became
mirthful, and it was not long
ere “the bird” arrived. The
play went on to the end, but it
was turned into farce- It was
hard luck for the lady, whose
Zaza was probably better than the' original
one of Mrs. Brown Potter—if comparisons
are worth while in regard to such poor stuff
as “Zaza” was.
“Mujik” : Of course, that device of bring-
ing the picture in to help out the action of a
play, employed in “Business before Pleasure”
at Sydney Cri., is bound to come into fashion.
I his for three reasons. It will be cheap,
popular and effective. In any case it merely
represents an extension of the use of the
transformation-scene, the tableau and the cur-
tain through which you see something happen.
Wagner uses the idea in “Tannhauser.” Julius
Knight had a notion of the same kind when,
alter Marcus Superbus and Mercia had been
gnawed by the lions, he subsequently went
visibly aloft into the waiting arms of the
martyred maid. Just reflect for a moment oil
the possibilities incidental to the opera if the
Cave of Venus was turned on in great splen-
dor by the kinernatograph—potted down
somewhere regardless of expense and in-
habited by multitudinous Venuses, instead of
the two or three usually on exhibition in the
flesh. Allied to bellerdrama the flick is capa-
ble of giving the old goods a tremendous revi-
“SAMPLES,” AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Esme (Olios. IT. Workman) and Jesme
(Celia Ghiloni) discuss the war.
val. “For the Term of Ilis Natural Life”
might shake a theatre to its foundations if
Gabbet were shown devouring his mates. Then
there are the incidents antecedent to the open-
ing of plays like “Hamlet” and “Good Gra-
cious Annabelle” and “Ten Beds,” etc. —all
could be worked out in detail, putting the
audiences wise to everything touched upon
in the dialogue or before it. There is a
big future for the man who seizes the oppor-
tunity to do this properly, and as Australian
playwrights have been doing a freeze lately,
they ought to step in and assert themselves.
“Press the Button,” which Australia Marie
Lohr drew a blank with at the London
Globe, was apparently a crude, mechanical
affair better 'suited to the film. Its theme
was the slavey problem, but a bed made by
machinery, a table that disappeared into the
kitchen and came up loaded with grub and
similar devices did not earn the loud laughs
their creator anticipated. When the mail
left Marie had not decided what her next
production would be, but had declared her
firm resolve to carry on.
“Melb”; “Goody Two Shoes,” the Wil-
liamson panto, for this year, hasn’t been
given a run since 1870. 48 years ago.
Marcus Clarke did the book. A friend asked
Clarke: “However could you write such
rubbish?” Clarke: “Oh, Greville wrote it.
but I drew the f 100, so that's all right.”
Nevertheless there were excellent touches of
Clarke in the book. Maggie Stewart played
Goody, and Jenny Brice (Mrs. Appleton)
was Boy Blue. Greville had the part of the
old woman.
‘‘Arthur C.” : One of the most popular nf
the entertainers at Liverpool Camp is th °*
evergreen Bobby Watson—“ The Very Sam!
Dawg of the “Robin Hood” panto of ”7
years ago. Bobby won his first singing sucoe«
as a kid of 11, when he sneaked into a con-
test held in the old Lyceum in Sydney
Lnknown to his folk (then but just lately
come from the diggings with a neat little
pi e), young Bob ripped out the top of an
old felt hat, put on a worn old coat of his
dad s, and piped “Tim Flaherity.” There
were 16 other competitors but “Give it to
the kid!” yelled the crowd, and at two hours
past bedtime the winner splashed home
through a storm to his vengeful family with
a silver cup under his coat. Been on the
job ever since.
“75” : Dot Brunton has signed an imposing
contract with a Yankee co. for the cannin”
of her warble in some of her favorite ditties
She is also co-operating with tenor l>a U i
Dufault (who was a pal of Dorothy’s in Aus-
tralia) in providing records of duets from
grand operas.
“C. Ockney” ; Marie Lbhr’s second ven-
ture at her newly-acquired London play-
house, “Press the Button.” described as “an
absurdity,” by Robert Hichens, proved un-
lucky. Although old favorites like Lottie
Venue and Allan Aynesworth supported the
young manageress, and although the piece
was produced by Charles Ilawtrey, the pub-
lic would have none of it. The show gave
ui) the ghost after a run of a week.
“Vic.”: Methodism is going it. The
young persons of Fitchett’s Hawthorn
Methodist College gave a performance this
week of Shakspeare’s “Twelfth Night,” the
stage and scenery being lent from the
Methodist Queen’s College, where Principal
Sugden defied the wowsers not long ago with
a performance of Sheridan’s “Critic.” The
Methody girls appear to be familiar with the
theatre. Strange to add, they did host in
the male characters.
“Stargazer”: The idea of “‘Do Luxe
Annie” opening up and closing down in a
railway compartment is a confession of in-
ability on the part of the dramatist, lie
realised that lie could not make his principal
character understandable to an ordinary
audience without elaborate explanations, anil
rang in an extraneous prologue and imper-
tinent epilogue to help people to arrive at
some vague comprehension of what ailed
Annie. Even with this adventitious aid he
did not succeed, and eight out of ten people
leave the theatre in a state of pained be-
wilderment. The scheme is utterly inartis-
tic and should have been worried by the
critics.
One Paris management has had a brilliant
idea for these days of air-raids and long-
distance bombardments. A new theatre has
been constructed underground. It calls itself
The Shelter, and its patrons, instead of
taking the usual risks of theatre-goers, are
in the safest possible place.
THE OLD PRO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
l see him still, the tall, dark, bony, bushy-eyebrowed
man,
With hair too long’, and on his coat the bands of
astraehan.
Blue-chinncd he was, and eagle-like his influential
nose *
Above an Old Man Plain of lip in majesty arose.
He’d acted in our fathers’ day, and dragged a cul-
tured toe
With all the very finest in the plays of long ago.
His wondrous elocution filled our simple minds with
awe.
His characters were such as mortal creature never
saw.
He had a terrible contempt, expressed in sounding-
rhyme,
For puny men who fluttered in the drama of the
time
“These creatures artists? Pali!’’ he said. “These
little men you meet—
Poor tailor’s dummies, strutting in the market or
the street,
They talk like Smith, or Brown, or Jones. They
know no lingual grace.
Their proper place is selling soap, or boots, or scraps
of lace.”
W'e asked him once would he come to the theatre
with us,
His eye flashed fire, he struck a pose, and sternly
answered thus:
“You still possess the theatre, but this I do avow:
It is no place for actors. We are never seen there
now !”
"VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
THE STOCK COMPANY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were a good stock company,
Frank, Beresford and I,
With others. ’Twas agreed that we
Would drain the country dry.
We opened up at Uralee
With our superb stock company.
We went to bits at Toolacoom.
Now Frank is tending cows.
Don’s cook with sundry stockmen whom
AVe met at Jill. AVhere browse
A thousand little sheep I sit
In case a ewe should have a fit.
Two others deal with dairy herds
At Jimbaroo. The star
Is milking Aldernevs at Bird’s.
But where the others are
I cannot say. We’ve proved to be
An excellent stock company!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


ap
'Vf&l
&
wr.
z~v*y/‘
if>-{K
$~Ti
iiJ
s
.Vfw.-A. *:;
r^;
■fc
-r-r
VI
;^vV
3@g
s^v‘..
jrHa
»§?«
rwl
5/;
S&
*y'
x**;
MJ
*«P
WVJ.S-
-m
•*
Mm
?.4
hf
£.465
150,000 Last Year!
—the enormous annual output of Overland motor cars !
Many thousands of them went to all parts of the world. The Overland
is indeed the international motor car, because it is made on a scale which
permits a value unapproached!
Appearance, performance, comfort, service, price all these essen-
tials of the ideal motor car are distinct Overland advantages.
For instance, note the “85-Four” shown here. A car of great power,
but so simple to operate that a child can drive it. Sturdy, depend-
able, so satisfactory that it has won the enthusiasm of everyone who
ever owned one.
Australian
Distributors
(GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. LTD., Hobart.
a HA TRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
' Christchurch, N.Z. “““
WILLYS-OVERLAND, Inc, Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A.
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY.
M
A f.
/ vv§A<&*\ v «
" ' * m \mjx'\ * <^J
m * _ jj
L7W -V> .“»i»\ 4
s.
:f^>.
w
£ //. j §
" fl/ /
C;>’
.vf- •£ V •
vfc
■SS&
i »r<-.<.7v'-«-y •
f u&£y .- ... ►.m-«, ...-.i;®
r*?*2
r r
v*%2SS
ss^SS^
-^Ws>^
tg&fc
;•/*
/~z *
mi
m
S&wfe
Sfc
VS
'\r
•S*
WC
-V3
&
/ Sj3P fi
*4
■»a?
ssss
Si
■v
SS
*^r>v
•I*s*
ijf pf
? #.l jfpio
89$
F «S
§Ssi
Wwi
3fi?
s9*
S&fi
yX
r*r
K •>%
tki
r r. r?yH%£
i.szSzSfr**' , - ►>**_ — ,
, /is--
«JU» ~”*
%*&s
xwnfji ■


See This Woolbale?
SsKl!'
Send Your
inchcoml
Carson
It contains the Best Possible Advice
to Sheepowners.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
WOOLBROKERS, LTD.
Sydney AND Brisbane.
f3
AMERICA'S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 2£d.
QUEEN’J ARMS HOTEL
Inthe Heart of the
City of Melbourne
If contemplating a visit to Melbourne you
can confidently book accommodation at
the Queen’s Anns Hotel. This fine hotel,
situated a few seconds from trains, trams,
theatres, public buildings and business
centres—with modern accommodation,
excellent cuisine and pleasing service—-is
the ideal “home” for visitors.
Tariff by the day, 10/0.
queen’s Arms hotel
(Late Champion’s),
Cr. Swanston Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
BARCOO ROT
RAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSES PILES. VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sola
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
h
VERY SAUCY /
The Latest Hawaiian
NOVELTY.
Wiggling Hula Girl
An amusing new invention.
By manipulating your fingers
you set the Cute, Wriggling,
Yacka Dula Hula Girl through
a regular. Wiggling Hula
Dance. Get one for lots of fun.
2/- in P. Note or
Stamps brings one to
you post free.
NOVELTY BUREAU
Box 2205, G.P.0., Sydney.
as
Yasdine
' TRADE MARK
PETROLEUM JELLY
F or bnms 4
sMta ttrables
#f all sorts*
MFusssußsmum
Send posted far free
illustrated booklet
fall of* QCLhuzhle'
information c^a.
/CONSOLIDATED)
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
BOX 221 G.P. 0. SYDNE\.
JSrummonb & Co,
JEWELLERS
High-Grade Wristlet watches
Enamel, with Platinum and Gold Expanding Bracelet.
Fully Jewelled Lever. £25
vT 1
®/G
iS'T. Gold Wristlet Watch, with Platinum and Gold
Expanding Bracelet. Highest Quality. £2l
15ct. Gold Watch, with 15ct. Gold Expanding Bracelet,
Reliable Timekeeper. Special Value. £lO/10/-
Selections sent on Approval to any Address in the Commonwealth.
6% Cash Discount.
tSSJm. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
HODGSON’S
STOCK-WHIPS
77T
X
THERE ARE NO
BETTER WHIPS.
son£ woka!
ALL-KANGAROO PLAITED BELLIES, LIFE-LIKE FALL.
SENT POST FREE FOR CASH ANYWHERE.
THONGS
12-plait ..
16-plait
20-plait
6 ft.
12/6
14/6
19/6
7ft.
14/-
17/-
22/-
Bft.
16/-
19/6
25/-
9ft.
18/-
22/-
28/6
10ft.
20/-
24/-
31/-
Write for the Best Saddle 8 Harness Catalogue in Australia.
HANDLES,
TO MATCH THONGS.
16-plait 12/6
24-plait 15/6
32-plait 17/6
loaded Handles for 9ft. or
longer thongs,. 1/6 extra.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
Write for SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS.
State Your Nearest Port, or, if in
Australia, nearest Railway Station.
m
The KEMP
As used by PROFESSOR KEMP
OF BUCKJUMPING FAME.
THE SADDLE FOR SECURITY,
COfIFORT and LONG WEAR.
Note how high the Pails are set—almost
level with the head.
It lias combined seat and skirts, all one piece of long-
wearing kip, so there can be no burst seams. The panel
has wide facings at the back, and the skirt well covers it
right round. The fittings included are special “Kemp'
folded girth and bevelled stirrup leathers.
Price £Bllll3 without Stirrups,
SOLID NICKEL 3-BAR STIRRUPS, 12/6 EXTRA.
Freight Free for Cash with Order to any Port or Railway
Station in X. S. Wales.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS,
SEND YOUR
HEIGHT and
WEIGHT
WITH
ORDER.
393 GEORGE STREET,
32 HUNTER STREET,
Sydney
There is an oddly, unhappy family, hus-
band. wife and child, in S.A. just now. The
mother, who was a girl under 16, was her
husband’s niece! When trouble came he
sought to put things straight by marrying
her. The Judge told him that it was no
marriage at all in the eye of the Law, and
that the previous offence had been a dis-
graceful breach of family trust. The man
made a statement from the dock that from
start to finish he had not been aware of
doing anything very wrong; and was re-
moved, in an apparently puzzled condition,
to do 18 months’ hard labor for what the
Law humorously calls “indecent assault on a
child.”
“The Wanderer”: Cobark estate, some 30
miles from Gloucester (N.S.W.), was sub-
mitted to the hammer the other day, and
the money that changed hands was in the
region of £50,000. In the early days the
Hookes, who owned it, developed the great-
est herd on the central North Coast —their
stock being estimated at 15,000 head. Crown
rents in those early days were at the ex-
treme minimum, and the price of stock was
low. One of their transactions was the sale
of 1000 full-grown bullocks at a modest
guinea per head.
“II.” : Dr. Norman McArthur, who has a
medical practice at Toorak and a fruit-farm
in the adjacent Beaconsfield hills, has been
having trouble with the Vic. railways, which
accepted a barrel of spraying-oil for delivery
to him at Beaconsfield and spilt half the
stuff during the trip. No compensation was
paid, the goods having been sent at owner’s
risk, so McArthur got some of his own back
by explaining through the newspapers how
the railway geniuses had mislaid a waggon-
ette, sent from the farm to Spencer-street.
This vehicle, capable of carrying a ton, was
finally discovered in the grain-shed!
“D.F.”: Currency was pretty mixed in
the good old days in Australia. One D.
Bunce asserts that even as late as 1833 the
change that he got out of the first pound-
note he broke into in Tasmania was two
“dumps,” two “holey” dollars (Mexican),
one Spanish dollar, one French coin, one
half-crown, a shilling and a sixpence.
“O. Blin” : The fact that Alsace contains
the most valuable deposit of potash salts in
the world has made the recapture of the
territory an international necessity. The
field is situated at Wittelslieim, and is
alleged to conceal 1500 million tons of the
precious substance. There are 15 mines with
a capacity of 800,000 tons per annum; but
owing to the competition with the Govern-
ment mines at Stassfurt in Prussian Saxony,
tlieir output has been kept down to 80,000
tons a year. The Allies badly want potash,
and are now compelled to manufacture the
stuff by expensive electrical and chemical-
processes. In America the hunger for this
fertiliser cannot be gratified by the most
desperate expedients. A couple of factories
have been established on the Pacific coast
to treat the kelp, but the business is handi-
capped on account of the heavy labor in
gathering the raw material from the rocks.
In western Nebraska they are inspecting the
alkali lakes, but even with the help of
microscopes and bloodhounds they could not
unearth enough potash for adjacent needs.
An ingenious electrician, however, has
patented a method of extracting it from
cement kiln and blast-furnace dust, and his
invention has enabled the Bethlehem Steel
Works and other large corporations to turn
a lot of their previous waste into good
money. The success of the process, however,
is dependent on the result of the war. If the
Allies should win back Alsace they would
make artificial production largely unneces-
sary, and, at the same time, smash a stupen-
dous German monopoly.
“D.”: Olive-oil for salads is now a pre-
posterous price in Australia, yet South Aus-
tralia is .supposed to be one of the finest
olive countries on earth. It is a significant
fact that South Australia has been importing
very much more Italian olive-oil than any
other State in the Commonwealth. The
natural query is—How much Soustralian
olive-oil was grown in Tuscany?
In the Enoggera (Q.) district a gang of
some 20 Chinamen working a farm have
evolved a way of their own of settling re-
muneration and avoiding labor disputes. No
wages at all are paid, but each man in turn
receives a certain sum in hard cash when
the bank balance permits, and may then
depart for China, his fortune made. Quite
a number have gone, and others are looking
hopefully forward.
The advance-guard of the Bananaland
Labor movement wants vehemently to know
how it is that a Labor Government has the
nerve to charge, in the State fish shops, for
snapper fillets Is. 4d. per lb.; for mackerel,
9d. ; for rock-cod, 9d. and lOd.; for trevalli,
94d. a lb.? “Wot’s the good,” writes a stal-
wart indignantly, “of us putting £79,000 of
our money into a State enterprise if we got
to pay prices like this? Might as well a’
stuck to the blanky Dagoes.”
“5.9”: “Joyce” (B. 27/12/T7) says the
lowest paper currency he has struck is issued
in the Straits Settlements for 10 cents = 2.8
pence in English money. In France bank-
notes for the colossal amount of 25 centimes,
eo,uivalent to slightly less than 2.5 pence
English money, are quite common. Billjim
designates all French paper money of 100
centimes (= 1 franc) 50, and 25 centimes as
“shrapnel.” This is partly on account of the
low value and partly for the generally dilap-
idated condition of the notes. The quality
of the paper in notes of 20 francs down is
none too good, and stamp-paper has to be
generously applied.
“T. 0.1.” : I have just received a postcard,
“made in Germany”—a view of Milson’s
Point (which is printed Wilson’s Point).
Sydney. Hock der Bridisher !
“F.C.”: We are at war all right. Of
late, milking buckets being almost unpro-
curable, the cow lords have been punching
holes in the sides of their old kerosene-tins,
stringing a bit of fencing-wire through, and
using them as long as they lasted. And now
even this is forbidden, except by special
license. It isn’t so long since we used to
get rid of the empty tins by the simple
expedient of suspending them to the tail of
the neighbor’s dog.


value
• —' "T
, '
'
m
H
■
m
KODAK.
pictures
You can help to cheer the soldiers and brighten
their life in the trenches by sending fine little
Kodak records of all you think will be of interest.
The scenes they have visited, the home folk and
pictures of happenings m Australia will prove
most acceptable to them.
Everyone can help in this splendid service -
you can learn to use a Kodak in half an hour.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior is an extremely popular
model takes pictures 2\ x 3|- inches. Price 57/6.
The No. 3a Folding Autographic Kodak fine for all purposes
makes postcard pictures 5i x inches. Price £6/6/=
Of all Kodak dealers, and
Incorporating BAKER & ROUSE PROP. LTD.,
379 George Street,Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street,Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane. The Valley. 37 Bundle St., Adelaide. « Elizabeth St., Hobart
Buthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. Denham St., Rockhampton. Opp. .
Terminus, Argent St.. Broken Hill. Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth. The liod
Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N Z.; 3 Borne St., Auckland, >.Z.,
;6 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.; and 94A Hereford St., Christchurch, >./.
“His Master's Voice
the paramount power
in home-entertainment.
It may be truly said that “His Masters
Voice” instruments and records have done
more in the dissemination of musical
knowledge than any other medium —
o> J
whether human or mechanical.
“His Master’s Voice” has invariably sought out the best,
irrespective of the cost —and this has time and again been
almost fabulous. Hook at the catalogue of records. Heie
is the evidence. Every opera that ever met success,
every song, every recitation —all the dances and instru-
mental numbers that won the public fancy come to
you through this inexpensive means.
—And the artistes ! Study the names ! Celebrities !
The world’s leaders ! In very truth you cannot but
admit that “His Master’s Voice” stands alone —superb
and supreme !
Name and address of nearest dealer and catalogues may
be obtained on application to —
TH£ GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
“GRAMOPHONE,”
Begd. Trade Marl;.
c
/A
4
1
M
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
gives speed
to the hours!
f
here illustrated, is a portable hornless Table
Grand, beautifully finished in Polished Oak,
with Nickel-plated fittings; speed indicator;
Gooseneck tone-arm, and the famous “Exhi-
bition” Sound Box. An instrument exquisite
in tone.
£l4/9/6*
“HIS MASTER'S VOICE,"
Regd. Trade Mark.


TIMES
CHEAPER
THAN
ACETYLENE
“The Light of
Australia
Air Gas
for
LIGHTING HEATING
COOKING IRONING
(COPY)
Commercial Hotel, Moora,
February 4th, 1918.
Gentlemen,
Enclosed herewith please find
cheque in settlement of cost of
Quirk’s Air Gas Plant for lighting
my hotel. I would like to state
how highly satisfied I am with
the working. It has given satis=
faction in every respect. It is
simple to work, in fact a boy can
control it. I may say that I have
carefully checked the cost of lighting
the hotel; the result is simply un=
believable. In November with the
acetylene plant the cost of Carbide
was £l5/2/6 for the month. With
the Quirk’s Gas Plant the cost was
one case of Petrol for the same time.
I will in the course of a few weeks
instal the light in two other hotels
I control.
You may use this letter in any
manner you please, as I think the
public should know what a saving
it is to them, and I am pleased to
show any one who should like to
see the working of same in this
district.
I remain,
yours respectfully,
(Signed) CHARLES BREWER.
WRITE FOR
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Quirk’s Lighting and
Engineering Ltd.
SYDNEY - 245 ELIZABETH STREET.
BRISBANE - 24-28 WHARF STREET.
MELBOURNE SOUTH—
-110 STURT STREET.
ADELAIDE, 112 GRENFELL STREET.
PERTH, W.A.—
ALCOCK & CO. PTY., LTD.
Taße No Chance
in Tyre Buying.
Dominion T yres
im
mm
are tyres of known,
demonstrated and
pro v ed service and
endurance.
Your experience, too,
will prove their quality.
Equip your car now with
DOHINION TYRES.
MADE IN CANADA.
If not stocked by your Dealer ,
he will procure for you.
DISTRIBUTORS:
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited,
HEAD OFFICE: 53 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
BENNETT 8 BARKELL LTD., Castle^EY‘ ree ‘’
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
y
The Birthday Party.
Nan is six years old. Mamma and Bobbie are
giving her a party. The “cookies” are light and
delicious because Mamma used
Ireland’s
Baking Powder
as a friend advised. There is no mistaking the children’s approval—never have they tasted such
“lovely” cakes.
Every tin of Ireland’s Baking Powder is guaranteed unreservedly. Buy it and try it—if
it dissatisfies you, return it —your grocer is authorised to refund your money.
Ireland’s Baking Powder is pure and reliable because accurately mixed to a well-tried
recipe.
Sold everywhere. Befuse substitutes.
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle.
BURNS AIR
fdh
r-*.’
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than.
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. No IVick! So Urease!
No Smoke! No Odor! Hang or Set
it anywhere. Over 100 Styles.
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, which also
contains Hollow Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
PHOTOGRAPHY !
AMATEURS—for Good Results and Speed send your
Developing, Printing and Enlarging to
THe[fi>[§STO&lAS
278 George
Street,
Opp. Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
Criticisms Free—lndividual Attention—Postal Orders
GAPILLARINE
<?
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
It has been before the public for years, and is
daily proving its efficacy and genuineness as
a true moustache-grower. The military
“swear” by it.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
a j
UJ
A POSITIVE CURE
for
INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION,
Nervous Ailments and
Physical Weaknesses
of all kinds.
For full particulars,
Write tor FREE Book!
A. TILBURY, Principal,
Saxon School for Health 8 Strength,
No. 4 Inns of Court, Adelaide St., Brisbane
"Macko”: Major Lance Lewis opened the
Club for Returned Soldiers last week in
Adelaide, and made an eloquent appeal to
the crowd to enlist, or at least support re-
cruiting. A sozzled citizen butted in with :
"Shay, young f'ler, ’ow can yer expect ter
get recruits? Why, we can’t even get
shearers!”
In an up-country (N.S.W.) town recently
two aspirants for Local Government
honors were addressing the ratepayers.
One’s trump card lay in his claim
to be an Australian born and bred,
claiming preference on this ground to
the other fellow, an Englishman of recent
arrival. Uprose Pommy and in a choking
voice demanded to know how anyone at
such a time of national danger could ad-
versely distinguish between an Australian
and an Englishman. As a peroration to his
wail he dashed to the piano and banged out
"Sons of the Sea.” The applause nearly
blew the roof off. Voting results: Australia,
7; England, 53.
Frederick Thonemann, who has filled the
vacancy in Melb. City Council caused by the
passing of Arthur Snowden, is an Austra-
lian native with a sound record. The dull
business of watching the share market is not
his only occupation. lie has also done a
lot as a rural producer, and is interested
in various matters with which Australia’s
welfare is associated. His sons’ war record
is an unusual one. All three of them
volunteered here and were rejected. Two
of them then went overseas to enlist and'
were accepted. One has been killed and the
other, invalided, is still on war-duty in
England.
“Bung” : I propose that we look for some
better method of roping in the war eligiblos
than the present system of recruiting
marches. Our sparsely-populated centre was
lately invaded by a squad with about half a
dozen officers. Their coming and purpose had
been well advertised, but the residents’ main
idea appeared to be that the column should
be given an uproariously good time. Con-
certs, dances, football games and tennis were
liberally arranged for, and, of course, there
were appeals for reinforcements. The
appeals fell very flat, but the dances and
football matches were patronised by every-
one, and the community knocked off with a
£5O bill to settle. Seems rather a slow and
expensive way of winning the war.
“Block 10”: I said good-bye to him at
the station to-day. He enlisted in April,
was passed as medically fit, entrained for
Sydney, reported to Victoria Barracks, was
once again medically examined and passed
as fit, fared home for three weeks, then back
again to Sydney, thence to Liverpool Camp.
Passed a month in the recruits’ battalion
becoming “medically and dentally fit”—two
inoculations, vaccination, five fillings and
a new partial upper plate—then up the line
to the depot battalion, and three weeks later
was warned for embarkation. Followed the
final medical examination, and as a result
he was picked out to go before the Medical
Board and finally ordered to be discharged
for what could and should have been detected
at the first examination on day of enlistment
up-country. To-morrow he commences
stumping the city, for a job. How much
money and time have we wasted like this?
“Gouger”: Three Light Horsemen were
blotted out in a curious way shortly after
the occupation of El Arish. Seeing some-
thing floating close inshore, they stripped
and swam out to it. The first swimmer put
his hand on the shiny thing, and there was
an awful explosion. I was joy-riding in
one of our old ’buses at the time, flying low
inshore, and that terrific report made me
think all the Archies out of Sheol had burst
just under the old ’plane’s tail. Some pitiful
tragedies happened along that old shore. To
one chap in particular. Seeing four French-
men in difficulties, lie swam out, pulled
ashore three and returned for the fourth.
But his strength was gone, and he was
drowned. Two of the Frenchmen he brought
to land died. The French troops though a
great deal of the deed and recognised it in
chivalrous fashion. An officer of the 2nd
Light Horse met his death like a man close
to the same spot. While riding along the
shore he saw r two of our fellows washed out.
There was a very heavy sea running. Plung-
ing his horse in he managed to bring out
one of the drowning. Swimming the nag
back for the second man he managed to get
him mounted, but when close in shore
a huge wave broke over the two men
and the horse. Out of the sand and foam the
laboring beast at last struggled, with the
drowning soldier’s arms still clasped around
its neck. The heroic officer was washed
away and drowned.
“Hamer” : One of the things that received
a severe jolt when Fritz made his late-
lamented push was the Y.M.C.A. system,
and the whole canteen business generally.
Quite a lot .of material had to be destroyed,
and for a time the new lines of communica-
tion were required .for more urgent necessi-
ties than comforts. The match-shortage was
the thing that hit us hardest. For three
days, out of five in one front-line strong-
post, there was only one box of matches in
our platoon. When a match was about to
be strubk the word was passed round the
trench, so that every man could get his share
of the precious flame. Pipes, by means of
paper drawn over the bowl, were lighted
from cigarettes, and from fag to fag the
light went round. Between whiles there
were restless wanderings about the trench
by men seeking illumination ; matches were
too precious to waste upon one soldier;
and careful, souls tried keeping candle-ends
and improvised rag-and-fat lamps burning.
One man even used his morning bacon to pro-
vide a constant pipe-light. Ration carriers
and runners were held up with pleas for
matches, but a shortage prevailed else-
where. The discovery of a wet match-
box with eight matches in it was a joyful
event. They were carefully dried on the
trench parapet. As we “came out,” how-
ever, we found Australian Comforts waiting
for us with a cupful of coffee and two boxes
of matches per man! It was a joyful busi-
ness to be able to set fire to your own cigar-
ette with your own matches and offer your
neighbor a light.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE,
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabmes-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding . sailing
lutes, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., L,ta.,
Tel.— City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4sio! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
'ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
BOWEN
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland povts.
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Aug. 31.
Leaves Sydney, Sept. 3.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Sept. 14.
Leaves Sydney, Sept. 17.
MIXHOUKNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Sept. 3.
♦Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares. Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
Hit
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.; THOS.
WELSBY. _
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Heart Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Oilice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Oilice: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . ■ • 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . • • 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stoclc 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since ISOS specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. AY. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OI IICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BAM OF COMMERCE
• LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £130,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks. •
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares. . . . . . 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up . . . . . . 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
; effected cm all classes of
■ Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Shipping Ac.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
PACIFIC
LAKES,
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
Next Sailing—R.M.S. NIAGARA, 22nd AUGUST.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Pari of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
NEXT CONNECTING STEAMER LEAVES SYDNEY AUGUST 29.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven AVeeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.” j
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER —MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
'’-T-
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Fiva and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St„ Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,904,860
£2,950,000
£3,904,860
£10,759,730
The Hon. Sir Charles li. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
ThomaS Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binuie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Hpa ,l office—Georse Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
on, Foreign places DIRECT. F* »
negotiated and eoll.eted. Letter, .! Credit and Cireolar Note. ;«ned negotiahle thronghout £ World.
Commonwealth
BN HEAD OFFICE
fdh
JBaitk'Bißtralia
. SYDNEY. ■
fo? e a n ,. General Banking Business
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
1/-
Branches, and over 2750 Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific.
Interest at 9°/
per annum w /o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER, Govejrnor^
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
- £2,000.000
- £2,040,000
- £2,000,000
£6,040,000
Established 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEOIiGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Offiee: 18 Birchin Bane. E.C. London Bankers: The Bank of England; The
London County Westminster and Parr’s Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
SYDNEY TO QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
INTENDED SAILINGS FROM GRAFTON AVHARF.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
(Transhipping at >
Townsville for
Lucinda Point,
Mourilyan and
Innisfail.)
S.S. RUPARA, August 17.
S.S. MORIALTA, August 24.
S.S'. PARINGA. August 31.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Visitors are not allowed on Company’s Wharves
or on board Company’s Steamers.
E. B. WAREHAM,
Manager.
15 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. Between Melbourne and Launceston three
sailings per week.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
! Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Every Three Weeks.
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
“VENTURA” sails AUGUST 28.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. AVIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT ii CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
* Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
liirlv to i 11 •
TWEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BKLLINGEIt,
N'AMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are ifNied in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports,
Melbourne and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjovment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Inter-State Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. lor dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP U COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, H BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
A should read the British Austral-
ian. 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
antaining mail and cable news from Aus-
-alia and news of Australians in Europe
nd at home. Australians are cordially m-
ited to visit the British Austbalasian
leading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
orn. London, W.C., where they can see the
ome papers, meet their friends, use th®
elephone, and obtain information without
harge.


Hotel Sydney
(Now Fully Licensed)
FACING RAILWAY 'STATION
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
HOT AND COLD WATER SERVICE IN EVERY
BEDROOM DAY AND NIGHT.
TA RIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
(Daily) „ 11/6
Beil and Breakfast 6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
BROOKES
COFFEE ESSENCE
You’ll like it too!!
Under
Royal
W&rrant
fd
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Reims
(i T ?) ,^o n '
*BSs£S&
CHAMPAGNE
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Bar 11 ”
is* st S /s y t t 'sy dney
So^f^ 4 ”' 5
2&6 G A \°B.eacb
Ren'' ngt< rst ' *V\Tae?
lAvcrP"" Q U ay. S 5 t agency
l CiICW cv.ops-.nEverV
hfd
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <a CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (a. CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressing.
The pre-eminent feature of Bostock’s Polish is its remarkable
LEATHER-PRESERVING QUALITY.
With the present high cost of Shoes it is important that a
dressing should have this essential.
k csssxa i
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
BOSTOCK’S SHOE CREAMS not only impart a brilliant and lasting shine, but
add greater life to shoes by nourishing the leather, keeping it soft and pliable,
and preventing cracks
Colors: Black, Brown. Dark Brown, Ox Blood ami White. In Bottles and Tubes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney. August 12, 1918.
My Dear Akim, —
War has its romance, and the wedding of
Captain Grieve, Y.C., in the old Scots’
Church, Sydney, was an instance. The bride,
Sister Isabel Bowman, had nursed her hero
through double-pneumonia; and spectators
swarmed into the kirk to see the picturesque
pair. Jamieson-street was thronged with the
overflow. The Australian army Sister in the
grey frock, crimson cape and white cap of
the military nurse, bent her head to dodge
the showers of confetti that pelted the wed-
ding march to Petty’s, across the street.
Bridesmaid Busby also wore her uniform-
similar to the bride’s —and the ’groom was,
of course, in khaki.
The Australian Artists’ Club filled a glass
to toast the health of Elliott Grtiner, already
one of Australia’s leading landscape paint-
ers, and to wish him God-speed while at the
war. By the way, the Club’s president, Syd
Ure Smith, was recently commissioned
to make an etching of the warship Adelaide
for the Federal Government.
Whiffs of kerosene met the* visitor who,
having discarded his goloshes and polished
his specs, sauntered into the Microscopical
Society’s evening. It, and the specimens
that accompanied it, were caged in St.
James’s Hall. Dr. Latham, in khaki, gave
a brief presidential address. The David-
sons, with a young gentleman in attendance,
climbed the steps to the platform, only to
descend to earth level five minutes later.
This gave two lecturers the necessary alti-
tude, while the screen showed some of the
marvels, as explained by Dr. Tillyard, and
labelled "Symmetrical Forms in Nature.”
Then the society let loose the learned J.
McLuckie. M.A.. B.Sc.. who threatened to
trace the domestic history of the plant cell
until the following morning. Anguished
expressions on even high-brow countenances
penetrated the gloom. In the dim glow of
kerosene lamps gentlemen with shocks of
bushy hair shuffled impatiently. For on the
tables were specimens under regiments of
microscopes waiting to be diagnosed. And
still the McLuckie, engrossed in a technical
subject, belabored it with a fierce Scotch
accent. At last the lights went up, and
exhausted Philistines fled for their home
tram.
Dr. E. N. B. Docker, a captain in the
A.M.C., on active service, has won the M.Ci
Devotion to duty during the great onward
rush of the Germans on the night of April
24 was a contributing cause. He is a son
of one of our District Court Judges.
George Whitton, of Sydney, formerly of
the Union Co. (M.L.), and since the out-
break of war on active serice, is a lieut. in
the Royal Naval Reserve. This smart sailor-
man is apparently a mascotte. lie joined
the R.A.N. when the war began, got to the
other side, and was transferred to the British
navy. He has been mostly on service in the
Mediterranean. During the Dardanelles
trouble he saw all that could be seen in the
naval struggle and on the Evacuation job.
This is how he describes the latter opera-
tion : “It was the most wonderful, or one
of the most wonderful of militarv
strategy in the history of warfare, for which
no praise is too high to pass on to the British
command. I’ve heard it said that the Evacu-
ation was quite easy, that the Turks walked
quietly out of the back door so that the
Expeditionary Force might slip quietly out
of the front entrance. This is an amazing
yarn that I had not heard till I landed lately
in Sydney. As a matter of truth, the Turk was
the most astonished infidel in the world. The
British had done what Abdul had thought
impossible.” Lieut. Whitton recently cele-
brated the first shore-leave (six weeks) that he
has had in four years by marrying Ella
Buchan, of Grafton (N.S.W.),' in St.
Andrew’s Cathedral.
The Amateur Patriotic Society desires your
presence, at a price, in the Theatre Royal on
Saturday, August 17, and Monday, the 19th.
“The Cingalee” is the attraction, and Christ-
mas gifts for the 4th and 56th Battalions and
Ist Australian Machine Gun Co. the object.
Mrs. R. E. O’Connor, widow of the late
Justice O’Connor, of the High Court, has
returned to Sydney via Vancouver.
W. Talleur Andrews was the leading gentle-
man of a farewell benefit in the Playhouse
during the week. He is one of the minority
of musicianly singers with a solid training
who have drifted into light opera. Now
he is off to U.S. Of late he has been
a source of strength to the Tivoli circuit.
This accomplished English vocalist made two
efforts to enlist in the A.1.F.. but he was
turned down on the health docket. He
declares himself fit enough to try the doc.
again, and this time he will knock at Uncle
Sam’s recruiting-office.
A Rangoon correspondent informs me
that, while Aussies are capturing English
girls (or are being captured by them) the
bright Australian lass can often secure an
Englishman for herself even in Burma, the
land of dark eyes, smiling faces and tinkling
pagoda bells. ” A recent wedding, which was
heavily plated with presents, took place in St.
l’atrick's Church, Cantonments, when Edythe
Y. Walsh, a daughter of Andrew Walsh, of
N. S. Wales, accepted the plain gold circlet
from Lieut, and Quartermaster John D.
Maier, of the Rifle Brigade. Over 200
guests, most of them regimental friends of
the ’groom, were present at the reception in
the Mess. Colonel Montgomery, who pro-
posed the health of the risk-takers,
congratulated the soldier on the charms
of his Australian bride, and the lady on hav-
ing secured so good a mate. The girl’s finery
was of ivory georgette, veiled in old lace and
garnished with silver embroidery. White
orchids composed her; bouquet.
At the 24th annual wash-up of Hospital
Saturday funds there was a minor note of
optimism. In spite of the ever-increasing
round of the patriotic hat, the directors
were able to whisper of increased receipts
from ordinary sources. After further dis-
section of balance-sheets William Cullen,
C.J., alluding to the enemy of humanity and
his destruction of hospitals and hospital
ships, showed an earnest desire to give a
heavy sentence to “bleating pacifists who
fear such a nation will lit* humiliated.”
Chaplain Walter Bradley. A.1.F., of Syd-
ney. has swapped hearts with Miss N. Butt,
of Salisbury (Eng.), and has bound the two
together with an engagement ring.
At the Chapel Royal. Savoy (London),
recently, Mary, the daughter of “Tam”
Mackenzie, Maoriland’s High Commissioner,
kept her promise to Lieut. Howard Ellis, of
the Northumberland Fusiliers. Her dad used
to be a politician in the Shivery Isles, and
as a politician he took some catching.
There has recently
been published pri-
vately by John Lane
Mullins, M.A. and
M.L.C., a small
brochure called
‘Heraldry on Eng-
lish Coins.” This is
an unusual subject
which the writer has
made his own. So
much research and
patient pursuit of
ancient lore were
necessary before
even one page of this
historic memoir
could be put to-
gether that it reminds
one of Jane Welsh
Carlyle’s homely epi-
gram. “When I see George Sala,” said that
sharp lady, “I always think of a butcher’s
cart. The butcher’s boy is whistling; the
cart is full of meat.” Round the old bones of
Id's subject the Sydney man of many hobbies
has wrapt meat of English history from
the: days of Ethelred 11. to the reign of
Queen Victoria. As a feat of condensation
alone it is a remarkable literary effort. John
Lane Mullins is a lawyer by profession and
a dilettante in leisure. He is hon. sec. of
the Society of Artists and an informative
critic on books and men who write them.
During a visit of three or four months to
Florence before the war John Lane Mullins,
who holds the rank of Papal Chamberlain,
took up the hobby of metal work and re-
pousse. In that mediaeval city, little changed
since the days of Itomola, he enjoyed his
natural gifts, which tend towards Rossetti’s
Ueligion of Beauty, to the top of their bent.
He has brought this sense of form into the
design of exquisite simplicity in a gold
medal recently struck in memory of his only
son Brendan. The modelling of Clio’s head
on one side was done by Miss Barclay. The
Australian Historical Society gives this
medal annually to the prize-essay writer on
Australian history. In it the taste of John
Lane Mullins and the memory of the son,
killed in France, will be perpetuated. The
photo is by May Moore.
A farewell party to a well-known journal-
ist, Mrs. Baverstock, was divided between
the Hotel Australia drawing-room and the
place of tea-drinking in the winter garden.
Mrs. Holman handed the lady a £9O cheque
and 900 : good .wishes. Mrs. Theodosia Wal-
lace, who rounded up the friends and fellow-
journalists of the retiring pen-woman,
referred to the gift as a “purse of sovereigns,”
but sovereigns are now only a golden vision
of long ago. An amusing speech by F.
Archibald, who described Mrs. B. as Queen
of the Casserole, and intimated her excel-
lence as high priestess of domestic arts, and
felicitations by James Edmond were in-
cluded in a pleasant flow of eulogy.
In this photo of
A-iolinist Cyril Monk
(by May Moore’s
camera) you will dis-
cern the type of
forehead known as
“highbrow.” In it are
stored much good
music, sound tech-
nique and a fluent
style, if it can be so
called, which enables
the owner to wield
his bow as easily as
a practised writer
shakes his pen. Monk
as a youngster had
lessons from the late
Kretschmann, Syd-
ney’s great old music-
master of 40 years
or so. Later, the Sydney man went to
London and studied under the late Guido
Papini. During the Christchurch (M.L.)
Exhibition of some years ago Cyril Monk
was with Alfred Hill, and assisted at one
and sometimes two concerts a day—strenuous
work. That is part of the psychology of
Cyril Monk—-ant-like industry which results
in a standard that never falls below concert
pitch. With W. J. Coad, he sits in the
front row of fiddlers at the Conservatorium
orchestral concerts (he is on the staff of
teachers). Of the director he says: “His
energy, kindness and tact, with his
great musicianly qualifications, have’raised
the standard of orchestral playing higher
than I thought possible. This year we have
given four times the number of concerts per
year than in pre-Gonservatorium days. There
are now about 050 students who will be* the
music-teachers of the future, and they are
continually hearing the best available music
—an influence that will be widely dissemi-
nated.” Cyril Monk is one of those patriotic
musicians who give their services freely to
many war-time entertainments.
An extra cottage, next to the older build-
ing, has just been finished at the Boys’
Home, Burwood. Lady Davidson pro-
nounced the opening blessing, and a rally of
Anglican clerics laid hands, so to speak, on
the new bricks and mortar.
In the University Union, by the invitation
of the students of St. John’s College, Father
Vandamme addressed a crowded gathering.
The sorrows and heroism of Belgium, the
little country which bleeds to-day under the
ruthless German heel, were the topics of the
Belgian priest’s stirring story. Sent by
Cardinal Mercier, the visitor hopes to raise
a substantial sum for the cause to which
Australia' lias already contributed with
generous hand.
Fleet-Surgeon Alex. Caw, R.A.N., was
securely moored by the bonds of matrimony
in St. Mary’s Cathedral, Edinburgh, a few
weeks ago. The Australian chose Lily, a
daughter of Colonel Hewat, of the S’African
Medical Corps and Unionist Whip in the
local Parliament. The girl was handed
over to her naval man’s care by a brother,
Frederick Hewat, Lieut. M.C., of the Gordon
Highlanders. It was a dressy knot-tying.
The bride’s frock of heavy cream satin veiled
in old Limerick lace swept the aisle with a
glistening train of cloth of gold. In one of
the last pre-war Drawing Rooms (London)
the Capetown miss was one of the prettiest
debutantes.
Surgeon-Major Muirhead, one of “ours”
with the A.M.C., is shortly to link up with
Kathleen Crickmay. a nurse in the Prince
of Wales Hospital (London).
Lieut.-Commander Fred Darley, R.N. (he
was called after his uncle, a one-time pictur-
esque N. S. Wales personality under the
Chief Justice’s wig), is on service with the
Grand Fleet.
Singer Albert Goossens, who is the least
business-like of mortals, has apparently been
goaded into warbling for his own benefit.
The concert takes place in the Conserva-
tcrium on Tuesday evening, August 20. For
about 11 months in the year the Belgian
operatic star freely gives his voice to war-
fund shows.
Frank Malin, 8.E., a Sydney man. has
secured a betrothal promise from Helen Heb-
den Wilson, only daughter of the Kirkland
Wilson household, Yokohama. With the ex-
ception of a few years in European boarding-
schools, the girl has grown up in the Japan-
ese town. During her 20 summers she has
produced two small volumes of verse and
shown other signs of the inky-way inclina-
tion.
Devotion to duty is a characteristic of
all good nurses: but for an exceptional
instance Sister Backhouse, of the Tiboo-
burra Hospital (N.S.W.), deserves mention
in. despatches. She is in sole chai’ge and
has no professional assistance, the near-
est medical aid being at Broken Hill 2in
miles distant. On a recent Monday a
patient was brought from the Bananaland
border to the hospital. He was in a low-
state, and the Sister’s examination showed
her that his only chance was to get to a doctor
with all possible speed. The patient was
placed securely on the back of a motor-lorry,
and Sister Backhouse took a precarious seat
alongside to look after him during the long
journey. Milparinka was reached the first
night. The following day, when crossing
rough country about half-way to the Hill,
the Sister, whilst endeavoring to ease the
patient, was thrown heavily from the lorry
and was for a time unconscious. When she
came to she insisted upon continuing the
journey, and saw the patient placed in the
Broken Hill Hospital near midnight. Next
day the extent of her own injuries were
ascertained and she wired to the secretary
of the Tibooburra Hospital, “Met with acci-
dent. Home Sunday.” On the Monday an
ill and travel-weary nurse got back to her
far-distant post,by lorry and at once set to
work on an accident case. Her own injuries
consisted of broken collar-bone, five broken
ribs, sprained ankle and severe shock; yet
she travelled over 100 miles without receiv-
ing any attention and, three days after being
attended to, took on a journey of over 200
miles over rough roads in what must have
been agonising pain.
The Apollo Club, with Alfred Hill to beat
the time, gave an attractive concert in the
Conservatorium. Hill has polished up the
part-singing of this veteran society (once the
old Liedertafel), though more singing mem-
bers are still needed. “A correct ear and a
moderately good voice,” are the necessary
ingredients before a new Apollo gets his
lyre. Basso Fred Collier boomed with
curly It’s. Soprano Elsie Treweelt, in
the latest coiffure (hair scraped severely off
the forehead) and vivid drapery, gave as
her first number the “Jewel Song” in Eng-
lish, and was led off the platform in the
grand manner by a gentleman who extended
his strong right hand for the purpose. The
youthful Cecil Parkes, in black velvet
knickers and a soft cream shirt, manipulated
a fiddle very cleverly, although the top notes
were rather squeaky. The lad is about 14
and promises to be a stayer, with tempera-
ment to back his technique.
The three opera nights for patriotic funds,
given by Nelson Illingworth's pupils in the
Conservatorium, will complete the cycle next
Saturday evening. The takings of the last
performance will be emptied into the locker
of the Soldiers’ Welcome—the haven for men
in uniform under the shadow of St.
Andrew’s.
Three years ago Veronica McPhillamy left
Forbes to take up voluntary toil for Billjim.
She helped exhausted nurses after tlie
inrush of wounded from Gallipoli, and with
Mrs. Chisholm (N.S.W.) founded the
desert canteen on the lone skirts of Egypt's
sands, where as many as 4000 soldiers have
been fed and comforted generally in one
day. This good Australian is now in Jerusa-
lem getting another rest place going for
Crusaders who have marched from the crim-
son tassels of the Outback sunset and from
the frosts of Monaro.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


'm
im
.
, o
=1 3:
M 111'
i ;
The PHONE D’AMOtTR, the
tone masterpiece: sold in
America for sl6o—in Sydney
for £33.
GfteDAY!
has come
AT LAST.
❖ ~
A Perfect Disc Phonograph,
»! I'f'i'i $
I
dJ&mour
The Tone Masterpiece.
Every new machine was introduced with a
flourish as the ideal phonograph or whatever else
it happened to be called; but as every new instru-
ment was tried people still looked as hopeful as
possible and said, “We shall have the pertect
phonograph some day.'
And the day has come. It has come unex-
pectedly in the middle or the end of the
Great War. The phonograph, invented by an
American scientist, has been brought to perfection
as a transmitter of music by the maker of violins,
whom Ysaye, the incomparable Belgian, hailed as
the master-craftsman of Europe. THE PHOEE
D’AMOUK has been called the Stradivarms ot
phonographs. The music it records it reproduces
perfectly; just as, if you put clear spring water
into a crystal vase, you may immediately again
pour clear spring water out into the sunlight.
DIAPHRAGM, the new, improved
Diaphragm made of violin wood.
SOUND AMPLIFIER, constructed
the principle of the violin.
PAT. 1917
p HOHO CRtf" V '
reproducer,
Sound-box,
the precision o£
a new, improved
finished with
a watch.
The diaphragm is the essential part
of the phonograph as regards reproduc-
tion, and the diaphragm of the Phone
d’Amour upsets all established rules by
being made of wood. The effect on
tone is almost marvellous. All huski-
ness and tinnyness vanishes. The tone
is mellow, full, round, pure as the sound
of a flute. With the Phone d’Amour
the highest tones do not flatten, while
the lowest are limpid and pure and true.
And there is the matter of volume. In
all phonographs heretofore, the element
of unreality has been brought in by
the immense diminution of apparent
volume of sound. The best of the old
machines merely gave a reproduction
of music that seemed so distant as to
be indistinct. But the Phone d’Amour,
in addition to the incomparable wooden
diaphragm, has a remarkable AMPLI-
FYING TONE-CHAMBER, which gives
it such resonance as you will find in
the noblest violin touched by a master
hand.
Add to this, that in these days
of standardisation every PHONE
D’AMOUR is finished and tested separ-
ately, as every perfect musical instru-
ment must be. There is no turning
out by the gross of mechanically similar
machines. No PHONE D’AMOUR leaves
the atelier till it has been tested and
passed by a fastidious musical expert.
If in any case the effect is not perfect,
the instrument is sent back for correc-
tion and adjustment; and if the defect
proves radical, it is scrapped.
What does all this mean to the fortu-
nate possessor of a PHONE D’AMOUR?
It means that he can hear great music
just as he would hear it in a small
room immediately off the concert-plat-
form, a room perfect in acoustics, with
the intervening door set wide open. It
means that he can hear grand opera
more perfectly than he could possibly
hear it in the back seats or the hig
gallery of the actual theatre. It means
that he can hear vocal music so ex-
quisitely that the slightest defect m the
singer’s breathing or phrasing is made
obvious.
If music counts with you, the PHONE
D’AMOUR is worth a thousand times
as much as any of the ordinary phono-
graphs. And yet, price for quality, it
is amazingly cheap; it is even cheap
among phonographs. You pay no more
for a good PHONE D’AMOUR than you
do for a good example of any ot the
meaner sorts. It is sold in Australia
at American prices. For instance, the
instrument that is sold in America tor
160 dollars, is sold by us for £33.
Why, then, throw away good money on Phonographs of any of the older sorts?
If unable to call, send »* catalogue H < posted free).
CASH OR TERMS—£S DOWN AND SMALL MONTHLY PAYMENTS. OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
E. F. WILKS CO. LTD.
317, 319, 321 PITT STREET (next to Y.M.C.A.), SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Bathurst Street). v
Fadory: Corner of Grafton and Margate Streets, Redfern.
Tel.: Mr. Wilks, City 10752.
Showroom, 4918.
Factory, Redfern 907.
Library, 4918.


Meltom an
JsPEfIALTIES
HIGH-CLASS
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
ss n
E. BROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
Georoe
St. Hilda.
HOTEL,
Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
BM
1
IR?
IR3
A New Fur Preservative—
" Red Pine” Compound
Red Pine Compound is made to a special formula,
held exclusively by Farmer’s. Its unique qualities
render Furs, Rugs, Carpets or Wearing Apparel
immune from the ravages of Silver Fish, Moths and
other destructive insects. A little should be sprinkled
in all drawers, wardrobes, etc., where garments are
kept. Sold only by Farmer’s in two sizes.
PRICE, 1/- and 2/- PER BOX.
Fur Travelling Rug.
A very warm and serviceable Rug, of Natural Black
Rabbit Skins, carefully mounted on suitable rug
cloth. Size 50 x6O inches, suitable for all travelling
purposes. PRICE, 6£ GUINEAS.
FARMER'S :: SYDNEY.
IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious “regulator” for stomach, liver
and bowels, for mamma, daddy,
and children.
If you are headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered and you want
to enjoy the nicest liver and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespoonful of
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—to-
night, and in the morning all the constipa-
tion poison, bile and clogged-up waste will
gently move out of the system without grip-
ing, and you will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use
this fruit laxative as occasion demands. It
is just as effective for grandpa as it is for
baby. It simply cannot injure. Even cross,
sick, feverish children just love its pleasant
taste, and mothers can rest easy after giving
it because it never fails to effect a good
“inside cleansing.”
For 30 years California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—has been recommended by physi-
cians as the ideal stomach, liver and bowel
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of
—California Syrup of Figs—which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by the California
Fig Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles
of two sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9d. [5
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, August 12, 191 S.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Dr. Bob Strcing, of Melbourne, now has his
majority in the R.A.M.C., and is consulting
M.O. to the military hospital at Ras-el-Tin,
Egypt, where he is making a special study
or malaria. He had previously been at Lem-
nos and Salonica.
A Belgian decoration (La Medaille de. la
Rt ine Elisabeth) has been awarded to a
Melbourne girl for notable war services.
Adela, one of the sunny-haired Orockett
sisters, is the recipient of the much-prized
Order.
Mrs. G. 11. James, who has been in France
with the “Waacs,” is coming home with her
lieutenant son, who has been pronounced
unfit for further work with the Royal Flying
Corps.
Lieutenant Harold Richards, a handsome
boy of 22, went out last week in France. He
was the Maoriland Rhodes scholar for 1914
and the first Canterbury man to win the dis-
tinction. He got his wings this year.
A newly-attached genthelp to Governor
Stanley is our own Captain Knox, a much-
battered giant who has just returned from
the war.
Commander Roger L’Estrange Rede, who
was very popular at Garden Island and Ro
Kay Golf Club, acquired a D.S.O. and Croi
de Guerre during March. Roger was always
a cheery optimistic sort, and married the
charming little actress Elfrida Clements
who mummed with Oscar Asche and Lily
Brayton. He has a pretty sister in Mel-
bourne—girleen Fairlie Rede.
General Tivey’s wife, who was a Robb, has
handed three flags to Rt. John’s Church,
Toorak, as memorials of the local soldiers
who have fallen. Admiral Creswell unfurled
the memorial bunting at a special service on
Sunday last.
Lieut. Freddy Grimwade has to get back
to the Fog. As a released prisoner of
war lie can’t fight again ; but he has not yet
been handed bis army discharge. His
parents, the Norton Grimwade pair, are
tracking to Banarfaland on a visit. On
Thursday night they lighted up the Toorak
home to enable son Fred’s pals (about 50 of
them) to fox-trot in celebration of his
engagement to Miss Foster.
Killed in France, Captain .T. Stuart
Walker, ex-minomanager of W.A. and sou
of Presbyterian parson John.-Walker, of St.
Andrew’s Kirk. Ballarat. " Two other sons
had already made the, big sacrifice, and a
fourth in the A.F.C. and a daughter nursing
in Salonika still carry on the family record.
Rev. John himself led the clan to battle as
a chaplain in the A.I.F.
Young Captain McGregor, the Scot who
was marine superintendent of the Common-
wealth fleet, died very suddenly last week.
His wife was a daughter of the big Tas-
manian squatting family of Grubb.
Charlie Lyon left for Calcutta last week
as Commonwealth Government representative
in connection with the jute business. His
tall and handsome wife was Vair Dodds
before her marriage.
Canon Carmichael, after a long, quiet,
milk-and-lioneyed clerical career among the
pure merinoes of Portland, is giving up his
job and going on the armchair list. The
retiring shepherd ministered in a church
thickly encrusted with historic stained-glass
and ancient memories; and he fitted the posi-
tion as though foreordained thereto.
Rev. William Alexander, of Abbotsford
(Vic.), who died the other day, was a self-
sacrificing soul. Long ago he abandoned a
£4OO-a-year billet at wealthy Mortlake ( West-
ern District), where he had a fine home, in
order to fill the pulpit at dusty down-at-heel
Carlton, a job which he retained, at £15!! a
year, for 17 years.
Mrs. Howard Carr, who was Beatrix
Tracy in her Australian days, writes of the
awfulness of washing-bills in Blighty now
that women have mostly forsaken the wash-
tub for the factory or the field. Her weekiv
laundry account tots up from 20s. to 305.. and
is still rising; and one of the troubles of
rationing is that it ties the customer to one
dealer for 20 weeks at a stretch, therefore
the appointed dealer is master of the situa-
tion. Mrs. Carr’s letter has one item of sad
news. Old friends of Dolly Brodzky will be
sorry to hear that she was killed in a motor
smash in California recently.
Elina Trench Kelly, B.Se., the only daugh-
ter of the divorce barrister who has taken up
scrub-farming as a side-line, is the first
woman analyst to be employed in the Com-
monwealth Laboratory, Melbourne.
James Irvine Orme Masson, son of Prof.
Orrne Masson, had the degree of Doctor of
Science conferred on him this week. Dr.
Masson was not present on the occasion,
owing to the trifling fact that he is in Eng-
land, superintending abstruse scientific muni-
tion-work.
The Australian Steeplechase on Saturday
drew a huge crowd. Mi-s. Merson Cooper had
a luncheon party. The Allan Tyes
finished up the day by a last-race
win with Ethiopian. The Reids, who
make a hobby of vet. work, were out,
one in a bright purple dress and the other
wrapped in sables. Miss Baillieu wore floral
muslin collar frills on her dark-blue dress.
Major Don Bennett, a returned Anzac
A.M.C., held quite a reception. Dr. Pat
Croome haunted the paddock. J. M. Niall
walked proudly after scoring the first win of
the day with Ivinlark. Bendigo Lazarus was
there with his wife weighted with expensive
sables.
Dr Morris and his wife were a pair of
happy sports. She was dressed in well-
tailored mole color with a dinky little close-
fitting hat. The new idea among the flappers
is to put wool in their hats. One girl had
strands of good sock material wound round
her flat lid.
Dr. Helen Sexton was one of Melbourne’s
first medical women. The clever Australian
(she is looking out from this Mina Moore
portrait) was
abroad when war
broke out. She and
Mrs. Blackwood and
Mrs. Smith equipped
a hospital and pre-
sented it to the
French AVar Office.
Above it the Aus-
tralian flag flew for
the first time during
the war in conjunc-
tion with the French
Tricolor. The hos-
pital was perfect,
expensively equipped
and contained a
wonderful operating
theatre. There were
23 beds for surgical
cases and an upper
(lour was devoted to badly-knocked-out “five-
days’-leave” men. The French Military
Hospitals were not under the Red Cross.
Dr. Helen, who was in charge, ranked as
major. Mrs. Blackwood looked after the
wards and Mrs. Smith and her daughters
helped with the V.A.D. work. This was at
the very outbreak of hostilities. The ladies
bravely shouldered the work and expense
for six months; then they realised that the
war would not be over quickly and that a
privately-supported hospital was beyond the
bounds of the most elastic private income's.
Dr. Sexton then offered her services to the
Military Hospital at Buffon. and Mrs. Black-
wood also went to Buffon. Mrs. Smith and
her daughters went to England, took over
the maintenance of a ward of IQ beds at a
hospital there and worked as V.A.D.’s. Dr.
Helen Sexton remained on duty at Buffon
until an accident caused her to be invalided
fo Australia.
The writings of Adelaide
The Jewish Women’s Red Cross Society gave a
good report of the year’s work at its fourth annual
meeting early in the week. Its balance-sheet showed
a credit of £175. By the way, this is the only
Jewish Red Cross Association in the Commonwealth.
Writing of Red Cross work reminds me that the
Brown dame, who was practically: the. first person
here to organise the despatch of socks in bulk to the
soldiers, is making an appeal for male spinners to
come to the rescue of feminine knitters. Wool is
almost unprocurable in the shops, and most women
are already so busy that if they take to spinning
it means that some other item of their war work
must fall behind.
English cables tell of the death of Augustus
Sturcke, who was secretary of the Anglican Church
Office 20 or 30 years ago. His wife, who survives
him, was one of the Randall elan.
The small attendance at the War Anniversary meet-
ing in the Exhibition on Saturday evening wrung
a protest from the Governor, who was in the chair,
and from most of the other speakers, notably the
new Commandant, who made a few remarks about
the imbecility of holding meetings and passing resolu-
tions every August 4, and failing to “deliver the
goods” in the ensuing 12 months. A good part of
the audience that did turn up consisted of returned
soldiers.
No. 15 A.G.IL, which in pre-war days was Angas
College, a training-school for missionaries, has been
temporarily closed by the Defence Department and
its patients removed to Torrens Park or Keswick.
The hospital may be re-opened later on.
Wilbraham,. third son of the late Rowland Egerton-
Warburton, has been killed in action in France.
Another ex-Adelaidian, Capt. J. F. Bagot, a son of
the late Christie Bagot, has been “mentioned” for
his good work with the Light Horse.
Mena Murtee station changed hands at the Wool
Exchange on Wednesday for £60,000. It belonged
to William Parker, who enlisted as a private in the
A.1.F., and was killed in France just when he had
won three stripes and had passed his 32nd birthday.
The purchaser was his brother, who bought on behalf
of G. T. Parker and Sons, of Tordown, near Menindie.
Josiali Symon recently went by the transconti-
nental from Adelaide to Perth to address a recruit-
ing meeting. In ten days the ex-Senator travelled
3370 miles and slept six nights on the train. He
was accompanied by his wife, who looked upon the
journey as a good outing. Four of their sons are
fighting, and four daughters are nursing sick soldiers.
Looks like a Spartan record.
In spite of a drenching wet night, the Norwood
Town Hall was packed for the Trench Comforts
Entertainment on Thursday evening, when Tennyson’s
“Dream of Fair Women,” and Laurence Hope’s
“Indian Love Lyrics” were elaborately staged in
tableau form. For the Dream the forest scene was
exquisite. Mrs. Julian Ayers was Helen of Troy,
and Adelaide Napier Fair Rosamund. The singers
for the “Love Lyrics” were Clara Serena and Lionel
Hack. A Union Jack and Stars and Stripes auctioned
by Captain Bruce brought £155.
The burly Allerdaile Grainger, formerly in South
Aus. Assembly, and then Agent-General for the State
in. London, had a birthday last week —his 70th. Since
his return to Adelaide he has been little before the
public.
The young medico, Cliff Scantlebury, who
has distinguished himself as an X-ray special-
ist in France, has cabled to his family that
he is going to commit matrimony with Li I
Whybrow, a Melbourne graduate in Arts and
a pal of his sisters. She is a daughter of the
Whybrows whose big boot factory stands to
the leeward of the Collingwood railway line.
Beryl Fanning and Commissioner Pid-
dington’s secretary Newell, who are to be
married in a week or two, will honeymoon in
Melba’s Coombe Cottage. Afterwards they
will settle in a flat at St. Arnaud, South
Yarra.
William Hayman, whose late father man-
aged a George Armytage Western District
squattage, was married to Minnie Burnett,
the other Thursday, at St. John’s, Camber-
well, by uncle Archdeacon Hayman. George
Armytage gave the bride away.
The other night a popular Melb. singer
sang a song written of the days when we
used to be swapping blows with the French,
and into the refrain of which entered an
uncomplimentary reference to “Frenchmen
and such men.” A well-known French resi-
dent ejaculated an astonished “What!” and
nearly danced on his seat with indigna-
tion when the audience innocently applauded
and encored the outrage. One of Elgar’s'
finest sea songs has been sung sev-
eral times since the great upset took
place in Europe, and has always been vocif-
erously applauded. Yet it is as hot an insult
against France as the most fervid present-
day patriot could hurl at Germany. What
about a song censor?
Fayette Perry has returned from Japan.
She had a four months’ holiday.
The Stanleys and their supports are going
to a performance of French classic plays at
the Playhouse on Saturday. The Alliance
Francaise is blessing the show, of which Rene
Vnndorkelen is secretary.
During July the
Bronze Medal of the
Royal Humane Soci-
ety was handed to a
returned Victorian
soldier, Corporal V.
J. Maddock, of the
52nd Battalion. In
February the steamer
Mongana was char-
tered for an excur-
sion to Port Cynget
(Tas.). When on the
return journey an
11-year-old boy was
playing with others
on a gangway on the
deck when the gang-
way with the boy on
it. slipped through an
opening in the side
of the ship into the sea. A boat was
launched, but there was a heavy sea run-
ning and it was instantly swamped and the
occupants were left hanging on for their
lives. Then Maddock threw off his tunic,
dived over the rail, swam to the lad, and,
with the assistance of a lifebuoy, held him
up for over 20 minutes until a second boat
could be launched. It would have been a
great performance for a champion surfer in
perfect health ; but, since ho had it fractured
by an explosive bullet, Maddock’s right leg-
lias been practically useless, and previous to
the injury he was by no means a strong
swimmer.
Aubrey Anderson, who played small parts
in Shakspeare and acted with Gregan
McMahon in the Repertory, will appear with
Guy Bates Post in America. She leaves
shortly with a six-months’ contract in her
box.
Joseph Blascheck lately had a letter from
his wife, who is living in England near the
East Coast, in which she describes a par-
ticularly big air raid, with all its brilliant
and awful fireworks, and the fall of four
German aircraft. But the real thrill for
the entertainer was in the postscript: “Jo,
our son, is home on 48 hours’ leave. He
tells me he was up in the raid on Sunday
and in the thick of it.”
Some of the Gregan McMahon amateurs
put on three playlets at the Playhouse on
Saturday night, but didn’t score a packed
house. “ ’Op o’ Me Thumb,” “The Story of
Corporal Bell” and “The Rest Cure” were the
pieces on the menu.
Gibson Young, the returned Bendigonian,
and his wife Edith gave a combined musical
and dramatic recital on Wednesday night at
the Assembly Hall. Young has a well-trained
voice and gives the impression of having been
strictly brought up as a church chorister. Wife
Edith carolled up and down the scale in an
interpretation of Ophelia. Hal Elvins sup-
plied piano music. The hall was crowded
with very friendly listeners, who sociably
dodged about and yarned in the intervals.
A stout and strong-minded dame of Toorak
lately caused a sensation by coming to town
in her tailored gardening togs, which consist
of breeks, tunic and leggings. These busy
Red Cross times, she declares, leave little
time for change of costume. She wanted to
bring in her Red Cross dainties early and
came just as she was without one other plea.
The military hospital at Macleod has
been made more comfortable by the Govern-
ment House Red Crossers. A. E. Kane, of
Hawthorn, lately opened a large recre-
ation hall with big open fireplaces. Also,
there is a stage and a dressing-room for
amateur shows. A billiard-room is another
annexe along with a library with broad,
sunny verandahs and lounge furniture.
In London, if anyone sneaks an over-
supply of sugar, the cry is “Don’t tell
Dora !” (D-O-R-A —Defence of Realm Act.i
Artist May Butler George, now in Eng-
land, has been painting a miniature por-
trait of Kitchener. She has had four
miniatures hung in the Walker (Liverpool)
Gallery, one a portrait of the Countess de
Navarro (Mary Anderson). May is sending
out some of her work for exhibition here this
year.
Melbourne Grammar is pointing with pride
at the school’s war record. Out of 1215 old
boys who have reached the Front, 159 have
gone west. Among the decorations won are
20 D.S.O.’s, 72 M.C.’s (one with two bars),
12 M.M.’s, five D.C.M.’s, three D.S.C.’s and
one Distinguished Flying Cross. The foreign
ornaments include four Croix de Guerre from
France and Belgium, a .Tap Order of the
Rising Sun, an Italian Silver Medal and a
Servian Order of the White Eagle. Also
there are various fragments <>f the alphabet
ranging from C.M.G. to M.B.E.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


DEWARS
THE THREE GREAT TESTS
OF GOOD WHISKY ARE
QUALITY—TASTE—AGE
Quality is the Essence of Goodness and Fine
Blending. It conveys that indefinable distinc-
tion, which makes a man a prince among his
fellows, and Dewar’s a king among Whiskies.
Excellence in Distillation is a Science; Pre-
eminence in Blending an Art. Dewar’s is a
Mingling of Choice Spirits. Quality stands for
Character, and Dewar’s for the ideal'com-
bination of both.
Taste. The Taste of Dewar’s is the Golden
Key which unlocks all the pleasant avenues
of the memory. In Dewar’s Whisky there is
something creamy and yet not cloying;
something velvety and yet not heating;
something rich and yet not obtrusive; some-
thing crisp and yet not crude Strong and yet
gentle, Dewar’s is the Paladin of Whiskies,
Age is the Crowning Stage in a series of fer-
mentations. • Fermentation means Life. Age
dissipates its roughness, rounds off its edges,
and refines its character, leaving nothing
behind but the Rarest Elixir of Life. Dewar’s
, is the Veteran of Stimulants.. It is ripe for
Promotion to your Palate.


The Germans would have been bettor able
to endure their recent “strategic retreat” on
the Marne if their war spirit had been rein-
forced by that perfect stimulant King
George IV. topnotch Scotch.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCAROIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
IWHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUN^?
fdh
LEWIS &WTIITTy MAKERS
The United Commercial Travellers’ Association of
Australasia announce, in connection with the four-
teenth issue of its national annual, Australia To-
day, its eighth Children’s Portrait Competition,
for which, as detailed on page 30 of this Bulletin.
the Association requests entries from every State
in the Commonwealth, by Ist October, addressed to
“Editor, Australia To-day, Box 496 G.P.0., Mel-
bourne.”—Advt.
Missing Friends.
| F MARGARET DWYER and MARY DWYEIi,
1 daughters of the late Patrick Dwver and Sarah
Dwyer (maiden name Con nan).* formerly of Geelong,
or their children will communicate with The Trus-
tees Executors and Agency Company Limited, No. 412
Collins Street, Melbourne, they will hear of some-
thing to their advantage.
pOX NELL, FREDERICK LEO, son of Timothy
Connell, or anyone acquainted with his where-
abouts, please communicate at once with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
ll3 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Photographer named Murray.
who carried on business in Dubbo about
20 years ago, and afterwards moved to
Orange. Any person knowing of his where-
abouts please communicate with
I). MASON, c/o this Office.
DANIEL MORONY, son of Thomas
Morony, late of Wilmington, South
Australia, farmer, deceased, send address to
E. P. DIGNAN WILMINGTON, South
Australia.
IN the Estate of ROBERT OSBORNE, late of The
Glebe, Darling River, near Menindie, N.S.W.
The next of kin of the above-named deceased are
requested to communicate with the undersigned, giv-
ing the following information:—
(1) Date and place of his birth.
(2) The names of his parents.
(3) Particulars of relationship claimed.
T. IV. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
iiiyisi
w
gfe..
fe>S§P*.
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex>
cellent value
ZINC
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
fd
ONVUfI
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
H AS,
BRAND
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS i
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Limited,
SPORTING NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
The Australian Steeplechase at Caulfield,
which lasts about eight minutes in the running, is
almost invariably a spectacle fine and exciting*. This
year it was a record in all respects, save that Ouffs
had the race won from the final turn into the straight.
Hobgoblin set-a pace that resulted in 7min. 491-see.
tor the four miles, or 14jsec. faster than last year,
and ljsee. better than the previous best, in spite
of comparative heaviness in the going. For the first
three miles Hobgoblin looked a winner all the way,
bar accidents. Westendale, Booligal and Cuffs had
been his nearest followers until Booligal hit a
fence and came down. The other two still pursued
the Hobgoblin, and even when they caught him they
didn’t get far away. For the rest of the field there
was no apparent hope if the leaders stood up. Lord
Cecil, in particular, was-too far out of his ground
during the first half of the journey, being consider-
ably behind Jack Rice, who was always noticeable
at the head of the ruck. The fiery pacemaker was
done ere they crossed the last hurdle, and coming
down the straight honest Westendale tired sufficiently
to get beaten by Jack Rice for second money. Lord
Cecil finishing fourth. The honors of the race were
with the two top-weights from Sydney, for they were
both giving more than a stone to Westendale, and
about 351 b. to Cuffs. Had they been pushed along
a trifle earlier they might have finished first and
second. The gap that Lord Cecil had to make up
in the third mile in order to become a “possible”
was quite too much for the best of ’chasers to hurry
over without feeling the effects of the effort. The
top-weights had waited too long under the impression
that the runaways would come back to them. Per-
haps Ouffs would have out-stayed them had they
come along sooner. He nearly came to grief at the
fast jump of the “treble” in the third round, but
the clout he gave the top rail didn’t disconcert him
much.
The unlucky horses in the Australian Steeple were
Cobram and Booligal, who had been first and second
in the National a month earlier. Cobram’s blunder
lost him his jockey, and Booligal’s rare mistake
brought horse and rider to earth. Also old Obi fell
ac this, his first, time of being asked to take the
bigger fences. Jack Rice, now in his ninth year,
saved the reputation of the veterans, but the others
did badly. Of the five that are 10 years old, or
older, three came to grief, and the other two, Lord
Grey and Coradjill, were whippers-in of the ten
that stood up. On the other hand Cuffs and Westen-
dale were the juveniles of the party, and Lord Cecil
one of the next youngest.
The surprise of the race was the performance of
Jack Rice, previously a marked failure in many
Melbourne tries. For this once the left-handed way
of running didn’t find out Jack in his weak spot,
nor did the fences, instead of hurdles, seem to
trouble him at all. The final run that carried him
into second place was full of ginger. The crowd
saw 7 him for the first time as the hero that Sydney
has often cheered.
John Wren doesn’t often win a race with-
out being on it, but this strange circumstance hap-
pened last Saturday at Caulfield. Barley Prince, a
maiden three-year-old, won an apprentices’ race on
behalf of John at the forlorn odds of 33 to 1. Two
matters of general interest were the third successive
victory of Carpathus, who promises to be a first-
class steeplechaser presently, and an unexpected win
by Colbert in a 9 furlongs race. Colbert carried no
more than his weight for the big Spring handicaps,
whereas Edrington, Rael Locin and others carried
more than their Cup loads. Nevertheless it was a
rather impressive performance. The V.R.C. handi-
capper has been very kind to Colbert, letting the
five-year-old into Melbourne Cup at 101 b. less than
was allotted him last year. Last year he was out of
sorts and never got near to winning a race.
* * * *
Ethiopian, the imported horse that was
hooted at Caulfield on account of his “reversal of
form,’’ seems intended to repeat the Lavendo coup
for the brothers Tye. Considering that he started
his losing career in Australia more than tw r o years
ago, Ethiopian was not favored by the liandicapper
with 7st. 111 b. in the Caulfield Cup, and 31b. more
for the longer Cup race at Flemington. Lavendo,
in his day, got a much better show 7 to win the
double for the Tyes. All the same, the five-year-old
son of Dark Ronald looks a dangerous candidate, now
that he has shown a bit of form in public. The
Welter race he got away with at Caulfield is the
same that > Uncle Sam won before he galloped away
with his first Caulfield Cup.
Any doubt as to Narahquong having lost
his bloom between the National at Flemington and
the Australian Hurdle at Caulfield was settled by
the discovery that the horse wasn’t in condition to
be returned to the country directly after his failure
in the latter event. The stallion is a more delicate
racing machine than the gelding, anyhow. The
victory of Polygamist in the Australian Hurdle last,
year was the end of his turf career. Hayston had
not long been cured of his wild insubordination at
the barrier, with brilliant winning results, than he
went wrong. And now Narahquong is laid by for
an indefinite period of recuperation.
* * * *
There was no injustice to Ireland at the
Canterbury Park (Sydney) meeting on Saturday,
anyway. Irish Duck won the Cup, a mile and three
furlongs, and The Irish Poet showed them his tail
in the Welter Mile. The Duck, an imported prad,
had been a winner the previous week at Moorefield.
He is in the Epsom with 7st. 21b., a circumstance
which is not particularly notable. The Poet is in,
too, with 7st., but as he tan the mile in “47” on
Saturday, there was no immediate rush to get in on
the early doors for Randwiek.
- * * *• ■*
The ex-Maorilander Bunting, winner of
(he w.f.a. National Plate, nine furlongs, at Brisbane
on Saturday, from Amberdown and Lanius, must like
the climate up yonder. When started in N. S. Wales
a few months ago he ran like a coot. Yet across the
Tasman he was a real good performer, and later on
did well in Bananaland. If he doesn’t mislay his
pace in the meantime the fact of him having Bst.
71b. in the Caulfield may be worth remembering. He
won easily on Saturday in “52-1,” which is some
travelling with 9st. lib. aboard.
“Beel”: Have been waiting for it to
appear. Broken Hill had another put on its scroll
at the last racing carnival. Melbolt (Footbolt-
Melba) got away with the three Cups—-Silver City,
Broken Hill and South —in succession. The nag
was ridden by C. Boorn each outing.
“Spreader” : The question of what consti-
tutes a “blood” horse has cropped up over a decision
given at the Lockyer Show (Q.), where the judge
gave first prize to a short pedigreed colt (out of a
full sister to Newhaven) in preference to a half-
brother to Parsee, whose ancestors go back to the
English stud-book, Yol. L, without a flaw. As the
best-looking horse (from the judge’s point of view)
got the award it seems pretty clear that to have
given the prize to the other moke would have meant
taking more notice of his pedigree than his “points,”
a thing no sane man ought to be guilty of. Another
way of looking at the matter is:. Was the prize-
winner’s only fault the fact that his dam was a sister
to one of the great racehorses of modern times, a
champion in England as well as Australia? There
are limits to the value of a pedigree where the prog-
eny of several mares in this country are concerned, as
the excellence of their offspring leaves little doubt
that the mares were of pure origin though short-
pedigreed owing to carelessness or neglect in keeping
the records. Whether there is much sense in giving
show prizes for blood horses is another matter. There
probably is not. At the best, it boils down to the prize
for the animal which conforms to the ideas of a single
individual.
* * -*
George Black, of Ma’s Upper House,
quotes an ancient Scottish Act of Legislature which
prohibited football and golf during the continuance
of the war with England (1488-1513) : “It is
statute and ordained that in no place of the realm
there be use fute-ball, golfe or any other siklike
unprofitable sports.” A previous Act had declared,
“That all men shall busk themselves to be archers,”
and butts for archery were erected in all the public
parks.
-X- * * *
Racing is not overdone in South Aus.
The figures for the year just ended show that no
owner had more than four horses that won races.
Gregory, who heads the list, had only three, but
one of them was Wee Gun. This owner had 11
wins ( £2801). Robinson and Clark took the
Adelaide Cup and £2090; Flannagan, who lost the
big race by a head, won £lBl5. It. M. Hawker
would have been third on the list if the winnings
of Mrs. Hawker, whose horses run in her own name,
were included. The only others over £lOOO were
the James-Speneer partnership and Major Hamilton
(whose recent Broken Hill wins are not counted).
•J. V. Kenny, though a long way down, won most
races—lll small stakes. Hopwood was easily the
leading jockey—3ll wins, 43 other places; Sing and
Veale next. Howie was easily top among trainers —
20 and 32 ; then North way, Timmens, Gregory and
J. James (whose luck was out—lo wins, 45 other
places). As usual in S.A., Pistol stood ahead as a
sire—-32 winners, 631 wins, £6540. Comedy King
a bad second—6, 13, £2620.
Adelaide Racing Club had a brisk light,
with- an unexpected result, for a vacancy on the
committee. Of the two retiring members, David
James, owner of the long-ago Melbourne Cup winner
Auraria, stood again, but C. B. Ware did not.
The new candidates were Charles Irwin and Loftus
Moorhouse, both owners; and their friends got so
busy on their behalf that both were elected, David
James being dropped out after over 20 years’ service.
He will be much missed, but both the new members
are keen sportsman and likely to be useful on the
committee.
* * * *■
“Trier”: When Private Tremble reached
hospital with his dose of shell-shock the doctor asked
him how it happened. Tremble started like a gas-
engine: “It was at G-g-g-uedecourt, doctor. We
t-t-took over f-from the Durhams. S-s-soon after we
got s-settled our C.O. t-t-told six of us to occupy one
d-dugout, and we got in. I b-brought out a pack of
c-cards, and we s-started six-h-handed euchre. 1
d-dealt and t-turncd up J-j-jack of Hearts. Mi
m-m-mate said ‘l'll go alone,’ and s-started to
p-p-play. B-but F-fritz had a hand and led a whiz-
bang in our d-dugout, and we all w-w-went with him,
including my m-mate. T-t-there were two s-stretcher
cases and f-f-four w-walking.”
* * * *
An endurance waltzing competition was
held at Toowoomba (Queensland) recently, the chief
condition being that the heels of the competitors
should not touch the floor. The winning couple
twirled for two hours and 18 minutes without frac-
turing the conditions. And yet Australians are
accused of being a pleasure-loving people.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : The “shirt-skirt” misprint, crop-
ping up again (B. l/8/’18), recalls the neatest
form it is ever likely to take. It was in an Adelaide
reporter’s description of a hockey-match, long ago,
when the game was a new pastime for girls. lie
said—-or the printer made him say—that “the figures
of the Ileathpool ladies, graceful yet athletic, were
well set off by their costume, consisting of a white
blouse and a short shirt.”
The first golf-match Adelaide has seen for
several years was a four-ball game between Murdoch
and Legli Winser, amateurs, and the pros. Scott
and Stewart. The last-named has been rather out
of things since the Glenelg links closed and was
the weak spot of the four. In the first round, 12
holes were halved. The amateurs lost the first
hole, but no other, and were four up. They held on
to their lead in the second round and won at the
14th-—five up and four to play.
* * * *
S.A. League of Wheelmen has elected S.
11. Harrison its president for the 13th consecutive
year. At the annual meeting, Coneybeer (Speaker
of S.A. Assembly) presiding, said that of 94 racing
members 78 had gone to the war. He claimed this
to be “a record unequalled by any other organisa-
tion.”
* * * *.
Francis Benjamin Hart, of Sydney,
will never again call the odds. While at a shoot-
ing picnic between Campbelltown and Bull!
Pass (N.S.W.) he was standing on the footboard
of a moving motor when the machine skidded and
crashed into a small tree, crushing Hart and knock-
ing the tree down. The unfortunate man died at a
private hospital at Campbelltown. He had held
office on several committees of Sydney sporting clubs.
Bananaland Dick Barker died in Sydney
the other day, suddenly. He was 57, and 7ft.
between his hat and boots made him a conspicuous
citizen. Richard’s one great exploit in life was
his terrific battle with Harry Placke, another
gigantic individual, over a quarter of a century ago.
Thence onward he subsided into the peace that comes
of toiling at a brewery and wharf-lumping. He was
always very sensitive about his vastness, and seemed
to envy every little two-yard whipper-snapper he
met.
* ■» •* *
W. McPherson (Western Suburbs) wielded
the most intelligent boot in N. S. Wales Rugby
League games on Saturday, landing eight goals
against Annandale, and thereby recorded 16 out of
the club’s 31 points. The kick specialists among the
other seven clubs in the day’s scramble booted only
10 goals amongst them. The tussle between South
Sydney and Glebe was the big item in the day’s mud.
Glebe won by 8 to 5.
* *• . * *
“T. 0.1.” : Respecting the first All England
Eleven .to visit Australia. Spiers and Pond did not
annex all the gate money. In the farewell match
against 22 of Victoria (which was drawn, the
Englishmen requiring 12 to win and having three
wickets in hand), S. and P. divided half the receipts
amongst the over-sea players. They were offered
£l2O0 —one hundred per man —to stay out the
month, but their engagements in the Old Country
forbade. At most of the matches a collection , was
made for the highest scorer. Mortloek got £2O in
this way at the first Sydney match. At ihe conclu
si°n of the final match 12 elm-trees were planted
on the outskirts of the Melbourne Cricket Ground
by the visiting team. u
*’**■»
Sara Jennings, the colored 56-year-old
Bathurst ped., has succeeded in lopping a linmi on
his previous 8 hours 57min. for a jaunt from Eskbank
to Bathurst. He has covered the heavy route in
seven minutes below that figure, averaging five niilc-
-76 yards an hour. The time cut up like this- Kir-i
15i| miles, 2 hours 47min.; 201 miles, 3 hours 55min •
441 miles, S hours oOmin. He finished as fresh as a
bird, and gave a number of outsiders a run for their
cash over the last mile. Sam is in excellent nick
which has something to do with piloting a grey mare
round the Bathurst streets, Sam having the reins and
using himself as a vehicle. People thereabouts used
to think he was training the grey; but it now turns
out that the animal was being used to provide pace
for the ped., nothing with a couple of legs being able
to stand a try-out against the champion. Jenniir-s
is now working up his proposed Bathurst-'to-Sydnev
trip on the boot under 30 hours. There isn't <m
superfluous cash to be got against him either.
Not bad shooting, this, for a man of 78—
at 200 and 300 yards (five shoots), average 62 ; 500
and 600 yards, average 58; 800 and 900 yards’ (one
shoot only), 30 and 31; 900 and 1000 yards, 32.
The man behind the gun was G. Yeomans, of Adel-
aide, one-time outdoor running superintendent of
S.A. Railways.
* * * *
“Bung” : Edging into the argument about
the relative qualities of cheap and expensive shot
guns, I want to say that in boring barrels the gun-
smith strikes that element of luck which determines
the utility and durability of manufactured articles
in general. No two engines of similar make have
just the same power and intensity. A cheap gun is
often found immeasurably superior in range and
pattern to one more highly priced, and, probably,
quite equal in withstanding wear and tear. When
breech-loaders first came into common use on Honan>
(N.S.W.) a sport of inv acquaintance purchased a
pin-fire gun for ,E 5. With it he could make prettv
sure of game up to 60 yards. Then he invested
his savings in a 30-guinea centre-fire, calculating that
with it he ought to do slaughter at about 300 yards.
Later, on I saw him sell the 30-guinea weapon for a
tenner, and heard him refuse £l5 for the old pin-fire.
“Nimrod”: The answer to “G.L.11.” (B.
20/6/’18), who asks how much forward allowance
should be made to hit a crossing hare at 35 yards,
is that no two men require to make the same allow-
ance. It all depends on how the gam is held. It ha*
been proved that when a gun is fired with ii side-
ways swing the shot acquires a movement in the
same direction. Shooters who bring the gun up with
a quick swing and fire without stopping the move-
ment require hardly any allowance. Others follow
the object, but seem to stop the gun as they tire.
They require to aim a long way ahead of the game.
Theoretically, assuming the hare to have a speed of
40 miles an hour, and the shot a muzzle velocity of
Xoooft. per second, and the gun to be held absolutely
stationary, the aim would have to be 9ft. in front.
But no practical shot holds his gun that way. Too
much forward allowance is far better than too little.
A hare shot in front, turns a somersault and rolls
over dead. If plastered in the hindquarters it crawls
about squealing pitifully". Some men would shoot
behind the great sea-serpent.
MY FRIENDS AMONG THE DEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My dead friends count so many, as they pass me in
review,
Along the sloping vista ol’ the years ;
The vista that is shaded by the cypress and the yew,
No light there save of yesterday appears ;
My dear de;Tl friends are many, whilst the living
friends are few:
The old times were so beautiful; so joyless are the
new.
Friends greet me on the street-ways, or, together in
the train,
We journey up to town on working days:
Of hopes and expectations we sit talking once again,
And then we part and go our divers ways;
They are smiling in the sunshine, they are joking
in the rain:
As solid facts they are not, but as visions they
remain.
In the street, and on the racecourse, when another
Cup comes round,
They stroll about the “birdcage” or the lawn,
And one man wins a fiver, whilst another drops a
pound
In the fragments of his ticket lightly strawn;
And I listen to their voices, getting gladness from
the sound
Of the laughter of old comrades who are sleeping
underground.
Die bar-room still is crowded as of old it used to be
(f lost the drinking habit long ago),
But none among the mortals has an interest for me—
Me, a stranger to the present passing show:
The only men who welcome me, the only friends
I see,
Are conjured by my fancy from their dwellings
damp and dree.
The cricket ground, the tennis-court, the gentle
bowling-green,
Are haunted by the faces of my pals—
The ones who left life early, and the ones who
stayed till e’en,
And, here and there, some “doosid pretty gals.”
At a certain quiet tea-shop, where one hides behind
a screen,
I often meet the shadow of sweet Lady Might-have-
been,
My dear, dead friends are many, ah, so many. and
so dear ;
Tis good to have them passing in review;
They speak to me as audibly, their presence is as
clear
As living ones, whose number is so few;
I close my eyes this moment, and I see them drawing
near,
The dear, dead friends so maaiy, yes, so many and
so dear.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


There is a WAY to Perfect
Health.
That way is open to you. Will you travel it?
The only way to improve Nature is through NATURAL
methods.'
Drug's and apparatus usually show no results and are often
injurious. Under my method 15 minutes each day in your
own room is sufficient. I have thousands ot students in all
parts of Australia and New Zealand who are now enjoying
good health. Previously a great number ot these people
were sufferers from indigestion, constipation and other dis-
orders which are the direct result of the internal muscles
being much below normal.
My exercises pay particular attention to the muscles that
govern the action of the stomach, liver and bowels, and
quickly bring them back to a healthy state again.
Surely you want to enjoy the best of health ? Then why
not write to-day for full particulars of my
POSTAL COURSE 27 HEALTH AND
STRENGTH CULTURE?
This is proof of what I say
“Dear Sir, —I have practised the third set of exercises,
together with the other sets, and feel stronger than ever.
I have increased 911>. in weight.
"Yours faithfully,
“(Signed) 11. F , Gemalla.”
Many hundreds of letters from pupils throughout Australia
and New Zealand are in the same strain.
I should like you to have rnv booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE,” which tells about my
methods, fees, etc. Just write ytsur name across this udvt.
and send it to me, with time penny stamps for postage.
REG. L.osnowyflAKEß,
“ The All-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,”
770 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
••
'"it
■ ;•
PARTAGAS
HAVANA CICARS
"The Smoke of Kings.”
hfd
«#■
Conchas
Bouquets,
6d.
each
Box of 100.48/6
Box of 50,24/6
Box of 25,12/6
Postage Gd. per box extra in New South Wales.
Manufacture 1 from leaf specially selected in Havana for
S. SPARLING,
HIGH-CLASS TOBACCONIST,
(Corner Castlereagh
Street),
47 Hunter Street
Sydney,
0R,r, 5
m
%
&
WDi£
''Womd/Best*
j^MoTOR^PIMT
Gased
fr\ Cdus*tr&jCj<3..
I BRItUh IrtPETOAt on. COY. LTD. ail 3TATIJ Vf* Z
Uncle Sam’s Choice
in war as in peace is
The Indian Factory
is now engaged on
the largest war
orders yet placed
for motor-cycles.
Catalogue with pleasure.
RHODES MOTOR
CYCLE CO. PTY. LTD.
Russell St.,
Melbourne.
I B llfl
B H
i.iibii
THE ELECTRIC ICEMAN.
REFRIGERATORS
FOR YOUR HOME.
Fit ai\ “ISKO” Refrigerator
in your Ice Chest.
NO ICE REQUIRED.
MAKES ITS OWN ICE.
Automatically starts and stops
itself as the temperature rises
or falls.
Efficient. Economical, Safe,
Sanitary.
Low. even temperature, no mat-
ter how hot the weather out-
side may be.
Dry, cold, pure and wholesome
air circulates through the Ice
Chest.
Cheap refrigeration; adds very
little to your Electric-light bill.
Keeps Milk, Fish. Fruits or
Meats without spoiling.
Write for particulars to the Sole
Agents,
I m
f£Bf
U
m
Benson Brothers Ltd.
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
HYPOL
Means
Health
The Approved
Remedy
for
Coughs, Colds,
Chest Complaints
and
Wasting
Diseases
A Happy Hypol Child.
A Coat that Every Motorist
Should Have—the “Keep Dri”
97(6 (FREIGHT PAID).
Here is a Coat that no Motorist should
be without. It is made in a Gabardine
of particularly stout quality, and has a
lining of Woollen Check Cloth. It is
quite Wind- and Rain-proof, and, in
spite of its comparative lightness, is
undeniably a “Warm” Coat..
In Texture and
Design the “Keep
Dri” follows on
the lines of the
French Coat
now favored by
Officers of the
Allied Forces.
The Style is
“different," t o
just the degree
desired by the
Average Well-
dresseil Man.
The Collar turns well up
around the ears arid fastens
cosily across the throat. The
Fronts are held in position by
a Waistbelt fastening with
Military “Pull Through”
Buckle.
No Buttons are needed, the belt
acting as a most effective sub-
stitute. Sleeves are fitted with
Windguards.
There is no question of the
value at 97/6 (freight paid).
Post Your Order
J*'
>
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
“ Specialists in Outfitting by Mail,**
244-254 Flind ers Street, Melbourne.


•3*
<&>
•NT
-se-
1 1 — - 1 1
h
Collars.
No. 14.—NAME.
WHEN “PELACO” appears on a
garnitni (Shirt, Collar, or
Pyjama), it indicates the highest
quality material, and finest workman-
ship.
“Talbot.”
Price 1/- Linen Faced.
As Illustrated. Easy Tie Slide,
Heights, l%in. l&in. 2in. 2Kin.
Sizes, 13>£ln, to 18in.
Made in Australia.
WEAR
SHIRTS& PYJANIAS
. SO
bh^fmrrmTnTi
THE DEAF
HEAR!
fdh
Welcomed ami en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing- Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed hv a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and varticulars of our Special Trial Offer,
A. E. SLADE & CO,, Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. S916 City, SYDNEY.
Meat s Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
fdh
fdh
fd
Worm
Powders
10/- Doz.
Alterative
Mixture
2/6, 5/-
Prepare Your Dogs for the
Coursing Season
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Also obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
You Can Become a
Successful Artist.
You can H lo*r.l# .drawing in
your own home, with Harry
j. Weston—Australia’s famous
commercial artist —as your
teaclier.-
Drawing is an
i it. t e resting
and profitable
pastime, but
success in art
cannot be.
built up on
an unsound
foundation.
THE WESTON POSTAL
COURSE OF DRAWING
thoroughly teaches the
fundamental principles
of drawing, and carries
its students? step by
stop thi'Otigh every
phase of commercial,
art.
So explicit and simple
are the instructions,
and so helpful and
personal Mr. Weston’s
criticisms that rapid
progress under such
able tuition is certain.
Send three . penny
stamps for our booklet
“THERE’S MONEY
IN THE PEN.” It
tells about the ppssi-;
bilities of drawing as
a profession and as a
pastime.
sr-
T k .1
J ,
m
THE HARRY J, WESTON
Postal School of Drawing
68 Waltham Buildings; 1 Bond Street, Sydney
(f
irr^
Who cares
, for
knocks
when
there’s
a
handy
THERE’S A LOT OF COMFORT
IN A COOL, SWEET SMOKE ...
There’s a heap of satisfaction in
possessing a “G.8.D.” because it
puts you on the road to Pipe=
enjoyment —and keeps you there!
Decide for
GBD
the perfect pipe!
m
miGBB
ASK FOR A
E
H AT
U N R I VA LUE o
wm
for
Siyle & Finish.
FELt
* C 4PS OF ALU UP - 10
/
MAKERS
CRESS & C° IT.?
LONDON. ENGLAND.
'Wholesale Agents -
COX & MAILER.
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
-
PRICE’S
hfd
h
, * PRICES
"PROVED EXPO* 71
N| ght lights
jor safety
and health.
( 93 AWARDS )
The sensible light
Jbr Bedroom & Nursery.
Prices patent candle company ltd.
London. Liverpool. Manchester. Glasgow.
THE thing that the people should have
Ih'i-mi allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking- Are you going io
let the Ravisher of Belgium win wither
lifting a hand?
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
IV o notice fexcept of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. .'o
liability is undertaken l'e contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.D.F. (France) : It seems to be an argu-
ment with no definite end, like the elephant; thanks
for the rest, and good luck .•. . .N.H.L.: Thanks....
L.L.AV.: Yes; but probably the local organ of the
B.M.A. would he a more beneficial platform.
Address, Elizabeth-street. Returning copy. . . .AV.M. :
Wait a bit \rrub: That yarn was printed long
ago. .. . Goldsize: Rice story old as the missing books
of the Bible II.Iv.; l.’ei no use. .. .Nemo (Lon-
don); No use Petite: Nothing in it Condar:
Pleased to hear of the improvement. ... P. A. F. : All
right; glad to hear it. . . .X.H.0.: Thanks; sent
vour note to the writer. .. .O.S.L. (France): All
that about that.... Vera S.: “Wedding” just misses.
. ...W.C.; “A Soldier Passes” on. .. . IT.R.M.: With-
out probability or purpose. .. .11. K.: The “appetite”
is too lumpy M.8.J.: No M;M.: Not enough in
“Midnight.”.... Rowdy R.: 0ut.... A. 8.C.: Sorry ;
sonnet must go back. . . .H.S.; Misses. .. . M.R.W.:
Horrible yarn with nothing to redeem it.... Para-
lillo: You gave a man three glasses of brandy to
keep him from singing. That was a great idea.
Keeping your address a dead secret.... 8.C.: “Man-
killer” doesn’t work... .S.R.S.: Not good enough.
(P.S. —Nothing is.) .... Little Stranger; Doesn’t
move us. .. . Warradulla : Well, you’ve said only that
there's a river and that the weather changes.
Almost anybody could say that with a little practice
—even a State Governor.... Concertina: No yarn
there.... Northern Star: N0....0.8.: It makes us
dizzy:—•
Well, what is gone wrong John I said,
lias Mary gone wrong or is she dead:
Ml! No she is only lying on her bed,
Aml sure scarcely able to rise her head.
( mne along now sure for she’s pretty had,
So off we went straight into the yard ;
Now what you think of my sow she looks so sad,
She’s gone off her feed and she’s breathing so hard.
For this poor old sow as I see her now,
And John looking at me over his eyebrows ;
Surely thinking I’d fix her up somehow,
If only to stop her from making that row.
Now for this poor old sow 1 had to subscribe,
For it was poor old John’s pet and pride;
And now he thinks 1 am the best of scribe,
For saving that clear poor old sow’s hide.
.. . .E.F.A.: Heavy fooling. . . .E. 11.: “Some Citizens”
is fired ...W.E.K.: Miserable attempt... .M. 8.5.:
Not well enough done... .P.M.: Not up... .C.F.P.;
The “Summer Night” is no place for us with a
vampire like that about G.L.T.: “Rump Steak”
very tedious.. . .T.E.D. : Thin and weak.... J.B.L. :
“Bill” doesn’t quite satisfy.... Country Ped: Prayer
scheme too thin. . . .C.T.G.: Far too crude... .E. 8.5.:
Good verses for their purpose, but not for ours..'..
H.W.: Commonplace and poor verse. .. .M. 1.: No.
... .G.C.P.: The stream :is not attractive.. . .Red
Collar : Doesn't make a yarn. ... J.A.L.: Have no
idea how to “dispose of melodramas” unless it’s
with an axe. You say, “Let me know iff I can help
with hens.” No, thanks, the Religious Editor is our
poultry expert. One sample of verse: —
On desert sands, on Icy slopes
Where Equatorial and Arctic nature’s life abound
A misspent life —
Plays havoc rife—
To the being who with blighted hopes,
Seeks solace with the yelping hound.
.. . . T.8.C.: We don’t reprint; and we wouldn’t
reprint that, anyhow. ... H.W. W.: N0....H.5.:
Doesn’t satisfy us... .E.R.P.: See reply to H.S
E.E.M.: You don't make the yarn understandable,
though there are good touches in it. .. . Iv.C.: Doesn’t
pass .. . . G.J. : Too many bumps in the verse and
ideas too thin. When you've remedied these faults
we’ll see if there are any others IT.C.: No idea
whether it came or not, but don’t think - it saw
print. ... J.P.8.: Not up..,.1C.5.: Doesn’t work into
the frame... .Sarto: No grip. .. .H.W.S.: Won’t do.
H.H.: Good enough sermon in bad enough verse.
. ...S.S.M.: No. . . .M.1.A.: Fair verse; bat nothing
new. .. .552: A bit rugged. . . .S.McL.: Lamentable
verse... .H.M.: “Voluntaryism” not up... .F.H.8.:
Yarn doesn’t convince C.8.A.: That sort of thing
wanted much better handling. .. .D.P.M.: You won’t
get far until you take the trouble to put in a few
stops and see that some of the 11 nes, ..scan.... St.
James: No use. .. .C.8.A.: “The Time to Kiss”
doesn’t arrive... .Stephen L.: One clarion call must
go forth: —
Awake, Australia! ’Tis time to be stirring,
Around your heads let your battle-axes g-o whirring.
....Mother: Can’t answer that without knowing
the circumstances; but should think it would
ordinarily be paid. Better 'write to the Defence
Department. The other payment, of course, is
certain... .Non-Com.: Something in it, but don’t feel
inclined just now to poke up that endless argu-
ment again.. . .Anti-Humbug: It would probably
only lead to a wrangle over the dead soldier....
LB.: Thanks... .Not an Importation: The reproach
(although it has not been used in the wa.y you use
it) te not to the men who are imported to Aus-
tralia, but is a gibe at the little Australians who,
when something requiring intelligence has .to be
done, condemn the native-born to remain at the job
of being a hewer of wood and a drawer of the
liquid, which is used to dilute the whisky and enable
the milk to g'o round, rush into the foreign brain
market. y (2) Thanks for good wishes; good..luck
over tjie're. .. .Gun : Can't trace them.- What were
they "about? Par. to hand no u5e....A.J.F.: Cut
out and send to accountant.... Aneb: Better arrange
for- someone else to hold deposit and appoint referee.
.... .Sarto: What do you mean when you say, “Do
you think it necessary to, advise the Commissioner
if these figures are correct’” Aren’t they correct
as you have written them ?./... Corporal L. (France):
Thanks; good luck....lda; D.: All right; bad luck.
• S.H.C.: Thanks'. —YV.D.G.: Everything depends
on the quality of the ore. Send particulars to the
cos. likely to be interested.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G. 8.: An old jest and a rather amateurish draw-
ing....F.G.: Send it to a less religious paper....
Don: Rough and early. .. .S.T.:. An American comic
typo.... F.S.P.: Are they intended as caricatures,
or is it a joke drawing without words? V.C.:
Scrapbook stuff... -M.M. : They’re not up to publi-
cation level. Glad to consider any suggestion....
Dan K.: All flat.... Harry AY.: Sorry Vlec C.:
Take back your fowls C.F.: One may do as a
suggestion.
Mnpriland Postmaster-General Ward re-
ports that he. is going to start aeroplanes
“carrying mails from one end of the country
to the other" after the war.' P.M.G. Webster,
of Australia, ought at least to consider start-
ing machines off in pursuit of Australia’s
missing correspondence and mislaid telegram,
anyhow.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
THE RT. IiON. 11. 11. ASQUITH.
Occasional Addresses: Literary and
Academic. By the lit. Hon. H. H.
ASQUITH, M.P. [ Shortly.
A Sporting and Dramatic Career.
By ALFRED E. T. WATSON
(“Rapier”), Editor of The Badmin-
ton Magazine. 325. net.
SIR RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
Lover’s Gift and Crossing. By SIR
RABINDRANATH TAGORE. ss.
net.
Mashi and Other Stories. By SIR
RABINDRANATH TAGORE. Trans-
lated f: Dm the original Bengali by
various writers. ss. net.
ROUND TABLE
PUBLICATIONS
THE ROUND TABLE.
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Empire.
Price, 2s. Gd. per copy, or 10s. per
annum, post free to any address within
the Empire.
THE PROBLEM OF THE COM-
MONWEALTH. L. CURTIS. The
after-war relations between Great
Britain and the Dominions. Sewed,
2s. 6d.; Cloth, 4s.
THE COMMONWEALTH O F
NATION'S. The historical basis of
the foregoing. 6s.
CHEAPER EDITION.
W. & A. K. Johnston’s World Atlas.
Containing 34 Political Maps in
Colors, with a Complete Index to
coyer 30,000 places, 15 by 12 in.
Cloth, 2s. 6d. net.
A MINE OF INFORMATION.
Multiim in Parvo Atlas. A New,
Handy Reference Atlas. 71 by 5 in.
Cloth. 2s. 6d. net. Containing 112
Colored Maps—Political, Physical,
and Geological—lo 6 pages of useful
information on the Maps, and an
Index to nearly 20,000 places men-
tioned in the Atlas.
Manual of Milk Products. By Prof.
WILLIAM A. STOCKING. Illus-
trated. 10s. 6d. net.
[The Rural Manuals.
Western Live-Stock Management.
Edited by Prof. E. L. POTTER.
Illustrated. 10s. net.
[Rural Science Series.
Practical Veterinary Pharmacology
and Therapeutics. By Prof. H. .T.
MILKS, D.V.M. Illustrated. 225.
net.
Macmillan’s
Empire Library.
ss. per volume.
HUGH WALPOLE’S NEW NOVEL.
661 The Green Mirror. By HUGH
WALPOLE. Author of “Fortitude,”
etc.
Country Life : “ ‘The Green Mirror’ is a
good story, and it is thoroughly well told.’’
The Spectator : “Extremely interesting.’’
ALGERNON BLACKWOOD’S NEW
STORY.
663 The Promise of Air. By
ALGERNON BLACKWOOD.
The story of a middle-class family written
round the author’s idea that we should take life
as birds take the air and migrate as they do
at a given time.
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN § CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C. 2.
m
ABBEY
SHOES
are made in fashionable and dis-
tinctive models for all occasions.
You will have no difficulty in get-
ting footwear exactly to your taste
if you buy at the Abbey Shoe
Stores.
We illustrate a special Golf Shoe
in choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 40/"
Light *soles, 37/6
Made in half and full sizes and in
three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ab¥ey,
313 George Street,
Between (1.P.0. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
ON A LINER, A YACHT,
MOTOR BOAT, A CHANNEL
STEAMER, A COASTER or
A TRADER
MOTHERSILL’S SEASICK REMEDY
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea Sick-
ness, or money refunded. Equally effective
tor Train Sickness.
1
SEASICK
fdh
has been tested on the English Channel. Irish
anl Baltic Seas by representatives of leading
London and Continental newspapers, who
unreservedly endorse its unfailing power to
prevent and cure mal-de-mer.
“The London Yachtinc World” says: A posi-
tive cure for sea-sickness. Be sure it's “Mothersiil’s.”
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO.. LTD..
Corner Clarence and Market Streets, Sydney.
INDIVIDUAL FITNESS.
This is the time when our people need to
be strong of muscle and steady of nerve.
Hysterical people are of no use in war-
time. When they try to help they hinder.
Fitness should start with the individual.
If you are run down and nervous, pale and
lacking in strength to do your part, you
need more blood.
If your hand,, your thumb or foot trembles
when you try to hold it still, if the lines are
shaky when you write; if you have tremors
of your lips or chin, your nerves need
strengthening.
Proper food and a good tonic will keep
most people in good health. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People are the most
popular tonic medicine in the world, harm-
less, non-alcoholic and certain in their
action, which is to build up the blood and to
restore vitality to the run-down system. For
those who are failing in strength Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills are an ideal tonic.
There has been no increase in the price
of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Tour own
chemist sells them, or you can order direct
from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Box
594 G.P.0.. Sydney. Price 2s. 9d. per box,
six boxes for 15s. 3d. Booklet on nervous dis-
orders free. — Advt.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established ISJ9.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
IIEAI) OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,'
Directors: —lion. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. B. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.. C.M.G.; Samuel
Hordern, Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000. Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly £1.000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for the
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was Cd 55,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
V 1
a
K
Clydesdale—the name with a past.
Clydesdale as exemplified by the famous
Clydesdale horses stood for dependability
in haulasre. Clydesdale Lorries are
worthily carrying this message of de-
pendability to Clydesdale Motor Lorry
owners in every quarter of the globe.
A constant user of a Clydesdale Lorry
understands that this Clydesdale reputa-
tion is in good hands. Ask
Special Clydesdale Features.
Krebs’ Automatic Controller maintains
constant engine speeds.
Separate unit four-speed gear box.
Worm-drive axle.
Straight Copper Tube Radiator.
Massive frame, with deep centre section.
Clybcsbate
>IOXOW
LORRIES
H. D. VAN BRUNT, Factory Representative,
P.O. Box 2093, Sydney, AUSTRALIA.
New South Wales Distributor:
E. HARDY-JOHNSTON,
350 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
New Zealand Distributors:
INGLIS BROS. & CO. LTD.,
Harris Street, WELLINGTON
T. E. SHIEL & CO.,
Stafford Street, DUNEDIN.
THE CLYDE CARS CO., Clyde, Ohio, U.S.A
rm
3mm
ANewModel
TARGET RIFLE
I2C-N. R. A. .22 Caliber Repeating Rifle
A REPEATING RIFLE for the finest target shoot-
ing, combining graceful lines, proper weight,
perfect balance and adaptability to slow or rapid fire shooting
in an y position.
This new model lias peep sights adjustable for wind and elevation which
sportsmen generally will recognize as the best for fine target shooting.
It is chambered especially for the .22 Long Rifle cartridge but the
.22 Short and .22 Long may also be used.
Special descriptive circular mailed fre'e upon request,
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
Box 686, G. P. 0., MELBOURNE
18-3
WELLI
EQUIPPED
miiuiiiiiniiiiiiU'
7
Liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiumiiiiiiiiiiil
Waterman's
(Ideal 1
Fo imta iriPen
And not least in value does he
reckon his Waterman’s Ideal.
It occupies an abiding place in his
scheme of things. He is going to
write home regularly —with his Water-
iran’s Ideal. He is going to keep a
diary—with his Waterman’s Ideal. And
after the war, ah ! after the war —then,
with this peerless fountain pen to help
him he means to win fresh laurels
in the field of commerce.
Three Types: “'Lever Pocket
. Self-filling,” "Safety,” “Regular.”
Of Stationers and Jewellers'
. everywhere.
l. g. sloan, ltd., the Pen gerner,
London, England.
Australia: HAROLD D. DIXON,
105 Glarencs Street, Sydney.


Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 7th August, 1918.
Tenders for the Supply of Machinery for
Launch for Spectacle Island.
TENDERS will be received until 12 noon
on Tuesday, 17th September, 1918, for
the supply of the above-mentioned machinery.
Tender forms, specifications and full par-
ticulars may be obtained at the Office of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; the Naval Ordnance Officer,
Spectacle Island, Sydney; and the Naval
Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birkenhead (S.A.),
Fremantle and Hobart.
A. POYNTON,
_ For Minister of State for the Navy.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 3rd August, 1918.
Vacancy for Chemist in Charge of
Laboratory, Small Arms Factory.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment as
Chemist, Small Arms Factory, Lithgow, New
South Wales.
Pay £336 per annum inclusive of all allow-
ances except travelling, under Common-
wealth Oovernment Factory Regulations,
Class I), Professional Division.
Applicants must have had a sound training
in Analytical Chemistry and Physics and a
good knowledge of the testing of materials
and metallography of steels; and should hold
a University Degree or Diploma from a Tech-
nical College.
Experience in industrial undertakings, if
any, should be fully stated.
Applications should be forwarded addressed
to the Secretary, Department of Defence,
Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, to reach him
not later than the 30th August, 1918. and
should be accompanied by certified copies of
not more than three (3) recent testimonials
and two personal I‘eferences. The date and
place of birth and nationality of applicants
must also be shown. First preference will
be given to returned soldiers, all things beinj
equal.
T. TRUMBLE,
Secretary, Department of Defence.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne. 9th August, 1918.
Tenders for the Supply of Badges.
TENDERS will be received until noon or
Friday, 30th August, for the supply of
Badges to the Royal Australian Navy.
Specimen Badges may be inspected and
tender forms, specifications, etc., obtained at
the Offices of the Director of Navy Contracts
Navy Office. Melbourne; and the Victualling
Store Officer. Royal Edward Victualling
Yard, Pyrmont. Sydney.
A. POYNTON,
For Minister of State for the Navy.
Wanted.
Medical Practitioners
Wanted.
*DWO DOCTORS are wanted to practise in the
-*• Warragul and Trafalgar, Gippsland, districts;
each practice, on a conservative estimate carefully
made of each district, it is considered will return
£lOOO to £l2OO a year to start with; which will
include a guaranteed amount from the Warragul and
District Friendly Societies’ Association, whose mem-
bership is about 1000, on terms to be mutually
arranged: with the doctors. Both are good, sound and
growing districts in the best part of Gippsland,
roads good, all parts practically reached by car.
Members of Association (which include leading men
of the districts) will do all possible to bring private
practice to doctors selected. Applications with
terms and full particulars, which will be treated in
the strictest confidence, to
W. J. McLAY, Secretary.
Warragul, Victoria.
A PPLI CATIONS are invited for the
position of
General Manager,
Applicants to give full particulars regarding
experience, age and salary required.
WALKERS LIMITED,
Maryborough,
Queensland.
Amusements.
Hurry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Rt«l.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIVOLI rHIS A r K ID, SYDNEY
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE WEDNESDAY AT 2.30.
GRAND REVIVAL of LONDON’S GAYEST REVUE,
SAMPLES.
A merry whirl of pleasure set in scenes of
magnificent splendor.
■yiVOEI TIIIO AT It E, M EI.BOU ItNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
Espinosa’s Sparkling Revue,
TIME, PLEASE.
Featuring Beatrice Holloway, Espinosa and Barry
Lupino.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
H IC K M A ,1 E S T X ’ 8, S Y 1) N E l 7
1 * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY AT 2.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S AUGMENTED MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in
OH, BOY!
For Two Years the Rage of New York.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
It ITEIt I O N THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MATINEE WEDNESDAY AT 2.
The Latest “Potash and Perlmutter” episode,
BUSINESS BEFORE PLEASURE.
Introducing, for the first time in Australia, the
Celebrated Hebrew Comedians, ADAMS and WATERS,
md J. C. Williamson’s specially-organised Comedy
Company, including MAGGIE MOORE,
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
Amusements.
PA LA C K T HGATKE. SYI)X B Y.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
FOR NINE NIGHTS AND THREE MATINEES
ONLY.
J. and N. TAIT have the honor to present
GUY BATES POST,
the World’s greatest English-speaking Actor, in
THE NIGGER.
A drama of stupendous strength by Edward Sheldon.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
PLAYHOUSE.
Castlereagli Street, between Liverpool
and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
SYDNEY JAMES AND BIG NEW COMPANY in
PIERROT PIE,
one of the ingredients in which is
THE MASQUERADER IN THE 13TH
CHAIR.
MATINEE EVERY SATURDAY, 2.30.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTCKE THEAT It E S
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, II a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
Bit MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOU IINB
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
H
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
KATINKA.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
rt®w JH4U.
imvtsr
I°tICLY
a> *
v?9*?.v
Ay
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
EigHt-Hour Art Union
AND SPORTS.
PRIZES value £3500
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 2, 1918.
FIRST PRIZE, value £650 And 397 other Valuable
SECOND PRIZE, value £3OO Av * ri ™
THIRD PRIZE, value £2OO try it
1918.
First Prize in 1917 won by Mrs. T. A. Peterson, PN n A C USIISm r*
Balmain, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of 1111 *1
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1918.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper, Nov. 7, 1918. To any
person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will be
posted. Tickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct from —
ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
SPENCER-MOULTON
Three-Ribbed Tyres are, above
all, recognised for their speedy
self-adaptation to the searching
atmospheric conditions of alter-
nating intense heat and heavy
rains. They give to the running
powers of your car, just that grip
on the roads that secures the
maximum speed and safety in
blazing sun, scorching wind, or
flooding downpour.
eft
M
2V.
fd
7Vfß£r RJBB.EP TY7UE:S
hfd
are British throughout, and you will meet their
users among the biggest motorists in all parts
of the world.
Catalogue and Price List mailed free by teium.
GKO. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., LTD.,
77*79, Cannon Street, London, England.
Work* : Bradford-on-Avon, Wilt*, England.
STOCKISTS:
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO.. 129, King Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, Madras Street.
F.C.8.-135
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
\Vb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
681 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worW.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
( Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
Of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 vears.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
AUSTRALIA
Sydney*
Melbourne*
Perth*
Brisbane.
Ten Jewellery
Establishments
NEW ZEALAND
Auckland,
Wellington,
Christchurch,
Dunedin.
K9lB. —Hand-
some new de-
sign, finest-
quality Dia-
monds, set
Platinum and
18ct. Gold.
Price, £3O.
KlO4. —Three
fine-quality
Diamonds, set
in Platinum
and 18ct. Gold.
Price,
£l3/10/-
LONDON
78-81
Regent-st.
W.
COMPRISE THE HOUSE OF
Stewart Dawson & Co.
(Aust.),Ltd.
VALUE is the foundation of its success. A word
to the wise is sufficient —buy direct from the
LARGEST JEWELLERS OF THE EMPIRE.
C9737.—Finest Quality Pearl Set loct. Gold Bangle,
with Case, £o/57-
Same design. Set with Fine White Diamonds and
Platinum. Price, £l7/10/-
Call and Inspect, or Write for Catalogue.
Stewart Dawson’s
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY;
K 735. —Hand-
somely-designed
Ring, Diamond
and Emeralds,
all Platinum
setting, £3O.
R236o.—Three
finest-quality
Diamonds, all
Platinum set-
ting.
Price, £25.
LONDON:
. 19-21
Hatton. Garden,
E.C, '
Amusement*.
T IIISA * K E It OYA L, MELBOURNE
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 17.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MURIEL STARR in
THE THIRTEENTH CHAIR,
By BAYARD VEILLER, author of “Within the Law."
The Drama that Stirred All New York.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present
EMELIE POLINI
in
DE LUXE ANNIE.
The Greatest Dramatic Success in Recent Years.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
U 1) I T O R I U 31. MELBOURNE.
Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
Sole Direction Chappell & Co. Ltd.
CHAPPELL RALLAD CONCERTS.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 17.
Special Engagement of
FRANCIS DE BOURGUIGNOX,
FRANCIS DE BOURGUIGNON,
the talented Belgian Pianist.
GUIDO CACIALLI, Baritone.
CONSTANCE BUCHAN, Soprano.
JOSEPH MUMMERY, Tenor.
DULCIE DONALD, Contralto.
W. BOUSTEAD, Baritone.
HAROLD ELVINS, Accompaniment.
Popular Prices: 2/- and 1/- (plus tax).
Box Plan at Allan's.
CHAPPELL CONCERT GRAND riANO USED.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE KAISER,
The Beast of Berlin.
MatinSes Daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
OYT’S THEATRES” MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
GLADYS BROCKWELL in
THE MORAL LAW.
GEORGE BEBAN in
JULES OP THE STRONG HEART.
LYCEUM (Over Princes Bridge).
Every Evening. Matinges Saturday 2.30.
This week’s Feature:
DOROTHY DALTON in
FLARE-UP SAL.
Prices as Usual.
8~~ I J O U T H E A T~R E, MELBOURNE.
Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER.
TWICE DAILY.
FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
Including FRED BLUETT, FIVE LEWINS, TOM
LESSO, VESTO and JULLYAN, and HURLY
HARRIS and WRIGHT.
Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
|y| ELBA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHS,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICK.
JgMUTANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRTANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
I
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurlefc
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Boot
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
& GREEN, 210, .Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “ Singleton's ’’—refuse all substitutes.
The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
f natives act violently on
iver and bowels ; this
old, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt-
ing. Good for
old and young.
Purely
Vegetable.
hf
[Carters
IVER
PILLS.
TTLE
Small Pill—Small Doaa—Small Prfca.
GENUINE must bear signature


Coticiira Healed
Red Blotches
On Boy's Body. Skin Was Very
Red and Inflamed. They Wereln-
tensely Irritating and Burning.
"When my little boy was 6 months
old little red blotches appeared on his
dh
body. They developed into
a pimple or eruption. The
skin was very red and in-
flamed ana they were
intensely irritating and
burning.
"I saw the Cuticura ad-
vertisement and sent for
samples of Cuticura Soap
and Ointment. I then procured some
more which resulted in a complete
healment.'' (Signed) Mrs. A. Trew.
Stalkers, Vic., May 14, 1916.
Prevent * further trouble by using
Cuticura Soap for the toilet.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address :
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SP£CML/3f
TWO
L OV£S
skirts
WRITE
FOP
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
Jwf f
1
I
■
■MI
520 GEORGES 1- SYDNEY
Zr /iO/'JTER S T NEWCASTLE
1
CARTRIDGES!
Always Reliable
n
m
I
! 1
m
m
m
m
m
ELEY .410 "Fourten”
Loaded with ELEY Sm«keless Powder
fdh
E LEY .22 Long Rifle
“E” Brand
fd
Eley .22 Rim
Black or Smokeless
ELEY Single Rise
Expert Trap
ELEV Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S. W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS.L- LONDON
UN.
V
jp
l
(5
;r"
0
£YZ%
CD
1
N
S
r~
C
«jr
1
1
'
“Power Personified”
ALADDIN used to summon his
genii when he desired to be
whisked away into other parts.
Nowadays, motorists c ;11 for Plume,
the “Magic Spirit of to-day,” when
prodigies of speed and power are
needed.
Get-there motorists “bank” on Plume.
They enthusiastically insist that it Rives
them a greater run for their money. They
say stiff hills only go to prove how mighty
good it is.
When next YOU turn in to fill up, don't
say benzine—ask for “PLUME.”
Sold by Garages everywhere
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout Australia and New Zealand
PR II
hfd
The All/
\ British
READINESS-—and suitability for long
or short journeys, under any conditions
give to the STANDARD LIGHT CAR
Owner a satisfaction which can only
come from the possession of a good
article.
Send your name to out
A gents.
ill
£5
©
t ••‘Mffl ?
s
Agents—
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO., Ltd., Coventry, England.
Don’! Be A ‘Wisher
Some men keep on wishing they had an Onoto Self-filling
Pen so hard—that if the pen grew with the wish they
couldn’t see it all. I
The Onoto does not leak. It FILLS ITSELF in-a fla sh— without any
filler. A perfectly.balanced fountain pen—
QUIT WISHING—GET AN
noto
Pen
Self-filling
Safety Fountain
Manufacturers : Thomas De i vA
Rue & Co., I v td., Bunhill Row,
Ton don, E.C. Manajrinsr Agents:
Norman Baker & Tonghurst,
Sydney.
*sk tor CNOTO INK-Best for all Pens
£
hf
\7f
and upwards
tiro ONOTO
Valueless ter ilinse
wko £ n not want a Sett-Filling
Safety Pei,,l2/6 of all Statieners.
Jewellers sod Stores.
CLARITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My heart began to pit-a-pat,
As smilingly he raised his hat,
I was but waiting for a tram,
And he for her, oh! ——ssli!
How often on that self-same spot
He stood for me. If I forgot
To meet him once or twice, his mates
All told him how I mix up dates.
He wouldn’t listen to their plea,
And now of her integrity
He talked to me: She was so true
One glance could read her through and through.
Across the street in thinnest white —
A silhouette in high sunlight—
She smiled at him, his cheeks flamed red.
“Transparent as the day,’’ I said !
Jt.S.W.
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.
“0.K.” : How pathetic is the reasoning of
brainy converts to spiritualism as compared
with the simple arguments of professional
conjurers who back them up Avith practical
demonstration. The late Maskelyne investi-
gated the miracles of Eusepia Palladino, the
Italian “medium,” and declared her a fraud,
because she showed him nothing that he
wasn’t himself capable of producing under
similar conditions of darkness and prepara-
tion. But Conan Doyle, whilst deciding to
omit the Italian woman from his list of
“unquestionable” mediums, said that “she
several times sustained long examinations
under every possible test conditions at the
hands of scientific committees, which con-
tained some of the best names in France.
Italy and England.” Conan Doyle’s idea of
“best” people for supervising tests of spiritu-
alistic pdwers is pathetic in its one-eyedness.
He admitted that “some mediums might be
guilty of trickery when their powers fail them,
though at other times they have very genu-
ine gifts,” but he.ignored the fact they were
credited with gifts only when their trickery
wasn’t found out. The “gag” as to mediums
resorting to trickery sometimes, when their
powers have failed them, is the silliest of
wheezes, yet the learned scientists continue
to hang their faith to it. When the medium’s
trickery is not found out he, or she. is said
to be genuine. The alleged spiritualistic
phenomena that scientists swear to were the
things that happened when old Maskelyne
wasn’t present to explain how the wonders
could be effected. “Supernatural powers”
and “mere trickery” are convertible terms,
their application depending on whether the
medium gets found out or otherwise. The
accepted truth of one dark seance is the
admitted fraud of the next, provided that a
cunning old illusionist attends it for exposure
purposes.
The centenary of the first Sydney Agricul-
tural Show is due in 1922, but it is pro-
posed to hold the function in 1919. The
society, when first established, had for
patron Governor Brisbane; the Colonial
Secretary, F. Goulburn, was vice-patron;
Judge Barron Field, president. The vice-
presidents were Samuel Marsden, William
Cox, Robert Townson and Hannibal
Macarthur; Messrs. Riley and Walker were
treasurers; and Alexander Berry and George
T. Palmer were the secretaries. The commit-
tee number 31 and the subscribers 118.
“A.M.H.”: Mick was six feet of brawn
and grit, and he loved fighting. He had
been “over” 10 times without getting the
smallest scratch, when it suddenly occurred
to him that it was a long time between
drinks. He resolved to get to Blighty in
the first stunt. In the next little bombing
party Mick was well in the hunt; so well
that* he led the rest easily, and _ was only
wondering where he was to get it when a
small Hun hit him a half-hearted swat on
the head. That settled it. Mick instantly
forgot what he had come for, and started to
clean up the trench. He seized the small
Hun, chucked him into a dug-out, and rolled
a “Mills” after him for company. He went
through the section of trench like a southerly-
buster. Running short of material, he re-
loaded himself at a convenient Hun dump at
one end of the trench and went through it
again, to make sure that he had overlooked
nobody. Then, it being just a small, raid, he
streaked for home and arrived as his anger
evaporated. Suddenly he stopped and went
over himself carefully, and finding nothing
but a small lump on his head that had started
his ramoage, he murmured soulfully. “Well,
ain’t a man a silly cow!” And I doubt if
he was consoled by the D.C.M. he got later.
The cables didn’t mention that British
naval raids last May against German sub-
marine bases in Belgium had painful results
for some of the Huns in port. Thirteen
sailors were sentenced to death, and two to
imprisonment for 20 years, for “attempted
treason” in connection with the raids. What
form of treason the Hun mariners were
attempting was not stated, but anyhow it
should be a matter of congratulation for
traitors within the British Empire that they
are not trying to be treasonable under Ger-
man rule.
“Murkah” : “Dugout” (B. 18/7/TS) _ men-
tions a letter addressed in semaphore signals
being delivered without delay. Nothing to
marvel at in that in these days of military
trainees, a considerable percentage of whom
receive a. course of signalling. Letters ad-
dressed in shorthand are common enough,
and pass through without trouble. Once saw
a letter addressed in a musical code which
a musical letter-lumper easily deciphered.
Have also seen them addressed in verse. Saw
another addressed in puzzle symbols. The
town was represented by a girl skipping, fol-
lowed by a ton-weight—“ Skipton” (Vic.)
first pop. The number of letters posted with-
out any address whatever and with totally
insufficient addresses, such as a name and
nothing further, runs into thousands annu-
ally. As “Dugout” correctly surmises, the
freak address puts Webster’s Own on their
mettle, and they will deliver such a letter
even if a thousand of the ordinary ones have
to sweat while they are doing it.
The human mind has strange twists and
turns. An Ilford (England) chemist felt
so depressed with the dread of being sent to
the Front that he slew his wife and four
children. Then he kept the bodies in the
house for two weeks to cheer him up, and
at the end of that time he shot himself in
peace to avoid being killed at the war.


Miss Christine Miller —one
of many famous Concert
singers who have sung in
direct comparison with The
NEW EDISON said:
“There is no difference
between my voice and its
re-creation!’
&
1
The NEW EDISON
—the peerless instrument
The term “talking machine” is quite inapt in describing The NEW
EDISON—it refers to the ordinary type of sound-reproducing
instrument, and there is nothing “ordinary” about The NEW
EDISON.
This is the “wonder” instrument that “re-creates” the human
voice with such utter fidelity that the only thing different in. the
original rendering of the number is the actual physical presence of
the artist. This is* the opinion of foremost musical critics through-
out the world—an opinion you yourself will endorse when you hear
a selection on The NEW EDISON. You should have one in
YOUE home.
Write to-day for fully illustrated catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
y 4
siiiiUffl
n
n
n
f
11
n
M
m
iL
3£
©>
Vr^S
Sts'£2&
wrj?
-
rsr~£
Artistic Mantelpieces
The beauty of these designs, especially the Mission Style of Architecture,
is much favored by leading Architects, and greatly admired by Connois-
seurs of fine furniture effects.
In the furnishing scheme of a house, or a room, the Mantelpiece cannot
receive too much consideration.
Standing out prominently as it does, the Mantelpiece should be an article
of beauty and artistic refinement, reflecting the good taste of the owner.
Drinks’ Specialise in High-grade Mantelpiece Manufacture, and have a big variety,
embracing many designs ; large, medium and small ; artistic and plain—-suitable for
any house, from the cottage to the mansion.
Banks’ Mantelpieces are of flawless workmanship, built of the finest thoroughly-
seasoned timbers; and are very reasonably priced.
It is important that your Fireplace or Heater and Surrounds are in keeping with
your Mantelpiece Design. A selection from Banks’ big variety will give you this
assurance.
We invite you to call to-day and investigate for yourself.
“DANKS”
Otherwise John DanKs (EL Sort Pty., Ltd.,
“The House for Heat and Light.”
524 Pitt Street (Near Liverpool Street), SYDNEY.
And 391 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WHATEVER THE SPORT—
WE HAVE THE GOODS.
1
TENNIS
WE HAVE LONG BEEN RECOGNISED AS THE LEAD-
ING SUPPLIERS OF REQUISITES FOR THE GAME.
RACKETS,
M.S. Handicap 6/-
C. 8.8. Special 10/6
C. 8.8. Cork Handle .. 13/6
C. 8.8. Quadruple 15/6
C. 8.8. Double Strung 18/-
Haymarket 22 / 6
Haymarket Special ... 27 / 6
lTaymarket Selected... 40 / -
Haymarket Ex. Special 42/6
Ayre’s Handicap 17/6
Ayre’s A 1 19/-
Ayre’s Champion ....
Ayre’s S.N.D
Slazenger’s Demon . ...
Slazenger’s Ich Dien ..
Slazenger’s WhitehoUge
Slazenger’s E.G.M
Slazenger’s Doherty ...
Slazenger’s Stadium
Prosser's Phenomenon ..
Davis Eisley Hexagon.
27/6
50/-
26/-
30/-
36/-
46/-
50/-
55/-
55/-
55/-
(Postage on Racket —N.S.W., 9d ; other States, 1/2.)
BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Challenge, covered 1/6 17/6
Ayre’s Champion 2/4 27/6
Each. Doz.
Slazenger’s Champ. 2/4 27/6
Spalding’s Champ. 2/2 25/*
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W.. 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
TENNIS NETS.
Full size, well made 7/6, 16/-, 18/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-
PRESSES, MARKERS, TAPES & ALL SUNDRIES STOCKED.
RACKETS RE-STRUNG AND REPAIRED.
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.-*!
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. First-class Workmanship. Lowest Charges.
1
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value 8/6
napa, hair-stuffed, laced palms 10/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, sup. napa, laced palms, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz 14/6, 17/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or s oz 16/6, 20/-, 22/6
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6 or
S oz 24/-
30/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz 25/-,
THE “LIGHTNING,” officially adopted and exclusively
used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Personally recommended by Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker. . 27/6
CORBETT, special napa, laced palms, hair-stuffed, 60z.. . 35/-
(Postage on One Set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. S et of 4
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 1 6/6
„ Best napa, „ 7/6
„ Tan Leather, „ „ 8/6
„ very superior, „ in/tt
» Laced, 12,0. 15/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., -9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
Tin. wide (Post 4d.) 7/6 each
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 3/6 & 4/6 each
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3ioz. (Post 6d.)
17/6 pair
Keep your razor
keen by using—
STROPOLINE 9d.
(POST FREE)
dh
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous BEACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 7/6, 10/6
“REACH ARMY,” Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast .... 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-18/6, 22/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made . . 40/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 157-
expert, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings .. • 20/-, 22/6, 25/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.. 60/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 2/9, 3/9, 4/9 pr. Mitts 2/6 P> - -
Punching Platforms 35/-, 50/-, 90/- each
Ball ancl Socket Stvivels 1/6, 2/6
Ball-hearing Swivels 3/9, 4/6, 5/-
FOR SMOKERS .
ZIG-ZIG CIGARETTE TOBACCO, highest-grade imported. Very mild. Will not
drv" the throat. Famed for its quality and purity. loz. packet, with book of
cigarette papers (post fr®o-
- TOBACCO, highest-grade Virginian, natural aroma. Awarded 4 gold medals.
"To be had in Plug and Cut: Dark, 7/6 lb., post free; Bright, 8/- lb., post free.
Sample 2oz. packet, 1/1 post free.
Send for copies of “Can’t B Beat” Sportsman’s Guide ( B 1) and “Sure Catch” 1918
Angler’s Guide ( B 2). All Sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
1C
fIVSTRALia'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS’
AND TOBACCONISTS
fd
City Sports Depot
99 Kind St T also at
Tiewcciisxh d Brisbane >


A GALLANT ANZAC PRAISES
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Private Jack Molloy, 1097, C. Company, 19th
Battalion, felt it his duty to leave a permanent
billet to enlist in defence of the Empire early in
1915. He was in the famous Suvla Bay landing,
and was wounded in an attack shortly after-
wards. After lying some hours exposed to
Turkish machine-gun and rifle fire, the stretcher-
bearers found him and carried him down to the
dlearing-station, whence he was shipped from
Gallipoli Peninsula to Malta. He was three
months in Floriana Hospital and returned to Aus-
tralia on the Kanowna. This gallant Australian
writes: —
When I left Australia with the
19th Battalion, sth Brigade, on June
25, 1915, I packed in my kit a bottle
of “New Discovery,” because I had
been suffering Avhile in camp from
catarrh of the throat. I cured my-
self completely with this bottle. I
could not get “New Discovery” in
Egypt, but I had some sent to me at
Malta, where I was lying wounded in
Floriana Hospital. I have always
regarded “New Discovery” as my
only friend in the medicine line. I
always kept it near at hand.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) J. MOLLOY.
m
Private
JACK
MOLLOY
(from a
photo).
FIRST AT THE FRONT AND FIRST AT HOME
Our brave boys have enough suffering and danger to endure in the trenches without
letting them run unnecessary risk of colds, perhaps ending in serious throat and
chest troubles. We all know what boys are, and how neglectful they are if mother
is not there to keep them up to the mark, so protect your boys by sending them
a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, the prompt and effective cough remedy.
They will be delighted at your thoughtfulness, and take it to j)lease you at first, and,
finding that it banishes the cold and eases the throat so quickly, later they will fly
to it for relief at the first sign of a cold. Don’t forget New Discovery is just
as necessary in the home as in the trenches, so take two bottles home to-night,
one for your home use, the other for your friend at the Front.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY. PRICE 1/6 & 3/-
D?Sheldons|
New Discovery
hfd
hfd
SEE
Delivering
'Rex'Goods
; /
T -~~G
Mi
h
I
s
“Rex” Goods are
Widely Distributed
They are so popular with the housewives of Aus-
tralia that grocers everywhere keep good stocks.
V\)NC//$
CCi
“Rex”
Luncheon
Cheese
will be found on thousands of pantry
shelves. What has put it there ? Just this —The absolute
dependability of quality and flavor. Housewives know that
the '‘Rex’’ tin contains a tasty, nourishing and perfectly
matured Cream Cheese. To sandwiches or biscuits Rex
Cheese gives a zest enjoyed by all.
Try it to-day—a little after meals aids digestion.
Also send a few tins in your Xmas parcel for the Front.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
“REX” HAM PATE AND “REX” VEAL AND
TONGUE PATE are two all-meat “ spreads,” finely
minced and packed in air-tight tins. Get them from
your grocer.
FOGGITT. JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products,
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J. 316
The Ballad of the King’s
Kindness.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
KING ‘Conary was good to see,
He went with golden looks;
And in his house the wine was free
For men of song and books,
Brave luck was his with sword and cup,
Bed gold was in his hand ;
And every man had bite and sup
And good dreams in the land.
But this one word the king must mark
All other words before :
Let no lone woman after dark
Come through the king’s house door.
It was the word the Rhymer spoke,
And known in all men’s ears;
They kept it well with bolts of oak
For forty shining years.
Good laughter walked in all green ways,
Good harvest came and went;
King Conary had royal days,
His people were content.
The smallest child in all the land,
Who went with quiet eyes,
The king would greet with lifted hand
Among the proud and wise.
Och, proud was Conary with pride,
So kingly, high and sure
No boldest man his right denied
To kneel and serve the poor.
And open was his house and board.
With bed and fire and song,
And fair white meal in plenty stored
Against the winter long.
But this one word the king must mark
All other words before :
Let no lone woman after dark
Come through the king’s house door.
Well w r as it known in all men’s ears;
And heed all men must take,
Lest in the turning of the years
The king’s brave luck should break.
But laughter walked in all dark ways
And white stars winked above;
And all the nights of forty Mays
Were scented sweet for love.
There came a woman to the place
When night breathed coldest breath—
“Och, let me see the high king’s face,
My name is Mother Death.
“The king will give me bite and sup,
For he has meal in store”-
The strong men set their spear-shafts up
To hold her from the door.
Down stept King Conary the proud,
Ilis pride was great to see;
Before the old. bent crone he bowed
In all his royalty.
“Och, let me in,” the woman cried,
“For I am weak and old,
With hunger walking at my side
I perish in the cold.”
The king looked shamed. A red fire spark
Made light along the floor —
“Och, how would woman after dark
Come through the king’s house door?”
“My bones are weak,” the woman whined,
“And no man pities me.
The night is dark, the way is blind,
My dim eyes cannot see.
“I smell the roast against the coals;
I feel the sharp wind bite.
Pray well, good king, for all poor souls
That walk the road this night.”
She turned away to pass the door ;
But Conary upspoke:
“This thing was never done before —
Hold back the staves of oak!”
The proud king took her withered hand —
Och. shame it was and sin.
And heavy sorrow on the land,
For Mother Death came in.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Doing the Right Thing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Griffins and I became acquainted
in the course of one of my periodical
searches for a suitable lodging.
Lodgings are plentiful, while suitable lodg-
ings are rare. But Mrs. Griffin, after finish-
ing her business with the baker —it seemed
to be the further postponement of an
account —produced a room which w r as pass-
able.
It was impossible to live' with the Griffins
and not know their business. It ivas quite
easy to live with them and not let them
know your business, as long as you let them
think they knew it. Personally I have no
objection to people of that sort. Their
curiosity is inspired by a good-natured inter-
est, which can only be offensive to a person
of insufferable temperament.
I had only been two days at the Griffin
establishment when, leaving the house in the
morning, I met a man on the doorstep. His
manner —you can always tell these things—
would have proclaimed him rent-collector
even if the rent-book in his hand had not
sufficiently announced the fact; and he
asked for Mrs. Griffin. I found the lady
upstairs, and she hurriedly asked me to
say that she was having a bath.
“Having a bath?” repeated the man with
the receipt-book. “You might let her know
that I want to see her particularly.”
The stairs reared themselves directly in
sight of the front door, and at the back of
them was the bathroom. How Mrs. Griffin
managed to desert her broom and get to the
bathroom without being seen I do not know;
but as an answer to the agent’s request the
bath shower gave a noisy verification of my
statement. Perhaps she did not desert hpr
broom. The agent closed his receipt-book
with a discontented snap and went. I also
went away pondering that other people
owed rent besides myself.
Before the week was up I knew a great
deal more of the Griffins’ domestic lack of
economy. Next week the landlord would
be naid—not in full perhaps, but paid. The
grocer, the butcher and the milkman would*
as a consequence, have a further wait; but
it was the baker’s turn next. As 1 under-
stood it, it was the grocer, at that time, who
had the longest time to run, and when he
was satisfied —with something on account—
the landlord would again be restive. Ihe
Griffins, in fact, lived like a great number ot
citizens, and had lived that way in the
same place for eight years, and were likely
to live that way till the end of the chapter.
They could always get credit because it was
known that they would pay some time.
To reach my room it was necessary to
pass through wliat was known as the Grif-
fins’ dining-room. It was not a dining-room
at all of course. The Griffins breakfasted
and dined and smoked the after-dinner pipe
(at least Griffin did) and lived through the
various details of their life in the kitchen. The
dining-room was a sacred repository where
the artificial flowers in their glass cover, a
stuffed bird with one eye and an inclination
to moult, the Family Bible, two or three books
by Nat Gould, and other family treasures were
placed. About the fourth day of my sojourn
in the Griffin establishment I was bailed up
in this room by the male Griffin with a
question as to whether my evening paper
contained the sweep results. From that day
the Griffins’ dining-room attained a new use-
fulness. It was tlie place where my evening
paper was searched by Mrs. Griffin and Mr.
Griffin and the whole Griffin family for a
number to correspond with the little paper
ticket which represented the potentiality of
a prize in a sweep consultation. The pastime
was an exciting one. First of all the voice
of Alicia Griffin would be lifted.
“Here it is! Here it is!” she would
scream. “ T 274929’ —we’ve got an ’orse!”
“My !” Mrs. Griffin would exclaim. “It’s
there all right! We’ve got a prize at last!”
And there would be a babble of excitement
until some pessimist suggested an examina-
tion of the ticket, which probably was num-
ber 1374928. Afterwards, as the search went
through the diminishing prizes, shouts of
victory would be aroused by the discovery of
number 127G921 in the hundred-pound prizes
and 127G953 in the twenty-pound prizes.
Then, after an hour’s pleasurable excitement,
the Griffins would retire again to the kit-
chen and unaffluent existence and yield me
my paper. The only thing in a paper that
interested the Griffin family was the sweep
result —unless there happened to be a report
of a big prize-fkht or a fine exciting murder.
And even a murder was not particularly
interesting unless a photograph showed the
Scene of the Crime, with the spot (X)
where the body was found.
The Griffins’ false alarms were so frequent
that I was not particularly interested when
Mrs. Griffin called from the foot of the
stairs : “Mr. Hamer ! Mr. Hamer ! Come
down quickly — quick!” Mrs. Griffin always
did want me to come quickly on these occa-
sions, as if the figures might run away.
Still, since it was expected of me, I went
down and found Mr. Griffin with the sweep
ticket in one hand and his horny forefinger
fixed on the paper, as if he had captured an
elusive figure and was holding it down.
“It’s right this time—all right,” I said.
“About three hundred at least, I suppose.
Congratulations.”
The Griffins had been in a state of spell-
bound expectancy until my verdict verified
their best hopes. Then they went mad. Mrs.
Griffin kissed Griffin and her single sister.
Miss Jones, and all the family—and me
before I could escape; and then started all
over again at such a rate that I only just
had time to dodge to the other side of Griffin
to avoid my share; and Miss .Tones and the
whole family kissed one another ; and Griffin
shook my hand for about ten minutes, re-
peating dazedly:
“Thank you; the same to you, sir; and
many of ’em.”
“I hope you’ll excuse me,” said Mrs.
Griffin. “But it’s the first win we’ve had.”
And then she wept hysterically.
About two hours later my presence was
requested in the kitchen. There weye several
bottles of beer on the table, and some cold
meat and cheese and pigs’ trotters; and the
Griffin children, who on other nights would
have been cuffed and put to bed hours before,
were engaging in a vigorous competition to see
who could make himself or herself most
sticky with the lollies provided. I was given
a chair and the information that my assist-
ance was desired at a family council, which
included the discussion of refreshments.
“You see, Mr. Hamer,” said Mrs. Griffin,
“having come into this wealth, we want to
use it to the best advantage, and we thought
you might not mind helping ns to decide.”
“What about a pub?” said Griffin, thought-
fully. rubbing tobacco between his palms.
“If you thought of that,” I began
“We won’t talk about a pub,” said Mrs.
Griffin decidedly.
The familv listened to my suggestions with
respect, but turned them all down. The
suggestion to cut out the landlord by secur-
ing a home of their own created discussion,
but was objected to by Griffin because it
would mean his living away from his work,
and by Mrs. Griffin because they had lived
eight years in one place and the tradespeople
knew them—substantial objections which,
with the additional “then there’ll be fares.”
prevailed. A boarding-house proposal brought
the obstacle of too many children. Mrs.
Griffin considered that the keeping of a shop
would involve worry in regard to people
owing money.
“But what we must do now we’ve got the
money,” said Mrs. Griffin suddenly, “is to do
the right thing in regard to poor old Dad
and Mum.”
“The right thing?” queried Griffin.
“Yes. It was all very well to bury them
quietly, when it was all we could afford, but
with this money I feel as if I could not face
’em again unless we did something for them.
Why, there’s not even a stone on their
graves.”
“Um —-ah ; yes. that's right.” said Griffin.
“And there’s my mother, too.”
“And your Aunt Jennie.” said Mrs.
Griffin, waxing enthusiastic. “Dead three
years, and a dear old thing for all her nasty
temper, and not a ston« to comfort her. And
my TTncle Harry.”
“And my brother Charlie,” put, in Griffin.
“Charlie was a drunken good-for-nothing,
and he never paid you back that five shill-
(Continued on next page.)


IVI
p?
Does your back ache constantly? ; Do you feel dull,
miserable and tired all the time? Do you wonder why
ordinary daily duties wear you out? Do you have “blue”
davs and restless nights.
Kidney Sickness silently plays out the strongest person.
A dull, draggy ache in the small of the back will tell on the
healthiest man or women. And if the kidneys fail in their task
of filtering uric-acid poisons from the blood, it leads to painful
attacks of neuralgia, rheumatism, sciatica, gravel, headaches—
to worrying attacks of dizziness, nervousness, heart palpitation,
scanty, painful and too frequent urination.
Don t neglect weak kidnevs. There is danger of run-
ning gradually into dropsy, Bright’s disease or diabetes. At
the first sign of backache or disorders of the urine, use D oan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. A remedy that has cured your
neighbor will cure you.
“Every Picture
Tells a Story
as
4r
i
©
Two Sydney People Cured to Stay Cured.
Mrs.. Chas. Anderson, 21 Wyndham Street, Alexandria, Sydney, says:—
“My back troubled me for a long time, the sharp, shooting pains making my
life a misery. I could not stoop, and suffered great pain trying to get about
to do my work. Even when lying in bed at night I got no ease. I could
not get anything to give me relief, although I used a great many remedies.
However. I at. last got a thoroughly good remedy in Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. These wonderful pills stopped the nain like magic, and I have been
quite free of it for two years now. No one need endure the agony of
backache, for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will certainly cure this
ailment.”
Mrs. Anderson confirms the above nine years later: —“I can now add
the important fact that. I have been free of backache ever since Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills cured me eleven years ago.”
Mr. Mark May, 59 Hansard Street, Waterloo, Sydney, says'“Off and
on for years I suffered with my kidneys. One symptom was constant
trouble with the secretions, which were very unhealthy and painful. Backache
also troubled me a lot, the pain being at times very severe. I tried a great
many remedies in the hope of being cured, but it proved only waste of time.
When I first saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills advertised I decided to
get some, and I am very pleased that I did, for they drove uwav the
backache, regulated the secretions, and strengthened and toned up my
kidneys, and made me feel O.lv.
Eighteen .years later Mr. May says“l am still free of every symptom
of kidney trouble, and have been since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
me eighteen years ago. These are fine pills for the kidneys.”
fdh
i
Backache
fdh
Price 2/1) per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
mgs.. And he broke that jug in the tea-set
tiie time he tried to hit you on the head with
the^bottle,” said Mrs. Griffin sharply.
The implication of a higher value on a
piece of china than on his head did not upset
Griffin.
"Speak no evil of the dead,” he said sen-
tentiously.
Even Mrs. Griffin accepted this admoni-
tion as deserved, and seemingly assented to
the correctness of posthumous reverence be-
ing accorded brother Charlie.
“We haven’t even had an ad. in the paper
about any of them,” said Mrs. Griffin.
That, of course, was an idea. It would
be a disgrace if the Griffins, now that they
had the money, failed to advertise the pos-
fhumousvirtuesof their relations. My advice
against it was swept away. Even if dear
Mum had been dead these seven years, it was
better late than never, and it was time some-
thing was done. “In Memoriam” ads. were
absolutely essential to the Griffin peace of
mind —and long ones too. My suggestion
that a plain notice was most effective, was
flouted. Nothing but a real good ad. “with
poetry to it” would satisfy the Griffins. And
I was required to do the writing.
My deficiencies as a writer were never so
apparent to me as when I tried to satisfy
the tastes of the Griffin family. I soon gave
up the attempt. My one success was a quo-
tation of Gray’s line, “The paths of glory
lead but to the grave,” which was appropri-
ated for Mrs. Griffin’s father, who had once
been a corporal in a volunteer regiment.
“But that’s too short,” said Mrs. Griffin.
"We must have something else too. There
was a simply lovely verse in the ’Ekald the
other day, about a bud in Heaven.”
As a bud Mr. Jones, who was eighty-four
when lie died, seemed about the limit. I had
by this time retired from the field. I real-
ised that I wins no match for the average
"In Memoriam” poet, and commended his
efforts to their consideration.
On Saturday, at Mrs. Griffin’s request, I
brought home twelve copies of that day’s
Herald. It contained all the glory of the
Griffin family-—dully a column of it —set
forth in the “In Memoriam” notice as Mrs.
Griffin put it, “regardless.” The Griffin
mother was “a picture engraved on our
heart” when the whole Griffin family com-
bined to have one heart over the matter (the
thing had to rhyme with “the grave doth us
part”) ; and was informed publicly, by Mr.
and Mrs. Griffin separately, that in spite of
the dreadful - blow, the shocking pain, they
hoped to meet in Heaven again. Father Grif-
fin was told the distress of the family at the
fact that no more he would rise in the morn-
ing as to liis work he doth go, and no more
they would hear his footsteps when the sun
was sinking low. Even the disreputable
brother Charles was described as a family
treasure in Heaven; and by the family
expressing its sentiments together, and then
in lesser groups the Griffin relatives were
made to go a long way round.
But still the wise disposition of the main
portion of the Griffin fortune had not been
decided. The whole neighborhood knew of their
good fortune the day after the family had
learnt it. I nodded to the postman the morn-
ing following the night of excitement, and he
stopped to talk.
“Hear the people up at your house have
struck luck,” he said. “A nice little bit of
money might be made out of a sum like that,
backing ’orses, if you ’ave the right system.
I’ll put it to Mrs. Griffin when I sees ’er.”
But for the time being, in spite of all the
schemes put before them, the Griffins were
abundantly occupied in "doing the right
thing.” Within a week the whole family
was in what Mrs. Griffin termed “decent
mourning” ; and one Saturday afternoon as
I entered the house I heard a tapping in-
side which betokened industry.
Griffin was hammering nails into the
wall of the sacred dining-room and hanging-
pictures thereon. A frequent reference in
their “In Memoriam” notices to “your pic-
ture that’s turned to the wall” and other
sorts of pictures had reminded the Griffins
of a painful lack, and they had paid ex-
pensively to have ugly enlargements of ugly
photographs made and framed inartisti-
cally. The many large enlargements made
the small room a dismal’ place. When I
came home late the faces, with all their dis-
tortions, glared at me through the darkness
and followed me upstairs and haunted my
sleep. I was glad to leave the Griffins.
It was months afterwards that I met
Griffin in the city, coming- sweat-soiled from
work, his empty lunch-tin in his hand, and
his wages rattling in his pockets. We
adjourned to have a drink together.
With a melancholy pride, Griffin produced
a photograph from his pocket. It depicted
an elaborate stone in a cemetery.
“That’s old Aunt Jennie’s.” he said. “But
yop should see what' we did for the old
people ! You must come out and see them.
The missus will be glad.”
“Got ’em framed?” I asked.
“My oath, yes; all in black ebony. The
missus says we must get. a droring-room for
them—when we can afford it.”
“Why !” I exclaimed, and stopped.
“Well,” said Griffin, “I must be getting
along or the grocer’ll lie shut. I promised
the missus when I got me wages to drop in
and pay the bill. It's been owing three weeks.
So I can’t stay.”
“What?” I said. “You don’t mean to say
you've spent all that cash on these things for
your dead relatives?”
“Yes,” said Griffin, slowly. “We did the
right thing by all on ’em—blarst them !”
HAMER.
Where I am Living 1 .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was originally a wine-cellar. There
still hangs about it a faint odor of by-
gone alcohol. The approach is down
eight stone steps from a shell-pocked back
yard. Across the entrance hangs a weighted
horse-rug, which is rolled up normally and
let down on the arrival of gas. Our cellar
is of brick, dome-shaped, seven feet high
in the middle and eighteen feet long. The
floor is damp black soil, moisture drips on.
one from unexpected places. It is either
dankly cold, or hot after the steamy fashion
of the ante-room of a Turkish bath. And
yet there are occasions when it is an earthly
paradise. All round is devastation. In the
street outside is the crater of a “5.9’’ ; a
“.77” has gone through the wall of the mill
on our left; and the mill-owner’s mansion
over the way has been smitten with every
sort of projectile from six-inch shells down-
wards. At all hours of the day and night
Fritz sends over his dreadful reminders that
he is still in the old spot behind the wood
on the other side of the river. But while
we are in the cellar it would be bad luck
indeed if he harmed us. The fashion in
shells has changed in the past year. The
old style missile was a “delayed action”
variety. Before it exploded it burrowed
deep, and afterwards it dug down to incred-
ible depths. The modern article is what is
known as a “toute suite” ; it bursts on im-
pact, scattering death and terror sideways
and upwards, but causing little trepidation
to the Dug-out King. A “five-nine” would
need to come through the open window of the
dining-room and hit the floor above us to
qualify anyone down here for a soldier's
grave.
There is an insane variety about the
furniture and effects. Five stretchers radi-
ate from the walls. On a low brick ledge
which runs from the neighborhood of the
major’s head to the entrance is a crucifix;
nailed to the wall close by is a picture of
the Madonna and Child. The Major is not a
Catholic; I fancy he is not anything in
particular, but no professional devotee could
be more respectful to the innumerable religi-
ous relics with which this house is stocked.
It is an admirable trait in its way, but it
does not make for comfort. It results in
over-congestion. Beside the crucifix are two
ruined boots. A torn and chalk-stained tunic
hangs from a hook in the ceiling; also a pair
of breeches in which no one will ever feel
a spark of pride again. Odd clothing
depends from other hooks, all of it being
shabby and most of it in need of repair.
Past the musty boots is a gilt candel-
abra. the Major’s gas-mask and steel
hat, half a looking-glass, a cake of soap, a
pair of socks, some champagne bought from
the town mayor (the casli being credited to
the original owner, his heirs or assigns, if
alive), another crucifix, two large ecclesiasti-
cal-looking candlesticks, a statue of the
Madonna, a holy-water font with image of
the Saviour inset, a pair of gum-boots, an-
other gas-mask, a box of cigars, two pairs
of field-glasses, four biscuits and a piece of
margarine in a scrap of cardboard, another
candelabra, some envelopes weighted down
by a chunk of shell which arrived in the
kitchen a day or so previously, a pair of
brushes, a map, a range-table, a protractor,
two revolvers, another gas-mask, more boots,
another crucifix, and so on.
The looter was a conventional feature of
past warfare. Here the picking up of un-
considered trifles is regarded not merely as
criminal but as bad form. It is heart-
breaking to wander through the shell-torn
houses, of this once-prosperous little town and
see lying about the beautiful things, which
can never be salvaged and which will go to
the Boclie if we retire. Sfevres china, cloi-
sonne, and, for some reason, lustre, are all
over the place, and in one house in the next
village to this is enough Sheffield plate to
fill a small trunk. I tested it*.by scraping
at the silver on one piece till I reached the
copper underneath, and left it with bitter
regrets. All things are as the horrified
owners left them a few weeks ago. barring,
of course, those that have been upended and
destroyed by the arrival of a shell. In the
billiard-room on the top storey of one place
is a table on which we sometimes play. The
table, cues and balls are in perfect order,
and yet every window in the room is smashed
and there are wicked-looking holes in three
of the walls. In a cupboard are the
unfinished exercise-books of the little girls
of the house, their school-reports and the
costumes in which they used to dress up in
their lighter moments. We know they did
this by the photographs which are littered
about, showing them posed in the dress of
seventeenth-century cavaliers.
Billiard-tables and abandoned clothing are
remarkably common here. Which may ex-
plain, in part, the following odd experience.
I had crossed the lavishly-mined bridge of
the river which separates us from Fritz, and
had arrived in the haunted precincts of a
village which is undergoing the process of
obliteration as swiftly and methodically as
the German gunners can accomplish it. The
place was being gassed, and as one gets out
of breath in a gas-mask I stopped to recu-
perate in a place which had once been a
restaurant. In the billiard-room, dressed
from head to foot in the evening clothes
which Frenchmen wear on important occa-
sions, were two Australian privates earnestly
playing billiards. They were large men, and
the clothing did not fit them b,y feet; they were
wearing their masks, and so their play was
indifferent; shells were arriving at punctual
intervals, and yet they seemed contented. To
allay suspicion I should explain that (he last
drop of alcoholic liquor had been removed
from this village by the Salvage Corps a
fortnight before.
The wickedness of warfare is brought
home to one more vividly here, than on
the front we have left. Here it is
early Spring. The leaves are out, and
most of the wonderful old trees are un-
touched. Every cottage has its well-tended
little orchard and garden. The grass and
young wheat form a dazzling green carpet on
both sides of the smooth lazy river. Though
shells have fallen in the fields ceaselessly dur-
ing the last few weeks; though many of the
flowers and vines are gassed—with the result
that they look as though the breath of a
great fire had blighted them—and though
most of the houses have been broken more
or less badly, the country remains very
lovely in a thousand quaint and old-world
ways. This little town epitomises everything
that is gracious and fragrant and pictu-
resque, and at the same time enduring. Yet
it is doomed. What a lunatic business it
all is!
J. B. D.


fi
m
V
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CK£A
30
:
<
£
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
818 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
-9
r }
Vi?
N
i
“Nerves”
Our nerves are similar to an intri-
cate network of telegraph wires.
Controlled and nourished by a
portion of the brain—known as
the nerve centres —the delicate
threadlike nerves radiate in all
directions throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres are
capable of continually supplying
nourishment to the nerves, the
nerves will remain strong and
healthy. But directly the nerve
centres become weakened by
overwork, worry or anxiety, they
are unable to transmit the
necessary nourishment, and the
nerves become worn out and
“on edge.” Then it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “ jump ”
—you get irritable—you suffer
from neuralgia—you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
dition there is nothing to equal
T
The Wine of Life
Because, being a powerful nerve
food, ‘ Wincarnis ’ gets right to
the root of the trouble, and, by
creating a supply of new nerve
force, stimulates and revitalises
the whole nervous system. Try
‘Wincarnis’ for ‘Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it. write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W
ARE YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Jo you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
fd
hfd
THE FAMOUS
AKMC/issmi[MKD FOUR-CYCU EMGIHI
Marine Engine.
12, 16 and 20 H.P.
4 Cylinders—4 cycle—medium speed.
SIMPLE, STRONG, DURABLE, ECONOMICAL.
Kermath Engines are built with
extreme care, perfectly balanced, and
are quiet running, perfectly controlled
and extremely smooth in operation. It
is an engine which will give years of
the most thoroughly satisfactory ser-
vice, and is an extremely high-grade
engine in every respect. Good dealers
wanted in Australia.
Catalog on request.
Kermath Mfg. Co., Detroit, Mich. U.S.A.
Jtowlo Keep Kealtby
Almost everybody requires at times a little medieine, that is at once
cleansing and strengthening in its action. Men and women, even of
the healthiest, occasionally need a reliable remedy which will relieve
and correct liver, stomach and bowel derangements and at the same
time act as a general tonic. For these purposes there |is no family
medicine better than Beeeham’s Pills. So pronounced are the
benefits derived from the use of this famous preparation that many
people have come to regard Beecham’s Pills as indispensable to the
maintenance of health. Carefully compounded from specially
selected ingredients of great medicinal value. Beeeham’s Pills may
be confidently relied upon to correct to relieve strengthen and
restore. Any disorders of digestion or run-down condition of the
system should be treated at once with
Bcccbam’s pills
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price 101 d (36 pills), 1/1 (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
3SS^.
1&25,
•*3#££?> •”
AX
If-
'. ft
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron Falls - Barron Gorge,
the wonderful hinterland
*sunshine, Palm Trees ,
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
Season of soft sunshine
and Scenic splendour
ABooklet telling all about il
is yours for the asking
/v// in ffttj coupon -
/fame
Address..
6.15.
- fhe Director of
Intelligence & Tourist Bureau .
Brisbane. aUEENSLAND.
Hi- \« ' rr
V?
/'“V'f i
SSKBiiiiAi
sajaSSSpq
*
6 f
9 9
ire Mrarner
10/-
each
Post Free
( Patented)
10/-
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
fig 6
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of
Dreadnought is fully maintai
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MAGPIE” FLOUR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
MALTED
Ml
MALTED BARLEY— WHEAT & MILK
Are the constituents of Horlick's Malted Milk. These
to build up the human frame and bring back health, strength and Q |grgy. Atte
a cup of Horlick’s, an increase of mental and physical power is at once noticeable.
There is nothing to equal Horlick’s as a Delicious Food-Drin .
HORLICK'S AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN
GET
'*'A*rs
INVW.
»mrto •**
No Shortage of Supplies. Ample Stocks throughout Australia.
1
jn
(S>pf
thoroughly British and “miles” better.
N.S.W. Agents: HAMMOND CO.* 212 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Queensland Agents: QLD. MOTOR AGENCY LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Agents: H. C. PANNIFEX, 22 Martlet Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.


Pa :t •Vi b J aij
NGROVITE
LEATHER
LTI
LEATHER
belting
•THERE’S NOTHING LIKE LEATHER.”
For efficiency under the most trying condi-
tions no belt has ever given better satisfac-
tion than
“MANGROVITE” RAWHIDE BELTING.
This famous power-transmitter and power-saver
is dependable under all conditions.
Made from the best hides procurable. Tanned
and Manufactured by the Mangrovite Process.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square, near G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
CIRCULAR SAWS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES-
We have many other sizes and gauges in stock, but below
g LE ON
h
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
w it jr ;r
\ *V M&*#'
pt;I1
&WWf
~t»4 JLatrobeStreet, Melbourne. Fremantle.
Charles Atkins & Co. litd., Adelaide.
John Reid & Nephews, Itrisbane.
Kalgooriie.
Paul & Gray Tjtd., Newcastle
Defies Time’s Touch
Wil'i
IRA^HABK
No matter what the
structure, specify
BARDIE’S
“Fibrolite” l "*-’
CEMENT,
The Australian Asbestos
Cement Sheets.
The result will be an artistic Five-resistant
building, that is also Rust-, lfot-, White-ant
and Deeay-pvoof.
For further information, prices and samples
apply to: —•
James Hardie 8 Co. Ltd.
“Asbestos House,”
Corner York and Wynyard Streets, SYDNEY.
Phone 8156 (4 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at Brisbane and Adelaide.
PURE,
STIMULATING,
BLOOD-WARMING and
HEALTH-GIVING.
A
A
Wi
v.v
SPECIAL
Mellowed and matured in
Nature’s way, and contains only
those ethers necessary in a spirit
intended for medicinal purposes.
HOSPITAL
TUCKER & CO. LIMITED
SYDNEY (Agents).
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
Two High-class Australian-made Oil Engines.
fdh
Our stocks of the popular TANGYE Oil Engines are now low, due to Messrs.
Tangyes’ Big Works at Birmingham, England, having some time ago been taken
over bv the Munition Authorities for War purposes.
We have, however, negotiated Agencies for Australian-made Engines, which are
most creditable productions, and which we offer with the same degree of
confidence.
THE “TRIUMPH.”
A vertical-type Benzine or Kerosene Engine, made
in two sizes only, viz., 32 and 5 b.h.p. (Stationary
and Portable). Has Magneto Ignition. Excellent
finish throughout.
THE “STAR.”
A portable Horizontal Kerosene Oil Engine, made
in three sizes, 6S, 8 and 10 b.h.p. Has Magneto
Ignition. It is a High-grade Portable Engine at
a very LOW Cost.
fd
DALGETY <& CO. LTD., Miller's Point, SYDNEY.
Agents lor Buncle Chaffcutters, Gane Milking Machines, Clayton Portable Engines, Tangye Pumps, E.Xt.B. Separator Engines, etc.
B H
nmm
BlllWJr
4
1111 EJ
I
I
Pin
31 l! r j
i mini! kj
IP m
I
n
Sheep Shearing machines
Sheepowners are advised to instal
whilst full stocks of .plants and duplicate parts are available.' Every machine
guaranteed. Cash or terms to suit purchasers.
HANDPIECES No. 3
We have recently landed a shipment of these, and are now prepared to supply a
limited number as “spares.” Order to-day and avoid disappointment.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED, Australasian Agents ALL BRANCHES.
WOODWORKERS
Here's a Machine you can rig up
cfuicKly and easily for Sanding
Special and Irreg'ular-shaped Work.
The MATTISON PNEUMATIC BELT SANDER
Its value lies in the many ways it can be “rigged up,” adaptable to sanding almost any
shape and in any form.
Table Legs, either flat, oval, straight or curved, Drawer Fronts, Shelves for Cabinets, Chair
Legs, rounded over Toilet Frames, Veneered Posts, Chair Seats and Backs, Cross Veneered
0.(5. Mouldings, Mirror Frames and Standards, Moulded Arms, half-and quarter-round Mould-
ings, or any piece of flat or rounded work are among the numerous operations it will handle
economically.
Consider the advantages such a machine Avould mean to your plant, and write for full par-
ticulars and price. /
“Belt Sanding,” a series of practical articles on Sanding, is yours for the asking.
ksss
vam
Sole
Agents :
PARKE <a LACY CO. LTD..
Engineers (El Machinery Merc Hants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ROCK DRILLS.
hfd
The Greatest Hammer
Rock Drill Ever Made.
WITHOUT A RIVAL FOR RAPIDITY IN DRILLING
AND ECONOMY IN UPKEEP.
The HYDROMAX has been adopted by
some of the Largest Mines in Australia.
Made by the Climax Rock Drill Co., England.
Both STOPING and HAND.
CRUSHERS, JIGS, CLASSIFIERS, CONCENTRATORS
and all Mining Supplies.
THE EVERLASTING VALVE
Absolutely Solves the Leaking Valve Problem.
Adopted by the Railways of three States. Federal and
State Govt. Contracts, Shipping Companies, Colonial
Sugar Refining Co. and a great many manufacturing
companies throughout Australia and New Zealand.
Also Collieries and Mining Companies.
The EVERLASTING VALVE is suitable for almost every kind of
service, and is made in any kind of metal desired, including acid-
resisting. Manufactured at our works under license.
A New Descriptive Booklet sent on request.
GUTHRIDGE LTD., Mining and Electrical Engineers, 350 GEORGE
