

■sm
SUPERB
3
R. O. WATZUNS CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— __ .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
THE “AUSTRALIAN REVIEW”
says:—
The Company is very well
managed, and the name is quite
a household word in Sydney. Its
reputation is excellent, and,
although the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a vampire, the
charge cannot be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de Piete D.
and I. Co. Limited.
jhkjhk
On all Classes of Security.
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
Easy Terms and Lowest Interest.
N-S-W-MONT DE HETE-.
HEAD QFFICE.74 CASTLEREAGHST SYDNEY 74.
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New liuilding.
reet, Sydney.
West, Sydney
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
jhkjhk
jhkjhkl
jhlkjh
lkjhkl
jhkljh
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
kljh
u
n
r &
mm
QA
9WM
v/a
Y/>
S).
n
kjh
made from these genuine Tablets 1
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
L
kjh
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
H
The World’s Best & Cheapest Oil Engines
if you are an oil-engine buyer we offer you the Best Value on Barth in the
“Big' Chief” and “Field W” Eng'ines.
Every Engine is self-contained on the one base; no extra tanks or pipes. Can be started in a few minutes
after* its arrival on the farm. Simplest, most economical and reliable Engines on this or any other market.
OR EASY TERMS IN N.S.W.
CATALOGS FREE.
CASH OB EASY TERMS IN N.S.W.
CATALOGS FREE.
R. L. SCRUTTON & GO. LTD.
“The Engineers’
161 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Write to 8 Spring Street, Sydney,
for a free copy of "The Referee,” a
booklet containing much useful and
instructive information.
a Vi»n' l ® A
Supplied to the Naval and
Military Authorities of
Britain and Australia.
J.D.K.Z. GENEVA
The White Heart
on the Black Bottle
ft
POILITE”
Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Tiles
(GENUINE BRITISH MADE).
kjh
NOYES BROS
—the modern building material that has
stood the TEST OF TIME. It assures
STRENGTH, PERMANENCE and
BEAUTY to your home.
WRITE FOR CATALOG “A.”
BEFORE SUNSET BUY A WAR LOAN BOND.
(Sydney) Ltd.
(Melbourne) Proprietary Ltd.,
115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
499-501 BourKe St., Melbourne.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
■■■■ ■■ ■■'■■■■■ 111
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Deficacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
kjh
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Td. 39.—N0. 1991.]
[Thursday, April 11, 1918.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


e>
B
It is the consistently high
a pinnacle of widespread
JS a Hospital Brandy of incomparable purity and medicinal excellence
S character of CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY which holds it oi
popularity unequalled by any other Brandy in Austialia to-day.
Insist on having “CHATEAU TANUNDA,” the Special Hospital Brandy. BUY WHOLE BOTTLES
-Sydney Agents.
TucKer &. Co.* Limited-
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROAT
and the Prevention of Consumption.
The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
CJ
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
LET THE BUYER BEWARE!—The large sale for
“Eumenthol JUJUBES” has led to a number of
imitations being manufactured tinder the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important, there-
fore, when buying to be sure and get HUDSON’S
Eumenthol Jujubes. Yon may be asked to buy other
jujubes, and be told they are “just as good” as
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves that these
imitations and substitutes have no reputation of
their qwn, and can only be sold on the g;ood repute
and high character of Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold by all Chemists in Tins. Price 1/6, or sent
post free on receipt of stamps (any State) by
manufacturers,
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY. [2
The Red Page
Soldiers’ Poetry
Big Words.
“I’ve whined of coming death, but now, no
more!
It’s weak and most ungracious. For, say I,
Though still a boy if years are counted, why!
I’ve loved those years from, roof to cellar-
floor,
And feel, like grey-beards touching their four-
score,
Ready, so soon as the need comes, to die:
And I’m satisfied.
For tvinning confidence in those quiet days
Of peace, poised sickly on the precipice side
Of Lliwedd crag by Snowdon, and in war
Finding it firmlier with me than before;
Winning a faith in the wisdom of God’s
ways
That once I lost, finding it justified
Even in this chaos; tvinning love that stays
And warms the heart like wine at Easter-
tide:
Having earlier tried
False loves in plenty ; oh, my cup of praise
Brims over, and I know I’ll feel small sorrow,
Confess no sins and make no weak delays
If death ends all, and I must die to-morrow.”
But on the firestep, waiting to attack,
He cursed, prayed, sweated, wished the proud
words back.
Robert Graves.
The Field of Honor.
Mud-stained and rain-sodden, a sport for flies
and lice,
Out of this vilest life into vile death lie goes;
His grave will soon be ready, where the grey
rat knows
There is fresh meat slain for her —our mortal
bodies rise,
In those foul scampering bellies, quick—and
yet, those eyes
That stare on life still out of death, and tvill
not close,
Seeing in a flash the Crown of Honor, and
the Rose
Of Glory wreathed about the Cross of Sacri-
fice,
Dies radiant. May some English traveller
to-day,
Leaving his city cares behind him, journeying
west
To the brief solace of a sporting holiday,
Quicken again with boyish ardor, as he sees.
For a moment, Windsor Castle toivering on
the crest
And Eton still enshrined among remembering
trees.
Charles Scott-Moncrieff.
Fulfilment.
Was there love once? I have forgotten her.
TFw there grief once? Grief still is mine.
Other loves I have; men rough, but men who
stir
More joy, more grief than love'of thee and
thine.
Faces cheerful full of whimsical mirth,
Lined by the'wind, burned by the sun;
Bddies enraptured by the abounding earth,
As whose children, brothers we are and
one.
And any moment may descend hot death
To shatter limbs! pulp, tear and blast
Belovdd soldiers ivho love rude life and
breath
Not less for dying faithful to the last.
O the fading eyes, the grimed face turned
bony,
Oped, black, gushing mouth, fallen head,
Failing pressure of a held hand shrunk and
stony ;
0 sudden spasm, release of the dead!
Was there love once? I have forgotten her.
Was there grief once? Grief still is mine.
O loved, living, dying, heroic soldier,
All, all my joy, my grief, my love are
thine!
Robert Nichols.
The Armt of Death.
When you see millions of the mouthless dead
Across your dreams in pale battalions go,
Say not soft things as other men have said,
That you’ll remember. For you need not so.
Give them not praise. For, deaf, how should
they know
It is not curses heaped on each gashed head?
Nor tears. Their blind eyes see not your
tears flow.
Nor honor. It is easy to be dead.
Say only this: “They are dead.”- Then add
thereto,
“Yet many a better one has died before.”
Then, scanning all the o’er-crowded mass,
should you
Perceive one face that you loved heretofore,
It is a spook. None wears the face you knew.
Great death has made all his for evermore.
Charles Hamilton Sorley.
To C-A.L.
To have laughed and talked — wise, witty,
fantastic, feckless —
To have mocked at rules and riders and
learnt to obey,
To have led your men tvitli a daring adored
and reckless,
To have struck your blow for Freedom, the
old straight way:
To have hated the world and lived among
those ivho loved it,
To have thought great thoughts and lived
till you knew them true,
To have loved men more than yourself and
have died to prove it-~-
Yes, Charles, this is to have lived: was
there more to do?
C. A. A.
From “The Muse in Arms” (Murray per
Dymock’s Library).
£
E. B. Osborn edits a valuable collection of
war poems, The Muse in Arms (Murray, per
Dymock’s Library). Most of these have been
writtfen in the field. His poets number 40.
and one in every three has been killed. And
of his authors only three are privates and
only three sergeants: the rest are commis;
sioned. It seems to us that were a similar
anthology of Anzalian war-poems made, the
proportions would be the other way. Osborn
asserts that this efflorescence of war poetry
is unique in English or any other literature;
hut in one department, marching songs, the
poet-soldiers of England have failed. There
are two malign influences operating: the
music-hall song, which, helped by the gramo-
phone, has stifled inspiration at its birth;
and “that strange, literary convention where-
by the rank-and-file of our fighting men are
made to speak a kind of Cockneyese of which
no real Cockney is capable.... It is certain
that the men of the New Army deeply resent
the literary fashion which makes them talk
like Chevalier’s Cockney types.... The men
of the Lower Deck, who are all highly-edu-
cated specialists, find this literary fashion
most offensive to their self-respect.” Osborn
refuses to admit to his anthology any Cock-
neyese. He claims that this anthology is the
first coherent picture of the British warrior’s
moods and emotions painted by himself.
Wrong, since Osborn has overlooked that ex-
cellent anthology. Soldier Poets (Erskine
Macdonald, London), in which eight of his
chosen poets have already found quotation.
But he is right in stating that his collection
is far more valuable than the huge harvest of
war poetry by civilian verse-makers. Osborn
curtly suggests that the only job for the
civvy-bard is to write epitaphs for the fallen.
Noteworthy, as Osborn remarks, is the
absence of the tone of hatred for a most hate-
ful enemy in these poems. After bayoneting a
Hun Billjim or Tommy doesn’t feel any need
to write him a Hymn of Hate. Curiously, it
seems that very little verse has been written
by the Hun’s soldiers since the war began ;
they don’t seem to have been inspired by Hin-
denburg. Another distinguishing character-
istic of soldier-poets is the absence of pro-
fessional patriotism. No trench-bard uses the
word patriot. He doesn’t have to.
Some of the finest poems in this anthology
are either too long to quote or have already
been ouoted on this page from Soldier Poets
and other works. Here is a beautiful excerpt
from Robert Nichols’s “At the Wars” :
The gorse upon the twilit down,
The English loam so sunset brown,
The bowed pines and the sheep-bells’ clamor,
The wet, lit lane and the yellow-hammer,
The orchard and the chaffinch song
Only to the Brave belong,
And he shall lose their joy for aye
If their price he cannot pay.
Who shall find them dearer far
Enriched by blood after long war.
And a similar exquisite picture by E.
Wyndham Tennant: —
I saw green banks of daffodil,
Slim poplars in the breeze,
Great tan-brown hares in gusty March
A-courting on the leas;
And meadows with their glittering streams, and
silver scurrying dace,
Home —what a perfect place !
Another poignant picture from Robert
Nichols: —-
.... Almost I have heard
In the shuddering drift the lost dead’s last word:
“Go home, go home, go to my house,
Knock at the door, knock hard, arouse
My wife and the children —that you must do —
What d’you say?—Tell the children too —
Knock at the door, knock hard, and arouse
The living. Say: the dead won’t come back to this
house”....
And this mere fragment of a battle picture,
by the same poet:—
Time! Time!
I hear my whistle shriek
Between teeth set,
I fling an arm up,
Scramble up the grime
Over the parapet!
I’m up. Go on.
Something meets us.
Head down into the storm that greets us.
A wail!
Lights. Blurr.
Gone.
On, on. Lead. Lead. Hail.
Spatter. Whir. Whir.
“Towards that patch of brown,
Direction left.” Bullets: a stream.
Devouring thought crying in a dream;
Men, crumpled, going down....
Go on. Go.
Deafness, numbness. The loudening tornado.
Bullets. Mud. Stumbling and skating.
My voice’s strangled shout:
“Steady pace, boys!”
The still light: gladness.
“Look sir, look out!”
Ha! Ha! Bunched figures waiting.
Revolver levelled: quick !
Flick ! Flick !
Red as blood.
Germans. Germans.
Good ! Oh, good !
Cool madness. ,
And this note, too, by Max Plowman: —
“Young soldier, what will you be
At the Last Post?”
“Cold, cold, in the tender earth,
A cold body in foreign soil;
But a happy spirit fate can’t spoil,
And an extra note in the blackbird’s mirth
From a khaki ghost.”
And this, for a final comforting word, from
Leslie Coulson
When night falls dark we creep
In silence to our dead.
We dig a few feet deep
And Gave them there to sleep—
But blood at night is red,
Yea, even at night,
And •» dead man’s face is white.
And 1 dry my hands, that are also trained to kill,
And I look at the stars—for the stars are beautiful
still.
War
Though Lieut.-General Baron von Frey-
tag-Loringhoven, the most distinguished
soldier-writer of Prussia, and now Deputy-
Chief of the General Staff, wrote his
Deductions from the World War (Constable,
per Dymock’s Library and George Bobert-
son, Melb., who publish a special Anzalian
edition) solely for German consumption, it
is of more interest to us. The export of
this damning exposure of Prussian militarism
rampant was prohibited; but luckily a few
copies found their way outside. The work
is a deliberate and impudent attempt to
write history as the Germans want it
written—and, be it remembered, this is the
way in which the history of the war will be
written if Germany wins: this is what our
children will have to learn, in common with
the other children of the world, as the his-
torical, made-in-Germany truth. For un-
doubteaiv Freytag’s deductions seem to the
Germans only logic and common-sense.
But the Australian reader can find a cer-
tain grim humor in Freytag’s colossal cheek.
This German spokesman is plainly pained
because the world does not like the German.
He regards as victims to mass-suggestion “the
numerous distinguished scholars and artists
among our enemies,” who "joined in the gen-
eral orgies of hatred directed against every-
thing German.” And he is shocked at the
suggestion that Germany’s preparedness for
war proved that she had intentionally pro-
voked it; it was really only the German
thoroughness in execution that gave rise to
that unkind suspicion. Unfortunately too
late for inclusion in Freytag’s apology comes
the damning disclosure of his own country’s
guilt by the German Ambassador who was
in London at the outbreak of the war.
Naturally, the Belgian atrocities were due
to “the thoughtless adoption of franc-tireur
methods of warfare in Belgium, with the
support and approval of the authorities”!
So “the well-conducted German soldiers found
themselves compelled to resort to severe
measures of retaliation.” We learn, too,
that “in the treatment of our prisoners the
French soldier’s conduct has been worthy of
an apache”; while the English have also
“been guilty of distressing excesses” ; and “in
certain cases, even if not as a general rule,
the English have shown themselves not be-
hind the French in brutality.” Doubtless it
is only because of our insignificance that
Freytag does not mention the horrors and
tortures of the internees’ camps in Australia.
Freytag further accuses his enemies of “deeds
of horror and senseless destruction”! But
perhaps he is right in his belief that “the
vast distance between civilisation and kultur
w T as clearly revealed.” Yes, with a damning
clarity! But we are delighted to hear from
this Ilun that the moral element always
proves to be the decisive factor in w T ar. The
Central Powers fight with “that lofty moral
strength, arising from a sense of righteous
self-defence in a war which had been thrust
upon them,” while the Allies are buoyed up
only by the zeal kindled by “a commercial
and predatory war.”
J*
But if we may smile at Freytag the Prus-
sian apologist, our serious attention is
commanded bv Freytag the Deputy-Chief
of the General Staff. His analysis of the
Battle of the Marne and the reasons for its
failure are extremely valuable, since they
come from a German strategist. The in-
tention was to envelop the Allies from two
sides; but Freytag has come to the conclu-
sion that while armies may be enveloped,
the envelopment of the whole host of an
enemy is a very difficult matter. Hence
“break-through” tactics once again assert
their importance. He gives several instances
of their success in this war; and describes
typical break-through tactics in what looks
like a forecast of the present German offen-
sive.
“The preliminary condition of success was
always a moral and tactical superiority on
the side of the attacker, and a corresponding
violence of mass effect. The fact that we
did not possess this moral and tactical
superiority in sufficient measure in the
West has always relegated to the back-
ground the idea of breaking through the
enemy front. (But the German possesses
that tactical superiority now.) What has
to be done is not only on a comparatively
limited front to break in upon the enemy
with concentrated masses—these masses
will immediately be exposed to out-flanking
on both sides—but to force in a more or
less considerable part of the enemy front,
and then to develop strategically the break-
through which has succeeded tactically.”
This looks strikingly like what the Huns are
after now.
Freytag thinks that in the future—
which is the present as we read his book-
entrenched warfare will not play the domi-
nant part it has hitherto played. It is only
by the war of movement that decisive re-
sults are reached. And he asserts that the
British Army, “trained exclusively for the
simple tasks of trench-warfare, is by no
means fit for a war of movement.” He
adds: “Captured British officers have ad-
mitted this fact.”
But the most important characteristic
of this book is symptomatic of the Prussian
mind: Freytag looks forward to no millen-
nium, no world-peace, but endless warfare,,
or at least an armed peace. lie is eager
to suggest improvements in the German
army, “the army of the future.” He con-
templates a fortified frontier, and a nation
delivered over to the drill-sergeant, mil-
lions of legs simultaneously doing the goose-
step. *
We learn with surprise that there lias
been much talk in Germany of the “trench-
spirit,” the fine comradeship between offi-
cers and men. Naturally, this Prussian
officer frowns upon this development; and
he insists that though good relations be-
tween officers and men may exist, the offi-
cer must always remain a ruling race apart.
“The task of the officers is in high degree
a social task, that is to say, in an aristo-
cratic sense.” And German militarism
must be preserved, “for to us it means vic-
tory and the future of Germany.” And
apparently the chief course of study for
Germany in the future will be military his-
tory ; and every man, whether fit for mili-
tary training or not, will have to go through
the school of the standing army. For “a
lasting peace is guaranteed only by strong
armaments,” and is quite inconsistent with
Germany’s incessant striving for world-
power. “In the future, as in the past, the
German people will have to seek firm
cohesion in its glorious army and in its
belaurelled young fleet.”
That is what the world is up against,
an unrepentant, blind and brutal
seeing the future only in terms of war. The
world, which has a habit of forgetting famil-
iar facts, owes to Lieut.-General Freytag
its thanks for this timely exposure of the
irreclaimable nature of the Prussian beast.
An Australian Novel
Mary Marlowe, one of our actresses,,
writes a brisk and vivacious and more or
less fictitious account of the adventures of
herself and three other stage girls, seeking
fortunes on the London stage. Kangaroos in
King's Land (Simpkin, London, per Cole’s.
Book Arcade, Sydney) is aggressively Aus-
tralian and sufficiently feminine to reach a
large Australian public. Of course, if a
girl can’t make a career she can often cap-
ture a husband ; and three of these young
ambitions end in the cul-de-sac of matri-
mony. Mary Marlowe has an engaging
manner, apt to decline into skittishness;
but her fluffiness is harmless and frequently
amusing. Belle, we learn, was of the
Madonna type and like every man’s mother ;
and her mouth was made for kisses, and not
made in vain ; and her eyes had that appeal-
ing. “you alone’’ look. And Elizabeth had
such a tidy soul that “she must have been
born while her mother’s room was being
tidied up for the doctor’s visit.”
In London the girls took it in turn to
interview theatrical agents and managers.
They had to take it in turn because the
general impression demanded one girl’s furs,
another’s string of pearls, and a third’s
best hat. And the author wondered if any
manager ever recognised these trappings on
their third visit to his office. Their experi-
ences were varied, but hardly horrible; and
their struggles were brightened by flirta-
tions. Of course they get on, for they are
Australians; but though they fail to achieve
fame, they succeed in achieving happiness.
They go to Paris and enjoy themselves im-
mensely at the Folies Berger&s. “The deli-
cate indecencies of the ladies appealed to-
our artistic sense. It was interesting to
speculate how much more they could dis-
card before three innocent-looking maidens
would have to leave. These sirens and
houris who bared enough of their bodies to
hold out the promise of better things under
the straps filled us with delicious thrills.
Their audaciously-shifting draperies kept
us shivering with anticipation of the worst
happening at any moment. A lady wffio can
keep her balance in a black velvet lattice is
an artiste; and one who is draped in a flight
of butterflies at least commands your un-
divided attention.” As for the Bal Tabarin
—Mary Marlowe is, on second thoughts,
silent. “If you are English, it would not
be good for you. If you are American, you
have probably been, and if you are Aus-
tralian, it -would be a pity to take the edge
off an experience.”
Frivolous and femininely frank, and
throughout Australian; but the heroine’s
love affair becomes tiresome, and much of
the conversation is not as bright as it is
meant to be.


Jk
V
Morgan Spading Harrow
u
t
>
The MORGAN PATENT SPADING MARROW
IS INFINITELY SUPERIOR to every other form
of Harrow. It not only THOROUGHLY PUL-
VERISES the soil, but leaves it in such a condi-
tion that it is PROPERLY AERATED.
A, 3ft., One-horse, lGin. spades .... £7 12 6
A, 4ft., Light, two horses, 16in. spades 8 0 0
A, sft., Light, two horses, 16in. spades 8 5 0
C, sft., Two horses, 18in. spades .... 8 12 6
A, 6ft., Standard, two horses, 16in.
spades 8 17 6
C, 6ft., Heavy, two horses, 18in. spades 9 17 0
E, 6ft., Heavy, two or three horses,
20in. spades 10 17 6
0; 7ft., Two or three horses, IBin.
spades ««*«/« 11 3 0
E 7ft., Heavy, two or three horses,
20in. spades 11 10 0
C, Bft., Three horses, ISin. spades.... 12 0 0
These Harrows are fully rigged with whiffle-
trees, neck yoke and cleaners.
Transport Wheels 18/- per pair extra.
Canton Lever Harrow
The CANTON GUARD LEVER HAR-
ROW avoids the waste of time and
trouble experienced by the tines of an
ordinary harrow accumulating trash, for
by throwing the levers forward the tines
clear themselves.
2 Sections of 25 tines each, width Bft.,
complete £4/15/-
2 Sections of 80 tines each, width 10ft.,
complete £5/2/6
Douglas Pumps.
1
DOUGLAS PUMPS are known through-
out Australia as EFFICIENT. RELI-
ABLE and ECONOMICAL PUMPS.
For shallow wells they are hard to beat.
Strongly made, and nothing to get out of
order.
Nos. 23456
18/6 20/- 22/6 28/- 33/-
Perfect Spray Pump
A PERFECT, DOUBLE-ACTING SPRAY PUMP is an
ABSOLUTE NECESSITY in COMBATING INSECT
PESTS when LARGE areas have to be treated. The
PERFECT SPRAY PUMP EMBODIES all the LATEST
IMPROVEMENTS in barrel spray pumps.
Perfect Pump and Accessories (without cask), 72/C
Cask and Mounting Puiup 17/C extra
}£in. x 3-ply Iverosene-proof Rubber Hose,
Bd. foot extra
Challen
&
ii'*
m
CHALLENGE
Hit!
•"'(I.
THE CHALLENGE OIL ENGINE has been designed to meet the require-
ments of those who demand an (fficient, reliable, even-running engine, lhe
CHALLENGE has high-tension magneto ignition, is quickly started, easily
operated, and remarkably economical in fu.el consumption. The CHALLENGE
OIL ENGINE is neat and compact, and even the lower-powered types are
capable of performing heavy work.
Cylinder, Stroke, Revs.,
Weight,
kjh
Harrington Pumps.
One of the handiest Pumps made is the lIAR-
IIINGTON SEMI-ROTARY. It is-an exception-
ally powerful pump, considering its size. It is so
easy to operate—merely a backward and forward
motion of the handle —that it can be worked by a
boy or woman without exertion.
Nos. 0,1, 2,3, 4,5, 6, 7, 8.
Lift gals., 4,5, 6,9, 13, 19, 22, 26, 29 per minute.
Prices, 26/6, 29/-, 34/6, 41/-, 48/6, 55/6,
63/-, 77/-, 100/-
IVipe size—o, Jin.; 1, fin.; 2. lin ; 3 and 4, 1-Jin.;
T> and 6, Ain. ; 7 and S, 2in.
Canton Disc Ploughs
CANTON DISC PLOUGHS, with one,
two or three furrows, economise time
and are well-tried aids to farming effici-
ency. Each disc will turn a furrow from 3
to 12 inches deep and from 10 to 12
inches wide. They are strongly made of
steel and are remarkably light in
draught.
1- weight 6721 b Price £lB
2- weight 7801 b Price £23
3- weight 9001 b Price £2B
26in. Spare Discs, 30/- each.
Wiard Star Harrows
IT
A DISC HARROW, especially the pat-
tern shown above —the FAMOUS
WIARD STAR—is an ABSOLUTE
NECESSITY on an UP-TO-DATE
FARM. The STARS ARE MADE of
the BEST MATERIALS, and ARE
CHEAP.
The seat can be adjusted for a light or
heavy driver. A two-wheeled horse truck
prevents friction on the horses and
enables the operator to turn his team in
its own length.
PRICES:
sft. (10 discs), weight 3021 b.,
£9/17/6
6ft. (12 discs), weight 3691 b.,
£lO/13/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


These Trade Marks
Your Guarantee
/
r
7
kj
TRADE
MARKS
hk
There’s always one safe course to take when selecting a
new bicycle —see that it carries the B.S.A. Trade Marks
the Three Piled Rifles and letters B.S.A. They are
a guarantee of highest quality, material, workmanship
and finish. Bicycles built of B.S.A. Fittings are known
the world over as the “ Perfect in Every Part” bicycles,
and you can rely on the B.S.A. you purchase being of the
same high quality which made the name B.S.A. famous.
FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE
B.S.A. Fittings are
Guaranteed Interchangeable
Exact replacements of any part can be obtained.
Don’t be put off with “pattern fittings,”
but look for the B.S.A. Trade Marks cn
EVERY PART. They are your guarantee.
The great reliability of B.S.A. Fittings Bicycles
has been proved by actual service. Thousands
of Bicycles built of B.S.A. Fittings are being
used by British soldiers, which is further proof
of their great dependability.
B.S.A. Handbook free from
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.


THOUSANDS OF
DEATHS FROM DEADLY
KIDNEY DISEASE.
Kidney trouble in any form is serious—
it makes an opening for deadly Bright’s
disease. Each year thousands upon
thousands of people die who should really
be alive and well to-day. Why ? All
through weakened kidneys.
■ Get your kidneys strong and healthy,
and you will have nothing to fear.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are
compounded expressly for backache,
rheumatism, gout, gravel, dropsy, pains
in the back and muscles, and other
symptoms of Kidney Trouble.
I
w.
L
V
To cure Kidney
Trouble of any
kind you must
positively get
rid of the cause
—the poisonous
Uric Acid.
Remember, to
do this, a real
remedy must
pass through
the kidneys and
the bladder, and
not through the
bowels as most
kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a
muddy bluish colour—a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidneys and the bladder.
A wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys
—that is the reason why De Witt’s give
such amazingly quick relief every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost
every case.
Chemists everywhere sell these wonder-
ful little pills. But be sure you get genuine
De Witt’s
Ifidney&BladderPills
Nature’s Safest Remedy.
in lirge blue and gold boxes. De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills are sold by
Chemists and Storekeepers everywhere,
2/9 and 5,6 per box. Large size contains
two-and-a-half times as many as the 2 9
size—-most advantageous. If you have
any difficulty in getting genuine De Witt's
Phi s with the blue seal on the cork —send
your money to E. C. De Witt & Co., Ltd.,
42 44 Pitt Street, Sydney, who will gladly
supply by return. TRIAL BOX FREE
and plainly packed if you send 3d. stamps
for postage, etc.
Grease Lubricators.
<ye*suv>^
'SV’S'V
Specify....
“DESLYN”
(Reg. Trade Mark)
GREASE CUPS
and see you get them.
Scientific, Economical,
Easily Applied.
Used by N.S.W.
Government.
AUSTRALIAN MADE by
D. F. GLYNN MFG. GO., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney
(Wholosal3 only). ’Pliono 7650.
Write for Particulars and list of Supply Houses.
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
WA
m
jhk
GREY
HAIR
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
NAZETHA
Two or three drops on
sugar slowly dissolved
in the mouth produce a
most soothing and cura-
tive effed in all cases of
Coughs, Bronchitis,
Asthma All Chest
Affections.
1/6 of all Chemists.
If not procurable, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward post free.
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
m&sA
m.
m
m /
f \
/ T /rfn±
fCSi
%
r m
[2
READINESS*—and suitability for long
or short journeys, under any conditions
give to the STANDARD LIGHT CAR
Owner a satisfaction which can oniy
come from the possession of a good
article.
Send your name to our
A gents.
St)cS
Agents—
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sj.aey.
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO., Ltd., Coventry, England.
jh
kjh
ChangeTyres
in 5 Minutes
by the Clock
FIRESTONE RIMS for
ilght cars are built by tyre
makers, with the idea up-
permost of giving the tyre
the utmost protection a
firm, true, unyielding bear-
ing surface, giving even
wear and extra mileage.
TSresfotie
Light Car Wheels
Four wheels and spare rim, are moderate in price.
A car can be equipped by anyone in an hour's time.
Tyre changing ss then a matter of five minutes,
owing to the construction of Firestone rims. Loosen
5 bolts, and slip off tyre. Ask for prices.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney, New Sontli
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
V ictoria ; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatriek & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Carages. Write for Illustrated Literature.
Firestone Quick Detachable Rims are made
also for all types and sizes of tyres.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Kinship.
Autumn’s here and sweet she is,
Dearest daughter of the year!
Very gentle is her mien,
Most like you she seems, my dear.
Shine and shadow make her fair.
Grain and fruit are in her lap;
Tresses brown and soft she has,
Like the tresses ’neath your cap.
Singers twain are you and she,
She with plaintive woodland note —
Trill of bird and sigh of leaf —
You with softly swelling throat.
Dusk o’ night is in her eyes,
Dusk o’ night and light of dawn;
From the selfsame color-founts
Sure the shades of yours were drawn.
You and Autumn ! Y'et how strange,
When the damsel Spring Avas here,
Gowned in green, and girt with gold,
You were most like her, my dear
You and Spring Avere sisters then,
Like as lovely roses be;
Like as roses, velvet smooth,
Blooming on the selfsame tree.
Spring and you were singers twain.
Aye, for Avhen that damsel stirred
Woods to music, birds to song,
You, and you alone, I heard.
Summer’s come and gone since then,
Summer, big with gold and blue,
Giving glory to the earth,
Taking—was it joy?—from you.
Ah, the thief, to rob you so!
Glad am I he is o’erthrown,
All his golden insolence,
Pomp of noon and sunset gloam.
Vernal once, Autumnal noAV,
When the damsel Spring made gay
Bird and blossom, you and she
Sang together night and day.
Vernal once, Autumnal now;
You and Autumn, pensive both,
Cut the garments that you wear
From the selfsame silver cloth.
Yet. though you were robbed of joy,
Cheated of your due, alack !
Stolen goods return at times,
Bobbers sometimes give them back.
Now that March has blown away,
Vanished from our mortal scope,
April’s apron, grassy green,
Holds, perchance, some gift of hope.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Secret.
The Queen has sent for her tiring maids,
For cunning cosmetics and beauty aids.
The pages chatter, so blithe and gay,
For the King comes home from the hunt
to-day.
Unbidden there springs to my lips a song—
He comes to-day! llow the days were long!
A courtly message he sent the Queen,
But another messenger came unseen.
How strange, when the Queen has such
beauty rare,
That my Lord the King should deem me fair!
He bids me again to our try sting place
(The letter lies warm ’neath my fichu’s lace).
To-night, where the kindly trees lend cover,
All the Court forgot, I meet my lover!
QUEENSLAND.
E. SHIRLEY.
Trees.
’Tis a song for the green trees, the tall trees,
the kind trees.
If I were a thrush I would sing it morn
and night;
If I were the brown bees, the honey bees,
the wise bees,
I’d make a hive of yellow wax to give their
boughs delight.
For nil the trees are lovers, with a love cool
and green,
And they hold the healing quiet that can
wrap my soul about;
And I love them when they whisper as the
breezes pass unseen
Or they take the gale in leafy hands and
hold him till he shout.
Rut I will not care if storms blow till every
star-lamp reels,
Nor heed their decent talking when the
summer days are dry;
For tho tall trees, the green trees can save
me from the wheels
That want , to turn upon my heart and
bruise me till I die.
N.S.AV.
DAVID McKEE WRICHT.
To Miranda: A Personal Explanation.
Blue lakes made bright by moonlight were
your eyes,
Your mouth was fire ;
Your beauty pale appeared the fitting prize
Of love’s desire.
You quintessentialised all ecstasy—
A jewel rare;
Y'et now your auburn tresses are to me
Just plain red hair !
Still beautiful your cheeks for other eyes,
Your lips rich red;
But not for mine, for beauty fades and dies
When love is dead.
Fairer you seemed than the remotest star
That guards the sea;
But, since I’ve plumbed your mysteries, you
are
Quite plain to me!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


Keep the Home Tyres Turning'
There is True Economy in
PERDRIAU TYRES
And TUBES for MOTOR CARS and CYCLES.
&
G
a
9
From first to last their performance is one long- record of satisfaction clue to Perdrian Rubber, Perdriau quality
Cotton and Perdriau methods of- manufacture.
The quality and thickness of the tread and walls, the tensile strength of the foundation fabric and the resilience of
the fine seasoned Para from which Perdriau' tyres are made renders them strong and buoyant —able to ride safely
over the rough places that abound on our Australian roads.
Obtainable through your local garage or from the Manufacturers: —
WAR LOAN BONDS
A Patriotic Way of Saving
Perdriau Rubber Co Ltd.
All States
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banka, Savings Banka, or Money Order Post Offices
17
£4 7
£8 15
£43 15
£B7 10
£875 0
6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
6 i, si
0 „ » £io
0 „ >1 £s°
o „ „ £lOO
o „ „ £>ooo
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6“ War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. October. 1917
kjh
k
Callle 1411. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically
Electric Lights
jhk
CalHe 8 H. P. Unit Powfer Plan}
Reversirg Gear on Same Baso as Engine
Marine Engines
For All Boats
jhk
CaiUe Five
Speed Row*
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 li.p. This embodies
one- t o four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
3 r ou wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock; also
Spare Parts.
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers
Limited,
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE.
jh
kjh
kjh
kjh
A “ Radiator
of Pleasure .
When a man " tyres ” of the customary dishes,
a welcome “ brake ” can be made by serving
“ REX ” CAMP PIE
This is the “1918 self-t tarting” food because it is cooked
ready to be eaten. It is all meat, carefully compounde ,
cooked and seasoned by “ expert ” chefs, and packed
with firm, tasty jelly surrounding it.
Be sure to put on your “ sho k absorbers before tasting
“Rex” Camp Pie, especially if served with a salad be-
cause you’re going to be surprised by some new palate
pleasures.
When you want a “ blow out,” ” repair” to t. e nearest
grocer and say “ Rex ” Camp Pie.
Also put under pour “ bonnet this suggestion,
TRY “Rex” Ham Pate and
“Rex' Veal& Tongue Pate
For SANDWICHES.
k
All grocers sell “ Rex ” Pure Food Product ■.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Packers of “ Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon
J 151
Cr
4
Bodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
DEMAND LARGE AND CONTINUALLY GROWING,
EVIDENCING THE FORCE OF FRIENDLY THOUGHTS.
The business of Dodge Brothers has just reached and passed
another milestone in its history.
In less than three years more than two hundred thousand of
their cars have been placed in the hands of owners.
Because people think well of these cars it is still impossible for
Dodge Brothers to build enough of them.
Seldom has there been a finer example of the force of friendlj
thoughts.
It is an inspiration and an encouragement to build well—because
the reward is so great and sure.
The eagerness to own the car is greater to-day than it ever has
been.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Q isjnslaii.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 39,-No. 1991.
THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 1918.
Price 6d.
UNCONSCIOUS.
“Cripes, the English and French are coppin’ it!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by "William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.AV., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. tid. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Xumber-, to any
ADiiitEss in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
Tm: Bulletin, will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But-
no MS. will he returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy ix to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications tor return of MS. cannot receive,
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Rlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The BULLETIN original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will he received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ,- Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hht Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.- — X. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building. U.S.A.
Honolulu.— Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
110 ng Kong.
Ceylon. If. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the. Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; Uhited Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and, Id, each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 1918.
THE INVOICE TO FAT AND OTHERS
—E. & O. E.
When news arrived the other day that F. W.
Jowett, M.P. for Bradford, had proposed a
scheme under which all persons “possessing
. wealth above a certain level should be deemed
dead and compelled to pay death duties on a
graduated scale,” the daily papers arose
almost as one rag and in grief and bitterness
of spirit knocked Jowett and “his wage-
earning constituents” and the Bolsheviks
and Socialism into fragments, and then
stamped heavily on what was left. The thing
that drove the Sydney Telegraph to greatest
fury was an idea that Lloyd George’s pirati-
cal colleague proposed to start seizing wealth
from citizens before they had time to pay
their debts, which would amount to larceny,
burglary and robbery under arms. But an
eruption of words about Jowett leaves the
debt untouched and the problem of what • shall
be done about it exactly where it was before.'
For whatever may be the most effective
method of rolling away the mighty burden
which has been piled during the last few
years on the people of nearly every nation
on earth, relief is certainly not going to be
found in bombarding any serious proposal
with furious language. What particular advan-
tage Jowett may see in assuming people to
be dead before the funeral transpires is a
blank mystery which plays into the hands of
the humorist. But the probabilities are that
his reference to presumed death was merely
employed for illustrative purposes, and that
his scheme is simply an all-round levy on the
national wealth—that he presents an
allegedly-nractical method of doing something
about which thousands of other people are
only blowing off hot air. In practice it
avouM mean an enormous increase in the
income-tax, with this distinction: that it
would be a tax levied on the accumulation of
past incomes instead of upon present and
future earnings.
« * * *
It is not at all impossible to make out a
case for this. Indeed, an argument based
upon the doctrine that realised wealth should
discharge the cost of war has all the elements
of equity and justice. It is one that appeals
strongly to the public sense of what
is a fair' thing,, . and will have a
still more powerful-, appeal in the days
to come when, should democracy drive
the enemy from the gate, the inas'b of
men and women begin to consider the money-
cost and what it means. Australian papers
will certainly then find that in a country like
Britain, - which, whatever else it may have
baulked at, never yet shrank from looking at
the truth about debt, the problem of making
good will not be approached with a denial of
the dqctrine that those who have shall pay.
Nor can it be approached by Australians with
an airy readiness to settle with the creditor
by borrowing another fiver find cursing every-
body as a Bolshevik who "wants to get out
of the mess. The, inescapable facts are
that the bill has to be grappled with and
that the only possible way of doing this is by
paying or defaulting. Defaulting on a
national obligation while there is enough
wealth privately held , to pay the creditor is.
not conceivable. Yet paying the debt will be
possible only by (1) increasing production to
a point that will yield sufficient surplus to
meet the new demands; (2) increasing pro-
duction as far as is possible, and calling up
old wealth to supply the difference between
the available surplus and the demands of the
creditor. Even if the production of new
wealth could be made to keep pace with the
requirements incidental to the debt, it would
be socially no more just to levy wholly upon
this than upon possessions already in exist-
ence.
* * * •
Meanwhile it does no harm to. remember-
that old wealth and new wealth are in the
melting-pot, and that how much of either is
going to. be available for the payment of debt
or : P,rj? v iding the nation with something to
eat is beyond human ken. It is /this: that
vitiates most of the talk and nearly all the
plans and Specifications for liquidating our
responsibilities. There are possible endings
to the. war that would in an hour convert a
material portion of what comes with iff the
category of wealth to-day into atmosphere.
Millions would disappear as by magic.
There are .other coficeivable conclusions that,
while leaving.the older wealth of some coun-
tries unimpaired,- would make the job of
creating new wealth about 175 times more
difficult than it was before. Upon the con-
dition of one country after the war and the
state of another’s markets will depend whether
the. alleged wealth of a third and fourth is to
shrink like a shoddy shirt ip hot water, ren-
dering their great natural resources worth
about 2d. in the pound. But assuming that
values are not turned upside down some-
where—and The Bulletin never yet heard
of a war that did not leave behind it smoul-
dering ruins amid which the owners of what
had disappeared raked miserably for a little
salvage—the, probabilities are that, of all the
possible troubles which Wealth may have to
meet, a system under which taxation would
proceed on the same scale as graduated
death duties would be the least objectionable
to it. This is so for the reason that no such
system would be possible or worth while
unless an enormous, aggregation of wealth
had escaped appropriation or annihilation by
the enemy. Taking all things into considera-
tion, Fat might very properly, consider him-
self mighty lucky then that matters were not
worse. Meantime Fat’s shameless barrackers
might well knock off trying to make out that
taxation of wealth, maintained and defended
by blood and agony, can be described as
“theft.” Simultaneously advocates of the
form of taxation suggested by Jowett -would
not be doing any harm if they stopped rant-
ing in a disordered fashion suggestive of an
anxiety to. appropriate to the State 50 per
cent, of existing wealth within 24 hours and
the remainder five days later. Even
•Towett’ s scheme, to be worked successfully,
would necessitate a vast extension of bank-
ing facilities by the State. Otherwise it
would fall in a heap and destroy the very
thing the State was after. Wealth is not
cash, and plans for debt extinction resting
upon the doctrine that wealth should foot
the bill do not mean that wealth is to be
either destroyed or stolen and removed from
the premises. Wealth cannot foot the bill
if the foundation which gives value to all
those things that comprise wealth is blown
up. The Bulletin is a long way from
being convinced that 90 per cent, of the
persons who are making loud noises about
“overthrowing Capital” and “making wealth
pay for che war,” all in the one breath, have
even commenced to see how they are contra-
dicting themselves. But it sees no more
honesty in the yelps from the other side
about the perils of paying the war debt by
“Socialistic measures of forfeiture” when
those measures are no more peculiar to
Socialism than they are to Wesleyanism.
JESHURUN WAXED FAT AND
KICKED.
In these days of shortages and strikes and
war. and fuss and futility and “go-slow”
policies and much babble, one matter stands
out plainly. Things in Australia are on
too big a scale—not the tliinas that count,
but the pomp and vanity and foolishness.
There are still seven Governors —one Gen-
eral and six Plain —with their respective
establishments arid miniature courts- and
frills and appurtenances. The one General,
as nominal head of the Government which
runs our share of the war, has some excuse
for his existence, but the six Plain are mere
social figureheads, except when they tell the
outgoing Premier that.they are sorry to lose
him (which may be true) and the incoming
Premier that they are glad to meet him
(which may not be true), and on the rare
occasions when they-hold over a Bill for con-
sideration in London. And the Chief Jus-
tice could do all these things. There are
three Government Astronomers with three
staffs, all looking through similar telescopes
in search of the same comet —this at a time
when the country can’t afford comets. The
Sydney institution is the most elaborate,
supporting seven comet-hunters at a cost oL
£2400 per annum. Public Service Boards 31
are necessary affairs, for somebody, must
raise the office boy, or cast him doWn, or
admonish him on the evil of his wafs; still
they shouldn’t be carried--to excess! ’ The
\ T .S.W. State institution worked in 1900
with three Commissioners (£lOOO each), one
secretary (£000) • and 17 subordinates;
while in 1910 it required three Commis-
sioners (£lOOO each), one secretary (£700),
one inspector (£700) and 33 other em-
ployees. The Queensland department’s staff
grew from seven in 1900 to 17 in 1916;
while the Victorian P# S. office only in-
creased its force from seven to nine. The
country supports seven land and income tax
departments, though one would suffice if the
seven authorities could agree on a common
basis of taxation, and then let the Common-
wealth collect the lot on one tax-paper, and
share the money out in due proportions. And
the War Profits tax might be lumped in
with it; as a separate affair, so contrived
that this Minister’s friend Bandbox shall
not be touched, and that Minister’s friend
Trunk shall escape—all on the highest pub-
lic grounds, of course—it won’t pay for axle-
grease. Some people even speak unkindly
of departmental stationery. A square foot
of thick paper- with an islet of communica-
tion in the centre setting forth that Smith’s
letter has been received and will have the
best attention of his obedient servant Jones
is polite but heavy. Attention is being
drawn nowadays to the Inter-State Commis-
sion (three Commissioners, aggregate sal-
aries £6500) on the ground that much of its
work must have disappeared with the aboli-
tion of account-keeping between States. A
general suspicion of needless enlargement
arises from the fact that the number of
Government employees seems to grow out of
all proportion to population, and when the
seventh or eighth letter re a disputed tax-
return comes to hand part of the reason is
obvious.
* * * *
Coarse and revolutionary individuals with
no regard for aged precedent go so far as
to suggest that six Legislatures, comprising
12 Houses, with gas, flunkeys and sundries,
might be dispensed with ; that the old State
boundaries and State names might be oblit-
erated ; and that inhabited parts of the coun-
try might be cut up into, perhaps, 40 States,
each with a small Legislature of one House
under a locally-elected president or chair-
man. These bodies would have enlarged
Local Government powers, so that existing
Local Government bodies could be dispensed
with. That would mean handing over the
railways, public lands, State debts and State
borrowing powers to the Commonwealth, and
the ' retrenchment of six Agents-General
with their appurtenances. Quite, a lot' of
departments would be wiped out in the pro-
cess. The uninhabited or almost empty sec-
tions -of the country would be, of course,
under direct Federal control for the time'
being. In the course of transfer there would
necessarily be a vast stock-taking among
the departments, and it is a certainty that
a great many mouldy old State skeletons —
and very superfluous and costly skeletons—
would come to light. Possibly some Federal
skeletons such as the fleet of motor-cars
which carry round the Ministers’ female
belongings might also attract notice in the
confusion. There are 14 Federal Ministers
: now with many 1 female belongings.
* * * *
The taxation returns furnish simple and
condensed evidence that Australia is suffer-
ing from a high-priced and ridiculous variety
of swelled head. In 1909 the State Govern-
ments levied £3,512,355 (16s. 7d. per inhabi-
tant) iD direct taxes and had an aggregate
surplus of £473,798. In 1914 they collected
£6,304,836 (£1 ss. lid. per inhabitant), and
in 1917 they collected £8,984,470 (£1 16s.
lOd. per inhabitant). Even this was insuffi-
cient, for there was a shortage of £1,597,571,
so the amount collected should have been
£10,582,041. The expenditure of the State
Governments expanded from £33,983,842 in
1909 to £52,256,468 in 1917. The increase
was over £18,000,000 per annum, all inside
eight years. This whs not by reason of war
expenses, for these are paid by the Common-
wealth Treasury. How far the disaster was
plain robbery; how far it was political cor-
ruption (robbery with frills) in the way of
premeditated scattering of revenue money
and high-priced loan money on works, built
bv high-priced “go-slow” labor, which yielded
little or no return and which only served to
buy support for the political criminals in
office; and how far it was the result of a
crowd of honest and talkative incapables
fooling with matters beyond their compre-
hension, may be known on that resurrection
day when Hansard and the sea give up
their dead, and the Government Printing
Office comes up for judgment. A royal com-
mission—there are plenty of them lying
about —should look into the matter. If the
pace is kept up the result must be public
breakage sooner or later. Even the peaceful
S. M. Herald said on April 1, “We are
reaching towards national bankruptcy.”
* - * * *
Another luxury which this giddy land
can’t afford much longer is the present im-
porting craze. During the last seven years
it has been buying more foreign merchan-
dise, largely from protected countries and
greatly to the detriment of our almost un-
protected local industries, than it ever did
■before. Where exports of local merchandise
didn’t balance the imports the difference had
to be paid for in gold. The demand for in-
terest on foreign debts, also payable in gold,
is now the biggest on record. In the last
seven years the outflow of gold to meet these
troubles was nearly £48.000,000. Last year
it was £11.742,000, which was the worst
record of all, so the trouble increases. This
sort of thing mattered only a little in the
days when the country dug out its most valu-
able metal at the old lavish rate, but the
output of the stuff that sovereigns are made
of fell from £14,000.000 in 1901 to, £6,000.000
in 1917. The return would still be called
magnificent in most countries, but it is very
little compared with the records of the garish
past, and very little compared with the
necessity created by lavish borrowing from
outside lenders, lavish importations and
lavish loafing in the matter of local manu-
factures. Apparently the bottom is falling
out of a tough old industry. Last year’s out-
• pnt wasn’t half sufficient to pay for imported
clothing alone—the pants and skirts which
should be employing local workers.
* * * *
Also Australia can’t afford the luxury of
so many trades-unions; the number of sepa-
rate bodies and separate sets of officials
which have to be negotiated with by a dread-
ful number of separate politicians before one
nail or rivet can be driven into one ship sug-
gests that an overgrown system is falling
over its own overgrown feet. And certainly
Australia can’t afford the luxury of so many
strikes. When the most populous State had
294 strikes in one year (1917), and the num-
ber of strikers represented about one-third of
the adult male population (of course some
of them struck more than once and so were
counted more than once), and the loss in
wages alone through strikes ran to nearly
£3.U00,0U0, and the ■ biggest mining industry
was on strike in the aggregate three months
out of the 12, not only in that year but in
the year before also, all this despite the fact
that 237 boards and soiiie supplementary
boards had made 251 efforts at different
times in that one State to pour different
quantities of oil on the troubled waters—
well, it looks as if the community was lead-
ing a fast life. Vitellius and lleijogabalus
are quoted as examples of hurried existence,
but neither of them struck like that. It is
not wonderful that too many things besides
the gold output and the stock of coin in the
banks show a tendency to sag—cultivated
area, hands employed in factories (though
the wages go up), shipbuilding (which is put
in a category by itself because it practically
sagged itself to death in 1916), coal and a
few other trifles. All these matters suggest
that there might well be a stocktaking to
decide whether this country hnsn’t a swelled
head to support at one end of itself, with
diminished and over-leisurely logs to support
it at the other. There is a comforting theory
that anything like public bankruptcy is im-
possible because the country has always
pulled through, which is equal to saying that
nothing can happen unless it has happened
before. But people die though they have
never died before, and everything that hap-
pens must happen for the first time one day
or another. That fact sticks out even in
the _ small things of life. When it is
Christmas Day, 1918, any thoughtful person
must notice that it was never that date pre-
viously and never will be again.
THE NEAR NORTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The train has passed out of Russian into
Chinese territory, but there is no change in
the aspect of things. Russian soldiers still
step automatically out of little wooden cabins
and salute the train, the symbol of aggressive
Tsarism; but they are much more frequent
now. Big-breasted Russian women crowd to
the stations, Russian bayonets bristle every-
where, little communes of Cossack settlers
appear here and there like oases in the un-
cultivated land. The names of the stations,
the timetables and notice-boards are still in
the delusive letters of the Russian alphabet,
with their Chinese equivalent beneath them
as a concession to appearances. The railway-
guards’ huts have become little fortresses of
brick and stone, housing little armies of
soldiers, women and babies. We pass a park
of Russian artillery, and later on a squadron
of Siberian cavalry on the march. The rail-
way-line runs across from skyline to skyline
as straight as the course of a steamer,
through a flat, blue-green landscape that
closely resembles the sea. Tiny mud-walled vil-
lages, like natural growths of the plain, show
on the horizon now and then; there is very
sparse cultivation of the rich dark soil, and
occasional herds crop at an immensity of
virgin pasture. There are no native habita-
tions close to the railway; they seem to have
shrunk away to the'skyline to make room for
the aggressively nd,\y settlements of the Tsar,
with their barracks; and grain-elevators, and
churches pointing golden Greek spires into
the blue Manchurian sky. This strip of terri-
tory, 40 miles broad by a thousand miles
long, garrisoned by 50,000 Russian soldiers
and held on a forced lease from the Chinese
Government, has more the appearance of a
Russian camp than a Chinese province.
# * * *
But this was before the Russian Revolu-
tion. Since that world-shaking event the
Celestial Government has been watching with
keen interest the progress of revolutionary
ideals along the Trans-Siberian railway. Har-
bin is the metropolis of Manchuria, the centre
of a vast and rich wheat district, with a
climate and soil like Canada’s, virgin forests
and untapped coal and gold and other mineral
resources of which experts find it difficult to
speak in sober language.
This typical Russian political outpost, a
great white modern city set in the midst of
the thinly-peopled Manchurian plain, has
been since the Revolution a true microcosm
of the Russian Empire. When the proletariat
rose in Petrograd they rose in Harbin; when
the soldiers marched in Moscow they marched
in Harbin. Maximalists outed Minimalists ;
soviets struggled for power with Cossack
communes; Bolshevism, as interpreted by
disaffected soldiery, reared its shaggy head,
and riot, massacre and murder walked the
streets. Coups d'etat which had for their
object the seizing of the post-office cashbox
and the railway revenues w r ere of daily occur-
rence. Whichever party dominated the rail-
way, the country’s chief artery, controlled
the situation, and the local Bolsheviks made
it their objective. The Ministry of Com-
munications in Petrograd was in the hands
of the Vikjel, a word composed of the initial
letters of the Railway Workers’ Union, and
it wfls no friend to Bolshevism. The 'bour-
geoisie and the Cossack immigrants had little
sympathy with the.; confiscatory ethics of
Tbotsk'y and I.exix. and the representatives
of the Entente Powers had no desire to see
the 50 000 tons of priceless war material, the
hundreds of American locomotives and tens
of thousands of American goods-trucks which
lie heaped at Harbin and Vladivostock, get-
ting through to Russia, where they would
inevitably fall into German hands. Amidst
this chaos of conflicting motives the cause of
Bolshevism, bv virtue of its definite and ex-
treme objective, threatened to rise supreme.
In Irkutsk, just before, Bolshevism had
been triumphant for eight days. The bridges
had been blown un and the city isolated.
Banks, shops and theatres were looted, and
promiscuous firing took place in the streets.
Dead bodies were allowed to remain frozen


on the pavements. The White Guards opened
tire with heavy guns from across the river,
famine appeared and the hospitals filled with
wounded. Then the river froze and the ice
took the place of the bridges, so the Bol-
sheviks left. In llarbin the Bolsheviks
appeared to harbor the delusion that toe
place belonged to Russia, and the prospects
of a Reign of Terror like that at Irkutsk
looked particularly bright, when the appari-
tion of a strong, well-equipped and disciplined
force of Chinese troops, stepping in perfect
time down the long boulevards, took them
completely by surprise. China has never
relinquished her claim to sovereignty over
the railway and the railway zone, although
since 1900 she has lacked the power to assert
it. The worst Russian demagogues were
plucked out of their pulpits by Celestial
hands and transported across the frontier,
and since the Chinese occupation order has
been maintained in a manner which has
astonished foreign observers.
There are nearly 2,000.000 German and
Austrian prisoners, trained soldiers, in
Russia, many of them in the Siberian pro-
vinces. With German aid, they could be
reconstituted into an enormous army. Pro-
perly armed (and the arms lie in Bolshevik
hands in Vladivostock, on the eastern side of
llarbin) they would form a striking force of
terrible significance. India is already in-
volved in Mesopotamia, and China lies well-
nigh helpless for the moment in one of her
crises of national disintegration. Japan is
the only Asiatic Power which could effec-
tively oppose a determined German move-
ment.
That the importance to Australia of these
events in Harbin is real and not illusory, is
certain. The German Drang nach Osten is
one of the realities of the European conflict.
Germany’s strategy has been definite, decisive
and always carried out on the scale of the
maximum conception. Her campaigns
against Serbia and Roumania were perfect
operations. They were not delivered or
developed till the time was ripe. They were
carried through with a completeness that led
to an absolute economy of effort. She has
received her first check as far as Asia is
concerned in Mesopotamia, which was to
have been a jumping-off place for India. The
domination of vast hordes of subject people
has been the long dream of German chauvin-
ists. Treitzrchke has told us what, the Ger-
man spirit would have made of India. Brit-
ish tolerance, the policy of letting things
alone, were amazing puzzles to him. lie
wpuld have made of the Rajputs, that race of
born warriors, an enormous army for the
domination of the world. The German spirit
would have drenched itself in Hindu philos-
ophy and religion, and Berlin would have
become the Holy City of a Eurasian renais-
sance, with the muddy Spree presumably as
its Ganges. India would be a rich prize, but
China would be an easier. The Chinese
middle-class are as Revolution-weary as the
Russian. “I no longer suffer from rheuma-
tism since I was paralysed,’’ is their present
attitude. The South, which has practically
repudiated the Chinese declaration of war on
Germany, would welcome any control which
would restore a measure of order to the
political chaos, with the chance of domina-
tion over the North. Russian political parties
are so busy. stalking 6 each other’s scalps that
there could be little effective opposition to
the passage of German troops through
Siberia, where already unholy alliances have
been ma(je between enemy prisoners and
local parties, so that the strange spectacle of
German officers drilling their own men may
be witnessed in many districts.
Japan is the only Power which stands
between Germany and the realisation of
her most extravagant dreams, a realisation
which would change the whole history of the
Pacific whose waters wash two thousand
miles of Australian coasts. Merely the
threat of intervention might be sufficient, but
without it there are no limits to the possi-
bilities of the present situation.
SHENG FUL.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
War and Words.
When Hughes moved a resolution in the
House of Reps, last week about the war, it
was thought worth while by Catts to pro-
pose an amendment declaring in effect that
the House desired an “honorable” instead of
a “victorious” peace. So far as this gave oppor-
tunity for the discussion of the war, Catts
did the right thing, for the war and questions
arising therefrom have been debated far too
seldom in' the Commonwealth Parliament.
But so far as the amendment offered chances
to maunder about the character of the peace
the Reps, .were in favor of, the amendment
was the last thing in futility. And this is
did occur, long, rigmaroles being ad-
dressed to the Mace about various hon. mem-
bers’ objections to prolonging the disturbance
for the sake of victory. What is an honor-
able peace, anyway? To the German it
would consist of the Allies sanctioning the
rape of Belgium and Northern France, the
destruction of Servia and the dismemberment
of Western Russia. There is little if any
doubt that the German would retire upon that
basis. There is equally little doubt that, if he
did, “Middle Europe” would be an accom-
plished fact, and the whole continent would
soon be cowering at his feet —whipped ! To
the Allies, on the other hand, an honorable
peace would be one based upon the with-
drawal of the German from the territories he
now occupies and the restoration of the lands
he has devastated, with guarantees that the
horrors of the last three years and the crush-
ing burden of anticipatory armament will not
be on the future menu. It is only trifling
with words to attempt to establish in such a
case a distinction between a victorious and
an honorable peace. The enemy is not bother-
ing about honor any more than about rabbits.
He is out to smash,: and the only way to pre-
vent him getting off with the plunder is to hit
back. Either he will force the Allies to
accept humiliation or they will induce him to
take back his robber’s hand. It is horribly
uncertain which way the thing will go, but it
is as clear as the sfcars that no peace is possi-
ble now which would not give Germany most
of what the Kaiser lusted for. The Allies
are not fighting for territory but for an idea.
If that idea perishes, the amount of honor
remaining will be not worth discussion. Mean-
time until the German rubs a victorious
peace off Ms programme there is only one
thing open to us—to reinforce the troops that
are struggling to make him listen to terms
that are honorable.
♦
The Bogus-Labor Boomsters.
Randolph Bedford’s note of admiration
The Bulletin says of Ryan and his party: “So
long as they oan hand round jobs and p.n.’s to keep
wild cats alive this paper apprehends that the I(yan-
ites will find the job of hanging on as easy as falling
off.” State butcher-shops are not wild cats. State
insurance is not a wild cat, but a triumph. Cane-
prices legislation and its excellent working brought
the sugar farmers over to Labor, and the only people
who regard either State Insurance or Cane Prices
Boards as wild cats are the mostly-absentee insurance
cos. and the mostly-absentee and quite damnable
C.S.R. Co. Farmers who do not farm cane flocked
to the Labor banner because of certain tangible bene-
fits to themselves—benefits which hurt nobody but
the commission agent, who doesn’t matter. The State
Produce Agency is getting into its stride and will do
for the farmer all that the State Insurance office has
done for the insured—and the farmers know that.
The Government is going on with the vital work of
iron and steel making; it has been going on with it,
although it had not Parliamentary sanction. The
Government has opened State arsenic mines and will
shortly be able to market arsenic at the pre-war
price of £2O, and not the present figure of £lOO a
ton. All these things count largely. The people
know that the Government’s taxation schemes,
thwarted by the Leg. Council, included the raising
of big squatters’ and big pastoral companies’ rents
to the rate paid by the small grazing selector; the
increase of the death duties to the same figure as
that of the other States; and the taxation of much
of the big absentee pastoralist income which now
escapes. You have only to read the alleged policy of
the alleged leader of an alleged Opposition—
Macartney. Principally he was against Trusts and
Combines —and no man knows more of them than he,
having had them as clients for years. Why minimise
the win? The majority of Queenslanders are not the
sapheads The Bulletin would describe, with the elec-
tions made up for them by the Welshman and the
Egg. Certainly the fact, that in Warwick alone the
out-of-work Federal “police” are costing Australia
£3O 12s. 6d. a week did not bring votes to the
shrieking Nationalists who charged the State Govern-
ment with extravagance while condoning Hughes and
Pearce ; but the fact remains that, except for the
hopelessly and stupidly irreconcilable anti-Laborite
and the bilious sectarian, there was but one party
at the polls and that part}' got home.
And the fact remains, too, that so demoralised
is the Australian elector that it scarcely mat-
ters what the p.n. is spent upon so long as it
is spent. As for nobody being hurt by
reason of the expenditure, the deplorable
truth is that in its last year the Ryan Gov-
ernment drifted £287,000 to the bad ; that its
expenditure was over £600,000 greater than
that of the previous year, and, though it
extracted over £400,000 more from the public
by way of taxes, it failed to make ends meet
by £253,000. In seven years the taxation of
Queensland has been trebled; and still, there
is a huge deficit. At the same time the Gov-
ernment has been tearing ahead with loan
expenditure, adding to the burden last year
an amount nearly equal to one-third of the
whole revenue of the State. And the more
it spends the harder it has to tax the people
to make good the deficit. Into so lamentable
a financial position has this magnificent State
been pushed that the sinking fund has been
suspended, notwithstanding that so late as
1914 some of the present debt of the State
was incurred on the representation that there
was “a cumulative sinking fund of 4 per
cent, for the repayment of all sums bor-
rowed.” This isn’t repudiation; but it is
the nearest approach to it that any Austra-
lian Government has yet been guilty of.
Upon Their Heads!
No German achievement in the war has been
so entirely triumphant as the intrigue with
the Bolsheviks. At the beginning of October
the Austrian Foreign Minister raised the
question of a separate peace with the Allies.
The Bolshevik revolution settled the ques-
tion. Russia at once ceased to count in the
war. The Austrian Government breathed
again, and last month, when Clemenceau
wanted to know whether it was still “on”
for peace negotiations, Count Czernin, no
longer prepared to do anything behind the
Kaiser’s back, said that the German-Austrian
alliance would gladly discuss a peace without
restoration of Alsace-Lorraine. In short, Aus-
tria was prepared to let Germany shift for
itself up to the moment when the Bolsheviks
put Russia out of action. Then it changed its
tune, and was willing only to conclude a
German peace.. So the present slaughtering,
or most of it, can be debited directly to
the pacificists; for the Bolsheviks stand for
pacificism and the brotherhood of man and
all that sort of thing if they stand for any-
thing at all. What the pacificists of Russia
did wholesale, the pacificists of Australia
have done and are still doing retail. Upon
their joint and several heads is the blood of
the thousands who have fallen during the last
fortnight upon the Western Front.
-v
The Turf Tipster in the Pulpit.
Morning journalism in Sydney shed copious
tears over the iniquity of rushing in large
numbers to the Easter races at Randwick.
Beforehand the Morning Chadband and
the Daily Pecksniff had for several weeks
kept the public informed about the date of
the proceedings, the happenings in the bet-
ting market and the manner in which the
various horses got through their daily exer-
cise. In addition, so that clients at a dis-
tance could get the benefit of expert advice
while having a round or two with the rural
Ike at starting prices, Chadband and
Pecksniff solemnly tipped the winners a
couple of days before the fair. And when
the races began the devoted servitors of the
nation despatched a corps of, reporters to
gather up the details, and on each succeed-
ing day distributed yards of print about
horse and millinery and odds and breeding
and so on, with particulars of the pro-
gramme for next afternoon and an additional
helping of tips. Then, hearing that the
public had been to see what was occurring at
the place that morning journalism had been
cackling about so long, Chad and Peck
publicly moaned and groaned in editorial
anguish—and sent additional reporters to
get the facts, and tipped some more, and
printed further advertisements, and otherwise
proclaimed themselves to be humbugs. Now,
in point of fact, there is less exception to
be taken to one of the big meetings of the
A.J.C. at Randwick than to any other
gathering of the kind in N. S. Wales. Since
long before the war began there has been a
riot of racing on proprietary courses around
Sydney and of alleged racing on country
courses that has simply shrieked for annihi-
lation. But TnE Bulletin can remember
no occasion on which morning journalism
has done anything more useful than report
the proceedings, print the advertisements,
give particulars of the weights, tip the win-
ners and losers —and pocket the cash. This
paper now puts it to Ciiadband and Peck-
sniff that if they want to be taken seri-
ously they should knock off giving any more
space to racing and not incite the commu-
nity to partake of what on one page they
describe as “a feast of sport” and on another
as a meal with the devil of unrighteousness.
If they are not prepared to do this they
might at least have the decency to omit
appropriating the proceeds of their own
admitted baseness, and imitate the A.J.C. by
handing over the profits to Billjim.
The Victimisation of the Child.
At a conference of school-teachers in Victoria
the other day Director-of-Education Tate
spoke regretfully about the absence of “cen-
tralised schools offering specialised courses for
pupils from 12 to 15 years,” but defended
the existing system of diversified instruction
with the argument that; “the course must
provide for the varying needs of many dif-
ferent classes of pupils.” This seems to boil
down to the assertion that something better
could be done, but it is good enough to
go on not doing it. Meanwhile the business
of imparting the rudiments of learning to the
Australian child, following closely on the
patterns evolved by “experts” elsewhere, has
become stereotyped into a system of distribu-
ting a copious daily supply of mental snip-
pets. The child never gets a full meal of
anything, but browses continuously on ex-
tracts from about 75 joints, so to speak. Now
there is an aspect of the performance which
seems to The Bulletin of some importance.
The expert and the teacher and the politician
and nearly everybody else start on the
assumption that the child must be seized
upon as soon as it can articulate and be
“educated” in a school—its plastic mind
grabbed by a dozen hands and moulded into
a condition suitable for the reception of cer
tain quantities of fact and fiction. Is this
proceeding good for either child or State?
Can nothing better be done? Should the child
come within the influence of professional dis-
tributors of “knowledge” before he reaches
the age at which the great majority leave
school nowadays under the delusion that
they have finished their education? These
questions may be of vast importance to
society. What The Bulletin wants to
find, out is wio laid down the law about the
kid and the school and whether there is any
insuperable obstacle to carrying out, in the
interests of research, an experiment to test
the possible results of going in another direc-
tion. It should not be impossible to select
some suitable locality in which the child
would be left alone to grow and observe
until it was, say, a dozen years old and
then taken in hand for mental and manual
training. The experiment would cost
money. But it would be money well spent.
And if the result was to show that the. exist-
ing procedure is wasteful and inefficient, a
lot more money could be usefully invested.
Motherhood.
Dear Bulletin, —“Quill” (B. 28/3/T8) is
unfortunate in his selection of authority to
rebut the claim of “Lysistbata” (B.
21/3/’18) that she is justified in limiting the
number of her family, and he descends to the
most obnoxious form of cant when he asks
to be shown the “moral distinction” between
abortion and prevention. Surely even
“Quill” is aware that the rules of morality
differ amongst different peoples just as much
as monogamy differs from polygamy. If,
however, he will accept morality as meaning
“the course of conduct best calculated to
serve the welfare of future generations,”
then the “moral distinction” about which he
inquires is surely obvious to anyone who is
not blinded by old prejudice. Abortion is
inimical to the health of the mother. It is
liable to cause future unintentional pre-
mature births, and thus prevent a woman
from bearing children that she may desire.
It is also expensive. We have therefore a
course of conduct which is inimical to
health; expensive to the family; which may
prevent the birth of future children desired
by the parents, or cause them to reflect in
their own weakened constitutions the ill
health of the mother. Adhering strictly to
the above definition of morality, let us look
at “Quill’s” own authority, Havelock
Ellis (“Task of Social Hygiene,” 1012).
He says: “Whenever human beings breed in
reckless and unrestrained profusion there is
an immense infantile mortality,” and points
out that a high rate of infantile mortality is
the sign of a still higher rate of infantile
deterioration and the ensuing difficult
struggle for existence not only kills the
feeble but also enfeebles the strong. “The
limitation of the family,” he says, “renders
it possible to avoid the production of unde-
sired children. That in itself is an immense
social gain, because it tends to abolish exces-
sive infantile mortality.” Further, he points
out that systematic inquiry has shown that
children born at an interval of less than
two years after the birth of the previous
child will show at the age of six a notable
deficiency in height, weight and intelligence
when compared with children born after a
longer interval. Following this argument
Ellis says:—
It is frequently assumed that the process [fami.lv
limitation] by which civilisation is thus evolved
is a selfish and immoral process. To procreate large
families, it is said, is unselfish and moral. This
assumption we now find is a little too hasty, and is
even the reverse of the truth.
The fall of the birthrate following the in-
crease of civilisation is consistent through-
out the world. This does not show immo-
rality, nor is it a sign of decadence or degen-
eration, but it is simply and clearly “an effort
to gain more complete control of the condi-
tion of life, and to grapple more efficiently
with the problems of misery, disease and
death.” “Quill’s” failure to realise the
moral distinction between abortion and pre-
vention arises naturally from his inability
to see that family limitation is not immoral
but only a striving for the decrease of
unhappiness and for the civilised ideal of
quality as against the barbaric one of quan-
tity. His remarks about “children being
no use” and the “woman who declines
maternity” are just so much claptrap, thrown
in to confuse the issue, which is not whether
there should be no children, but whether the
number of children per family may be limited
without infringing the rules of morality.
“Quill’s” authority again. Ellis, clearly
demonstrates that in his opinion limi-
tation is in the interests of the race. As
for the “moral distinction,” surely that is now
obvious even to “Quill.” Abortion (another
relic of barbarism) is injurious to the
mother, expensive to the family and inimical
to the welfare of future children. Preven-
tion is non-injurious, inexpensive and.
according to “Quill’s” pet authority, is tin-
course of conduct best calculated to serve the
welfare of future generations.—Yours, etc.,
O. R. N.
Billjim aiul Flossie.
“E. J.M.”: It is unfair for parents to shriek
about their boys being ruined in wicked
London. The boys are lectured and warned
as they never were before. In cam)) they
get double-barrelled lecturettes —a hard-man-
of-the-world exposition of the disease in all
its phases by a doctor, whose advice on pre-
cautionary measures should ensure, if fol-
lowed, a safe conduct among the Lost Legion
or respectable vice-caterers; and a soulful,
moral appeal from an archdeacon which, if
it. doesn’t deter the wayward, at least
strengthens those men —and they are not a
few —who have made up their minds to take
no risks and be as true as they expect their
wives and sweethearts to be. At the camps
now they even provide an almost infallible
preventive at very reduced rates. Yet at
Bulford, the Australian camp in England
for the treatment of venereal cases, it has
been found that GO per cent, of the patients
have taken no preventive measures what-
ever. This alarming state of affairs is set
forth in print and posted in the camps
around Weymouth. What can be done when
men are so criminally careless of their health
and their obligations? They -certainly are
penalised to the extent of losing their pay-
while under treatment. But the tendency
is to regard the matter too lightly—to say
that “men will be men.” Not for a moment
should we lose sight of the fact that the
nation is penalised by the loss of the suf-
ferer’s services at a time when every man is
needed; and the considerable cost of their
maintenance is an extra sickener when it is
borne in mind that a solid proportion haven’t
yet been over to France to contribute to the
education of Fritz. It is also deplorably
true that there is an extra stream of men
to Bulford on the appi'oach of winter, and
some shamelessly aver that it’s better to
have a warm bed there than rough it in
France. That a small percentage have de-
liberately sought the disease there is not the
slightest doubt. And it is unfortunate that
a stern discrimination cannot be or at any
rate is not exei’cised. There should, how-
ever, be a. clear distinction between the case
of a man who has been over to Francp and
rendered good service before getting dis-
eased as a result of furlough in England and
the man xvho hasn’t been there at all. In
the former case the soldier is, for one thing,
an easier victim because he is run-down by-
privation and nerve-shattering experiences:
and, anyway, he has made sufficiently good
to sanctify his badness, and he shouldn’t be
penalised as the man certainly should be
who, instead of bleeding for his country,
has only bled it for his worthless upkeep.
♦
“Jimmie Pannikin” Suggests His Own
Memorial.
The last offering of “Jimmie Pannikin”
(Donald E. Fraser); to this page, written a
day or two before he died: —
On several occasions I tried hard to get the Rail-
way Commissioners to consent to the planting of
trees on either side of their lines, just inside the
enclosing fences. I hoped that because the Chief Com-
sioner of N. S. Wales bore the honored name of
Fraser (spelled with an s and not with a lazy,
slurring z)—a name that stands for push, persist-
ence, patriotism; for courage, character, courtesy
and many other big things—my plan would be
cordially approved of and put into operation with-
out delay. The young trees would not require much
attention after their first two or three years; the
fettlers who patrol the lines could give all that
would be needed. Think what wonderful tourist
assets they would be! Imagine the glory and the
grandeur of a railway through an avenue of regal
scarlet-flowering gums of Westralia (the most orna-
mental of the glorious gum family), the lemon-
scented gum, the sugar gum, the karri gum, Tas-
manian blue-gum, the mahogany, the coral-tree, the
Christmas bush, the jacaranda, the flame-tree, the
lili-pili; various wattles such as Cootamundra, the
green or black and the Queensland silver! The
coastal districts, the inland districts, the tablelands
—all could be planted with suitable evergreen trees,
deciduous trees and climbing plants. I would not
bar the beautiful imported trees altogether; but 1
would give special prominence to our long-neglected,
inadequately-recognised native trees and shrubs of
remarkable beauty. Australia could have, and should
have, the most wonderful native-tree avenues in the
world ; these would give daily object-lessons to Aus-
tralians, and the foreigners we are trying to turn
into Australians, ' in the arboreal beauty that
blooms so abundantly in this land. And
why not miles .and miles of fruit-trees? The
Arabs say—“A mail should do three things: viz.,
beget a son, dig a well, plant a tree.” In the big
days to be, Australia will need all the sons and
wells and trees she can get and beget.


kjh
‘Qe yillsfrcL/lcL
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries anti
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices, Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
<75
A %
TVS
IN THE dining hade, a la
CARTE ROOMS or PRIVATE
ROOMS at Luncheon, Dinner or
Supper. Latest Music.
The S. Australian Elections.
It is many a day since there was such
slaughter at polling-booths as occurred last
" in S. Australia. There were three
ex-irenners among the caudiates— Butler,
old John Verran and Crawford Vaughan
—and all, with the possible exception of
Butler, were beaten by Labor men. Of
' augiian’s Ministers, who all advocated uni-
versal service at the first referendum, not
one will be in the new Parliament; and not
more than one, and probably not one, of the
members of the Labor party who followed
the lead of these Ministers was elected.
These men of the old Labor party came, of
course, from constituencies where Labor had
a majority; and, being thrown out of the
Labor party, their only hope was that they
carried over with them to the other side a
sufficient number of the old Labor voters
to give them a new majority. They did not
succeed. The referendum vote in' K. Aus-
tralia proved that a majority agreed with
them on the one question; but the Labor
men who voted “Yes,” against the instruc-
tions of official” Labor, at a referendum
<>n one question, are not prepard to quit
Labor altogether. The most deplorable feature
"i .the whole business from the democratic
point of view is that “official” Labor
(Shoum thrust the dagger into the practice of
the referendum. Nothing should be more
sacred to the democrat than the direct appeal
to the people. To appeal to them on a
given question and at the same time to tell
them that if they vote in a certain way they
shall be outcasts from the party makes the
appeal not only a farce, but a dishonest
t,P g ‘ long as such a course as this is
followed, the Labor party must lie under
the charge of not wanting government by
the people. It is the glorification if the
“executive”—the machine. It is the over-
throw of the democracy. Labor cannot
have the confidence of democrats until it
retraces its steps.
The Second Stage of the Big Rush.
After raging for ten days the German
assault on the Western Front subsided last
week into a series of detached battles *at the
new address. . The enemy meantime had
been, busy weeding up ironmongery and
provisions and otherwise getting ready to
start the avalanche anew. What sort of
job he was making of this can only be
guessed at; but at the time of writing it
aj)peared as if the disturbance was rapidly
becoming intensified. There were reports
of heavier, artillery fire, fierce struggles in
the direction of Amiens, and increasing
pressure between the Somme and the valley
of the Oise. Further, there were frequent
assurances that still more powerful punches
were coming in the same direction, and fore-
casts that the German would heave himself
in vast masses at localities farther north. It
is to be assumed that preparations to receive
the second onslaught have been on a more
liberal scale than those which preceded the
retreat. If this were not the case the out-
look would be horribly blue; for any really
substantial advance by the German now
along the Somme, or south-west from his
nearest point to the Paris-Amiens railway,
could be described by only one word, and
that as unpleasant as a word can be. The
greatest encouragement to hope for the best
lies in the circumstance that the General
commanding the army which retreated from
before St. Quentin has joined the unem-
ployed. There is reason for concluding that
the success of the enemy’s drive was con-
tributed to in some material degree by failure
on the part of this officer. If with better
generalship the German might have been
held at St. Quentin, it is not unreasonable to
expect that a stronger force and more active
brains may hold him up where he is now.
Of Biu-jim the news is both good and bad.
He has been brought into the gigantic
struggle at a vital point. He was doing
well when last heard from, but had clearly
been roughly handled. We shall get the
casualty lists soon. They will not be light.
Nor will they make good reading for those
people who argued that the best thing to do
at this end was to send more food and
fewer reinforcements.
♦
“Amas Manbis” : Two clerks in a State
Government department, probably good offi-
cers but possessing no special qualifications,
enlisted. Their work could have been easily
learnt by an. intelligent girl, a woman, a
man over military age, a young man unfit
for military service or by a returned soldier,
had it been arranged that the men remaining
in that office should do their little bit by
helping to ttain new hands. After a couple
of months,’ however, the patriotic State
Government applied for the discharge of the
two enlisted clerks, presumably on the
grounds that they couldn’t be spared or
replaced. The Federal Win-the-War Gov-
ernment promptly obliged. Shortly after
this the Under-Secretary of that Department
heard the call, enlisted, and is now at the
!■ ront. He could be spared, but his two very
junior clerks could not. Seeing that men
are so urgently needed—seeing, indeed, that
the provision of men is the most important
thing in the Empire—there is only one pro-
per punishment with which a crime of this
sort can be met. The Minister of the
Department should be instantly dismissed.
And he would be if the politicians weren’t
the most thorough humbugs about winning
the war.
•‘Hakmson O.”: If we agree that the mon-
ster Man is responsible for Flossie, does
Dr. Nil” suppose that the number of the
sisterhood would increase if Miss Rout’s
scheme were put into force, or will diminish
il. tilings ullowoil to jog tilong in the
old insanitary way? Miss Rout does not
want to organise a press-gang that will
rope in girls against their will. The ladies
in her establishment would be volunteers
recruited from a recognised classy and would
be under a strict medical supervision that
would protect both themselves and their
clients.. It is profitless to indulge in academic
discussion as to who is “responsible” for
prostitution; but surely a measure of re-
sponsibility for venereal disease belongs to
those who discover allegedly “moral” grounds
for opposing every practical effort to miti-
gate the scourge. Again, it is rather late in
the day for a man of the world—especially
a doctor—to remark that prostitution is
neither honest nor necessary.” However
dishonest and unnecessary she may be,
Rahab promises to outlast the oldest in-
habitant, the Ten Commandments, Saba
Bernhardt and the war, and while she is
with us it seems reasonable to make her as
sanitary and well-behaved as possible. As
it is at best a side issue, I will not contra-
dict “Nil’s” statement that “sexual rela-
tions are not necessary for stallions when
racing”; I will only say that many a punter
has cursed trainers who have taken this
view with the result that their charges,
denied the gratification of a natural appe-
tite, indulge in practices which certainly
do not improve their chances of reaching
the winning post ahead of the field.
“Country Ped.” : About a year ago the Vic-
torian Council of Education looked into the
correspondence colleges, and' made the dis-
covery that well-known institutions employed
persons as correspondence teachers w T ho were
unable to qualify as ordinary teachers in
their subjects. No one in Victoria is allowed
to teach 10 persons in a school without
being, registered ; yet anyone can teach
10,000 by correspondence. The Council
duly made its report and recommenda-
tions, but the Peacock Government slept
on. . A few years ago a Chicago com-
mission found that girls of about 16 were
employed at sweating wages as correspond-
ence teachers, setting the papers direct from
text-books and correcting them with keys.
Perhaps the same things are happening here.
Certainly hundreds of ambitious innocents
are wasting their money. Registration and
Government supervision is the remedy. Will
the various State Governments see that the
dose is administered without delay?
“Jacko” : Let me quote the recent N. S.
v\ ales leaving-certificate examination to
back up the argument about wasteful cram-
ming of Young Australia’s head in our
secondary schools. This exam, marked the
completion of the secondary course and gives
a fair indication of the number of youngsters
likely to become seriously engaged in com-
mercial or public life. Of the 933 who sat
only a dozen in the metrop. schools and four
or five in the country got through in Econo-
mics, whereas a great percentage romped
home easily in Ancient History, Zoology,
Latin, Greek and those other subjects that
are likely to be of practical value, either to
the individual or to the nation, in one case
in every ten thousand. In Business Prin-
ciples the result of the exam, was even
sadder, there being about a dozen passes for
the whole State. The mere insertion of
Business Principles, Economics, and the like
in the curriculum isn’t worth much when the
whole spirit of the schools is against wordly
usefulness: the subjects must be pushed.
When Young Australia leaves school he looks
for the handiest job, and just now, with
heaps of borrowed coin about, he is “placed”
without much effort and gets out of range of
all our idealistic continuation- and trade-
schools expedients. The secondary system
won’t have specialisation in apy line.
Academic niceties won’t count after the pre-
sent big disturbance. Practical efficiency
will, and that’s just what the schools insist
on cutting almost clean out.
“G.D.M.”: Victoria’s 5441 miles of rail-
ways have cost £60,000,000. and despite a
growing revenue they are losing £lOOO a
day! There are 115 lines. 1079 stations and
0441 miles open ; 613 miles have been built
in the past six years at a cost of 10 millions
sterling, and none of them pay. Once we
got money at 3f p.c. to make railways.
To-day it costs 2 p.c. more, which is another
reason why construction ought to be stopped
swiftly. The Railways Standing Committee
should be abolished and no more lines built
for at least five years. The truth is being
learnt very slowly by country members, who
are a majority of both Houses of the State
Parliament, that good roads are better and
cheaper than bad railways. With all the
excessive railroad-building there are vast
tracts of fine agricultural land it does not
pay to work through want of roads—not
good roads, but roads of any kind. The
transport of the future will be motor-
driven, and Victoria will continue to lose
her country population to Melbourne while
road-building by modern methods is not prac-
tised. A road properly and solidly made is
infinitely cheaper to establish and maintain
than a railway, and, given motor-driven
vehicles, much more useful to a farmer. Look
at the ancient concrete tracks of Italy and
France, and at the modern concrete and
asphalt roads of California for a comparison
of the advantage of the solid road over the
costly interest-bearing railway.
From the Gallery :
Since Anstey departed the task of infuriating- the
Nationalists has fallen upon Frank Brennan, M.P.
Brennan has the absurdest pacifist notions, but there
is nothing to show that his views are not genuinely
held. Indeed, he has maintained his position with a
relentless fatuity, scorning all means but the virtu-
ous power of negotiation for the purpose of convert-
ing “Brother” Fritz. The thick-headed Nationalist
assumption that the man who talks such stuff is
obviously a Prussian Bolshevik under a Sinn Fein hat
leads to some angry scenes, and then Brennan’s wit
invariably scores. The other night Lister, who wears
his patriotism like a halo, challenged Brennan to
accompany him to the recruiting depot on the follow-
ing day. Brennan’s amused refusal was based on the
fear that, if the two went to the Front, Lister would
find a means of sneaking back to snatch his (Bren-
nan’s) seat. This allusion to the circumstances of
Lister’s election for Corio was a thrust in a very
tender place. But Brennan can’t be blamed for
countering a covert insult in his own unpleasant way.
The Nationalists, with all their immense lip-service
to the Empire, are no more honorable than their
opponents in the tricks of party warfare, and lose
no opportunity to accuse an enemy of the basest
At the conclusion of a whole day of wind
relative to a “victorious peace,” the patriots sprang
“Gor’save’’ on a stunned House just to embarrass the
Opposition. The fact that Tudor’s squad roared the
doggerel as lustily as the Government was a painful
surprise to the conspirators, who expected only a half-
hearted acquiescence in the demonstration. It was
a paltry plot and had an appropriate conclusion. It
was a dud.
Mrs. Holman writes:—
In an Inky Way par. .(B. 4/4/’18) a writer infers
that the State Premier was not consulted about the
naming of my book for children, “Little Miss Anzac,”
this leading to the publication being blocked in Aus-
tralia. As my husband is not a Federal Minister, I
did better —I consulted the Prime Minister of the
Commonwealth as to the use of the word “Anzac,”
and received his unqualified permission. Here is a
copy of the telegram received on August 2, 1916,
from Mr. Pearce, then Acting Prime Minister: “Your
telegram yesterday. No objection to use of title
■Little Anzac' for Mrs. Holman’s book. — Pearce.”
It wilj therefore be seen that the approval of a
Minister was obtained in accordance with War Pre-
cautions Regulations ; and if copies of the book are
held up by the Customs it must be most annoying to
local booksellers, who have paid for their supplies.
The writer and the representatives of the artist (the
late Nelle Rodd) have no financial interest in local
sales, having sold outright to Messrs. Nelson and
Sons. The book is selling freely in Melbourne, where
I bought two copies. I have also purchased a copy in
Sydney.
King O’Malley dropped into Adelaide
lately, and expressed a willingness to return
to that one-time scene of his labors if it
cared to have him. As a test he put his
name down to be submitted to the choice of
the Labor party for his old district near the
Murray mouth.
“Glen H.”: Just what the gratitude of
politicians is worth was shown by the appoint-
ment of Irvine as Vic. Chief Justice. Jus-
tice Cussen for years devoted his spare time
to the job of consolidating the Victorian
statutes, and recently was called to the bar
of both Houses to receive the thanks of
Parliament. Yet when the chance came to
confer on Cussen an honor to which he was
entitled by knowledge, training and tempera-
ment, he was passed over in favor of a
politician who had got into the habit of
making himself unpleasant to some of the
Victorian Cabinet’s friends in the Federal
sphere.
In the recent Bananaland elections one
candidate stood for
(1) The total abolition of partyism in political
life.
(2) The right of every elector to place his services
at the disposal of his fellow-citizens without first
having to supplicate the consent of some sectional
organisation.
(3) The election of a Ministry bj- Parliament as a
whole. 9
He lost his deposit. Queensland evidently
likes being ground fine by the machine.
lassed out in Melbourne, Rowland Eger-
ton-Warburton a line buslnnan and son of
that Colonel Peter who did some useful
exploratory work. The family came to
\ ictoria in 1854 on the same boat as Gov-
ernor Hotham.
“Henry H.” : Writing apropos the De-
crepit Judges Retirement Act (N.S.W.),
“T. 0.1.” states quite correctly that the
original bill for the abolition of Government
salaries to Tasmanian parsons was vetoed
at the instance of Queen Victoria, and had
to be replaced by an Act which provided that
the existing cleric should get his subsidy for
life. But don’t imagine that he got his
annual fee in the old way. The matter was
fixed up with a lump payment out of loans,
and “Commutation of State Aid to Religion,
£100,000,” is among the island’s permanent
and reproductive works to this day. In
recent years, however, it began to look too
glaring, and most books of reference now call
it “Miscellaneous.”
The Bendigo Mine Managers’ Ass. has
suggested that the Prime Minister should
ask the British Government to raise the Mint
price of gold to £8 an ounce “in order to
encourage gold-mining.” Of course the
British Government won’t; yet if Australia
doesn’t either dig up more gold or cease buy-
ing foreign goods and paying for them
with what it has got, it will be in a ticklish
place presently. The Australian stock of
gold is being drawn on in an alarming
fashion; and paper money won’t take its
place—a ton of it won’t pay £5OO worth of
foreign interest.
The S. M. Herald (April 1) published
a strenuous call for more Government inter-
ference in order to promote “production and
commerce.” It said that we required more
technical education, and added that many of
the technically-educated men we have take
their expensive knowledge abroad because
“there are not the works here to absorb all
the graduates we make.” How can there
be when much more than half our manu-
factured goods are imported? And it urged
the Government organisation of industry and
quoted the example of the Hun at great,
length. But the Hun first created industries
with his Protectionist tariff and then organ-
ised them. What is the use of organising
nothing or next to nothing? It suggests
the appointment of a war board to mobilise
Robinson Crusoe.
“Cyril Surcingle” : Re “Jacko’s” tale of
the misuse of Defence boots by the Citizen
Forces (B. 28/3/T8). Upon entering the
Citizen Forces at 18 each youth is supplied
with a pair of boots which he signs for. The
regulations say that these boots must last
four years, and if the soldier wears them out
before this in the cowyard. or on the Block,
and at the annual camp applies for a new
pair, he is charged 14s. for them. I suppose
a benevolent Q.M.S. can ..pass a pair to a
man on the sly; but the doctors’ sons whom
“Jacko” saw getting new boots no doubt
paid for them, while the other men pre-
ferred to use their own boots for the few
days rather than lose the 14s.
“Lou” : At the Labor Conference in Vic.,
barrister Foster attacked the retiring execu-
tive for its inactivity. One of the body in
reply, quoting Tiie Bulletin (my par.),
referred to Foster as a one-time “Nation-
alist.” This was a misprint. It should
have read “Rationalist.”
“G.J.H.”: Officers at training-camps have
hitherto made it the custofn, on discovering
that a recruit was under 18, to cancel his
attestation papers and turn him out of camp
—-a cheap and effective manner of dealing
with the war-baby. However, economy being
called for, the order has now gone out that
all recruits who are found to be under age
are to be “issued” (at a cost of about £l5),
paid (for committing perjury), court-mar-
tialled and discharged. The cost of the court-
martial can be judged from the fact that it
consists of three officers sitting as the Court,
a prosecuting officer supported by an A.P.M.,
a guard and the prisoner. ;
“T.N.T.”: Now that the Wolf has re-
turned to its den, it is up to somebody to lift
the veil of secrecy thrown over the work of
mine-sweeping that was done'off Gabo. Newto
such work, the people who did it put in a most
exciting time and did a dangerous job well
amidst dead silence. At the time the dead
silence was all right; but there seems no
reason for preserving it eternally. Aus-
tralia wants a few rude shocks to make her
realise how near the war really is to us, and
the whole story of the Gabo and Cape Fare-
well mines would make it apparent that the
war had actually reached our coast-line.
“G.8.H.”: Donald Fraser (“Jimmie
Pannikin”) had gone for a walk on Easter
Sunday morning, and had thoroughly en-
joyed the glorious sunshine and the lovely
scene that stretches out from his home at
Sandringham. ReturningVwith a bunch of
bush flowers, lie was in great good humor
but a little tired, and resting in a chair he
dozed off to sleep, never to wake again.


kjh
BOORD&.SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
ft?
DT
Swift St Company litd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
SPECIAL MILITARY WIRELESS CLASS.
AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY TO JOIN A TECHNICAL UNIT.
Our Instructors have arranged a Special Class for those desirous of serving the Empire in the Army.
The Tuition extends over four months —Instruction three evenings a week. The course, will be made
quite practical, use being made of the installations in tire school, also of an aircraft set now being
installed especially for this course. The instruction will include that essential for the Cavalry
and Motor-car Stations, Aeroplane Apparatus, etc., etc.
A SPECIAL RATE OF £8 FOR THE FULL COURSE has been decided on.
All particulars on application to THE MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS, Dept. C, 97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SEIZE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE THE EMPIRE.
WARRIGAL” Underwear
An Australian Make that is in demand.
Following the success of “Warrigal” Pure Wool Underwear,
Peapes have introduced a WOOL AND COTTON WEAVE
for men who want strong-textured garments for hard wear.
The economic prices, and the fact that this is wholly an
Australian product, should appeal at once to men who
appreciate good value.
WOOL & COTTON UNDERSHIRTS—
% -sleeves (Winter weight).
34 36 38 40 42 44
9/- 9/6 10/- 10/6 11/- H/6
UNDERPANTS to match.
9/6 10/- 10/6 11/- 11/6 12/-
Peapes’ pay postage. State chest and waist measurements.
New catalogue on request.
Tim registered trade-
mark is sewn into
every garment.
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 U 311 George Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Criterion “The Bird of Paradise’
Her Ma.testy.’s “Dick Whittington”
Palace “Ala.tldin
Tivoli “The Million Dollar Girl
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Wirths' I'IPPODKOJiE Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Bing Boys Are Here”
Royal “The Cinderella Man”
King's “The New Henrietta”
Bijou “Robinson Crusoe”
Tivoli “Samples”
Hoyt's I)k Luxe k Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Auditorium “Joan the Woman”
The Playhouse (13th and 16th) “The Madras House”
♦ ■
“The New Henrietta.” as it now appears
at Melbourne King’s, is a more promising
novelty than it was when mostly the same
“Turn to the Right” company first produced
it in Sydney. The novelty is in the odd
blend of American farcical situations and
sentiment with English characterisation and
conventional melodrama. The play has
many moments of intense drollery, with in-
tervals of serious rascality and plot, the
successful climax of the third act being a
mixture of supposed manslaughter and serio-
comic development in Stock Exchange busi-
ness. Whilst the elderly, amorous million-
aire of uncertain intellect is understood to
be choking his treacherous son-in-law to
death, the office telegraph tape is reeling off
the intelligence that the market in Henrietta
Mine shares has recovered stability, by
reason of a million dollars opportunely sup-
plied by the old man’s amiable idiot son, who
hadn’t the least idea of what was being done
with his financial windfall. The million dol-
lars had previously been bestowed on the
amusing young man by his affectionate but
contemptuous parent, by way of providing
him with visible means of support when he
married Lizette Parkes. Consequently the
cake that the humorous parent casts upon
the waters, as it were, returns to him after
a few days in the form of an immense profit
on Henrietta Mine stock. Moreover, he is
able to get joyfully married to a vague sort
of widow, owing to the miraculous recovery
of the villain whom he hadn’t choked save
for purposes of tragic stage effect. Barring
one short period of dull dialogue “The New
Henrietta” is rather strangely entertaining.
What the performance seems to lack is more
practice on the part of some of the prin-
cipals, and the confidence that comes of
familiarity with the job.
* * * *
The one unquestionable success is John
Junior, as the amiable waster offspring of
the millionaire stockbroker. The character
is very reminiscent of Donald Bowles in “It
Pays to Advertise,” but, whereas Bowles had
a nervous jerkiness of manner. Junior main-
tains his worried
air of ineptitude
with something of
the ease of Wil-
liam Collier, an
inimitable Yankee
comedian w T lio came
here with “The
Dictator” long ago.
The impossible fool-
ishness of Junior
is a continual joke
which he never
once forces upon
the audience.
Liz e 11 e Parkes
helps him to make
their love-scenes
delightfully funny.
Ric h a rdson, the
prodigal son of
“T urn to the
Right,” is now dis-
guised as the comic
father who lapses
into tragedy when
he finds his dollars
in danger. But the
actor’s kindly sense
of humor is more
satisfying than his
old-fashioned dis-
guise. The char-
acter belongs to a
bygone age, and
one. perceives that
a com p a ratively
young fellow is
“The New Henrietta ,”
at Melbourne King's.
Gaston Mervale as the
Bad Son-in-law.
impersonating it. Gaston Mervale is
repellently melodramatic and out of
the picture. except when talking to
his wife (Esther Mitchell). She does
nothing in particular with sweet natural-
ness. Margaret Calvert, the sportive
widow, is haunted by recollections of her
angelicism in the previous play; Stapleton
Kent is only feeling his way through the
part of a conventional reverend humbug who
speculates in Henrietta shares; Chalmers
and Stuart are better placed than Vincent
Dennis, and Bristowe is pretty weak in the
straight part of Dr. Wainwright. As for
Hattie, the “strange young woman” whom
Alma Phillips briefly introduces, she ought
to be cut right out of the proceedings. The
villain could be just as well confounded with-
out her sudden intrusion on the scene.
Another fortnight will see the present season
through.
Marie Tempest and Graham Browne con-
clude their So-long Sydney season on Fri-
day at the Criterion. “A Pair of Silk Stock-
ings” affords the star a part that fits as close
as the stockings. On Saturday Muriel Starr
returns with "The Bird of Paradise.”
sjs * *
“The Woman Thou Gavest Me” is still
giving herself, to loud applause, to the ex-
plorer he: at Sydney Opera House.
The intrusive Bing Boys having departed,
Sydney Royal has resumed its light diet of.
music and pictures and is doing fairly well
on it. Mae Marsh, in “Polly of the Circus,”
is the leading shaaow lady in the big Gold-
wyn film which squeezes the most out of its
plot and is brilliantly photographed. A brisk
comedy with trick effects scores well. Carrie
Lancely leads the concert side of the bill,
and Slapoffski’s musicians pour out the
stream of good music that floats the films
along. ■(
“Dick Whitting-
ton” is being con-
stantly advised at
Sydney Majesty’s
to turn again, be-
come Lord Mayor
of London, and
have thousands in
the War Loan. The
big panto, is well
into its stride, and
the dancing of
Maggie Dickinson
has set the suburbs
chattering.
* * *
The harlequin-
ade is “Aladdin’s”
long suit, and every
small boy under 90
who knows what is
good for him wants
to get to a Sydney
Palace matinee of
the Tait-Bailpy
panto.
He # :J:
“T h e Million
Dollar Girl” is try-
ing to look worth
“A Pair of Silk Stock-
ings,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Graham Browne as
Sam Thornbill.
$lOO,OOO, anyhow, at Sydney Tivoli. She
is believed to be reading her own adver-
tisements as a tonic, and seems a little
brighter than she was last week. But there
is no surplus of fizz and sparkle yet.
The English Pierrots are pirouetting and
pierretting at Sydney Playhouse with results
equally satisfactory to their audiences and
themselves.
The Bulletin’s youngest dramatic critic,
aged five years, reports of Wirths’ Circus:
“Bestest of all I liked the ice-cream; next
bestest was the clown that fell off the chair,
and the eplielant that played the music, and
the pink lady that jumped through the paper
on the gee-gee and didn’t fall off, and the
gee-gee that danced on the cart, and the
bear that wouldn’t stop drinking out of the
bottle, and the dear little lambs, and the
kind gee-gee that pushed the sick soldier
along with his mouf, and —but they was all
lovely.”
Sydney Crystal Palace communique con-
cerning the Italian position is very reassur-
ing. Maciste, the dinkum warrior; is
bowling over his enemies and striking terror
into the entire Austrian army. "Polly of the
Circus” is a winsome young person made all
the more likeable by Mae Marsh. Pollv has
a busy time ; she meets with an accident
riding at the circus, convalesces in the
vicarge, marries the minister, and was happy
when the film ran off its last few feet at the
Royal. Viola Dana, at the Globe, is earn-
ing her salary. She goes by the name of
.Tune in “Blue Jeans.” which, by the way,
are much too large for her. But the part
isn’t. Viola Dana’s June is one of her clever-
est jobs. At Hoyt’s and the Haymarket
Vivian Martin takes to the road with a
perambulator and a baby. No, she has no
wedding ring. But guess again—this story
is different. The delicate baby is little bro-
ther Billy, and Sister Polly Eccles, to save
his life, sets out to walk from N’York to
California. She has many wayside adven-
tures, and at the end —well, all journeys end
in lovers’ meetings.
“The Cinderella Man” continues to get a
kind reception at Melbourne Royal, for the
sake of the play’s humanitarian feeling and
its striking realism as regards food supplies.
Except the roaring Styan (who at least was
good enough to make a handsome allowance
to his wife when she left him in dis-
gust) and the raging landlady (who is really
too bad to be true) every person in the
story is affectionately concerned about some-
body else. The play slops over with milk
of human kindness. Styan’s patient and
forbearing old cronies are deeply devoted to
Kathleen Macdonell, his daughter, and two
°C them are practical friends-in-need to
\\ aldron. They don’t exactly worship him
like the poor old human dawg at his lodging
house (Plumpton Wilson), but they love
him for his poverty and his poetry, which,
by the way. would hardly earn a lifelong
devotion from the editor of this journal, if this
critic knows that disagreeable person. Miss
Macdonell is a heroine who loves everybody,
especially Waldron; whilst Waldron is
moderately fond of three people—his friend,
his retainer and his girl—and has a grand
passion for himself. But it’s his eating that
distinguishes this play. It is one of the
finest instances of dramatic realism in the
history of the stage. He picks up the actual
leg of the positive chicken which the heroine
has brought to the attic, and tears the real
flesh from the veritable bone with all the
energy of a genuine poet in distress.
Shakspeare couldn’t have done it more con-
vincingly. If “The Cinderella Man” had
no other virtues as an entertainment for the
masses, the chicken and the bread and butter
and tea would ensure it a measure of
approval. 'And the sausage would complete
its popularity. If the writer were directing
the show he would get Wilson to gnaw the
sausage before going downstairs. A play
that appeals to public taste with chicken anil
things ought to throw in a mouthful of
sausage. But seriously and spiritually
speaking, Miss Macdonell is quite charming
as the angel who caters for the poet’s inner
soul.
*# * *
“Samples,” it goes without saying, has got
a firm hold of Melbourne favor at the Tivoli.
‘Samples” is vaudeville with variations, and
the variations have points of originality,
such as the apparition of the Devil, crying
“Cuek-oo!” from grandfather’s clock. Last
week’s flattering remarks might have in-
cluded a mention of Kennedy and Neiman
as niggers in a music shop; also of Elsie
Parkes in the pretty cretonne ballet scene.
And the compliment paid to Mabel Holmes
for certain fooling is herewith transferred
to Ethel Vaugn, who committed the fooling
in question.
** * *
Melbourne Repertory Co.’s postponed per-
formances of “The Madras House” are com-
ing due at the Playhouse on SatUrdav (13th)
and Tuesday next. Repertorians don’t need
the information, but occasional patrons of
literary drama who would like a night with
Granville Barker are requested to bear these
dates in mind.
** * *
Robinson Crusoe takes the Dame under
one arm and Rainbow Island under the other
and hurriedly evacuates Melbourne Bijou
to-morrow. On Saturday vaudeville will be
resumed, and the trained chameleon, the
juggler of toothpicks, and similar wonders
will astonish Fuller audiences once more.
Another helping of “So Long, Lettv,” at
Melbourne Majesty’s, shows Connie Ediss
and Field Fisher still bickering discordantly
on their fragment of lawn ; but Maud Fane
and Harry Wotton now pursue the strangled
existence that Dorothy Brunton and Charles
Workman formerly led next door. Maud is
more effusively giddy than Dorotliv, and gets
nearer notoriety in the shade of her hair
Wotton, however, is less tactful than Work-
man, and has not the same agreeable waist-
swell to prove the abounding merit of Maud’s
sardines. On the other side of the fence
Connie Ediss’s antagonism to the genial
Fisher has been carried to a higher pitch of
inhuman complaint, and will soon end in a
shrill falsetto, or the lady will burst. Also
Chita Mann, who is rescued from a watery
grave by Arthur Frith, the last of the
gazekas. lias been brought to the verge of
complete immobility by Cecil Bradley; and
the old Exquisite Eight are stronger in beef
and muscle, having probably been reinforced
by the Wharf Lumpers’ Union. Despite
some obvious misfits, the revival is a success,
and will easily hold Melbourne’s ear until
Saturday, when the long-expected “Bing
Boys” arrive.
Hall Caine’s “Deemster,” at Melbourne
Majestic, is an 8-course meal, but there have
been better counter-lunches. The lead is
taken by the author’s son, who tells his part
of the story in a way that instantly brings
his father before you. Still, Majestic
supporters will enjoy the old thrill for its
abundance of melodramatic incident and the
quantity of natural scenery which the
camera caught in the Isle of Man. Also the
accurate Eighteenth Century costuming will
be a source of great comfort to people who
cannot have a story a minute wrong in its
clothes.
** * *
Sessue Hayakawa’s Japanese countenance
“The. New Henrietta ,”
at Melbourne King's.
John Junior as Bertie.
is the centrepiece
of “The Call of the
East,” at Hoyt’s
Melbourne house
this week. Sessue,
as a Jap noble, has
to revenge an in-
sult to his honor,
but his visage only
reveals his purpose
in the malignant
droop of an eyelid
and the cruel curl
of the lip. “The
Right Direction.”
which was also
added to Iloyt’s
library on Satur-
day, supplies
another mile of
Vivian Martin as
a slum - tenement
heroine. Vivian is
called Polly Eccles,
and, like her name-
sake in “Caste,”
has an exception-
ally thirsty father.
Polly seems to go
with strong- liquor,
somehow.
Joan of Arc is still massacring the Eng-
lish at Melbourne Auditorium. Her troops
are strengthened by the knowledge of her
holy commission, and everywhere mop up
the foe with an ease that shows the effect of
religion on a sword-arm.
Muriel Starr had a wonderful season at
Adelaide Royal. The house has been enlarged
since she was there before, and the unusual
staging and lighting of “The Bird of Para-
dise” got full justice. Miss Starr and Harvey
and Kimball did work from good to brilliant,
but some of the minor parts were poorly
played. In “The Easiest Way,” on the other
hand, Norma Mitchell and Atholwood by fine
acting brought their small parts into line
with those of the leaders. Peter Dawson,
back in his old home, has had a great wel-
come, ending with a popular-price “compli-
mentary concert tendered by Hon. Hugh D.
Mclntosh, M.L.C.,” at the Exhibition.
Peter is in great voice and spirits, and the
beautiful contralto of Ella Caspers supports
him. Fred Bluett is at the Majestic, where
also Bertram and Raymond have a clever
Bush scene. At the Tivoli the Bad Girl
who wasn’t, really, has had a good innings
(played by Ida Gresham) ; and at Queen’s
Hall Nigel Brock’s Ilumoresks have come in
out of the wet and show themselves a funny
and tuneful crowd.
Pictures in Adelaide have been of unusual
interest. “The Woman Suffers,” locally
filmed, is going round S. Aus. a bit before
visiting the other States. It has taken the
popular fancy greatly, in spite of its odd idea
of getting level with a villain; since the
jealous husband broke his rival’s umbrella
and hoped it would rain, never has there been
such a plan of revenge. West’s have shown
Italian army work in the Alps, relying, how-
ever. largely on the aid of Maciste, who
carries cannon uphill as well as tossing
infantry out of windows and overthrowing
cavalry with a straight push., Wondergraph
shows the same thing nearer home, Snowy
Baker upsetting any number of enemies and
putting in some strong swimming as well.
A new horror is to be added to Australia’s
innumerable Government offices. The His-
torical Memorials Committee recommends
that £lOO be placed on the estimates “for the
purchase of examples of the work of various
Australian artists which are to be hung in
various Government offices.” There are
nearly 300 Federal Government offices in
Sydney alone connected with the telephone,
and each telephone presupposes a separate
room, and the walls of each room need the
artistic embellishment of our painters; so if
the whole munificent sum were expended in
Sydney alone, and only one masterpiece were
to decorate one wall of each Federal office,
including the office of the Assistant Deputy-
Sub-Inspector of Rabbit Skins, our artists
would get at least 6s. Bd. per masterpiece. The
Committee does not suggest that the whole
£lOO should be spent on one painting, or on
portion of one £5OO production, say, for the
office of the George-street North Post Office;
the artists are definitely required to be “vari-
ous.” And the art that is going at even one
guinea a canvas, wdth frame chucked in, isn’t
likely to tune the thoughts of the Queensland
Egg Policeman to higher things.


jhl
V*
iM
You Can Learn Free
how to remove every blemish in a few days. Grace Duncan,
former actress, now offers to tell women of the most remark-
able complexion treatment known. This great beauty marvel
has instantly produced a sensation. Stubborn cases have been
cured that baffled physicians and beauty specialists for years,
You have never used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles,
eruptions vanish almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel,
salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus;
nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your
complexion is a “fright,” whether or not your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples and
eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey.” This
wonderful treatment, in just a feyv days, positively removes
every blemish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way.
You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint
of purity of a freshlv-blown rose.
ALL METHODS NOW. KNOWN CAST ASIDE.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally. Your
face, even arms, hands, shoulders are beautified beyond your
fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely prove to you before
your own eyes in your mirror in a few days. This treatment
is absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin, and very
pleasant to use. No change in your mode of living necessary.
A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of this paper
I will give full details of this really astounding treatment.
Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me two penny
stamps and your name and address, and I will give you full
details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN, Dept. 52, 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported/
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
“Duglio”: We were out for a rest, and one
morning, after the C.O.’s inspection, we were
handed over to one of the subs, for a lectur-
ette. The sub. coughed several times, and
then, catching sight of our gas-helmets,
smiled happily and announced that he would
“explain and show us the correct method of
adjusting and the quickest way of getting
into our gas-masks.” Gas-masks! ’Struth!
For just on two years we had worn ’em at
breakfast, worn ’em for dinner, worn ’em for
tea, and used ’em for pillows. And now we
were to be taught what they were used for!
It was hard to take, standing there in four
inches of the best snow you ever saw. One
of the boys was pulled out, and on him the
sub. illustrated, by numbers, how to work
the thing. “On the word ‘One,’ the mask is
taken from the satchel with the right hand,
so. On the word ‘Two,’ slip the thumbs of
each hand through the tapes and incline the
TIMES HAVE CHANGED.
“Dai dove, y' know, one time it required
great influence for a chap to get into the
army.”
“Yes, and now all the influence in the world
won’t get some men into it.”
chin forward, so. On the word ‘Three,’ hold
the breath and”— he didn’t spare us a bit
of it. Finally: “Now that the mask is pro-
perly fixed, this man can, with perfect safety,
do anything he likes.” From the rear rank
came a fed-up voice: “Then, for Gor’sake,
digger, dismiss this parade!” The C.O.
was a sport. “All right, Mr. Bore, that will
do. Parade —Dismiss !”
“Bad Australian” from the Andes: —
Until quite recently Argentina regarded Australia
as a faraway land where the prize ram and the handy
tank and the harvester and many other useful things
came from. It was generally supposed that Aus-
tralia was connected in some way with Austria, and
“Australiano” and “Austriaco” were regarded as
synonymous terms; but the frequent references of
the Argentine press to Billjim’s doings in Europe,
Egypt and Palestine have altered all that. It is
now understood that the Australiano has nothing in
common with the Austriaco, but is a kind of
Ingle-c with much more vivo. This notion has
taken such a hold that quite a number of locally-
made articles already bear the legend “Marca Aus-
traliano” and “Marca Kanguru,” and a “wise” circus
proprietor, who has just returned from Chile with
his show, which left Argentina a few months ago as
the “Gran Hipodromo Norte Americano,” is now
whooping his menagerie up as the “Gran Circo Aus-
traliano.”
"3709” : It is quite certain that it is occa-
sionally possible to hear the approach of a
shell —in other words, the soffnd lands a
winner. On one occasion near Needle Dump
I saw two of our lads going trenchwards
along the duekboards. The sound of a shell
coming, one dived into a shell-hole ; and an
explosion in the hole into which he had disap-
peared occurred within the same second. That
dive for safety was fatal; the man who stuck
to the duekboards was untouched. A howit-
zer shell has lost a lot of its pace in the last
hundred yards, and I have frequently heard
them travelling towards me before seeing
them burst in front. Imagine the roar of an
express train for one-fifth of a second, with
an explosion to follow, and you have some
idea of what a 5.9 sounds like when lobbing
within a few yards. The high-velocity shell,
used occasionally by Fritz when I was on
the Somme, was a bird of another sort. It
was almost silent in the air, and often ex-
ploded behind us without a sound of its
flight being heard.
* * * *
“Gron”: Not long after we had arrived, in
France . some youngsters were worrying
weary Billjim to buy “bon chocola, M’sieur”
Bill was reclining on the side of the road
with his head on his pack, and told ’em
drowsily to “Do a bunk” and “Imshee.”
Then, rousing himself to the fact that hi
was in a third continent, he grumbled out:
“Allez tout suite! And,” with great em-
phasis, “the tooter the sweeter —comprey?”
* * * *
“Dhobies Hoad”: I rise in the night to
curse the innumerable dogs of Bagdad: lean
dogs, long dogs, short dogs, dogs that are
half-jackal and jackals that try to be dogs—
but all dogs that are hungry. They will eat
anything, from the deadest horse that was
ever attached to a Tigris waterwheel to the
paper in which one of the city’s
conquerors has carried home, the
morning liver from the butchery.
They infest Bagdad as jackals
infest an old battlefield. In the
summer they lie in the roadways
like dead things, and only a
hearty kick or the smell of a feed
will rouse them from their
lethargy. At night they howl
and prowl like lost souls, and
many a one goes to its eternal
rest assisted by a baton swung
by a wild Australian. Daily
dozens of the outcasts’ carcases
go floating down the stream, and
Mohammed ibn Shalail Abdulla
mourns the loss of his four-legged
bedmate and curses again the
Inglize who brought this thing
about. But, glory to Allah ! the
pest decreaseth not, and to-
morrow the mad Inglize is made
madder by new dogs.
* * *
At last a light has been thrown
on the mail-bag disappearances at
Sydney. The train guard received
three mail-bags and then went
away to attend to some other
duties. When he came back
there were only two bags. The
railway authorities, the Postal
Department, the detective force,
the Income-tax Office and the
Government Botanist all agree
that the third bag vanished
through being left unguarded
while, dishonest people were about, and this
view is corroborated by the Sludge Abate-
ment Board.
* * * •
“Sheng Fui”: There is gathering in Man-
churia an army better fitted to conduct , a
world campaign than any force that any
Kaiser ever put in the field. It has an ideal
quality—absolute invisibility. It can ad-
vance at the rate of a hundred miles a day.
It has never been known to give quarter—it
strikes only to kill. Seven years ago it
entered China and carried off 60,000 people.
The membrane of the human throat sup-
plies it with transport, and not even Hilaire
Belloc would dare to calculate its numbers,
or what its effective man-power might be
next Spring. Charged with its poison a
human cough can spread death over a radius
of 40 feet. It has already jumped the Great
Wall and entered China, and the villages
through which it has passed are full of dead
and dying, while the railways have stopped
and tiie roads are crammed with refugees
fleeing before it. It is called pneumonic
plague. It invaded Europe 1400 years ago. and
in the 14th century came again and slew
a quarter of the total population. Whomso-
ever it strikes dies; bubonic plague, which
ECONOMY. I; DECENCY, 2.
OLD HUBBY : “Dear me, Ella, you might have
that dress made a little higher in the
neck.”
YOUNG WIFEY: “I’ll have it altered if you
like; hut this stuff costs three guineas
a yard”
OLD HUBBY : “H’m — well, it doesn’t matter.”
kills only half its victims, is mild by com-
parison. The disease has its origin in the
infected membranes of the tarbagan, a little
rodent snared for its skin around Lake
Baikal: it is conveyed from person to per-
son by the respiratory organs. A Chinese
doctor, Wa Lien-teli, was the hero of the
first researches into its cause and prevention
in 1911, and he is the same man who is lead-
ing the fight against it to-day. But it is
part of the eternal paradox of the Chinese
nation that, though the greatest authority
on this frightful scourge is a Chinese, there
are still Chinese officials who, while hun-
dreds are dying in the streets of their dis-
trict, wire to Peking that all is well save for
a ‘'little summer sickness.”
* * * *
“Copabella”: An absurd Vic. law provides
that the conscientious objector to the small-
pox vaccination which the State has decided
is imperative may side-step the insurance by
paying a fine of from ten bob to forty, accord-
ing to the whim of the justices or the custom
of that court. South Melbourne generally
charges 20s. Lately the father of twins pro-
tested violently against 40s. the pair; he
reckoned a pound-the-two the fair thing. “I
didn’t get no tenner bonus with them,” he said.
“Two-pound-ten each was what I got, and
now you want to charge me full price for the
vaccination! Nice way to encourage the
birth-rate, I don’t think!” Clareborough,
.T.P., chairman of the bench, looked an old
acquaintance over. “You never needed much
encouragement,” he said drily. They made
the fine 30s. the pair.
“Boyd Cable”: The squadrons of Aus-
tralian Flying Corps in France have been
performing excellently, and in the Cambrai-
Bourlon Wood scrap their low-flying or
“ground-strafing” was one of the star turns.
They scooped six Military Crosses out of
that —not bad amongst 18 fliers. What is
more, every man in the R.F.C. admits cor-
dially that the A.F.C. earned every
arm of every Cross. Some very hearty
compliments were passed to the squad-
ron by the G.O.C. Flying Corps and
General “Birdie.” But what most pleases
the performers themselves is that they
were immediately out-
fitted with the latest and
best type of scout machine
on this Front—a type
which has now proved
itself The Goods, and
which, as built, is passed
out to fellows likely to
make the best use of
it. Another Australian
squadron is doing artil-
lery observation or “gun-
spotting” work, and.
although this job doesn’t,
as a rule, lead up to the
limelight, this lot has
managed to put up a per-
formance or two worth
noting. Their machine (a
two-seater) is designed
for observation work and
not for fighting, and
observation men are sup-
posed to dodge scrapping
if they can, and, if they
can’t, to slide out as
quickly as possible and
sool on any fighting
scouts that are around.
But the other day one
Aus. artillery observer,
being tackled by four
Ilun fighting scouts, re-
fused to <)uit his gun-
spotting, and put up such
a good scrap that the
Huns sheered off, a good
deal disgusted, I’ve no
doubt, to find a non-
fighter refusing to play
the non-fighting game.
Another machine of the
same squadron was at-
tacked by six Hun scouts
and he also decided to
stop. He sank one Hun.
but was brought down by
the others. A mate-
machine buzzed in to the
rescue and blazed away
every round aboard. Then
the pilot broke away,
pushed for home and
loaded up a fresh stock
of cartridges. They chased
off back to find their late opponents; but
Fritz had gone home to lodge another protest
against beastly artillery-observation machines
breaking the air-ring rules and stopping for
stoush.
* * * *
“Miljurra”: Any returned man who read
the account of the recruiting incident at
Leeton (B. 21/3/’18) will recognise that it’s
just a fair average sample of the comrade-
ship of the Australian-in-arms. That same
spirit can be confidently looked for amongst
the boys under any circumstances. A mate
o’ mine was put out of action in the first
week on Gallip. It took two years to repair
him; then he re-enlisted and went back last
year. By this token he may be reckoned a
good Australian and given a hearing. He
writes from London:—
There are plenty of Australians in London, and the
A.I.F. is much the same—one in a row, all in. I
saw it many times in the old days, and I often
wondered afterwards if the boys stuck together like
they used to. They do. They don’t seem able to help
it. “Strike! I ain’t no snivelling blighter, but I
owns me eyes go brighter,” when 1 hear of or see it.
They’ll do me.
Our faint-hearts can’t get into better com-
pany than that to which the recruiting-office
wmuld admit them.
“D.F.”: In the old days Sydney knew
something from the raider’s side about com-
merce-raiding in the Pacific. The first prize
to come into the harbor—on April 24, 1799
—was a Spanish ship, the Nostra Senora de
Bethlehem, w r hich had been captured off the
coast of Peru by three whaling vessels'.
Later in the same year came the Spanish
ship El Plunder, taken by the whaler Betsey
while on a voyage from California to Peru,
whose cargo gave Sydney citizens some-
thing to gargle their throats with., The
official returns say it was 17,337 gallons of
wine and gallons of spirits; and there
was also some brimstone. Another prize of
the Betsey’s, the Spanish brig Anna Josepha.
arrived in February, 1800. She was bought
by Simeon Lord, and took to Capetown 100
tons of coal, the first sizeable cargo ever ex-
ported from N. S. Wales.
AFTER LUNCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The War looks pretty hot just now—
I wonder how it all will end?
My wife, you know, has had a row
With Mrs. Smith, her dearest friend.
Whose dad’s a German....lf we win
This battle I shall make a quid
(A brandy? Mine’s unsweetened gin)—
. I’ve booked a wager with a Yid.
“Our aeroplanes are doing well—
That’s if the bombs are big enough;
But half the yarns the papers tell
Leave me stone cold —they’re simply guff....
Tlie order’s booked; he can't renaig....
U strikes me this here Luden dorff
Can’t show a. point to Douglas Haig.
Gone two! God Save the King! I’m orft”
VICTORIA.
O. K.


Hun methods are doubtless suicidal, but so
mammoth a force cannot destroy itself first
try, is the cheerful suggestion inspired by
that wise and benevolent spirit King George
IV. topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
LADIES’
SHIRTS
to measure.
THE LADIES' SHIRT, made to special
measure, is offered by PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED in seven different styles. The
prices quoted are exactly the same as
those asked for Men's Shirts, and range,
according to material, from 7/0 upwards.
If you will write for them, PIKE BROTHERS will
send you a full range of patterns quite free.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
Also at Toowoomba & Townsville.
BRISBANE.
a!
ill
. /
jk
Electric FANS,
All Standard Types
- in Stock = —
British General Electric Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY
257 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE WELLINGTON, N.Z.
590 Bourke Street. 8 Willeston Street.
AN INVETERATE SLACKER.
“Freddy threatened to enlist if I rejected
him.”
“Yes. I think it’s a habit. He said the
same to me.”
A heavy and continuous Minister went out
when Big job n Forrest left the Australian
Treasury. He was also a frequent Minister,
for he was in the first Australian Cabinet
and the last one up to date: he was in Nos.
1. 2,5, 7, 9 and 13. The first was the Long
Ministry, because so many of its members
were above the ordinary stature. Australia
lias a very fine supply of statistics and books
of reference, yet when one looks at the books
and looks at Bigjohn Forrest it is evident
that a lot of interesting facts are omitted.
For instance, any man can learn at a glance
the name of every Minister who has held
office hereabouts since Responsible Govern-
ment commenced, the offices he held and how
long he held them, but there is room for some
supplementary information like this:—
No. 16. Smith Cabinet —an Original Set of eight
Pieces, increased to nine. Three of the Original
Pieces replaced during its term.
Length of Cabinet at beginning: 46ft Bin.
Length of Cabinet at end: 51ft. 9in.
Weight at beginning: 12ewt., average 1681 b.
Weight at end: 14cwt. 2qr. 141 b., average 18211).
Average age at beginning: 53 years 2 months.
Average age at end: 53 years 1 month.
Religions: 4 Anglican; 1 Roman Catholic; 2 Metho-
dist (1 Primitive and 1 plain); 1 Hebrew; 1 Philo-
sophical Baptist; 1 Congregational; 2 Agnostic.
Occupations: 3 solicitors; 3 barristers; 1 plumber;
5 declined to state.
UNDER PROTEST.
YOUNG LADY (who has been taking lessons
at a cookery school): "Where is that
cake I baked yesterday, Bridget? Mr.
Goodfeller is here, and I want to nice
him a piece.”
BRIDGET: “Well, Miss, ye.,can hare it if ye
insist on it. But it’s not the loikes o’
me would bo for discouragin’ a noice
yong man like thot."
Prevjohs Convictions: 191 § years in Parliament;
served in 49 Ministries ami 4 held 98 portfolios.
Warned by Speaker 1273 times; by Chairman of
Committees 1915 times; suspended 100 times;
dragged out by sergeant-at-arms 6 times. Other
records:, 18 fines for not destroying rabbits; 1 for
unpaid dog tax; 4 for furious driving; 4 for driving
on wrong side of road ; 1 for dodging income tax; 1
for deceiving Customs; 1 plaintiff in divorce suit
(unsuccessful) ; i respondent ill d|yorcb: suit (..scathing
remarks by judge, with damages and costs) ; 1
ordered to pay alimony. '
General'Health: Moderate; 4 ordinary teetotallers;
1 sworn off; 7 moderate drinkers, mostly lager and
light wines. Only one swearer (drove bullocks in
youth before he took to plumbing).
Complexion ; S blond ; 4 brunettes.
These and many similar items might seem,
trivial, but if all possible information were
available concerning, sffy, 100 Cabinets the
student of humanity would find matters of
value in the printed pages.
* *• * * ■
“Hamer” : Armies have their jests, mostly
with a bite in them, even while they are
killing; one another. This truly airy persi-
flage went on between our Artillery and
Fritz at the time of the strike in the. Aus-
trian munition-factories, followed a week
or so later by the destruction of German war-
chemical laboratories. While we strafed the
Hun positions a message was dropped in
his lines, per aeroplane: “Hear you are short
of shells; are sending you some over.” Fritz,
playing up to the joke, replied by the same
method: “Thanks; but we prefer our own.”
Promptly the reply went back: “Glad we
can oblige you”—which was just as nasty as
it could be. since it recalled the recent cap-
ture of a fine lot of German ammunition.
“11.A.M.” : The dinkum oil as given us by
our platoon commander: —
The company has been short-strengthed, and you’ve
all had a hard time; but the 0.0. is very pleased
at the way you’ve got through your work ; and to-
day you have been granted a holiday. All you need
do is to clean up your rifles and do the best you
can to' get the mud off your equipment and uniforms.
You will also tidy up your dugouts, and men will
be told off to collect the tins and scraps of paper
and dump them. There will be a rifle and iron
ration inspection this afternoon; and every member
of the platoon will be expected to wash his feet and
prepare for a foot inspection. All braziers and
Tommy Cookers and gum-boots will be handed in
to the Q.M. by 4 o’clock, and at 6 o’clock the com-
pany, in full marching order, will be prepared to
move out. The rest of the time you will have to
yourselves, and I hope you will make yourselves look
smart and soldierlike and have a good rest, as the
march to-night is likely to be a long one.
Then we gave loud cheers for the reinforce-
ments you haven’t sent us, and turned-to
again.
* * » *
“Uekle”: This is how N.S.W. Education
Department helps
things along. Aly
sister has charge of
a small school. As
schoolmarm she also
helps run things a
hit in her township.
A patriotic sports
clay was organised,
aid, as well as being
secretary, she was an
agent for collecting
War Loan money.
Obviously she could
not run school and
sports on the one
day; so she applied
for leave of absence.
The reply had not
reached her by the
time the sports were
due, so she shut up
shop, helped make a
success of the patri-
otic effort, collected
over £5OO for the
War Loan, and do-
nated the commission
to the patriotic funds.
A while later an
envelope plentifully
plastered w r ith “Win
the War” mottoes
arrived. It contained
a notification that.
leave of absence was
granted for the day,
but ■' that her pay
would be stopped.
“Common Person”: A propos “Fax’s” com-
ment on the late C.-J. Madden and
his “social” activities 4 (B. 21/8/M8)
and-“ Star’s” rebuke (B. 4/4/T8). The
old C.-J. certainly regarded “society”
as a seini-sacred institution with strictly-
limited boundaries. Consider what hap-
pened during the Wallace divorce suit.
One Melbourne daily-paper put “Society
Divorce Case” over its reports of the enter-
tainment. In the middle of the case the C.-J.
pulled up short and spent some very expen-
sive time in explaining that it wasn’t a
“society” affair at all, neither of the parties
being “in society,” and that the public should
be earefiVl not to regard it as such. It was
a quaint performance.
■X- 4 ‘ " * *
“Din dvuin”This is what a campaign
means in Palestine.
(Get out your
maps!) At Kan-
tara, on the Suez
Canal, there’s a
pumping station,
and huge pipes are
laid from the. canal
along the military
railway well into
Palestine-: —right up
to a ..small, deca-
dent town on a
hill somewhere
north of Gaza.
Every here and
there on the mili-
tary railway are
large reservoirs
into which the
water is pumped,
and from them it
is pumped on
again; and all
camps en route are
thus supplied. To
lead the water to
Jerusalem '''would
mean taking the
pipes and pumping
the water up and
over the Judean
range. which is
3000 ft. high. That
was too big a job.
Besides, it wasn’t
urgently necessary,
as there is a large
fresh-water lake in
the neighborhood of Bethlehem.
“Till E.”: I nominate the feminine sec-
tion of the British munition-workers’ family
to raise the loudest howl when Fritz is
licked. They are swelling it. At Christmas
time I was in a fruit-shop in a Cheshire
town where thousands of tons of high explo-
sives are stored underground and the muni-
tions machinery runs the clock round at
high pressure. While I was striving to pare
the greengrocer down a bit in the price of
a pineapple, one of the gaudily-bedecked
dames broke into the argument. “ ’Ow much
d’ yer want fer it?” she asked. “Seven-and-
six,” ventured the shopman (lie had offered
it to me for 55.). “I’ll take it,” replied the
woman with a glance Of triumph in my direc-
tion. “’Owjer cook it, though?”
“Chang”; In some country districts of
N. S. Wales a local committee enters
into a contract with the owner of a vehicle
for the conveyance of children from outlying
places to and from a central school. The
Department allows the contractor a lump
sum per month, or else a small sum per child
for each day’s attendance. The arrangement
generally works satisfactorily. But it often
happens that families are unable to avail
themselves of the vans, and in such cases an
allowance is made to each family separately,
provided the kiddies do not walk or ride
horseback. This is how it works out in my
school. Smith sends three young hopefuls
along, packed into an antediluvian sulky,
and receives fid. per child for each day’s
attendance— i.e., he gets 7s. fid. a week if
they attend full time. He has to keep one
horse on the job, and wear and tear on the
trap are practically negligible. But Brown,
living farther away, sends along four edi-
tions of himself, and, not possessing a spare
trap, provides them with three horses (two
of the young- Browns doublebank). He has
to provide three saddles and bridles, to say
nothing of the horseshoes. He is told by the
Department that he is not entitled to any
assistance. Jones, of course, need not be
considered in the matter at all, because his
three youngsters walk three miles each way
daily. Their boots last fully three months—
and boots are a mere trifle at present. He,
top, can get nothing—but it’s his own fault;
why doesn’t he pick up something on wheels?
Needless to say, Smith’s kiddies are the best
atteuders in the school. Smith, who is mak-
ing a good thing out of it, sees to that. Even
if the Department persists in its refusal to
help Brown and Jones, isn’t there anything
that will make it see that it costs Smith no
more to send his three than it would to send
only one in the worst turnout? Likewise,
that the sensible thing would be to subsidise
the trap, not the kiddies who ride in it; and
that if anybody should be assisted according
to the number of children sent, it ought to
be Brown and Jones, rather than Smith?
SETTING THE LITTLE MISTAKE
"RIGHT.
“Hey, dammit all, waiter, there’s a chicken in
this egg!”
“Right, sir, I’ll fetch you a knife and fork,
sir.”
THE POLITE ARBITRAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The executive has carried out peace work in terms
of Conference resolutions by holding meetings advo-
cating l tion of the war.” — Report read at the
annual conference of the Australian Labor party.
This is a time of testing, boys, for nations and for
lis,
So put your old pea-shooter down, lay by your
blunderbuss.
Those had their uses, doubtless, in the crude old
days of yore.
But, no—there, don’t be silly, lad; we're using ’em
no more.
Machine-guns and trench-mortars? Ah-h-h ! You
pain me, brother, now !
Xo, no! Plain, homely talk's the thing to quell
this latest row.
We must go forth to end this war in quite a dif-
ferent way ;
The word-in-season, rightly put, will give ’em rats
to-day.
On, then! Let’s seek a handy spot and get our
duty done
And win a bloodless victory for England or the
Hun,
Wafting across Ihe striving hordes our special
brand of Sosh,
With “Pish!” to break the British square and
“Bosh!” to stop the Boche.
Crusaders of the voice-jube, come! Let’s show
them what we are
And spray the death-locked legions now with hot-
air from afar!
Chin-waggers, pull your cuff-notes down, prepare to
dodge the Hops
And heave mixed metaphors across until the con-
flict stops—
Getting our deadly peace-work in where the van-
guards’ banners flap,
Cracking ’em up with cackle [cheers] and searching
’em out with yap!
Upon the Hun’s embattled front . with language let
us fall,
In earnest: tones beseeching him to. hear the nations’
call.
Let us in bold, clear accents, bid the fighting
French fall back
To help the cause of Brotherhood, nor render whack
for whack;
And when Australia marches up, a grin upon each
face,
Let u5....we11, let us. ( . ..ah, for words--now words
-—to meet the case !
More soap-boxes! Let’s, rush ’em out to every corner
stand,
And raise a loud, compelling bray to save our
native land,
With “Slow down!” for our slogan till the glorious
day is come
When, every 75 is stilled, each 18-pounder dumb !
vicTonii,
FRANK HENTY.


AFTER THE CONQUEST.
O.C.: “Ach, yes! A little rebellious at first, these Australians who did not believe in military sairvice; but ve shall of them make yet goot sodiers for dei glory of der Faderlafid.”


NEVER INTRODUCE YOUR DONAH TO A PAL.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with" absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to 5.8., Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It's All-British, and economical in use. [2
A Letter of Interest to all Pastoralists and Farmers throughout Australia.
Mr.T. I. Campbell, Gen. Sec. Farmers & Settlers’ Association, N.S.W., gives this testimony to Clements Tonic
nr mimrniD mz-wr-rn t rm% Farmers &'Settlers’ Association of Ti. S.W.
CLEMEN 1 & lONIC LID. 7 O’Connell Street, Sydney, 27/7/U6.
“Knowing the value of Clements Tonic from personal use and experience, I do not hesitate to give you my
opinion of it, simply putting into words what I have so often spoken.
“I believe it to he a very fine nerve and blood tonic. I know that it has benefited me greatly. At various
periods my duties are exceptionally heavy, involving great mental and nervous strain, and I have always found
your medicine of the greatest value to me, having singularly invigorating and recuperative properties.
“I make a point of recommending Clements Tonic to many of my friends, as I feel desirous of enabling
others to benefit by my personal experience. “I am, Sirs, yours sincerely,
“T. I. CAMPBELL,
“General Secretary.”
It is questionable whether there is any
man better or more widely known than the
secretary of this far-reaching Associa-
tion, whose members scattered far and
wide amongst the farming and pastoral
community number thousands. Mx\
Campbell’s testimony will be read with
interest, because of its sincerity and its
lucid explanation of the value of Clements
Tonic and its 1 -neficial effect upon his
health. There is no better medicine for
the man on the land. It is a mistake for
you to be without it. Keep it at home.
GET CLEMENTS TONIC TO-DAY AND GET W*ELL. ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W. _
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Though W. 11. Irvine, the new Chief Jus-
tice of Victoria, is an Irishman, lie got most
of his law in Australia. McMillan, of
Westralia, is the only one of the seven Chief
Justices who didn’t. He and Murray (S.A.)
are also the only ones who were not in poli-
tics before they went to the Bench.
Pope Cooper, of Queensland, on the verge
of 70, is the senior of the State’s Chief Jus-
tices. He is a grandson of that Robert
Cooper who established a distillery in Syd-
ney over 90 years ago. Also, by the way,
Robert Cooper was the defendant in the first
case tried by civil jury in Australia, in 3825.
The King was the plaintiff. His Majesty
lost.
• Gone prospecting over the range, James
Pryke, good Australian, fallen in the Big Job
in France. Papua loses a staunch friend,
who in his short life (lie was only in his
thirties) had helped to find the Cloudy Bay,
Waria and Lakekamu Goldfields. With
Rupert Clarke he spent a strenuous few
months exploring the Upper Strickland
River, in the wilderness near the Anglo-Dutch
border, and he had wandered over the length
and breadth of New Guinea with other
parties. lli.s loss to Papua is immense: for
apart from his value as a prospector his
simplicity and kindly nature had endeared
him to the whole Possession.
Chief Justice Irvine, of Victoria, was a
student at Trinity College, Dublin, when
Oscar Wilde was there. Among their
professors was Dr. J. K. Ingram, the man
avlio wrote the Sinn Fein ballad, “Who
fears to speak of ’9B V”
SIR WALTER
DAVIDSON,
N.S.W.’s new
Governor, lis-
tens to an
address of wel-
come.
J. H. Scullin, of Ballarat, is the new 41-
year-old president of the Victorian branch of
the Australian Labor Party. Scullin is
more than a talker, though no niggard of
words. As a bright boy of 21 he was debat-
ing champion of the South-street competi-
tions, and later did effective platform work
as organiser of the A.AV.U. In 1906 he went
up against a greater elocutionist. Alfred
Deakin, then Prime Minister, but failed to
capture the Ballarat seat. It was in this
campaign that he indicted affable Alffs immi-
gration policy with the crushing accusation
that, for lack of land, men were “leaving
sunny Australia with the smell of the gum-
leaves in their ears.” From 1910 to 1913
Scullin sat for Corangamite in the Reps.
Since then he has sawn wood as managing
editor of that vigorous Labor sheet, the Bal-
larat Echo.
Died in Sydney a few days ago, John
Lawler, who introduced kapok from Java and
was the first in Australia to manufacture
wire mattresses. Incidentally, he helped
Angus Mackay, of Bendigo, and other Pro-
tectionists to found the Daily Telegraph,
but wasn’t able subsequently to prevent its
capture by the old forces of Calico Jimmy-
ism.
CAMOUFLAGE.
Edwin Smith. 88 this week, is one of the
very few Adelaide citizens for whom the 50-
years-ago items served up daily by the
Register have any direct personal interest.
He was already mayor of suburban Kensing-
ton and Norwood in 1867-8; he sat in that
chair for five years before moving on to
occupy that of Adelaide for five more. It
is just 30 since he retired from business,
having made all the money he wanted; and
ever since he has been rather busier than
before, on the boards of innumerable public
bodies. They are mostly philanthropic or
athletic; but two of them on which his regu-
lar attendance and advice are still welcomed
are the A.M.P. Society and the Savings Bank
of S. Aus.
Crawford Vaughan, ex-Premier of S.A.,
mentions in letters home that he _ has
had an interview with President AVilson,
who was “awfully nice to me, most cordial,
quite simple, and asked a lot of questions.
He looked as though he were feeling the ter-
rible strain, and his face, in conversation, is
full of emotion.” Vaughan, who is now off
to France “on a special mission,” is not
accepting a salary from the U.S.A. Govern-
ment, but it is paying his _ expenses. In
America his job has been mainly to speed up
ship-building.
Retired from his job in charge of Wen-
douree (Vic.) powder-magazine, closed after
62 years’ service, Thomas Newman Mcln-
tyre, the survivor of the four troopers
attacked by the Kelly Gang in the Wombat
Ranges, near Mansfield, on Oct. 28. 1878.
The police were surprised, and Mclntyre,
disarmed, saw Sergeant Kennedy and Con-
stables Scanlan and Lonergan shot dead by
the bushrangers. Frightened by the shots, a
horse belonging to one of the gang plunged
within reach of Mclntyre, who sprang into
the saddle and escaped.
Metcalfe shire, in the Kyneton (Vic.) dis-
trict, is represented in the Federal Parlia-
ment by the Prime Minister and in the State
side-show by the Premier.
The Bulletin has had its last snake-par.
from J. S. Bray, who knew as much about
the bush immediately around Sydney as any
man. From boyhood up—he lived to be 70
—he was deeply concerned about and
butterflies; he knew every gully on the North
Shore, and haunted them in all weathers.
Leaving the Telegraph service he set up
many years ago an establishment in Queen’s
Place which might have been the original of
the Old Curiosity Shop. On retiring from
business he lived quietly at Balgowiah, an
ancient township originally surveyed by Sir
Thomas Mitchell, which stands on the road
to Manly.
Frances Hayes Watton, a spinster of 91
who journeyed west from Melbourne the
other day, was a descendant of Edmund
Ludlow, who with O. Cromwell and others
signed the death-warrant of Charles 1.
Old Governor Phillip shows out well by
contrast with the latest Australian ship-
building expert. By December, 1788, less
than 12 months after the first landing, he
had built out of Australian timber a “launch
or hoy” to carry goods to and from Rose
Hill and other places. In May, 1789, the
carpenter of the Supply began another
launch, which was completed on October 5
of the same year. The first sea-going vessel
turned out in Australia
was the schooner Francis,
41 tons, but she arrived
in frame on the transport
Pitt. The Francis made
her maiden voyage, a
trip to Maoriland, in
1793. The first sea-going
craft built wholly in
Australasia of Austral-
asian timber was the
Providence, a 60-ton
schooner. She was begun
at Dusky Sound on the
south-west coast of the
South Island (M.L.) in
1793 by a sealing gang
of 12 men, left there by
William Raven, master of
the Britannia, finished off
in 1795 by a shipwright
named Hatlierleigh, and
sailed to Sydney in Janu-
ary, 1796. with part of
the crew of the Endeav-
our which had been
run ashore at Dusky.
Hatlierleigh knocked to-
gether a schooner, the
Assistance, to carry the
rest of the vessel’s crew
to Sydney. But he was
evidently a poor be-
nigh ted wretch, for it isn’t on record that he
made a single speech about it.
Speaker Cohen (N.S.W.) as heard from
one of the galleries—
The honorable member is now out of order-r-r.
Stinkly laid down stanorder-r-r um-for-nine that no
oiirblembr shall move the adjournment of (blow)
unless five other rblembrs stand in their (puff). I
shall allow no onrblembr to (snort —or perhaps
thwart) this reg-(rest lost). ’,V if thonrblmbr
persists (hiss) in his present conduct I will call
jargent remove onerblmburr.
Two and then the chair sits back
and fans itself with a piece of paper.
Horace Trower, the long, lean Lands Com-
missioner, lately of Townsville (Q.), who
fell out with Ryan and Theodore, has caught
the eye and ear of Gilruth. Trower, who
stands 6ft. 3iu. and a bit, owns a voice in
proportion, which he used to lift in oratorio,
but now only tunes to flights of oratory on
most subjects under the sun. He was
recently appointed Director of Northern
Territory lands, without applications having
been called for the job, and he is now riding
around trying to find out what his duties are.
One returned Billjim who landed in Mel-
bourne last week has been slightly gassed
and has a few scraps of shrapnel in one leg;
but that wasn’t why he was sent back. When
he left here, in the torpedoed Ballarat, he
wasn’t quite 15 and isn’t 18 yet. Neverthe-
less he went through Polygon Wood ! The
young rip, who knows his motor-bike well,
wants now to fly and have a shot at Fritz
from overhead.
Charles Atkins, Melbourne City councillor,
has started on his way back to Australia,
after serving nearly two years in England.
It was the German onslaught on Verdun
that finally persuaded him to go to Europe;
and the fact that he has worked and worked
hard there, in charge of a concentration
camp, then as a transport officer, and finally
as a captain of trainees, amounts to one
more reflection on the stupid—and appar-
ently incurably stupid—Defence authorities
who had refused him any sort of job in this
country.
There have been five Chief Justices of
Victoria. The first. a’Beckett, was Resi-
dent. Judge at Port Phillip from 1846 until
1852, when on the appointment of a second
judge, Redmond Barry, he was made C.J.
He held office until 1857. The next was
Stawell, a Cork man, who, as Attorney-
General, “jumped” the office, which should
have gone to Redmond Barry. Stawell filled
the chair for 30 years less five months, and
then resigned. He. died in Naples in March,
1889. llis successor, George Higinbotham.
an Irishman, had been for six years Puisne
Judge and was senior on Stawell’s retire-
ment. The senior military officer on the
Australian station used to be Acting-Gover-
nor when one was wanted. On the departure
of the military, the Chief Justice was called
upon to administer the affairs of the colony;
but to block Higinbotham, who had been at
loggerheads with the Colonial Office, the
retired Chief Justice (Sta well) was
appointed lit.-Governor, just as the retired
N. S. Wales Chief Justice (Alfred Stephen)
was appointed to block C.J. James Martin.
Following Higinbotham came John Madden,
to the surprise of the Bar and the
disgust of the senior Puisne Judge,
Hartley Williams. He was a quarter
of a century in office. Ages at death:
a’Beckett, 63; Stawell, 74; Higinbotham.
65; Madden, 74. The new Chief, William
Irvine, still another Irishman, enters upon
his duties in his 60th year.
Most of the big Australian jam men
started in the same small way. lloadley, of
Melbourne, began on his 20-acre orchard out
at Nunawading. He soon found fruit-pre-
serving paid better than growing, and now
his jam and lolly factories are among the
biggest. When he grew comfortable he gave
his orchard to the Methodist Church for a
Boys’ Home, and' (here some 80 young dere-
licts are trained in the way the good oi'cliard-
ist should go.
There was no earlier battler for White
Australia than James Nish, D.D., in
charge o’ the kirk at Bendigo in the palmy
days of the field. A woman once presented
herself at the manse, in company with a
Chinese, and said she wished to be made one
with Ah Fat. “How dare you !” stormed the
old doctor. “How dare you ask me to join
you in holy matrimony with a pagan?” It
was the clerical viewpoint, of course, but it
got there all the same.-
A name that bulked large on land-boom
handbills is now transferred to a headstone.
Its bearer was John McMahon, a civic pillar
of Fitzroy (Melb.), who has passed out at
73, leaving three sons, all medical officers
in the A.I.F. For long a Brunswick-street
tailor, he sat on the local bench and council,
and had filled the mayor’s chair. He helped
to found the ’Roy football club, but was
less successful in shooting for Parliament.
With the late Sam Lyons, plain, brown
George Turner’s old law-partner, he sub-
divided and sold acres of land which he
had acquired, prior to the boom, in Fair-
field, Northcote and other northern suburbs.
HI S BIT.
THE SPORT: “ Patriotic? Of course I’m
patriotic. ’Aren’t I (lone in me sugar
following the 'orses with war names all
the afternoon, an’ not a bloomin’ winner
in the lot.”
Gone out to a Hun shell in France, T. G.
Trueman, remembered in Melbourne as mili-
tary secretary to the Y.M.C.A. He was a
broad-minded Methody parson at Rutherglen
before he decided that khaki was the only
wear.
MATER TRIUMPHANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sun-splashed road is lined with poplars tall
And stretching fields where grass and fern grow
deep ;
A hashing lizard on a garden wall
Blinks wondering at a mudlark’s sudden sweep.
Amidst a calm as deep as God’s blue sky,
I loiter as the fagrant hours slip by.
O dauntless manhood and unflinching soul,
That over me have flung their splendid shield ;
Howe’er the tides of that grim battle roll,
Your line may swerve and bend, but will not yield 1
Knee-deep in blood and mire, steel-like you stand
That I may walk secure in this fair land.
On wings triumphant shall my swift heart rise
That I have known the glory of your worth ;
And pride and joy are wed within my eyes
In that my womb bore hero-fruit to birth!
AVan eyed, grim lipped, amid your slain you stand,
spotless 1 may walk in this clean land.
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.


i
m
m
m
m.
:^y'J
;'
sss~
I
L
J 3
■ ~y
W]
'm-rZ
Bfig<
m
&L
•• - ;
>n'/c
m
m
m
-
is
IgSi
a*g».
sra
tegrri
IS
■
i
m
1
$$
Us
ss§&
■
5^
\l
m
*
KStj
„=a
"A
I
K
-m^
m
¥.
fiii
m
rrr
>jv
PH
AUSTRAL” Tailoring has always claimed to represent an unusually high standard of Tailoring
Value, and on this claim has been, and still is, judged by keen judges of value amongst men.
To have maintained this standard all through the long and trying period of the War, despite all
difficulties, must be acknowledged and by most men is regarded as a notable achievement indeed.
The evidence and proof of what we claim is here for every man to see.
AUSTRAL” SAC SUITS to MEASURE,
751-. 85/-, 95/-, 105/-, 115/-. 126/-, 147/-, 157/6
“Austral” Sac Suits to measure embody
fine fabrics and a real character of work-
manship, good fittings and the dignity
and individuality of true style, an assur-
ance of satisfaction irrespective of the
price paid.
Men who live at a distance are invited
to send for patterns to day. The new
season’s suitings offer choice of a pleas-
ing variety of weaves and textures, and
many new colorings and designs.
To any address we send pattern books
with measurement chart and tape, post
free on request. Moreover, the car-
riage is paid on all Country Orders
throughout Australia. Send for patterns
to-day.
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
Gowing Brq? lip
Everything for Men's and Boys' Wear,
484 to 490 George Street, 3 to 17 Royal Arcade.
New Branch Shop at 304-306 George Street (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Read
Corroding Lead
Antimonial Read
Assay Lead (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granujated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
BUYERS ON A SPECIALITY FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Silicions Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade*
etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
BHAST
Dead Drosses, etc.
Brand
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Sydney and Suburban
Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting
Ropes and other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and
High-pressure Stocks generally. Best Workmanship and material.
Quotations supplied.
A MAYNE HERON, Manager.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The downfall in the Customs revenue—for
the nine months just closed it was
£1,786,647 less than for the similar period
last year—is a story iu five chapters:—
(1) When the big loan was floated in London the
proceeds mostly came out in goods.
(2) Even under our insufficient tariff a good deal
of that loan money was collected in duties at the
( Tistoms House and called “revenue.”
(3) The bigger the loan the more ihe “revenue.'’
(4) The smaller the loan the less the “revenue.”
(5) While the sham “revenue” was coming in the
Foreign-trade paper cheered about our “commercial
expansion,” and the importers’ organ nearly went off
its head re' our “indubitable prosperity,” and the
shoddy journal threw up its hat concerning our
“amazing recuperative power.”
Now the gold loan won’t float in London to
any great extent save for war purposes and
renewal of old debts that are falling due, and
even then it doesn’t float very high in the
water. So the revenue does a most unholy
slump. The only visible remedy—it may not
be a permanent one, but it is something to go
on with —is to extract more revenue from the
imports that remain. In other words, to in-
ci-ease a lot of old duties and put on a lot of
new ones. But then all the weary old politi-
cal hacks and all the anti-Australian import-
ers and all the pro-German Freetraders say
that political questions shouldn’t be raised
while the war is on. It sounds plausible, but
here is a vast political question which has
raised itself. What will the old hacks and
sundries do about it? Plainly they must do
something—unless they propose to go on
loafing on John Bull. And anybody who pro-
poses that at present should never mention
loyalty or “affection for the motherland”
again.
The South Australian Brewing Co.
(Adelaide): —*■
Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Feb., £ £ £ £ £
1905.. 12,913 2lp.c.= 6,250 2,750 3913 35,471
1906.. 17,370 5~ „ ~ 12,500 2,750 2120 37,591
1907.. 18,172 5 „ „ 12,500 2,750 2922 40,513
1908.. 24,135 5 ~ ~ 12,500 6,103 5532 46,045
1909.. 17,551 5 „ „ 12,500 5,051 46,045
1910.. 25,072 5 „ „ 12,500 12,572 46,045
1911.. 35,637 6} „ „ 15,625 16,057 3955 50,000
1912. 46,277 7* „ ~18,750 27,527 50,000
1913.. t 0 ,968 71 „ ~18,750 32,218 60,000
1914 7. 55,953 10 „ „ 25,000 30,953 50,000
1915. . 50,114 10 „ „ 25,000 25,114 50,000
1916.. 32,161 10 „ „ 25,000 4,750 2411 52,411
1917.. 22,348 6( ~ ~15,625 4,750 1973 54,384
1918.. 32,174 8J ~ „ 21,875 10,299 54,384
South Aus. has its own deep-lying character-
istics. The “Province” never had a birth-
stain and it never had a gold rush to attract
a mixed population from the alleyways of
the world. It was semi-philanthropic in its
origin; and it has always been that sort of
State. Where else in Australia would you
get a millionaire building a trades hall? Or
co-operative Trading societies which provide
that the shareholder must be allowed to have
his money back whenever he wants it. Nearly
•;0 years ago S. Aus. had half a dozen com-
munistic village settlements; and it has been
the first to experiment with nearly all the
things that a conference of very earnest
young Sunday-school superintendents would
be likely to advocate. It was, of course, the
first to give woman the vote; and it. was
naturally the first to introduce 6 o’clock
pub-closing as a war measure. Now S.
Australia’s character is a very important
thing from this co.’s point of view. For
years past it has kept the co. op the jump,
never knowing where it would be hit next.
Last year the weather favored the co. and
the war put a lot of easy money into some
people’s pockets; and easy money has a habit,
of spelling beer. On the other hand, as the
chairman told the shareholders: —
The restrictions imposed on licensed houses and
their hours of trading are very onerous and are
materially disadvantageous both to the co. and its
tenants. The immediate result to the co. is an
increase of bad debts, which have been completely
written off, and the necessity of building up reserves
to meet future losses.
But the £10,299 which the table shows as
written off last year was not devoted to that
purpose; pi’ovision is made in Profit and
Loss for “Plant and rolling stock repairs,
buildings and repairs and bad and doubtful
debts”: —•
1915 .. £13,518 I 1917 .. £8,404
1916 .. 6,228 I 1918 .. 14,007
The amounts in the written-off column in
t he table have been struck off freeholds, good-
will and other assets.
Every local movement, almost, seems to
he one to make the brewery co.’s position
more precarious. Only the other day a
higher Court decided that, though a local
option vote might be against reduction, it
was not obligatory on the Licensing Court
to renew all the licenses if the police could
show that they were not needed. But the sky
isn’t all black. The liquor business, for one
thing, is being put upon a healthier basis.
A few years ago a pub license might be
worth 10 times as much as the premises ; and
nearly every brewery balance-sheet was half
water. In other words, the public was pay-
ing interest, (and very stiff interest too)
on fictitious capital. In this case a large
proportion of the original capital was paid
for goodwill; but this has all been written
off now except £lO,OOO. In other words,
tangible assets have replaced the old froth
and bubble. Notwithstanding all its knocks,
particularly fine progress has been made in
the last seven years:—
1911. 1918.
Assets other than properties,
plant and goodwill.. .. £73,673 £185,129
Properties, plant and goodwill 487,996 389,015
Total assets .. £561,069 £574,144
Less Liabilities .. .. 235,637 187,119
Net assets .. £325,432 £387,025
Don’t look at the increase in net assets,
though that is substantial: look at the in-
crease of £112,000 in assets other than pro-
perties, plant and goodwill, aud the decrease
of £48,500 in the liabilities. Meantime a
dividend averaging just under 9 p.c. has
been paid. For tlie past year the cut was
at the rate of 74 p.c. p.a. for the first half
and 10 n.c. p.a. for the second half. There
is still money in the beer business in spite
of its distresses.
* * * *
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.
(Sydney);—•
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1909 ..£11,085 6 p.c. =£5,504 £5,581 £47,625
1910 .. 24,355 12 „ „ 11,008 13,347 60,972
1911 .. 25,594 11 „ „ 12,842 12,752 73,724
Transferred to Capital, £55,038 ~ 18,686
1912 .. 39,417 11J p.c. = 16,328 23,089 41,775
1913 .. 31,727 114 „ ~ 17,062 14,665 56,440
Transferred to Capital, £18,346 .. 38,094
1914 .. 28,760 114 p.b. = 17,796 10,964 49,058'-*
1915 .. 16,478 81 „ „ 13,851 2.627 51,685
1916 .. 13,732 8 ;; „ 13,209 523 52,208
1917 . . 20,192 10 „ „ 16,611 3,681 55,889^
This co.’s Profit and Loss account used to
be a sort of barometer of the seasons; good
profits came with a bountiful year, and
bumps with droughts. Shortly after the
war began, however, both Federal and State
Governments disturbed the old order by
price-fixing legislation designed to put a
brake on the cost of living and prevent
profiteering. In the dreadful confusion
this co. was badly hit for a couple of years;
but last year it seems to have accommodated
itself to the new environment, and it shows
some sort of recovery.
The next table exhibits the movement in
the cash position ; —•
1910. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Liquid assets (in-
cluding stock) . . £64,881 £74,304 £79,154 £92,115
Liabilities.. .. 16,410 5,5,579 49,260 43,414
Surplus . . £48,471 £1,8,725 £29,891 £48,701
During the past, year, freehold properties at
Dapto and South Grafton, being no longer
required, were disposed of. That brings the
co.’s cash position to about what it was
seven years ago. For several years before
the war the co. was busy adding new plant,
particularly in the cold-storage department,
n nd the fixed assets of the co. leaped from
£117,700 in 1912 to £203,027 in 1915. As
written down, and after the disposal of the
two properties above mentioned, at December
31 last these assets stood in the balance-
sheet at £182,208. As things have turned
out, less profit is being made with the much-
enlarged plant, than with the old plant.
Still, everything considered, shareholders
needh’t grumble. They have had, on the
whole, a good time In the past, and no
matter how grey the future may be for other
concerns, Sydney must always be fed, and
their co., with respectable management, will
■get its share of the big job.
* * * *
Amalgamated Pictures, Ltd., from the
time the Combine cos. were formed and
assets of this co. were written up (appa-
rently by £67,228 net) and transferred (there
was previously a small deficit) :
r Dividends. , Nominal
Profits. Pref. Ord. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Feb.,’l4.. 11,120 10 p.e.= 1600 5 p.c.= 6070 62,853
Assets further written up, £ 388 .. 63,241
Feb.,’ls. . 11,219 10 p.c.= 1200 10 p.c.= 6070 67,190
Assets further written up, £ 46 .. 67,236
Feb.,’l6.. 7.473 10 p.c.= 1200 10 p.c.= 6071 67,438
Feb.,’l7.. 4,267 10 ~,, 1200 5 ~,, 3035 67,470
Feb.,’lB. . 8,224 10 ~,, 1200 10 ~,, 6071 68,423
In the beginning the Taits ran a picture
business, and presently it became Amalga-
mated Pictures, Ltd. Then these and other
people got tired of sweating for the benefit
mainly of the foreign film producer, and the
General Film Co. of Australasia was
formed. Then, on others expressing a will-
iugness to come in, the showmen got more
ambitious and formed two heavily capital-
ised cos.—Union Theatres, Ltd., and Aus-
tralasian Films, Ltd., the former to run the
theatres of the people in this combine, the
latter to hire out films. For their goodwill
the subsidiary cos. were issued large num-
bers of shares ; hence the writing-up of assets
mentioned above. But in addition to the
property (mostly goodwill) transferred to
what are uow called the parent cos. (though
the children created them), this co. had (1)
the Majestic Theatre, a Melbourne leasehold
on which it has spent £35,000 or more; (2)
the St. Kilda Picture Theatre, a freehold
which cost about £8500; (3) shares in vari-
ous Melbourne suburban picture houses. The
Majestic is one of the theatres run by the
Union Co., and this co. collects the rent.
Also it lent the General Film Co. certain
money or took payment for certain assets in
debentures; this item now stands at £11,700.
Apparently the Combine cos. have done a
good deal better during the past year; at any
rate, this is the showing of the P. and L.
account by comparison with previous years:
1915. 1916. 1917. 1918.
Rents (net) .. £3,798 £4687 £5833 £4324
All other income .. 10,658 6457 3052 6291
On the face value of the shares in Union
Theatres and Australasian Films the return
is still very small —probably not more than
4 p.c.; but as the capital of this co. was not
watered to correspond with the watering of
the assets (the excess, after wiping out a
deficit, being transferred to a Capital Realisa-
tion Reserve), this co. is able to pay a
fairly comfortable 10 p.c. all round. At the
same time it lias been able to provide a lease-
hold sinking fund (which is invested in War
Loan) and add considerably to other assets:
1914. 1917. 1918.
Shares in parent cos. .. £87,616 £87,616 £87,616
Properties (less mortgages and
sinking fund reserve) 23,597 28,055 29,215
Subsidiary picture cos. .. 3,500 4,500 4,500
Debentures and sundries 25,403 22,058 24,615
The investment of the sinking fund in some-
thing gilt-edged outside the business is
highly commendable. As for the rest, nobody
can say that the assets are gilt-edged. But
the picture business isn’t a passing fancy;
Hind if this co. can pay 10 p.c. and still tuck
a bit away in the circumstances of the past
three years, it may reasonably expect to do
"just as well in the years to come. For
though in those years the kids won’t have
as much money given them to spend on the
pictures, the showmen will certainly be on
a much better wicket so far as the purchase
or lease of films is concerned.
The Civil Service Co-operative So-
ciety of N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney) :
Dividend (10 p.c.)
and Bonus on
Net Purchases To Re- Re-
Profits. (117 p.c.). serves. serves.
July, 1911.. £10,911 £lO,lOB £BO3 £34,163
Jan., 1912.. 12,824 11,383 1411 35,604
July, 1912 . . 10,470 11,138 34,936
(10 p.c. Bonus.)
Jan., 1913.. 11,170 11,222 34.884
Premiums on new shares, £13,899 48,783
July, 1913.. 10,973 10,745 228 49,011
Jan., 1914.. 12,777 12,336 441 49,452
July, 1914.. 11,945 11,844 101 49,553
Jan., 1915.. 11,701 12,034 49,220
July, 1915 . . 11.476 11,350 126 49,346
Jan., 1916.. 10,817 10,971 - 49,192
Unclaimed divs. transferred to
Reserve Fund, £2OOO .. 51,192
July, 1916.. 9,915 10,142 50,965
Jan., 1917 . . 10,964 11,030 50,899
Unclaimed dividends, £l3l .. 51,030
Julv, 1917.. 10,625 10,317 308 61,338
Jan., 1918 .. 10,799 10,547 252 51,590
Eat, drink and be merry, and put the bill on
the file. This, generally speaking, is the
principle on which we are going. “Lend,
lend, lend”—that is the cry instead of “Pay,
pay, pay.” The curse will come home to
roost presently; in the meantime this co.’s
cash receipts are about one-third more than
they were prior to the war, and, since it
doesn't handle dress-goods or jewellery, it
probably doesn’t show as great an increase in
turnover as most of its neighbors. The fol-
lowing comparison shows how the trade has
grown and with it working exes.: —
Gross
Cash Profit Work- Proportion
Re- on Sales, ing Ex- Expenses to
eeipts. etc. penses. Receipts.
Jan., 1960.. £67,522 £15.997 £10,158 15.0 p.c.
Jan., 1965.. 98,408 24,165 14,974 15.2 „
Jan., 1910.. 133,247 34,643 21,181 15.9 „
Jan., 1915.. 178,027 48,077 " 34,024 19.1 „
Jan., 1916.. 185.171 47,817 34,814 18.8 „
Julv, 1916.. 182,070 48,773 36,318 19.9 „
Jaii., 1917.. 197,603 53,059 40,175 20.3 „
July, 1917.. 188,406 49,284 36,666 19.4 „
Jan., 1918.. 192,421 50,517 37,767 19.6 „
The co., though called the Civil Service, is
opeu to anybody ; and since ownership of one
share entitles the customer to the 2s. in the £
bonus or rebate on purchases, the majority
of members hold onlv one or two shares.
Total shares (£1) are 27,783; total number
of members, 9695. The co.’s liabilities
are £29,147; and as the capital is all repre-
sented by money spent on the leasehold and
plant, it is only possible, even with a reserve
of over £51,000, to carry on a business with
a turnover of nearly £400,000 a year by cut-
ting out credit. Total book debts are only
£o9B4—say, seven days’ trading. This paper
isn’t prepared to say whether the profits are
what they ought to be, taking the easy cir-
cumstances of the business into account —
especially the absence of bad debts and the
fact that a very large proportion of the busi-
ness flows in without canvass. But if things
can be improved they probably will be. At
any rate, when the Commohwealth Govern-
ment looked round for a man to organise its
services on the birth of Federation, its choice
fell on Duncan McLachlan; and having
given up that job four or five years ago, he
was put on the board of this co. and has
lately been appointed chairman. In the
table at the head of these remarks, by the
way, it has been assumed that the co.' will
pay the usual staff bonus (£350 has been
assumed) and that about the usual amount
of trade bonus (£550) will not be collected.
Metiers, Ltd., manufacturers of stoves,
windmills, oil engines, enamel-ware, etc., who
paid £29,656 for the goodwill of the business.
In the table this item is not regarded as an
asset: —
Writ- To Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends, ton Off. sorvi-s. Delieit.
1911. . - £27,078
1912.. £18,665 IOp.C. = £11,844 £2199 £4,622 23,856
Premiums on new shares 3,177 20,179
1913.. 21.305 10p.e.= 14,173 3758 6,374 13,805
Premiums on new shares .. 375 13,430
1914.. 15,718 Nil 4995 10,723 2,707
1915.. 17,600 5p.c.“ 8,206 5087 4,313 1,606
1916.. 22,487 6 „ „ 9,848 4609 8,030 9,636
1917.. 23,794 6 „ „ 9,848 5206 8,740 18,370
1918.. 23,434 6 ~ „ 9,848 5667 7,919 26,295
This is one of the manufacturing concerns
that deserve well of Australia ; for as it has
gained strength and experience it has em-
ployed both in producing new goods, and
pretty often goods not hitherto manufactured
in the Commonwealth. Lately it has been
giving a lot of its attention to enamelware.
For many years there had been a small fac-
tory in Hobart producing goods of superior
quality, but making little headway—the Fore-
man Foundry and Enamelling Co. Metiers,
Ltd., with its larger organisation (it oper-
ates in three States) bought out this busi-
ness in 1913, and since then has transferred
the operations to the principal works at
Alexandria (Sydney). The war gave the co.
some temporary Protection, and the directors
this year report:—
The increased demand for porcelain enamelled goods
and gas-stoves has mainly been responsible for an
increased turnover in the Sydney branch. It is antici-
pated that more foundry accommodation will soon be
necessary in that branch.
Considering how the business has been ex-
tended, and that it carries its own stocks,
the co. has kept comparatively free from
debt, thanks to its policy of paying very
moderate dividends. Of £127,344 profit made
in the past five years only £51,923 has been
divided among shareholders: the balance has
been either laid by or written off. The result,
is shown in this table: —
Liabilities.
1913. 1917. 1918.
Overdrafts .. ..£26,689 £31,877 £23,616
Other liabilities . . 26,607 40,031 38,296
Assets.
Land and buildings. , 48,000 80,794 80,528
Plant 31,784 35,084 33,893
Stock 75,384 107,140 100,338
Sundry debtors . . 36,418 28,384 36,237
Other assets. . . . 175 8,714 9.445
Thus £25,000 has been added to stock.
£32.500 to land and buildings (including ex-
tensive Sydney stores and showrooms) and
about £12,000 (net) to other assets; and
meantime liabilities have been increased by
only £B7OO. Since 1913, however, £10,435 has
been got for shares at par or a small pre-
mium, and 8679 shares were issued at par
for the purchase of the Foreman Co.’s under-
taking. Deducting the increased liabilities
and the capital issues, the position has thus
improved by £42,000 in five years, after writ-
ing down premises and plant to cover depre-
ciation. That a co., in order to build up an
Australian manufacturing business, should
keep so tight a rein on dividends that it
leaves in the concern an amount almost
equal to what it has taken out of it. is a
matter calling for a cheer or two. But
cheers are not much of a substitute for a
tariff; and they are not much of a substitute
either for a week’s wages. It rests entirely
with ourselves whether Australia shall get
the wages or the cheers. If we buy a foreign
article when an Australian article is on the
market, then the cheers are all that will be
available; and they make a poor breakfast.
* * * *
Beatii, Sciiiess and Felstead, Ltd..
softgoods warehousemen, Melbourne (the
deficit to start with is represented by good-
will, etc.) :
, Dividends. ~
Cum. Pref. Ordi- Towards
July, Profits. 6| p.c. naries. Reserves. Deficit.
1912.. £56,187
Jan.,
1913. . £16,654 £3250 flp.c.= £2lOO £11,304 44,883
1914.. 12,444 6500 5„ „ 3500 2,444 42,430
1915.. 12,814 6500 &,. „ 3500 2,814 39,625
1916.. 14,938 6500 6 „ „ 4200 4,238 35,387
1917.. 19,327 6500 77., ~ 5250 7.577 27.810
1918.. 26,569 6500 8 „ „ 5600 14,469 13,341
The co. has been rather disappointing; but
the vendors have been very decent about it.


Negligible maintenance costs arc assured if vou
specify British Thonison-Houston Direct and Alter-
natinjf Current Generators for your power ami
lighting supply. There are more B.T.H. Generators
in operation in Australia than any other make. Tin*
reason is—reliability. Write for further partieu-
lars and quotations to the Australian General
Electric Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.— Advt.
*** * *
b'ince the time when the first man sheltered under
a tree to obtain protection from rain, the world has
evolved. Immediately the individual of the 20th
century obtains any property to protect, he builds
himself a house, and, if he seeks the best roof,
covers it with “Adamax” Asphaltum Hoofing. !t
is almost proverbial that “Adamax” costs about
one-third the price of the almost unprocurable gal-
vanised-iron. It also costs about two-thirds less to
carry it to the point where it is wanted. For
further information write to William Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence-street, Sydney; also at Melbourne.
Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.— Advt.
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Ilardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America. — Advt. [ 1
* * * *
The claims of wood pipe. We claim for Pioneer
\\ood Pipe that it has more points to recommend it
than any other water-supply pipe on the market in
the way of durability, large capacity, ease of installa-
tion and economy. Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd. (H. 0.), Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.B.W. P.O. address: Box 1576
G.P.0., Sydney. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
Footscray, Vie.; and Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors
to all State Governments.— Advt.
* . * • ,
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
-—Advt.
The manufacture of the Australian “Skandia” Crude
Oil Engine continues apace, and Nelson & Robertson
report inquiries from mining, dredging and other in-
dustries. The economy in the running cost of these
engines combined with the small amount of labor
required appeals to all power users, and all interested
are invited to forward particulars of their require-
ments. “Skandia” engines are designed for both
industrial and marine work, and the stationary type
is unrivalled for pumping, hauling, compressors and
all mining and general work.— Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock’
Estimates -supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
olwce: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
Power Plant Wanted.—Clients of ours requir
about 300 to 500 horsepower—either steam or suctioi
gas suitable for electric drive. Forward price anc
tutl particulars, stating amount of work machinen
has already done, to Arthur Leplastricr & Co., Oil
cular Quay (East), Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patent!
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors Guide.—Anvr.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assa-
Requisites. School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling - '
Balances Weights. Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’
Sample Crushers Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, a
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B
?°” Ltd - 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; an<
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— -Advt.
Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite,
We are instructed by the Commonwealth
Government to pay the following
Increased Prices at Producing Centres
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- per
unit MoSB.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 per
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 18 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£GO for one year .. .. 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Th{ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £260.000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Uranches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It paid them £50,000 for goodwill; but the
payment was accepted in deferred ordinary
shares, and even for the past year, when the
profits in excess of the £6500 required to
satisfy the prefs. were equal to 16§ p.c. on
the entire ordinary capital, the deferreds
didn’t grab a bean. And no doubt they
could have had a dividend had they pressed
for it, because they are well represented on
the Board. So far, then, the position is just
the same as if nothing at all had been paid
for goodwill. Plainly, however, there was
something pretty serious the matter to pro-
duce so bad a slump in the profits; maybe it
was over-valuation of assets—or what was
reckoned over-valuation by the new people.
Anyhow, for four years the new directors
were not able to show more than about half
as much as the old firm was reported to be
making. The present figure is just about up
to the old standard; and it ought to be
higher, of course, on account of the accumu-
lation of over £40,000 of profits. Still, if
profits could be kept at £26,569, after paying
interest on £lOO,OOO of 5 p.c. debentures,
there would be nothing to complain of. This
would give the cumulative prefs. their 6$ p.c.,
and after paying ordinaries 10 p.c. there
would be £BO6O to put by.
But if a co. in this business could make
£26,000 last year, what have we to assume
that it will make under normal conditions?
The figures of two other Melbourne fluff. cos.
may help:—
1913. 1916. 1917.
It. Tteid & Co. ..£48,923 £65,880 £68,838
I*., L. &B. .. 51,173 49,233 61,714
But it must be admitted that 1913 was a
conspicuously bad year for Robt. Reid and
Co., just as it was for D. and W. Murray,
the big inter-State firm with headquarters at
Adelaide, which, though it showed onlv
£67,461 in 1913, did £86,736 in 1912 and
£81,990 in 1914. The conclusion, then, is
this: that, though some prices in this busi-
ness have been staggering, the wholesale
houses have not at: any rate felt justified in
showing a net profit very much in excess of
the normal. That makes Beath-Schiess’s
£26,000 for the past year look better.
Besides its £lOO,OOO of debentures the
co. owed £259,667 on January 31—a shade
less than the total as at January 31, 1917,
but still a heavy load. Of the assets
(£572,376, exclusive of goodwill) no less
than £374,007 is represented by stock either
in warehouse or afloat —more than half of it
afloat. _ On the January 31 prior to the war
the co.’s stock (including shipments afloat)
was valued at £193,716. That is to say, in
these days when everybody talks economy,
when anything may happen, when the last
shilling may count, when our stock of gold
(which is the only money that can pay our
foreign debts) is running down, our ware-
houses are carrying a stock of mostly-foreign
goods about twice as heavy in point of cost
as before the war. If there isn’t a ghastly
smash presently it won’t be Australia’s fault.
* * * *
The machinery at Blayney copper-mine
(N.S.W.I is being dismantled and carted to
-New Caledonia, which effectually blasts the
township's hopes of seeing the old property
worked again. The mine was started as a
luarry for Lithgow ironworks, and copper was
first found in it in 1881. Since then it has
passed through many hands, and has been
tackled all ways; but there was never any-
thing of the bonanza about it. Besides
being poor in copper, its gold and silver
contents were negligible. When the mine
was unwatered in 1907, after one of its
many periods of idleness, a large quantity of
copper was obtained from the w 7 ater by pre-
cipitation on scrap-iron—as much as 431 b.
per 1000 gallons. A fairly large precipita-
t'on plant is included in the outfit on the
mine, and it is probable that intermittently
a good deal of metal will thus still be profit-
ably -obtained. The pity is that the fine
plant, intended to serve as a customs smelter
for the district, did not galvanise the in-
dustry. With its railway siding, blast fur-
naces, reverbs., Edwards roaster, and con-
verter plant, the last co. spared no expense
to make Blayney an important industrial
centre. Perhaps you can judge things best
this way: the township had nine pubs when
the mine was working; now four suffice.
•* * * *
Machinery and material from Brown’s
Creek, Blayney (N.S.W.), are being carted
to the railwmy, which looks bad for the pro-
mised resurrection of the old gold-mine that
Wliear Roberts stuck to so long. Two
or three years ago it was stated that a
modern sluice plant was to be erected, and
the all-sliming-all-solution process installed ;
but the report of the resurrection w 7 as
exaggerated. With plant from Brown’s
Creek and the Blayney copper-mine leaving,
the district is not feeling very cheerful.
There is more money in the local rabbit, and,
with very restricted operations at the local
rabbit factory, not much in him.
* * * •
At Yetholme (N.S.W.) the machinery at
the molybdenite proposition has had a trial
run. It has taken an unconscionable time
to instal the plant, but if the ore goes all
right in bulk and the extraction results are
satisfactory, and the price of the metal keeps
up, and the war goes the right way, etc., that
won’t matter much to Yetholme in the end.
One thing is certain: a better position for an
industrial centre could hardly be found. On
the main Western-road, 3000 ft. above sea-
level, with good climate, scenery and water,
Yetholme could be made something to be
proud of.
Bourke’s Hill. Emmaville (N.S.W.), made
a net profit of £3059 for the half-year to
Feb. 28, from an output of 34f tons of- black
tin, giving a splendid average of £BB per ton.
Yet working costs ran into 9.922 d. per cub.
yd., or £B6 18s. Sd. per ton. With these high
costs Bourke’s Hill would have to struggle
very hard for a living with tin at old prices.
Owing to shortage of labor only one plant
was worked during the term, but the big
nozzle of No. 2 plant was switched into
use with the No. 1. Altogether 73,060
cub. yards were sluiced, for an average of
1.061 b. per cub. yd. Three sixpennies
(£3375) were distributed. Capital is
£19,125, and liabilities £SB4. The co.’s
liquid assets amount to £3114.
* * * •
That the stupes overhead from 300 ft. in
Edna May (W.A.) have been scraped
pretty clean is shown by the March clean-up:
yields slipped from 15dwt. to 7Jdwt. That
manager Mick Williams’s luck is dead out
is shown by the smash-up of the electric
pump just at the time when he expected to
again get on to the ore in the bottom level.
Edna Central may get into an even worse
plight if Williams can’t lift water at top
speed, for the Central has not got a heap of
stuff overhead in its mine to come and go
on. Another bit of bad news for the field
is that the Consolidated battery doesn’t
appear to be living up to the sampling
underground. If there is another whittling
dow'n of grade next month it would be wise
to get some cold-blood to run the rule over
the shoots. Of course, Deeps isn’t worry-,
ing: Stuckey’s luck continues good. He
reels out a return just when he
meets the reef off the winze in the new cross-
cut. There is only sft. of stone, but it
is good for 30dwt. Stuckey is now driving
north and south, though with the strong
pitch of the shoot to the north he can’t ex-
pect to get: much of the reef in the opposite
direction. Still, it is nice to have two faces
to chuckle over, and Alec Peacock’s office is
becoming quite gay again on the prospect of
Stuckey going into rich stone.
Several gold discoveries have been re-
ported lately at Kunanalling (W.A.), about
25 miles from Coolgardie. It is in this
locality timt the Melbourne-financed venture,
Golden Gate, is working a lease on option.
Two small rich crushings have already been
taken out. But as a hundred and one others
have lived and died near-by during the past
20 years, the only safe course is to. believe
nothing but the pick.
* * * *
In the last seven years Gt. Boulder’s
reserves have decreased from 760,177 tons to
387.511 tons, with a decline in value of a
little over half a dwt. The life of the mine
now r depends on what is visible and on what
may be found above 2500 ft., as nothing
worth looking for is considered to exist
below that depth. The end may not come
for some years, but it is likely to
be sudden. Chairman G. P. Doolette con-
templates paying another visit to Australia
towards the end of the year. Although on
the verge of 80 the old man is still brimful
of vigor,, and reckons that there are other
Kalgoorlies to be unearthed in the West.
» * • •
Evidently Greenfinch (W.A.) shareholders
are about to be asked to find more money.
An official report issued the other day stated
that the chairman had inspected the mine
and w r as “well satisfied with what he had
seen.” He added that the general opinion
of mining men was that the discovery of
gneissic granite in the show w 7 as significant.
Significant of what?
* * * #
“Bullant” Mclntyre claims that there are
thousands of tons of scheelite in the million
and a half tons of tailings on the surface of
the now defunct Fraser’s mines at Southern
Cross (W.A.). He invites capital to come
along and get it out.
* * • «
Coolgardie (W.A.) is being pulled down
and carted away. In the last few years hun-
dreds of private houses and dozens of shops
have been removed. Now pubs are disap-
pearing, and those buildings that cannot be
shifted or are not worth shifting are being
relieved of their galvanised-iron roofs. Few
business people remain, and Bayley-street.
once the busiest thoroughfare in Westralia,
is. empty and mostly 7 bordered by vacant
windowless or doorless shops. Originally
there were 150 English-floated mines in the
district. Many were so worthless as not to
be developed at all. Most of the rest shut
down after a short trial, and not one now
remains. Only two or three ever paid divi-
dends. A number struggled on for some
time making a profit one month and a loss
the next, but in the end a falling off in
values at depth settled them.
* * * *
"Oof Bird”: Charges of publishing false
and suppressing real news are again made
against some gold-mining boards, and the
registration or licensing of directors is
urged in Westralia. In one cited instance
the chairman at a shareholders’ meeting
announced that a telegram had been received
from the manager stating that the shoot had
been cut at 200 ft. and was worth loz. But
the chairman omitted to mention that the
wire included the words—“width three
inches.” In another case a report handed to
the newspapers read something like this:
“Our manager reports: ‘Have sunk No. 1
wihze 70ft. The reef looks well and
assays show values of 2oz. to 3oz.’ ” As
a matter of fact, the manager sent the results
of some 20 assays. Two dazzling ones were
published: the fact that the whole lot
averaged sdwt. was suppressed. But the
directors knew it.
# # * *
Commodore (W.A.) has been born again.
Good accounts concerning the show are being
circulated, and shares are being sought by
Perth speculators. Some weeks, however,
are likely to elapse before the mine is uu-
watered. Then, no doubt, there will be a
strenuous effort to make a market. Where-
upon there will be a scuttle out —and some
slow people will be left nursing the baby.
* * * *
They are not getting fat at Cohen’s Long
Tunnel, Walhalla (Vic.), as the March run
gave only 250 z. from 280 tons. And Wal-
halla gold is worth only about £3 12s. (kl.
Still some people believe that the mine will
be self-supporting on 2dwt. stone, provided
the battery is run three shifts daily. But
why go underground to get it if that grade
will do? Any old Long Tunnel dump stuff
will go that high.
* * * *
Clermont (Q.) in 1917 produced 18,000
tons of coal in excess of its previous best.
Blair Athol and the Newcastle are the chief
mines; under normal conditions the two
produce from 10,000 to 12,000 tons per
month. The sinking of a small shaft below
the main heading at Blair Athol No. 1 pit
has proved the seam to be 91ft. thick, while
the Newcastle has 61ft. of coal in the main
seam with 4ft. seams above and below.
The Thermo Electric Ore Reduction Co.,
whose headquarters are at Wolfram Camp
(Q.), has taken over all the Irvinebank
Co.’s properties at Koorboora, including the
once-famous Neville mine. In addition the
T.E.O. Co. has purchased the Tully and the
Murphy and Gayney mines at Wolfram, and
has inspected Bamford. The best mines at
Wolfram are not all owned by the co.; but
the lot of their owners is not bright, as
they are dependent on the T.E.O. Co.’s plant,
which is kept busy on its own stuff.
Prices paid for the recent purchases ran
into five figures. The co. is still hustling
round taking up options over anything
promising in the rare-metal line.
* * * *
Mt. Elliott (Q.) is still up against the
problem of how to make a profit out of low-
grade ore. The superintendent pleads for
treatment on a large scale, and estimates
that the co.’s five mines are capable of sus-
taining an output of from 2600 to 3000 tons
per day. Reserves were recently computed
at 940,000 tons; but, though the ore channel
of the best mine, the Consols, is 1500 ft. long,
the deepest level (480 ft.) has been driven
only . 500 ft Mt. Morgan, by reverting to
simple jigging, has become an object-lesson
to other copper cos. in the State. Its mill
now easily concentrates 20,000 tons of crudes
in 28 days.
* * * #
It was all very interesting from the
scientists’ point of view; but there was no
money in the process developed for treating
Radium Hill’s stuff from Olary (S.A.). So
mill and other plant, which had only a few
weeks’ run, is under the hammer. In that
remarkable nor’-east country of S. Aus. you
can find almost all the metals and most of
the minerals known to the laboratory; but
off the Teetulpa goldfield, wßich didn’t last
many months, no good has been done any-
where.
• * * *
Teddy Miles loses £9OO a year from now
on owing to his agreement for a special fee
with the Deebook having, run out; but the
co. won’t collapse because of that. During
the last six months the dredge at Renong,
Siam, handled 371.152 cub. yds. for 127 j
tons tin oxide. This returned £16,368, or
an average of 10|d. per cub. yd., and as
costs were 5Jd. the co. made £7782 profit
for the six months. The little Siamese
grabbed £23-odd for royalty and duty per
ton of oxide. Consequently the £152 per ton
obtained was down to £l2B 14s. before the
ore was shipped. Teddy knows the “East”
and doesn’t quarrel over this levy, but it
wrings tears of blood to pay 600 p.c. more
for wire rope, 400 p.c. more for steel plates,
and so on. On top of this, labor has to get
a 10 p.c. war bonus. So, as Capt. Edward
says in his very best manner, “even with the
abnormal price of tin the advantage is not
all that it appears.” The crumbs of eom-
,ar? *he Deebook-lionpibon, now
called the Konpibon Extended, is doing bet-
ter, and outputs at Deebook have been in-
creasing’. Hence a shilling div. for April
and a forecast of regular quarterly payments.
* » * «
J lie Mttie Bangnou is another 'of the
leddy Miles group, and like the Deebook it
doesn t dredge up to sample. The tally for
six months was : 382,845 cub. yds. handled;
Ho tons oxide won : value, 9d. per cub. vd.;
costs, 4d.; profits, 5d., or a total of £7928.
costs were high because the plant was
switched on to a shallow and rough run of
wash, but all the same the yield is below par.
‘-° the tails are to be sampled automatically
as at the Deebook, where it was found that
the loss over the launders was only 5 p.c.,
showing that the recovery wasn’t at all bad.
Miles, jun., has given up his job of running
tin! Bangnou to allow engineer Weinert to
try Ins hand at the job.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 34.)


Hotel Sydney
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
„ (Daily) 11/6
Bed and Breakfast „ 6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
HtIDSItCKS
Vintage? 1906
(mmm
HE PLUS ULTRA
i
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
; *e^ owvttB
L S^°P s
DbtaV?^
V.r2
p\tt SWJ^visoo’ 5 ke t
c rrV V/ '' arl let tf®* 10 *.-, Jtfn<
43& nrfotd l&Wee V Tad 4 '" l^
« 6 . o oS^e , 2; o?'i" s "
iction
424
122 °*\tt S treet d S SV doey
??. 6 -aiße ftct V.„use. <
129V>
jhkl
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE
MOET (SL CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
va
THE MERIT OF A "PLUM”
is best appreciated by the man who has tried all other sorts of Razors
before discovering; the “Plum” masterpiece. • All the science in the
world can’t, make a keener blade, or one that keeps its edge so long.
SEND FOR A “PLUM” RAZOR TO-DAY.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor. Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List
CRAIG &. AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, Abril S, 1918.
Aly Dear Arini, —
The Red Cross revue in King’s Cross
Theatre was up to the best amateur stan-
dard —on the whole. The sale of eighteen-
penny tea tickets to scores of lieges who
were either hunted out of the place
appointed—the idea being that they must
go out for the purpose of coming in again—
or who, having descended from the d.e. and
flourished their little docket, never got within
coo-ee of the beverage, didn’t matter. It
made extra coins for the cause, and hardy
wights who did crowd in won’t worry about
the damage to their best hats. The G.-G.
was there, but didn’t “rise” to a Harry
Lauder imitation by Cannot w’ith the mirth
expected from a Scot. With him Lady
Helen, niece Doris and pleasant little
Haskett Smith were penned on one side of
the d.c. On the other French Consul-
General Chayet was moored near the David-
sons and their small girls. Goossens, in “The
Toast is Anzac, Gentlemen,” and “Indian
Love Lyrics”—with a bewitching harem—
supplied most popular items. Philip Wil-
son, in the costume, I think, of an Arab
melon-vendor, and Mrs. Alex. Gordon as an
Indian charmer wer\e the chief other
warblers in this scene. The Jacobite tab-
leau was too reminiscent of the lately-
defunct Italian opera chorus when it wailed
in “Lucia” to hit the top line. Helen
Afacarthur, in azure velvet, was a beautiful
Australia in another scene. And Joan of
Arc —a very shapely Joan in silvery armor
—held her sword to skewer a falling star
while Goossens thundered the Alarseillaise.
To say his word for the War Loan Governor
Davidson climbed the improvised “Tank” in
Atoore-street with considerable agility. Aide
Stanham, with a stick to help him—lie’s a bit
lame —hobbled slowly up the beastie’s grey
backbone. Joynton Smith, with a bowler hat
tipped over one eyebrow, and David Storey
hurtled through four-minute speeches. From
.Melbourne the Commercial Travellers sent
president Paterson to promise that the
southern city would give Sydney a run for
the War Loan Subscriber Stakes. This was
on the opening day of the Tank's groans
round the city.
A small dais clad in a red petticoat stood
in the centre of the National Gallery’s Aus-
tralian court one afternoon last week. On
this Alinister James opened another pot of
honey and spread it over the men whose
works form the Loan Collection to which he
was inviting the public. A fashion article
could be written about the modes of the past
25 years as reflected by the brushes of such
men as George Lambert and John Long-
staff. For instance, a portrait by John of
Prof. Andy Stuart’s good-looking wife shows
the coiffure built up on the “frames” of
seven or eight years ago, and fuzzed out
in the Pacific Island manner. The lady is
depicted (and no wonder) with widely-star-
ing eyes under this canopy. Everyone
wore it at the time. Alost of us. perhaps,
only suspected it was hideous. “Lotty and
the Lady” (Lambert) is a text on fish and
millinery. The lady’s hat is perched on
some hidden projection and keeps its
equilibrium because there is no wind. “Ab-
surd !” said a male in the crowd. “Fancy
you in a hat of that kind !” “Excuse me.”
replied the wife suavely, “but when you told
me I was the handsomest girl in the town, I
wore just such millinery!”
“Out in the Bush with God,” runs the
legend under one photo, postcard: “The
bonnie Bush bairnies and their pal. D.E.F.,”
he labelled another; and so on through a
little pile of the p.e.’s that used to come my
way from “Jimmie Pannikin.” He was six
feet of child, and the official mask never
deceived the youngest babe in a Kinder-
garten class. The pal and playmate of the
beloved Australian kiddie, his passionate love
of everything under the blue dome of his
native skies and his tireless efforts as an
apostle who preached the beauties of its bush-
land in and out of season, the big-hearted
“Pannikin” wielded an unrivalled personal
influence over many hundreds of juvenile
Cornstalks. Frequently he ran against
wooden walls but it wasn’t his head that
got all the bruises.. Stung by some real or
imaginary wrong to his Australian school-
kiddies he would “go out into the Bush with
God.” One or two sympathetic adults, a
trail of adoring youngsters and a picnic-
hamper completed the party. So Donald
Fraser leaves, besides his widow and a son
and daughter, hundreds of tiny pals to mourn
the loss of their friend.
Arrived home, Sister Dorothy Raff, daugh-
ter of Alexander Raff, a well-known Queens-
lander. She has been mending Billjim for
three years, and only returns now because
of a breakdown. In six months’ time she
hopes that it will all be over; if it isn’t, that
she’ll be back in France.
There’s a long, long line of walking
wounded just behind the firing-line in
France. There are thousands of bruised and
battered human wrecks when each night’s
toll of battle is counted. And tens of thou-
sands who would never walk again but for
the swift mercy of the Red Cross Its in-
vincible battalions hover near the Gates of
Hell, on the road to Amiens. Australia is
asked to remember this on April 26. To
remember it with even the last shilling in
the old stocking or the tin box.
The new president of the N. S. Wales
branch of the Red Cross, Lady Davidson,
has already grappled with the essentials of
the position. As the wife of little New-
foundland’s Governor, the slender lady was
a Red Cross pioneer on that fogbank.
Withfh a few weeks of fateful August 4
she had turned Government House into a
depot, and it became, eventually, the cen-
tral meeting-place of the Red Cross workers
of St. John’s. But not at once. Governor
Davidson and his wife had to explain a lot of
things. Alany of the primitive fisher-folk
had—happy people !—never seen a soldier
except in pictures. They knew, perhaps,
how “Boney” dressed in 1814-15. But the
news that in 1914 the French and British
fought together against the Prussians was
incredible. When they did understand
Frightfulness, the men looked round for any
old blunderbuss. The women, accustomed to
spinning, and expert knitters, seized their
weaponsi From such an overture Lady
Davidson stepped ashore to hear a full Aus-
tralian chorus in every Sister Susie’s tent.
Falk’s photo of the busy lady goes to you
with this.
A sharp southerly gave our Best People
blue noses if they sat too long in the stands
at Saturday’s races. The keen air brought
the new winter goods and a threat of nar-
rower skirts, with puffed drapery dragged in
to a tighter under-skirt at the ankles. Very
narrow braiding that worms its way in and
out an endless circle —Mrs. Herbert Ken ;
dall’s handsome fawn costume was of this
cult —is the winter’s craze. The coat that
is like a tunic jacket is edged with fur, and
goes with a skirt of the same. Jean Alorton,
in a light brown check suit of this kind, had
on one of the small velvet toques with silk
embroidery that are so good-for-the-soul to
sit behind at a matinge. Airs. Lipscombe,
with a pretty niece—Aliss Gillies, of Bris-
bane —had a bit on the losers. Airs. Caro, in
the place of odds —long and short —thought-
fully marked the scratchintrs. The Alisons
were down from Coomoo Coomoo station.
Airs. Val Osborne, in a putty-colore-d suit,
had a cosy fur round her shoulders. Airs.
Keogh (Coonamble) wore dashifig black-
and-gold millinery and a wintry-weather
suit; the Ohio (N.S.W.) Nivison clan were
in force; Edith Hill—giving her Red Cross
work one bar rest —was quietly frocked in
black. Men? Alyriads of trousers, on the
lawn and the flat.
Though the ermine is getting back its
tails this year, a snow-white cape shorn of
these trimmings was one of the luxuries of
the dress-parade at the last wintry day of
the Randwick meeting. For a mere 20
guineas a fox or ordinary bear mat, worn
across the shoulder-blades, trims the quite
every-day coat of a Sydney girl this year.
And' most of the coats are new. Of panne
velvet, or ribbed velour, they are beautiful —
and costly. If the optimistic .1. J. Cohen
doesn’t get the half-million he expects for the
Red Cross, the most casual spectator of the
wealth that walked about at the A.J.C. meet-
ing will probably eat his hat, or do some-
thing equally futile.
Some of the youngsters at the Light Horse
ball in the Town Hall had their hair a-hang-
ing down their back when Potsdam went
mad, and had never been to a big hop before.
Even Mamma was a little excited as she
bustled her brood into the cloak-room. Before
S o’clock —which would have been an uncon-
scionably early hour for these gatherings in
pre-war days—anxious damsels were scan-
ning the ballroom horizon to discern the
signs of the times. Said signs were a solid
contribution of Paterfamilias struggling into
white-kid gloves and prepared to do or die
in the latest fox-trot. Still there was a large
and breezy helping of young men in khaki
and an indeterminate section, young and
not-so-young, in swallow tails. The lack of
a hostess in the old-fashioned sense struck
some of the lads in khaki. No one introduced
them —though there were a few senior men
who knew everybody—and many of the boys
hung together in shy groups and tried to get
10s. 6d. worth of comfort out of a soft drink
at the buffet. Scarlet and pink paper blooms
(lion, organiser Mrs. Kelly, who floated
round in floral silk, was responsible) made
gay color. Hon. sec. Mrs. Macneil Simpson,
in black and a smile, incidentally traversed
miles, rushing backwards and forwards to
the music platform to place the numbers of
each dance. A meagre gallery-attendance did
not depress the committee, for the half-
guinea ball-tickets had gone off better than
scalloped oysters. Mrs. Harry Levy, in
petunia, wore the last notion in evening
frocks —silk sleeves to the wrist. Mrs.
Spencer Brunton, another committee dame,
was impressive in black velvet. Mrs. 11. R.
Curlewis brought only daughter Joan in a
cloud of pale buttercup. The bridge players
—Mrs. John Toohey was in the crush —re-
tired nromntlv. When stray passers-by ven-
tured to look in the open door the bridge-
builders responded with a large note of in-
terrogation. Mrs. Shimizu, in the ballroom,
beamed over ivory and silver gossamer. Mrs.
Arthur Allen was nresident of the committee.
Bride Dora Christoe, of Hunter’s Hill,
tucked her hand under the arm of her new
husband, Surgeon-Major Donald, the other
afternoon. The lady’s plumage of snow-
white georgette sparkled like hoar-frost with
silver passementerie. Tissue of the same
shimmering hue showed in a glistening coil
when the train turned over. Niece Rena
Christoe was in attendance on this finery, and
the second-best man, Surgeon-Major Byrne,
escorted her down the aisle. Cake was
sampled at Petty’s.
Governor Davidson, welcomed by Justice
Ferguson, opened a garden fete at Ascham
on Friday afternoon. Funds go to buy com-
forts for the 20th Battalion, whose depleted
ranks provided his Ex. with a guard of
honor in France recently. Rafflers swarmed
like mosquitoes on the lawns. Mrs. Max
Allan had a sucking-pig and a bag of cliokoes
to get off at sixpence a member. Colonel
Lamrock, with the green and white colors of
the 20th was in the crush. The Pudukota
lady had a stall; Mrs. Gilbert Lodge helped ;
and in the tea enclosure Molly Levy was the
peri at the portal. Pumpkins and Potatoes
were also present.
Died in England a week or two ago, Pri-
vate Jack Cross, youngest son of Mrs. E. W.
Cross, of Mosman, and brother of Zora.
Wounded in France, he was going back to
the place where every man is wanted, when
meningitis struck him down. A brilliant
High School boy, just before enlisting in
1916 he won an exhibition at Sydney Uni.,
and had already written things that had
been well w r orth printing. An elder brother.
Sergeant Victor, got the Military Medal last
year.
After John Carlton Fay, pianist, had
bowed to the audience in the Conserva-
torium, Elsie Pascoe followed with a song.
This young singer has a good deal to learn;
and it’s up to youth to snatch its oppor-
tunities. Tenor Cappelli, the lion of the even-
ing, was in his best voice. A wonderfully
thrush-like and full-throated melody—Verdi’s
“Ferra del Destino” —streamed from a silvern
something hidden behind a small black mous-
tache clipped neatly as a garden hedge. A
big house brought the good-natured tenor
back for two encores. Henri Staell on the
fiddle, Mrs. Cappelli (who slips off the edge
of her top notes) and baritone Relloni com-
plete the co.
Outside a Town Hall the other day a
War Loan crowd had a card thrust into its
hand setting out in large letters that “The
Lord Mayor wishes to inform you that he
has taken over the Bull and Bush Hotel, and
hopes for a share of your patronage/’ The
crowd jumped a bit—until it noticed, in
letters as small as a war-profiteer’s con-
science, that it was (say) Bill, “brother to”
his Grace (or whatever it is) who had taken
command of a new beer-pump. Still, as the
politician doesn’t mind using a world-war
for the purposes of his trade. I suppose
nobody can complain when a publican pastes
his little ad. on the glory of his exalted
brother.
The Franklin men, lately of Victoria, are
represented by Major Reg Franklin, D. 5.0.,
whose bride was Winifred Verrinder a few
weeks ago; the headmaster of Melbourne
Grammar School, now with the Artillery;
and a brother at the Naval College, Jervis
Bay. The ’groom is on flying leave from the
Egypt-to-the-Walls-of-Jericlio crusade, in
which he has been fighting for three years.
He buckles up shortly for more desert
boundary-riding.
A Queensland air-man, Captain R. J.
Bennett, having chosen an Australian lass
for his Best Girl, the bells of St. Margaret’s
(Westminster) gave a joyful tinkle on
January 23. The bride was Edith Baines-
llall, of a Bananaland and N. S. Wales clan.
Maudie Telfer, the Sydney songster, warbled
at the wedding party.
The 2nd D.A.C. and 22nd Howitzer dames
hold a jumble sale in the City Mission Hall
on April 13. Contributions thankfully
seized.
Still another badly-needed cheque for the
Alexandra Hospital. It comes from the
bright little party—coffee and song—organ-
ised by Mrs. Maclurcan in the Wentworth
winter garden.
Augustus James opened N. W. Cayley’s
one-man show in Aldenlioven’s gallery.
Cayley, junior (an accident at football years
ago is responsible for the reject’s badge on
his coat), is, of course, a son of the late and
noted bird-painter. Self-taught, the son
spends long hours in the bush trying to catch
the feathered tribe at home; hence many of
the charming little water-colors show Lady
Blue Wren giving her nurslings breakfast,
or a tiny warbler feasting on dewdrops in
the heart of a wattle-blossom. Cayley is
steadily improving in style, and the show is
worth a visit.
From Brisbane :
Monica Little, the auburn-haired daughter of the
Frank Littles, Was married on Tuesday to Ulick
Browne, son of the late Sylvester Browne, of Mel-
bourne, and a nephew of Ralph Boldrewood. Ulick
is a sth Light Horse veteran and owns a station
somewhere out Sunset way.
Dr. Lilian Cooper and her friend Miss Bedford are
back after having done their bit in Serbia. The
doctor toiled at one of the Scottish Women’s Hos-
pitals, about 100 miles from Salonica, while Miss
Bedford chauffeured a motor-ambulance, doing ail
her own repairs and digging the vehicle out of
innumerable bogs. Any spare time was devoted
to patching, washing and fumigating the clothes of
the wounded. Both Queenslanders brought home a
great respect for Serbian courage.
The toilers in the Red Cross kitchen deserve
special mention for their Easter effort. A batch
of 250 invalided men had just arrived, and on
Good Friday and the two following days a band of
36 kept the pots boiling and turned out big loads of
extras for all the hospitals.
Tours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


I Hold
Big Stocks
s
SB
8S
I Bought
Them Early
Joe Taylor Suits- from £4 4s.
Joe Taylor Costumes from £5 ss.
NO wonder I look so pleased !
While most tailors are look-
ing for stock and wondering
where it’s to come from, I’VE
GOT IT ! Bought long before
present high prices, too ! That’s
why I can still offer such excep-
tional value at the prices quoted
above values that have set all
Melbourne and Sydney talking.
No matter in what part of the
Commonwealth you live, you are
on the same footing as Sydney and
Melbourne folk when you order
from me. My easily followed self-
measurement form ensures correct
fit. Every Suit and Costume I
make is tailored in my own work-
room and absolutely guaranteed !
“Your Money Back if Your Suit
or Costume is not Right.” That’s
my way of doing business.
Send along that Suit or Costume
order—you’ll come again. Use the
Coupon— post to Joe Taylor, The
Tailor, 95 King Street, Sydney; or
109 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
You’ll get patterns by return post.
€
0
me
Tex
ilor
jhk
‘ Seven Busy Tailoring Stores,**
95 KING STREET
(Between Pitt &\
George Streets/
SYDNEY
109 Bourke Street and 69 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
And at Brunswick, Footscray, Richmond and North Mdlbourne.
/
,0’
JP
&
.<?•
Suit or
Costume
Shade
Price about
Name
Address
Bulletin, 11/4/18


\Aeltonian
IV \ HIGH-CLASS '
JSPEpiALTTES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning S Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALI- • OVER • THE • V^LD
ljh
«.»S8
BS 81
sans
Australian Homespuns
Handloomed by Returned Soldiers
At Sydney Red Cross Weaving Depot.
'pHE Whole of the output to date has been bought by Farmer & Company, Ltd.,
and arrangements have been made for securing further supplies.
THE MATERlAL.—Australian Homespuns skilfully woven by hand, all-wool yarn,
are obtainable only at Farmer’s, either by the yard-length (58 to 60 inches) or
tailored into:—
Men’s Overcoats, Sac Suits,
Made to Measure and Ready to Wear.
Boys* Suits, Ladies* Coats (EX SKirts.
The material compares favorably with Imported Cloths with all the character
and wear-resisting o.ualities of the true Homespun. There are many delightful
shades in Winter weights to choose from, and there are innumerable reasons why
Patriotic Australians should ask for Australian Homespuns. They thus extend
practical support to our Returned Soldiers and the Red Cross Industries, and
foster an important national industry—the best utilisation of Australian Wools.
Interesting displays of the material in the piece and manufactured into garments
may be seen in Farmer’s Tailoring Department, First Floor, Market Street.
YOUR WINTER
OUTER GARMENTS
SHOULD BE OF
AUSTRALIAN HOMESPUNS.
fmrnh
~Sydney i
IF BILIOUS OR CONSTIPATED ME
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels
without griping or
discomfort.
An acid stomach, clogged with ferßenting',
ill-digested food, means that the liver is not
doing its duty. Nature provided ripe fruit
juices to keep the liver up to its work.
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—is a
deliciously refreshing fruit laxative which is
always in season. You can keep it at hand,
and it will be an unfailing friend whenever
the tongue is coated, bowels sluggish, breath
foul, throat dry or sore, stomach full of
wind, and head hot and aching. You can
take a dose whenever it is needed, as safely
as you could eat fresh fruit. In a short
while you will feel the benefit. The bowels
will be gently relieved, and the stomach
cleansed and sweetened as the undigested
food is moved on and got rid of. The tongue
wall grow clean again and the head will be
cooled and cleared. There is no mistaking
the beneficial effects of California Syrup of
Figs—“Califig.” Directions are with it for
adults and children of all ages. This
pleasant laxative is good for all, and cannot
possibly harm even the most delicate, but
you must ask for “Califig"—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade-mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Califig"—California
Syruo of Figs—in bottles of two sizes.
1/1$ and 1/9. P
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Mel bourne, April 8, 1918.
My Dear Yarhie, —
The postponement of the Delprat-
Teppema wedding is the subject of excited
comment. In this time of “quiet” weddings,
a real, much-advertised and richly-dressed
ceremony was a godsend to sassiety. The
postponement is quite indefinite and the
bride-elect is shut in her room with nerves
and a nurse.
Mrs. Tom Ledingham has returned from
a Maoriland trip minus a lifetime’s collection
of jewels. They were in a leather wallet
which Mr. Tom packed in his suitcase. After
the suitcase had been locked and double-
locked. the two took a stroll on deck and
returned to find that lock and double-lock
had disappeared—the jewels were gone!
David Mills was on board with his daughter.
She lost a several-hundred-guinea fur coat
the same night.
Really I can’t make out whether this is a
cry of pain or a panegyric:—
Large expanses of pink bosom and long strips of
silk-clad leg are frequent enough; but this girl—
well, listen! She wore a filmy garment of white
samite or some such Greek-goddessy stuff, with little
in the way of reinforcements. The dress came down
to her knees and overlapped a trifle, as required by
the laws of Fashion. There were the usual three-
guinea boots below; and between was a well-nourished
area—well, I’m not blind! —of pinky-pinkness,
within a shiny pair of transluscious stockings. There
was also the usual show of powdered chest —only
more show than usual. Her dress had no sleeves—
not what could honestly be called sleeves. Her full,
round, pink, plump arms were all there, covered
diaplianously with shimmering chiffon; and around
the upper, dimpling scrumptiousness of her hefty
right was a broad, shining band of polished gold—■
underneath the chiffon, to invite close examination.
I had the best view myself, of course; but all along
both seats of the tram earnest faces popped forward
throughout the journey for just one more glimpse.
She was keeping the home fivers burning for a mem-
ber of the Umpteenth Battalion, the colors of which
distinguished outfit decorated her gently-heaving
midriff.
Traveller-journalist McMahon (he’s in
Melbourne at present) is bound next for
Ocean Island, the speck on the Equator
which yields millions of pounds’ worth of
phosphates yearly.
Tasmanian Governor Newdigate will pro-
bably begin soon to buy up pigs and chooks.
He is an ardent fancier of the animals and
birds, and at his English home there was a
sensational sale of prize pigs and poultry
when he left for Australia. Fanciers came
from Scotland and Wales and all over Eng-
land.
Nan McClelland, a Melbourne girl with
ideas, has taken out five patents for beads
and other articles of “bigotry and virtue”
which she makes out of paper-pulp after a
method of her own. She is a sister of
Harry McClelland, the artist, and herself
shows considerable artistry in her products.
She can use a soldering-iron, and has written
a book. The beads she makes are as hard as
stone, and take a brilliant polish. She has
more orders for necklaces than she can sup-
ply. Turquoise, jet, jade, rose coral and
pale jargon—you pay your money and you
take your choice: it’s all the same to Nancy.
From an Australian nurse in France: —
Eggs are eightpence each, and still soaring. As
for milk, condensed or otherwise, it has latterly been
quite unprocurable. We use all kinds of substitutes
in our cup of tea, and tell each other as we sip that
we are becoming used to it. But the cold, the
terrible cold —nothing seems to rec mcile us to that !
I can assure you I am just thankful to be on night
,duty, for no other reason than that the lights seem
;to lessen it in some minute degree.
Sydney has filched from Victoria Nellie
’King, of Ballarat, the Victorian Education
Department’s voice specialist and examiner
In voice production and elocution. Miss
King has just become an instructress at the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College, Sydney. As
a worker and barrac-ker for Billjim abroad
she has few equals; but hers is not the sort
of barracking that comes of voice production,
though now and then she has orated to
some purpose at Win-the-War gatherings.
Everybody feels sorrry for Captain Jim
Stewart, who got home on leave to see his
mother and found her seriously ill. Mother
and son were reunited for a few hours before
she passed away. Captain Jim is the only
son of the late Gordon Stewart.
Lieutenant Kenneth Webb Ware, elder son
of the Toorak Webb Ware widow, has fallen
in action. Young Ken, who left Geelong
Grammar to be a gunner, was a grandson
of Justice Holroyd. All the Ilolroyd grand-
sons are in khaki. Two O’Hara Woods and
three Van Asches still oppose the Hun in
the air or the trenches.
C. J. Dennis and his Doreen have left
their Toolangi’ roof-tree for Adelaide, where
“Den” is to make final arrangements for the
filming of “The Sentimental Bloke,” the pic-
ture rights whereof have been secured by the
Southern Cross Feature Film Co.
We are to have a “Baby Week” from the
18th to tne 24th. The idea is to direct atten-
tion to the high death-rate among the little
ones and show how the mortality can be
lessened by good mothercraft and proper
feeding. The Town Hall and Athenmum
have been engaged for the week, and there
will be three free lectures for women and
girls daily, in addition to concerts, crfcclie
demonstrations, free food, exhibitions of
model nurseries and sundry side-shows, above
the portals to which the old legend: “Women
with children in arms not admitted” will not
be found. All the women’s organisations not
devoted to frivolity are co-operating.
No pleasing these art critics. At Pyramid
Hill, recently, a photo, was taken of the hill
from which the town derives its name.
From this photo, a Bendigo artist made a
small painting, copies of which were to be
sold for the lied Cross. These being shown
to the local school-children, one little chap
looked at it very searchingly, and then pro-
nounced judgment. “It’s not bad,” he said,
“but that tree’s wrong. There should be
a bird’s nest on that limb.”
A hundred a month is won nowadays by
the L.M.P. League’s waste-paper collecting
department. As a result of her toil, Mrs.
G. G. Henderson, who has been in charge of
the depot for, a long time, is feeling the
strain and has been calling for paid help, no
voluntary labor being forthcoming. The mat-
ter was mentioned at the monthly meeting
of the League on the 4th inst., whereupon
a member plaintively asked what had become
of the 700 voluntary women workers who
had signed on to give national service. Now,
sli-h-h! Anyway, isn’t the old war nearly
over, with the wretched old Germans stopped
at the other side of Ballarat, or somewhere
equally safe and remote?
Pamela Brown, Melbourne’s first taxi-
woman, hails from the Mount Gambier dis-
trict of South Aus.
Cousin Adelaide’s letter :
By prohibiting the sale of anything that might be
mistaken for a “patriotic” button except with the
consent of the State War Council, the public has got
a protection that it needed. For some time past
enterprising bushrangers have been trafficking with
imitations of the recognised Button Day tokens, and
diverting the proceeds to irregular channels. Hence-
forward offenders will be liable to a £lO fine.
The Swifts have had news that their youngest son,
Neville, died of wounds on March 28. He held a
commission in the Citizen Forces when war broke out,
but was refused a similar post in the A.I.F. because
of his youth. Also, he was turned down as a private
in the war units because he was not allowed to resign
his commission in the peace regiments. Which shows
—but what’s the good ? Early in 1915 the keen
youngster went to England, and was in France with
the East Lancashii;es before the end of the year. He
was wounded twice, and won the M.C. and three
weeks later a Bar to it. Then he was promoted to a
captaincy, and finally was made acting-major—at
22! Of his two brothers, the elder has been in-
terned in Germany since the outbreak of dis-
courtesies, and the other, a doctor, is on the Western
Front, where he lias won the M.C.
An M.M. has come to Lieut. L. W. Avery, only son
of the Silverton Tramway Co.’s secretary. He left
with the 3rd Field Engineers in 1914.
Regimental or Comforts Clubs, originally purely
feminine, have decided to admit the fathers of mem-
bers of the A.I.F. to their ranks as honorary mem-
bers. Arrangements, are being made to hold com-
bined meetings of the clubs two or three times a
year with the idea of strengthening the organisation.
The first of the Eugene Alderman scholarships has
fallen to Edgar W. Yates for violin. Miss L. G.
Miller was placed first on the list by the examiners,
but was unable to make use of the foundation.
Gallant young Alan Morey, who left here as
Rhodes Scholar not long before the outbreak of war
and w'as so badly smashed early in the fighting that
he was partially crippled, has been killed while
flying in France. In spite of his lameness he was
determined to get back to the Front, and had been
there only a very few weeks when he was killed.
His major writes of him as “a lion in the air and a
splendid example to the officers of the squadron.”
He won the M.C. soon after he went to the Front.
The Brompton Methodists have declared the strike
off, Conference having climbed down. Remarking
that it had mistaken the facts, it has given them
back their parson, whose intended removal to another
town had caused all the trouble.
Sapper Burns and Olive Farries have
been sweethearts ever since they can remem-
ber, which isn’t 20 years, and when Burns
returned to Australia, having had both his
feet blown off by a bomb at Armentieres, he
found Olive waiting for him. Artificial
appliances, which Burns can use to a
miracle, make his handicap unnoticeable,
and Olive was a proud and happy girl as
she moved down the aisle of St. Francis’s
Church on her soldier-husband’s arm.
The slowness of Geelong got another advt.
this week when a panting girl ran on to the
local railway station and gazed tearfully at
the receding tail of the midday train, which
doesn’t live in the town and is a little faster
than the inhabitants. The girl of Geelong
had been proposed to by letter by an impul-
sive gent, in Sydney, who had read in the
newspaper that she had to answer a charge
of absconding from the local Salvation Army
Home. The bridegroom-elect had sent the
fares of the bride and his future mother-in-
law, and perhaps Romance missed the 12.17
and w r as left wringing its hands on the plat-
form because mother couldn’t do better than
20fsec. for the last 100 yards.
Athenaeum librarian Remfrey, who did
three years in the Anzac trenches, played
male lead in a wedding last Saturday. A
pretty Mitchell chick, of Brighton, was the
principal girl. The pair tracked to Sydney
for the honeymoon.
In London last week the Fred Fairbairns’
son and heir, Gordon (better known in Mel-
bourne as “Beau”), was made one with his
youthful Fogland fianede Illeene Hastings.
Her dad is brother to the Huntingdon earl
who married red-w T hiskered Samuel Wilson’s
heiress. The bridegroom, who is in a British
cavalry regiment, was badly gassed in 1016,
since when he has been on an lI.Q. job in
Egypt.
George Kirk, confirmed bachelor (these
C-.B.’s are a public menace —they represent
so much of women’s waste time), is the
latest to agree to be altared. George, a
nephew of the late millionairess Eliza Hall,
works in the London Bank and is gilded
several inches deep. Thelma Andrew, of
East Melbourne, will share his income in
future. Mrs. Kelso King, of Sydney, came
over to see her brother through the cere-
mony, and another sister, Mrs. Anna
McGregor, also lent her presence. The
new Mrs. Kirk was handed over in the regu-
lation white satin, and corks popped at
Menzies’.
A she-babe who came to Toorak the other
day has a unique kind of father—a poet
loaded with money, to wit, Rupert Atkinson.
It is generally agreed that the infant made
a wise choice in selecting its parents.
One of the Chirnsides has dropped a useful
hint to squattahs and other landed proprie-
tors. This one is Andrew, of Berwick, who
is handing over 480 acres in the vicinity for
the settlement of returned soldiers enlisted
from that district. An inspector from the
Closer Settlement Board reported favorably
on the soil, which will be watered from the
Mornington and Naval Base scheme, and
should yield ’taters generously.
Poor Napoleon Boffard! The Hawthorn
mayoral people engaged him to sing at the
patriotic concert last week, and somebody
’phoned the tenor a special request to put
“The Death of Nelson” on his programme.
Napoleon arrived flustered and pink and
explained the situation to an amazed audi-
ence, in his best Anglo-French. Said _ he:
“Though my admiration for the British
Navy amounts almost to worship, how can
I stand up and sing ‘ ’Twas in Trafalgar’s
Bay we saw the Frenchman lay’?” So Napo-
leon sang the Marseillaise instead and won
great applause.
Pianist Cahill, of Bananaland, has been
resting in the country listening to Nature’s
symphonies. Three Brisbane concerts are
booked up for April; tenor Brookes is to
carol and Elsie Treweek si rig and decorate
the platform.
Mrs. Theyre Weigall opened her series of
musical talks about operas in the Brie Brie
music-room on Friday evening. The French
war charities are to benefit financially.
Toorak’s elect attended to listen to the. lady’s
musical chatter, which was peppered with
humor. The Edward Miller lady brought
her niece, the Perth beauty, Mrs. Leonard
Darlot. (You’ll remember her as Jennie
Browne.) Bob Gar ran and his spouse, the
Balwin Spencer lady without her picture-
loving husband, Minister for Lands Frank
and his wife (she snuggled in a coat of
paisley and fur) and the musical Jonsons
listened attentively.
A big Red Cross concert will happen in
Melbourne Town Hall on Tuesday, April 16,
to help the soldiers’ stall of the Camberwell
Red Cross Carnival. Miss Daeomb is organ-
ising the affair. Maggie Stirling, Charlotte
Hemming, Napoleon Boffard, flautist
Amadio, boy-prodigy Cecil Parkes, returned-
soldier Lieut. Young, Agnes Caples (she
used to tour with Amy Castles) and a
Students’ Choir —all have to get in their bit
during the evening.
The song-writer struck up “Australia Will
be There” from a gallery in the House of
Reps, the other afternoon. They shut him
up or shot him out, I don’t know which;
but it has set some members thinking. If
Jim Page, for instance, believes he could
move the House better with a soulful song
than a speech, why shouldn’t he be encour-
aged to sing the soulful song? Recall all
the most successful religious-revivalists you
know, from Sankey and Moody down* to
Terrey and Alexander, and there was always
a singing partner in the pilot firm. And
there’s big Jack Virgo, of the Y.M.C.A.: half
of his success is due to the fact that he can
leave off in the middle of an address and
burst into a hallelujah solo. As for the
Salv’army, where would it be if, after our
dear sister had told us of the blackness of
her heart in olden times, it didn’t have ‘’Yes,
I’m Saved,” to sing? There ought to be an
orchestra, too. If George Cross had to tell
7i is mother that he would fight for her to the
last derrop of his blood, how do you think
he would get on without an orchestra to play
slow music? This Government has been
appointing new public servants (pro tern.)
by the score. There is one need it should
give immediate- attention to. Parliament
requires a “producer.”
At a meeting of the Historic Memorials
Committee, attended by Hughes and the
secretary of his Department, Senate Presi-
dent Givens and N.S.W. Art Gallery direc-
tor Mann, it was decided that Hughes and
Givens, together with Cook, Elliot Johnson
and the G.-G., should be preserved in oils
for the benefit of posterity. W. B. Mclnnes,
recently appointed drawing-master at the
Melbourne Gallery, will fix up the G.-G.,
Norman Carter will endeavor to make Jokook
look like a statesman, Muir Auld will do his
best for Givens, Speaker Johnson will be in
the kindly hands of Florence Rodway, and
to Smax Meldrum falls the Prime Minister.
Those who remember the flood of ignorance
that was poured out by political art critics
in connection with Lambert’s portrait of
George Reid reckon that Meldrum will cer-
tainly earn his £3OO, which is the price each
artist will receive—£so for a sketch in oils, to
be approved by Hughes, Tom Givens and
the other art critics, and £250 for the com-
pleted portrait.
Incidentally, let it be recalled for the
benefit of Meldrum that many years ago.
when Hughes was told that a portrait didn’t
do him justice, he replied: “Justice be
(sh!) ; my face calls for mercy!”
Fred Maguire, who makes a specialty of
absurdly-innocent young, men (at time of
writing he is uplifting his tenor in “Canary
Cottage”), last week offered himself for
khaki, but the man behind the stethoscope
decided against him. Another whose ser-
vices have been regretfully declined is Stan-
ley Rodda, principal of the Workingmen’s
College.
Gregan McMahon says his Repertory
team is responding well to training, and
should display good form (not forms) in
Granville Barker’s comedy, “The Madras
House,” on April 13 and 16. Lady Helen
has expressed her wish to have a chair re-
served for the second performance.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.
The lied Cross Book and Newspaper
Depot, 5 W.vnyard-street, Sydney, requires
weekly papers, magazines, etc., for the benefit
of sick and wounded Australian soldiers.
Recent issues are preferred, but nothing is
so old that it is useless. As soon as
you have read your weekly newspapers,
magazines, etc., leave them at the Red Cross
Book and Newspaper Depot, 5 Wynyard-
street, Sydney—and keep on doing it!


pm
1
HELLt FRAXER.
%
I
All you need to do is to fit
the pieces together from the
Detail Drawings we supply.
m
Ml
mt
WM'&m*
§
m
ms
m
m
We can send you
m
BELL AND PBAZEB.-c.,jri«»u
m
Pieces for making any Furnishing
Article such as Artistic Chairs,
Tables, Bookracks, Lawn Swings, or
any Artistic Essential to Your Home.
Mm
m
W
MM
« w.
pm
H-jrt ».
fSffl
m
m
F
/
v\
!
<x
\
YOU
CAM
SAVE.
MONEY
Because you can use your spare time in fitting the Redi=Kut Pieces together.
Because the timber, being in pieces, can be closely packed at low freight charges.
Because you save the high cost of factory expenses and high rents of shops.
You will be surprised at the economical
amount at which you can artistically
furnish your home with Redi-Kut Timber.
AsK for Circular A. It’s yours by return post.
BELL FRASER LTD
lip
The Redi-Kut Timber Specialists,
ROZELLE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Miss DOROTHY BRUXTOX says“l have derived
such wonderful benefit from the use of HEENZO
(Hean’s Essence), and HEENZO COUGH DIAMONDS
for the throat, that I shall certainly never venture on
a tour without taking a plentiful supply with me.
At present I am busy recommending your excellent
preparations to my friends."
HEENZO
Is the famous Money-Saving Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, CROUP, CATARRH
and other Chest and Throat Troubles.
Costs 2/-, SAVES 10/-
Each bottle of HEENZO makes a pint of the flnest-quality
Cough Mixture, and only costs 2/- per bottle.
HEENZO COUGH DIAMONDS ale lozenges medi-
cated with HEENZO. They are tine for the VOICE a'tid
Throat. 1/- per tin.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES-
Australia and New Zealand.
kjh
King George IV
(r~\
TH E TOP NOTCH scqtch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“i> A.M.” : One of Melbourne’s most whis-
kered suburban ,T’s.P. has a fair working knowledge
of derrink’s curious effects. One night, in a bush
township, some of the boys had been celebrating a
birthday, with Whiskers a hearty participant. Late
in the evening a section of the party went off to
bunk in the pub, with Whiskers presently sound
asleep in full morning dress. Later there were
sounds of life in the old boy’s corner. “Pore ol’
feller,” he was heard to say. “Pore ol’ chap. Y’
mush be feelin’ cold.” The ancient celebrator got
up, unsteadily, and it then appeared that he was
addressing the bedroom ewer, upon which the moon-
light streamed through the Windless window.
Affably removing his coat and vest, Whiskers
solemnly proceeded to wrap the garments about the
water-jug’s chilly bosom, draping bis highly-respect-
able paget over the pitcher’s shoulders and drawing
it snugly together in front. “Now,” lie murmured
kindly, “now y’ll be orright for the night, pore hie
feller”—and went righteously back to his own un-
blanketed bunk.
* * * •
“Mirrool”: “Pick” (B. 21/3/T8), who
found a Monaro (N.S.W.) blacksmith using a crush
of his own invention for shoeing the cloven hoof of
Bally and the rest of the ox-team, might see much
the same thing in common use among the horse-
slioers of France; and occasionally in English vil-
lages too. It is a rectangular pen measuring about
Bft. x 3ft., with a roller at the back about 2ft.
high. A strap is passed round the animal’s fetlock
and on to the roller. A handle at the end of the
roller is then turned and the hoof is lifted up to a
convenient height for shoeing, and there held fast by
the simple contrivance. It saves many a backache.
■‘Bill 11.” ; Apparently there is something
in “Mark Lane's” yarn (B. 7/3/’ 18) of the dog
which, after an argument with a death-adder,
refused to emerge from the water. My mate and I
were fishing off the shore of Corunna Lake, S.
Coast (N.S.M .), when his old retriever entered into
a jiu-jitsu match with a seven-foot black snake. In
the rough-up the dog was bitten on the lip, shoulder
and hind leg. Me shoved into the disturbance with
our sapling fish-rods, and then watched for the
passing of Bully. He lay panting under an oak
lor a while. Then shivering at the mouth, and
with all the symptoms of snake-bite poisoning, he
staggered into the salt water. He stayed there
throughout the day, and into the night. Next morn-
ing he lined up for his bone as usual.
“March Fly”-:. The ’possum develops into
a beerehewer when opportunity comes his way. One
of him lived at our country pub. He was a playful
chap and made friends with all and sundry. When-
ever anyone entered the bar Poss would perch upon
a shoulder and was generally given a sip. After a
while no other part of the house had any attraction
for the sinner. He would get on the counter and lap
up stray drops of booze as if they were necessary to
save his life. In course of time ho discovered how
to turn on a tap, but as he never remembered to
turn it off again he cost us more than a gallon or
two. Often the clipso. got hilarious, and at such
times would propose to the missus’s ’ indignant cat.
When suffering a recovery he was the most miserable
of his tribe, and was an object of general pity for
a couple of days. As he persisted in his bad habits
he was handed over to a strictly Rechabite neighbor.
“Oyo”: HereV ft good razor-strop tonic.
About every six months draw a piece of lead piping
up and down the leather, say, six times, pressing
fairly hard. A slight coating of lead is thus left on
the leather. I guarantee it will liven up any old
hoop-iron in record time, while doing no harm to the
best of blades.
* * * *
“Ornis”: “Azaek” (B. 14/3/’I8) wonders
why bce-culturists kick up an unearthly din with
bells and tins when a dowager queen-bee and her
adherents are evicted by a new queen. First let me
contradict his assertion that bees have no sense of
hearing. As one who didn’t commence keeping bees
the day before yesterday, I say they are most acute
of hearing. In fact, I have always found the auditory
senses of all manner of bugs very finely attuned to
their surroundings. However, when a queen leaves a
hive she emits a high-pitched note to keep her fol-
lowers together, and she sustains the call all the
time she is on the wing. The object of the tin-can
music is to drown the calling or guiding note of the
queen, and so cause the swarm to become bewildered
and want to settle. The queen, finding her followers
deserting her, and being perhaps herself confused by
the noise, likewise comes to earth. While they are
volplaning to the ground it is a gooil plan to douse
them with water. By the way, here’s a mysterv 1
fell into recently. I found the ground in front of
one of my hives thickly strewn with young dead
THE UNSUITABLE GODDESS.
RARTY IN MATRIMONIAL SUIT (addressing the court) : “Yer Honor, I leant to apply for
a change of Venus.”
bees, so fully developed that they would have emerged
from the brood frames within 24 hours. They evi-
dently had been dragged from their cells and thrown
out. The hive to which they belonged is very active
and savage. But why the wholesale infanticide?
SAFE CROSSING.
“Well, Billy, if you're sure there's no sharks I’ll cross the creek now.”
“No shark, Boss. Big pheller alligator bin eat ’em all up.”
“G. Ard«n Hill”: During a heavy rain-
storm recently part of the Illawarra (N.S.W.) peak
known as Brooker’s Nose slipped from its moorings
and, crashing down the mountain side, blazed a track
that can be seen from the horizon. Residents in the
mining village below thought that either the pit
had gone up or the Germans had come down. The
Corrimal-Balgownie Coal Co., which burrows beneath
Brooker, is now contemplating the removal of one of
his nostrils with gelignite lest when he next sneezes
he scatters the surface plant to smithereens. It’s a
ticklish job.
“Mookumwybra”: It’s no use Abo.-
writers bemoaning’ that the propagation and culti-
vation of our indigenous flora receives very little
attention at the hands of N. S. Wales school teachers.
The serangs of the Education Department are directly
responsible. I wrote pointing out that f had a
plethora of indigenous ornamental trees, and asked the
Department, instead of sending the usual hatch of
mainly-erotic vegetables from the State nursery,
to supply me with IS or 20 assorted fruits. The
reply came that it was not the practice of the
Department to supply fruit-trees, as these were not
raised at the State nursery. Fruit, and plenty of it,
is essential in a climate such as ours, and where is
there a better opportunity of giving to the children
practical object-lessons on the ease with which it
may be grown than at school? On the Department's
refusal to supply me I gathered seedling peaches,
oranges and lemons, bought nine or 10 grafted
trees, and now, after six years, we have about 30
trees and the same number of vines (passion-fruit,
grapes and logan-berries) which supply the school
with at any rate some fresh fruit for the greater
part of the year.
* * * * r
“Sid” : These insect-eating birds that Abo.-
scrlbes have been parading lately are absolutely
worthless to the orchardist. Give him a pot of
arsenate of lead, a bar of soap and some kerosene,
and a fruitman 'is prepared to face any insect pest
in Australia. Pity the man who trusts to birds; if
“Wandi” (B, 7/2/’IS) had ever had a flock of crows
or grey magpies playing skittles with his ripening
apples, or hosts of leather-heads and wattle-birds
amongst his cherries, he would not write as he does.
Yet these birds are heavy insect-eaters. Also I’d like to
see what “Wandi” would do with a mob of choughs
dragging his sprouting oats up by the roots for the
seed underneath. If “Pick” (B. 21/2/T8) sprays
with arsenate of lead just before or as his pest
appears his profits will go to 212° F. again. Now,
can anybody give me a specially-llunnish recipe for
getting rid of rosellas? I’m sorry, but I can’t
support ’em a in’ longer.
* * * *
“Te Whare” : It is seldom that the wily
serpent is seen taking his coat off after his winter
sleep, but I’ve caught one black devil at it.' He
was twisting and squirming between the cracks and
crevices of a pile of broken rock, choosing apertures
into which he fitted tightly. Eventually I picked
up about four feet of discarded epidermis. Clumps
of bushes, the stalks of which grow thickly together,
are also employed by the smaller serpents, but the
diamond snake and carpet usually choose rock-piles.
Bower-birds sometimes use scraps of snake-skin to
decorate their canoodling arbor, while the rifle-bird
hangs the material about its nest, presumably to
scare away enemies.
(Continued on page 24J
WHEN THE MULLET PUT TO SEA I
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the leaden rains are falling
And the rowdy winds are blowing,
And the reapers of the autumn
Store the fruits of field and tree,
lu the land-locked tidal waters
There’s another harvest growing,
And it ripens to the cropping when the
mullet put to sea.
By the mangrove-bordered foreshores
Where the kingfisher is flitting,
And the sluggish tide comes sluicing
Weedy waste and sandy spit,
They have idled all the summer,
Head to current softly pitting,
All as one, and all together, by the
glancing sunrays lit.
From the oozy depths and shallows,
From the salt-creek and the river,
In a silver host they gather
To their autumn faring-forth ;
And the waters, with the turmoil
Of their passing, stir and quiver,
As they move, a living river, on their
journey to the North.’
As the swallow, ere the winter,
Takes his flight o’er hill and hollow,
Marsh and river, lake and forest,
Bidden on mysteriously,
When the wild winds shout the Moment,
So the mullet, like the swallow,
At some strange and secret bidding quits
its home and puts to sea.
Come the gulls, and come the gannets,
Come the stealthy ocean-rovers,
Shark and kingfish—tooth and talon—
Turning all to ruddy rout;
Evermore red death assails them,
Evermore some peril hovers
In the skies above the waters, or the
waters round about.
North, and evqr north, they journey,
Past the headlands and the beaches,
Where the breaker jars and crashes,
And the comber creams and rolls,
While the brown nets close around them,
Where the hand of man out-reaches
To take tribute of their numbers and
make havoc of their shoals.
Seen by lonely lighthouse-keepers
On their cliffs and capes thrust forward,
Seen by filherman and sailors,
And by those who love to be
Night and noon beside the waters,
Are the inullet moving nor’ard,
Like a strange and silent army or a
river in the sea.
Oh, the greatness round about us
And the smallness of our knowing!
Though we know and name the planets,
There is much we do not know ;
When the mullet leave our coastline,
Like a river northward flowing;
Though we know that they have vanished
yet we know not where they go.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Men Who Care About
Their Appearance
and are anxious to get the fullest possible value
in the suits of their choice will find particular
interest in
Murdoch’s
Autumn Suitings
k
Suit-to- Measure.
These materials are attractive in design and color-
ing—nobby Greys and Browns in serviceable
textures.
Murdoch Tuiloring assures to every man a fault-
less-fitting suit that enhances his personality.
Satisfaction or money back is your unfailing
defence.
LEAVE YOUR ORDER TO-DAY.
Call and inspect these suitings or write for bunch
of patterns to Desk R.
Fill in the coupon now.
Other Murdoch Suit-to-measure prices are:—
Desk R.
MURDOCH’S IN PARK ST. LTD., SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Autumn Suitings at
Suit-to-measure, with tape und self-
measurement form.
Name
Address
J
zZ
m
1;0« ■ '
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.
WATCH THE ACTION
n
THE
LYOE-SnOKE
SATS
EVERMORE
'“STBOPPF.R.
TWEveimore
is rot an ordin-
ary stropper.
Its unique Slyde
Stroke action
enables ,you to
sharpen any
or safety
rcQor-liade with
the skill of an ex-
perienced barber
'Bice Js[~
If UNPROCURABLE WRITE TO PARTRIDGE AGENCIES LTD
Box 1003 G.P.O. Sydney, or box 14 G.P.O. Auckland N.Z
Inclusive afadapfers
far the sharpening of
any sd£ty-rajorblade
swfije or (huhlecdf^d
GJi ijowi chatHm to- ifc
The •• Trench.
LEVIATHAN
OVERCOATS
“TRENCH” RAIN COATS.—The smartest and
most up-to-date style, in FAWN-COLORED
GABARDINES. Designed with Collar, which
may be worn two ways (see illustration at
left); Belt all round, Tab Cuffs, Check Wool
Lining in Body of Coat, Self Gabardine Lining
in Sleeves. Sizes 36in. to 44in. chests. Best
English make. An ideal Overcoat for
Winter wear. Affords absolute pro-
tection against cold, wind and rain.
95/-
GENUINE "BCRBEEBVS.”-May be bod in Fawn,
Stone or Olive Gabardines, with Raglan sleeves, step
or storm collar. Sleeves lined throughout, and back
part lined with superior shot silk. (Style illustrated
at right.) Sizes 3(iin. to 44in. chests.
PRICES, 5, 0 and 7 GUINEAS.
ENGLISH “DEXTERS.”—III Fawn. Stone or Olive
Gabardines, step or storm collar. Sizes 361 n. to 44in.
chests. (Style illustrated at right.)
PRICES, 5, « and 7 GUINEAS.
MACINTOSH RAINCOATS.—ReIiabIe Australian
make. Will staunchly resist the heaviest rain. In
the newest and most fashionable Fawn shades.
Storm collar (as illustrated at right), tab cuffs, deep
vent at back. Ventilated
under armholes.
Sizes Min. to 421 n.
chests.
25,'
Better qualities, in Stone,
Fawn and Olive, 30/-, 45/-,
55/-, 63/-
GABARDINK RAINCOATS.— Designed with Raglan
sleeves, step or storm collar. Tab cuffs and deep
vent at back. Well lined with warm check plaid.
Colors, Fawn, Stone and Olive. Sizes
34in. to 42in. chests. (Style illustrated
lit ris’lit.l
35/-
Better qualities, 42/-, 55/-, 03/-
CHEVIOT
OVERCOATS.—Smart,' single-breasted
styles in Grey and Fancy Striped Effects.
Half belt and vent at back, strap cuffs,
set-ln sleeves, chests 34in. to 42in.
47|i
Superior qualities in Brown, Medium, or Dark Grey
Tweeds, 55/-, 60/-, 70/-, 75/-, 84/-
TWEED OVERCOATS.—DoubIe-breasted styles, in
Brown, Medium or Dark Grey English Tweeds ot
soft fleecy finish. Half belt
back, comfortably lined
sizes 34in. to 42in.
and vent at
throughout;
75
Better qualities, 84/-, 95/-, 105/-, 110/-
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
Cor. Swanston and Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
“W
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
m&sßMt
jh
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
Some Splendid Examples of Regal Records
at 2 6 each.
t
ALL 10-INCH—DOUBLE=SIDED.
G <249
A Long, Long Trail (Duet) Stuart & Burton.
Just a Plain Silver Docket Stanley Ivirkby, baritone.
G 7214
Somewhere in France F. W. Ramsey, baritone.
When I Feave the W r orld Behind F. W. Ramsey, baritone.
G 7297
f Are You From Dixie? (Duet) F. W. Kamsey and Stanley Kirkby
( When Paderewski Plays F. W. Itamsey and Stanley Kirkby
<57407
(Down Where the Swanee River Flows Trevor and Thompson.
I Oh, How She Could Yacki Hacki Wicki Woo Trevor and Thompson.
G 7370
Boys of the Dardanelles March Band of H.M. Scots Guards.
High School Cadets March Silver Stars Band.
G 7365
( March of the Anzacs
( Kitchener’s Brigade March
Band of 11. M. Welsh Guards
Band of II.M. Welsh Guards.
G 7415
(I’oor Butterfly . F- NV. Ramsey,
{For Me and M.v Gal F. N\ . Ramsey,
baritone.
baritone.
G 7416
j Hawaiian Butterfly .
( They Won’t Have Ate
F. \V. Ilamsey, baritone.
F. W. Ramsey, baritone.
G 7318
(When You Come Home Eric Randolph, tenoi-
( In an Old-fashioned Town Eric Randolph, tenor.
G72BU
j Australia Will Be There
( Australia Will Be There Mareh
... Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
Band of lI.M. Welsh Guards.
G 7373
( Mother Machree
j When the Robins Nest Again
Will Oakland, counter-tenor.
Will Oakland, counter-tenor.
G 6836
( Marche Lorraine ....
( Old Comrades March
King -
King’
s Military Band
s Military Band
07363
( Hello, Hawaii, How Are You? Stanley Ivirkby, baritone
{ yaaka Hula Hickey Hula Stanley Kirkby, baritone
G 7389
( Washington Post March (Concertina solo) Alex. Prince.
I Stars and Stripes for Ever March (Concertina solo) Alex. Prince.
(J 7161
( Angels’ Serenade
I Simple A veil ...
Violin. Flute and Harp Trio.
Violin, Flute and Harp Trio.
07238
j When Vou’
) You Broke
re a Fongr, Long Way From Home Trying Gillette, tenor.
My Heart Irving Gillette, tenor.
G 6272
(Terry. My Blue-eyed Irish Boy William Thomas, tenor.
| Where the Elver Shannon Flows William Thomas, tenor.
G 6745
( The Sunshine of Your Smile
I The Woman Thou Gavest Me
William Thomas, tenor.
.... John Adams, tenor.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., DakingHause, Rawsou Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wcrtheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King. Ltd., Queen Street.
AD EI,AIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth. Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts,
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladiec recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemift, Southami' on.—Advt.
• I
GGITTS
MNSEEdoiImEAI
U
mil
/ABOOITT tl? i W
v PARRAMATTA M
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.
QUALITY TELLS. That is why Meggitt’s
It is Australian.
It is absolutely pure.
It is all food, palatable, and all digestible.
It contains 31 per cent, protein.
Mr. Lovelock, of Palmerston North, feeds his champion Friesian Bull “King of Dominoes,” the winner of thirty-one
championships and many more first prizes, with
MEGGITT'S LINSEED Ol L M EAL
EQUALLY EFFECTIVE FOR SHOW AND SERVICE .
Commence feeding your stock with this highly-nutritious fodder and obtain similar results with your Horses, Cows, Pigs,
Poultry and Sheep.
... . PAMPHLET NO 2, INSTRUCTING HOW TO FEED, MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents:—
H arris<ms, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Wm. Adams Ltd., Perth; Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; Blair Reed & Co., G.P.O. Box 941, Wellington;
R. S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston.
m
gives results.
MEGGITT LTD.
OP
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and'
Linseed Oil Meal Manufacturers
of Australia 1
26 King Street, Sydney.
“F.Y.7”: "Leo Lear,” though correct in
describing the koala as a tame and affectionate pet,
forgets to add that Norman Lindsay’s trade-mark
is a willing and dirty scrapper when things are all
in. When a kid I had a fox-bull terrier which I
would have backed to clean up anything smaller
than a bullock. He and I got the shock of our lives
one day when lie went after an old-man bear who
was just starting to climb a tree. The bear dropped
to the ground, and with back to the tree tore into it
with both strong, clawed fists. The dog got his shock
at first hand, while I got mine by proxy, so to speak.
Still, though just as surprised, I was more amused
than he was.
* » » •
“McNorth”: Different localities, different
desires. The thing that the Binghi of Northern
Australia craves for most is sugar. He can do
without tobacco, but he must have sugar or some-
thing sweet. No matter how much tucker he has,
if there is no sugar he is dissatisfied. I know nigs,
who, on being paid off a pearling vessel, spend their
accumulated wages in the ratio of a pound’s worth
of sugar to ten-bob’s worth of anything else. The
coastal blacks can get lashings of fish, dugongs,
turtles and other tucker with a minimum of trouble,
yet, to satisfy the desire for something sweet, they
will spend days in the bush searching for wild-bees’
nests. In inland Papua, on the other hand, the chief
desire of the natives is for salt. When the rare white
man invades their mountain fastnesses, the hilhnen
crowd round him begging for salt. For a pinch or
two of it they will do a day’s work or bring heaps
of native tucker —yams, sweet potatoes, pigs, etc.—
for the white man and his “boys.” They greedily
devour the treasure as soon as it is given them. The
coastal native does not crave for it, because the sea
air supplies his system with all it needs. The desire
is an acquired one; natives who have never been in
contact with the coast don’t want to be pickled.
* * * #
“11.W.F.”: I can endorse “Konini’s” con-
tention (B. 14/3/’18) that flies dislike blue. In 1878
1 was with a railway survey party between Cook town
and the Palmer (Q.). We had six tents—five ordi-
nary white ones and one lined with blue for the boss.
Small grey houseflies were bad and used to swarm
into all the tents except the blue-lined one. No flies
would enter it.
* * * *
“See Gee” : Here’s one way of putting a
nasty taste in the mouth of the wheat ravager. Soak
the bags in a strong solution of alum —about 21b.
of the crystal to a kerosene-tin of water—making
certain not to fill before properly dried, of course.
The most the mice will do is to spar for an opening
around the mouth of the bag. To overcome that,
when sewing up slip a piece of alum-treated bagging
along the seam. If this doesn’t prove an invulner-
able defence the cookies on the Western Slopes of
N. S. Wales don’t know anything.
* * * •
“Suwarrow”: A couple of swallows set
up housekeeping in my shed the year before last and
successfully reared two lots of youngsters. Last
season, after getting one lot off their hands and when
the missus had laid four out of her usual clutch of
five eggs, something strafed her and I found her dead
in the yard. The widower hung around for two days,
then cleared off. Later he returned with another
lady, who put the job through, bringing out four
young ones. Now, was she just a good sort, willing
to do a good turn, or does this sort of thing fre-
quently happen ?
THE EARLY BIRD.
“Good Gawd, what yer taking on now, Lis?”
“It’s all right — Bill’s come hack in this boat,
so I brought this bloke down to fix things
up afore he sees the mob!”
A PRECAUTIONARY MEASURE.
MRS. BARNYARD (the newcomer) : “And you've got ten kids, they tells me, and Mr.
Stubbs has gone to the war?”
MRS. STUBBS : “Yes, he done it on purpose.”
“W.A.C.”: There’s no favoritism when
Mrs. Butcher-bird waits on the table. I recently
captured two of her offspring who hadn't received
their aviation certificates, and the old girl used to
bring their tucker. Although she might be absent for
hours she never fed them out of their turn. The
last one to receive the insect at tea-time had second
peep at the breakfast menu.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: The tail on the nest of the
cranky fan is used for three things: (1) As “Chink”
says, for drainage; (2) for security (the nest is
built in the fork of a tree, and on a windy day if it
hadn’t the tail it would be in an extremely precarioui
position) ; (3) as a storeroom. I have often seen
Fan poking her beak into the hold and pulling out
previously-stored scran. As to the r.est being the
best-hidden, have you ever hunted for the bungalow
of the honey-sucker?
* * * •
“Te Whare”: A dweller among the
stringy-barks spun me this yarn, and I believe it.
Cocky got off his horse to catch a leveret that was
whining, hare-fashion, in a clump of grass.
The mourner took shape in a fair-sized
hare completely enmeshed in the coils of
a large black snake, which had slimed the
animal’s fur liberally. When the beast
was thoroughly salivated the snake opened
its jaws wide and the catch slipped down.
The golianna, too, can stretch his neck at
times. I have seen several turkev-eggs
taken unbroken out of a slaughtered go’.
These were replaced under their pro-
prietress, still seated on the empty egg-
factory, and they eventually hatched out.
Large black snakes are seen occasionally
about swamps with their bellies enormously
distended. This is usually in the breeding
season when there are cygnets, wild-duck-
lings, cootlets, also young water-rats
about. The carpet and diamond snakes
often dine on full-grown rabbit, but I
don’t think they do much in the way of
salivating their prey. Anyhow, these big
reptiles are sometimes found with rabbits
stuck in their jaws, awaiting the period
W'hen bunny, resolving smellfully into his elements,
will soften and slip down.
* * • •
“Gecko”: If there be such a monstrosity
as a hare-rabbit cross, then I’ve got a sample. It is
a woolly rodent possessing a four-inch crimped staple
in dreadnought drah. I examined a score of ordinary
cottontails, but failed to find any trace of corrugation
in their fluffy kimonos, while a leveret hare showed
a decided undulating wave in its wool.
“Dinkum Kid”: The kookaburra is a
queer old doughnut at any time, but I met the tough-
est of the family recently while clearing in the big
timber country of Gippsland. I w r as preparing to
boil the billy, when, coming across a black snake, I
gave him a feed of waddy and passed on. Suddenly
a Jack flew alongside the wriggler, and after viewing
him for a few seconds, grabbed him by the scruff
of the neck, ’planed to the nearest stump and started
belting it with the serpent. Satisfied that the crawler
was permanently dead, the bird started to swallow
the corpse. Speed was no object; a bit at a time
was good enough for that kooka., with an occasional
clout to aid the cargo on its way. Inch by inch it
disappeared, Johnny pulling up now and again for a
spell and to size things up, and one could tell by
the look on his countenance that he was sure the big
worm had never had an equal. Half the body was
as much as the cackler could stow into his pantry,
and with the other half hanging from his beak he
looked a knut. The only thing I could liken him to
was a flying elephant. The apparition was under
my observation all the afternoon, and when knock-
off time came round Jack was still busy trying to
solve the problem. Next morning there he was, still
endeavoring to part with the end of the menu that
he had no room for. During the day, however, the
separation was effected, and Johnny was so pleased
that he broke into such an outburst of laughter as
has not been equalled since the first kookaburra saw
the celebrated operation performed on Adam’s ribs.
“Pick”: “Sliprail’s” argument that all
green timber in the vicinity of springs must be
killed to conserve the water (B. 7/3/’18) is pro-
bably an exaggeration; but the Monaro settlers have
learned that planting willows is an effectual method
of drying up their swamps. On the Bibbenluke and
Gunningrah plains, at one time, the head of almost
any gully was a quagmire, plentifully ornamented
with the skeletons of bogged cattle. The boundary-
riders were instructed to plant and protect willows in
the mud areas. Under these the ground is now firm
enough to carry a traction-engine, though the springs
are still streaming from the gutters below’.
* * * *
“Suwarrow”: I’ve heard that in a dead
calm porpoises always travel heading in the direction
from which the next breeze will come. Anvthing in
it?
• * • .
“A.V.H.”: To make a damper when
you’re out of baking-powder, fruit-salts and other
luxurious items, aerate the water required by drop-
ping into it, a piece at a time, and well submerge,
a fistful of red-hot charcoal. Then make damper
or Johnnies as i s al. P.S. —-If windy weather, have
ready a few' gibbers to hold the biscuit on the camp.
“G.N.”: While on furlough in the Cold
Country Billjim skipped across to the Isle of Wight
to visit an uncle whom he had never seen, carrying
with him a couple of carved emu eggs as a present
from dad. They were accepted with cries of wonder
and surprise, and the old unc. solemnly remarked
how natural the scene on each appeared to be. “Just
fancy a bird,” he exclaimed, “being so affected by
environment as to reproduce it on its eggs ! What a
wonderful place that far-away land of Australia must
be!” “My oath!” gulped Jimbill.
* * * *
“Melos”: The strangest device I have
seen for keeping chooks away from the house was at a
cow-cocky’s mansion. It consisted of a fre9h-water
turtle tethered by a hind leg to a verandah post. The
poultry could not be induced to come within rods of
the place.
“Eddyson” : It was all long ago. The line
had penetrated to a few miles beyond Bealiba, and
navvies were busy delving into an exquisite glade
that should have been sacred to Pan and a small
congregation of nymphs and satyrs. A few hundred
yards further along the creek, Mother Hubbard had
her hut. Mother Hubbard was not a camp follower.
She always got in a day or two ahead, and was
prepared to accommodate the horny-handed when the
gangs came on to further the work of civilisation
and progress. Mother Hubbard baked bread for the
navvies and did washing and mending, but her chief
usefulness was as a purveyor of those drinks that
make a navvy feel like an Assyrian king in the better
days of Assyrian kingship. She was not allowed to
do these things with impunity. The mounted police
were liable to drop in on her at any moment; but
by means of an elaborate system of communications
the proprietress had information of the oncoming of
the Law well in advance; then Mother’s customers
faded away, her stock was artistically disposed of
and the old girl herself went into temporary recess.
We had struck the shanty on Saturday morning of
pay week. Suddenly Mother Hubbard’s portable pro-
perty was removed by a large army of volunteers,
Mother went with it, and we were left stranded by
a deserted hut. Then came the police. They made
diligent search and presently began mining opera-
tions at a given spot. While they worked a bleary
man of podgy proportions, carrying a swag that looked
like a dead dog wrapped in a rag, drifted out of
the wilderness and stopped to gaze. His expression
was at first scornful. Plainly he had small respect
for the mugs who conducted prospecting operations on
so unlikely a spot. Suddenly, however, a very lively
interest lighted his plain, but doubtless honest,
visage. A digger had thrown up a bottle of brandy !
A second followed. Then came three in rapid suc-
ENTRE NOUS.
THE KID: “‘Bully,’ sir?”
PECK: “Er — no, thanks! I have one!”
cession. A keg of beer was hoisted to the surface.
More bottles were tossed up. John Hop had bot-
tomed on the wash! At this stage swaggy’s eyes
were standing out like eggs on a plate. He hurled
his bundle aside, he simply rushed the policeman’s
tomahawk and started falling a sapling. “What’s up
with you?’’ asked the copper. “Pegs!” gasped the
chopper. “Pegs? What for?” “I’m goin’ to peg
out the claim next to you!” gasped the dry traveller.
COWAN CREEK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-night we watched the moon dip down the hill.
We held our glasses high ; the hour was still,
And from the heart we said: “Farewell, farewell;
To-night we part; to-morrow with the sun
Life’s plodding tasks will once more have begun.
Toil’s rusty bell clangs from the city’s reek
Insistently. Good-bye, fair Cowan Creek.”
N.s.w.
JOHN BARR.


>
o
1
t
&
Ni
£
X
m
*
&>
\
I
X
For any purpose and any class of
road “Dunlops” give the Best Service
You get the Best
out of Motoring
when you have dependable
fitted to your Car. You get satisfactory
service, freedom from continuous tyre troubles,
and the absolute lowest running cost out of
these high-grade covers and tubes. That's
why “ Dunlops” rank as the most popular tyre
amongst motorists in this country, their
strength, mileage and reasonable price offer-
ing you distinct advantages whether you
use your car for business or pleasure.
POPULAR SIZES-ALL GARAGES.
★ ★ ★
DUHLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES AND N.Z.
Dunlop Tyres practically swept the board at
the Victorian Mortlaße Motor Cycle Carnival,
winning' the two speed events on the
Railroad Pattern Cover. In the big event, the"
Mortlake Two Hundred, eight out of tb#flfst
ten riders to finish used these speedy abd
dependable tyres.


School Children
are very liabie to catch
cold. They have to
go in all weathers
often having to sit in
school with wot loot* Apart from this, they are always face to
face with the risk from iafection—especially when epidemics ot
Whooping Cough, Measles, Diphtheria, Influenza, etc., are about.
Mothers of School Boys and Girls however can he always then
of ANXIETY if they hare a bottle of
Heame’s
Bronchitis
= Cure =
in the house, as one dose of this Medicine at the
first indication of a "cold" will at once "nip in the
bud" what might otherwise prove to be a serious
illness. Cork the bottle up—the rest will keep.
For Goughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION.
Prom all CHEMISTS and STORES.
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd.,
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
Syda«r> N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
M
m
%
Iv.
m
\
fc
X?
■ST-
Wi«ctf[y-)mro '
2/6
4/6
Double
Size
12
Business, Robbery, etc.
“T. 0.1.” : To come under the auctioneer’s
hammer in Sydney this month the most note-
worthy house at Potts Point, Grantham,
the home of the late H. C. Dangar and of
his father before him. It is built on part
of the grant of 11 acres or so to Mr. Judge-
Advocate John Wylde, dated November 1,
1822. The Judge Relayed fulfilling the con-
ditions of the grant, which was verbally
made by Governor Macquarie. Governor
Darling caused him to be reminded of his
default, and after some time (he was a
judge then at the Cape of Good Hope) he
made good his title. He presently con-
veyed 6J acres of the land to J. 11. Potts, of
the Bank of N. S. Wales. Hence Potts Point.
The land on which Grantham is built
became, by purchase from the Judge, the
property of Mr. Caleb Wilson, merchant.
He built the first house on the property and
called it Caleb Castle. It afterwards
became the property of Mr. F. Parbury, mer-
chant ; then it was bought by the late Henry
Dangar, who passed it to his son, the
recently-deceased Henry Carey Dangar, who
hlinost; wholly rebuilt it in 1870 and changed
the name to Grantham.
“F.N.T.”: The Victorian fruit-grower
begins to show signs of intelligence. For
the first time in Melbourne a kiosk has been
opened, by a co-operative concern, where
anybody may buy a parcel of fruit, large or
small, the money for which will go direct
to the growers. Fourpence a pound is the
usual price for decent apples in suburban
shops; and there is so big a gap between
that and what the grower gets, in these
fruit-glutted war-times, that even the simple
orchard-whacker couldn’t fail to notice it and
get wild. Hence the new enterprise.
* * * *
John James Cadley, an ex-guard on the
Vic. railways, has made an interesting asser-
tion of the “rights” of a public servant. The
sum of £748 was removed from Cadley’s van,
and nothing has been heard of it since.
When asked whether he had anything to say
in mitigation of his crime of larceny, Cadley
“objected to his Honor being informed of his
departmental record.” It is the rule, when
another sort of prisoner is convicted, for
revelations of his past, unfavorable or other-
wise, to be put into evidence; but Cadley’s
objection to the production of his railway
record held good. Still, what the Judge
knew induced him to pass a sentence of four
years’ hard.
* * * *
“Myola”: “Cross-cut” rushed in (B.
14/8/’18) to contradict my statement that
leather goods can be made from porpoise-
hides. He asserts that so-called “porpoise-
hide” is merely a trade term for certain
horse or similar leather. Perhaps commer-
cial camouflage has used this trade term for
an imitation of the real thing owing to the
excellence of the original. The primary fact
remains that the hide of the sea-hog is
tanned for commercial purposes. I quote
the Encyclopaedia Britannica :
Porpoise skin is sometimes used for leather and
boot-thongs, but the so-called “porpoise-hides” are
generally obtained from a different and larger
species of cetacean, the beluga of the Northern seas.
The “porpoises” caught outside Sydney
Heads are more correctly dolphins, which
belong to the same class as the English por-
poise and the beluga or white whale of the
North Sea.
“Ato”: I am connected with one of the
big suburban branches of the A.N.A. in Mel-
bourne. Before the doctors’ strike our average
quarterly payments to our medical men ran to
about £BO. Now we pay three-quarters of
whatever fees the doctors charge our mem-
bers. During the first seven weeks of the
strike we have been called on to pay only
£2 55., so we are £5O in pocket thus far. This
proves that either the community is in won-
derfully good health or lodge members
have realised that thev can cure their ill-
nesses with a packet of Epsom Salts or a
glass of hot rum. The greatest blunder the
B.M.A. doctors have made is in thinking
that men join lodges for medical attend-
ance. Most men do it as an insurance
against complete loss of wages through ill
health. If one of our members is incapaci-
tated from work he receives £1 per week for
six months, and 10s. per week for another
six months. That is the trump-card. The
doctor scarcely counts.
“Quidam”: My tastes in regard to wine are
so totally at variance with those held by
experts in the business that they look upon
me as a barbarian unfit for polite society.
Personally I consider that if it takes half a
lifetime to acquire a taste for something
resembling high-priced vinegar it were bet-
ter to stick to beer. But it cheers me to
note that many others of my fellow-citizens
—I believe most others —are likewise ignorant
and oblivious of bouquet, flim-flam and all the
rest of it. So I frankly confess that blackberry
wine suits me down to the ground. Pleasant to
drink, yet strongly intoxicating, it was good
enough for all of us who gathered together
in a certain place in the Blue Mountains,
and used to inspire much sprightly conver-
sation on winter nights when the snow was
whirling about outside. Now, blackberries,
which are here, there and everywhere over
large tracts of country in N. S. Wales, are
but a drug in the market. No skill is
required for their culture. Likewise no
phylloxera and kindred complaints annoy
them, and they are as lasting as a national
debt. Anyone could fill a 400-gallon tank
with them within half a mile of where I live.
So the question arises: Why shouldn’t black-
berry wine be put on the market in large
quantities, at a good-enough price to tempt
the Philistine who likes beer and other
plebeian drinks to give it a trial? If he
likes it, well and good, and a mUch-cursed
vegetable will become an asset. If he doesn’t
he can leave it alone. Take it from me, a
lot of him won’t leave it alone.
* * * *
“On Tour”: Adelaide may be a city of
churches. Personally I am more impressed
with its ham-and-beef shops, and one can
procure .a fresh-cut sandwich at any of them
as late as 11 o’clock at night. Adelaide,
being the best Australian city at this end
of the Commonwealth, discourages the
swarthy steak-and-da-oyst merchant (just as
it does the Chines,*'gardener and the Dago
fruiterer), and those who would sup have
ever a choice of good, wholesome food served
by those who speak good, wholesome Aus-
tralian.
* * * *
“0.L.” : The “short-change” artist wasn’t
mentioned by ex-liailways Minister Wynne
when he upraised his loud and piercing howl
in the Assembly concerning the misconduct
of the railways and the daylight robbery
thereon. Yet the short-change rotter is as
frequent in the Department as codlin in an
abandoned orchard ; and when it’s not short-
change it’s overcharge. But the Department
can’t be bothered with little worries about
other people’s money—not with a £700,000
deficit howling on its own doorstep and
refusing to go away.
“Glen”: In Vic. railway circles, it seems,
the toilers are divided into two main sec-
tions—“sports” and “wowsers.” The sport
is a good bloke who doesn’t mind pinching
a half-case of grapes, £5 worth of roofing-
iron or the intoshicated racegoer’s roll of
notes. The wowser, of course, is the un-
pleasant man who "won’t. As a rule, the
sport gets on very well in the Department,
while the other simple soul goes grinding
ahead on the path of duty, his virtue almost
his only reward. One of the quaint habits
of the “sports,” according to ex-Minister
Wynne, is to put stolen goods in the honest
man’s kit-bag or locker and thus bring sus-
picion upon him. Yet, according to the
same authority, the Commissioners are
almost fanatically tender in their treatment
of the real criminal, when he is discovered,
bearing with him until 70 times seven,
and finally being satisfied to degrade him
from (say) his guard’s job to, the status
of a common porter. There, (if course, he
is harmless; for whoever heard of a dis-
honest porter?
* * * *
The “C. M. D. atomiser,” mentioned here
last year as a possible heln to the British
Army later on in eking out its supply of
liquid fuels, has been taken on by the War
office for attachment to its various internal-
explosion engixies. The “C.M.D.” is the inven-
tion of Cecil Dyer, a native of Hobart, now
a two-star in the R.F.C., who left Melbourne
with the Motor Transport Corps after a long-
experience as boss of Dalgety’s commercial-
vehicle department. Ilis atomiser deals with
heavy fuels, and had a successful series of
tests around Melbourne. Since then the
device has been tried by the British over
thousands of miles of mountain country,
with results unapproached by any other
of the numbei’less inventions submitted to
the War Office. The atomiser is now being
standardised for the engines of the Flying
Corps and for the different petrol-contrap-
tions used by the British Armies.
*
“D.F.”: Maori heads were pretty much of
, a drug in the Sydney market long before
1831 when the Governor ordered the trade
to be stopped (B. 14/3/Y8). According to
one “Verax,” who wrote to the Sydney
Gazette on January 8, 1820, he met a man
walking down George-street with a Maori
head under his arm, and was offered the
trinket for two guineas. This reminded
“Verax” that two tattooed heads which he
had seen at a private house in Sydney seven
or eight years before were valued at 20
guineas each, and he predicted that in a few
years’ time such things would be sold for a
dollar a piece. “Candor” wrote to the
Gazette the next week to say that the first
head was brought to Sydney in 1811 bv a
sealer named Tucker, who got it from the
Maoris of Fouveaux Strait. Tucker lost his
own top afterwards; he was killed by the
Otago natives in 1817 while trying to buy
potatoes for the Hobart Town barque
Sophia.
“Ancient Mariner”: Getting ready for sea
in her old age, the good hulk Anglian, at one
time a Huddart Parker liner. After lying
for years in Berry’s Bay, Port Jackson, she
is to be turned into a sailing-ship to ferry
wheat to the Pacific Slope. All the har-
bors are being gone through with a fine
tooth comb in order to find if there is any-
thing in them able to stagger off with a load.
MY DENTIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My dentist is a hero cold,
A placid man. Whate’er the stress
Of those his dreadful pincers hold
He shows no trace of nervousness.
In hours of blood and agony,
The pangs of probes and ligatures
His victims suffer lie endures
With splendid equanimity.
The arrogance of kings is nought
To his. He opes your mouth four-square
As premises that he has bought,
And starts a horrid bonemill there.
The tend’rest springs, the kernels—all
Of your imperishable soul
He gathers in, and grinds the whole,
As grind the gods, infinite small.
He’ll pluck the roots of keenest sense,
The while the Prince of Hell will sit
And feed the fires of hate intense
In an illimitable pit.
The which is you. A. nd while you swerve
In moveless throes, and silent shrieks
Tear from your lips, he twists and tweaks
The vibrant centre of a nerve.
And while his gimlets gouge and wrest,
Exploring all your being through.
He shares some comely little jest
With his attendant imp, and you
Insatiably crave to wet
In his hot blood your iron hands,
To kill his hireling where she stands,
And hang the sign out: “HELL TO LET!”
VICTORIA.
S. S.
The Inky Way.
At the outbreak of war the staff of
the West Coast Sentinel, published at
Streaky Bay, South Aus., consisted of three
hands and a manager. Shortly afterwards
one of the hands (Frank Lamprey) enlisted
and is now a prisoner of war in Germany;
then a second hand (Llew Fosdike) got
into the right suit, and is still going strong
in France. Now the manager, T. H. Mon-
ger, has passed the doctor in Melbourne and
goes into camp early in April. Of the origi-
nal staff only the office-boy remains, and lie
is still under age. The paper is the farthest-
west journal in S. Aus., nearly 400 miles
from Adelaide and 200 from its nearest
contemporary.
* * * *
“Copy Boy”: After getting along without
one for years Melbourne Paunch has de-
cided that an editor might look well about
the premises and has given the job to Ralph
Ainge-Johnson. Ralph used to be on the
Federal gallery staff of Melbourne Argus,
and has lately acted as publicity agent for
various patriotic movements and done poli-
tical notes for Paunch. llis beautifully-
creased trousers inspire universal confidence.
* * * *
Federal Hansard has again gone to
Adelaide to fill a vacancy, and the Govern-
ment reporting-staff of S. Aus. has fare-
welled Merv. Chinner. who was a prominent
Register reporter till he joined the newly-
formed local Parliamentary body. The
Chinners go far back in the history of the
S. Aus. press. One of them, long since
dead, was an early partner, in the old
Advertiser proprietary.
* * * *
Whitmore Carr, who used to be sporting
editor of the Register before he became
Chairman of the Stock Exchange of
Adelaide, has been re-elected to the latter
position for the 15th year, and seems likely
to remain in it as long as he cares to.
* * * *
“Australyank”: By her writings on ages
long since past Dulcie Deamer (Mrs. Albert
Goldie) is getting as much talked of here in
the U.S.A. as she was in Australia. The
All-story Weekly, published by the Mun-
sey Co., of New York, recently featured a
novel of hers entitled “The Valley of Bleed-
ing Hearts,” which dealt with Mexico at the
time of the Conquest. Another novel called
“Revelation” will shortly appear, while a
further series of Stone Age stories has been
accepted for publication. Miss Deamer, who
is living with her husband at Los Angeles,
lately started writing for the movies, and
her stuff has already made a few of the
screen celebrities think that there’s a new
field opening for them.
* * * »
“Ato” : Last mail I received a letter with
this printed heading:—
The Printed in the
Australian l( . . „ Field by the
Soldiers' Aussne. A j>.
Magazine. Printing Section.
The editor, selected by General White, is
Lieut. Phil Harris (“Philo” of many a
Bulletin par.), who went to France early
in 1915 with a Motor Transport Corps,
in 1917 transferred to the infantry and now.
after 10 months in the trenches, has blos-
somed into the editor of a real Australian
soldiers’ magazine. lie was one of the band
of enthusiasts who gave literary tone to
the Sydney Worker of a dozen years ago.
* -X- * *
“Jean Sibi”: The Kaiser has organised
his cartoonists and therein, as usual, is our
teacher. We have never properly realised
the war-value of pictures. For some months
I have been on the verge of suggesting the
formation of a black-and-white battalion to
bombard Fritz with pictorial insults. Com-
manded by General Norman Lindsay, with
David Low as Chief of Chaff, the regiment
would set about maddening the opposition.
The effect of a scornful article or paragraph
is trivial in proportion to the instantaneous
sting of a cartoon wherein the satire is
braced by a jaunty contempt. Raemaeker’s
bloodless butchery of the Holienzollern
family was not as annoying to the Teutons
as many people think, simply because his art
had not the inspiration of laughter. Supreme
among the Prussian’s fears is his fear of
looking absurd. If he had not that acute
sensitiveness to ridicule the memorable
Zabern incident would not have happened.
So let us bomb Ilindenburg with funny pic-
tures deriding the pretensions of the whole
military caste. We know that a cat can look
at a king; but beside it the cartoon that
laughs at a kaiser and unbalances him has
immeasurable possibilities.
INK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A panacea i have for all
The woes and worries that befall — -
’Tis ink.
Because, perchance, I have a pain,
I add not to the doctor's gain.
If grave anxieties attack
I grizzle not upon my back,
But settle down and quickly drown
My anguish, not in malted drink,
But ink.
Is it a tooth that nags me; then
I seize the ready little pen.
In ink
I plunge, my hero gaily lead
To love along a flowery mead,
Or deftly weave a sheaf of verse,
The thought to spin, the theme to nurse
In chink and chime of lilting rhyme;
And thus all weariness I sink
In ink.
If ever cure-all should be found
It will most certainly abound
In ink.
Immersed in ink I can forget
The direst grief, the deepest debt;
And if one day they have to cut
A leg or elbow from my butt,
Not chloroform my sense will storm ;
My anaesthetic will, I think,
Be ink.
VICTORIA.
Y. Z.


kyu
id
V
m
~a&c--
M*
Xv
XV
“ADAMAX”
For Any and Every
Roofing' Requirement.
The roofs of many buildings, large and small, throughout the State stand
as monuments to the efficiency of
“ADAMAX ”
Asphaltum Roofing
m
an
X
WflWUtt
adamak
w^^^t?sSK^ro°
iKSffi maw
'V-
Adams &C* L h, ‘
AUSTRALIA
«
“ADAMAX” contains all the advantages
found in other roofing materials and
eliminates many of their disadvantages.
“ADAMAX” is wear and weatherproof, is
impervious to the elements and is fire-
resistant ; is 12-14 degrees cooler than iron.
“ADAMAX” will not pinhole, and always
retains its smooth, neat appearance- Does
not affedt drinking water, is sound-proof
and does not sweat.
“Adamax” is One-third the
Cost of Galvanised-Iron,
Freight Charges are
also One-third Lower.
These savings are yours when
you roof with “Adamax.”
“ADAMAX” is the pre-
ferred roofing for Office
Buildings, Fac torie s,
Stores, Garages and Farm
Buildings, where dura-
bility is deman de d.
Awarded N.S.W. Govt.
Railways Contract for
1917- again for
1918- and used by all
Australian Governments.
Prices, Samples and Free Booklet obtainable from
William Adams &, Co. Ltd
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street .
BRISBANE: Cor. Edward <& Mary Streets.
PERTH : 33 King Street .


A. SAUNDERS’ ARTISTIC JEWELLERY DESICNS.
A. Saundi’yS Circle
Brooch, set' ,f%rls and
Turquoise, or all
P earls,.i9ct. Gold,.
20/-
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Necklace, set
with Tourmalines
or Amethysts, £2.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £7/10/- ,•
A. Saunders’
Lady’s 9ct.
Gold Tablet
Kin?. 12/6
Initials en-
graved free.
A. Saunders’
Lady’s 9ct.
Gold Signet
Ring, 12 C.
loot., 207-
Initials en-
graved free.
Saunders’
Brooch,
Amethyst or Topaz Bar
9ct. Gold, 12/G.
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Australia Pendant,
7/6; - -
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Links, daintily engraved,
20/-. loot. Gold . 35/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set
Aquamarines, 25 /-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
ISct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Half-hoop Ring,
18ct. Gold, £5.
Larger Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Silver vv ristlet Open-face Lever
Watch, full jewelled, 40/-. Extra quality,
£2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-. Gold-filled
Elgin or Watham, £3, £3/10/-. Oct.
Gold, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Wed-
ding Ring, 9ct.
Gold, 20/-. loct.
Gold. £2. 18it.
Gold, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Bracelet, £2.
lCct.
9cr. Gold Nvll'e blew ait. Secret Snap
Others, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-
Gcld, £3/10/-, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Nickel Silver Hunting Keyless
Watch, full jewelled, adjusted movement, com-
pensation balance, 35/-. Solid Silver,
£2/10/-, £3, £4, £5. Gold filled, £3,
£4/4/-, £5/5/-, £6/6/-. Solid Gold,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Ladv’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled lever movement, compensation balance.
Pet. Gold, £B/10/-. 15ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Curb Padlock Bracelet, £2/10/-
15ct. Gold, £4/10/-, £5.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George St., Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
Saunders’ Oct.
Gold King, set
Amethyst, 15/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring, 20/-
loct. Gold, £2.
Initials engraved
free.
A. Saunders’ Amethyst Bar Brooch,
9ct. Gold, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. (Jold
Links, 20/-. Heavier,
25/-, 30/-. 15ct.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold-
Friendshfn Pendant,
15/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Red Stones, 22/6.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Marquise Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
set Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Wedding
Ring, 25/-
18ct., 30/-
fs
15
A. Saunders'
Pearls and Aqua-
marine or Ruby
Circ'e Brooch, 9ct.
Gold, 25/.
A. Saunders’ Diamond
and Aquamarine or
Tourmaline Necklace,
15ct. Gold, £4/15/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders' Lady's Oct. Gold
Hunting Keyless Lever Watch,
adjusted balance, £3/10/-
Ext.ra jewelled, £4,
£4/10/-. Met. Gold Cases,
£5, £5/10/-
.J
XX aril
n
niX
9:.-
jfcl
i
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes front
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay •
TARIFF from 11/6 per clay, or apartments
may be, secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
///
Grown on British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
ol Montserrat.
Shipped in British vessels* n
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers. , , , nn
gvarso Sana taaoher A Webb, Ltd. — Liverpool AJLondon.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED,' OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie England, 10d. : How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6 Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders, a rare book by Defoe, 1/3,
nosted Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. AH
Zola’s' including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy. 1/'-. Up-xo-date . Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/9 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 10d., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics' Work-
shop Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/3. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3/6.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 5/- posted. Mysteries
of Paris, 1/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-.
Not Guilty (Blatchford), 1/-. The Art of
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and My Neighbor,
9d. Britain and the British, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/6. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, etc.,
1/6 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man llis Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. The Doctor, Cures for All Diseases,
1/6 posted. Letter-Writer Up-to-Date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity . Made Simple (new), 5/-.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/9
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in .Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
NO MATTER WHAT BOOK YOU
WANT, I’VE GOT IT.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. Established over 25 years.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon’s Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY
STOCK CAN BE GOT FROM
THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO
DUTY ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSE-
WHERE SENT.
Ivey to Ale Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoli/’s Works, 10d., 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a AVife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 1/6. The AA’ife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price 17/6 post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/6.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Songs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, lOd.
posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/6 posted.
One Day, 1/3 posted. The Night of Temptation,
1/9. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, §7 869 Market Street, Sydney (only).
m~ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH .TB


Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 26th March, 1918.
Tenders for the Supply of Engine
Required for Motor Launch at
Albany, W.A.
r I TENDERS will be received until 12 noon
I on Friday, 12th April, 1918, for the
supply of one Internal Combustion Engine,
lo 8.H.P., to use petrol or paraffin fuel,
revolutions 600, complete with gear box,
thrust bearing, water and oil pumps.
Specifications and full particulars may be
obtained on application at the office of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; and at the Naval Staff Office,
Ed'gecliff, Sydney.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for
Engine” on top left-hand corner of envelope;
and addresed to the Secretary, Contract and
Purchase Board, Navy Office, Melbourne; or
to the Secretary, Contract and Purchase
Board, care of Naval Staff Office, Edgecliff,
Sydney.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Delivery to be made f.o.w. Albany.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Ainunemente.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd,
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1 1 V(II, I THEAT It K, SYDNEY
Nightly fit 8. Matinees Monday, Wednesday and
Saturday at 2.30.
GIGANTIC HOLIDAY ATTRACTION.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents the London Revue,
THE MILLION DOLLAR GIRL.
J 1V OLI TIHiAilUh
MHIJUUJ RNE.
TWICE DAILY.
2.30 and 8.
HI GH D. McINTOSH presents London’s Smart
Revue Success,
SAMPLES.
A Sparkling and Dazzling Production.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
H E It M A J 15 8 T Y ’ S. S Y I> N E Y.
* 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Daily Matinees throughout Easter Week.
■T. C. Williamson, Ltd., announce their Gorgeous
PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Last Two Nights of A PAIR OP SILK STOCKINGS.
NEXT SATURDAY EVENING.
MURIEL STARR
in the first production in Sydney of
THE BIRD OF PARADISE.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TWICE DAILY, AT 1.45 AND 7.45.
J. and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT’S
GORGEOUS PANTOMIME.
ALADDIN
In 19 Scenes of Dazzling Splendor.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
II N 1 O N PIC T It It E T H E A T RES
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
Glt EATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
. W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
IKX I I g , E w ( i K C U S
** WIDTHS' HIPPODROME, HAYMARKET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY, 2.45.
COMPLETE NEW COMPANY & 25 NEW ACTS,
including the Latest American Sensations.
Prices;. 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 2/-, plus tax.
Children Half-price, except on Saturdays.
Plan at Nicholson’s and Hippodrome.
Soldiers in uniform Half-price to Dress Circle,
except on Saturdays. .
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 13.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
The “Last Word” in Revues,
THE BING BOYS ARE HERE.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
■HEAT RE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Direction ,1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
K
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
KATIILENE MACDONELL
in
THE CINDERELLA MAN.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 6.
J. & N. TAIT’S
Brilliant New Comedy Co. in
THE NEW HENRIETTA.
AN IRRESISTIBLE LAUGHING SUCCESS.
Prices as Usual.
Plans at Allan’s.
Amusements.
«J OYT’S THEATRES,
I* Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOUKKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
8 to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday at 2.30
FAMOUS PLAYERS-LASKY, MAX
SENNETT, ARBUCKLE, etc.,
FEATURES.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
SESSUE HAYAKAWA, in
THE CALL OF THE EAST.
Also
VIVIAN MARTIN in
THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
Prices as usual.
Ar I) ITOR I U M. MEI,ItO V R N E.
Direction FEATURE FILMS LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE MILLION-DOLLAR FILM SPECTACLE.
JOAN THE WOMAN.
Featuring GERALDINE FARRAR.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
IJOlli H E A~T R E. M ELBOCR N E.
Direction: BEN & JOHN FULLER.
TWICE EVERY DAY.
Fuller’s Gorgeous Spectacular Production,
ROBINSON CRUSOE PANTO.MIME.
Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
Repertory theatre co.
Direction—GßEGAN McMAHON.
At
THE PLAYHOUSE,
SATURDAY and TUESDAY, APRIL 13 and 16,
THE MADRAS HOUSE,
Comedy by Granville Barker.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
M A ,IEST 1C TREAT KE. MELBOOKNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE WARRIOR.
A seven-act production, featuring
MACISTE,
THE GIANT OF “CALURIA.”
MatinSes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
g HIT AN NIV THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
|y| HLUA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATKE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICK.
ROSH HELALAH,
3rd Edition. Post, 2s. 0/4d.
SKINNER’S, 121 Castlereagh St, Sydney.
ITS GREAT
hi
how I find I can
get f.way for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
Geo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.P.0., Perth,
W.A.; Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty.,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne; R. R. Rus-
sack, 377 a Elizabeth St., Sydney;
Philip Frank el & Co., Edward St.,
Brisbane; Eyes & Crowle Etd., Pirie
St., Adelaide.
CAPILLARINE
4
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Capillarine does all that is claimed for it as
a genuine Moustache-producer. The steady
demand for this preparation by the Military
and others proves its never-failing virtues.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums aud disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the Perfection of dental l luxuries. 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROC E. & CO.. Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
THE LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors : —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J'.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., li.C.; Samuel Hordern',
Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. (i. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income. £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 ..£868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ..621,660,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
THE AUSTRALIAN
SKANDIA
uyo
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
U
Unlimited Supply
of Oil Fuel.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON, Loftus Street, Sydney.
hj
kljh
I 11*1111 <*M|l Imi toil hllUl I
in
kljh
hit! <••••• "Ml «WH«I
l
jkl
ma
mm
MB
II
LESLIE SALT LICKS
Stand on the pinnacle of Purity and Quality. For all animals.
2/- per block or 22/6 per case of 1 dozen.
At all Saddlers, Blacksmiths, Produce Merchants and Stores or
Wholesale
/BT7ZACOTT & CO.—7-11 Market St.
HOEDS WORTH, MACPHERSON & C 0.—352 George St.
HOOKER. CHAPMAN & CO.—lBB Sussex St.
- HARRY SHEEEY—IBS Clarenee St.
PASTORAE FINANCE ASSOCIATION. ETD.— Phillip St.
WATSON & NOBEE—2S7 Sussex St.
N.S.W. PRODUCE C 0.—326 Sussex St.
Retail: —NOCK & KIRBY L,Tl>.—George St. North (near Quay).
Country orders: Freight, to be added.
safeguard TOUR HEaltH
Brownes
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and ill the Cnugli of BRONCHITIS '.ami
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
ill the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, i;5. SI-, Hr.
Hade in England.
STEWART DAWSON’S
12
10
ALWAYS RELIABLE
jk
ljk
A HANDSOME PRESENT
Costing Much Less
at Stewart Dawson’s
The reason being- that when we first took
up the sale of this Watch, it held such a
high place in our judgment that we re-
served a substantial stock to carry us
over.
We are. therefore, still able to offer them at THE OLD PRICE, viz.. £3, and it is a
fact that if these Watches had to be manufactured to-day they would cost well-nigh
double.
THIS HANDSOME 15-JEWELLED LEVER WATCH BRACELET
has strong Oct. Gold Case, expanding Gold Bracelet, High-grade finish, Perfect Movement.
Accurate Timekeeper.
CALL AND INSPECT OUR STOCKS, OR WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Stewart Dawson’s
STRAND SYDNEY CORNER.


PARAMOUNT
Loved by old
and young alike
for their wholesome
entertainment*
lk
i sSkr **
>; 55^
, :^‘j.'>>/r-:.'''T'=r-
e&rz;
C«!
i
■
3&.JS?
s*
sas
;:■■':>■-.> R 3
ill '"X 5 ■ 4V^_
-
§££
sgs§mi&
sm
SI
«s«
II
■w*
s*
m
r-
mil
sas
SI
m
'^wMveS.
H
-a
W 9
l
PICTURES
The pictures that
are known through-
out the world as
the best and clean-
est in every respect.
jkl
POLITICAL
POINTS
SPEEDING UP.
FATHER TIME: “Now for a final test of
endurance!"
The wine went round, from great, blue pitchers
drawn.
Quart upon quart we baled it o’er our lip ;
And, as we drank, like kittens on a lawn,
The small waves frisked about the merry ship.
The skipper’s laugh was resonant and free;
The slave-girls vanished and the clock struck three.
Last week, after the Federal Parliament,
on Hughes’s motion, had expressed its un-
limited admiration and its cast-iron resolu-
tion and so on, Australia sent England
another reinforcement of words. John Bull
is a patient old parent, or long before this
he would have told Hughes to keep his hot-
air and send reinforcements of men and meat.
The Federal programme now includes the
building of 18 ships—six in N.S.W., six
in Victoria, two each in Queensland, Tas-
mania and S.A. This is the time for patri-
otic sports to put up very handsome prizes
for Ist, 2nd and 3rd
horses—that is to say,
prizes for division
among the workers on
the first three com-
pleted ships. The
unions could have side
bets among them-
selves, or with all-
comers, and the public
could back its fancy
and offer “a bit on”
as an inducement for
extra effort. The books
would certainly offer
a bit on, especially
the one whose ship
was running a bad
fourth.
More foolish even
than the agitated Age
was a prominent ex-
politician member of
a deputation to the
Vic. Chief Secretary,
who spluttered that if
the proposed Venereal
Diseases Hospital were
established, Studley
Park and its genteel
environs would be
“over-run with prosti-
tutes.” But he was
promptly silenced by
Dr. Robertson, of the
Health Department,
who remarked quietly
that he could “fill such
a hospital to-morrow
with the wives of respectable citizens who
had contracted venereal disease from their
husbands.”
The Vic. Labor Conference decided in
favor of compulsory enrolment and compul-
sory voting. The Labor party has also
decided against compulsory enlistment. It
should now combine the two and decide that
when an armed burglar breaks into the citi-
zen’s house and incidentally proceeds to
slaughter the citizen’s wife and children, the
citizen should be compelled to reform the
beast by firing a blank cartridge at himself.
Judging by his address to the Caucus the
other day Pearce thinks that, however bad
matters may have been in the Defence De-
partment once, they are all right now. The
simple truth is that the Department is so
dull that it never anticipates difficulties, and
the problems that have arisen of late are
just as badly handled as those that arose
early in the war. The earlier problems were
mostly (except on the purely military side) a
matter of money-spending; the newer pro-
biems are mostly a matter of handling re-
turned men. The muddle over the former
cost this country hundreds of thousands of
pounds; the equal muddle over the handling
of returned men is costing the country thou-
sands of recruits —possibly tens of thousands,
Let the same sort of Commission that in-
THE REAL LONG-RANGE GUN.
GERMAN TRADER : “So, Herr Krupp, you haf
built a gun dot can hit Paris from
seventy-five miles off. Goot! But you
yoost vatch Australia chen I get der
chance to fire dis gun off, an' dot is
t'ousands of miles avay.”
quired into the business management of the
Department inquire into the treatment of
returned men—into the way in which they
are kept hanging about week after week and
month after month waiting for their pay—
and this paper will guarantee a report as
damning to the Defence Department as any
yet written.
If anybody ought to put the man before
the machine it is the member of a Labor
Conference; yet that body in Melbourne the
other day decided that against every candi-
date’s name on every Parliamentary and
municipal ballot-paper should be printed the
name of his party. In plain English, don’t
think—vote! Dowm with the reformer who
hasn’t a party! If Christ came to Aus-
tralia the Labor Conference mightn’t cry
“Crucify him!” On the Melbourne showing
it would certainly say “Throw him out!”
“Solomon Gay” : My Oriental brother dis-
tinguished himself during the cyclone which
wiped Innisfail out of existence. Ah Fat,
Go Bung and Wun Lung, the local Chinese
storekeepers, spent the night on the roof of
their shops, not admiring the lightning nor
enjoying the breeze, but holding and ham-
mering on the galvanised-iron. They tied
their pigtails to the mast, as it were, and
clung on with the skin of their teeth while
they used packets of nails to keep a roof
under their heads. Next morning these ener-
getic Chinkies who did things while the storm
was raging were the only people able to hang
out the sign: “Allee Same Bizeeness as
Usuels.” There is a whole essay in the inci-
dent if anybody cares to write it. But he
should only write it on paper with a deep
black border. Or else carve it on a tomb-
stone.
The Director-General of Recruiting whose
name is Mackinnon, addressing a lunch
crowd outside Melbourne, urged that all reli-
gious and political questions should be post-
poned till after the war. As to religious
questions there is no objection. They were
struggling along very much as they are now
before Mackinnon or the Post Office was in-
vented, and they will still be struggling when
the Post Office is dust. But as regards poli-
tics, there are some 40 or 50 millions in gold
due to the British Government for the
upkeep of the Australian army at the
Front, and we can’t borrow all that gold so
far as we can see, and we haven’t got it, for
our gold is going out faster than it comes in
to pay for imported fluff, and if that question
isn’t politics what does Mackinnon think it
is?
Governments that are what the governed
make them are rarely made good.
“Fax”: Some days ago the Cable
announced that “the Entente Powers are
pressing the Chinese Government to deport
enemy subjects. It is expected that China
will ' consent.” But why press China
to do what the Entente Powers won’t
do themselves? Yesterday I had a narrow
escape from being
knocked down by an
enemy subject’s £l2OO
motor-car, wherein the
haughty enemy sub-
ject, who made his
riches by importing
German goods to Mel-
bourne, was lolling
back with a cigar in-
serted into his sneer-
ing countenance. As
long as I must be in
danger of sudden death
from a Ilun mer-
chant’s motor-car, I
think the Chows in
China ought to run
the same risk.
“Unity is my watch-
word ; it is not a time
for party strife,” says
Victoria’s new Pre-
mier Lawson. That,
of course, was why he
divided the House the
other day and threw
out the Towser Gov-
ernment. Hindenburg
says just the same
thing: “Ven I haf
licked you and got all
I vant, I shall be
much obliged if you
vill lie down kviet.
Unity vill pe ray vatch-
vord; it vill pe no
time for party strife.”
This struggle on the
nart of Hughes and
Lawson and every
other top-dog to per-
suade the under-dog to
be a non-protesting cur can be overdone.
The incurable referendum craze again!
P.M.G. Webster has an idea which equals the
Bolshevik programme for futility. It is that
a census should be taken “of those who are
prepared to throw in their lot to save the
Empire.” What is their lot, anyhow? What
receptacle is there to receive it when it is
thrown? And if the person who says he is
prepared backs out, or if he has no lot, or
if the lot rebounds —what then? Australia
is suffering from these two things among the
rest —a superfluity of loose figures of speech
and a superfluity of looser census papers. It
needs plain, straightforward Australian and
a Government which is prepared to take
some responsibility, instead of perpetually
sparring and squirming for safety.
Keenan, K.C., rumbles now and again in
a way that suggests an approaching return
to public life in W.A. He came forth as an
eloquent Yes advocate in the referendum,
and latterly has been the caustic critic of
the ways of the Lefroy Government. His
defeat by a man like “Texas” Green at
Kalgoorlie so wounded the proud soul that
he swore off politics for good. A former
Cabinet colleague—Connolly, now Agent-
General —described him once as a “three-
cornered Irishman” with whom it was impos-
sible to get on ; but a prolonged retirement
has had a chastening effect, and he is more
tractable now. Anyway, men of his parts
are badly needed in the Westralian Parlia-
ment.
From the Federal Gallery:—
The promotion of Orchard is the surprise of the
day. No one had previously detected in him the
capacity for oratorical evasions which is next to
incompetence in securing admission to the Cabinet
room. He is a cheerful little man with the face
of an Irish Cupid and the hospitable manner of a
cafe proprietor. As a politician he lacks neither
vigor nor directness, but his mouth is so busy burn-
ing off tobacco that it has not had much time foi
anything else. Still he has spoken occasionally in
the House —notably in reference to the condition ot
N. S. Wales camps, and with all his air of failing
to keep his feelings within the bounds of politeness
ho has never ceased to be regarded as a gentleman
amateur. It is when he has left the House for the
lobbies and starts to save the tobacconists from ruin
that one feels that Orchard is really at work. It is
superfluous to mention, of course, that he would dis-
agree with these views. His modesty is more sugges
tive of the sunflower than the violet, though lie
believes that everything in the Orchard’s lovely.
GETTING SOMEWHERE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not care to walk upon the sea
If there are any ferry-boats about;
The surface seems too slippery for me,
As I am fifty and a trifle stout.
But it was late. The last dry tram had gone ;
The tide was waiting and a dull moon shone.
A stately galleon of simple smell
Was moored in sadness to a weedy pile.
I stepped on board and saw that all was well
By the large welcome of the skipper's smile.
He blew his whistle, waved to friends and home;
And broad oars stroked the water into foam.
They stroked it gently as a Persian cat;
And all the mighty ocean seemed to purr
As softly as when over Ararat
The Ark rode freighted deep with horns and fur.
We were away! Beside my cottage door
A milk-jug watched upon the dark North Shore.
But we forgot the many wharves that wait
In cool seclusion round a dozen bays—
Forgot the door-key and the garden gate
And all the joys of steep and stony ways.
The population slept in little beds,
But we were sweeping bravely through the Heads.
Out on the moc ny wonder of the deep
We heard the sighing chant of waves that go
Forever and forever o’er the sleep
Of memories curtained in dim weeds below.
The skipper said, with his Phoenician smile:
“We shall get somewhere if you'll wait awhile.”
1 found that cheering. Then the clock struck two ;
And nineteen slave-girls came with bowls of wine.
Their bracelets chimed, the hazy moonlight grew
More gracious as it saw the vintage shine —
A rare and clamorous liquid that made young
The tickled palate and the loosened tongue.
We talked—great Ahab, how we talked that night!
Eleven thousand virgins of Cologne
Showing new hats for their best friends’ delight
Made no such frequent murmur as our own.
The skipper talked, I talked, the crew began
To mention all the things that shipmen can.
To sound of harps they brought the counter-lunch;
Strange salads, purple pies and little fish,
Claws of pink crabs tied deftly bunch on bunch,
And curried wonders on a golden dish —
The skipper mentioned with a hearty smile:
“We shall get somewhere if you’ll wait awhile.”
The food was talkative, as was the wine;
And after that we smoked divine cigars
Grown on the exquisite meridian shine
Of little, melancholy Spanish stars.
And now the tongues were loosed in many a tale
That made the previous conversation pale.
We talked. O shadow of Demosthenes!
O breathless soul of some choked auctioneer!
The movement of our tongues appalled the seas- -
And then the nineteen maidens brought the beer.
A foaming tankard made the skipper smile —
“Now we'll get somewhere if you'll wait awhile 1”
We found the beer was redolent of speech.
We said more things than we had ever known.
A cyclone of chin-music rose from each
And swept the ocean to its basement stone,
It swept the sea, it swept the stars and sky
And winnowed Northern Queensland almost dry.
The oars were still; but fast the vessel went,
Driven by horse-power of united tongue.
We circled round the darkened continent
And reached the Heads again when morn was
young.
The skipper murmured with a sleepy smile:
“We shall get somewhere if you’ll wait awhile.”
I do not care to walk upon the sea ;
But I jumped off at Manly as we passed.
I went as one distraught; for over me
Vast language, like a foe’s battalions massed,
Blackened the sky and seemed about to fall,
Heavy as masoned leagues of sandstone wall.
I came ashore, but looked affrighted back.
Swiftly, with lifted oars, the vessel sped
And left behind a broad and furrowed track
That foamed against the dawn carnation-red.
T marked the, name across that murmurous tide—
’Twas WIN-THE-WAB fire-painted on the side!
And still they talk! My country, how they talk!
There is no dearth of pleasant things on board ;
Vet am I glad that I got out to walk
Ere some large rock the conversation gored.
I must believe that skipper and his smile—
They will yet somcrvhere in a little while!
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


“Bookstall” Novels
are
Front-Line Favorites.
BUSH
DELANEY
This letter is from an A.I.F. man in
Finance: —•
“It would surprise you to see the
number of ‘Bookstall’ novels over
here. Why, even on this box at my
side, are ‘The Recipe for Rubber,’
‘That Droll Lady,’ ‘Rung In,’ and
‘Gamblers’ Gold.’ And I think they
have earned their price, for they
have been read by all our men.’’
RALPH
Recently The Bulletin set out to discover what was the most popular reading in
the firing-line. This was the reply from the O.C. of one battalion: —
“There is a great hankering after anything Australian; and
I think the ‘Bookstall’ Series would please Billjim more than
anything else.”
gt ßookstall” Novels are the best work of Australian Novelists.
Over 1,500,000 “BOOKSTALL”
Novels have already been sold.
AH One Price: //- each; 11 posted.
A few of the Authors represented in the “Bookstall” series: —-
Louis Becke, Edward Dyson, Randolph Bedford, J. 11. M. Abbott. Steele Rudd,
Ralph Stock, Norman Lindsay. Thos. E. Spencer, John Sandes, Arthur Wright.
Roy Bridges, Ambrose Pratt, E. J. Brady, M. Forrest, A. G. Stephens.
NINETY GREAT AUSTRALIAN NOVELS.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
A FEW FAVORITES:—
“ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,”
By ROY BRIDGES.
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,”
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
“STELLA SOTHERN,”
By I. A. ROSENBLUM.
“|N THE LAST STRIDE,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“A BACHELOR’S WIFE,”
By M. FORREST.
“ABORIGINALITIES,”
From The Bulletin.
“FOR TURON GOLD,”
By DON DELANEY.
“THE SPELL OF THE BUSH,”
By JOHN X. CAMERON.
“LOVES OF LANCELOT,”
By EDWARD DYSON.
“THE POOR PARSON,”
By STEELE RUDD.
Send a Shilling “Bookstall” Novel to your friend on active service—-It will
be appreciated.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street,
SYDNEY.
kj
Electric Motors
ljk
There is a Westinghouse Motor for every power application purpose.
They are built in all types and sizes —both alternating and direct current.
They are built to withstand severe service and to give maximum
efficiency at a minimum operating cost.
They are remarkable for their sturdy eiectrical and mechanical con-
struction, and exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can only
accrue from long experience in designing and manufacturing. We
have manufactured more than 1,500,000 hp. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterized by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a part
of machine equipment.
A good—Westinghouse—motor is the only one that will enable you
to realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is at your service.
fatinolimtsf
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents:
Standard Waygood Hercules, Ltd,,
77, King Street, Sydney.
Elder, Shenton & Co., Ltd.,
William Street, Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
27‘•31, Currie Street, Adelaide
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
84-88. William Street. Melbourne
mmiimiiimimmimmiiiimim.. ;• 4- - «*■—--j v—l
Works Trafford Park. Manchester. England, i
wmmmm
Hm
A
■
/
i ;
'
W A
...
'*®i«
.
IBasPßlmiMi
■
......
. .
i l
'-.
jmHnsH
n 5 -^sf* ta * s^lL:
*w»
"- - '-wl; -K?i
~ WJPi
mm
.
A soldier wrote a letter home
And said “Those pills were great.
/ took a lot of them myself
And gave some to my mate.”
I
r
r


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALGOORLIE and COOLCAROIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS & WMITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
vm
o ■.
, - V-
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Desert (fold finished up her trip to the
Commonwealth like a lady. Cetigne, the best miler
hereabouts and one of the solidest finishers over that
distance ever raced at Randwick, hadn’t a word to
say to her at the end of the A.J.C. All-Aged Stakes.
There were only four starters—the Maorilander,
Cetigne, Panacre and Prince Viridis—and this time
there was nothing about the start for Cetigne to
grumble over. He got away well, but the stranger
got the pace on more quickly, and, running to the
front, stayed there. Cetigne dropped back about three
lengths on the way to the turn, and Desert Gold
swept round, going well within herself. With the
long straight ahead of him Cetigne began the job of
running her down. He made a gallant struggle to do
it, but the nearest he got to the perfectly-moving
inachine in front was about a length* at the distance.
McLachlan there rang up the mare for a bit more
speed; there was a brief struggle—Wood drew the
whip on Cetigne, and a hundred yards from the line
he punctured. After that the leader left him at
every stride, winning by a good three lengths in 39]
on a track that was slightly damp. After listening
to richly-deserved applause the winner was led
away to get dressed for the trip home. Sydney will
remember Desert Gold for many days. She is a very
beautiful animal, of splendid action, placid temper
and fine courage.
* it # »
The Vict6riau two-year-old boom Dunwil
was brought over to Randwick last week and given
his first run in the ownership of John Wren. And it
being in the Easter Stakes, from which the smarter
N.S.W. youngsters were excluded, there was a. violent
rush to lay odds on the southerner winning. Well,
he did win, and that is all; for Thrice’s gilded
brother Volpi ran him right out to a short liead
after coining from behind over the last furlong. So
between watching what was happening and thinking
of the 2000gns. he gave for Dunwil, John had a few
seconds of excitement. The performance took some
of the gilt off Dunwil’s reputation. But this page
suspends judgment. The wrong-way-round running
may have worried the colt. He is an exceptionally
good-looking customer, and taking all things into
consideration it might be worth a long bet that with
this couple of thousand Wren made a better bargain
than S. P. Mackay did when he paid five for Outlook.
* # * *
The loudly-trumpeted Lanius did some-
thing to justify part of the noise by winning the
Cumberland Stakes, w.f.a., on Wednesday. But had
there been a fair to good three-year-old available; it
could have appropriated the race without much effort.
Kennaquhair, the only starter of this age, is, of course,
no more than a decent handieapper. There were five
others —Lanins, Westcourt, Kandos, Thana and Wal-
lace Isinglass. They had a bit of a race up the
straight, and Lanius won, all out, by a length from
Westcourt, with Wallace a protesting third. These,
the best of our staj r ers, took 3min. 40]sec. to cover
the two miles. Unless the A.J.C. wants to encourage
a rush of up-country hacks after the £l5OO on offer
in this event, the time is about ripe to put a string
on the money by limiting the time. As a test of
stamina two miles at 14sec. a furlong is sheer farce.
Green Cap had an even more leisurely journey last
year, arriving at the end of “42].” Prince Foote in
1910 triumphed in “431.”
* * * *
A couple of years ago William Cooper
parted with £5OOO for the very blue-blooded
Englishman Redfern. Ever since then Earnshaw has
been struggling to get a race out of the nag, and
managed it at last at Randwick on Saturday—a mile
and a furlong handicap worth £350, in which Red-
fern was reckoned to be 21b. below the Bananalander
Lordaere and lib. better than Bee. This time Redfern
made the rest look like hacks. As they had frequently
made him look like a mule, things are about even,
* * # *
• The winners of three Sydney Cups ran in
the Hangar Handicap at Randwick last week-end. The
nags were Scotch Artillery, Prince Bardolph and The
Fortune Hunter. The Prince won easily. The For-
tune Hunter subsided at the home turn. Scotch Artil-
lery was in a position to watch all the rest doing
their best.
James Wilson was the biggest stake-
winner at the Randwick meeting—£s94o. Outlook
helped himself twice, and King’s Bounty ran away
with the Final. Rebus earned £3429 for J. Lemon,
Lanius £3608 for Robinson and Clark, Eulaere and
Dame Acre £2336 for W. Booth, and Desert Gold’s
share was £2315. Old King Coal had to be dis-
satisfied with £1952.
* # -ft *
Four days’ totalisator turnover at Rand-
wick was £167,483, which means £11,723 to the
Government. Nearly all through the meeting backers
of winners did worse for themselves on the tote than
with the books. Their compensation was that when
they didn’t back a winner there was a bit left if the
nag came second or third. In some cases this panned
out well. In more instances it didn’t. Some of the
prices on the fourth day explain why the bigger
punter’s money is not in the tote. In the Rous Handi-
cap the 16 to 1 chance Kenilford scrambled home
second. The tote was paying 9to 1 a win and 5 to 2
for second. In the Hangar Handicap Prince Bardolph
was at 9 to 4 in Israel, and The Christian Brother
(second) 7 to 1. The machine paid evens the winner,
and backers did worse than lay 2 to 1 “on” about the
Brother. In the second Nursery Marcantonia was
offered by Ike at 10’s (5 to 2 a place), Yolpi 4 to 1
(evens a place), and Margalo (3 to 1 and 9 to 4).
Marcantonia tote backers took 5] to 1 a win and
laid evens a place; Volpi backers took worse than 7
to 4 a win to have the privilege of losing 2s. in the
£ if he got a place. Margolo’s patronage was on the
hair-raising basis of laying 10 to 9] “on” a win and
leaving 7s. in the £ with the machine if he got
into a place.
Now, it doesn't require a very long head to figure
out what this sort of betting means. No man with
the arithmetical sense, having 10, 20 or 100 to put
on a horse, is going to throw it into a pool from
which the share he may draw will be substantially
less than the money he risked. This is what makes
the 1,2, 3 system on an unequal ratio fundamentally
wrong—and it is just as wrong for the man with a
dollar as for the one with a century. Picking winners
at any time is a precarious business. But this system
increases the odds against the punter. It is simply
Impossible for him to win at it; and if anyone doubts
it this paper solemnly urges him not to keep on
going long enough to find out what he can prove with
half an inch of pencil and a scrap of paper. Until the
Government pushes the straight-out single-winner
machine into the game, as well as the place contrap-
tion with a flat dividend on the three, the public will
have the losing end of the deal.
* * * •
Imported Lanius got away with the second
of the distance w.f.a. races on the Autumn menu at
Randwick—the A.J.C. Plate, three miles, treating
Wallace Isinglass, Westcourt, Kandos and Flambard,
and doing the job, such as it was, well. But it wasn’t
much of a job. Lanius owed quite as much to the
assistance he got from Cairns and to Wallace Isin-
glass’s objection to argue the point as to his own
stamina. Flambard—an ex-performer on pony courses,
whose presence in the team was a hilarious incident-
went away in front,for a couple of miles’ work, the
rest proceeding with leisurely confidence that he
would get tired. When he punctured on the last lap
Lanius ran on a couple of lengths to the good from
Wallace, who was just clear of the others. At the
distance Lanius was still in front, and looked a sure
winner. There Barden stal led to run the leader down,
and the pair fought out the rest of the trip yard by
yard. But Wallace liked it none too well. Ten yards
from the post he drew almost level, with Barden
almost beaten. There Cairns, drawing the whip, got
the last bit out of Lanius and his head in front at the
line. It was a great tussle while it lasted. There is
little doubt that it was asking too much of young
Barden to put him aboard. lie rode an excellent race,
and had he been bigger and stronger would have won.
Incidentally, Lanius clipped 75sec. off the time
limit (smin. 45sec.) allowed for the race. This means
a good deal less than it seems, seeing that the time
allowed is more or less ludicrous. The time on
Saturday, though below the limit, is the slowest
recorded for eight years. Worse has been perpetrated
only twice. The time allowed contemplates a race
run at slightly better than 14 jsec. a furlong—this for
horses that are supposed to be the fleetest in the land.
Well, Lanius on Saturday, with 9st. 51b., ran the
three miles in 6min. 37]sec., or 14 l-32nd sec. a
furlong. On the same course, three days before, Jack
Rice, carrying 13st. 21b., won a two and a half-mile
hurdle race in 4min. 46]see., which is better than
14 2-ssec. per furlong. And when Jullundur won the
Grand National Hurdles at Flemington with lOst. 71b.
he finished the three miles in smin. 45]sec., or only
Jsec. outside the period allotted by the A.J.C. for a
flat race for champions. Either the A.J.C. ought to
clip a bit off the allowance ot the hurdlers should
notice that good money is going begging.
* • * •
“Spreader” : The race for the Hawkes Bay
Guineas 12 years ago furnished a bright instance of
how a race can be thrown away through over-confi-
dence. Ormond’s champion Zimmerman was canter?
irig along in the lead
of a beaten field.
Fifty yards from the
post I). Price started
to pull up, thinking
he had enough wav-
on. O’Brien, on
Grand Slam, saw the
move in a flash, and
slogged into his tired
colt, which just
managed to get his
eyelash in front of
the last stride. 'Bob
Derret made some
turf history when he
lost the V.R.O.
Derby on Carbine.
Tommy Hales won
that particular Derby
on his own, but the
fact that he rode
White’s gelding En-
sign didn't have a
great lot to do with
what happened.
JOE LEMON,
owner of Rebus ,
Sydney Cup
winner.
There were 24 races run at the A.J.C.
Autumn meeting. Of these five were won by imported
horses and two by a Maorilander. Of the 19 winners
bred in Australia 17 were by imported sires or from
imported mothers. The other two were winners of
jumping events. On the first day every place-getter in
the five flat events was either an importation or from
imported stock. On the second day it was the same
with the exception of the third horse in the last race.
The only change in the third day’s happenings on
the flat was that the exception arrived third earlier in
the afternoon. By then the local blood had got sick
of trying unless there was something to leap over, and
the 15 placed runners were decorated with “imp.”
somewhere. Two place-getters out of 60 doesn’t look
much of a testimonial, anyway.
» * * » *
In Melbourne, which retains its proud posi-
tion as the toteless city of the Commonwealth, racing
club secs, from the other States and M.L. are get-
ting practical demonstrations in the working of the
ingenious Exchange electric machine. The record
board, a facsimile of the one in use at Onkaparinga,
has been fixed up in a Melbourne office, and there the
visitor may back his supposititious fancy and count
his imaginary gains. The simplicity and compara-
tive inexpensiveness of the Exchange tote are strik-
ing Easterners just as they did The Bulletin's
Adelaide man when he first saw and described it.
The form of Lanius at the A.J.C. meeting
was fairly consoling to the crowd that sang his
praises in the Spring, but it offered no apology for
the utter failure of the big brown horse in the
Melbourne Cup, nor did it throw much light on the
disputed question whether he had been a mighty
champion three or four weeks before the Cup came
due. The horses he beat at that time—Lavendo and
Harriet Graham—were probably not as good as
they might have been. Nothing is now certain
regarding Lanius’s two victories in the Spring, except
that they appeared to come very easy to him. But
he usually finishes well. Even the end of his rotten
performance in the Melbourne Cup was comparatively
good. Still it is more than likely that he did go
to pieces in the fortnight before his colossal failure,
and would have been a real good thing for the big
Flemington event had he kept his thoughts on rac-
ing. Perhaps his stock will keep his memory
gloriously green.
» * * *
The ease of Outlook is likely to influence
owners and trainers who are not keen on sending
horses to race in another State. After ordering a
horse-box for the conveyance of Outlook and King's
Bounty to Sydney, James Wilson had almost re-
solved to keep them at home. They were off color,
and if Scobie could have taken the box off his hands
Wilson would have stayed behind with his low-
spirited gees. But the trip to Sydney did them a
world of good. Outlook revelled in the change of
air and scene. It was just what a horse-doctor might
havt\,ordered for. the patient. Hence the youngster’s
victories. Probably there will be a rush of Vic-
torian nags to Adelaide for the May meetings, the
virtues of Adelaide as a health resort for horses
being already proved to some trainers’ satisfaction.
* * * •
Easter Monday was a day out for imports.
Three of them took all the place money in the Sydney
Cup, and an imported mare called Aahview got away
with the Easter Cup at Williamstown. She was
chucked into 'the handicap at fist. 101 b., and hardly
deserved more on the best of her previous winning
form. It looks as though handieappers will have.to
allow for improvement, due to acclimatisation, in
imported nags.
* * * •
No nag so narrow as Itedfern was ever of
great account. But the yarns about him 1 He was
said to be faster than Woorak, and a stayer as well.
He met with a small accident on the morning of his
first appearance—in the Futurity Stakes at Caulfield
—and was supposed to have been a sure winner but
for the mishap, whereas he ran freely in the race
and has never done much better in his many tries
since that day. Itedfern has never suggested that
he could compare with Land of Song, who arrived at
about the same time and performed as though he
oughtn’t to have been beaten in any of the few races
he started^for. Land of Song had won the Irish Derby
and run fourth for the Two Thousand Guineas at New-
market before leaving England.
* * * *
Old friend William the Silent cropped up
again as a winner last week, after a long pause. The
natty little English horse, that ran second for the
Metropolitan and Caulfield Cup 2£ years ago, won a
small event at Mentone (Vie.) by half a head from
the useful Sauci. William is still only a 6-year-old,
but he has dropped into the ranks of the third-raters.
Meanwhile his compatriot Lavendo, who brilliantly
defeated him for the Caulfield Cup when they both
walked as lame as the proverbial cat, has descended
into the second-rate class. ■
* » * #
“Fax” : Against the theory that the Epsom
and Doncaster are hard races to win it may be
remarked that within five seasons six horses have
been placed in both races, or twice in one of them:
Gigandra, Garlin, Woorak, Brattle, Polyerates, Pan-
aere.
*■ . * * *
The fences at Oakbank (S.A.), the course
of the Onkaparinga Club, which races on Easter
Monday and no other day of the year, have been
partly bushed and made easier; but still only four
finished the trying Si miles of the Great Eastern
Steeple of £9OO. The field of 11 was not up to the
usual class, Cordelier being top weight with list.
121 b. Little Artillery Bill, over from Melbourne
for his third shot at this event, was made favorite,
and his supporters got their money back as a divi-
dend on second. Mick Mullins’s Doiran came home
alone, after being away in the rear all the first time
round, and paid £6 4s. The old Maoriland hunter
Bonny had the unusual experience of knocking some
of his teeth out When he fell at a hedge. McLennan’s
High Tension won the Onkaparinga Cup. Over
£29,000 went through the totalisator, by far the
best figure (or worst—whichever you like) since the
war began.
* * » *
Winning the Hills Railway Stakes at
Onkaparinga (S.A.) seems to be Miss Neckersgat’s
hobby. The mare took the prize first in 1915 with
B|t. 51b.; scored again in 1917 with 7st. 91b., and
repeated the performance this year with Bst. 131 b.
In ’l6 she was not a starter.
" * *.•'.# *
There were only two starters in the
Hurdle Race of two miles 60 yards at the South
Broken Hill Easter Monday meeting, but the event
was full of entertainment, notwithstanding. The
competitors, Ben Cruachan and Bill Simon, blundered
early, and Bill thereupon retired. Ben couldn’t help
winning, though he took smin. 24sec. to cover the
distance. He started at 6 to 1 on. There was only
£5 10s. in the tote and on a ss. ticket the winner
paid 7e. fid.
* * * *
Had it not been for the light failing they
would have had quite a good day’s racing at the
Fitzroy (Vic.) course last week. As it was, the pony
push had to put up with only 13 events, several
deciding heats having to be abandoned 1 The same
day the politicians again recorded their inflexible
determination to Win the War.
# * * *
Dear B., —Is this a record? When the
present writer was 27 years younger and about three
stone lighter, he was called to an urgent case in the
Hillston (Lachlan) district. The distance was eight
measured miles on unmade roads, gates left open,
in the summer time. Weight up (with saddle, rider
and kit), 11 stone. Time (taken at either end and
checked), 20 minutes. The mount, an unnamed filly
supposed to be by a well-known racer out of an
unknown mare, was seven off and about 15.2 hands.
Some years later these alleged facts were sent to the
Australasian and I was asked to confirm them.
Did so, and it was then (about 1893) admitted that
for the weight, distance and time the performance
constituted a record. Same distance, same point to
point, was done on foot on a hot day for a bet by
the same writer (go-as-you-please) in a little less
than an hour, starting immediately after luncheon
‘‘off the grass.”—Yours, Dr. Nil (Dishonorable Mem-,
ber of the Australasian Skiting Club).
“Nemski": The yearling sales in Sydney
last week again showed what carious people racing
men are—or, at any rate, those of them with enough
money left to acquire another nag. Few of them
seem to be guided in bidding by breeding, except in
the very broadest sense. But they are nearly all
strong on the advantages of going after something
mud-fat. That they may deliver the young 'uns in this
condition at the ring some breeders go to no end of
trouble. Ft pays. The youngsters are hand-fed almost
as soon as they can walk. They are stabled early or
penned up in small paddocks. Certainly this treat-
ment produces “great condition”—they look like
“pictures” or something. For the majority, and
the fatter they are the more certain is their inclusion
in this number, the real business of life commences
soon after the sale. The methods of getting the
superfluous flesh off adopted by trainers are various
and wonderful. Some are in favor of turning the
nags out and letting them practically starve. Others
start galloping straight away. Later on quite a lot
of people are wondering why so many of the prads
sold every year turn out to be coots. And this is
why the rough-looking youngster whicli had not been
pampered is sold cheap and so often wallops the
head off the high-priced brigade.
* * * *
“Dhobies” (from Bagdad) : That ancient
scavenger, the jackal, is having a sultry time- up our
way nowadays. There are thousands of him in the
deserts, which are for the most part flat and devoid
of cover. One bright Australian wallah discovered
that a motor-bike and revolver are the ideal jackal-
hunting outfit. When sighted the game usually waits
till he his sure they are after him, and then heads
for the nearest nullah at about 25 knots. Aficr a
couple of miles he tires and starts to double on his
tracks. Then the pursuer puts on speed, and a shot
at about 10 yards saves the howler the trouble of
worrying where his next meal is to come from.
* * * *
Baker’s Stadium at West Melbourne has
seen its last light—in wartime, at any rate. Owing
to the difficulty of obtaining imported pugs of any
note, and the Government’s curtailment of bash, the
management has thrown in the towel. The huge
building,. which has not seen many big scraps, is 10
be used by the A. M., L. & F. Co. as a wool store.
* * * *
Charlie Mitchell, who has gone to join his
old opponent, J. L. Sullivan, in the happy boxing
grounds, was 43 when he stood up to be downed by
Corbett. It must have been glory rather than
dollars that he was after at the time, for lie had
married the daughter of “Pony” Moore, proprietor of
the Moore and Burgess Minstrels, who held the stage
at St. James’s Hall (London) for many years, and
daughter Bella was understood to bring a lot of
money into the matrimonial alliance. “Pony” was
the corner-man of the perennial nigger-minstrel show,
and when he banged the tambourine and shouted “Oh,
dem Golden Slippahs!” huge diamonds glittered in
his frilly shirt-front. Mitchell was never quite such
a notorious personage as father-in-law.
*• ■* * #
“C. Ockney”: After their bout at the
National Sporting Club the recently-defunct Charlie
Mitchc-11 and the still-on-deck Frank Slavin did a
sparring turn in the leading London music-halls.
Charlie was the more interesting to Watch—one of the
trickiest of boxers and a fine showman. Indeed, he
knew as much about the show business as the other
game. He married a daughter of “Pony” Moore (of
the Moore and Burgess Minstrels), and (between
ourselves) cost the old man a lot of money.
* * * #
Miss Ella Mitchell, of Peak Hill
(N.S.W.), who finds her happiness in the bull’s-eye,
was at the Randwiek (Sydney) targets on Easter
Monday ; but ill-luck and climatic conditions cut her
put of the prize-money. The novelty of a lady on the
mound attracted a quizzing crowd which wasn’t good
for the shooter’s nerves. Still she showed good
form, especially at 500 yards, and with more prac-
tice at Randwiek —which is no better than other
targets under haze and rain—is certain to give the
city cracks something to scratch their heads over.
“Bullsfoot” : George L. Hobson talks sense
(B. 21/3/’18) when he scoffs at the system of rifle-
practice employed in this country. Every now and
again, apparently just to show that trophy-chasing
isn’t the whole game, the c-lubs permit their members
to enter for an official cross-country test. Very few
do so. In this, which is almost the only approach to
active-service conditions known to riflemen, th»
entrant is given so many seconds to cover a given
course, stopping every few yards and firing, as best
he can, at the target he is nearing. Compared with
the scores put up by the shooter who lies on the
ground, tied up in a sling, and watches the flag over
the mound to see how the wind is blowing, the results
of the running trial are pitiful. Yet the time-wasting,
pot-shot practice continues, to the almost entire exclu-
sion of more practical training for field-service; and
the Defence Department looks on lazily.
* * • •
The youngster who made the biggest hit
in inter-State schools cricket his season, is A. Pauli,
of Tempe (Sydney). At Brisbane he scored 118 (out
of 229) ; last week, when the Bananalanders trekked
to Sydney, he smote 105 not out (out of 198 for
three wickets). He also swings an arm finely; seven
for 65 for P.S.A.A.A. against Combined High Schools,
12 for 13 against Newtown, and 10 for 21 against
Crown-street are bright spots in his season’s record.
* * * *
Chivalry crumbled in the Victorian croquet
singles championship when E. Terry and his missus
were in the final, and hubby forgot gallantry and
beat his lady. In the ladies’ singles, Mrs. Terry came
out on .top, defeating Mrs. Hogarth; and in the
doubles C. W. Wren and Mrs. Hogarth outplayed the
Terrys. The tournament was quite the thing among
those who look for gentle relief for highly-strung tea-
nerves.
# * * *
“Billy T.” : If it is not an impertinent
question, what would you do if, having a date with
Chloe, you climbed a balcony, made your way through
the third window ,from the centre, and found, not
Chloe in possession, but another man? I put it that
way because the matter is being closely debated in
our street by reason of the fact that the two local
gentlemen who met in circumstances akin to the
above fought for 20 minutes, and shook a whole
residential mansion to its social foundations, before
discovering that the injury they were doing each
other was wholly superfluous, -and an point of fact-
neither was the lady’s husband.
* # # *
On their latest form, as shown in an
18,000 exhibition game in Adelaide, there is nothine
to choose between the Lindrums. The contrast of
right- and left-hander was pretty to watch. Fred
was quickest off the mark, and got a useful lead,
which Walter presently wiped out; and from half-wav
it was anybody’s race. First one had his head in
front, and then the other. The winning-post _ being
fixed where it was, Fred happened to be leading at
the moment. The local record was improved upon
by both brothers during the game.


Let Me Make You Stronger
and Healthier
by my perfectly natural and interesting system of scientific
exercises.
Exercise is the natural stimulant of the body. It
strengthens every nerve, muscle and sinew. It expels an
impurities, and nourishes with rich, pure virile blood laden
with life-prolonging oxygen.
BUT, in order to obtain these benefits, you must learn the
correct and scientific method of physical culture. ion
cannot read until you’re taught—you cannot exercise
properly until you learn the correct methods'
My instruction will strongly appeal to you, on account of
its simplicity and the rapid results it secures. I aim at
building up the muscles, both internal and external, in a
thorough and scientific manner. No one part is built up
at the expense of another, but your weak spots will have
special attention.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will bring you renewed health and strength. The exercises
you receive will be those most suited to your individual
physique, .just as the particulars you furnish tell me you
require.
Mv booklet, entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH FROM
SELF-CULTURE,” tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I
should like to send you a copy. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement, and send it to me, with
three penny stamps for postage. I will know what you
mean.
REG. L.( sn»y iBAKER,
“The All-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,”
715 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
m
m
r
l
jkl
Try This Dry Cell
IF you need current to ring
bells; to operate telephones
or signals; light lanterns or
portaole lights—if you need cur-
rent to run a gas engine or a
tractor, a motor car or a motor boat —
you should try Columbia Batteries.
Columbia
Batteries
are all-round utility batteries which
can be used for either heavy or light
work. Columbia Batteries have higher
voltage and amperage than wet cells.
No licyiid to spill; no glass j ars to break.
Designed to meet local conditions.
They are durable and dependable—
protected by moisture-proof cartons.
£V/
iGNITpP
POfi
KtAKO. <,f
v.s.A
Packed to reach their
destination in first-class
condition.
Dealers : I m m e-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from us:
National Carbon Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Export Department
Cable Address:
**Carbon Cleveland"
Buy War Loan Bonds
and know the pleasure
that conies from
doing your best.
Use “Shell” Benzine
and know the pleasure
that comes from
getting the best.
BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
All States and New Zealand.
Uncle Sam’s Choice
ar.
The Indian Factory
is now engaged on
the largest war
orders yet placed
for motor-cycles.
Catalogue with pleasure.
RHODES MOTOR
CYCLE CO. PTY. LTD.
Russell St.
Melbourne.
THE ELECTRIC ICEMAN.
REFRIGERATORS
FOR YOUR HOME.
Fit an “ISKO” Refrigerator
in your Ice Chest.
NO ICE REQUIRED.
MAKES ITS OWN ICE.
Automatically starts and stops
itself as the temperature rises
or falls.
Efficient, Economical, Safe,
Sanitary.
Low. even temperature, no mat-
ter how hot the weather out-
side may be.
Dry, cold, pure and wholesome
air circulates through the Ice
Chest.
Cheap refrigeration; adds very
little to your Electric-light bill.
Keeps Milk, Fish. Fruits or
Meats without spoiling.
Write for particulars to the Sole
Agents,
mmM
i fiwl -tell
; •
:f.y
mf. |*sxSPl
m
m mm
mmm.
Benson Brothers Ltd.
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
KRUSE'S
FLUID MAGNESIA.
4«l» fiOiDal,
Calcutta. »BM.j
KRIICP'O
FLUID MAGNESIA
«ii mit» 5Xt m «x\* m« is mu
«o*l»f.VVC<.\V>W fctfmv A.VAX«mif tft*#
V\XK! itiH II *fl» tt* IIIH
<t» nmsms «n»m «&**»*»* «**»
IAAAA.V \<AVVA*<* MiVMIVVt* Ufa **»• **
U m> S»X«nnF.XBII *m* «**•«»
fill* »m»X«t ft»»MIUX !•««* «»»»>
l(X(1| «&Xf t#C #XHU Mill •AIIMAV
A(V\*>*W \»« XIU AXW It*
VCUtm At ts««t OJ xvi m« muiit
JWfcE-
jpttlll
HITON. CRIMWAOr * jiO.^MELBOURNE,
The Australian Remedy for
Indigestion,
Biliousness and
Acidity of the
Stomach.
A MILD APERIENT FOR
OLD AND YOUNG.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS DUE TO
VACCINATION AND TEETHING. A COOL-
ING MEDICINE FOR SPRING AND SUMMER.
Sold
by Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
N
n
%
Vs
m
m
will keep you dry
in continuous rain.
The “Rubber-Duk” is absolutely waterproof. It will keep
you and your saddle dust-dry, even in the fiercest tropical
downpoui;. The “Rubber-Duk” has been
Specially Designed for Saddle Use,
and this, combined with its rain-resisting capacity, makes
it an unbeatable Coat for Horsemen’s wear.
It is constructed in a Stout, Light Brown Duck of the
highest grade obtainable. The texture is double throughout,
with a sheet of Pure Rubber inserted between the two
thicknesses. An extra piece extends over the Gliest,
Shoulders and Back. There is a triple thickness where the
fronts meet when they are buttoned, so no moisture can
enter there. The “Fan” protects the saddle at back, and
the Coat buttons well over the Pommel in front. The'
Coat i.s of ample length—is Australian made —and at the
price represents the limit of Value.
POST YOUR ORDER TO-DAY.
&
T
1
&
i Yi
<6, V
■Svr-
/ W
mmmm
v
5» l\
.# \ 1
1
/ :
'
:...,;.....
In
Mil
Lincoln,
Stuart 8 Co.
PTY. LTD.
Specialists in
Outfitting by
Mail
244-254
Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.


See This Woolbale?
ffM
m
VI 2
tm
Carson
It contains the Best Possible Advice
to Sheepowners.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
WOOLBROKEItS) LTD.
Sydney AND Brisbane.
[3
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 3lst Street,
New York, U.S.A.
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE , PILES. VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA. MOSQUITO an OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
Ladies
REXONA SOAP stands
lor Purity, Cleanliness,
Health and Beauty. By
its use the texture ol
the skin is at once re-
fined and all disease-
laden germs are washed
away. "Beauty is only
skin deep," so if you
would be beautiful use.
Price 1/' per Tablet.
Kexana
Skin &jr
v Faglal
S’OAP
Constipation
Bowel and Stomach Disorders and resulting
Mervous Affections quickly and permanently cured
by Simple Natural Home Treatment—No Medicine
How a well-known
business man
CURED
himself permanently after many years of suffering,
is told in a 40 pajge Booklet, sent free to all who
send this advertisement, and 3d. postage to
d. P. GALE. 327 COLLINS ST . MELBOURNE
The sweet-toned
“Amberola.”
The Edison
“ Amberola ”
30 is a low-
priced model
of this ex-
quisite musi-
cal instrument
and, like all
other “Edi-
son” produc-
tions, grand
valu e i n
every detail.
T h e tonal
qualities and
purity of
sound have
brought the
“ Amberola ”
to ihe front
rank as a
reproducer of
vocal and
i n strumental
items. It plays the celebrated Blue Amberol
Records and is handsome in appearance.
Price £9/10/-
Call on the nearest Edison dealer for a
demonstration, or direct for illustrated catalog,
post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
stEO
taIHAN
PUTS A SPARKLE
kjl
.Oder
IN YOU
Because it is made from only the purest juice
of the World Famous Tasmanian Apple. It is
not only a delicious Drink, but has a most excel-
lent tonic effect on the system. Doctors recom-
mend it for its diuretic properties. Order a
dozen from your grocer.
Victorian Agents:
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
• /'
*9*
VslUUki
Laurtf.
M
<KCTQ
mink
mm
mi.
m
m
The Rise of “Laurel”
LAUREL” has risen to a pinnacle of
great popularity in Australasia.
It is known as “the soft, white light”—the
illuminant without peer.
When you exchange your cash for
“Laurel,” you receive the greatest aid to
lighting, heating and cooking satisfaction
it is possible to obtain. You get a kero-
sene that burns clearly, evenly and with-
out a trace of odour, right to the last
thimbleful.
More than that, you get a light that is
soft and restful to the eyes—an infinite
booruin these days of harsh lights.
All ‘ Tive” Grocers and Storekeepers sell it.
Don’t say "Kerosene” — Ask. for “ Laurel ”
LAUREL
KERO/ENE
“the sojt, white light”
Vacuum Oil Company Proprietary Ltd.
Throughout A ustralia and New Zealand
R 3
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a. feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of eases
of internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under I'lain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Ectab. 1891.
ol
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
ZINC
ElectrolyticalJy-Refined Zinc, A-Z Brand,
containing 99.95% Metallic Zinc.
Spelter,
BHAS,
Brand,
containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust, containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Zinc Concentrates, Various Grades.
Sole Selling Organisation for above Australian productions:—
Zinc Producers’ Association
Proprietary Limited,
Collins House, 300 Collins St., Melbourne
The Union Bank of Australia: —
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Feb.,’lo. .136,049 14 p.c. = 105.000 10,000 1,349,928
Aug.,’lo. .141,454 14 „ ~105,000 15,000 1,371,382
Feb., ’ll. .135,807 14 „ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,392,189
Aug., ’ll . . 135,321 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,412,510
Feb., ’l2. .145,257 14 „ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,442,767
Aug.,’l2. .155,582 14 ~,,105,000 1,493.349
Feb.,’l3. .155,654 14 ~,,105,000 1,544,003
Aug., ’l3. .135,424 14 ~,,105,000 1,574,427
Premiums on new sliures, £400,000 1,974,427
Feb., ’l4. .171,083 14 p.c.- 140,000 2,005,510
Aug.,’l4. .165,950 14 ~,,140,000 2,031,460
Feb.,’ls. .139,050 14 ~,. 140,000 2,030,510
Aug.,’ls. .140,018 14 ~,,140,000 2,030,528
Feb.,’l6. .140,846 14 ~..140,000 2,031,374
Aug.,’l6. .140,484 14 ~,,140,000 2,031,858
Feb.,’l7. .161,275 14 ~,,140,000 2,053,133
Aug.,’l7. .160,371 14 ~,,140,000 2,073,504
The half-year’s disclosed profit was a trifle
less than the previous term’s, probably be-
cause the bank’s customers required rather
less accommodation. Many of them were
better off; some of them only thought they
were. Australia is piling up a huge debt
and will have to go on oiling it; and a great,
deal of the profit which some people arc
making consists of this borrowed money.
Others are, however, getting rich out of the
sale of products which Britain and the
Allies are paying us for. Now, what is the
future going to be? All our borrowed money
will have to be repaid ; but it by no means
follows that those who are getting rich now
will be the people who will contribute all the
taxation. So unquestionable the war, in
spite of the taxes that will follow, will leave
many people much richer. Thousands of others,
who have piled up none of the war-loan
money, will just as unquestionably be much
poorer. From the national point of view the
best feature of our war finance has been the
flotation of local loans. This adds nothing
to our national wealth, although it puffs up
the figures of the Union and every other
bank; but foreign loans would do that, too.
What it does mean is that the Australian
people will not have to export vast quanti-
ties of products to pay interest to foreign
creditors. But we can pav even the local
creditor only in money, by other lOU’s
or in goods. To raise loans to pav interest
is of course most improper; so we shall
pay in monev or in goods. Now it is pos-
sible. to pay the local creditor in goods. Tens
of thousands of people in England are paid
Hint way. They consume more than they
produce, or they invest in new homo indus-
tries. But for the most part we shall still
have to pay by exports; instead, however,
of the money derived from the exports stay-
ins abroad, to the loss of this country, it
will come back to ns—whether in money or
in manufactured goods it will be for our
tariff to decide. The more we can produce,
and sell abroad the easier will it be for us
to pay our interest and our principal; and
the more people we can attract to this coun-
try, by an effective tariff and a decent treat-
ment of the man on the land, the lighter
will be the burden on* each of us.
These things, then, seem clear: (1) We
are going to have wealthy people here after
the war. We are not all going to be
poor. Which ought to mean that we
shall be able, if our government is good,
to have the means for extending our indus-
tries. (2) We shall require to produce and
export even to pay our local debts. And (3)
though the increased figures of this and
other banks are due mainly to the creation
of paper wealth, there is no reason to expect
those figures to diminish. Yet they will not
increase as they might under normal cir-
cumstances. For many years to come we
shall be replacing the paper wealth by real
wealth. The farmer who borrows £lOOO to
buy War Loan *will spend the next year or
two repaying the bank and reducing hi?
advance; but he will, by the time he has
paid off the advance, have supplied the bank
with a corresponding amount to make fur-
ther advances. So by the end of the period
the bank’s total figures will be just where
they were immediately after the advance
was made to the customer. For that reason
banks’ figures must not be expected to in-
crease rapidly for some years to come.
This bank’s figures actually have not in-
creased thus far at the same rate as those
of some others :
Liabilities.
1914. 1916. 1917.
Notes .. .. £219,475 £620,288 £363,555
Deposits .. 22,913,057 21,880,587 23,596,782
Bills, etc. .. 2,005,904 1,956,994 2,001,511
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 11,053,507 9,443,091 12,252,689
Advances .. 17,753,612 18,693,671 17,434,635
Premises .. 502,776 492,965 488,027
The Union has its headquarters in London,
and it is probable that, while a considerable
amount of English deposit money has gone
into War Loans, it has not flow'ed back to
this bank, but rather to those trading more
extensively in England. What net increase
there has been in deposits is all represented
by liquid assets —mostly bills receivable at
the London office. Now, as always, the posi-
tion, so far as liquid resources are concerned,
is exceptionally strong. These assets repre-
sent 43 p.c. of all liabilities, while against
the £13,709,158 of liabilities not represented
by liqu’d assets there are £17,922,662 of
non-liquid assets plus internal reserves
representing probably another million. That
these internal reserves are very strong may
be judged by the fact that the premise's
( apart from London leasehold) stand now at
£374,600, which is certainly not a third off
their value.
» * * *
Profits are cut very fine on some of
the Rand mines nowadays. A recent monthly
return shows that 11 producers earned a
profit of only Is. 6d. per ton or less. These
ventures spent £400,000 in wages for the
month and employed 5000 whites. In view
of the high cost of stores and supplies, some
mining cos. with ample ore reserves to draw
on are stopping development until better
conditions return.


#
Tf
#
J
■
ill
m\
m
fMSSS
Piw»S I
S*
- ■
mm
Ba&us
W RHH
ffr&z' ' •■ v. £ J?v ■ ■
mm.l* <-> ■
mm
: mm.
i , 1 ;4* **» - /•'■ ’ ■'
• t *i • ••i'.'i' t. *.;..• ;•'=
» "V . ■ A- ■ ''k 4 :
. '• < :s^
res?:
■•• ;v*i|
*r ;*’•■•;•
:
■
-■ . ,• ,
.. •>-. *u • ■■• .
■■■ * ■•/•■’}
■'■:• • y.^-.X;,: fe,i V , vV:.. ]
miii mm iiim min iiinmiir-iiiiiit imm mini mini im luimuiii mini iiiinnii iiiiiitMiriniinw iimr mm -nmr
PIMEB
-A
-J
<r^saJ>
PI2VNO
GRAVE or gay—you will find no mood
too subtle for the Beale Player-Piano.
Nine Expressiorf Devices afford a greater
capacity for intelligent interpretation than is
possessed by many technically proficient
musicians. It is essentially an instrument for
cultivated tastes. There are also superior
constructional features with which you should
be acquainted. Informal concerts held daily.
Factory ■
TRAFALGAR ST..
ANNANDALE.
j^ecfie
& O JLjs
Showrooms i
333 GEORGE ST..
(Opp Equitable Buildings.)
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
Branches at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples in all
Melbourne suburbs. TASMANIA: Williams Bros.. Hobart; Maples, Launceston. >?OIjiH
AUSTRALIA: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. QUEENSLAND: 90-92 Queen St., Brisbane ; Kent St..
Maryborough; Flinders St., Townsville; Rockhampton; Sydnev St., Mackay; Cairns. \\ ESI
AUSTRALIA: Messrs. J. A. Thompson Co. Ltd., 209 Murray St., Perth.
39.


TWO PRICES IN
THIS SHAPE.
Epsom 9d. Austin II
—1
A business man’s
collar, but smart and
stylish for all men.
;kl
Collars.
Fabrics are pro-shrunk, there-
fore fitting is permanent and
accurate. Above shape is pro-
curable in sizes 13iin. to 18in.
Height If in. Order half a
dozen Pelaco collars from your
mercer and prove their quality.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA.
ĺjk
SHIRTS& PYJAMAS
ALSO
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
poi
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mcars Ear Phone
many tnues as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet rind varticulars of onr Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 (iEORGE STREET,
Tel. 391 fi City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1n0.,45 West 34th St. New York
p
Worm
Powders
10/- Doz.
Alterative
Mixture
2/6, 5 -
Prepare Your Dogs for the
Coursing Season
Bio ;let “ B,” “ Hints to Dog; Owners,"
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
\lso obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
Toy Dog Lovers 8 Breeders.
SALE. —ALL-BLACK PUG PUPS, Coward
-U prize-winning stock; splendid heads, short
bodies. BLACK AND FAWN PUG STUD DOGS
AND BROOD BITCHES; PURE WHITE POMER-
ANIAN PUPS AND BROOD BITCHES; YOUNG
ORANGE POM. DOGS and handsome young PEKIN-
ESE DOG. Bargains—no reasonable offer refused,
inspection invited.
KTRNBANIi, Arthur Street, Croydon. N.S.W.
Tlie Standard Remedy which lias, outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT. FAIUNC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S» GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London. England
Insist on “Singleton's”—refuse all substitutes.
Tenders.
Municipality of Kogarah.
For Sale—Sanitary Carts and Road
Roller.
TENDERS, accompanied by a deposit equal to 5%
of bulk sum of tender, are invited and will be
received up till 4 o’clock, p.m., on Monday, the 15th
April, 1918, for the purchase of—
-8 Sanitary Carts (42 pans).
1 horse-drawn Ballast Road Roller (Ritchie Bros.).
R. C. ROSE, Town Clerk.
Kogarah, 3rd April, 1918.
m
mmm
mi
:
Stotts
WRITE f 'OR CATALOGUE.
The “Bulletin”
Stock Saddle
AND
The “Bulletin”
Park Saddle.
Two of the most Popular Saddles we make.
They both have pigskin seat, the “G.S.”
panel, with leather down sides, long flaps and
girth straps. They are both fitted with
stirrups, girth, leathers and surcingle.
£7lO/6 Complete.
£6/15/6 without Stirrups.
£ £Q£ without Stirrups
lrU|7/v an{ | withou t Surcingle.
Freight free for cash to any port or railway station
in N. S. Wales.
RINGHEAD BRIDLE, 14/3; post, 1/-
Sarhlle Cloth, 6/6; post, o<l.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
Write for SPECIAL FREIGHT TER/VIS.
State your Nearest Port or,
if in Australia, Nearest
Railway Station.
The “WINTON”
One of the Finest Saddles for
Rough Riders. —One Horsebreaker
described it as the Best Saddle
ever he threw a leg over.
It has combined flap and skirt, giving
a most comfortable and narrow grip,
pads high up, sagged seat, leather points
to panel, specially strong tree, and is
fitted with bevelled stirrup leathers,
folded girth and solid nickel stirrups,
£9/12/6 without Stirrups.
Stirrups, 10/6 extra.
Freight free for cash with order to any
port or railway station in N. S. Wales.
Walther 8 Stevenson
SADDLERS, Ltd.
A,
is
393 GEORGE STREET
32 HUNTER STREET
vSYDN E, Y.
‘THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.’*
IVORY
TOILET
WARE.
HUM
Fine African Ivory Mili-
tary Ladies’ Brushes,
£4 pair.
Larger Size, £6/6/-
In the most exclusive homes Ivory Toilet Requisites are largely taking the place of Solid Silver.
It is not to be wondered at in view of the fact that an Ivory-back Hairbrush will be good after
50 years of daily use. The Bristles, of course, will be renewed from time to time, .but the back will
be good always.
The White Ivory, with a Blue Monogram or Crest engraved on it, is in exquisite taste.
Then, too, piece after piece can be added to the fable, and there is no difficulty in matching them.
We carry a very large stock at our Famous Cut Prices.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain figures. Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
ljkl
COMBINATION
SCREWING MACHINES
Built
four
sizes
in
For Pipe,
Nipples and
Bolts .
kj
No. SOG B.
l{in. to Gin.
Also built
for belt-
drive.
COMBINE your pipe, bolt
and nipple screwing on
one simple, compact
machine, and save time,
money and muscle. Backed
by more than a quarter cen-
tury of specialised study and
experience. For details write
Charles Wright, Box 251, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australasian
Representative.
THE OSTER
MFG. CO.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Xo notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
Xante and address must appear on the MSS. Xo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.G.: You don’t make. “Charlie” interest-
ing. .. .Junior Sub.: “Awe” doesn’t rhyme with
“corps” in this paper....A. E. Aitch: We can't find
a yarn in it....L.G.: Not a glimmer there....
M.R.S.: N 0... .M.F.C.: There’s a hint of promise....
Hannibal: The verse is very clumsy... .Tiff: It doesn't
yell for publication. .. .M.8.P.: “Hunters” won’t do.
. ...M.V.: “Dawn” is stiff and commonplace....
E.C.S.: The verse is not strong enough to carry it....
Oliver Twist: Not interesting... .J.H.: There’s some
music in it; but those long lines in freak metres are
good to avoid... .H.J.T.: Wobble and bump verse
without any new idea. ... J.F.: If you could catch a
wowser and make him read it he should be very sick.
. ...M.W.: Not up by some distance, but there is a
shimmer of promise... .O.B.: That’s just about it: —
Oh 1 Where are we drifting, men of these days'?
Are we to go on drifting like the rolling waves?
Why not come-to, end these foolish ways;
The dark cloud dawns waiting our graves.
O men of these days, awake and gaze,
Before it’s too late and think what is the stake;
Come to your thoughts and give up this craze,
For one’s life we make but much harder to take.
Oh 1 Where are we drifting? All darkness it seems.
From day to day it grows, like a mighty wind it
blows;
As if one awakened out of an horrible dream
To see Australia drifting and almost to blows.
. ...F.E.: They run out very thin... .E.J.T.: Not
up E.L.S.: The workmanship isn’t good enough.
....Kangaretta: Not enough there... .1.T.8.: Doesn’t
move us....Junius Jester: No lift in the stuff....
W.J.W.: Too rugged.... 8.J.A.: That wouldn’t stir
anybody... .D. Mot: Humor faint.... The Admiral:
Too many words. Boil it down and then boil it
some more, and don’t put “coat tails” on a soldier.
... .A.J.8.: Not for us... .11. T.: Nice idea, but don’t
care for the working-out. “Faery” should move to
its own gay lilt. ... A.G.: Good tries, but not quite
the thing. Get fresher subjects... .F.N.: There’s
only one fresh line in it—“ Life’s great untidy heap
of hopes and fears”... .S.L.: The spirited middle part
is worth while:—
On through No Man’s Land they tore.
On to Huns, and Hans and Fritz they bore!
And the Germans if they could have spoken
English would have said “Good Lor!”
Cursed at light and left,
The Germans turned and fled,
Or in fright fell down dead.
... .Katingawa: Easy, careless stuff that gets no-
where... .C. Cl: Too obscure for the general reader.
We were nearly bogged in that “Permanent Water”
before we solved its mystery... .A.H.: How lucid this
is!—
Brain and soul
Cannot control
BoundlesS passion’s well.
For hope and fear,
Ever near,
The eager heart to sell.
For love and hate,
So innate,
The reasoning mind to quell.
. ...S.E.: Pretty monotonous “sun”. ... Eass C.:
Verse very crude and bumpy.... H.C.R.: Dull sort of
fooling... .8.D.M.W.: “Private Brown” is discharged
“unfit for all services” .A.S.: Fair verse of no
special interest to any living creature. “Rhythm”
is a word of one syllable... .Mark Tapley: Hopeless
yarn.... Tom Cat: This one won’t do; but it sug-
gests better things....No Brains: No room for lec-
tures on punctuation here; any grammar book will-
put you on the track. At any rate, on a track....
Mac: You condemn yourself by your own filth....
11.E.8.: Cannot say... .P.H.8.: Oh, yes, he re-
signed. But that wasn’t what the Prime Minister
said. His story was that he couldn’t carry on
without the authority the Government asked for and
wouldn’t attempt to do so.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
COR RESPONDUS' I S.
A.W.O'H.: There’s no expression in it....M.R.:
Sad thing... .E.W.: May be original. So was sin.
. ...Bott: Dull stuff J.T.: Hard labor done in
line, .i .K.U.F.: Two heavy-jawed, sulky wenches —
no use for ’em... .H.W.A.: Guess it’s a very early
effort... .S.R.E.F.: Try to get a grip on the first
principles... .W.F.J.: Not in this pawnshop, Ikey!
... .Woddicus: Still very crude... .Z.R.: Depress-
ing in the extreme. First get your outlines right.
. ...T.R.T.: Worst drawing this week and the sug-
gestios lias no value.
By a bitterly-bald and aged citizen: —
There is talk about organising an annual pil-
grimage to the grave of Henry • Parkes,' describee! as
“the Father of Federation.” He is buried at
Faulconbridge, a place where he once lived and
which he named after a character in “King John”
in the days when he used to pose occasionally as
being, like the said character in the play, a
left-handed scion of royalty. Parkes was almost
the last of the Roaring Boys of politics; certainly
the last commanding figure in the old anti-Federal
crowd of the Ma State—the one which broke the
agreement for a uniform railway-gauge and a uni-
form tariff, and which repudiated with scorn the
invitations of several prominent Victorian politicians
to confer on the possibilities of a Federation. Ulti-
mately, with one of his strange and sudden changes
of .front, he incited the calling together of a Con-
vention, and a Constitution was drafted. It was
agreed that it was to be submitted to the respective
Legislatures, N. S. Wales having the honor of lead-
ing the way, and it was to take precedence of other
business. But Parkes did not introduce the Bill when
his Legislature met, and hardly even spoke of it.
Afterwards, when he was out of office and out of
Parliament, he tried to make his way back and
oust Reid in the guise of a strenuous Federationist.
But Reid, who up to then had denounced the other
States as “the Five Drunkards,” because they didn’t
wholly accept his importing gospel, and declared
that the one sober (importing) State of N. S. Wales
couldn’t possibly unite with them, turned strenuous
Federationist also, and so ended the matter. Parkes
once even mobilised some policemen at Echuca and
elsewhere as a threat of war against Victoria. That
was in the days,, when the Roaring Boys of Sydney
objected to the Melbourne Government building
wharves on t.he Victorian side of the Murray. For
the rest, he was a very moderate writer of prose,
an execrable poet, a rather untutored dabbler in
art, and a victim of chronic and picturesque impe-
cuniosity. But he was also an Old Parliamentary
Hand of wonderful capacity; and it is almost worth
while doing pilgrimage to his last resting-place.
But for truth’s sake, don’t do it because of any ser-
vices he ever gave to Federation!


r
ml#
M
k
inis
Mt. Egmont, N.Z., the most perfect conical mountain in the world.
More Tyre Value than ever before
There never has been a pause or
let-up in the effort to improve the
quality and value of Goodyear Tyres.
Since this institution first was estab-
lished, a goodly portion of its energy
has been unremittingly devoted to
the betterment of its products.
Out of this phase of endeavour have come such
important inventions as the Goodyear Tyre-
making Machine, the All-Weather Tread and
the On-Air Cure.
To-day the sum of these inventions, and the
benefits they daily yield to users, are embodied
in the Goodyear Tyre you buy.
It is safe to say that never before has the
motorist’s money bought so much in tyre value
as it buys to-day in Goodyear Tyres.
Certainly never before have methods in making
been refined to such exactitude, or the materials
used been held so scrupulously to an accepted
standard.
And just as certainly, no tyres in previous years have
uniformly given such big mileage and service as
Goodyears are giving to-day.
The superiority of Goodyear Tyres is not a theory:
it is a present and perceptible reality.
It is so marked as to have made Goodyear Tyres the
largest selling brand in the world.
To learn what Goodyear Tyres offer in extra mileage,
in additional comfort, in greater freedom from
trouble, you do not have to go outside your own
neighbourhood.
The chances are some friend of yours uses them —
ask this friend what he thinks of Goodyear Tyres and
how they serve him.
We are confident his answer will recommend Good-
year Tyres to you for your next equipment.
Goodyear Tyres, Heaoy Tourist Tubes and “Tyre Saoer" Accessories are easy to get from Goodyear Sermce Station Dealers everywhere.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE AND RUBBER COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 231 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY. BRANCHES AND AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
t luxurious nil fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines de-
Jyiixe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Blecti’ie Lifts and Laundries.
. j Ol a y information regarding sailing
fares' '** nf n'st-. Second- and Third-class
ORIENT
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810. .
Apply
s * N. CO.. Ltd.,
->• 4, 0 Spring Street.
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY '
Brisbane
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
'ROCKHAMPTON |
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
townsville
CAIRNS
COOKTOAVN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, April 1
Leaves Sydney April 20.
MELB.OUIiME
(Transhipping foi
S.A.'and W.A. ports)
-Passengers only.
}
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, April 13.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking. Public Ciiniimnlen. Sic.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors; THOS. WELSBY (Chairman); The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Ivt. (Depute Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES ; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A.;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. ,T.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
liondon Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QI'EKXSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALT. USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1868.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . , . . . . . . 222,000 0 0
interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091’e69 4 5
All new business since 18!)S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland. ,
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £Ll9s’679
Reserve Fund £115,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD.; FRANK N
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon,
head OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector lor
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (ST Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of flew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES
DEPOSITS
at interesr tor
fixed periods, anti
transacts all other usual Banking business.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping *C.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE "ALL-ItED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFU
RAILWAY. Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES. PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL RE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
through Hookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada. or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours. Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRir THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A lour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
\\ aikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS-
I* or illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, applv,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
K ...
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
FivB and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK
OF N£ W SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Pal dr up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £3,904,860
- £5,875,000
£3,904,860
£ 10,681,720
Ihe Hon. Sir Charles K., MacKellar, K'.CMG
M.E.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black,
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.l).
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laklley, Esq.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Officer—29 Threadneedle Street, JE.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Poirol
costs too much. Economise by using “GASO-
IjETTE,” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the .gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Pull directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALE, LONDON. E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
■QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
681 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the wo r ’
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Ksfablished 1834.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
- £2,000,000
- £2,000,000
- £2,000,000
£6,000,000
l
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Loudon Office: IS Birchin Lane, E.C. London Bankers: The Bank of England; The
London County and Westminster Bank Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. RUPAUA, April 13.
S.S. MORIALTA, April 20.
S.S. PARINGA, April 27.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Your Boy is Fighting for Liberty. Back
him up—BUY WAR LOAN BONDS.
a. s. yuiix & co., r,Ti>..
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydney, Mel-
bouine and Adelaide to West Australia and vice versa,
as advertised in daily newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
, evv Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
f rom Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER UMITED,
Collins Btreet, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AME R 1 C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIy;—OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
l.arge airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BUtT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITII.
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD.. Adelaide;
H. JONES A CO. LTD.. Hobart.
“THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY. COl' F’S
HAUBOU and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND UAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BUISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-vena.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 6s.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports,
Melbourne and Fiji.
T. 5.5. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
5.5. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel bv
! the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers posses's
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Inter-State Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.'s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP S COMPANY LIMITER,
Agents, II BRIDQE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bbitish Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia aud news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the Biutish Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain, information, tvithoat
charge.


Kodak pictures
Keep your memory fresK.
When you go on a trip or outing,
when vou visit new places and
make new friends, when you
encounter unusual and interesting
events —then you have need of
your Kodak. It will give you
pictures that will be a pleasure to
take and make, and a record that
will last a lifetime.
The 3a Folding Autographic Kodak is more
in use than any other camera in the world.
Takes postcard pictures —5J x inches.
Price £6.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior —very
simple and useful—for pictures x2\ inches.
Price 55/= Others from 35/= to £l5/2/=
Ask for the new illustrated folder.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
■
r-
■
II
mmwSrnM
-
*
«
1
11
*'#&}
MW;
*
■I
■ ■
m
%
iPf
H
m
a
m
x
m
W
»
i
mm,
mm
w
wm
§Sj 3KaW!sp
I
■HI
RODAIi (Australasia) LTD,,
Incorporating: Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne;
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane. The Valley. 37 Bundle St., Adelaide. 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. Denham St., Rockhampton. 316 Argent
St., Broken Hill. “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z.;
3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z.; 76 Stuart St.. Dunedin, N.Z.j and Christchurch, N.Z.
Form a “Cheer-o Club” in your own home!
His Masters Voice
X
>
/
1
m
w
i /,.
§ t
/
Look for the Registered Trade Mark.
will prove the ideal entertainer.
As a mirth-promoter and a music-maker “His
Master’s Voice” is unique—inimitable.
That is because the instruments and the records
are flawless —and because “His Master’s Voice”
artists are the foremost in the world.
Have a “Cheer-o Club” at home this winter —
sparkling songs and happy choruses. Keep the
young folk and the old folk up to their very ears
in hearty, wholesome fun.
Look for the Dog trade-mark when you buy—it is
the guarantee of supreme quality.
The “Zealand No. 3”
which we illustrate, is a beautifully-finished portable
model in Polished Quartered Oak with Nickel-plated
fittings. It has the famous “Gooseneck” tapered
tone-arm and patent “Exhibition” sound-box. Its
tone and volume ensure PERFECT reproduction.
Price £l4/19/6.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
jk
99
44
The Gramophone Co . Ltd.
163 Pitt Street ——— Sydney,
■‘GRAMOPHONE”
Reg. Trade Mark.


///
I
'/■'l,
\ -
c®
1
1 1
r
W," //
F i
The Safety of Your Car
Rests on its Tyres
THEREFORE
Use the BEST:
Use “COLO” TYRES
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.,
Sole Distributing Agents for N. S. W.,
Garage— 162 Cast/ereagh Street, Sydney .
’Phone City 2567.
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES.
“Masetto’’: Joined the Heavenly band at
54. E. T. Code, the brilliant Melbourne cor-
net player and a top-notcher in brass-band
circles for 30 years. Code’s Melbourne Band
was founded by him and had a lot of suc-
cesses in competitions, a notable run being
its three successive wins at the Druids’ fes-
tivals in Melbourne, 1898-’O9-1000. At Bal-
larat these chaps were generally near the top.
Code Was a fine adjudicator and had been
all oyer the States and Maoriland in that
capacity. When the Besses o' the Barn
band in Australia he was offered a solo
position,- but declined. Ilis son Percy is a
splendid cornet soloist and conducts the
Ballarat City Band, while son Stanley is a
well-known trombone performer. The Codes
were brought up amongst brass instruments,
the grandfather playing the ophieleide, an
obsolete affair with a weird tone, while two
of the deceased brothers blew through better-
known instruments.
Blind Signaller Tom Skeyhill, who left on a
“Dick Whittington ”
Panto, at Sydney
Majesty's.
Harry Rorbury as
Idle Jack.
lecturing tour of
America in Decem-
ber, had packed
houses in Hawaii
Islands. Two -lights
i n Honolulu h e
turned people
awa. y, and col-
lected £2OOO for
the Red Cross. The
Governor gave him
a reception, and
the British Consul
a dinner. Skey-
hill delivered HO
lectures in the
islands, and then
moved on with
Private Povie, a
Briton who fought
at Mons and lost
his leg at Hill 60,
and Sergeant-
major Carn i e,
whose eye went m
Gallipoli, where he
received other
wounds. The trio
are i billed for ’Frisco and N’York.
“Bert Leywood”: Chung Ling Soo was
56 when he passed out. At the back of a
beautiful home in Barnes (London) he had
a three-storey workshop where he hammered
at his ideas. He was the only Scotsman
that ever bec&me a Chinaman. When the
pigtail went out of fashion in China, Soo dis-
carded his wig, but his bald head and care-
fully-treated bit of hair made him look a real
mandarin. We played him in both Euro-
pean and native theatres with varying suc-
cess ; and while in Shanghai Soo met Ching
Ling Foo, and they made up the quarrel that
had existed between them for many years.
Ilis chief assistants were a .Tap named
Fukada and his little wife, known as Suee
Seen. These two always “set” his show
and he depended on them. Fukada had been
with him for Hi years and will probably take
the business over.
“M.P.A.” on Chinese magic:—
Prof. Davis, of Tientsin, China, an old Australian
hanky-panky exponent, now on a visit to Melbourne,
throws some light on the Chinese illusionist Ching
Ling Foo. Despite the fact that the lately-deceased
Robinson Soo robbed him of his limelight, Foo did
not quit the game by any means. During the past
few years he has made trips to England and America,
but his principal work lias been done in China with
his own company of Chinese. Though Ching has per-
formed for years in European countries he has never
departed from the “legitimate” Chinese magic; the
production of his deep bowl of water and fish—the
bowl quite two feet deep—is most striking, even
to experienced old pros, like Davis.
Davis talks interestingly about Chinese magicians
and street-performers. For instance. A child is
balanced on his head in the mouth of a good-sized
jar. The magician hits the kiddy on the soles of the
feet and he disappears into the jar. The jar is given
for examination beforehand. The spear-whirling and
juggling acts are uncanny. Freaks are as common as
mud, and boys like the famous “Jo Jo,” the dog-
faced boy exhibited here years ago, are very ordinary.
Like Dr. Morrison, Prof. Davis is a great booster
for China, and declares it a wonderful country for
the man with brains and energy, lie has decided to
see his days out there.
The Taits are still goiug to the dogs to
complete their casts. To emphasise the
“A Pair of Silk Stock-
ings,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Sidney Stirling as the
dashing Major Bagnal.
social difference
between Peg
O’Counel and the
haughty Miss Chi-
chester in “Peg o’
My Heart.” they
presented the
form e r with a
rough Irish terrier
named Michael,
and gave Miss
Chichester a fluffy
little animal for
the base Michael to
worry. Now they
are importing for
“The Masquerader”
an Alaskan police
dog which has
nearly a whole
scene to himself
with the principal
character. The
beast is called
Huskie, and is get-
ting his passage
out from America
because he went
through the long
and exhausting
season of licking
his master’s hand in the New York produc-
tion.
Alexander Watson, the English reciter
with the marvellous memory and the eloquent
hands, is coming this way for the third time.
These three years past lie has been touring
the training-camps in England and the lines
in France as an honorary entertainer of
Tommy and Billjim. Carlyle Smythe will
manage the Australian tour.
Lorna and Toots Pounds, who with our
kind permission used to do imitations of
artists they had seen and heard, are princi-
pal “boy” and girl respectively in “Dick
Whittington.” at the Ilford (London) Hippo-
drome. Dick at the Kennington Theatre is
Sybil Arundale. Fred Leslie. Bertie Wright
and Vie Gouriet (the first “Merry Widow”
Popoff in these parts) are other Australian
favorites filling panto, engagements.
“Simon” ; Did you ever hear what hap-
pened during a snow-scene at the Mudgee
(N.S.W.) town hall many years back? “The
Vagabond” was being played, and half-way
through a very touching piece the “snow”
gave out. Irving Hayman was stage-manag-
ing and roared to the man aloft asking what
the matter was. “Got no more white paper,”
came the response. “Well, snow brown!”
says Hayman.
“B. J.": Frequent printed explanations
thrown on the screen are not. as “Sylvia
IJ." suggests (B. 28/3/T8), peculiar to mov-
ing pictures made in Australia. They have
been a wearisome feature of recent Yank
films. A picture I viewed the other night
was practically an illustrated story. We
Mere shown a school-house, and the film pro-
“Diek Whittington ”
Panto, at Sydney
Majesty's.
Arthur Stigant as the
Dame.
needed to blither:
“You all know that
de a r old school-
house where you
spent so many
happy days. The
black-eyed Susans
bloom about the
por c h and the
honeysuckle climbs
the wall about the
windows” —or pif-
fle to that, effect.
Then came a “close-
up” of the school-
marm, and the
screen again began
to prattle: “Who
has not. met that
sweet young school-
marm. with her
golden ringlets.”
< tc. Much of this
sort of thing would
soon damage the
popularity of pic-
tures, which appeal
largely to a huge
class of intellec-
tual loafers to whom all reading is a bore.
Freda Sternberg from N’York :
Stella Power, has made good all right in
America. She has even pleased the Boston critics,
which is an achievement. Melba is beaming with
piide over the success of her pupil, and insists that
all the credit of the debut is due to Stella's voice
and personality. It docs not take long, however, to
discover where Melba stands in America. The
heights she lias achieved would make the average
star dizzy. But to return to Stella. After she has
finished singing at various concerts in the New York
part of America she’s to go to California, and will
sing on some Melba programmes.
o. P. lleggie is in the east of “Happiness” at
the Criterion here. He plays Philip Chandos, and
does all right, but his work is anxmic beside that
of I.auretie 1 avlor, who plays Jenny, the heroine.
It would take a lot of adjectives to describe Laurette
Taylors art. She has plenty of scope to exhibit it
in “Happiness,” which was written by her husband,
Hartley Manners.
Ronald Byram, the decorative Queenslander who
used to help out the Fred Niblo plays, is on Broad-
way in “The Indestructible Wife”—a comedy of the
neurotic superwoman. Picture the combination! Up
to date he seems to be coming through the ordeal
unscathed. Tempe Pigott, another Bananalander, is
also daily wading through snow to rehearsals. The
date of her appearance has not yet been fixed.
In a remote corner at the Biltmore Hotel grill-
room I recently saw a pair of wonderful eyes.
Around them was Theda Bara. Her clothes, her
jewels, her furs were wonderful. But her eyes
rivalled the lot.
Ettore Cadorin—-once .she was tovie Mueller of
Bendigo -is - busy climbing the starway in New
York. Her mice and personality have commanded
attention even in the babel of the big village. Cadorin
her sculptor husband—has ceased to lecture at the
Columbia University and has also ceased to create
statues for the time being. He sailed for Italy some
weeks back and is now doing his bit towards pushing
back the Hun.
“Masetto": Claude Debussy, France’s
notable composer, has played his last chord
at 06. He made the piano an amazing new
means of expression, and Australians know
most about him through that instrument and
\\ llliam Murdoch’s masterly treatment of
his solos. Verbrugghen and party also played
a quartet, and the Quinlans staged his short
opera “The Prodigal Son’’ with Agnes
Nichols and the large-voiced Hinckley in the
e ? st \ . barring a few songs that is about all
of this master that Australia has made
acquaintance with.
“Snell”: “The Cinderella Man” is by
Edward Childs Carpenter. TVhen you have
seen the play the name of Childs Carpenter
reads like a cynical jest. The author’s
attempt has been to produce a “Peter Pan”
sort of thing for grown-ups; but while the
starving poet in his garret and the fairy
princess who comes across the roof to succor
him are unreal, they do not for a moment
succeed in being romantic, or ethereal, Or
anything else that might satisfactorily take
the place of human interest in a play. From
the moment Childs Carpenter starts his
dummies jigging, with five dull old men in a
dull apartment, to the denouement when the
hare-biained fairy gets her hopeless poet, the
comedy never seems anything but desultory
tooling by a dramatist of small experience
who has undertaken to write a plav in a
night and has got tight by the way.
“C.. Ockney”; Pinero had his first plav
pioduced in England 41 years ago and his
name is still good. A feature of a perform-
ance given at the Coliseum a couple of
months ago in aid of the funds of the Water-
loo Station Free Buffet for Soldiers and
Sailors was a “message” by the veteran
which was recited by Irene Vanbrugh (Mrs
Dot Boucieault). The original MS. was
afterwards auctioned from the stage and
fetched ±1630.
“Blue Geebung”: It seems strange that it>
is impossible to book seats for any of the
Firm’s Sydney theatres during the city’s
busiest hour of the whole week, viz., from
12 to 1 on Saturdays. The down-town plan
closes as the post-office clock gives its
twelfth stroke, not re-opening at its after-
noon rendezvous till after many would-be
patrons (who do not receive their pay and
liberty till noon) have left the city.
Stargazer” : The picture play is even more
defiant of legal precedents than the old melo-
drama used to be. Having seen about 1200
miles of American film, I am driven to the
conclusion that American law makes no
allowance whatever for self-defence. The
harrowed and harassed hero who shoots in
circumstances of necessity and under condi-
tions highly creditable to himself is always
tried for his life, and invariably gets the
crushing sentence that is necessary to enable
him to escape from gaol in film' the third.
There’s the trouble: a man can’t escape
from gaol if he hasn’t been gaoled, and, con-
sidered as dramatic material, escapes from
gaol are so popular that if America were
not our beloved co-belligerent at this moment
I would rush to the conclusion that every
American who isn’t in gaol expects to be.
“0.K.”: Anyone remarked the resemblance
between Esther Mitchell, who plays Elsie
Tillinger in “Turn to the Right,” and Harrie
Ireland of old ? Both have the same charm
of , a “typically Australian” femininity in
their way of speaking and freedom of
address. It is the natural girlishness that
no expert female impersonator of the oppo-
site sex ever attempts to imitate. A man
will give a capital imitation of womanly arts
and graces and coquettishness, but a male
creature in skirts never tries to assume an
air of unaffected ingenuousness. The per-
formance of the three girls in “Turn to the
Right” is remarkably true to their respective
types of rural character, though their
appearance is, of course, somewhat smart-
ened for theatrical purposes. Even the
affected diction of Lizette Parkes is quite
natural, for it is distinctively her own. The
effect of those three girls in the Amurkan
comedy of crooks is about as realistic as you
can get it; and, although the three young
men are allowed 80 per cent, of the credit
for the success of the show, they ought to
share it equally with the girls.
LOCAL COLOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I' met Horatio StOrmer on The Point;
1 hadn't seen him for $ month or two;
As usual, old Time was out of joint,
But all his phraseology was new.
He said, for instance (I’d suggested wine),
“A Boston high-ball is the dope for mine!”
I marvelled at his nasal, alien tones
And frenzied diction, for he spoke with zest
Qf “rubes,” and “guys,” and miscalled shillings
t's “bones”;
I thought it some unfathomable jest
When, as I praised a lime-lit star of note,
He saidt “Thf* stuff she pulls sure gets my goat!"
“This hot-air punk,” he babbled, “makes me tired !
tit’s tierce to put such 10-cent gulf across;
If I sling roughneck gags you bet I’m fired —
It’s ‘good-night, nurse,’ for mine, sliek from the
boss!
The peaeli you stand for bluffs to beat the band,
Yet batty boneheads give her the glad hand!”
It dawned on me that this demented chat
Was reminiscent of the U.S.A.
“America!” I,gasped. “It must be that!
I didn’t know that you had been away.”
“I’ve not,” he said ; “I’m getting into tune—
I’ve got an offer to go there in June!” .
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
SHADOWS OF SHADES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I in their courses watch the “stars,”
That never were on stage or screen,
On ferry boats and railway cars,
And some are plump and others lean;
The ultra-modest maids and sweet
Are Mary Pickford and her kith;
Bold vampires by the score I meet,
But vainly still in train and street,
I search for merely Mary Smith.
With faces pale, and bright red lips
Like freshly-painted fire-alarms,
Hands resting lightly on their hips,
> oung Theda Baras flaunt their charms;
Of Kellermans there are a crowd,
Whose figures seem devoid of bones;
Tn bars and tea-rooms I’ve been cowed
By Miss Petrovas, cold and proud;
But where, oh! where, is Susan Jones?
A dozen girls wdth roguish eyes,
TV earing the same large, toothsome smirk,
I’ve noticed. Now I realise
That all of them were Billie Burke!
Wild prairie flow’rs, with legs on show
And soft felt hats, parade the town;
Mae Marshes on each corner grow;
But this is what I want to know—
Does Sydney own a girl named Brown?
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


l
ijkljk
Motor Gars
The Big Four
Touring Car
£445
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Magneto Ignition
l
Permanence
When an institution, almost from its in-
ception, takes the commanding position in its
field—
And when that institution maintains the
commanding position without interruption
over a series of years—
Then you may be assured of that institu-
tion’s integrity—both as to its product and
its dealings witH the public.
From an annual output of 465 motor cars
nine years ago The Willys-Overland Com-
pany has grown steadily, and this year its
dealers have contracted for more than 200,000
motor Cars.
Its net resources have grown in that time
from a little more than £lO,OOO to more than
£13,600,000.
This year the Willys-Overland factojies
are building the mast comprehensive range
of models ever'produced by any. one motor
car concern.
If yours is a family of average size, you
will be particularly interested in either the
Big Four-cylinder Overland touring car, fin-
ished in a rich brown, or the Light Four
touring car, finished in gray. These two
models exemplify the remarkable values char-
acteristic of the entire group.
When you buy any motor car in the Willys-
Overland group you are assured by our com-
manding position in the industry—by our
unequaled facilities and resources—of integ-
rity of values in your motor car throughout
the whole period of its performance in your
service.
WILLYS-OVERLAND MODELS INCLUDE:
Big Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Light Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Roadster
“Country Club ”
Willys-Knight Model
Four-Cylinder Touring Car
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Request from
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney.
EAGER & SON, Brisbane.
KELLOW FALKINER LTD., Melbourne.
A. HAT RICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z,
HEATHORN & CO., Hobart & Launceston,
AUTOCARS LTD., Adelaide.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
TheWillys-OverJand Company, Toledo, Ohio
Manufacturers of Willys-Knlgbt and Overland Motor Cars
and Light Lorries


VULCAN TRADING CORPORATION
General Merchants
Importers and Exporters
Manufacturers 9 Agents
120 Broadway - New York, U. S. A.
The entire facilities of our great organization are at your
disposal for the conduct of your export
and import business.
Inquiries for raw and manufactured products of any country are solicited.
Offers on all raw products of your country are desired by our import department.
Liberal advances will be made on consignments .
All inquiries and offers will receive prompt attention.
AUBTRALABIAN REPRESENTATIVE:
FRANK B. SMITH, 4 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
'Phone 9148 City.
nnnpnjjjM
1
BPiM
mm
US>
1
y'Hfl
L-i
I****
art.
Hupmobile
Breaks Fremantle to Sydney
45 hours, IB minutes.
Record by
On Tuesday, January 29, at 8.15 a.m., Messrs. Burton and Smith, of West Australia, left Fremantle with a
STOCK MODEL HUPMOBILE in an attempt to lower the existing record between Fremantle and Sydney.
Below is appended the distances, times and previous times between the various towns.
Beating - Average
Former Miles per
Record”. Hour.
Hrs. Mts.
1 30
11 25
20 25 -
20 35
30 30
30 5 16.3-10
10.6
17.3
45 13 24
Left Fremantle 8.15 a.m. on January 29, arrived Sydney February 5 at 12.32 p.m.
FREiTANTLE TO PORT AUGUSTA, 1538 Miles, in 93 hours 55 minutes; Average, 16.3 miles per hour.
PORT AUGUSTA TO BROKEN HILL, 404 miles in 38 hours; Average, 10.6 miles per hour.
BROKEN HILL TO DUBBO, 488 miles, in 28 hours 5 minutes; Average, 17.3 miles per hour.
DUBBO TO SYDNEY, 248 miles, in 10 hours 17 minutes; Average, 24 miles per hour.
FREMANTLE TO SYDNEY, TOTAL MILEAGE 2677 MILES, in 7 days 2 hours 17 minutes.
AVERAGE MILEAGE PER GALLON OF BENZINE, 15.7.
FROM PORT AUGUSTA MR. BURTON LEFT THE BEATEN TRACK, via Adelaide and Melbourne, and
struck out across the desert and WASHOUTS FOR BROKEN HILL. The nature of this country can be
imagined when it is shown above that it took 38 hours to do 404 miles on an average of only 10.6 miles per hour.
It is worthy of note that the only spares carried by the motorists were a Crown Wheel, a Stub Axle and two Main Spring Leaves, none of
which were needed. They depended entirely on their Electric Installation for Lights. ,/g •
The whole performance speaks volumes for Hupmobile Reliability and Service.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand-
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD,, Melbourne and Geelong.
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania.
A. HATRICIv & CO. LTD., Wanganui and W ellington. N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.
Hupp Motor Car Corp., Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A. — Cable Address: "HUPP DETROIT.’


London's Beauty Writers*
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
Bv Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
The Killing of Superfluous flair.
It is easy to remove superfluous hair tem-
porarily, but to remove it permanently is
uuite another matter. Not many women
know that for this purpose such a simple
substance as powdered pheminol may be
used, applied directly to the hair. The recom-
mended treatment Is designed not merely to
instantly remove the hair, but also to event-
ually kill the roots entirely. Almost any
chemist could supply an ounce of pheminol,
which quantity should be sufficient.
Renewing Complexions by Absorption.
If your complexion is marred with sallow-
ness, moth patches, pimples or freckles, it is
useless to potter with powders and paints,
lotions, creams and things in an effort to get
rid of the trouble. Unless you have some
ability as an artist, you will mar your ap-
pearance still more. The new and rational
way is to take off the complexion itself, with
all its offensive marks. Just get some pure
mercolized wax at the chemist’s and use at
night the,same as cold cream. Remove next
morning with water and soap, following with
dash of cold water. The mercolized wax
absorbs the half-dead scarf skin in flaky
particles, so gradually that no one guesses
you are treating your face—unless it be by
the result, which is truly wonderful. There
is nothing like it for bestowing a natural,
healthy and beautiful complexion.
A "Blackhead” Secret,
blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly
corrected by a unique new process. A tablet
<>f stymol, obtained from the chemist, is
dropped in a tumbler of hot water, which will
then of course “fizz” briskly. When the
effervescence has subsided the face is bathed
with the stymol-eliarged water and then dried
with a towel. The offending blackheads, of
their own acco.rd, come right off on the
towel, the large oily pores immediately con-
tract and efface themselves naturally. There
is no squeezing, forcing, or any drastic
action. The skin is left uninjured, smooth,
soft, and cool. A few such treatments should
be taken at intervals, of three or four days
thereafter in order to insure the permanence
of the pleasing result so quickly obtained.
Don’t Have Grey Hair.
Grey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient and
often down-right injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, Will turn the hair back to
a natural color in a perfectly harmless man-
ner. You have only to get two ounces of
tammalite concentrate from your chemist and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum to prove
this. Apply this simple and harmless lotion
for a few nights to the hair with a small
sponge, and the greyness will gradually dis-
appear. The lotion is neither sticky nor
greasy and has been proved over and over
again for generations past by those in pos-
session of the formula.
About Shampoos.
To quote an eminent London beauty
specialist: “The slimy egg cannot dissolve
the scalp impurities, but only adds to the
trouble by completely choking the pores with
animal matter.” The substance sticks, de-
composes, thereby causing the hair to assume
a dead, “dull color.” Avoid eggs (and soap
too) on your hair. Try the delightful pre-
paration made by stirring a teaspoonful of
stallax in a cup of hot water. It will bring
out new beauty possibilities in vonr hair,
will dear and prevent dandruff, and leave
that fine fluffy effect so much sought after.
It also removes excess oil or greasiness. [1
Neat Underwear.
'uwt .
.WOYENNAMESi
Made In
=^^lAustb*li*
y
AT PROCURED THROOCH^
ANY UP-TO-DATE MERCER OR DRAPER,
OUR NAME ON THE BOX
b ** of Qpah|y
12 dozen, 7/6; 6 dozen, 5/-; 3 dozen, 3/6,
,jk
Keep Cool.
Latest Improved Model.
Runs on Methylated Spirits.
No Springs to get out of
order.
A Fan producing a perfect
cool breeze.
Price £7/10/-
Write for catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
AIR GAS ENGINEERS,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Only Lemon (Sounsh
BROOKE'S
fcfc
•«
Larges/ Sa/e in /ho Wor/d
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking; Botanical Gardens.
On
j
w
tyimniillll
Wcstc/ox
BIG BEN
'‘illllUlll!' 1
He Speaks All Languages
Big Ben of Westclox is
known and respected in
countries all around the
world. He keeps good
time—he rings in good
time —he teaches people
the pleasure of living on
time.
From Sydney to San Francisco
and from Scotland to Siam his
sunny ring starts the day for
punctual men. His frank, open
face is as honest as the day
is long.
Big Ben’s good looks outside
match his good works inside.
Like all clocks of the Western
Clock Co. family, he is made
in the patented Westclox wav
a better metftod of clock making.
Needle-fine pivots of polished
steel greatly reduce friction.
This construction makes
Westclox success-clocks. It’s
the reason they have so many
friends.
Big Ben is seven inches tall. He
rings steadily for five minutes or inter-
mittently for ten. He’s at your clock
dealers. His price is 15/- until further
notice.
Western Clock Co. —makers of Westdox
I.a Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
Big Ben 151-, Baby Ben 15!-, America 7i6, Sleep-Meter 10/6, Boyproof Watch 716.
l
jkl
The man who has learned how and
when to take risks, banks on his
superior nerve to pull him through.
And if by daily habit and by simple
precautions he has kept his body fit
and vigorous always, you may be sure
his nerve will not fail him in any crisis.
Such men succeed where others dare
not even try to succeed.
| HE habit of taking
* a half teaspoon-
ful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot
water every morning
before rising clears the
head, invigorates and
cleanses the system
and promotes daily good health. You sleep
better—-and rise refreshed ; you eat better —arid
assimilate all the nourishment that food can give ;
you work better —and enjoy your work. You
can tax your energies to the uttermost and take
pleasure in the effort if only you keep your body fit
while your brain works. The Kruschen habit makes you fit and
keeos you fit—good health becomes an unconscious habit of life.
jk
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
ljk
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and'stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruichen), Ltd., (58 Deansgate Arcade. Manchester, England.
Old Calixte Denat still manages to make a
crust at the little-French-dinner game in
Melbourne. A couple of decades ago Cal-
ixte catered for Melbourne’s exclusive
palates at the original Cafe Denat in Little
Collins-street; but. though he can canape a
lark with the best of ’em, he isn’t the busi-
ness-bird, and went through a good deal,
after leaving the old stand, before he finally
settled in his obscure diner.v in Exhibition-
street. The soft spot in Denat’s business
nature was once more disclosed the other
day when a little matter of serving a jugful
of champagne to a customer cost him £25.
Still, the old nobility must have their wine,
of course, and Papa Calixte would be the
last to deny them.
The fierce ligtt which is at present beating
on Archbish. Mannix in Melbourne has
thrown into dark shadow his guest from
Brisbane, Archbish. Duhig. But Duhig has
a record worth more than a glance. He
reached Australia from Limerick at 13. and
at 34 was the “Boy Bishop” of Rockhampton.
Succeeding the aged recluse, Dunne, on the
latter’s death at Brisbane last year, he soon
began to stir the dry bones. He thundered
from St. Stephen’s pulpit a denunciation of
a theatrical ad. inviting young women to
accompany their application for panto, parts
with their photographs in bathing-dress. Pre-
viously he had run a crusade against “the
three great vices’’ —(1) Smoking by women.
(2) mixed bathing, and (3 —sh-sh-sh!) rid-
ing astride by women.
Even the Red Cross Society has a mania
for the imported article. One of the boys
on discharge from the Caulfield Military
Hospital, after treatment for pneumonia,
was handed underclothing branded —“Made
in Japan. All cotton.” A fine combination
—pneumonia and cotton.
“0;K.”: One way and another the talk
about St. Patrick’s Day procession in Mel-
bourne will do good. It has brought to light
some silly old precedents, the abolition
whereof was long overdue. For instance,
Dr. Deeper discovered that the superinten-
dent of Kew Asylum had issued a memo
granting a holiday to as many members of
the staff as could be spared on St. Pat’s
Day. This turns out to-be a fulfilment of
instructions received annually from the Chief
Sec.’s Department. Now, why? No Aus-
tralian Government institution, even for the
insane, has any national connection with a
foreign-country’s patron-saint’s day. St.
George, St. Andrei and St. Taffy have no
recognised claim for consideration upon the
warders at Kew:. The whole truth is that
old-time authorities discouraged Australian
nationalism, while fostering sectarianism for
the sake of its green and yellow votes. A
plague on their imported sentimentality ! A
plague on all processions that are not politi-
cally Australian in character.
“Amber”: Here is an example of how the
Vic. Railways endeavor to kill Portland, rob
the Western District of its natural port, and
have a deficit. All the products of the dis-
trict are hauled as far eastward as Ararat,
which is about equi-distant from Melbourne
and Portland; and the freight charges being
rigged in Melbourne’s favor, they continue to
go that way. But the producers wanted a
better service and agitated for a direct line
to Portland. After many years of agitation,
every excuse being exhausted, the line was
approved, and everything pointed to its pay-
ing handsomely. Then the congestionists
got in their fine work. When the first sec-
tion, about 40 miles, was completed it was
announced that the line was of light rails
and would not carry heavy wheat and
wool trains. Next it was discovered that
the supply of rails was exhausted, so a gap of
some 30 miles still lies between Cavendish
and Kanagulk, with the sleepers awaiting
the rails. Rails, and heavy ones at that,
sufficient to fill this gap, are lying idle on
the political lilies in the suburban area. But
the Department would rather let them rust
than put them where they would divert traf-
fic from Melbourne.
“The Wanderer”: Jim Morrisey, of snake-
bite antidote renown, is in the Liverpool
(N.S.W.) Refuge, and doesn’t think he will
handle any more snakes and adders. He
hfis, lie says, given his prescription to the
Little Sisters of the Poor, by whom it will
be made up when he passes the last mile-
stone—which seems to be very near.
An opening offers for Oman, Vic. Minister
for Offal, etc., to be up-and doing something
to the Stock Foods Act. Convictions were
secured early last year for selling adulter-
ated pollard, but since then nothing has
been done to make the way of such trans-
gressors anything but a bed of rosy profits.
Meantime there is death in the bran-mash
and disaster in the pig-bucket, with every
now and again the solitary cry of some
strong farmer in his agony, observing Betty
the sow breathing her last in the throes of
intestinal disorder.
“The Oldest Inhabitant’s” story of a Blue
Mountain landmark:—
“Bull’s Camp” lies between Linden and Woodford,
50 miles from Sydney. This Bull was a captain in
the 99th Regiment, and, arriving in Sydney with a
detachment, was detailed for duty with 50 rank and
file to supervise the gangs of road-making convicts on
the track between Penrith and Bathurst. His head-
quarters as Magistrate and Commandant were at
Woodford, and the old stone house in which he lived
and held his court is still on the roadside. In front
is a green on which were daily paraded the ironed
road-workers. The house is nearly a century old—
Bull was not, of course, the first Magistrate and
Commandant there. In turn it was known as Buss’s
Inn; then it was the country home of Alfred Fair-
fax, a Sydney merchant, who had a fine orchard,
remains of which are still visible; now it is a boys’
academy. Before the railway was built it was the
halting-place of the gold-escorts from the West, and
the present owner has preserved the strongly-barred
cell in which the gold boxes were kept for the night.
In 1852 Bull was appointed Gold Commissioner at
Bendigo; he and Orion Horne and some other students
from Sandhurst Military College were responsible for
the change of name from Bendigo to Sandhurst. He
was the first gold commissioner appointed in Vic-
toria. Later he held a similar position at Oastle-
maine, where he formed the first volunteer corps and
was appointed captain, eventually becoming colonel.
He died at Goulburn (N.S.W.) in -Tune, 1901, aged 95.


ljk
YOUR
FOOTWEAR
either makes or mars your appear-
ance, therefore you should exercise
the utmost care in its selection.
ABBEY SHOES
are always correct in perfect
in fit, and give the utmost in long
service.
They are made in half- and full-
sizes, and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide.
We illustrate a special Patent
Derby Shoe, in a very smart, made-
to-order style.
Price - 42/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same
price.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
&
va
re
sA'
00l
j ©
9
K r
A SMOKER TESTIFIES:
Calox Removes Stains from Teeth
and adds: “My teeth were blackened
with tobacco smoke, and Oalox re-
moved these stains instantly, where
ordinary dentifrice failed. I noticed
the effect immediately on using this
preparation.”
the oxygen
TOOTH POWDER.
does more than clean the teetn to a
snowy whiteness. The moment it
enters the mouth the moisture liber-
ates oxygen that spreads into all the
crevices' of the mouth, where bacteria
and decay germs are out of reach
from a tooth-brush. Calox has a
pleasing taste, and it thoroughly
refreshes and purifies the mouth.
SEND FOR FREE SAMPLES
supplied anywhere in Australia.
Attach your name and address to this
advertisement and forward to Geo.
Wills and Co. Ltd., 60
York Street, Sydney;
or 480 Collins Street,
Melbourne, with two
penny stamps enclosed
to cover postage.
Calox is procurable
from
All Chemists and
Leading Stores.
F. 11/4/18.
(s^cysEi
THE OXYGErtj
rOOTti POWDER
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from
S. Fielder, Bandwick, Sydney, 5/ & 2/0.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Sixth War Loan
Serve your Country by Subscribing
It is your duty as a Citizen.
If you have not the money on
hand the Commonwealth Bank
will make liberal advances to
enable you to subscribe.
Bonds held in safe custody free of charge
For all particulars apply to any Branch of the
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralia
February, 1918. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
ENJOY YOUR MEALS.
Nothing takes the joy out of life like a
weak stomach. Tone up your stomach right
away so it will do its own proper work.
Take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills and notice
the improved condition of your stomach.
Then enjoy the goods things that others
enjoy.
These pills go deeper than a remedy that
acts on the stomach alone. They get at the
real cause, which is impure blood. They
make it red and healthy. The whole diges-
tive system is toned up. and where once the
sight of food was nauseating yo.u will have
a good appetite and be able to eat without
distress.
Do not put off finding relief a single day.
Get a box of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to-
day and begin the treatment at once. Price
2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. has
issued a free book, “What to Eat and How
to Eat,” that should he in every home. It
gives just the information that you want
regarding your diet; send a post-card to
Box 594 G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
MALTED
MILK
MALTED BARLEY—WHEAT & MILK
Arethe constituents of Horlick’s Malted Milk. These nutritive elements help nature
to build up the human frame and bring back health, strength and energy. cr
a cup of Horlick’s, an increase of mental and physical power is at once noticeable.
There is nothing to equal Horlick’s as a Delicious Food-Drink.
GET HORLICK'S AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN.
*tah
TS |«VM-
i^s!M«.rtO' <^
/mve
o£>jeciix>e~
A terse but e'o-
quent and very
welcome feature of
Fie'd - Marshal
Haig’s recent
communiques.
Reaching their
objective has 1-
ways been a dis-
tinguishing feature
of AVO NS—
known as the tyres
that “g.t there.”
y
J
n
m
N
V
4
7
Tributes to their many fine
qualities are continually being
received.
AVONS eliminate road de-
lays, save expense, and enable
users to always “gain their
objective. ’
A
ljk
Hammond & Co., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
H. C. Pannifex, 22 Market Street, Melbourne.
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Adelaide.
Queensland Hotor Agency Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Queensland.


Nearly Mad With
Burning and Itching.
Healed By Cuticura.
"Little red pimples began to show on
mv face and forehead till my face was
almost covered. They
nearly drove me mad
with burning and itching.
I rubbed them and it used
to cause eruptions. They
were very disfiguring
and the irritation used to
keep me awake at night.
‘‘l tried the Cuticura
Soap and Ointment and
l
the samples seemed to relieve me, so I
bought more and in 2 or 3 months there
was not a pimple on my face. (Signed)
Mr. J. G. Buchanan, 9 Eden Street,
Auckland, N. Z., May 16, 1916. _
How often such distressing, disfigur-
ing skin troubles might be prevented
by every-day use of Cuticura Soap and
Ointment for all toilet purposes.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address :
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SPEUAUSi
TWO
LINES
$l# s
WftiTE
FOP
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
1
520 GEORGE5 T SYDNEY
Zf fIONTER S' NEWCASTLE
Rare you
UPTURIU
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in facLaTHK BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a OENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. 'Can you ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
!
m
I 1 1 11 1 i M 111 i ! 11 i \\ U \ \ \\ \AW \ V V \ \ \ \
the all British
SAUCE
mm
u
It has a new
and distinctive
flavour, quite
different from
any other
sauce.
Of all
Stores .
Never Use an Oily Polish
on Any
of My
Furniture-
jkl
1 Want You to
PREPARED VAX
f\TLY polishes gather and hold the dust,
vJ soiling clothing, linen and everything with
which they come in contact. Johnson’s Prepared
Wax imparts a perfectly hard, dry, glasslike polish.
It forms a thin protecting coat over the varnish,
adding years to its life. It never becomes sticky
or tacky in the hottest weather or from the heat
of the body. Consequently it does not show finger
prints and
It Cannot Gather Dust
Johnson’s Prepared Wax polishes and finishes with
one application. There is nothing like it for keep-
ing dining room tables bright and tempting.
Hot dishes have no effect whatever on it.
Have Your Piano, Gramophone and Mahog-
any Furniture a Bluish, Cloudy Appearance?
This can be easily, quickly and permanently re-
moved with Johnson’s Prepared Wax, The Dust-
Proof Polish. Splendid for Craftsman Furniture also.
Every family has dozens of uses for Johnson’s Prepared Wax'
Keep a tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos.
Floors
Piano
Furniture
Woodwork
Motor Car
jkl
prepared
f (leans and Polishes
Kme IFtaiwianais
jk
\
’
jia
saocnj
lift oz.
Use This Coupon for Trial Tin
I enclose 6d. for trial tin of
Johnson’s Prepared Wax-
sufficient for a good test.
Also send book on Home
Beautify ingfree and postpaid
Name
Address
I usually buy from
Fill out this coupon
and post ta
S.C. JOHNSONS SON
379 Kent St, Sydney. N. S. V.'.
The <: sha.v'el)eli<?ht/u 1
Wftk w
PRICES
ZWL
Kecyino.
"Vou secure Lather
''rhats fragrant"
Lather that lasts.
WU*.
X
Os
V*
XA
V W ; Y
*
\>
PRICE'S, London.
prices
Liverpool, Manchester, Glasgow
“Bad Bill” (London) : I visited the Rane-
lagh-road Continuation School the other even-
ing. Work stopped sharp at 9.15, and all,
boys and girls, assembled and under the
direction of the headmaster had a dance.
The gentleman would mount a chair and give
half a minute’s verbal instruction in the
steps, and then say, “Gentlemen, select .your
partners for La Rinka,” and in half a minute
his frock coat was bobbing up and down the
room, followed by young couples. Once a
month oarents and friends are invited from
7 till 10. The Head assured me that,
generally speaking, he found the inter-
mingling of the sexes (which we in Australia
say is objectionable) had a very good elfect
on both lots.
“Quidam” recalls an old bridge-builder:—
When engineer Byerley, one of the best-known old-
timers of the North, built the suspension-bridge over
the Fitzroy, thereby connecting North and South
Rockhampton (Q.), many prophesied that the spidery
tiling wouldn’t stand a flood. In the big 90 wet,
when one of the pillars dropped some feet, the critics
were beginning to say “I told you so,” when
it was found that the pile-head had rested
on a shelf, and that it was this shalf and not
the bridge that had given way. After repairs had been
done the bridge had a trial in the ’96 flood, till then
the highest on record, and though friends declared
that “poor old Byerley” used to watch his handiwork
anxiously at night-time, nothing happened. Now,
years after the conscientious old man has gone west,
the largest flood of all, 3ft. 6in. higher than that of
’96, has come and gone, and “Byerley’s bridge” has
withstood it as triumphantly as Verdun withstood
the flood of Hun soldiery. As the late deluge exceeded
the hostile prophets’ most sanguinary expectations,
it must be conceded that, whatever happens in the
future, the name of the Rockhampton bridge-builder
must stand among those who have done good work
in the world and done it well.
“Chal”: Is it the rule of Webster’s Depart-
meut to thrice despatch and deliver each
telegram? When I got the same telegram
that I had received two days previously I
mildly wondered what was the matter with
my wife that she had repeated her wire; but
when, next day, the same old message bobbed
up again, I became rather tired of being
chased round the camp by a telegraph mes-
senger and went and told the postmaster off.
But the climax was yet to come, for two
days later one of Webster’s hirelings waited
on my wife and demanded 2s. for the extra
wires despatened. Can you beat that for
gall?
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos the poisonous price of
galvanised iron to-day. Sheet iron (gal-
vanised) came into use in Victoria this
way. The discovery of gold brought a mixed
population. The gaols were soon full and
the “logs” not quite secure. Then a happy
thought struck Contain Charles McMahon,
who had come to Melbourne just before and
got an appointment as inspector of police ;
he imported iron houses, which he scat-
tered far and wide in police districts and
used as lockups and gaols. It was a capi-
tal idea; but the Captain was a bit too
greedy and a rupture with Chief Secretary
John O’Shanassy caused the ex-Hussar’s re-
tirement.
“Henry Horsecollar” on the Big Hun Gun
and the Place where the High Kings lived:
The old order changes and life would be monoto-
nous if it didn’t. The new Hun gun which is
dropping shells into Paris apparently carries about
twice as far as any Hun gun that went before it.
So not only does the old order change but in the stress
of strife it changes fast. There is talk of the almost
impossible length and burden of the new weapon, and
of the shortness of its life, but according to all
precedent its drawbacks will be remedied, like those
of other clumsy wonders —clumsy in their early
stages. The big fact is that, if an enemy like Ger-
many could secure peace and dominion on the con-
tinent, and our father J. Bull were standing on the
defensive in his own islands, the time is at hand
when shells might be dropped in his great capital. And
if they were dropped persistently, year in and year
out, it might be time to think' of shifting Britain’s
political centre t.o a safer place. The commercial
centre might remain—that would probably be a mat-
ter for Private Enterprise to decide. But the Par-
liament, the vast Government offices, the King and
royal family; might move to fresh quarters, taking
with them their army of employees, and followed by
a vast amount of rank and fashion—peerage and
baronetage and knightage and people who aren’t even
C.M.G.’s but hope for better things. The hunt for
anew political capital would be interesting. Liver-
pool, Manchester and Glasgow are dreary places with
much grime and little pomp, and all are close to
the dangerous sea. They lack ancient dignity and
the halo of romance. Edinburgh would fill the bill if
it lay safely inland, but it doesn’t. Perhaps it might
be worth while to reconstruct Tara, the old Irish
capital where the High Kings lived in better days,
before a bilious monk laid a curse on the site. Tara
is a picturesque spot with a crown of venerable glory
on its head, and it is a long way from German guns
and the treacherous salt water. The Court stationed
there would be able to keep a constant eye on
cattle-drivers and Sinn Feiners. The crowd which it
drew with it would be a strong garrison in a troubled
land. And its presence in the place of the old High
Kings would cause a vast defection from the Home
Rule movement. A Court is a rich asset in a poor
country, and any movement or improvement which
might threaten to chase that asset away would be
anathema. The rich absentee landlord would come
home in pursuit of the Court, and spend money
locally, and every one of him would bring seven
other rich landlords along with him. Depopulation
would leave off. And in the progress of time there
would be a king named Patrick I. and a queen named
Kathleen, and their very names would help, as Uncle
Sam used to say after the Uncivil War, to “bridge the
blankv gulf.” I nominate Tara as my candidate. It
is better than Canberra.
LOVE’S UNREASON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I might have loved you, dear, for aye,
Have been your willing bondsman yet,
Instead of nursing deep regret
For love that bloomed but to decay.
You did not my devotion prize,
Or you’d have acted otherwise.
I thrilled of old to meet your glance;
But when a suppliant knee I bent,
Blushing, you softly sighed consent,
And ended thus our sweet romance.
If you had only answered “Nay,”
I might have loved you, dear, for aye!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


What this
figure
means
kl.
Vs
IT expresses in an attitude the aim
and ambitions of David Moseley &
and Sons, Ltd. It stands for experience,
for skill, and integrity* In an
advertisement it is the mark of
a trustworthy announcement.
For more than 84 years
Moseleys have been
handling rubber and
experimenting with
rubber. It is a long
time, but it is not
too long to learn the
“temperament” of rubber.
And the result of this rare
experience is the Moseley
Motor Tyre—its high
cellence and its low price.
MOSELEY
For further particulars and prices ask your nearest dealer.
If you find any difficulty in obtaining
your requirements, please address
DAVID MOSELEY AND SONS, LTD.,
287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone : 1451 City. :: :: Telegrams : “Grear,” Sydney.
MOSELEY TYRES ARE OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES.
U.I.
A AAA
DEM.
IDEAL
IDEAL
IDEAL
IDEAL
lOEAL IDEAL IDEAL
'Dt/.L
IDEAL IDEAL
IDEAL
nu
U
M
ideal/
IDEAL lOEAL
ideal
[
The Pen That Leaves
You Free to Think
Waternfran*s
(Ideal)
FoimtSnSPeni
Whether your
writing be a social
duty or a business necessity
you can convert it into a pleasure with
a Waterman’s Ideal. Every Waterman’s Ideal
is the acme of convenience and dependability.
It is strong and sturdy to be carried always and
used anywhere. It is the pen of instant re-
sponse to every touch—the pen of lifelong
service. Your hand can be exactly suited.
Three Types: “Lever Pocket
Self-Filling,’' “Safety," “Regular.”
Of S.alioneis and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLQArt, LTD., CbC Pen (goriter, Lonoot!, England.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon, 105 Clarence Street, Bydney.
Bengers Food Ltd.,
regret to announce that in consequence of GOVERNMENT
LIMITATIONS placed upon EXPORTS they are unable to
keep their Overseas friends fully supplied at present.
Immediately these restrictions are removed every effort
will be made to send out sufficient stocks to meet all demand.
Any communications on thi. subject should be addressed to our Sydney Office*
ljk
Food
is in great demand for Civil, Military, and Red Cross
Hospitals, and in Convalescent and Nursing Institutions.
From a Captain of the Royal Army Medical Corps.
Your Food was of great assistance to me in my treatment of convalescent dysentery cases.**
BENGER’S FOOD LTD.,
BRANCH OFFICE: i, 7 , p
And at New York (U.S.A.) 90, Beekman St.
ITT
MANCHESTER, England.
Street, SYDNEY.
Depots throughout CANADA,
*3sa
It’s Great Sport to get ’em on the wing.
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store.
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted only hold
good for two weeks from date.
l
825. C. G. BonehiU’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2Jin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 7Jlb Freight paid’
£7/1 51-
K
1
831. Stevens Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
ornamented, ease-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
holt, high-pressure compressed steel barrels, right
valnut stock,
weight
- 6“"6' ; , <2 <-« o iu. —
12- or IC-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid,
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid,
uoir, nign-pressure compressed steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnu
.VTii.'yrrii ““ ,or n,iro
pistol
£4/10/-
£4/15/-
GUNS & RIFLES of all kinds REPAIRED.
Keep your Razor
kaen by using
STROPOLINE.
9d. tin post free.
kjl
815. Oashmore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-incli steel barrels,
extension rib, left choke, cross bolt, D. & E. fore-end,
nut stock; weight about 71b
pistol grip, wal-
... Freight paid,
£lO/10/-
Stno!ie Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/2, Post Free.
jk
823. C. H. Crawford’s P.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or
10-gauge, top lever, double bolt. 30in. barrels, left
eliolce. pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks. Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-
711 b.; of IG-guuge, about Glib
gauge about
Freight paid,
& 7/7/ -
£SS
“SURE CATCH” ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
830. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right, modified, left full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 7 1 to 8 lb., 16-gauge 7| to 7f lb,— r» o i
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £3/15/-
Sporting' Repairs
a Specialty.
ljk
827. “The Cert” D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30in.
extension rib. rebounding looks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip,
walnut stock; weight about 71b Freight naid,
steel barrels,
60/-
ljk
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun, 12-
gauge, top action.
solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip,
walnut stock: weight, about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
bi-Non-Ejector, 32/6 ; 82-Auto-Ejector, 37/6
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.;
4/8 Inter-State.
1C
Australia's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
AND TOBACCONISTS
l
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Ti&vcastk d Brisbane


These Two NEW DISCOVERY Children
have £l5O worth of War Bonds from their own
Savings. Following their example—lnvest!
GORDON & El DU UN HEWITT
(from a photo.)
Gordon and Eileen Hewitt
are two little Australian
children (aged 7 and 5
vears), who have actually
subscribed out of their
savings £l5O to the Com-
monwealth War Fund.
Their father is a well-
known Sydney business
man, anil their mother,
among her many other
charities, is on the Execu-
tive of the Cremorne Red
Cross.
“Moolree,”
Cremorne Road,
. Cremorne Point.
Dear Sirs, —
My children, Gordon
and Eileen, are very
fond of your Dr. Shel-
don’s New Discovery,
and I cure their winter
colds every year with
it. The other day I
said to Eileen: “Your
cold is not well yet,
Eileen.” She answered:
“I hope it won’t get
well, because you give
me Dr. Sheldon’s every
night and morning, and
I love it.” She was
disappointed, for her
cold quickly disap-
peared, and the chil-
dren’s favorite medi-
cine (and may I say
Australia’s best cough
and lung mixture) was
|»><i<Vn awav from them
in the cupboard.
I am sending you
their photographs, as it
will interest you to see
such lovers of your
famous New Discovery.
I remain,
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) E. M. HEWITT.
Best for Children and Grown Folk, too.
Men., women and children all over the country use and know the worth of hr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery. Are you one of them? If not, don’t delay, but buy a bottle
at once, and be ready to pounce on to the first cold that makes Its appearance.
Don’t forget Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the ever-ready friend that should be in
every household, to protect you from ail coughs and colds. Price 1/6 an< l 3/-
D?Sheldons|
New Discovery
jkl
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
ASK FOR A
H J\T
UN R I V A LLE □
!
for
Style & Finish
FEtf
%
C APS OF ALL
/
MAKERS:-
CRESS &C°L T ?
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Wholesale Agcnhs*-
cox & MAILER.
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
The Perfect Pen for all who Write!
In every profession there is a glad army of ONOTO
users. They know what a true friend the ONOTO Pen
is to all who write—how swiftly and smoothly it
glides over the paper all the time.
Do you realise the merits of this wonderful pen
which fills itself in a flash and cannot leak ? If not, let
the pen itself convince you. Any t dealer will let you
examine and try it.
Onoto
Pen
Price 1 4/6 anil
■awards, of all
stationers.
Iswellsrs
I atari/
Self-Filling - •
Safety Fountain
Manufacturers:
Thos, De La Rue & Co-, Ltd..
Bunhill Row, London. E.C.
Managing Agents;
Norman Baker & Longhurst
Sydney.
jk
ljk
Also ONOTO Valveless
for those who do not
want a Self-Filling Safety
Pen from 10/6 each
Ask for ONOTO INK—
Best far all Pens
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
till may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
■ ifting a hand?
Valhalla.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SWIFT to Valhalla he rode;
The hoofs of his white horse rang
Echoing into the hills. Dismounted,
he strode
Through the arch of the door with the steel
at his side a-clang.
Within there stood by the board
The band of the brothers in fame;
The sons of the Perfect Sword ;
The lords of the Deathless Name ;
Quaffing the dark red wine
From jewelled flagon and golden cup;
A flash as of lightning lit the line
As they drank and turned the goblets up.
As he entered, the high roof reeled
To the roar of their welcome-call.
They hung his helm and shield
Aloft on the crowded wall;
They gave him place at the board
And they filled his cup brim-high ;
For in all the world of spur and sword
Never had ridden a battle-lord
With so little fear to die.
He took the cup in his hand
And his eyes shone blue as the sea.
“I drink,” he said, “to my dear North land !
Swift feet to her victory !”
But the heroes’ heads were bowed,
And silence fell on the hall,
Till the clink of a spur seemed loud,
And the tap of a shield on the wall.
Then one with a lifted head
For the rest their answer gave :
“We are here but one race—the Dead ;
We have here but one toast —the Brave!”
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
Bill of Resurrection Hill.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BILL tipped the beam at thirty-five
pounds. He had a seven-inch jaw,
and was engined to ram, scrap or
bluff anything from a policeman to a porcu-
pine.
The dawn of Bill’s fame as a fight-pro-
moter and general utility dog lifted some-
where beyond the Sydney Rocks on an occa-
sion when he released the gas from Baldy
Murphy’s terrier Hindenburg. It was a
notable encounter, and as a Sunday morning
affair ranks easily with Pozieres or Mes-
sines.
Bill was a sailor-man’s bulldog. He knew
more about a ship’s galley and the ways of
cargo-thieves than Andy Jamieson of the
Water Police. Bill could unhitch the tough-
est knot or haul in slack faster than a long-
shoreman.
Rich old Simon Vanderly. of Dumaresq
Downs, discovered Bill while on a visit
to Sydney. Bill was in training to meet a
younger brother of the deflated Hindenburg.
Simon stopped the fight by purchasing Bill
outright and presenting him as a mascot
to the Second Battalion of the Fighting
Dingbats. The Colonel accepted delivery of
Bill conditionally that he allowed the regi-
mental band to go home alive after each
performance.
Simon’s interest in the Dingbats arose
from the fact that his only son Keats had
received a sub-lieutenant’s commission in the
Battalion; and naturally Bill regarded
young Vanderly as his rightful owner, a
fact which the men of the Battalion dis-
puted every time the dog made a break for
his quarters.
By the time they reached Aden, Bill
sniffed the war. He sensed fight in the poses
of the square-jawed men perched on the rails,
or at bayonet drill. He heard it in their
talk, saw it in their gesticulating hands
when they spoke of Gallipoli, Ivut or the
Canal.
After Suez, Bill had recollections of tran-
shipment to a Tigris river-transport, of
Pathans and camel-batteries, of dead horses
and men rolling down the river. Wounded
men, lying on barges, spoke enthusiastically
of the Twelve Snipers of Dan. and before
passing out of hearing they asked the Ding-
bats not to spare the champagne when they
hit Bagdad.
The Dingbats arrived at camp when the
nth Division of the Mesopotamia Army
was finding the s-ting in the Moslem’s tail.
Day and night enemy snipers were exact-
ing their toll. No sandhill, roof or gate
was free from them. It was a kind of sneak-
thief warfare conducted by a smelly fanatic
who rather enjoyed being killed.
A much-worried, adjutant-general called
on the Dingbats’ colonel and suggested pith-
ily that he might fill in time cutting out
those dashed blank snipers who made the
men’s lives a hell. “By heaven, they shoot
us from the hides of dead camels, and from
graves just filled in ! I give you my word
these people can cover themselves with a
chicken’s craw and kill you at a mile !”
“Wow !” said young Vanderly, wiping his
brow. “Come and lick my hand, Bill.”
Bill flung himself in the sand and re-
visioned his last scrap with Hindenburg,
while the company commanders beat up the
cutting-out parties for the night’s work. Van-
derly went with a party of scouts to clean
up one of the sore places.
The newspaper reader unfamiliar with
the story of his night adventure within the
sugar refinery has missed more than an
episode. Within this refinery Vanderly dis-
covered nine Moslem riflemen concealed in
syrup boilers and barrels. In justice to the
men they had shot in cold blood, lie bathed
them in hot molasses next morning, and
sent them naked into the desert to fight the
Assyrian flies. They went, cursing him for
sparing their lives.
He paid for his leniency. Two nights later,
while patrolling a suspicious piece of cactus
country on their right, he was swooped upon
by a horde of mounted infantry and brought
to bay in open country, with other swarms
of enemy raiders gathering on his flanks.
His sense of humor - forbade the useless
fight a single officer and platoon are sup-
posed to put ud against hundreds of mounted
scouts. In the present instance he was
offered no choice, his weapon being torn
from his hand. He had scarcely realised
his position before the sinister word “tree-
kal” fell from a dozen throats. In the turn
of an eye the young lieutenant saw that his
death-w T arrant had been signed in advance
of his capture.
The rest of his party were formed into
a squad and taken to a prison-cage. Van-
derly was given a horse and conveyed to
the headquarters of General Nyzam,. com-
manding the Eighth Division on the Tigris.
Nyzam had heard of the adventure in the
sugar-refinery. His sharpshooters had re-
turned to headquarters, covered with insect-
myriads like the papers that are sold in the
Christian bazaars to catch flies. True to
his kind, Nyzam never forgot an insult
offered to a fellow Mahommedan. If Van-
derly had shot them the affair would have
ended. But to smear soldiers of the Faith
with a filthy, fly-catching, syrup was an out-
rage demanding punishment.
"You Australeen soljas think it jok’ to de-
file my brav’ brothers,” he articulated when
Vanderly was thrust before him the morning,
following his capture. “What impel you to
treat them like so dirt?” he concluded with
Islamic profundity.
The escort closed on the young lieutenant
with the ferocity of a street mob. An ammu-
nition-cart was drawn up outside. With
wrists and ankles strapped, Vanderly was
thrown inside, four of the guards squatting
at his head and feet. The inevitable escort
closed round.
The mules strained up and up through the
wheel-gripping sand, to a small plateau that
looked down on the olive-green of the Tigris
valley. Far away in the south the Dingbat
entrenchments were a mere crisscross scarce
visible through the mists of the river.
The cart halted on the naked, sand-ridden
plateau, and the young lieutenant was hauled
to the ground. Almost at his feet he observed
a large wooden cross with loose coils of hemp
tied to its foot. The cross lay flat on the
sand, which showed scores of tiny footmarks
leading to and from the plateau, known as
Resurrection Hill to war-correspondents
familiar with its history.
The life-instinct in him was too strong to
admit that Nyzam intended the proceedings
as other than a joke in payment for the
treacle-episode at the refinery. It was un-
thinkable that he, Keats Vanderly, of the
Australian Expeditionary Force, could, in
this year of grace, be pinioned to a cross and
left to his fate on a sand-blighted hill.
He glanced swiftly at the escort drawn
round the cross, and the measure of his
horror was revealed in his Hung-out interro-
gation.
“Did General Nyzam order you to rope me
to thatt”
A fresh cigarette appeared between the fat
fingers of Murad MuStapha. It was as though
Vanderly's question had been addressed to
the river below. He made a sign to tin
guards. In a flash Vanderly was thrown to
the ground. Keats’s military training had
taught him the value of self-restraint under
conditions where resistance gave the enem.'
excuses for further punishments. He lay stil
while they bound his wrists and ankles tt
the cross, the tough hempen cords being run
through holes bored in the wood and knotted
at the front.
After a final examination of the ankles
and wrists, Murad Mustapha drawled a few
words to the escort, and then faced the quick-
breathing Vanderly.
“You get left here,” he intoned, his fingers
combing the points of his beard. “Ther’
will be plenta neighbors by-an’-by,” he added
consolingly. “You no sleep too' soon. We go
now!”
A slight breeze stirred the spindly palms
on the slopes below. Sand fine as flour fell
on his lips and cheeks. It seemed to rise and
fall in imperceptible waves and tides, sliding
into his pockets and settling like pow-
dered glass in the hollows of his clenched
hands.
The sun stayed in his eyes like the fingers
of a devil until his thoughts raced in fiery
wheels through his sobbing mind. Once or
twice during the endless afternoon his dry
lips framed a litany that became a softly-
babbled appeal to the darkness to cover him.
A coppery flare in the west showed where
the sun had set. A cool smell of night closed
round the plateau, but did not relieve the
growing cord-pressure about his wrists and
ankles. His eyes grew hard as'fired metal.
The fires of thirst started the beautiful
delirium in which a girl appeared in a green
garden somewhere near Vaucluse. A cold
clap of night wind left him awake with his
swollen wrists and catching at sound-waves
in his rear.
They emanated from the sandy wastes,
back of the plateau. At first they resembled
the fluting of coyotes he had once heard.
Each breath of wind brought them nearer.
They came in sobbing circles, then in straight
rushes, but always in his direction.
He strove to ease the cord-grip on his
right wrist, to draw his swollen hand
through, until the flesh quivered and pulsated
with the pain of his efforts.
A peculiar jackal odor blew round him.
The muffled wlioof of innumerable nostri’s,
followed by the velvet patter of paws in the
sand, reached him from the plateau-edge.
Lying flat on the cross he caught a momen-
tary glimpse of ears and eyes pricking the
gloom in front.
Like dingoes, they whimpered and slunk
nearer in circles, testing, trying out each
yard of air-space with their pencil-shaped
snouts.
In his desperation Vanderly flung out a
hoarse shout at the circle of flickering eyes
and ears. And the sound of his thirst-
hardened voice caused the nearest jackals to
skip round and recede beyond the leaping
tails and ears of their comrades. But beyond
the inner circle the grey swarms of bellies
and throats remained stiff-limbed and alert.
He reserved his second shout until the
furry hide and head of a king-jackal ad-
vanced boldly to the foot of the cross. Here
the dry, hot snout mumbled over his naked
foot for a period that ached, and then
whipped back amongst the waiting circle.
Instinctively Vanderly felt that this was
the final investigation before the main on-
slaught. He lay quite still, sweat stream-
ing from his face in his limp agony of mind.
He knew the jackal as the most unbeatable
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY DISEASE:
Why is it so Serious? Poisonous Waste is
Left in the Blood when the Kidneys are 111.
Every P/cture
Te/fs A Story '*
In
m
zsSii
■
"Jrr I T V
m
■'d
sue
m
D
lltll
m
•xj£S
mm
v
wm®m
Kidney disease is serious because it is so little understood. Many wen
and. women do not know what the kidneys are, where they are, or what they
do. Consequently, when any. sign of kidney disease appears (such as
backache, urinary troubles, puffy swelling's, irregular heart, etc.) it is often
mistaken for some other trouble, and the kidney complaint grows, unnoticed,
into Bright’s disease, diabetes, rheumatism or dropsy.
The least sign of kidney disorder, therefore, however trifling it may
seem to you, is a serious sign, for it shows that the kidneys are not keeping
your blood pure. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for the kidneys and
bladder only. They drive out clogging impurities, ease the tired membranes,
and build up the kidneys’ strength. Men and women of all ages can place
faith in this great kidney medicine. Safeguard your blood-filtering organs,
and begin with the genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills when there is
any such serious sign as urinary trouble, backache, dropsical swellings,
dizzy spells, rheumatic pain, sciatica, nervousness, sleeplessness, feebleness
or languor.
Cured to Stay Cured.
A SYDNEY MAN
A SYDNEY WOMAN
Mr. W. James, store, A’Beekett Street,
Granville, says:—“l strained my back
when I was quite a lad, and up to within
the last two years suffered greatly from
backache. I tried all kinds of remedies,
but only obtained temporary relief. My
work used to be very laborious and 1
have had to leave it at times on account
of the intense pain. However, Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills drove the pain
away, and strengthened and toned up my
kidneys. I always tell friends who suffer
from bad backs to try Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills; they are certain to give
relief. It is two years since I used the
pills, so my cure has been well tested.”
Mr. James confirms his previous state-
ment six years later:- —“I am still free
of the torture of backache, and have been
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
me eight years ago.”
Mrs. Isaac Swales, 89 Fitzroy Street,
Moore Park, Sydney, says:—“Twelve
months ago I used Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills for a severe attack of backache
and kidney trouble, which had defied other
remedies for a long time, and I am pleased
to publicly state that these grand pills
cured me. 1 used to suffer agony from
backache and other symptoms of kidney
disorder, and I was sometimes so ill that
I could hardly get about. The pain in
my back was particularly severe when
stooping. I was also troubled with head-
aches, restless nights, and disordered
secretions, but after taking a course of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills I felt in
splendid health, and have remained well
ever since.’’
Five years later, Mrs. Swales confirms
her previous statement: —“Six years have
elapsed since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured me, and I have had no return
of my old complaint all that time.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at
2s. ltd. per bottle, or will he posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan 00.,
7G Pitt Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills
ECZEMA
A Lasting Cure by
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Mr. H. Watson, senior, 20G Australia Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says:—“A
couple of years ago I had eczema break out badly on my chest. It was shortly after
I returned from a trip to India, where I had gone with horses. I had fever very
badly in India, and the eczema seemed to be the result of this sickness. It was very
severe, and spread rapidly until I was in such a state that the pain and irritation
nearly drove me mad. A man I know advised me to get Doan’s Ointment, saying
that he heard of excellent results from the use of this preparation. I thought it a
good idea, and obtained a pot. The first few applications gave me relief, and after
that I got along splendidly. Every time I applied the ointment there was a marked
improvement, and within a month I was cured, and not one trace of the ailment
remained. Doan’s Ointment is a splendid preparation for eczema, and I recommend
it with every confidence to other sufferers. Its soothing and healing properties are
wonderful.”
Fourteen years later Mr. Watson confirms the above: 'Tt is now fourteen years
since Doan’s Ointment cured me of eczema, and I am pleased to say that the cure has
stood the test of time. lam still quite free of this dreadful complaint.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per pot, or
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
cur of the sands, fleeing with lightning
strides from all things capable of defence
or attack, but a lion m the chase when the
quarry was maimed, blind or sick.
“Shoo ! (ltd; away, you beasts !“ A dozen
bristling manes and heads bounded in. their
paws striking like mallets on his half-
clothed body, llis flesh leaped under the
contact as though a dozen knives had touched
him. lie was conscious of the king-jackal's
spindly legs planted on his breast, of the
wet. hot muzzle snarling in his sweat-
blinded lace. He saw the teeth inside the
dark gape, felt the warm foam-drips blow
down on his cheek.
“Whoo! (let off!” Vanderly’s voice had
lost its potency. Stiff-backed and snarling
the king jackal stood over him as it had
.stood over a score of victims left )>.v Xyzam
on the desert plateau. Yanderly’s lips
moved, lie was praying hurriedly to the
vision of the Girl at Yaucluse. lie did not
plead to be spared; his invocation carried
a wish that the girl would never learn how
his cross had been licked clean by hosts of
desert pariahs.
'The king-jackal, by right of his strength
and grip, was first to test the pinioned
lieutenant’s ability to defend himself. A
backward spring was followed by a return
leap at Vanderly’s throat.
A jackal’s spring is as sure as a panther’s
unless its attention is suddenly diverted. In
his downward snatch at the lieutenant’s
throat the king received an unexpected
shock. It came from the edge of the plateau
in the shape of a white, plug-ended bull-
dog with a nine-inch smile. A brindling
pack of heads and tails separated the nine-
inch smile from the out-spread Vanderl.v.
Through this pack of heads and tails came
the smile and the great 30-inch chest, as a
battleship cleaves its way through floes and
driftwood.
And the jackal pack made way as the
big bulldog fell among them, gasping like a
swimmer after a mighty effort to arrive in
port. The king saw him in his side leap at
Vanderly’s throat, and the shock of his
presence turned his pariah heart cold. In
his day the master jackal had led his raven-
ing pack on the trail of many a sick camel
and horse, lie had clean-picked wounded
lions and dead hyenas. But never had he
been called upon to stop a rush like Bill’s.
The diversion lasted thirty seconds, and
the king’s brief howls for mercy and for-
giveness melted into stuff thinner than air.
Bill .swung from his rock-pounded adver-
sary and stared at the empty spaces round
the cross. A wisp of moon had risen in the
south-east. The faint light revealed the
dumb sorrow in Bill’s eyes for the sudden
collapse of the biggest contract in his career.
Dutifully Bill ambled up to Vanderly
and licked the cord-strangled wrist of the
right hand. Then he moved on and obedi-
ently licked the other.
Vanderly opened his eyes wide. The cold
sweat of horror was still on his brow. What
had become of the jackals? Bill’s tongue
played over his lacerated wrist with the
tenderness of a masseur. Then with his
chin resting in the sand he contemplated
the young lieutenant. Ilis deep-drawn sigh
and fleeting glances at the cross expressed
his bulldog amazement at his young mas-
ter’s hopeless lix-up.
“Bill!” The young soldier spoke in a
hoarse whisper, and the sound of it drew
the dog’s head quite close to his own. “You
sro and fetch someone. Run down that
hill and talk to the boys. You savvy, Bill.
Do it for me.”
Bill whipped round on his stocky pins
and stared sulkily at the jackal trail. The
scent of them still poisoned the air. It
would take him an hour to reach the Ding-
bat lines. In his absence the desert dogs
would return and attend to his young
master. The proposition did not appeal to
him.
Again Vanderly called. “You trot off.
Bill, now. Fetch the boys, quick! Fetch
Glynn, Joynson; fetch Kaye. Run, Bill, or
the blame Turks will come back at day-
light !”
Bill trotted round the cross dubiously,
and it was evident to Vanderly that only
a blast of dynamite would remove the dog
from his side. Each moment was bringing
the dawn nearer, with the possibility of an
early visit by one or more of Nyzam’s sen-
tries.
For want of employment Bill returned
to the cord-strangled right wrist and passed
his tongue around it languidly. The pre-
sence of the hemp-cord brought recollections
of the days when ropes and dead-eyes were
part of his life. In a flash his teeth were
buried in the hemp strands with a grip that
shook the cross from foot to crown.
“Ugh, u’g’r!”
Again the young lieutenant opened his
eyes under the rocking, swaying movement.
A faint smile broke the livid lines about
his mouth. “Stick to it, Bill,” he whispered.
‘Stick and rip. It doesn’t hurt, anyhow.”
Bill’s fighting chest heaved as he lav for-
ward and scissored the strands with his
milk-white teeth. The flat mouth seemed to
nulp and shred the strangling bonds. Stand-
ing stiff-legged over the right arm of the
cross, he raised it by the cords until the
muscles of his great throat bulged like roots.
Then he lowered and shook it again.
“Good old Bill!”
The right arm of the cross fell with the
hemp-strands flying loose about the lieuten-
ant’s swollen wrist.
Vanderly suppressed a scream of pain as
the blood coursed molten through the veins
of his arm. He lay still for several mo-
ments, scarce daring to raise himself to his
left elbow.
Having tasted victory over one wrist-
cord, Bill waddled round to the left arm
of the cross. Here the struggle between
tooth and knot was repeated strand by
strand. Vanderb- was able to guide his
attack now, showing- by word and gesture
where the hemp was easier to shred.
It seemed an impossible business until
the bulldog’s incisors made nulp of the
knots and rendered the task of freeing the
other wrist comparatively easy.
With difficulty Vanderly drew himself
into a sitting position, his ankles still held
by the cords. With the blood returning to
’<!s almost paralysed fingers, he picked and
unravelled the knots, while the bulldog
gaped and fretted impatiently. The Turks
had taken his knife, but the fear of death
turned his breaking finger-nails to talons
of strength. The savage knots bulged and
softened under his plucking hands. Kick-
ing himself free he crawled and stumbled to
the edge of the hill, his young muscles
writhing in the after-agony of a sudden
return to life.
lie slid and rolled down the shifting
slopes of sand, with Bill snuffling but watch-
ful in his rear. At the bottom of the hill
he rested awhile as the faint smears of the
dawn whitened the east. The shadow of
the hill covered him for a mile. Then the
white blaze of day revealed his staggering
shape to the Turkish observation posts.
A machine-gun tapped and woke a hun-
dred hammer-echoes in the hills. Bill looked
hack as though he had been threatened. The
tapping ceased : a Turkish five-nine fell wide
of Vanderly and finished in a spotlight of
flying splinters and desert stones.
“I bet the next one will,” Vanderly mut-
tered. “Come on, Bill. You're giving the
range with that white back of yours. Come
on.”
The next one blinded them with sand and
hurled Bill thirteen feet nearer the Anzac
lines. Just here a depression in the land-
scape hid man and dog and set the Turk
gunners guessing.
Vanderlv rested again and then broke for
the Dingbat trenches to the south. A party
of his own scouts rounded him up within
rifle-range of the camp. There followed the
briefest exchange of opinions.
“Hullo. Van! Turkey hens picked ye
clean ?”
"No fear.” the shoeless lieutenant re-
torted. “Been inspecting the sunrise on
that hill. Good as a moving picture, wasn’t
it Bill?”
Bill looked up into Vanderly’s drawn face
and was guilty of a hoarse, non-committal
ha rk.
“Seeing ye didn’t come home last night,
Van, we sent the whelp to bring along your
bones. Feet sore?”
“Lend us a cigarette.”
Other men have endured Vanderly’s
ordeal ; but in their eagerness to die for their
country they omitted to provide themselves
with a reliable bulldog.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
A Shilling’s-worth of Honor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DICK DAVIS, gaolbird, walked north-
ward along a street in the southern
city. He was three days “out - ’ after
;i thirty months’ sentence. An incipient
ginger beard, a complexion mottled by dirt,
and the marks of three days’ hard drinking
were on his face. His pockets were empty
of the money with which a paternal Govern-
ment had sent him forth to face the world
again. The boots which the same Govern-
ment had given him were now part of a
pawnbroker’s varied collection, and I)ick
wore a pair carefully selected from a neigh-
boring rubbish-tip.
Father Duggan, chaplain, was walking
southward along the same street at the same
hour. He had recently risen from an excel-
lent dinner, and was full of good food and
charity.
In the nature of things Father Duggan
met Dick Davis. He was greeted by a dirty
hand removing a dirty hat from a dirty
head, and by a display of dirty and stumpy
teeth. The father held out his hand, as his
nature was, hut his voice was severe.
‘‘You. Davis? And you’ve been drinking?”
“Couldn’ ’elp it, Father.”
Then a whine crept into his voice, like the
whine of some hunted and helpless animal.
Truth to tell, he was not much else.
“I’m pretty ’ungry, Father.”
“You deserve to be.”
“How is it fer a bob? I won’ spen’ it fer
drink, so ’elp me Gawd.”
Father Duggan looked at the nitiful living
thing that ought to have been a man, and
the heart of him stirred with pity.
“I’ll tell you what I’ll do, Davis,” he
said. “You know well enough that I don’t
give you men money. But I’ll break my
rule for once and give you a shilling. Only
I put you on your honor to spend it for
food. Go and get something to eat, my
man. Now, mind you, on your honor.”
“I won’t spen’ it fer drink, Father. On
me sacred honor, I won’t.”
Father Duggan dfew a shilling out of a
capacious pocket and handed it over.
“Very well, on your honor,” he said. “I’ll
trust you. And come round to me to-night.
I’ll see what I can do for you. Buck up,
Davis.” He shook hands again and resumed
his journey.
Two corners along the street was a
wretched little drink shop. Dick Davis
hurried to its door.
Suddenly something fluttered in him and
made his heart beat faster. It ran up into
his face and made it redder. Whatever it
was, he hadn’t felt anything - like it before.
It seemed to twitch his ears, and he started,
almost thinking he heard Father Duggan’s
solemn vo ; ce : “On your honor. I’ll trust you.”
He walked slowly away; but when he had
gone a few yards down the street, he turned
and came half-way back. He stopped, turned
again, and then once more came back. There
were two grey stone steps into the dirty
little bar. and he stepped on to the lower one.
Then the mysterious something fluttered
very hard. He got down and went away.
Once more it was only for a few yards.
Almost immediately he was back at the door.
Opposite was an old. neglected park, with
an an ment yellow oak-tree. Dick noticed
this as he mounted the second sten.
Tlu'ti he did a strange thing. He jumped
to ti e oavement, his right arm went un and
he s-"’-'mly hurled Father Duggan’s shilling
from ' m. It flew across the street, into the
onk- J \ rattled down through the branches
am 1 ■’• n the long grass underneath.
I” 1- Davis mounted the steps again.
Push d open the door and went into the bar
an b movable man. A carter was sitting on
a lmncb against the wall. Dick looked at
lnm with an anpealing eye.
“Fer Gawd's sake, matey,” he said
“shout’s a drink.”
O’PHLMERTY.


ljk
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wel'ington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
!$
Run-down
When your system is under-
mined by worry or over-work
—when your vitality is lower-
feel “any-how"
—when your nerves are “on
edge” —when the least exer-
tion tires you—you are in a
Run-down condition. Your
system is like a plant that is
drooping for want of water.
And just as water revives a
drooping plant—so ‘Wincar-
nis’ gives new life and new
vitality to a “ run - down ”
constitution. Because ‘Win-
carnis ’ possesses a tour-fold
power. It is a Tonic, a
Restorative, a Blood-maker,
and a Nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
l
jkl
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force, and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it doing
you good. You can feel your
whole system being sur-
charged with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘Wincarnis.’
Don’t continue to suffer
needlessly. Get well the
‘Wincarnis’ way —the quick,
sure, and safe way to obtain
the new health you need.
Begin to get well
TODAY.
Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Win-
carnis Works, Norwich. You can
buy .‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists
and' Stores selling wines, prices
4/3 and 7/-, but if you experi-
ence any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Sole Distributing
Agents, Fassett & Johnson, 233
Clarence Street, Sydney. N.S.W-
CVSCA
33
£
*
r
OP
This is the
Registered
Trade Marh
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
818 KMe Collins St., Melbourne.
P^UEEJSIAN
ise
ciianaoif
,i' ,it
I
'ii tl 'Mlj,. 'll
•a’S
A Book of
192 Papes
G L- L. E. D
“POCKET
QUEENSLAND”
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED.
Telling all about' the
Millions of Acres
of ferfile land for
intending .saltiers
will besenf/ou
by filling in fhe
Coupon below.
/Vame, .
Address
aUEEr/SLAAD rr*r£/LLfG£r*C£
* Tnumsr nv»£*/,'. w/ssa.-.e
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
-- !
n
Do You Cycle
to Business?
Trains and trams are often in-
convenient and frequently
overcrowded, so that travell-
ing to and from business is a
constant strain on the temper
and health. Why not cycle
and be independent, a bicycle
will take you from door to
door quickly and pleasantly.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
"THOROUGHLY BRITISH.’"
For easy running and long service
B.S.A. Fittings possess an un-
equalled reputation. The B.S.A.
Trade Mark of the three piled rifles
is a guarantee of highest quality
material and workmanship.
B.S.A. FITTINGS ARE GUARANTEED
INTERCHANGEABLE.
A
B.S.A. Handbook
Free .
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Ct. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
are one of the oldest and the best tried of family medicines. “Time tells
all things” says a truthful adage. The test of time has been applied,
most assuredly, to Beecham’s Pills, for this preparation has been in
the public service for over seventy years. Such a record should surely
be a safe guarantee. It proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that
people are fully satisfied with the results obtained by using this world
famous family medicine, and appreciate the fact that in it they find an
easy and efficient aperient, a safe and sure corrective, and a speedy and
reliable restorative of weakened or disordered digestion. No wonder,
then, that Beecham’s Pills
ARE ALWAYS
TO THE FRONT
Sold in boxes, labelled price I<Hd (36 pills), 1/I'* (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
v\
s:
1
Rim Fire Cartridges for Target
and G ame Shooting
IN choosing your rim fire cartridges, whether
small bulleted caps or larger calibers, ally your
firearm witb a name and trade mark tbat is the
surest guarantee to accurate shooting and non-fouling.
Tbe Remington UMG brand will
prove worthy of your confidence.
Obtainable from leading dealers and
gunmakers.
Descriptive catalogue
free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS
UMC CO,
D. D. BRYANT. Manner
Box 686. Melbourne
jk
UMC
af
&
d<4»
The Cyclist who “knows”
invariably selects the
ljk
Follow his lead and ensure
comfort under all conditions.
ASK YOUR DEALER.
mk
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
( Patented)
10-
each
Post Free
Thousands in Us?.
F,g I
10/-
each
Post Free
With lull Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
Fig &
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
“MAGPIE” FLOUR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS—
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE •


ljk
(iviANGROVITEII
LEATHER
ljk
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MAN GUO VITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World's Best Belting.
Manufactured onlv by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
% -mr v g v
ON N g
CIRCULAR iSAWvS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We have many other sizes and gauges in stock, but below
are some of the most useful.
18in. x 11, 18in. x 13, 20in. x 13, 24in. x 10.
26in. x 11, 26in. x 12, 26in. x 13, 26in. x 14.
28in. x 11, 28in. x 12, 28in. x 13, 30in. x 12.
3Oili. x 13, 32in. x 10, 32in. x 11, 32in. x 12.
36in. x 11, 38in. x 11, 42in. x 9,42 in. x 10.
42in. x 11, 44in. x 10, 48in. x 10.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Fatrobe Street, Melbourne. Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide, John Reid & Nephews, .Brisbane.
!
fftASt ;% M>fl«. <£*
.-. i mss -: ««« .
£fhm
i;m *«*'
r ;
.....
Build for Permanence.
Make your building a peripaiuait structure with
HARDIES
FIBROLITE <»<*>
CEMENT.
Deries Time’s Touch.
TMDJEJARK
It is immensely strong,
fiifeafe and white-ant
proof, and actually hard-
ens with age.
Unsurpassed for durability
and attractiveness.
JAMES HARDIE&CO.
“Asbestos House,”
Corner Wynyard and York
Streets, SYDNEY.
'Phone 8456—4 Lines.
l
jkl
be Sure
Its
Wolfe's
For The Name !!i
DUES
SCHNAPPS
S 7
SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
1 1
IT’S
THE
Original !
There is only
One
WOLFE'S
Schnapps
r
a
m
mts,
*taMi
“Clayton” Portable Steam Engine
“Tangye” Portable Lampless
Oil Engine.
Star’' Portable OH Engine
Dalgety’s Machinery Agencies comprise
TANCYE’S Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines. Suction Cas Plants, Pumps of all types, etc.
CLAYTON Portable Steam Engines. WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. BUNDLE Chaffcutters
CANE Milking Machines. E. 8.8. Separator Engines, Pumping Engines, Crutching Plants,
TRIUMPH Oil and Benzine Engines, Vertical Type. “STAR” Portable Oil Engines, etc.
MACHINERY DEPARTMENT MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Triumph Oil or Benzine
Engine.
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
Buncte Travelling Chaffcutter.
jk
SHEEP
Shearing Machines
are always dependable.
Popular with both pastoralist and shearer, because they run smoothly,
require little attention, and are economical and speedy.
The “Wolseley” is ALWAYS special quality, each machine being
expertly examined and tested before delivery.
Make enquiries from—
Dalgety & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents-AH Branches.
I
■ : v
SAFETY FIRST-
SERVICE ALWAYS
The Problem of Safety—the Problem of Eliminating Waste Power—
of the Reduction of present Factory Costs—these are all
solved for you by equipping your plant with
Dodge Power Transmission
Appliances
l
Pulleys, Self-Oiling Bearings, Adjustable Shaft Hangers, Friction Clutches, Couplings, Collars, etc.
The pleasing design, ample strength, wide adjustability and the ease with which it can all be erected, add greatly to the merits of
the Dodge line, and must appeal to all practical Engineers and Mill Owners. Carried in Stock for quick delivery by Sole Agents—
RKE (a LACY CO. LTD.,
Our Catalogue, " «-<vcr Transmission Appliances,” is available.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St,, Sydney, N.S.W.
Gunmetal Heavy Marine Type.
e
w
“ THE LEAK-PROOF VALVE”
is
MADE IN AUSTRALIA of AUSTRALIAN METALS by SKILLED AUSTRALIANS.
It is made in all styles and sizes to meet all conditions.
Heavy Gunmetal, Flanged, for Marine Boilers.
Cast-iron, Flanged or Screwed, for ordinary Steam use.
All Iron, Flanged or Screwed, for Alkali (Ammonia, Cyanide, etc.).
Anti-corrosive, for Chemicals (Nitre, Sulphuric, Acetic Acids, etc.).
Rack-operated, or Worm-geared, for slow opening and closing.
Special Types designed for any class of work.
It is the highest-class, most-efficient valve on the market, and we absolutely guarantee it to remain
“leak-proof” for 2 years.
- Valves sent to any user for 30 days’ free trial.
If your supply house cannot quote, write direct for Prices and Dimension Sheets.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sole Manufacturers, 350 George St., Sydney. Works: Camperdown, N.S.W.
