

D.tSIV-A.JfcC*fsl —The Spirit of Discrimination.
Machinery Merchants,
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant,
K.ent Street, Sydney,
Specialty : AUC TIONEERS
MACHINERY, etc.
107
—FOK—
Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining- Requisites,
Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
N-S'W MONT de PIETE D & I C«?V LIMITED
74e St., 74. Sydney.
“ADVANCES -
e=T ■
ITHOUT POSSESSION
ĥ
frjf/cfcjjt ZIS-J7Swanston St.,rieSb.. 40 Adelaide St, Brisbane.
i~ ■ ~ Q St.Hewcastle. 186 Castlereaqh St., & 159 George St. West. Sydney
CAPITAL 5200.000 ‘PKone City 932s.
' - < <’ . Gcsiess/
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is qnite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire (lie charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont do
Pi'ete 1). and I. Co. Ltd.”
urn
1
.Ail
S 8
vv/ii
Fencing Wire
is guaranteed, stai
greater strains and
cheaper than import'
At all'stores. We
not supply direct.
ħ
*
' **
Sue %&
9
PPLE
6
A
«gVS2 K
Notmswo
to Argue
About!"
4fs s BA*-' 0
Are the Best
(JUNKET mode from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors us being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
L.
11
h
ĥ
For INDIGESTION
DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
WOLFE'C
SCfIMAP^J
i
I
i
i
To avoid replacing
IRON ROOFS
paint, them with Pabco—-a high-grade, anti-corrosive paint—the
* n t* le world for the purpose. It will never powder or rub
ou, but affords an elastic, adhesive, protective coating that resists
all climatic extremes.
Write now for descriptive booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc.
Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
<F. 3VI. Prince, Australasian
CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Ro!hn g Siock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines
ugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths,Sinks, etc.
SYDNEY.
Arthur
6 <3
MACHINERY.
“ROBEY** Patent UNIFLOW Steam Engines”
in LOWERS RANGING from 100 to 1000 INDICATED HORSEPOWwr*
TIIE ROBEY” UNIFLOW ENGINE represents the LATEST DEVELOPMENT
*“■ *•>« construction of HIGH-CLASS STEAM ENGINES. LUPMENT
EFFICIENT ahd ECONOMICAL in Steam Consumptions.
SIMPLICITY OX 7 CONSTRUCTION, consequently low upkeeD costs
SUITABLE FOR HIGH STEAM PRESSURES and all temperatures of Sunch™*
SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR SMALL FLOOR SPACE
CATALOGUES AND COMPLETE INFORMATION FROM
Solo Repreaentatjms ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.. HEAD OFFICE SYlWiav
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH
Famous Brands of
HIGH-SPEED STEEL & DRILLS
“T.Y.R.” " A.W. PREMIER.**
Sir W.
manufactured
i. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Australian Representatives:
Co. Ltd
115 PUT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
tocks
CARRIED.
OPALOID
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
OPAIaOZO
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2066.
Thursday, September 18, 1919*
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DON’T IGNORE TRUCK FACTS
The fact is that the Federal Motor Lorry will save you time and
money, and put your hauling on a more efficient basis than ever
before.
The Federal is perfect in mechanical construction. It is built to
last a lifetime.
m
4
n
Qvv
Let us send you our free magazine. “Traffic News.”
Also ask for full prices and discounts.
H. W/CROUCH, Sole N.S.W. Agent,
26-28 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Federal Motor Truck Company
Foreign Dept., 18 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
Mich. U. S. A.
h
ĥ
ħ
H
1
Williams
Talc
Po
der
CARNfITiO
$
i
l£l
0«
AFTER the game, the ride, the
swim, the brisk walk, or a day
L at the seashore, turn for comfort
to
Williams’
Talc Powder
Open the hinged cover and let this
pure, light, fragrant, cooling powder
fall upon the skin. Discomfort dis-
appears instantly at its grateful touch,
and the one drawback to the active,
health-giving, out-of-doors life i»
quickly and pleasantly removed.
Get WILLIAMS’ Talc, ’in the gener-
ous can with the handy, hinged top
that prevents leaking of the powder or
escape of the perfume.
WILLIAMS’ Talc gives you a wide
choice —Violet, Carnation, English
Lilac, La Tosca Rose and Matin6e
(new). Also, Baby Talc, practically
unscented.
If your Chemist hasn’t got it don’t
blame us, but send us 1/3 in stamps
and we will post yon a full-size, hand-
some canister. Name the odor you
prefer.
“WILLIAMS,”
Box 98 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SHALL,
IW/tstW
l°NtU \
* 608? V
h
ĥ
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTSe
PRIZES value C 3.500
Under sanction of the AttorneyrGeneral.) Drawn Nov. 1, 1919.
Ist PRIZE, value £750
2nd PRIZE, value £*3oo
3rd PRIZE, value £2OO
and 39? other
Valuable Prizes.
CHANCE FOR 1919.
TRY IT. •
Ist Prize in 1918 won by Mrs. Murtough, Ken-
sington, Sydney, N.S.W., for modest outlay of
One Shilling
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1019.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper, November G, 1919. To
i 2 any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will
be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct from—■
Trades Hall, Sydney. ARTHUR W. YAGKfe, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
THE MOUTH
for
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections inay be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it is
here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s
"Eumenthol” Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known. Being destructive to all
organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
Tun Lancet (London) states: “Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth; this result is
likely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bacterl-
cidally as is creosote.” 1/6 a tin.
FOR COUGHS, COLDS. SORE THROAT
CHITIS, INFLUENZA AND THE
OF CONSUMPTION.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Wir ' - ’
ft
C. The Bronchial
■Tubes of a Dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
A Mad-dog People
Secrets of the Bosphorus, by Henry Mor-
genthau, United States Ambassador there
until 1910 (published by Hutchinson and
Co., London), is a tale of squalid political
intrigue and squalid public villainy. Mor-
genthau sums up- the Turk as a strange
being, unable to really love or hate, and
only understanding the rule of fear. Either
he is afraid himself or he is busy making
some subject race afraid out of the sheer
joy of supremacy. “Essentially the Turk is
a bully and a coward —brave as a lion when
things are going his way, but cringing, abject
and nerveless when reverses are overwhelm-
ing him.”
In his great days the unlettered Ottoman
ruffian ruled over many Christian nations,
or parts of nations, but one by one they
broke away—Russians, Hungarians, Ser-
bians, Montenegrins, Croats, Greeks, Rou-
manians, Italians and others. Abdul the
Damned came to the throne just in time to
lose Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and
the last traces of sovereignty over Serbia.
Armenia was the last Christian nation re-
maining under Turkish rule, and lest it
should also set up for itself he resolved to
destroy it root and branch and plant the
land . with Turks. The interferences of
Russia, France, Italy and Britain partially
spoiled the project, but when the war came
and Russia broke, and the other Powers
were fighting for their lives, the Turk, for
the first time in 200 years, had a free hand
to be the undisguised mad dog. The work
of clearing the empire of Christians, barring
Huns, commenced, and the Spanish Inquisi-
tion, with its record of 32,000 deaths in
230 years, hardly represented a good day’s
work in this blotting-out of a nation. There
is a thrill in the story of the meetings of
the Committee of Union and Progress at
which plans of new tortures were suggested,
and the device of Djemal Pasha for nailing
horseshoes on the feet of Christians to
accelerate their movements roused much
applause.
The Turk was always the hopeless Asiatic,
maddened with pride at having a white man
working for him, and maddened with re-
ligious bigotry to boot. His outlook is ex-
pressed in the word : ug of the official burial
certificate for Christians which used to bo
issued to the officiating clergyman :
O thou irreligious priest who hast been' expelled
from the presence of God, thou that wearest the
cl 'own of the Devil and black raiment—one of your
congregation of polluted infidels having died, though
his desecrated corpse is not acceptable to the earth,
yet, as its terrible stench will become a. public
nuisance, take the polluted dead one, open a ditch,
throw him in it, trample him underfoot, and come
back, thou infidel swine ■
It is not much use to-nrgue with people like
that.
Morgenthau emphasises the vastness of the
calamity of the Allied retreat from the Dar-
danelles after losing a mere three ships. The
fortifications were then very inadequate, and
after the first day the defenders’ ammu-
nition was almost exhausted. Everybody
took it for granted that next morning’s
attack would be the end of Constantinople,
and the trains were waiting with steam up
to carry the Sultan and the whole parapher-
nalia of Ottoman tyranny away to Asia.
But the attackers’ tail was drooping—and
there was no second attack! The Turko-
-1 fun party was thus left in possession of
the Straits-till the end of the war, wherefore
Russia’s supplies were cut off, and the army
and Government collapsed for want of them.
In fact, half the Alliance was thrown over-
board in a forenoon. The pawnbroker,
faced ruler of Bulgaria, ready to join anv
side for profit, decided that the Allied fleet
was beaten and that the Hun was (he person
who would have territories to give away. His
attack wrecked Serbia and gave the Huns
control of the whole railway from Hamburg
to Berlin. Warlike stores of all sorts poured
in. The Turkish Army was armed to the teeth.
The Dardanelles were fortified with- new
Hun guns; and the death-sentence was
passed on Armenia whenever it was
assured that no Allied troops would get
into the Black Sea to assist. But for that
one luckless episode the war would almost
certainly have ended two years, perhaps
three years, earlier, three nations would not
have been ruined, Woodrow Wilson would
not have bu2zed to Versailles, the U.S.
would not have had the chance to become
the world’s greatest creditor with a mort-
gage on the globe, and probably Australia
would have had no “militant” party infest-
ing its politics, for that crowd only took
heart when it thought the Hun was winning.
J. E.
Wade’s Foolish Book
Charles Gregory Wade, K.C., Agent-
General for N. S. Wales, and one-time its
Premier, has written a book — Australia,
Problems and Prospects. It has no literary
graces worth mentioning. It shows no re-
search. It throws no fresh light on any-
thing. It contains nothing new, and no-
thing old that had dropped out of notice,
and become worth resurrecting. It is in-
accurate. It is dull.
Mr. Wade states on his second page that
“a great part of Queensland—nearly one-
third —lies within the tropics.” A good deal
more than one-half is tropical. He alleges
that Australia “comprises an area larger
than Europe.” He isn’t quite a million
square miles out. Drought need no longer
be feared, because “in recent years, through
the growth of the railway system, stock,
when grass fails, can always be transported
to other pastures.” This is a large order,
seeing that the .stark and haggard bullock
which lives half-way between Cloncurry (Q.)
and Marble Bar (W.A.).with one station at
Oodnadatta (S.A.) to the south and another
at Katherine River (N.T.) to the north,
may be quite out of hearing of the railway
whistle, especially if. it happens io be a
deaf bullock. A little further on appears
something even worse: —
The coastal districts of Australia are uniformly and
abundantly watered. The whole of the eastern, south-
eastern and south-western districts of the continent
for an average distance inland of at least 30 miles
receive an annual rainfall of 40 inches. If, then,
the total coastline —
(Not merely the eastern, south-eastern and
south-western districts)
of 12,000 miles is multiplied by an average depth of
30 miles, the result is an area of 360,000 square
miles which enjoys an average rainfall 10 inches
in excess of the fall in‘London... .These coastal
districts are never subjected to a disastrous drought.
The soil is very productive, consisting largely of
river valleys.... The whole area is capable of culti-
vation and dairying.
It is a weird story and might have been
written at random out of a bad school-book
by the office-boy- There are 392,110 square
miles of Australia and Tasmania with over
30 inches of rainfall, but only 190,489 square
miles of this area has over 40 inches. Neither
Perth nor Adelaide nor Melbourne nor
Hobart —all supposed to be on the coast —
has 40 inches of rain. In fact, the last three
haven’t 20 inches. There is a long stretch
where the desert —the region with less than
lOin. of rain—actually hugs the coast, and
in these parts the drought is eternal. And
for some 2000 miles there are no “river val-
leys” because there isn’t the ghost of a river.
Mr. Wade puts the average wheat yield at
“about 14 bushels per acre.” though the
unimaginative Statistician calls it less than
Ilb . „
’The author remarks, that the trip from
England to Australia used to take from six
to nine months, but now “it is not much
longer than the journey from Edinburgh to
London was in the days of Sir Walter
Scott.” Scott lived into the days of /ail-
ways, and 201 years before the end of Scott
Charles I. had ordered the Webster of his
time to carry letters between the two capi-
tals in six (0) days, so Wade’s remark is
slipshod. According to him (Wade, not
Scott) the population of Australia at the
beginning of the 19th century was “not more
than 1000 white people,” whereas 3101 were
counted. After stating (page 48) that the
railway and tramway deficit for the year
was £1.439,407. he says that the surplus is
“assured” and is habitually applied in reduc-
tion of charges.
Sbeaking of amendments of the Constitu-
tion. it is explained that only once has an
amendment been carried at a referendum.
There seem to be two on record, but in
being only 50 per cent, wrong Mr. Wade is
better than usual.
The book suggests that Mr. Wade may be
coming back to Australian politics. It is
to be hoped lie goes into Federal politics
where the tariff question is. A man doesn’t
require to know even half of anything to
he a Freetradc leader. — (Oxford University
Press.)
Singing Thoughts
The thoughts that come from the human
mind in written or spoken words are of all
degrees. Some are so ponderous and tune-
less they fall inertly and are forgotten;
most have hut a brief existence; but there
are siuging thoughts which often live in
men’s memories. If we ask whence come
these singing thoughts, we are told they
are born of inspiration. And then the ques-
tion becomes, What is inspiration?
It is admitted that each individual has
two minds—the objective, or everyday, busi-
ness mind, and the subjective, or inner mind,
which is governed by the objective in many
directions., though it acts of its own volition
in controlling certain duties necessary to sus-
tain life. The subjective mind never sleeps ;
it is the-ego of the human body. Tempera-
ment is regulated in accordance with the
balance of these two minds. Where the every-
day mind is paramount, as it mostly is, the
result is a prosaic, methodical, equable
nature; when the two minds are equally
balanced, the owner is a genius; when the
subjective mind is in charge it means mad-
ness. Along the gamut between these ex-
tremities, every gradation of temperament
may be found. That is the human side of
the equation by which we seek to solve the
question of the origin of inspiration.
For the data for the other side we must
search the heavens. In the universe there
are stars and other matter, with ether as a
vast negative cushion surrounding them, so
that they do not deafen us or set the uni-
verse on fire as they roar along in their
paths. But what is not so generally recog-
nised is that the universe is filled with Mind.
As in human affairs, thought must precede
action in the vast creations of the universe.
Physical scientists have traced the creation
right back to nebulous matter; and there
they have been baulked, though they have
proved that lines of force which cross cre-
ate nebulm at the point of crossing, and
“whorls” of force do likewise in their
centres. But behind it all, they say, there
must be Mind. Here metaphysicians have
taken up the study. They believe there is
a vast, creative mind, too great and infinite
to be crowded into the quart-pot of human
understanding, but in direct touch with
humanity, nevertheless, through the subjec-
tive minds of men. Under its influence the
subjective mind builds and maintains each
body and brain. The less it is interfered
with in this work by the objective mind, the
better the inner mind works, for the outer
mind is very often a liar, and gives wrong
impressions to the fellow inside, and sets
him working on the wrong lines. This is
where we come back to the singing thoughts.
Every creative idea comes from the great
Mind through the two minds of man. What
is considered to be a mule proof of this is
found in the fact that illiterate persons with
rightly-tuned minds may excel in music and
mathematics; the laws governing these are
recognised as natural phenomena, which
man has discovered and bent to his purposes,
but not invented. _ The trouble, in regard to
singing thoughts, is that the busy, everyday
mind seldom has time to listen to the sug-
gestions of the inner mind, and many beauti-
ful thoughts are lost, though the inner mind
is always trying to give the other what it
wants. Often an idea has come to artist,
writer, statesman, engineer or philosopher
in moments of relaxation. At the theatre,
perhaps, or over a glass of wine, or in
moments of dreaming, he has grasped the
thought which may have eluded him in active
hours. An inspiration, we call it. Really
it is something which the inner mind has
been tryng to fell the outside chap, but the
everyday mind has been too much centred
(Continued on page 24.)


CdheM/Hofdgms'Jiije
*
sss
l
I
/
VI
fcs)
'J
A
i
Dl4l
'•V-
DIO
1224
r
Modes that Charm
THE Spring and Summer Modes
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
are correct as to style, shades
and finish, and appeal not only to the
particular dresser, but to the 4 woman
who requires the utmost serviceability
in her attire. Some of the modes are
illustrated and described on this page
—typical examples of the economising
opportunities offered in our spacious
salons.
THE ROBES ILLUSTRATED.
1)141 (as illustration).— Smart Jumper Costume, in Black,
Soft. Satin. The Jumper Bodice is effectively trimmed W lute
Wool Trimming in Block Pattern, finished Velvet Cord
at waist.
Price 9 (*ns.
1)1224 (as illustration).— Kobe of Saxe Georgette, made
on Ivory Foundation trimmed Satin Bands and Sou-
taebings, Satin forms the back in panel effect, swathed
belt and sash ends of Floral Silk. '
Price H Gns.
1)10 (as illustration). — Model Gown of Ouster Grey Crepe
de Chine and figured Georgette. Smartly trimmed
touches of Powder Blue, the skirt features the new one-
sided drape.
Price 1® Gns.
OTHER FASHIONABLE ROBES.
D2O.—A Smart Robe, in Crepe de Chine, featuring the
new odd effect, novel collar and revers, effectively beaded,
sleeves, and pointed tunic edged hemstitched folds of
Georgette. In Mole, Black, Ivory, or any color desired.
Price 12 Gns. '■
I)22.—Becoming Kobe, in Canary Crepe de Chine, the new
Magyar bodice and draped tunic on skirt effectively beaded ;
foot of skirt and tunic finished tucks. In any color de-
sired, with beading of self or contrasting shade.
Price 11 Gns.
STYLISH BLOUSES.
ixi3s. — Pretty Blouse (as illustration), in
Shell Pink Georgette, with vest and sailor
collar of White Georgette, edged silk fringe,
hand embroidered in self color and sliver
thread.
Price 49/6
IXlls.—Dainty Crepe-de-Chine Blouse (as
illustration), with new,, roll collar and smart
turned-back cuffs, trimmed handwork em-
broidery and double rows of hemstitching. In
Pink, Ivory or Champagne.
Price 35/6
IXlo3.—Smart Crepe-de-Chine Blouse (as
illustration), hand embroidered and hem-
stitched on roll collar and turned-back cuffs,
finished pearl buttons. In Pink, Ivory or
Champagne.-
Price 25/6
WELL=MADE SKIRTS.
D 649 (as illustration).— Useful Skirt in Pine
Check-effect Oatmeal Cloth, panel front,
shaped belt and bone buttons, in Pawn, Light
Fawn, or Pastel shades, with fine black check.
Price 21/-
D7s94.—Fashionable Skirt, in Black and
White Shepherd’s Plaid, cut on straight
lines, trimmed self, loose strappings.
Price 27/6
D7344.—Up-to-date Skirt, in Pine Coating
Serge, panel front, inverted pleats at sides,
trimmed buttons; in Black or Navy.
Price 69/6
D 7470. —Stylish Skirt, in Black Crepe de
Chine with alternate pin and deep tucks,
finished sash ends.
Price 72/6
Other new designs, in Black Crepe de Chine, 45/-,
59/6. 72/6, 84/-. 89/6.
m
' V;j|||;;
}&WiK i %
ifflMi
1
::i
■ ■
ll
V
J
wn
... ; - V. , '
(L
-i - I -
s /
7?
Ml
-'VN
ssy
i-ir-H:.-
t / for
rUrM
vs
1
I\s
6^9
Have you
received
a copy of
our Spring
Fashion
Book 7 if
not, write
for it now.
Posted
free.
We pay carriage on Fashion Goods to any
part of N.S.W.; to your nearest port in
other States.
ANTHONY HORDERNS ’
605 B RICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY


The cost of living continues to increase
by leaps and bounds, and thousands are
finding difficulty in making ends meet.
It behoves all classes of the community
to practise economy in everything and to
look to their general health to see there
is no waste of time and expense by preventable sickness.
By keeping the system clean by using a simple remedy to
ensure the proper working of the digestive organs when they
show signs of needing help, will prevent many serious
illnesses. Carelessness regarding these simple requirements
of Nature are costly both to the general health and the time
wasted. Keep Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills always at
hand, and take a pill or two occasionally to prevent
the little troubles, and the big ones will take care of
themselves. No better remedy can be had at any price.
All classes of the community use them, rich and poor,
male arid female-professional men who do not get
enough physical exercise, hard-working laborers who
get too much—ladies of society and shop-girls all find in
c
IFW%
If
just the remedy to keep their systems in order. They cleanse the stomach,
purify the blood and tone the system, and aid in the digestion and assimi-
lation of the food. They are sold at a price within the reach of all classes.


ħ
PARIS
GARTERS
No mefal
can touch you
Jlsk distinctly for
Paris Garters
Value and Service
Guaranteed.
Obtainabl* all Mtrcers.
Indents and Wholesale:
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney.
h
Comfort!
Abbey Shoes
give you the utmost satisfaction in wear,
and, in addition to dependable quality,
assure you style, fit and comfort.
We illustrate a choice Patent Goolosh Bal.,
with dull Calf Legs, a smart, made-to-
order style.
Price 47/6
A very distinctive boot for Dress Wear.
In half and full sizes, and C. and D.
fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
Used the
World Over
ĥ
ħ
MOTOR
...CARS
Jell
: st&ir '~ ;i
or b. a imm
h
The Duck Hunters
Were Startled!
“A Wireless Station recently received a telephoned message from
Europe, and through its amplifier startled duck hunters in the
marshes eight miles away.” —Extract from “Wireless Age.”
It is largely due to the use of amplifiers that the science of
p
Wireless Telegraphy has become what it is to-day. This expan-
sion entails the erection of Stations throughout the world.
Operators will be required to man these Stations.
This is where YOU come in.
Fit yourself NOW for the position of WIRELESS OPERATOR.
DAY AND EVENING CLASSES
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENCE COURSES.
Write or, call— •
THE SUPERINTENDENT,
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
And-
-422-424 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Dressing
NOW OBTAINABLE IN TINS.
The Government having lifted the embargo, Bostoclc’s Shoe
Dressing is again obtainable in tins, as heretofore.
The iincreasing popularity of this brilliant polish is due to its
remarkable leather-preserving qualities. Containing ingredi-
ents that nourish and preserve the leather, it lengthens the
life of footwear, in addition to imparting a bright and lasting
polish, j
CO LOBS —Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, and White.
In tins, bottles and tubes.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
SOLD ANYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
Sydney
AGNES PLATT,
4 Manchester St., London, W. England.
Advice given on plays, novels, cinemas.
Manuscripts placed. Plays produced.
Correspondence course in stage, novel
and cinema technique.
Ihe Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centura*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15»6.
— CURES Write for Rook
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALUNC EYELASHES. WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road. London, Engbai
Insist, on “Singleton's”-refuse all substitutes.
The Super Fx 8 R Watch.
The original “Fx and It” Watches afe known throughout
Australasia for their marvellous accuracy; and endurance.
But, as usual, we progress, and so now we are showing the
SUPER “Fx and 11“ WATCH.
Its present priee is 63 /in steel case, but what a watch it is !
Every latest improvement known to horologital science is in it.
It is jewelled in every part where wear occurs. It will go
with profound accuracy ; indeed, it is so accurate that a ship could-
be steered to England by it.
For strength and standing up against hard wear we unhesitat-
ingly say that no watch the world over equals the SUPER “Fx
and R” Watch.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
The Oldest
Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Gent.’s Full Size Open-face
Oxidised Steel Super “Fx and
R” IS-jewelled Lever, G3/-
A TRACTOR
that can ONLY plough is no asset to you.
Exerts less
ground pressure
per sq. inch than
a man.
Therefore the
Cletrac
TANK-TYPE TRACTOR
12-h.p. at the
drawbar.
20-h.p. at the
pulley.
is what you require.
Ploughing Discing Harrowing—-Seeding
Motive power for Pumping—Chaff-cutting etc.
The CLETRAC has proved itself in all parts of the world.
Pacific Commercial Co„ Pomeroy House, York Street, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring.
As I went out when day was young
I caught the green leaves dancing; 1
Ilis jewelled notes the grey thrush strung
Upon a sunbeam’s glancing.
A little subtile breeze of morn
Kan hither, thither, whispering.
The buds were on the ti-tree thorn,
And so I laughed: "Is this the SpringV”
As I turned home at even fall
My true love came to meet me;
And he that loves me over all
Forgot the way to greet me !
lie kissed me not, nor touched my hands
But looked beyond me hungering,
And sighed and spoke of other lands.
And then I knciv it was the Spring!
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.
Villanelle.
Oh hills we loved in sweeter days of old,
What faith shall hind, and what strong
love prevail?
The scythe of Time is singing through the
gold.
Malefic priests thy mysteries have told
On some black rosary of hidden Baal.
Oh hills we loved in sweeter days of old !
Once walked we there in such diviner mould,
Nor life nor death nor sorrow might assail;
The scythe of Time is singing through the
gold.
The flocks of Dawn must couch in Dusk’s
grey fold.
For that veiled shepherd piping down the
trail,
Oh hills we loved in sweeter days of old !
But thou art tomb of all the heart might
hold,
The dumb days tread like mourners ashen
pale;
The scvt.be of Time is singing through the
gold.
A ghostly camp-fire on a windy wold.
We followed like the knights of ancient
tale;
Vain was the nuestion. far the IT >ly Grail.
The scythe of Time is singing through the
gold.
VICTORIA.
MOOROOPNA.
The Buccaneers.
When Doris and I, and Peggy and Sim,
Went by water to Watson’s Bay,
The night shone .blue on the harbor-rim,
And the hills ran gold, with liquid day;
For this was the hour of interlude,
When the sunlight thins, and the shadows
brood,
And the sea-mist smokes away.
“We’ll steer by the stars,” I cried, for the
stars
Beat milkily over the yacht,
And the moon lay netted among the spars
Like the slice of an apricot;
“We’ll steer by the Cross to Caribee,
One thousand leagues from Circular Quay,
And east-nor’-south, I wot!”
Doris danced round, and she made a mouth,
And she wrinkled her nose in scorn f ;
“O silly, to talk of your east-nor’-soutb!
And is Caribee near Cremorne?”
“Crem-orne, do you say? Indeed, and indeed.
I’ll swear that this yacht is a dolphin steed
In a faery land forlorn!”
The sun swam down, and the darkness fell,
All olive it dripped in the skies:
And the ferry-light fires in the glinting swell
Were like deep-sea fishes’ eyes.
But Sim cried: “Ho, for the Spanish Main!
I smell red gohl on galleons twain —
110, ho for the pirates’ px-ize!”
0 you who gape from the ferry-decks
At the lunatic yacht below,
Do you ken, as you sluggishly 101 l your necks,
You were slaughtei’ed an age ago?
Plundered and put to the plank and the
sharks,
You factory-hands and insurance-clerks,
In a stolidly staring row?
N.S.W.
KRMNETH SLESSOR.
The Cross.
Deep in the mossy grass I lie
And, wistful, lift my gnze
To the wide arch, of English sky
With northern gems ablaze.
Vainly amidst these scattered stars
I search in hope to find
Some semblance to wheeling spars,
The Cross I left behind.
Many another face, ns m ; ne,
Looks upward to the skies,
Seyms’ aloft that s : gn
Where south my country lies.
But not f'’om this wide jewelled space
Can I requite my loss,
Nor one faint likeness can I trace
To that grand Southern Cross.
From gazing at the midn'ght blue
Back to the earth I turn,
And. find a thousand lamps that through
The blackness seem to burn.
Daisies that star the lawns at night,
Though trampled as I pass.
Form there, so luminously white,
A cross upon the grass.
ENGLAND.
ALDWYTH LEWERS.


PERDRIAD TYRES SUPPORT AUSTRALIA’S REPUTATION.
When AUSTRALIAN TYRES can produce
definite proof of superiority as shown in Mr.
Byrne’s letter, here reproduced, there is no diffi-
culty in convincing the most sceptical car-owner
that we do make a tyre superior to all others for
Australian Conditions. Every Australian tyre
bought means employment found for Australian
workmen, who in turn contribute to your pros-
perity. Support the country that supports you.
It pays.
Obtainable from your Garage
or from the manufacturers
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
270 George Street,
SYDNEY.
*
w -
osy
jgWf!r
& *
10,000 miles on a Perdriau and still running.
Coivra, N.S.W.,
August 13, 1919.
To The Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.,
Sydney.
Dear Sir-
Three years ago I bought from your agent here,
Mr. King, a Perdriau Tyre for my Ford Car. I
thought you would like to know that the tyre is still
in use on my Ford, and has already covered 10,000
miles.
This is beyond doubt the best lyre I have ever fitted
to my car, and I assure you that when 1 next require
tyres, I shall not look any further than Perdriaus.
I am, sirs,
Yours faithfully,
J. J. BYRNE.
And at
122 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
307 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
69 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
312 Murray Street, Perth.
a
i
R quicker, better and safer castration of stock,
use
Denyer’s Triple Crush
Emasculator.
The new triple crush action prevents haemorrhage. Easy and safe
to use. Always reliable. Denyer’s “Eclipse” Triple Crush Emasculator
returns its cost in better work—it is a profitable investment for the
stockowner. Invest now. . __ .
Price 50/-, postage 9d. extra.
Send for Catalogue of modern Veterinary Instruments and Appliances.
DENYER BROS.,
The Veterinary
House of Australia,
281 GEORGE ST REST, SYDNEY.
gSSE!
nnDiHiiiini.iiiiiinnnnß
-STs
IN
fhJs
h AM
BACON.VE/M.
ongue.
j r. 22
iiniiiil
Cheaper Than Meat
Yet
No
Waste
T e know that in these troub ous times
ic is necessary for every housewife to
economise as much as possible. But
that does not mean that we cannot have
variety
Rex” Camp Pie
--affords a welcome change in the Luncheon
Memu, at much below the cost of fresh meat.
Rex Camp Pie is made from the choicest
morsels of meat, seasoned and copk< d, and
then surrounded by a firm, palate-pleasing
l ‘lly. Serve it straight from the ti •, add-
ing a dainty salad for piquancy, and you
have a nourishing meal for 5 persons.
Serve it hot after standing the tin
in boiling water for 10 to 15 minutes.
2 ry a tin To-day. Sold by all Grocers.
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex ” Pure Food Products
Curers of" Rex" Hams and Bacon j 143
/
r
S'
0
i
DOYOOKNOW
WHO! AM?—
XW, BU/ViP-
TH‘ ROUGHEST
Joirr in
TH-’COONTY^
'zatJotX
"WELL DO )
Yoo KNOW, \
WHO I AM
TM 600DR1C8-]
TH' TOUGHEST /
"giRE -IN {
\m'woßiD/
Goodrich Safety Tread Tyres
QUALITY FIRST is ever the upper-
most thought in the production of
Goodrich Tyres, and governs every step
of procedure, from the purchase of the
raw materials to the final inspection.
THE RESULT is Ty res of such super-
excellence that they SERVE BETTER,
LAST LONGER, and give much greater
satisfaction than those made to sell on
price.
GOODRICH TYRES are practical
tyres, big mileage producers and
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”
ONE TRIAL WILL WIN YOU.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
DUVAL ca CO.
124 Russell St,
13 Castlereagh St,
HORSHAM HOUSE,
Adelaide St.,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 40— No. 2066.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1919.
Price 6p.
THE SPOILT CHILD.
"The Protectionist party in this State is making a noise about the tariff. It wants a new one with much higher duties. tChis party has more influence w'ith the
Federal Government than is good for either.” —Sydney Telegraph.
“Promised you a crust, did he? Huh, he’s spoilin’ you, that’s what he’s doing: As well as ruinin’ himself 1”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum, you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to ant
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Thh Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Thh Bulletin desires, further, those
sending. MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs In Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are (hose
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —-Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.9.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fiftli and D Streets, San Diego; Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark 'Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., 1849 Conway Buildings,
Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home Nexus Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —-Whitten Bros., imarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : . Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only ; one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; Boz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z,, Sid.; elseichere, 40z., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
flurSSxdldztfL
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1919.
“IF WE WERE BILLY HUGHES.”
There are great opportunities before W.
M. Hughes. He has returned with the
glamor of World Councils upon him. Such
is his mana that he is able to wear the hats
of strange soldiers in public without serious
loss of prestige. He evidently realises that
much is expected of him —he has said: “I
am out to abolish the profiteer and the
Bolshevik in Australia.” A big contract,
but simplified by the fact that if the first
calamity is banished the second will follow.
Bolshevism is essentially a stomach disease:
its irrationality is due, as Cato noted, to
the fact that the belly having no ease can-
not listen to reason. So that, broadly, all
Australia’s potential saviour has to do is to
check the exploitation of the citizens, and
provide the community with the means of
doing remunerative work. If he can
accomplish that, the rest, including national
security and internal peace will happen
almost automatically.
* * * *
If this paper were Hughes, or any
other repatriated it would
make unconscionable profiteering a crimi-
nal offence. A special Court should
be created to deal with the retail side
of business. Its officers should have
power to investigate, to punish by fine and
imprisonment, and to make public the names
of offenders. Starting, say, in a Dago fish-
shop, they would pursue the phenomenon
of a black bream at 150 p.c. above its pre-
war price, and from 50 to 75 p.c. above
the price of a fish of similar size and quality
in a shop round the corner. They would
find out the market cost of the article; if
the seller’s rent had been raised outrage-
ously ; if he had had to put on fresh hands,
and if their wages had been increased, and
by how 7 much; and any other factor which
might have a bearing on the apparent
swindle. Action was taken on these lines
under the unified British system of Govern-
ment control in reference to food-hoarders,
and it was effective. The Food Ministry
took charge then of the distribution of essen-
tial foods; and the Department operated to
such purpose that, though no one had quite
enough, yet all had somethhiv. and at a
fair price. The “Lloyd George of Aus-
tralia” can, however, do nothing of the sort
yet. Under our Federal Constitution the indi-
vidual retailer in any town, hamlet, village
or city of the Commonwealth is at liberty
to prejudice the public welfare, and possibly
imperil his own life by flagrant over-charg-
ing, and the National Parliament has at
present no power to interfere.
* * »
But not all the profiteering is done in the
shops. It is not wholly the fault of the
retail butchers, for example, that every cut
has practically doubled in price since 1914.
The American Meat Trust started operations
in Queensland in 1910. It is now firmly
established. According to a recent pro-
nouncement of the American Federal Trade
Commission* this combine of the five greatest
packing cos. in the world exists “to restrict
livestock markets, to restrict international
supplies of food; and to profiteer During
the war it has extended its activities from
the control of meat to that of most other
foodstuffs, and the effects even of its side-
line activities .are, of course, being felt in
Australia. Hughes may wish to scotch the
American Meal Trust; and not only this
vast affair, but all the smaller concerns
which have started business in imitation of
it. But he can do no more to the Meat
Trust than he can to any private butchery
in Melbourne or Sydney. It belongs to
Queensland, and it pays the Northern State
to own it. Under our Constitution any
maleficent trust which is careful to operate,
in a legal sense, within the confines of one
State is safe from Hughes. He may des : re
to alter the Constitution; but many of the
most influential Nationalists in all the
States are opposed to such a step. Joseph
Carruthers, for example, who speaks for
the typical N. S- Wales Tory, remarked last
week: s “I\for one will hesitate to vote for
any extension of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment’s powers.” Afld \he went on to
prophesy that, in the event of an attempt
at unification, “there are thousands of men
who will champion the cause of the States.”
So, unless he feels strong enough to do
without them, Hughes has to convert his
friends before he can confound his enemies.
* * * .#
Salvation might be found, in spite of in-
dividual and collective profiteering, in in-
creased production. In any event, ruin is
certain withput it, the nation in the last five
years having piled up a war debt of over
£300.000,000. In 1879 Bismarck found
Germany in a bad way, though eight years
earlier it had won the greatest war in its
history. The French indemnity of five jmil-
liards of francs was actually impoverishing
the Hun, since such of it as was paid in
goods helped to close up German factories
and drive the more vigorous young Germans,
as emigrants, to England and America. In
those circumstances the W. M. Hughes of
the period spoke as follows in the Reichstag:
Through the open door of its import trade the
German market has become the storage-place for the
over-production of other countries. We must shut
our gates and take care that the German market
which is being monopolised by foreign wares shall
be reserved for native industry. Were the perils
of Protection so great France would long ago have
been ruined; instead of which she is more pros-
perous than ever after paying our peace indem-
nity... .Because it is my deliberate judgment that
the prosperity of America is mainly due to its
system of Protective laws, I urge that Germany
has now reached the point where it must imitate
the tariff system of the United States.
Australia is already the dumpmg-place for
the over-production of America and Japan.
Those who hate and distrust the Boche may
threaten, as Hughes is constantly doing, to
bar Germans for life—to neither shake their
hands nor buy their goods again. But,
plainly, without a tariff strong enough to
keep out German goods, they will be bought
and sold here, if not by Hughes then by
someone else less determinedly anti-Boche,
and the effect must be that this country
will help the Hun to pay for his crimes,
instead of leaving the job to be undertaken
by those neutrals who condoned the infamies
when they looked like being successful.
* * * *
But when Hughes has pushed through a
tariff calculated to really protect, his job
as the saviour of;the country will be only
beginning. For example, one effect will be
to bring about the enlargement of existing
factories and the creation of new ones. Also
to divert a stream of immigrant workers to
Australia. But, insanely enough, while
Defence is vested in the Commonwealth, the
railways of this country are owned and run
bv the States. The policy of the States is
to boost their great coastal cities ; and they do
it largely by systems of preferential freights
and fares. The big cities are many thou-
sands of dwellings short already, and‘the in-
flux, which always follows upon the impo-
a uiff, will make their housing
difficulty much worse. Unless, of course, the
railways are taken over, or Hughes is able
to coerce or persuade them to alter their
railway policies and divert industries and
population to country centres.
THE BORROWING BOG.
Beeby and Carmichael, two ex-Ministers
who are certainly not Labor yet are not
exactly Nationalists, run two little political
shows in N. S. Wales, and do it more or
less on the Economy ticket. They were
both members of the Holman Government.
They joined a Ministry which had started
with a pledge to reduce borrowing, and then
increased it some 400 per cent.; which
was pledged to establish a sinking fund on
all loans, and practically suspended the little
fund that it found in existence; which
prated of political honesty, vet made its
appropriation of public funds for Ministers’
holidays, and Ministers’ wives’ motor-cars,
and receptions and suppers to theatrical and
other Ministerial friends a shrieking scan-
dal. This crowd wasn’t and isn’t politically
immoral. It was, and is, unmoral. It con-
siders- the nation as a mere adjunct to the
souabbles of machine-politicians in search
of office, and the dropping of a few millions
down a crack in the course of the disagree-
ment as a mere incident. In fact, the people
are to it as unimportant ,as they .jyere ,_tp
Freperxck the Great. .The Hohepzollern
regarded them as automata whose business
it was to fight to order. The HolmAj# or
Storey type of Government considers them
as automata whose job it is to vote to order.
Carmichael was in the Government when
the silliest of its financial razzles, the
Norton Griffiths Private Enterprise Loan
and Public Works scheme, was adopted, and
as it was a Labor Government in those
days he and Storey and all the rest of the
Laborites were responsible. Beeby and his
fellow-Nationalists joined the Government,
and thereby condoned and accepted the bur-
den of its doings. Neither Carmichael nor
Beeby resigned because the Loan Ministry
was running the State down a steep finan-
cial place to destruction. And neither of
them declares for the abolition of the Loan
policy. They talk vaguely of economy, just
as Holman and Storey have always done.
Holman’s programme is to borrow all he
can. Storey’s policy is to borrow more
than Holman. Beeby and Carmichael
promise to be in no way different.
• * * *
New South Wales, like other States, is
in need of a Government which will swear
off loans absolutely and construct its public
works out of taxation. If it had faced the
problem nine years ago when the annual
bill for interest on the old lazy extravagances
was £3.100.(100, the matter would have been
fairly easy. If it faces the question now
when the interest bill is over £0.200.000 a
year it will be difficult. About 1029, when
the interest bill is £12.400,000 a year, as
it will be if the pace continues, reform will
be almost impossible, though by that time
the impossibility is likely to be thrust on
the people by the stoppage of credit. An
individual is not absolutely bankrupt so long
as his assets will cover his liabilities and
leave him a suit of clothes to wear when
he goes on the wallaby track, and it is the
same with a community; but there is no
joy in that kind of solvency. And by the
time the interest bill is doubled the people
will be more slothful and effeminate through
the habit of living on useless jobs where
20s. is paid for 10s. worth of work and
the loss charged to posterity, wherefore they
will be less capable of facing their troubles.
There is always the comfortable feeling that
nothing has gone very wrong in a financial
sense up to now, and that the luck which
has pulled Australia through in the past
will endure. If the past was 1000 years
old the idea might have some reason it in.
But, as a matter of fact, Australia has
never yet needed to be miraculously pulled
through. That experience, like the ’flu and
the Great War, comes one day for the first
time. The great Australian drunk is really
only 18 years old, and, as regards N. S.
Wales, in its worst form it is only nine years
old. In that time the country, not reckon-
ing war loans, but merely the money bor-
rowed for purposes of laziness and loafing,
and shirking and going slow, accumulated
a bigger liability than in all the previous
century and bit of the century before. The
Cornstalk citizen aged 30 began to eat and
drink the capital and the credit of the State
in real earnest when he was 21. and he can’t
expect the same drunk and gorge to last
till he is 39. The good times that have
passed—and they Were remarkably good con-
sidering how little skilled work was done —
were not owing to the fact that he voted
the Holman ticket consistently ever since
he had a vote. They are due to the fact
that he pawned posterity for some centuries
ahead and had the time of his life on the
proceeds.
* * * *
Australia’s peace debt is not in the same
category with the ante-war debt of a country
like Britain. The interest on the British
ante-war debt never goes up, though it has
often gone down. The money is borrowed
for ever, but if, at a time of low interest,
rates diminish, the Government can borrow
afresh and repay the old liability and make
a profit. Its credit is always improving in
peace time, because the debt grows less.
Australian loans, with a few exceptions, are
repayable on fixed dates, so now the interest
alwaj'B goes up. The money has to be
raised again to the hour and minute, whether
things are bad or good, so old 31 per cent,
loans are being renewed at per cent. As
the debt increases things are invariably
worse than last time. Britain has a pleasant
habit of borrowing £lOO in time of war
stress, and paying it off with £6O of surplus
revenue when securities are quoted low in
the market. Australia repays £lOO for
every £lOO borrowed, for its loans fall due
in full at a time agreed upon, sometimes only
five years ahead, and it also pays whatever
charges are required on the renewal of the
bill. When its securities happen to be
low it doesn’t take advantage of the
fall to repurchase, for it never has
any surplus revenue except on paper.
The avowed policy of the States being to
borrow for ever even in peace time, and
never to repay but always trust to the luck
that the lender will renew, the price it has
to pay naturally grows higher, just as does
the charge on Abrahamstein’s p.n. As far
back as 33 years ago N. S. Wales was bor-
rowing gold in London at less than 31 per
cent, to hudd payable railways near the Big
City. Now, the most profitable railways
near the Big City being finished, it is bor-
rowing gold in London with. the Federal
Government’s guarantee—that is to say,, the
Federal Government borrows for it —or it is
getting the loan of paper locally, at 5| per
cent., to construct lines in the Far Beyond
on which it doesn’t expect to make li per
cent. Australia has plenty of chances to
build publ ; c works that would enrich the
country indirectly and pav per cent,
dividend directly. But with the present
snarse population and scarcity of customers
for the public works there is hardly one
which won’t he born bankrupt if it starts
life with a 51 per cent, mortgage and a
prospect of higher interest later on. Even
the baby hardlv thinks it worth while to be
born now cons’dering the debt he begins
with and the assurance that the old man will
double it before he is 10 years old.
* * * .. *
Government securities used to carry half,
or less'llian half, the interest' rate of mort-
gages. Now it is possible to buy a suburban
cottage and let three-quarters of the price
remain on mortvave at not much more than
rates. The man with
the lien on the cottage knows that his mar-
g’n will remain ard that he will alwavs be
first mortgae-ee. The man with" the Govern-
tnßn.t bond knows that h : s margin is always
diminishing, and that someone like Holman
may put a dozen short-dated liens ahead of
his. Every, day the security is becoming
more adulterated. The only possible excuse
for borrowing at present rates for peace
purposes is that the country has got into
such a condition that, so far from bein" able
to meet old loans, it can’t live without new
ones. The only excuse for increasing the
pace, as N. S. Wales has been doing f or the
last nine years, and is going to do again
is that every loan is so badly invested that
it needs a bigger new loan to pav the in.
terest. But if N.. S. Wales or any other State
Ccin t lie back for a while and live on its
own earnings when other people’s monev
costs nearly G per cent., then it will have
to go on loan-mongering when the rate rises
to 12 per cent.
* * * #
N. S. Wales has a man in office, and an
official and recognised aspirant for office and
two unofficial applicants for office ’who
were all up to their eyes in the maddest
loan-jag m the State’s history. The firJ
one says he is going to be worse than ever
The second says he is going to be worse
stiH. The other two talk platitudes about
details, but regard the jag-principle as a
matter of course. If the present holders of
public securities don’t find an Anti-Loan
leader to stop the adulteration of their
security, remarkabie things may happen to
them with all these aspirants for office.
RYAN’S FURTHER BLANK CHEQUE.
Iheke is an outstanding feature of Queens-
land Premier Ryan’s unemployment
w hl ? aIS ° obtrudes in the schemes
ot N.S.W. Prospective-Premier Stokey and
others. While everyth!*, is Mid \ “ d ,
making the employer” find work for men
there is no single word about making the
men do the work well, or do it at all, when
it is found. This might almost be called a
serious drawback. Ryan’s great project
develops on further inspection It is hf
•the first place, a device for unemployment
insurance by which every man who is ou
of work will receive, from a fund created
by the employers, something between 17s
Od. per week for an unmarried man in the
South and 3os. a week for a man with a
family m the North. The employer is to
provide the funds by paying ±2 for everv
employee in the first year, and up to £lOO
or any other sum per employee in succeed-
ing years. The amount after the first vear
is quite unlimited, but the Labor Council
composed chiefly of Ryan and his nominees’
ml accordi . n g the demands on the
fund. The pensioned class, or a section
thereof,, may dodge work, or refuse work
or accept work and not do it, or accept
it and do it badly, or make itself unemploy-
able by destruction of machinery, but there
is no provision for anything serious hap-
pening to it. Then the employer may be
ordered to do anything that the Labor Conn-
cil thinks necessary in order to reduce un-
employment or alleged unemployment, and
even so big a concern as the A.M.P. Life
Assurance might be wrecked in very short
order if compelled to do anything that struck
the fancy of a Council of Irresponsibles. But
lest the supply of _ employers should be in-
sufficient to subsidise the unemployed it is
proposed to manufacture employers. Any
person with a taxable income of a certain
amount is to be ordered, should the Council
see fit, “to create employment by investing
money in developmental work or work of
benefit to the State.” Nothing special is
said about industry, capacity or even com-
mon civility on the part of the employee;
yet not only will bis wages have to be paid
but the indefinite amount for his subscrip-
tion to the Unemployment Fund as well.
If the person with a taxable income who is
ordered to rush into “developmental work”
happens to be a writer or doctor or artist
or lawyer or shopkeeper or scientist, he
may be a useful member of society, yet
know as little about “developmental work”
as a crow, and be as incapable of manag-
ing a crowd of artisans as a child. Where-
fore he will lose his capital if he has any
(olenty of taxable persons have none), or
sink the earnings of the job he knows in
the compulsory job he doesn’t know. As a
consequence he will either cease to be a
taxable person, or else he will flee the State
and cease to be a person at all so far as
Queensland is concerned.
* * * *
A weird feature of the case is that it is
the settled policy of militant Labor to
eliminate the employer and replace him by
the Co-operative Commonwealth or some-
thing of the sort. Yet instead of starting
the Co-operative Commonwealth the one
militant Labor Government in Australia
proposes to multiply private employers by
compulsion. If the accursed and super-
fluous class doesn’t increase it is to be made
to increase. This pitiable dependence on
the Private-Enterprise capitalists suggests
that militant Labor, as represented by Ryan.
regards itself as either too lazy or too much
of a fool to manage things without him —
in other words, that it considers itself a
good, hard, roaring nigger-driver, but a
very poor workman.
* * * #
If the average number of unemployed is
7 per cent., which is about the recent aver-
age of unemployed trades-unionists through-
out the Commonwealth, and putting the
average pension at 255. per week. which is
striking a low average between 17s. 6d. and
355., it would require a subscription from
the employer of £4 11s. per employee instead
of the £2 suggested for the first year (with
indefinite increases afterwards) to keep the
fund solvent even for its opening week. But
Queensland is not only the State with the
biggest railway deficit, and the biggest rail-
way policy, and the biggest increase in the
cost of living, and the biggest alien popula-
tion. and the most remarkable set _of
Ministers, and in proportion to population
the most frequent industrial disnutes. It is
also the State with the biggest proportion
of unemnloved. and the fivure has been in
recent times as high as 11 per cent. On
that basis the employer would need to pay
into the Unemployment Fund £7 3s. per
year per emplovae. .As £2 (fixed for the
first year) is quite inadequate, it is evident
that the powers of the Labor Council to
order the employer to do anything under
the sun over and above his subscription


would have to be used early and often.
Hv way of strengthening the position a
»ill is on hand to make persons between 18
and 21 eligible as voters. This is presu-
mably intended to bring in a large class of
voters who are too young to be employers
already; who are of too small a wage-
earning capacity to be taxable persons and
liable to become compulsory employers; and
who are just sufficiently unballasted and
sufficiently close to the Deadwood Dick and
Bov Pirate age to admire Ryan’s wildest
devices. It being a child’s programme, the
votes of children are wanted for its sup-
port. Possibly Ryan may really believe
in his programme. Possibly, like Daniel
Quilp, he has a peculiar sense of humor,
and is putting up a vast joke on Sampson
Bmss, Queensland being Sampson. Pos-
sibly he is of an inquiring turn of mind
and wants to see what will happen under
extraordinary circumstances, just as another
person might give a plug of tobacco to an
elephant to see if the flavor would make the
animal homicidal. Not many years ago a
man explained his act in shooting at a
French President on the ground that he
desired to draw public notice to his new
invention for stuffing hair . mattresses, and
the two cases may be similar.
THE CONSUMPTIVE SOLDIER —AND
CITIZEN.
The N. S. Wales Government is about to
erect at Little Bay a hospice for incurable
consumptives, who will be separated from
the milder cases at Waterfall to the advan-
tage of both; for the curables will be re-
lieved of the depressing influence that the
proximity of hopeless cases has upon them,
while the Health Department will, I hope,
supply the dying man with such comforts
as the sight and warmth of a lire in winter
time, not compelling him to spend his last
hours in a bare ward, with a piercing wind
blowing through it.
There is a third class to be considered,
however —the chronic who is incurable, but
at the same time may live to be (JO unless
something else kills him. This class is
usually placed in a ward with the advanced
cases. His neighbors are coughing, hemor-
rhaging and dying, a state of affairs
which makes his existence almost unbear-
able. He is usually fit for a few hours’ work
daily; and that brings us to the most im-
portant point in the treatment of tuber-
culosis in Australia, viz., the total absence
of any post-sanatorium treatment, accom-
modation or facilities for convalescents,
particularly breadwinners. My experience
is that 80 per cent, of the good done at
sanatoria at present is wasted because of
the relapse of the patient after he leaves
the institution. Not one patient in 10 dis-
charged apparently cured —that is, with the
disease arrested—is fit to work full time,
or to make the same money he did before
entering. Yet his needs are more pressing
than ever. His wife and family are prob-
ably in debt and badly clothed, and he him-
self must have not worse living conditions
than he had before, but better, or he will
relapse. So he is between the devil of
being unable to earn enough to keep himself
in hygienic surroundings, with good food,
and the deep sea of overwork. In either
case he will retrogress. Even if he can
earn enough by part-time work, where is
he to get it? Who will employ a man two
hours or four hours a day? And there
ax - e so many ex-soldiers maimed or other-
wise partly incapacitated in search of light
work these days. There are hundreds—
thousands, indeed —of ex-sanatorium patients
who could work four hours a day with
benefit to themselves physically and men-
tally, but eight hours or perhaps even six
hours would mean disaster. Some might
work six hours, some only two; but as
sure as they exceed their limitations they
are back in the sanatorium, disappointed and
broken in spirit, often never to pull up
again. What is wanted is a colony for con-
valescent sufferers where the patient can
gradually work himself back to full-time
employment under medical supervision, or,
if it is found that he will never again be
capable of working full time, where he can
be employed within his limits under the most
suitable conditions.
The colony or settlement should be in a
healthy situation, with soil suitable for the
lighter kinds of farming, and open-air work-
shops for men of healthy trades. Wives and
families would live with their breadwinner
in hygienieally-designed dwellings, where in-
fection would be almost imposs-ble, and the
children would attend open-air schools. The
heavy work would be done by healthy men
with consumptive wives. When such a
settlement is established all sufferers could
be compelled to enter it until cured, and
we would begin to make some headway
against the disease.
It cannot be emphasised too strongly that
sanatoria are not intended to be permanent
homes for consumptives. The sanatorium is
intended to teach the patient the value of
fresh air, good food and regulated exercise
in the treatment of his complaint, and to
accustom him to hygienic habits, so that on
leaving the institution he will know how to
take care of himself and avoid infecting his
fellows. In a private sanatorium where the
food is good, the chalets comfortable and
fairly private and ordinary social inter-
course between the sexes allowed, the
patients may be fairly happy; but in the
large State institutions, with monotonous
food, bleak wards, the segregation of the
sexes, want of occupation and the large pro-
portion of inmates chronic and incurable
cases, the atmosphere is most depressing to
newcomers, and six months is quite long
enough for any patient to remain. At the
expiry of these six months all should be
specially examined. Those fit for even two
hours’ or more light work should be sent
to the settlement to continue until cured;
those whose time on earth is a matter of
weeks or months should be sent to the hos-
pice. The doubtful cases should go to sub-
sidiary sanatoria for a change. These sub-
sidiary institutions are badly needed. The
present establishments being on the high-
lands, the others should be one inland over
the Dividing Range, the other at the sea-
side. Very few temperaments can endure
more than half a year of the joyless,
vegetable-like sanatorium life without be-
coming depressed, with mental, physical and
moral stagnation or deterioration. A
change even to a worse climate for a short
period always gives benefit. The variation
in surroundings, attendance and cooking does
wonders until the patient begins to stagnate
again, when another move should be made.
The present system of herding ail consump-
tives in all stages of the disease in one
institution until the patient is cured, dies
or gets tired and leaves, is bad from all
points except that it is better than nothing.
The curable cases are in too depressing an
environment, the hopeless ones are much
more uncomfortable than they need be, and
the public sanatorium instead of being the
first resort of an incipient case, is usually
the last.
The State must face the fact that the
majority of cases discharged will never be
fully self-supporting again, and if they
are to be prevented from relapsing they,
with their dependants, will have to be
helped. It is far better to pay to keep the
ex-consumptive in good health than to wait
until the disease resumes its activity, driving
the man back to the sanatorium, while his
wife and children fall on the State.
PHISIS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Haberdasher of Phrases.
TirE size of the jest which Woodrow Wil-
son, eke ‘haberdasher of phrases,’’ as one
senator called him, played on Europe is
only beginning to be apparent. Wilson
was the one ruler who attended the i'eace
Conference :n person. lie appointed him-
self in a regal way, despite protests in some
quarters to the effect that the President
couldn’t legally quit the country during his
term of olhce, and so was ultra vires or
infra dig or non compos mentis or some-
thing. ile arrived as the leader of a de-
feated party, for the United States had just
enjoyed an election and had given a majority
to W ilson’s opponents. He appointed Ins
colleagues from the defeated party. He en-
tered Europe with a delegation 1300 strong
which looked more like an army corps than
an embassy. His country had stayed out
of the war for 32 mouths, making vast wealth
out of selling goods to the combatants, and
only came in under pressure of Hun wrong
and Hun insult such as would huve driven
many a third-rate Power to take its fate in
both hands a year before the affluent Behe-
moth moved. Just by reason of this the
Peace Conference was a gathering of debtors
in the presence of the universal creditor
and the war-worn, war-wrecked nations had
to keep the situation in mind. In fact, they
weren’t allowed to forget it. At the com-
mand of the self-appointed representative of
the Great Creditor they made things fairly
easy for the Huns. At his dictation they
accepted his pet League of Nations with
its guarantees of mutual support as a sub-
stitute for more elaborate and material
guarantees. To a country like France the
arrangement might look shadowy, for even
after the republic has collected its share
of the Hun indemnity it will have lost more
per inhabitant in money than the Great
Aggressor. Also, it has lost more in men,
and even the diminished Hun will be a big-
ger proposition than enlarged France. Still,
the sufficiency of the League was insisted
on, and under pressure of the Great Cred-
itor’s representative and his 1300 colleagues
the rather ineffectual scheme of a combine
with neither army nor navy nor police to
enforce its decisions was accepted. Now
even that ill-clothed vision threatens to fade.
The hostile Congress majority talks of re-
fusing assent to the proviso that each
Leaguer shall guarantee the others, even
with a paper assurance, against another
llun invasion or any similar form of aggres-
sion. It also proposes that every country
should be entitled to quit the combine at
pleasure. It propounds the idea that the
work of policing distracted countries like
Armenia and Mesopotamia should be borne
by the other Leaguers exclusively or left
alone. It proposes to prohibit League inter-
ference on the American continent, of which
it owns less than one-fourth, even though
the States of the other three-fourths may
be members of the body. The unauthorised
ambassador was more self-assertive than all
the rest of the Conference put together, and
much was surrendered to pacify him. Now
his alleged employers almost talk as if he
was a self-evident impostor selling an obv'ous
gold-brick to the unlearned. Europe made
concessions for the sake of friendship, and
a Congressional majority is inclined to treat
its gifts as debris, and to charge storage or
demand that the rubbish shall be taken off
the premises. Next time an ambassador
comes to Europe with his own instructions
written out by himself and tries to run the
show, Europe will probably ask for creden-
tials or finger-prints or something.
*
Close Settlement Two Miles Apart.
Mr. Ashford, Minister of Lands, said it was in-
tended early next month to gazette 182 farms Of
a total area of 298,240 acres within the sphere of
influence of authorised railways in the land districts
of Coonabarabran, Gunnedah and Dunedoo Central,
averaging about 2000 acres each : 200 farms aggre-
gating 400,000 acres in the Griffith-Hillston district;
and 36 grazing and wheat-growing areas of 1600
acres each on the Barmedman-Rankin’s Springs line.
Just a plain humdrum newspaper par, but
in it is a whole essay on the great art of
“developing the great natural resources of
the country.” The Griffith-Hillston enter-
prise, which may be taken as a sample,
is a line from a place 403 miles from Syd-
ney and with no population mentioned in
books of reference, to a place 464 miles fur-
ther away (population 867). It is beyond
the most sanguine, wheat-growing limit
marked on the official map. The Govern-
ment. though it is cutting the living areas
for repatriated troops as fine as possible,
fixes 2000 acres as the living area close
to the line, wlr’eh. if a margin is left for
roads and inevitable waste of one sort and
another, means that families will be about
two miles apart. If there is any dry Coun-
try on this earth where agricultural families
two miles anart can supply enough
business to make a railway pay interest
on a 54 per cent, mortgage or even a 24 per
cent, mortgage, that country hasn't been
discovered yet. The Barellan-Griffith line,
of which the Griffith-llillston is an extension,
doesn't pay one shilling per cent, interest—
in fact, the interest and part of the working
expenses are paid out of taxation or loans.
Where a land is dotted with small manu-
facturing towns there are possibilities. Yet
even in England with about one family to
four acres instead of to three square miles
and a fraction, and with manufacturing
towns everywhere, only nine (9) out of the
38 railway systems mentioned in Whit-
aker's Almanac earned at last advices the
amount which the Griffith-Hillston loan-
line will have to earn to avoid being a per-
petual tax on posterity, and six of the
English systems didn’t pay a quarter of it.
The other lines alluded to by the Minister
are also in the kind of country, short of
rain and devoid of coal and iron, where
settlers have to be planted some two miles
apart in order that they may live. These
settlers need a railway just as they need
a road and a school and a hospital and a
cemetery and a watch-dog, but they can’t
afford either a railway or a dog with a 54
per cent, mortgage on it. In many cases
the railway is a 04 or 7 per cent, burden on
posterity—s 4 per cent, for the interest
(which may itself be 64 per cent, when the
loan is renewed), and the rest for the loss
on working expenses. There is little hope
of improvement, for to double the charges
would probably drive away the sparse
settlers. Railways of the kind Minister
Ashford describes should be paid for out of
revenue. In strict honesty such concerns as
the Barellan-Griffith and Tullamore-Totten-
ham and Never tire-Warren lines should also
have been started with an endowment, for
even if they were wholly constructed and
equipped out of taxes they .would be a burden
on the people of the future. Strict honesty,
however, is too much to expect, but it is
time to complain of the rampant swindle of
handing down to the children a security
which is worth less than nothing with a 54
per cent, liability on it. It is like bequeath-
ing a ravening tiger with a heavy bill
to pay for its upkeen.
The Curse that Never Dies.
Once the colored-labor problem gets into a
country it never dies. In the U.S.A. the
colored man. exalted by having a hand in
the war, demands a real franchise, not one
that it so artfully faked that Samdo has
no luck in getting into Congress or into
the State Legislatures and never attains the
Presidency. In consequence lynching and
race riots have resumed. A brief history
of the Samho problem covering only two
long lifetimes may be stated as follows: —
Sambo was brought irom Africa by pious Northern
shipowners, there being no shipowners down South.
But he became a Southern institution, for he
flourished best in the South.
When the trade was stopped and the pious North-
erners could make no more money out of it, they
began to think it a curse.
Many Southerners thought slavery a nuisance, but
their trouble was that if they turned Sambo loose
they would have to live with him as a brother, while
the Northerner wouldn’t.
The nation divided into two sections—the loafing,
casual Southern squire, corrupted by owning
Sambo, and the hard, practical Northerner, who
merely owned himself. The latter called the former
a supercilious aristocrat, and the former considered
the latter a low creature in greasy overalls. They
fought for four years because they couldn’t agree.
Sambo was released in the confusion and made a
full-blown citizen. In 10 years he ran the Govern-
ments, law courts, civil services and militia in
most of the Southern States, and floated loans, and
divided the proceds, and played high jinks in the
sight of Heaven. In a rash moment he even began
to divide the white women.
Gangs of night-riders in disguise—the Ku-Klux-
Klan—began to pervade the country. They made it
clear that colored politicians were going to die sud-
denly, and thus wiped out the negro ascendancy.
By all sorts of dubious means they have kept it
wiped out.
A comparatively small part of the United States
enjoyed the full advantages of the really cheap-
labor Sambo for a very short time —about 83 years,
oi one long lifetime. It is a poor and backward part,
still corrupted by the Sambo habit. It spent the
profits of Sambo on a war of which he was partly
the cause. It has now had about 54 years of Sambo
without the profits, and the trouble of him may last
5400 years more.
Sambo is a smaller proportion of the population
than he was, because the white community has gained
enormously by the influx of white anarchists and
criminals who don’t speak English ; also by the influx
of other people. In fact, some believed in importing
the white anarchist as a counterpoise to the black
brudder.
Now there is a tendency to rigorously shut out
the white undesirable, and if that is done the black
brudder and his birth-rate will begin to have a run
for their money.
And black brudder comes up fresh, and 6ays the
question that was opened some 54 years ago is still
open, and that his right to govern the white man
where he can secure a majority vote is as good as
ever.
Even the public debt isn’t sucb a perma-
nent and adhesive calamity. Micawber’s
sons can advertise that they won’t recog-
nise the old man’s debts, but if they are
half-castes they gain nothing by advertising
that they won’t recognise the old man’s
wife.
4
The National Backing of Co-operation.
TnE prospects are that the dairy farmers
will accept a Federal Government scheme
for the organisation of their industry. A
Central Committee, with sub-committees in
the different States, will, if the plan matures,
control the export of butter and manufacture
of butter for export, and that will mean
internal control also. Massy Greene. Min-
ister for Trade, proposes-- to give the Central
Committee very big powers, including the
issuing of “licenses to butter and cheese-
makers, as well as licenses to usg the exnovt
brand. Strenuous efforts have been made
to scare the cookies off Government control;
but they are more than half-convinced in its
favor, and are sending delegates to Melbourne
to draw up a scheme for the necessary Act.
This conference will consist of delegates
from the different States, and of the 40
32 will represent co-operative interests and
are not to be “directly or indirectly con-
nected with the proprietary section of the
industry.” The latter will have eight lonely
representatives. Greene has, indeed, made
no bones of the fact that he is out for the
co-operative people:—
Co-operation is the keynote of the scheme: it is
only by a furtherance of the co-operativ 'ort that
the full results can be obtained and oal we
are aiming at reached.... 1 believe t • right
way to go about it is to follow very .y upon
the lines which the Danes have adoptt ,iving to
the dairymen themselves, through their ■ o-optrative
organisation, the control and organisation of their
own industry, clothing them with the statutory
power necessary, subject only to such governmental
control as is demanded in the public interest.
It is no secret that if the dairy scheme
goes through there will be similar pro-
posals concerning other products—wheat,
wool, meat, etc. —and in these movements
the Commonwealth Bank and the Common-
wealth shipping line will doubtless figure
largely. Altogether the handling of tens
of millions of pounds’ worth of primary pro-
ducts by a national backing of co-operative
organisations will mean nothing short of a
commercial revolution. But it will receive
solid support outside the vested interests
affected. The producers of this country have
such a tremendous burden to carry that
any scheme which is likely to reduce their
load, and thereby encourage production, will
be widely recognised to be of the greatest
national importance.
A.
Upside-down.
At July 31 Australia was known to have
on hand about 4,500,000 tons of goods for
export which, for want of ships, had missed
the ’bus and lost the high war-market, and
were to some extent eating themselves up
in storage and insurance charges and
depreciation. Ciiiozza Money, who is
called an authority in England, writes that
prospects looked rather flat for English ship-
owners just before the war, through the
rush of Ilun and Yankee competition in
the overseas trade. Nevertheless they esti-
mated immediate future profits at about
£10,000,000 a year. Then the war came,
and during the first two years these people
made no less than £150,000,000 a year. Aus-
tralia paid a fair amount of this
£150.000,000 a year, and would gladly have
paid more, but even at these prices the
supply of ships was insufficient. Conse-
quently the country has 23,000 tons of rab-
bits unsold, to mention one of the smallest
items. It is the pride of the Freetrade
and “primary industry” and “raw material”
man that, in 1915-10, Australia responded
like a hero to the cry of starving Europe,
and grew 179,000,000 bushels of wheat —
nearly twice its best previous record. What
isn’t so loudly mentioned is the proportion
of the good food that was left on its hands
to decay, for want of ships to take it to
starving Europe, and while starving Europe
went on starving our own Governments
borrowed money, some of it from starving
Europe, to keep some of its own farmers from
starving too. If 10 or 20 per cent, of
these wheat-growers had been taught ship-
building and sailoring instead, the wheat and
wool and even the rabbits might have got
to market at top prices, and, besides doing
a good turn to Britain, Australia would
have been helping to collect that
£150.000.000 a year instead of paying it.
Incidentally, local men were so wild when
they heard of all the money these foreign
ship-sharks made that they promptly held
up some coastal concerns that are mighty
glad when they screw out 8 per cent, for
their shareholders. But curiously enough
the strike didn’t extend to the over-sea
boats run by the great profiteers already
mentioned. The foreign profiteer and his
agent, the importer, are always held sacred
in such cases, though no one knows exactly
how they buy their immunity.
The Man Pays.
In England recently, Justice Coleridge,
sitting in Divorce, had before him a frivo-
lous restitution suit brought by the wife.
The tradition there, as here, is that in
such circumstances the husband shall find
all the costs. The wife may be actually
living with the co-re. while she denies
adultery. Yet the husband still has to
fee as many lawyers as she chooses to em-
ploy, and go on doing it right up to the
verdict. In the English case Justice
Coleridge, who is new to the Divorce juris-
diction (he has been on the Common Law
side for many years), upended all prece-
dent by ordering the wife to pay her own
costs. Counsel was amazed and pointed pro-
testing! y to the practices of the immemorial
past. To which Coleridge replied:—
I cannot see why a wife, however much in the
wrong, should bring a suit, however absurd, and
make her husband pay all costs unless her income
largely exceeds his ; If there were such a practice /
should, violate it in the interests of Justice.
The Judge had had plenty of opportunities
of watching the rotten old principle in action
before he came to the Divorce Court. In
Common Law a husband is still liable for
his wife’s torts. He may have a scandal-
mongering wife. If she defames an ac-
quaintance and an action follows, it is the
husband’s business to meet the liabilities.
If he has a violent wife who assaults people,
or a reckless wife who drives over them in
motor-cars, or a drunken wife who sets
houses on fire, it is always the husband’s
part to pay. The rule dates from the
far-back days when the wife was her hus-
band’s chattel—from a period when the
lady was acquired by capture or
bought like an animal and more or less
treated as such. A remnant of the ancient
idea that the woman is owned bodily by the
man still exists in the minds of laymen, as is
shown by the verdicts given occasionally in
‘Unwritten Law” cases, in which murderers
are acquitted in defiance of the law which
lays down that every adult woman is mis-
tress of her own physical destiny. The
same law asserts that a husband may no
longer lock his wife up. He may not even
chastise her. A father has no redress if
his daughter is seduced, except—where she
is under 21—by way of an action for


T*!s Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
Limited
EACH YEAR A RECORD !
The following figures indicate the progress of the Company—
PREMIUMS ... 1916 £8,849 Each year the
1917 £20,330 Income has been
1918 £42,807 more than doubled.
The figures for 1919 will also be a record.
FIRE (Homesteads, Woolsheds, Crops 8 Stacks)’
HAILSTONE.
WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT.
MOTOR CAR.
Insurances
transacted
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders.
EVERY Farmer and Grazier should join this Progressive Company.
Full Particulars cn application to HEAD OFFICE ; 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
loss of services; and a Avronged husband’s
oiily legal course is by Avay of the Divorce
Court. So the Avoman’s position is this.
She is her otvn mistress to exactly
the extent that a man is his OAvn
master. She has claimed and got —
more • -particularly in Australia —practi-
cally every privilege, social and politi-
cal, which is enjoyed by the male. She
can vote and sit in Parliament; practise as
a doctor or as a laAvyer; and in the indus-
trial Avorld Avoinen are ousting men from
their jobs in thousands. Yet, financially,
from the day she gets married, the fool-laAV
regards her as an irresponsible. There is
no country Avhere this state of affairs is more
anomalous than Australia. Here the Avoman
is on an equality 'with man for profit; and
she should also be on an equality Avith him
for loss. But the reform Avill only be
achieved by legislation, there being feAV
Judges Avho are as ready as Lord Coleridge
to do justice at the expense of the lawyer.
The Social Touch in the R.A.N.
It has been suggested variously during the
last Aveek or tAvo that the Naval College at
Jervis Bay should be (1) shifted to Port
Hacking, and (2) used as a training-school
for mercantile marine officers. A “nearer-
tb-Sydney” movement has existed ever since
the college Avas first mooted; the other pro-
position represents an attempt at once to
give a democratic flavor to the institution
and to justify its continued existence, sup-
plying a buttress which it is beginning to
badly need. Everyone recognises that the
college has done good work. The youngsters
turned out by it proved second to none of
their age and rank on active service. The
Avar came just in time to allow of their being
absorbed freely by the R.A.N. and R.N. But
the Avar is over, and they are still being
turned out at the rate of 30 every year. The
R.A.N. Avill shortly have to expand into a
very big fleet indeed if it is to carry so much
as half of them. And they Avill block
lower-deck promotion for all time. There
is no blinking the fact that the Naval Col-
lege represents, as an institution, the social
idea in the Navy. If the fostering of (his
social touch is necessary here as it is held to
be in the British Navy, then it is right that
the college should continue on its present
lines, and even, possibly, be brought closer
to Point Piper. But if the A.B. is of the same
type as the Digger, he Avill resent more and
more as the years go by a system which
gives all the opportunities to a class. The
Duutroon officers Avere as highly esteemed in
the A.I.F. as those from Jervis Bay were
in the R.A.N.; but the soldiers would have
been in a false position indeed if promotion
bad been limited practically to those officers.
The position as regards the R.A.N. can be
illustrated this why. Suppose tAVO brothers
to join up, one going to the Naval College,
the other —just over the age limit—entering
through a training-ship. And suppose
further that the educational and physical
qualifications of the elder hoy be superior
to those of his brother at the start. Under
the system Ave have imported from Britain
the elder brother, though he was ahead to
begin Avith, has not a tliousand-to-one-chance
of becoming a lieut.-commander in eight
years, while the chances are 9S in 100
that the younger boy will attain that rank.
The Navy is, of course, a highly technical
service, and it is true that the younger boy
in the illustration will have had a Naval
College training. But even under existing
conditions p.o.’s and chief p.o.’s are common
who know as much as officers on the techni-
cal side —for example, gunnery instructors,
whose course has been to all intents and
purposes the same as that of a gunnery
lieutenant. If it can once be shown that, by
means of schools at sea and at the depots,
lower-deck youngsters with brains can be put
on an educational level with the products of
the college, then the latter is doomed. It :s
contrary to Australian sentiment that any
man’s career should be hampered all through
life for no other reason than that he came
into it through the tradesmen’s entrance.
“Romilly” re “The Dirty Girl and tho
Muddled Law” (B. 4/9/T9) :
The decision ot the Federal Justices (Barton,
Isaacs and Rich) regarding the proper caution
Avhich a Judge in the Criminal Court should give to
a jury when trying men charged Avith offences upon
women is not satisfactory. It displays a want of
knowledge of the Avorkings of the juries’ minds in
criminal cases. I venture to assert that for every
time that a jury has gone astray in a sexual case
through relying upon an unsupported taradiddle
from a dirty girl, there have been hundreds of in-
stances where juries and Judges have gone astray
through sexual passion and bias interfering with
pure reason. No; our Federal Justices have not settled
the proper cautions which would be most useful
to juries and to themselves. Either Judges should
not be allowed to interfere by direction with the
juries at all in the evork of examining the facts of
a case, or the cautions to be given by Judges should
extend over a much larger range of dangerous
causes for error than the Federal Justices seem to
consider proper. To caution the jury about one
possible source of error, while being silent about
others much more subtle, is not satisfactory. By
their decision the Federal Justices repeat the mis-
take they allege Judge Cohen made. In my 40
years’ continuous experience of the criminal courts
I have found that, generally speaking, juries are as
keenly alive to the danger’s of believing uncorrobo-
rated evidence as Judges are. But I have seen, almost
every day, Judges and juries giving way to the
impulses of the sexual passion and the bias that en-
circles it, and no cautions from anyone. The real
value of the decisions of the Judges upon what are
proper judicial charges to juries is that it affords
lawyers ample opportunities for bringing appeals
and earning fees. But it is not good for the public.
All this Judge-made law will have to be repealed
when the next reform in the law takes place.
— : — *
Some further remarks by O. C. Beale on
the sale of Australian wool: —
There is one more point I should like to make
in connection with what I hold to be the most un-
fair treatment of Australian wool-growers by the
British Government's AVool Council, which is con-
trolling the sale of the purchased clip; and upon
the price realised it is important to remember the
price obtained by the Australian grower depends.
Sir Arthur Goldfinch, chairman of the Council,
in a speech made in June, foreshadowed a policy
whose results we saw in cables published here in
August:—
Consequent upon Government action in buying up
the overseas woolerops, to prevent them falling into
the hands of other countries, huge stocks are now
arriving daily and overtaxing the London docks.
The Council’s deliberate policy was to swamp the
market. “I belieyfe,” the chairman said, “it will
be found before t£e end of July that, taken in bulk,
the quantity of wool offered by the Department will
exceed the ability of the trade to receive or con-
sume it.” And then he went on to speak of the
probability of consumers deriving benefit from the
sale of this wool “at artificially cheap prices.” Arti-
THE UNRESPONSIVE BRUTE.
“The National Conference held in Sydney passed a resolution in favor of compulsory voting.”
ANGRY FEMALE: “Arrest him at once, constable! He refuses to make love to either
of us.”
flcially cheap prices! Is that fair to the Australian
farmers whose attention is so much occupied with
all-but unconquerable troubles, who went themselves
or sent their sons to fight for right and decency upon
the earth? Whe-re is the right and decency in a
Government Department thus plotting and planning
against British subjects in Australia and Maori-
land ?
Nearly all of the Speck’s 50-odd munici-
pal councils haVe passed furious resolutions
condemning the action of State M’s.P. in
raising their own salaries and then scooting
into recess, leaving the country’s business
(including the raising of public servants’
wages to meet the increased cost of provender
and clothing) to go hang. The burden of
Bumble’s song is that members were already
well paid for the job. Parliament sits only
three days a week during six months of the
year, which means, says Bumble, that mem-
bers now draw £4 per day for 75 days, and
are free to look after their private business
affairs during 1 the other 290 days, aided
materially by a free pass over all the rail-
ways. But Bumble doesn’t get it all his
own way. At Hobart Marine Board’s last
meeting, after one of the wardens, himself
an ex-M.L.C., had declared that the action
of Parliament was robbery, Jacky Evans,
Speaker of the Assembly, produced his pile
of correspondence, about a fathom thick, and
invited his fellow-wardens to reflect that it
represented a Parliamentary member s ex-
sessional work. The correspondence con-
tained all sorts of letters from all sorts of
constituents on all sorts of subjects-—roads,
bridges, culverts, seed-potatoes, affiliation
cases, fruit cases, school attendances and
mump-medicine. This Avas supposed to
knock out all opposition. But why should
the country pay for all this sort of thing !
If in order to keep his Parliamentary job
Jacky Evans looks after his constituents’
seed-potatoes, by all means let Jacky
Ea’ANS do it, though there may be some doubt
about the political morality of it. But for
Jacky Evans to expect the country to pay
for it is plain impudence. If there are no
better reasons for the increase in members’
salaries, then they simply shouldn’t be in-
creased.
The United States makes Avar tvith can-
non plated with gold. It managed to spend
£5,000,000,000 though it tvas only in the
scrimmage about IS months —in the active
sense it was in much less than that. It
transpires, too, that Uncle Sam’s peace dele-
gation numbered 1300 persons. Xerxes Avas
a bread-atnl-cheese anchorite by comparison
Avith Wilson.
A further terror has been added to the
competition of Jap goods in Australia. Soon
after the war started German agents got
busy in the U.S A. either extending the local
factories in which they were interested or
establishing neiv ones to hold the German
trade. Presently Uncle Sam got to work on
these German concerns; and then Fritz
looked around for some other place to settle.
He found Japan, and other foreign capital-
ists found it too; with the result that vari-
ous industries are being started Avhich will
have the benefit of foreign capital and direc-
tion and Jap cheap labor ; and that makes a
combination which is liable to step over any
ordinary tariff as though it didn’t exist. One
shocking feature is that some of these in-
dustries in Japan are actually being or are
to be financed with British money and super-
vised by British experts.
Rumor’s very newest political re-shuffle
gets Joe Cook out of Hughes’s way by mak-
ing him Andy Fisher’s successor in London.
Everything, of course, depends upon some-
body’s ability to pairsuade Fisher that he
isn’t quite up to the job now; and there may
be some difficulty about that unless Parlia-
ment is prepared to make the Commissioner
a money grant for services rendered.
“L.H.”: While Hughes is making his latest
lot of promises, amid loud cheers, let us
hearken to his voice as it was cabled from
England last September :
I have secured for the remaining Anzacs who
embarked from Australia in 1914 six months’ fur-
lough.
There were 7000 of these men, and no con-
ditions whatever attached to the contract.
So that we may fairly estimate the value
of his promises, will Mr. Hughes now pre-
pare a statement showing how this one was
kept to the original Anzacs in Palestine, and
will he mention the number of those who
went west in that sun-baked country long
after it was given?
J. F. Archibald.
The Bulletin regrets to record the death
of one of its founders, and for some years
its editor, J. F. Archibald.
Born at Warrnambool (Vic.), Archibald
learned the printing trade on the local
Examinee and Standard, then partly
owned by one of the S. M. Herald Fairfax
family. His earliest writing was done for
the Hamilton Spectator, and his first regu-
lar press job—a junior reporter’s—was *011
the Melbourne Herald, from Avhich he
passed to tho now-defunct Melbourne Daily
Telegraph. That was in the days of Ned
Kelly; and one of Archibald’s innumerable
stories was spun around his efforts to inter-
view the gang-.
Reporters’ jobs were ill-paid in those days,
and Archibald moved north seeking more
money and more adventure. He found both
—first at Maryborough, where he was for a
while with Walker’s; then on the Hodgkin-
son goldfield. But he was born to smell
printers’ ink, so he came south again, with
a little money in his pocket, and in 1880
he and John Haynes founded The Bulletin
as an eight-page weekly. It was soon in
difficulties, and within a few months most
of the ownership had passed into other
hands. John Haynes left it, bought out by
William Macleod, who was contributing its
cartoons. Archibald continued as editor,
until W. H. Traill bought, in all, half the
paper—mostly from people who had become
frightened by its apparent disregard of the
libel law. When Traill went out to go into
politics Archibald resumed the chair, his
business colleague being an American named
Harding. Harding’s methods not being found
agreeable, Wm. Macleod, who was then one
of the artists of the Picturesque Atlas
and chairman of directors of the co., and
who still held John Haynes’s interest, came
into the ollice as managing director, holding
three-fourths of the paper. Later on, recog-
nising the great services which Archibald
had rendered, he shared his interest with his
editor; and for some years The Bulletin
was the voice of these two. Archibald had
very early in his career as editor secured
the services of James Edmond; and when
the former’s health failed in 1902, Edmond,
the constructive statesman, who had been
shaping the policy of the paper since
the middle ’nineties, and who had led the
vigorous campaign for Federation, formally
succeeded to the chair. The old chief never
fully recovered his health; and, after re-
maining an inactive partner for 12 years,
in 3914 he recognised that the circumstances
of his case made it desirable that he should
sell his interest to the working partners.
He remained out of journalism until a few
months ago. Then, no longer able to with-
stand the temptation to use his rapier peh.
he became literary editor of Smith’s
Weekly, and until a week or two ago wrote
a great deal for that paper. Death, which
came at 64, followed an operation.
Archibald was conspicuous among the three
or four men who have done most to give
The Bulletin its character. He knew little
of politics and less of economics and
finance. But he saw that without such
knowledge no Australian paper could be
great; and he had a fine instinct for choos-
ing the men to supply these and other
things a paper needs. He was a great edi-
tor within his limitations; but he was a
great sub-editor without any limitations
whatever. He sharpened the point of every
paragraph he touched, and added acid to
every comment. He had an unerring nose
for “good copy,” and an unerring eye for
a good drawing. Throughout his connec-
tion with The Bulletin he wrote little. It
is doubtful whether he was responsible for
half a dozen leading articles in all his years.
But he wrote ten thousand pungent lines ;
he made phrases as other men make good
resolutions and put them to much more effec-
tive use. He gathered round him, too. the
nucleus of that great band of contributors
who to this day make The Bulletin
like no other paper anywhere, and he was
able to inspire men to produce the best that
was in them. 'That indeed constitutes his
great service to Australian literature.
His wife pre-deceased him. They had no
children.
Another “darg” is threatened in the N. S,
Wales coal-mines, a darg being a method by
which the man on piecework does as little
work and earns as little pay as possible in
the hope of annoying the employer. II
differs from a plain hunger-strike inasmuch
as the wife and kids hunger also. There
are grievances, of course, as there always
are in every industry and in every other
place; but if everybody darged or struck
over every grievance, the lower animals
would take possession of the world while the
human race was in bed grieving. If only
the miners would lease some coal lands, of
which there are plenty, and run a co-opera-
tive coal supply, and keep all the profits,
and redress their own grievances!


£l3/10/
QMS
£3O.
£3O.
S3**
£l5/10/
£9/10/-
5
£lB/10/
Quality Diamond Ring's
from Stewart Dawson’s.
The combination of Cash and Purchasing Power is the factor which counts in the Value
of Stewart Dawson’s Diamond Rings. The vast requirements for their Ten Establish-
ments in London and Australasia command purchase of the World’s Finest Values in
Precious Stones.
The Purity and Brilliance of the Stones in Stewart Dawson’s Diamond Rings diffuse that
light and lustre known only in
DIAMONDS OF FIRST QUALITY.
To buy inferior Diamonds is monev wasted. The firm’s long-standing reputation is a
guarantee of confidence for every buyer, and YOUR choice may safely rest upon tins
Guarantee. ALL DIAMONDS SET IN REAL PLATINUM.
Cal] and Inspect at any of the Stewart Dawson Establishments, or Write for Latest
CATALOGUE.
Stewart Dawson & Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Also Resent Street and Hatton Garden, London.
£lO/10/-
£l6/10/-
£l4/10/-
£llO.
£l6/10/-
£3O
'' v'A*.
£l7/10/
£l4/10/.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The N. S. Wales Nationalist Conference
turned Unification down after Holman had
drawn a red whale across the track by show-
ing that State Governments are indispen-
sable, and that the idea of running
the continent’s whole business from one
city was madness. As a matter of
fact, Unificationists believe State Govern-
ments to be far more indispensable
than Holman says they are. They want far
more of them, the idea of Ilolman running
the affairs of a State as big as France and
Italy put together and doing it from one
centre being almost as mad as Ilolman says
the other thing is. Unification 'is only
wanted so that the Commonwealth, having
all power, can delegate it to 20 or more
States instead of six.
THE FIRSTBORN.
Tasmania is seriously considering whether
the successor to the late Dr. McCall as
Agent-General shouldn’t be a mere business
man; and it would be promptly arranged
that way but for an idea which prevails that
some sort of social representation is also
required. As a matter of fact, all the social
figure that an Australian State Agent-
General cuts in London is quite harmless.
If it is a social representative that is re-
quired. then the State should give up its
shop-window shows iu the Strand and else-
where. There are certain ambassadors who
are of some social tonnage: but their em-
bassies are not behind show-window fronts.
So far as Australian Agent-Generals are
concerned, they have no more social duties
than fall to the lot of any man running a
fair-sized business.
The hopelessness of present Parliamentary
methods is illustrated by the fact that,
though the Vic. Parliament has been in ses-
sion three months, the bill removing the
stigma of “neglected" from children boarded
out to their own mothers is the only mea-
sure of any consequence dealt with yet. As
usual, speeding-up is now proposed in order
to work up a decent record before Christmas.
Which means that the cheerful legislators
are going to romp through the Budget, as
usual. Their real troubles about the child-
ren and what they have to carry!
Returned Diggers and others will have to
keep wide awake, or they will find that most
of the talk about providing them with houses
to live in is hot air. Over five years ago
Victoria’s Parliament, by tin* Workers’
Dwellings Act, authorised municipal coun-
cils to borrow or otherwise raise up to
£50,000 apiece in order to buy or com-
pulsorily take any land they considered
suitable for workers’ homes, and to build
thereon and lease the dwellings. Not a
solitary council lias made any use of the
Act. Richmond and Port Melbourne
councils, with Labor majorities of consider-
able experience, were looked to for a lead;
but they have done no more than Melbourne
City Bumbles.
THE ONE AND ONLY.
HUGHES (at Bendigo ) : "I am not a god!
I am not even a demigod !”
WIESON : “Eure thing! Thou shall hare
none other god than me!’'
Though they don’t seem to realise it yet
the returned soldiers in N. S. Wales are
being split up into small, ineffective
“leagues” and “federations.” The victory is
going to the old party tacticians.
The old spectacle of Noah reproving gin
wasn’t in the running with that of John
Storey, in N. S. Wales Assembly last week,
lecturing Holman on economy. Storey’s own
public undertakings, he says, will only be
limited by the supply of labor —even an
expenditure of £150.000,000 a year won’t
limit them. Holman’s are only limited by
the supply of money, which is all the differ-
ence between a drunk and a brewery.
S. Aus., with a Ministry in which country
members are conspicuous—a common feature
in S. Aus.—seriously proposes a pretty big
thing in decentralisation. The Government
suggests making improvements at Victor
Harbor, near the Murray mouth, in order to
save rail-hauling the produce of the Malice
and the South-East over the Mt. Lofty
Range to Adelaide. But at this point the
old curse pushes in its horns; for no other
reason than that it is the Opposition the
Labor party discovers, nine-and-twenty rea-
sons why the Government scheme is rotten.
Labor is cock-a-whoop over winning a few
metropolitan seats at the Vic. municipal
elections. Two new Labor men went into
the Collingwood council; at South _ Mel-
bourne John Cadden, of the Wharfies’ I nion,
beat an old-fashioned Liberal, John Barag-
wanath; and contractor Frank Shillabeer
lost his job at Footscray. Norlhcote, a
suburb crammed with workers’ cottages,
yielded up another seat; and, at Williams-
town, a Labor bootmaker knocked the chair
from under a Liberal. All the victims should
have been displaced long since. Labor around
Melbourne has, however, been content to
leave its drains and dustbins in the care of
the landlord, though now it looks as if it
dimly realises that the bad smell under its
bedroom window is its own personal affair.
Yet at Wonthaggi, where “direct action” is
the watchword of the proletariat working
the State coal-mine, it still can’t be bothered
with such trifles. It now has a Nationalist
majority in the council, and its new mayor
is of the same complexion.
John Store3’’s motto for the X. S. W ales
Labor party is said to be "‘Liberty, equality,
maternity!”
For the X. S. Wales State railway work-
shops a bonus system has been proposed
whereby the employees will get more money
—a good deal more money—if they do more
work. No one alleges that they can't do
more and do it with ease. The work is
there to be done —in fact, it is shrieking to
be done. Out of 041 railway vehicles built
in the year to June, 1918, only eight were
built by State Enterprise. The other 033
were made by private capitalists. ihe
socialistic State Department wanted to get
more of its jobs done by the kind of Enter-
prise that the unions specially approve of
and offered inducements to that effect; and a
largely-attended meeting decided that this
was an attempt at speeding-up. There isn’t
a private capitalist in the case looking for
profits. It is a matter of the people working
for themselves and being paid for it in order
to prevent the State having to farm out its
business to private capitalists. But that
doesn’t matter —the blind misleaders of the
workers repeat their parrot-cry about speed-
ing-up. just as if speeding-up were the seven
deadly sins, and they mustn’t hustle to save
even one of their own alleged principles.
As doubts have arisen whether all Vic.
Supreme Court Judges are entitled to half-
pay on retiring, the Government has given
Maekinnon charge of a little bill to declare
the law. The original Constitution Act fixed
£4OOO a year as the maximum that could
bo paid in any one year in pensions to re-
tired justices. Just before Hood and the
late Hodges were ap-
pointed, 30 years ago,
an Act was run
through increasing the
number of henchmen
from four to six, and
providing pensions for
them. Rut this Act
was apparently not
made an amendment
of the Constitution,
lienee doubts arose
whet h e r pensions
aggregating more than
£4OOO a year could be
paid. It was well
known that Madden,
C.J., would have re-
tired some years ago
if the r e h a d been
£1750 instead of only
£lOOO a year in the
pension fund .to pay
him. Williams (still going strong) and the
late Ilolroyd were then drawing £3500 each.
From a northern correspondent: —
The Chinese invasion of the flue banana-land
between Mullumbimby and Munvillumbab (N.S.W.),
which has become a rush since the Fiji failure, is
now recognised by all save the land-sellers as a
grave danger. Chinese merchants of Sydney and
Melbourne are buying suitable land at prices running
well past £lOO per acre, and hundreds of Chinese
laborers (it’s remarkable how steadily these men
come along in spite of the prohibition) are flocking
in. How can the white growers (many of them returned
soldiers) hope to compete with these people, who
live under conditions to which it would be a crime
to ask any returned soldier or other white man to
submit ?
The first thing to do is to promptly make
it unlawful to sell a freehold to Asiatics,
and fixing three years as the maximum term
of the lease of arable land to them.. This
will not meet the whole case, but it will
at any rate stop the Chinese front further
entrenching themselves in this industry.
From Arthur Griffith, ex-Works Minister:
The defection of Brookfield will mean a serious
loss to the N.S.W. Labor Party in Parliament. He
has personality and courage —qualities with which
it is not overburdened. All the same, brother
Percy won’t find it as easy to hold his seat against
the A.L.P. as he imagines. I tested the strength of
the Red-Rag element on the Barrier, and found,
though it is noisy and aggressive, it is not really
much stronger there than the recent election figures
showed it to be in Paddington. Prior to my last
selection at Broken Hill it looked as if I liadn t
a dog's show; but when the great body of unionists
rolled up to the ballot, the candidate of the Red-
Rangers polled 66 votes against 676. Brookfield
will do better than 66, but he won’t win against
a capable A.L.P. candidate.
The name of Robert Ross, of the Mel-
bourne Socialist and the Clerks’ Union,
was on the brief list of nominations for
Labor’s Senate pre-selection ballot in Vic-
toria, but it was tossed out again on a
technicality. While Ross was lately in re-
tirement for waving the torch of Liberty
indiscreetly, a Labor conference made a rule
that all Parliamentary candidates in the
Labor interest should belong to the A.L.P..
whether members of a union or not; and
Ross didn’t hear of this “reform” until too
late. One hates to see a candidate thrown
out on a technicality; but Ross had no moral
right to nominate. No red-flagger could
hope to reach the Senate as a representative
of that crew. Wherefore these uplifters
attach themselves to the bigger party and
hope to ride thus to success. They are to
that extent parasites —political parasites—
yet nobody professes to be so unfriendly to
parasites as these red-hot socialists.
To satisfy country supporters who insist
on Parliamentary control of public services,
the Lawson Government has amended its
Railway Wages Board Bill to provide that
auv two persons, not necessarily railway
officers, may be appointed reps, of the Railway
0 o m in i s-
sibners on the
Board. Further.
G o v e r nnient
and Parliament
must approve of
a wages scheme
before it can
become opera-
tive. If the
Uppah House
throws out a
Board deter-
mination, of
course it will
be possible for
any disciple of
Graham Berry
who may be in
power to in-
clude the items
in the Appro-
priation Bill,
and say to the
0 o u n c illors :
“Y ou r move ;
then mine—and
the nature of
mine will de-
pend on yours.”
PIGGOTT,
M.H.R.
( Calare ).
A forecast from the Gallery:—
By the “slaughter” of Davey Hall, Holman has
broken the last tie that bound him to the rapidly-
diminishing Labor section of the N.S.W. National
Party. From the time Holman first assumed the
Premiership the three men who organised victory on
his behalf and carried him through crisis after crisis
were Carmichael, Griffith and Hall. “Car” got into
holts with Davey over the question of precedence
and went out. “Griff” stuck to Holman and saved
him from the attack of the Industrialists, but re-
fused to follow him into the Liberal camp. Have.'
organised the Coalition, and saved his chief. Not-
withstanding all this, when pawky Jock Garland
demanded the Attorney-Generalship, Holman, to
make himself solid with the Liberal section, slung
Davey into the Housing job, and ever since lia-
lived in Fuller’s pocket. If the alleged National
party should survive the next election, Holman wil
have Wade’s job in London; Hall, Fitzgerald and
Grahame will grab Government jobs; and Ashford
may, like Cincinnatus, go back to his farm. N. s.
Wales will then enjoy three years of solid stolid,
stagnant Liberal Government, with the amiable l uller
as nominal Premier, and the Employers’ Federation
pulling all the strings.
“Exile” (Washington, U.S.A.) : Congress
does not withhold its protection till an in-
dustry is moribund. Three bills were unex-
pectedly introduced to-day designed to pro-
tect new industries forced into existence by
war necessity. One provided for high ad
valorem duties on chemical glassware and
apparatus; another provided a duty ot t-
-11 ton on tungsten ; the third fixed duties ot
£2 a ton on crude magnesite, £l5 a ton on
finished magnesite, and fit a ton plus 10 p.c.
ad valorem on magnesite brick. loreigu
glassware will now be taxed 45 p.c., and sur-
gical instruments GO p.c. These duties were
needed, it was explained, to support now
industries which are likely to be swamped
bv European dumpers, who will naturally
want to kill them out. The American as-
sumption that the foreign manufacturer will
naturally dump in order to kill out new in-
dustries in another country is worth Aus-
tralian notice.
“H.H.”: The usually good-tempered Jus-
tice Edmunds grew quite brief in his manner
over the alleged profiteering of an oil co.
said to have made £274.000 profit in 1914,
and £402,000, £579,520 and £488,000 in suc-
ceeding years. Of course it wasn’t an Aus-
tralian co. spending its profits here. It
was a U.S.A. concern, and, as usual in
this importing country, we were the people
who paid—the flats, not the sharps. It
would be quite refreshing to come across a
big case of profiteering in which we were
the looters instead of the looted. This
writer had a dream the other night that
the Labor unions had picketed a big im-
porter’s warehouse on account of extortion,
and declared his goods “black,” but it was
onlv a dream. He woke to find Japanese
onions on the breakfast table, the striking
seamen having stopped the influx of Aus-
tralian white-man’s vegetables from Tas-
mania, but given three cheers on the arrival
of the brown man’s vegetables brought by
cheap brown ship from oversea without even
asking what the price was.
HOW?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For William Hughes we waited long,
Expectant of his coming.
Behold the Statesman shrewd and strong
To cure the ill and right the wrong,
And set things fairly humming!
Sure, none could deal with Bolsheviks,
Or frustrate foolish slow-down tricks,
Or regulate the cost of bricks,
Save William, Prince Of Politics.
Well, how’s he going to do it?
lie’s out to crush the rebel crowd
That preaches direct action.
With full authority endowed,
He’ll weave the winding sheet, or shroud,
Of each disloyal faction.
We read his speech (received with cheers)
And thoughtfully we chew it;
The demagogue of former years
Can tickle now the groundlings’ cars
By threatening the profiteers.
“Alas!” we murmur, midst our tears—
" But how’s ho going to do it?”
The wonders William will perform
With wild applause are greeted ;
For William, when his tongue gets warm,
Seems able to direct the storm,
Whilst on the whirlwind seated.
With William’s aim mankind agrees,
Though doubtfully we view it;
The wheels of industry he’ll grease,
Make workers work like busy bees,
Put everybody’s mind at ease—
But how’s he going to do it?
VICTORIA.
O.K.


STILL SUBMARINING.
“There is rum illative evidence that Germany is supporting "Bolshevism and other insurrectionary movements in the hope that by the production of world chaos she may save from the ruins what she was unable to win in the war.” — Cable.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
<BHAS>
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms—
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead. Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead. Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assaj').
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL, AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .1. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
It. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: (>2 BROOKMAN'S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. \V. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
“PIONEER” Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
makers: J- c. LUDOWICI (SL son ltd.
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALL STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: '‘Electric Steel/'’ ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd. (Adelaide),
pastoral finance and woolbroking people:—
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1906.. 45,940 10p.c.= 19,000 3,000 23,940 100,422
1907.. 60,674 10 „ ~19,667 1,500 39,507 139,929
1908.. 43,457 10 „ ~25,000 18,457 155.386
1909.. 51,266 10 „ ~25,000 26,266 184,652
1910.. 59,521 10 „ ~29,991 29.530 214,182
1911.. 73,784 10 „ ~30,000 43,784 257.966
1912.. 60,969 10 „ ~31,001 29,308 287,274
1913.. 79,206 10 „ ~35,000 44,206 331,480
3914.. 76,710 10 „ ~35,000 30,000 11,716 343,196
1915.. 68,282 10 „ ~40,000 28,282 371,478
1916. .102,037 10 „ ~40,000 62,037 433,515
1917. .105.833 10 „ ~43,334 62,499 ■(90,014
1918. .112,102 12 „ ~65,334 46,768 542,782
Internal reserves disclosed, £90,000 .. 632,782
Reserves capitalised, £120,000 . . 512,782
1919. .104,149 10p.c.= 72,000 32,149 544,931
Twelve months ago the directors confessed
to having done better in previous years than
they had thought at the time. “Some ac-
counts that had been regarded as rather un-
satisfactory" came up to scratch, so with
one shake of its sleeve the co. dropped
£90,000 on the right s'de of P. and L. With
a paid capital of £600,000 and visible re-
serves of £632,782, the management then
decided that it was time to do a little
capitalising of stored-up profits, so £120,000
was used to issue 20,000 bonus shares of
£lO each paid to £6. Apparently the
£90,000 of internal reserves which were
brought into the light represented only a
little of what had been set as'de, for the
chairman, surveying the co.’s performances,
told shareholders that “provision had been
made against accounts which might prove
unsatisfactory, and, further, they had con-
siderable provisions against unforeseen losses
and contingencies.” In these circumstances
the figures disclosed for any particular year
may tell only part of the story. But during
the past four years the profits brought into
the light show that the co. has been having
the time of its life. After providing for pos-
sible accidents, bad and doubtful debts and
fluctuations in the value of securities, profits
over that period have been equal to 70 p.c.
of the capital provided from shareholders’
pockets.
Paid capital 10 years ago was a quarter
of a million, and just prior to the war it
had been built up to £400,000. During the
two years 1917-18 another £200,000 was got
in. Meantime income, less the considerable
writings-off and provisions for various con-
tingencies, has moved ahead in this way:—
1909.. £129,971 1917.. £259,579
1914.. 192,423 1918.. 318,179
1916.. 231,059 1919.. 348,783
For some years the co. has held a consider-
able interest in Eider, Shenton and Go., of
Westralia and recently the whole business
was acquired. This purchase has increased
the bock-value of fixed assets by £5B 000.
At the balancing date there was an unusually
large crowd leaning on the co., and heavy
stocks of merchandise were held. To finance
its customers and stocks and acquire the
Elder-Shenton business cut deeply into cash
assets; the £1,372,442 of public securities,
deposits and cash of a year ago had to be
drawn on <o the extent of considerably over
half a million.
The following comparison gives further
details of the movements of the balance-sheet
figures:—
1901. 1914. 1918. 1919.
£ .£ & &
Deposits, etc. 554,426 1,620,494 1,995,130 1,788,652
Other liabili-
ties.. .. 97,820 40,075 98,212 32,803
Property, pre-
mises, plant,
etc 54,136 139,590 210,080 268,245
Gov. stock and
cash.. .. 170,435 637,282 1,372,442 809,121
Advances, etc. 489,586 1,579,535 1,738,905 1,994,401
Other assets.. 177,626 64,859 44,614 50,619
Since 1901 £410,000 of new capital has been
got in ; shareholders’ funds have altogether
expanded by well over a million. But the
growth of business has been so rapid that
liabilities have been increased by a greater
amount. What war prices and war condi-
tions have meant to the co. can be seen bet-
ter in this tabulation :
13 years 5 years
to since
Increases. 1914. the war.
Capital paid in cash.. .. £210,000 £200,000
Liabilities 1,008,823 160,886
Fixed assets 85,454 128,055
Advances and more or less
liquid assets .. .. 1,444,029 572,465
Between 1901-14 the eo., after paying over
£303,000 in divs., was vis.bly improved by
about £310,000; since then over £291,500
has been distributed to shareholders, and
meantime the position has been further
strengthened by a little more than £340,000.
The tabulation must, however, be considered
in conjunction with the directors’ statement
that the £90.000 of recoveries which have
come into the profits lately represented
transactions prior to 1914. So the improve-
ment over the first period of 13 years can
be set down at about £400.000, while the
visible strengthening since has been over a
quarter of a million. What has been socked
away out of sight during recent years cannot
be guessed, but cons dering the fat profits
and the uncertain outlook when the accounts
were presented in four of the five years, no
doubt something ample has been set as de.
With war risks swept away and high prices
maintained, the co. is at present on a very
good wicket. Still, pastoral finance is a
business of ups and downs; and lately the
ups have had a majority. But when pro-
tracted drought or market troubles intrude,
there is always a possibility of somebody
getting hurt, and that is why it is neces-
sary for cos. such as this to have large, as-
sured resources. Elder Smith's can certainly
stand a bump or two. There is. however,
one point on which the accounts are not as
informative as they might be. Except, for
a few thousands of bills receivable the direc-
tors throw all classes of creditors together
into one big heap: “Fixed and other deposits
and all other liabilities, £1.755652.”. Yet
how much is fixed and what, proportion is
withdrawable at short notice is a matter of
importance in rough weather.
* * * *
Mangrovite Belting, Ltd. (Sydney),
tanners and manufacturers of leather goods:
Net To Re- De-
Profits. Dividends. serves, licit.
Formation exes., £216 .. £216
June, 1917 .. £1379 10 p.c.= £1361 £lB 198
Nov., 1917 .. 1086 10 „ „ 1046 40 108
June, 1918 .. 1038 10 „ „ 1555 83 <5
Re-
serves.
Nov., 1918 .. 1353 10 „ „ 1199 154 79
June, 1919 .. 1842 10 „ „ 1840 2 81
This is the concern which took over the
four-year-old Charles Ludowici business.
The vendor, previous to setting out on his
own, had been for many years in partner-
shin with his father in the pioneering J. C.
Ludowici firm, and after the old business
was turned over to a co. in 1891 he became
a life director. Some years later, when the
Articles were amended to permit the shares
bein" handled on ’Change, he had to forego
the life directorship. Also about this time
there was considerable friction in the Board-
room, and finally Charles Ludowici decided
to go into business on his own account.
Adopting “Mangrovite” ns a trade-name, he
established a factory and tannery at the be-
ginning of 1913, and three years later
claimed a greater belting-output than any
other manufacturer. Prospects looking good,
it was decided to invite the public into the
show. The Federal Treasury agreed to the
flotation of Mangrovite Belting, Ltd., and
to the raising of £lO,OOO additional capital.
The co. took over the business as from
December 1, 1910. Nothing was paid for
goodwill, the whole of the capital being
represented by tangible assets except for
£216 swal’owed by preliminary exes. The
concern did well from the jump; after
writing off a regular 10 p.c. for deprecia-
tion of plant, etc., net profits during the
2i years have aggregated £7298. and out of
this shareholders have had divs. equal alto-
gether to 25 p.c. of their capital. How-
ever, the margin between profits and the
10 p.c. distributions has been slender, and
under £3OO has been available for reserves
since the co.’s inception. The good rate of
dividend lias not so far proved an effective
bait to investors, and only a little over one-
half of the £lO.OOO authorised has been
applied for. Incidentally, Mangrovite is not
listed on ’Change—the shares are not suf-
ficiently spread—though the unallotted por-
tion of the issue is available privately to
investors at par. With the extra capital so
far got in, these changes have shown up in
the balance-sheets: —
Jure.’l7. June,’l9.
Capital .. .. £23.338 £31,547
Liabilities .. .. 10.047 10,971
Property'and plant .. 15.687 15 801
Storks 13,785 18,762
Book debts .. . . 4.381 6.528
Cash 1,028 3,347
Liabilities in both instances include £7500
of debentures. The co. is in a business in
which a comnaratively small outlay is re-
quired for plant ; but it costs money now to
maintain even moderate stocks. However,
though the business has not been strengthened
to any extent worth recording by accumu-
lated profits, it is in a healthy state. The
directors think they see good prospects. “To-
day,” says the. report, “Australian leather
and manufactures of leather are the cheao-
est, and the quality is second to none. We
look forward with confidence.” The leather-
manufacturing industry is still little more
than infant-size, as can be seen from this
comparison of exports :
Leather
Hides Mainl-
and Skins. Leather. fact,.res.
1908 .. £2,198,636 £541,860 £20,705
1913 .. 5,546,067 628.293 19,918
1917 .. 2,273,648 1,159,370 38.622
1918 .. 2,860,961 729,028 56,144
Drought and war troubles have made holes
in some of the figures, but the point of
interest is the very small part Australian
tanneries and leather factories still play in
the export trade, and the possibilities which
lie ahead if overseas connections can be
built up. Meantime, J. C. Ludowici, Ltd.,
Mangrovite, Ltd., and other concerns are
domg well by manufacturing for the home
market; but there should be more than a
home market for the leathers of a great
hide-producing country.
The X.S.W. Mont dm Pif.te Deposit and
Investment Co. (Sydney) :
To He- Re-
Profits. Dividends. sei:ves. serves.
Dec., 1911.. £5981 12*p.c.= £4BBl £llOO £35,027
June, 1912.. 6U24 12* ~ „ 4ss2 1142 30,169
Dec., 1912.. 6468 124 „ „ 5410 1058 37.227
Premiums on new shares 2915 40.142
June, 1913.. 6972 124 p.c.= 6216 756 40.898
Dec.. 1913.. 8766 124 ~ ~ 6571 2195 43,093
June, 1914.. 7531 124 „ „ 6640 891 43.984
Dec., 1914.. 5198 10 „,, 5312 43,870
June, 1915.. 6594 10 „ „ 551 S 1076 44,946
Dec., 1915.. 7096 10 „ ~ 5625 1471 40,417
June, 1916.. 6246 10 „ „ 5625 621 47,038
Dec., 1916.. 7000 10 „ ~ 5025 1375 48.413
June, 1917.. 6897 10 ~ „ 5025 1272 49,685
Dec., 1917.. 6740 10 „ „ 5025 1115 50,800
June, 1918.. 8253 124 „ „ 7031 1222 52.022
Dec., 1918.. 7907 124 „ „ 7031 870 52,898
June, 1919.. 8131 12'j „ „ 7031 1100 63,9.98
The money-lending cos. rarely whisper a
word about the losses they incur, but the
Baron Riviere bankruptcy case now before
the N. S. Wales Courts, in which one
three-ball office is pursuing its money, indi-
cates some of the risks which such concerns
take and the heap of trouble that falls upon
them occasionally. The N.S.W. Mont de
Pi6t6 profits are always shown less provi-
sion for bad and doubtful debts, but whether
more than ample is clipped this way cannot
be ascertained from the published figures.
In view of the handsome profits, it is not
unlikely that liberal allowances are made
for possible Josses, and besides the solid
reserves shown in the table there may thus
also be substantial internal reserves. Dur-
ing the past 10 years the co.’s interests have
expanded considerably :
1909. 1914. 1919.
Capital £74,890 £106,250 £112,500
Liabilities .. .. 8,630 14,172 8,592
Advances, Investments, etc. 92,029 140,540 152,859
Premises 20,899 28,244 27,703
Cash 2,086 2,262 1,559
Since 1009 £37.094 of new capital has been
got in and visible reserves have been built
up by £25,050 (including £OO4l from share
premiums). Advance:) are mixed with
“other securities and War Loans,” and this
composite asset lias expanded by £00.230
in the 10 years. Meantime interest earn-
ings, etc., have grown from £18.191 for the
year to June, 1909, to £30,013 for the past
12 months. The co. is working on very
little outshl-e money; its own funds amount
to £lOO 498 and liabilities are only £8592,
of which £0948 represents bank overdraft.
The 121 p.c. return to shareholders ip
sweet, while there is always a substantial
margin of surplus profit available for re-
serves to make the future safer if not
sweeter.
* * # *
The Zinc Cokporation, Ltd.
, Dividend/. ~ Written Re-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. Off. serves.
Dee., £ p.c. £ p.c. £ £ £
’ll.. 75,121 30 = 36,854 20 = 32 657 Nil 3,733
’12..266,276 37i „ 92,135 35 „ 114,299 40,636 22.939
’13..210,236 35 ~85,992 30,, 97,971 22,551 26,661
’l 1..143,635 20 „ 49,138 22,275 98,883
’15..136,156 25 ~61,423 10 „ 32,657 121,032 19,927
’16..230,740 37* ~92,135 35 „ 114,299 18,262 25,971
’17..261.416 40 „ 98,277 40 „ 130,628 36,262 22.220
’18..236,471 35 ~85,992 30,, 97,971 10,000 64,728
The accounts of this co. wander backwards
and forwards over the waters and reach us
nine months after they close; and many
things hanpen in nine months. However,
the meeting was held in London in June; and,
as F. A. Govett is chairman and managing
d'rector, it goes without saying that the
shareholders were told many things which
were not in the printed accounts and cover-
ing reports. But really no tremendous
changes have occurred during the current
year. Things looked pretty sick for the co.
at the end of 1918, and they don’t look any
better now. Metal prices are still high; but
there is great uncertaintv about the future.
When the Armistice was s : gned the world’s
reported lead stocks were reckoned at 175,000
tons. B” the end of February they were
up to 350.000 tons, and they have since
shrunk very little. So far as Australian
producers are concerned, the chairman of
this co. declares that they have received no
consideration whatever from the British
Government:—
Wc, who had stood bv the Government in its
necessity, w’e who had sold fto the Government]
our output far below the market price, can only
now conclude that all talk of Imperial Preference
is just plain insincerity (perhaps until Mr. Hughes
has left these shores) when Australia, who entered
the war in August, 1914, is left to struggle as best
she may to keep her industries alive, and compete
for British trade with America, who came in in
1917, with others who did not come in at all, and
with the Imperial Government itself with its accu-
mulated stocks —the Government to protect whose
interests sve refused to take advantage of the profit-
eering prices exacted by our foreign rivals.
The reference to Mr. Hughes is ambiguous;
but it looks as though, in managing-director
Govett’s opinion, the Commonwealth Prime
Minister’s presence in London was inimical
rather than helpful to the Australian metal
producers whose problems he had allegedly
solved. In view of the Broken Hill
cos’. failure to find a market for
their lead, the miners’ strike, which
has stopped production for nearly five
months, isn’t so serious as it would
otherwise be. The experienced men who for-
merly ran strikes in Australia chose their
time. The mere tongue-waggers who now
too often control the unions rush the unfor-
tunate woraers, and the often more-unfor-
tunate community, into trouble without a
thought as to whether the economic position
and outlook are favorable or otherwise. In
fact, many of them wouldn’t recognise an
economic position if it came up and bit them.
There is still a profound mystery sur-
rounding the British Government’s purchase
of zinc concentrates for some years ahead.
That the Government will not take all this
co.’s output is clear from the fact that the
managing director talks about looking for a
market for the surplus in France and Bel-
gium. But the question is whether the eo.
won’t have to there compete with its own
product purchased bv the Government. For
(and here Hughes’s solution of the metal
problem threatens to go wrong again) the
grand project of producing all British re-
quirements of spelter in Britain seems to be
gradually fading. Govett has something to
say on this: —•
I finally conclude that unless labor conditions are
going to alter vastly here, which at least is very
doubtful, or unless the price of spelter throughout
the world is going to be far higher than it was
before the war, any further question of our joining
in any scheme, or of there being any scheme to
join in at all for the production of spelter here,
is just impossible.
And again : —•
A rise of this order by way of costs in coal and
labor would seem to be the final nail in the eotfin
of zinc-smelting in this country, as evidenced by
the recent stoppage of the erection of works at
Avonmouth.
So lie looks to Belgium to take its old place
as the great zinc smelter. In the days when
Hughes talked about the upas-tree that he
had cut down lie always led the public to
believe that Germany had all our base-
metal trade. But now we get back to the
question which this paper asked again
and again in 1914-15: “How are you going
to deal with exports to Belgium, which
always were greater than to Germany?” The
imnortanee of the question lies in the fact
that German capital controlled the Belgium
spelter output in the past, and will in the
future.
Had the miners not gone out on strike,
refusing arbitration, the cos. would have
been piling up lead stocks and financing
them. And this Zinc Corporation wasn’t in
a condition to go on with that policy in-
definitely. True, it had £1,038,5(38 of assets
on December 31. But practically the whole
of the cash then on hand has since been
paid awav in dividends; and the balance
was nearly all in the mine, and in tailings
dumps, concentrates delivered and on hand
(a large part of which can’t be sold), and
in investments and advances of which the
larger part is practically in fixed assets —
the investment in the Hobart zinc works,
for example. And there were sundry credi-
tors for over £150.000 at December 31. The
co. has been ravenous for dividends ; and it
is in no condition to go on producing with-
out selling. So the strike rather helps it
than otherwise.
The co. was formed to buy and treat old
tailings dumps. As, however, the under-
taking proved wonderfully successful, its
chances of buying more tailings from the
8.11. cos. evaporated. But for the purchase
of the South Blocks the end would be very
near at hand now. That purchase was the
luckiest thing in Broken Hill history of
the past dozen years. The idea was that
the zinc lode in the property would take the
place of the zinc tailings when they were
exhausted. The zinc lode has proved an
erratic thing, from which it is very doubtful
if any money can ever be made (the old co.
paid only one dividend, and should not have
done even that much) ; but the property has
developed some of the finest lead bodies in
the Broken Hill lode, and over 2.000,000
tons of ore averaging 14.0 p.c. lead, 2.00 z.
silver and 9.4 p.c. zinc are in reserve. The
lode runs to nearly 150 ft. wide at the two
deep levels (1310 ft. and 1440 ft.), though of
course it doesn’t maintain that width. The
zinc lode is not included in this calculation.


The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere tritie compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company. Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Aluminoferric is necessary where cattle turn up
the mud in the drinking water. A little distributed
over the water will quickly precipitate all impuri-
ties, thus clarifying and purifying the water for your
stock. Use it in your reservoirs, your wells and
vour house tanks. If your storekeeper cannot sup-
ply you send direct to us for free leaflets, particulars
and prices. William Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney.
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [3
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can he
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [1
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Letter received from G.
11. Olding, Parramatta Road, Sydney, 2Gth March,
1919: “In reply to your inquiry we have pleasure in
stating that the wood pipe laid down in our smiths'
shop, which conveys the blast from the fans to the
smiths’ forges, has proved in every way satisfactory.
We have not had to renew any part, and the pipe is
as good as when laid down five (5) years ago.—(Sgd.)
G. 11. Olding.’’ Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co.. Ltd., (II.0.) Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. Add.: Box 157 G
G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlercagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Pateiu
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
The manufacture of ‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
A DVT.
“Robey” Patent Uniflow Steam-engines, supplied in
powers ranging from 100 to 1000 indicated li.p. The
“Robey” Unitlow Engine represents the latest devel-
opment in the construction of high-class steam-
engines. Highly efficient and economical in steam
consumptions. Suitable for high steam pressures and
all temperatures of superheat. Specially suitable
for small floor space. Catalogues and complete in-
formation from sole representatives, Arthur Leplas-
trier & Co., Head Office, Sydney.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street. Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us 'for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. IT. B. Selby k Co..
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Cliem. Soe., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street. Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
E ARt BQRNIO
Fire, Marins,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
ACENTS WANTED
Insure in
T >“ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
CF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Incoms (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established J'JIO.
Brandies in every Stun
Write for particulars
\Y. It. GAVK, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The British Westinghouse Electric 81 Mlg. Co., Ltd.
Everything Electrical
whether for the production, distribution or application of electricity
for power and lighting purposes is manufactured by the British
Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd. They offer the advantage
of undivided responsibility for power and lighting equipments.
* heir productions include Steam Turbines; Turbo-Generators;
Blowers and Compressors; Condensers; Gas, Oil and Diesel Engines;
A.C. and D.C. Generators and Motors; Electric Tramway and Railway-
Equipments ; Transformers and Converters; Switch and Control Gear;
Meters and Instruments; Lamps, Fans, and all Electrical Accessories.
m
W
Manchester
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works-Traf ford Park, Manchester, England.-
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, C)llins Street, Melbourne.
Great Cobar has been visited by C. S.
Faul. engineer for Minerals Separation and
l)e Bavay’s. and resident-manager llogan
Taylor lias issued the following interim
report:—
Flotation tests have Peon continued, but adequate
consideration may be given to the results only in
conjunction with: (a) The probable capital expen-
diture for a treatment plant : and (b) the revenue
expenditure during the working of the process.
.Mr. Faul has been called into conference with myself
to estimate these factors, subsequent to which a re-
port will l>e sent to the receiver in London for con-
sideration.
When information like this is made public
locally, people smile and ask when the next
application for suspension of labor condi-
tions is due; but apparently some small
effort is at last being made to decide one
way or another whether Cobar Gold ore is
to be dealt with. The plant is going to be
expensive. But ore worth about £3 ss. a
ton should surely be worth an effort. For
economical working, a new shaft and equip-
ment is essential, the present shaft being
too far from the ore bodies. As no develop-
ment has been carried out below the No. 5
level, and most of the ore above has been
used up, it is doubtful if a policy of explora-
tion would not be advisable prior to the erec-
tion of an expensive treatment plant. llogan
Taylor is relinquishing the management of
Great Cobar shortly.
Occidental shareholders met at Cobar the
other day and were told that negotiations
with Mount Boppy had fallen through. How-
ever, another offer for the whole of the pro-
perty lias been made by J. F. Armstrong,
probably supported by G. H. Blakemore.
Shareholders agreed to grant a six months’
option under the following conditions: A no-
liability c-o. of 150,000 shares of 10s each
to he formed, 70,000 issued as fully paid
up and 80,000 contributing; £30,000 net to
be placed to the credit of the new co. as
working capital; present co. to be paid £5OOO
cash and 30,000 fully-paid shares in the
new co.; and stores to be paid for at valua-
tion.
* » » *
Rocky River is pushing ahead with work
on its 000-odd acres, more or less mineralised,
27 miles from Tenterlield (N.S.W.).
Cylindrical pipes, varying from 10 to 20 feet
in diameter, occurring in quartz or decom-
posed granite, have been opened up showing
in places from 3 to 4 p.c. molybdenite, 7 to
S p.c. wolfram and up to 8 p.c. bismuth.
No. 1 pipe is reported to be looking well,
showing some 3 p.c. molybdenite and 5 p.c.
wolfram. From No. 2 pipe 8 tons ore have
just been raised, showing bismuth 4 p.c. and
wolfram 7 to 8 p.c. From No. 3 pipe over
7 tons 8 p.c. bismuth stone have been raised ;
while a sample of 40 p.c. bismuth concen-
trates from ore derived from this pipe have
assayed 120 oz. silver and lOoz. gold per
ton. The Rocky River pipes are said to
be identical in their occurrence with those
at the Ivingsgate, Glen Innes. which have
been probed to 600 ft. So far Rocky River
is down only about 70ft. The manage-
ment declares that b'y oil flotation and
other means it can separate cheaply. If
so, with bismuth at 11000 per ton and
wolfram at £l3O, decent results should
follow. As concentrating has commenced,
a better view of the prospects should soon
be possible.
* * * #
Westralia’s August gold yield was the
lowest for a long time, and about 18,000 oz.
less than that for the same month of last
year. The stoppage of the Kalgoorlie treat-
ment plants through the woodline strike
accounted largely for the decline, but the
present paralysed condition of practically all
other mining centres in the State helped.
* * * *
Hansen and Ireland’s new find on Block
50. Hampton Plains, is claimed to be the
best surface show discovered in Westralia
for years. Kalgoorlie is bucking up; experts
and option-hunters are arriving daily, and
already prospectuses have been issued of
shows which are described as being “on the
continuation of the Boulder line of lode.”
Adelaide is quick off the mark, sniffing a
boom. Already one syndicate floated modestly
at £lO per share has seen £6OO paid by
those supposed to be in the inside running.
Other promotions in the market cover leases
and applications for leases, just as in the
old Bullfinch scramble. All the plunging is
being done because three Kalgoorlie big guns
—McDermott, of the Ivanhoe; Sutherland,
of the Golden Horseshoe ; and Fitzgerald, of
Oroya Links —are supposed to have snapped
up an option over Hansen’s Celebration
lease. Dick Hamilton is also said to be
investigating, as he did at the Bullfinch, but
whether he is looking round on his own
account or on behalf of the Great Boulder has
not leaked out.
It is claimed that the Celebration has a
formation proved to carry 2oz. dirt across
a width of 50ft. at a depth of 70ft., with
the lode proved for a length of 800 ft. in
the prospector’s show and well into the next
claim. The facts, however, appear _to be
t hat ounce stone has been got for a width of
20ft. in a working from a 50ft. shaft, and
that eosteens prove the lode, without prov-
ing its value, for 1200 or 14(J0ft. south. In
the opposite direction it is hidden by over-
burden. This looks good enough to induce
London-controlled Hampton Plains Co.,
which owns the freehold, to hang on to the
north and south blocks for the present. The
co. badly needs a bit of the good earth to
revive its fortunes, for it has clung despair-
ingly to ils big area ever since it was
planted in London shortly after the lied
Hill boom in ’96. A lot of alluvial has been
wen: and there are plenty of quartz out-
crops round about, but the general result
has been about a speck of gold to the acre.
To get men into the field Westralian Mines
Minister Jack Scaddan has decided that
better inducements must be held out to pros-
pectors, and he is engaged trying to work
out what he terms a "feasible scheme.”
Apart from the possibility of new finds, there
is no doubt that the State would be far
better off if the hundreds of abandoned reefs
on its known goldfields had owners, and it
Scaddan succeeds in finding proprietors for
only a small proportion of them he will
have done something worth while. The
early revival of the Westralian gold industry
depends upon earnest prospecting and de-
velopment of old but unproved fields, and
not upon occasional forays into- the wilder-
ness.
At June 30 last Ivanhoe (W.A.) was
estimated to have 960,001 tons of ore in
sight, of a gross value of about £1,608,102.
This is about 50.000 tons short of what was
reckoned to be in reserve six months ago.
and with costs and loss in residues allowed
for is equal to a dividend value of about
£1 per share. The mine has now produced
nearly 10 millions sterling, and even if the
main ore body does not escape the clutches of
the porphyry which impoverished values so
much at depth it is good for a few more
millions yet.
* # * *
Bullfinch (W.A.) accounts for last year
show a profit of £642 against £468 for the
previous term. Reserves are estimated at
59.498 tons, worth approximately 21s. 6d.
per ton, but it would cost more than that
to get the gold out. Chairman G. I*.
Doolette told shareholders in London that
the scarcity and poor quality of labor and
its increased cost had made profitable work-
ing of 21s. Gd. grade stone impossible. In
view of the possibility of fresh discoveries,
the Board decided to recommend the recon-
struction of the co. to get in further capital.
The manager, having cabled that, if suffi-
cient money was forthcoming for develop-
ment. better ore and plenty of it would be
found at depth, shareholders sanctioned the
reconstruction without a murmur. But a
big improvement will have to show up if
shareholders are to get anything further.
Golden Butterfly (W.A.) is said to have
drawn a prize in the Banker lease at
Southern Cross. According to the latest
half-yearly report 500 tons of ore were
recently taken out and crushed for a return
of £l2OO after allowing for all carting and
treatment charges. A further crushing of
100 tons is ready, and others are ahead. It
was given out that the policy of the Board
is to accumulate as much of the purchase
money as possible from gold won, and to
make calls as light as possible by postpon-
ing shaft-sinking. As the reefs in the locality
are notorious for going wrong at depth, the
directors may have other reasons for not
hurrying down. The property, like several
others now being worked under option on
the Yilgarn field, ought to have a certificate
of merit from a mining-engineer of standing
before the public dips into its pocket.
# * * *
Some Golden Point shareholders met in
Perth the other day and demanded to know
why so little development work had been
done. It was alleged that over £23,000 had
been handled by the co., yet the deepest
workings are only 140 ft. And as 100 ft. of
tills was overburden the co. had really got
down only 40ft. below the cap of the reef.
After a good deal of grumbling it was de-
cided to have it out with two of the directors
who are visiting the State.
Edna May Deep Levels has settled its
boundary dispute with Edna May. and they
have agreed to arbitrate on future differ-
ences. * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.) made a profit
of £4968 for the year ended February last,
and with the previous year’s carry-forward
had £7148 to deal with. The directors de-
cided to write £5OOO off plant and machinery
and take the balance into the new accounts.
Ore reserves are estimated at 300,724 worth
almost 265. 6d. per ton.
Bendigo Amalgamated shows signs of
scraping a bit of spare cash into the till.
Last fortnight’s Yield of 25250 z. from 4383
tons, with 4320 z. from the plates, was the
eo.’s record to date. Constellation keeps
up its average, 317 tons giving nearly GOOoz.
In the Unitv the big belt of spurs looks to
be the right thing. The record of decent
finds is improving.
Chillagoe (Q.) has got a start on, clean-
ing up, overhauling, unwatering the Linas-
leigh mine, etc., and is purchasing ores.
Various mine-owners are scraping up parcels
of copper and silver-lead ore. So far it
seems that Chillagoe will pay "half the
value" on assay at Chillagoe, and the other
"half” on realisation. The fly in the oint-
ment is the doubt as to what this latter
"half" will amount to. Uerberton should
have a few thousand tons of copper ore,
mostly from the Empress mine. If a good
price could be got for silver-lead ores, there
are several shows which might bee on: t
decent producers. Packing charges to the
nearest railway station are, however, high,
and mining costs much stiller than in the
days of old.
Geologist Dunstan, of the Q'land Mines
Department, who has been running his tape
over Mt. Oxide, estimates 200,000 tons,
averaging 124 p.c. copper, above the 300 ft.
level. He talks of an enrichment 250 ft.
long. 300 ft. deep and 10ft. wide, carrying
20 p.c. copper, and second, third and fourth
sections each of a width of 10ft., with values
ranging from 15 o.c. to 5 p.c. copper. The
Public Works Committee is considering a
railway to Mt. Oxide, which at present is 72
miles from the railhead at Dobbin.
• » • *
The Sardine is the latest thing in tin.
This show, at Oakey Creek. Kangaroo Hills
< N.Q.). was discovered in December last by
John Mulhall and Alex. Lane, and has
already hit up a record for the Northern
State. The first crushing of 84 tons gave 25
tons black tin, while 35ft. of sinking re-
turned £OOOO. Some Towers people inter-
ested called J. B. Lewis north to have a
look. Apparently the shaft has been put
down at the intersection of two lodes, where
the rich ore is most likely to be confined. But
a cut north indicates a shoot 50ft. to 60ft.
long. Assuming that this shoot does not
extend below the bottom of the shaft (42ft.)
and is Bft. wide, Lewis tots up 1440 tons of
a safe average of 10 p.c., worth £23,000.
However, he won’t swear to the length and
width, though there is evidence of the shoot
going down. For a start he recommends
driving and crosscutting from the bottom of
the shaft to determine size and value, and
also further sinking. He says, anyhow, a
small battery is justified, particularly since
there is likely feed from the neighboring
Salmon, and concludes that the Sardine is
“a most legitimate venture.” Altogether
140 tons have been raised so far, a lot of it
going up to 30 p.c. black tin.
* * * *
“Wayth” : With the flotation of the Federa-
tion, lode tin-mining in Tasmania is expected
to receive a fillip. Comparing the oxide
tonnage output of the larger lode mines
for 1913 and 1918, the following show
decreasing returns: Anchor, 131 tons:
George, 11: Bischoff, 722; Extended, 29;
Boulder, 31; Kenison, 110; Cleveland, 26.
Increases for same period have been;
Storey’s. 43 tons; Central, 27; Ileemskirk,
24. Of the mines showing decreased out-
puts none is looking very bright at pre-
sent, and further heavy reduction in output
is evident. So the anticipated 900 tons
oxide per year from the Federation will be
necessary to keep the lode output at confi-
dence point. Exhaustion and low-grade ore
are the main troubles, and it is extremely
doubtful if any of the mines could work
with tin at £l9O under present abnormal
conditions.
“Gadgett’s” suggestions:—
The wail of the mineowner that operations have
been retarded owing to insufficient or poor labor
is not to be wondered at considering the little
attention which is paid to teaching the miner
his .iob. What he knows he usually learns by
stealth. When the boss is not about the trucker or
newchum drops his shovel or spawler and per-
suades the man on the machine to give him a
turn on the handle, and by much questioning
manages to pick up a few point®. If it is a hand-
labor job the position is more difficult, for it
takes practice to strike a drill fairly in various
positions; and even turning the drill for the striker
is not so simple as it looks.
When the would-be miner has picked up a few
points this way he may get a job in the face, but
more likely he will “snatch his time” and depart
for a fresh field, where he will pass himself off
as a dinkum. If he happens to strike a good mate
he is right, but if he strikes a “mug” like himself
he will probably be passed out to try his luck
elsewhere. I remember two newcomers being set to
open out a rise. When the shift-boss looked in again
two or three hours later not a blow had been
struck, neither knowing how to proceed. This state of
affairs could be remedied to a certain extent if in
all big mines a stope was set aside for learners
and a thoroughly competent and intelligent miner
placed over them as instructor. If a little dis-
crimination was shown in choosing the learners, the
stope would probably keep its end up with the
others. Anyhow, if it did not the slight extra
cost would be more than balanced by the increased
skilled labor made available, especially if all big
cos. made a point of doing something of the sort.
The lot of the miner could also be much im-
proved if the bosses were not so often chosen
solely for their driving abilities. Many bosses
know little or nothing of the mining regulations
they are supposed to observe, and frequently ask
or encourage men to do things that are absolutely
prohibited. The ideal boss should have the regula-
tions at his lingers’-ends, and be able to guide and
protect his men, as well as get every ounce out
of them. Some fools will, if allowed, work cheer-
fully in a cloud of dust, or light a number of
charges with a blazing stick of gelignite, the fumes
of which are deadly, and do other equally foolish
things that endanger not only their own health
but the health of others near them, besides reducing
their earning power.
While this sort of thing goes unchecked the
thinking man decides to earn a crust by some
other means, and as no new men are being sys-
tematically trained to take the place of those who
drop out the wail goes up of shortage of labor.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 2d.)


■ebb. of'
Pg'jS*
:3g
A LEAGUE OF NATIONS STADIUM.
There is reason to believe that a little judicious warfare, under League of Nations rules, might result in the solution of problems of World-Wide importance.


THE
Union Trustee Company
of Australia Limited
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees,
etc.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: lion. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan
Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
CALL OR SEND FOR COMPANY’S BOOKLET.
ħ
deaf?
You can HEAR .
and we prove it
by sending you,
post free, an easy-
to-wear
Acousticon
on 10 Days’
FREE TRIAL
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
330,000 delighted users, including the
Minister, Mr. Hughes, who has been
the “A cousticon ’ for more than fivp
The “Acousticon” will safely and
enable you to hear. Convince yourself
expense and
Over
Prime
using
year* !
su ely
at our
DON’T STAY DEAF.
Lamscn
Storej
'S' rvice’
Co.
102 Dakin
Olderflsst
H ' ise. SYDNEY
O! ins it..MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St., Chrutc’k.
W.A.: 11. Little & Co., 831 Ilay Street, Perth.
EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
Vr,.:.
>i®a
*****
&
1]
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEM?—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHAKHINQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHKESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
John Mark Davies, laid to rest in St.
Ivilda cemetery on Saturday, had an innings
covering 30 vears in Victorian politics, and
tasted all its sweets. He was 50 when first
returned in 18S9 to the then very Tory
Uppah House, and although he classified
himself as a Liberal his environment was
often too much for him. He joined the
radical James Munro as Minister of Justice
in 1890, but would not continue when the
brilliant and uncertain Shiels took charge
two years later. The bank smashes fol-
lowed, and while he was suffering a recovery
he retired into private life for four years.
Returning to the Council as member for
Melbourne 20 years ago he held the seat till
June 5, when he threw it up after learning
that there was no hope of recovery from
his paralysis. After getting his hand in as a
Minister under Irvine, Davies was second
in command to Thomas Bent in the Govern-
ment that followed, and while Bent was in
England in 1907 he was Acting Premier.
He refused Bent’s offer of a Supreme Court
judgeship, and then, as Attorney-General,
appointed Cussen to the job. Succeeding
YVrixon, he was Council President for nine
years. Putting aside the offer of K. 8., he
got the K.C.M.G. ribbon, after. Peacock, the
then Premier, had talked up to the Colonial
Office. Take him for all and all he was a
big politician, with high ideals regarding
public service; and in the last 10 years it
was a treat to listen to him as he yarned
over a pipe.
In a southern divorce court the other day
a returned Digger complained that his wife
had not been true. Her name was Gam-
mon ; and Love was the co-re.
Lieut.-General Monash’s name has been
associated with the Vic. Chief Railway Com-
missionership, but he is said to have other
views. Anyhow, he is an engineer, and a
first-rate transportation man is the real need
of the Department.
The Yic. Cabinet sent for Charles Mis-
camble, goods superintendent, the other day
and told a surprised man that he had been
appointed third Railway Commissioner;
incidentally, that his screw had gene up 280
per cent. —from £G2S to £1750. So little
was Miscamble known that his initials were
stated incorrectly in the first announce-
ment. As few, if any, public men know
him, the Government has neither praise
nor blame for its selection. He started as
a porter.
The recent christening of throe youngsters
named Bell at Zeehan (Tas.)—they bap-
tise ’em in batches where churches are few
—disclosed the fact that the youngsters
have a mother, a grandmother, a great-
grandmother and a great-great-grandmother.
The mother (Mrs. A. E. Bell) is the wife
of a Zeehan miner; the grandmother is
Mrs. John Rough, whose husband is a Zinc
Co. employee at Hobart; the great-grand-
mother is Mrs. 8. H. Grey, wife of one of
Zeehan’s oldest tributors; and the great-
great-grandma is Mrs. Wilson, aged 91, the
widow of an Irish stonemason of Clunes
(Vic.).
Inspector Clode, just dead in Adelaide,
had travelled more back-country than' prob-
ably any other living person. He had been
in S. Aus. for 70 of his 75 years. From
1865 he was in the then wild west of the
State, at Fowler’s Bay and Eucla, when
the natives were really troublesome. Later
he was in the very far north, at Farina and
Innamincka. From the beginning of this
century to his retirement he was in charge
of the immense district behind Port Augusta,
stretching to YVestralia one way, up to the
Territory and to Queensland, and to N. S.
Wales on the east. He was one of the
two or three authorities in S. Aus. on
native languages.
Colonel Pope, whom the Westralian
Government has appointed acting Railways
Commissioner, pending an appeal to Parlia-
ment to reverse its opposition to the three-
Commissioners system, put up goed per-
formances on Gallipoli (where “Pope’s Hill”
stands as a monument) and in France. He
is as game as a pebble, and has the faculty
of command well developed. But his only
railway experience has been gained in the
statistical branch of the Department, where
lie was chief clerk. Hodgson, of the Ma
State Railway Department, nearly got the
job, but the local publication of some scath-
ing criticism of N. S. Wales railway methods
by Sydney daily papers blighted his pros-
pects at the eleventh hour.
Ex-Chief President A. C. Ostrom, of the
A.N.A., who was given a welcome-home at
Melbourne last week, has political ambi-
tions, and when the dissolution of the Reps,
arrives he will probably ask Echuca what it
thinks about him. Ostrom is an amiable
water-waggon pilot, understands irrigation,
and has a knack of getting on with people.
Because he did not hearken to the first call
of the war trumpet he nearly lost the presi-
dency of the A.N.A., but. he enlisted ir. 1917
on his last day of office.
“Veritas”: My dad
had more (or less)
luck than J. F. Archi-
bald in meeting the
Kelly gang. Dad was
a dentist who did a
round of country
towns. While he was
coaching between Glen-
rowan and Benalla the
gang appeared and the
passengers had to
empty their pockets.
Dad was releived of
his valuables, including
a gold , watch. A few
days after arriving at
Benalla, where he had
a room at a local pub,
a girl arrived to have
her teeth attended to.
The dentist, gossiping
as he worked, told his
patient how he had
met the Kellys and
added that he didn’t
nrnd the loss of his
coin but was in mourn-
ing for his watch. The
patient went her way
and was forgotten. A
few days later dad re-
ceived a small package
through the post. It
was the watch he had
given up as lost, and
as there was no cover-
ing note he couldn’t
guess the riddle. But
he found out a little
later. He had drawn
tile teeth of Kate Kelly.
Fred McQuade, who died in Sydney re-
cently, at 50, was born in Windsor, where
his family settled nearly a century back and
kept a store. Later the family home was
Bomera, at Potts Point; it was offered as a
temporary residence for the Duke of Edin-
burgh when he visited Sydney 50 years ago,
but was not accepted.
Herman Buring, the vigneron, just dead
in Adelaide, could not help being born in
Berlin 73 years ago. He was brought away
when he was three, and raised a good Aus-
tralian family. Seppelt taught him distil-
ling, and the firm of Buring and Sobels be-
came famous at Springvale. His son Leo is
now manager at Minchinbury (N.S.W.).
The mantle of McCoy, Tas. Director of
Education, has fallen on G. V. Brooks, the
popular head of the Speck’s biggest school.
Hailing originally from South Aus., he started
his Tas. career as a senior assistant teacher
some 14 years ago. But he soon acquired
charge of Trinity Hill, and in a dozen years
has seen his tribe increase from 500 to 1600
with a corresponding increase in the school’s
high percentage of qualifying passes at each
succeeding exam.
An unusual will was made by lately-
deceased Elias Cunliff, Melbourne’s pro’ific
jam-maker. Cunliff, who had the Red
Heart factory at the rear of the Melbourne
gaol, left about £lOO.OOO. He lived at
South Yarra for decades, and each year
added a couple of house-properties to his
rent-roll. Though a childless widower, he
believed in keeping the money in the family,
wherefore he signified that his estate was to
be distributed “as though he had died intes-
tate.” Evidently the making of a will to
attain the same result* as though he hadn’t
made one was a record of his desire to be
regarded as a business-Lke person who knew
his own mind right up to the end.
A. H. Ashbolt, who, if a business-man
Agent-General be sent from Tasmania, will
certainly be selected. is~one of the principals
in the Henry Jones jam co., and has
added to his riches by dabbling in . the
Malayan tin-mines to : which Capt. Teddy
Miles introduced the Joneses. (The first
Austral-Malayan tin syndicate was called the
IXL, that being the Jones jam brand.)
Ashbolt has stated his willingness to take
the London job, and, moreover, being really
anxious to do his bit for his State, has told
Ministers that he will place all his Henry
Jones interests in their hands for sale if
he is appointed.
Major Jack Manning, a Cootannuidra
(N.S.W.) native and old Sydney Grammar
boy, has been appointed District Comman-
dant at Tanga, India. He enlisted as a pri-
vate, and after Egypt and Suvla Bay accom-
panied the British force to relieve the Ser-
vians. Later he was transferred to the
Indian Army Service and was staff-captain
to the General commanding on the Afghan
front.
“Quill”: There is some play-acting on
the Bench, too. A Sydney Judge was hesi-
tating what to hand the man in the dock
the other day. “lie has a wife and three
or four children, y’onor,” softly interjected
counsel, hoping to ease the blow. “That has
absolutely nothing to do with the matter,”
snapped the Bench. ’T cannot take notice
of wives and children. If I did, why”—and
J. F. ARCHIBALD (from the portrait by Long staff).
a hand was waved to imply that there would
then be an end to everything. And then
’sonor, who had seemed to boil over at
the impropriety of being reminded of the
culprit’s family, ordered the wretch to be
gone and come up for sentence when called
upon. But it is a- rotten system which puts
a Judge in-the position of knowing that
when he sentences a man with a family
to a long term of imprisonment he also
sentences an innocent woman and picca-
ninnies to a hell of temptation and periury.
Dr. Harvey Sutton, chief medical officer
for Vic. State"schools, is now first favor'te
for Government Medical Officer, a £lOOO-
--yenr job. which will be vacant on Septem-
ber 30. Dr. Godfrey was mentioned first,
but his present salary and allowances are
worth more. Sutton, who is a Rhodes
scholar, served abroad as a surgeon almost
throughout the war, and is having a spell
before resuming duty.
Private C. A. Holman, who returned the
other day, was one of the cheerful optimists
who founded the New Australia colony in
Paraguay 25 years ago. He went to Eng-
land in 1915, and served with the A.M.C.
till the Armistice. Premier Bill is his
brother.
Ghyselinck and Dutilleul, who have nego-
tiated the purchase of the W.A. State saw-
mills for £425 000. on behalf of a Paris syn-
dicate, can talk English, but are happier in
French. They dropped into the Perfh nost
office lately, and the officials, on the principle
that any foreigner ought to know any k nd
of foreign lingo, tried to get them to infer-
pret some remarks on a letter from Italv.
The air was soon thick with a mixture of
good French and bad English, and everyone
was well tangled when a Digger who knew
French and a little Italian arrived. He
straightened things out and told Webster’s
men what they wanted to know. But when
it came to business the Frenchmen didn’t
want any help.
George Swinburne has tired of being a
glorified civil servant, and on October* 31
will relinquish the job of civil member of
the Military Board. He is an Electricitv
Commissioner and a director of several cos.,
though he retired from most of his Boards'
A Senate seat may attract him now that
Donald Mackinnon, Minister for Soldier
Settlement, has made it clear that lie will
not be a candidate.
Lyndhurst Giblin, formerly M.H.A. f ol -
Denison (Tas.), is back from the war with
an English bride and his majority. He is
a probable Labor candidate for Denison
(Federal), the seat now held by ex-Laborite
Smith.
The Speck’s Labor team for the Senate
5L t ,“« t election will be Senators Guy anti
O Keefe, whose term is up, and ex-Speaker
W. A. Woods. The “National” trio is not
yet selected, but may comprise Senator
Mulcahy (appointed by the local Parlia-
ment last February vice Long, resigned 1*
George Foster, li.S.A. secretary, who missed
his old State seat by a few score votes
three months ago; and perhaps one of the
Cameron or Shoobridge clan.
looiaketty Malvern has had a municinal
revolution Louis Holmes, the only Sorife
who ever Bumbled in the suburb, is its new
mayor. "
v I m ad( ?ress read at the opening of the
xV 1. Council of Advice, Pat Glynn, Minister
for Home and Territories, threw In as an
pw’i th n remai V- hat “™y friend the late
Ciiailes Cameron Kingston, in, I think, 189-1.
asked me to become Government Resideni
and Judge at Pt. Darwin. But,” he added
there were more openings then than now
in the South for Radical energies, so I did
not accept.”
“Exiic” ; Here in New York I have iust
met I rank Gee Duff, the man who sold Vm
Mt. Lyell claim to Bowes Kelly. After that
he floated, or helped to float, a dozen Lyell
cats and kittens, several of which have since
to the great advantage of the field, fallen
into the maw of the big co. Duff was, be-
fore that, railway stationmaster at Jerusa-
lem on the main Tasmanian line. There
he had one queer experience. Joe Thomp-
son and his two bookmaking brothers were
returning from the Hobart races, and of
course, were playing poker. The Bishop of
Tasmania happened to be on that train and
lodged a complaint, and Duff, being directed
to an old Act of Charles 11., had to call •
pohceman and arrest the desperadoes
I ancy me being jugged in my home-town
of Jeruthalem! said big Joe.
“Zanthus”: The oldest business in West-
ralia is that of Lionel Samson and Son
merchants of Fremantle. The originai
Lionel barn son came to Fremantle 90 years
% s °’ f n 1829, the year of the birth of the
Bwan River Colony (Albany is a collide of
years older). He brought a shipload of
wine, spirits, groceries and notions, and be-
gan the business which has gone on ever
since without interruption. Lionel Samson
was also YV estralia’s Webster in the ’thirties,
lie died in 18<8. and his son in 1900, but
the latter s family still own the business
Every regular traveller on the Hobart-
Launceston railway will miss Mrs. Delan-v
For 30 years she had travelled on the trains
between Parattah and Rhyndaston, selliii”
triut and odds and ends; but at 75 she
slipped, broke her thigh and died. Accord-
ing to legend her husband lost his life on
the line, and she had a life-pass as part
compensation. Her tongue was as Irish as
her name, and more than a match for the
bagmen s.
An eye specialist’s recollection:—
A few years ago—in 1914, I fancy—the late
Samuel MeCaughey paid a visit to Amritsar, a dirty
native city, about 1400 miles from Bombay. The
Australian Croesus was suffering from cataract, and
wanted Colonel Henry Smith, the ophthalmic
wizard of the Punjab, to attend to his case. Smith
has a patent operation for extracting the diseased
lens in its capsule; it usually bears his name, but
is often referred to as the intracapsular operation.
To see the Colonel doing cataract work is one
of the sights of India. His clinic is visited by
crowds of American doctors, and in the proper season
ho keeps three operating-tables going at the Govern-
ment hospital for several hours daily. Some of
the Punjabis hop on to the table after having made
a journey of 50 miles on foot. While operating
the Colonel smokes a long black Calcutta cigar
which he regards as an antiseptic, and the way the
cigar-ash, often two or three inches long, refrains
from falling into the patient's eye is something to
remember. The Colonel owns to having done 25,000
extractions, and the last time I saw it there was
a quart jar nearlv full of human lenses in the
operating-room. He probably got a whacking fee
from millionaire MeCaughey, for his charges run
from nothing right up to anything.
J. F.A.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gone and forgotten are his faults,
His hitter moods and angry words,
As one recalls the great in him —
His passion, keen as tempered swords,
To fight the fraud, however strong,
And help the weak, however wrong.
His was the swift, unerring eye
Which saw the glitter in the sand;
Phrases and thoughts took shape and glowed
Beneath the magic of his hand ;
Behind the acid scorn which flays
Me had a royal skill of praise.
Such were his gifts; but more than them
Was something in his wayward heart
Of sentiment and kindliness
Which made of him a thing apart:
Because they shone through speech and pen
We mourn him more than other men.
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


WHY SHOULD I BOTHER
ABOUT THE PEACE LOAN ?
The modern equivalent of the age-old question: “Am I my brother’s
keeper?” to which there is but one answer in a White Man’s Country. Let
your answer take a practical form:
Buy Peace Bonds
Our Duty to the widowed and fatherless, the sick and the maimed and the
blind is clear as daylight. Our Duty to the fighters who have returned or
are returning is equally beyond doubt.
They Gave; You are Only Asßed to Lend.
Money is required, a great deal of money, to bring the Australian Citizen-
soldiers back, and replace them in as good, if not better, positions than
before the war.
Practical Patriotism and Personal Profit
have never before been so happily associated as in this Loan, because no
political questions are stirred by it, and representatives of all parties are
united in its advocacy.
Peace Bonds the Best Investment
Examine the easy terms, calculate the interest, note the various plans which
you may utilise, observe the exemption from State income-tax, and ask
yourself whether there is any other investment in the market to equal it.
YOU HAVE ONLY FIVE MORE DAYS
You are not likely to get another such chance. And, remember—
They Gave; You are Only Asßed to Lend.
Space donated by the Manufacturers of THE “THREE CASTLES' CIGA RETTES


LADIES!
EVERY PEARL HAS ITS CHARM.
A Beautiful Woman is a Paradise to the Eyes.
ĥ
THE PEARLS OF PRICELESS VALUE are to be found in
ohn
trange
inter s
TOILET PREPARATIONS—for THE GODDESS OF BEAUTY.
They have won SIX GOLD MEDALS and are
USED BY ROYALTY. A SUFFICIENT GUARANTEE.
Dental Cream, a delightful antiseptic*, for pearl-white teeth, with a
delicate piquancy of tone and flavor, LaUshmi Cream and Lotion,
New Face Cream (2 colors), Powder (3 tints). Soap, Carmine, Per-
spiration Powder, Hair Foods (Oily and Xon-Oily), etc., etc.
All obtainable at the Civil Service, Horderns’. Washington H. Soul’s,
Farmer & Co.’s. Lassetter’s, David Jones’. W. T. Waters’, etc. All
Departmental Stores and leading Chemists.
Send 3d. stamp for sample of Soap, or Dental Cream, or Powder
(name the tint), or Face Creams, to John Strange Winter (Lon-
don, Paris, Koine), 26-30 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
AAeTtcmian
I y \ HIGH-CLASS
Creams
; T (
Pasles
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
A cents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
ħ
E. DROWN <§ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER - THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
Tiiis .Modern and most Eiegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, tiie Comforts of a I'erfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Hath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
.Managing Dire«'to”.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
Some sort of presentation should be made
to the Adelaide husband who explained to
the Divorce Court that he had committed
adultery with the servant girl to induce her
to stay. But some wives are never satisfied
no matter what sacrifices their husbands
make for them.
* * * •
A tale of the N.S.W. wheat pool:
As the stacks at the big depot at Enfield expanded
the larcenists who had commenced by handing out
a bag or two at a time grew bolder. Trucks of
which no records were kept were hooked on to
trains and forwarded to stations where confederates
gave delivery to other confederates. There were
cases where trucks were despatched over the rail-
ways carrying, according to the consignment notes,
“sheets of iron.” Mention of the tons of wheat
under the iron was ohlitted. The same thing hap-
pened with trucks containing “timber” and “tar-
THE PILL WAS SUGAR-COATED NOW.
"My dear, you must call on the Dudlep-
Mudds as soon as possible.”
"We have lived near and ignored them for
two years. They arc just as impossible
to-day as”
"Not at all, dear, not at all. I heard to-
day that they had a seventy-pound bag
of sugar.”
paulins.” Poultry-farmers who had never before
bought more than a dozen bags of wheat suddenly
became possessed of thousands of bushels. People
who had never bought wheat became the patrons of
flour-millers, forwarding hundreds of sacks of grain
to the mills to be gristed. The official in charge
was, on his own admission at a recent trial, as
well qualified for the job as a three-card specialist
would be for the office of Public Trustee. This was
the kind of man a public authority appointed to
guard the interests of farmers and taxpayers in
millions of bushels of wheat. Standing alone the
evidence he gave would not hang a dog; the testi-
mony on which the jury (onvicted three of the
accused —two of them railway men—was drawn
mainly from evidence concerning faked books and
delivery records. And the Government goes on try-
ing to bluff the public that the management was
competent while its own Crown prosecutors produce
reams of evidence to prove that the control was so
rotten as to permit the working of gigantic frauds.
“H.G.S.”: “M.F.” (B. 4/0/T9) thinks
that to apply any of the McCaughey money
to the establishing of a medical school at
the Queensland University would be "to put
it to poor use,” and that "we are well served
by southern universities.” I have three boys,
the eldest of whom I was most anxious to
send to medicine. There not being any
faculty of medicine at the Queensland ’Var-
sity, and I being unable to afford the heavy
expense of sending the boy to Sydney for a
period of years, his chances becoming a
doctor have disappeared. With the estab-
lishing of a faculty of medicine, one or both
of his brothers may have a hope. I do not
doubt that hundreds of Queensland students
have been debarred from becoining doctors
for reasons identical with my own. As one
of the founders of the Queensland Univer
sity, I had an interview with the late Samuel
McCaughey, and also with the late James
Tyson, in regard to the necessity for funds,
I pointed out that without a faculty of medi-
cine and a faculty of law, the ’Varsity would
be (what it actually is) nothing but a glori-
fied technical college. Both agreed with me,
Tyson died intestate; but I have not the
slightest doubt that when making his muni-
ficent bequest McCaughey remembered my
earnest representations on behalf of the poor
students in Queensland. As for the remarks
of “M.F.” about tropical diseases, apparently
lie is cheerfully oblivious of the fact that
only a few weeks ago a magnificently-
equipped scientific research body, subsidised
by the Imperial Government, the Common-
wealth Government and the Queensland
Government, started the fight against hook-
worm, etc.
* * * *
One half of Melbourne smiled and the
other half frowned at the week-end wheii
it learned that six convicts; while On their
way from the city to Pentridge, had escaped
from the temporary Black Mafia—a motor-
van borrowed from the Defence Debt. —by
banging a hole in the fioor and dropping oht.
The two John Hops in charge i-ode in front,
no special seat being provided behind for one
of them as on a real brunette Mary. The
pace was 17 miles an hour, and as seven
of the IS prisoners on board sat tight and
kept on singing after the others had dribbled
out on the road, the men in charge suspected
nothing. When they reached the prison
gate and reconnoitred, they got an idea that
there is something in the superstition about
13 being an unlucky number.
» * * #
The “till-death-do-us-part” clause in the
marriage contract has got on the nerves of
a good many husbands and wives since it
was invented. The
legal divorce-factory
in Sydney lately
struck a couple of
husbands who took the
view that marriage was
just a temporary job.
One man told the mis-
sus that she could go.
The lady couldn’t be-
lieve that he was really
giving her notice, but
three days later lie
left the house ajid she
found a note definitely
dispensing with her
services. The other
husband looked over
the top-edge of the
paper one morning and
told his partner that
he was tired of mar-
ried life, and in future
would keep his wages
for himself. And lie was as bad as his word.
* » * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant’s” recollections:
Another bit of the vast Cooper estate in Sydney
lias been disposed of. This is the building in
Market-street for many years occupied by the
Evening News and Town and Country Journal.
It has a frontage of 90ft. 6in. to Market-street, with
a depth of about 193 ft., and Cowing Brothers are
paying £55,000 for it. The building formed part
of the Waterloo Warehouse of Cooper and Levy,
built in 1820; though newly faced and once through
a fire ordeal, some of the old walls still stand. The
warehouse originally faced George-street, standing
back a little, with posts and chains in front. Here,
half a century ago, at full moon, a tribe of abos.
used to meet old Tom Buckland, who then represented
the Coopers, and was a very good friend to the
blacks. Later on that part of the Waterloo Ware-
house now disposed of was in the occupation of J. B.
Iloldsworth and Co., ironmongers—afterwards Uolds-
worth. Macpherson and Co. As far back as Gover-
nor Biigh’s time the Waterloo Warehouse site and
the Roberts’s Hotel site opposite were a part of
the lease of Sergeant John Fleming, of the old
N. S. Wales Corps, and a First Fleeter. He had a
lease, too, of the opposite corner, where now you
find Singer and Co. The sergeant sold to John
Blaxland for some few hundreds. Eventually the
eastern leases reached the Coopers, who opened up
Market-street and built the big warehouse, the
finest in the Southern Hemisphere at that time.
GRATITUDE.
“Oh, Ur. Brown. I'm collecting for the Queen Mary Hospital — you'll give me a donation,
won’t you?”
“Why, certainly; I owe it something. My p[?]or wife died there."
“E.A.I). (London) : Not everyone who
"talks Digger” wears the rising sun. The
cheerfidlest man in the passport room in
London was a poilu. He was brown and
slim, and the left breast of his new horizon-
blue uniform gleamed with medals. I dozed
while the woman next me poured forth in
Yiddish accents her application for a pass-
port for Jerusalem. But I woke up when
the poilu hailed an Australian who entered
the room with. “Hallo, Dig! Have you
blokes got to go through this stunt, too?”
“Dig” explained that he was getting a pass-
port to go to Denmark to visit his parents.
My poilu, it appeared, was in Paris study-
ing restaurant-management when the war
broke out, and he immediately, as he ex-
plained, “got into froggie clobber.” He.
was full of anxiety to get back to Australia
and regrets at not being with the A.I.F.
The Dane-Digger was bound for Brisbane
after his home-visit. “Melbourne for mine,”
said the Australian poilu.
* * * *
“Ela”: Port Moresby, the hub of Papua,
was visited by Jellicoe on his recent tour of
the North-West Pacific, and great was the
surprise of Tommy Papua and his sister Lisi
at not beholding a warrior about seven feet
high. The little admiral, jumping about ai d
banging a tennis-ball over the nets, was a
big disappointment to the natives who had
gathered to see the “chief who smashed the
war-canoes of Diameni [Germany] and
made the crews eat earth.” But when Silent
John appeared in uniform, with his medals
blazing on a superstructure of blue cloth,
gold buttons and gold braid, the adoration
of brown brother and sister was completely
won. Said one old crinkly-skinned gentle-
man from Poreporena (Hanuabada), who
had met Commodore Erskine (he who an-
nexed the colony as British New Guinea in
1884), Sir Cyprian Bridge, Captain Bosan-
quet (senior officer present at the
foundation of the colony in 18881 and
Admiral Davis: “Truly mine eyes have
looked upon a mighty man; now I know
why the Diameni failed. It is the magic of
his eyes that made them fall down like
beaten dogs before him.” The Suva arrived
just after Papua had completed her celebra-
tion of the Peace; but being willing at all
times for a frolic, we bogged in again to
welcome the national hero. Owing to the
seamen's strike food was scarce; but there
was plenty of home-brewed enthusiasm.
“Spot”: The Law Society of Sydney Uni.
has met and toasted the members who
enlisted. This sort of thing can be accepted
from the Bench and the law professor; but
when handed out by John Garland, K.C..
it makes the returned man writhe. The
whole of the legal work coming from the
Crown Law Office, of which Garland is the
ultimate head, goes, not to returned men
practising at the Bar, but to others who.
perhaps, might just as well have gone.
There are several returned men hungry for
briefs; but neither the Crown Law Office
nor the legal profes-
sion, with one or two
exceptions, gives any
consideration at all to
their war service.
THE ACCOMPLISHMENT'S OF 1919.
DISGUSTED STEP-MOTHER: “Do you mean to
say you’re 12 years old and can’t spell
‘meridian ’ yet?”
IRREPRESSIBLE : "Oh. well, I won the prize
for best jazz-dancer at the Town Hall
last night.”
“The Gunyah”: When Hughes was pre-
senting the old Crimean veteran with the
bucket of money collected for him in Mel-
bourne Town Hall at Little Billy’s recep-
tion. he said : “Here, Diggers, is your pal of
00 years ago. He, too, has passed through
the same hell of battle as yourselves. Al-
though it is 00 years since his return, he is
still a Digger like yourselves.” Came a
voice from the gallery: “Say, Billy, has he
got his deferred pay yet?”
(Continued on page IS.)
ARCHIBALD’S MONUMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Doubtless the Old Chief chats to-night
\\ ith writers and artists who passed from sight
To a sanctum lit by as clear a light
As the light of that Other Day;
With lovable humbugs, all too fond
Of the shorter cut to the land beyond—
With Marcus Clarke and “The Vagabond,”
With Daley and Harold Grey,
“The Dipso” and Harold Grey.
No tear is needed, nor funeral frown.
Empty your glasses in bush and town
To a polished glass on the bar turned down
And be, as we are, content.
The songs we sang to a land unsung
As yet, and taught by his guiding tongue,
The lines we wrote when our hearts were young,
Are Archibald’s Monument.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


BIT is now a matter of history that Michelin
I was first to apply pneumatic tyres to a
motor-car, and that every real improvement since
made in motor tyres has been made by Michelin.
For quality, Michelin Tyres lead the world.
This is as it should be, because Michelin is the
manufacturer with the longest experience and
with the biggest reputation to keep up.
And what is Michelin Quality P It is that
superiority in every-day service which Michelin
Tyres have always presented. It is that higher
service-average which Michelin Universal Tread
Covers and Michelin Red Rubber Tubes
invariably achieve. It is that which gives you
your motoring at the lowest possible tyre-cost
per mile.
Recommended by all Practical Motor-men.
MICHELIN & CO. PTY. LTD., 31 KING STREET, MELLOURNE.
“We make the Motor ;
but it is MiCHELiN_
who makes the rails."
COUNT DE DION, 1897.
<3SB>
*>.
\Qo
fr
h
*
*>


A Former Minister of the Crown, Mr. P. B. Blundell, late Minister for Industry
and Repatriation in the National Govt., South Australia, writes of Clements Tonic
“CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.,
“National Party of S. Australia.
• “Globe Chambers, Adelaide, 21/7/’l9.
This Remarkable Medicine is sold by all Chemists and Stores.
'tom^d ‘ W ° thl “ ”“«"*•
The campatgn lasted two or three months, at the end 61. which time t felt completely fatigued and worked out.
had recourse to Clements Tome, and derived great benefit from it in recuperating my energies.
° UrS respectfully. “ P . B. BLUNDELL,
‘‘Late Minister Industry and Repatriation,
“South Australia.’’
Clements Tonic jLtd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
obtained in any part of the Commonwealth and New Zealand
hnnil-R b T ; ° ,°- f , the f amest souvenir-
hunteis I met was little 10- or 12-year-old
Jacques Futrelle. He lived at Fleurbaix
n> those palmy days of MO when the front-
line trenches in that region were a home
,m ! lome - One day in August Fritz
suspecting an o.p. in the steeple of the vil-
age church, opened uj> a bombardment on
it our Jot sought shelter, and the majority
'V, ~t he civvies descended to the cobwebs iii
tneu cellars. From our funk-hole we noticed
a kid crouching in a shell-crater, about 20
yards from the door of the church, and
watching every plunk. Just as Smithy was
about to run and drag him to a safer spot
a •).•> hit the steeple fair and square. The
fragments were still falling when youn-*'
■Jacques scrambled out and ran towards the
IMPROVING HER EDUCATION.
“The worst experience I ever had, teas when
we ran out of port in a howling gale.”
Gracious! I thought sailors always drank
rum.”
church. His quick eyes sought among the
debus, and with a cry of triumph he pounced
on a prize and scuttled back to where some
Diggers were crouching behind a., sandbag
wall. In his hand the kid carried the
chanticleer weather-vane of the'' church
steeple. He’d been waiting for it to go.
* #• *
Admiral Jellicoe claims that the
i.ntjish are eclipsed in.generosity towards a foe
by the Maoris. At one meeting in M.L. where
the visitor expressed this sentiment, the
knighted Timi Kara was called lip to re-
spond to the compliment on behalf of his
People. _ Timi waved aside much of the
Admiral’s eulogy, but made the statement
that of the thousands of Maoris who went
to the big pakeha war not one was a con-
script. That is true. But it is disingenu-
ous. The whole gospel is that the Maoris,
like the Australians, would not have con-
scription. with the result that the great
Waikato tribe, which still hugs an old land
grievance, sent scarcely a man. On .the
other hand East Coast and Taranaki tribes
have lost heavily, because their warriors
rolled up to the call. Conscription would
not have stopped these men from going, any
more than it would have stopped good Aus-
tralians, but it would have made the shirkers
go with them. The “every-man-a-volunteer”
boast is one of the vanities that the war
and the desperate stake it was fought for
has stripped of its tinsel.
“Camelero”: If there’s any difficulty about
securing a monument to go over the graves
of my cobbers in Palestine, a suitable one
can be found at El Auja. When Australian-
mounted troops left Rafa to destroy the
Turkish railway from Beersheba to El Auja.
the Cameliers’ share of the job took them
to the latter place. Here the enemy had
built a model township which was to serve
as a garrison town on the borders of Pales-
tine and Egypt when the latter place had
been captured by the enemy. Portion of
the town had been erected on the site of a
Roman fortress, and ancient tunnels sheltered
the enemy during our numerous air raids.
Many fine buildings were still standing when
we arrived. In the centre of the town a
park had been laid out and bordered with
eucalypts. The other chief ornament was
a magnificent monument of black marble,
erected, it is said, in honor of the Sultan
of Turkey. If there is no objection to using
the thing, there’s a Digger’s graveyard
calling for it within 30 miles of El Auja.
*** * *
“Exile” (New York): One of the most
horrible results of prohibition in the United
States has been the official organisation by
the police of a special service bureau, com-
posed of thousands of civilian volunteers
sworn in to spy upon violaters of the Federal
law against alcohol. It is expected to be a
real secret police, the members of which will
hide their identity. In New York alone
special-police-commissioner Shaw, who is a
broker by trade, expects to enrol 7000 spies
and spotters, including men who have entry
to New York’s best clubs. These new agents
will not make arrests-—they will merely re-
port to headquarters about their neighbors.
Already several thousand dossiers have been
started. Three cheers for liberty !
“Spreader”: When the big hospital at Hay
(N.S.W.) was started about 25 years ago,
Tyson happened to pass through the town
on his annual inspection of Tupra, at that
time one of his largest sheep-runs. Ilis
bank pass-book was practically his only
account-book, and this always meant half a
day in the bank-manager’s office where he
made an inspection. On this occasion, when
business was over, Tyson asked A. I*.
Stewart, then manager, how the sub-
scriptions for the new hospital were
coming in, and suggested that he’d
like to make a donation. “Well, the
Learmonths have given £1000,” he was
told. “Quite right.” said Jimmy ; “but
you wouldn’t expect a poor man like
me to give that much?” “Oh,
well, anything you like to
give will he welcome, Mr.
Tyson.” “Well, I'll tell you
what I’ll do. You fill up a
cheque for what you think I
ought to give, and I’ll sign
it.” The banker, who' was
president of the hospital,
spent what to this day he
calls the most anxious three
minutes of his life. On one
hand was the hospital with
its urgent need of funds; on
the other the. bank’s most
valued customer, a million-
aire and a very easily offen-
ded man. When the cheque
was drawn out Tyson leaned
across the table, purposely covered the
amount with his left hand, picked up a pen.
S2/?'f a ti d the cheque back without
iooking at.it. ihe.amount was,£lso. Few
nn honames have shown more confidence in
in a t. m Q f nager . than T y so » did that dav
in A. I*. Stewart.
* *
“His Corporal” tells the story
Pan ' e t 0 US in Egypt when the ' v ar
Is and hi I'"" y f rS , OId ‘ He was ™ fc more than
vvp’vp What was on in the world
were quite infantile ; but he had one great object in
whoVi e i finding ° f BilL Bill was his elder brother
who had been in it pretty well ever since the start,
and had been reported missing after sdme miserable
1 t* l ® expedition over the sand. “I got to find Bill ”
said the Bantam, which was the name "we gave him
Mother says he’s above ground. She’s dreamed of
him every night, and he’s always above ground. So
I got to find him.” When a letter came from his
mother, “Wish to God I could meet someone knows
somethin about Bill” was all he said. ’He was
always asking—interviewed every man who had been
anywhere, and I came on him one day questioning a
dirty Egyptian donkey-boy. Then we had to get out on
the track of the old trouble, going over country
ALL'S NOT WELL WITH TEE WORLD.
“Oh, the sun's bright enough, but it don’t seem to hare any warmth."
"in the winter solstice the earth is over three million miles further from the source of
heat."
"Well, it shouldn't be. In winter we leant to get as close up to the heat as we can."
where we'd got hell a year before, and one day we
camped where there was plenty of evidence of a
kick-up. We saw a few nasty sights. Then a sergeant
came in with the information that the object we
could see hanging on the old barbed-wire was the
remains of an Aussie. Two of us were sent along
to look tip his identification disc. It wasn’t a nice
job. and we didn’t hunt too closely. We reported
no visible means of identification, and then came
the job of putting him underground. He was worse
than a skeleton, so when the hole was dug we drew
lots who was to hoist him in. The Bantam drew
the short straw. He cut the wire on both sides of
the poor bag of bones at some distance from the
corpse, drew the wires round in front, and just
dragged the remains into the hole, and we lost no
time in tamping him down. That afternoon when
W’e were dealing with a bucket of stew, the sergeant
came up to the Bantam, and said: “Take a grip of
yourself, youngster. I’ve just found this in the
tracks of that dead man. It must have fallen out
of his duds as you dragged him to the hole.” He
handed over an identification disc. The boy glanced
at it, turned a pale yellow, and pushed his stew T
away. He had found Bill!
‘'Hale'’: Gruesome possibilities are opened
up by, the experience of a colonel in Mel-
bourne. lie was called to Geelong on ac-
count of the illness of his brother-in-law,
who was suffering from influenza, but when
he arrived the man was dead. Eight hours
later, when the death certificate had been
made out and the “corpse” was lying in the
coffin, it sat up and said: “Give me a bottle
of beer, please.” When the first shock was
over the doctor was recalled and the patient
is now progressing favorably. Several simi-
lar cases have occurred in Victoria during
the epidemic, one “miracle” being performed
by a.distracted mother who refused to accept
the assurance of the doctor, and placed boil-
ing poultices on her daughter. The girl
spoke and has now recovered. These facts
suggest the, need for great care in the mat-
ter of burials from hospitals, where the chief
anxiety is to get rid of the body as soon as
possible.
Prohibition is the U.S.A.’s almighty dolor
for the time being.
“D.F.”: Apart from Dutch and French
claims to bits of Australia in the old days.
a demand was once put in on behalf
of U-ncle Sam., As lately ,as 1874 a
U.S.A. captain named Roberts landed
on the Lacepede Islands, off the West-
ralian coast, and took possession of
them for the U.S.A., claiming , that
they were outside the
th r e e-m i 1 e territorial
waters. Melbourne
people—-Poole, Picken
and Co.- —had a lease of
the Islands from the W.A.
. Government, and were
getting guano there. They
objected, and charged Roberts with tres-
pass ; and the Roejburne magistrate fined him
£lOO. The American Consul at Melbourne
was inclined to back. Roberts, but the U.S.A.
Government said'that he had no case, and
the sovereignty idea- fell through.
There are more, distressful places than
Australia. The Lord Mayor of Cork (Ire-
land), with a municipal employees’ strike
on hand, has said bitterly that the wages
have been raised 300 p.c. since 1014, and
the new demand would in some cases make
the rise 450 p.c. Rates were 18s. 6d. in
the £ of rental, and would have to go up
to 225. (Id. The jest lies in the fact that the
tenant pays municipal rates in the (’old
Country, so a rental of 10s. a week may he
21s. 3d. with rates. (Rates include big
items for police, education and care of the
Poor, which in Australia are looked after by
the central Government.) Therefore half
the wrath that falls on the landlord in Aus-
tralia is diverted, in Britain, to the Mayor,
a poor wretch who gets nothing out of the
business except the chance of being knighted.
The Cold Country landlord, unless he has
built on leasehold ground and is himself
rack-rented, can often do better than (In l
Australian and look almost philanthropic at
the same time. But in the big cities the
ground is usually owned by the Duke of
hoodie and the house-landlord is a tenant
himself, and quite possibly the alimony which
the Court has allowed to the Duchess of
Foodie makes even his Grace’s lot less gilded
than it looks. Within recent years a Court
has given as much as £13,000 a year separa-
tion allowance to the Duchess of Foodie,
and the costs were simply horrible.
* * * *
One of the oldest unions in Australia
has decided to drop its identity and merge
its misfortunes with those of a rival. The
Progressive Society of Carpenters was
formed in Sydney in 1845, when it called
itself Friendly instead of Progressive. It
was reduced to 17 members in 1858 owing
to the rush of members to the goldfields;
and in 1861 it became the Progressive. Now
it joins up with the Amalgamated Car-
penters’ Society,
which is an Empire
concern. The amal-
gamation affects
about 14,000 Aus-
tralian workmen.
HOW IT CAN BE MANAGED.
THE GIRLEEN: “A woman can't always be a
man’s first love, can she?”
THE MERE MALE: “That’s true. But she
can be his last—if he dies soon enough.”
H. 0.” : \ ictorian hat manufacturers say
they are being squeezed owing to the high
price of rabbit-skins. The Bunny Hug?
HOMEWARD BOUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All day I hear the throbbing
Of engines under steam;
At night the listless sobbing
Of waters flung a-beam.
While stranger-stars are lifting
And blazing in the south,
The breath of life is drifting
From Nature’s open mouth.
Oh! we are homeward cleaving
Ihiough tropic seas, and leaving
A soughing trail that echoes
A song which conquered drouth.
At times the south grows hazy,
CJrey clouds release the rain,
lhe storm-wind waxes crazy
IVith seas that strike amain;
Cut soon the voice of anger
Is soothed with tropic guile
Which breathes the breath of languor
On every placid mile.
Unchecked by hostile legions,
e sail through torrid regions
To zones where zephyrs ripple
tool waves that beam and smile.
The calm of peace is dwelling
l pon the ocean’s breast,
The evening breeze is swelling
White sails within the west;
And where the dusk is questing
Across the skyline bland,
Mine eyes may soon be resting
Upon my native land.
\\hen I am shoreward steaming
Uil greet the port-roofs’ gleaming,
And when a voice makes answer
My heart will Understand.
AT SEA.
GERARDY.


Limited
(Works : Parramatta)
are the One and Only Firm
of Meggitt Limited,
Manufacturers
of Genuine
and Pure
Australian-made
Linseed Oil.
Maintain Australian Industry.
Buy Your Share
of the Peace Loan
o
%
c?
\
*2
m
Q
\\
//
Catalogue No. 2 Mailed Free
Full particulars from Agents:—Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay, Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co.,
Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. W. Adams & Co., King Street,
Perth; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; or \
MEGGITT LTD
WORKS: PARRAMATTA.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia),
MEGGITTS
UNSEEOOiiMEAI
w
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.


Hotel c/e Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health andv
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/<i per day, or
£3/10/- j>er week.
, Tels.: Y3OOl, SOO2.
Apply •Manager.
Fencing Wire
GALVANISED—
No. i Gauge, £3O
per ton.
No. 10 Gauge, £32
ton.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne's Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
King George IV
WHISKY
ĥ
ħ
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE. PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
THE HARDEST WORK OF ALL.
BARMAID: “Get out, you loafer —I don't
suppose you've ever done a day's hard
work in your life."
SPONGER : “Madam, you wrong me. In my
young days I used to try to please
women."
Pick : The erroneous belief that native
wild flowers cannot be transplanted and cultivated
domestically should be rooted out. At Kiandra
(N.S.AY.) I once lobbed into the camp of a gullv-
rakcr who between times and as a hobby tended
a bed of feathery flowers commonly known as wild
violets. He had transplanted them from the bush
and by manuring and experimenting with varying
lights had increased th 6 blossoms to twice their un-
cultivated size. He had also varied their colors from
deep purple to pale pink. AVhen uprooted at the
fight season with a good-sized ball of undisturbed
soil about the roots, almost any bush plant will
renew its growth at a town address.
“Gleniris”: I have a more tragic bird-tale
than that of “Harrison o.’’ (B. 28/8./T9), who had
difficulty in persuading an errant sparrow to leave
his house. Lately I went off to the bush for a
week with the family, leaving the house to do its
own caretaking. When we returned there was a
dead magpie on the dining-room table—dead of
hunger and thirst. He had flopped down the chim-
ney and couldn’t get up again. His luck was
dead out, for he must have come down just after
we left—and we hadn’t been away from the place
for nearly two years. There are some gums just
outside the dining-room windows, inhabited by all
manner of birds, so the dawn of each miserable day
must have been a mirage-like and grievous experi-
ence for the unhappy prisoner.
* * * *
“Zanthus”: On August 19 Thomas Hunt
and his party blew into Hall’s Creek (W.A.) with
300-odd horses from Kapunda (S.A.). They started
out in February, and had covered over 2000 miles in
six months, with the loss of only 26 horses, 20 of
which went under in the 'first month. They did ore
stieteh of 135 miles without water, crossing it in
three days. A few miles out of Hall’s Creek one of
the drovers, Ned Corley, was drowned in a waterhole.
As there was a parson, a rare bird in those parts, visit-
ing Hall’s Creek, Ned had a Christian burial. Another
nice little droving trip is that of Farquharson brothers,
who have just taken 1000 bullocks from Hall’s Creek
light across the Northern Territory into Queensland.
’I hey had to cross the 135 miles dry stretch, but lost
only ciji'ht bullocks.
* * * *
’ D.F.”: Up in the north-east of Tas-
mania there has lately been dreadful slaughter of
possums. Some “ringtailers” have raked in as much
as i2OO for skins this winter. In the old days the
possum had peace except when the moon was full
oi near it, but shooters now make motor-lamps serve
when the moon is not on the job.
r ** * •
Y\ ui-hoi”: Between Cambridge and Ad-
miralty gulfs, top end of the Kimberleys (W.A.),
the wild and woolly myalls have a well-assorted
menu of ’roos, ducks, bandicoots and fat brolgas.
the rivers teem with fish, mostly a kind of black
bream, and in the lily-covered lagoons are barra-
mundi and other varieties. On the Drysdale I saw a
crowd of darkies land a good haul. They got some
roots of the fresh-water mangrove, bruised them
between stones, and chucked them into a billabong.
In next to no time scores of fish of all sizes floated
belly-uppermost to the top, doped by the poison in
the roots. I tried some of the catch and found
that the narcotic doesn’t affect the quality of the
flesh. In the smaller streams Binghi fishes with a
great, sausage-shaped contraption made of spinifex
grass, which is lolled over and over from the deep
to the shallow end of a pool, and the fish yarded
up the bank. High up the Forrest River I saw yet
another scheme being worked. Right across the
head of a billabong the blacks had a causeway of
big boulders, with an opening about 4ft. wide in the
centre. All hands and the cook kicked and splashed
around, driving the fish inside the rock enclosure.
Then Jaeky shut the door and it was a wildly-
excited mob that helped itself.
* * * *
“Wai-Hoe” : I’ll back the Melville Island
and Bathurst Island (N.T.) nig-, at turning lengths of
bark into canoes, baskets and the carry-alls which
Binghi and his missus use when they go shopping
within coo-ec of the Equator. The process
is something like this: A good strip is
peeled off a large eucalvpt and placed
over a very smoky fire and left for
a bout 10 minutes. This renders the
bark quite pliable and like a bit of
wot leather. The outside of the. bark
becomes the inside of a canoe, and is
clamped fore and aft . between pegs
driven into the ground, with spreaders
inside and stmts outside. Then each
end is stitched up with fibre, wax is
slapped over the stitching, and she's
right for the water. I saw a. bark
canoe 20ft. long, and holding four
heavy-weight bucks, having a regatta
on its own account down Apsley
Strait, which separates Melville Island
from Bathurst Island. Although 60
miles long the strait averages only
one mile across, and the tide race
is guaranteed to give the ordinary
white man the shivers; but the black-
fellows have the recipe for paddling across, against
or with the tearing; current.
* * * *
“Bush Med.”: “Caloola” (B. 31/7/’]9)
did not mention that a first-class bush ointment
is made by adding fresh lard (no salt) to his
marsh-mallow mess. Cut about 21b. of the plant
and boil for ten minutes in a quart of water.
Strain the water off and add about lib. of lard. Let
the mixture boil for a further ten minutes, and
when cool tin it up. It is much used by bush
mothers for cuts, bruises, burns and sprains.
Major Mitchell”: There were no eight-
hour principles on our selection. After about a week of
early rising for work and late knocking off for sleep
the new hand asked dad if lie kept any fowls
about the place. The boss answered that of course
lie did, at the same time pointing to the feathered
stock perched in the neilia trees. “ ’Strooth!” gasped
the bloke, “is them fowls? I thought they was
statues i Why. they’re there when I leave in the
mormn and they're there when I come ’ome at
night.”
THE OFFERTORY .
DIGGER (and incidentally two-up king): “’Arf a mo,' Whiskers. — you’ve got the lucky
coin me mother give me in that hag.”
WHISKERS: “What hind of a coin is it, my hoy?”
DIGGER: “ It’s a shiny brown with two ’ends on it.”
"Good Australian” from an alleged bone-
dry country:—
I have just received here a catalogue of furs for
sale by Funsten Bros, of St. Louis and Herzig & Co.,
of New York. The auction, lasting a fortnight, is
one of four great sales held in the season at St.
Louis, and the list embraces 4,304,331 skins! No
animal wearing hair seems to be outside the territory
of the furtrader. There are 44,000 liouse-eat skins,
000,000 mole skins and 881,000 muskrats’ coats.
But what most attracted my attention and ought to
till the eyes of every Customs officer in Australia, as
well as those of the Federal Attorney-General, were
these lots: —30,000 Australian fox, 36,000 wallaby,
3200 wombat. 50,000 Australian ringtail opossum,
200,000 Australian opossum, 500,000 Australian rab-
bits and 250,000 opossum. I'm wondering under
what name are hidden Norman Lindsay’s native-
bears. If the pothunters shoot 'possums by the
thousand they’ll kill koalas by the hundred.
* # * 4
‘‘Li Wood”: Very good tool-handles of the
tuart eiiealVpt are being tiirned out in Wes trail a
now. The tuart is & bit despised sometimes, perhaps
because it is easily got, but it is very strong and
gives tt good surface for handling.
» * * •
‘‘Agricola”: The yellow-box of the Western
slopes and Riverina (N.SAV.) holds the record as a
destroyer of axes. More blades break on green tim-
ber than on dry. Near Carabost (N.SAV.) 10 years
ago three fencers were putting up a division line,
and in one place a big, green yellow-box got in the
way. Rather than cut the tree down, they decided
to chop in a foot. In the process they broke the
faces of all their axes, and finished the job with a
mattock and an adze. The tree is decorated to this
day with the remains of the three axes, which ttie
fencers drove into the bark and left there, as a
testimonial to its toughness. A remarkably-twisted
knot in the wood is responsible for (he casualties.
“Goiigcr”: Up our way (Far N.Q.) the
niggers’ insides 'are armor-plated. The bones of
wild turkeys, bandicoots and wallabies arc never
thrown away. Binghi just roasts the animal, cats
the flesh, then gives t lie bones a few bard knocks
with a stone and gulp's them. Fish-bones follow'’the
same route. Some of the tribes reckon that by eat-
ing tlie bones of a young kangaroo the consumer
becomes able to run very fast; by swallowing the
framework of a dingo he grows very cunning; and
by getting outside the bones of a wild boar he grows
eery strong and brave. Now you’ve got the recipe.
* * * *
"Billy T.” : Caldwell and Mrs. Morgan
had cleared out while Dan was away in the hills
with Creed’s prospecting party. They had taken
everything but the paper off the walls, and now
they were, living with John Morgan’s furniture in a
cottage at Pegleg, where Caldwell had a job at the
furnace. But they were none too comfortable,
being haunted by the fear of John turning up one
of these days and doing mischief, a tiling he was
well capable of, as both remembered. “Morgan’s
a quiet man,” said Mary, “but it don’t keep him
from breakin’ things.” “Mind the time he cleaned
out Andy’s bar,” replied Coldwell in doleful corrobora-
tion, “just because Andy give him wrong change
for a quid'?” Mrs. Morgan nodded in gloomy ap-
prehension. “And many another time I remember
well,” she said. Even when six months had
passed with no appearance of John, the guilty pair
still had their uneasy moments. “He’s a long-
memoried man,” said Mary, “and don’t need to be
talkin’ of a thing to keep it in mind.” “Damn
him!” added Caldwell. Then one Sunday morning
who should come marching up to their cottage door,
stalwart and square, and with a face no more ex-
pressive than a water-melon, but John Morgan?
John, who carried a small parcel, walked straight
into the kitchen, and stood by the table, while
Caldwell and Mary went back against the further
wall, regarding him much as they might have looked
upon a famished tiger that had just dropped in to
dinner. “I’ve bin lookin’ for you for inunce,” he
said, and laid the parcel on the table. “You left
somethin’ behind you. So I bin lookin’ for you.
I was afraid you might feel lonesome without it.'’
"Then Morgan turned about and walked out, and off up
the street. For a time Mary and Caldwell regarded
the parcel with dire forebodings, but at length the
mail Ventured to cut the string. Gingci'ly he removed
the paper, and Cautiously he lifted the lid of tin:
wooden box. Then he stood back in blank perplexity.
The box contained the cat.
“Wandi”: “Darling Pea” is a colloquial-
ism out back for madness—“ He’s got Darling pea’’;
that is, has rats. The superstitious leave the beauti-
ful flower alone, for there is a saying that anyone who
picks it will not get away from the river for seven
years. The Darling lily is another distinguished
vegetable. From the bulbs an excellent arrowroot,
it obtained, the product being readily sold in times
of stress. When carriage in bad seasons makes flour
expensive, or delivery Of 'supplies is delayed, the
Darling lily is a good stand-by.
HIS MISTAKE.
“ ’Sense language, m’ dear, I thought you
(hie) were a taxi.”
“Paul Cupid”: In B. 21/8/19 a for-
mula of mine for deliairing' and tanning wallaby
skins was marred either by my haste or by the lino.’s
devilry. Anyhow, 2oz. of sulphuric acid to the
lightning tanning mixture was missing. Lest any
hunter should spoil liis pelts I dash in more hastily
than ever to apologise and to offer to pay all damage
the first time I have some spare money.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE SAVING GIFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Eve youth takes wings, forsaking me,
And leaves me lone with Age,
Give me the Freedom of the Hills,
Man’s ancient Heritage;
1 crave the friendship of the birds,
The kinship of the trees
That greet all understanding folk
With kindly courtesies.
Though some contented are to tread
A straight and narrow groove,
Give me the Freedom of the Plains,
Wherein to breathe and move;
For though ’tis said of rolling stones
They gather little moss,
Wtien all is in the crucible
What's gold and what is dross ?
Old instincts are but covered fires
That flash to flame anew;
Give me the Freedom of the Seas
That in time’s twilight drew
My forefolk from their ancient shores
With strange, enchanting spells,
When singing to the rhythmic waves
They launched their coracles.
Since all I am and all I have
Shall fade and fail like mist,
Give me the Freedom of the Winds
That wander where they list,
Mow north, now south and now where dawn,
Red roses on her breast,
Gomes up the skies, and now where moon
And sim go down to rest.
All things that sing, all shining shapes,
All Nature’s gifts far-flung—
Tall hills, wide seas, lit plains, lolid winds-
They make and keep ns young;
For if our spirits, like our flesh,
Beneath grim Time’s decree,
Grew old, and crouched by dying fires,
Oh, woeful it would be!
N.B.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


PALING’S PIANOS
and PLAYER PIANOS.
Over 66 years of the right
kind of experience is at the
back of the Pianos we sell.
This is a record hard to
equal in Australia, and an
old-established house such as
ours has unequalled facilities
for stocking Pianos and
Player Pianos of the finest
make and highest quality.
We cannot afford to lose
our high reputation for
honest instruments.
■
EASY TERMS IF DESIRED
Old Pianos taken In exchange at their utmost honest valuation.
We sell Pianos, Player Pianos. Organs, Violins,
Banjos, Cornets, Flutes, Harps, Gramophones,
Phonographs, and Everything Musical from a
Violin String to a Full Set of Band Instruments.
Catalogues Free for A.sKing,
If you are thinking of
a Player Piano, remember
it is necessary to have a
“good” Player, one that will
enable you to play as artisti-
cally as a highly-finished
pianist.
These are the kind of
Players we stock —Players
that will always give you the
utmost satisfaction.
Please write for our Art
Catalogue and particulars,
post free.
W. H. PALING <a CO. LTD
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba and Lismore.
GLORIOUS NEWS
for those woolgrowers and contractors who have been unable to get Cooper Air-cooled Handpieces
for the past several seasons, owing to the demand being greater than we could supply.
ANOTHER SHIPMENT OF NEARLY 2000 of these
Famous vccpefr Air-cooled Handpieces
has just arrived, and, if orders are now placed promptly, immediate
despatch can be made.
Never in the history of engineering has a machine of any description stood out on its own
above all others in such a prominent way as this Cooper Air-cooled Handpiece has during
tm
m
MS
m:
The Cooper Air-cooled Handpiece is a world-beater when it conies to the number of sheep it will
shear before requiring any attention or replacement of duplicates of any kind. Many contractors
have advised us of Cooper Air-cooled Handpieces having shorn more than 12,000 sheep before opening
or refitting a single part.
The shearers like it because they can go straight ahead for many runs without stopping to have their
handpieces adjusted. Contractors like it because it saves time and hastens the cut-out. Wool-
growers like it because it requires very little experting and absolutely costs from 50 per cent, to
75 per cent, less in upkeep than any other machine on the market. Hundreds of woolgrowers have
found it a saving in both time and money to purchase new Cooper Handpieces, which will work
perfectly on any shearing gear, rather than to spend money in buying duplicates and repairing
their older-type machines.
the past several seasons, not
only throughout Australia
but throughout the entire
wool-growing world.
The above is more remark-
able in view of the several
splendid shearing machines
on the market that have
shorn sheep well and satis-
factorily for many years
past.
Our illustrated Catalogue
will make it clear to you at
a glance just why this Hand-
piece runs so smooth, light
and economically. Wire or
post us your order now. The
machines are uncondition-
ally guaranteed to give
satisfaction.
Cooper Engineering' Co. Ltd.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
430 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Aust. Imp. &H. F. Co., ADELAIDE. Clarke & Fauset, Ltd., BRISBANE. G. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., PERTH N.Z. Loan and M. A. Co.,
Ltd., ROCKHAMPTON, TOWNSVILLE, HUGHENDEN. Buchanan, Davidson & Co., HOBART. Hart & Sons, LAUNCESTON.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE —
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH —
360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A, BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
GX -
'*
" <o >
302
MilsK
mm
m
■
h
ĥ
CJOC*
mmm,
B SSI
ħ
Our Delicious Chocolates—
FUSSY GIRL
Fancy Boxes.
FUSSY CAKES
Vanilla, Nut and Nut Milk.
OTHER EXCLUSIVE LINES
IN FANCY BOXES—Louise
(very large), Sepia, You’re in
Love, Tableaux and Birthday.
Equal to Best Imported.
CONFECTION IN PERFECTION.
Wholesale only—
McINTYRE BROS., Melbourne.
Inter-State Agents ;
DAVID BLASHKI, Pitt Street, Sydney.
MADDOX & LAURENCE, Perth
J. P. WILSON LTD., Brisbane.
W. R. LANCSFORD, Adelaide.
“Bung”: Recently a Bulletin para-
graphist announced the butchering of a sheep that
weighed when dressed 2351 b., and lie claimed that
as a record. It wasn’t. At Carwoola station
(N.S.W.), then owned by Forster Rutledge, a prize
Lincoln ewe, sold to a Goulburn butcher, pulled the
beam to 2801 b. after being made ready for the cook.
A HAPPY AUGURY.
PARSON (to parishioner on eve of his first
visit to the metropolis): "Well, good-
bye, John; Eve no doubt, you'll find the
people in Melbourne very hospitable."
JOHN: "By cripes, pairs! Look at the recep-
tion they give . Billy Hughes."
“Rab” : The rabbit has crossed Australia
and reached the Indian Ocean, in spite of AVestralia’s
alleged rabbit-proof fences. A few weeks ago a dog
caught a half-grown one just outside Bunbury, and
a second was caught in the same place a few days
later.
HE GOT OVER IT.
THE PASSENGER: "Why, only three months
ago my doctor told me I'd soon be lying
there!"
“O’North”; Here’s a way to remove an
obstruction from a rifle-barrel. Take the bullet
from a live cartridge and replace with paper tightly
packed. Fill the barrel with water—from the
obstruction to a point as near as possible to the
blame cartridge. Discharge rifle downwards and your
trouble is blown out. The water acts as a non-
compressible rod. The bore is not damaged in any
way. I have no insurance policy, so I haven’t tried
the method on a shot-gun, but the comparative
frailness of its barrel is not likely to militate
against the success of the method.
“Merops”: The rabbit cat which I was
acquainted with had head and forepart like puss and
the hindquarters of the bunny species. It used to
come into the dining-hut at St. Hubert’s vineyard
(Vic.) in 1897, when supper was on. It would eat
scraps of meat thrown down, but was off at once
at any movement towards it. It used to sit up and
lope along like a rabbit and it lived in the wood-
heap. Scientists say that flesh-eating and grain-
eating animals will not cross breed, but if this beast
is not a cross it was an extraordinary freak.
“D.F.”: John Withnell, of ltoebnurne,
who in 1901 published a pamphlet about the abo-
rigines of the Westralian Nor’-West, asserts" that they
sometimes cured meat by cutting it into strips and
drying it in the sun. It was tough stuff, but was
pounded between stones before being eaten. These
abos. wanted a good catch before they had any meat
to spare, for Withnell says that many a man among
them could eat a 30lb. kangaroo in three meals.
He has a yarn, too, about their catching hawks by
hand. The blacks, he says, would tie a small bush-
rat to the end of a stick about 2ft. long, light a fire
to attract the hawks, and then hide in a patch of
spinifex, holding the rat stick in one hand and a
club in the other. When the hawk swooped on the
rat they knocked him silly with the club.
* * * *
“Kay Ken”: It was at a welcome
in Ragg’s barn to young Bill Ragg, who had reached
home that afternoon after four years’ helping to
put the kybosh on the Boche. About midnight the
lady, ibegaji to shift the supper-table and forms to
provide floor space for dancing, and presently all
hands started up “We Won’t Go Home Till Morning.”
Old Ragg’s bellowing and violent gesticulations
stopped the song. “No, you don’t!” he roared,
dowsing one of the kerosene lamps. “You all git
home now an’ give Bill a chance to have a bit of
sleep. He’s getter be up at five and give us a hand
with the milking.”
“Rob D.”: I’m puzzled by a beetle about
an inch long, with a hard shell, in color like burnt
steel or iron that has been in the fire. He comes
out of the red-hot coals of a fired box-tree, and if
he alights on you he will burn as much as if he was
a coal. I have a theory that the eggs have been
laid in the tree trunk, and are hatched by heat.
“Mulga”: The brumbies that “Yarrum”
(B. 31,/7/’l9) saw wheeled so easily
must have included mares and foals.
The lord of the harem would keep
such a mob together, and this would
check the pace; but let “Yarrum”
trail a stallion with half a dozen
young mares, and I’ll guarantee he
will have the ride of his life to even
wheel them towards the long wings
of a brumby yard. Even when the
wild horses were numerous, the idea
oi running them was abandoned in
favor of shooting, for the simple
reason that too many good domestic
nags were ruined in proportion to
the brumbies yarded. Many a bush-
man made good money shooting
brumbies. If possible a foal was first
shot, and though the mob would go
on the mother would stop. In a
few minutes the mob would return,
the stallion having rounded them up
and brought them back to the mare.
The shooter could then pick them off
one by one, the male getting his
quietus last, if he got it at all. The
reason for the wild moke having more
endurance than the domesticated corn-
fed prad is not hard to find. The
former is in his natural element, bush
timber and country, and will go over
logs and fallen trees untiringly and
unceasingly. The home-bred moke, on
the other hand, knocks itself out in
the timber. There is only one mount
for brumby-running, viz., the station-
bred stockhorse that has never sniffed
a cornbag, and even then it requires
one or the best, as well as a daring
and skilful horseman, for when
danger is scented the brumby wijl
naturally make to the roughest and
most heavily timbered country.
* * #
“W.11.1’.”: Can any Abo. undergraduate
give me the best treatment for small white worms
in horses ?
* * # *
“J. Ohn”: The tree-fern referred to by
“Gouger” (B. 29/5/’l9) and by “E. Dith” (B.
5/6/’l9) is no doubt the ztimia palm, of which there are
thousands of many varieties south from Mackay (Q.),
What “E. Dith” calls the “pineapple-shaped fruit” is
in reality a new bunch of seeds; this presently opens
out and hangs like large green dates all round the
trunk. It is these berries that cause rickets when
eaten by cattle. Many of the trunks are 10ft. high.
Cattle eat the vegetable only when grass is scarce.
* * * *
: Here’s the best recipe of the
lot for cleaning a strong pipe. Poke out thoroughly
and soak overnight in a thin solution of a pinch of
Condy’s crystal in a pint of water.
* * * *
“Pick”: Before attempting to induce
Monaro (N.S.W.) to try currant- and raspberry-
growing for market, “Te Whare” (B. 31/7/’l9) had
better think out a scheme for eradicating the beetle
which has hitherto prevented any
success there in berry culture, even
for home use. He (the beetle, not
“Te Whare”) is a flattish, oval-shaped
citizen about half an inch in size and
of two varieties, one yellow and
black, the other carmine with black
spots. He attacks the fruit when it
is ripening, and rarely does a house-
wife gather sufficient afterwards fof
jams or jellies. I don't know the
scientific name of this very common
pest, but, because he harbors among
beehives, where, perhaps, he dines
upon bees, he is sometimes called
locally the bee-eater bug. At other
times he is called—but this has nothing to do with it.
* * * *
“Melos” : I appear in defence of the wedge-
tailed eagle, arraigned by “FY7” (B. 31/7/’l9).
Many prominent sheep-breeders state that this bird
is not a lamb-slayer; others declare that, in the
absence of its customary food, wedge-tail samples
jumbuek, but these lapses are not so frequent as to
constitute a menace. A. S. Le Souef, Director of
Sydney Zoo, says:—
The eagle (wedge-tail) is a clever hunter ; but indi-
vidual birds vary in temperament. Sortie will go
for the easy prey whenever it offers, such as the car-
case of a lamb; others will keep to the native
game, which has to be hunted and killed in a
fight. These latter constitute the majority. Some
birds become confirmed lamb-killers, just as we get
man-eating tigers, etc.
Dudley Le Souef, of Melbourne, in support of his
contention that the eagle is “maligned without just
cause,” recently published a paper containing notes
from men who have had much experience of these
birds in the sheep country. Here are a few: —
F. P. Austin, Cobbora estate (N.S.YV.) : “I have
never known of a single lamb being killed by eagles.
There are always a fair number of birds about here
and they do good by killing rabbits. I have
examined scores of nests, but have never found the
remains of a lamb in them.”
E. R. Caldwell, Gilgi, Pampas (N.S.W.) : “I have
never known the eagle to kill a lamb.”
R. A. D. Hood, Hexham (Vic.): “I do not think
that they ever attack strong lambs; they may kill
weak ones left behind by the mothers.” *
G. L. Dennis (Vic.) and A. C. V. Bligh (Q.) tes-
tified in the same strain.
I have seen the offal of hundreds of bullocks thrown
to pigs in an open run in eagle-infested country, but
have rarely seen the birds at the banquet. The
inference is that wedge-tail prefers to have his meal
where there is no interference, although I have seen
a large specimen dining on a very-dead horse that
was providing a blow-out for a sow and her brats.
Some years ago at Rushford, Clarence River, a
wedge-tail became interested in a sickly lamb, but
retired when man interfered. He was later on shot,
and his wing-spread was found to be Bft. 7in.
“Te Whare”: As a God-fearing, non-
shikkering Abo. let me discourse briefly anent
“C.G.’s” strange reptiles dug up from “silurian
deposit” (B. 14/8/’l9). I am pretty certain that the
squirmers were blind snakes, of which about 20
species inhabit Australia. One I dug up in an old
garden at Sydney some years ago resembled a
gigantic earthworm, was pinkish in coloring, and.
as in all the genus, the head was ill-defined and
scarcely distinguishable. They are quite harmless
and are said to be useful insect destroyers, and in-
clude the destructive white-ant in their diet.
* * * *
“A.Y.”: With the gradual disappearance
of the sub-tropical brushes from the N. S. Wales
North Coast a host of beautiful birds have vanished.
The one whose disappearance 1 regret most is the
bublo-Mary pigeon. Forty years ago the fig brushes
near the main rivers still abounded with these most
remarkable birds. They were as good in size and
quality as any of the native pigeons ; but it is not
only on account of their food value that they deserve
notice. They had in their feathers the most gor-
geous and artistic blending of color it is possible lo
imagine—purple, gold and green in innumerable
shades. The bird received its name from its call—
“bub-100, bub-100, maroo” —uttered far more dis-
tinctly than any “talking” bird could be trained to
pronounce it.
* * * *
The story of an expedition in search of
fresh meat, told by the late Tame Parata, M.11.1t.
(M.L.), to Judge Chapman:—
In 1830, when the sanguinary raids of Te
Rauparaha in the Wellington, Nelson and Canter-
bury districts were coming to an end, the Maori
Napoleon made his final campaign down the east
coast of the South Island. To complete the destruc-
tion of its inhabitants his lieutenant, Te Puoho, con-
ducted a series of similar raids down the west coast.
The crowning scheme of Te Puoho was to cut his way
across the Southern Alps and through the centre of
the region now called Otago, reappearing at Foveaux
Straits. He told his friends that the people of the
South were soft, and that lie intended to capture a
lot of them and bring them back as cattle. With
this in view he constructed a great stockyard with
high log walls before he left to make his round-up.
Crossing the Great Divide, Te Puoho suddenly
appeared with an overwhelming force at Makarora,
the kaianga at the head of the Wanaka. Every per-
NOT TO PURSUE THE ARGUMENT.
NURSIE: "Well, I attended your poor dear
mother afore she died; and your father
afore lie died. But little did I think I
would be 'ere attending you afore — er-
er—will you — er —'ace your medicine
now?"
son living there was captured, and no Maoris have
dwelt in the interior since then. The whole party, with
the captured “cattle,” went up the Lug-gate and over
the mountains to the Kawarau. Thence they inarched
up the Nevis, at the back of the Remarkable*, over
the end of that range, to the place where Kingston
now stands, and down to the Mataura. At Tuturau,
on the Mataura, they were, however, met and de-
feated, Te Puoho being shot at the door of a ichare
which he had occu’oied., So the “cattle” were rescued,
and, instead of the southern men being driven into
the stockyards prenared for them, the surviving
northerners were made slaves^ —all except about 40.
THE BUSHMAN’S WIFE,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My husband’s down the Castlereagh,
He’s got a job of clearin’ ;
’Twas sickness in the summer took
The money he earned shearin’,
Then things were slack for months an’ months,
The bills they kept on growin’,
An’ half the night I stay asvake
An’ think of what we’re owin’,
Though goodness knows I’m tired enough—
The days seem never endin’ —
With washin’ up an’ serubbin’ out
An’ fixin’ up an’ mendin’.
The children’s clothes are all in rags,
I’m sick an’ tired of patchin’
With scraps of cloth and bits of things—
I’ve got no chance of matcliin’.
Our waterhole has given out,
An’ now I'm water-cartin’
(Their father fixed the sledge and c-ask
The day that he was startin’).
It’s thick as mud and red as blood,
It isn’t fit for drinkin’—
I'm tired of work an’ tired of life ;
Most tired of all of thinkin’.
An Afghan hawker camped the night—
I thought my nerves were breakin’.
His white -teeth gleamed, his black eyes glowed,
.An’ oh! my heart was achin’.
An’ up the road and down the road
My eyes an’ ears were strainin’,
My heart was thumpin’ at my ribs
Till it was almost painin’;
I never went to bed that night,
But kept a big fire goin’—
I heard the mailman rattle past
An’ heard the rooster crowin’.
An’ 1 have got a constant dread,
A nervous kinder feelin’,
That they will stop our credit at
The store where we are dealin’.
1 cannot read or sew at night—
AVe have no oil or candles —
An’ all my china plates are gone,
My cups have lost the handles.
My husband’s down the Castlereagh;
He wrote a letter sayin’
That things were only middlin’ there,
Tlie contract isn’t payin’.
A whirlwind lifted half the roof,
All day it keeps on flappin’,
An’, if a breeze springs up at night,
A mournful kinder tappin’.
It filled the place with dust an’ leaves,
An’ where the clothes were dryin’
It caught the sheets an’ twirled them round,
An’ sent the towels flyln’.
For seven years we’re waitin’ now,
I don’t know why we’re stayin’—
I’m tired of work, I’m tired of life,
I'm almost tired of prayin’.
N.S.W.
JIM RAHAME.


\
m
c /n
m
&
vS'
'©
yj bsoi,
Qf e/,
V/o.
o/y/ t
' a s-
■Pc
*7.
rvx
t/y
§s
m>
ciGAßcfrs.
fc>
/V
*y
o
1
0
CIGARETTES
Possess that charming; individuality that
is so appealing; to many thousands of our
Australasian friends. Quality same as usuaI—
“JUST PERFECT.”
®number®
D
n
'O
THE RED PACKET


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
s
: S
OUL
COLDS
D
CROUP
LUNG
TROUBLE
Ift
COUCHS
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
w
on the work in hand to listen. It is only
when, tired and perhaps discouraged, the
objective mind takes a rest that the idea
gleams before the mental eyes of the
dreamer. And so the singing thought is
seized, at last by the workaday mind, which
is skilled in shaping it to human purposes.
But, except in cases of genius, there is a
sad waste of deathless ideas that are not
seized, and shaped ere they pass away.
On this hypothesis we may understand
why writers lose their punch as the years go
on. For one thing, youth listens more
eagerly to voices heard in dreams. Yet that
is not all. Success puffs the mortal mind,
the outside mind, that does the visible work
and wins the praise and reward ; and work
wearies it. >So it listens less and less to
the singing thoughts that are offered to it.
Inflated by its importance, it puts forth bril-
liant efforts, efforts that its training has
enabled it to make to look like gold. They
sing because, from every thought that the
inner mind sends out to be passed on. a little
remains in the outer mind in the passing,
and gradually it becomes more uplifted. Yet
the day comes at last when people say, “This
singer is done, his songs are sung.” At 40,
it has been argued, one should cease to write,
except in prose. But. inspiration knows no
time or age. If the mind is kept young and
ready to listen, there will be singing thoughts
to hark to right to the brink of the grave—
and the singing thoughts will still sing on
even after that.
WILL LAWSON.
A Consul from the Congo
The student of African affairs who buys
I'ii. Term*, au Congo lielgr, by Henri
Segaert, Belgian Consul at Sydney, in the
hope of striking sensations will merely en-
counter disappointment. There is nothing
about Red Rubber in it, and it produces a
vague impression that cannibalism has been
overcome from Tanganyika to the Atlantic
under the benign influence of the Belgian
Government. Benignity—that is the key-
note running through the book. But it is
tempered with even-handed justice. In this
connection M. Segaert introduces us to one
of the most satisfactory criminals imagin-
able. Standing with the rope round his
neck, waiting to be pushed into eternity,
this admirable savage remarks: “I am about
to be killed by the whites because I killed
m.v wife. Once one was in a position to do
such things, but now the whites forbid it.
My brothers, obey their laws so‘ that you
may not be treated like me.” The author
reaches the Belgian Congo by Durban.
Jo’burg (whose luxury delights him) and
Elizabethville, whose red-brick villas, Con-
tinental meals and electric lights astound
him. The only stone he has to cast in the
way of serious criticism is at Boma, the
capital. He disapproves on aesthetic grounds
of the mean stalls covered with plankings
or galvanised-iron which are the city’s shops.
and equally of the hideous concrete barracks
in which the officials live. This book proves
either that the Congo has vastly altered for
the better in recent years; or that E. D.
Morel is a liar; or that M. Segaert wasn’t
allowed to see as much as previous travel-
lers. The reader can take his choice.
“Cold Tea and Blank Verse”
Rupert Atkinson’s “A Nocturne” (noticed
briefly in B. 2S/8/-10) challenges attention
for three reasons —its interesting preface,
its excellent illustrations and the short
tragedy itself, which has been written for
production under the novel conditions of the
Cinema Stage. What is. the Cinema Stage?
The preface tells us :
It combines ,the features of both stage and
cinema, which are merged in each other as in a
cyclorama, and between which there is so much
interaction as to unify stage and screen into a
fresh vehicle possessing the limitations of neither.
We are also told that this novel method of
producing drama at present “enjoys pro-
tection throughout the British Dominions
and in the United States of America, and
proceedings have been instituted for the
acquirement of patent rights.” Here, then,
is a purely-Australian enterprise, with at
least a hint of big possibilities in it.
Then there are the illustrations. Two of
them. Surely the Red Page critic must have
overlooked them? M. Napier Waller drew
these two very striking midnight scenes—
with his left hand. Every reader of The
Bulletin knows why Waller now draws
with his left hand—because the other was
blown away at Bulleeourt. His right hand
was trained by McCubbin and Bernard Hall;
he himself, recovering in hospital, taught
his left hand to draw these two sketches,
of their kind as good as anything he has
done.
The writer of the Red Page notice says
“the metre is well-handled.” The praise is
misplaced. Why should drunken men talk
blank verse? And on an ultra-modern stage,
too—a patent-protected theatre-cinema stage !
Even on Shnkspeare’s stage they never did
that. Metric form without emotion is a
horribly dead thing—as dead as Adam was
before God breathed into him. It must be
admitted that if drunkards ever do talk
blank verse, this is just the sort they would
talk. All the same, their uninspired misery
would be better expressed in honest, thick
prose. But there are some poignant pas-
sages in which fine thought fills out the form
—passages which almost justify the Red
Page’s criticism of Atkinson’s earlier work,
when it said that “he has imagination, and
the audacity to envisage vast conceptions.”
And the play itself? The tragedy of a
great soul blasted to Hell by its own weak-
ness is familiar to us all. Occasionally it
begs threepence from us; more rarely it mur-
ders wife, child, friend. It is a phase of
humanity’s infinite suffering, and as such is
a legitimate theme for art. So it is stupid
to call this play “a choice morsel for the
liquor-reformer”—as stupid as it would be
to gibe at “The Rape of Lucrece” or “The
Cenci” because they are doubtless regarded
as “choice morsels” by Social Purity
societies. Hence the statement that the play
is “obviously untrue” is obviously untrue.
AYhen Atkinson makes his particular drunk-
ard kill his friend he does not suggest that
drink invariably leads on to murder, any
more than Shakspeare and Shelley suggest
that natural desire must end in rape or
incest.
With America gone dry, and Australia’s
vineyards threatened, the question of how
to abolish the drunkard has become the
supreme question of social politics. So
Atkinson’s tragedy appeals just as -much to
the normal man who believes in the tempe-
rate use of wholesome liquor as it does to
the poor drink-soddened Prohibitionist crav-
ing for drugs and methylated spirits. It
should draw bumper houses. Good luck
to it!
D. O'R.
A Satchel of Books
Two Many Crooks, bv E. J. Rath (Grosset and
Dunlap, New York), is one of those American books
which should be buried in the U.S. A budding
dramatist requires color for a “crook” play. She
invites a well-assorted number of the fraternity to
her father’s house for observation. The characters
are very “filmy,” arid the slang is as charming as
a hydraulic hammer:—
“Next time you go out on a rally I’ll frame
you. Do you get that ?.... You’re a hot yegg?
You’re not even a ring-up for one.... Going to
snuff a drum all by yourself, eh? And you got
a rumble... .And then a bunch of hick bulls lam
out after you, and you flag it for here... .What
do you pack a rod for? Next time you bring a
bunch of bulls and a flock of sausages up to this
joint you won’t get planted; you’ll get ditched 1
And if X catch you stowing any move soup around
here it’ll be over the river for yours. Or any dooley
either... .You’re no box-man; you’re just a bum....
If the old one gets wise you started a mattance
outside he’ll climb you 1.... Why, you couldn’t work
with a bunch of moll-buzzers. You couldn't fan
the Statue of Liberty without waking her up!”
The yarn was probably written to catch the eye of
some film co.’s director; but these scenarios dis-
guised as novels make awful reading.
Men in Hattie, by Andreas Latzko (C'assell and Co.,
London), a collection of six masterly stories. We
have had the patchy genius of Barbusse, who pre-
sented a depressing succession of horrors whose mes-
sage did not penetrate much further than the eye.
But “Men in Battle” make an extraordinary appeal
to the emotions, which a mere edifice of horrors, no
matter how artisticallv built, could never accom-
plish. With the second story alone, “Baptism of
Fire,” Latzko—an Austrian, by the way—would have
achieved fame. The fourth story, “My Comrade,” is
the very apotheosis of artistic horror, and the vision
of the “Red Laugh,” in Andrejev’s famous story, was
a pleasant dream compared with that of Lieutenant
Kador in “A Hero’s Death,” the fifth yarn of the
series.
The Inky Way
Mrs. May Vivienne, who surely now must
be the mother of all Australian women-
writers, hasn’t finished yet. She lives in
Adelaide these days, and is engaged on yet
another Westralian book.
“S.T.S.”: With the highest admiration
for the old-Sydney stories of J. H. M.
Abbott, I want to ask him (in confidence)
whether people a century ago really
stripped “off” and were seen “in” swimming
(B. ,14/8/’19). Many harshly-judged
Americanisms of to-day—“gotten,” “good
and angry,” “peek,” and so on—are just old
English expressions that have lingered on in
the U.S.A. after England (barring perhaps
some remote county had abandoned them;
but the two above quoted are supposed to be
quite modern turns of speech, of the super-
fluous-preposition Yankee brand.
Comparing the letters censored by him
during the war, an English army chaplain,
Capt. the Rev. William Field, of Ports-
mouth, says he found that Scottish soldiers’
letters were matter-of-fact, Irish illiterate,
Welsh flowery and English simple. Do-
minion letters were more robust —Canadian
brief and blunt, Maoriland affectionate and
homely, and Australian well-written, their
literary style, clean-cut sentences, excellent
command of language, good grammar and
pronounced originality, generally' speaking,
being excellent. He expresses the hope that
few, if any, of the English soldiers’ letters
have fallen into enemy hands, for “Germany
would be filled with disgust at the educa-
tional system which produced such slender
and even wretched results.”
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The first news-
paper published in Australia was the Sydney
Gazette, March G, 1803; the first in Van
Diemen’s Land, the Derwent Star, January
8, 1810; the first in Launceston, the Adver-
tiser. February 9, 1829. The Advertiser
was “printed and published by the pro-
prietor, John Fawkner, jun.,” later knowm
as John Pascoe Fawkner, the founder of
Melbourne, and the first to issue a MS. news-
paper on the bank of the Yarra, the Port
Phillip Advertiser, January 1, 1838. in
1830 a MS. journal appeared in Fremantle
(W.A.). The Perth Gazette was first
issued January 5, 1833. The first in South
Aus.—June 6, 1837—was the South Aus-
tralian Gazette and Colonial Register.
It was the second number of the paper; the
first was published in London, June 18,1836,
in anticipation of the projected settlement
of S. Australia.
“Peter”: It was a humorous coincidence
that the Argus should express a mild plea
for the Australian dramatist on the same
day that the Age lifted up almost a bold
voice for the Australian storyteller. But the
Argus only remembered the local playwright
after expressing polite boredom at the awful
invasion of American plays into Australia,
whereas the Age devoted' a whole leader to
the local scribbler and his brethren, the
painter and musician. In recording the
platitude about local Art having to fight
Indifference, the Age didn’t mention that in
the one department where it could give en-
couragement it has notoriously failed. A
good portion of its Saturday supplement is
scissored, and from time immemorial its
serials have been syndicated and alien thrill-
ers. , It is a diverting commentary on the
Age’s literary policy that it hires the pen of
a promising yarn-spinner, Roy Bridges, who
has fathered several novels, but has appa-
rently never been invited to supply one
serially for his present employer.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Zanthus”: Mow close does this go to a
record onion and potato crop? Just outside
Fremantle (W.A.) F. Simper grew 27 tons
9cwt. onions and 9 tons potatoes on one
acre of land, with the help of plenty ol
water. Next year the crop was poorer, and
he got only 40 tons onions and 15 potatoes
from two acres.
* * * *
“Araminta” : Housewives are beginning to
recover some of their lost affection’ for the
old-fashioned round dining-table—the hunch
of timber with a handsomely-grained top and
ornamental knees. "Pieces” which couldn’t
be profitably made and retailed now for £lO
are often picked up by hungry .jobbers for
a sovereign and sold off at a superb profit.
The new idea is apparently that the old
tables save the expensive damask
which the four-cornered dining-elephants eat.
* * * •
“Gullabong”: While the commercial pos-
sibilities of the aeroplane were still ‘‘in the
air,” the Aerial Co., Ltd., was formed in
Sydney, its directors including Lebbeus Hor-
dern, Lieut.-Colonel Woods and H. C.
Macfie. The co. has already commenced
operations, and is conducting commercial
fiights through the country with its two De
Havilland ’planes, purchased from the Gov-
ernment for £4OOO. The results have been
such that Macfie, who is chairman of direc-
tors, left by the Ormonde for England to
buy more ’buses.
* * * *
“Hamer”: There are more ways of
meeting the landlord than by choking him
with his rent: —
To Estate Agents, Property Owners, etc.—Hus-
band and wife, good social position, will take ten-
ancy as resident caretakers, fur. or unfur. house,
servant kept. Best of business and personal refer-
. ences.
I know of it being done, too. My rent-free
experts have reared a small family while
living in other people’s mansions, occasion-
ally score a share in commissions on sales,
in most cases grow their own fruit and
vegetables, and during intervals of “unem-
ployment” live comfortably at the seaside.
“Gleniris”: Japan, according to Edward
Pescott, Vic. State pomologist, now supplies
this country with packets of Australian
seeds, harvested from trees, bushes and flow-
ering plants grown in Dai Nippon. The
original seeds were gathered here by Japan-
ese agents. Yet most of these varieties,
raised in Australia, can be bought from our
own traders. Don’t we love to let George
do it! Most of our pre-war seeds used to
be exported to us by George Schmidt; and
now it’s Georgie Ogawa’s turn. Surely
there’s no earthly reason why so evil and
senseless an importing business as this
shouldn’t be absolutely prohibited.
“Bacchus”: Let me also have a say about
this awful medical and chemical glassware
from Nippon. Recently I had occasion to
examine between five and six gross of Jap
dairy thermometers. Three gross had to be
thrown out as useless; three thermometers
were correct; the remainder were wrong, but
usable for rough work. But, just as it isn’t
safe to trust Jap goods now, so it won’t be
safe to trust that they will continue to be
what they are. Otherwise the Japs wouldn’t
be serious competitors. But they recognise the
position quite well; and when they have to
meet serious competition they produce goods
as superior as they were formerly inferior.
That is where the need of a high tariff comes
in.
* * * #
“Naming”: Kitchener when in Australia
fight or nine years ago met our brandy and
thought so highly of it that he subsequently
gave it a fine advertisement in India and
Ceylon; and the ad. is still well remembered
there. A Sydney broker, anticipating a
slump in business in Australia, set out for
India a while ago, and his success in
opening up new business in territory
which had previously been traversed by
every country’s bagmen but our own has
been little short of phenomenal. One Sydnev
firm of merchants, who had offered him a
dubious roving commission, received orders
within four or five months for goods—mostlv
wet—-wholly made in Australia valued at
nearly £7OOO. And the terms of settlement
were almost too good to be true; a credit
established in a Sydney bank from India
provided for payment on the day documents
were handed oter.
THE FAIR UTILITARIAN AND THE BARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a pensive bard, and he
A volume published recently;
And eager was his soul to know
Just how the precious book would go.
He watched the crowd with anxious eyes
Some reader haply to surprise;
But all in vain, till one day passed
A lady with the book at last.
He knew the purple cover well,
And in the car contrived to spell
The simple title: “Wattle Gold,
By William Jeans,” in letters bold.
lie saw the damsel once again,
And still she bore the book. ’Twas plain
The poet Jeans had here in view
A fair disciple staunch and true.
A dozen times he saw her thus
On his suburban tram or ’bus,
And always bearing tightly prest
His book of poems to her breast.
Said he: “Wouldst tell me, lady fair,
Why on thy bosom thou dost bear
This book? Perchance its charm hath part
In sympathy with thy kind heart.”
“Oh, no!” The book she opened wide.
She’d hewn a square, clean gap inside.
“Cut out like this; it’s nice, you see,
To take one’s lunch in, sir,” said she.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


w
m
*4
■ ■ . rfrJ
l ff'h
#: $£ *
1 ,
ft
■ ill!
r&fi ?j
zx*
1
*V
\
, 3*,*. *
A NOTABLE
G.E. FLOOD LIGHTING PROJECTORS
installed for night work at Government Wheat
Silos, White Bay
Night Photograph 15 Minutes Exposure.
Twenty-two Projectors were used to illuminate this
area, the total consumption of electricity amounting
to only 8,800 watts.
These G.E. PROJECTORS were supplied, and the installation
completely designed and carried out by—
THE SCANLAN ELECTRIC COMPANY
316, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Briefly, the G. E. FLOOD LIGHTING
PROJECTOR consists of a Reflector and
socket mounted in a weatherproof casing and
arranged to take a special focus type lamp,
which can be moved forward or backward, in
order to obtain the proper focus.
By using this apparatus a beam of light can be
projected to illuminate a surface several hundred
feet away. This makes it possible to economically
and effectively illuminate surfaces where lighting
by the ordinary method of employing several
lamps and reflectors is impractical and expensive.
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
h
iaa
ian
Wentworth Avenue
SYDNEY
ĥ
Cr. oP Queen'£> Little Col I ins Sts.
MELBOURNE
i
AGENTS
ADELAIDE, S.A. Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street.
BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering Supply Company of Australia Ltd.
(E.S.C.A), Comer Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH, W.A.—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., "Mazda House,”
894 Hay Street
TAQMAKITA Oliver & Oliver, 36 John Street, LAUNCESTON
Oliver Oliver, 95 Macquarie Street, HOBART.
NEW ZEALAND—The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN,
WELLINGTON.


iiMnjSl
s*
He Can’t
Shed His
Coat,
but he would if he
could. High prices for
skins put his life in
constant danger.
WIN.CHC O M B E,
CARSON never fail
to secure senders top
market results for
Rabbit, Fox and all
other skins.
CONSIGN:
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON
DAK LI NS HARBOR. LTD.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Aii y Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. live.,
118 West 31st Street.
New York, 11.5. A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Nothing contributes
more to secure happy
temper in a child
than correct feeding.
Get the diet right, and baby
is as happy as the day is long.
Mellin’s Food is adapted for use with
the youngest babe, is light, easily
digested, safe. Besides, “Mellin's”
is a no-worry food —hot water and
fresh cow’s milk, and it’s ready,
Mellin's
Food
Baby’s Feeder is imporant Mellin’s Feeding;
Bottle is unique; hygienic,efficient.easily cleaned.
A Sample Bottle of Mellin’s Food, with Handbook
for Mothers, ’’The Care of Infants.” sent Free.
Messrs. Gollin & Co. Proprietary, Ltd.
SYDNEY
iM&msiaiszm
h
rtORROCKSES'
ĥ
ħ
h
SEE'iHORROCKSES DIAPHALENE'
ĥ
ħ
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
A. should read the British Australasian,
6d weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at homo.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
flieir friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
®u
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
h
BRAND
Containing about
(99.9%
99.95% Metallic Zinc
guaranteed).
SPELTER
BH AS
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS^
Zinc Producers 7 Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Svdney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
A. W. LEWIS, 63 Brookman Building*
the, palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
THE CASE IS CLEAR.
The case is clear. On the one hand we have fountain
uens that splutter and leak —fountain pens that cannot
be filled without a bulb filler-that are in a word not
themselves without this old-fashioned friend, the filler.
But in my hand here I have an Onoto Pen—that cannot
leak and that fills itself. A pen a child can use - a pen
no wise man would be without. , ,
You, sir, should own an Onoto Pen, it cannot leak.
—lt fills itself, it never splutters or scratches.
Now is 17/- to much too pay for such a pen. All stationers,
jewellers and stores sell it. Got ? -day. while the evidence is fresh
in you- mind -to the nearest stationer s and say- An Onoto Pen
fernffacturers • Thos. Df. La Rue & Co., Ltd., Bunhill Row.
f London E.C. Managing Agents. Norman Baker
& Longhurst, Sydney and Melbourne.
ĥ
ħ
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain
Pen
Ask for Onoto Ink —Best for all Pens
■
Support the Motherland’s Industries
—and your own Country’s Products
h
ĥ
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
Are manufactured from pure Australasian wool
in Leicester, England, by workpeople who have
inherited the art from generations of the world s
best hosiery makers.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all wool? and of soft, silky finish See the Jason
Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters everywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co.. Leicester. Eng
Aa 6o
f
m
wm.
Wmm
Why the Engineer should
specify S.K.F. Self-
Aligning Ball Bearings.
S.K.F. Ball-bearing' Steel is carefully inspected and
tested on delivery from the steel woiks.
The utmost care is exercised in the selection and
calibration of every ball, and in the determining of its
hardness and homogeneity.
The processes of hardening and tempering the beann
races are closely controlled. Only the P
employed in machining, grinding and finishing
ensuring invariably perfect accuracy.
SKF Ball Bearings are so designed that they are
instantaneously and automatically self-aligning
«l\ P Ball Bearings give longer service than a }
F- ii„ im»'s Thev will “stand up” under the
£« oSSon., ..3 ”lU -.Main their acenr.e,
throughout. _ ..
ALWAYS SPECIFY S.K.F.
GARDNER,
W£RN & GO.,
Power & Light Engineers.
MELBOURNE: 384 City Road.
(Showrooms): 369 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY : 225 Pitt Street.
BRISBANE: 367 Qusen Street.
KF
SKF
sfiJsi
The Launceston Gas Co. (Tasmania) .
Writ-
Dividends and ten lo l’e- He-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
Dec., 1911..£1564 4 p.c. = £lO5O £2OO £314 £9,618
June, 1912.. 1496 4 .. ~ 1000 300 146 9,<6
Dec 191 9 1543 4 ~ 1050 400 9o 9,50-
June, 1913'.'. 1312 4 „ „ 1050 200 62 9,919
Dec 1913 1640 4 .. ~ 1000 400 140 IO.OoJ
June) 1914'.'. 1385 4 „ 1050 200 135 10,194
Dec.. 1914.. 1670 4 „ .. 1050 500 1-0 10,3 H
June, 1915.. 1378 4 ~ 1050 200 78 10,39-
Dec., 1915.. 1780 4 ~ .. 1050 500 236 10,6-3
June, 1916.. 1547 4 „ „ 1050 200 24.
Dec., 1916.. 1808 4 „ ~ 1050 500 258 11.133
June, 1917.. 917 4 ~,,1050
Dec., 1917.. 1863 4 ~,,1060 550 253 11,2j3
June, 1918.. 2090 4 „ ~ 1060 .00 330 11-^B3
Dec., 1918.. 2030 4 „ „ 1060 600 320 11-003
June, 1919.. 2027 4 ~ „ 1060 550 41. 1-.3-0
Though over two million feet more gas was
manufactured during the past halt than in
the same fraction of last year, all the ad-
ditional work went for nothing. Ileayiei
expenses indeed reduced profits a trifle. With
the River Esk generating power tor a
municipal enterprise, the Launceston Cas
Co.’s opportunities have been restricted ; ana
though over many years shareholders have
had only a mild 4 p.c. p.a., the concern has
been able to gather very little strength. 1 aid
capital is £50,000; but in addition the
management is working on £28,119 of deben-
tures and a bank overdraft of £BB2. The
book value of fixed assets is very little more
than it was 10 years ago; meantime the re-
hit/on between liabilities and more or less
liquid assets has moved this way :
1909. 1919.
i iahilitip<! .. •• £38,892 £29,027
Asset? other than fixed assets.. 16,33. 9 - 862
- Excess liabilities .. •• £22,555 £19.165
So after providing for renewals, extensions
and repairs only £3390 of the load of excess
liabilities has been shifted since 1999.
# * * *
“Exile” (from New York) : I have dis-
sected a few balance-sheets in the last 4U
years, but here comes a real uoer alles _state-
ment of the Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey,
the papa and mamma of all the o 0 Standaid
Oil cos. : As-sts
(Reckoning 4i dollars to the■ £•)
Value of plant • • •• £ °?’?oo’oo0
Shares in other cos 5,100,000
Government bonds . . • • 20,000,000
Stocks on hand •• •• 35,600,000
Debts due to 3 o’noo’ooo
Cash on hand 3 ’ oo0 ’ 00()
Total assets . ..£152,300 000
Less accounts payab.e • • ’
Marine insurance reserve . . 2,buu,uuu
Net value .. ..£123,700,000
n Nominal
Surplus funds :: ” 103,000,000
Total £125,000,000
The Standard Oil of New Jersey emmed in
1918 £22 580,000 and paid Fedeial taxis or
£lO 000 000. The co. is making a new issue
to shareholders of £2l 853,000, wh.c.will
be underwritten bj J. P. Morgan andC„ at
1 p.c., so their dry bit will be £218,030. lhe
new capital is water to hide earnings. 1
the Standard Oil Co. can sell petrol here at
Is a gallon wholesale, what profits must the
dealers in petrol in Australia be mak.ng when
charging nearly 4s. a gallon retail. This is
written to cause users to think haid The
sooner Australia goes in for the low tem
nerature distillation of its vast deposits of
coal, oil-shale and brown coal the sooner
will the price of petrol become normal round
about Is. 3d. a gallon.
* *
From a man who recently inspected the
little-known Rio Tinto iron deposits (las.) .
So far as the tantalising undergrowth will allow
one to judge, there are two central bosses of ore,
21 on ea/h side of the Savage Hirer and about
equidistant from it, each rising to a height of 800 it.
above the river-bed. Immense spurs or legs of oic
are thrown out north and south, and there are large
parallel and overlapping lenses of ore m close
proximity. In . places where the scrub was less
dense measurements were taken. On top or the
south spur two lenses of ore aggregated 660 ft. in
width, on the north spur one lens taped 550 ft., and,
a considerable distance further north, the same lens
measured 330 ft. Taken altogether, 250 ft. is prob-
ably a conservative estimate of width, over a length
of 16,000 ft. A depth of 200 ft. on this ore body
would give 800,000,060 cub. ft. ; or upwards of
114,000,000 tons. As the ore body cut by the
Savage River shows no sign of pinching down to
water-level, it may be concluded that there will be no
tapering of the other lenses down to that depth :
hence the estimate of contents might be varied b\
putting it at over half a million tons for every
foot of depth.
The ore is chiefly magnetite; there is practically
no gangue; analysis shows a remarkably pure
smelting ore: silica, titanium, phosphorus and sul-
phur are present only in trivial decimals. In view
of these advantages there would be no difficulty in
sending to the smelters in bulk ore of from 60 to
70 p.c. metallic iron.
There are other large makes of ore on this
line of lode, extending for about 20 miles south of
the Tinto. Whether any or all of them are big
enough to make an iron-smelting proposition is a
matter for further investigation.
If the Tinto proposition comes to be attacked on
a scale in keeping with its size, the smelter site
will most likely be near the deserted village of
Corinna, on the banks of the Pieman River. There
is an abundance of limestone within a mile or two
of Corinna, and the site is in the midst of a forest,
10 to 20 miles wide and 40 or 50 miles long, from
which ample supplies of charcoal could be drawn
for reduction purposes. Charcoal smelting is, per-
haps, more costly than coke smelting, but this
would be compensated for by the greater value of
the product. If it was decided to adopt electric
smelting the Pieman and all its tributaries are avail-
able for the generation of the juice; or the power
could be drawn from the King River scheme, which
the Tas. Govt, intends to carry out as soon as it
can get a substantial order for current. Electric
smelting would cut down the consumption of char-
coal by one-half.
Interest in the Rio Tinto deposits has re-
cently been enlivened by a reouest from the
Queensland Government for samples.


Fresh from the Tailor s Hands.
500 London Elp p b. Men’s Solid
Worsted Effect Suits
63/-
The Best Grade of
Tailoring-Ready to Wear
The maker of these Solid Worsted Effects —
realising that expense could be saved by one
gigantic deal—asked “would we take the lot
at a fine price?” We would. We did.
A grand lot to get. Good, attractive Dark
Grey Patterns in medium weights, just
right for Spring and Summer.
They have a wonderful
capacity for wear.
But equally important as the material itself is the way these
suits are made. You couldn’t distinguish them from Made-
to-Order Suits. Individually cut and tailored—clean-fitting
backs and shoulders—close-fitting collars—unbreakable rolls
in the lapels—and
Each Coat has a Firm
Foundation of Haircloth.
That means the shape put in by the Tailors always stays
shapely to the last. The pockets and linings are guaranteed
best grade.
Good suits—the best make we have seen put into Ready-
Tailored Clothes.
Whether you are slim, medium, average, well developed or
stout, you can obtain a fit that corresponds to your size.
Should any alteration be necessary, such as adjusting the
length of sleeves or legs, we will have that done by our own
Tailors free of charge.
Any Man can he Fitted
Perfectly—Order to-day.
id.
£
!
*
V
«**
'
It, isn’t possible to pro-
mise that such value-
giving can he indefi-
nitely prolonged. Hest
not delay making a
choice. Order to-day.
We guarantee to re-
fund money if you are
not satisfied.
%
SL
S*
l
S>
£>
o
eg
h
Ouf only cvdflif
ess tn
0
*
•V
%CH\
* * .CM
o


2-i ; 2"j
:j i > ... M
A whole storeroom ou the Transveyor system, where seven men with Transveyor Elevating
Trucks do work which previously took thirty men using old-style trucks.
The Transveyor Truck
enables one man to do
the work of a crowd!!
CONGESTION on factory, store or warehouse floors not only retards rapid and
systematic work, but multiplies the danger of accidents and mistakes. The Trans-
veyor Elevating Truck solves the problem of conveying products from one depart-
ment to another, or in handling goods either inward or outward—all this without
confusion and with half the staff needed when using old-fashioned hand-trucks.
The Transveyor Truck pays for itself by eliminating the time and effort wasted in the
repeated handling of goods.
You buy nothing but the sturdy Transveyor Truck. You can build the simple wooden
platforms as the demand for them develops. For handling raw materials to finished pro-
ducts in all classes of factories, for eliminating waste effort, waste time and waste space in
stores and warehouses, the Transveyor Truck is a marvel. Let us demonstrate the
Transveyor before you, without the slightest obligation. Catalogue posted free on request.
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Si
m
- '• - . ;
- . i 2- ’
•2 ' I 2.-1
2 \ mi
osi 2t*i ssam
2 * “ • lapjj
s&a
m
• -W' m
Allen’s Crushing' and
Grinding' Machinery
for treating' all classes of material
THESE High-Grade, All-British Pro-
ducts have a world-wide reputation
for grinding and crushing a variety
of materials, soft and refractory, wet
and dry, at extremely low cost. Catalogue
and full particulars of any of the following
Edgar Allen lines will be mailed on request:-
Allen’s “Stag” Ore Crushers, Ball and Tube
Mills, Conveyors, Cubing Rolls, Disintegrating
and Dressing Machines, Mechanical Feeders,
Automatic Measures, Portable Screens, Con-
veyors, Elevators, Cement-making Machinery,
Coal Dryers and many other lines.
Stocks carried of ALLEN’S CELEBRATED
“STAG” SPECIAL HIGH-SPEED TOOL
STEEL, MINING STEEL and SHOES and
DIES for MINING STAMPS.
Sole Agents:
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD.,499-531 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
and Darling Building, Adelaide. Selling Agents:
J. ft. GAROAM, Perth. CHAS. E. BERNAYS, 125 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Hughes’s “God knows what party I be-
long to'’ recalls Dick Seddon, who, on land-
ing in Melbourne on what proved to be his
last tour, was asked what political party
he belonged to. “I’m a Humanist, and
stand for Humanity,” was Richard’s reply.
“K.S.V.P.”: Cornwell's Pottery at Bruns
wick (Vie.) is the oldest in the Common-
wealth —established in 1859, or three years
before the yards at Bendigo. Bong as these
concerns have been in existence, however,
it is still possible, thanks to the right sort
of tariff, to buy an imported earthenware
teapot.
“\Vai-hoi”: Old Cheon, who used to keep
Elsey station (N.T.) lively in the days when
Mrs. iKneas Gunn chased the wily bullock
thereabouts, is a sick and shaky old Celestial
ihese times. I met lhc ancient boy the
other night in Darwin making his way round
lo the-post-office to send a farewell wire t>
the “Little Missus” of the “Never Never”
before he hooked aboard the China-bound
boat to dodge local funeral expenses "Good
bye, Missio,” he wired —“me go alonga China
close-up die.”
“Billmug”: Sausages have been in great
demand since the prices of meat soared so.
With the increased demand the mysteries are
becoming less mysterious, and it won’t be
long before the butcher will have to seal
up every Zeppelin at both ends to retain the
water lie pumps into it. With sausages at
t!d. per lb. and water at Is. per 1000 gals.,
there is approximately 5.999 d. profit on every
lb. of water contained in the cylindrical
'frauds, and not much food value. It is be-
cause of this last damage to the public that
the proper authority should hit the fraud.
“Pongo”: Re “R.S.V.IVs” complaint (B.
15/S/’l9) that Australia doesn’t exert itself
in the making of the common bentwood
chairs known as “Vienna.” Three firms in
Australia do make this furniture —one ih
.Sydney, one in Melbourne and another in
South Aus. The old, conventional pattern
is followed as closely as possible. The plants
are comparatively primitive, but the manu-
facture is gradually improving. As a matter
of fact, we can make anything in Australia
provided W M. Hughes gets down to build-
ing a tariff wall instead of floating round
in a hot-air balloon.
Vic. Treasurer McPherson has crowed so
lustily over the saving of £7OOO underwrit-
ing exes, in placing the £3,000,000 com er
sion loan that old members of the Assembly
have been reminded of the late A. W.
Craven’s story of the discount which a
former Attorney-General got on a court
dress in London. The bill for the suit was
£75, and the Minister did not demur at this.
But he insisted upon a dis. of 2$ p.c., and
the court tailor, with a great show of re-
luctance, at last gave way and granted it.
After which the Attorney-Gen. talked of
the 24 p.c. and never mentioned the £75,
just as now McPherson slurs over the 5|
p.c. interest and vamps on the £7OOO which
he saved.
Hannau, in the Vic. State Legislature,
1 old a roseate tale about the immense sums
subscribed to the Nationalist campaign funds,
and asked wildly who supplied them. Cain
answered, “The profiteer,” and the party
agreed. For the sake of greater accuracy
people should make a practice of stating
which profiteer they are talking of. Do
they mean the outsiders who put up the
price of imported paper 400 p.c. during the
war, and keep it up ; or the Jap shipping co.
which made 700 p.c. profit, partly at our
expense, in a single year; or the man who
died lately in Scotland worth between four
and five millions, partly made by putting-
up the price of our thread 300 p.c.; or the
P. and O. with its 18 p.c. divs., to which
we contribute so largely V Or are they com-
plaining about Australian steamship cos.
(dividends 71 to 11 p.c.). or coal cos. (half
of the quoted ones pay 6 %i.e. or less on a
wasting security), or our copper-mines (most
of them closed and half of them never paid
a dividend), or our manufactures, which
have paid 4 p.c. oftener than i 0 p.c.?
The rich profiteer can be got at by a tariff;
but be lives a long way off, and is neglected.
It is the poorer one, who is more often a
deficiteer than a profiteer, whom Platitude
mostly pastes his advertisement on.
“Stargazer”: Arnold, the American actor
who made a pot of money with “Hans the
Boatman,” had a big hound that played a
conspicuous part iu the show, bringing off
the rescue of the heavenly girl from a stage
stream whereon the boatman plied his call-
ing, and performing other edifying items.
One night Carlo’s star-turn was interrupted
by the sudden, sharp barking of a spaniel in
the stalls. Carlo paused on the eve of pre-
cipitating himself into the river, and, after
looking towards the centre of disturbance,
turned again to his duty, and was put off
once more by a repetition of the offence.
Carlo’s patience was short. He made a
dash over the lights, leapt the orchestra, and
went swarming under and over the stalls
seats, seeking- the discordant element. Pre-
sently a sharp yap signalled Carlo’s suc-
cess in his search, and in a moment he ap-
peared in the gangway carrying a small,
struggling black-and-tan toy tyke by the
neck. Carlo ran the terrier into the street,
and in about half a minute re-appeared on
the stage, sprang into the raging torrent and
brought off the delayed rescue with great
tjelat.
PEELIN’ SPUDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The roses' blushes tinge the white-cheeked day;
The questing bee goes mumbling on its way;
Tbe Spring's a vision in its radiant duds ;
Hut I don't care —I'm peelin’ spuds.
The gentle breeze swoops low, a happy song
The doves are cooing all the warm day long;
The friendly cows contented chew their cuds.
What’s that to me—l’m peelin’ spuds.
The golden day just drowses in the arms
Of mistress Spring, enraptured with her charms;
The rose dreams of her offspring fragrant buds—
Oh, damn, I’m sick of peelin’ spuds.
N.S.W.
J. G.


CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. —At the War.
1
n
m
im'.t
msj&.
-\
IS ft
‘. -y /a c „•.
MffI WJFJSX&I''
//v,
(yC -v* ,
>.-r r^-
ifcf >
*£ «>
2P
s>/
/*
5£
fcS
n
<US
Wi#
-'-•
28
m
5S
fiyy% m
%)&s£&! v . ’\: *.**< • f
ft
s#s
/•••.
\
A
imp
■my
Y>.
ftiy*
’&>sy
SB
M
my
kWCMsk
mmt
mm
f 3
sagfc
V-/ v-' ✓/.
./VST
:/
s ! 7t'
k®
/T
«-: / *V T&s-y/s v
*>/ v Ay /.<s,' jfiH c .“V.’*‘V->t-'>4!lfet
efjt
i#t#s
\
ilm
<r^
1 A >5?: ■ r j'(f‘"'\
rn
HI
H
%
o
gal
y*-v/»
M
1
/-'
,J «S\
V &
T.Zs-
rs
/
V?
:‘. m
—v^
:; v’:‘
£ SS
9k
%#S
wW/
£&%rMx'‘,
K&k ' :
mm
m
o*
!Sfl
i^i
18
v-
J
V.
mj.
/
/
/ /
/ /rj
M
' m
Hi
y ,-• -.-vs
. r ■ -- ,
.- .’r
V/
Vd
*24*
/
//
•v* 7/!f
/
, rlw» sS? alarf®
%
K
f r QjO SC
99
Cobra,
Tshe Boot Polish.
ft
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Shows the youn
Just where you
>' Prince
Wear your COBRA”
J
Blackened boots,
And the bears and
Bandicoots
Wait to welcome
Him in state.
Three cheers for the
Digger’s mate!
o o
When he’s here
He’ll know all right
Whv Australia’s
J
Clean and bright!


/
w
Y
\
Cuticura Cares For
Your Face and Hands
Dainty women everywhere use
Cuticura Soap and no other for every-
day toilet purposes with touches of
Ointment to purify and beautify the
complexion, hands and hair. Abso-
lutely nothing better than these fra-
grant, super-creamy emollients.
. Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
‘R. Towns Sc Co., Sydney, N. S, W.” Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
Good to
the last
drop.
IS
Jrm-
S&tU&
never varies, the deli-
cious Oriental fruits and
spices are so perfectly
blended —the last
drop is just as
delicious as
mmm
i
SB
t
1
QUEENSLAND?
THE KEY TO
PROSPERITY.'
QUEENSLAND J
opens (he door to g
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ol the 1
millions ot acres of
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE
Name -
Address .
Queensland Government
litcHijeace aad Tourist Bureau
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal. Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ĥ
NEURALGIA!
It is so easy to catch those debilitat-
ing Colds, Influenza, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, etc. Help yourself to
avoid these by taking
Dhosfo
I THE ROYAL!
rmo
ROYAL TONIC
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/. . 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
C-AC'
I C/VC-
ħ
h
NIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND |C- Q ' j BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
ĥ
B
n
>
o
ħ
h
fM
MERIT
In Fountain Pens, as in everything
else, it is merit that tells, and that is
why the “ Swan has for a quarter
of a century gained more users every
year. When you buy a “Swan”
you know you have a guarantee of
excellence in workmanship, perfection
of detail, and that absolute reliability
which has been the consistent keynote
of “ Swan manufacture for a
generation.
'SWAN'
PENS
Sc Id by Station ers and Jewellers Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 12/6
Safety Pattern with
Screw-on Cap, from i 5/.
Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79-80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—
(Wholesale only) 225 a, George St. London Factory—
-3/9-329, Weston St., S.E. Associate Hoes®— Jliafcja
Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
ĥ
Australian Branch : J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“0.K.”: Every time the Tote advertises
(lie immensity of the difference between a dumb
betting' machine which never has a skinner and a
blatant human machine which is always scheming
for “unexpected turn-ups,” the friends of Ikey Mo
make a counter demonstration. Listen to Melbourne
Argus, one of Isaac’s staunchest friends: —
“A feature of recent race-meetings in Melbourne
has been the fancy price offered against outsiders
by several of the leading- bookmakers. D.O.D.’s
much-advertised dividend in Adelaide would have
been eclipsed at Caulfied on Saturday had Yarra-
gunda won the Maiden Plate, as a wager of £5OO
to 10s. was laid. Bets of £lOO to a cigar have
been frequently made in the last few months by
another Melbourne bookmaker. A third member of
the ring amuses himself at times by coupling horses
at long prices, and on Saturday he gave a backer
four chances in one bet at odds of £lOO to 10s.
While it may be contended that these horses did
not look to have any chance, the same was probably
said of D.0.D.’3 prospects prior to the famous
totalisator dividend.” „
How artlessly the Argus ignores the fact that,
whereas the Adelaide outsider proved the strength
of his chance by paying the huge divvy after the
race, the nags that bookmakers offer fancy prices
against don’t bring any return to their forlorn-hope
backers. In the noisy ring 500 to 1 means that
the moke out of which Ikey hopes to make 10s.
or a cigar cannot possibly win unless the other
20 horses drop dead. The bookmaker amuses him-
self (gentle humorist!) by offering fancy prices
against inevitable losers: the tote lays long odds
against possible winners. And whereas the moke
that nobodv backs is a skinner to the bookie, it
isn’t a skinner to the tote, for that fair-dealing
machine disgorges the whole of its receipts, in one
way or other.
The big tennis tournament in London was
' marked by an entirely new feature; the finals were
played on Sunday'—a thing, till now, unheard of.
This was the event in which O’Hara Wood won from
Raymond, the S'African; and U. V. Thomas (of
Adelaide) and Mrs. Lareombe from Doust and Mrs.
James in the mixed. Brookes and Patterson, who
had not entered for the singles, should have played
the doubles final against Lyle and Ingram; but
for reasons not stated a division of the prizes was
agreed on, and the Sunday match did not take place.
* * * *
There is a strong movement among Eng-
lish golfers to have the hole made larger. Ray and
Duncan, among the professionals, are particularly
strong on the folly of letting fine drives and good
approaches be neutralised by any weakness at the
“croquet” strokes on the green. But a big body of
players—Vardon and Taylor prominent among them
--oppose any change in the ancient rules.
* * * *
“E.W.” : Still afoot and active, five hale old
Tasmanian oarsmen—Chas. and Geo. Parsons (80and7(i),
twin brothers M. J. and A. W. Clark (74) and Jack
Skinner (86). The group met the other day to chuckle
over the way they won the whalers’ race at Hobart
Regatta 56 years ago, and four times in succession
afterwards. It meant something like 10 miles of
solid plugging. A specially-built boat finally beat
them. The oidy non-survivor of their crew is the
coxs'n.
* * * #
“N.F.”: Biographers of the late Nat
Gould say that his first book was “The Double
Event.” As a matter of fact, the first story he
ever published was “Blue and White,” which ran
serially in Sydney Referee while he was that paper’s
turf editor —and incidentally its remarkably success-
ful tipster for “big” races. “Blue and White” was
a sort of prophecy of the late James White’s invasion
of the English racing world with a team of Aus-
tralian horses bred to English time so as to be
eligible for the “classics” of their years. Blue and
white were the Australian sportsman’s racing colors.
“Tam O’Shanter” : The recent six hundred
hares at 2s. 6d. a pair is a good day’s shoot for
Corangamite (Vic.), but it was tame sport com-
pared with the “drives” on the Snowy River about
Jindabyne, Dalgety and Moonbah (N.S.W.) in
the early years of this century. Anything under 1000
for a day’s outing was disappointing. Geo. Crisp,
of Matong station, near Dalgety, once murdered
243 hares on the one stand. Of course, we didn’t
get 2s. 6d. a pair; we were rewarded with three
free cartridges for every two game. The carcases
were sold at from 4d. to 6d. a pair and the profits
divided among charitable institutions. At one of
those drives a local gunner stopped a bolting hare
at 125 yards with a 2Jin. No. 4 ballistite cartridge
before an audience of 30 truthful mountaineers.
■* * * »
“75”: If the Williamstown Racing Club
continues to draw its officials from the source it
has lately favored it will soon be able to run a
sporting paper of its own. A while back it
selected Sam Griffiths, sporting-editor of the Leader,
as its handicapper: now it has appointed Jack
Henry, editor of “Miller’s Sporting Annual,” to be
its judge.
“E.F.”: A painfully humorous feature of
Melbourne racecourses is the “concession” book-
maker. He, like the “place” bookmakers, affects to
confer a boon on aidless punters who would prefer
the tote if they could get it. The concessionist
shortens the odds straight-out in consideration of his
undertaking to return their money to backers of the
second gee when the field attains the stipulated num-
ber. If your dead bird gets beaten by a beak —only
one beak —your investment is returned. Last Box-
ing Day there was a dead heat between two horses
for a race at Caulfield, and the concessionist argued
that a dead-heat left him in the same position as
ordinary straight-out wagerers, i.e., liable for half
the odds laid against either of the twin firsts, less
half the backers stake. An official of the V.R.0.. it
is said, was umpire in a dispute on this question,
and endorsed the bookmaker’s contention. The same
question arose the other week, and a punter insisted
on referring it to the V.R.C. committee. In the
multitude of umpires there was wisdom. The com-
mittee decided that “the backer gets half of the
winning wager, and does not lose any portion of the
stake, vdiich, under ‘concession’ conditions in the
case of placed horses, is not payable by the backer,,
but treated as refunded to him.” The wonderful
thing is that the bookie ever ventured his “half-
and-half” theory, and that anybody in an official
way should have been bluffed into accepting it.
Obviously the punter who makes a concession bet
cannot lose his stake if his horse finishes in the
first two, and both the dead-heaters do that. Also
the punter wins half the odds laid against his half-
winner. Otherwise he might as well have betted
w'ith any other Ikey. The fun with the concessionist
will start whan three horses dead-heat.
* * * *
Just dead in England. Robert Chambers,
of the Tyne, champion sculler 60 years ago; he
took the title from Kelley, and lost to him again
a few years later. Chambers, who was 80 at the
end, was the last survivor of the eight-oar crew
which went to Canada in 1871. One of them, Ren-
forth, died in the boat during the race.
In a field of only 13 the winner of the
Kalgoorlie Cup started at 25 to 1; and yet there
are people who would tell you that the books lay
starvation odds. Thirteen starters, and 25 to 1 on
offer against the nag that ultimately won by a length.
Truly a noble offer on the part of Isaac Moses! All
the same, the tote paid a dividend of £l7 7s. to
each investor of 10s., which was at the rate of 33 to
1. It was cruel of the tote to go eight points better
than Isaac at his best, but a, machine.has no bowels
of compassion.
(Continued on page 38.)


Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
\J
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring; Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Corns Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
m
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfort.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
11l Health
t IiISER.V
’v-'?-
MMM
s &
n
It takes just one germ
to turn good health and happi-
ness into ill-health and misery.
Don’t let that one germ get
into your home. You can kill
it at the very first sign of a
sore throat, cough, cold, bron-
chitis or influenza, if you take
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
fn J'j/eaAA -
1 COUCH REMEDY f
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
■ atal to young and old. The great danger in
r .his disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Rerr.tdy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges ti e stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
ana when this remedy is at hand all danger
i»ay be avoided.
Be Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysen f ery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Cob'c and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Lears, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Ur. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book bv Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. \II
Zola’s, including Nana, 2/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all tlie Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Tea Cup Fortune Telling, 1/3.
How to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. The Australian 1-ruit
Gardener, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and W r omen
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert W r ales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How-
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught. 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups. 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide. 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille. 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules (or all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man fkum snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/8 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Heady Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Hush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. W annan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide. 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA Y/NG MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine. 1/3. Odd Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/0.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All about Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers* Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.;,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 2/3.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/3 posted.
Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/-. Six
Women (by Victoria Cross), 2/-. The Black
Prophet, 5/3. Tom Jones (Fielding), 3/-. Aus-
tralian Miners and Prospectors’ Guide, 2/-.
Adventures of John Johns, 2/6.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 g 59 r fc et street, Sydney
(ONLY).
m-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH,


mb-
3i*§faafes
rS«
ifsftjr
vsVrf?Ed£
S 2 * ?
S
*•
- Sc
< •. •. #fe;. ■
‘ Et i
,/jP
f W
•Us
4 "Si
; . '..p
iigif
5 sag H v
Over and over again, when breakdowns threatened to involve heavy dismantling and the
hold up of an entire plant, the Oxy-Acetylene Welder has stepped into the breach, and
with practically no dismantling, repaired the damage in a few hours.
WELD Broken Machinery Parts and Tools—
Produce Better Metal Products by the
OXY-ACETYLENE PROCESS
If you make iron or steel products, if you have worn or broken parts of
machinery to repair, if you have defective castings to make good, or any metal to break up
for scrap, then the Oxy-Acetylene Process will save you money. Throughout the world to-day
Oxy- Acetylene is being used for buildmg steel ships, barges, etc., quick repairs for locomotives
and all classes of engines, for making boilers, tanks, and doing steel plate work, making sheet
metal products such as milk cans and household utensils, the manufacture and repair of all
gas, water, oil, ammonia, and steam pipe lines, building up worn and defective machine parts,
and all cutting or joining of cast or wrought iron, mild steel, brass, copper, aluminium, and
gunmetal.
Oxy-Acetylene Welding means a perfect fusion of two separate metal parts into one homogenous whole,
and must not be confused with brazing, fire-welding or any other process. An Oxy-Acetylene Outfit is
an essential part of any repair shop, whether in garage, mine, or factory plant. Its prompt use in time
of breakdown saves delay and expense, and more than enough to pay for its cost over and over again.
General engineering repair shops, particularly, can add a very profitable branch to their business by in-
stalling an Oxy-Acetylene Welding and Cutting Outfit.
Hundreds of Oxy-Acetylene Welders are scattered throughout Australia and they are good fellows to
know. They are ready at all times for hurry-up repair jobs, and will make broken sections strong as new
for a trifle compared with the cost of new ones. Farmers will find Oxy-Actylene Welding a wonderful
boon—all those broken implement parts which previously went to the scrap heap are repaired with ease,
delays in waiting for spares are eliminated, and money is saved all along the line. Even householders
can save money by having broken metal kitchen utensils, garden tools, etc., made strong by Oxy-Acety-
lene Welding.
In the production of metal products from sheet, bar, or pipe, the Oxy-Acetylene Welding Blowpipe will
not only increase production nearly ioo per cent., but it produces an article of higher selling value than
those made by rivetting, seaming, or fire-welding.
Write for Illustrated Booklet, which shows the great adaptability of
the Oxy-Acetylene Process to every conceivable kind of metal work.
Oxygen G?
h
FOY >ST BALMAIK
..SYDNEY • Ft • S -W
AGENTS:
pwie & Stewart, 362 Collins Street, Melbourne ; Alex Ingram 6C Co.. Wyatt Street, Adelaide ; Evans,
Deakin & Co., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane ; Harrison Bros. 8C Co. Ltd., 20 Patterson St., Launceston ;
Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Murray Street, Perth; Brown & Joske, Suva, Fiji.
1
Iwii ji
Bridges.
Mining
erected or
fcdemolisKecl.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled, lever movement, compensation
balance, £7/10/-
Others, £4, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
£l2/10/-, £l5.
Watch Specialist
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled, lever movement, £B/10/-
Extra jewelled, £lO.
. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Hunting
Lever, extra quality movement. £3,
£3/10'-. £4/10/-. £5, £C,
£7/10/-, Guaranteed.
A. Saunutrs’ Lady's
Wristlet Watch, full
jewelled, lever movement,
compensation balance.
Solid Gold, £6/10/-,
Guaranteed,
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Plain Elgin or
Waltham, lover movement, £lO. Heavier
Cases, £l2/10/-. 14ct. Gold, £l5.
18ct„ £2O, £25, £3O, Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’*
Open-face Wristlet,
25/-, 307-
Solid Silver, £2,
£2/10/-
Gold-filled, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-
9et. Gold, £5, £5/10/-,
£O/10/-, £7/10/-,
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders' Gent, s High-grade Nickel
Lever, 25/-, 307-
Extra jewelled, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-
A. Saunders’
Lever Watch
Extra jewelled,
Nickel or Uunmetal Centre Second*
Wristlet, jewelled movement, £2.
, £2/10/-. Silver, £3, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady's yet. Gold .Expanding Wristlet Watch,
full jewelled, lever movement, compensation balance, £lO.
loct. Gold, £l5. Extra jewelled, £l6/10/-, Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805=815 George Street, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s SCuid 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, lever movement., compensa-
tion balance, £B/10/-
Extra jewelled, £lO. 15ct. Gold, £l5.
Amtincmentß.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSII.
*y IVOII THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinOes Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.30.
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
The Latest and Greatest Musical Play.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
-|-IVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
NEXT SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 20.
HUGH D. McINTOSII presents
LONDON’S LATEST DAZZLING REVUE,
BUZZ, BUZZ.
Prices as usual.
HE K >1 A.IEST Y ’ 8. SYI) N E i
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
A SEASON OF GRAND OPERA.
NEXT WEEK’S PROGRAMME.
To-night (Thursday). CARMEN. Friday, LA BOHEME
Saturday, MADAM BUTTERFLY. Monday. CARMEN.
Tuesday, IL TROVATORE. Wednesday Matinee.
CARMEN. Wednesday Evening, FAUST.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years, also a wonderful
Cure for Rheumatism.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
YVoy, X.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICK 3/3 per Rox. or a Course of
8 Boxes £l/2/-. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
tor BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 18111.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
Cl! I Tlt It 1 <> N T II IC A I' It IC. s'! I»N KV
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinCes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
RETURN OF THE
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
GOING UP.
Plan at Paling's. Prices as usual.
P~A I, AC IC TIIICA T It IC, SYI)N 1C Y
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
J. & N. TAIT present
EMELIE POLINI
in
EYES OF YOUTH.
THE GREAT DRAMATIC NOVELTY.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
Til IC ATIt 1C It OYA L, SYI> N E Y
Lessee .... J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction KATE HOWARDK.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AT 2.
THE WHIRLWIND SUCCESS.
KATE HOWARDE’S Original All-Australian Comedy-
Drama,
’POSSUM PAD-DOCK.
RECORD NOTICES FROM THE SYDNEY PRESS:
The Sunday Times said: “The crowded house
laughed and laughed, scarcely being able to breathe
before it had to laugh again.”
Interpreted bv a Brilliant Cast of
18 AUSTRALIAN PLAYERS IS
headed bv
FRED MACDONALD,
The Inimitable Dave of “On Our Selection.”
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
'Q NI O N PICTV It IC TIIICAT It K S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CPvOSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
Kit MAJESTY'S I’ll ICATItIC. MICI.ItOL US It
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Exquisite
Musical Play.
MAYTIME.
Plan at Allan's.
Prices as usual.
SAFEGUARD You* HEaltH
QtJ.Collis Brownes
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
Amusements.
II l« A T It IS It O A A 1.. MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Famous Play
of Sentiment, Pathos and Humor,
LIGHTNIN’,
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE. MISLItOSJ It N IS
Lessees: BAILEY A GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present the Delightful Comedy,
OLD LADY 81.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan s.
RINC ESS’S Til EAT RE. MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BEN & JOHN FULLER.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 20.
j. & N. TAIT present for Farewell Season of TWO
WEEKS, the ONLY
HARRY LAUDER.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allans.
■y OW N HAL L, MELItOU It N E.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) and SATURDAY NEXT
SEPTEMBER 18 and 20.
THE FAVORITE FRENCH SOPRANO,
ANTONIA DOLORES.
Prices: 6/-, 4/. and 2/-, plus tax. Plan at Allan s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, .MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
HE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
WM. FARNUM in. RAINBOW TRAIL.
BILLIE BURKE in
MAKE-BELIEVE WIFE.
Prices as usual.
iVI V.IK.STIC TII HAT K IC. M 101. ISO IH N I'.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
NORMA TALMADGE
in
THE PROBATION WIFE.
MATINEES DAILY AT 2.30. NIGHTS AT 8.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
ami ill tlie Cough of BKONCIIITIS ami
CONSUMPTION.
Checks PE\ ERISH-
N'ESS ami effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
acts like a charm in
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, Iji, S/-, ol
Made in England.
KITANNIA TIIEATKE, MELKOCIiNK
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
gy|EI,BA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
•v. i.rndnctiono nf rn\PLIN, VITAGItAPH, PATIIE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Genuine BENCALL Razors.
Unsurpassed for Cutting Edge.
Made by T. R. Cadman & Sons, Sheffield, Eng.
These razors have a reputation of 170 years’
standing for excellent quality. They are unsur-
passed for durability and keen-cutting edge. Very
best steel, hand-forged, hardened and tempered by
special process. Hollow-ground to highest degree
of perfection. Specially Selected.
Full concave, file tang, sin. blade. For light
beard.
Full concave, file tang, Jin. blade.
Price, Post, Free 10/6 each.
Or Two Razors, Post Free, for 20/-
MANUFACTURERS’ SELLING AGENCY,
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
ĥ
An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help your di-
gestion and take care of the over-
load, by taking one Pinkette, the
little sugar coated laxative pill after
a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative, are
greatly superior to old lashioned
medicines which over stimulate the
liver and, when their use is stopped,
leave it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the stomach
or cause griping.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


/
wren
wmim
J
n
&
■
©
mk
5?
>;?S
'ff = \s
IruU
tfjfeasure after
'jQusnws's
"jf/k? Seer tiftAout a 72h?af'
BREWED FROn PURE HALT & HOPS' ONLY
“WARRIGAL” Underwear
AUSTRALIAN - RELIABLE, and COSTS LESS.
Imported Underwear costs at least 25% more to-day than
narrigal” Australian Underwear. Why buy Australian Wool,
made up out of the country, when you can get the same wool
here and keep your money in your homeland?
Peapes’ (proprietors of “Warrigal” brand) quote light-weight
Pure Natural Wool for Summer:—
UNDERSHIRTS (half-sleeves).
34. 36. 38. 40. 42. 44.
12/- 12/- 13/- 14/- 15/- 16/-
UNDERPANTS TO MATCH.
13/- 13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6
Peapes’ pay postage. Please state chest and waist measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney.
£3
irii
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Grand Opera
Criterion “Going Up"
Koyal “ possum Paddock"
"lac« “Eyes of Youth”
1 , IV °Li “The Officers’ Mess”
lovt s Moving Pictures
union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Maytime”
Royal “Lightnin* ”
RING'S “Old Lady 31”
Princess's Harry Lauder
Tivoli “Buzz Buzz”
lloyt s De Lr\E h Lycelai Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Town Hali.j 18th and 20th Antonia Dolores
Then the tragedy outside the Spanish cow-
stadium is hidden by Sydney Majesty’s de-
scending curtain, on which is tacked a great
and appropriate appeal: “Finish the Job—
Buy leace Loan Bonds.” Balboni as the
infatuated sergeant is the success of the
production—one of the finest color-splashes
of the season so far. He is there on the
note every time, and ranges the emotional
seal® without over-acting. No gaol chap-
lain could desire a more tearful or apolo-
getic murderer. Leah Myers, who did so
. th ,f broken-hearted Suntuzza in
Gavallena, looks well, but lacks fire as
Larmen. She makes Jose’s sacrifice appear
unnecessarily foolish. A half-speed tart- is
worse than no tart at all. Carl Formes as
the self-satisfied bull-slaughterman might also
“ 'Possum Paddock," at
Sydney Royal.
Fred Deering (Leslie
Woods), stock inspec-
tor and bad egg.
raise more steam.
But he gets dust
out. of the stage
while describing in
song his methods
in the ring. Still,
he leaves one with
the impression that
some well-trained
bull will file Hni
on its horns if he
a doesn't nurry up a
bit. Strella Wilson
makes Michaela the
prettiest and dain-
tiest girl in the
Sunday-school, and
sends the top notes
over without effort.
E 1 s y Treweek
(Frasquita) looks
handsome, and con-
tributes some notes
worth £1 apiece to
the gipsies’ fortune-
telling music.
Thelma Carter
(Mercedes) carols
sweetly alongside
her; but her camp-
i n g-o u t headgear
seems a bit top-
heavy. Fred Collier looks worth six months
in any court, and rumbles splendidly as
smuggler Danc-airo. Browning Mummery
tails about as his depraved A.D.C. Tom
Minogue gets through as Zuniga.
Opera lovers are recommended to see the
“Faust” cast which stars Gertrude John-
son (Marguerite), Balboni (Faust) and
Caccialli (Meph.). Their first perform-
ance the other night brought down heavy
showers of applause. Programme for the
coming week : Thursday, “Carmen” ; Friday,
“La BohCme”; Saturday, “Butterfly”; Mon-
day, “Carmen”; Tuesday, “II Trovatore”;
Wednesday (matinee), "Carmen”; (night),
Faust.”
The experiences of an ex-mariner in a
home for decayed tabbies are related in a
gentle, offhand manner in “Old Lady 31”
at Melbourne King’s. Captain Abe and his
missus, Angie, who are sold up in the pro-
logue, are heading for separate benevolent
establishments when the proposal is made
to harbor Abe at Angie’s future address
just to keep the affectionate couple together.
Abe, gratefully consenting, soon discovers
his liberty curtailed and his remaining man-
liness sapped by the attentions of women
whose jealousy and suspicion compel him
to ration his elderly courtesies. His every
movement is watched, and he cannot enjoy
the luxury of a cold without an avalanche
of solicitous spinster descending upon him
with corf mixture and red flannelette. When
he eventually listens to an emotional sister’s
tale of love for another fellow, the confidence
is given the pulpiest complexion, and Abe
is nearly banished as a rake and a scoundrel.
In so far as it represents the stupidity and
intolerance of the human female under cir-
cumstances discouraging her nobler passions,
the play is an acceptable study of character,
and old Abe hardly damages the illusion by
his natural desire to escape from his sur-
roundings. Where the comedy errs is in
the tedious saccharinity of certain details.
The farewell to the old shack in the un-
necessary prologue, the casual and mushy
references to maternity, not to mention the
coin that arrives to prove that Providence
still rewards the virtuous, are all treacly
features that have to be guarded by the
players from the threatening disaster of
bathos.
* * is.
Eardley Turner appears as Abe. but though
very passable in certain aspects, never fully
appreciates the few moments of terrible
glamor' when he is regarded as an invita-
“ ’Possum Paddock ,” at
Sydney Royal.
Johnston Weir as Dun
Martin, cocky.
tiou to enchanting
error. Perhaps,
too, he ought to be
more humbled by
the consciousness
of a position analo-
gous to that of a
shin of beef in the
care of hungry
tigers. Sara All-
good treats the
audience to inevit-
able Hibernianisms
in her utterance of
Angie’s sentiments,
and her manner
has the occasional
burnish of youth ;
but she is always
meek and engaging,
and she makes
Angie’s fond
fidelity a strange
and lovely fad. The
attitude of Mrs.
Homans (Marie
d’Alton) towards
the chivalrous Abe
shows how a cat
can look at a king,
and Eily Malyon’s
Nancy is so sour
that she would be
f reetened by the
juice of a lemon.
The accumulated
acid of a half-century of virginity is more
humorously suggested by Ada St. Claire as
Sara Jane, and Maggie Moore's abundant
good nature gives a sort of spiritual glow
to the part of Abigail. Katie Towers, plump
and hearty as Blogsie, surrenders her flut-
tering spinsterliood to the care of Samuel
Darby, who isn’t presented with the appro-
priate tumult by J. H. Booth. Mike, as
depicted by Wm. Driscoll, is one of the lat-
ter’s agitated caricatures from “On Our
Selection.” Elsie Parkes has a feeble bit
of sweethearting, but, then, she gets no sort
of assistance from William Hill, whose raw-
ness robs their little romance of its one
chance of justification.
A show new to Australia is being given
in Adelaide Town Hall bv Harry K. Eus-
tace, a burly, bearded adventurer from Cen-
tral Africa. His talk on big-game hunting
is illustrated by moving pictures, many of
which he claims to be unique, particularly
those of the white rhinoceros and of a
rhinoceros-fight. The lecturer figures in
many of the films, which were mostly taken
by his wife. He is seen plucking a python
by the tail, and having a fight with an
ostrich—with the verdict to the ostrich.
Eustace heaps scorn on the casual traveller
who gets photographed in Rhodesia with
one foot on a dead lion; he has known, he
says, a dozen take turns to acquire cheap
-lory in this way—with a lion which had
been poisoned. It is an unusual and in-
structive show.
Emelie Polini’s revival of “The Eyes of
Youth” will occupy Sydney Palace until
Wednesday, September 24. Then the bright
little star has to pack up for Maoriland.
“Daddies” is due at this theatre on Thurs-
day, September 25.
* *
“The Officers’ Mess” still invites the Syd-
ney public to the Tivoli. On Tuesday and
Friday afternoons the moneyed unemployed
and fluffy-headed are being catered for with
movie-making matinees presided over by
Claude Flemming. As every woman who
isn’t buried wants to see herself on the
screen, there should be a public for this sort
of thing.
Mary Roberts Rinehart’s “Iv.” is the
groundwork for “The Doctor and the
Woman,” at Sydney Crystal Palace and
“Old Lady 31," at
Melbourne King's.
Eardley Turner as
Abe.
Strand. “K.” is a
brilliant surgeon
who retires from
the operating-
theatre because he
believes he has
lined the innards
o f three of his
patients with
swabs. How he
comes back with
the help of Mildred
Harris makes a
rather tiresome
movie of an inter-
esting book. Doro-
thy Dalton is hav-
ing her painted
hour at Hoyt’s and
the Haymarket. In
“Quicksands” she
is proving her hus-
band's innocence,
sheeting home for-
gery to the real
defaulter and do-
ing the light fan-
tastic in a cabaret
when the interest
.of the story slack-
ens. Old-favorite
“Squaw Man” is
the companion fea-
ture. At the
Lyceum Anna Nils-
son Hies in a sled
from the frostbite of
the Yukon, and Bessie Love as Carolyn of
the Corners smiles a lesson of brotherly love
and charity from the same sheet. The one
and only Theda stalks “The Forbidden
Path” with all her old aplomb at Piccadilly
and Apollo.
At Melbourne Majesty’s the “Maytime”
panorama of modes and manners continues
to cover a period of 77 years, and Shaks-
peare’s ideas of the Seven Ages of Man are
still being upset by Leslie Holland’s pic-
tures of Matthew Van Zandt. When Mat-
thew should be a lean and slippered panta-
loon he is looking out for a third wife at
the gate of the cemetery wherein he has
just buried No. 2. And when he should
be lost in mere oblivion at the advanced age
of 100, he is proposing further matrimony
with a volatile little Ermyntrude. The
Richard Wayne of Reginald Roberts is but
a poor stayer compared with unsaintly Mat-
thew. They are both young men in Act 1,
but the spirit of everlasting jazz is not in
Reginald. Sidney Stirling gets cut off in his
angry middle-age, apparently, whereas Ban-
tock plays an alleged American colonel who
mistakes himself for a Quakerous under-
taker, and buries himself after the first act.
Death is terribly busy during “Maytime”;
hence the supposition that Matthew Leslie
Holland must be the embodiment of the
name-part. He’s the indestructible boy of
thg piece; the eternal spring onion; the
knut that never dieth. A muezzin from the
Tower of Darkness cries, “The rest are
dead ! Long live Matthew 1”
•fi * sis s':
On her reappearance at Melbourne Town
Hall last Saturday Dolores met with a splen-
did reception, except from the weather. The
programme had the gracious Mademoiselle
down for 12 items only, but encores pursued
her as of old, and it was 10.30 ere she closed
the meeting with “Love Was Once a Little
Boy. Dolores remains a charming enter-
tainment. Time, whilst touching her voice
gently, has. mellowed her art and added to
her magnetism. In all sorts of numbers she
is good to hear and to look upon. In the
management of her voice or the arrangement
of her floral greetings the artist is delight-
fully adroit. To-night (Thursday) and
Saturday she will appear again, with Harold
Spnth as accompanist and occasional piano-
soloist, and next week she will have a mul-
titude of visitors from the country to sing to.
’At Melbourne Royal the deliberations of
Lightnin ” Bill are proceeding no faster
than before, and his word remains as good
as his bond when he is not too far gone to
say the word. The court scene is “Light-
nin’s” principal means of subsistence, for
shows live on the food they provide for the
public taste, and when the court scene comes
the audience eats it ravenously.
“Buzz Buzz” is about to displace “Lads of
the Village” at Melbourne Tivoli, and the
“Old Lady 31,” at
Melbourne King's.
W. Driscoll as
Old Mike.
change will be wel-
comed on Satur-
day. Minnie Love
and Phil Smith
join the co. for
“Buzz Buzz”; also
a lady known to
the bill as Tommy
Clancy.
William Farnum,
who sometimes
acts like Barnum,
continues his adven-
tures in Mormon
country under
Hoyt’s direction in
Melbourne. The
latest chapter is
entitled “The Bain-
bow Trail,” and
shows a sealed
canon in the moun-
tains. Billie Burke
again rushes in
w here divorcees
fear to tread under
the diverting alias
of “The Make-Be-
lieve Wife,” and
Shirley Mason, a
sister of Viola
Dana, worries her
pretty head with
German espionage problems as the trim young
stenographer of “Come On In.” An.ta
Stewart, as “Mary Regan” at the Majestic,
is having a stirring time in finding a perfect
husband. After testing blackmailers, crooks
and knuts, she eventually lands a specimen
who comes home with the muffins and answers
every other specification. The film following
shows the best of Fanny Ward as the heroine
of “Innocent.”
Of the Meldrum show in Melbourne:—
Max Meldrum and his disciples strike a strong note
of originality in their first exhibition at the
Athenreum. They are a promising-looking lot, rather
inclined to make an affectation of unpretentiousness,
but still demanding applause, despite little glooms
and solemnities, for their enthusiasm, their quality
and their unacademical character. Certainly they
all express to a varying degree the spiritual domina-
tion of their entertaining master, but he has saved
them from slavish imitation. Meldrum himself
shows a brilliant picture of Archbishop Mannix. The
canvas conveys a suggestion of prelatical self-
sufficiency, and stresses the acumen and intellect of
the august subject; but quite apart from its valor
as a psychological study it has a rare and simple
beauty as a piece of portraiture. The likeness is
telling, and the tall figure, crowned by the flashing
carmine of the inevitable biretta, seems inspired by
a fiery resolution. Mel drum’s portrait of his wife
is a bit of sparkling realism challenging by its
vitality and human interest the deeply-pondered
poses of the average model. Apart from another
Meldrum portrait, an attractive countenance by Colin
Colahan, and an extravagantly-mannered head-study
by Miss Hurry, the rest of the exhibition is mostly
still-life and landscape work. A. E. Newbury and
R. McCann have most to say in the latter depart-
ment, but their message is generally conveyed in
harsh undertones. Colin Colahan has two or three
slight but pleasing landscapes, and A. Colquhoun,
one of the old academical formalists, borrows a
little from Meldrum to rejuvenate his art. Among
the multitude of still-life students the work of A.
Cornehls calls for admiring notice, but most of the
performers in this branch have given it an excessive
dignity and interest. The fact that one of them
paints an old boot is a significant portent. After
that the door-knob and the flat-iron ought surely to
be recognised.
Lolita Robertson, who formerly had
shadowy parts, had more of a chance in
“The Man on the Box,” the last of the
Figman plays in Adelaide. The hero was
not so continuously on the stage as in
the others, notably “Baldpate.” The co.
had crowded houses all through the season.
The artistic success of it was “A
Tailor-made with the great scene of
an agreeable youth entering a brilliant
assembly unknown, and coming out its chief
personage, by virtue of his astounding cheek.
Lupino has ended his pantomime-dame
character sketches and clever acrobatic
dancing at the Majestic, and Peggy Pryde
is about to replace him; Edwards and
Parkes give a succession of bright comedies,
and Clark’s restless fiddling is popular. In
pictures the most eye-raising is at Wonder-
graph, where Caruso makes an unexpected
but successful appearance as a film actor.
Australia has had another narrow escape.
Joe Cook, returning from the Peace Confer-
ence, found his sleeping accommodation all
mussed up at Albury, and lost his luggage.
Had Cook been Billy Hughes there might
have been a Commonwealth Railway service
by this.
“CARMEN.”
Carmen was a fact’ry tart working down in Seville;
Every man who had a heart loved the little devil.
Poor Don Jose scorned the pest—tried to treat her
coolly,
lint the girl who loved him best was too Sunday-
schooly.
(Nice girls chosen by the old, mild as milk and
water,
Somehow always leave us cold, though they didn’t
oughter.)
Carmen went and broke the peace. Jose had to
bind her.
But she had his heart on lease, and he didn’t mind
her.
(iff she ran across the town. Jos e met her later,
And the lady took him down far from girl and mater;
Made him join a gipsy band in a manner airy,
Messing up his home-ties and prospects mil-i-tary.
To the gipsy smugglers’ haunt enter Escamillo.
Asks for Carmen. Won't avaunt. Jose, raging
billow,
Thunders louder than a bull at the helpless blighter.
At his arms the gipsies pull. Exit the bull-fighter.
He’s a smug, conceited sort, very weak in battle;
Plain as day he’s always fought old and dopey
cattle.
Jose sees that Carmen’s lost and it drives him crazy.
What a sentimental frost! Looking wild and hazy,
He goes home with mother’s choice, still of Carmen
thinking.
Next act. Ail is lost save voice, and the lad’s been
drinking.
Carmen treats him like a tart, all her hate expendin'"
Jose stabs her to the heart. Usual happy ending.'
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Chain Tread
m
1
■■■ . ■■ - ■ -
' > * : mms
i
;:v/ :
Sfe.
W,
#v
*
1
• Y' > :
■
\l
y-:
1
n
'■«
&-'. ;
Iflf
IP
w
The “Chain” Tread has, by its meritorious
records for mileage and anti-skid qualities ,
firmly established itself as the most
economical and efficient tyre on the
Australian market
Obtainable from all leading garages and
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited,
53 York Street, SYDNEY; and 130-2 William Street, MELBOURNE.
United States Tyres
are Good Tyres
W. A. SORRELL, 157 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND : Howard Motor & Cyc/e Co. Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Bagot, Shakes &. Lewis Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Chas. Atkins & do. ( W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
LAUNCESTON : Irvine & McEctchern.
HOBART: Buchanan, Davidson & Co. Ltd.
NEW ZEALAND: Magnus, Sanderson & Co. Ltd., We! line t
Dixter &. Crazier Ltd., Christchurch.
99


FINNEY’S GUARANTEED SILK HOSIERY.
Special
Price
8/6
3 Pairs
for
25/
Post Fsee.
TO Lovers of Beautiful Silk Hosiery this is real news. Finney’s
have secured large stocks of Silk Hosiery, and can back it with a
long-wear guarantee. This Finney Silk Hosiery will stand any
test you care to put it to —in fact, we guarantee the silk portion to be
untear able. We are so convinced of the wearing qualities of this hose
that if any pair should not prove satisfactory with fair wear we will
replace-them with another pair. Don’t try to get this special Silk Hose
anywhere else —you can't. They are to be had at Finney’s only.
Stocked in the following colors: Black, ‘White, Champagne, Tan, Brown,
Palm Beach, Grey, Navy, Pearl. ‘
Write for a pair of these wonderful Silk Hose TO-DAY.
Special
Price
B|6
3 Pairs
for
Post Free.
MS!
a
m
m
m
FINNEY, ISLES 8 CO. LTD
The Drapers of Queensland,
The Big Block, BRISBANE.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“0.K.”: I remember no other actor in
comic opera making such a striking. first
appearance in Australia as Wallace Brown-
low. When he came along as Henri of
Navarre, in tall boots and with feather
trimmings to his hat, the audience which
had idolised Charles Ryley was taken aback.
A new object of worship had presented him-
self. Henri was a great spectacular part,
of course, but Brownlow’s bold way of tak-
ing the stage, with a particular bend of the
foreleg in his manly stride, gave extra effect
to his entrance. He had, too, the necessary
height and grace of figure to carry off a
beard, and altogether he was a success
before he opened his mouth. His singing
completed the conquest. As compared
with his adored predecessor the women
called him a “silvery baritone,” and a lot
of people said of Brownlow, at the age of
30, that he ought to have been a
tenor. Apparently he had spent much
valuable time in knocking about as a
sailor and as mounted rifleman, when lie
should have been contenting himself with
preparing for a fine musical career. It was
his misfortune through life that he never
could stick tightly to anything. Brown-
low followed up his ; triumph (which was
the., more remarkable because Nellie
Stewart’s performance of Ma Mie Rosette
would have eclipsed an actor of weaker per-
sonality) by appearing in “Mam’selle
Nitouche,” playing a part that he was said
to have played in London. Next year he
was revived in “Ma Mie Rosette,” with
May Pollard and Juliet Wray in the name
part; then he came as Paul Jones, and
Captain Corcoran, and as the Governor of
the Tower in “Yeomen of the Guard,” an-
other of his London parts. Not very long
after that the foolish fellow kept a pub at
Kalgoorlie, but he was supposed to be back
in theatrical harness for good when he first
sang “The Shade of the Sheltering Palms”
in “Florodora.” Alas, poor Brownlow! He
never could stay anywhere for good.
“Sydmas”: Poor Wallace Brownlow was
one of the lions of Kalgoorlie (then Han-
nans) in 1897. He had just left the J.C.W.
stage to manage the star pub (the Ex-
change) at the corner of Hannans and
Maritana streets, in the then truly roaring
camp. The train was not quite through
from Coolgardie; the post office was a mix-
ture of tent and hessian; prices were sky-
high, but everything was booming, so all
were happy. Wallace’s day consisted of
rationing the bar and the dining-room, ex-
plaining to newly-arrived English capital
that it was the close season for baths, en-
gaging new housemaids, having “just one”
with the latest lucky prospector, singing
some “Ma Mie Rosette” to the visiting
warden and counting the cash.
Marie Tempest and Graham Browne are
now moving slowly towards America by way
of India, China, Manila and Japan. After
four good seasons in one year at Johannes-
burg, they started on the long tour on August
10, with hop-off seasons at Durban and Cape-
town. Fifteen comedies enable the London
pair to vary the bill at frequent intervals.
“Harrison O.” in response:—
I am cut to the quick, or thereabouts, by the
accusation of disingenuousness hurled at me by
“0.K.” (B. 11/9/’l9). “0.K.” referred to the fact
that Melbourne Herald attributed the authorship of
“La Amico Fritz” and “La Boheme” to Leoncavallo,
and remarked: “Such mistakes must be read to be
thought possible.” I pointed out that one of these
statements was not a mistake, as Leoncavallo did
write an opera entitled “La BohOme.” “0.K.” now
sa3's that I “artfully ignored the mistake that the
Herald made in crediting ‘La Amico Fritz’ to the
wrong composer.” Of course I ignored it ; but
there was nothing “artful” in my doing so. It was
obviously a bloomer (though more or less an ex-
cusable one, seeing that the name of Mascagni, com-
poser of “Fritz,” has for so long been associated
with that of Leoncavallo in the “Cavalleria”-
“Pagliacci” double bill) and there was nothing more
to be said about it If “0.1 v.” accused a newspaper
of two inaccuracies in attributing “Othello” and
“Charley’s Aunt” to Shakspeare, 1 would not con-
tradict him on the latter point, but 1 would on
the former. I wrote my paragraph, not to defend
another writer’s slip of the pen, but to show that
“0.K.” himself was laboring under a misapprehen-
sion. His reply is: “I doubt whether any manager
produced a ‘La Boheme’ by Leoncavallo a few months
after the production of ‘La BohOme’ by Puccini.
What was the date of the production and the place
of it?” I hasten to supply my literary godfather
with the information, which he can verify by refer-
ring to the “Encyclopaidia Britannica” and other
standard works. Puccini’s “La BohOme” was pro-
duced in Turin in 1896 ; Leoncavallo’s at Venice in
1897. Finally, “0.K.” remarks that Leoncavallo’s
“BohOme,” having been produced after another opera
of the same name (though, seeing how soon the
production of one followed the other, Leoncavallo’s
could scarcely have been founded upon Puccini’s, and,
for all “0.K.” or I know to the the contrary, may
have been written before it), could have no “real
existence.” I may mention, as an academic argumeut
and to show my profound knowledge, that “Ham-
let,” by Thomas Kyd, was a favorite play in 1589 ;
yet I presume “0.K.” would not argue that Shaks-
peare’s “Hamlet,” written over 20 years later, has
“no real existence.”
Sailing by the Ventura for America and
Europe, E. J. Carroll, one of Australia’s
big showmen. He brought to the Common-
wealth “Bunty Pulls the Strings”; Le Rov,
Talma and Bosco; “The Story of the Rosary”
co. ; “The Triumph of Virtue” (not played
because of the difficulty of getting a cast),
and many others. Now he is bent on the
production of Australian films, the work of
Australian writers and players. II is im-
mediate business in U.S.A. is to place a
fine picture of “The Sentimental Bloke”
(Longford, producer), of which Taits have
the Australian rights, and to arrange for
a string to follow (“Steele Rudd’s” and
others). Carroll will take Harry Lauder
through South Africa. Lauder, by the way,
is not going to Maoriland.
“Petramos”: Brother Marion, the N.S.W.
“ ’Possum Paddock,” at
Sydney Royal.
Louis MacHilton as
Leonard Allpress.
Water Waggoner,
threatens to take
the sting out of
booze with song,
and has fixed up
with Marsh Little
to sing in praise of
cold tea. Little is
composer of “The
Boys of the Dar-
danelles,” and will
doubtless be
expected to deliver
something with a
punch to it. It is
a Murlcan idea, of
course, and can go
f u rtbe r. Peter
Dawson advancing
the claims of John
Storey, for i n-
stance, would cer-
tainly win votes,
and the Nationalist
policy as set forth
b y Phil S in i t h
would b e m o r e
popularly received
tli a n from Mr.
Grahame. But as
regards song put-
ting the kybosh on
bee r, I have my
d o u b t. s. When
Charles Warner saw things in “Drink” the
interval business at the brandy counter was
never so brisk.
“Old Deadhead”: “Maytime” is more
reckless in its farrago of antique fashions
than “Milestones” was. It map be that
Yankee women wore hooped skirts over
frilled undergarments, terminating at the
ankles, in a.d. 1840, and that their men-
kirnl sported the fashions of a much-earlier
age; but it is certain that the bucks and
does and fawns of that date were not thus
rigged out in Britain. A glance at London
Punch pictures of the period disposes of
any doubts on that point. Fashions are
seemingly mixed and ante-dated for stage-
effect in three acts of “Maytime.” whilst
the last act is just an up-to-date costume
parade, two years in advance of the time
(1017) stated on the bill. Women are
deeply interested in the dressing of every
episode, and the result, as with “Milestones,”
is to persuade them that their grandmothers
and grandads, so far from being the “frights”
of tradition, were truly ornamental persons.
The show pulls their leg considerably. The
anachronisms in the dressing are always
“CARMEN" AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
DON JOSE ( Augusto Balboni) and Escamillo
(Carl Formes) have a musical scrap for
the possession of Carmen.
artistic, and the omissions are artful. For
instance, men appear with clean-shaven
faces at certain alleged periods when the
ugliest and stodgiest of hair-trimmings were
worn by all men —even actors in heroic his-
torical characters.
“Exile,” from N’York :
Oscar Hammerstein, the biggest theatrical provider
in America, has just gone west. His was the most
spectacular career of the past half-century. Isorn
in Berlin in 1847, at 16 he ran away from home.
He took an old Strad., sold it and bought a steerage
ticket for Noo Yawlc on a sailing-ship. The day he
landed he got a job as apprentice to a cigar-maker
at Bs. 6d. a week. He learnt the trade thoroughly
and invented several devices which yielded him and
others fortunes. Then he became editor of a tobacco-
trade journal and began to turn his attention to the
theatre. He played the piano, flute and violin, and
his one passion at this time was music. Finally
he made a cult of real estate. "When B. J. Fink
offered a meeting of his creditors a farthing in the
£ and they bleated their protests, he said: “Well,
gentlemen, don’t you believe in the future of Mel-
bourne? I do.” Hammerstein believed in the future
of New York, and bought land on a large scale but
in the wrong locality. He built huge flats where
only goats lived, and to attract tenants provided
an opera house, a theatre and a music-hall on the
outside boundary of the city. That was merely the
beginning of a career of theatre-building which left
him penniless after 30 years’ work as inventor and
theatrical producer. So he built three more theatres
and made money on each. His run of luck with
grand opera caused the Metropolitan Opera House
Co. to buy him out for £250,000. By contract he could
not enter the N'York opera field for 10 years, so
he went to London and built an opera-house on
Kingswav, which was a frost. Then he built more
theatres in New York, Chicago and Philadelphia and
went heavily into motion-picture houses, regaining
one of his many lost fortunes. He was a genius in
whom imagination supplied the place of common-
sense, with the natural result that his life was a
succession of great triumphs and huge crashes.
“T. D. Eradee” : No one will question the
statement that the offspring of actors and
actresses, practically born on the stage (more
shame to their mothers, as a last-century
wowser said), make successes in the busi-
ness ; but my recent remarks applied to the
army of children who have not that advantage.
Goodness knows how .many clever kids I have
seen on the stage and subsequently deplored
Hie absence of talent in them as adults.
Children, in the majority of instances, learn
like parrots, and even in some of those
quoted as successes in after-life the trail
of the parrot was there still. Anyway,
opinions of talent differ, and I will not
admit that some of those mentioned to
destroy my contention have the slightest
claim to ability, just as I decline to accept
Guy Rates I’ost as the great actor he
generally was acclaimed. If he had remained
in Australia and had to play anything and
everything as others have done, his dramatic
sins would have found him out. One child-
actress sprung from acting stock seems to
have been overlooked by the critics. (As
for Lorna and Toots Pounds, mimicry is
not acting.) That one is Norah Charring-
ton, daughter of Charles Charrington and
Janet Aehurcli (Mrs. Charrington). Their
daughter was horn in Sydney about 1890 or
1891, and made her first appearance as a
child in a show at the Crystal Palace, Lon-
don. She was acclaimed a clever youngster,
but I have not heard much of her since.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Dorothy Brunton has
not been so happy in her third character be-
fore a London audience, but that is the
fault of the play —“Bantam, Y.C.,” by Harold
Brighouse. The war is not far off, yet it
has become an unprofitable subject in the
theatre with astonishing celerity: half a
dozen war-plays that seemed to have settled
down for long runs expired suddenly a week
or two after the Armistice. Bantam, V.C., is
a linen-draper of shy disposition. Friends
play the prank of smuggling a chorus-girl
into his quarters, and the stereotyped far-
cical complications ensue, with a raid by the
police, suspicious of food-hoarding, super-
added. Dorothy Brunton is the intrusive
chorus-girl, and, though critics pronounce her
the one “signal success’’ of the evening, her
excellent performance will not be sufficient
to win the piece a long life.
“Ike Pagliacci” : You never can tell. The
most angelic stage children grow up to be
the worst women in London. Nellie Fer-
guson, who is consistently criminal in the
Sydney Opera House dramas, wore more
halos than any other youngster of her time.
She was the original Australian Little Eva
in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” with her mother
(Helen Fergus) as Cassy, her father
(D'Orsay Ogden) as Degree and Carrie Swain
as Topsy. Carrie lent her to Charles Arnold
to be the original little Hans in “Hans the
Boatman.” Her father did the most edin-
prehensive Hickens Repertoire Australia lias
known, and in turn Nell played Joe (“Bleak
House”), Little Nell, young Copperfield.
Little Dorrit and Oliver Twist. I believe,
by the way, that D’Orsay Ogden was the
original Australian Fagin. At old Sydney
Majesty’s his daughter was the boy-king in
“Henry V.,” with Rignold, .Toe Toldno,
Tommy Cosgrove and the hapless Scot Inglis
in the cast. She was also Puck in a panto
staged by Rignold in which Florrie i Ford,
now on the London halls, was principal
boy. But her real start was in a drowning
part in “The Tomboy.” In this she was
nightly thrown into five feet of water by
her mother, and floundered about while
Carrie Swain uttered some splendid senti-
ments prior to making a spectacular 15-feet
dive During the run Nell fell ill. which
is not surprising. Her youthful understudy
spoke the lines, but resolutely refused to
half-drown, and for three Weeks Carrie
Swain rescued a dummy.
A memorial tablet to Beerbohm Tree, in
the outer wall of his old theatre, Ills
Majesty’s, London, has been solemnly Un-
veiled with nrayer by a bishop. “The Losl
Chord” by Clara Butt, and soeeches bv the
Lord Chief Justice and ex-Pnme Minister
Asquith.
“N M.” : Not a day idle since she discov-
ered America—that’s Naneye Stewart’s ex-
perience She got a foothold on Broadway
in Paul Potter’s “Pretty Soft,” and here she
had her first experience of American dress-
ing for a big production. The dress-designer
called in. ran his eye over her, and made her
red top-knot the dominant note of his color
scheme. So it was with every girl in the
cast—complexion, eyes or hair.. whatever
her strong point, that was emphasised in her
dressing. When the show-places closed for
tlieir annual three months, Naneye joined up
with the Women’s Bed Cross Relief as
entertainer to the soldier camps and canton-
ments ; one T.B. camp she visited had
800 patients. Film work next, in a
picture starring Elsie Ferguson, the Austral-
ian girl being a mermaid or a peach upon the
beach, and putting some really and truly
swimming into the work. For the next nine
months Jewett’s Repertory Company, of
Boston, lias her for lead in such plays as
“Lady Windermere’s Fan” and comedies by
promising young Will Shakspeare.
“T. I). Eindee”: Re stage accidents.
Auguste van Biene, the ’cellist of “’The
Broken Melody.” was just making his en-
trance when liis manager handed him
several sovereigns. The ’cellist hurriedly
slipped the coins into his pocket. A little
later the poor musician had to pull out Ins
hanky to wipe away his tears and lament
that he was penniless. With the hanky
came a stream of sovereigns.
“Until actors become as zealous in their
profession as jockeys, a portly star must leave
skin and bone to the attenuated,” says
“A.8.C.” in a recent Bulletin.
No Turkish baths for them!
Wasting's a game that such
As actors must condemn —
They love The “fat” too much!
viCToniA. E. T.
FOUL VENGEANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Moore and Mason’s gaudy show—-
Sublimest vaudeville—
Appeared great Harrison and Ho,
Possessing wondrous skill
On rope, and bar, and high trapeze.
No gymnasts were so sure as these
The fickle audience to please.
And Nutty Gunn, the little man
Who balanced on his chin
On chairs and things, did darkly plan
To do his rivals in.
He hated Harrison, but 10.
He fiercely loved the dimpled 110.
For him she only scorn would show.
This act did Ho and Harrison:
The latter in his teeth
Took Ho, and high the lady spun
With speed past all belief,
While Harrison, from bended knees,
Head downward, with apparent ease,
Hung from their loftiest trapeze.
When Nutty heard the loud applause
He clenched his teeth to say
That from her husband’s iron jaws
Sweet Ho should fall one day.
That night a pepper-pot he seized.
And used it. Harrison is eased
Of Ho his wife. The gymnast sneezed !
x.s.w.
STARGAZER.


4 -
m
■<
■i
■
mm
m i
A, 1
#
m
m m
"
m
A.
lJ
$
m
cjP'* , i : -A\ \
% lr
» % *2Wj
V
°" V v\V
*/
FPAtf<
C-* -c<
.V
o^ v
•i!
4 e<
■„ *« ~«»
JO-*-
rf-
n
T
«i
'
i
■
sa
■
J
THE
• •
In its final analysis, the proof of
service of any product is found
in its satisfactory use under
conditions which provide a full
measured test. Such a demon-
stration is usually made possible
only by the patient gathering
of data from a variety of
sources, but it is even more con-
vincing when, as is shown here,
the conditions of service are
within the experience of one
user, who is able and willing
to certify to the result.
In the case under review the
product is Goodyear Belting—
both transmission and con-
veyor —and the installation is
at the plant of the Adelaide
Cement Company Limited.
Cement-mill Engineers know of
the abnormal friction which eats
into the life of belts where grit
and dust are ever present, and
in this plant the service con-
ditions are frankly admitted to
be very severe.
No one instance is taken to
illustrate. Heavy drives, vary-
ing speeds, changing loads and
continuous grinding service pro-
vide indisputable evidence of the
unfavorable test.
That the service, results are completely satis-
factory is proven by the report of the
Adelaide Cement Company (reproduced
above) to which may be added the fact that
in this plant at least 75 per cent, of the
equipment is Goodyear Belting, which on the
ground of sheer merit is steadily replacing
competitive makes.
Two factors contribute to secure maximum service
for users of Goodyear Belting and other Mechanical
Goods. There is the intrinsic merit of all such pro-
ducts as bear the Goodyear brand and name, to
which is added the knowledge proven by experi-
ence of what type of equipment will meet each
particular call for service.
The Goodyear Technical Man is at your call for
just this service. His specialised knowledge and
continuous experience of results will assist you to
secure not only the maximum service in belts, and
consequent economies of factory operation, but
will ensure the effective transmission of power with
its accompaniment of maximum output of machines
or plant.
Our specification of Goodyear Belting carries with it the acceptance
of responsibility for its satisfactory service and wear.
Stocks of Goodyear Mechanical Rubber Goods are now carried throughout Australia by
ELDER, SMITH & C 0., LIM
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE,
TED
PERTH.
■N G
liiFi i i i
-
2S
■K;
i
-
- -
MLVES *
gHHi


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special I*l l
.Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern. Sydney.
LEWIS &
WtIITTY)
MAKERS
~1-
>« v*s';?j^
'mmmm
m
&C3&K
•cam
mm
«.-**•
SSET&f
I
WM I i
FATON
all of flavour
a
□
□
PORE
MALT
like it f
Mi )o moLLoau
Argument about the A.J.C. Derby gets
more involved every week. The running at Rand-
wick on Saturday, instead of throwing light on tne
relative merits of three-year-olds, left everybody
groping more confusedly in the dark. How much
better as a Derby trial was Bigaroon’s win with
9st. 21b. from a moderate lot in the Welter than
Biehmond Main’s annexation of the Chelmsford
Stakes, with 6st. 131 b., from a field of cracks? Does
either of these efforts look better than Artillery-
man’s appropriation of the Mcmsie Stakes? What
sort of line did Gamblers Gold give to the Derby
by running ia good fourth in the Chelmsford with
171 b. more than Richmond Main carried? Will the
Maorilander Golden Bubble, who ran second to
Bright Night, carrying Bst. 13ib. over a mile in
“40j” be better for three weeks’ more work? And
what will Pershore (who has been donkey-licking
Night Light on the track) aeomplish when they all
have Sst. 101 b. and the distance is further Gian
anv of them have yet travelled? The oldest inhabi-
tant lias to stretch his memory a long way to
recall the A.J.C. staging a Derby which looked as
open as this one.
There are not many better judges of racing
than Dan Seaton. Yet when just before the
start of the Tramway Handicap James Hackut
offered to accommodate him with 1000 to 30 about
Wolaroi, he declined. A few minutes later he
watched the unwound champion hop into the front
bunch and stay there, finishing up a length ahead
of Greenfield and running the seven furlongs with.
9st. 121 b. on board in “25i” —an Australian record
for the distance. It was a wonderful gallop—and,
incidentally another smack at the theory that be-
fore a good-winded horse will do his best be must
be subjected to gruelling treatment on the track.
Wolaroi was in the short-of-work brigade right
up to this race, which was as good a one as he
has ever run. A day or two before he was solidly
backed for the Epsom. After the race he was backed
.some more, and threatens to start a hot favorite.
If the mile-winner is to come from the topweight
division, reasons for looking beyond Wolaroi would
be hard to find. Of the others in the Tramway the
work of Laddie Blue merits consideration. He was
eight horses back at the turn, and when they hit
the line was running on third. The Maoriland boom,
Surveyor, had every chance up to the Leger. Tnen
he seemed to reckon the thing had lasted long
enough, and chucked it. Biplane got immersed in
the crowd at the stait and never emerged on the
trip.
The Maorilanders poured their money on
Sasanof for the Chelmsford, 9 furlongs, w.f.a., with
penalties and allowances. The Sydney (ash was
mostly on Rebus. As the race was run neither
animal had a hope. The Maoriland strategy con-
templated Sasanof coming on at the end through a
smashed-up demoralised field, and Spanner went out
to do the demoralising. Carrying 9st., he fled from
the tapes like a scalded cat, and, making a six-
furlongs sprint of it, was six lengths out at half a
mile. He blew up at the bend, where, according to
specifications, Sasanof should have shown up. But
Spanner had smashed the second string as well as
himself, and only Richmond Main and Elfacre were
left to carry on the controversy. The latter was
chopped down at the distance. Richmond Main
registered the fifth win of the Chelmsford in six
years by a three-year-old. Cetigne was gathering
speed as the distance lengthened. Another half-
furlong to go and the old champion would have
won.
The brown colors were again in front at
the end of the Spring Handicap. Prince Yiridis
(9st. 41b.), handed over by Barden to Frank Marsden
a few weeks ago, took the mile and a quarfpr with-
out much effort from Ivenilford and I’oitrel. The
Prince will have 2lb. less to carry in the Metrop.,
in which race he ran well last year. He will be a
better horse on October 6 than he was on Saturday.
Kenilford s second in the Spring Stakes, with a
stone more than his Metrop. handicap, was a meri-
torious effort. But whether with a stone off he
could have beaten the Prince is another matter.
Tote backers of Cetigne for the Chelms-
ford Stakes fully deserved the £1 18s. divi-
dend for third. The Chelmsford is an event
for which this great battler has never been
quite ripe. In two out of every three races he has
run he has been placed, yet three of his “unplaced”
have been in the Chelmsford—at three, four and six
years. As a five-year-old Cetigne scored a third in
the interesting annual, so on Saturday he was having
his fifth outing for it. As an outsider he was a
reasonable investment.
* * 4 »
A man named Clifton was handed three
months or a £2O fine for “betting in enclosed lands”
in Sydney last week ; Vockler’s case is still flash in
the public mind ; and at short intervals the houses
of gambling Chows are raided by the police. This
would be all in order if so much illegal betting
wasn’t winked at by the authorities. Sydney is
notoriously full of betting-shops where the specula-
tive mug can be accommodated to the extent of
shillings or hundreds of pounds. Some time ago the
more influential of these places used to be raided,
for form’s sake, in rotation. Then the A.J.C,
passed a rule that any bookmaker whose premises
had been visited in such a manner should be ipso
facto debarred from the practice of his profession
on registered courses. The raids mysteriously
stopped, and they have never recommenced, though
no one in his senses imagines that shop-betting on
the largest 'scale has diminished, much less ended.
On the day ’Clifton went down another unfortunate,
by name Neal, got three months or the option at
Paddington for “preventing justice from taking its
course.” But in many respects justice hasn’t got
a course. It meanders, like a drunk, falling heavily
upon one and reeling clear of another. Nothing
proves it more clearly than the situation in regard
to betting.
* * * *
Drumore, one of the enrly fancies for the
two Cups, settled recent doubts about his soundness
by breaking down in the Mentone Handicap on
Saturday.
# # * *
A great race was expected on Saturday
between Crusader and Lord Setav in the Port
Adelaide Guineas, but the former declined the
engagement, leaving the St. Anton colt to carter
in front of the field. At the same meeting a Syd-
ney Cup winner, Prince Bardolph, cleared out with
the Spring Handicap (lm. 3fur.), beating amongst
others Dependence and Clever-Jim, who both have
Caulfield Cup engagements. The times recorded at
the meeting were very slow. None of the winners
were “pushed” except in the last race (five fur-
longs), and that took lmin. sisec.
» * * *
A. Judd’s remarkable horse Sundown
broke his high-jumping record of 7ft. Bin. (made
recently at Quirindi) by an irch at the Lot Mb' ry
Show. High jumping is a useless sort of accom-
plishment, except for circus purposes, but it has
always been a great draw at N. S. Wales and
Vic. country shows. Which is understandable, since
they are partly circuses. Judd, who is a Western
N. S. Wales fanner, bought the string belons-i. - to
Harry Morton, M.L.A., over 10 years ago, and has
been in the game ever since.
Sundown’s is - only a record “off the grass.” He
has still to go sin. higher to equal Hsatherbloom’s
'leap made off a prepared surface in U.S.A. in 1906.
A two-legged Yank, bv the wav, holds the world's
record in the human division, having left off rising
at 6ft. 7 5-16 in.
* * * *
The champion all-rounder of the A.I.F.
XI was Captain H. L. Collins. He made 1615
runs (average 38.45), and skittled 106 wickets
(av. 16.55). Gregory’s 131 wickets cost only 18.19.
and he averaged 29.43 with the bat. C. B. Willis
had the biggest aggregate (1652, averaging 41.30);
while others to score over four figures vyere C. E.
Pellew (1260, averaging 38.18) and J. Taylor (1187,
averaging 31.23). The “find” of the tour was the
Westralian wicket-keeper, W. A. Oldfield, who fin-
ished fourth in batting with an average of 31.73.
Australians just hack from England say
that old-friend “Johnny Won’t Hit To-day” Douglas
has developed into about the most dangerous bowler
in the country, without losing his careful batting.
On war service in France, he seems to have studied
the American baseball pitchers, and he is credited
now with being able to make the ball not only
swerve, but dip—with a perfectly fair delivery. For
the “Gentlemen” against the “Players,” at Lord’s,
he took eight of the pros, (including Hobbs, Woolley,
Hpndren, George Gunn and J. W. Hearne) fT an.
He is practically certain to captain the next English
XI which comes this way.
* * » *
The hit o’ leather that the Australian
batsman slashes at is nearly always imported from
England, and bowlers almost apologise for sehding
down a sphere made in the Commonwealth. But the
flannelled fools are now suffering for their lack of
patriotism. When war broke o-t the English
makers had to shut down; and when peace came
their stocks were sold in England. The Vic. Cricket
Ass. has had to come to the rescue: which ft d/v*.
not by getting local makers to work, but by using
its influence to secure a supply of English balls,
same to be supplied to clubs at 12s. 6d. each (cost
price).
The A.I.F. cricket team lost last week to
what was practically a Test-match side got up by
veteran amateur C. I. Thornton. The match was
won for England by J. W. Hitch, the wonderful
little Surrey bowler, who took six for 24 in the
first innings. Hobbs. Hirst. Rhodes and D"'-~l'>s
were all playing, and the victory was a two-wickets
affair.
* * * *
A memorial b'ogranh.v of W. O. Brace, at
a guinea, has been nuLlish'-d bv the Mirvl'bone
Cricket Club, with the old England captains Harris
and Hawke as editors. Old friends and opponents,
from Studd and Spofforth to Warner and Hirst, have
contributed stories. It is significant that many of
them, while proclaiming admiration and respect,
admit that their yarns may give a
his character to “those not _ pnmeged railing
intimaie.y.” Lord Harris, for example after calling
him “a landmark, a figure-head, a K.wnt, a nmsvei
man,” gives him away for both point tak g
“grousing.” “He was desperately keen tor his side
to win, and consequently was led, in
to be occasionally very rigid m demanding his full
rights; but he was so popular, and had the: gameso
thoroughly at heart, that such slight incidents were
readily forgiven him.... When the luck of the game
went against him, ins lamentations were deep, and
his neighborhood was to be temporarily avoided
except by the most sympathetic. W-G. made 120
centuries, and the 100th of them, when it came, was
an amp.e 288. He topped 300 three tunes, two of
them within a fortnignt (in a consecutive run ot
344, 177 and 318). When 48 he scored 1000 in
the first month of the season. He played first-class
cricket 44 years—lB6s to 1908— making o 4 000 runs
(averuge just on 40) and taking nearly 3000 wickets
(average under 18), He was at home literally any-
where in the field/ And whenever off duty he was
plnving in minor games, against odds of 18 or 22 it
required. It is supposed that altogether he scored
80,000 runs and took 7000 wickets.
* * * *
Cricket in England is in transition. Ex-
cept for the boys of the Great Public Schools, there
have been no juniors with experience coming on
during the war; and many of 'the men who were
approaching the veteran stage in 1914 are now ex-
tinct volcanoes, tiiough not always yet convinced of
tiie fact. Tom Hayward has had the good sense
to retire before becoming a back number. York-
shire got a bad beating from Nottingham, failing
twice before the bowling of two new men, Richmond
and Barrett. And Lancashire lost by 10 wickets
to Kent, Woolley, the left-hander whom Australians
know, taking 13 wickets. It was then that the
Timks rather hysterically gave Woolley a place (with
Grace, Spoffoith ai d co.) among the best eleven
cricketers who have ever lived.
BANTAM CHAMPION JACK GREEN.
Cowboy Keyes, another Filipino pug,
appeared at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night in
conjunction with Jack Green. The local boy scaled
Bst. G J lb.; Wilson’s subject was 41b. lighter. Keyes
displayed all the stoic e -.durance of Jamito, and dur-
ing 16 uproarious rounds he was smitten repeatedly
upon the head Ly his more skilful adversary. In
vain. On the whole, despite occasional spells of
lassitude, he seemed to like it. In the 17th Green
suddenly unwound a terrific stomach-punch. It
was the end. The dusky visitor’s aggressiveness
vanished; he could do no more than defend himself;
and the referee stopped the fight. One of the big-
gest crowds that have been seen at the Rushcutter's
Kay establishment since 1915 turned up—a tribute
to the reputation for gameness which the Filipincs
have already earned in Sydney.
* * * *
At Brisbane Stadium on Saturday night
Jack Brown (Bst. 81b.) went 20 rounds with the
much cleverer Jerry Sullivan (Bst. 71b.). Sullivan
got the decision* with hardly a murmur of protest
from the spectators.
* * # •
Harry Ilutton. of Adelaide, has been con-
vinced, like some better men, that a boxer has a
difficulty in “coming back.” He had not fought in
public for over five-years, and when he took on
Sailor Brown, at the King’s Theatre, Adelaide, for
the local feather-weight championship, he showed a
lot of good qualities and yet lost. ITe did most of
the scoring for six of the two-minute rounds, but
after that Brown’s pace and harder hitting, told a
tale, and Hutton’s towel was thrown in during the
eighth. -
* * * *
Amateur boxing in Adelaide gets a lift
from the determination of the A.A.A. to include it
in the championships to be decided on the Oval on
September 27 ; and the attendances are not likely to
suffer, either. The entries are so numerous that
preliminary weeding-out bouts are to take place. The
A.A.A., by the way, appoints its own experienced
seconds, declining to ha\ e dressing-rooms and rings
at the Oval invaded by unlimited and unlicensed sup-
porters of the competitors.
* * * *
A.n Engl'sh insurance, office had a horrible
stroke of luck when Estland fell at Randwick last
week and was killed. A. P. Wade’s champion was
insured with the co. for £3500 ; and the odds about
a sound horse falling, much less breaking his neck,
while exercising on the course proper, must be
thousands to one against. Estland had been winning
big stakes all his life. As a three-vear-old he took
the Canterbury (M.L.) Derby and the Auckland
Derby, and the following year he came to Australia
and lifted the A.J.C. Randwick Plate, beating Rebus
and Lingle.
* *' * •
The St. Leger, which has been the Sep-
tember Stakes at Newmarket for the last five vears.
was revived again at Doncaster last week, and won
by Lord Derby’s lieysoe. Keysoe is by Swynford
nrd his dam was a Persimmon mare. It js the
first time a British Ambassador in Paris has won
the classic event.
N.S.W. Rugby League’s semi-finals for
the City Cup occurred on Saturday. Balmain v.
Wests was a hard, over-willing- affair, in which
Wests pre\ailed by 15 points to 12. There was some
fine goal-kicking by W. Connelly (tour) and A.
M-Pherson (two) for Wests, and by L. Wall
(three) for Balmain. Connelly (a youth recently
lifted from the juniors) is a promising three-quarter
with an intelligent right foot. He is easily the find
of the season. Elsewhere Glebe overwhelmed Norths
by 28—7, scoring six tries and five goals to a try
and two goals.
The unsavory feature of the day was again sup-
plied by the hoodlum barraekers. When umpire
McMahon took the field for the West-Balmain match
he was hooted for some minutes and later the howl
was aimed at the players. And so the game drifts
towards the kerbstone.
* * * *
The Australian Rugby Leaguers, in a
te=t at Auckland on Saturday, trampled the crack
M.L. XIII well nigh out of sight—32 points to 2.
Australia scored eight tries and four goals, of wnich
A. B. Burge and Harold Horder each scored three
tries and two goals. K. Ifwerson booted M.L.’s
only goal. Of the four matches Australia has won
three, and has scored 117 points to 69.
* * * #
In the N.S.W. Soccer premiership competi-
tion on Saturday miners from Minmi, Weston (last
year’s premiers) and West Wallsend downed tools
and defeated three of the top-notch city teams.
Balmain Fernleigh (the only city crowd to win)
goes into the semi-final.
* # * s *
At Sydney C.E.G. School sports the other
day P. J. Heath (last year’s G. P. School sprint
champion) won the 100yds. (in 10 2-ssee —which
is a record for the school), the 220yds. and the
4 40yds. Heath’s form points to' probable success
in this year’s open championships. At the same
meeting F. W. Edwards won 120yds. hurdles, and
was second in 100yds., 220vds., 440yds., and broad
jump, and so took the championship of the school.
Another busy youth during last week was T. Purcell,
who mopped up St. Joseph’s championships over
100yds., 220yds., 440yds., 880vds., one mile, 120yds.
hurdles, tied in high jump, and got second in the
shot-putt. He is a hardy lad, likely to do a lot
later if he doesn’t try to do too much now. At
North Sydney High School L. A. Bannister and
Jim McManamy cut up the senior events between
them. Bannister s best was 100yds. (10 4-ssec.)
and McManamy’s broad jump (20ft. lin.) was
something to enthuse over. At Holy Cross College,
S. Toohey won the Senior cup with firsts in
100yds., 220yds., kicking football, throwing cricket
ball (a great effort of 103yds.), broad jump, second
in 440yds. and third in 120yds. hurdles.
« * * •
North Melbourne met its Waterloo in the
Ass. semi-final, at the feet of Brunswick —61 points
to 52—chiefly through ’Wick’s superior speed and
cleverness under adverse conditions. The turnstiles
collected £304 and the game was beautifully willing.
Four of the players became, casualties, while the
wounded among the barraekers would have kept
se\eral dressing-stations busy. It was North’s first
defeat in 50 premiership matches, so Prendergast’s
electors sat in sackcloth that night. North, how-
ever, still has the right to a play-off. At Kichmond
Carlton and the locals had a tremendous skirmish, the
small ground favoring the heavier Blues. The
lighter Richmondites held a point or so lead up to
the last quarter ; then Carlton, realising that defeat
meant permanent retirement for the season, used their
weight to some purpose and ran out 19 points
ahead —61 to 42. At ’Roy the Maroons, to whom a
win or a draw was everything, held their own
against the Magpies till three-quarter time. Then
came word from Geelong that South was getting
walloped, and the ’Woodsmen perceived that the
premiership was in their bags if they won. They
proceeded to pile on 20 points, while ’Roy stood
still, and won by 64 points to 46. The mighty Red-
and-Whites of the South had gone to Geelong (win-
ners of but 24 games this season) with an exception-
ally strong team. However, the Seasiders simply
put them down and trod over them, scoring 50
points to South’s 26. The day’s results leave
’Wood on top, with the double chance for the pen-
nant, South next, Carlton third and Richmond fourth,
this being the last-named’s first achieved entry into
the Big Four.
* * * •
Sensible South Aus. has ruled that to
“get to’’ a football umpire is worse than an
ordinary assault. A youth of 18, Salotti, has just
been given a year’s hard for unlawfully wounding
umpire O’Connor after a match on the Jubilee Oval.
Judge Gordon remarked that while he’s around the
push is not going to be allowed to become “a
danger to the sport which the public is legitimately
entitled to enjoy.”
* * • •
S. A. Amateur Athletic Assoc, has found
a way to interest the public in cross-country
championships. It starts them from the Adelaide
Oval during a football interval, and lets them
finish in the same place. A trying five-mile course
has been surveyed—on the park-lands all the way—
and about 30 fences have to be crossed. The
10-mile champ, was twice over this course and
was a lightweight triumph; Clem Duncan, the
winner, is under five feet, and weighs only 7st. Blb.
* * * *
In Bendigo-Melbourne 90-mile road spin
last week, E. Tainme, starting from scratch, finished
third in the record time of 4hrs. 4min. 48sec. A.
O'Shea (26min.) and A. W. Moore (lOmin.) alone
were ahead of him out of 66 starters. All three
pushed machines shod with Dunlops.
* # * *
Manly’s modified Marathon (the longest
race of the present Sydney season) showed champion
11. Hayden at his best in the sand, and he scored
a hollow victory in 63min. 55sec. from H. Grande-
mange (67min. 25sec.) and R. J. Fitzsimmons
(68min. 25sec.). Hayden filled only third place in
both five- and ten-mile championships recently, but
has now picked up his best form.
* * * «
At the second inter-State baseball carni-
val at Melbourne last week, Vic. walloped South
Aus. (27 —1) and N.S.W. (3 —2). In the deciding
rubber on Saturday N.S.W. was leading by five
runs to four when rain submerged the game.
THE IMPOSTORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Around the dingy corner pub
The kerbstone braggarts hung;
Unto tiie breeze with lavish zest
Their oaths and jests were flung.
An atmosphere of sport and war
About their discourse clung.
They talked of what “the boys” had done,
The “dinkum Aussie crowd”
Could “lick the blanky world,” they said.
They spoke in accents loud,
And famous names were bandied round,
And reputations proud.
It seemed that they were Aussies, too.
Although they had not sought
The perils of the battlefield,
They, like the men who fought,
Were each and all the greatest things
A country ever wrought.
Pre-eminent at ev’ry game,
Past-masters in the Ring,
No rival race on land or sea
Could teach them anything.
I thought of lads whom I had known,
With a quick, angry sting.
Of silent lads who scorned to boast
About their skill or might;
Of youngsters who had risked their all
Because they thought it right;
And who had greatly lived and died
That these at home might skite.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Why You Should Learn Boxing!
Because at any moment it may be
necessary for you to defend yourself.
The unskilful boxer is at a mighty
disadvantage.
The Scientific Boxer is master of
his movements. His muscles are lithe
and elastic. He can hit from any
position without “telegraphing” the
blows.
You would surely like to be a
Scientific Boxer —and now is your
opportunity to learan.
I Teach Boxing by Post
The instruction is practical, simple and easily
understood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates
every serviceable movement in Scientific Boxing.
You reap the benefit of my many years’ experience
and keen observation of the best mores of the world’s
best boxers.
You now have the opportunity of cultivating your
natural ability, of making good use of the means
which Nature gave you to protect yourself.
Those desiring to avail themselves of personal in-
struction at my Institute are invited to call and
have a chat with me and see a demonstration.
Write for my FREE BOOKLET, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home.”
Send three stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“SNOWY”) BAKER
“ The Champion All-round Athlete of Australia.,”
113 Municipal Buildings, Oxford St. (Cor. Crown St.), Sydney.
SSS-:
V. y.-<J< x vxs .ox. x nrfH ocSsifi
THE GREAT —^
AtlAnti^Flßjht
WA
/
lr
f(p f\
Y" A/
SHELL
BENZINE
WAS USED
in the Vlcliers-Vimy Bombing
Aeroplane llown by Cupt.
A 1 cock end Lieut. A. iV.
Brown.
GAPILLARINE
ħ
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIb-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPILLAIITNE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/0 JAII—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 Ci.P.O.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNtY.
e
y mj
Make Sure of 'Quality”
In Your Wool-Clip’
By using
a
POWDER SHEEP DIP
All Dealers Supply.
MANUFACTURED (in Australia)
by
A. VICTOR LEGGO ®. CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.
A Well-matured Tobacco at Last!
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pips-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is Too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
10/8 per lb. 5 /4* P er ilb. 2/8 per ilb.
Postage—N.S.W.: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/3, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
\
\&X
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAI.NE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113
Invite Enquiries for ANY nACHINERY
PROPOSITION such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
Only the Highest=Grade Machinery Supplied.
MELBOURNE:
Gibson, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Etd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Etil.
AGENTS.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
SYDNEY:
Gibson, Battle & Co. T.tri.
PERTH:
Brown & Dureaii I.td.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch Street.


ĥ
English Soft Felts
2V- [o 27/e
THESE Hats are of finest grade English manufacture, and are
the product of best quality material, combined with careful
workmanship. They are made with cut edges arid 2% to 2 3/8
inch brims, smartly set up, or, if desired, made flatter than illustrated.
In the fashionable shades of light, medium and dark grey, and fawn.
<\l/ e Pay
(Farria^p
FARM E R’S
$ ti drt e u.
49iq<P€>
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel,
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Eight and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night.
Tariff, from 10/6 per day. and
from £3/3/- per week.
Gloves and Goddesses
TT7IIEN that great lady, the Chinese Empress Lui-
Tau, invented Silk Weaving, her grateful sub-
jects canonised her memory and have ever since
worshipped her as their Patron Saint.
Rare were her gifts, yet it is doubtful if she ever
felt the soft caress of the
glove: of silk
Her modern sister, promenading Pitt Street’s famous
block, is reminded of her needs when she stops to
scan the window shows of The Glove of Silk.
Being a lady of taste and judgment she asks to be
shown
Vanity Fair Silk Gloves
since, while she knows no better Gloves are made,
she also has the confidence resulting from the Maker's
Guarantee, which is placed in every pair, and reads
thus:—
“If these Gloves wear through at the
finger-tips anv time before fhev are washed
and before the rest of the Glove has had
reasonable wear, we will, upon receipt of
this ticket and your Gloves, replace them
with a New Pair.”
The Sydney Agent for the mill will redeem this
Guarantee to everv merchant selling VANITY FAIR
GLOVES.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
The Melbourne social world now rolls on
its course in two sets. The trouble is that
the same lot; of dancing: men are worked by
both factions. The outlook is black, with
all the Cup dances to provide for. Caterers
should go in for supplying vanloads of
partners. Or perhaps we could buy a Fleet.
Dorchester House, the Holford mansion in
Park Lane, was another English home
handed over for war work. An Australian
girl who was a masseuse to the 1914 “Con-
temptibles,” tells of the glories of its bro-
caded walls; of its staircase up which ten
men might walk abreast; of the magnificent
carving of the galleries topping the wonder-
ful staircase; of doors carven on both sides,
and miles of parquetry flooring. The ceiling
of the state dining-room represents a sum-
mer sky with fleecy clouds and birds in
flight, and by ingenious lighting the clouds
are given the roseate glow of dawn or sun-
set. The first tenant was Whitelaw Reid,
who ran to magnificence as an American
ambassador. But on the top storey of Dor-
chester House, where the servants had their
being, there is no water, no light, no baths
and no ventilation worth mentioning. (Then
Miss Pankhurst comes to Australia, and
rives as though this was the country of
Dorchester House.)
The young man whom Sydney and Mel-
bourne knew years ago as “the Duke of
Cobar” has just been judicially separated
from his wife, Aileen d’Orme, on her peti-
tion. Aileen was an actress who came with
her husband to Australia when he was a
mine manager at Cobar. The case, just
heard in London, was spun to great length.
The wife contended that she had lost her
voice through hubby’s worrying ways and
wanted a divorce. A cruel Court said there
was no legal cruelty, since “Cobar” only
pinched her arm and haunted her for money.
He sent begging letters to the theatre before
her appearances, and threatened to commit
suicide in the theatre if she would not take
him back again. The Law —being an ass —
apparently classed that sort of thing as a
trivial business interruption. A prominent
llnrley-street medical man swore that
d’Orme lost her voice and nerve through
the importunity of “the duke.” But the
Court merely gave her a separation on
another count. She wore lovely frocks
throughout the case, too.
Litigation over little Violet Mac-pherson,
grand-daughter of Nathan Thornley, and
heiress to £'lsoo a year, has not ended with
the order of the Full Court directing that
she be handed to the custody of her father,
Dr. J. S. Macpherson, of British Columbia.
Notice was given of an appeal to the High
Court, and pending the result of that refer-
ence the child is to remain under the guard-
ianship of her aunt, Mrs. Boyd, of Tarrone,
near Ivoroit, who is the appellant. lor ser-
vice as a war surgeon Dr. Macpherson now
holds a C.M.G. ribbon. He has two children
by a second marriage. Mrs. Boyd has a niche
in sassiety.
Newly-wed M. P. Adams tells of how he
heard Wallace Brownlow sing his last song
from a stage. It happened at the Strand
Picture Theatre, in Bourke-st"est, where
poor Brownlow was likely to get an engage-
ment presently. He submitted a bundle of
ballads, and the bridegroom-elect (Adams
was to be married that day) chose “All the
World Loves a Lover,” so Brownlow
mounted the platform, came forward, bowed
to the empty auditorium, and did the best
a broken artist could do with the ruins of
a fine voice. Even then, says Mr. Adams,
(lie deportment and confident style of the
amiable has-been would have been an object-
lesson to the ordinary platform baritone who
lias only a voice to recommend him. Inci-
dentally, the audience excused himself for
being in a hurry by confessing that his
marriage ceremony was nearly due. The
gallant veteran was profuse in congratula-
tions to the impending husband of Irma
Caron, whom he had known as the winsome
little child of his dear old friend Caron,
the musical conductor. He had carried
around the world with him two songs, in
manuscript, which Caron had composed for
him long years ago. And if Mr. Adams
could wait another 10 minutes he would
fetch those two songs, and leave them for
the bride as souvenirs. He brought the
songs, and was seen no more by the happy
man. A day or two after the bridegroom's
return from his honeymoon poor Brownlow
did his last act of kindness —one of the very
few he had done to himself.
George Rolfe, dead at 82. was reputed to
be one of Melbourne’s Big Six in financial
tonnage. He kept to his wholesale grocery
to the end, dividing his time between the
desk in Bourke-street, the flat in Collins-
street and the Lyndoeh property at Warr-
nambool. The old merchant pinched a penny
harder than most, and his bank account
and other assets are therefore his chief
memorial.
Bob Widdis, the sporting Gippslander who
died last June, left an estate worth £24,000.
lie had lately retired front watching his
’Tats” at Traralgon and settled at South
Yarra. The Widdis brethren, who of recent
years “got their name up” in racing circles
by handsomely backing their own horses at
the right moment, have Nambrok station
and various other interests up and down
the La Trobe cattle-country. Another will
mentioned in (he same probate list is that
of architect William Pitt, whose handiwork
is in many prominent city buildings. lie
left more than £40,000 for distribution.
Songstress Violet Clark’s courage and in-
dustry have won her a pinnacle in music.
With no capital but brains, she set out to
get her training by scholarships, and at the
first attempt col-
lected 12 months’
hard labor at the
Marshall Hall Con-
servatorium. After
that she was a per-
fect brigand for
scholarships, a n d
achieved the un-
paralleled record of
taking Mrs. Wieder-
mann’s special prize
five years in succes-
sion. Following some
artistic triumphs in
opera—especially in
“Aida,” “Faust” and
“Hansel and Gretel”
—the clever girl in-
vaded the concert
platform, serving gal-
lantly with the Philharmonic and sharing
the limelight with Paul Dufault. Nowadays
she devotes her enthusiasm to teaching, and
has some young McCormacks and Melbas
coming on. This photo of the lady is by
Lafayette.
Few men have seen as much of the world
as Sir Ralph Williams, now renewing lmlf-
century-old memories of Melbourne. A
Welshman from Anglesey, he put in three
years, mostly on stations in Vic. and the
Riverina, in the long ago. Then he went
to South America, followed that up with the
TJ.S.A. and Canada, knocked about all over
S’Africa, and wound up with a quarter-
century in the Colonial Office service in
S’Africa, the West Indies, Gibraltar, New-
foundland and a few other places. At the
age of GO he was putting in a year or two
travelling in East Africa when war began,
hopped into a job as commander of the
second line of defence, and did good service
while the Hun was still aggressive in those
parts.
Minister Hutchinson and Director Tate,
of the Education Dept., motored to Werri-
bee on Friday to attend the opening of a
new State school with which the name of
G. T. Chirnside is to be associated. G.T.
gave the site of 2$ acres, and passed over
£lOOO to provide scholarships for children
of soldiers who served, or of men who
offered to serve, abroad. It was Captain
Pursey of the same family who provided
the total cost of an Easter-week military
camp in Vic. in 1597, when the Turner
Government was more intent on retrenching
than on training soldiers. As Turner.
Isaacs and Peacock were in Adelaide attend-
ing the first sitting of the Federal Conven-
tion, it fell to Best (now M.H.R.) to then
acknowledge the patriotic gift.
President Manifold, of the State Log.
Council, was an unwilling absentee from the
State funeral arranged by the Lawson Gov-
ernment for his predecessor in the chair.
John Mark Davies. A severe cold forced
him to keep to his room.
Handsome Mrs. Arthur Moule and two
attractive damrliters were welcomed home
last week. The three have been away a long
time. The girls, who were being educated in
Switzerland when war broke out. are now
grown up. The eldest Moule son died in
France in 1017.
Frank Loder, who is just a shadow of his
former self after weeks on the sick list
(through ptomaine poisoning), is now taking
the mountain air at Macedon.
Mrs. Norman Brookes has been having a
sparkling time in London—including an in-
vitation to the King’s second garden party.
George does the thing in several relays,
according to the guests’ social importance.
The Australian Land. Mortgage and Fi-
nance Co. recently handed some solid silver-
plate to J. J. Falkiner. who has been for
3G .years or more with the firm. Drum-
monds supplied and inscribed the tea and
coffee services for the event, and there was
a dinner, speech-making and much cham-
pagne. Mr. Falkiner is not wholly severing
his connection with the co.; he will take a
chair at the Board meetings.
A long, steady, plodding war-job has just
been concluded by Dr. Charles Dennis, who
more than four years ago gave up his Mel-
bourne practice as an X-ray specialist to
carry on the same sort of work at Harefield
Hospital, where the Diggers used to go after
they had got a “Blighty.” Dr. Dennis is a
son of Alexander Dennis, owner of Eeyeuk,
in the prolific Terang sheep-district.
Archbishops Cattaneo and Mannix will
visit Hawthorn on Sunday, October 5, to
take part in the jubilee of the Church of
the Immaculate Conception, which was
opened in 1599. Father Oliver Daly, S.J..
who was first parish priest, is (or lately
was) living in Galway, and gave Dr. Man-
nix a few hints before he left for Australia
as the late Dr. Carr's coadjutor.
Maurice Cussen, son of Cussen, J., dux
of Xavier in 1910, who served in France
during the war, has become associate to
Hood, J. He is watching how Bench and
Bar interpret the law before becoming some-
body’s learned junior.
After the inspection of the University
buildings by representatives of the State
Parliament, three heavyweight profs, were
discussing the visit in the staff room. Enter
Prof. Hercules wearing a stormy look. “One
of those Parliamentary fellows has taken
my hat, and” (looking around and picking
up the only hat about) “left me this rotten
thing.” Prof. Heavyweight (coldly) :
“Excuse me, Prof. Hercules, but that is my
hat!” (Exit all in a haze of apologies.)
The medical students’ dance will fill St.
Ivilda Town Hall with revelry on Friday.
Tile seven-and-sixpenny tickets are on sale
in the students’ room at Melbourne Hospital.
Preferring to resume practice as a solici-
tor, Brig.-Gen. “Pompey” Elliott has turned
down, with thanks, Minister Clarke’s offer
of a seat on the Closer Settlement Board at
£790 a year.
While J. M. Davies was leader for the
Bent Ministry in the Vic. Uppah House,
Governor Iteggie Talbot, in reading a
“Throne speech,” made a slip, and promised
a bill for the conversation of forests. One
of the visitors was John Gavan Duffy, who
remarked that Bent had surpassed himself
by undertaking to put tongues in trees, and
predicted that bills would follow for slock-
ing the brooks with books and the stones
with sermons.
Critchley Parker has been prowling about
London since Peace Day. He goes across
the Channel before he turns back to Aus-
tralia. But he expects to be home in time
for his annual Christmas fishing jaunt to
the Snowy.
Great interest was taken in the appeal of
Consuline, M.H.R., against his conviction on
a charge of having used the Green Boom
Club to George V. and the sol-
diers. Judge Woinarski upheld the sentence
of three weeks’ imprisonment fixed by Kelley,
P.M. Now there is mild speculation whether
the Hughes Government will submit a
motion which may have the effect of making
a vacancy in the House of Reps. If the
vacancy is created it is assumed that Broken
Hill will re-elect him. But what is talked
about more than the merits of Considine’s
case is whether the giving away of foolish
observations made by members of clubs while
in the bar is likely to become a habit.
This photo of Mary Allen seems called for
by her show of pictures at the Fine Art
Society’s Galleries, Miss Mary is the
second of Professor
1 larry Allen’s trio
of clever daughters,
and the photo gives
a true suggestion of
her exceptional talent
for “catching the
likeness” of her sit-
ter. She has the see-
ing eye. When she
was in England with
her parents the young
Australian girl
thought herself un-
duly flattered by a
famous London artist
who said the nicest
things of his pupil’s
efforts, but the late
Fred McCubbin en-
dorsed this good
opinion when he said “None of them [in the
drawing-class] get the likeness like Miss
Allen.” Portraiture is her specialty, and as
she is still in the early twenties her friends
expect great things of her when her art
matures. John Grice was to give the show
a send off this week.
An Australian staff-captain who lately
helped to knock sense into the Afghans
writes appreciatively front the edge of civil-
isation about the Australian nurses. The
only hospital on his section of the wild
North-West frontier was worked by five
sisters, and four of them hailed front the
Commonwealth. The Digger when sick or
wounded far front home feels a lot better
when he has one of his own understanding
countrywomen to cheer him.
On September 12 solicitor John Woolcott.
aged 92, celebrated the 77th anniversary of
his arrival in Melbourne. The eventful 12th
is the anniversary also of the birth of a
son and a grandson.
The first of the after-the-war Italian liners
called here a week ago. The boat was the
Pilseuer, taken from the Austrians by the
Italians. Local Italians climbed the gang-
way for dinner, and gave a jazz party to
farewell the voyagers.
The bag from Adelaide:—
Extraordinary weather —with snow-balling at Mt.
Lofty 1 And some trouble, too, for the revellers
broke wind-screens of passing motors, and damage
was done by the flying glass.
Dr. “Dick” O’Leary, late of Glenelg, has bought a
practice in Cheltenham (Eng.). Wife Audine and
his two decorative girls have joined him there.
The weekly the dansant has proved so popular
that extra ones were arranged. A few out-of-date
souls grieve at the sight of matrons of goodly size
dancing together. Even pretty girls whirl in com-
pany. Isn't it pathetic?
Josiah Symon and his wife gave one of the dances
of the season at the Osborne llall, and a number of
University students did themselves credit at Brick -
nell’s rooms. But the dance of the week was given
by the sixth-form boys and the younger generation
of “old boys” of St. Peter’s College at the Osborne
Hall. Adelaide never saw a finer lot of flappers in
one room.
Frank Williams signed on as stewards’ assistant
on the Medic, in order to work his passage to Eng-
land to continue his art studies. He learnt to
rough it during his time in Egypt and Gallipoli
with the 3rd Light Horse; but those who remember
the exquisite person who graced our most exclu-
sive entertainments, and in the intervals designed
ballet scenery and costumes, can’t imagine him
juggling food.
Leila Doubleday, assisted by Vida Sutton and
Harold Elvins, drew a good concert audience on
Thursday night in spite of the boisterous weather
and numerous rival attractions.
They haven’t yet found any will left by C. C.
Kingston’s widow, but they have come upon plenty of
other interesting papers. As a letter-writer Mrs.
Kingston had a good deal of her husband’s crisp style.
The lady's family gave her a very good education
at the Dominican Convent in Franklin-street; one
of her teachers, a nun, still survives, at a great age.
And both before and after their marriage Mr. King-
ston encouraged a taste for literature and reading-
in his wife—not a little to the advantage of C.C.K.
himself in his public life.
Edith Tuckett, the late Reginald Tuckett’s
daughter, lias agreed to go halves with young
Roly Wilson, son of accountant Fred Wil-
son. Roly has just shed a suit of khaki.
Margaret, eldest daughter of Mr. and AI rs.
P. Condon, of Coltram-road, Ivew, is en-
gaged to Captain H. N. Bogle, younger sou
of the Duhallow Bogles. Captain Bogle
went to the war from Duntroon.
D. N. Johns, of Woolongough station, be-
yond Wyalong (N.S.W.), was married very
quietly last week in Melbourne to Mrs. Col-
lins, a young widow. She is a sister of
Major Richardson, the distinguished war-
nurse. Mrs. Collins has in all three sisters
who were war nurses of note.
Lieut.-Coinmander Surgeon Ellis, an Eng-
lish naval man transferred to our fleet, has
now been made P.M.O. at the Naval Depot.
Ellis is just returning to his new job from
a honeymooning with the lady who was Mrs.
Brvne-Ellis. In the absence of all the bride's
people from Melbourne, Mrs. Leslie Stuart
gave her a wedding party at Logan House,
and about 50 bluejackets arrived to act as
motor-haulers. It made a pretty show, and
Toorak-road was full of excitement for half
an hour.
Some years ago, before Mrs. Doubleday
went to Ehrope with daughter Leila and a
violin, she introduced Lilian Adams to the
platform as a promising Australian con-
tralto. Melbourne thought a good deal of
Lilian Adams’s voice for . a while, and then
she got married and her name dropped out
of concert programmes. Last week the death
of Mrs. Lilian Ogilvie (Adams) was an-
nounced from Hampton. The songstress
had suffered a long sickness.
Carrie Haase, whom Melbourne has not
seen as a professional actress since she
played the heroine in a revival of “The
Squaw Man” at the King's, is to give a
recital at the Playhouse on the 29th. and
Harold Elvins will play an accompaniment
to some of her selections. Excepting a scene
from Shakspeare the selections are pieces
not often heard on the platform here, nor
are they within the range of an ordinary
elocutionist. Miss Haase is strikingly out
of the ordinary in her art and personality—
distinctively dramatic and strangely impres-
sive.


m =
niiiiiiirif
iiiiiiiiiii
jjiHniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiwiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiHiiiiHiiiiHiiiiiiiiimiiiiiHiiHHiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliuiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiliiniiiiiiiiiiiiiMn
piillliliH
I lilllllli
as
3?
$
m
&
4>
fw
51lllllllll£
iiHHuny^
llllllillllllllllllllllll!l||||||||||||||||||II||il)|llllll|)|!lll|lill|li)|)I;|||||lill||||)]||!)|||||||||||||||)|||||l|||)||||||||||)!|||l|||||||||||)l||llll||||lllllllllllllllllllf!lllllllllllllllll,llllllllH ||||||||||||JtMUHllllHinitlinilltllllllllllTiH
DEWARS
WHISKY
Common Sense
and
Stimulants
Excess in the use of stimulants, no matter wnat the kind, is always
harmful, and no amount of argument will alter the fact. Alcoholic
beverages were intended for intelligent use, not abuse, and- when
they are good and used in moderation they have a beneficial action
upon the human system.
The meaning of the word “ whisky ” has been much distorted, and
has been applied to an endless array of deleterious intoxicants which
even in small quantities always acts injuriously. The word ‘‘whisky”
should be applied only to a stimulant which is made of pure in-
gredients.
Whisky that can justly lay claim to be wholesome should possess a
nutrient value and partake substantially of the nature of a liquid
food. Its chief virtue should consist in exhilarating and sustaining
harmlessly. Its use should be attended with profit to health.
When whisky has been skilfully made from pure and wholesome in-
gredients it improves by lapse of time. That is a peculiarity of the
genuine article. Deleterious ardent intoxicants, no matter how long
kept., never grow wholesome. The good only ripens with age,
developing fine fragrance, mellowness, and softness which render it
delightful.
DEWAR’S
The Whisky of Great Age.


Charles
HeidsiecKs
Vintage 1906 r
cmm
NZ PLUS ULTRA
y
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
DANCING
FROCKS.
ĥ
Decollete—with shoulder -
straps or without, or with
generous, gauzy sleeves,
every Shave evening gown
emphasises the art of the
Shave designers. The craft of
Shave model-fitting pleases
the frankly fastidious, since
it assures perfectly-fitting
frocks. Call on us when
we visit Sydney, Adelaide
or Brisbane.
SHAVE
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
MELBOURNE
HOSIERY!
GLOVES!
UNDERWEAR!
“OUR” SPECIAL MILANESE SILK
GLOVES, double-tipped guaranteed, all colors.
4/9 pair.
Other qualities 5/6. 7/6 pair
“DOVE” HEAVY-WEIGHT PURE SILK
HOSE, every pair guaranteed ladder-proof. Sold
in shops 25/- pair. From us, in black only—
-16/6 Pair
“OVIT” ARTIFICIAL SILK ANKLE
HOSE. Australian made, noted for splendid dye
and good wear. In black,' white and brown —
3/6 pair
“DOVE” AMERICAN COTTON SING-
LETS. very long and full size. Short sleeves.
4/11 value for 2/11 each
KAV«SER WLANESE HOSE, in Mastic,
Navy and White 16/11 pair
MAIL ORDERS SPECIALLY CATERED FOR.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
The Dove Hosiery Stores,
Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Mead-&-~T€ajr
THAT WONDERFUL NEW MATERIAL WHICH
MENDS WITHOUT STITCHES. IT'S SO NEAT,
SO EFFECTIVE AND SO SIMPLE TO USE. I DO
HIS REPAIRS IN A QUARTER THE TIME
Obtainable through all Drapers.
Stores, Cycle Agencies and Motor
Garages.
Sample Outfit Post Free on
Receipt of 1/4.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for N.S.W. aDd
Queensland —
Bennett 8 Barkell Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILLINERY
Smiles and dimples everywhere in
Sydney on Friday to greet the Children’s
Bay. The Quay and Martin-place were
the centres of the Kindergarten “push.”
Stalls here were laden with wares proved
by many a hard wartime campaigner to
he sure money-catchers; not so sure,
though, as Jack Cannot and his vacuum
cash-absorber, which during the lunch-hour
licked up all coin thrown within reach of
its hungry maw. Tiny tots sang their
rhymes and played their games, while
grown-ups, slipping back to their own ring-a-
rosy and green-gravel days, showered pence
about the juvenile leads of three years old
or thereabouts. Every coin goes to the
Happiness account of some kiddie. Moore
Park, William-Street and Oxford-street had
their stalls; Manly had a day to itself; and
Hunter’s Hill youngsters spent the hours
with "baby Spring in Boronia Park.
Banks of primrose and masses of gold daf-
fodil ; the Fuller and Maitland ladies, with
Mrs. Pitt and a crowd of helpers busy hand-
ing out the Spring farings; buyer and seller
alike giving a hint of the season in their
dresses —that was the vestibule of Her
Majesty’s when the golden fleece shorn from
Mr. R. M. Pitt’s mountain garden flashed its
splendor before town eyes. There’s witchery in
a bunch of Spring flowers, a hint of the
romance that will come with the early Sum-
mer—or a memory for the most cynical of
us of a time when we, too, walked the groves
of A ready.
The money from the daffodil sales last
week came to £156, but openhanded R. M.
Pitt had promised that if the receipts
reached £l5O he’d make up the second cen-
tury, so £2OO was the amount gleaned from
the Pitt gardens; and an extra £l3 was
made from the blooms handed in during the
day by sympathetic florists. The Peace
Offering Ball is being born with a silver
spoon in its mouth all right.
The first production of “Butterfly” saw
a glitter of dress and jewels never outshone
in pre-war days. The dressing was so ex-
tremely modish that only bare backs and
diamonds were visible from “behind.” Just
returned Joe Cook was in a box that was
almost swamped with Stars and Stripes,
while only a modest glimpse of the Union
Jack and the Australian flag was obtain-
able.
Which recalls that, in order to create the
right atmosphere for the Peace Conference,
three shiploads of Old Glory crossed the
Atlantic just ahead of Woodrow Wilson.
A lately-home Digger who was in Paris while
the Conference sat had to look for half
a day before he found the Southern Cross
amidst the riot of Stars and Stripes.
A large circle is grieving over the news
of Ruby Ward’s death. She was the tall,
graceful daughter of Dr. Ward, for so many
years editor of the Telegraph, and now
editing the Telegraph in Brisbane. Ruby
had done good war-work in England, and
the end came from the after-effects of an
operation upon one of her ears. A brother,
Dr. Hugh, was one of the early starters in
the war; he went over to France with the
first Hundred Thousand, attached to the
Countess of Dudley’s Hospital. Another
Ward girl, Betty, is meeting with stage suc-
cess in England.
A family cable announces the death in
England of Mrs. Dalgleish-Bellasis. She was
a sister of Mrs. Ted Simpson, who is now in
England, and Miss Louise de Lauret, of
Goulburn. Like her sisters, she was bril-
liantly amusing, and she became a great
figure in the London “Catholic set,” which
Disraeli featured in several of his novels.
It was chiefly due to her that the Brompton
Oratory was completed 20-odd years ago in
the time stipulated by the London County
Council. She is said to have defrayed the
whole cost of the great dome—about £30.000.
One son settled in N. S. Wales, Alec Dal-
gleish, of Pomeroy station, near Goulburn.
He went to England in July, partly to see
his boy at Oxford, and partly to be with
bis mother, who has been ill for many
months. The other sons -went into the Bri-
tish Army or Navy, and several fell in the
war.
The G.-G. and Lady Helen will be the
guests of Miss Eadith Walker at Yaralla
for the Spring race carnival. They will
arrive in Sydney on October 3.
Ascharu, now a young ladies’ school, is
not entirely shorn of its old-time garden
glory; the pittosporum still breathes the
fragrance of Spring, and some fine old trees
promise coolth and shade in the scorching
days of January. Fortunately the heavy
clouds that scurried across the sky were in
too great a hurry to keep their dates with
Governor Davidson to spill tears over the
fete held at Ascham for the Darling Point
branch of the District Nursing Assoc. But
a cold wind blew, and visitors were glad that
the stalls were in the large schoolroom.
Here it was that Dame Margaret Davidson,
after peremptorily banging a chair on the
floor to call the gathering to attention, an-
nounced that the affair was ready to absorb
all available small silver. The lady, who
had arrived not so very late, carried £2
worth of primroses and violets (calculating
by the dimensions of the florist’s sixpenny
bunch) that a small pupil had presented,
accompanied by the curtsey she had been
practising in an angle of the house till the
vice-regal car was almost upon her.
The State National Assoc, had its annual
parade at King’s Hall last week, when Hol-
man and Fuller and Levy (looking tremen-
dously important) and Joe Cook and their
respective ladies sunned themselves in the
party smile. Musical items were added, and
M.L.A. Grimm soft-soaped Holman till that
good actor’s face shone as though he had
just received “shampoo with massage, sir.”
Mrs. Holman ran to a wide hat with her
evening togs, but this time it didn’t creep
down to her shoulder-blades. The Joe Cook
dame wore a wonderful silver-spangled scarf
that looked like the Rue de la Paix.
Mayoress Goldstein of Rand wick (her
alderman is cousin to Dan Levy) was the
belle of the party.
But the “National” party didn’t settle
whether a white Australia includes Japanese
cooks at 30s. a week.
Latest nominee for the solos in the Aus-
tralian choir is Jeanette Ethelstone, a small
blonde lady with a casket full of diamonds
in her throat. Trill and roulade and run
flashed into every corner of a but half-filled
Sydney Town Hall the other evening when
the blue-clad girl, devoid of every prima-
donna trick (she'd not even been advertised
so that you’d notice it), cast her vocal gems
around with the freedom that comes from a
knowledge that there’s plenty. “The Queens-
land Nightingale” she had been billed, be-
cause the North is her native State and her
first singing lessons were received at All
1 Inflows’ Convent in Brisbane, but for several
years past she has been a pupil of Sydney
teacher Asprey. Only one fly in the oint-
ment—the absence of English songs. One
little lonely thing on the programme, and it
hiding between the skirts of two made-in-
France numbers.
This is Judith Fletcher’s picture of Maude
Russell, artist and good sort, who has done
more than anybody
else to make “Rem-
nants from Rand-
wick” the bright and
saleable production
it is. The lady would
disclaim all this, but
the fact remains that
she has given many
of the soldier-artists
their first lessons in
line-work and has
never failed with the
helping hand and
word. The first edi-
tion was so success-
ful that another issue
is coming out, with
Miss Russell as hon.
manager and art-
editor. The work in
the paper is all done by returned men and
nurses, and the proceeds go to buy invalid-
chairs and beds for the boys not yet able to
move about unaided.
Mrs. Steff Macdonald, who was Mollie
Barry, has descended upon Sydney clad in
irreproachable garments. The girl, who went
away in the orettv class, has grown into some-
thing close to beauty. One of her possessions
is a deep mole cape; and her hats are made
of millions of ospreys and miles of ostrich
feathers. Husband is with “Buz Buz.” For
a long time he was with the Marie Tempest
combination ; and Mollie’s youngster brother
was with the English actress for a long time.
Dr Temple Smith, just back from Egypt
and. England, is enjoying the arrival of
Spring in Macquarie-street. While looking
after the Diggers’ eyes in sweltering
1 haraohland, his thoughts used to turn
fondly to trout-fishing in English rivers.
And when the time came to move, he re-
joiced greatly, overhauled his gear, and was
soon in his waders.
The soldier poets are coming home one
bv one. Boyce Bowden arrived in Sydney
during the week in the neat uniform of the
M.L. forces. The Harbor siren has caught
him, as it has caught so many other Maori-
landers, and he may stay and sit on the
lady’s knee instead of going back to work in
Wellington.
The rain lifted for the Faithfulls’ dance
last week, and that was a good thing, for
the floor had been laid down on the lawn.
The idea was to repatriate Lieut. Rex.
Violet C. Craig Robertson, who looked
into Sydney last week on her way to Uncle
Reid's at Moree, is a Glascae lass, and the
youngest woman city-councillor in the
world. She has a seat among the British
National Council of Women, too.
Two young Singapore people received the
choral benediction of St. James’s upon their
marriage last week, the parties being Beat-
rice Kathleen Piggott and Fred Thorough-
good, both of the Straits Settlements. Dora
and Mary Grimley bridesmaided in palest
primrose and cousin Ailsa in cream. The
bride’s white satin frock and foamy veil
trailed up an aisle decked with palms and
arum-lilies. The Australia saw the party
afterwards.
Mary Laing Meason is the daughter of
civil-engineer Laing Meason of Wellington, in
Maoriland. She is,
on her mother’s side,
one of the Moore-
house clan, and
everybody in Maori-
land knows what
ramifications that
family has. Giving
promise of being an
excellent black-and-
white artist, she
crossed to Australia,
and then flung away
her pencil and be-
came engrossed in
the political work of
the National Liberal
League. However,
her charm of man-
ner and genius for
hard toil captured
the Shipmans, and now she is off as Touring
Agent and Secretary in Asia to the Freddy
Shipman Company. Mary has the bright
M.L. complexion and the hair of Cleopatra
and Helen and other females who tangled
the makers of history in the silken snare
of their red top-knots.
The Kurylos made their adieux to Sydney
on Saturday night. Not in words; in dances.
The girl Kurylo is by way of being a beauty,
and her deadly reptile dance is what Byron
said of the love of women: “a lovely and
a fearful thing.” On the index and fourth
fingers of each hand she wears large emer-
alds, and by manipulating fingers, wrists and
slender arms she presents a very realistic
pair of green-eyed serpents the‘while she
(clad in green pants and silver corselet)
writhes and undulates and generally plays
the snake. The pair go north w'ith the
fehipmans.
Mrs. A. Ogilvie is returning to Sydney
early this month after over 20 years’
absence, and bringing a daughter with her.
She is the wife of a captain in the merchant
service who has been engaged on transport
work during the war. Mother did her bit in
looking after lonely Aussies, and daugh-
ter private-secretaried in a munition-factory.
Mrs. Ogilvie was Nellie Cripps, and is sis-
ter to Miss Fisher Cripps, B.A.
The return of Sister Mary Baxter, who
was in charge of the Coulter Hospital in
London, brings to mind the “ghost” story of
its founding. Coulter is the name of a
doctor, very dead for a long time, but doing
good through the person of Mrs. Harbine,
an American young woman with spiritual-
lylo, tendencies. Early in the war Mrs.
1 larbine, then in the States, received a com-
munication from Coulter’s spirit telling her
to go to London and start a hospital in his
name. The lady packed her grip, pinned
on her hat and made for London. Calling
up Coulter on the long-distance once more,
she was instructed to see the Duke of Man-
chester, who was so impressed that he im-
mediately handed over the ancestral home
in Grosvenor Square, which is now the
wonderfully-fitted Coulter. Everything that
science ever thought of to alleviate suffering
is there, and Mrs. Harbine got the lot by
consultation with her spirit guide. When
the institution needed funds for an improve-
ment, Coulter would tell her what source
to tap for the money; and she declares that
no person approached has ever refused a
cheque.
Another Mrs. Harbine storv concerns a
Dr. Findlay, Capt. Napier and Capt. Wil-
son, the King’s Messenger (his sister is
war-worker Muriel Wilson, of Charles-
street, Berkley Square). One day the lady
was instructed by Coulter to go to Greece
and interview its slippery monarch. She
went, had, she reports, a satisfactory talk
with his Brass Tacks, and when about to
return was impelled to travel on a certain
vessel on which was Capt. Wilson, who car-
ried _ special despatches. Suddenly a sub-
marine hove on the horizon. Mrs. Harb’ne
(the influence was at work) dashed to Wil-
son’s cabin and said: “Give me the papers
you are secreting on yourself containing
so-and-so.” Wilson, who was dum-
founded at her knowledge of his secret,
hesitated. “Quick,” said she, “you have no
option: this is an enemy submarine, and it
will carry you off.” Wilson handed over
the papers. The next moment Wilson and
Napier (his comrade) were being hurried
down the periscope or something of the sub.
As he dropped from view he called out to
Dr. Findlay : “See Mrs. Harbine safe to Lon-
don.” Dr. Findlay and she took the packet
to the English Ambassador at the first
Italian port. The War Office afterwards
acknowledged the receipt of the papers and
said they were of the “utmost importance
to the Allied cause.” You don’t believe the
story? Well, that’s how it was told to us:
and, at any rate, a lot of the boys know
the Coulter Hospital.
Word comes from the North that Mrs.
Baker, wife of the newly-appointed head
master of the King’s School, is a good-
looker of exceptional merit with a soft Dub-
lin tongue. The early habits of her reverend
—he played international “footer”—have
effected an apparently-permanent disloca
tion in the set of his clothes. But he is
credited with being the best billiard-player
among Australian clerics.
Gwen Williams, only daughter of late
Surgeon-General Williams, of Melbourne,
and niece of the Monty Severns, is in a
film-play written by Neville Percy, a cousin
of the Duke of Northumberland. The Percy
plays in his creation opposite Miss Williams.
Among the soldiers’ friends is J. M. Dixon
of Edgecliff, whose job it has been to pay
over the pensions and allowances at the local
post office. Past the age to enlist when
the call came, he did his bit by making it
as easy as he could for those who had to
collect through him. Result, a presentation,
per Trooper Bradstreet. assisted by Ted
Scott, the A.A.M.C. reciter, who carried
“The Sentimental Bloke” from one end of
Egypt to the other. The widows and
mothers gave a signed album to go with a
wallet holding £25 and a wad of gratitude.
Frank Fox's daughter Dorothy was mar-
ried in England the other day to Mervyn
Thomson, son of a Cavendish Square (Lon-
don) doctor. She was a very small girl
when her father left the Lone Hand to try
his luck in English journalism ten years
ago. Frank Fox. who left the Morning
Post to go to the war, was badly wounded
while serving with the R.F.A.
Lieut. Blythman arrived in Sydney on
the Suevic last week, and he and his pretty
wife are staying at the Wentworth. Before l
the war lie was about the most capable and
popular secretary the Union Club had ever
had.
Young Bob MacKinnon, the athletic
dancing star of the .1. C. W. Co., has nearly
died of the ’flu in Melbourne. Ilis native
city is Sydney. His father is a North
Shore doctor, and his mother is the well-
known Liberal, Anti-Sosh Nationalist and
Ited Cross worker, organiser and speech-
maker —the busiest woman where matters
of public interest are concerned in Sydney.
The Art Society’s Conversazione was a
wild affair. The Education Department’s
galleries were thronged with the reckless
snirits of our art and literary coteries. No-
body dreamed of supping until 9 o’clock,
and it was nearly half-past 10 when Bohemia
rolled down from the top floor to the bot-
tom —in the automatic.
Judge Backhouse has nine months’ leave
of absence, which he will divide up between
brother Ernest, of the Commercial Bank,
Tamworth, and two sisters, one in Westralia.
the other in Maoriland. Born at Ipswich
(England) in the Exhibition year (’5l).
and named Paxton after the architect thereof,
there is coincidence in the fact that the
Judge got most of his earlier schooling at
Ipswich in Queensland.
Mary Langtree and Val Osborne started
out a week or two ago as sales-ladies—not
the department-store variety, but as priest-
esses of the high altars of georgette and
ninon at the temple Dorrien. Mary, how-
ever, tired after a few days, and decided that
her viewpoint of pretties would be from be-
fore, not behind, the counter.
Thirty motor-cars all in a row waited out-
side the King’s Cross Theatre in the even-
ing, for Mrs. Charlie Chaplin was appearing
in “Borrowed Clothes” for the Peace Ball
fund. Vice-royalty was there trying to look-
unconscious when the heroine was given the
run of the hero’s other-young-woman’s ward-
robe. A strong support of local titles and a
bodyguard of the Points’ Very Best safe-
guarded the State dignitaries; but the ordi-
nary King’s Crosser didn’t care tuppence,
and bolted for a tram at the final curtain
instead of waiting for their Exes, to make
the first move —the genthelp smiling a sickly
smile the while.
Mr. Finlay, a barrister of note at Welling-
ton (M.L.), is holidaying at the Australia
until his passport is fixed for Singapore. Ho
is a brother of the knighted John, who has
cut a broad swathe in Maoriland law and
public life.


ħ
LIMITED
FOLDING TRAVELLING' CLOCKS.
larfe niche/ watch, with black dial
e luminous hands c< figures, fittedin
leather case Folds fat [dr travelling
purposes. Bduy. • ]2 '0
Lar(e nickel watch .fitted in leather
cose, (bids flat for travelling. sije
'lx 4 mdcs.
5° 5lOO 8 <%£6150
ic Company invite inspection of theip
extensive rancie of Folding' Travelling
Clocks. The accompanying ill astral ions
depictJwd of the newest designs.
selection will be schfon approval
at the Company's risk, & a copy of theip illu-
-strated catalogue forwarded on reouesL.
5% discount allowed on
all cash purchases
Hardy Brothers I™
13 HUNTER ST
SYDNEY.
290 COLLINS ST
MELBOURNE..
h
IIGIIB QUEEN ST
BRISBANE...
AND AT
LONDO N..
SfTP
/fui/fz
COVER
THE
EARTH
The Mark of the
Perfect Paint:
By these letters and the “Cover the Earth’*
trade-mark, which appear on every can, you
will readily identify
Sherwin-Williams Paint
Prepared.
“S-W-P” (Prepared) is a full-bodied, free-flowing paint
that covers about 1000 sq. ft. per gallon, and gives
effectual protection to every inch of the surface covered.
THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS CO. (AUSTRALIA) LID.,
Paint, Color anti Varnish Makars,
63 PITT STREET —. — SYDNEY.
Agents In all principal towns throughout Australia.
LEARN TO TAKE PHOTOS
with an ENSIGN CAMERA
BRITISH-MADE.
There is nothing that adds so much to the pleasure of your Spring and
Summer outings and holiday trips, as to be able to take photos of the
beauty spots you visit and of your friends in happy groups and merry poses.
m
» j«a
i' is
a
We Will Teach You
How to Use It—Free.
The simplest camera to begin with is the
Ensign Box-Form Camera, as illustrated. It
is strong and serviceable, takes good photos,
and is inexpensive. The body of the camera
is made of seasoned wood, covered Leather-
ette with Nickel Fittings and it is fitted with
a Rapid Achromatic Lens, built-in View-
finder, and Shutter giving Time and Instan-
taneous Exposures.
DAYLIGHT-LOADING
FOR ROLL FILMS.
Made in Four Sizes as under:—
ENSIGN BOX-FORM CAMERA:
No. 2;}A.
Takes Photos 21 x 21
PRICE— 107-
FILMS, per roll of 6 Exposures :
-77
Call and let us show you how eai
you live out of town.
Jewellers, Dentists and Engravers’ Residues
Treated at HARRINGTONS’.
We have the latest Scientific Appliances for the Economical Treatment of Ores,
Residues, Sweepings and other Waste Products, every grain'of precious metal that ts of
value being extracted and paid for at market rates, less a smalt charge for refinement.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver, Platinum and other Precious-Metals, and
can supply those metals and their alloys in plate, granulated or wire* We specialise in
Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis. A note or ’phone message to any of
our branches will receive prompt attention.
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney. 266 Oollins Street, Melbourne.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane. 43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland. 42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale.
Edison
Phonographs
Amberola 30— an excellent instrument.
When buying a phonograph your
first aim should be to obtain an
EDISON. The reputation of
the great inventor is your guaran-
tee of superiority.
The Amberola 30, illustrated,
is the lowest-priced of the
Amberola family, and is a most
charming instrument in all re-
spects. Has a famous Diamond
Stylus Reproducer —no needles
to change —and plays the charm-
ing Blue Amberol Records (prac-
tically unbreakable). In golden
oak cabinet. Price £lO/10/-
Call on the nearest Edison
dealer for a demonstration, or
write for details, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
iff®*
“■=o
Edison Storage Batteries
—for efficient car ignition & lighting.
Edison Storage Batteries have many distinet, exclusive advantages, and are
built on an entirely new, different and superior principle.
There are no glass or rubber jars to break; no expert attention reQuire<fefall
that is necessary to get satisfactory results is to add a certain amount of pure
water occasionally; there are no charging troubles —the Edison Storage Batteries
can stand indefinitely in either a charged or discharged condition absolutely
without injury.
Call for a demonstration, or, if this is inconvenient, write for details, post
free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


ĥ
A Business Man
thinks In terms of “service,"
and expects from his wearing
apparel, service in the high-
est degree. In PEL A( O
Collars he is never disap
pointed. The fact that their
style sacrifices nothing to
their quality and service-
ability accounts for the wide
popularity of PELACO
Collars. Sold by reliable
Mercers everywhere, as are
also PELACO Shirts end
Pyjamas.
COLLARS
Mad* in
A ustralia
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN."
The above
is the title 1
of our book-
let. which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. ft
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY -T.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous arti>t.
It explains the
difference between
learning to Cory
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.’’
I.
THE HARRY J, WESTON
Postal Vchool of Drawing,
147 Waitham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
ESTERBROOK’S
PEN NIBS.
T\OES the nib you are using exactly please you?
If not, write and tell us your ideas of a good
nib. Send 2ld. in stamps for cost of postage on
free samples to
ESTERBROOK, Box 98 G.P.0., Sydney.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
VVb Sopppy—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Reams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ IIALI., LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the \vo>M.
FOR
ARCHITECTS. ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
IPHnmM
: ■
*
RITJSM
MADE
Perfection
RUBBER
$
gji
m
Hose of Luxite
Nobody can have better
Hose than Luxite-manu-
factured from the softest,
longest fibres and strong-
est yarn obtainable. Its
serviceability is a cer-
tainty.
Insist on having this
brand. Our enormous pro-
duction saves expense in
many ways, hence “ Lux-
ite " prices are always
low. The soft, full-bodied
shimmer of Luxite Hose
is acquired.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
E 835)
anas
535^
THE. WORLD'S
ħ
BEST VALUE
h
G3S33S
HORROC KM S' J
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
.Legal Notices.
ftE JOHN DALEY, late of Wharparilla, in Victoria,
*■ farmer, deceased, James Daley, son of the deceased,
is notified that he is entitled to a share in the above
estate provided he claims same before the 22nd day
of September, 1919, failing which he will forfeit
all interest therein.
F. N. H. ATKYXS, of Millewa Chambers, High
Street, Echuca, Victoria, Proctor for William John
King, of Carlton, Hank Manager, Sole Executor of
the Will.
T»0 the NEPHEWS and NIECES of THOMAS
A TOTON JACKSON Deceased Pursuant to an
Order of the Chancery Division of the High Court
of Justice England dated 28th February 1919 made
re Thomas Toton Jackson (deceased) Rist and
Another v. Grenside and Others 1916 J 855 The fol-
lowing inquiries were directed.
1. An inquiry what nephews and nieces there were
of the testator who survived the said Susan Wil-
liams or who either before or after the testator’s
death predeceased the said Susan Williams leaving
any and what children living at the death of the
said Susan Williams.
2. An inquiry whether such nephews and nieces
as survived the said Susan Williams and such chil-
dren of deceased nephews and nieces as were living
at her death are living or dead and whether sucli
of the said nephew's and nieces and children as are
living have respectively attained the age of twenty-
one years or if females have married and whether
such nephews and nieces and children as are dead
respectively lived to attain the age of twenty-one
years or if females married and who are the legal
personal representatives of any such nephews or
nieces or children as have died after having’attained
the age of twenty-one years or if females after
marriage.
3. An inquiry whether any and which of the tes-
tator’s nephews and nieces who survived the said
Susan Williams or if the children living at the
death of the said Susan Williams of deceased
nephews and nieces have in any way and how
assigned charged or incumbered their respective
shares in the testator’s residuary estate and if so
in whom the said shares are now vested under or
by virtue of such assignments or any transfers
thereof and what is due and to whom in respect of
such charges or incumbrances.
4. An inquiry what nephews and nieces there were
of the testator who survived the testator's brother
Edward Jackson mentioned in the said will or who
either before or after the testator’s death pre-
deceased the said Edward Jackson leaving any and
what children living at the death of the said
Edward Jackson.
5. An inquiry whether such nephews and nieces as
survived the said Edward Jackson and such’ children
of deceased nephews and nieces as were living at his
death are living or dead and whether such of the
said nephews and nieces and children as arq living
have respectively attained the age of twenty-one
years or if females have married and whether such
of the said nephews and nieces and children as arc
dead respectively lived to attain the age of twenty-
one years or if females married and who are the
legal personal representatives of any such nephews
or nieces or children as have died after having
attained the age of twenty-one years or after
marriage if females.
6. An inquiry whether any and which of the
testator’s nephews and nieces who survived the said
Edward Jackson or of the children living at the
death of the said Edward Jackson of deceased
nephew’s and nieces haVe in any way and how
assigned charged or incumbered their respective
shares in the sum of nine thousand pounds r.ew’ two
pounds fifteen shillings per cent, stock specifically
bequeathed by the said will and if so in whom the
said shares are now vested under or by virtue of
such assignments or any transfers thereof and what
is due and to whom in respect of such charges or
incumbrances.
Now all persons claiming to be interested under
the said inquiries are by themselves or their solici-
tors to come in and prove their claims at the
Chambers of Mr. Justice Eve and Mr. Justice Peter-
son at the Royal Courts of Justice Strand London
and to enter their names and the particulars of
their claims on or before the 30th day of November
1919 in a book kept for that purpose in Room 693
at the said Courts or in default thereof they will
be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said order.
Friday the 12th day of December 1919 at two
of the clock in the afternoon at the said Chambers
Room 692 is appointed for hearing and adjudicating
upon the claims.
Dated this 25th day of June 1919.
(Sgd.) A. KEEN Master of the Supreme Court.
Note: The deceased Thomas Toton Jackson late
of 4 St. Leonards Place Kensington London S.W.
was one of the eight children of John Jackson and
Susan Jackson (formerly Toton). The deceased died
in 1892.
E. F. and H. LANDON, Solicitors for the Plaintiffs,
53 New Broad Street, London, E.C.
ĥ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
ħ
TO
H.M. THE KINa
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Chemists, Grocers. Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
h
The O.C.S. Automatic Weighing Machine
FOR FREE RUNNING MATERIALS. NO POWER REQUIRED.
Manufacturers and Im-
porters of—-
Roller Flour Mill
Machinery
Oatmeal Mill Machinery
Brewers’ and Malsters’
Machinery
Superphosphate
Machinery
Elevators of various
designs
Apron Conveyors,
Gravity Conveyors
Adjustable Feeders
and Mixers
Flour and Bran Packers
Grinding Mills for all
Classes of Materials
Bottle-filling Machines
for Piccalilli, etc.
SUe F 4.
F a r m e r s’ Grain
Cleaners
Link Belting
Sprocket Wheels
Elevator Buckets
Complete Grinding and
Dressing Plants for
Sugar, Spices, Starch,
Paint, etc.
Package Elevators
Bag Holders
Disc Grinding Mills
Malt Roller Mills
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SUPPORT OUR OWN INDUSTRIES.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [1
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
iso notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. N't
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Doubtful: Coincidence, apparently. Any-
way, Souter’R drawing (with the gag) was in hand four
months before it was printed,.. .J.D.8.: 445yd5., at
Herne Bay (Eng.) links in 1913 John G.: Nothing
in it that hasn’t been said many times E.T.A.:
“Morning in My Garden" is not bright enough....
Argwa: “Little Crosses" rejected... .8. Smith: “The
Vagabond” will have to move 0n.... Kathleen W.:
Sorry, they are not likely to be placed anywhere
J.A.: Send the articles along nnd we’ll have a look
at them. Be as brief as possible... .G.A.L.: Can't
find the space for it. Obliged, all the same
N.W. (Q.) : N 0... .G.li.S.: .Verses not skilful enough.
A.P.R.; “The Groove? preaches too much
E.J.H.: Far too thin Ko Ko: Fails in the tell-
ing... .Oglamite: There is not enough novelty about
•'•The Cape”... .Spgs: Find out what you’re going
to do before you try to do it... .M.fl. (St. Hilda)
The verse is very thin ana lumpy... .M.W.G.: Too
crude to carry the yarn... .Rosa L.: The argument
of Jew and Christian qualities ceased to make blue
metal fly somewhere about, the middle of the 17th
century Septem: Doesn’t make a yarn... .Dave:
You seem to have a bad temper and a lot of time.
R.S.Y.S.: You’ve been over that ground so often
before... .A.C.8.: Does n’i move U5....A.L. (Eng.):
One may d 0... .8.J.R.: Not tip.... Alan B.: Correct,
but dull Dam: Unpleasant tale and rather thin.
Plough: Bad verse... .E.M.S.: “Head” yarn
deserves brighter treatment.... Lottie 0.: Not for
us A.R.V.: Far too ldhg and 1005 e... .J.B.
(Hastings): Not enough skill... .R.V.J.: Pretentious
rubbish... .A.M.D.: Horrible, but quite well done.
S. : They don’t strike U8....0.W. (Hamilton):
That sort of thing has been better handled so often.
... .W.A.H.: Verse of that kind needs a lot of skill
and grace. Try again W.P.Y.: Not very bright.
... .E.M.E.: The only thing is to track the Muse
down again. No use singing that you’ve lost her
Hope S.: Misses Roger II.: It had lots more
wrong with it, don’t worry... .M.K.M.: Not up
Detector: Verse gets newhere hear L.G. (Albury):
“Jealousy” won’t do 2K’s: Has just a sporting
chance... 1.J.: The yarn is like “Lucy”—it gets lost.
. ...E.M.J.: Verses are promising, but the wail seems
absurd.... V.Y: Only 15 ? Let’s hear from you later.
~. .W.P.J.: Poor little thing that goes on wooden
legs... .F.V.C.: Perhaps... .Timo: Tries to say too
much and gets tangled.... I.G. (North Sydney):
Hasn’t enough interest ill that form... AVilson H.:
Couldn’t you get Australian color? Spring isn’t all
imported birds and trees... .F.C. (Woocalla) : There
have been worse first attempts, but the yam isn’t
worth the space....Porphvro: You are on the track of
something... .G.M.C.: There’s a hint of promise.
Tiy us again.... A. de Hove: Just misses being
a shocking example... .Belleiive: “Before Break-
fast” is the pick of the basket: —
HushanO:
I’m tired of porridge, ’tis
Worse than milk sop;
What sort of wife are you ?
Fry me a chop.
Tea makes me bilioUs;
I'll have coffee instead.
Rot! to old women’s gab ’
That, it’s bad for the head.
Cut me thin bread for lunch,
And a small piece of cake.
Not like the last dessert—
Which made my teeth ache.
The fire’s going out —•
Here, put on a spurt;
I want a change of socks.
Where’s my clean shirt?
Wife:
You’re but a growling brute;
You’ve hardened my lot.
Begone, or at your head
> I’ll hurl the pot.
Faeetus: Not enough song in it for the ninon
material G.F.D.: Not up T.M.D. (Eng.) : The
pious wish for W. M. Hughes is here recorded:—
May whispering zephyrs
From the east or west
Or north or south, which-
Ever is best,
Give to Mr. Hughes balm,
And keep him from harm,
Until he reaches
His simple farm.
But when he arrives there
Mav God hear ollr pfayer
And... .keep... .him !
F.D. (Greymouth): Nothing in it but a head-
ache.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Fees: They don’t quite make the weight James
T. (Dunedin) : Those that haven’t the old-age pen-
sion have all died in infancy N.C.S.: It iineans
that you nearly scored. Better luck next time
G.A.L.: No good sending those tiny little things.
Study and draw larger H.Jj.J.: That sort of smart
conversation would end in a fight. Poor diagram
M.J.M.: Why is the girl in the bathing-dress doing
a contortion act ? She would look just right on
the label of a new rheumatism cure H. V.: The
dirty man should tell the inquisitive old gent, who
wants to know how often he washes to go and get
himself re-drawm... .H.V.R.: You’re on the road, but
your figures lack animation And you leave out too
much. Peg away.... M.M.: Very small and muddy.
.... J.: Stomach jest fails to amuse... .N.F.: Feeble
feminine stuff, but you should be able to improve on
it. Meanwhile think up brighter gags.
Another commission has been appointed to
inquire further into the management of N. S.
Wales wheat pools; and upon the result
will depend whether thg Government will
have to put its hand ihto the taxpayer’s
pocket and make good some of the farmers’
losses. The Commonwealth commandeered
Cocky’s wheat, and it and the States took
absolute ontrol. Cocky, Who was to get only
what the wheat realised, and who was there-
fore still very deeply interested, had no say
either in the sales or in the care of the
stacks. To the great joy of some people
mice attacked the grain,; and under cover of
that plague there is very good reason to be-
lieve that almost gigantic frauds were prac-
tised. Already there have been some prose-
cutions. One in Sydney lately disclosed
about equal quantities of private rascality
and public muddle. If this conclusion is
sustained by the commission there can be
only one result —the authority that was
responsible must pay.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE,
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
! rirate Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Lta.,
Tel. — City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yoseinite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, OCTOBER S.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons. 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Dunking;, Public Companies, Ac.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Caplin), £1,000.000.
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 3SI Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Brandies throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to tiie Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 691,850 10 0
Reserve Fund 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunn jug, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; ..lames Love. Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON
HEAD OFFICE - - - HIiISHANE.
Branches — London, Melbourne, Sydney* and
throughout Queenhlhihl
Agent* throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, Bouth Afrioa, China, the East
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2 000 000
Capital Paid Up £1!198!679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : lIERRERT R. LYSAGIIT, Esq., Chairman ;
«£ORGE .1. SL\, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
MOOD Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager ; C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kin-
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: .). N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnev.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, EC)
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
asu Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and YVYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock..
Preference Shares..
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£629,988
750,000
1,000:Gl00
500,000
2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.'
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON g CO.
Managing Agents for
Attstralasian’United Strain Navigation CJV
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, October.
R.M.S. MAKURA, November.
The most beautiful Scenery in the 'World —the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged. 1
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailing’s to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pnmphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
>4
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD,, 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Established 1817.
Direr, tors:
£3,912,440
£3,100,000
£3,912,440
£10,924,880
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Eaithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
Auditors ;S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, 1t.8.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. Eutadon Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth.
ĥ
SYDNEY.
OPcN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns ofAustralia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
BUY PEACE BONDS.
The Commissioners are prepared to advance investors 90% of
the amount taken up by them in the Peace Loan.
4% interest charged for the advance
while the Bonds will return the Investor 5 M %•
Only 10% of the investment need be paid on application, and the
balance by instalments in 18 months.
Advances on these terms will be made at all the Bank’s
Branches.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
The State Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
ħ
h
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhixiping at Japan.
MADRAS MARU, sailing September.
GANGES MARU, sailing October.
NANKING MARU, End October.
LIMITED ACCOMMODATION AVAILABLE
FOR FIRST-CLASS PASSENGERS.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Inter-State Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances remitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
FOR HOBART.
.tIVERINA.
Huddart Parker LIM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company i magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, niCIIMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COKE’S
HA II BOB and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
’ rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Riverß,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-v^rsa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 6s.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
„ by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL' NOTICE.“AII Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General' for JJapan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD..
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.


h
I
$
IP
BILLIARD&SNOOKEP
1
‘/M
\
A -
Q
•A
3
a
ĥ
In play they are resilient—faultless in runnin
Far and away superior to any other ball.
K — true to of perfect balance.
Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizes: l|in l|iu. 2in. 2,sin.
10/6 15/6 21/- 30/-set
(Postage on One Set-N.S.W., 9d. j Other States. 1/2).
SNOOKER BALES
Si 2 “: llin. l|in. 2in 2,iin.
£W- £4/15/- £5,51- £B.B/- set
(We Pay Carriage on Snooker Balls).
Sole Australasian Distributers
1C
Headquarters— Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street,
.r. Ar *d at Newcastle and Brisbane.
T*
m m
■ o
Lawn-Mowers & Garden Tools
at Keen Prices.
ħ
P , e l s^r ltials to good Gardening are handy TOOLS and a keen-cutting
LAWN-MOWER.
Equip yourself with a Banks’ special-malte, easy-running, always-reliable MOWER and
a selection of useful Implements, and get more enjoyment out of vour Suring-time
hardening.
We have splendid varieties of MOWERS and TOOLS to select from—every item reliable
and keenly priced.
Mail your order if you can’t call personally.
The Portland.
A splendid, medium-priced
Plain Bearing Mower. Has
8-inch Wheels, and 4 keen-
cutting Knives.
12in.
Min.
The Sheffield.
A splendid, easy-running
Mower, with 9-inch Wheels,
5 Knives and Plain Bearings.
10in. 12in. Win. 16in.
47/6 501- 52/6 55/-
The Britannia.
A high-grade, keen-rutting
Mower, with 9-ineh Wheels, 5
Knives and Ball Bearings. Runs
like a bike,
12ln. Min. lEin.
55 6 57/6 60/-
Grass Catchers
can be fitted on
these Mowers for
7/6 each extra.
John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd.,
324 Pitt Street (nr. Liverpool Street), SYDNEY
And 391 BourKe Street, Melbourne.
vz m
Pw
5S
h
44 Cal.
es exnd
Cartridges
FOR medium sized game and home protection
this modem and accurate repeating rifle is
unexcelled. Its clean lines, perfect balance and
light weight appeal to sportsmen of experience
It has the Remington solid breech which
protects the cace and c>es of the shooter from
possible blow-backs and keeps foreign mattei
out of the mechanism of th<» rifle.
Descriptive cncuiai mailed free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT. Australian Manager
6-8 Box 686, G. P. O. MELBOURNE
————- ■ ■
WM
The “PLUM”
RAZOR.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
Thousands of “Plum” Razors are sold annu-
ally, retaining their position of supremacy
through sheer consistency of merit. Try the
“Plum,” and you'll stick to it.
PRICE 10/C —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/C.
Pair in Double Case. 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/C.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/C and 10/C each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/-
All the above Post Free.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 . YEARS.


Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
STOPS COUGHS BANISHES COLDS.
ImJMM
«#r4a
Miss LILY MOLLOY (from a photo).
Miss Lily Molloy is a great
favorite in Comedy and Stock
Drama on the Fuller Circuit.
This charming- young lady has
a good word to say for Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery.
Read the following letter
which she wrote us:—
Dear Sirs, —
I think your Dr. Shel-
don’s New Discovery is
the finest Remedy for a
Cold that I have ever
come across. I rarely suf-
fer from a Cough, but I
occasionally catch cold, in
my travels, and whenever
I do the one thing that
puts me right quickly and
pleasantly is Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery.
I consider it a grand
Remedy, and am sure that
anyone who once tries it
is bound to be a fast
friend in the future. I
have already recommended
it to many of my friends,
and I am sure I wish you
every success with this
wonderful remedy.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) LILY MOLLOY.
Don’t Neglect a
Cold —
it’s Dangerous.
There’s danger in a cold. The cold you get may be a timely warning of something more
dangerous to follow. Some people catch cold easily—no sooner one cold cured than they get
another one. That’s dangerous. A cold lowers the vitality and weakens the whole body. It
starts with watery eyes, sore-all-over feeling, and perhaps runs into influenza, bronchitis or
pneumonia. So prepare for trouble before it troubles you. A bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery is a safeguard against such ills.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a preventive as well as a remedy, and is a necessity in
every household.
Remember, a dose of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery should be taken before a cold weakens
the system. It is the modern “break-up-a-cold” remedy, and will not only banish your cold but
will strengthen your chest and lungs. When buying medicine everyone knows that it is quality,
not quantity, that counts, so be wise and take a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery home with
you to-night. Price 1/6 and 3 /•
rri
SB
*
(A
a
m
o
o
rn
Z
S 3
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
the trade-mark on the dials of good alarm clocks
is
Big Ben’s family
name. A name an
alarm clock is proud
to bear. Westclox is
a mark of quality.
All Westclox must earn
the right to wear it. Like
Big Ben, they must be as
good all through as they
look outside. Each one
is made in the patented
Westclox way, a method
of construction that re-
duces friction.
That is why Westclox run and
ring on time. That is why they
make so many friends.
Western Clock Co. - makers of IWestclox
La Salle, I1L, U. S. A.
o T 2
10
7 It 5
9
8
7
6
Factories at Peru. IP
r &
i> Tl
ir ii:i/
9\
3
pi§
mwm
fm&L
3
The Magic Pipes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OYE morning of splendor when gold
lights were falling
On grasses and green leaves still
dripping with dew,
1 heard a far music, enticing, enthralling,
That thrilled every fibre and sweetened me
through.
■Twas Pan with his reed-pipes (and ever
and ever , , , . ...
Who hearkens his music must bow to Ins will;
For all the harsh world with its tireless
endeavor, ....
Its fret and its fever grows muted and still).
Xow loudly, now lowly, now anthem-like
swelling, , , ,
His wood-notes, his wmd-notes came borne
And the bees in red bells they were
telling, ... .
And now of greon wntors, suu-sp inkling mid
clear.
And, rapt by his glamor, I saw the rocks
glist’ning, , . , .
The lioney-birds hunting, the brown bracken
piled;
'Twas not I but the man that was m me was
list’ning— , ' , ...
The cave-man, the wood-man, the man oi the
wild.
The breast of the wave broke in milk on the
boulders,
The sea sang, and breaker on breaker was
hurled; . - , .
Green visions came trooping; and down trom
my shoulders
Went slipping the wearisome wear of the
world.
Now loudly, now lowly, and now all together
The pipes of the wood-god were calling to
me: ,
“O wood-man, 0 wild-man, come hither,
come hither,
The forest-folk wait in the shadows for thee!
“Oh, sweeter the notes that the honey-birds
warble
'Twixt sips of clear nectar than tongues of
renown;
And better green alleys than temples of
marble,
And softer gold mosses than cushions of
down!
“Come hither, come hither, where ferns in-
terarching
Make cool the green glooms of each gold-
fretted aisle,
And down the smooth hillsides the tall trees
are marching,
Green-plumed in the sunlight, and file upon
file!
“Red saplings are tossing their tops in the
breezes,
And color and perfume are mingled and wed
With song never-ending; for when a song
ceases
Another song ripples along in its stead!
“Awake from thy slumber! Come out of thy
prison,
Fare forth in the sunshine, untrammelled and
free!
The color and carol, the voice and the vision,
Are thine for the seeking, to hear and to see!
“There are gems for the finding, and loot for
the pillage,
And gain for the getting, and joy for the
quest!”
And I left the red tiles of the little sea-
village,
And climbed the long hills to its green, wooded
crest.
And there, all alone in the depth of the
forest,
I quested the ways for a sight of sweet Pan ;
Searching here where the thrushes in silver
notes chorused,
And there where the waters, low murmux-ing,
ran.
And now on a hilltop, and now in a valley,
I sought for the arbor where, piping, he hid ;
And now at the foot of a cool verdured alley
I glimpsed him and lost him —or thought
that I did.
And sometimes I halted ’twixt waking and
dreaming,
And sometimes m,v fancy made magical play,
And showed me flesh colors and sylvan
shapes gleaming—
Limbs, shoulders and torsos in glades far
away.
The pipes led me on, but alas for the piper!
I sought him in vain ’mid his ferns and his
flowers!
And yet, like a fruit that grows richer and
riper.
The joy that was in me increased with the
hours.
And when he piped “Follow !” I hastened to
follow,
Till long grew the shadows and weary each
mile
And then I turned home over hilltop and
hollow,
He playing his pipes, loud and low, all the
while.
And when I came down to the streets of the
village,
I walked as one heartened by magical wine.
And rich with rare treasures; for plunder
and pillage
Of beauty and wonder and music were* mine.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Octavius.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MOSTYN CARRAB practically lived
on the river, drifting slowly down
with a raft of cedar logs, and speed-
ing back in one of the little steamers to
start again from a busy skidway with
another consignment. His wife and his
daughter Priscilla travelled with him. Mrs.
Carrab cooked and washed and sewed and
knitted, while Priscilla helped her father
to navigate the long procession of timber.
Mostyn had been a sailor in his younger
days. His yarns implied that he was a
retired sea captain, lie had flags of all
nations stowed in his sea-chest as evidence,
and whenever occasion warranted he aired
the bunting on a line stretched from stem
to stern. He was certainly captain of a
raft—which he called the Cedric. They
were all Cedrics.
She travelled only on the ebb tides, drift-
ing with the stream, and took a deal of
manoeuvring round the sharp bends. Pris-
cilla, carrying a long pole, looked after the
stern ; the captain, similarly armed, operated
in the forepart. In the evenings, w r hen she
was drifting straight, he liked to lie back
in a canvas deck-chair, smoking a huge
pipe, with a gun on the logs beside him for
ducks.
Half-way down the river was Muddle’s
farm, situated in a big bight, which took
Carrab’s craft several hours to get round.
He and Tom Muddle were old shipmates, so
he mostly went ashore when he got near
the farm, and spent a good time with the
Muddles till Priscilla and her mother had
brought the raft round to the opposite point.
When the tide turned, and they had to tie up
till the ebb, he would take Mrs. Carrab and
Priscilla with him to the farm-house.
Muddle was a widower with two children,
Octavius and Sarah. Octavius was a simple
farmer’s son, a sapling who had spent liis
22 years in that bight. Sarah was two
years younger—the same age as Priscilla.
In the matter of looks, the latter was noth-
ing to rave about; she was a homely sort
of girl. But to simple Octavius she seemed
an angel, and the farm began to be lonely
when she wasn’t there. Priscilla appeared
to regard him favorably, and * Octa-
vius determined to get her all to him-
self for once, so that the momentous ques-
tion could be answered definitely one way
or the other. He liked plenty of time when
anything like that was in the wind. He
had no chance on the raft or anywhere else
while her father was about. The captain
was a fierce, aggressive person, and he
shooed off any intrepid swain who was likely
to tamper with Priscilla’s affections. He
had his own opinions regarding courtship,
and was strictly opposed to Priscilla doing
anything in that line for the next three
years at least. She was as good as a man
on a raft.
Octavius was quite sure he would never
meet with the approval of the old sea dog.
The captain treated him with dull disdain,
as something too insignificant to be regarded
as a danger. He was certainly not a ladies’
man; but Priscilla was inexperienced, and
if he could gain her promise he would find
a way to outwit the old maii all right.
One evening he met the raft with a basket
of eggs. The captain drew in just close
enough to reach them. Mrs. Carrab came
along to add her thanks to the old chap’s
grunt. They had known many little con-
siderations of the kind from the Muddles.
“How’s your father an’ sister:?” she
asked.
“Sarah’s sick,” Octavius answered. “She’s
in bed.”
“Oh, I’m sorry to hear that. Nothing
serious, I hope?”
“Dunno,” he said. “Took bad yesterday.
She —she’d like to see Miss Carrab, if you
ken spare her.”
Mrs. Carrab had a private conversation
with the captain, during which Octavius felt
uneasy. He feared Mrs. Carrab would go
up to see Sarah, and there would be no
points in having a sick sister in that case.
She took the eggs to the cabin, had a talk
with Priscilla, and returned to him with
the basket.
“Priscilla will be up d’rectly, tell Sarah,”
she informed him. “She can stop to-night,
as the tide will run out ’fore we get past
the bight, an’ she can walk across an’ catch
us up in the mornin’.”
Octavius was delighted. He tore up to
the house excited and panting. Sarah was
standing at the kitchen table peeling cucum-
bers and humming “Molly Riley.”
“Sarah, get to bed quick—she’s cornin’!”
lie gasped. Sarah dropped her knife with-
out. a word, and ran into her room. Oc-
tavius hissed through the keyhole: “Be
mortal bad, Sarah!” Then lie picked up the
knife, and was making a fine fist of slicing
cucumbers when Miss Carrab came in.
‘Ah !” she said, eyeing the uneven slices
wnb an amused smile; “you’re the cook, I
see.
“Pryin’ to do a little,” Octavius replied
modestly.
“I, l l0 Ps you’ve got something nice for
teathe smile more winsome, her eyes
sparkling.
“Of course, I have,” he returned; “some-
thing you like.”
‘‘What is it?”
“Wild duck an’ green peas—an’ a goose-
berry puddin’.”
“Oh, that’s grand! D ; d you cook them?”
•Never mind who cooked ’em; you’ll find
’em Al.”
“But what do you want the cucumber
for if you’ve got a hot dinner?”
“Only the puddin’s hot.” Octavius
returned. “You must expect to find things
a bit mixed when Sarah ain’t about.”
“How is- she doin’?” Priscilla inquired.
“Think she’s improvin’ a bit,” Octavius
answered. “In here,” he added, turning the
knob.
Sarah was a good sister to Octavius. She
had formed this little plan, she fondly hoped,
to make him happv. He was slow and bash
fill; and she considered a name like Octavius
was in itself detrimental to a successful love
career. She would tell Priscilla how good
he was, and, feeling her way carefully,
would ultimately confess that he was madly
in love with her. Octavius accepted this
proposal as his due. It was further agreed
that if Priscilla didn’t care for him Sarah
would continue to be ill. so the Carrabs
wouldn’t know the truth ; but if she showed
(Continued on next paps.)


EVERY
HOME
NEEDS
r
8
ft
•*«*
- A«
i tpJe&kk^l.
&M&&
S &IU* rS
§M ■•
.*<
embb^
BE
ON
YOUR
GUARD
AGAINST
WORTHLESS
SUBSTITUTES
WHY ZAM-BUK IS
UNEQUALLED.
Totally different in character from other oint-
ments, Zam-Buk is immeasurably superior to
them in having a threefold action on the
skin. First it allays pain and irritation;
secondly it kills harmful germ 3, and thus
removes all danger of a cut or sore
taking “bad ways”; and lastly, when the
bad place has thus been purified, it
grows a fresh layer of perfectly new
skin.
Because of its unique healing value,
Zam-Buk should always be kept
handy in the home, workshop,
and on the cattle station, sheep
run, or farm up country; it
may be necessary to apply
some at any moment, and the
balm is so pure and whole-
some that it can be used
with perfect safety on the most
delicate skin, whether bruised,
broken or diseased. A pot of
Zam-Buk ready for instant use
will save many hours of pain
and anxiety, as well as pounds
in doctors’ bills. A cure by
Zam-Buk can always be regarded
as permanent and lasting. Don’t
delay, but obtain a pot of Zam-Buk
at once, and always keep it handy.
Zam-Buk is not a mere ointment, It
is something quite different. It is a
superior healing balm, a necessity to
humanity, and the quickest allayer of the
ills that afflict the human skin.
Zaim-Buk is invaluable for Cuts, Burns, Bruises, Pimples,
Blackheads, Scalds, Scalp Troubles, Piles, Poisoned Wounds,
Festering Eruptions, Boils, Psoriasis, Eczema, Abscesses, Face
Blotches, Eruptions, Rheumatism, Stiffness, Bad Legs. Ulcers, Ring-
worm, Barber’s Rash. Blisters, and injured and unhealthy conditions
of the skin. From all Chemists and Stores, 1/6 and 3/6 ; or post free from
C. E. Fulford (Aus.), Ltd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
that she was “shook on him" and would like
him to tell her
On a sudden Octavius gave a violent start
and upset the dish. He heard a commotion
m the bedroom, and a lot of giggling. Then
the door opened, and Priscilla was shoved
out.
"Here you are, Octo.!” cried Sarah, and
immediately banged the door again. Pris-
cilla stood before him. abashed and blushing.
It was sudden.
Octavius advanced awkwardly—grinning.
He caught her hand—after some fumbling.
“Priscilla! ' he said. She glanced at him
shyly, and started to laugh. Then he flung
two arms round her—and kissed her. That
was all Octavius did to win his girl; but
they loved each other well.
After tea they were playing cards —the
happiest trio. in Christendom—when in
walked Captain Carrab. The momentary
silence was painful. Both girls reddened,
and Octavius looked ill. He had not expected
the tide to turn so soon. He wasn’t very
well up in tides.
“You are better, Miss Muddle?” said the
captain, stiffly. He usually called her Sarah.
“Yes—much better, thank you,” Sarah
replied, unable to conceal her discomfiture.
“You look it,” the captain rejoined,
glancing round with an audible sniff.
“How far did you get?” Octavius inquired
with a desperate desire to give the girls
breathing time. The captain ignored him
absolutely.
"Where’s your father?” he asked Sarah.
"In town.”
“Gone. for medical aid, I presume?”
“No; it’s bags for the threshin’, I think.”
“When did he go?”
“This—this morning.”
The captain’s glance flashed round the
apartment avain. dwelling an instant on the
row of polished tins on the shelf over the
wide fireplace.
“Sit in an’ make a four-hand. Captain,”
Octavius invited. “’S early yet.”
The captain didn’t appear to hear him.
“When will he be back?” continued the
mariner, his glance returning to Sarah.
“To morrer.”
“Umph!” grunted the captain. “Pris-
cilla, get your hat!”
Priscilla’s expression was pitiable. She
got her hat.
“Come on!” said the captain,. “Good
night. Miss Muddle.”
When they had gone Octavius and Sarah
stared blankly at each other.
“It was a terrible knock.” Octavius said.
He did not get a chance to speak with
Priscilla again for six months. The cap-
tain called at the farm occasionally tp see
his old shipmate, but he never brought his
family. He brought excuses instead. He
never addressed Octavius either —wouldn’t
look in his direction.
For a while the lovers corresponded.
Priscilla would watch her opportunity and
throw a note wrapped round a stone, on
the bank where Octavius dipped water. He
in turn would crawl along through the .weeds
and brush, feasting his eyes on the bluff
old raftsman’s daughter, and when chance
permitted he threw her a similar message.
But the yearning to speak to her and hold her
to him grew in his heart till he could stand
it no longer. Courting is a pretty tame
affair when the principals, by compulsion,
are mute and there’s half a river between
them and a pugnacious person on the look-
out at the mastaead, and the girl’s residence
is always drifting away. So one cold winter's
evening, after crawling a mile along the
bank he called softly across the water: “I'll
swim over to-night 1“
Octavius donned an old suit of clothes
expressly, and an extra-disreputable pair of
boots. Having no hat befitting the occasion,
he went bareheaded. It was bright star-
light. and so cold that he breathed clouds
of fog as he went along. lie had some
difficulty in finding the raft, and nearly
broke his neck in the search. But once he
located it he was soon in the water. The
first dip nearly paralysed him, and he gasped
for breath. The raft was hugging the oppo-
site bank, though the turn was towards him.
This made the swim doubly long; he thought
he would have died with cramps before he
got over.
Priscilla was waiting for him at her
accustomed post. Her mother w r as watching
in front, as the captain had taken a bad
turn just after tea and was lying down in
the cabin.
“C —c —couldn’t be ber-ber-bettor,” Octa-
vius mumbled as he dragged his shivering
form on to the logs.
“My poor dear Octavius.” whis]>ered Pris-
cilla, patting his head feelingly. “You’re a
real brick.”
He clasped her impetuously, but she
shrank back with a shudder.
“Oh, you’re so wet an’ cold, dear! I’ll
kiss you instead, an’ we can sit an’ talk.”
“I’ve been longin’ for this mo-moment for
months,” Octavius said through chattering
teeth.
“I hope you won’t catch cold.” said Pris-
cilla, sympathetically. “It’s such a raw
night to be swimmin’.”
“O- -o —oh. I’m as right as p—p —pie,” he
replied, shivering with great violence. “If’s
heavenly to he sis—sis —sittin’ here.”
“What’s the matter with your hands,
dear?”
Octavius was caressing his hands tenderly.
“Fell into a bed o’ stingin’-nettles,” lie
explained. “Makes ’em smart.”
“And your poor, dear face?”
“Oh, it'll soon be orlright,” Octavius
declared breathlessly. “Wish I could sis—
sis—sit with you ev —ver —ver —very night.”
Priscilla put. her arm round his neck in
pity—and snatched it back again. He
reminded her of a water-rat.
Just then a portly form sprang out of
the cabin, and came trotting briskly across
the logs. Octavius hadn’t time to say good-
bye, he had only time to drop off into the
water and remain clinging by his finger-
tips with his face pressed against the end
of a log. He almost howled with pain as
the captain stepped bv, and the swinging
of the logs jambed his ear. Do what he
would he could not keep his teeth from chat-
tering. They rattled like castanets.
"Thought I heard fish jumpin’ here,” said
the captain, shaking out a scoop net and
searching the ends of the logs with an owl-
like eye. “Ought to be a good night for
mullet,” he added, and dropped the net
directly behind the half-frozen agriculturist,
He shoved it far down and under the logs,
and soon he began to haul up again. There
was something in it—something big and
heavy. It kicked and splashed prodigiously,
at the same time making the rummiest noise
Carrab had ever heard from a fish. When
he drew it on to the logs, it spluttered and
gasped, and reared up, and threw out fins
a yard long.
“Bring a light, girl!” cried the captain,
“Got a devil fish, or octopus, or something!
Keep clear—might bite!”
“For Gorsake!” gasped the fish, clawing
at the meshes.
“Thunder !” cried Carrab. “It talks.”
“Oh, father.” pleaded Priscilla, tearfully,
‘•TKc t-nm- fint-oi'iiic ”
b . , ' TT ... T r , .
Octavius, eh? Hang me it I didn t
think ’twas some kind of an octopus! Belay
there, or I’ll flatten you out with a marlin-
spike. You”—turning to Priscilla—“vou
get to bunk.” '
“Th’ tide’s rnnnin’ strong.” Priscilla
reminded him in a mutinous tone.
„„ . . , ,
Get to bunk, the captain repeated.
'‘This chap understands tides. ’E’s agoin’
on duty right now. Out you come, you
lubber ’ ..
~ , / . . .
He hauled the net fiercely towards lum.
and Octavius was emptied out in a sprawl-
nig heap on the logs. He couldn t speak,
and his teeth were bumping now like a milk-
shake machine.
“Party cold courtin’ t’r.ight.” the captain
remarked, helping him to his feet. The
attitude of Octavius was eloquent. “Don’t
mind a decent, straight-out laud-lubber, or
a fo’c’s’le dosser doin’ a bit o’ spoony-winkin’
aboard this craft, but can’t stand fish. .Tes’
step along ’ere, Octovarious. Only one way
as I ken hit on jest now o’ dealin’ with
amphibian critters like you. Come along.”
He led him to the cabin, and threw down
a suit of warm clothes and a pair of sen
boots. “Peel off an’ get into them,” lie
commanded gruffly. “Ken take.this eap. too
•—an’ this comforter. Look alive now.”
Octavius hurried as fast as his numbed
fingers would permit, wondering in a vague
way what could he in store fpr him. He
was in such a wretched condition just then
that nothing really mattered.
When lie emerged from the c.'.bin, still
shivering, be saw the captain standing with
a lantern in c."° hand and a dog-chain and
two padlocks in the other.
, . „ . , ,
“This way. October, said Carrab, and
Jeff him back o the end of the raft. Ileie
he secured one end ot the chain to the cable,
and proceeded to fasten the other end round
he farmers leg I Tseter have a dog one
i U! ,ema,k<d flunng the opeiation.
“But he swum ashore an never come back.
’F,aid you might do the same. Think so
much of you, Octobius. I wouldn’t like to
lose you. Good thing to have a mate wot
won’t drown when lie falls overboard. Lost
two mates by drownin' when I was tradin’
in the Islands.”
The chain was padlocked, and Octavius
Muddle was a prisoner,
“Now,” said Carrab, “the tide’ll run for
four hours yet. You take that pole, an’
keep the craft clear o’ the bank an’ all
obstructions till further orders. Y’ 'ave
chain enough. I reckon, to take a dip now’n’
again when yer scales get too dry.”
Before Octavius could utter a word in
reply, Carrab was half-wav back to the
cabin. Shortly he went to the front, and
thence till the tide ran out he never came
nearer to him than the cabin. The women
had gone to bed, enjoying a glorious
“watch off” at his expense. He worked
well. It helped to keep liis blood in circula-
tion. Once or twice lie tried to get rid
°f his fetters. It galled him to he put on
a cbain like a d «g- But it was no use ; and the
ca P ta ’ n woiildn t come near enough to open
a discussion oil tile stability of dog-chains
or the condition of the weather.
, VT , . . ~ , . ,
, M hen the tide turned the captain s voice
L : ! n £ °. nt °, aa fi clear; Belay there,
• hove 111 an make fast. Look alive now, you
lubber! . , ' ,
The tying-up completed, the captain
ambled down and leleased him. t ome an
ave some coliee. Octopus, he said. ‘ S pose
. colcl *>”
• ., T > 1 ’
, • ctaviu. .answered, still
doubtful. lie was also simmering with
resentment, and had a notion of getting
even with the captain before lie quitted the
Cedric. Just now Priscilla, looking sweet in
a rC( | wrapper, was serving out the coffee,
nnd he didn’t want her to know be bad been
tethered by the leg and compelled to work
bis passage,
“Needn’t be afraid of it now. Priscilla.’’
the captain remarked as be sat down. “Quite
tame now. Played up tumble, though,
when it was caught.”
Priscilla smiled sympathetically on her
disconsolate lover.
“A man ketches queer fish in these rivers
at times,” lie wont on, bis eyes twinkling.
, “How did you know I was there?” Octn-
rins asked. The query bad troubled him all
night. The captain’s only response was a
laugh.
He walked out immediately he had
finished his coffee, and Octavius and Pris-
cilia had a deliriously happy five minutes
together before be came back. ITc saw
Octavius to the shore. Octavius still nursing
a, grudge against him; but Carrab disarmed
bim *
“See here, young man,” he said. “There’s
a gooff p’int or two in you—an’ there’s some
preo.ms bad ones. When you want to see
MLs Car-ab. or Mrs. Carrab. or Captain
Carrab or any of thp C rew of the Cedric.
eovno aboard like a white man, not like ;;
turtle: an’ if vour sister wants to see Miss
Cnrrab or Mr ’ s . Carrab. or Captain Carrab.
or ’ of thp erPW of the Cedric, there’s
no occasion for her to get bilious to do it.
Gno d night. Mind the gangway.”
, . , .
nd Gctavius, buried in thought, straigli.-
wa - v into tbe wa cr ‘
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


h
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
ĥ
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
YOU
RE
ISMS
Have'■you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent ~
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it jte,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafiing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft fibber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE bn the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the-
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
The liver is the regulator of health If the
liver is active and well, good health and happi-
ness prevail; but once you allow your liver to
get torpid and sluggish, life be-
comes a misery. Dyspepsia,
Indigestion, Biliousness
Constipation, Headaches
and Melancholy assail
you, resulting in lack of
energy, loss of mem-
ory and ill-health ;
but remember
Carter’s Little
Liver Pills touch
the liver and
all liver ills. Try them to-day and see how
much better you will be to-morrow. they
■ever fail. Children like them.
Small Pill—Small Dose -Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
ħ
W ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
f
g tsars in each
~ rgS
for 3u«
'K! ;
/ \
'
\ 1 WMMIm
&(
teg
gU*!s
pfcS
I**
MMGUEYS
Hi
-
The greatest value in
beneficial, long-lasting re-
freshment you can possibly
buy.
Keeps teeth clean and
breath sweet. Aids appetite
and digestion.
Get it wherever confections
are sold.
Made by
WM.WRIGLEY JR. Prop. Ltd..'
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W.
SEALED TIGHT = KEPT RIGHT
The Flavour Lasts
1
msr:*
Hi
V
r
Beechams Pills
h
USING
- V
■ >
0 RUCKS
MALTED
MILK
Baby knows the difference.
He knows what makes him feel good*
happy, and contented.
You know that he thrives upon this
easily assimilated, nourishing food,
thereto! e insist on always having
Horlick's Malted Milk for him.
Write for sample, sending 2d. in
stamps to HUTCHINSON & Co., Ltd.,
28, Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
of Supplies. Ample Stocks throughout Australia.
Quickly Relieves
Cold in Head
TasefTnt®^
CAMPHORATED
PETROLEUM JELLY
.per cent .Glim CatnphQljUa
g
Relieve that sneezy, stopped-up feeling in the nose
with “Vaseline” Camphorated. Rub it in well oyer
bridge of nose, and snuff a little up the nostrils.
“Vaseline” Jelly combined with camphor gum. Put
up in metal capped glass bottles and sanitary tubes.
"VASELINE” CARBOLATED: An antiseptic dressing for
cuts and other injuries.
For nervous headaches.
“VASELINE" MENTHOLATED:
sore throat, nasal catarrh.
For sale at chemists and genera! stores.
Refuse substitutes.
CHESEBROUGH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
(Consolidated)
New York London Montreal
Vaseline Camphorated
Trade Mark
Petroleum Jelly


71
pfANGROVTTEIi
LEATHER
BPStHS
Spells Economy in
Capital Letters
for power-plant owners who use it for their
machinery. It transmits maximum power
flexibhf 11 be / ng s , tronf? ’ durable and
flexible. Made from selected hides and tanned
to /? Ur + • § S eclal Mangrovite process. Ask us
to quote for your requirements.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowioi, Managing- Director),
(Wynyard Square), Sydney, N.S.W
'S>+h t « rn < Au f- tralia: Cibb3 ’ Bright & Co., Perth
S th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
rz
I
Confidence is Born of
Knowledge 8 Accomplishment
Confidence in our ability to give you the best drills is
based upon knowledge of our product:—
Ultra Capital High-Speed Twist Drills
Their superiority in quicker, cleaner cutting and longer wearing is
acknowledged by leading engineers everywhere.
Straight or Taper Shanks, as desired.
Desk “A” will forward prices and further particulars on request.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Ol Ultra Capital mptlfSperi Steel. jjj.jy Kcnf Street> Sydney.
ĥ
Chemicals Don’t
Cost Muchgess
when you order them from Hardie’s. We
have large stocks of the following, and can
supply in any quantity.
Caustic Soda, Soda Ash, Bicarbonate
of Soda, Chloride of Calcium, Sulphide of
Sodium, Chloride of Ammonium, Naph-
thaline, Carbolic Acid (98 p.c. Pale
Straw), Bichromate Soda and Potash,
French Chalk, Dextrine, Aniline Dyes,
Hematine and Fustic Extracts.
OILS.I—A 1 —A large quantity of Whale, Cod
and Herring.
Write to-day for full particulars and prices.
JAMES HARD IF. &. CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street Sydney.
ħ
i
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 234 inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special pricfe, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
landler
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS
for All Purposes.
THE PIONEER PLANTE PLATE.
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
P.O. BOX 2550.
TELEPHONE: CITY 8931.
(Australasian Office)—
Culwulla Chambers,
CASTLEREa6h STREET SYDNEY.
p
h
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from lijin. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:—
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDIGE LTD., Warrnambool
DELGO-
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
ĥ
ħ
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4y z hours.
full particulars prom sole agents—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON. FBANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
Shore 13,000 Sheep last year with the
Splendid Ju&eß 2-stand Plant.
GUARANTEED SERVICE is the only thing' worth
buying in a Shearing Outfit, and that’s why the
shrewdest sheep-farmers go for Listers every time.
Mr. W. H. Rawson, Trangie, says: “I am writing
you in-connection with the little ‘Z’ Type Engine and
Lister Shearing Machine I purchased from you last
year. I shore 13,000 sheep last shearing with this
little 2-Stand Plant, and I want to shear 9000 with her
this year. The little engine has been working hard
all the year pumping water from a well and scoine
splendidly all the time.”
Any farmer who buys a shearing outfit simply
because of low price, carries its life in his hands. If
you don’t want your shearing outfit to be a “rattle-
trap” in 12 months—invest your money in the sub-
stantial, sweet-running Lister 2-Stand Plant. Get
Booklet 109 A from the following:—
Agents:
Dangar, Gedye & Co. Ltd.,
9-13 Young Street,
Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
SUB-AGENTS—Winchcombe, Carson, 99 Eagle St., BRISBANE. Malloch Bros., William St., PERTH.
A. G. Webster & Sons, HOBART. E
$
iv : . i;
V ■" -• •
Mining: and Milling: Machinery
for All Classes of Ore
and All Sizes of Mines.
As practical and technically trained
mining engineers are on our staff,
we are able to advise clients to
their best advantage with regard to
any proposed installation, and to
quote them for the supply and
erection of any class of milling plant.
h
'H3IJISS\no X N3l VtJ nuoa
If your milling extraction is not
satisfactory, we will report on the
plant and suggest changes—often
quite inexpensive—which will in
many cases improve your output
from 10 to 20 per cent., and
increase the capacity of your plant.
Correspondence invited on this, or any
other subject connected with mining l or
milling machinery.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Mining Elec'l’rical
Engine ers,
350 George Street, Sydney.
