

DJbi\^rA3Et 3 S —The Spirit of Cheerfulness.
R. a. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Stzreofc, Sydney,
—FOB — .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
ppm"”" """Winn
\m\mwmmim
\MiiiMh
nrawmmn
NSW- MONT de PIETE D&I C9T LIMITED,
74- St-.,74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
lON ALL CLASSES
1 OF SECURITY
‘WITHOUT POSSESSION
►
Mi
*"«‘Hum
..mUllllt
\\\W"
rf/o’/rfejjf 215-17Swanston Stflelb.. 40 Adelaide St, Brisbane.
29 King St,Newcastle. 186 Castlereaqh St.,& 159 George St.,'West,Sydney. _ -
CAPITAL & 200,000 * ‘PKonc City 932s .
£ustac c JtejrrjneZt, C2g/?g/g/
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: ‘The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N-S.W. Mont de.
Piete I>. and I. Co. Ltd.”
A City Sewage System
for Modern Homes/
sTou simply Cannot afford to take chances
with the disposal of your sewage. For
the sake of your own and your children’s
health, study the merits of the
Montgomerie-Neiison
Sewage Disposal System
This modern system does away with the
old-fashior.ed cesspool or tin-pan style of
W.C.—the greatest sources of disease the
country knows.
The sewage is treated so perfectly that
absolutely no odor arises even on the
hottest days.
Over 600 are in use in N. S. Wales
alone, and the system has the O.K, of
experts the world over.
Send for free booklet, which gives facts
in detail.
MONTGOMERIE - NEILS ON
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY
’Phone City 8976.
9
y
pPLE
13
%■
50
WOTHIWO
to Argue
' Are the Best"
' ! -|l liii;.->._ 1 1 " ~'Stfit.l
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
sfd
fd
sf
ror INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSfA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acta
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
The family stimulant
iOl
PB
£
$
O I
saves
iron roofs
and all metal surfaces—
by protecting: them from rust and other harmful
influences.
Pabco Paint is made for this special purpose, and
is by far the most satisfactory and most economical
that you could use.
Write for YOUR copy of an interesting illustrated
booklet containing full details, post free from
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Aus-
tralasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
Hi
tJT
Mi
\w\
' m ■
vk\\w\^
WWTOVtoXVWvWXWV
WWW
L
LOCOMOTIVE,
MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
Srfrthur
<5 (l?
MACHINERY
Sydney 6 '
Build " Leplastriers ” Long-lasting,
Modern, Machinery-made Roads.
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH
Famous Brands of
HIGH-SPEED STEEL & DRILLS
“A.W.” “T.Y.R.*» “A.W. PREMIER."
manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Australian Representatives:
Gilhert 8 Ca ltd pitt street, Sydney.
uuueil 15 VU* L4U. y 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED.
PLEASANT AND
A TRUE ANTISEPTIC-
ds
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA'S BEST.
The Bulletin
VoL 40.—N0. 2056.1
<•. -4'' . I . .v-.' -■
[Thursday, July 10, 1&19:
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


PRIORITY OF DELIVERY
of Sunbeam cars can be promised
only to those who are wise enough to
order now. As soon as we are in a
position to again build the Supreme
SUNBEAM
for private service we shall do so,
but even when that time arrives, the
orders we have received, and are daily
receiving, must of necessity have first
attention. The moral is for you.
fsd
The SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD.,
Export Department : 54-62, Oxford Street, London, England
i*
A.
fn\
X
//i\\\
S-V.'w
.O
> -~
S .
o s
O i
l
Soft as a Peach
end fragrant as a flower* it
imparts a delicate bloom to the Complexion
TETLOW’S
fell®
FACE POWDER
Sold in Fiva Tintsr-
White. Crespo, Pint. Flesh and Hroaetw
by all Stores, Chemists, and Ptriamtrs.
PER
English Price
•Wholesale Di'slrioutfng Asenls:-r-.
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., I. i£».,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
London wholesale agents?
HENRY C. QUELCH £j CO*
4 &. 5, Ludg&te Sq.. Loodcm Eng* .
[I
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY
“%jO BROOKE S
r ji&tng£
f LEKOn SQUASH
[largest sale in the world
ALL AUSTRALIAN iS visiting Lonuou
should read the British Austral-
asian, Ud. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Beading Boom at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tb»
telephone, and obtain information withont
chares.
fs
An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help your di-
gestion and take care of the over-
load, by taking one Pinkette, the
little sugar coated laxative pill after
a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative, are
greatly superior to old fashioned
medicines which over stimulate the
liver and, when their use is stopped,
leave it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the stomach
or cause griping.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin/
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
df
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Store*
throughout Australasia.
After reading, will you please send this paper t«
the Red Cross Book, Magazine and Newspaper Depot,.
5 Wynyard Street, Sydney, or place it in one of the
receptacles provided for the purpose. All copies thus
received are divided equally between the Red Cr
Society and the War Chest Fund, and are ~~
weekly to our soldiers abroad.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
FOR COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
and the PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION I
harmful throat tablets.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wilev, of the United
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during 15 days. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOLi JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine, or other harmful or
poisonous drug. Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co.
1/6 a Tin. x *
<RE
au j
\\M
YO^
ON
HU
The Red Page
From the Iron Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Could I but sing the grief at my heart’s core
Into one strain,
Then I might face the Iron Road once more,
Regenerate, fain
To joust with Fate in the long lists again l
Quick laughter and the young respite of
tears,
Such could not stay
To front with me the slow, despoiling years,
And the toll gray;
I am a scroll that slow fires burn away.
There was a wild rune beating in my ears,
Of Song to be —
Such song as some high, haunted headland
hears
When the tired sea
Sobs De Prof uadis to Infinity.
There was a strong thought leaping in my
heart
Like a white flame.
For the world’s hope, and the world’s tears
astart,
And the world’s shame,
And all the dumb, blind griefs without a
name.
But these have left me on the Iron Road
Too sad for song.
Quick to the measures beaten by the goad
Of dominant Wrong,
Sensing the groaning centuries’ “llow
-long?”
Better the desert, where the lean kite wings
And the simooms blow
Than all the mirth of all the courts of kings
Pressed from the woe
Of that prde company that joyless grave-
, ward go. ;
Better than pomp of nations banned and
bound
By braggart blade,
Tban haughty cities walled and turret-
crowned,
One palm tree’s shade
Templing the silence mighty winds have
made.
Better than steeples that from land to land
Stab the blue air,
Than hushed high altars whose tall tapers
stand
So ghostly fair,
Like holy hands that make eternal prayer,
One brave hibiscus burning like a gem,
One scented howl
Of lotus incense swaying on its stem
Like a pale soul
Poised tremulous for flight and its far
goal.
Oh, take me, take me, little wind that blows
Ere the young moon
Blossoms in heaven like a mystic rose,
And the stars swoon
Down languorous aisles of Night’s en-
chanted noon!
For I have heard from these poor prison
bars
A sigh soft-drawn
From whispering islands under great white
stars
That greet the dawn,
Radiant in royal rose and flame and fawn.
Oh, take me, take me, cloud-ship sailing east
With bows a-gleam,
For morning lands purged from Oppression’s
priest,
Where kind stars beam.
And the lost Moon Islands guard the gates
of Dream !
For I am weary of the Iron Road
The martyrs trod;
Yea, very weary of the Templar’s code,
The pilgrim’s rod.
Haply in ways of all the winds walks—
God!
VICTOBIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
Billjim in the Desert
The young Sydney journalist. Major
Oliver Hogue (“Trooper Bluegum’’ of The
Bulletin and other publications), whose
death from ’flu was recently lamented, did
a service to Australia when he wrote The
Cameliers (Andrew Melrose, Ltd., London),
For nearly three years the Commonwealth
unaccountably had no official correspondent
with the Light Horse while it was doing
great work as a Camel Corps; and because
“Trooper Bluegum” gives us glimpses of the
operations, the book, dedicated to his father,
to some extent meets the deficiency.
Billjim detested the camel at first. The
beast gave him the hump, so to speak; but
with that adaptability for which he has be-
come famous he was soon a fine camelier.
One day one of' the “heads” came upon the
Australians at drill and asked how long they
had worked camels. He was told that they
had been with them for two weeks. The
brass-hat whistled in surprise, and told the
O.C. that he had seen a company of other
cameliers who after two months’ work were
“not to be compared” with the Aussies.
-There were some bad brutes amongst those
camels, too. Men were so badly bitten or
kicked that they had to go into dock. One
man-killer that went berserk threatened to
kill a whole section. Next day the Billjim
who was riding him fell behind the trek,
blew out his mount’s brains, and subse-
quently reported that the animal had died of
a broken heart! The hard times in the
scorching desert are thus described
They trekked for days and days and weeks and
weeks. Time and again their meagre supply of
water gave out, and with leathery tongues, blistered
faces and cracked, bleeding lips they staggered back
to camp again. Several times it looked like a
tragedy; -once it was very, very nearly one. A
patrol, following up the Senussi, had gone beyond
the safety radius. Finally, water gave out. Two of
the strongest men, after swallowing the last drop of
water, made into Itharga, arriving almost dead with
thirst. Water was hurriedly sent out to the patrol.
When the rescuers got there none of the patrol
could speak. Their tongues were swollen up and
their lips scorched and blackened. All had to be
sent into hospital for a time.
It was a month before they were out on
the desert again. Hogue relates an in-
cident in the same desert that makes the
reader’s pulse beat faster. Two ’planes
were out, when one struck engine trouble
and made a forced landing. The other went
back for assistance, and the Camcliers were
sent out. Meanwhile the crippled engine bad
been patched up and there was a fresh start.
A second time a landing had to be made, and
this time it was final. On the seventh day
the scouts found the ’plane, and beside it
the bodies of the lieutenant and the me-
chanic. The latter’s diary showed that when
the water had nearly all been drunk, and it
looked certain.death for both, the officer had
shot himself to give, his comrade a little
better chance of holding out for the rescue
that, alas! came too late.
From the first skirmishes east of the
Canal, not including the original abor-
tive attacks of the Turks at the be-
ginning of 1915, to the capture of
Rata, the bulk of the patrols and the
brunt of the fighting toll to the Anzacs; yet
the people of Australia knew hardly any-
thing of this. When The Bulletin pub-
lished a paragraph, in 1917, that during the
fighting round Katin and Romani the An-
zacs had suffered over 87 per cent, of the
total casualties, the Commonwealth gaped
with astonishment. In the second battle of
Gaza, when the Imperial Camel Corps (Ist
Anzac Battalion) was the only unit to reach
its objective and capture the Turkish re-
doubts. the cables, carefully made up from
the English newspapers, informed Australia
that “the Camel Corps did good work carry-
ing water for the Light Horse.” It hurt
the men greatly.
Of the long treks of the Cameliers Hogue
draws this picture :
Tired troopers, having had scarcely any sleep for
several days, lay all about the' lines oblivious to
everything. Arid hero were they rudely awakened
and ordered to saddle-up. They grumbled and swore,
and some fell asleep over the j0b....N0 one cared
now whither we were bound. Men were falling
asleep /as they rode, and then falling off th.e.ir
camels. Several woke up next morning only to
find that their camels were gone on without them.
Several times the column halted to rest the camels.
Each time we dismounted and walked about and tried
to keep awake. We trod on sleeping Cameliers, but
they took no notice. We fell against our camels
and slept. The camels didn’t mind; they were too
tired to cafe.... The journey was one long night-
mare.
On the advance to Jerusalem, after the fall
of Gaza, there were more hardships. Or-
dinarily the Cameliers, the last to go short
of supplies, marched out with five days’
rations and water, and time and again they
had to share with the less fortunate cavalry
and infantry. Bound notes were frequently
offered for bottles of water. Hogue praises
the Maorilanders for their cheerfulness un-
der trying circumstances. Throughout the
whole Sinai and Palestine campaign, he
says, they had been conspicuously success-
ful, though they had suffered the most in-
tense privations. Their charge was always
irresistible
I heard at Jericho an English staff-officer, who
ought to know exclaim, “The Maorilanders are
absolutely the pick of the whole Palestine army,”
and the Australians, without hesitation or dissen-
tient voice, heartily agreed.
There are a number of sets of verses in
the book, some reprinted from Light Horse
papers, others written and now published for
the first time. They add considerably to
both its value and its interest.
The People Who Keep Eunuchs
This is the Foreword of my Great Book
of Eunuchs.
The Turk came to Europe without in-
vitation, and if he won’t or can’t live up
to the humblest European standard he
should go back to Central Asia, where he
might bo above, or equal to, the standard.
He is the alien who hasn’t qualified for
naturalisation; the boarder who hasn’t paid
his board; the tenant who is behind with
his rent; the ugly duckling who is worse as
a duck than he was in his infancy. He
isn’t up to the best Asiatic level by a long
way, for Persia, India, China, Arabia and
Palestine supplied the world with religious
and literature, and some of them did good
work in architecture and science. The Turk
has been nothing save a liar and a hulking,
bullying Jack Johnson —especially a Jack
Johnson. He is a temporary or short-lived
disease who looks long because the tail-end
of him is still with us. If he had begun and
ended 1000 or 2000 years earlier we would
recognise him as what he is—an incidental
pimple on the face of history.
Among the objections to the Turk are
that he hasn’t enriched Europe or the world
with prose, or poetry, or music, in which
respect he stands alone in Europe. He has
established no new school or order of paint-
ing or sculpture after the manner of Greece,
Holland, Spain, France or England. He
didn’t teach navigation or write sagas or
. construct picturesque myths like the Scan-
■ dinavians. He has made nothing new in
; architecture—nothing Doric or lonic or
Corinthian or Egyptian or Moorish or
. Flemish or Renaissance or Gothic or
• Norman or Perpendicular or mere Jacobean
■ or Chippendale. He isn’t accused of a
, single notable invention from a needle to
i a dreadnought. He didn’t even devise
Shimose explosives as the Japanese did;
or pretty fancies in porcelain or lacquer or
brassware or tapestry, or anything rare in
carpets or in jade work or in lace or pearl-
shell, after the manner of the Chinese,
Hindus, Persians, Maltese and other folk
who may be temporarily under the weather,
but who paid the world for their board
and lodging, and still have possibilities
ahead of them. He wasn’t an explorer after
the fashion of the French. English, Dutch,
Spaniards, Portuguese, Russians, Norsemen
and others, to, say nothing of the Phoe-
nicians and Malays. There may not be
ex ldPre now, but when Scott
and Peary and Amundson and Nansen and
d Abruzzi went Pole-hunting they met no
Ottoman expedition on the way. The Turk
simply tramped with heavy feet in well-
trodden paths.
.Tews and Greeks, Romans, Frenchmen
and others have supplied the world with
law codes. Those of Hammurabi, Moses,
Justinian and Napoleon are historic. No
(Continued on page 24.)


XLGe
Warmth Without
Weight.
The Stylish Palace Overcoat.
N the excellence of the fabrics, the
specially designed weave and the tailor-
ing of an nnusually high standard, the Palace
Overcoat provides the maximum amount of
comfort without a single ounce of superfluous
weight.
c>
The illustration depicts the free, graceful
style of the “Palace” Overcoat—-easy slip-on
shoulder, cut on generous lines with full
skirt, patch or through opening pockets and
button through or flv button front.
This Smart Winter Overcoat is in the season’s
approved style, and is faithfully made in the newest
weaves of English and Colonial Tweeds, and offers
exceptionally fine valve.
IN DARK AND MEDIUM GREY COLONIAL
TWEED. All Wool, Step Collars
42 1-
IN MEDIUM AND DARK GREY ENGLISH
TWEEDS. Neat Effects
551-
IN NEW EFFECTS OF GREY AND BROWN
AUSTRALIAN ALL=WOOL TWEEDS
651-, TO)-
The Palace Coat is also made as a Raincoat in All=
wool and Wool and Cotton Gabardines, affording at
once warmth and protection in wet weather.
FAWN WOOL AND COTTON GABARDINE
SHOWERPROOF COATS, Step Collars
or Buttoned to the Neck. Lined Check.
Excellent Values
45/-, 57(6
GREY GABARDINE, All Cotton, Close
Finish. Lined Best Italian Cloth. Rain
Resisting
47/6
FAWN GABARDINE RAINCOATS. Step
Collars or Buttoned to Neck. Through
Pockets or Flaps.
-
84!- to 126-
Carriage Paid to Any Part of New South Wales; to
Port Inter-State .
•?mrn
r,«s
w
rl'vfi
it.:
7i
7sWt
m
>{&
d>.s
mi
M
;ffi
§£
Kt/*
SfW'i*
■(£■■■,
#V:
54^
./•
“Men’s Matters”
is the title of an illustrated catalogue
offered free by A nthony Horderns.
It is full of useful information on all
things pertaining to modern masculine
attire. Post free to any address.
Send for a copy before the stock is
exhausted.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.U2
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
fern.
:
4ate
9B&
*£/uve'sj
•X'aupXTc
U!H Pl e ''l o ! a QSO9


ALL OVER THE WORLD
Business Men, Architects, Engineers and Contractors
more than ever realise the value of Reinforced Concrete.
WHat Do You Know
of the romance and advantages of this modern means of construction? Send for our book,
Reinforced Concrete» Australia’
Its Romance.
Discovery —Demonstration —Quickly taken up by the Masters of Finance
and of Enterprise and by the Leading Architects, Engineers and
Contractors of the Forward Nations of the World. Not to know
is to be behind the times.
Its Business Side.
To build with Reinforced Concrete is cheaper; it is faster by 50 per
cent, in construction; it does awav with old fashioned methods; it
introduces new ideas and time- and labor-saving devices; it is permanent; it
eliminates all maintenance charges; it can be adapted to any form of
building, and its immeasurable value in the construction of buildings,
tanks, silos, chimneys, reservoirs, floors, retaining walls, etc., places it
right ahead in the foremost rank of constructional material to-day.
mmm
' c\/>
V .
. ,r
K:
fryßßaaiw...~—» »,.* «■» £***
4 1 s
■
S
W
■B
u*.
WiP ' ■
,r~ .<■•
JSK
Photograph showing building 200 ft. long, (50 ft. wide, three storeys high, constructed entirely of Reinforced Concrete, to our design, at Kelvin Grove, Brisbane.
Note the reinforced concrete chimney stack, 100 ft. high, on right.
Our Indented Steel Reinforcing Bars, rolled in Australia by G. 8 C. Hoskins Ltd., are used
in all the Government Wheat Silos in N.S.W.
We shall be glad to discuss any building proposition with you or with your architect or engineer.
William Adams (EL Co. Ltd
175 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE! 521-523 Collins Street
ADELAIDE! 96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: Cr. Edward and Mary Streets.
PERTH: 33 King' Street.


ds
fds
fds
INDIVIDUAL TASTE
is evidenced in Abbey Shoes. They give
the utmost comfort to the wearer, besides
possessing distinctive stylei
Tlie boot illustrated is made in Choice
Tan Willow Calf. A smart, made-to-order
style.
Price 30/- and 42/-
Also in Box Calf with dull Calf Legs.
Price 40/-
Made in half and full sizes, and three fit-
tings, narrow, medium and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 GeOrg'e Street,
Between (j.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
SAUCE
S 3
v.W.
mV*’
£4d£S»*
Wm/ft
w/iiiiiuttttm\v^^
is British
absolutely
Is made in
England—
every drop ,
but used
all over the
world.
Of all
Stores.
ifc Xbi.
Vicars. ’
iZ&jshvve
'fl&ir
vD i:
fs
or
mmm
df
BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
an of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few —the more
sioical among us—can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
ot worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
tew this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are. at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
l» ea utilul Complexion by Natural Means.—
I lie secret of a perfect complexion lies in the
continual renewing of tlie outer cuticle of the
*kin. This is Nature’s own method. The
outer skin as it becomes coarse or shrivelled
must be removed, and an opportunity {riven
to (lie finer one beneath to show itself. It is
because the old, dead skin is allowed to re-
main on tiie face that so many women, and
even young girls, suffer from pimples,
blotches and sallow dull skins. To remove, by
absorption, the dead outer skin, and with it
all blemishes, the use of mercolized wax is
universally recommended, ordinary face
creams being powerless for this purpose.
Smear the wax over the face and neck, rub it
gently into the skin, and leave it on all night.
In the morning wash it off. using I’ilenta
soap and warm water, when all the dead skin
will be removed with the wax. Then apply a
lotion to prevent any trace of greasiness
being noticeable and to give a peach-like
bloom to the skin. A lotion to do this can be
made up quite cheaply from the following
recipe: Take one ounce of cleminite and dis-
solve it in four tablespoonfuls of hot water.
Place in a bottle, and when cool apply to the
face with the fingertips, allowing it to drv on
the skin.
To Remove Blackheads.—Dissolve one effer-
vescing stymo-1 tablet in a glass of hot water,
allow the effervescence to subside, then dip a
small sponge into the liquid and mop over the
face. Allow it to remain on for a few min-
utes. then wipe off with a towel, and the
blackheads wilj be entirely removed. To pre-
vent them from re-appearing, use a st.vmol
tablet in the manner described twice a week.
How to Shampoo.—Before shampooing the
hair dip the lingers into a little pure olive or
almond oil, and thoroughly massage the scalp.
Then dissolve a teaspoonful of stullax granules
in a cup of hot water. Fill a basin with warm
water into which the ends of the hair can
fall, and shampoo the stallax mixture into the
roots in the usual way. Then rinse and drv
by fanning with a palm fan.
Grey Hair.—To restore' the color of grey or
fading hair, take two ounces of concentrated
tammalite, and mix it with three ounces of
bay rum; apply to the hair for several nights,
using a small sponge, and the hair will grad
ually resume its original color. When the
desired shade has been obtained, the tamrna-
lite lotion should be used about twice a week.
Apply it to the roots with an old toothbrush
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
TO WHITEN A BItOWN NECK (W.K.).—To
whiten your neck, use jettaline. Get a tube
of this from the chemist and rub a little well
into the skin of the neck; leave it on till next
morning’. Do this regularly every night for
three or four weeks, and you will find that
the skin will become beautifully clear and
white.
BABY.—You need not lose your pretty com-
plexion. _ Get a tin of mercolized wax, and
rul) a little well into the face every night.
This well remove the dead outer skin and
reveal the pretty fresh new skin underneath.
Be careful what soap you use. as this is very
important. I should suggest Pilenta.
MATER.—To reduce yourself to your original
weight, get a packet of cl.vnol berries and eat
four daily, one after each meal and one at
bedtime. When once you have returned to
your normal weight you can discontinue
them, as the cure is permanent and not merely
temporary, as so many others are. There is
no need to make any alteration in your diet.
DISAPPOINTED.—I am not surprised that
you have been disappointed in your hair: you
are not using a suitable shampoo. Get a
packet of staliax and shampoo the hair every
fortnight with this. It will make it soft and
keep it fair.
NELLIE.—There is nothing more disastrous
to beauty than superfluous hair. In that you
are right, but you are wrong in thinking that,
there is no permanent cure. Get an ounce of
powdered plieminol and a tube of tekko paste.
These two, used in conjunction, will perma-
nently remove the growth.
GERTIE.—The lotion to which you refer is
made as follows: Get an ounce of cleminite
and mix it with four ounces of warm water.
Allow it to cool, bottle, and dab over the face,
allowing it to dry on the skin. This is far
superior to powder, and gives a fresh bloom
to the face without the appearance of make up.
MAISIE.—Yes. the longer your eyelashes the
larger and brighter your eyes will look. To
increase the growth of the lashes rub a little
menu aline into the roots every night. Do this
very gently, but thoroughly, and you will be
delighted with the result. [2
BOSTODK’S—THE ECONOMY SHOE POLISH
We wish to stress the fact that ECONOMY is one of the chief attributes of
Bostoek Shoe Dressings. It is economical by virtue of the fact that it is more
than a mere polish.
Containing, as it does, ingredients which nourish and preserve the leather, it gives
longer life to footwear.
With the cost of shoes mounting
higher and higher, the daily use
of Bostock’s. with its leather-
preserving qualities, is particu-
larly desirable.
df
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark
Brown, Ox Blood and White.
> In Tins, Bottles and Tubes.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Bostock’s Yiolo Polishes, Ltd,
. . SYDNEY, . .
dsf
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
dsf
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
ds
The O.C.S. Automatic Weighing Machine
FOR FREE RUNNING MATERIALS. NO POWER REQUIRED.
Manufacturers and Im-
porters of—
Boiler Flour Mill
Machinery
Oatmeal Mill Machinery
Brewers’ and Malsters’
Machinery
Superphosphate
Machinery
Elevators of various -
designs
Apron Conveyors,
Gravity, Conveyors
Adjustable Feeders
and Mixers
Flour ahd Bran Packers
Grinding Mills for all
Classes of Materials
Bottle-filling Machines
for Piccalilli, etc.
.
Size F 4.
Farmers’ Grain
Cleaners
Link Belting
Sprocket Wheels
Elevator Buckets
Complete Grinding and
Dressing Plants for
Sugar, Spices, Starch,
Paint, etc.
Package Elevators
Bag Holders
Disc Grinding Mills
Malt Roller Mills
MADE
IN
AUSTRALIA.
SUPPORT OUR OWN INDUSTRIES.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [i
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Kingdom of the Dead.
Down in the oozy deserts of the deep.
Crawling along its weedy, grottoed floor,
Where no unfettered sun nor moon dare
creep,
The ocean’s dead ransack its treasure
store.
Far from the thundering breakers’ ceaseless
boom,
They move within the green, unlighted gloom.
Amid the ribs of sunken ships they glide,
With hollow sockets and transparent
hands;
They rattle out the winding ropes and ride
Upon the swaying masts that pierce the
sands.
Along the coral-crusted hulls they cling
And shroud the sterns with tattered wreaths
they fling.
And when the echoing peals of far-off storms
March in upon their shadow-haunted caves,
They point with skinny hands—pale, crouch-
ing forms.
And, mingling with the scream of distant
waves,
Their hollow voices, swollen into woe,
Rise upwards in a wild adagio.
Where roll the lines of thunder-throated
surge,
Where grinning currents seethe and swirl
and sweep,
Their shrill lament becomes a funeral dirge.
They see the driven wrecks divide the
deep,
And clap their bony hands until the sea
Laughs with them in unfathomable glee.
An ever-restless crew the merry dead
Of whom the hungry sea has taken toll;
For them his lordly treasure-grounds arc
spread—•
His thunder tuned to murmuring bar-
carolle !
For them the coral palaces that rim
The tide-stirred gardens, swaying sweet and
dim!
Fale pearls they find amid the slimy sedge,
And glittering coils, their brightness ocean- 1
kissed; ;
Gold, silver flanks the rocky plateau-edge, 1
Turquoise and sapphire, heaped-up ame-
thyst. ;
They crown their ghastly heads with dia-
dems,
And grovel in the sand for buried gems.
They rifle in the holds of blackened ships,
And drag with hungry hands from gaping
chests
Fair - things'that once have known the touch
of lips
Light-pressed; pale stars that once have
decked proud breasts.
Oh, robber-sea, what should these rovers
dread
Who rob the mighty kingdom of the dead !
VICTORIA.
MYRA MOEEIS.
The Free Woman.
I am the master-mistress of myself,
Queen of my conscience, of my soul, my
will.
You who have kist me as a wild witch-elf,
Now of my riches take your spirit’s fill.
Equal we stand upon the hills of God,
Mind-matched and mated to the life, the
death ;
Calm in our purpose as the firm, brown sod
Drawing the solace of the sun’s red breath.
I yield no longer to the laws that lie.
Burst—burst for ever are their prison
bars.
Though marriage-lust from every sense may
cry,
My soul will triumph to the utmost stars.
I need no deckings for my master-mind,
No teasing wiles to give you your desire.
I bring you passion stronger'than the wind,
But fine and clean as is the moon’s white
fire.
O spirit-bridegroom, from my soul re-born
Out of the ages for this spirit-bride,
Life laughs in rapture at the clearer morn
When Truth and Love are standing bv
our side!
I will not breed you weaklings for the fight
Cowards nor warriors of senses strong ’
Nay, from my soul shall spring a race’ of
Light
Living and striving on the shores of
lam the master-mistress of myself.
Keeper of Life and guardian of Birth.
You who have kist me as a wild witch-elf
Now of my' riches reap the dreams of earth.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Rest.
If a man be tired at the end,
Let him sleep!
Let them weep—
They who counted him as friend.
But the laughing years will send
Flowers to peep
~ Through the grasses, where they keep
-Scented thoughts a grief to mend.
If a man be weary,
Let him rest
Many days. 1
Spring, with voices cheery,....
Fills the blossom on his breast
Full of praise.
N.S.W.
DAVID-McKEE WRIGHT.


u
*■7
X 2?
Road
in the Outback country, over roadless tracts
Perdriau
Tyres
prove their dependability and enduring qualities.
. \
Perdriau Tvres are obtainable from vour
s J
local garage or from the Manufacturers: —
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd
AaupAs ‘lao-HS ©Sjoao O LZ
A,so Flinders Street , Melbourne
Adelaide Street 7 Brisbane
Gawler Place, Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
0.
_J
I
Veterinary Instruments,
THE “ECLIPSE” BRAND EMASCULATOR is the most
perfect Veterinary Instrument of its kind in existence. Has three
different crushes, with regulating screw, is perfectly safe, easy to operate,
and without the slightest danger of blood poisoning. Every instrument
thoroughly tested, examined, and anatomically correct.
rite now for Denyer’s Free Instructive Cata-
e and Booklet—contains much valuable informa-
that will be profitable to you.
Price 50/-
Postage 9d. Extra.
DENYER BROS.
“The Veterinary
Specialty House,”
281 George Street, Sydney
a
~i./j
1111
89!! Ifil)
After a round of the Links
—when the healthy out-
door hunger gets busy— _
a few sandwiches of “ Rex ” Camp Pie “ go fine.”
This good wholesome meat always satisfies and
sustains. You never tire of it.
“ALWAYS KEEP A TIN IN THE HOUSE”
“REX” CAMP PIE
TO GROCERS.
There is good money waiting for the store that
features “Rex” goods because they are backed by
quality and a strong advertising campaign. They are
one of the quickest selling lines you can stock.
FOGGITT,
JONES
& CO. LTD.
Packers of “ REX ” Pure Food Products.
Curers of “ REX ” Hams and Bacon.
J 933
nnnnnnfflßS
HY62
i
IN
A^A^ ac „ on
VEAt
T ONGUE.
GOODRICH
Full-size
Safety “ BAREFOOT” Tyres
FEEL STRONGER. ARE STRONGER.
The Safety Tread on Goodrich Full
Size Ty res is made ot a very unusual,
secret and exclusive Compound,
which is called “ BAREFOOT
Rubber.
‘BAREFOOT’’ R übber tells vou
of its superiority. Black Treads of
the new “BAREFOOT” Rubber,
which is stretchv as a rubber-band —-
j
close framed as flint —and so tou^h
<3 O
that it orives the maximum amount
<3
of mileage with a minimum of wear.
Get to know this Wonderful Tv re
fit one to your car —test it \ ourself.
j j
DUVAL ®. CO.
145 Collins St., 13 Castlereagh St., 300 Adelaide St.,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post, as a Newspaper.
Vot. 40.— N0. 20)0.
THURSDAY, JLILY 10, 1919.
Pbice 6d.
THE CLOUD.
UNCLE BILLY: “Aren’t you fond of me for bringing you home all those nice things to play with?”
AUSSIE: “Y-e-e-s—l hope I’ll like them. But they feel pretty heavy.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.’’
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. Gd. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you, every week for a year, to any
address in Australasia p'ost paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that, it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Londoii
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., h)l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.3.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and IJ Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway. Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home Neivs Agency, 7G3 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnaee Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Podder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
lOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., lid.; BJog. to lOoz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and id. each
additional Soz.
THURSDAY, JULY 10, 1919.
MUCH THE SAME OLD WORLD.
When the globe gets its second wind after
the great and almost unbelievable upheaval
it will probably be surprised to find in how
many respects it is still the same old world.
Of course no one expected it to revolve on
a new axis or under new stars, or to change
its seasons and tides and its seed-times
and harvests, but some people have fondly
imagined that everything under human con-
trol would wear a different aspect. It does
nothing of the sort. To begin with, the
most essential proposition, the danger of
military rule, will be exactly the same as
it always has been. It is intended that
the world shall pay much less for the
danger of armed oppression, in money and
human service; but as long as there are
two men on earth and one is bigger than
the other the danger won’t be exterminated.
The war will, bar accidents, eliminate two
overshadowing armed Powers —Germany
and Austria —and a third, not quite so for-
midable, but still ominous enough—Russia.
As the result of this, and of the weakening
of France and Britain, two Powers, the
United States and Japan, which lost little
and gained very much in the upheaval, will be
a great deal more overshadowing than be-
fore. They step automatically into the
vacant places, though owing to. recent
changes they hope to fill them with less
expense than their predecessors. Thanks to
the reduction of armaments it should be
possible to bully as much for £1,000.000 as
was formerly done for £10,000,000', and
truculence, it is hoped, can be run for 2s.
in the £ of the old ruinous figure. The
human race will fight for its own hand as
per usual. The League of Nations won’t
disarm the Powers because it has no army
of its own to disarm anybody with. The
League, having no -official gun, doesn’t even
profess to disarm the four enemy States--
Germany, Austria, Bulgaria and Turkey.
That has to be done by the Allies* separately,
before they begin to be Leagued. The
League’s own members are to maintain what
forces they please, subject to pious remon-
strance from the central body, said body
having no ships or legions to remonstrate
with. In that respect it will be like the
Hague Arbitration Court. If one or two
or three or four Leaguers start a war. just
as the Ha guers did whenever they felt in-
dined, the central body will call on the
other members, including Australia, to fight
for peace. So a, member will presumably
be called on to take a hand in all wars
instead of merely in some wars, for it is
hardly possible for a war to occur in
which some member isn’t involved. Aus-
tralia, having secured a sort of recognition
as a self-governing nation, and not a mere
colony, will doubtless be called on for its
quota with the rest. If it has disarmed to
oblige the militant anti-“militarist” cranks.,
and has no quota to give, it may be fined,
or expelled and made an outlaw (what the
old Saxons called a “wolf’s head”), or repri-
manded, or simply despised.
* * * ■*
Armies will be the final word in power,
and will run the show as of old whether
countries abjure “militarism” or not. An
army at the last resort is simply the best-
armed. best-organised and probably best-led
mob in the country. It may belong to the
State, and its crack regiments may wear
some proud historical designation; it may be
called the New Model, the Household troops,
the Janissaries, the Praetorians, the Im-
mortal Band, the Old Guard, or anything
else. Or, if the Government is foolish
enough to set aside its forces to please
ambitious schemers who want their own
crowd to be the best one in the country, the
place of the Immortal Band may be taken
by the One Big Union or the I.W.W. or
by some secret society, or simply by a party
of robbers. There is always an army
whether there is an army or not. If the
Commonwealth’s troops abdicate, then the
next strongest force takes over the contract
and the next and the next till the Hooligans
have it. Plain anarchy is compulsory mili-
tary service from the cradle to the grave,
each human being his own military force.
In India the Stranglers have been the army.
It is only a case of General Monash’s
brigades, directed by Parliament, making
way for those of Considine or Brookfield
or the chief wharf-lumper or Townsville
meat-slayer, for the military throne is never
empty, though under the HoiienzollernS
it was absurdly full. In China for many
years the soldier’s profession was regarded
as disgraceful. According to a Chow proverb
“No son of Han goes a-soldiering.” But
the military business was generally brisk,
being divided among Manchu conquerors,
secret societies, Cantonese pirates and sun-
dries. Similarly Mexico, with its voluntary
enlistment system (though there is or was
a dead-letter compulsion law) and its de-
fence expenditure of less than £2,000,000 a
year, tried till recently to be a non-militarist
country. But though the Government army
didn’t matter—or because it didn’t matter —
as many as six private armies were recently
upholding as many different brands of
Liberty on its soil at once. It has sought
to avoid regular militarism only to get the
irregular or spontaneous article in abun-
dance.
* * * *
The League of Peace starts with a power-
ful common enemy, for the Lenin-Trotsky
party has taken up the mission of imposing
its ideas on the world generally, and the
world can’t afford to be imposed on too
much. It has another powerful enemy in
Germany, which might resume the war any
day, with good chances of success if tnilp
tarisin was left off. It has a multitude of
small client States to be assisted. If they
are not assisted a new Central European
empire will grow again inside a year. It
contains a pair of friends and fellow-
members who are rather too overwhelming
in their strength and their possibilities, and
it is. necessary to keep an eye on fhe best
of friends, seeing that the right of Leaguers
to scrap among themselves remains just
where it was save for a paper instrument
which hasn’t even a single policeman on
point duty behind it. One way and another
it looks much the same old world, except
that it has safely negotiated one rapid, and
the next one isn’t in sight yet. though the
roar of it can be heard round the corner.
“NACH DEM STURM."
Last week the cartographers began their
task of re-drawing the world’s maps. It
is salutary to contrast, what might have
been with what is. Long before the war
the Hun had prepared a map of the world
as it was to be “after the storm.” It was
compiled when the Germans were laboring
under those deiusions concerning the point
of view of the outside world which were
partly responsible for their downfall. Thus,
because they did not believe that the U.S.A.
would fight, the whole of Canada was allo-
cated to the Republic. They believed Japan
would remain neutral and claim the Com-
monwealth as a reward; Australia was
accordingly colored yellow on the document.
It is a proof of the hypocrisy of the Junker
whine that Germany was the white man’s
bulwark against the growing power of
Mongol Russia that on this Junker-made
map India and the territory between the
Caspian and Indo-China went to Russia.
Practically the whole of Africa was Prus-
sian blue. As the war developed the terri-
torial views of the men who had fomented
it naturally altered. Many Germans
realised that, win or lose on the European
continent, the British navy would fight on
and that their colonies were, accordingly,
irrecoverable by force. They thus tended
more and more .to concentrate on Middle
Europe, with the idea either of forming a
new empire there or of ultimately exchang-
ing the “bridge to India” for their lost
possessions, and on such other overseas ter-
ritory as Britain could be blackmailed out
of. Australia was freely mentioned by Pan-
Germanists in this connection at a black
period for the Allies when pacifists, here
and abroad, were clamoring for a “peace
by arrangement.” The Brotherhood of Man
business in Russia had definitely put that
great country out of the war, and given
the nation with the dimmest idea of
brotherhood on record the opportunity it re-
quired. Previously the Hun forces could
not get to Odessa, the key to Middle Asia,
since Bessarabia was held by the Allies.
T-he defection of Russia gave Germany a
straight, and easy path from the great north-
ern Black Sea port through Batum, aud
either over or around the Caspian, to
Persia. The German map-makers got 10
. work again, on the assumption that their
country’s armies would presently penetrate
either British Baluchistan by the Bolan
Pass or the Punjab by the Khyber, and
the vast region between Rostov and Cal-
cutta became as optimistically blue as
Africa had been.
* * * *
The tremendous scheme was but the base-
less fabric of a robber’s dream: the Hun
could not materialise the requisite driving-
force. Because he was not strong enough
for the job he had set himself —because, to
put it another way, he was inadequately
prepared, and for no other reason —freedom
was saved for the human race. The new
maps will show more vividly than any words
wbat the achievement signifies to the beaten
empire in a material sense. Germany's
colonies are gone and so is Alsace; Heligo-
land is “to be dismantled, and as far as
possible destroyed”; the whole of the Hun’s
naval bases the world over are gone, and his
navy, logically enough, has committed
suicide' The German Confederation which
was consummated at Versailles 48 years ago
was put back last week (again at Ver-
sailles) to the place it started from. Ger-
many becomes, as before, a comparatively
insignificant association of tribes, united
now more by community of misery and
hatred of Prussia, the still dominant partner
which is to blame for the mad gamble that
ruined all of them, than by any other tie.
It is not a picturesque example of wicked-
ness overthrown, such as occurs in melo-
drama, but not, unfortunately, elsewhere to
any marked extent. Germany decided to
fight, when the Archduke Ferdinand was
murdered, as a matter of business. The
recent Balkan War had reduced the value
of the dual monarchy as an ally by about 40
per cent., and necessitated the expenditure
by Germany of an extra £50,000,000 on the
army; and with the loss of the real creator
of the new Austro-Hungarian army and
navy the Pan-Germanists felt that the
“world storm” could not wait. It leaves
Germany stripped almost bare because the
Junkers let it loose both before their country
was quite strong enough and before the
British Empire was quite weak enough.
German commercial penetration was the
world’s leading industrial feature in 1914;
and the political feature of Britain was a
steady growth of the sickliest brand of inter-
nationalism amongst a big section of the
workers, and of much the saipe thing, under
the name of Pacific liberalism, amongst
many capitalists and big employers. If
Germany had waited it might have had all
it went to war for practically as a gift.
* * * *
If there is anyone who still imagines
that honor and security have any connec-
tion with right in international affairs he
might profitably consider the position of
China. The attitude of China was admir-
able from standpoint of the Allies. It
couldn’t give fighting assistance, for obvious
reasons; but it did every other service in
its. power, including the provision of an
army , of manual workers who freed white
,men for the fighting line. Japan claimed,
and so had to be allowed, the congenial
duty of seizing Kiao-chow. It not only
did that but it seized the entire Shantung
Peninsula as well, including the railway. It
then claimed control of the army, the police,
and all the public utilities, and China had
to agree. By arrangement with the Allies
Japan is now there for good—in permanent
control, to all intents and purposes, of Nor-
thern China. China, pathetic in its im-
potence, did the only thing possible in the
circumstances last week: it “issued a Note
regretting its inability to sign the Peace
Treaty, thus taking a course which appears
to mar the solidarity of the Allies, but saying
it had no other honorable course to pursue,
as the. Conference denied China justice.”
►So China, which internationally has harmed
no man, emerges from the world-tempest in
a situation something like that of the
country which has crucified half the earth.
It is an instance of a truth which history
has been recording ever since the enslave-
ment of the. inoffensive Egyptians 5000 years
ago—that in national matters the world
punishes the law-abiding non-agggressor who
cannot take his own part as harshly as it
does the convicted burglar and murderer.
* * * *
And yet in Australia there are people
who demand the abolition of compulsory
military service and the scrapping of the
navy! It is imaginable, of course, that the
League of Nations may come into existence
to such purpose that helpless countries like
China will yet have as bright a chance of
securing their rights as well-armed ones such
as Japan. At present they are a peril to
themselves and an embarrassment to their
friends. Australia’s Brotherhood of Man
specialists. might flood the globe with litera-
ture setting forth the Commonwealth’s
attachment to humanitarianism and its
hatred of war, and they might reinforce their
assurances by disarmament on land and sea.
There would be no change on the immutable
faee_ of human nature. Nationalism being
traditionally stronger than internationalism,
the Asiatic or other enemy would merely
take it as an invitation to help himself, and
use the Brotherhood enthusiasts to pay the
expenses of the venture in the form of an
indemnity. Many things are needed by Aus-
tralia in the near future if it is to be secure.
Primarily a bigger population. It will never
get that by putting immigrants on the
land. No white country can greatly
increase its permanent population with-
out greatly increasing its manufac-
tures; and Australia, in competition
with Japan and bankrupt Germany,
has little hope of keeping, much less
increasing, its manufactures without a dras-
tically raised tariff. And with every new
industry that is formed, and every new mine
or acre of country that is opened up. the
need of an effective army and navy must be-
come more, acute. Wee to the vanquished,
as the revised map of the German Empire
shows! Rut woe, too, to the unprepared
who. like China, are denied even the chance
•to struggle against their enemies.
THE LAND OF ESAU.
“Mr. Watt yesterday affirmed the intention of the
Government to obtain another war loan. Money
must be got, of coukse We assume, in the
absence Of, any announcement to the contrary, that
the determination is to appeal again to the Aus-
tralian people, if such is the case the Government
will expose itself to criticism should it be found
that there is no good reason why the money should
not be so'ught in London or New York. .. .There is
a heavy volume of well-informed opinion against
the idea of making another great call on the Com-
monwealth’s resources of capital while the need
for money for private enterprise is so urgent.”—S. M.
Herald, 26/6/’l9.
Ever since the baby days of Myth, which
was the father of Legend, which in turn was
the father of History, scorn 'has been heaped
on Esau, the hairy fool who pawned his
inheritance to Jacob, later an absentee, for
something wherewith to develop his internal
resources. The Australian nation is Esau.
There is no earthly reason why, as the un-
imaginative Herald puts it, loan money
“must be got” save that Australia, in the
worst days of war stress, levied on its
people £7 per head per annum in taxes while
Britain levied £2l. If the 1 poverty of the
country made it impossible for the Aus-
tralian to pay in taxes more than one-third
as much as the Englishman, as borrowers—-
Labor, Liberal and Tory—assume, then its
people should honestly face the position and
cut down wages and salaries to about half
the English level. And if it is the laziness,
incapacity, luxury and unmanliness of the
people that is responsible, they should reform,
if papers like the S. M. Herald will allow
them.
* * * »
The miserable plea is not merely for bor-
rowing but for •'foreign borrowing—for an
increase in the multitude of absentee
capitalists who live on this country, but are
neither taxpayers, rent-payers, wage-payers,
customers of our farmers and artisans, de-
fenders, contributors to local charities nor
anything else of value. The demand for
this new horde v of absentee tribute-collectors
arises naturally from the threat of a new
Protective tariff. Australia has capital
enough of its own to develop any and every
old thing in its territory that is capable
of being developed, and to pay off its old
development loans as well, and have some
over to lend to other countries. Or at least
it can have capital enough of its own for
all these things as fast as it is wanted, for
it isn’t wanted all at once.
* * * »
Capital is only money. And if the money
wasn’t sent abroad to buy women’s skirts
and lots of other things, to the great enrich-
ment of absentee profiteers and the great
bloating of their agents, the arrogant im-
porters,. and the _ great non-employment of
Australian unionist workers, this country
would in time totter under the weight of its
own. capital.. But in the present awful state
of importation and consequent unemploy-
ment, everything that Australia can spare
tor export is required to pay for the imports
wmmen’s skirts and sundries—which pre-
vent work being available here; and some-
thing more has to be borrowed from the
absentee or somebody to make up the balance
due for the skirts, etc.* and for interest on
°ur_ foreign debts; and, finally*, our own
capital having gone abroad to pay for skirts,
etc., the country is to be further pawned to
the absentee to raise money for “develop-
ment.”
* * * #
But as a matter of fact there is very little
of a profitable sort to develop under present
conditions, though loan-money may be spent
on pyramids, railways for which there is no
remunerative business, statues, sphinxes,
palaces (described as public buildings at
Canberra)- —they are all much of a much-
ness. Nobody wants money to build fac-
tories with. Between cheap foreign com-
petition and the warnings of certain Labor
leaders that the places will be confiscated
as soon as they get into power, people keep
clear of factory-building. And hardly
anybody wants to carry land-settle-
ment further at his own expense,
though a few are willing to be “re-
patriated out of loans. The importing
policy and the One Bloated City policy are
ailing off the country towns where the farmer
once had a sort of market, and hoped for
a bigger one, close to his door. So far as
concerns hay, straw and chaff the N. S.
Wales farmer who is blessed with railway
communication was 73 miles further from a
market m 1917 than in 1891. That is to
say, his goods were dragged bv rail an
average distance of 154 miles in 1891 and
-Si miles in 1917. As Regards wheat and
flour, he was on the average 135 miles fur-
ther from a market (111 miles in 1891
against 246 in 1917). That was because
town settlement, which depends largely on
manufactures, didn’t follow farm settlement,
1 1 fact, many of the farmers were 12,135
, j/ s1 s f '."’ thei ' fr °m a market in 1917 than in
1831. lor want of a local artisan population
! ll ! )p ] y a market the farmer began to ex-
Z . 3 We T»n lfSe tw ° dates > so he became
moie of a Robinson Crusoe than ever. If
on o h a ,.(-R bS -? S ?? , earth lent all the money
imnvnv W ? u dn t make any permanent
improvement while the importing craze lasts.
f his birthright by selling
Yor>* * ° JACOB in b-ondon or New
REHEARSING REVOLUTION.
Dlring the last month or so the foolish-
ness of the Westralian and Com men wealth
Governments has taught Australians, used
to fighting their battles at the ballot-box, the
preliminary and procedure of the Sacred
Light of Insurrection. In both cases the
* .acred Right of Insurrection triumphed, and
two Governments that could not govern
backed down. If there be not radical change,
and that quickly, bad government, unable
to govern, will find that the event of Fre-
mantle and the Sydney demonstration for
tlie release of Freeman were merely re-
hearsals for revolution. For rehearsals they
though with all the cast not present;
with imperfect rendering of the parts; the
property-master not engaged, so that there
were not any rifles for the army. But yet


dress rehearsals: with principals, chorus,
orchestra, scenery and effects; the mob
trained to the last action; the Carmagnole
complete.
Revolution and the rehearsal of it all
the world over are the results of bad govern-
ment. Czarism had rehearsed Bolshevism
until the actors were “stale,' before ever it
knew what the drama was to be named when
performed. Wo, too, in a badly and unequally
governed country like England, where govern-
ment has been so haphazard and slipshod
that it can scarcely be said that the country
has been governed at all, there has been a
discharged soldiers’ demonstration, 10,000 men
who regarded the utterance of the Govern-
ment on the unemployed as “unsatisfactory”
marching in procession, and being dispersed
by the police with injuries to “six men and
several women ’ and many arrests. But the
Discharged Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Federation
concerned in that procession says that
“350,000 men, formerly soldiers and sailors,
are now unemployed.” These numbers mean
that another revolution was merely rehears-
ing when 10.000 discharged soldiers and
sailors were dispersed by the police. The
demonstration of these out-of-work soldiers
and sailors must command sympathy oh the
figures; but only bad government could pro-
duce a similar rehearsal in Australia, where
every man and woman has a vote. The
proof of that bad government is the profiteer.
Westralia Labor Congress a few days ago
decided to memorialise both State and
Federal Governments on the “unwarranted
cost of living;” in default of definite action,
both State and Federal, to “call stop-work
meetings.” And stop-work meetings are,
temporarily at least, general strikes; and a
general strike is revolution. The profiteering
end of the cost of living—and the most cold-
blooded profiteer is the draper-must be con-
trolled, or at least that much revolution is
certain. The Australian profiteer is not
taxed, mostly because the “Nationalists”
want him for party funds; yet merely taxing
the profiteer is useless, because the State
never gets all of the profiteering result, and
it can, as in England, while ostentatiously
pretending to protect the consumer, en-
courage profiteering to produce a bigger
levenue in taxes on profiteers, while really
killing the consumer more quickly. It is
no consolation to the bulk of the public to
be told that no new direct taxation is being
placed on it, while the profiteer, who pays
'f: a Pound for rump steak, charges like the
Right Brigade for boots or rags, and smiles
a . s t f P a y s it. The rehearsers of revolution
don t feel like smiling. They may misre-
present themselves by seizing on the oppor-
tunity of Freeman held without trial, or of
a weak person named Colebatch attempt-
ing to work cargo with non-union labor;
but behind that is a real unrest about some-
thing else. And that unrest cannot be placated
with words. A Bishop at Hay (N.S.VV. >
tried to cure it the other day by saying that
O ~' a “ l or ' vas dreaming of a reconstructed
•society, but the only thing which could
achieve it was the spirit which was called
Giirist. He said that in face of the fact
that the most Christian peoples of the world
have been slaying more men and destroying
more wealth in one war—the latest—than all
the revolutions of the world have done in the
aggregate; in face of the fact that a few
wages boards in Australia have done more
to lift people within a few years than the
profession of “the spirit which was called
Christ has done in 19 centuries. Yet he
boomed on without contradiction; and even
as he boomed the labourers of Perth
were arguing to the point with an armed
Government and defeating it; and the men
ot the Ireeman demonstration lifted rifles
and had their way. The Sydnev Tele-
graph was as fatuous as the Reverend
Bishop in dismissing this Freeman demon-
stration with remarks about “canonising the
victims of the Eureka Stockade folly as the
creators of Australia’s liberties.” The
Eureka men ostensibly fought for reduction
of the diggers’ license of 80s. a month ; but
that is not what they demanded. Their Bill
of Rights included triennial Parliaments,
elected by. adult suffrage, payment of mem-
bers, a citizen defence force, no taxation
without representation, and a Republic; and
we have most of those things to-day. So
while Eureka seemed to lose, it won. Its
revolutionaries were charged with sedition,
and not a jury could be found to convict
them: the Government of the time was
proved as helpless and as ungovernmental
as the Governments of Australia and Wes-
tralia to-day.
Florence and Pisa, rival Governments,
had a long and bloody war, ostensibly to
settle the ownership of a Cardinal’s lap-
dog; but really because Pisa and Florence
hated each other —mostly because of un-
scrupulous misrepresentations from both
sides —and the wolf had to get the lamb,
whether the water had actually been
muddied or not. Behind Freeman and Cole-
batch are the real facts—the facts that some
men want revolution for the fun of it and
some for the pickings; but mostly because
conditions are unendurable. If Government
were good enough to govern it would be good
enough to think; it would see to it that
prices did not sky above wages. By so
doing it would make rehearsals so imperfect,
and the occasion of them so rare, that an
attempt at a real performance would be
counted out, and the actors hissed off the
stage. Meanwhile the present inaction
looks as if there shall be a pronertv-master
and orchestra next time that great stage-
manager Opportunity calls a rehearsal.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Direct Murder.
In a country like Australia, where every
sane citizen and citizeness has an equal
share in the management of public affairs,
the gospel of Human Liberty may be put
into two propositions :
(1) It is permissible to advocate anything that
comes within the four corners of the law as made
by All the People. That- allows the advocacy of
many things that are mean or foolish or wicked;
tout, then, the law made by All the People isn’t
complete yet.
(2) It is permissible to advocate that All the
People should alter the law in the usual way, so that
it will authorise bigamy, homicide, robbery, loafing,
procrastination, irreverence towards parents, disturb-
ance at church, incendiarism, torture, the burning
of witches, universal philanthropy, compulsory church
attendance or anything mad that can be imagined
under the sun. All the People, as represented by the
majority, and ruling themselves by the political
machinery which they have constructed or accepted,
have a right to be as mad as they want to be.
Direct Action is the means by which a
minority, with superior weapons or organi-
sation, overcomes the majority of All the
Peoule, and acquires power and advantages
which the majority won’t give it. Napoleon
I. and Napoleon 111. were both murderers
of the Direct Action type when they upset
Parliamentary Government and replaced it
by despotism, killing the necessary people
in the process. The Parliaments they upset
were not of the purely one-adult-one-vote
type of the Australian Federal Legislature,
but they represented the rule of All the
People much more than did the Governments
of the Direct Murderers which followed
them. Lenin and Trotsky were in exactly
the same category as the two Napoleons
when they scattered the-new People’s Par-
liament and forcibly replaced it with a device
under which only manual toilers, servants,
and members of the military and naval forces
have votes, and their representatives have
onlv such shadow of power as the dominating
military force allows them. Robespierre
wasn’t in the nefarious category, for though
he ran things with a high hand he never
attempted to disfranchise and disqualify the
people. John Storey, leader of the Par-
liamentary Labor party in N. S. Wales,
doesn’t seem to have quite decided upon his
category yet. He and' his kind have spells
of Direct Action frenzy, well knowing, unless
they are shamefully ignorant of human
nature, that if the power which belongs to
All the People is forcibly snatched by an
organised and -blatant section, whether of
unionists or anybody else, the Balance of
the People will fight for their rights sooner
or later, and then it depends on the chapter
of accidents whether the dead will be two
hundred or two millions. The talky men who
start violence generally prdpose that there
shall be no dead. The men of the second
stage, after the talky men are pushed aside,
don’t care whether there are any dead or
not. Those of the third stage, aftey the
talky men have been hanged as lukewarm
apologies or traitors, are apt to be butchers
pure and simple. If the Direct Action
movement had broken out —not by word of
mouth, but in big grim earnest —in Andrew
Fisher’s day of power, Fisher would have
been buried long since. And probably John
Storey would now be under sentence .of
death, and wild-eyed I.W.W. apostles, who
own or ape foreign accents and talk in
foreign cant terms about the “bourgeoisie,”
would be bossing a disarmed people with a
bodyguard of their own sort. Apart from
the mass of dupes the people of Direct
Action—or Direct Murder —have two con-
trolling ideas—the lust of power which they
can’t acquire except by violence because
the majority doesn’t give it to them, and
the lust of cruelty which the law of All the
People discourages. The lust of power is
the craving which moved the two NxVpoleons
and the two Russian dictators. Also it
has caused men to wade in blood for the
mastery of a tenth-rate Italian city-state, or
a German principality the size of a. cocky’s,
farm, or a tumble-down Irish or Scotch
castle, or the proprietary rights df a monas-
tery. There are probably men . who, in a'
time of anarchy, would.climb over heaps of
dead in order to attain a suburban mayoral
chair. As for the lust of cruelty, it is
rampant; consequently the number of laws,
regulations and precautions against it are
legion—precautions to prevent the ill-usage
of horses, dogs, cattle, children, prisoners
and lunatics, the stoushing of people in the
street by strange pushites, also biting and
gouging at prize-fights, wife-beating and
sundries. Folk who want a short cut to
power, or a chance to indulge in cruelty,
are necessarily in .favor of Direct Action.
Along with them are -thieves who hope to
pick up other people’s goods—and possibly
their women—or to lose their liabilities in
the confusion. It is time the leaders of
Australian Parliamentary Labor parties de-
cided whether this is the sort of company
they ought to keep; and to come to a
decision fair to themselves and the majority
of their _ followers they must realise what
the keeping of that company involves.
-—; —•>
Honors and Awards.
A recent cable ■ mentioned that the O.M.
had been awarded to Field-Marshal Haig
and Admiral Beatty. The men whose places
they took are Viscounts. A number of Aus-
tralians have been made knights whose war-
work, though useful, was neither unpleasant
nor dangerous, while it unavoidably carried
with it a great deal of gratifying, and in
some cases very lucrative, publicity. The
fighting men, the true knights, were rarely
considered worthy of the honor or whatever
it is. The same convention held in the Im-
perial Army. The current London papers
mention the case of Lieut.-Colonel Richings,
M.C., C. de G., Chevalier of the. Legion of
Honor, three times “mentioned” and six
times wounded. Five years ago he was a
policeman. On demobilisation he has be-
come a policeman again. Not even a metro-
politan inspector; just an ordinary helmet-
touching drunk-lumbering country bobby.
In the A.I.F. if a very senior officer failed
conspicuously he was returned either to
England or to Australia, given a decoration
or two,, and provided with an honorable and
well-paid job. A major or colonel was “in-
valided” to a base, and it then rested with
his own adroitness, “pull” and inclination
whether he retired creditably to civil life
or was found a military billet out of the
firing-line. For similar offences —cowardice,
neglect of duty, drunkenness or rank incom-
petence—a lieutenant or a captain was
cashiered, while a private or n.c.o. went to
gaol. The public outcry in the U.K. over
the Mesopotamia scandal produced the usual
Royal Commission, which duly reported that
the blameworthy parties were Lord Harp-
inge and Sir W illiam Meyer. The Viceroy
was given a post in the British Government,
and ear-marked for the next French Ambas-
sadorship (that he didn’t get it in the end
was no fault of the authorities); and the
Knight was retired with £lOOO a year plus
£lOO a year "good service pension.” A
doctor named Garter was' the hero who
braved the fury of officialdom by exposing
the appalling state of affairs in the Meso-
potamian Field Force, thereby saving
thousands of soldiers’ lives and infinite
misery. His recompense was a brevet
lieut.-colonelcy-—a rank equal to that of the
mild Home Service gentlemen who did their
bit as C.O. troops on transports. Men who
did prodigies on the battlefield are return-
ing to Australia in large numbers. Many
of them would be inestimably valuable as
peace soldiers, and a proportion are anxious
to serve in that capacity. They are re-
garded by officialdom —itself snugly dug-in—
as dangerous characters, and no time is lost
in demobilising them. There are many
lessons to be learned from it all, apart from
the now widely-appreciated one that most
"honors” have ceased to carry any meaning.
The chief of them is that those who are
anxious for public consideration should not
participate in future wars as combatants.
Provided, that is, they are not in a position
to begin with the rank of field-officer. Far
better enter a Red Cross or Comforts Fund
unit. Better still, do war-work at home.
An 0.8. E. is a practical certainty, a knight-
hood a likelihood; the peril to life, limb or
reputation infinitesimal.
The Stigma of Poverty.
Dr. Maloney, M.H.R., of Melbourne, a
kind-hearted, long-haired man but no finan-
cier, has applied for the Old Age Pension.
This he has done, not because he requires
it—he estimates his Federal income-tax
alone at £3o—but because, unless the aged
poor and the aged rich are pensioned alike,
utterly regardless of cost, a “stigma”—the oft-
discussed stigma of poverty—will apply to
the pensioners. If the little doctor, as
lie is called by the,.innumerable folk to whom
he has done kindly actions, gets his pension,
he proposes to donate it to some good pur-
pose. Unfortunately many well-to-do people
wouldn’t donate their pensions to any good
purpose and some good purposes are very
bad. Pensions would probably be donated
to I.W.W. vfjunds, to subsidising insurrec-
tions and cranks who want “the Scarlet
Woman of Rome” disqualified, and spook-
raisers, and to even worse movements. There
was a time when The Bulletin looked
kindly on Dr. Maloney’s idea, and on the
shme ground it advocated the abolition of
fees in N.S.W. State' schools—those fees
which were remitted in the case of the very
poor, who thereby got the stigma in full
force. But it always bracketed this with
the demand that the accursed loan-policy
should be abolished, it being a process by
which the whole nation clothed itself in
the garment of mendicancy and branded
itself with the stigma of impecuniosity, and
spent its life begging for accommodation
from absentee capitalists. If the nation
doesn’t mind the stigma the indivi ual. mem-
ber needn’t mind. In fact, if the im vidual is
one of those who have actively or passively
supported the loan policy, which happens m
99 cases out of 100, then he deserves a lot
more stigma than his Old Age Pension is
likely to give him. Australia requires to
cultivate a national pride which is ready to
work for the country as well as skite for
it.. In any case it is a snobbish idea that
poverty, unless caused by vice or by greater
than the average laziness, carries a stigma
while ill-gotten wealth doesn’t. The
apostles were poor, while Ca:sar generally
had the price of a drink about his toga.
Honest poverty is admitted and recognised
by putting an exemption limit on the income-
tax and land-tax, and by issuing workmen’s
tickets on the railways, and by providing
loans for impecunious settlers, and by the
building of houses by the State because some
people can’t afford to build for themselves
or to bribe the private capitalist to build
for them, and by free treatment in hos-
pitals and countless other devices. At the
same time an attempt is made to ignore it
by paying the baby bonus to the wife of
the laborer and the millionaire alike, and
it is suggested that it should be further
disguised by payintr the Old Age Pension
to rich and poor alike.. The idea would, be
logical .if this wasn’t a pauper country
that was always cadging for loan assistance
from rich capitalists and pawning the body
and soul of the bonus baby so that his
parents may shirk their . responsibilities.
When all men die leaving their share of
the public loafing debt unpaid it is absurd
to worry about the finer shades of pauperism
or insolvency.
The Soldiers’ Homes Scheme.
The resignation of the Commonwealth War
Service Homes Commissioner in N. S.
Wales, on the ground that the adminis-
tration of the scheme is farcical, and
that returned men and the dependants
of those who fell are being fooled,
should induce the House of Reps, to find
out a lot more about the business than any-
one knows at present. Being in the hands
of Millen it is natural that the working of
the scheme should be shrouded in mystery.
But that is just where the Reps., with horrid
memories of what happened in the Defence
Dept., should not permit it to be. The
Bulletin can say at once that it mistrusts
Senator Millen in this matter. He is too
much of a politician and too unpractical to
have Ministerial control of the immense re-
sponsibilities the Commonwealth pretended
to shoulder when it passed the Homes Act in
December of last year. And in any case he
is honelessly overweighted by the Repatria-
tion Dept. When the Homes Act was passed
he talked at great length about the “elimina-
tion of the political pull” and the advan-
tages that would accrue from “vesting the
administration in a Commissioner free from
political influence.” He also explained that
there was to be an expenditure of £50,000,000.
Now, if there is anything certain it is that
the man on whom rests the responsibility of
controlling the expenditure of that much
money in Australia on the purchase, of land
and the building of houses has a full-sized
job on hand. The office of boss Commis-
sioner was given to Colonel Walker. He
may be the man for it. The Bulletin does
not know. But it does know that, before get-
ting into khaki, he was a bricklayer and sub-
sequently a builder at Charters Towers. It
knows, too, that another colonel, who is to
have control of vast expenditure, comes also
from a country township where he was a
joiner and undertaker. The experience
gained by these gentlemen in laying bricks
and making coffins may have qualified
them to handle one of the largest
financial undertakings known to Aus-
tralia. Or it may not. The Bul-
letin is not certain. But it shudders
when it thinks of the possibilities incidental
to the mismanagement of this £50,000,000
project. The only encouragement to be
optimistic is that in the six months since
Millen started talking about 100,000 homes
exactly 0 soldiers have secured homes. After
proceeding at that rate for 27$ years it is
just possible that the original estimate of ex-
penditure may turn out to have been exces-
sive.
———-V
The Pathetic and Hesitating Bridge.
The idea is again mooted that the N.S.W.
Government should acquire and nationalise
the Sydney Harbor ferries —that Private
Enterprise without which the biggest Aus-
tralian city would be cut in halves and a
free and enlightened people compelled to
swim. It would be much more to the point
if the State acquired a nationalised bridge,
or rather some bridges and perhaps a tun-
nel or two. The value of the ferry business
—its goodwill and its profits—lies in
the monopoly. If the Government buys.now
it will be paying for the monopoly. Then
it must build bridges all the same —for the
present out-of-date foolishness can’t last for
ever—and destroy the value of the monopoly
it has paid for. But the difference between
acquiring the ferry services for the inevit-
able lOIJ and constructing a new highway
with the eternal lOU is that the first is the
simple matter of buying something ready-
made and the second is the complex and
brain-racking matter of making something.
The one is just P.N. The other is i’.N. ana
work. Somehow a curse or hoodoo has
always hung over the Sydney bridge. It is
assumed that there will never be more than
one bridge or tunnel, so that if it is built in
not exactly the best place the damage will
brood over the community to all time. It is
also assumed that the work must be done
out of a loan that will never be repaid, and
the idea that in the year 2750 our descend-
ants will be paying interest, which may be
50 per cent, by then, on a work which was
wrecked by a bomb during the great war of
1955 ; gives pause to the more sober class.
A frivolous folk who dashed off public works
out of revenue and thought no more about
them might rush on the job lightly. But in
Australia, when a big work—say the Sydnei
Harbor Bridge or the unification of the rail-
way gauges or the building of a new seaport
city—gets “the hump” it stagnates. So
every time the bridge is nearly decided on a
Commission is appointed to wonder officiallv
if a tunnel wouldn’t be better; and when
the tunnel is almost fixed a Commission sits
to hestitate whether the bridge wouldn’t bo-
best after all. The State purchase of the
ferries may therefore come off some day, it
being the sort of ready-made job that is
liable to be rushed through as a Napoleonic
surprise after the manner of the present
lamentable Central Station or the Norton
Griffiths fraud. It may come off just as
a nian who can’t decide which of two
eminently desirable girls to marry can always
commit suicide as a compromise.
Woolly Wealth and Woollier Brains.
Dear Bulletin, — So Australian greasy
wool is to be sold abroad at cut prices for
at least a year to come, and possibly for
several years! Can insanity further go?
Our Australian Government is asking the
Mother Country, in piping times of peace,
just after the biggest of wars, to take that
raw material which is of all the most in-
dispensable, in the strongest demand, and
ever increasingly sought for, at ludicrously
low prices, for a period ahead, with full
liberty to sell as she pleases to friends, foes
and spielers. Australia in 1891 possessed
over a hundred million sheep (104.600,000) .
Has-she now even seventy millions? The
United States owns fifty where she formerly
had sixty millions, Canada not quite two.
and. Argentina is at best stationary; South
Africa alone shows a slow increase, but of
inferior quality. Maoriland, with her
twenty-five millions, cohtains no great capa-
city for expansion. Thus in the countries
that copnt we see a large diminution, whilst
of buyers and users there is and will be
expansion beyond the reach of statistics.
The mills of. most of the world nre empty,
the destruction of woollens inconceivably"
vast, wardrobes bare, countless millions o'f
people underclothed. Woollen felts are all
but unobtainable, and onlv at wicked prices
Everybody knows that flannel and cloth-of-
gold are now about weight for weight. And
mothers are puzzled to tell which is sock
and which is darn, the while we r-ead of
more poor folk than ever being roasted to
death in England by the accursed flan-
nelette. That’s the time to choose to sell
our Australian wool—the best in the world
—at. the cost price of raw cotton! Before
me is the New York Times of April 27
wherein it is argued that “it costs at least
60 cents a pound to raise and market
cotton, and. consequently, much more ought
to be obtained in order that the growers
may gain a livelihood.” And in the next
column allusion is made to the glorious
prices and the eagerness of the demand for
Australian wool— at the English auctions
But Australia didn’t share in that glory
No. she received, on her knees. 31 cents a
pound for wool, when raw cotton is sup-
nosed to be ruinous at 30 cents. Cotton a
field product that can be multiplied at de-
mand from year to year, worth really about
sixpence, on a par with raw wool, whilst the
acreage of sheep’s back has declined for a
generation and shows no capacity for in*


Limited
@3*
EACH YEAR A RECORD !
The following figures indicate the progress of the Company—
PREMIUMS ...
Year.
1916
1917
1918
£8,849 Each year the
£20,336 Income has been
£4 2,807 more doubled.
The figures for 1919 will also be a record.
Insurances
transacted
FIRE (Homesteads, Woolsheds, Crops & Stacks).
HAILSTONE.
WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT.
CAR.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders.
EVERY Farmer and Grazier should join this Progressive Company.
Full Particulars on application to HEAD OFFICE ; 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
crease! But it is Freetrade in exeelsis,
high prices for foreign products, low prices
for our own, selling cheaply and buying
dearly. The wool trade is so much “con-
trolled” by mortgage companies and broking
concern's, externally owned, that Australia
gets, so to speak, worsted over her wool.
Vet she has a monopoly in the higher grades
and could demand any price shfi likes.
Imagine the Chicago Meat Trust holding
such a monopoly! They would charge no
such bashful price as ill cents all round.
It would be one dollar a pound at the least.
A Sydney broker, criticising my contention
in a Freetrade daily, declared pompously
that raw cotton is ready for manufacture
straight away, whilst greasy wool must first
be treated. But at Preston, in the oldest
and still the leading mills of Lancashire, I
have seen recently how great is the loss in
cotton. The wool-broker had forgotten
cotton-waste, sold cheaply by the hundred
thousand bales. Thrums he probably never
heard of. Everyone knows that between
greasy and scoured wool there is a heavy
loss in weight. Australia pays for carrying
the dirt to Europe, and loses the lanoline
trade, whilst thousands of her good men are
idle because the wool is not scoured here nor
subsidiary industries retained. What the
wool industry of Australia wants is Pro-
tection, strong and strenuous. Everything
worth having is worth protecting. War con-
ditions arid peace conditions are out of coin-
uarison. We staked in the war for dear
life our sons, ourselves, our gold, wool,
horses, meat, everything. We won. Now
we want fair payment and no tomfoolery
about selling cheaply to the gentle Boche.
And that 50 per cent, of any extra price
obtainable by Great Britain from foreigners
for our wool is stupidity. The whole of it
should come to our 'wool-growers. And
payment is in depreciated paper in London.
With that paner the needs and luxuries,
chiefly luxuries, of Australia are bought at
fancy prices. Australian sovereigns sell at
fils, in Ceylon, China, and elsewhere. There-
fore. on that basis, wool brings 10d., not
Is. 3|d., as commandeered. The silver mar-
ket is open. Hence the price of silver has
doubled, reckoned by British paper currency.
Regarded in any old way, our chief product
is swapped off at not more than one-third
of its real value. And the wool merchants
and wool millers who are coining money out
of (and outside of) Australia don’t pay a
penny to her revenue. All through our own
stupidity and government by wrangle.—
Yours, Octavius C. Beale.
Some Remarks Concerning the R.A.N.
From an old naval officer
The R.A.N. will never become popular amongst
the class it wishes to attract until it is truly
Australian—until, that is, like the A.1.F., it is
Australian throughout. The lent R.N. officer is not
the best of his class; if he were he would not, in
most cases, leave his own branch of the service.
The Australian station has always been and still is
regarded as the happy hunting-ground of the —well
(shall we say?) less energetic members of the Royal
Navy. A similar type pervaded the A.I.F. in the
early days of the war, and the more they were
eliminated the more efficient the force became. It
actually did its most brilliant work under Monash,
,vith an all-Australian staff. Similarly with the
R.A.N. It will be seen at its best when all the
senior officers on shore and afloat are Australians,
imbued with the Australian spirit, and able to talk
to those under them in the Australian language.
The following amendments of the present system
are needed :—-
(1) Utilise as much as possible R.A.N.R. officers
who have seen (say) two years’ active service or
more during the late war, and who have proved
themselves capable.
(2) See that no distinction is made afloat between
the R.N., R.A.N. and R.A.N.R. officer. It; is absurd
that R.A.N.R. officers, for example, should have to
wear a different and more expensive uniform,
bower-deck ratings are not ear-marked R.A.N.R.
when serving.
(3) D.N.O.’s at ports such as Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Hobart, Launceston, Fremantle
and Townsville should be sea-going officers. Part
of their business is connected with shipping, the
giving of advice to shipmasters and so forth. To
have a number of D.N. officers, as at present, with
no sea-going experience, is merely to hold the
R.A.N. up to ridicule.
(4) Lieutenants of six years’ seniority in the
R.A.N.R. should be confirmed as lieut.-commanders,
provided they have been reported on favorably
and have qualified, served two years in the Navy,
and have been two years in command of a first-
class ship. At present a very junior R.N. or
R.A.N. lieutenant is senior to any R.A.N.R, lieu-
tenant, no matter what his seniority or experience
may be.
(5) All ranks joining from the R.N. should be
junior to R.A.N. officers of the same rank and
seniority.
(6) None but modern vessels should be used as
training-ships.
(7) All officers and men in the Australian mer-
chant fleet should be required by law to join the
R.A.N.R.
But above everything make the R.A.N. Aus-
tralian in fact, as well as in name, as soon as
possible. There can be no real pride of service
in a navy which as regards much of ites_ personnel
is a hybrid—a navy in which all the important
ships are commanded by Imperial officers, and in
which all the big positions, from that of Admiral
downwards, are held by imported men. The lower
deck is not the only disappointed section of the
R.A.N. There are many officers who, in view of
their prospects of promotion and the general atmo-
sphere of the institution, would get out of it to-
morrow if the feat were practicable.
Daily the women-folk of Melbourne
workers, mostly unionists, have, formed
queues at the Trades Hall, where relief has
been given to sufferers from the seamen s
strike. Their needs have been inquired into
beforehand by union officers, and they have
been given tickets, which presently have
been changed into cash, clothing, blankets,
groceries, and other necessaries. One ticket,
presented by a hollow-eyed, worn woman,
bore this: —
Husband lying dead in the house: three children
down with influenza; no food, little clothing, prac-
tically destitute.
She was given the maximum allowance. The
only official comment was that it wasn’t a
solitary case by any means; also that the
seamen refused to go to arbitration, and
there was no more to be said. But there is
a great deal more to be done. It has be-
come obvious to thousands of workers. in
Melbourne, as in other Australian cities,
that in nine cases out of ten a strike does
not and cannot penalise the employers to
GETTING HIM DOWN TO BUSINESS.
THE ORATOR: “Socialism will give equal di stribwtion of wealth .”
THE PUNTER: “Will we get the same for ‘also ran ’ as we get for the winner ?”
any vast extent, and that the real tactics
are to force the employers’ hand by bringing
suffering, sorrow, and often death to hun-
dreds of inoffensive and helpless working-
class wives and children. And that in a
country where the individual worker has as
much political power as the individual
millionaire, and where, consequently, every
reform is possible without bringing hunger
to a single worker’s home!
At the signing of the Peace the United
States put its autograph first. The other
four —Britain, France, Italy and Japan—
came alphabetically, and on that basis the
United States should have been last. Also
it came into the war last. Presumably
Wilson insisted in his bashful fashion on
having the front seat, and the four gave
way to him, on the hollow pretence that “A,”
for America, stands (first. Japan should'
then have come second, “A” standing also
for Asia.
The habit of dashing round threats or
inducements to murder becomes so common
among certain politicians that one day some-
body will take them seriously and start kill-
ing—perhaps killing the politicians. Thus
Brennan laid it down in the House of Reps,
last week that if any Hun with a family
here is ordered, for treason, spying or any
other crime, to be sent back to his own coun-
try, it is not only the privilege but the duty
of the unbidden guest to murder the Aus-
tralian officer who is sent to enforce the
law —to butcher him “like a dog.” If the
community thought Brennan had the courage
of his opinions regarding the propriety ot
Huns murdering Australians there might be
a lynching party ; but the dog story loses its
appeal through being told so often.
There have been heart-breaking scenes at
Melbourne Trades Hall and other places
where relief has been served out. Mel-
bourne is even colder than Sydney when the
winter south winds blow. And it is far
shorter of coal, depending mostly on sea-
borne supplies, which Walsh, Le Cornu and
Co. stopped. So Melbourne’s industries
began to freeze up almost immediately, and
wages left off, and the kitchen fire went out
or has been burning very low. Some of
the women and children who have been call-
ing for their allowances have looked hungry,
but the outstanding feature has been that
they have been blue with cold. A breezy
strike-leader in Queensland, where nobody
feels a serious chill even in midwinter, lately
declared that the best weapon of the strikers
was the suffering and chaos they had brought,
about in Victoria right under the eyes of
the Government. He reckoned the Blue
Women a great asset, and was rather pleased
with their blueness.
The Ryan Government projected a cam-
paign against the Leg. Council; but it was
knocked sideways by the ’flu. In Brisbane
it never started, and Theodore dropped his
country tour after one meeting. A couple
of other Ministers followed suit, and the
few apostles left are not likely to affect the
apathy which exists over the matter. Mean-
time the old chaps sit back and laugh. If
they were wiser they wouldn’t. The best
argument for knocking out the Revolutionist
is that in Australia the people have com-
plete self-government; but so long as there
is a House of nominees, appointed for life
and above recall, there is a nasty flaw in the
argument. So the Leg. Council, while fancy-
ing itself the buttress of law-’n-order, is the
best friend the Revolutionists have in
Queensland.
“Baton”: The yarn in the dailies about
late Inspector-General Fosbery having been
“greatly beloved” by the N. S. Wales police
of his time makes the Hops smile. The brutal
truth is that to a man they detested him.
He knew this, and regarded it as perfectly
natural. At all times he threw the weight
of his great influence —and Fosbery had. a
strong political pull—against their requests
for better conditions. For years lie was
hostile to a superannuation fund. lie
strongly opposed their getting on the elec-
toral roll. He fought hard with Dibbs
against providing them with revolvers. All
through his long reign he looked on .the
John, individually and collectively, as an
inferior being. He was never one of them
himself. In fact, there has been only one
Inspector-General in N. 8. Wales whose
police record entitled him to the job, and that
was Ernest Day—and Day got the appoint-
ment mainly by reason of the influence
exerted by Donald Macdonell. It was a
close finish, too, between Sherwood and
Day, practically all of the Ministerial fol-
lowing being behind Sherwood. Garvin,
who had succeeded Fosbery, had been, like
Day, a trooper, but was early drafted into
an office job. Day stayed outside, and the
shearers’ strike and Macdonell did the rest.
An economist in Sydney D.T.:
I would like to suggest with regard to the Defence
Department's surplus stocks that blankets, boots,
cloth, etc., be distributed all over Australia, and sold
by local auctioneers in £1 lots.
It won’t work. Most of these military
biankers have • got more than a pound’s
worth of gold braid on their hats ■> lone.
Poor old Ah Sin is one of several evi-
dences that the regenerated world is very
much the same old world, where the weakest
goes to the wall and is thankful if he finds
a wall to go to. China didn’t fight much—
rather it abjured militarism and trusted to
the League of Nations. So it doesn’t get
its lost territory back. Japan, as the heir
of Germany, takes wlmt, /it likes. Ah Sin,
dressed in his flowing robes and his dignity,
refused to sign the Peace unless he got the
same justice as France and Italy and Serbia,
who all, by reason of the scrap they put up,
recover the lands the Hun took from them.
He is told in effect that there is no place
in the Peace for nations that have forgotten
how to hold their own, and that it is the
same old world “red in tooth and claw.” By re-
fusing to sign the treaty Ah Sin remains at
war with Germany all by his big, flabby,
helpless, theoretical self, and anything may
happen to him.
“Gunner”: No two men were more unlike
than Monash and Birdwood. Birdwood was
strong on the personal touch. He wore an
Aussie hat when he was among the boys, and
liked to fraternise with the Diggers. Monash
probably never gave such things a moment’s
thought. Birdwood revelled in visits to the
front line. Monash never haunted those
trenches in France. Not that he lacked
bravery; he simply didn’t consider it his
job. Nor was he the type to achieve a nick-
name.- Nobody thought of calling him
“Monny.” His forte was organisation: his
favorite aphorism that War was business
and to be conducted accordingly. So he sat
in his office and conducted affairs as a
banker does in his counting-house. It is
doubtful if he saw the terrain of any of the
battles lie fought. He had elaborate contour
maps, and he made all his dispositions and
worked out all his “stunts” by means of them.
Birdwood visited his every battlefield, Monash
attended to the minutest details himself.
Birdwood left them in the hands of that
prince of S.O.’s, General White, and no one
• will ever know how much of his success was
due to that fact. Birdwood never im-
pressed one as a man of outstanding per-
sonality, and never tried to. Monash carries
the suggestion of a big man all the time, and
would be very annoyed if it were other-
wise. There is certainly no one else- —not
even White or Chauvel —with bis qualities
of strength, originality and indifference to
precedent and political influence; which is
to say, the qualities needed by the man who
will make a success of Australia’s revised
land-defence scheme.
The Labor platform may contain a good
deal that is crude or absurd or ruinous, but
it is at least good reading. No one could fall
5 asleep over it. The Nationalist programme,
! just drawn up in Melbourne, isn’t good read-
, ing, and few people could keep awake over
, it. There was too much desire not to offend
. anybody, and nothing big can be done with-
. out offending somebody. Yet the conference
. was so incurably platitudinous that it
• couldn’t be true to even its own safe drab
: principle. On the motion of Peacock this
; item was included :
Maintenance of the unity of the British Empire.
> The Boer question isn’t our question. The
• Irish question shouldn’t be ours either, but
5 as it stalks abroad in Australian politics we
have a certain interest in its settlement, and
‘ the unwise act of Peacock is only an
1 affirmation of the drift which has left‘it un-
settled ever since it was born. If Peacock
t liad nothing better to suggest than this
j ancient stodge the matter was better let
3 alone, and it was better let alone in any
\ ease. A party with a policy including such
1 ideas as reconstruction, the subdivision of
. the unwieldy States. Federal railway owner-
-7 ship, cessation of borrowing, or anything
t astonishing and alive, would at least make
\ strenuous friends and enemies. Vague pro-
s positions about maintaining the integrity of
s the universe are only calculated to make
a lukewarm friends and strenuous enmies. •


IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious “regulator” for stomach, liver
and bowels, for mamma, daddy,
and children.
If you are headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered and you want
to enjoy the nicest liver and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespoonful of
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—to-
night, and in the morning all the constipa-
tion poison, bile and clogged-up waste will
gently move out of the system without grip-
ing, and you will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use
this fruit laxative as occasion demands. It
is just as effective for grandpa as it is for
baby. It simply cannot injure. Even cross,
sick, feverish children just love its pleasant
taste, and mothers can rest easy after giving
it because it never fails to effect a good
“inside cleansing.”
For 30 years California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—has been recommended by physi-
cians as the ideal stomach, liver and bowel
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs—which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by the California
Fig Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in two
sizes, 1/6 and 2/4. [5
<m
stfcztr.
Threat aw
m
■
• ,
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
Chest
Affections.
Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Influenza
Prescribed by the medical profession for twenty-five
years, Angier’s Emulsion is now universally recognised
as a standard approved treatment for colds, coughs
bronchitis, influenza, asthma, consumption, and for all
catarrhal affections of the respiratory or digestive organs.
Angier’s Emulsion is soothing and healing to throat,
lungs, stomach and intestines, and it has a most invigor-
ating, tonic influence upon the general health. Pleasant
to take and equally useful for children or adults, it is an
invaluable household remedy for chest affections.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIEK CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
In N. S. Wales the year 1912 was the high-
water mark for employment in rural pursuits
—agriculture, grazing, dairying, etc. Em-
ployment in mining reached its best in 1913 ;
so did employment in factories. They all
started downhill in the piping times of
peace and big loans. Comparing the last
year wflth the best ones, the rural business
employed 14,923 less hands; mining 6063
less; manufactures 2403 less. But the num-
ber of people employed on loan works more
than doubled. The loan being a fairy-god-
mother sort of business, and nobody being
responsible for it except posterity, it is used
by vote-hungry Governments to buy popular-
ity, wages being paid that attract people
away from self-supporting jobs. And once
they acquire the habit of living on the fairy
godmother whose name is lOU, it is very
hard to get them back to sordid undertakings
which have to earn their crust. After that
trouble arises because the industries which
have, to pay their way can’t treat their em-
ployees with the same off-hand liberality as
the ones which leave posterity to pay, and
there are rows and dissensions and go-slows
and stoppages. Many causes go to make up
this country’s troubles; but that draggled
harridan, the fairy godmother whose name
is lOD, is the most notable.
The empty-stomach trouble grows acute
in Westralia as well as in North Queens-
land. The last 500 tons of potatoes that ar-
rived at Fremantle were refused a landing by
the wharf-laborers as a protest against con-
scription or high prices or something, till
they mostly became uneatable, and a big con-
signment of bananas was similarly treated
and went overboard. Then the seamen’s strike
made a general hold-up. When a shop-
keeper has £lO,OOO worth of victuals to sell
a 4 per cent, net profit may keep him alive
and pay his exes., but if through food
being thrown into the harbor he can get
only £5O worth, he needs 800 per cent, profit
to keep body and soul together, and he
naturally tries to get as near it as possible.
If he can get only 100 per cent, he probably
closes the shop and goes out rioting. The
partial stoppage of work having made
things very bad, the local Labor-leaders pro-
pose a general stop-work to make them bet-
ter. On the same principle, as a protest
against the present house-famine the
workers will presumably be invited to (1)
Stop house-building and (2) pull down
houses.
The new and reformed Hun Republic sent
five delegates to represent it at the signing
of Peace. One said his wife wouldn’t let
him sign. One backed out for no visible
reason, and a grotesque creature (said to be
a boot-repairer) got drunk. Finally two men
of the sort who can be easily
repudiated signed on the llun
behalf—an obscure Socialist
who is quite outside the
ruling clique, and a country
lawyer. They were ap-
parently taken into the
Ministry for signing pur-
poses, so that the.real men
of power may disclaim the
whole business if and when
it suits them.
THE NEW JOSS. !
“China, asserting that her interests have been sacrificed to those of Japan, has refused to sign the
Peace Treaty, which implies that she will not come into the League of Nations.’’ — Cable.
AH SIN (to the new Joss) : “Whaffor! Whaffor!”
Westralian Governor Ellison-Macartney
may be charged with impeding the govern-
ment. of the State. When he trekked from
Perth recently to the Nor’-West he left
Lieut.-Governor Stone with certain defined
powers “and no others,” so the Gazette
notice ran. These did not permit the under-
study to swear in new Colonial Secretary
Broun, who was consequently unable to sack
an office-boy or exercise any departmental
authority. Incidentally Broun was also pre-
vented from going up for re-election. It is
not clear why his Ex. limited the powers
of his deputy, unless it Was “just to show
his authority.” Macartney, who received a
“please explain” while lie was a crimson
thread in Tasmania, continues to take his
job and himself very seriously. He has brains
and some ability, which in a State Ex. are
liable to cause no end of trouble.
Queensland’s Minister for Railways an-
nounces that things are a little worse than
before, and they were bad enough. The lines
which were built with borrowed money that
cost nearly 4 p.c. only paid a little more
than li p.c.: 57 out of 70 branch-lines built
in the last 10 years yield no dividend at fill,
so that interest on their cost has all to he
raised out of taxation. And, unfortunately,
Queensland has been building railways so
hard that it has a very large proportion of
people who are railway-builders, and produce
nothing to pay taxes with. When the
figures were made up a year ago the northern
State had 5281 miles of line to N. S. Wales’s
4551 miles, with only about one-third the
population to supply business. Between 1913
and 1918 it acquired 1130 miles of new loan
railway, while Victoria and N. S. Wales,
with nearly five times the population, ac-
quired lT<y miles. As a result there is, on
rne basis of population, nearly five times
more people in Queensland than in the other
two States who never learned any sort of
job except building railways with loan
money: and they have acquired a sort of
vested right to. be supported by the building
of new loan lines even if there is no payable
place to build them to, and they have also
acquired a sort of vested grievance if the
State doesn’t find the loan and build the
line. Fihelly can have his job. This paper
doesn’t want it.
No seamen’s strike or waterside disturb-
ance can last more than a week or two with-
out the Australian (Sydney) Gas Co.
moaning about its inability to keep its
customers supplied ; so nobody was much sur-
prised when lights failed in various suburbs
the other night and the day supply for works
fell beneath contempt. On this, as on other
occasions, there was no moan from either of
the two big electrical undertakings or from
the two suburban gas-suppliers. It is time
the Government talked seriously to the big
Sydney co. and informed it that it has failed
as the holder of.a public utility, and that
continued failure will imperil its existence.
There is a loud enough howl when the
Sydney Ferries puts up the price of its
tickets; but it has at any rate maintained
its services during every, coal and seamen’s
strike. The big gas col, being more par-
simonious, lets its public down nearly every
time, and for some extraordinary reason
hardly a kick comes to it.
It is to be hoped that tli'e eyes of John
Storey and other Labor men who are
coquetting with the Direct Actionists are
turned to the North. Even by the second
day of the revolution at Townsville, the
criminal classes —thieVes and assault-and-
battery men—had gathered - round the Flag
of Freedom, and the paralysed leaders were
brushed aside. The revolution was out of
hand, and the figureheads protested like
Kerensky, while the Trotsky! element took
charge. The looting was ostensibly for
rifles and ammunition with which to uphold
the Cause, but the thieving element which
had already got a big say in the movement
took a lot of things which the Goddess of
Liberty had no use for. And as is usual
when the division of capital sets in pro-
miscuously as much was broken or trodden
underfoot as was stolen. 111-regulated re-
volutions upset more food in the scuffle
than they eat.
Ballarat, which one time claimed that
it made Ministries and dictated Cabinet
policies, is again represented in a Vic. Gov-,
eminent. Major Baird h. ving been put in
Bowser’s pl’ce. Curiously it i; the deposi-
tion of the first Premier who recognised the
merits of Baird that has afforded Lawson
the chance to give the Major the run of the
tart-shop again. 4
An exhibition of soldiers’ work has been
officially organised in a hall attached to the
Federal Parliament House, but Anzac
tweeds are not admitted. That purely Aus-
tralian industry was started by the War
Council before the Repatriation Ministry,
with its Fre.etrade Minister, got control,
and was actually showing a profit and had
a multitude of orders to keep_ it going , out
the importer-ridden Ministry is just as cor-
dial about it as the Hun is about the 1 eace
treaty. To put a Freetrader in charge of
the job of finding self-supporting work tor
returned soldiers is the same as making the
Devil Archbishop of Canterbury.
Hunter’s early departure for England as
Agent-General will rob the Ryan Govern-
ment of its keenest business man. A shrewd
Scotchman, with big commercial interests
iu Roma, lie brought the business brains to
Cabinet, and was really responsible lor the
State meat enterprise, the biggest ot the
Government’s undertakings, \\hen lie goes
liyan will lose a very staunch trienu.
Labor has shoved its first rep. into the
Melbourne City Council, a vacancy having
been caused by the elevation of that old
and crusted councillor of Hopetoun Ward.
.James Gardiner, to the alderman s job ot
the late Arthur Crichton. The Labor can-
didate was Roderick O’Meara, of North Mel-
bourne, who runs a pub on Flemington-road.
The man with the biggest fleet of cars on
polling-day usually wins such elections, a
point duly marked .by the well-gilded
O’Meara, who scored a majority of 102 votes
over the combined poll of his three oppo-
nents. and was SOO votes ahead of furniture-
maker Ernest Cox, who ran second. Before
the contest the usual exhortations were pub-
lished by the Annus as to the sinfulness of
splitting the anti-Labor vote, but the can-
didates paid no attention and refrained
entirely from squabbling over the matter.
In any settlement of the seamen’s strike
the disqualification of Walsh, Le Cornu and
others for life so far as concerns any sort
of trades-union billet should be insisted op.
They laid it down that there must be no
arbitration of any sort, but complete sur-
render to all their demands. They declared
themselves enemies of the law not for this
occasion only, but for all similar occasions;
and the law which would permit its avowed
enemies to remain where they could do most
to defy it, would be an inconceivable «ass.
William Gates, of the Vic. Town-planning
Ass., has exhumed the fact that a builder -
at Richmond is putting up a clutch of new
houses at the rate of 33 per acre. Sixteen of
them lack bathrooms. The back yards are
15ft. by 24ft. # and the frontages 15ft.; and
they are to be let at 17s. 6d. per week.
Richmond could be a model of sanitation and
well-being if Labor, which has been in power
there for years, chose to insist on carrying
out its printed ideals. Instead Richmond is
an over-populated garbage-heap, with Labor
cackling about class consciousness and other
foolish nothings among the rubbish.
Taking the estimate of the Commonwealth
that 20,000 returned Billjims will desire to
become cockies, Mclver, chairman of the
Vic. Closer Settlement Board, calculates
that his own State is making the best pro-
gress. The 1600 soldiers allotted blocks of
land in N. S. Wales constitute only 20.32
per cent, of the 7875 required to make up the
Ma State’s quota, while South Aus., which
has parcelled out 400 areas, has a percent-
age of 23.84 of its quota. Victoria, which
has granted 1425 farms out of its quota of
5395. claims a percentage of 26.41., Holman
and Peake had the figures thrust under their
gaze when “Nationalising” in Melbourne last
week.
Paul Freeman, who described himself as
a United States citizen of Hun descent born
at Mount Vernon, New York, has been re-
ported on by the U.S. police. They say
that they have combed and dredged and
sifted the place and no Paul Freeman was
born there, nor can his family be found.
If the U.S. report is right, Freeman has
only himself to' thank if it is now in-
ferred that he is plain Hun, who dwelt
illegally in Australa under a false de-
scription and behaved as an enemy natu-
rally would. The new aspect of things might
make some people feel a trifle absurd if they
have any sense of the ridiculous. But with
a certain class Paul as .an unadulterated
fraud and enemy might be more welcome
than he was as a doubtful friend.
During the row at Townsville the other
day a sub-mob attacked a middle-aged person
of whom they disapproved and hammered
him. Then they went out and held a meet-
ing to protest against the infamous conduct
of the Government in punishing Paul Free-
man without a trial.
For the year to June 30 Australia paid
£617,360 in baby bonuses. Probably quite
half of it went to people who didn’t need
the money, on which basis £308,680 was
scattered to prevent the recipients of the
other £308,680 looking conspicuous. It is
a big price to pay for drab uniformity. And
another big price is involved in the proposal
of Maloney, M.H.R., to add perhaps
£3 000.000 a year to the old age pension
bill so that the man who gets the pension
because he wants it may have the joy of
being mistaken for the one who takes it
though he doesn’t need it. v
BALLADE RAISONNE a DOUBLE REFRAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
' Scene : A Street. A Governor's Equipage in the
Distance. Horace Maltravers and Bill Bloggs
(citizen) loq.
Horace (loyally) :
Bill, wave yoiir hat and cheer aloud
As an example to the crowd.
One of our multitudinous
State Governors is nearing us.
He conies! A Worker destinate
To keep the British Empire great.
Bill :
He work 1 He never does a tap.
My ancient .lid I will not flap:
Nor will I sycophantly roar
On such an idiotic score.
How can you, Horace, postulate
That such as he keep empires great?
Horace (scandalised):
Good God! You are a Bolshevist!
A latter-day theomachist!
Of Anarchy an advocate!
Of course he keeps the Empire great!
Bill (doggedly) :
How does he do it? Now and then
He entertains our “Upper Ten.”
Not those to whom it would appeal
To eat, for once, a decent meal.
But folks with food unlimited—
In fact, he feeds the overfed.
He patronises Randwick. So
Do you and I. But when we go
We have to pay. This demigod
Of yours attends those on the nod.
He speechifies from time to time—
Horace (weakly) :
Cease, Bill; your language is a crime.
Bill:
He speechifies, and all his views
Are Tory as the Sydney Nkws.
Old platitudes are trotted out
At garden-party, Show and rout,
Like new and stimulating thoughts
(One goes, of course, by the reports).
He has to talk like this, I know —-
A free, frank Ex. would quickly go.
I wish you would elucidate
How all this keeps the Empire great.
I i'ORACE :
Bloggs-—no more “Bill” to me or mine—
Your arguments are asinine.
Disloyalty imbues them all;
And Bolshevism, like a pall,
Broods over ev'ry word and phrase.
Bill (stubbornly) :
But can you say the way or ways
The Governor of any State
Assists to keep the Empire great ?
Horace :
Be silent! I reiterate—
(The Governor passes)
Hooray! He keeps the Empire great.
Hip ! Hip ! !
Bill :
Call me a
Reprobate,
A fool and a degenerate—
You may use any term of hate
Or scorn, if you’ll but indicate
How all this tripe at such a date
As this, can keep an Empire great.
( Exit defiantly.)
x.s.w.
HENRI SINGEMOINE.


THE BIG THREE.
“What next?”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BMAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms ■
Refined Read, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated;,
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, e
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE —
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary. „ „ „
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL, AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .7. SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY —
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
PIONEER' Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
J- c. ludowici <a son ltd.
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
AIX STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: '‘Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The N.S.W. revenue for the year just
ended (£23,452,637) was £1,885,187 more
than at June, 1918. It was £9,613,498 more
than in 1910-11, when the squanderer now
at the head of affairs came into office. The
question arises whether, when the revenue
is pushed up by extra taxes to £43,452,637,
Holman will be able to build a culvert with-
out borrowing the money at 5i per cent., or
whether he will want all the new income to
pay tax-collectors with.
Robert Harper and Co. (Melb.), whole-
sale drygoods merchants: —
Reserves
(assets
Dividends. include
-A- N £BO,OOO
“A” “B” ot
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- good-
Mar., Profits. 7 p.c. 6 p.e. 4$ p.c. serves, will).
1914. . £17,084 £1671 £14,400 £291 £722 £7,638
Unexplained net additions . . 4,692 12,330
7 p.c. 5£ p.c.
1915.. 29,380 8400 16,800 340 3,840 10,170
Written off, £3955 . , . . • • 12,215
8 p.c. 6 p.c.
1916.. .42,349 8400 19,200 496 ]
Voted to Employees’ Profit Shar- ] 4,253 16,468
ing Fund, £10,000.. .. )
7 p.c. p.c.
1917.. 29.838 8400 16,800 434 4.204 20,672
8 p.c. 6 p.c.
1918.. 39,517 9450 19,200 496 10.371 31,043
1919.. 39,105 10,500 19.200 496 8.909 39,952
Paid capital is £398,268. made up this
way :
150,000 £1 7 p.c. cum. prefs., l'ully-paid.. £150,000
240,000 £1 ordinaries, fully-paid .. 240,000
8,268 £1 “B” ordinaries, fully-paid .. 8,268
The investing public is interested only in
the prefs.. for when the nearly' 50-year-old
proprietary concern was turned over to a
public, co.' in 1914 the Harper family held
on to all the ordinaries. Under these cir-
cumstances it does not matter ■’ much if the
directors are not very talkative. Disclosed
profits are sufficient to provide almost three
times the prefs.’ 7 p.c. div., and their
security is unquestionable-—the £150.000 is
easily covered by the surplus of liquid assets
alone. Incidentally, the prefs. are not in-
vited to concern themselves about the busi-
ness; thev have no voting rights except in
the matter of debenture stock issues Which
might affect the security for their capital.
From the consumers’ point of view, how-
ever. the operations of Robert Harper’s are
of decided interest. With every rise in the
price of commodities it has become popular
to blame the merchant for profiteering. In
isolated cases there has been plenty of justi-
fication for the charge; but. generally, mer-
chants dealing in eatables, particularly
manufacturers like Harper’s, have not been
growing very fat. The invaluable Knibbs
has shown that, in Sydney, foodstuffs which
in 1910 could be purchased for 20s. cost
235. Id. in 1914. 275. lid. in 1915. 30s. sd.
in 1916, 30s. lOd. in 1917, 31s. in 1918, and
345. for the first quarter of the current year,
with somewhat similar increases in other
capitals. Robert Harper’s balance-sheets
prior to 1914 are not available. The first
column in the table suggests that with the
increase in prices there has been a substantial
improvement in profits. But the sworn
figures which accompanied the prospectus
indicated that comparatively larger profits
were made in the years immediately preceding
the birth of the public co. Profits were
smaller when the prices were bounding
ahead at their most rapid rate; and they
are not now what they were when prices
were much lower in 1915-16.
Still, though Harper’s had a compara-
tively poor run in its first couple of years
as a public co., it lias been doing quite well
enough recently. Here is a comparison of
the balance-sheet figures over the five
years:—
1914. 1918. 1919.
Mortgages £27,500 £38,858 £35,733
Deposits .. .. .. 36,775 30,456 31,318
Overdraft '.. .. .. 67,367 103,537 72,103
Sundry creditors .. .. 42,620 99,970 94,014
Freeholds . . ~ . . 109,602 137,152 130,682
Plant, etc 96,808 86,261 81,769
Leaseholds .. .. .. 1.110 681 400
Stock . .. .. .. 150,564 221,408 234,710
Sundry Debtors .. .. 125,607 192,372 145,856
Cash and investments . . 121 14,888 22,367
The comparison can be summarised in this
way:—
1914. 1919.
Liauid assets £276,292 £402,933
Liabilities 174,262 233,168
Surplus •• •• .. £102,030 £169,765
Fixed assets .. .. .. 207.520 217,851
Since 1914 £31.798 of new capital has been
got in, and £15,251 stands in the balance-
sheet to t'he credit of an employees’ profit-
sharing fund; so the net improvement of the
co. over five years is about £31.000. The
margin left after paying the prefs. their 7
p.c. and the ordinaries an average of just
over 7£ p.c. has therefore been comfortable,
though not large. The business is, more-
over, in a very snug position; and certainly
the old proprietors have nothing to complain
about, for on account of the £BO,OOO they
received in shares for goodwill the present
8 p.c. is really better than it looks. The
prefs. are' the people who have least cause
to be jubilant, for, owing to the increased
cost of commodities above noted, 7 p.c. isn’t
the extra good thing it looked in 1913.
* * * *
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd.: —
Ordinary Department.
Provided Added
for to In-
Ex- Depreci- sura nee
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. ation. Fund.
1905.. £461,663 £281,453 £101,078 £50,000 £29,132
1906.. 466,326 335,946 104.564 20,816
1907.. 483,486 273,080 107,141 103,265
1908.. 488,932 321,453 98,473 69,006
1909.. 482,038 307,035 86,915 50,000 38,088
Standard Life business secured.
1910.. 557,103 333,339 115,976 107,<58
1911.. 622,924 316,776 167,165 200 138,783
1912.. 649,677 337,357 193,116 32,483 86,721
1913.. 627,143 284,568 158,571 10,143 173,861
1914.. 628,243 327,210 125,362 11,182 164,489
1915.. 616,237 318,307 92,326 11,081 194,523
1916.. 649,440 367,261 99,698 10,724 171,757
1917.. 692,062 368,618 112,911 8,175 202,358
1918.. 732,389 414,448 109,982 7,473 200,486
The Colonial Mutual is trying hard to get
its second wind. Some years ago it went
lame, and competitors swept past. Just when
it was beginning to make headway again
unjustly hard things were said about its
affairs;’ and it is only six years since Vic-
torian Government inspectors were put in
to make an overhaul. Though they found
everything in order, the effects of the. lame-
ness and the buffeting can be seen in the
slump in income in several places in the
first column of the table. The Colonial
Mutual is in its 46th year, and naturally a
lot of the old policies are coming home to
roost; which means a heavy claims ratio in
proportion to income unless a lot of new
business can be captured.
This shows how the management burst out
a few years ago and tried to rejuvenate the
society :
New Assurances.
1! 09 .. £1,101,059 | 1914 .. £1,644,064
1910 .. 2,620,246 | 1915 .. 1,298,248
19i 1 . . 3,093,797 I 1916 . . 1,520,361
191" .. 3,227,737 I 1917 .. 1,937,242
1913 .. 2,043,234 | 1918 .. 1,654,400
No doubt better figures Could have, been
shown for the past couple of years if the
directors were less conservative; they re-
fused to issue policies which would enable
the assured to take up War Loan. Director
Were told policy-holders at the annual meet-
ing that the Board’s decision not to touch
this business “was based upon fundamental
principles rather than on expediency,” and
that the issue of such policies “would be a
breach of the principles of mutuality’’ and
might have meant “a possible dislocation of
the Society’s finances. .. .involving accom-
modation from its bankers.” Which recalls
to The Bulletin the striking contrast of a
progressive Sydney manager who in a dark
patch of the war rushed in to pawn a couple
of years’ prospective surpluses to help along
a lagging War Loan issue, remarking : “If
the Empire sinks, our Society sinks, too.”
There seems to be a lot of Were about the
Colonial Mutual, and not enough Shall-be.
The effort to build up the Society’s con-
nection had an effect on the expense rate: —
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905 . .£2l 17 10 p.c. 1913 ..£25 5 8 p.c.
1908 . . 20 2 10 „ 1914 .. 19 19 3 „
1909 .. 18 0 7 „ 1915 .. 14 19 7 „
1910 .. 20 16 4 „ 1910 .. 15 7 0 „
1911 .. 26 16 .8 ~ 1917 .. 16 6 4 „
1912 .. 29 1.4 5 „ 1918 .. 15 0 4 „
The figures are now much more satisfactory
than they were a few years ago; and the
latest performance is the more creditable
since the amount of new business written
during 1918 was well up to the average of
the past quinquennium. Assuming that the
old or renewal business cost 7 p.c. and the
annuity business 3 p.c., and charging the
balance of the expenses to new business, we
get this result :
New Premiums. Cost.
1913 .. •• 172 p.c.
1914 . . . . 64,082 153 „
1915 .. •• 51,766 125 ~
1916 . . . . 63,336 113 „
1917 .. •• 78,421 107 „
1918 . . . • 68,577 113 „
On this basis of calculation there has thus
been a marked improvement in the cost of
getting new business.
The changed disposition of the funds and
expanded interest earnings are the most
striking features of the balance-sheets nowa?
days. It is necessary only to glance at this
comparison to judge the extent of the re-
formation :
1904. 1914. 1918.
Public securities and
debentures .. .. 9.5 p.e. 22.7 p.c. 50.5 p.e.
Mortgages .. .. 39.2 ~ 37.3 „ 20.8 „
Freeholds, etc.. . . . 23.8 „ 21.9 „ 17.2 ~
Cash and deposits .. 5.7 „ 5.5 „ 2.1 „
Other assets .. .. 21.8 ~ 12. G „ 9.4 ~
And with the change has come this improve-
ment in the interest earnings on average
funds: —•
1908 ..£4 1 1 p.c. | 1914 ..£4 910 p.c.
1910 .. 4 3 10 „ 1915 .. 4 9 11 „
1911 . . 4 5 9 „ 1916 . 410 5 „
1912 .. 4 5 11 „ 1917 .. 4 10 11 „
1913 .. 4 810 „ 1918 . . 413 10 „
Not only are the investments a better lot,
but there has been considerable cleansing of
the old stuff on the books. The first table
shows the large amounts that have been pro-
vided for depreciation during recent years.
Of the latest surplus £,7473, together with
recoveries bringing the amount to £lO,OOO,
has been written off city properties. The
effect of putting the house in order has been
to interfere temporarily with the amounts
available for bonuses; but it is all to the
policy-holder’s advantage in the long run.
Further, the improvement of ss. p.c. in the
interest earnings during the past five years
means an additional £11,380 per annum on
present funds; while since liabilities under
policies are estimated throughout on the
basis of future interest rates at 3£ p.c.,
whereas at least 1 p.c. more is being earned,
substantial internal reserves are being piled
up, thus guaranteeing greater safety for the
policy-holder and probably better bonuses in
the future.
Actuary James Pullar estimated the net
liability to policy-holders at Dec. 31 last as
£4,436,527. Against this there were funds of
£4,551.407; so there was a surplus of
£114,880. Allowing for balances brought
forward, etc., the year’s net actuarial profit
was £70,418, compared with £72,167 in
1917 and £64,694 in 1916. Of the surplus
available for distribution, £75,662 goes to
provide reversionary bonuses worth
£127,000. Bonuses are at the same rate as
for the previous year, ranging from 355. to
17s. 6d. p.c. on participating policies ac-
cording to the terms they have been in
force.
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit.
1909 .. £3,481 £39 £14,587 £11,145
Funds.
Brought in from the Standard, £22,000 10,855
Deficit.
1910 . . 54,908 3,483 92,844 30,564
1911 . . 60,484 6,254 66,630 42,964
1912 .. 77,516 7,710 62,755 35,913.
1913 .. 86,155 9,356 53,556 12,670
Funds.
1914 . . 97,036 15,476 49,623 19,267
1915 •. . 104,807 18,809 48,735 56,530
1916 .. 121,308 15,616 51,245 110,977
1917 .. 138,458 21,530 48,284 179,021
1918 . . 155,253 20,158 50,595 264,121
This branch is now 10 years old, and good
progress is being made. Assurance funds
total £320,621, but as there is an organisa-
tion account of £56,500 among the assets,
funds in tangible form amount to the £261,121
shown above. Against’ this is an actuarial
liability of £318.744; so there is now a lee-
way of only £54,000-odd to make good. Very
shortly this department should be definitely
on its own feet and no longer dependent on the
Ordinary Department, where the principles
of mutuality are so sacred that, though War
Loan policy-holders may not enter, Industrial
policy-holders could lean to the extent of
something like £lOO,OOO not long ago. The
Industrial expense rate has been got down
rapidly: 1913, 62 p.c.; 1916, 42 p.c.; 1917,
35 p.c.; 1918, 32 p.c.
Accident Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1910 .. £6.460 £679 £2202 £3579
1911 .. 13,166 3839 3910 5417
1912 .. 13,777 4872 5151 3754
1913 . . 11,875 5748 4320 1807
1914 .. ■ 10,517 3103 4546 2868
IQIS .. 12,250 3480 5978 2792
1916 . . 13,238 4275 ' 6110 2853
1917 . . 13.550 4451 6438 2661
1918 .. 13,971 ,1578 6498 2895
Though the directors claim that no other
concern they know of offers such favorable
conditions, this dept, does not gather much
speed. Still, policy-holders are doing well:
each year surpluses provide bonus additions
of 2 p.c. to policy benefits. At Dec. 31
total funds amoffnted to £28,628, but apart
from the reserves for unexpired risks, etc.,
the accumulated profit was £15,889. Of the
year’s profit £2686 goes to provide the
bonuses mentioned above.
» «- * •
G. D. Meudell from ’Frisco: —
More important than most post-war problems is
that of the currency. The high cost of living is
due rather to changes in the purchasing power of
money than in the real value of the general mass of
commodities. The sovereign is a fixed unit of
weight, camouflaged as a fixed unit of value, which
it is not. Many of our social faults are due to the
unstable sovereign whose value rises and falls in
erratic and perplexing fashion. The chief sufferers
are middle-class people who have fixed incomes. If
the cost of living doubles, the real power of the
sovereign to purchase a living is cut in two. And
now there is a new class of rentiers created by the
war—those who own bonds and war savings cer-
tificates, securities all likely to be affected by any
variation in the unit of value, the gold sovereign.
The necessity of the hour is to stabilise the sovereign.
A stable sovereign ought to be always equivalent
in value to a certain amount of commodities. Com-
monwealth Statist Ivnibbs’s monthly index number
shows how the price-level of commodities rises and
falls, depending on fluctuations in supply and de-
mand, including especially the supply and demand
of gold. The gold sovereign is now fixed in weight,
and is therefore variable in purchasing power. It
has been suggested that the sovereign be fixed
in purchasing power and become variable in
weight. The heavier or the lighter the gold
sovereign, the more or less will be its purchasing
power. If new grains of gold are added to the
sovereign fast enough to compensate for the loss in
its purchasing power, we should have a com-
pensated sovereign. Gold nowadays circulates almost
entirely by means of gold certificates, and if all
gold were withdrawn from public circulation, and
held by the Federal Treasury, the sovereign could
be considered simply as a number of grains of gold
bullion in the vaults, the number changing from
time to time. If the index number of commodities
is found to be 1 p.c. above the ideal par, it would
be a signal to increase the weight of the sovereign
by 1 p.c. Once the sovereign was stabilised we
would be rid of a fluctuating price-level with irt
train of evil consequences. The monetary yardstick
would be at last standardised.
* » * *
Members of the Coke-workers* Association,
which is affiliated with the Coal and Shah
Employees’ Federation, have participated
in recent increases to the extent of 2s. 7d,
per day. • This brings their wages up to
14s. 7d., as against the pre-war rate of Bs.
or 9s. However, the work is arduous, and
if the coal-miner is entitled to a minimum of
10s. 3d. the coke-worker well earns whai
he is getting. One effect of the increase in
the price of small coal and the extra out-
lay in wages will be to send the price of
coke on trucks at the works to about 275. 6d.
per ton, as compared with 13s. lid. in 1915
and 12s. 6d. before the war outbreak. This
of course, will further handicap metal-
liferous mining, since the increases cannot be
passed on to the foreign buyer with an;>
certainty. The figures apply to the Ilia
warra district, which supplies about three
quarters of the total Commonwealth coke
production.
* , * * *
Concerning a defunct N. S. Wales field
It is stated that there is not one miner now em
ployed on the once-prosperous Wvalong goldfield, r
maintained its fame for less than 10 years, just a
did Coolgardie, which was discovered at about t!
same time; and since then it has been gradually pet- v
ing out to total extinction. In the first four yea "
Wvalong produced over £500,000 worth of gohl.
and it is safe to assume that its total return ex
oeeded £1,500,000.
It is a curiosity that less than half the area of -
selection made by the late Fred Neeld for wheat
growing and viticulture (he had the latter princ;
pally in view) should have embraced the whole o
a goldfield which for its limited extent had no
superior in the State. The greatest depth at which
payable ore was won was about 1200 ft. —in the True
Blue. In Neeld’s original claim there was a series of
lenAs of payable ore for 800 ft. in length from surfae
to about 300 ft., and for nearly 500 ft. at 550 ft. In
1898 writer sampled two winzes at 200 ft. which
were 500 ft. apart. Both samples, taken casually,
were of solid mineral —one yielded 30loz. per to
and the other 15joz. From 550 ft. to 900 ft. nothin
payable was found, although 2000 ft. of levels and
500 ft. of crosscutting were done—work which quiti
impoverished the Neeld family. The True Blue, ad-
joining, got “excellent returns” between 550 ft. and
900 ft.
Geologist Harper reported: “Evidence supplied by
other mines on the sanie line of lode renders it diffi-
cult to believe that such a pronounced true fissure
vein, which has been proved over a horizontal length
of more than a mile, is going to lose practically all
its gold contents at such a shallow depth.” Surveys
made by the Mines Department led to the conclusion
that the main ore channel was 67ft. ahead of the
crosscut at 900 ft., and that, although this channel
might have been 7ooft., it had been tried
only to a small extent. Bores were put in at 900 ft.,
and the lode track located ; but it carried no ore. If
may be that the bores cut the channel in blanks
between lenses of ore. It was recommended that one
of the crosscuts should be extended to the channel
and that the latter should be driven on, but nothing
further was done.
The available data seems to justify the opinion that
this is a place where Mines Minister Fitzpatrick
might legitimately spend some of the grant he pro
poses to apply to mining research.
* * * *
The narrow but rich vein in old Baker’s
Creek, Hillgrove (N.S.W.), still flatters its
supporters, who live in the hope that again
the reef may return good dividends. The
show is now known as the New Baker’s
Creek, the old co. having been reconstructed
over a year ago. Latest crushings have
been very creditable, averaging over l|oz.
The June return was 3480 z. gold, including


The British Westinghorse Electric &l Mig. Co., Ltd.
HIGH
As the
are in
W estinghouse
Bateau Impulse Type
Steam Turbines
ECONOMY
SIMPLE DESIGN
STURDY CONSTRUCTION
largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain, we
the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbines
and Turbo-Sets up to 20,000 Kilowatts.
gmpliousf
Manchester
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia:
Queen land Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne; f]
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of borne charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. —Advt.
Aluminoferric works wonders! One pound will
clarify 2000 gallons of water. You throw it into
the water and allow it to dissolve. In about two
hours all the impurities will start to precipitate and
the water will be left clear and pure. Will not
harm cattle or stock. Use it in very small propor-
tions when clearing water for household use. Sold
by storekeepers everywhere—or direct from William
Adams & Co. Ltd.. 'Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Perth. —Advt. [2
The latest .copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plan';, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.—Advt. [2
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.-—ln competition with
iron and reinforced concrete pipes we have been
successful in securing a contract for over 11
miles of 12in.-dia. wood stave pipe at an approxi-
mate total cost of £17,000 from the State Rivers
and Water Supply Department, Melbourne, for use
in the Naval Base water-supply scheme, at Frank-
ston, Vie. Send for catalogues and particulars of
wood stave pipe. Cheapest and best pressure pipe
known. The Australian Wood Pipe Company, Ltd.,
(H. 0.) Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O.
address, Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Factories: Burns
Bay, Lane Cove River, N.S.W. ; and Footseray, Vic.
Contractors to all State Governments. —Advt.
Patents.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney ; ,-tel. City 2723.—Advt.
Lottoid Hard Wall Plaster Sheets for inner walls,
ceilings and partitions, are the best material for
such purposes possible of attainment. The surface
of these sheets is snow-white and glass-smooth, will
not rub off, and shows no trace of fibre. Lottoid
Sheets never crack or fall like old-fashioned plaster,
but are artistic, durable and economical, wliiteant-
and vermin-proof. Made in 24 convenient sizes.
Price, 2/6 per sq. yd., or we will be pleased to
quote you Lottoid fixed by our experts. Write for
post free Catalog - “B.” Spriggs’ Asbestolite Com-
pany, 338 Pitt Street, Sydney.—Advt. [1
The manufacture of ‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
Advt.
* * » *
Build “Leplastrier” long-lasting, modern machin-
ery-made roads. Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Head
Office, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. ConnisoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * • •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’“s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. —Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soe., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”—Advt.
/iAfir. GaaNTO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
TO'I m
in ajinsui
The INSURANCE OFFICE
CF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital . 96,497
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established 1910.
acents wanted: ’SSftf SK
YV. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel Gelignite Safety Fuse
Samsonite Blasting Gelatine Detonators
Gelatine Dynamite Dynamite Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE —75 King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
concentrates, from 201 tons; but the tonnage
was smaller than usual owing to ’flu at the
mine. At the lowest working, the No. 18
intermediate level, the reef shows 5 inches
wide, and assays The joyful tidings
that calls are no more have b-een whispered
by insiders, and it is now some months since
shareholders were asked to dip into their
pockets.
On the crest of an Ardlethan boost wave
the prospectus of the Big Bygoo and Lone
Hand Co. makes its appearance. The con-
cern is to take over the Big Bygoo, Lone
Hand and The Blow leases, together with
the battery of the old Southern Cross co.
Out of the 45,000 £1 shares the vendor bites
a controlling interest of 28,000 shares, be-
sides bagging £2OOO in cash. But that is
not the full extent of the grab: the new co.
only takes profits as from June 30, but
acouires the assets as from February 3 last.
This results in a further £2OOO going to the
vendor for improvements since February 3.
Meanwhile what about the profits for that
period? The battery treated 4113 tons (in-
cluding 2751 tons from other mines) for the
’year ended Dec. 31 for a net profit of
£IOSS. In the same period about 541 tons
of concentrates, varying from 63 to 69.3
p.c. metallic tin, realised £10,646. But
metal prices were abnormal, and only five
tons were sold at below the present high rate
of 41s. 3d. per unit, while all except 10
tons realised over 555. 101 d., and some as
much as 755. 44d. per unit. Of the £17,000
in contributing shares (already under-
written) £4OOO goes to the vendor, about
£B5O for the underwriter (with flotation
charges the amount will easily reach £1000),
and then a battery and water-tank costing
at least £4OOO are recommended by It. S.
Hungerford. So no less than £9OOO goes be-
fore the co. can get a move on.
* * * *
That B. 11. Block 10 intends to pay up
calls on its holding of 70,000 shares in the
Misima (Papua) assures the completion of
O. B. Ward’s scheme to provide a mill cap-
able of treating big tonnages. It has been
a heart-breaking grind to get plant to the
island, or even to secure plant at all. 4 Reg
Williamson, who took on the late O. B.
Ward’s job at Misima, measures up ore re-
serves at 130.000 tons, containing a recover-
able value of 295. 3d., out of which a profit
of £60.000 is to come—-that is, when the
new mill can be linked up. This represents
Bs. per share, so it looks to be good biz for
Block 10 to squeeze out some of its war-time
earnings to help Misima along. Williamson
gives some additional hope of the ore living
down and keeping up decent values. An-,
other lift, if formations don’t contract, will
sumdy 100,000 tens more ore. So Misima
may justify the late O. B. Ward’s optimism.
* * * *
“Shareholder,” for the defence: —
The Bulletin (B. 3/7/’l9) sums up Vegetable
Creek lightly when it says the deep lead is a
puzzle; and “Ex-Shareholder’s” brick, hurled at
manager Atkinson, is quite undeserved.
The question of ore reserves was one that he
hesitated to tackle for some time, as they are
more variable in every possible dimension than in
a lode proposition, and Atkinson has never attempted
to estimate any wash that was not exposed on
three sides. Most people have been considerably
surprised at the closeness of his estimates to gctual
returns.
In April, 1918, the total reserves (wash actually
exposed on at least three sides) was 220 tons, and
the manager stated there was in addition an un-
known quantity not crosseutted, and so incapable
of estimation. During the last year 5176 ft. of
driving and crosscutting was done at Gordon’s, and
as a result 448 tons tin oxide was developed.
“Ex-Shareholder” apparently considers that this
driving was without result. The table in the co.’s
last report shows the position clearly; and the
report is no more jubilant, so far as what is im-
possible to estimate, than was the report of 191 S.
in April, 1918, there remained only 500 ft. of the
lead on Gordon’s Blocks to develop, and from the
i xperience of the previous period Atkinson was not
\ cry, hopeful. Therein he made an error of judg-
ment —results over that distance were much better.
The lead below Gordon’s Blocks has been traced
by means of the boring plant; three lines of holes
in a distance of about -four miles have picked up
the channel, but at the points at which boring has
been done no tin existed. I agree with The Bul-
letin that it would appear inexplicable that the tin
stopped at Chandler’s shaft, and further boring
may locate it.
* » » *
A very humble business is the once proud
gold industry of Victoria, which in its giddy
prime was worth £3O per inhabitant, in-
cluding the infant, in a single year. On
Melbourne Stock Exchange on a rather
brisk day last week the usual 24 stocks were
quoted. Not one was up to £1 —in fact, the
most expensive was 15s. 9d. and the next
10s. lid. Eleven were mere battered wrecks
which w 7 ere knocked about the market at
between 34d. and Is. 9d. There were sales
in five stocks —six sales in all—half of them
in the two-bob division. It is the funeral
of a great “primary industry.” A good boot-
factory has more enduring value than the
‘Garden Gully or the Long Tunnel.
How Bendigo is faring can be judged
from the following comparison of returns
for the first half of each of the past five
years:—■
Oz. gold.
1915 . . . . 59,885
1916 .. .. 42,089
1917 . . . . 33,298
Oz. gold.
1918 •. . . . 25.861
1919 .. .. 30,769
Not one mine is on the dividend list,
though if Constellation or Carlisle had
been running singly each one would have
had good profits to show. The latest strike
on the field is at the Unity, one of Dyason’s
mines. There a big spur has been run into
.north of the shaft at 1225 ft. This is con-
nected with the Victory system of spurs
from which the Carlisle has drawn its
crushings for the past two or three years.
But the main point is that the find en-
courages operations being pushed into the
extension of the bed out of which the
Carlisle got its best stone. If Dyason gets
decent gold there he will build up reserves
to a respectable total, especially as it looks
as if the Carlisle slate spurs are now better
grade.
* * * *
Gradually the truth has got home that
men from Cobar and Broken Hill don’t fit
into deep-lead alluvial work. Hence the
cyclone that struck Ararat (Vic.) stocks
last week, piling more than a few stale bulls
on to an exceedingly rocky shore. The hard
fact that Toole and Bryant are up against is
that no miner will go to Ararat if he can
earn more elsewhere. If a few wanderers
turn up from the idle zones it is only be-
cause the impulse prompts them to fill up
spare time till the clouds roll by. Work
in alluvial gutters is dirty and wet and
laborious. A slump in the yields and the
resumption of call-making by the South
Langi also help to kick the stuffing out of
the market. Now it is whispered that G. C.
Ivlug will be invited in. Worse things might
happen. If the Langi gutter is, to get to the
winning-post it will be by having administra-
tion tinctured with modern ideas, and King
has them.
This shows what Edna May Consolidated
has done during the past i 8 months: —
Half-year Oe, Gold, Receipts, Profits,
endin'!- tons. oz. £ £
Mar., 1918 . . 9376 4085 15,966 5359
Sept., 1918 . . 9950 4081 16.057 3091
Mar., 1919 . . 8030 3838 14,852 1021
The falling off in the ore crushed was not
due to poverty of supplies, but to a jag in
the main shaft, and that is likely to be a re-
curring trouble. The best part of the mine
appears to be at No. 3 level, where' a stope
105 ft. long by 15ft. wide by 20ft. high, show-
ing oz. stone, is opened up. All the late
winzing at No. 1 level has been in 5 to 7
dwt. dirt, and rises on the Middle reef from
No. 2 level have not run to over or
from No. 3 level over 15dwt. At both Nos.
1 and 2 Aldridge evety now and then bumps
into greenstone and altered granite in the
big formations, so that his job of keeping an
average* grade of ore for the mill from the
run of the mine is not the easy job quid-
nuncs assert. What is obvious is that the
lode narrow's quickly to the north-east at No.
3 owing to the flatness of the pitch and the
shove-over given by the greenstone country.
As reserves at the end of March w r ere 50,000
tons, and as 20,000 tons annually is about
the capacity of the mill, the mine has 21-
years ore proved. Oddments from various
sources may give a bit longer life, but not
much, as the boundary work of the Central
proves. But what is to come to the share-
holder is still in the clouds. Profits have
shown a diminuendo movement. The cash
position on March 31 shewed a surplus of
£3000; but, the Warden’s award to the Edna
May of over £4OOO as pumping compensation
threatens to mop up that little pile and most
of the added profits of the current term.
There is to be an appeal, but no matter
how it goes it looks as if manager Aldridge
will have to get costs down if anything much
is to be spun out of his 50.000 tons of ore
reserves. Last term costs ran out at
325. 6d„ due to the mine, being idle for a
month while the shaft was being straight-
ened. but that they can be lower was de-
monstrated in the September half-year,, as
expenses then averaged 265. If Aldridge
could keep to that level, and if- his 50.000
tons yield his estimated 505., Consolidated is
not as blue a duck as market artists paint.
Meekatharra, once a bright spot on the
Westralian mining landscape, is now dim.
The Mountain Queen and M.armont are dead
and gone, Ingliston Extended is a derelict,
the Fenian, a mine greater than the Edna
May, has golie wrong at depth; the Com-
modore no longer appeals to even the most
optimistic of call-payers, and the Kyarra is
idle because there wasn’t enough gold in it
to satisfy the demands of labor. None of
the other mines on the field are worth much,
and even the Gwalia, which turned out a
fair amount of gold last year, is reported to
be dog poor at depth. Unless a miracle
happens there seems little likelihood of the
fie’d recovering from its present pitiful con-
dition.
The point has been raised in Westralian
Supreme Court as to whether a reward
claim can be jumped for non-compliance
with labor conditions. The New Bayley’s
Co. has held Bayley’s old mine, Coolgardie,
since 1907, but it has done very little work.
Its right to hold it unworked was unsuccess-
fully challenged before the warden in 1914
and again in 1915. The co. was then left
unmolested until about the middle of last
year, when another jumper disputed its right
to stand by and do nothing. This time the
co. was told to get out; and now the higher
Court is deliberating whether it must go.
* * * *
Comet Vale (W.A.) is threatened with
extinction. Some time ago a few of its
wild cats were smothered; then the doubtful
Happy Jack was strangled by a weakly-
financed Adelaide co.; now the Sand Queen
has been drowned, and the adjoining Glad-
some mine is threatened with the same fate.
The Sand Queen and Gladsome have
been worked for years by small syndicates
and both have paid handsome dividends, the
Sand Queen owners splitting over £IOO,OOP.
“Plat” on the Speck’s osmiridium: —
Although the diggers are not becoming bloated
capitalist's in their chase after osmiridium, their
position is not nearly so bad as the par. (B. 29/5/’l9)
would imply. The metal passed the £l2 per oz.
mark in Feb. 1917, has not since been below it, and
has been as high as £3O ss. Shortly after the
armistice was signed the price slumped to £l5, with
only one buyer, but the market has ever since been
getting its punch back .until, at present, the price
is £2O 10s. with, nominally, four buyers in the field.
But there is every indication of an understanding
among them. One of the difficulties the producer is
up against is to get an . independent quotation for
the metal. While he can see tin, copper, zinc, lead,
silver, etc., quoted every day, efforts to get osmirid-
ium so quoted is met with a stony silence. In the
U.S. present price for platinum is about £ 20 per
oz., hard metal £2 higher ; but the mining publica-
tions will not quote osmiridium. This secrecy with
regard to the market value has given the impression
that most of the metal is used in its native state,
and that it is much more valuable this way than
broken up into it's separate constituents. It is also
believed that the Speck product, owing to its rounded
crystallisation, is more valuable than the scaly pro-
duct of other countries.
But the outlook for this little Speck industry is
not too rosy. There are still good patches left in
the Savage Itiver, but they can be worked only in
summer-time. The small, easily-worked creeks are
almost completely gutted. If the output is to be
maintained, either the price must improve or new
areas of serpentine country must be located. The
prospects in the latter respect are not brilliant.
There is no doubt that the serpentine belts of the
Bald Hills, on the north end of the Meredith Range,
and the Wilson River, on the south end, belong to
the same geologic system. It was generally supposed
they would be found extending along the Whole
length of the eastern slope of the range, but pros-
pecting has revealed a belt of granite several miles
in width intervening. Still, there are possibilities
about this line of country.
“Mag”: In April O’Connor and Co.,
tributors on the old 7 and 8 Monkland,
Gvmpie, were on their uppers, and burdened
with a State necklet of £lOO advanced to
purchase the gear. In May trying an un-
worked portion of the Glanmire reef at the
ISOft. level, hick changed. A parcel of 1J
ton gave a dial-brightening return of 1270 z.,
eclipsed four weeks later by a hue crushing
of 34-4 oz. Product for one month, 4710 z.
gold, which reminds one of Gympie’s palmy
days.
A South Aus. syndicate has been formed
to operate Mt. Bessemer, near ’Villi a ms-
town, less than 40 miles from Adelaide.
Open-cut workings have proved a fair body
of high-grade iron; hut there is no coal
handy. Certainly there is a good deal of
wood suitable for charcoal burning; but that
is a substitute which gradually becomes pro-
hibitive in price, even though pig-iron smelt-
ed with it commands a premium.
* * * #
Thos. Maughan, secretary of the Gold Pro-
ducers’ Association, writes to assure The
Bulletin that all bona-fide gold-producers,
large and small, may join and participate in
the premiums obtained on gold exported by
the association. The Bulletin didn’t sus-
pect otherwise. What it did say was that
the premium is only available to the larger
producers, because the fossieker has almost
invariablv to take his few ’weights to the
store to buy the next week’s tucker.
* * * *
This is the puff given Mt. Booralong by
chairman Rankin; “The ore is the cleanest
and the ore-body is the largest of molyb-
denite yet opened in the world.” But Jimmy
Hayes says the same about Everton. So
does John Brandon about the Kingsgate;
and Yetholme prospectuses were not modest.
If all these shows, to say nothing of the
Kitchener group in Q’land, go shoving
molybdenite on to the market, there is much
more chance of the mineral drifting to £lOO
than running into a five-figure market as
expected by chairman Rankin. Anyway.
Booralong is to be tested with an oil
separation plant. So are the Everton and
the Kingsgate.


THE CIRCUS LEAVES FOR HOME.


jSwZgRAU bD I
SMI
ACtiftgE
• srDWY?
PERTH AND LONDON
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDIN G*S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lcwt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Austi’alia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
fds
deaf?
You can HEAR —and
we prove it by sending
you, post paid, an easy-
to-wear
Acousticon
on 10 Days’
FREE TRIAL
The “Acousticon” will safely and surely enable
you to hear. Over 330,000 delighted users,
including the Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, who
has been using the “Acousticon” for nearly five
years! Write for 10 Days’ Free Trial.' No
deposit, no obligation, no expense. Convince
yourself at our expense, and DON’T STAY
DEAF!
I aintnn Store p- 102 Daking House, BYDNEY
1/tllllovll Service Olderfleet, Col ins St.,MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St., Christc’h.
W.A.: H. Little <& Co., BSI Hay Street, Perth.
THE
Hotel Sydney
(SYDNEY)
Is one of the largest, most modern
and best equipped in Australia.
It is situated opposite the Railway Station
and is central to everywhere.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 400 GUESTS.
Quiet, Cool and Comfortable.
Hot and Cold Water, Day and Night, in every
Bedroom.
Half an acre of Glorious Roof
Garden.
Tariff from 12/6 per day.
Have you Lunched or Dined at the “Sydney’*?
Management E. T. CIIEESEMAN.
I mmm
plug SLICE
yj .t-sa
THe
finest
TOBACCO
Will Not
Bite the
Tongue.
EDGEWORTH
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
The late Henry Austin, of Sydney, wool-
buyer, racing man, and in his younger days
prominent social figure, was more than any
of these things a Catholic —an English
Catholic. It tinctured all his life. An
English Catholic is a Conservative in poli-
tics, with a particular distrust of Home
Rule for Ireland; he is vehemently Royal-
ist; and with equal vehemency a son of the
Church. All of which things the old gentle-
man was who died last week aged 87.
Though passionately fond of racing, he re-
signed from the A.J.C. committee because
the club persisted in holding a meeting on
Holy Saturday, and there was no better-
known figure at the Cathedral than his, in
smart little frockcoat and grey top-hat.
Both his brothers were distinguished in
their way. Walter was a well-known Lon-
don musician and man-about-town, and
Alfred was the most effective leader-writer
the Morning Post ever owned. Incidentally
this Alfred was Poet Laureate in his de-
clining years. Lord Salisbury gave him the
billet, with characteristic cynicism, to the
exasperation of Morris, Watson, Swinburne
and others who, even if ineligible them-
selves, were horrified at Austin being ap-
pointed.
Some remarkable talent has been discovered
among the Diggers since the armistice. At
the request of the French Government
applications were called for throughout
the A.I.F. for appointment to a Com-
mission proceeding to Morocco to report
upon the suitability of
that country for breed-
ing merino sheep. The
host of applicants
ranged from colonels
to privates. One of
the latter had prior to
the war managed a sta-
tion running a quarter-
million sheep and was a
skilled stockbreeder and
woolclasser. But he
didn’t get the job. The
successful applicant
was an infantryman.
He was interested per-
sonally in a million
acres of land, and had
organised and con-
ducted droving tours
from Kimberley in
Westr a 1 i a to the
Queensland coast, had
sunk artesian bores,
and was a recognised
expert in water finding.
Further. he could
speak French fluently,
and had other educa-
tional qualification^.;
CAPT. LEGGETT,
of the New Zealand.
Edmund Walcot Fosbery, ex-Inspector-
General of N. S. Wales police, who died last
week in his 86th year, came to Victoria in
1852, being then 18, and joined a corps
known as police cadets, mounted and foot.
They were barristers, attorneys, ex-bank-
managers and medical students, while others,
such as Robert O’Hara Burke, the explorer,
had seen service in one or more of the Con-
tinental armies. They were the only avail-
able material to do the work of a police
force in those roaring ’fifties. The obituary
notices would lead to the conclusion that Fos-
bery served in the force until his appoint-
ment to N. S. Wales. As a matter of fact
he resigned on November 1, 1853, to become
one of three clerks in the office of the Chief
Commissioner, W. H. F. Mitchell, after-
wards President of the Legislative Council,
with Charles McMahon, afterwards Speaker,
as Assistant-Commissioner. Fosbery re-
mained at this desk until 1862, when
Charles Cowper. who was reconstructing the
N. S. Wales police force, secured his assist-
ance as Deputy Inspector-General and Sec-
retary. On the death of Captain McLerie,
the Inspector-General, his deputy succeeded
to the vacant post, from which he retired
in 1904 on pension.
“Bildad” : Re Geezer William’s threat that
he will blow his proud brains out if brought
to trial, the last fallen ruler to do a suicide
was President Balmaceda of Chile. But he
didn’t talk about it. He just took direct
action.
When Lieut.-Col. Lord landed back in
Hobart the other day he found about
60 constables wait-
ing for him. To
The Bulletin, con-
scious of its sins,
the welcome would
have been alarming;
but it is quite differ-
ent when a man is
the popular Police
Commissioner, and
the Johns are at his
command. They
cheered him, and
meant it. Lord
started with the
police force in Ho-
bart not long after
leaving school, and
worked his way up
step by step to
the Commissioner-
ship. Before the war
he put his super-
fluous energy into
amateur rowing and
boxing, and had some
tidy records to his
credit in the former
sport. He took a
keen interest in the
old volunteer move-
ment, and his know-
ledge came in later
when Fritz started
breaking church
windows and other-
wise creating a
breach of the peace in Europe.
Amongst those who witnessed the arrival
of the first train at" Macksville (N.S.W.) on
July 1 was Mrs. Lane, an old lady of 90
who had seen the first sod turned, by Mrs.
Keith Stewart, for the first N. S. Wales
railway, at Sydney, on July 3, 1850.
Died suddenly on North Terrace, Adel-
aide, while hurrying for a train, George
Bagot, chairman of directors of the big S.A.
pastoral co., Bagot, Shakes and Lewis. His
father, E. M. Bagot, founder of the busi-
ness, had an even more dramatic ending.
He left a North Adelaide tramcar near his
home, one evening in 1886, and was never
seen alive again by any of his friends, a
search ending in his body being found in a
quarrv near the Stockade, several miles
away.
Solicitor David Brayshay, who died the
other day at Melbourne, aged 54, was that
city’s foremost authority on licensing law.
Embarrassed Bung, finding his feet entangled
in the net of circumstance, usually clamored
for Brayshay to help him out; and the
lawyer never had an idle hour except of
his own choice. The elder Brayshay had
the Victoria Hotel at Hamilton for many
yeaVs, and son David did his early book-
work at Hamilton College. Another old
Hamilton Collegian to pass out within a
few days 6f Brayshay was Tom Bromell, of
Hensley Park. Bromell was a sheepman
and a sport—a son of the late Tom Bromell,
who preceded lawyer Sam Samuels as
M.L.A. for Dundas.
“John Drayman” so-longs a good Aus-
tralian :—•
The death in London from pneumonic ’flu of Dr.
John McCall, Tasmanian Agent-General, removes one
of the few big Australians the Speck has produced.
Son of a hard-headed Scotch chemist who settled at
Devonport about the time Bendigo was booming, and
who afterwards sat in the Leg. Council of the Speck,
young John (born 1860) was packed off to Glasgow
in his teens, and graduated M. 8., Ch.M. in 1881, a
week or so in advance of his 21st birthday. Returning
to Tas. the same year he started practice first at
Mt. Bischoff, afterwards at Ulverstone. He was not
a bad medico, and achieved his M.D., but his keen
business instincts made him a man of affairs—■
mostly financial affairs, and mostly successful. He
first scraped into the Assembly in 1888, after a hard
fight; but his radical views scared the farmers,
and he was defeated at the end of his term. In
1901 he was again elected, and became Chief Sec.
in the Propsting-Nicholls Ministry of 1903. In
office he made his' mark as a clever administrator,
and as the author of the Speck’s reformed Local
Government Act and of one of the most comprehen-
sive Public Health Acts in Australasia. He was
largely responsible for the advent of Dr. Elkington,
who successfully fought the small-pox outbreak at
Launceston, and later (as' Chief Health Officer) gave
indignant Bumbles a few much-needed compulsory
lessons in elementary sanitation. John McCall was
only some 15 months a Minister; but in 1909, after
Agent-General Alfred Dobson had disappeared over
the taff-rail of a Channel ferry-boat, the Evans
Government picked the strenuous Oppositionist for
the job. During his decade in London he was more
of a general agent than any previous holder of the
billet, and was consequently more useful to his
State; and his outspoken criticism of the monopolis-
tic methods of the British Shipping “Conference”
was probably the most interesting (certainly the
most widely-quoted) report ever supplied to an Aus-
tralian Government from an Agent-General’s office.
His business knowledge and financial ability saved
the Speck very many thousands, and during the war
he proved himself one of the most, helpful and
energetic Australians in the Cold Country. He was
twice married—-the first time to a Glasgie lassie,
Miss Clichie; the second time to a Hobart school-
master’s daughter, Miss Reynolds. A son and
daughter by his first marriage survive him ; the son
is a Westralian doctor. Two sons of the second
venture are not yet in their teens.
Lieut. (Dr.) Brissenden, the Sydney bar-
rister who came back last week to’ a District
Court Judgeship, is one of the few men
who could have had a commission on leav-
ing Austraiia (in 1916), but refused it. He
said that people might think he was “squib-
and went as a Private. Later he
could have had a captaincy and a job as
court-martial officer in France. The C.M
officer’s business was to teadhi the Court
law, and as far as possible prevent the
nominal judges from behaving like back-
blocks J s.P. Brissenden would have been
r he iu al man for the Position, but he re-
fused that too. As a matter of fact, he over-
did the refusal business somewhat. During
A,: k F *’ s last s °j° ura on the Somme the
C.M. officers were usually very junior attor-
neys, and the Diggers naturally suffered,
lhey were butchered, so to speak, in order
that men of the Brissenden type might keep
their self-respect.
Outtrim, “father” of the Vic. Leg.
Assembly, who is nearer 75 than 70, looks
as young as he did when Munro gave him
his first chance as Mines Minister at Cup
time in 1890. In the lobbies last week, when
the remnant of Bowser’s party was meet-
ing, he was filled with delight at somebody in
office having been “shifted” and at the pos-
sibility of more “shifting.” Stagnant
politics have no charm for Father. The
night that Shiels suspended Speight Out-
trim went with Peacock and Graham to see
Will Whitburn performing, and left Cabinet
colleagues of worrying disposition to indulge
their temperaments. Those who worried are
now dead. When the Royal Commission
exonerated Tommy Bent, Outtrim, who then
sat with the Labor party, moved that the
sum set down for the ordinary expenses of
the commission be reduced by £1 as an indi-
cation of the feeling of the House that Bent’s
exes in vindicating himself should be paid by
the State. Murray temporised, but finally
caved in, and Bent got about £4OO. That
was the night Adam McCay (now editor of
Sydney Sun), who was sitting in the gallery
as leader-writer for the Argus, horrified
the House by striking the table and exclaim-
inff, Now we’ll see who are men and
who -are (unmentionables).” He was look-
ing to the “men” to support Outtrim, and
they did.
Dr. Charles Saville Willis, a victim of ’flu,
decided on a medical career rather later
than usual. He was tailoring with his
father in Parramatta when he started attend-
ing night classes at the local Marist Brothers
school, then presided over by a tireless
worker—Brother Claudius. Willis passed
the junior and senior exams, as an evening
student, and, on the advice, of the Marists,
gave up his job and became a medical
student at Sydney Uni. He put up some-
thing of a record there, passed well, then
started practice, and saved enough money to
go to England for further study. Coming
back to Sydney he took a billet in the Health
Department, and at the time of his death
was P.M.O. under the Education Minister.
. Dr - H. H. Barker, specialist in manipula-
tive surgery, whom W. M. Hughes is said
to have consulted regarding “a crippling af-
fliction of the right hand,” is what the
B.M.A. calls a quack. Yet his profound
knowledge of joint injuries and their cure
has been admitted by the profession for years.
Because a member of the B.M.A. (Dr.
Axham) acted as Barker’s anaesthetist his
name was erased from the Medical Register
—the act being adjudged “infamous conduct”
on Axham’s part. Nevertheless, or pos-
sibly in part because of the B.M.A.’s
activities, Barker’s professional income is
enormous. He gave up many hours every
day during the war to the free treatment of
soldiers, and the Government at last con-
sidered the question of offering him a
commission in the R.A.M.C. But again
“professional etiquette” asserted itself, and
Barker was saved from the financial catas-
trophe of a crown on his shoulder and a
few hundreds a year, and left in civvies to
earn as many thousands.
THEIR RECORD.
THE GUNNERr : "Did we have many exciting
escapes from submarines? Well, you
ought to see the ship’s log!”
The Lady ; "What! All split, I suppose.”
Notwithstanding official denials, H. M.
Murphy, Yic. Secretary for Labor, was
sounded as to taking the job of “director”
of the Northern Territory. The money
wasn’t good enough. Murphy draws £9OO
a year, and is graduating for a pension of
£6OO. His idea was that a possible shorten-
ing of life should receive compensation in
£ s. d., and his view and thbt of the Com-
monwealth on the point differed.
Dead in Adelaide, at 76, Colin Stone, one
of that city’s wealthy softgoods men. He
came from England in 1866, and has been
in Adelaide ever since. He got into the
Donaldson firm, eventually made it all his
own, and now the big Rundle-street business
is run by his sons.
Died last week in Sydney, Lieut.-Colonel
(Dr.) Perkins, who owned a D.S.O. and the
Queen’s Medal with six clasps, gained in the
S’African campaign. He was P.M.O. to the
N. S. Wales military district when the Big
Row started, and held a similar job with; the
Postal Department.
Mount Gambier (S.A.) has been celebrat-
ing the 80th anniversary of the arrival of
S. G. Henty, the first white man to visit
the district. He settled there with cattle
in 1839, but the Government of infant South
Aus. granted his land to someone else about
1842, after which he retired to the family
stronghold in Victoria.
There was a little heart-to-heart talk,
characteristically Australian, in the current
Criminal Sittings in Adelaide. Human old
Judge Gordon had ruled that a pig-stealing
charge would be sufficiently met by restitu-
tion and a fine; then he hoped that the
lesson had been learned, and that “we shall
not see you in this court again.” The pig-
juggler wasted no words in windy protesta-
tions. He just replied, with simple elo-
quence : “My oath, your Honor! Same
here” —best of proof that the Judge had
summed up right.
Among the older members of Maoriland
Parliament who will not seek re-election is
“Daddy”. Colvin, one of Dick Seddon’s con-
temporaries. He has represented Westport
and roundabouts for 20 years, and has had
substantial majorities every time he has
gone to the poll. The rearrangement of
electoral boundaries is one reason for the
veteran sitting back; another is his white
whiskers. Who the new candidate will be
is not certain yet, but Arthur Leaver, West-
port’s Mayor for many seasons past, may be
one starter. Labor is going to put forth
its strength, too, all along the West Coast;
but Tom Seddon seems a good thing for
Westland on the Liberal party ticket.
MISSING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Lance-corporal Jackson —Missing,” said the list,
And loving hearts grow anxious, clutch at Hope.
A jagged splinter caught him, though he crouched,
And laid his body lengthwise in the trench,
Where soulless, stupid shells threw over him
Two feet of dank and noisome Flanders mud.
’Twas night, the Heavens wept, while Earth drank
blood,
And over him there surged the ration parties,
Tired reinforcements for the firing-line,
An urgent messenger with jars of rum,
Some captured Huns, swift runners pouring sweat,
And stretcher-bearers straining ’neath the load.
So morning found him firmly trodden in,
And none there was who marked the ghastly spot
Save for a certain sickly springiness. ’
Few lingered, for Death stalked-just thereabouts,
A bloody corner registered by guns.
And when the crimson tide lias slowly ebbed,
Gaunt padres come, and shallow graves are dug,
Each marked precisely with a numbered cross.
Proud relatives appear in flowing black..,.
“Lance-corporal Jackson—Missing,” said the list.
How fond hearts ache, and vainly cling to Hopei
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


MMWs
mm.
m u
iO
&
<D
l
(D
2®
SfeY
- \
MV
rnm,
m. M
V'l'
\
Kj
’ > \ '
I
M
.
mil
:■
iSS
WSIj
w®
. §M
c
r_ -
m
■
■
THE
PIPE
OF QUALITY—
LMN
400
fds
fds
fds
fsd
[V ery P'P e Guar4 "te ecl
fsd
ď
sf


Q-
S& 1 .
1,,
s'/eLWi
»
m
»\A
WM
To Keep Young
Use a
Self-
Heating
ROYAL IRON
Benzine costing twopence
does the week’s ironing with
a “ROYAL.”
ask to see it.
In SYDNEY—CiviI Service Stores.
Mark Foy’s Ltd.
Nock & Kirby Etd.
Alex. Smith Etd.
In BRISBANE—Barry & Roberts.
In PERTH—William Sandover & Co.
eltonian
HIGH-CLASS
SPECIALTIES
Creams
trd
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
sdf
E. DROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Hath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Directo"-
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
“Satan”: “Digger” (B. 19/6/T9) states
that the greater part of the training at Dun-
troon is in civil subjects. Therein he mis-
represents the syllabus. The average student
arrives at Duntroon at 17, just when he is
nearing the head of his school. The plan
is not to disregard the civil part, but to
gradually polish off those subjects not
strictly essential to military life, and mould
those which are essential into the shape re-
quired, while directing the energies of the
students along the proper channels. Thus
we find in the first year 75 p.c. civil and 25
p.c. military, which gradually changes until
in the last year it is 90 p.c. military and 10
p.c. civil, and this 10 p.c. is mathematics and
languages, which, strictly speaking are as
much military as civil. “Digger” wants to
immediately supersede officers now at Dun-
troon by highly-trained A.I.F. officers. Could
he nominate officers of the A.I.F. who are
competent to teach the following subjects:
Military art (embracing tactics, topography,
and military history), military engineering
in all its phases, military law (embracing
King's Regulations. Australian Military Re-
gulations, and the Manual of Military
Law)? Heaven help us if they select
officers for the A.M.F. on “Digger’s” plan!
Incidentally a lot of rubbish is heard about
“Australian sentiments.” People who talk
that way assume that the Australian is
different from every other human being on
earth. Actually the only difference experi-
enced so far is that his better education has
made him a dashed sight easier to handle
than his less-educated cobber, the English
Tommy.
* * * *
“Billzac”: There were some wild doings
during the riots in Egypt. When feeling
was high there was a procession of some
25,000 Gyppies through the streets of Cairo.
As the head of it reached Opera Square
and turned down past the Continental Hotel,
six Bdljims coolly hoisted a Union Jack on
top of a lamp-post and stood
there offering baksheesh to
any Egyptian patriot who felt
like pulling the flag down.
There were no starters. Near
the end of the procession there
ca m e a standard-bearer
carrying a Turkish flag. In
went a Digger, and after a
rough-up the enemy flag
was captured. One large
Gyp then went for the Aus-
tralian, and had him by
the throat. In the midst of
the tussle a Greek civilian
who had be.en standing on
the pavement pulled out a
revolver, jumped in and
ended the Gypp.v. Then,
the scrap being over, our six Australian
lambs had a mix-up for the trophy. The
original captor retained possession.
* * * *
“Sol M.” : After all, Webster is up against
troubles that might worry any man. One
morning last week, after I had shovelled the
snow from the verandah, and chased a polar-
bear off the flower-bed and taken a shapshot
of a passing iceberg, I sledged down to the
post-office of my Sydney suburb to inquire
about a telegram. I was received with the
hollow laugh of incipient insanity, and told
I could have 100 undelivered telegrams to
choose from. Most of them, I learned, con-
cerned illness, death, burial, medicine, doc-
tors, nurses or sorrowing friends. Formerly
there were two delivery and generally-useful
boys at this office. For a long time there
has been only one owing to epidemic and
scarcity of boy. Latterly there has been
LESSONS IN MANNERS. — I.
“That's a little gentleman! Now, do you know why a gentleman, when out with a lady,
should walk on the side nearest the street?"
“So as he can spit in the gutter."
only a temporary boy, there being no per-
manent boys left in the country, and he has
been changed every two or three days. The
usual formalities have been pretty well dis-
pensed with, and the P.M. kidnaps any
youth who doesn’t get away fast enough.
The latest recruit proved to be under legal
age and also of deficient intellect. When
I called there was no boy at all, not even
a homeless idiot, and the adult staff was
THE BRUTE.
“That tall youth grossly insulted me five
minutes ago!”
“Why, whatever did he say?"
“I asked him what age he thought I teas, and
he guessed it exactly."
so depleted that it couldn’t go out deliver-
ing in person without leaving the telegraph
instrument and the petty cash undefended.
So I sledged home in deep thought.
* * * *
“Trot”: A Sydney man got rid last week
of the last of five Pitt-street shops. He
bought the block seven years ago for £54,000
borrowed at 5 o.c. As the rent netted 6 p.c.
he made £540 a year while the war was
on, and now, after satisfying the mortgagee
out of the £75,000 he sold for, he has
£21,500 to go on with. There have been
many happenings like this while the fight for
freedom raged. On realisation of the Walter
Hall estate three years ago a block of six
shops and a store in Pitt-street sold for
£3O 000. Twelve months ago the buyer got
£36,000. Within three we.eks the new pro-
prietor sold for £42,000. Another specula-
tive citizen two years ago acquired a build-
ing in the same street for £45,000, paying
cash. Three months later he had made
£7700 on the transaction and proceeded to
acquire £26,500 worth of building in
Clarence-street. Within a fortnight he had
been paid £34,000 to go away. The two
deals showed a profit of £15.200. At the
realisation of a big estate last year a shop
in George-street, let for £l2 a week, was sold
for £9lOO. The tenant now pays £26 a
week. Another shop in the same estate in
the Haymarket, let at £8 a week, was sold
for £6400. The rent has been raised to £25
a week. A third offering at the same sale
had been valued for probate at £51,000. The
rents from the building, a big one. were
£3BOO a year. It was sold for £37,500. The
rents have since increased to £4BOO. Maybe
it was the high cost of living which com-
pelled a man who bought three shops in
George-street last year for £20.000 to nart
with them the other day for a mere £26,000.
Certainly it will push the high cost of living
another degree higher.
* * * *
“Digger” on Duntroon and its training:
“G. 1.” says. (B. 26/6/’l9) I Ought to leave the
curriculum of Duntroon alone because General
Bridges modelled it on West Point and Sandhurst.
West Point and Sandhurst don’t handle Australians,
and Sandhurst, upon which Duntroon is mainly
modelled, is violently anti-Australian in sentiment,
inasmuch as it stands for officer-caste distinctions.
This won’t be tolerated in Australia, unless Duntroon
sets up an unholy alliance with the I.W.W. to wreck
our Defence. In any case, Bridges modelled the
curriculum before the great war, and had he lived
nothing is more certain than that he would have
altered Duntroon and its curriculum drastically. The
teachings of the college were of little assistance at
Gallipoli and in subsequent campaigns. That the
graduates did well was due to their personal courage,
initiative and resource, for Bridges could only send
them out as platoon or company commanders, along
with scores of other officers who scarcely ever heard
of Duntroon. As it was, many A.I.F. officers with-
out Duntroon training started lower and climbed
higher. Many of them knew next to nothing of
mathematics, physics or chemistry, and they knew
only one modern language—their own. But they
knew Australians and how to handle them. The
next war in which Australians are engaged will, in
all probability, be as different from the last as ’that
was from the Duntroon curriculum; consequently
officers with the least to unlearn will have the
shortest cut to the higher commands. “G.l.’s”
figures relating to the numbers of officers on the
college staff who did or did not serve in the war
are about as reliable as his logic. There was no
such thing as an age limit for officers who really
desired to see service. Red Tape said 45, but it
wasn’t serious. Anyway, if “G. 1.” has another
look in at Duntroon he will find a few under that
age who did not serve. While he is on the job he
might also look up the records and see' how many
Imperial officers have been employed there. As for
the argument that Duntroon’s fledglings must form
the nucleus of the military staff, although there are
hundreds of brilliant, experienced campaigners
available—well, “G. 1.” and I don’t agree, that’s all.
* * * *
Under that good old Statute of Carolus
11. which forbids people to work on the
Sabbath, a couple of Kew (Vic.) painters
were recently fined ss. each for doing up a
house so that it could be sold on the fol-
lowing Monday. They paid— to save trouble.
It would have been awkward if they hadn’t.
The alternative under the Act was “the
stocks,” and it would have cost the Law a
good many crowns to build a set.
* * « *
The Bumbles of Shepparton (Vic.) iu
filling an inspector of nuisances billet re-
cently passed over a Digger in favor of a
civilian. The returned men made a note of
it. Later the village fathers illegally spent
f 100 of the ratepayers’ money on gaudy
certificates to returnees of the district,
whereupon the intended recipients remarked
that what they wanted was toil rather than
tripe, or words to that effect. The scraps
of paper are accordingly still in the mayoral
archives.
* * *. *
“Yeronga”: “Feng-shui’s” reference to
Korea. (B. 19/6/T9) and the early invasion
thereof by the Japanese Empress Jingo, calls
to mind the large-sized promise made by the
monarchs of the three kingdoms of Korea
to the Japanese. Even a present day poli-
tician can’t surpass it in his election pledges.
Korea promised “to pay homage and send
tribute until the sun no longer rises in the
East, but comes forth from the West; until
the courses of the* rivers turn backwards and
the river pebbles ascend and become stars
in Heaven.” Arid she faithfully fulfilled
her promise during the next four centuries.
In fact, she returned good for evil, for it
was the Koreans who introduced the art of
JUST THE POINT.
"What do you think, J im! My hushand has
got a splendid position in Melbourne .”
“But I thought you said you couldn't live
away from Sydney?"
“No, that's it — don’t you see?"
writing into Japan in the fifth century; also
a knowledge of the arts, sciences, laws,
literature, and social and political systems
far superior to anything hitherto dreamt of
in Japan. They also introduced Buddhism in
the year a.d. 552. Japan, by the way, claims
that it was her conquests of Korea by the
Empress Jingo and Hideyoshi that gave
her the rights of a suzerain; and she main-
tains that the final incorporation of the
country in the Japanese Empire was neces-
sary to prevent it. with its ice-free harbors,
being used by either Russia or China as a
military and naval jumping-off base against
herself.
(Continued on page 18.)
TO A FORGOTTEN PORTRAIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wind in the corridor, wailing in sniffle and eddy
and gust,
Whose is this face that looms pale through the skin
of a century’s dust?
Admiral, general, murderer, merchant or duke —
who can say ?
Crony of Georgie the Third, or a tourist to Botany
Bay ?
Prelate or dandy or rogue? And the narrow or
primrosy path ?
Droning sad sermons or ogling the belles in the
Pump Room at Bath?
Tremulous high lights, that shake on the damp of
his lip, seem to swell;
Surely he breathes, is awake, and can see, and can
hear, and can tell
All that he knows (and so wise is he now with his
bundle of years,
Watching the world with those eyes, and hearing it
spin with those ears) !
Speak to me, Painted One 1.... What is it stirs on
his lips? Is it dust?
But what shall become of you, knotted old face,
when the picture-cords rust?
x.s.w.
KENNETH SLESSOR.


'Jtk
m
m
C
M'wa ■ n m
. . . ,\V
I
... -/
% W 8
IS
*
J
•\v.a
1
(•: =
ws
: it-vw
«\‘t
f'-AJ
Ai *■
r
•h . n
' \ ‘
» \
\ '
r tl !
\\
y
übroliife
Proof!
BUB fl* iif? e e a H MJki-M*
i
HERE is overwhelming evidence
of the Superiority and Popu-
larity of PIANOLA PIANOS.
The New York Musical Courier , the accepted
authority of the Piano industry in America,
publishes the following:
Out of the total of 861 the Pianola Company
imported nearly
450 Pianola Pianos
well over half the total for
all Australasia.
These figures tell an eloquent story of superior
quality and outstanding approval of the music-
loving public of Australia.
PIANOLAS are obtainable in the following
mokes of pianos: STEINWAY, STECK,
SI ROUD, . EOLI AN, and the Famous WEBER.
o7?e
'Pratt cA'a
(o.V iyTjffik.
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
252 Collins Street, Melbourne.
436 Queen Street, Brisbane.
56 Run die Street, Adelaide.
SEND TH'S COUPON TO THE PIANOLA COMPANY.
Please send me catalog of Pianola Pianos, showing how I
can purchase an instrument for cash or easy terms.
Name ....
‘Address
‘B ” L


IN THESE SERIOUS EPIDEMIC DAYS
Get CLEMENTS TONIC for your Blood
rZ%TA h TZ s oJ7: e bITZ ZZZ °LZTzr*fJZ2Z£,
effort the menace to health\hat Oireatens then” on^con^^ford^o^-ilfp 16 every I care of themselves and ward off to their greatest,
tion of health and the greatest powers of resistance to imrori.w take anj undue risk, and the person who has the best condi-
climatic conditions, worries, or minor illness is best fortified a trainee 4° rC rl ** is e P idemic disease, privation, oppressive
he is shielded from attack of detractive Snd destro s ?ng JorcS 18 ° W Stor ? to a new way of the tidier well armed;
and the blood cool am/pure/should now be aTa ™ e( } icine of , rare health value in keeping the nerves sound
well, has a palliative effect on the bowels stimulates the^fivei* body the several health. It tones up the stomach as
largely a blood and nerve medicine, and should be a part of the the.Resent ttoT“ to *
<4- Tonic £J r ° m yOUP Chemi »* To-day. Use it as the Pure Blood Remedy.
“Australia .T.”: It happened at Villers-
Bretonneux. The 4th Division had done a
stunt with some Americans, and all hands
were amusing themselves when an apparition
in a tail coat, grey pants, spats and curly-
brimmed top-hat rushed up to the American
0.C., embraced him, and in broken French
and English thanked him for his share in
the great war. The speech was accompanied
by a large bottle in a straw jacket. The
American called his men together, got a
speech off his chest, and the effusive “French-
man” faded oat of sight to devote himself
to his real job—cooking for the A.I.F.
I’ S.—The bottle in the jacket was a dud, too.
* * * *
“Civil Private”: I wish to complain about
this practice of sticking into uniform every-
one with any sort of job connected with the
Military Department. Because of in grow*
ing freckles I was unable to go to the war;
but no one can give me points in hooraying
the dinkum heroes. This is my trouble—
-1 don’t know who is dinkum. I walk down
the street hero-worshipping in the wake of
a stalwart form with several stars on its
shoulders, only to find subsequently that he
is a captain of tooth-extractors,; then I
scrape acquaintance with, and buy drinks
lor, another giant in khaki, Sam Brownes,
etc., to learn that he helped to out the
Ilohenzollerns by adding up columns of
figures. I have no desire to belittle any use-
ful adjunct to the stoush battalions, but I do
think that their standing should be indicated
plainly. In place of the customary star
the dentist might wear a double tooth
•lone in bronze, while crossed nibs could
mark the man of ledgers.
EAST.
M AT: “I don’t know how you can afford
such lovely winter hats!”
B ELLE: “Why, I break off my summer en-
gagement and sell the ring”
“Agi’icola”: Bush kids are tough and no
error. Dad decided to shift from Bermagui
to Bega (NS.W.). 82 miles. He packed
the pots and pans and mum and the baby
and the next-to-the-baby and the toddler in
the spring-cart. An hour before this, how-
ever—soon after daylight—two other hope-
fuls, aged 9 and 11, were sent off with
instructions to keep walking until the
caravan overtook them; then they could
ride turn about. But the moke knocked
up on Bunga Hill, and upset the schedule.
At three in the afternoon the boys called
at my place, 11 miles from Bega, for “a
drink of water, please, and is this the right
road to Bega?” They refused to wait until
the cart came along, and pegged on again.
Two hours later Dad stuck us up for news
of the kids. They reached their new home
an hour ahead of the rest of the family.
“Wart”: Horton College, an old landmark
just outside Ross, on tlie main road between
Hobart and Launceston,., is to be broken up
at last. The College was founded in .1555
by the late Capt. Horton. He handed it
over to the Wesleyans to run, and a good
many of the older Methody parsons in Aus-
tralia were educated there. For a time the
college was the school in the Speck; but
for many years past the only tenants have
been bats and rats, though headquarters
staff used to dispute possession with them for
a week or two while the annual military
camp was being held at Ross.
* * * *
“Reservist”; “Rio” crowded a number of
misconceptions into the following (R
12/15/T!)'
Aly conviction that the Australian Army Reserve
will be only a paper organisation was strengthened
lately when I heard an officer, himself incapacitated
iroin ever taking the field' again,” addressing the
consumptives at a military sanatorium and asking
them to join the reserve! ■ Was ever anything more
absurd '/ No reserve forces'of any kind'are of any
value unless there is a strict medical examination on
n ! "idh U 'Tdhercd < to" BXed f ° l ‘ retirement and
1 1) The one-legged officer would not .be
in the Reserve, but in the Honorary Re-
serve. Returned men are selected as organ-
ising officers to enrol reservists, and—as
is only right—their injuries, sustained in
defence or their country, are not in thein-
sdvos regarded as a bar. (2) Organising
officers are instructed to address men in hos-
pitals of all sorts. The idea is the kindlv
ono o showing the bad or hopeless cases
tlmt. they are not forgotten, and most of the
men appreciate it. They are enrolled, if
they wish, in the Honorary Reserve. (3|
J here is no medical examination of appa
rontly fit reservists on first joining, for ob
vious reasons. But a strict one is scheduled
or. the first camp, and any rejects resulting
from it are to be transferred to the Honorary
Reserve. (4) The age of retirement u
ft might well be raised to
f , nj j. \ l man °f that age could put up
a usdful ficrlit in the event of his country
being attacked.
i; c bH U ? Sa , M nM ga w. The ex Pei'ience I re-
lished least while doing ray bit was to sud-
denly find a leper at my elbow, calling on
Allah and extending a bleached, scaly arm
for baksheesh. In the Sudan a leper camp
has been established, the Government pro-
viding a daily food allowance of 7-id. but ns
in India, the victims cannot be held in isola-
tion while the cities offer lucrative begging.
Abyssinia has something like
!)000 lepers with but one hos-
pital, which is limited to 100
patients. Most; of the adult
lepers are married, the husband
or wife in many cases being
primarily free from the disease;
but continued contact commonly
results in. their becoming in-
fected in the most virulent
form. A remarkable thing is
that many of the children born
of leprous parents, and reared
entirely amongst the diseased,
escape contagion altogether,
though the horror is said to
almost invariably show up in
the second or third generation.
** 4 ■
“Furlo”: In the beginning I
wondered why motor-drivers in
France carried a few Mills
grenades when apparently they
had no use for such things.
But I soon learned. To obtain
a duplicate part for a disabled
car it was necessary to make a
report, fill in a requisition in
triplicate, also sundry army
forms. Then a fortnight might
drag away before the duplicate
was forwarded, and there was
always the risk of its being
“pinched” in transit by other
drivers. So the quicker method was
adopted of blowing up the car with a couple
™ Mllls grenades, and reporting “Car No.
OuO smashd by enemy artillery”; then
almost immediately a new or a well over-
hauled second-hand one 'would arrive to
replace it.
* * # *
‘‘Gleniris”; The appointment of Dr.
Gilruth, ex-administrator of the Northern
Territory, to look for beef-nodules raises
once more the old question whether a re-
turned soldier couldn’t have been found for
the fl<oO-a-year job, supposing it needs to
be done. In the A.A.M.C. there is more
than one amply-qualified medical man with
a proved reputation in stock-parasite research
at least as capable in this direction
as this. horse-doctor. The latter’s appoint-
ment in these circumstances hints that,
under the big-jawed Watt
the man with a few strong strings to pull
is likely to be better off than the soldier
in spite of all the Government’s blather about
the debt we owe him
Ataminta : These are hard times for big
women. In corsets, for instance, slim sister
can get all the support she needs for a mere
trifle. There is no need for expensive
elastic. 1 lie material doesn’t have to be
extia-strong. and therefore costs less. The
stout soul needs ’em longer, wider and
springier, and she pays accordingly. In
•costumes’ much more material lias to be
used; and at a guinea a yard the price is
—br-r-rh! As for boots and shoes, there
A DOMESTIC DRAMA.
"Dearest, why these tears?"
"Sweetheart, for six months I have been that
most despicable of all God’s .creatures—
a, deserted wife."
“Heaven forgive me, darling, for finding
happiness in your sorrow."
"Love, our paradise is invaded —my husband
came home yesterday."
has .just been an all-round increase, and they
are in future to be sold by size, small-toed
sister paying quite a lot less than the mam-
moth missus: And on top of all this the
cost of fat-reducers has moved up. If the
thing goes on I can see that the less
bouncing girl is to have the best chance in
the market.
* * # «
“Z.II.K.’s” scoff from Egypt:—
The A. O', education scheme was started here in
April. A list of text-books obtainable at H.Q. was
tacked on the notice-board, and I picked out five
which I thought would help me to better things
after leaving the Army. On presenting myself
and list at H.Q. I was told that not one of the
five was in stock. The youth in charge smiled
nicely, and thought that possibly two of the books
could be obtained from Cairo. As for the other
three, a man was being sent to London to ob-
tain stocks, and they would probably be avail-
able in six weeks or so 1 Of course, a mere busi-
ness ass would cable for the books, and get them
within ten days. But this is the Army, and it’s
much better to send some staff-officer on a trip.
After he has had a look around England on a duty
pass he will return with the books to find there are
no men here to use them; at any rate, we are
assured that we shall all be out of this within two
months.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Communication with the Speck
has been set back by the seamen’s strike
to the devices of 70 years ago. The other
day the English and inter-State mails for
the island were put on board the schooner
LindstoJ, which was to battle from Mel-
bourne to Hobart if the wind would let her.
A few days earlier the Speck’s Melbourne
and Sydney mails were sent to Adelaide to
catch a hooker which chanced to be leaving
there for Tasmania. It has not been
necessary to send the mails via Capetown,
but it may be the quickest way yet. Mean-
time Federal and State Ministers are carry-
ing on quite-friendly negotiations with the
law-breakers who not only are causing this
dislocation, but cheerfully announce that
they intend to go on doing it.
“JJ.F.”: Mauritius has other links con-
necting it with Australia besides the fart
that llinders was detained there for some
years (B. 22/5/’l9). When Tasman sailed to
look for the ' unknown southland” in 1642
he touched at Mauritius to have his vessels
overhauled and the island was the last land
he saw before he made his landfall on the
west coast of Tasmania. The second Euro-
pean to visit Tasmania, Marion du Fresne.
also came from Mau-
ritius, in 1772. So did
Saint Allouarn, who
in .1772 landed in
WA., a little north
of the Swan River
and formally took pos
session of the country
for Prance. In 180;-!.
just before Flinders
fell into the trap at
Port Louis, two
1 ranch trading vessels
from the Mauritius,
the Surprise and the
L’Adele, came to Syd-
ney. taking advantage
of the brief suspension
of hostilities which
followed the Treaty
of Amiens. Both of
them had rum for sale.
Contance. master of
the L’Adele, bought ai
Sydney the brig Nau-
tilus, which he re-
christened the Enfant
d’Adele and took back
to Mauritius with a
cargo of cedar and
oddments. The Sur-
prise went sealing in
Bass Straits and was
wrecked on The Sis-
ters, near Cape Bar
ren Island, with the
loss of the master.
Alexandre le Corre.
and most of the crew.
“This.” wrote Gover-
nor King, who did not
like these visits and
had an idea that the
Frenchmen had then-
eyes open for other
things than trad e_
“may stop any more
adventurers from that
quarter.” Yet even
when the war with
France was renewed a
Sydney merchant tried, according to King,
to do some trading with the enemy through
the medium of American vessels. After
peace came again Mauritius sugar and rum
were largely used in Australia; in the
’twenties, for instance, there was, for those
days, a brisk trade between the two coun-
tries.
* *
The cast-iron military regulation which
closes all bars in and around Adelaide when
returning soldiers are passing through con-
tinues to have some mat results. Away at
Kawler a picnic had just started when the
pohce appeared, reminded the committee
that they were just within the 25-mile
radius, announced that there would be
soldiers in Adelaide that afternoon, and
closed up the bar.
ALL IN ORDER.
“Anything remarkable about their wedding?"
Nothing, except that they had the honeymoon
first.”
DEATH, THE NARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
According to the medical profession, the dancing-
vogue is responsible for the recrudescence of the
influenza epidemic in Sydney.”
He looked for Death through days and nights
Of bitter fighting- on the Somme;
He sought Him on the shattered heights
Of Flanders, when the diadrom
Of thudding- bomb and crashing shell
Made life a corpse-strewn noisome hell.
They sent him home to peace and love,
To all that he had been denied:
lie humbly thanked the gods above;
And Death, whose sway he had defied
’Midst War’s privations and alarms,
Came to him in his sweetheart’s arms.
X.S.W.
J. B. D.


sdf
supplied by
/
JCt
*9
r
WJ
■fl
WorKs :
Parramatta.
/
U
U
,Xl
u
<ML
I
w//s, wws/,
m
Then Why Use IMPORTED?
Meggitt Ltd.’s Linseed Oil—Maturity Guaranteed.
CATALOG No. 2 MAILED FI?EE.
Full particulars from Agents: Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Ltd... 666 Bourlte Street. Melbourne. Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co Queen
Brisbane. Messrs. VV. Adams & Co., King Street, Perth. Messrs. Clarkson Limited, Bundle Street, Adelaide. Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co
ceston and Hobart. Or
Street,
Laun-
MEGGITT LTD.
WORKS; PARRAMATTA
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia),
26 King' Street, SYDNEY
LINSEED OllMtm
m
The Boy on the Bay
guarantees quality.


Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/6 per day, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: YSOOI, 3002.
Anply Manager
dsf
SPORTINC
CARTRIDCES
Our Special Offer.
The Celebrated
SOVEREIGN, 21/- per 100
SMOKELESS, 20/6 per 100 —in SOO lots
CARTRIDGE, 20/- per 100-m tooo lots.
This is the finest smokeless cartridge made.
12-Gauge, loaded, double-chilled shot, and
Nobel’s Empire Smokeless Powder.
Shot Nos. 2,3, 4,5, 6, 8 and 10.
We have the largest stocks in Victoria
of Winchester, Remington and Dominion
Cartridges. Send for special list.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St, Melbourne.
dsf
WHISKY
sdf
the'TOPJOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
THE DOMESTIC TOUCH.
KIND LADY: “But why do you carry that
umbrella?"
WILY WILLIE: “Ah, mum, it used to belong
to me poor wife, an' — an’ I can't ever
part with it!"
“Hay”: A word about “Barcoo’s” state-
ment (B. 12/6/’l9) that he has no doubt of there
being two species of emu in Australia. After
journeying over a good deal of the continent and
looking in at the various zoos, I have so far met
only one kind of kulti, as Centralian Binghi called
him. The plumage of the bird varies greatly in
color, being much darker in good seasons when
food is abundant than in dry times when the
feathers take on a faded appearance. I saw one
emu among a flock at the Finke River (S.A.) which
at a distance looked almost white. The flesh of the
emu was Binghi’s most valued food, and the capture
of a kulti meant a glorious feast of the dark beefy
meat roasted on the coals. When the blackfellow
could eat no more he polished his skin with the
rich yellow fat till he shone in the sunshine. Black
brother is also very fond of the eggs when roasted
in a bed of hot ashes. At a station on the lakes
west of the Darling the men mustering sheep
brought in emu eggs to camp every day till a
heap accumulated big enough to fill a bullock-
dray. 'The cook served them all ways, and to me
they tasted just the same as the common or garden
fowl’s egg. The emu chick is a light-grey, long-
legged little fellow, who seems to be able to forage
for himself as soon as he leaves the shell.
“D.F.” : It is not necessary to go into the
Backblocks to find the art of catching black duck
and swans on a fish-line practised (B. 19/6/19).
Some of the citizens who wander round Melbourne
Uni. grounds (not the professors, though some of
them are out for something to balance the in-
creased cost of living) have been fowling with
baited hooks in the ponds. As the policemen
doubted whether there was any law to stop this
kind of “sport” during the open season, the
grounds have been proclaimed a sanctuary, so that
swans and ducks may have one safe place to rest in.
“Willie Woodbine”: Bill Speargrass, the
shyest bloke in N.S.W., saw the girl at an out-
back race-meeting, and fell violently in love at first
sight. Next Sunday afternoon Bill set off on the
20-mile ride to where his heart was. When he
returned that night his mate said, “Well, did you
see her, Bill?” “My oath I did,” chuckled Bill,
“but, b}' thunder, if I hadn’t hopped behind a
stump quick she’d ’ave seen me!"
“Edie Tee”: Wasplaying four-handed
cribbage the other night. My partner and I wanted
nine to win, while our opponents wanted 64 to
take the smile off our dials. A five of spades
came up. In the play we pegged three and they
scored four, which left six and 60 for the sprint
home respectively. My first yap gave our side
only two holes, while opponent No. 1 put the
wind up us by showing three fives and the Jack
of spades (29). With three to win my mate could
respond with only two holes. As the enemy still
wanted 31 we didn’t feel inclined to hoist i.he
armistice flag until opponent. No. 2 threw on the
table two fours and two sixes (24). All eyes
then turned to the crib, which was in the enemy’s
possession. Seven made all the difference in the
world. Two kings, a Jack and a queen turned up,
scoring 16 and a win for the enemy.
* * * »
“F.W.”: In the early ’eighties, at Mar-
field station, half-way between Ivanhoe and Wilcannia
(N.S.W.), when good rabbit-trappers could make
from £4O to £7O a month, the
Government decided to increase
the bounty. There must have
been over 200 trappers at the
head station when the inspector
drove up and called us to the
store verandah. He told us that
the Minister had decided to in-
crease the bonus a penny a scalp,
and that if we had left anv at
our camps we had better ride
back and get them. We all said
that we had none at home, reckon-
ing it would be all right the
following month, with perhaps a
further increase in the price.
Some of the clever talent went
so far as to extract a few hundred
from their sacks and plant them
in the bush, intending to hold
them back. The following morning
the inspector, a good old sort,
again warned us to produce all
the scalps we had, but without
avail; so, seated in an armchair
before a large fire, he commenced
to count. Each rabbiter came
forward in turn and threw his
scalps one by one in to the fire,
counting as he did so until he
cried “tally,” and the inspector
jotted the score down. When all
was finished the official told us
how the new regulations were to
be carried out. In future, he ex-
plained, with a broad smile, we
would have to skin bunny and
fetch skin and scalp in together
to be burnt. I often wonder that the heavy silence
which fell didn’t brain him.
* * * *
“John Drayman”: “Jim Carew” (B.
3/4/T9) says the best way to start a jibbing horse
is to attach a bar so as to bump his legs when he
moves. But suppose he doesn’t move? Besides,
it doesn't look much like horse-sense to punish a
moke for doing something you want him to do.
Nine-tenths of the jibbing horses in the world have
been dissuaded from their natural staunchness by
the slope-headed galoots who flog a jibber in the
middle of a pulling spasm “to keep the cow going.”
A horse, especially a young or middle-aged animal,
is as impressionable as a child, and far more
resentful of undeserved reproof, because unable to
blow off steam in yells and tears. Many a time
in my “wood-jamming” days (before the Head’s
Uuily, Wellington, and Breakneck roads from the
Dandenongs were metalled, and Wheeler’s Hill was
still uncut) have I wished for 10 stone more muscle
and 30 cwt. more courage in order to effectively
A CELESTIAL HADES.
THE WORM'S WIFE (administering hubby's daily dose) : “Now, sir, I again ask you, who
constitute the greatest force in the. world to-day?"
THE WORM ( meekly, for the fourth time): “Women, my dear."
MRS. W.: “And what would the world be without women?"
The Worm (still meekly) : “Hell, my dear."
MRS. W. (warming tin) : “And what would Hell be without women?"
THE WORM (still meek, but venturesome) : “Heaven, my dear."
deal with brainless hobbledehoys whose misapplied
language and whipcord were busy breaking the
hearts of their unhappy teams. To get stuck was
an every-day occurrence with even the best-driven
and least-overloaded wood caravans, and the “jam-
mers” nearly always travelled in pairs for double-
banking purposes. The chaps whose turnouts were
their own property soon learnt from the oldsters
of the road that the whip was the worst possible
weapon with which to tackle a boghole, and that
to flog a horse when his tug-chains were tight was
the unforgivable sin. But the l'ss.-and-tucker em-
ployees of the many-teamed owner, largely runaway
English and Swedish sailors and similar unhorsey
folk, were a class apart, and unteachable. They
made jibs by the score. You may see the same
Sort of “drivers” in charge of contractor's’ tip-
drays in nearly every Australian suburb to-day
loudmouthed youths who shove and pull and wallop
their ill-harnessed and ill-conditioned and dejected-
looking draughts as if they were creature's utterly
devoid of susceptibilities. If the S.P.C.A. (a yerv
estimable society whose inspectors are often as
ignorant of lrorse-lore as the untrained youths they
occasionally prosecute for cruelty) really wants to
do horseflesh a good turn it might do worse than
devote its energies to the setting-up of a school
for horse-drivers, with authority to issue cer-
tificates of competency to persons able to pass a
few simple tests in efficiency, and to prosecute any
horse-owner employing an uncertiflcated driver. The
cause and methods of prevention of sore shoulders
and sore backs in horses; how to locate the seat
and cause of lameness; how to differentiate be-
tween a case of ordinary gripes aaid inflammatory
indigestion; a few simple rules in regard to the
general care and feeding of the quadrupeds, safe
dnving, shoeing, etc.—these might be included in the
curriculum; also a few imperative instructions on
what not to do with a jibbing moke. An ordinarily
intelligent Australian youth could pass such an
examination almost without any special instruction
whatever, and even the dullest of our city-bred foot-
ball barrackers might pass after a few hours’
schooling. Only last evening in the main street
of an Australian city I saw a fine horse toiling up
a hill with a heavy load of bricks. His wry-
necked gait as he came up the hill towards mo
plainly indicated that a sore shoulder was develop-
ing’. A closer survey showed that one tug-chain
wag hooked a long link (21 inches) shorter than
the other. The driver thanked me for call in"
us attention to the fact, and said lie had “thought
the horse was pullin’ blankv awkward all the
afternoon.” Together we lifted the collar and
looked beneath. Two lumps as big as sparrows'
eggs were discovered. If the horse had worked an
hour or two longer under the same conditions one
of the lumps would have grown to hen-egg dimen-
sions probably. Sore backs in draught horses are
often caused by the tug-chains wearing or stretch-
ing half an inch f too long; the horse is then
pulling by the back-chain, and the grind on the
poor brute’s back is something cruel. Short back-
chains, the “pull” of the tug-chains below the
level of the “traveller,” are also provocative of sore
backs and lurid language. These and a dozen other
equally simple points are the common knowledge
of every wise drayman; but after a careful scrutiny
of the horse-fittings of the next dozen brick-chariots
you meet you will, perhaps, remark on the painful
lack of wisdom with which the horse-world is
governed.
NO AMATEUR PERFORMANCE.
DOCTOR : “Apparently you cough with diffi-
culty.”
PATIENT: “Sure, sir, then it’s not for leant
of practice.”
‘‘Steve Hart”: According to the Bourke
stock inspector ■ one of the worst pests out there is
the water-hen, which is in thousands along the
Darling, Warrego, Culgoa and other streams. He
declares that they are ruinous to pastures, eating
even the grass roots.' Any corroboration?
(Continued on page 22.)
OL’ MUM’S EYES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Blare your bugles ’bout your diamonds, rubies red
and priceless pearls ;
Bait Love’s lures with flamin’ opals When you’d win
the hearts o’ girls;
Praise the glitter of your gewgaws; laud the gliius
o’ Paradise —•
They’re as candles to the sunlight when compared
with cl’ Mum’s eyes.
They glint lovelights softly burnin’ as lodestars to
trustin’ hearts;
Brighter gleams to banish sorrow when the falt’rin’
teardrop starts;
They flash flames to warn the waverer Where the
path of honor lies.
Ever glints o’ Love’s devotion light the depths of
ol’ Mum’s eyes.
How they send forth sparks maternal to the honest
thrills o’ pride !
Yet they’re dim an’ misty, sometimes, when a spirit
westward hies;
They show flashes of resentment when wrong beats
the weaker side—
They're the lights to deeds o’ duty, are the glints
in ol’ Mum’s eyes! .
Often, tvvixt the squeeze an’ whisper, when the
stars begin to shine,
Ol’ Jim pops the question, with his horny
hand in mine
(We’ve twin-notions re the rearin’ of the beauties
in his sties !)
“Will I marry?” I fib “Never!" while the glints
light ol’ Mum’s eyes.
Mum has reared her brood right proudly—she has
played a mother’s part;
Some have married, some are fightin’; p'rhaps
’twould sear her mother-heart
If I left her-—l’m the baby,...Ah, ol' Mum is
wondrous wise:
Jim has blabbed about his yearnin’s—see the twinkle
in her eyes 1
VICTORIA.
RITA SUNYASEE.


'
■ V ?
■l
lIS*
ESTEY
PLAYER PIANOS
ke E
ayer
_
,LL#
©
aiao
IS
easy
An ESTEY PLAYER PIANO will turn many a dull
evening into a bright one. The glorious beauties of
music are always at your hand, and you can revel in
the sweet entrancing music of the classics or the jolly,
bright, free and easy popular music of the day.
Just what you want you can play, and just when you
want it, and without having to worry to learn it—the
music roll does everything for you.
Every shade of expression and tone=quality is instantly
obtainable by means of the Player devices. The
pedalling is a revelation, and so easy, too. It never
makes you tired.
You can purchase an ESTEY PLAYER on Easy Terms
if required. Your present piano taken in exchange
and full honest value allowed.
Write for our Player Piano Catalogue and PRINTED PRICE LIST
(post free).
PALING
9
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Brisbane, Lismore, Toowoomba & Newcastle.
“Just the outfit we Have been looßing> for—
fills a long'-felt need ! ”
This is the verdict of one of Australia’s Leading Orchardists regarding the
“PERFECT BALANCE” Power Spray Plant
and all Orchardists, Vignerons and Gardeners who have
had any experience with spraying agre v e that the Cooper
contains every feature they have ever found essential for
perfect, effective spraying. It is the final achievement
in spray plants.
STRONG AND PRACTICAL
FROM START TO FINISH
—CAN BE TURNED IN
ITS OWN LENGTH—IS
ALWAYS PERFECTLY
BALANCED—FULL OR EMPTY NO WEIGHT ON HORSE.
The low down, underslung vat makes it just as safe on hillside as on
level ground.
WHEELS are wrought steel, with broad 6in. tyres, which ensure
light pulling on soft soil.
PUMP is the famous vertical Duplex type, which works at any angle
and delivers a fine misty spray. No particle is bigger than a
pin’s point —a perfect principle, perfectly applied.
ENGINE is the Cooper low-speed type, fitted with quick-start
oscillating magneto, speed regulator, etc.
VAT holds a hundred gallons, and is made of best N.Z. kauri.
agitator revolves on the axle, and is mechanically operated.
Special high-pressure hose and all fittings are included.
—flam
jr j'apsRKHT -
■<m
*>';,vy f (S^V4j
/
,j>* I
' s£r •■
SUM*
*am
Design
Patent
No. 10,915 ,
Price
If you have spraying to do, write to-day for illustrated leaflet describing the plant in detail.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Australasian Implement & H. F. Co., Adelaide; George P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Perth; W. Hart & Sons, Launceston; Buchanan Davidson & Co., Ltd.,
Hobart; Clark & Fauset, Ltd., Brisbane; New Zealand Loan and M. A. Co., Ltd., Hughenden, Townsville and Rockhampton.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH—
YVIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
ABSOLUTELY PURE AND SOLUBLE.
Manufactured in Australia from the finest selected Beans.
©
99
Obtainable all Leading Grocers throughout the Commonwealth and N.Z.
Wholesale only from McINTYRE BROS., Sole Proprietors, Melbourne, Vic.
Agents: Mr. .1. P. WILSOjf. Brisbane.
Mr- DAVID BJLASHKI. Pitt Street, SYDNEY
Messrs.
Mr. W.
MADDOX & DA WHENCE, PERTH".
R I.ANGSFORD. ADELAIDE. [2
“P.”: What is a hogget? In a recent
case at; Young (N.S.W.) Judge Bevan, after im-
bibing considerable expert evidence, concluded that
a hogget was merely a young sheep which might
vary in age from six months to two years, accord-
ing to the definition each man carried in his mind.
It was evident that there was no universal definition
of the term.” In some at least of the English
“provinces” the term is applied to ar.y sheep that
has never been shorn. Does the same apply to
Australia ?
A RINGER.
COCKY (to newchum out for colonial experience): “Any good with the shears?”
P OMMY: “Any good with the shears! Why, man, I’ve been cutting for some of the leading
tailors in London.”
”V.G.”: “Chev’s” yarn (B. 9/'l/’l9) of
finding a colony of native bees in the same tree
cavity with a swarm of Italian bees takes my
memory to a scrub in the Rosewood district,
Southern Queensland, where 1 once felled a large
hollow brigalow to obtain something to sweeten
the daily crust. On knocking out a skelp, which
revealed the entire nest, I found that a colony of
native bees had built right in the centre of the
comb belonging to their larger neighbors. The little
fellows used the bottom portion of the exit hole in
the tree trunk. Their globular cells and thick
black comb took up the whole width of the cavity.
The larger species occupied about two feet on each
side of the home of their small friends, through
whose comb the separate compartments had com-
munication by a well-beaten track on the side
furthest from the exit. The only place where both
species could come into coi tact was at the exit,
and the flavor of the honey from each nest was
full evidence that neither tribe replenished its store
at the other’s expense.
“FY7” : Re emus and their nesting habits
(B. 12/6/’l9). The hen emu is not only boss
of the harem, but is a very casual one at that.
She makes her husband do more than half the
sitting on the eggs, and once the youngsters appear
the old man has to shepherd them until they are
old enough to fend for themselves. The ostrich
follows the same practice. But this fowl pools the
eggs of several hens in one nest and breaks a pro-
portion of eggs as food for the earlier chicks. To
stop this waste on S’Afriean farms the eggs are
mostly incubated artificially.
Ivaylee : At Emu Bay (Kangaroo
Island) they don’t waste Janversation. Bill Hogan
came over for a yarn witjßjoe Smith. He came at
eight and they smoked in silence till 8.45. Then
there was some excitement:—
“Seen a snake to-day.”
“No!”
“Yaas. Five an’ a ’arf feet long.”
Well I be gordamned.”
That filled the evening nicely and not another word
was said till “lights out.”
*
“Mrs. Lance Rawson” : Talking about the
hospitality of the bush (B. 22/5/’l9), can you beat
this? Some years ago, while writing the' Poultry
notes for the Queenslander, I wa3 one day asked
to inspect some ailing turkeys at a selector's place
some distance up country. The bird-owner met me,
and we drove several miles. I saw the turkeys,
and, having prescribed for them, learned to my
horror that there was not another train back till
next day at noon. “We can put you up,” they told
me, and I settled down and played cards with the
family. There were only two rooms and a lean-to
kitchen, so I wondered vaguely where the family
was going to sleep. However, at 8 o’clock I was
led into the next room, handed a nice clean
nightie, and waved towards the big bed. I noticed
that a sofa had been inserted between this bed and
the wall, and I took it, as there was already a
young girl at one end of the bed and a boy of 11
at the other. Then another girl and the mother
got in. Presently the light in the other room went
out, our door opened, a pair of pants were thrown
over the top of the bed, and Pa crawled in the other
side of Mum. In the middle of the night a voice
hailed me: “I say, missus, you awake?” “Yes,
what’s the matter?-' I replied. “Will them turkeys
lay this side o’ Christmas?”
From Dr. ,J. M. Creed, M.L.C., who has
been making himself an expert in these matters
ever since he was medical officer to the S. Aus.
Government Exploring Expedition to the Northern
Territory, 51 years ago:—
“Pharmo” (B. 12/6/’l9) makes a number of state-
ments relative to the treatment of snakebite which
may be of ill effect to many persons not having
proper information, so I think it better to give
some of the knowledge which I have acquired.
Ammonia -injected into a vein was recommended
prior to 1867 by Professor Halford, of the Mel-
bourne University, but was found to be so in-
effective that its use was soon abandoned, and until
Dr. A. Mueller, of Yackandandah, suggested the use
of the hypodermic injection of strychnia many deaths
occurred. This treatment was first brought under
my notice in the latter part of the year 1888 as
editor of the Australasian Medical Gazette, and
I published the reports of nearly 50 cases occurring
in Australia and eight in India in 1892. These
reports show how potent in such cases strychnia
is. I will only quote four of them, for any person
ONE SPORT AND ANOTHER.
COLLINGWOOD SPORT (to dog-fancier ): “Bonner dogs, Mister! Any good fer rabbitin’?”
desiring more information can get it at the Public
Library in the book “On Snake Poison, its Action
and its Antidote,” by Dr. A. Mueller.
Case 2 of the series, a girl of 20: Marked
symptoms of snake poison. Made good recoverv
after injection of one-sixth and one-twelfth of
nitrate of strychnia.
Case 5: Mr. Johnstone, the P.M. at Maryborough
by T ? large brown snak e (Diamenia
2 H Of®)' Ligature was applied and punctures
sucked, three medical men were called, who in-
jected ammonia into several veins, finally adopting
artificial respiration, his death being apparentb
imminent. Another doctor, having been told o;
the va.ue of injections of strychnia, suggested it-
use. The first injection rendered further artificial
respiration unnecessary, and two more restored the
patient completely.
, v ?“! e 8: Luke Dewhurst, laborer, of Lilydale
b^ ten by a tiger-snake (Hoplocephalus
curtus ). Cured bv one injection of one-fifteenth of
a strain or strychnia after ammonia had failed.
Case 25: Dr. Holmes, of Launceston (Tas.)
speaking of Mrs. Frazer, of St. Leonards, said :
From her desperate condition I thought it too late
to use ammonia, and decided on injecting strychnia ”
SM njec^d bet "' een 12 -«° and 5 p.m. a grain and’a
ninth, the patient made a g‘ood recovery.
My experience makes me believe that strychnia is
the only practicable remedy which may be used be
every intelligent person, practitioner or layman
The injection into a vein of the serum of the blood
of a horse which has acquired immunity from the
injection of repeated increasing doses of snake poison
may possibly be thought more scientific, but it
requires from 20 to 30 ounces to be inserted into a
vein, with the strictest antiseptic precautions, which
are manifestly impossible to a layman and t.c
many doctors called to act on the spur of the
moment, perhaps in a bush hut.
It may be well to point out that permanganate
of.potash or soda is not an antidote, but only of use
“ ls brought into direct and intimate contact
with the snake venom. It has no effect except for
harm when the poison has been absorbed. To make
it effective very free incisions are necessary, ex-
posing the actual bottom of the snakebite.
Professor Fraser, of Edinburgh, informed me that
the injection hypodermically of the “bile” of ,
snake of similar species to' that inflicting the bite
is an antidote. I prefer strychnia, which*, bv
direction of Sir Joseph Fayrer, F.K.S., as president
of the Indian Medicine Board, has been adopted in
India, notwithstanding that he had in liis greai
work on “The Thanatophidia” expressed his opinion
that Ins experience on animals had not proved i* ■
efficacy. 1
Fe\v people realise the effect of fear on a person
who believes he has been bitten by a venomous
snake. All the symptoms which are generally sup-
posed to be indicative of snakebite followed, in a
case rear Sydney, the bite of a perfectly harmless
lizard, the subject died from fright in a few hours.
An even more remarkable case was that of ;i
woman near L?rnbton (N.S.W.), who, believing 4,
was bitten, fell down insensible. The wound was
round to have been caused by a splinter of wooo
which she had trodden on just as she saw the
snake.
**• * *
“Senex”: “Pick’s” yarn (B. 17/4/’10)
about the bird and the devilfish brings an in-
cident in Valparaiso back to my mind. The boat-
landing there is built entirely of lattice-work in
iron, so as to offer as little resistance as possible to
the heavy seas which sweep in. We had just put
the skipper ashore when a lady dropped her purse
through the wharf. A boatman dived in and got i<
(smart work; the water is 10 fathoms), and swam
to the steps near our boat. Suddenly he gave a yell
and one of my apprentice boys jumped up and
shoved his oar over to the swimmer. The latter,
with the feeler of a horrible beast round his body,
could just reach it. We got him close enough to
enable him to grip the boat’s gunwale, and 1 slipped
a line round him while the hoys jabbed at the
monster with oars and a boat hook. Four or five
feelers came writhing up in the air, but didn’t
come across the boat. Finally other boats near lent
their assistance and we hauled the poor bloke high
enough for us to chop the tentacle. He was badly
scared and the suckers on the feeler had brought
the flesh up like a line of boils; but he still had
the purse in his shirt. Next voyage, in Talcahuano,
after a gale, the beach for miles between Talea
and Peneo was piled 6ft. high with dead devilfish,
from baby size right up to fearsome things with
tentacles I Oft. long.
THE NIGHT-RIDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Suitable for recitation in any Northern Sydney
suburb.)
It is the Flying Hornsby Scud,
The famed Six-five Express;
Her skipper is a man named Mudd,
Augustus Mudd, no less;
As stoker, help or A.D.C.
He has Bert Higgs, of Waverley.
And now the cry is “Let her go!”
Augustus sets his teeth
And hits the throttle blow on blow,
On top and underneath;
He hits it with a wooden spar.
And likewise with an iron bar.
Follow the scream and crash of gears,
A harsh, asthmatic cough,
And out into the dark she tears,
’Mid cries of “We are off!”
With seven hundred souls inside
To taste the terrors of the ride.
“Now Heaven help us all to-night!”
Cries Mudd unto his mate;
“We two must make a dogged fight
To save them from their fate.”
He motions through the howling wind
To the suburbanites behind.
Twelve hundred pounds of fish and steak,
Un-numbered plants and seeds;
The thousand things that go to make
A Northern suburb’s needs,
The Sun, the News, the spud, the rose
All these within their bags repose. *
Cries Higgs, “By cripes, she’s going great!”
As, like a thing on wings,
The Six-five, with its precious freight.
Through Chatswood station swings.
The face of Mudd grows grim and dour;
Ihe pace is seven miles an hour.
He dashes to the garboard strake
And oils the epiderms,
Fills up the carbide cleats with slake "
(All engineering terms).
On, on she hurtles through the night;
Bert Higgs looks apprehensive, white.
Killara glitters far ahead ;
A moan proceeds from Mudd—
A moan as of a man in dread.
The famous Flying Scud
Gives one or two convulsive hops,
Grunts loudly, blows off steam—and stops.
Eight-twelve, and she is off again
Upon her frenzied course;
Higgs stokes with all his mig'ht and main,
Mudd drives with skill and force;
She shudders north, south, west and east,
The speed is nine—or eight at least.
KNOWLEDGE BORN O.F EXPERIENCE.
WIFE: “Wake up! Wake up! There’s a
robber in the house!”
HUSBAND (an unsuccessful punter ): “Rob-
bers here be d — d! They’re all out
at Flemington.”
“Faster!” cries Higgs; and faster still
She dashes through the murk,
As both devote nerve, strength and skill
To their tremendous work.
All Turramurra reels aghast
To hear her wheeze and rattle past.
As midnight strikes the Hornsby lights
Come slowly into view;
The somnolent suburbanites
Bestir themselves anew;
Brown bags are grasped, and trees and plants,
As past the signal-hox she pants.
And Northern men still tell the tale.
Until they’re ashed to stop.
Of how the Scud defied the gale,
And staggered at her top,
From, Milson’s vale to Hornsby’s hill
In six hours—casualties nil.
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


HIGH class cigarettes at moderate prices.
un , 0
» j-iothcu Qualities „ <J *
sd
CIGARETTES
VIRGINIA.
The Famous
Rod Packet
10 for 8i
STANDARD WEIGHT.
STATE EXPRESS CIGARETTES are made from
an exquisite blend of tobacco —of an established
individuality and a charm distinctly their own.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS-ARDATH-TOBACCO COY L TD
1


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
A
COLDS
COUCHS
0
CROUP
LUNG
TROU3IE3
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
W
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
Turkish code was ever of use to anybody.
Abdul the Damned-Useless built no cities,
though he stole many and destroyed some,
lie didn’t even build great places of worship.
His mosques were stolen. And though
he was always a soldier above all things,
he supplied no new weapons. Even the
big gun with which he took Constantinople
from the Greeks—the big gun which con-
solidated his empire—was made by a
foreigner. Next to being a soldier the Turk
is an agriculturist, but in every country
lie occupied he left agriculture worse than
lie found it. Ilis military tactics weren’t
new, and his Government was a copy of the
plainest old forms of despotism. He isn't
even a genuine Commander of the Faithful,
for by old Arab law —and the Arabs ought
to know, seeing that they invented the Com-
mander of the Faithful—that personage
must be an Arab. The Turk took the honor
and the pedigree by force just as Jack John-
son might become a genuine Howard if lie
got a decrepit Duke of Norfolk in a
corner and scared him into handing over
his ancestors.
The. world grows short of space, and
there isn’t room in it for patched-up or mon-
gyel or Jbroken-winded apologies. The repaired
Turk, if he can be repaired, will only take
up room _ which is wanted for people who
are not in need of expensive moral soling
and heeling. We can buy a really civilised
fresh baby for a tenth the cost of putting
a surface polish on an adult imitation, and
why should a good European baby remain
unborn in Europe to make room" for this
old Asiatic failure? Besides, the job is
hopeless if \ye judge by history. No race
which has failed to develop arts of its own,
or which has reached the limit of its develop-
ment and stopped, can be taught. Such races
are the negro, the Turk, the Australian
aboriginal. Individuals among them can be
lifted to a high point, but the uplift isn’t
hereditary. The race can be lifted a little,
but it only stays up so long as it is labor-
iously held up. When civilisation takes its
eye off the Turk lie goes back to his tree-
top again. Civilisation has better uses for
its eye.
John Turk’s history has been that of one
easy adventure. When hie came on the
scene the amazingly tough Greek Empire
was going down at last. Constantinople
being reputed, even more than Delhi, to be
the one world-city worth plundering, every
moving nation had aimed at it. It sur-
vived the attacks of the Goths in their first
flush of victory; of Persia at its greatest;
of the Iluns ; of the Saracens in the pride of
their youth (and it was Greece, not France,
that broke them after they had besieged
Constantinople seven times) ; of the Avars;
Of the Bulgarians; of the Normans; of the
Venetians; and of the Crusaders (who stood
for the power of half Western Europe). The
young Turk came in when the most valiant
old dog in history was dying, and got the
last bite. Like the Hun, he was never more
than a raider and conqueror. As soon as
his first rush was over his ill-managed,
blood-stained bubble began to break. He lost
his Italian provinces, Persia, Hungary,
Southern Russia and the Crimea, Algiers,
Tunis, Tripoli, Roumania, Greece, Bul-
garia, Serbia, Bosnia, Herzegovina, Egypt—
and nowhere was he regretted.
He failed on his one and only job—the
military job—for lack of brains. For very
many years the world somehow hardly
thought of applying science to military
matters. When war became a matter of
science he was left, because his stodgy in-
tellect doesn’t absorb new ideas even in his
own special line. If he can’t be taught up-
to-date war which he wants to learn, he
can’t be taught up-to-date government which
he doesn’t want to know anything about.
There are other folk of Asiatic descent
in Scots and Irish, for in-
stance, who are descended from either
Pontius Pilate or Priam of Troy. But they
belong, while between Europe and the Turk
there is an impassable gulf. It isn’t merely
his religion, though Christian (even un-
christian Christian) and Moslem never did
mix. It isn’t merely polygamy, though that
is objectionable; nor slavery ; nor the habit
of keeping his women shut up. Other people
may think that every woman is bound to
go astray with the first man she meets so
that she mustn’t meet men, but the person
who says it and acts on it is no gentleman.
Still the matter can be passed over. The
real gulf is between the Nations that Keep
Eunuchs and Those that Don’t Keep
Eunuchs. The typical eunuch is a big,
flabby beast with a falsetto voice and the
look of a fat, insane ballet-girl, and he was
invented so that a sort of man might wander
about the women’s bedrooms for fear real
men should climb in at the window. Also
he could be employed without blushing to
flog ladies who had given offence. When
ladies were so plentiful even those of fairly
high degree were floggable. Besides they
couldn’t get out to appeal to the magis-
trate. _ And if a eunuch killed them by in-
structions they weren’t missed as a European
princess or bricklayer’s wife would be.
People who never appeared couldn’t be
missed. The occasional view of Abdul
Hamid’s eunuchs—big, black, frock-coated,
vicious-looking, slimy-looking, arrogant, leer-
ing, cringing, inhuman, with feet and hands
like hams, floundering at a run through the
streets of Constantinople—was a horror. One
or two European States brought samples of
such creatures from their Asiatic povinces,
but the habit never really took root. Even
if the Turk arives up keeping Eunuchs he
will Think Eunuchs. So he had better go
where he belongs.
JAMES EDMOND.
The Inky Way
H. G. Wells has decided to go one better
than his most ambitious previous efforts.
His next book is to be called “The Un-
dying Fire,” and both the Deity and the
Devil are among the argumentative charac-
ters.
Henry Watterson, editor of the Louis-
ville (U.S.A.) Courier-Journal from 1868
to 1918, and editor emeritus till last month,
has resigned, splitting with his old paper
over the League of Nations, which he
opposes. Watterson was friend 0 f Mark
Twain, Artemus Ward and a bunch of
other celebrities, and wrote Adelina Patti’s
first press criticism.
Why an Australian paper should be given
a French name is not obvious ; probably Box
Vue, the newest Adelaide weekly—the second
of its kind to appear within a month—has
borrowed its title from a popular colt,
locally-owned. The paper is owned and edited
by Barraclough and Curtis, returned sol-
diers, and published by the W. K. Thomas
firm.
“S.T.S.”: It seems as if there ought to
be a censorship of competition editors. Lon-
don Bookman, giving a prize for the best
poetical quotation appropriate to some new
book, awards it to a neat but obvious pun:
Book, “Where Your Treasure Is,” by
Beatrice Harraden; quotation, “I know a
Bank.” And yet, among the also-ran of mere
honorable-mention, is this brilliant (if sav-
age) effort: Book, “The Telephone Girl”
(Askew) ; quotation (from Matthew
Arnold, on Shakespeare), “We ask and
ask, Thou smilest and art still.”
The budding Sydney artist has another
wall to hang his canvases on, where
the public may see his work without climb-
ing to a studio. Bookseller Swain has
turned a long, well-lighted room at the top
of Ins Pitt-street shop into a gallery for
embryo Hilders and Rix Nicholases. No
charge is made for the use of the room-
only a small commission on sales. There’s
a small, spare, Scotch enthusiast tending
the new cradle of art, and he’ll be glad
to talk color-schemes and exhibits to all
brothers of brush and pencil.
BT ® a,t Australian institution, the
Mitchell Library, Sydney, again reminds
Australian and Maoriland soldiers and their
relatives that it is anxious to collect (and,
if necessary, pay for) any interesting per-
sonal records of the war. A great collection
of diaries, letters, photographs, etc., has
a ready been made; but the Mitchell is in-
satiable, and has a long purse. Apart from
pay, any good Australian might well be
proud to have his glimpse of history pre-
served with the log-books, journals and
eip?orers f ® r ® at Australian nagivators and
J-F.H. : Arthur Spurgeon, managing
director ot the great publishing house of
Lassell s, has been given a dinner by grati-
fied shareholders. In the course of his
speech the guest mentioned that Stevenson
got only £lOO at first for “Treasure Island,”
but since then Cassell’s have paid the author
and his executors almost as many thousands.
Rider Haggard made a bet with his brother
that he could w e a yarn on the lines of
lreasure Island. “King Solomon’s Mines”
was the result. Thirty-eight years ago the
Cassells were running The Boy’s News-
paper. In it there appeared an article on
Achieve Success.” by a youth named
Alfred Harmsworth. The youngster is now
Northchffe, the Aapoleon of the English
newspaper world.
The Digger is seen from a new angle in
Mr-. Standfast, the last novel by John
-Buchan soldier and war-historian. The
opinions are obviously the writer’s own,
though put into the mouth of his characters.
Ihe narrator, a Scotch colonel with Rho-
desian experience, gets himself asked bv an
American which Britishers fight best, so as
to deliver this verdict: “All good. The
French are keen judges, and they give front
place to the Scots and the Australians. For
myself, I think the backbone of the army is
the old-fashioned English county regiments,
that hardly ever get into the papers. Though
I don t know, if I had to pick, but I’d take
the South Africans. There’s only a brigade
of them, but they’re hell’s delight in a battle.
r>ut then you’ll say I’m prejudiced.”
A eibrugghen should compose a color har-
mony for the ladies of the Conservatorium
orchestra. For a recent concert at King’s
Cross Theatre, the players apparently put
on the first thing that came handy. The re-
sult was a weird jumble of colors. A vio-
liniste in a brown cloth dress sat next to a
giii in a tartan skirt and green golfer. Be-
hind them a sweet young thing hung golden
cuils o\er a blue silk shoulder, regardless
or unconscious of the fact that her blue
clashed with two other blues near her A
black velvet dress bestowed itself near an
elaborate white evening-frock. And so on.
I agmar Thomson, who received thunderous
applause for her solo playing in Mendels-
sohn s Concerto in E Minor, looked, with her
cream draperies and golden head, the very
.Spirit of the \ iolin, exquisitely dainty and
ethereal. Suppose one cannot expect young
students with a way in the world to make
to exactly emulate the soloist; but why
have the stage a tangle of dress discords?
Another troopship’s paper comes down the
gangway to The. Bulletin—Starboard
Light. If there is one thing the Aus-
tralian citizen-soldier can do better than
fighting it is writing. The Bulletin
doesnt encourage parodies, but this one on
Rupert Brooke’s vision goes to print:
THE SOLDIER.
When 1 come home, think only this of me,
I hat, though I’ve had a darned fine time abroad,
And done the sights of London and Paree
(In company with Marie or with Maud),
Still, now that I am coming home again,
Regard me only as an Aussie, please ;
My attentions I’ll confine to Mary Jane,
* j n i?'\ ear , n 0 more t 0 roam the Seven Seas.
And think, old dear, how constant I have been,
No demoiselle I’m bringing home with me!
Of all the beauties that abroad I’ve seen
None can compare, my Mary Jane, with thee.
So with jnv P a y deferred (once so despised)
We’ll build a shack for maybe three
And i n our dear homeland with friends well prized
We’ll dwell within the country of the free.
The Bulletin’s file goes to the Mitchell
Library.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Ad. from the Hobart Sporting Record of
June 7: —
■ ROYDEN AH CHUNG, 73 Elizabeth Street
(Billiards Upstairs), Tobacconist and Importer oi
Ladies, Face Powders, Perfumes, Soaps, Toilet Re-
quisites.
Dear, dear—and we thought that nobody but
the Repatriation Department was in that
trade at present.
* * * *
“S.S.S.”: I didn’t know that there were
human hearts in these big impersonal busi-
nesses. How could I know —they had always
told me these things were soulless! Whilst in
Torres Strait and Papua I had cheered
myself once in a while with a pretty gown
made by—l’ll call it the White House.
When my husband, then in Belgium, was
due for leave, he cabled me to come first
steamer. I found I could get a berth in a
boat leaving 10 days later. I feverishly col-
lected clothes for the voyage and a few
pretties to arrive in. I got a telephone
message on the third day from the agents
to say they could let me have a passage in
a ship leaving next day. I sailed by it,
leaving bills and business with a solicitor
to settle. When my baby and I arrived
in England it was only to find my splendid
husband had been killed in action eight davs
before. I could not get a passage back for
IS months. Upon my return I asked the
solicitor about the White House account,
which was the only one not sent on to me.
He told me that when it came in he wrote
to say that my husband had been killed,
and that there might be a little delay in
paying it. And they wrote to say there
was no bi11....1t was a big bill, too.
* * * *
“W-A.C.” : I charge William Lund, J.P.,
of Gin Gin (Q.), with having too many
visible means of support. He is the district’s
blacksmith, wheelwright, plumber, glazier,
photographer, electrician, organist, dance-
pianist, lodge secretary, insurance agent and
undertaker. When not chasing the wolf
away from his self-built residence he makes
himself a nuisance to other competitors in
billiard, rifle-shooting, quoit and cricket
matches.
* * * *
“F.N.T.” : Vic. grocers’ assistants, who con-
duct fairly frequent arguments with the boss
about wages and working conditions, have
lately had another discussion. Early in the
proceedings this ominous question was asked
by William Webber, of the Shop Assistants’
Federation: “Can the Master Grocers deny
that when a recent increase in wages was
glanted by the Board in the grocery trade
amounting to about 1 p.c. on the turnover,
the Association attempted to pass on to the
public an increase of about 9 p.c.?” Lots of
people would like to have a full answer,
but between the two millstones the helpless
public is squeezed so hard nowadays that it
hasn t much breath left to clamor for par-
ticulars.
*'*■*.;■*
Cookie’: At making deals with the
British Government the people who have the
business m hand for Australia (it ought to
be the High Commissioner, but perhaps it
isn t) seem to be licked every time. Meares,
of the NT. S- Wales Coastal Farmers, lately
called round at our butter-factory to tell
us that the surplus output from these parts
has been sold to London till August, 1920,
at V'.’wU, 1 )0 !’ c 'vt. I reckon this means
about 200 s. landed in London to the British
Government. Yet I read that the British
Government’s schedule price for Irish butter
vvr/u S ” or OJd. per lb. above Australian,
what rotten business man dropped Austra-
ha m the soup like this? And has he been
knighted yet?
* * * *
“Umntu” : Australia’s first “wages board”
was called by Governor ' Hunter in 1797.
It consisted wholly of employers, whose
puipose was to keep the laboring man down
by the "exorbitant prices” that
he shamefully imposed” on those who hired
him. The rates fixed, and published by
Hunter in a Government Order on Marco
IU, 1 1 .17, were as mean as they were in
England until the other day. The yearly
wage was £lO with board : weekly 6s with
board; daily, Is. with board,' or 2s. 6d
without. The employers bound themselves
not to pay more, and the Government stood
behind them with barbarous punishments,
bo the employers of Australia had a union
Jong before the workers.
* * * *
. _i A run on the Speck’s blue peas
in the London market during the war
puzzled some N.-W. Coast farmers. For a
time the vegetables soared above 10s. a bushel,
and seemed to be all the go. A soldier-
farmer who struck a trail and followed it
while on leave in London reckons that he
knows. He says that if you take the blue-
pea and soak it in a solution of soda for
about 1— hours the skin comes off, and it
blossoms out into a green pea. From what
he has seen in Sydney and Melbourne rest-
aurants since he caught the idea this
scientist reckons that the secret is known
this side of London, too.
A POINT OF LAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Society at Doubledee
Has been disturbed of late;
Our leading townsman, Jonas Gee,
Is plunged by adverse fate
In quite a vortex of distresses
And family unplea sent nesses.
Some vulgar fellow, lost to shame,
And bent on raising strife,
Right in the open made his claim
To Gee’s respected wife.
In Nineteen Hundred they were married.
A year with him the lady tarried.
Poor Mrs. Gee was quite upset,
But now the neighbors say
The rash intruder cannot get
The dame by law away,
For Gee last evening made confession
That he will plead “adverse possession.’’
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


fs
ARE you using the tyres that yield you the most in
mileage, comfort, economy of upkeep and surefoot
security? If, in the wisdom begotten of motoring
experience, you are, your tyres are impressing on the soft
roadway or imprinting on the blocks and asphalt the
precious hallmark of tyre-service —the Goodyear Diamond
Tread —the pattern of pledged performance.
Pledged performance! What does that signify ? It
means that the Goodyear Company stands pledged to
the realisation of an ideal —the produc-
tion of the perfect tyre, as far as is
humanly possible.
That is why positively-better-construc-
tion is insisted on in every stage of
Goodyear manufacture. And by that
better - construction is built up a
company of fine features which by
their satisfactory performance and
long-enduring service produce an
eventual saving in cost.
Buy your Goodyear Tyres, Heavy Tourist Tubes
and Tyre Saver Accessories from the Goodyear
Service Station. There is one in your locality.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES
ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
1125
SERVICE STATIONS AND
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
&
T
M.
fc 5 i
6)11 !
V '-> / mw®®
I3)\SI
ite^cusaa
rv^z-s
fI&E
feS
rT-.^r.
'^''ry~-' :
W&
>- .
. vr-. A
VMa
wp
Sr *»*=*''
bp ,
£&
df


nil
Wool
Men!
Aerial transport may come.
But meantime Rail or Ship
your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney OR Brisbane. LTD.
ir\r.
'
w,
z,
/’i
a
fE/NCiflc Wire
Enables you to erect the
best permanent fences at
lowest cost.
Each roll of “Waratab"
Fencing Wire bears an
identification tag, which
guarantees quality, strength
and full measure. It is far
ahead of imported wires and
costs less.
Tour storekeeper can supply
“Waratah” —we supply the trade
only. Fencing Booklet \ T .I9 free on
request. Austral Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Ferrars Street, South Melbourne.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, B.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
QUEENSLAND
L
opens the door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ot the
millions ot acres ol
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
Stale's resources—
FREE
I\lamt —
Address
Queensland Government
UttliiiMce and Towns* Bureau
BRISBANE
fc
S.B.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
YVe Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.YV.
Branches in all parts of the wor’-!.
If any illustration appearing in- The
Bulletin takes yaur fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Electrical Instruments
and Apparatus.
Manufactured and Repaired. All Work Guaranteed.
Electrical Supplies—
Wires,
Lamps,
Conduit.
“Expanse” Malleable Grip
Fitting's, Buzzers, etc., etc.,
THE AUSTRALECTIC COMPANY,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Telegraph Address: "Expanse,” Sydney.
Telephones City
4254,
4255.
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
dsfd
BRAND
! -
Containing, about 99,95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
sfdsfsdfds
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES- Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent: Adelaide Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. A. W. L.KWIS, 62 Brooknian Buildings.
fd
fds
Sold by
Stationers and
J ewellers
Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Safety Pattern
with slip • on
cap from ISA-
Standard Pat-
ternwith slip-on
cap from 12/6
11 lustrated
Catalogue sent
Post Free on
request.
You can have a "Swan* 9 that
will suit you better than any
other pen you are using .
Every person’s handwriting is peculiar. Every-
one feels that only one type of pen point will
suit his own style of writing. After obtaining
the point he likes, he becomes so attached to
his pen that he cannot write without it. No
other pen will serve his purpose.
>WAN
[©
Get one to-day and it becomes in a few days
not A fountain pen but YOUR pen —a writing
instrument peculiarly your own.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester; Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney —(Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory—3l9-329, Weston
Street, S.E. Associate House—Mabie.Todd & Co.,
Inc., New York and Chicago.
II
Australian Branch:
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings. 255 a George Street, Sydney. «
the: palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OP PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River,
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
Ex-Railway Commissioner A. B. Mon-
crieff, although 74, has been given another
year as chairman of the Tramways Trust in
Adelaide.
“I.P ”: Six lines from the railway war-
rant issued by the British Government to
members of the A.I.F. returning to Aus-
tralia :
Please provide the passenger shown on the at-
tached list, who is proceeding to Australia on steam-
ship , sailing on or about , with the lowest
class of rail accommodation appropriate to Europeans
to the places shown against his name. No meal
tickets or other charges are permissible.
Thank Heaven, we’re still ranked with Euro-
peans !
It was a modest young publicity man who
took a chic little stage lady to be photo-
graphed lately. For the first pose in cos-
tume she dived into privacy and reappeared
clad in a little brief audacity. The press-
man looked and ventured in a voice of deep
abashment, “Surely, Miss Spotlightg, you
are not going to be taken in that?" “Pooh,”
she answered, “I feel half-choked in this.
You should see the others. They do allow
you to breathe.”
“R.8.T.”: Pity the sensitive lecturer who
gets disconcerted when he notices any of his
audience stealing away. Prof. McGabb was
lecturing on Shelley at Shepparton (Vic.)
one evening recently, when two men in the
front row rose and escaped. McGabb seem-
ed to lose heart after that, and closed up
early. An enthusiastic Shelleyite reproach-
ed him after the meeting for finishing ab-
ruptly when just at his best. “Well,” said
the lecturer, “how could you expect me to
continue with such an evidence of boredom
from the audience?” “Confound it!” said
the enthusiast, “that’s the postmaster and
his.assistant again. They’ve gone to .sort the
evening mail—they always do !”
Caruso’s silver jubilee as a singer, cele-
brated in N’York recently, netted 25,000
dollars for the opera emergency fund. Since
he first appeared at the Metropolitan 15
years ago he has sung 549 times; his record
of 51 performances was put up in the 1907-8
season. Last year he sang 42 times, which
for a newly-married tenor of 45 is regarded
as heroic. The Mayor of N.Y. gave him a
banner with the municipal coat-of-arms, and
the representatives of Piute who sit in the
famous Golden Horseshoe (35 families) gave
him an illuminated reference on parchment.
It was left to his fellow-artists to donate
something with which he might be proud to
look any pawnbroker in the face—a platinum
watch set with 78 diamonds, 140 small stones
and 68 sapphires.
“F.F.”: The rush of big-priced artists
to New York shows where the money is.
Schuman Heink, the great contralto, has be-
come an American citizen. Percv Grainger
swears allegiance to “Old Glory.” Mischa
Elman has pledged his word to Uncle Sam.
John McCormack became an American last
year. Daniel Mayer, formerly head of a
big concert agency in London, has passed
his initial examination for American fran-
chise. (It was Daniel Mayer who intro-
duced Ada. Crossley to London.) Caruso
has almost completed the preliminaries for
his enrolment. Melba on arrival at Liver-
pool announced that she had been heart-
broken at being kept so long away from
England. But if Frances Alda’s husband
relinquished direction of the New York
Metropolitan Opera House, even Dame
Nellie might soon be signing her papers for
American rights.
Casual critics are haying further shots at
Shakspeare. Just before the war. Denblou.
a Belgian, wrote a book to show that the
Earl of Rutland wrote the plays. Another,
just published by a Frenchman, Abel Le
Franc, is called “Under the Mask of William
Shakspeare,” and puts them down to William
Stanley, Earl of Derby. (He had the same
initials, anyway.) On the other side can
be set a M.S. now exciting interest at the
British Museum, a play by Thomas Munday,
“Sir Thomas More.” It is believed to
been written about 1592 for the company
known as “Lord Strange’s Men,” and Shak-
speare was doing little things for them at
the time. The handwriting is known to be
Munday’s, but there are long interpolations
in a different fist, and the Museum authori-
ties suggest that these are Shakspeare’s.
“S.”: Apropos Shantung and Kiao-
chau coal (B. 29/5/T9). The Germans
made a bold bid a few years ago to concen-
trate some of these enormous supplies of
lower-grade coals in the largest briquetting
installation outside of the Fatherland. They
worked on the same principles as they do
in Cologne and Bavaria, and spent
£1,400.000 on plant and accessories. • The
result was a colossal failure. The Japan-
ese Government has been negotiating for
some time past to scrap the whole of the
machinery and replace it with American.
Between 1932 and 1914 the U.S. Govern-
ment spent £12,000 or thereabouts on un-
successful experiments to briquette brown
coal on the German system. It looks- as
if the German system of straight-out bri-
quetting on the low-grade fuels is applicable
to German brown coal only, and that each
country’s lignite is a problem in itself.
“O.B.”: “Old Westralian Prospector’s”
catalogue of Westralian Ministers for Mines
(B, 12/6/’l9) is neither complete nor in
proper order. Here is the full passenger
list: —Wittenoom, Lefroy. Gregory, Wilson,
Gregory, Hastie. Johnson. Gregory, Collier.
Robinson, Scaddan, Hudson, Robinson —and
now Scaddan again. Wilson, Johnson and
bcaddan held office only a few weeks, and
never bad a chance to show their real capa-
city. Gregory and Robinson were perhaps
the best of the lot. "Wittenoom was the most
unpopular, Collier the most over-rated. Hastie
and Hudson the most easy-going, and Lefroy
the least competent. Some mining men
favor. the appointment of a Commissioner
for Mines free of political control, or, failing
that, a man who does not represent a gold-
fields constituent- and therefore not likely
to be influenced by mere vote-catching con-
siderations. Scaddan represents Albany and
once drove an engine on a Kalgoorlje mine,
and is considered t 6 have some qualifications
—as qualifications go in the West—for the
job.


5^
u
y
y,
y
U£
takS
fe
?i§Pi
ry
iOMppip
w
SSfi
■fo\-sCi<;.=V
9HHkSISS
■b>; m,v
£$
Uvc-hHEJ
3 Sjri
««s
■
»
Eg
IS
ii
3i xrv
m
sn
era
mm
ir ■
nn
if.:JSB
f#£gp
jV , tUi3
1
ssjts&s
£M
SJH!
bSB
10,000 London
Opp. G.P.O.
Melbourne
Overcoats Royally Greet
the Cold Weather . . . .
| 'HOUGH pelting rain —cold winds and winter
epidemics are with us you can keep warm and
cheerful in the snug, dry, protecting folds of a London
Opp. G.P.O Overcoat.
That “How dry I am feeling” —in-
separable from London Opp.
G.P.O. quality means that vou
have learned to thwart wet weather
ills by the proper and sane protec-
tion of your body.
/r^
L
Pinch-backs
Regd. Design.
The feature of this style
is the half-belt pleated
on to the coat. Look at
the picture and see how
it “hugs” the back.
Smart, isn’t it?
Big Choice of Dark Grey,
Brown and Fancy Mix-
tures. The style is new.
The Tailoring is our best.
Shapely lapels, flap
pockets and gauntlet
cuffs. A good-fitting coat
—easy to get into.
London Opp.
G.P.O.
Values,
dsfsd
There were hundreds of rainy days
throughout Australia last year. Men
who wore London Opp. G.P.O.
Overcoats can’t remember one.
To understand “why” just order your
style and your size from these coats.
Ah! a Raincoat
with a New Idea.
First of all, it’s a REAL Raincoat, that will
keep you dry and comfortable in a downpour.
But it doesn’t appear a Raincoat, because it
has the fabric look.
Between the outer fabric and inner lining there’s
a film of rubber which makes this coat
thoroughly waterproof. Seams are cemented,
sewn and overlaid with tape.
The wearer of this coat will never experience
any “stuffy” feeling. It’s as free in ventilation
as tweed, and as waterproof as rubber. Smart
tweed-like patterns in Fancy Mixtures and
Donegals.
Special Introductory Price
Opp. G.P.O.
63 1-
CARRIAGE PAID THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
SATISFACTION OR MONEY BACK GUARANTEED.
The Wetter the Better
for Gabardines.
Reliable in wet weather, warm in cold weather,
and indispensable for atmospheric changes, the
London Gabardine is the “all-round” coat.
Tailored with perfect-fitting Raglan sleeves and
full, protecting storm collar; loosely lined inside
with check material —tape-held and bound to
prevent “sagging.”
Light to carry and self-ventilating. Thoroughly
rainproof, and contains no rubber. Your choice
of the three popular shades—
Fawn, Stone and Olive.
65 1-
State Chest Measure and Height
when ordering.
'IS
HOW DRY
I AM!
is what you will say once
you test this waterproof in
the Heaviest Rain. Water
runs off like it does off a
duck’s back.
Raglan shoulders, storm col-
lar and side pockets. The
whole garment is thoroughly
rubberised.
Available in Fawn shades
and a complete range of sizes.
24'h
Something
Brand New !
Good looking, too!
Belt-o’Coats
War has put some vigorous styles into. Men’s
Clothes. Here, for example, is the Military idea
in a Civilian coat. The Belt-O’Coat. Good-
looking, isn’t it?
Hot too long for free movement; big, roomy body;
Single or Double Breasted, with belt all around;
Patent, pull-through buckle in front; flowing
lapels, side or flap pockets; strap cuffs.
Thought out and brought out by London Stores;
Opp. G.P.O. Made from superb Dark Grey
Winter Tweeds —warm, but not too heavy.
Careful Tailoring for good looks, wear and
economy; all Pure Wool Materials for the same
reasons.
Quite the newest idea in Overcoats—and it’s
“taken hold.” You will eventually wear this
style —why not HOW?
Smart Single-
Breasted Models
fdsf
Double-Breastm
for Motoring
£5)151-
Our Only Address in Australia—
Opp. G.P.0., Melbourne.


Jl£?3&siery
CPECIALIZED
methods in desi&n-
in& and knitting pro-
duce in Luxite Hosiery
a closely woven tex-
ture of remarkable
durability and re-
splendent beauty un-
surpassed for the
money by any other
hosiery in the world.
Don’t accept substitutes and think
you have “Luxite.” Insist upon
the genuine. It your dealer is
unable to supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty.Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
TTiOR OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
1 BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Edison BlueAmberol
Records for June.
dfs
The list for June is opened with two charming Concert
Records, followed by twenty-three well-varied Regular
Records.
“Best Things in Life are Free" (G. W. Ballard) ; “All
I Need Is Just a Girl Like You” (Rachael Grant and
Billy Murray) ; and “Sea Makes a Man a Man” (D.
Chalmers) will be in great demand. Other favorites in a
long list of favorites include “My Hawaii —You’re Call-
ing Me” (G. Rice and Y. Dalhart ; “Somewhere in
France is the Lily” (E. Allen and chorus) and “For You
and Tennessee” (Harmony Four).
Make YOUR selections immediately.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28113—11 Trovatore —Ah! Si Ben Mio (Verdi).
Tenor, in Italian, orch. ace.
Riccardo Martin.
28277 —Anchored (M. Watson).
Baritone, orch. acc.
Thomas Chalmers.
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
3321—G00d-bye Broadway, Hello France!
Baritone and Chorus, orch. acc.
Arthur Fields.
3360 —Peacock Strut —Fox-Trot.
Xylophone, orch. acc.
Lou Chiha “Frisco.”
3366 Sea Makes a Man a Man.
Bass, orch. acc. Donald Chalmers.
3367 — We’re Going: Over.
Male Voices. Premier Quartet.
3373 —I’ll Remember You, Love, in My
Prayers. Soprano, orch. acc.
Betsy Lane Shepherd and Chorus.
3379 —Songe D’Automr.e —Valse.
American Symphony Orchestra.
3384 —Cornin’ Thro’ the Rye.
Boy Soprano, orch. acc.
Master Claude Isaacs.
3387 —Naval Reserve March.
New York Military Band.
3397 —Musical Sam from Alabam’.
Male Voices, orch. acc.
Premier Quartet.
3400 Spanish Fandango.
New York Military Band.
3401 — -My Hawaii, You’re Calling Me.
Soprano and Tenor, orch. acc.
Gladys Rice and Vernon Dalhart.
3403 —Camp Songs, U.S. Army—No. 2.
Chorus of Male Voices.
3405 — Ballet Egyptian—No. 3.
American Symphony Orchestra
3406 — Knit! Knit! Knit! —Jack O’Lantern.
Soprano, Contralto and Contralto, orch.
acc.
Gladys Rice, Helen Clark and Marion
Evelyn Cox.
3407 — Best Things in Life Are Free.
Tenor, orch acc.
George Wilton Ballard.
3409 Love, Here is My Heart.
Violin, piano acc. by John F. Burck-
hardt. Herbert Soman.
3410 — Offertoire, Op. 12.
Flute, orch acc. Weyert A. Moor.
3411 — All I Need is Just a Girl Like-You.
Soprano and Tenor, orch. acc.
Rachael Grant and Billy Murray.
3414 — Impassioned Dream Waltz.
Peerle3s Orchestra.
3415 Love’s Message—Morceau Characteristic.
Sodero’s Band.
3422 Suki San (Where the Cherry Blossoms
Fall). Tenor.
Vernon Dalhart.
3423 — For You and Tennessee.
Male Quartet, orch. acc.
Harmony Four.
3428 —-Somewhere in France is the Lily.
Baritone, orch. acc.
Edward Allen and Chorus.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
tsr\
y s
Weld Your
Metal Work
This Way.
w
HILE you may not be interested in weld-
ing tyres, this job will give you a splendid
idea of how Thomson Electric Welding
Machines lower costs of producing metal articles.
I
V 'T
t*
m
m
m
■
<z.
m
?** - /
/ S »•?
WS
m
t -V'
- = .-;
H
I
l ! >vfeW
tSSitSiSI
These tyres are completed in two minutes each. All the operator does is to clamp the Avork in the welder,
bring the ends together, and turn on the current. The most wonderful blacksmith in the world could not
come amwvhere near this production for speed, accuracy and low cost per tyre.
Thomson Electric Welding Machines show a wonderful reduction in cost of production on all welding of
iron and steel, whether sheet, bar or pipe. We are willing at any time to show you what can be saved on
your metal work by using the Thomson Process. When you write, kindly supply full details regarding the
class of work: you want to weld, and all about it. Representative will visit 3am anywhere at any time.
SOLE AGENTS:
Benson Brothers Ltd.
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
138 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
“Deep Furrow”: I once weighed a red
potato grown at Bream Creek (Tas.), which
went 61b.; but W. Mundy. of near Orbost
(Vic.), has knocked me out with an 81b.
spud. Is it the best?
George Graves, the London comedian, has
invented a new and easy way of making
money for a charity. While stalls were
being auctioned for a matinde he announced
that one particular “guinea seat would carry
with it a drink and a chat, with him in
his dressing-room during the interval. It
was promptly sold for six guineas.
Advt. in a Sydney paper:—
S.S. John Williams. —Christian Sailors and Fire-
men wanted for the above vessel. Full current
wages paid. Thos. Pratt, Agent, London Missionary
Society.
Surely the Seamen's Union won’t miss this
chance. Isn’t a man going to get a bit extra
for being a Christian as well as a sailor?
The Vic. Fisheries Commission has ad-
vised the Govt, to open State fish-shops and
fix prices. So the Dago ring seems in
danger of losing its mysterious power to
regulate the destinies of the captured Cray,
and raise the cost of whiting to the dizzy
limit. If the importation of aliens is dis-
couraged by the appointment of Australian
salesmen for Australian fish, the State shops
will be twice blessed.
“Nimrod” : The Government dairy expert
came round our way lecturing to the cockies,
and old Brown, the storekeeper, half-foil
of whisky, was sitting in the front row.
The lecturer went on: “You know there are
cows and cows. There are profitable and
unprofitable cows. There are cows that
don’t pay, never have paid, and never will
pay.” “Yer quite right,” grunted old Brown,
“the blanky hall’s full of ’em.”
The ambition of the black man to own
a white girl is incurable. On the other
hand the objection of the white man to the
arrangement is instinctive and ineradicable,
it having been born with him like his liver
and kidneys. Neither preaching nor prayer
can shift it. Probably the war has brought
an unusual number of Flam’s sons to Europe,
and possibly Ham junior has been inflated
by being told that he has helped to save
civilisation. Anyhow, his domestic arrange-
ments have led to unholy rows in the east
end of London and in Liverpool and Cardiff,
and both these towns also had anti-Chinese
disturbances a while ago. Except for its
beastly climate and its grime and its over-
crowdedness, England has almost a North
Queensland aspect these days.
“Munga Munga”: A letter which comes
via Khartoum tells the story. When the
Gyppos started to make trouble an Aus-
tralian officer was sitting alone on the hotel
verandah at Komombo, on the Nile, 30 miles
north of the Assouan Dam. < Suddenly about
200 natives appeared, tore a French, flag to
shreds in. front of him, and then announced
that they were about to start the murder.
The Australian languidly called to the hotel
waiter for a beer, which, on being pro-
duced, he slowly drank. His casual manner
fascinated the mob. and they held off. Hav-
ing finished the drink, the officer sauntered
towards the first doorway. Once inside he
left off being casual —which is the Australian
way—quickly rallied the other six members
of the party, and got them all off in a small
river-boat.
A Melbourne jury took 90 minutes before
it ventured to acquit an elderly man who
had shot at and slightly wounded a bump-
tious Syrian in self-defence. The elderly
one—a wharf-laborer who had once refused
to join an illegal strike—was having a snack
in a cafe when the Asiatic offered him the
poor reward of a promise that he would be
allowed to go home alive provided he never
came near the cafe or the wharves again.
Failing an agreement the alien and 20 or 30
accomplices waited outside, unhindered by
the police, and attacked the elderly one
wholesale when he came out. The shooting,
allegedly accidental, followed, and the alien
was grazed. Nobody arrested Benhadad
when he appeared in court to give evidence
against the mere white man who disliked
being trodden on, and he wasn’t interned.
The recollections of a rebel -
Recent mention (B. 12/6/’l9) Of the death abroad
of Arthur Desmond, the vigorous panegyrist of “Te
Kooti the Bold,” recalls another journalistic exploit
with which Desmond was connected in Sydney in
the early ’nineties. Hard Cash was its name, and
it gave the bank-reconstructors of the period beans,
in language calculated to burn holes in their steel
doors. Though probably half a dozen Sydney editors
could have taken joint and several affidavits as to
the name of the author of most of the Hard Cash
articles and vitriolic pars, and though Desmond,
Andrews,. Larry de Petrie (the one-armed Scot who
was aboard the Aramac when she was bombed on
the voyage from Sydney to Brisbane, and who after-
wards died a hero’s death on a Paraguayan railway)
and several other alleged revolutionaries were
shadowed by the detectives for weeks, those respon-
sible for the compilation and printing of the
sheet were never officially discovered. Months later
a little old platen printing machine was found in a
lumber-room in a tenantless Woolloomooldo house, to-
gether with certain signs of comparatively recent use,
and a few scraps of yellow paper similar to that on
which the dreadful Hard Cash was produced ; but the
only man who achieved gaol was Macnamara, the
Castlereagh-street newsagent, who sold the rag
at his shop. The printer who set up and machined
the publication was never even suspected; in fact,
he was not suspected of being a printer at all,
even by his closest acquaintances. How he man-
aged the risky business, including the collection of
“copy” from Desmond and others, the acquisition
of the printing materials, etc., had better not be
told yet awhile; for it might upset some fine little
Sydney schoolboys to learn that their ultra-respect-
able churchwarden grand-dad was once an ink-
stained buccaneer in a cave contiguous to Sydney
Cove.
WINTER IN SYDNEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sweet-peas in Martin-place;
Fog, and the clanking bell;
Furs that hide last summer’s lace;
Violets in my lapel;
Sunlight on a mossy wall;
Rain on the sullen roof —
I think maybe that is nearly a 11....
Oh, influenza —woof 1
N.S.W.
J. B.


Non-Skid Tyres
Guarantee Maximum Safety
N the city’s most slippery thoroughfare, on the “trickiest” country road—
V-/ speeding, turning, applying your brakes* under WHATEVER travel con=
ditions your car may have to face, those big, sturdy “ Fisk ” buttons of
purest Para rubber, with their stout, protecting side ridges, will give you a
“ road grip ” of safety that NEVER FAILS. And not alone in their wonderful
service of safety do “Fisk” Tyres offer you unmatchable advantages, but, due
to the special “Fisk” processing of the purest “live” Para rubber —resilient,
tough, long=wearing—from which “Fisk” Tyres are made, they also assure
Greatest Comfort and Most Miles
§
trade
■I
When
if s
Time to
Re-tyre ,
BUY
“ FISK:
with EVERY type of car. When it’s time to re=tyre,
fit YOUR car with “Fisk” Non=Skids, and so
secure for yourself the greatest “tyre satisfaction”
it is possible to obtain.
AsK Your Garage
To Supply
“Fisk Non-Skid”
Produced in All Sizes.
Price List on application.
Sole Agents for Australia —■
FisK Tyre Agency
(Jas. Wardle &. Co.), 4 Bridge St., Sydney.
Agent for Victoria and
Riverina —
John F. Goulding,
515 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Agent for South Australia —
Jas. Wardle & Co.,
W. Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
The Road Grip
of Safety that
NEVER Fails
dsf
sdf
df


Gi
f /
Relief From Eczema
In Cuticura
For skins that itch, burn, crust and
scale. Bathe with Cuticura Soap and
hot water. Follow with a gentle
anointing with Cuticura Ointment.
Use these super-creamy emollients
for every-day toilet purposes and
prevent such conditions.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
"R. Towns & Co.. Sydney. N. S. W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
Influenza.
“PLENTY OF MILK” is the doctors’
advice in all cases of influenza.
FRESH MILK modified by
Mellins Food
forms the best diet throughout the
course of the attack and in convales-
cence, because it is more palatable,
more easily digested and therefore
more nourishing than milk alone.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND
STORES.
per large bottle.
Sample and booklet free on request.
Mellins Food Ltd.,
Co lli rig wood.
AGENTS i
COLLIN & CO. PROPY. LTD., Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
dsfdfs
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
4
" THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.'
MQRROCKSES
&
&
IN USE
dfs
AWARDED THE CERTIFICATE OF THE
INCORPORATED [INSTITUTE OF tfrCIENE
a
£gR-RoR;?oH.H<,:Vwio»"IB
wj
.
MOXW
wmm
: :
'.‘69.
o::owl
5 S : «
G .
■ :
■' *>:<•:<
K8SR!
S-gRii
gss
; .'M' -;'
G
' ■:«
S
*SB8Sf
H
Ho:
ESjSBRjl
ixoxo
i .
/ x
/ x
iSdSox
/>-
:?>
J.
RiS!o S
I.X
*
SSffibS
Sac 5fi «
I"-"
“WllllllililiiS!
Economy
The fuel needed in three days for a plain bearing with a 70 m.m.
diameter and a load of 2200 pounds, at 250 revolutions per minute, is
40.78 pounds. An
SKF
Self-aligning Ball-bearing
running under exactly tlie same conditions, and of tlxe same size, only
requires 6.17 pounds. Thus the saving to be made by installing
SKF Ball Bearings is easily apparent.
Always specify SKF.
Gardner Waern (Si Co.,
Power and Light Engineers, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.
o/v
0^0
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
<2
BRAND
C-A-C«
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER. NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONBAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NP1W SOUTH WALES—58 Pitt Street, S'dney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane Phone 2382
AC'
0
Ir^oi
CAC
WAITING!
There is nothing so trying for a woman
these days as waiting —always waiting.
It needs a steady nerve and a strong heart to
carry on—do the day’s work with a cheerful face,
and have a smile handy.
Give yourself a chance to do this by keeping
fit—a tonic that really helps is
rmo
THE ROYAL TONIC
This is a nerve and cell food and strengthener
that is helping many folk over the worries, work
and waiting that the world is going through now.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 8C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
"R.D.”: One of our chaps had seven
sovereigns on him when the Boche took him
prisoner. He managed to hide the coins
while the first search was going on, and
next time he had them covered with cloth
and fixed on his clothes as buttons. They
passed muster all the time, and he got them
safely to Blighty.
As an instance of the supreme insolence
of portfolio-holding persons, the Common-
wealth Government has on its programme
bills to establish the Institute of Science and
Industry and the Bureau of Copnnerce and
Industry. Yet both these institutions are
in full blast and spending money gaily, with
nothing but Ministerial effrontery to justify
their existence.
It is alleged that the tariff-issue was
behind the recent withdrawal of Hume
Cook from the general-secretaryship of the
Vic. National Federation. When the Pro-
tectionist section got together to arrange a
little something that wasn’t mere talk and
flag-waving, Cook proceeded to do his share
in hewing out an effective-Protection plans.
Whereupon the A.W.N.L. roar was so deaf-
ening that Cook put his fingers in his ears
and hastily sat down —and when he arrived
there was nothing under him but the cold,
hard ground.
“D.F.”: The Speck’s Synod may have
been unanimous in voting £l5 to mend up
the grave of Bobby Ivnopwood <B. 19/6/T9).
but a century ago Governor Macquarie does
not seem to have thought that the pioneer
chaplain was worth a Synod’s regard. After
remarking that the Rev. Mr. Youl, recently
sent to Launceston, was “a very good, worthy
Man and a pious, good, useful Pastor,’’ Mac-
quarie added: “I wish with all my Heart
the Rev. Mr. Ivnopwood could be pensioned
and removed from the Derwent, where he is
of no use and not at all respected, owing to
his Irregularity of Conduct.”
James McKerrow, just dead at 85, had
been connected with Red Tape in Maoriland
for longer than most men live. And a very
honorable connection it was, for McKerrow
was a man devoted to the public service.
Landing from Scotland in ’59 he entered the
Otago Survey, and made the first reconnais-
sance over the_ formidable country around
Wakatipu and Te Anau. At 45 he was
Surveyor-General for the Dominion, and
stayed in the job until Harry Atkinson made
him chief of the three Commissioners to
whom he handed over the railways. This
started a row. led by Seddon, which nearly
blew the roof off. After five years Seddon
managed to get the system altered and made
McKerrow chairman of the Land Purchase
Board started by John McKenzie. He re-
tired from officialdom in 1901. and since then
had lived up in the clouds outside Welling-
ton —a grey, silent old man, with an idea
that everything was being done the wrong
way.
Bowser’s action in calling a meeting of
the so-called Economy Party of the Vic.
Assembly to emphasise the point that ne
still leads the dominant section of the
Liberals was one of the most remark-
able outbreaks of a singular man. He claimed
that he had the precedent set by Deakin
when he was partner with Gillies in the
Boom-and-Bust Coalition, but Conservatives
and Liberals were then temporarily work-
ing together, whereas it is urged that the
Lawson-Bowser combination is a “con-
solidation” of high, broad and low Liberals.
A vote of confidence in Bowser was passed
by the score of members who turned up “to
see the fun,” as some of them put it. The
whole trouble, which has ended in Bowser’s
retirement from the Ministry, seems to be
that Donald Mackinnon’s inclusion dis-
turbed the balance of power. Donald Mae-
kinnon is sized up by Bowser as a Law-
sonite; yet it was Clarke, Bowser’s former
right-hand man, who was responsible for
“landing” Mackinnon.
“Dusty Folio”: The first successful at-
tempt at escape from N. S. Wales provided
the world with one of its most remarkable
boat voyages. On March 28, 1791, William
Brvant, his wife and two infant children
and seven convicts slipped out of Sydney
Harbor in a fishing-boat. They had a com-
pass, a quadrant, and a chart of sorts
bought from a Dutch merchant skipper.
.1001 b. each of flour and rice, 141 b. pork, and
10 gallons of water. With this, eked out
by what fish they could catch and a few
turtle got on the Queensland coast, they
went nearly half-way round Australia, and
all. including the two babies, reached Ivoe-
pang, in Timor, alive. Tney were worse off
than Bligh in his famous boat-voyage from
Tahiti to Timor, because it does not appear
that any of them knew navigation, though
Bryant was a fisherman by trade. Timotheus
Wanjeon handed the runaways over to Cap-
tain Edward Edwards, who touched at
Timor in October, 1791, after a remarkable
little boat-vcyage of his own. following on
the loss of H.M.S. Pandora off the Queens-
land coast. Bryant and the two babies died
at Batavia, two of the convicts died at sea.
and one fell overboard. Only Mary Bryant
and four men—William Allen. John Brit-
cher. Nathaniel Lilley and James Martin—
-1 lived to reach England again.
Hugh Campbell, ML. A. for Glenelg
(Vic.), has lately been loudly protesting
against “the manufacture of public opinion
on tariff questions.” notably in regard to
the suggested duty of £5 per ton on wire and
netting. Campbell’s attitude is that Cocky
will presently be in the clutch of a monopoly
if such a tariff alteration should be made.
But Campbell and his friends could deal
with a. local monopoly; on the other hand,
they never will have any control over the
profiteering of the foreigner. At the pre-
sent moment Australia has to pay fabulous
prices for imported goods; and even then the
Vic. Lands Department, which alone wants
1000 miles of netting, can scrape up only a
trifle of 62 miles, thus placing returned BiU-
jim at a serious disadvantage in starting his
farm. And that’s apart altogether from the
serious question of a market for Billjim’s
goods. He. must depend on people who
make the things he needs—including wire-
netting—and the point for him to decide is
whether it is better for him to have them
alongside him, Where he is sure of them as
customers, or 10.000 miles away, where he
will have to compete for their trade with a
hundred others, after paying stiff freight.


Stop Torturing
looUe Quickly.
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
Let STOPAIN Stop That Borins Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it save ’ C.nr-n Pnrp.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just 's good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore, or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
CAPILLARINE
dfs
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIL-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPILLARINE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
YjlOll OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
BOYS. —When you have finished with
, uis paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
u epot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
„ (
7)
v-t.
\
/N*
m
r
s
w
St
Up-'
'/t
&
\
y
r
7
t \
7
s^jb
So/5
s@
s
ss
2
&
k
SS
k
#
ss
£
S 3
N
£
S
Don't let the ’Flu get you!
If you will only keep your-
self in good health your
system will resist the in-
fluenza germ.
Keep your throat and lungs healthy by
taking Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
Influenza germs thrive in the mucus in
your throat and nasal passages. Chamber-
lain s Cough Remedy cuts away the mucus
and keeps the passages healthy.
A
D
COUCH
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, afid
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
»ay be avoided.
tse Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
For Aching Heads
When your head seems splitting and your nerves are all “on
edge”—“Vaseline” Mentholated will bring you blessed relief.
Rub it over your forehead and throbbing temples. Then relax
and rest.
“Vaseline” Mentholated—just pure menthol and “Vaseline”
Jelly—is cooling and refreshing. Use it when you first feel a
headache coming on. Safe and sure. In sanitary tubes; at
chemists and general stores.
Other “Vaseline” Products
“VASELINE” CAPSICUM —for chest colds, sprains, muscle pain*.
VASELINE” BORATED —for inflamed and sore eyelids.
CHESEBROUGH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
(Consolidated)
New York London Montreal
Vaseline Mentholated
Irade Mark Petroleum Jelly
Trade Vaseline Mark
MENTHOLATED
PETROLEUM JELLY
SAFEGUARD You* health
QtJ.Collis Brow's
CWorody»c
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BKONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S, 3/-, 5/•.
Made in England.
In these days we ail have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
dfs
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since ISB6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALI.INC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT,
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
insist on “Singleton’s"—refuse all substitutes.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years, also a wonderful
Cure for Rheumatism.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/S per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l/2/-. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States,.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
f-wWW'
mmm
s|P
<(
; A '/••■ • V-- ; ; : --- ’-' -A
-'tfl ?-<&r ■ .-• ■■f.kJ./f .. • *<•<.:.v »>.a : r,.- ...•:•,
iM
£»>
3k
s* : y
■ i-n
X
i®
...•y
V' *:W¥,.m
* f I#' p
Ml
®VaV?
A' .>•?
• , *>V* ■. V;
<M
t$
Lr
\ \
\ \
#56
m
'os.
sss
m
*>v
pSiiiil
Sfc4&l£
fHB|
A
«s®
v\ ~v - ft®
ft®
;
5*
:Kssn
•*»£« •te'eS't
1
:i^
gs*
m
•■fe'+.z
m
7A
- <\
r »
Tr*3
if
m
w
m
H
-< .^t"
sai
; f
-> i*#*#®!-**
©
•'-■r
MfetP
H
i
&
ii
fittis
.MA-WiJ
SM
*
V-4
IMl'
sms
V‘l-!;■■.;'
Hi :
I*7
V :
i| '>k ! '\y '-: 'r : ;
m
h \
W/.
■ . :
•’■ #±
ft? 8
\'t.
Wi
:'l'
Ji \
im
m
; >\
H
1
j®S
tm
V
V. I
u
v y.f
*-y
ii+j’iz
pf>.
\ \
»
Mi
A!
t • vU'»s* fry
m
//
i«SI
i
| ,■ --®7'
'
mi nnni
K i \ : ' 8
Js\\ ,
i-
vv
r«r
fM
m
\ Vv
m
■m
■££M
O
\!
Ife
' v , \ \
■y'v
SH
XpSiy
\ \
W
Ji/.
m
\ NJ
*.•
7/7 -.'-I'';/
J
7;
f&irfci! -v-;'ii®J• ■;
&W&s /■'
i
mm
;>*77
w
U
. ■■ "
■ >
i&
y
m
n.
I
V*s.
7■_. I;;
s':
i
&
2V
•C V^;
«w^v
7
•V«Sa^
i7V : 7;.S»|
m.
/)
*;^P%v
N
1
m
V
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Lights a Victory
Bonfire, too.
In the light
Proud England smiles
As the beacons
Blaze For miles.
“Gentle Peace is
Here at last,
And the hour of
Peril past!
England still rules
Land and wave,
Thanks to ‘COBRA
And her brave!”


THOMPSON CO.
(CASTLEMAINE
PTY. LTD.)
CASTLEMAINE, VICTORIA.
Designers and Manufacturers of all the Latest Types of
Machinery, Power Plants for Mines, Factories, Shipbuilding',
etc.
FORGING DEPARTMENT
/t
> ■ •<
Xs ■
m
K 2
it w «
§»1
'. ■' ’ * T *!
>
Illustrating some of our Work,
WE SPECIALISE in Heavy Forcing's of All Kinds,
including' Crank Shafts, Plain Shafts, Sugar Rolls,
Connecting' Rods, Tyres and Pressed Forging's.
INTER-STATE AGENTS-
Melbourne s Sydney : Adelaide: Brisbane :
Gibson, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Ltd Gibson, Battle 8 Co. Ltd. Newton, McLaren Ltd. Engineering Supply Co of Aust. Ltd.
Pertb :
Brown 8 Bureau Ltd.
Business Notices.
fd
Easy to Keep
Hair Trimmed
Distance from a barber’s need not matter when
you have a good pair of hair-clippers. The hair-
clippers illustrated are made by one of the best
known firms in U.S.A., and are thoroughly reli-
able. Solidly made of steel and with extra combs
to slide over end, enabling hair to be cut in 1 O 1C
different lengths. Simple to use. Post free.. *
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
BARRY. —Richard Barry, who left
Terean or Castle Mahan, near New-
castle West, Limerick, Ireland, for Aus-
tralia, between the years 183 G and 1840.
Any person possessing information concern-
ing the abovenamed or the whereabouts of
his relatives or descendants please com-
municate Avith Gillott, Moir and Ahern,
Solicitors. National Mutual Buildings, 395
Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Amusement*.
Hurry liiekiinls Tivoli Theatre* l.t<l.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1* I V (H. I TIIKA T It IS, SYI)X IS Y
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
World-renowned Comedy Drama.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
•yiVOLI THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH PRESENTS
THE FASCINATING MUSICAL PLAY,
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & I/-, plus tax.
HE It M A .1 E S T V ’ S. S Y I) N E T.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FAREWELL TO THE FAVORITE.
MURIEL STARR in
THE SILENT WITNESS.
A Drama of Mystery and of Pathos.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
lA/ IRTHS’ CIRCU S
”” And Great Water Pantomime.
• NEW HIPPODROME, lIAYMARKET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
A COMPLETE NEW CIRCUS IN ALL ITS
GLORIOUS SPLENDOR & OPULENT VASTNESS.
Prices: 5/-. 4/-, 3/- and 2/-, plus tax.
Children under 10, half-price.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Amusements.
N lON 1* 1 C T U It IS T II IS A T It IS S
THE PICK OF TIIE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND. GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
gYD. N E Y GIiACIARIUM.
TRIUMPHANT REVIVAL OF ICE-
SKATING.
Three sessions daily: 10—12, 3—5, 8—10.30.
Special Children’s sessions, Saturday Mornings.
Admission: 2/-, plus tax. Skates, 6d. extra.
DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
UKIt MA.IKSTVS THEATRE, MKUHIITtKtt
1 * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
AVIATION MUSICAL PLAY.
GOING UP.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
T ii it a t it it
* Direction .1.
It O V A l„ U Itl.liOl! ItN It.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present America’s
Notable Comedian,
M. B. FIGMAN, in
A TAILOR-MADE MAN.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
gy| it i .it a tii eat it e. m it i. i to i: it n e.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Amusements.
K
INC.’S Til ISATICIS. \1 E l, It « C It N K.
Lessees: BAILEY & CHANT
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
jJ. & N. TAIT Revive the Brilliant Mystery Play.
DE LUXE ANNIE.
Prices: 10/-, 7/6, C/-, 3/-. 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
OYT’S THEATRES, MELIiOIIItNK.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURNE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
H
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
THEDA BARA in
THE SOUL OF BUDDHA.
WALLACE REID in
THE MAN FROM FUNERAL RANGE.
Prices as usual.
|y| \.l KSTIC THEATRE. \1 E 1,1501 RN It
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
JOHN BARRYMORE
in
RAFFLES.
Plans at Allan’s.
LAC I A R HIM, MELBOURNE.
ICE-SKATING.
SEASON NOW OPEN.
DI GILIO’S BAND.
B K
RITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
A SEASONED SHAVER.
“Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/C.
Pair in Double Case. 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case. 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price hist.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 CEORGE STREET, SYDHEY.
Established over SU nears.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM
Razor.
ii
HUNT’S
Special Models.
KNOX
AND
STETSON
AMERICAN HATS.
prices— 39/6 to 105/=
English and Australian
Fur Felts.
FLAT BRIMS.
PRICES— IS/6 to 70/=
HUNT’S,
314 George Street
(n Hunter Street). SYDNEY..


3576
£s@
PEEP
Jhe Ideal Beer for the Home
ABBOTS
LAGER-
Brewed from Pure Matt and Hops.
TAKE NO OTHER.
Peace, and now
a revival of brilliant social functions, a return
to formal styles for theatre wear and club enter-
tainments.
In purchasing Dress Clothes of distinctive charac-
ter men will economise considerably who buy
Peapes’ Ready-to-wear productions.
DINNER JACKET SUITS (Ready to
wear).
Diamond-dved Black Dress Coating:, Silk facings,
£6/6/-. Jacket only, 75/-
FUIjL DRESS SUIT (Ready to wear).
Diamond-dyed Black Pinhead Dress Coating,
Silk facings, £7/7/-. Coat only, 96/6.
Peapes’ pay postage. Please state height, chest,
waist and inside-leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men's Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street—SYDNEY*
<*3
XT
S'
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Silent Witness”
Tivoli “A Message from Mars”
llovt's Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Haymarket UirroDROiME Wirths’ Circus
Glaciaiuum .• Ice Skating
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Going Up”
Royal “A Tailor-made Man”
King's “De Luxe Annie”
Tivoli “The Officers' Mess”
-.Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
'‘Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciaiuum ~ lee Skating
The American comedy hero who sets out
on a course of systematic deception like “A
Tailor-made Man” at Melbourne Royal is
always bound to succeed through the cal-
culated credulity of the rest of the cast.
So when John Paul Bart, the tailor’s assist-
ant in the present, show, borrows another
man’s dress-suit and bluffs an entree into
the house of a millionaire, his progress is
made simple by everybody’s readiness to
accept him on the credentials of his smile
and his clothes. Millionaire Stanlaw, wife and
daughter give him the password into the
inner ring of Sassiety. and Abraham
Nathan, a financial Napoleon, makes the
interloper his Marshal Ney, with the result
that their first industrial battle becomes the
other fellow’s Waterloo. The most notice-
able scene in the comedy is John Paul’s
handling of three Labor men who are
changed from glowering strike-leaders to
specialists in co-operation and brotherly
love by Mr. Bart’s twinkling. economic
philosophy. No doubt all strikes could be
settled by the plan evolved by Bart on behalf
of his leader, but somehow the episode
seems out of harmony with the nose and
name of Nathan. That imperious Hebrew
is easily the prize exhibit in a Tussaud-like
collection of amiable caricatures. His sus-
ceptibility to a plausible tongue is an insult
to the traditional wariness of the Jew; and
the last vestige of race is crowded out of
Nathan when Vivian Edwards gives him a
Velasquez head and torpedo beard. M. B.
Figman, cast as Bart, is in a role which the
more volatile Niblo might carry off by the
natural exuberance of his personality. Fig-
man’s waggish physiognomy is the whole
machinery of his acting, with the result that
the man is extinguished by the mannerism,
and the part becomes a series of facial dis-
turbances. probably grotesquely simulating
the abandon of some admired model over-
seas. As John Bart’s prospective missus, the
willowy Lolita Robertson finds her hero the
only impediment to serious love-making. She
“A Tailor-made
Man,” at Mel-
bourne Royal.
Tan Maclaren as
Dr. Gustavus
Sonntag.
is more suggestive or
the gradual than the
sudden, but her talent
is too graceful and
delicate for the pur-
poses of knockabout
humor. The cadences
of Beryl Bryant’s
contralto provide a
musical evening for
all who listen closely
to Corinne Stanlaw.
Mrs. Stanlaw holds a
front position through
the intervention of
Emma Temple, and
dad, almost blots out
the rest of the pro-
ceedings when the un-
wieldy Mac Barnes
pushes him up to the
spotlight. A hairy
foreign professor, who
is alleged to have
compiled a tome from
which Bart has bor-
rowed his economic
ideas, is christened
with the German
name for Sunday,
which is the last day
in the w r eek to be
symbolised by a tor-
nado like lan Mac-
laren. lan’s exits and
entrances are equally
tumultuous, and there
are occasions when it
appears imperative to
read the Riot Act and
call out the police.
Harry Paulton, first tailor’s assistant
and Herbert Leigh, his boss, almost
demand the same measures, and the
only thing wrong with Leslie Victor’s Anglo-
maniac, Mr. Jellicot, is that he would be a
maniac in any nationality. Numerous other
people are catalogued, and the most diverting
of them are Carleton Stuart, William Lock-
hart and Charles Lawrence, who present
Labor delegates of undetermined intellect in a
characteristic non-union manner.
In “The Silent * Witness,” at Sydney
Majesty’s, the story turns about Helen
Hastings (Muriel Starr) and Richard Mor-
gan (Frank Harvey). In a prologue Helen
is to marry Dick, who is working his way
through college, in the next vacation. From
the streets come cries of special editions, all
about a fire; and the curtain goes down on
the news that Dick has been burned to death
in a fire at his college and the hopeless misery
of a girl who is about to have an infant on
her hands. The play proper arrives on the
scene 18 years later, when Bud Morgan (the
infant) is also working his way through col-
lege. Here a garbled story of his birth fol-
lows him, and he is taunted by a caddish
student, Wilbur Weldon, with the fact that
father hadn’t thought it worth while to
marry mommer. Bud strikes the taunter;
and Wilbur is very dead. But those special
editions had lied, and Richard Morgan hadn’t
been burned. Instead, he has become the
State Attorney. Helen, who has been too
busy working for her boy during all the
years to even hear that Richard was alive,
flies to the rescue of the boy, to find her old-
time lover; tells him, of course, that her boy
is his boy—in short, their boy —and the rest
is the father’s fight to get the liid’s acquittal.
Miss Starr had her-audience in her hands
on Saturday. Always tempestuous, when sud-
denly faced with her lover she rose to a hurri-
cane height of emotion that left her and the
audience breathless. J. B. Athol wood’s work
as the old college gardener Rigsby was pure
gold ; Louis Kimball’s “Bud” was a likeable
youngster ; Frank Harvey was a quite-suffi-
ciently distracted father; and Marion Mar-
cus Clarke. Norma Mitchell. Ethel Morrison.
Sidney Stirling and Arthur Styan were
generally-satisfactory features of a strong
cast.
** * *
“A Message from Mars,” produced at the
Tivoli (Sydney) on Saturday, under the
direction of Robert
Greig, seems out
of affinity with
both the times and
the theatre. The
comedy has been
revived on several
occasions since it
was produced in
the I’alace as a
feature of the
shows that scintil-
lated amongst the
festivities at the
inauguration of the
Common wealth,
and it becomes less
interesting with
each reappearance.
If the Tivoli man-
agement had dress-
ed it in tights and
given it a jazz
band and a chilli
“A Tailor-made Man,"
at Melbourne Royal.
Mac M. Barnes as
Mr. Stanlaw.
ballet, business would have boomed at the
long-confirmed music-hall. Nevertheless, Greig
has staged the holy trifle well, and the cast
points its moral effectively. Gregan Mac-
Mahon, as Horace Parker (W. F, Hawtrey’s
original part), gets first praise from The
Bulletin ; then Charles Brown as the dead-
beat, Tom Cannam as the coster, Eily Mal-
yon as Aunt Martha, Gwen Burroughs as
Mrs. Clarence, Noel Geddes as Minnie Tem-
pler, and Maurice Nodin as the bloke with
a message from another world. There have
been better shows at the Tivoli, but, on
reflection, there have been worse —much
worse.
:J: :'s :Jc sj;
Wirths’ Circus has had some sensational
and hilarious turns in the arena since the
season opened at the Hippodrome (Syd-
ney), but the one billed for the hour The
Bulletin goes to press loops the loop:
Mr. Albert H. (Arizona) Ryan, formerly Deputy
Sheriff of Los Aneeles County, Cal., and Conqueror
of the Mad Chinaman, will be presented by a few
of his admirers with a Colt New Service Revolver.
The day before that announcement was
made this Yank was before the Central
Police Court on a charge of having malici-
ously shot one William Mullins with intent
to do him grievous bodily harm! He w r as
remanded on bail. Ryan was reported by
the press as having announced to the magis-
trate that be believed he was to get £5O from
the police for “cinching Le Hing.” Next
day the Inspector-General of Police con-
firmed the fact. Nothing like a little en-
couragement !
Sydney potted-playhouses are serving up
old favorites this week. The Crystal Palace
has Billie Burke in “Peggy.” Jolly Mabel
Norinand rides to win as the sporting
“Mickey” at the Lyceum; while exotic Kitty
Gordon trails magnificence through “Merely
Players” at the Strand. Hoyt’s and the
Haymarket have Ethel Clayton in “Woman’s
Weapons.” Ethel is the wife of a writing
chap who seeks a soul-mate because the
nippers develop scarlet fever —a rash adven-
ture. The soul-hunter, however, can neither
wash dishes nor cook, so the husband de-
cides to stick to the wife, who can do both,
and the by-now disinfected children. “On
the Quiet” is the comedy support on the
same screens.
It is now nearly 12 weeks since Alfred
Frith started “Going Up” at Melbourne
Majesty’s. Even allowing for the com-
parative crawl of an old-fashioned ’bus, he
must by this time have climbed near the
seventh heaven.
At Melbourne King’s “De Luxe Annie”
continues to discourage old gentlemen from
building up libraries on the subscription
system. According to the operations of
Silky Ann, even interest in a volume on
hen-raising or heraldry will lead to the
sucker forgetting the Seventh Command-
ment.
“The Officers’ Mess” is now closing its
fifth week at Melbourne Tivoli, with Uera
Pearce and the other identities still toiling to
produce an illusion of frivolity. Vera is not
an exceptional humorist, but the gaps in
her gaiety are not specially noticed when
Bert Clark has more than enough for both.
The sheer exuberance of Clark is a valuable
asset to the show. lie seems to have been
born for the banter and bosh of farce.
Digger Ted Scott, who specialises in Den-
nis’s “Sentimental Bloke” and “Ginger
Mick,” produced some samples of his
work in character at Melbourne Tem-
perance Hall the other evening for the bene-
fit of pressmen and the author himself.
Scott has a presence that puts him right
with his audience from the jump, but thus
far he lacks the art of the long-distance
elocutionist, like Alexander Watson or Law-
rence Campbell. However, he doesn’t aspire
to be a full-night showman all at once, and
is certain to make good as a turn on the con-
cert platform or in vaudeville.
Theda Bara is doing a week’s hat'd labor
at Hoyt’s, Melbourne, in “The Soul of
Buddha,” a siren rble which makes her
the usual clandestine romance in the lives
of fat, dilly men. This time she starts
her exhausting career of fascination in the
wilds of Java, eventually reaching the Chat
Noil* or some other salubrious quarter of
Paris. “Such a Little Pirate” gives Lila
Lee charge of an ancient vessel heading for
adventure and buried coin. “The Man from
Funeral Range” is the usual Western story
where hearts are always trumps and the
ace belongs to the quickest gun. At the
Majestic “When a Girl Loves” produces
Mrs. Charlie Chaplin in close proximity to
another Western arsenal; but a touch of
early piety in the leading bandit converts
the local ambulance to the Go-slow move-
ment. Constance Talmadge in “Who Cares?”
is the society lion of the week. She starts
to play at matrimony, but finds the game
palling when her nice hubby returns the
insult.
The Waller Co. has dropped into its pro-
gramme at Adelaide Royal a highly-appro-
priate skit on the coal strike which stops all
Adelaide trams after 7.30 and leaves sub-
urban patrons of shows to get home how
they can. . Welch and Rego revive their
old boxing contest, and present a rollicking
improbable police-station. The temporary
absence of Dennett has given a chance to
Edgar Hull. Denis Kehoe, at the Tivoli,
finds the light humor of “Mother Macliree,”
reinforced by song, sufficient to carry him
through his season there. A new crowd,
headed by Harry Burgess, now has charge of
the second half of the Majestic programme.
Lampini is also in this bill, with his boot
trunk and the lady who is found outside of
it after it has been corded up with her on
the inside. Picture shows —West’s. Won-
dergraph, Grand and Pav.—all declare that
the absence of evening trams is not hitting
them as hard as. they expected. Their most
striking contribution far the week is
“Woman” at West’s, in which the sex is
seen getting into trouble (and less fre-
quently out of it) from the time of Eve up
to the present.
“Dagonet” Sims, who lives near Madam
Tussaud’s waxworks in London, vouches
that the queue waiting to get in on Easter
Monday was the biggest he has seen in 30
years’ residence. It was three-quarters of
a mile long at 10 in the morning.
London is to have a musical version of
“The School for Scandal.” E. V. Lucas is
preparing the “bock,” and Harry Graham,
who has written the jingles for many musi-
cal comedies, will attend to the lyrics. The
manufacturer of the music has not been
selected.
“Ike P.”: Villiers Arnold, late of “Hello,
Everybody,” owns the original script of “Rip
Van Winkle” used by Joe Jefferson. Vil-
liers’s father, J. A. Arnold, bought the piece
many years ago. He was playing in drama
at London Adelphi when the Savoy manage-
ment grabbed him to follow Fred. Leslie as
the operatic Rip. Later, Arnold, sen., toured
with his family in the drama, introducing
numbers from the opera. Mother was Gret-
chen, the eldest son was Heinrich, and young
Villiers was little Heinrich. A sister was
also in the cast. Rip, however, went to
sleep in a business sense and lost most of
what he had earned first as a doctor of medi-
cine, then successively in opera, minstrelsy
and drama.
LOVE AND WAR.
“How did you yet on with that hreaeh-of-
promise case with Spondulix?”
“Oh, he had to pay the indemnity."
“Glen H ” : Edmond Rostand’s son Maurice
has had a verse-drama produced in Paris
dealing with some of the naughty episodes
in the career of Casanova. The critics
give the impression of trying to be kind to
Maurice for the sake of the name he bears,
but they don’t enthuse. “He has tried to
construct a mansion before he can build a
stable,” says one.
“R.K.D.N.”: Robert Courtneidge, who
has a soft place in his heart for Australia,
was contemplating, when the last mail left
London, the production of a new comedy
called “Billjim,” by Jeanette Sara Duncan.
He is also going ahead himself as a writer
for the stage. A month of two ago. he
successfully launched his own musical piece,
“Petticoat Fair,” which he has just followed
up with “Fancy Fair.” All’s fair with
Cpurtneidge evidently.
“Norbell”: We get only American bellow-
drama now. But how many good goers
we have had from the big smoke, with the
“London” label on them! Beginning with
Dion Boucicault’s “London Assurance,” we
have had “Alone in London,” “Lost in
London,” “Lights o’ London, “London Day
by Day,” “When London Sleeps,” “In Lon-
don Town,” “Lured to London,” “The Worst
Woman in London,” “London,” “The Night
Side of London,” and others, perhaps. The
last on my list is “London Pride.”
“Glen Huntly”: Thanks to the Stage
Society, London has recently been able
to view well-acted productions of three
of Wycherley’s comedies, “The Country
Wife,” “The Plain Dealer” and “The Way
of the World.” In his essay on the Restora-
tion dramatists Macaulay praises all three
for their brilliant wit, while damning them
for their grossness and immorality. “Wy-
cherley’s indecency is protected against the
critics,” he w r rote, “as a skunk is protected
against the hunters. It is safe, because it
is too filthy to handle and too noisomh even
to approach.” Presumably the plays were
sub-edited, although Stage Society patrons
mostly have stronger stomachs than the
windy old essayist. Well-remembered Ethel
Irving was Lady Fancyful in “The Country
Wife,” and was highly praised.
“0.L.”; Recent mention of the decease of
baby-elephant Madan at Broken Hill while
on tour with “Professor” Felix recalls a
second-hand memory of probably the first
elephant touring co. to be seen in Victoria.
In the ’fifties one of the pioneering Henty
brothers lived near Warrnambool, in a . dis-
trict then but sparsely settled. One evening
the girls of the family were astonished to
see something quite new arrive on their
somewhat monotonous horizon —an elephant
conducted by a nair of Indian keepers. The
visitors halted their animal some distance
from the homestead, and one of them came
and asked permission to stall it in an empty
barn for the night. This was done, and next
day the outfit moved on into the unknown.
The travelling-show business must have been
a poor one in those days, for the animal’s
caretakers were a hungry pair in holey gar-
ments and with but little cash.


A Titan Among Tyres
v,
■
'V ivm
X v \
mm
IlSfcSt
H
/,
H
m
■
am
sm
m
s
H
ts
-7 IH
f J .•
.
MADE IN
CANADA.
~
1
■
ra
1
1 . •
■
1
07.
:
s
SS* ..
H /
1
•v
i
I I
■
■
1
| /
'
1 If
HI f
.aV '
8 ■',%/iWmmm , ,
Dominion Tyres have the proved ruggedness,
vitality and long life that fits them perfectly
for the heavy-duty work they are performing.
Purchase Dominion Tyres for satisfaction.
OBTAINABLE FROM
NEW SOUTH WA LES-
SEN NETT & BARKELL LTD.,
Cor. Meagher & Chip pen Streets,
Chippendale, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
CHENEY MOTOR CO. LTD.,
42-8 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA & TASMANIA—
DOMINION TYRE AGENCY,
27-31 Little Bourke Street,
Melbourne
QUEENSLAND-
METROPOLITAN GARAGE & AGENCY,
George Street, Brisbane
'A3NQAS SS i S3A/A VJLN3S3U<J3hI AUOAO VJ


On Choosing Diamond?.
Diamonds are largely bought on trust, and it behoves the purchaser, whether expert
or novice, to select from an establishment of proved dependability in Diamond-
selling. The slightest flaw will discount the value of a Diamond as an investment.
STEWART DAWSON QUALITY IN DIAMONDS
is the criterion of value throughout the Commonwealth, and our long-standing
reputation is a guarantee of confidence for every buyer.
OUR TEN HUGE ESTABLISHMENTS
are daily devoting their Ready Cash resources to provide their clients with the
World’s Best Values in Precious Stones, Jewellery, Silverware, etc.
all diamonds set in real platinum.
Any of these designs can be purchased at any of the Stewart Dawson Establish-
ments. Catalogue sent Post Free if desired.
Stewart Dawson & Co. (Aust.) Ltd*
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Also Regent Street and Kaiion Garden, London.
K 923 —Handsome
New Design
Finest Quality
Diamond Cluster
Ring, Real
Platinum and
18ct. Gold Set-
K9l7—-5-stone
Diamond. Sot Real
Platinum and
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
We stock a very fine selection of Diamond
let Watches, similar to illustration.
Purest Diamonds,' and fully-jewelled,
movements.
Set Brace-
Guaranteed
high-grade
MlO0 —Handsome
Diamond Bow
Brooch, £5O.
K6ll— Dainty
Pearl and Diamond
Set Brooch, loot.
Gold & Platinum.
£3/15/-
!lg8l3»3S»
fj,
Klo2l—All Diamond Bow Brooch, set
Platinum and i "et. Gold. £4O.
K677—Fine Diamo-d and Platinum Brooch,
£B/10/-
POVERTY
POINTS
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“M.P.A.” : A film story of the Kelly Gang,
nut on the screen by J. and N. Tait during
the early days of the picture business in
Australia, earned good money despite its
crudities. Now we are to 'have a version
from the pen of a man who knows how to
nut a scenario together and produce it. That
man is Southwell, who was responsible for
the O. Henry pictures which came through
the Vitagraph Co. Southwell has been
working 011 the Kelly scenario since his
arrival in Melbourne some months ago, and
everything is ready for the nractical end of
the business. The co. engaged to do the
bushranging includes Godfrey Cass, who is
to play Ned Kelly. Godfrey is a son of the
man who was Governor of Melbourne Gaol
when Ned was captured, and as a small boy
he saw the bushranger the night before the
execution.
“R.S.V.P.”: Singer Harry Dearth, accord-
ing to “Fax” (B. 19/G/T9), lacks platform
ease and compares unfavorably with Melba
because he “leans against the piano, hands
in pockets.” Melba is prim on the plat-
form. all right; but it’s a question if she
makes her audience feel quite as much at
home as Dearth does. Melba, on being over-
encored. gets off some such gag as “I mu-
must gug-go home to muh little gug-grand-
chikl!” And she gug-goes. Dearth, the
other night, when the crowd demanded a
repetition of a good thing, leaned up against
rhe piano some more and growled affably:
“I wish you had to do it!” —and did it.
“Bloggs”: There are two incredibilities in
“The Better , 01e”—Old Bill and the Sar-
Major. The disrepntableness, not to say
filth, of Old William might just pass in a
front-line trench. But when he first ap-
pears his battalion is at the Base ! Ilis cap
is covered with Somme Valley chalk; his
boots are steeped in it; so is his tunic, and
it is also (worst infamy of all) undone!
Not even a labor battalion would have
stood such a turnout. The Sar-Major not
only endures Old Bill’s tramp-like appear-
ance at the Base, and parades him in that
state before the Colonel after the Regiment
has left the line, but, stranger still, lie joins,
on equal terms, in the revels of private
soldiers. As Ibsen’s character remarked on
a famous occasion, “Sergeant-Majors don’t
do such things”—or words to that effect.
Anyhow, not in the British Army.
“D.”: Dorothy Brunton is lost to the
Australian stage. Charles Cochran, about
the biggest man in musical-comedy produc-
tion in the world to-day, recently told Hugh
Buckler that the Australian girl Avas the
“cleverest thing in her line that had come
to London in a dozen years.” Buckler, by
fh,e way, has been anpearing Avith Madge
Titheradge since he left the Army.
At the time of Lew de Groen’s death in
Sydney there Avas a regretful feeling
amongst brass-music lovers that the band
which he had brought to such perfection
might be dispersed. Fortunately this possi-
bility has been averted. The Australian
Jockey Club. Tattersall’s Club and City
Tattersall’s Club have decided to retain the
services of the combination, which is prac-
tically the same as it was 20 years ago.
J. A. Arcus, deputy-conductor of the Sydney
Amateur Orchestral Society, has the baton.
Mount Gambier, down on the Vic. border
of South Aus., has a strong Scotch element,
and readily put up a £250 guarantee to
get Lauder there. He motored from Adel-
aide through the Coeroug. The Caledonian
Band met him seven miles out, and led h'im
in in triumph. His co. went round by train
and, as usual in those parts, arrived late.
So the slidw began after 9 p.m,. and finished
any old time.
“Ike Pagliacci”: When Australian man-
agers -have to pay for rehearsals on a time-
basis we will see less of producers’ tantrums.
Now prinicipals and minions alike have to
stand in suffering idleness while the stage
despot gets his anger off his chest in his
own pet style. There is one producer with
the bad habit of throwing anything that dis-
pleases him during rehearsals into the stalls
—that is, anything inanimate, though some
day he may heave an actor over the railing.
Quite possibly also he may be bounced into
the bis - drum himself. A panto, full-rehear-
sal in Sydney a season or so ago was held
up for half an hour on account of the fiery
language of the producer and the remon-
strance of the musical director, and the co.
was treated to a series of prize-fight pre-
liminaries. Ultimately the musical man
quitted the theatre, and relations became so
strained that the show needed about twice
as many rehearsals as might have been
necessary, for all of which the performers
received nothing. When a manager finds
that he has to pay for this sort of thing he
will probably insist on his producer having
a church training and a temper like a duck-
pond in a calm.
“Ox” : Allan Wilkie likes to have a finger
in the managerial pie; which keeps him out
of some theatres, but nermits him to give
full rein to his versatility. He sails from
Sydney to M.L. as soon as there is anything
to sail in, and “Hindle Wakes” is to be the
chief play of his repertoire. This has never
had a first-class professional production in
Australasia. Teddy Landor, late A.1.F.,
now' playing with Wilkie, was in the original
production.
“Brod”: Cyril Lade, who played with the.
Melbourne Uni. Dramatic Society in Shaw
and Barrie plays, has made his debut at
Dr-ary Lane in the part of Porthos in
“Cyrano de Bergerac,” with Robert Loraine
in the star role.
“Veva. B.”: Another Australian wdro has
reached the heights on the screen is Aurele
Labat de Lambert, known as Aurele Sydney,
after his native city. tie played with
Bland Holt for many 3 ears, and is credited
with holding one of the largest contracts in
the movie line in England.
“Yarra Ben”: Jerome Patrick makes his
re-appearance here in a new Tait importa-
tion called “Daddies.” The ’Murkan comedy
was originally staged in New York by Pat-
rick’s mentor and manager, David Belasco,
and Jerome is reproducing it for the Tait
brethren on the lines laid down by David. A
new leading lady fresh from the States will
“play opposite” to Patrick.
“C. Ockney”: The cast of stage players in
this year’s Royal Academy is unusually small.
Two mummeresses only and never a mummer
appear among the portraits. One is Sydney-
Composer ALFRED HILL,
of Sydney Conservatorium.
born Marie Lohr, as Lady Babbie in Barrie’s
“Little Minister,” painted by J. J. Shannon.
The other is Mrs. Oscar Asche as she ap-
pears in Chu-Chin-Chow” —a miniature by
Winifred Longworth.
“First Old Man”: The local mummer
wouldn’t have so much cause for grumbling if
all the imported plays had a cast like the
new Figman comedy, “The Tailor-made
Man.” There are close on 30 speaking parts ;
and all but three of the players are home-
grown or accepted as such.
“2269”: At last we will have a change
from the Yankee twaddle-drama and slap-
stick films which the four years of war have
brought us. Two hundred thousand Diggers
have been in France long enough to develop
a taste for something else, and there are
several French artists more popular with
them than Mary Pickford ever was. Sev-
eral local film exchanges are therefore look-
ing around for a renewal of contracts held
with Continental firms before the war.
“0.K.” : Sidney Drew, late of the movies,
was cremated at New Jersey (U.S.A.). Aus-
tralia remembers hipa as a good comedian
who came here under engagement to Rick-
ards, and played in clever sketches with
his wife. The wife w r as McKee Rankin’s
daughter. Her line was that of the dicta-
torial lady who ruled Sidney with a rod of
iron until he revolted, and her rampageous
style of being angry was a reminder of Nance
O’Neil, who also had learned her business
from Rankin. Sidney Drew, whose son,
Rankin, fell in France, was the son of a
famous old American actor. An illustrated
GUESS AGAIN!
ASTUTE ACTOR (jibbing at crook contract ):
"I smell a rat!”
MANAGER: “Oh no, you don't. It's that
cigar.”
edition of Shakspeare, published in New 7 York
long ago, contains an engraving of John Drew 7
as Andrew Aguecheek. He w.as contem-
porary with Edwin Forrest, Lester, C. F.
Davenport and others in the days when
American actors mostly wore whiskers. John
appears with a silly little tuft under his
lower lip, but he does at least look more
Shakspearean than Lester, arrayed in shin-
ing armor as Henry V., with a curly head,
a thick mo., and beauteous side bushes.
' “R.S.V.P.”: The popular belief is that
the main features of the jazz originate in
nigger dance-halls; but there may be a
connection with the methods of the tympani-
man of old-time dancing days of Arizona
and Colorado. I remember an evening’s
Western entertainment and noted the noise
merchant’s duties. Besides his drums and
cymbals, Long Bill had a box of sawdust
on the floor near his chair; and into this, at
suitable climaxes, he emptied his six-shooter
with an immense uproar. The truly modern
jazz-orchestra leader will no doubt pre-
sently introduce a machine gun into his
symphonies,
“Homan Dry” : Met an old friend at the
movies the other night—Lydia Yeamans-
Titns. The lady was at the Melbourne
Athenaeum years and years ago, mostly im-
personating precocious babies. In the film
she is a plump, catty old person, who can
never hope to make juvenile w'eight again.
“O. Blin” : “M.P.A.’s” yarn (B. 26/6/19)
reminds me of a prominent maternity special-
ist who used to patronise a movie show 7 in
her Melbourne suburb on the understanding
that if she were required suddenly the
showman would be advised by ’phone and
flash the tidings by a smoked slide on the
screen. One evening, after a hard day, the
lady was snoozing through the last shudder
of Theda Bara w 7 hen there came the urgent
call to service. As arranged the screen ifiti-
mated that Sister had better be moving; but
the dame drowsed on until a neighbor w 7 ho
knew her by sight prodded her. After one
dazed glance at the screen she fled for the
exit, doffing her mufti en route. By the
time she reached the street she was carrying
her frock over one arm and had exposed her
full uniform ready for business.
A curious theatrical case was heard by a
London court recently, w 7 hen an actor named
Bogue sued Manager Lawrence Brough,
nephew of Australia’s well-remembered
Robert, for £2 6s. Id. They played together
in a piece, during which Larry had to go for
Bogue with a sword; but Bogue threw in
the towel after the first night “He left me
one mass of bruises, although I wore a thick
leather pad and paper under my clothes,” he
told the Court. The Bench decided that
16s. Bd. urnuld adequately compensate Bogue
for his stage wounds.
“R.A.Y.”: The best circus clown I ever
knew 7 drifted into the ring from the Inky
Way. In the intervals of blowing froth oif
beer he was a brilliant writer who revelled
in lampooning country-town tin-gods. Three
months’ restraint on the staff of a country
paper that vms all stodge filled him with a
yearning to break loose and unload his
mind, and he offered his services to the
manager of a nearly-insolvent circus that
happened along, just for the chance of
letting off a few gags at local nobs who
had got on his nerves. lie w 7 as such a
success that he was engaged for the tour.
He was still its star attraction when I lost
trace of it months afterwards.
“Ike Pagliacci”: The war probably had
its bad moments for Hagenbeck’s big zoo at
Hamburg, which was a distributing base for
the world’s circus animals. The zoo office
r as conducted on shop principles, and
customers bought camels and things
over the counter. I went there
looking for trained cats. A polite
clerk informed me that they had no
cats in stock, but offered me a
cheap line in panthers. After-
wards he directed me to the prin-
cipal cat-man of the country, one
Techow, who made a tour of Aus-
tralia with Harry Rickards in
1907- Techow had a small rest-
aurant and combined two profes-
s’ons. He showed me some of
h’s good cats, then hospitably in-
vited me to eat at his expense;
but I wondered what lie did with
the bad cats, and transacted busi-
ness on an empty stomach. Later
I went to Berlin, where the keen
Hagenbeck followed me and offered to make
up a very cheap parcel of panthers, and
throw in a grandfatherly stork, to which I
had taken a fancy.
Fate has played strange tricks with “Peter
Ibbetson.” .George Du Maurier wrote the
story before “Trilby” came to light, but
didn’t publish it. After Du Maurier had
been dead some years John Raphael, the
man who supplied Paris gossip to London
Referee, adapted the book for the stage, and
scored a moderate success in London during
the war. He- died soon afterwards. Now
“Peter” has had an enormous run in
America, and Constance Collier is taking it
back to England.
Ella Wheeler Wilcox has a sense of humor
which would not be suspected from her
poetry. On a recent visit to England she
invented a new way of entertaining .Ameri-
can soldiers there. Her secretary first re-
cited a serious and familiar Wilcox poem;
then the author got up and gave a hilarious
parody of it.
“T. D. Emde” : “Bob Ray” (B. 26/6/T9)
'may rest assured that Henrietta Watson
did play Nellie Denver in “The Silver King”
produced by George Rignold at Sydney
Majesty’s about 28 years ago. Edward
Sass was specially engaged for The Spider,
and the late Sterling White was Jaikes.
The best child performer in this old piece
was Daisy Chester, specially imported in
the late ’eighties. No one seems to know
what has become of her. Like most other
child artists she probably failed to keep in
the forefront when she grew up.
An interesting experiment has .been ■ tried
at the Old Vic., London, where Shakspeare
is taken perhaps more seriously than at any
other house. Two young actors. Eric Ross
and Ernest Milton, have been playing Ham-
let alternately. Their methods are absolutely
different. Milton keeps up the Booth and
Irving tradition of the decorative prince, all
poses. Ross is quite modern and boyish.
The critics are pretty equally divided in
admiration of the two.
“J.M.Z.”: The picture-film makers must
have run out of ideas—not that they ever
had manv. After reading puffs about Bill
Hart in “Staking Ilis Life,” I went to see
the picture. There were two reels about
Bill’s ch-ildhood, his dying ma and the inter-
fering parson. Then the plot expired, for
with very few alterations the following three
reels were inflicted on us at a suburban show
over 12 months ago under the title of “Silent
Scot.”
“Kodak” ; Some day, somehow 7 , there will
be, So I’m told, an end of me. Though I
know a lot have died Up to now 7, I cannot
hide From myself the fact that I Am too
valuable to die. Caesar, Shakspeare —I
admit These and others did their bit; Had
a claim to live for ever, But from life they
had to sever. Seems a pity, but the tomb.
Taking them, for me made room. Who’s be-
hind me in the gate I don’t know 7 . He’ll
have to urnit Until I have seen the show 7;
Then I guess I’ll have to go. Seems a fear-
ful waste to me. Possibly you don’t agree?
Arguing till out of breath. . . . “Move
on there!” says Policeman Death.
TUB WIDOWS MIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Marcella Augusta l'atricia De Verc
Has enjoyed a diversified life;
No actress, perhaps, but it’s perfectly clear
She’s a strikingly versatile wife.
Though she only walks on in the pantomime shows,
She has starred in the Courts of Divorce;
Six husbands she’s had. with the Lord only knows
How many to come in due course.
Last Monday I learned she':, to marry Carew,
On Tuesday I heard it was .Tones.
f inquired, when 1 met her, which story was true,
She explained in mellifluent tones:
“I become Mrs. .Jones on the third of July -
Mr. Jones is the dearest of men, •
And he’s awfully rich, so 1 m eager to tr\
A parade to the altar again.
"But I’m pledged to Carew, and, although he’s a rip,
My devotion to him is sincere;
But he’s off to New York on a business trip,
So Carew is postponed for a year.”
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


SOUND ADVICE
Which has been found Invaluable
by Thousands of People.
Ever since the influenza Epidemic
reached Australia, straight announce-
ments have been made advising people to
keep their systems in order by taking an occasional dose of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills together with 10 grains of
Aspirin or Quinine, and on no account to try to doctor
themselves should they show any signs of the real
Influenza, but to send for the doctor and to go to bed. The
soundness of this advice was so obvious that it has been
followed to a remarkable extent. Tens of thousands of
bottles of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have been sold
since the epidemic started. One retail company alone has
passed across its counters over five thousand bottles every month. Many
wholesale houses have exceeded this quantity in Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide. More than a ton of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills has been
sold during each of the epidemic months. There are about two thousand
two hundred pills to the pound (anyone can work it out), which makes
over five million pills sold per month in Australia, or at the rate of about
a pill for every man, woman and child on the continent. The wonderful
character of this-sale is further emphasised when it is known that no
salesmen were employed whatsoever. Orders came through the mail, or
over the telegraph and telephone wires, and were in response to the
genuine demands of the trade. It can, therefore, be seen that
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS have played their
part, as already stated, in fighting the epidemic.
It is not claimed they are better than anything else made for similar purposes, but it is claimed they are far
better than most, and equal to the best made in this or any other country —and why notP The proprietors have
been making pills for nearly a century, and for twenty-five years they have been in constant use in Australia. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are like Ford cars. It is quantity production that makes them possible at the price. If
the formula were taken to a chemist he would charge five shillings to make it up, and there would be no guarantee
that the ingredients had not lost their efficiency. That cannot happen in manufacturing Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. The ingredients are bought in large quantities, and rapidly used up, and the activity of this pill is certain.
They are sold to the Public at a shilling or a little more, subject to local conditions, and in any case the Public gets
good value. These are the reasons for their immense popularity, which can be summed up in two words,
“Absolutely Dependable.”


In these days of marvellous achievements
events such as crossing the Atlantic by air
line doesn’t rouse extra enthusiasm, but
King George IV. whisky always exhilarates
and promotes appreciative applause. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORUE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &WHITTY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
m
V,
$
o
fo
ag |
a-
if
'///////////
a:
£
3
Q
V/////////Z
m
<
S////////////S
'////*
<1
<
a
Cr
O
m
v",
X!
ss
/"////
c>.
PATON
Jay
BrJncls
GJn
and
looH for
this label
You'll
be pleased
with the
result
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
was taken by A. W. (Ruddy) playing first-class
hcided veteran who has been piajing
ne.i leu France for the past /o
Tt, ‘ ifn Lit Gore in 1910, and retainer!
the' o *1914, when Brookes decided he would
like * If. and forthwith took it. Brookes is in in-
«ii *« i health, or, which is as had, thinks he is,
if 42 years of age. Patterson is a boy,
maUiliceut. in his physique -and fitness. He should
hold ihe title for many years to come. Moith
otiwo by the way, that. Australians are supreme
in the' two cleanest sports in the United
to-dav— tennis and rowing. They are the only two
in which the money factor is entirely absent.
# # *
Although the G. N. Hurdle was not the
runaway affair it sometimes is, and the actual
result' was in doubt right up to the distance-post,
Un lace for the last U mile was con-
finerl to four of them—bandule, W ill Comtoit,
Sunia and Lady Reigle. Four-year-old Sandule,
jumping respectably this time, might have won had
he been more seasoned to the game, as it was,
he found the jumps too tiring and dropped
away before making the last turn, f»0 othei
probable winners were the favorites, Tiiiana and
Mount Miltsin, quoted at 5 to 1 each, they botli
came to grief at the same hurdle, early in the race
The first favorite last year was one of the levy that
fell; so also was Will Comfort, who had the best
of luck this year. A good gee needs good lues,
to win a Grand National.
Will Comfort is not a very hardy sort of cus-
tomer. but among jumpers he is distinctly classy.
He and topweight Ivinlark were about the hand
■somest of the 17 starters, and Ivinlark did justice
to his appearance by finishing fourth. .Then came
Beltane, the timid jumper who had whipped in the
field most of the way. The owner of Beltane had
been ill-advised in not racing his sour candidate
over the sticks for at least two months before he
was wanted. He lost ground at the jumps, and
sulked in between, whereas a more practised hurdler
would have rejoiced in his ability to get round any
course without a tumble.
» » * *
To this page’s way of thinking Old Mrni-
gindi, at time of writing, is preferable to Sir
Prim, Cobram, Dorian and all the others he will
meet in tile Steeple next Saturday. . The stamina
of Sir Prim has to be proved, for his record as a
hurdle-racer gave no promise that he would develop
into a great. stayer. Dorian has never yet run
brilliantly, nor is it clear that grey Cobram had
much to beat when he put his number up last
year But Mungindi was an exceptionally good one
on the day he beat Caibve over the long course,
and if he strikes his form of two years ago nothing
but bad hick can keep him from a win or a
place.
Vanitor, Fred. Burn’s brown gelding, who
won the Maiden ’Chase very easily, looks fairly , good
for the G. N. Steeple, in which lie will carry 231 b.
less, with a mile further to go, Burn both trains
and rides this accomplished jumper, and if he takes
the big race with him it should be a world’s record.
“Nemo”: C. J. Boyd, who had the mount
on Will Comfort in the G. N. Hurdles, started cross-
country rilling four years ago, being then 17. He
won the 1916 G. N. Hurdles on Jullundur. Last year
in the same event he rode the favorite, Western-
dale, who fell at the last jump when winning, and
in the G. N. Steeplechase he rode Caibye into second
place behind Old Mungindi. A month afterwards
Boyd rode the winning double, Polygamist and
Caibye, at the V.A.T.C. National meeting. ITe will
be on Old Mungindi next Saturday, which will give
him a likely chance of landing another double.
Ard-na-ree looks "good on Metrop. and
Melbourne Cup weights—a four-year-old, and one
bred to stay, and built to stay and that can stay.
He was seriously considered as a possible Derby colt
.at two years .. old, but has been a late-comer. II
winter suburban form was of much value —which
it isn’t —this nag with 7st. 21b. for Fleminglon
could be counted on as one of the best-handicapped
horses in the races. A.J.C. handieapper Wilson
must think so, anyhow', for he handed him 7st. 101 b.,
a not-too-bad horse’s weight in the Metrop. Ard-na-
ree has w'on twice lately—at Rosehill and Warwick
Farm—and would probably have won thrice had he
been ridden with better judgment. But it is easy
to exaggerate the importance of these happenings.
He only had moderates to beat. At Randwiek
he has never done well. It seldom happens that a
prad who has had winter racing hangs on to his
form, in the spring. Moreover Ard-na-ree is not an
easy horse to train. Despite all of which some good
judges expect a lot from him, provided he goes on
all right in the coming weeks.
* * * *
Up till the other day one of the sourest
brutes racing on Sydney suburban courses was
Urney (imp.). A couple of years ago he won a
minor event and was confidently expected to annex
something bigger. The only thing he did w’as to
lose the stable cash. And then he suddenly re-
formed. On Saturday he took the Moorefield Handi-
cap, his third four weeks. Apprentice Lilly-
man seems to" have a patent for extracting speed
■ from this horse, and he also appears to be the
only joeklet who knows how to use it.
Four years ago V.R.C. chairman Mackin-
non gave 1900 guineas for a half-brother to Comedy’
King, christened him Salvini and waited hopefully
for a fortune. Nothing happened. Mackinnon finally
had the knife used and leased the remains to a
couple of Sydney, men. On Saturday the £1995
worth of horse won his first race. It was at Moore-
field, and was worth £75.
* * * *
For the Epsom, starting with Rebus (9sr.
lllb.), 94 nags are weighted at 7st. and under,
though the race has not been won by anything with
that weight for 20 years. For the Metrop. 100 are
handed 7st. or less. Only once has this race been
annexed by r a genuine light-weight—in 1902 by Queen
of Sheba. There was nothing much good in the
discard last year, but in 1917 the rough ’uns in-
cluded Kennaquhair, Poitrel and Bronzetti. , This
time there is at least one with a paper chance —
Prince Bardolph’s brother Garibaldi. At 7st. this
gelding looks as well handicapped as anything in
the race.
*****
“Imp” always scares the handicappers.
Last month the English-bred Perseus won a Novice
Handicap at Randwiek with 7st. 121 b. Margalo,
carrying Bst. lib., ran Second, after getting away
badly. No one who saw the race had any doubt
about what would have happened if the filly had
been as decently served as the others at the barrier.
But Perseus now gets 7st. 101 b. in the Epsom, 81b.
more than Margalo, and is reckoned better than
Princess Lucy, the June Stakes winner Cobi, the
Doncaster winner Hem, and Laddie Blue, who last
year ran the fastest mile Randwiek had seen (lmin.
37|see.)—not to mention Sir Paddington, Colonel
Chutney, Private King and Cash Register.
At a recent race meeting of the Burdekiw
Turf Club (N.Q.) the Hurry Scurry was won by
Limerick, the favorite. After the tote and the books
'had settled it was discovered that the horse’s real
name was Left In, and that he had won a double
in a neighboring town only a week previously. His
complexion had been changed from bay to brown by
the application of molasses. At last a use has been
found for the by-product of the sugar industry. Still,
the nag was disqualified for life, and his owner for
a year. Which only shows how invention is dis-
couraged in this country.
* * * *
Will Comfort is a truly remarkable nag.
He joined J. McCann’s string at. Caulfield in
December last, and since then has jumped exactly
six flights of hurdles. The reason, as stated by his
trainer, is that the horse is a delicate customer who
takes a lot out of himself in jumping. He is also so
fine a natural jumper that he requires practically
no schooling at all. Will Comfort was bred by
his owner, Hugh Campbell, of Gippsland, and despite
the fact that he does not boast a stud-book pedigree,
he comes of very’ stout stock. His sire, Active,
was by Carlyon—Limber, and has taken numerous
prizes at shows, while his dam Comfort was sired
by the Trenton horse The Inquisitor.
* * * *
One of the world’s tennis sensations of
last week was the hollow defeat at Wimbledon of
Patterson and Brookes (whom London Times and
other authorities had proclaimed to be unbeatable)
by young O’Hara Wood, of Melbourne, and Thomas.
The Willard-Dempsey match was the farce
that most people who were out of range of the
preliminary “promoter’s dope” expected it to be.
The giant who beat Johnson doesn’t even seem to
have trained on this occasion, and he made no effort
to fight. The cable tells of one or two “feebly
delivered uppercuts” on his part. During the rest
of the slaughter Dempsey battered him into help-
lessness, practically without opposition. The winner
displayed no great skill: his strong suit is slugging.
It is safe to say that Eddie McGoortv, whom Darcy
outed with such ease four years ago, would have
torn the laurels from Jess’s unworthy brow as easily
as Dempsey did. The affair, which went only three
rounds, lends color to Jack Johnson’s yarn that he
went down to Jess bv arrangement in 1916.
* * * *
Is Dempsey world’s champion? Techni-
cally he is not in Britain, Australia or France, where
championships are only decided in 20-round events.
And the same rule applies in many parts of America.
So if Cochran matches Dempsey with the winner of
the coming Carpentier-Beckett event, and adver-
tises the bout as a world’s championship one, he
may be indictable for seeking to obtain money by
false pretences. Also, unless Willard and Dempsey
meet again over the regulation distance, the cham-
pionship succession will possibly be lost, in the
same way as the B.C.’s say that the apostolic suc-
cession was lost by the Anglican Church at the
Reformation. It is a distressing situation to all
true lovers of stoush from whatever aspect it is
regarded.
Frank Brogan stopped Bob Williams in
the fifth round at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night. Robert is as brave as they are made, and his
old skill is there, but his timing-sense seems tem-
porarily to., have vanished. In short, he is tired or
stale. Brogan, who boxes right-handed, after the
awkward Kay style, has a very powerful punch for
a lightweight.
“M.P.A.” : I mentioned some time ago that
George Hackenschmidt was said to be interned at
Berlin, and that he—was merely a shadow of the old
Russian lion. Later a correspondent confirmed this.
A report has, however, been circulated here in Mel-
bourne that Hackenschmidt was not interned at the
camp, but was actually a guard over Allied
prisoners. Perhaps some Bulletin contributor can
throw light on the subject?
* * * *
Meeske, the Vic. amateur middle-weight
wrestler, did what he liked with Pernin, a French
champion, at Havre recently. One fall decided who
was top dog. The Australian turned his man over
in 6i minutes. Pernin, though the lighter, was
reckoned a hot proposition. After the bout Meeske
issued a challenge to wrestle any man his weight in
the world. It was under Clarence Weber and his
partner Jack Rice that Meeske made a start, and
gradually built up a physique that enabled him to
gain distinction at wrestling, boxing (though he was
too slow to be a very good boxer) and cycling, and
as a swimmer and weight-lifter. When Weber was
preparing for his last contests on the mat he made
use of the youngster as a wrestling partner, and
though he found his nupil resolute and immensely
strong, he could never get the lad to take the
offensive. However, most wrestlers improve with
age: Clarence Weber himself would be a tougher
proposition to-day than at any time during his
career. Meeske shouldn’t find it difficult to get
matches, as Europe is full of wrestlers, though they
mostly stick to Graeco-Roman.
* * * *
The Paris Grand Prix at Longchamps was
won last week by Galloper Light, a Sunstar horse
belonging to a young Rothschild. It is a dozen
years since an English horse took this event —before
ithe war the richest in the world.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League leaders clashed
on Saturday when Balmain and Eastern Suburbs
met. A grim, and at times pugilistic, tussle ended
in a draw (3 points each). The goal-kicking was
awful. Wally Messenger in a dozen attempts
couldn’t find the uprights once. Newtown surprised
Glebe by 15-9; and Souths defeated Norths by
36-24; while Wests overwhelmed Annandale by
29-3. In this last match McPherson (Wests)
landed four goals, which puts him on top in this
department with 23 for the season.
* * * *
The A.I.F. v. N.S.W. struggle on Satur-
day drew the biggest Rugby Union crowd Sydney
has seen for years. The A.I.F. XV featured reps,
of N.S.W., Vic. and Queensland, and their poundage
was enormous. They also possessed combination and
condition. With the result that at half-time they
led by 17-4, and wound up winners by 42-14.
And yet, player for player, with perhaps three
exceptions, N.S.W. was the better side. Rankin at
full-back and Pountney and Mayne, the opposing
backs, were the best players, on the ground, and of
these Rankin was easily the star. Suttor, the
speedy ex-C.E.G.S. boy, still retains his famous swoop
when he first gets
going with the ball,
but he had his work
cut out to beat Shep-
pard for pace or 'any
other quality. Dyer
had plenty to do, and
was solid though never
brilliant. He is past
his prime as a “big”
footballer, and lacks
the requisite dash to
put his team “on-side.”
The inclusion of the
Carr Bros, would have
made a vast difference
in the home attack—
to make no mention
of its defence—and it
is to be hoped that
“Slip” Carr’s leg will
allow him to olay in
the next match.
MAJOR
MATTHEWS,
Manager of
A.I.F. Football
Team, calm in
victory.
At Brisbane the All Blacks lost again to
the Queensland XIII, this time by 16-13. It is
becoming a habit. They have now gone down in
four matches v. N.S.W. and two v. Queensland; and
their sole successes have been against country teams
at Tamworth and Newcastle (N.S.W.) and Ipswich
(Q->-
* * * *
Victoria beat S. Aus. at Adelaide on
Saturday by 9.S to 8.8. It was anybody’s game up to
the final quarter, with a shade of odds on the more
skilful S.A. reps. But ruggedness and determination
told at the finish. Eicke again proved himself a
great artist, and Lee did well. Leahy, Qgden, Ash-
ley and Congear all shone brightly at different stages
of the game.
On the same dav a Vic. League team beat a Bal-
larat XVIII on the local ground, by 86 to 80. And
with a bit of luck r it would have been the other
wav about. Eustace and Inglis did great things
for the villagers.
“Walloon”: Ipswich is the home of the
League game in Bananaland, and the town lived up
to its record in the recent M.L. match. Of the 26
points scored by the winning Q. team, Paten, the
speedy three-quarter, notched eight, Johnson (for-
ward) six, and Duncan Thompson, who captained the
team, five. All three are Ipswichites.
* * * *
“Machete”: “Trot’s” remarks on the
Maori footballers’ “war-cry,” with its “translation,”
reminds me that I was part-author of a similar war-
cry which was “official” for years afterwards. It was
sprung on the ..Sydney public by the Queensland
team of ’96, and was composed in the mail train
coming from Brisbane. As we were to tour Maori-
land, someone suggested that an Australian version
of the famous “Ake-ake” howl was essential; so a
committee produced the “war-cry of the Queensland
Bunya-Bunya tribe.” It ran: “Wooloongabba,
Wooloongabba, ugh, ugh, ugh, wasssee, wazzee, tah!”
It attracted great attention on tour, and the “trans-
lation” varied. In N. S. Wales, where we won two
of our three matches, our skipper, the late Sammy
Cockcroft, told one paper that it meant, “Victory,
victory, the foe is overcast.” In Christchurch, after
three consecutive hidings from Auckland, Wellington
and M.L., he told a local rag the yell meant, “Fight
on, fight on 1 The worst is yet to come!” Sammy
was a diplomat. t
“G.N.”: “Trot (B. 26/6/T9) is wrong.
M.L. will never make things hum for N.S.W. reps,
at the thirteen-aside game. One of the main
pillars of the black-jerseyed crowd’s Union
teams was the wing forward, who is cut out
of the new game. By smothering the opposing halves
the winger was invariably the cause of the opposi-
tion backs playing behind a beaten pack, with the
result that they were overwhelmed and rattled with-
out a chance ‘of getting into their stride. Under
League rules the game isn’t won by the side with
the meatiest forwards. In several of the rep. matches
just concluded the M.L. pack consistently beat ours
for the ball, and still their side was badly licked.
Concerning the plavers mentioned by “Trot,” N. S.
Wales has produced, individually, equally as good.
Abbot, Wickham, Oxenham, Charlie White, Spragg,
and the only “Dally” are a few of them.
* * * *
J. J. Teschemaker, dead in M.L. at 80,
founded hunting in Canterbury, then a very “Eng-
lish” settlement. And from the weekly “meets”
thereabouts sprang the Grand National Steeplechase,
now run at Riccarton. Teschemaker and his
friends thus provided the country with many fine
horses and horsemen. In the early days the big
race was run over natural country, containing
fences which only a perfect hunter had a chance
of negotiating. Many years ago Teschemaker was
chairman of a committee of sporting men who un-
earthed a racing swindle which shook squatterdom
to its foundations, the principal culprit belonging
to a family of great affluence. But all who were
mixed up in the affair must now be where their one-
time judge has just gone.
Adelaide sport has lost heavily by the
sudden death of George Bagot. Quiet, even retiring,
and not known to the crowd, he was the very
opposite of the typical “sporting” man; but lus life-
long knowledge of horses made him valuable on the
committees of S.A. Jockey Club and in the polo
and hunt clubs of Adelaide. And lie was in great
request as a judge at shows. #
The first Aerial Derby, flown around
London, was in all respects the most sporting event
of the English racing season. Government machines
were disqualified, and the reward of the winner, who
beat 15 other competitors, was not a cheque, but a
£500 gold cup. ' #
“Six and eight”: Neither the circum-
stances mentioned by “Bix” (B. 19/6/’19) nor those
related by “Ingclara” (B. 5/6/’19) would be good de-
fences to actions brought by a landholder for trespass
to land, though they would be good if the proceedings
taken were for trespass to enclosed lands. The former
trespass can be made the subject of a civil action,
and where it is wilful, and for the purpose of hom-
ing, punitive damages can be awarded. The best
advice to people with money who, relying on the
tales of “Ingelara” and “Bix/* may be contemplat-
ing trespass, is Don’t.
* * * *
There were no novices in the Australian
crew which beat Oxford and won the King’s Cup
at Heifley last week. A. It. Robb and F. "Ouse
were in the Tas. crew which won the inter-Statc
race in 1914; H. Hauenstein and S. A. Middleton
(N.S.W.) had places in the Australian eight-oar
crew at Henley and Stockholm in 1912; D. C.
Disher stroked Melb. ’Varsity in 1913 and 1914;
C W. Mettham was in the W.A. rep. boat in 1911,
’13, and ’14; S. E. Scott (S.A) has rowed in Vic.
junior events; and T. McGill is one of Leichhardt
(Sydney) Rowing Club cracks.
* * * *
The speed struggle of the future will bo
between the motor-car and the aeroplane, using
similar engines. Ralph De Palma who recently
left a mile behind in 24 1-5'see. on Daytona Beach.
Florida, used an aviation engine developing 260 h.p.
Car and driver weighed 34001b. In De Palma’s
opinion he will be able to travel at. the rate of
three miles a minute on his Packard ear if its
weight can be so distributed as to keep it in
contact with the ground. And if that pace can be
attained on wheels what is going to be the limit
in the air?
* * * *
A week before the Foy Grand Challenge
Stakes at Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) Double Border was for
sale at £15. No one wanted him. He was entered at
Liverpool, and at the first calling of the card his
owner took £50 to 10 bob about his chances. He
responded by landing the stake, which, bets apart,
was worth £75.
The Champion Cup at this meeting was, as in
former years, a frost. There were only four nomina-
tions. Achieved, last year’s Waterloo Cup winner;
Derby Lad, the last St. Leger winner and the
winner of the 1918 Produce Stakes at Liverpool; and
Our Corsair and Black Corsair, who divided last
year’s Metropolitan Cup and Mudgee Cup, were the
starters. In the first round Black Corsair downed
Derby Lad, and Achieved made a holy show of Our
Corsair. On the second day Black Corsair had to be
drawn owing to illness, and Achieved accordingly
walked over. He deserved it. He is a very fast
tyke, and, though he is now a fourth-season dog, has
served at the stud and has puppies running, and
though previous to the meeting he had not been out
of his owner’s yard for a fortnight, he simply romped
home in the one course he was called on to run.
THE ENGLISH WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
England at war was England side —a place of stress
and gloom. .
Where men and women toiled apace; and, since thei«
was no room '
Within their hearts for happiness, they showed the
Wry-faced grin
That England always shows the world when she may
lose —or win.
And so the English grinned and toiled, as is the
English way,
And during five long anxious years had little time
for play.
The war-cloud gone, with eager zest the nation turns
its eyes _ , _
To cricket-ground and tennis-court; and acclama-
tions rise , , ,
In honor of the laughing boys who take a spoiting
As whole-souled as the plaudits earned by those who
The £mer shining, though the earth is wet
And the England that she was in other
year.?.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


I Guarantee to Teach You Boxing in
Twenty-four Lessons.
I am now conducting a special course at mv Institute, and undertake to
Teach Boxing THOROUGHLY and SCIENTIFICALLY in 24 LESSONS.
I want you to distinctly understand that the Course has my PERSONAL
GUARANTEE BEHIND IT, and that you will be taught efficiently all the
“hits,” “stops” and “moves” known to the skilled boxers —in short, you
will be taught the science of Boxing thoroughly.
My Personal Guarantee—
MONEY REFUNDED IF NOT PERFECTLY SATISFIED
Boxing is an excellent, manly exercise—bringing
out the best —and will help you to lay up a store
of vim' and vigor to assist in warding off the pre-
vailing “ ’Flu” and other ailments, besides standing
to you should occasion arise to defend yourself.
Interviews can be made any day or evening.
Fee for 24 lessons £5/5/-
Fee for 12 lessons £3/3/-
Appointments may be made by telephone, William
974.
Boxing Lessons at Home.
I can teach you Boxing by POST just as success-
fully as if you were able to come to me for personal
lessons. Send three penny stamps to cover postage,
and I will send you my interesting book, “Scientific
Boxing in the Home,” which tells all about my
methods, and special fees for Postal Instruction.
m
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
Australia’s Leading- Physical Culture Institute,
Municipal Buildings,
82a Oxford St. (Cr. Crown St.), Sydney
STRAIGHT
FROM THS
WELL
is
NATURE'S
BEST,
Is Your Dog Ready?
Training Now in Full Swing,
“ilifif
' IH
TONIC AND CONDITION BALLS
Purif}' the blood, prevent worms, produce
first-rate condition for coursing.
Price 2/6 per box.
STIMULATOR FOR RACING HOUNDS.
For external use during coursing. Alleviates
stiffness and fatigue. Price 3/6 per bottle.
Booklet, “HINTS TO DOG OWNERS,”
Price 6d. Post Free.
R. W. BEDDOME <KL CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable also from
JOHN BRUSH PTY. LTD., SYDNEY;
WALTHER & STEVENSON, 393 Ceorge St , SYDNEY
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAn ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY, THE GENERAL MANAGER, THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNhY.
SHEEP DIP
One Reason why its Importation is
PROHIBITED :
Because AUSTRALIA can make Sheep Dip of Equal Quality to
the best imported. To wit,
■
POWDER.
SHEEP DIP
Use it this “Dipping” and Prove its Quality by Actual
Experience.
Hundreds of other Good Australians have already done so—
why not YOU?
MANUFACTURED BY
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.
distributing agents—
Dangar, Gedye & Co. Ltd., Sydney; Brabant & Co., Brisbane; Walter Reid
and Co. Ltd., Rockhampton; Cummins and Campbell Ltd., Townsville;
James Wardle & Co., Adelaide; Malloch Bros., Perth; Farmers’ Co-opera-
tive Wholesale Federation (N.Z.) Ltd., Wellington, N.Z.
PROCURABLE ALL STORES.
A Good Cigar at a Moderate Price—
“CAßO LA.”
MILD, BURNS FREELY, FINE AROMA. t
SAMPLE BOXES POST FREE. . '
11/6 Box of 25. 22/6 Box of 50.
A Really Pure and Healthy
FULL-SIZE VIRGINIAN LEAF CIGARETTE—
“SATIN FINISH.”
5/6 Box of 100. 2/9 Box of 50.
POST FREE.
A. A. MARKS, 576 George St., Sydney,
Cijur and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
Try.:
turn
VfcSs
ii
*»S
S**#?
am
Sgi
:
IMIli
,
©
Mis
H
SM/Mhs,
ISKm
oshm
■
sg?
&"::
<Si£i
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
“PRIM AX” and “B ONA X”
CARTRIDGES—KYNOCH made
and loaded. Both possess excellent shoot-
ing qualities, “PRIMAX” being the
highest-grade cartridge in a 21-inch case
sold on the Australasian market, while
“BONAX” enjoys the largest sale of
any individual cartridge in the world. ■»
Always specify KYNOCH Ammunition
when ordering from your dealer.
British-made
Throughout.
I smm
Wholesale only—Scottish House, 90 William Street, Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Universal Milling Machine.
.
wmm
OHH
■ MB
SPECIAL FEATURES*
Square over-arm.
Constant speed single pulley
drive.
Sixteen changes of speed.
Sixteen changes of feed.
All sliding gears, no tumbler
gears.
All gears and shafts hardened
and ground.
Feed-box in knee.
Ail operating levers within
easy reach of operator.
Bronze bearings throughout.
One-piece elevating screw for
knee.
No universal joint for feed
drive.
Column and knee automatically
lubricated.
Delivery from Stock.
.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.
490-492 Kent Street, SYDNEY.


r,
Big; Saving's for Men!
Farmer’s Cash
Bonus Sale
i>o- n High-grade Overcoats, English manufacture, from best-
qualitv Coatings, in distinctive patterns in grev, browns an awiis
also in plain grevs. Illustration shows a Raglan model, with full
swin"' skirt and 'smart collar. The same materials obtainable
in the new Trench shape, with all-round waist belt —
SALE PRICES • • • 168/-, 189/-, 210/-
■pfjst-i Farmer’s Special Value Tweed Overcoat, made’ from
all-wool* Coatings in browns, greys and heather mixtures, Raglan
sleeves, medium skirt, strap cuffs, in all sizes.
Usual Prices 70/-, 75/-. SALE PRICE 65/-
Less the Cash Bonus of 2/- in every £ spent.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
The Store for Men.
We Pay the Carriage.
Box 497,' G.P.O.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful S minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Eight and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night,
Tariff, from 10/6 per day, and
from £3/3/- per week.
VANITY FAIR
SILK GLOVES
, t'HE indomitable English spirit never shone
brighter nor more valiantly than when doughty
•JOHN BUNYAN, during his long imprisonment of
12 years, wrote that immortal allegory, “Pilgrim’s
Progress.” Therein the quaint picture of VANITY
-FAIR was conceived, to be revived 200 years later
in vivid and modern colors by THACKERAY in
his charming story.
But THACKERAY did not dream that in the year
1919. in a land where in JOHN BUNYAN’S day the
Pilgrim Fathers were finding refuge, VANITY FAIR
would again become famous through the innocent
enchantment of the
GLOVE or SILK
“VANITY FAIR” is the glove that the woman of
ta'te and refinement must naturally select. Every
pair carries the maker’s guarantee, and costs bo
more than gloves sold without a guarantee.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Country people came down in hordes for
the big winter meeting which opened at
Flemington on Saturday. One result was
to make the Juncheon ceremony in the mem-
bers’ reserve a seatless and almost foodless
tiasco. Famished squatters and their wives,
and others accustomed to nourishment on a
hearty scale, burst into the refreshment de-
partment to find that only a quarter of the
tables had been prepared. It seems the pro-
visions had been laid in on the assumption
that the crowd would be on pre-war lines.
Heart-breaking sights were common. Stew-
ards like Sam Mackay and Sam McCullagh
had to hustle like mere waiters to provide
their women-folk with sustenance. Others
washed up knives and forks and' spread the
table-cloths in sheer, desperation. All this
occurred indoors: the open-air feeding tables
were shunned, owing to the sleety cold.
The frocking was dowdy. The fur coats
looked the worse for wear, and even the
latest young brides had a rainy-day appear-
ance. Bettv O’Hara Stoddart wore crocodile
shoes and a brown hat with a bashed ap-
pearance. Audrey Chirnside Pape’s green
cloth coat and duck of a black and gold hat
had their chic effect ruined by open-
work further down. Mrs. Gumming, from
the Western district, was radiant in green
doth and gold. This is the first time she
has escaped from the family sheepery for a
solid year. Mrs. Tom Hogan wore a brown
costume and saucy brown hat that looked as
if it had been rifled from the wardrobe of
Harry Lauder. Swarms of jolly khaki boys
just, home positively gambolled round the
bird-cage; and black and gold uniformed
officers from the Melbourne and the Bris-
bane livened up the dress effect on the lawn
Mrs. Fan Dango Mackay and Mrs.
Thompson shared cheerily in their husbands’
big wins. Ben Chaffiey; by the way, con-
tinued liis run of luck by a win with. Bed
Signal. The meeting was over by 4.80, and
big and early dinner parties were the order
of the evening. “Going Up” at Her Majesty’s
got a bumper house in consequence. There
was a regular family, or rather racial, re-
union at the Royal, where Abe Nathan, the
.Tew financier, was conspicuous in “A Tailor-
made Man.” Also a dash of color was given
to a bo*; by the Rajah and his Ranee, the
latter in a faint dawn effect which must
have cost about a lac of rupees. And one
noticed returned 'warrior Reg Wykeham,
who has become a walking poster advt. for
bully-beef. Behind the D.C. Ted Tait, back
from America, with brother Frank as attend-
ant cherub, purred affably to members of the
Williamson management, who purred back
with a determined effort to swallow their
feelings of business rivalry. It was a beauti-
ful picture of friendship, somewhat remind-
ing one of the preliminary handshake in a
prize ring.
Governor Stanley is Hacking up, and has
been handing autographed photographs of
himself to friends. He was with us before
the war, and as other State figureheads
gradually dropped off he became the under-
study to Munro Ferguson for Federal
purposes.- In fact, at the end of last year it
was rumored that he would be the next G.G.,
but apparently he was not after the job.
Perhaps he desires to get his hand in again
in the Commons before it comes his turn, as
his dad’s eldest son, to go to the Lords as
Baron Sheffield.
Toorak is troubled as to whether Stanley
will not be the last of a long line of im-
ported State Governors. Canada is pro-
testing against the importing of even a
G.-G., and asks for a local man and a com-
moner. Australia has paid away a terrible
lot of vice-regal salary to people who were
neither native-born nor untitled, and Mel-
bourne’s personal recollection of some of
them is that they should have been paid to
stay away. Sir Arthur will remain State
Governor in name for six months after he
has departed, and a lot may happen in those
six months. The fears of Toorak are not
ill-founded.
All Castlemaine flocked to the railway
station on Friday evening to welcome home
Premier Lawson and express its joy at the
victory he. had achieved in being re-affirmed
as leader of the Liberal party and head of
the Government. It was felt probably that
the district member was really the top man
for the first time and not merely a nominal
No. 1. Led by Mayor Freeman, the crowd
demonstrated as only a provincial town can,
with the brass band of Thompson’s Foundry
tootling out “See the Conquering Hero
Comes.” While the people cheered they
showered Lawson with confetti. It was a
great night, and the joy of it was only
equalled by that felt by Lawson when,
nearly 20 years ago, as a youthful law stu-
dent, he beat Major-General J. W. McCay
at the by-election which McCay had to face
when McLean allotted him a portfolio in
his Ministry.
The next general strike will probably be
amongst the under-15 class of jazzers. The
grown-ups have taken to rushing any old ball
where there is good flqorage and a decent
orchestra. If it is a juvenile affair ( they
push in on the miserable pretence of “help-
ing to entertain the children.” Disregardful
of the unfuriated infants, they then proceed
to jazz with great abandon, trampling, as it
were, the small folk underfoot, and worse —
far, far worse —beating them by lengths to
the supper scramble.
Society is getting its glad rags ready for
the nuptials of young Lieut. Freddie Grim-
Made and Mary Askin Foster, which takes
place on July 17. The bridegroom is
the heir of the Norton Grimwades, of
Ilomeden, Toorak, and his war-experiences
include being shot down in liis aeroplane
and prisoned by the Huns. “Jo” Foster,
the brule, is a pretty Tasmanienne, whose
mother is the adopted daughter of the late
Francis Ormond.
Lilian Birtles, who did dancing “stunts”
M'ith Oscar Asche’s co. during its last tom-
in Australia, is now Lady Maxwell Will-
sliire. She married, in Melbourne, young
Gerard Maxwell Willsliire, a long slab of a
youth, who played minor roles. He has
succeeded to the title at the death of his
father, Sir Arthur Maxwell-Willshire. Talk-
ing of the stage, a Melbourne rumor of
Irene Browne’s death was a canard. She
is reported by returned Australians as still
“in the pink.” A Miss Browne died at
Irene’s hotel in Paris; hence the gross
exaggeration.
Last week the Jimmy Dyers gave a
Peace dinner to the local ambassadors of
the Allied Powers. There M r ere several
courses and discourses, much wine and
M-isdom, and a string band worried all the
National Anthems it knew. All that the
function needed Mms a dove to be released
from a special Peace-pie after the savory.
Instead of this tableau, the host and hostess
indulged in the comparative anti-climax of
handing each guest an ddition-de-luxe of
Masefield’s “Gallipoli.”
The new American Consul threatens to
be a social success. The Block is quite
lighted up these days when his tie and
socks of a deep bougainvillaea shade and the
other carefully-thought-out color harmonies
of dress strike it. The girls argue that
he simply must be interesting in view of
the outer beauty of his wardrobe.
This is Joan
Lazarus, the spark-
ling little lady who
recently got into
wig and gown and
won her first case
with the nonchal-
ance of a veteran.
She has since
brought her brown
eyes to bear on
various suburban
Courts with marked
success, and as she
is undertaking all
sorts of cases, with
the ambition of ul-
timately specialising
in constitutional law,
she will probably be
the first of her sex
to become eminent in this State’s legal
profession. Joan is a Ballarat girl, who,
after a spell at the Loretto Convent there,
served an articled course with her brilliant
father, passing her final exam, in Decem-
ber, 1917. The damsel, who is here caught
off duty by the Marietta Studios, is the
fourth generation of horsehair in the
family. The original legal intellect, her
great-granddad, practised for many years
in England.
Dr. Ellis, of the Melbourne, is a somewhat
remarkable English officer. Whenever he
manages to get an hour or two off jazz duty
he hurries to the ’Varsity and stews there
over bacteriology. He takes his profession
quite seriously. Could anything be more
odd ?
The smartness of old times was wanting
from the Annual Fancy Dress Carnival at
the Glaciarium on Saturday night, but there
was a full comnlement of spectators. One or
two of the men’s costumes were at least
novelties. The principal novelty—a young
man impersonating ’Flu—was sufficiently
nainful on his own. and with an undertaker
in close attendance he was gruesome. Young
Weir, stroke of • Melbourne Grammar last
year, advertised beer and whisky whilst bear-
ing the legend “Tennyson Smith.” Pretty
Alice Abrahams was conspicuous among the
most expert skaters in the togs of a khaki
girl; Dorothy Seacombe w r as a Photo Play
Girl, and Eileen Starr, a Melba scholarship
winner, wore the frilled apron of a French
Maid.
The Ainslie-Lempriere wedding at Toorak
was a dressy event. The br.de was frocked
in white georgette and yards of lace, and
wore an antique veil lent by Mrs. George
Paxton. Her lace train was held up by
two small cousins—Marion and Irene
Grooke. The bridesmaids —an Ainslie sister
from Tasmania, Edith. Allen iind Ella Payne
—wore pink georgette and silver draperies,
with long veils of pink chiffon. The bride s
father (an A.M.C. captain), the groom (also
a captain), and the best man and grooms-
man (Flight-Lieut. Julian Smith and Major
John Drought) were all ip khaki.
The eldest daughter of the late ex-Premier
Shiels is booked to wed Captain Peebles, of
an old Scots .clan. The affair will be ac-
complished very quietly, owing to the recent
death of the prospective bride’s mother.
When Thcophilus
Roberts declared
that the voice was
not produced by the
vocal cords, aca-
demic musical circies
were scornful. Later
on, when people
without the usual
cords began to make
passable music noises
under his tuition,
medical opinion be-
gan to get interested,
and cases of detec-
tive articulation and
catarrhal deafness
were turned over
to the young man
for his attention.
Roberts is the rare
example of a musician with a medical educa-
tion. Before doing five years’ hard under
Madame Emery Gould, he had gone to the
University to study the human, cranium.
Nowadays he makes competent singers out
of the most unpromising material, but
orthodox musicians still hold that he should
bo fried at the stake. The attacked view
of' the heretic, from the Sarony Studios,
somewhat stresses his peaceful appearance,
but the prominent chin gives a hint of his
tenacity.
Col. Horace Dahgftr is leaving the Mili-
tary Board to make way for Major-General
Walter Coxon. formerly Director of Artil-
lery, who will get back by the Themistocles,
Major-General Coxon is a Queenslander, and
so is his wife. They and their quartette 0 1 .
small daughters will inhabit Senator
Pearce’s St. Ki’.da humpy for the time be-
ing. Colonel Dangar has been, a sick man
for some years now, and he will rest more
or less on the G.-G.’s staff.
Captain Noel Kilby, the new guide to the
G.-G., is a flying man. He is young, tall
and slim, and the owner of a most dashing
air. His father is a Leicestershire parson,
Leicestershire being a part of England where
they hunt all day and talk of it most of
the night. He is one of seven brothers-.--
all of whom went to the war; even their
ecclesiastical parent had a shot at it.
The Widow Staughton gave a big after-
noon party at her Domain-road house last
week —a welcome to the two Bananalanders,
George Brookes and Edward Cahill. The
Bridges dame was there; also Mrs. Harry
Einmei'ton, Mrs. Creswiek and Mrs. Seaton
Williams, Mrs. Groom from Brisbane, and
Mrs. Meyers of Cairns. There was music/ in
the ballroom —sedate music, no one jazzed-
And Leila Doubleday and George Brookes
performed. Captain Eric Staughton and
'Lieut, Dobson, nenhews of the hostess, were
in toward the end of the affair (their trans-
port having only just berthed ) and duihped
their kits in the hall while they rushed to
embrace auntie. The proceedings were then
transformed into a welcome to the new
arrivals.
Mr. and Mrs. Gatehouse (she was an
Austin) recently gave an afternoon jazz for
author Frank Williams, who is waiting for
a boat to take him to London and Melba.
Pauline Curran and Roma Clarke looked
highly picturesque. Roma wore an orange-
red cloth elaboration trimmed with fur and
a dead-black hat. Pauline ran her nose to
nose with an embroidered navy blue cloth
and the sweetest turban. Several officers
from the Melbourne blew in to help.
ffollyburton, the Fred Fairbairns’ old sea-
side house' at Sandringham, was converted
into a hash-tower during the war, and last
week, for old time’s sake or something, the
family descended on it with a big house-
party. There have been many attractions at
Sandringham lately. Governor Galway of
S.A. has been doing his before-breakfast
round from the Golf Club House, and a
quiet though big gun in the naval world,
Commander Scott, has also been rusticating
there. Oliphant Shaw, of five different sheep
runs, who recently returned from war-work-
ing in England, put in a month at The
Lodge, which nestles on the fringe of the
Links. And Mrs. Gatehouse has a home
near by the Links, and her parties have been
warming the sea-breezes somewhat.
Adelaide writes in the gloom -
The Red Cross Produce Depot is losing a good
worker in Mrs. Thwaites, who has been its secretary
for nearly three years, but is leaving for Scotland in
the Osterley. The depot collected nearly £3700, and
the committee backed up the Red Cross Society’s
good-byes and good wishes with a leather handbag.
’Flu is abating, and the Voluntary Aids are closing
the emergency centres in city and suburbs.
Major Newland, whose knowledge of East Africa
dates from 1903, when he .made the sixth white
settler at Nairobi, has given the Geographical Society
an account of his experiences as settler and soldier.
A 1000-acre farm which he sold for £9O in his
early colonist day's was recently resold for £16,000.
The outbreak of war found 750 settlers available to
guard 500 miles of railway, some of it within 60 or
70 miles of German territory ; but they hung on till
reinforcements arrived.
Died at Dulwich on Monday, Iv. W. Duncam, who
wa3 at different times in both State Houses of Parlia-
ent, and whose only son returned from the Front a
few weeks ago.
Thes dansants are added to the list of our dissipa-
tions for the winter, with a committee of matrons
as organisers of the cheerful scheme.
The Michael Hawkers’ son Charles, who-was with
the Somersetshires through the war ’and was badly
wounded, has come out head l of the ' second-class
honors list in the Historical Tripos at Cambridge.
Which means that he topped the list, as no first-
class honors were awarded.
Adelaide’s peace demonstrations were pianissimo,
though there was a biggish crowd to hear his Ex.
read the proclamation from Parliament House
steps. Meanwhile post-war problems of various
sizes and urgency are cropping up by the score.
For instance, the State school-teachers, who waived
their claims -for better conditions and salaries
during the war, have announced that the present
“intolerable position” has no right to exist any
longer. And the R.S.A. has informed the Govern-
ment that “two single men, both well under mili-
tary age, neither of whom offered to serve his
country in its hour of need,” are on the staff of
the Uni. Training College.
This is still a cold and gloomy city. Gas and
coal inspectors stroll in at unexpected moments,
and three or four cafes and fish-shops have had
their supplies stopped for contravening the go-slow
regulations.
In these days of polite indifference to religion
a heresy trial is about the last thing that might
be expected. But it is the last thing that has hap
pened. The dispute between the' Bishop of Adelaide
and Canon Wise, of a suburban church at Good-
wood, has at last come to a head, and a “commit
tee of preliminary inquiry” is sitting on the charg'
of “breach of ritual.” The three men entrusted
with the delicate task are Dean Young, Canon Jose,
and a layman, E. M. Smith, lately Surveyor-General
of S. Aus.
E. H. C. Oliphant and Profs. Wallace.
Strong and Berry are forming the Mermaid
Play Society to produce plays of the period
of Queen Lizzie —the Mermaid Tavern being
the spot where these revels took place.
Lady Helen Ferguson is giving her vice-
regal interest, and mummer Arthur Good-
sail, of London’s Lizzie Stage Society, will
produce the play in true Elizabethan
manner. That is, with lots of culture and
little scenery.
Lieut.-Col. Ventry Gayer, who returns by
the troopship Koda, deserves a bunch of
forget-me-nots. The son of Ventry Gayer,
owner of Morden station in pre-land boom
days, he left for S’Africa with the Bush-
men, fought through the Boer War, and
then settled on the banks of the Vaal River.
As soon as the present fracas with the Huns
started he got into the German West
African scrap, where he served with dis-
tinction. After the campaign he went to
England, joined a British regiment, fought
in France and Italy and won the D.S.O.
Sister Hill, principal matron of the war
nurses, who has, just been demobilised, re-
ceived a farewell gift from these devoted
women last week. The affair took place at
the War Nurses’ Club in the Grand Hotel.
Sister Hill saw every nurse who went abroad,
and she is said to have the same eye for a
good nurse that Kitchener had for' a good
soldier.
Frank Power, of the Royal Mint, is be-
tween life and death as the result of a
tram accident in Swanston-street. His
only daughter. Mrs. Ned Mann, and Lieut.
Darcy Power, his just returned son, both ol
whom were in Sydney when the accident
occurred, hurried back. But their mother
was unable to visit the sufferer; she has her-
self been laid up for months owing to a
fall
Evelyn Scotney’s dear old dad, the Fitz-
roy councillor who, as herein mentioned
went off to comfort his daughter on
her husband’s death, drops a line to say that
Evelyn is hooked for a three-years’ engage-
ment to sing in New York.


■
II
'
'
m
:' v - j
-3$
/!
rmlTl 1 w ftv v lam i 4 ~ j*j&
t» 1 laHaa 1
ttgaaapM&
c
•:;:
■■■
yHHwa»
■SHpi
7 ■•'
I ■
■HI
7 :,: ;7
mm
t < ; •• J74'
% $ - ■>- 5 ,//»L
■ m
7.
■■: ■ ; ,>. '
■»
lifllliillll»l»lg|
: -i>. -v
?■:
Hi
niliii
4TI %
■Mil
i 11«
sill
.
m
~ im
IS «
. .
:
, *;•;
i ' §1
Sllill
H
, - ■-;
rlsm, }-<
■
iHHBP
; ;
■ , - - ■•■
■MI
r; ..,
mtrnmm NHHHMMHHM
■
a
B
iUSJ
fds
Joseph Simpson, R.B.A,
Copyright. John Dewar & Sons, LtU.
Just a wee deoch an doris, Just a wee drap, that’s a\
Just a wee Johnny Dewar, Afore we gang awa’.
There’s a wee wifie waitin’, In a wee but an ben;
If ye can say, "It’s a braw bricht moonlicht nicht,” It’s been real Dewar’s ye ken
f
' This Picture is the Fourteenth of a Series of colored Portraits of Famous Scots published by
JOHN DEWAR ©> SONS, L TD Scotch Whisky Distillers, Perth 6# London


CIMRLES
HEIDSIECKS
Vintage 1906
ClflMffi
HE PLUS ULTRA
1
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
The SHAVE
Model-taking Method
brings to you the Services of Melbourne’s
most exclusive Ladies’ Tailors —wherever you
live.
We re-create your figure, and upon the re-
creation perfect gowns are built without any
fittings. The name Shave is your assurance
of thorough satisfaction.
Showing at Hotel
Carlton, Sydney,
July 21 and follow-
ing days.
We shall be pleased to see
you.
SHAVE,
Ladies Tailors and Dress-
makers,
Centreway, Melbourne.
>.3
mL
LADIES, PLEASE!
We do not want you to pass this advertise-
ment b.v. as it concerns every one of you.
The Pove Hosiery Stores, recently com-
menced, is the only store selling: single pairs
of Hosiery, and Gloves at wholesale prices.
We defy competition. Those who can, visit
our showroom; others, mail us your require-
ments. We guarantee every satisfaction.
Here are a few values:—
HOSIERY.
“American Beauty,” Pure Silk Hose, full-
fashioned, seam, black or white, full-length
silk •••••<• 13/6 pair.
“L 37” Heavy Pure Silk Hose, full-fashioned,
seam, will not ladder, sold in shops at 21/-
pair, black only. Our Price, 14/11 pair.
Pure Silk, Ankle Hose, all Colors, very
superior 7/6 pair.
“OUR” Ribbed Silk Ankle Hose, black or
white, equal to any 7/6 hose, wholesale
price 3/6 pair.
Black or White only.
The Dove Hosiery Stores
(Take Lift to 4th Floor),
Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
HOME-MADE COUGH SYRUP.
A RECIPE MOTHERS SHOULD KEEP.
Don’t neglect coughs and colds. They
are dangerous—especially the coughs of
young children. The moment a cough starts,
a teaspoonful of pine tar cough syrup should'
be given every hour or two. This can be
readily made at home, by stirring 2oz. of
bilrate of tar, readily obtainable of any
chemist, into a syrup made by dissolving
half a pound of sugar in half a pint of
hot water. When cold it is ready for use
and you have a pint of healing, soothing
and pleasant-tasting cough syrup at much
less cost than you could possibly buy
it ready made. It quickly gives relief
and also helps to prevent bronchial and
catarrhal complaints and other affections of
the throat, chest and lungs, which so often
follow coughs and colds.— Advt.
Missing Friends.
TAELANY, GEORGE FREDERICK, son of the late
Michael Delany, of Brunswick, Victoria, please
communicate with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILLINERY
The social event of the week was the
Thanksgiving Service in St. - Andrew’s. The
church was gorgeous with draped banners
and other decorations, and the congregation
was even more variegated. The hundreds
of soldiers and sailors wore their uniforms
and all the ribbons they possessed, the
.Judges sported their somewhat absurd
uniform, and the women were in garden-
party frocks. And why not? In the older
churches —the Roman and the Greek —
people habitually dress up to go to church.
At the Madeleine, in Paris, before the war,
some of the finest diamonds and most won-
derful evening costumes could be seen on
certain evenings at Benediction; and it is
the same at the West End churches in
London. But Anglicanism still finds some-
thing incongruous about worshipping in
bright colors.
“Charley” Bean, all length and muscle,
was given a great welcome at the Press
Club on Saturday night. Tobacco-smoke,
friendly handgrips and the happy word of
welcome wrapped their comfort about him,
and after he had been forced to listen to
the hymn of praise rendered unto him on
behalf of the Press Club' and the A.J.A.,
he told his inky-way brothers and sisters in
the simple, straightforward, enthusiastic
Bean manner of the doings—of the other
chap. Somehow when the speech was ended
everybody felt confident that the rcords of
the A.I.F. will be written with the pride
and clear vision of a dinkum ’Aussie.
Miss Louisa Macdonald, who has been
Principal of the Women’s College since its
beginning, and that is 25 years ago, leaves
Sydney by the Marathon ; and the days are
filled with farewell dinners and luncheons
given by old students and old friends. On
Thursday she was the guest of the Council
of the Women’s College at Farmer’s. On
Friday a public farewell was combined with
the inaugural meeting of the Fund to ex-
tend the Women’s College; and the un-
warmed caverns of the King’s Hall echoed to
the rattling of rather dead bones of oratory.
Mostly the speeches were laudations of Miss
Macdonald and her work, and that was
good; but the basic idea in the Uni. mind,
that if one has. not taken at least an Arts
course one must slink through life conscious
of a shabby mental, outfit, is a quaint con-
ceit. In the middle of the proceedings Lady
Davidson presented Miss Macdonald with
a book of sketches by Sydney artists, and
the heroine of the afternoon made a speech
charming in its simplicity. Old-time stu-
dents and well-wishers woke from their half-
frozen apathy to give the beloved principal a
cheer-o which swelled to its loudest when
Miss Macdonald added to her good-bye the
p.s.: “I may be back again.”
The Ranee is shortly to make one of her
rare visits to India. There is an unfortu-
nate residential stipulation in connection
with the Rajah’s job, compelling him to
live for a while every now and then in his
principality. On most previous occasions
the Rajah has gone by himself, but this
time, as he is presently passing on to London,
the whole family will travel with him. It
will be the small boy’s first experience of
England, where he is later to be educated.
At the present rate there will soon be
more cabarets and dance-halls in Sydney
than there were in New r York before America
came into the war. The Bendrodt institu-
tion is largely patronised—he used to figure
at the Salon de Luxe in the old tango
period, resplendent in white cotton socks and
a natty cream tie with a black border —and
the Wentworth is more popular than ever.
Add to this the fact that there is dancing
every afternoon at the Rose Bay Golf Club,
and that most of the well-known hostesses
are giving little dinner-dances once a week
or oftener, and it will be seen that the lads
and lasses of the village are being well sup-
plied w’ith avenues for exercise and flirta-
tion. But there is none of the old com-
munistic spirit about these parties. The
woman usually binds her man down before-
hand that he will dance with no one else,
with the result that the free-lance reveller
has a poor time. Another feature is the
slump in soldiers. The wayward Sydney
Society girl, surfeited with the military, is
—W’ith a few loyal exceptions, turning the
full armory of her charms on the Navy<
There are six sailors and two civilians to
one member of the A.I.F. at nine big enter-
tainments out of 10 nowadays. The sol-
diers will probably get their next look-in,
socially speaking, when another world-war
arrives.
When the Geranium, Margeurite and Mal-
low reached Wellington (M.L.) two of them
burst into bloom with a rich yellow flag at
their mastheads. They were promptly trans-
planted to the lonely borders of Somes
Island, while the Mallow, which was not
even in bud, was moored at the wharf.
Twelve of the gardeners of the Geranium
and Marguerite were down with ’flu, the
pollen having been introduced at Sydney
When the mine-sweepers called on the way
from Singapore.
Henry Austin’s death last week put a
number of people in mourning. Harry
Austin and Ken Austin (the latter married
the elder Walter Allen girl) are sons; and
there are four daughters, amongst them Mrs.
Leslie Victor (wife of the actor) and
popular Miss Elsie Austin.
The one and only Dolores, with her
shadow, Miss Vandour, both just over a bout
of ’flu, left for Adelaide last week, where
the voice of the singer will be heard in her
favorite songs.
Another victim of the epidemic was
Lieut.-Colonel G. A. Head, who had a wide
circle of friends among wool and ship-
ping men. Joining up with the A.I.F. in
1015 as private, he rose to a command in
less than two years. lie served in Gallipoli,
Egypt and Franco, and had, besides a Mon-
tenegrin Order, the D.S.O.
Isn’t it about time the Health Department
dropped a word to the hostesses who still
persist in issuing invitations for “private”
dances where the guest list climbs towards
the century mark? All the semi-public
balls and receptions in honor of the King’s
Navee have been cancelled “because of the
influenza” ; but hostesses who can afford to
do so still arrange “private” crushes to en-
tertain the nice boys, and incidentally keep
alive the germ that means misery to the poor.
’Flu permitting, Lady Jellicoe will open
the sale of work to be held at Bishopcourt
in August in aid of the Girls’ Friendly
Society hostel.
Miss Henderson,
sister of Admiral
Henderson, now in
charge of Rosyth
Dockyards, Scot-
land,’ came to her
brother a year after
he arrived at Garden
Island. But she was
so enamored of Aus-
tralian sunshine that
she did not go back
with him to Eng-
-land, but stayed
here when the war
cloud burst to help
the dependants of
the men of the Aus-
tralian Navy. She
inaugurated the
Friendly Union of
Sailors’ Wives, and tried in many Ways to
make the drab days a little brighter for
Billjack’s family. While 09 holidays she
spends her time between Federal Govern-
ment House and the Macquarie-street State
Government House; and she has been their
guest since the fleet came home. Miss Hen-
derson, who is a daughter of the Dean of
Carlisle, comes , from a family of eight
brothers and six sisters. Two of the brothers
are in the Navy, two are soldiers, three
clerygymen, and one is an inspector in the
Irish Constabulary. One of the big flock,
Lieut.-Colonel F. S. It. Henderson, was the
author of a “Life of Stonewall Jackson”
and “The Science of War.” He was at the
Boer War, and died of fever contracted
there.
From Brisbane:—
Admiral Jellicoe and his happy-looking wife have
been with us during the past day or two. They
had a warm welcome on their arrival at Central
Station before being whizzed off to Govt. House by
by-tracks.
Lt.-General Brudenell White and his lady
arrived the same day. They found an enthusiastic
crowd waiting on ' every' railway station on the
journey up, and listened, to speeches until they
must have felt dizzy. At Brisbane General White’s
three sisters and his brother met him, and bore
him off in triumph to the little mother who hadn’t
seen her hero for over, five years.
Premier and Mrs. Ryan entertained a large crowd
at Parliament Iloiise, in honor of Admiral and
Lady Jellicoe. The viee-royalties attended; so did
Brig.-General living, General White and his wife,
all the Ministers; and their wives, and the Mayor
and his pretty little spouse. The Battle of Jutland
wasn’t nearly so interesting.
Sister Amy King arrived home last week; and
Sister Eileen King will bring an honorable wound
and her M.M. in three weeks’ time. Mr. and Mrs.
T M. King are up from Melbourne to welcome the
girls, and all are the guests of Mrs. P. A. Blundell,
who Was also a King.
State Governor Davidson presided at the
annual meeting of the Industrial Blind In-
stitution last week. This is the 40th year,
of its work, and manager Hedger, who has
been with it since its first birthday, blushed
under the compliments paid to him first by
his Ex. and then by the eight blind soldiers
who told him what they thought of him in
a framed letter of thanks. But quite the
stirring moment was the presentation of
gold medals to the six winners in the first
regatta for blind soldiers. One of them, N.
Carruthers, already wears the M.M. and
D.C.M. Musician Gordon Lavers had ar-
ranged a fine musical programme.
Genial Jack Brownlow, of Paling’s, who
is as a brother to every musician in Sydney,
is down with ’flu and double pneumonia.
Hiliare, only child of the Fraser-Robert-
sons of Manly, who was among the debu-
tantes at the Peace Ball, is the last of this
branch of the Struan-Robertsons, one of the
oldest of Scottish families, and loyal adher-
ents of the Stuarts. Her maternal grand-
father was the founder and first editor of
London Daily Chronicle, and one of the
founders, too, of the Institute of Journal-
ists. His portrait hangs in the National
Portrait Gallery in London among the dis-
tinguished literary men of the nineteenth
century.
Major Brady, D. 5.0., M.C., of the North-
umberland Fusiliers, only son of Dr. A. .T.
Brady, got back to Sydney last week. He is
still in his early twenties, and had only just
started life as a Queensland station-owner
when the war burst forth. The seriousness
of things wasn’t quite realised in those re-
mote days, and he cleared off to the Front
in face of a certain amount of parental
opposition. His sister, the widow of Captain
Prowse, R.N., married Ernest Watt, brother
of Colonel “Toby,” and recently achieved a
small girl.
With an M.C. in his kit and 4-J years’
service to his credit, Captain J. P.‘Abbott,
son of one-time Speaker Abbott, arrived
home by the Nestor last week. He started
as stretcher-bearer on Gallipoli, and later
acquired a commission with the British ar-
tillery, finishing up with the army of occu-
pation on the Rhine.
A brave woman came back by the Soudan
last week. She is Sister Dorothy Cawood,
who hails from Parramatta and trained at
the Coast. ■ She set out in 1914, did some
heavy work in the dark days aboard a hospi-
tal ship that plied from Anzac to Alexandria,
and was transferred to France when the
Aussies first appeared on that front. In
July. 4916, her splendid conduct under shell
and bomb. fire gained for her the Military
Medal, which has been awarded to only six
other women with our army. George the
Fifth pinned it on at his town house.
It happened on India’s coral strand. Sis-
ter Verna Churchwood, of Sydney, took for
all time Walter Lawry Salter, wlio missions
in East Bengal. The home of the pair is at
Orakandi, in that division.
The p*.ano Beales, who are living at
Elizabeth Bay, are expecting two soldier
sons home within the next few weeks.
Mrs. Holman extended the glad hand to
Brig.-General and Mrs. Herring at a tea-
party at the Australia last week. Mrs. Her-
ring (who was one of the Murray-Prior
girls) has been lecturing in England and
Ireland on “What Australian Women Have
Done With the Vote” and “The Labor Ques-
tion and Australian Women” while her
youthful-looking hubby has been licking the
Hun.
This is May Moore’s photograph of G. F.
Earp, the new Consul for Poland. Not only
on the sorrows of that far-off country are
the eyes of Mr. Earp
turned; his vision is
clear enough to see
the misery in our
own midst, and the
other day headed a
deputation of the
Health Federation to
an astonished Mayor
to tell him what the
slums of our own
city are like, and to
ask that they be
sweot up. The
Earps came to Syd-
ney from Newcastle
a few years ago, and
G.F. was soon after
sriven a seat in the
Leg. Council.
The officers of the Australia entertained
a few of their friends on the ship last week.
The Jack Tars lent the jazz band which a
grateful country supplies for the sailors’
smoke-ohs, and the guests, mostly golf-
links hostesses and partners, stepped it out
on the upper deck.
Japanese Consul-General Shimizu and his
popular little wife are leaving Sydney early
next month for a long holiday in their native
land. Madame is noted for her good dress-
ing and merry looks.
An Australian recently returned. to civil
life is Captain R. Rhodes, harbormaster
at Townsville. He left Australia with the
A.I.F. as a private, but the Admiralty got
wind of him soon after he arrived in Eng-
land, and he was taken over and given a
commission in the R.N.R. Sent to the
Mediterranean, lie directed his energies to-
wards out-generalling the Hun submarine,
finishing up on the Otranto mobile barrage.
Among other things he brought back the
Order of the Nichan-Iftikar, conferred on
him by the Bey of Tunis. There can’t be
many of them in Australia.
The Hugh McNeils’ only son—he was a
boy when the war began, but is now a
decorated R.F.A. major—is engaged to
Dorothy Campbell, of Goorianawana station.
A pretty daughter of the well-known golfing
expert married a Naval man, but shortly
afterwards died.
For the first time in years there is practi-
cally not one Osborne on the Sydney social
horizon. Mrs. Jimmie —Maude Jeffries of
other days—had a house in Woollahra for a
while, but the ’flu drove her and her small
boy away. The Pat Osbornes are up-
country, and the same applies to most of the
rest of the clan, barring the Stuart Osbornes,
who live in Sydney, and pretty Mrs. Henry
Hill, who is here on a visit from her home
in Queensland. Henry Charles, who got an
M.C. in the R.F.A., is expected back shortly.
He is about the only eligible and unmarried
member of the family left.
The Prince Alfred Auxiliary was launched
on a wave of light refreshments at
Sydney Town Hall lately. The Worshipful
Richards sent out the rally, and it was ex-
plained that the object of the new organisa-
tion was more funds and a wider public
sympathy with the aims of the hospital.
Secretary Epps, War-chester Walker and
Dr. Cecil Purser urged the case for the cash-
box ; while Minister for Masks Fitzgerald
and the Excellency Davidsons looked sym-
pathetic.
The total sales at the first exhibition of
the Australian Arts Club brought in £lOOO.
There were five other-State exhibitors, and
four of them sold £4OO worth.
Sydney yachtsman Marks, R.N.R., is
bursting with joy over an invitation from
tea-merchant Lipton to sail on the Sham-
rock when its owner again tries to get the
Cup away from America.
St. Alban’s, an old Methodist church at
Redfern, now the background for Theosophi-
cal Bishop Leadbeater, witnessed its first
marriage under the Theosophist rdgime when
writer Frank Morton’s eldest son, Terence,
made a life-contract with Margaret Graham,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John Keith, .of
Manly. The young couple had two richly-
robed and panoplied ministers to bless the
ring and perform the ceremony, which is
impressive and symbolic, much like that of
the Greek Church.
The wife of surgeon MacCormick, with
daughters Alison and Morna, sailed by the
Ivaisar-i-llind on Saturday. England, of
course.
Gladys Verona, whose Lucia was one of
the best features of the recent Rigo opera
season in Melbourne—it won a special nosg-
gay from the G.G. —was one of the song birds
the other evening when the Red Cross Pickle
Depot got into its glad rags to say “Well
done!” to Mrs. Mackinnon for her organisa-
tion of influenza emergency work. Mrs.
Joscelyne, who has mothered the pickles,
handed Mrs. Mackinnon a gold wristlet
watch and an autograph book from the
supervisors and workers of the different de-
pots. Sid McDonald and Elsie Pascoe
swelled the flood of musical sound;
The Society of Women Painters has
elected Mrs. Rix Nicholas to a place on
the selection committee of the show to be
held next month.
Mrs. Frank Osborne and Mrs. Bovill left
for England by the Kaisar-i-Hind. They are
sisters-in-law: the Naval man’s wife was
originally Kath.. Osborne, a daughter of
George Osborne, one of the big wool family.
There is a flood of Naval people pouring in
the direction of London just now, by the
way. The Wilmots are booked to go, and
so is Commander Seton, who was the most
religious and teetotal flag-lieutenant Sydney
had ever known before he went on the staff
of the Jervis Bay College.
In Sydney at present is Broughton Rich-
mond, Australia’s most energetic friend in
Singapore and thereabouts. For two or
three years past he has been try in? to form
some sort of club for Australasians at Sing-
apore ; and at last there was enough co-
hesion among them to entertain the people
from the Melbourne when the ship called, and
then to. burst out into a more ambitious
celebration of Anzac Day. Somehow Aus-
tralians used to be rather cold-shouldered in
those parts ; but. especially since the highly-
trained Australian engineer took hold, of
Malayan tin-dredging, the welcome has been
growing cordial.


df
LIMITED
j resenvanon Olivers
I ' WM
T ,/ *
./ //
// •*%*»%*
HpSS \*l <V IMF i§P n S 3 **®" 4 **^**
■IxJ ' - IVI
t
■ikiiH- : : k
' Y ■/ ..
Richly chased heavy silver lea. &
Co/fee Service, in case. Teapot
holcls lwopin/s.
m5~o ! ~o
) laRDY DrOTIERS JS* make a special feature
ol (heir slock of Solid Silverware, suitable for
Wecldinv & other presentations, each article
beinj of finest Quality & finish throughout.
Special terms to Jresentation Committees,
larticutars on application.
Handy Brothers I™
13 HUNTER ST
SYDNEY.
298 COLLINS ST
MELBOURNE..
sd
116118 QUEEN ST
BRISBANE..
AND AT
LONDON..
TAKE PHOTOS
OF THE
PEACE CELEBRATIONS
with one of HARRINGTONS’ Cameras
The Peace Celebrations will affofd wonderful opportunities for picture-
making with the camera that you should take advantage of. Your pleasure
in the participation of these festivities will be greatly increased, and the
photos you,take will be valuable mementos of a memorable time.
Call and let us show you some examples of
The World’s Best Cameras —
ENSIGNS (British-made), KODAKS,
BROWNIES, ANSCOS.
f
The VEST POCKET AN SCO, for Roll Films, is an
instrument that will give you wonderfully good results. It
can be carried in the vest or hip pocket, or in a lady’s hand-
bag, and is ready for action in a second.
V.P. ANSCO No. O is fitted with Achromatic Lens, and
Shutter giving exposures l-25th, l-50th, l-100th second, also
Time and Bulb. Can be Loaded and Unloaded in Daylight.
Takes Photos 2 x If in Price 40/-
V.P. AIISCO No. 2, as illustration, is fitted with Shutter
giving exposures from 1-1 Oth to l-200th second.
With.Modico Anastigmat Lens, F 7-5 £5/5/-
With Ansco Anastigmat Lens, F 6-3 £7/10/-
other Ansco Models, 45/-, 52/6, 80/- to £l3/15/-
All Classes of METALLURGICAL,
ASSAY WORK, and ORE TESTING
at HARRINGTONS* LABORATORIES.
The latest and most up-to-date appliances for the treatment and refinement of Ores
and Precious Metals are installed in our Laboratories, and every order is executed by an
expert staff, under the supervision of a qualified chemist from the laboratories of Messrs.
Johnson & Sons, London, Assayers to his Majesty’s Government, the Bank of England,
Council of India, etc.
IVe specialise in the treatment of Jewellers', Dentists’ and other Metal Workers’
Residues, Sweeps and other Waste Products, every grain of metal that is of value being
extracted. ■ . ■
for Treatment in City or Suburbs, free
of charge.
■
A note or ’phone message to any of our branches will receive
prompt attention.
We
Material
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street,
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
• 42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney.
M.S. DEPENDABLE SPORTS GOODS.
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
A
a
3
r]
* ‘Quality Goods at
Honest Prices. ”
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
M.S. Handicap 7/6
M.S. Champion 12/6
C. 8.8., Leather Handle.. 11/6
C. 8.8., Cork Handle .. 15/6
C. 8.8., Double Strung .. 18/6
Haymarket Ex. Special 55 /-
Spalding Vantage 26/-
Dreadnought 25/-
Invincible 27 /6
Conqueror 30/-
Slazenger’s La Belle 21/-
Slazenger’s Player .... 24 / -
• SlaZenger’s Whitehouso . 45/-
Slazenger’s E.G.M 57/6
Slazenger's Stadium .. 05/-
Lambert Chambers .... 05/-
Prosser’s Phenomenon . . (57 /6
Davis Risley Hexagon.. 07/6
(Postage on Racket : N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Specialists in
A. 11 Kinds of
RACKET REPAIRS
BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation -/9 8/6
Challenge Covered 1/3 15/-
Dunlop Regulation .... 1/4 15/-
Eii oh. Doz
Dunlop’s Champion g/7 30/-
Avre’s 1919'Chnmpion 3/- f?5/-
Slazenger’s 1919 Champion 3/> 35/-
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1 /-; other States, 1/8.)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size 40/- to 707-
Tennis Court Markers ...... ....... 30./-
Tennis Tapes . , ....... '22/6
Racket Covers 276,4/6
Tennis Ratchet 7/6 -
Central Wood Press • 1/9
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings • •
of rackets bottle -/9
1 Each.
The “H” Racket' Press .....".; 2/9
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 5/-
Racket Handle Covers 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/-
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils,
2/-, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6 coil.
Tracey’s Gut, 21ft. coils,
3/9, 6/9, 9/- coil.
df
BOXING
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability .and effectiveness:
MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value 8/6, 10/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz. . . . 12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
6 or 8 oz 14/6,17/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz 20/-, 22/6
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz 24/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa; curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz 26/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums,, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snovvv”) Baker ■’ 27/6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed ... 6/6
~ Best napa, „ ~ 7/6
~ Tan Leather, ~ „ .. . . 8/6
„ very superior, ~ ~ 10/6
„ Laced, ~ ~ ... 15/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY, BAND,
7in. wide (Post 4d) 9/6 each.
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) .J 6/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about (Post 6id.) 17/6 pair.
Keep your razor
keen by using—
STROPOLINE,
TIN
(Post Free).
ds
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
Balls*. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, tight
make, for fast work . . 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 21/-
“BEACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, i regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast—
-18/6, 22/6, 25/-, 27/6
“REACH” ARMY. Swinging Ball, 1 regulation size, finest
napa leather, weired and stayed, very fast and lively—
-30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality, brown mocha kid.
The finest made .. 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling (... - 10/6, 12/6, 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Bill, regulation si:ze, (special leather,
double-stitched, verv liiht 21 /, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end 1 11. medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fitiivigs 25/-, 30/-
PORTABLE BALL, trong spiral spri) lg, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, comph’te. . . . 60/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality ;bladders. v
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., fid.; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves .... 2/9, 3/9, 4/9 i>i\ Mitts . . . . 2/3 pv.
Punching Platforms 40/-, <6O/-, 90/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6 „
Ball-bearing Swivels 3/9, 4/0, 5/- ••
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Rats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc. , repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges.
Send for copies of
Angier’s Guide (
“ Can't B Beat ” Sportsman's Guide (Bl) and u Sur i e Catch” 1010
All sportsmen should possess them. Post free ko any address.
L/C
'immons
mJSTRMia'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
nm TOBACCONISTS
f
City '{ports Dufiot
99 King St, ato y <st
New&stk d Brisi hi v:e


¥
LJ
o
i
mi
min
l 0 buy collars that bear
JL the Pelaco brand is to be
assured of the true satisfaction
that high quality alone affords-
Mercers everywhere sell Pelaco
Collars, Shirts and Pyjamas.
Made in Australia
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
ƒd
sf
The abovei
is the titled
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THERE’S
HONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
the H ARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
133 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Do You Know
Esterbrooks Pen Nibs?
ARE you satisfied with the nibs you are using?
If not, write ESTERBROOK, Box 98
G.P.0., Sydney, describing the qualities you
like in a nib. Free samples by return post.
dsf
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Public Notice.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
RICHARD HORNSBY 8 SONS LIMITED,
Engineers, GRANTHAM AND "STOCK-
PORT, ENG.. MELBOURNE, SYDNEI
AND BRISBANE.
HAVING AMALGAMATED WITH
RUSTON, PROCTOR 8 COY. LIMITED,
Engineers, LINCOLN, Eng,,
the new firm will in future be known, as
Ruston 8 Hornsby Limited
655-667 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
(Head Office for Australasia),
Anti at SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
m
mm
’"****♦
MiMg
RfISSSI -
The
“LONGREACH."
Buyers in Queensland and
other States, write for lib-
eral Freight Concessions.
A Thoroughbred
Saddle.
The'LONCREACH”
for Comfort.
All our ideas of a comfortable saddle
ing at the same time long wear and security
to the rider, are embodied in this la-
saddle of ours. It is made on out high cl ™
“Fourigbt” tree with steel stirrup bars, tne
flaps and skirts are combined in one piece an
seamed direct on to the seat, •
narrow and non-chafing grip. Ihe pa •
set very high up and give a grip 1o
rider’s thighs. It lias wide leather points I
the panel extending beyond the flaps a i
point that will appeal to the bushman. U
leather used throughout is nice kp
leather, and the color is a nearly-old C
that only needs a few rides to bring it to' the
color most men like. The fittings are bevel
stirrup-leathers, folded girth and solid nickel
stirrups.
£iljlO/-
Freight Free for Cash to any
Port or Railway Station In
N. S. Wales.
Send Height and Weight with order. Our fine illustrated catalogue shows 70 styles m
saddles; 40 in harness., Hodgson stockwhips., etc.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD., iffffif&t. Sydney.
0
as
m
m
To Keep Young
Use a
SL, ROYAL IRON
Benzine costing twopence
does the week’s ironing with
a “ROYAL.”
ASK TO SEE IT.
In SYDNEY—CiviI Service Stores.
Mark Toy’s Etd.
Nock & Kirby Etd.
Alex. Smith Etd.
In BRISBANE—Barry & Roberts.
In PERTH—William Sandover & Co.
\
/a
%
ft
BS<B*
SR
H
0 RUCK'S
MALTED
MILK
Baby knows the difference.
He knows what malces him feel good,
happy, and contented.
You know that he thrives upon this
easily assimilated, nourishing food,
therefore insist on always having
Horlick's Malted Milk for him.
Write tor sample, sending 2d in
stamps to HUTCHINSON & Co., Ltd.
26, Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
No Shortage of Supplies. Ample Stocks throughout Australia.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library. Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W- H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
The Standard Remedy which lias outlived the Centum*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
tJsed since 1586. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton's”—refuse all substitutes.
J
SiM|
'Mi
u
Waterman’s
( Ideal )
RjuntgrtPen
icuteJm/H/L
(cjfttut, . ttf&ttcC
North, South, East, West, wherever the flag of
civilization flies, Waterman’s Ideal is speeding the
pen work of progressive people. It writes the
language of every Nation; its fame is international;
its pre-eminence indisputable
Does not the idea of owning
a pen ready to write thou-
sands of words without
refilling—of using' that same
pen year after year, without
change or trouble- —of keep-
ing that pen in your pocket
ready to use at any moment
—does not the idea appeal to
you ?
Three Types : “ Pocket Self-
Filling,’' “.’Safety,” and
“Regular.” Of Stationers
and Jeweller's everywhere.
L. G. SI.OAN, Ltd..,
Corner
Londo: c, England,
Australia: Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clare' ace Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice {except of a'hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. A o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Plain B.: If you want to make sure of a
sub-editor’s curses you’ll go on cramming your
lines so close together that a pen can't poke in
between T. L. Tow: But that wasn’t as bad as
the case of the other probably mythical journal
which on making a correction and apology described
the warrior as “bottle-scarred” Wanderer:
Thanks; but hardly enough interest. Glad to hear
from you again.... Exile: Right; obliged... .John
A. L.: Don’t know how many times we’ve printed
the same protest... .V. Bryant: Thanks.... Iv. H.
McW.: “The Wattle” is returned Old Jack:
Dymock’s, Sydney, would get it for you. .. . J.C.C.:
Not nearly good enough.... Righto: Come in here:—
“I do not like these writing men” —
The mild mechanic shook his head —•
“And if to live you drive a pen
You’ll have to pay my money when
The goods are landed in your shed,
Or else the job is off,” he said.
“I once did work for one like you.
He edited a paper here.
I had to make him, sound and new,
Three solid mission chairs, and two
Verandah seats. I was not dear
He’s owed me for them now a year.
“I sent him word the other day,
Demanding back goods specified.
He answered me in such a way
I think his wits have gone astray.
‘We can't return the things we’ve shied —
You Should keep copies,’ he replied.”
....Bonehead: Fifteen times too long J.C.D.:
The kangaroo can’t “stalk from his lair” here....
M.P.C.: No Memo: Pretentious commonplace.
....M.C. (Mt. G.): Nothing interesting in “Mac”;
and the average sentence ought to have a verb
somewhere about it Bottlenglass: Too crude....
Enciem: Lacks interest T.J.R.: Try to strike a
new note....R.G. (Casino): The metre kills it....
L.8.D.: Nothing in it; and very lumpy.... Oug-
lamite: Old yarn, though well t01d... .A.E.C.: Not
for u5....C.W.W.: Moves too heavily... .lone: Not
up Art and Friendship: It doesn’t say enough.
T.W. (Henty): There is no push in it
D.A.G.: Don’t like it E.A. (Strathfield): Full
of bad rhymes and lumpy scansion... .Willow: Good
enough of its sort; but there is very little market
for it here.... Kergni: No use.... Doc. T.: It’s as
careless and bad as the writing; and that’s saying
something. .. .Harrison: Not nearly. .. .E.J.G.: No.
J.R. (Abbotsford): Verses nowhere near....
98 point 2: Sorry it doesn’t strike us E.L.R.:
Built up of commonplace, print-worn phrases....
A. 8.5.: Sonnet won’t d 0... .W.J.8.: Weak and arti-
ficial E.J.L.: Not enough in either yarn or
color E.C.F.: Very small tale long drawn out.
B.K. (S.A.) : Not quite Cynic: Well written,
but impossible... .R.S.Y.S.: The poor pro. should
lament in better scansion R.E.F.H.: “Memory”
says hardly anything... .The Heretic: Why not take
the trouble to say it we 11?.... J.A.W.: Yes, it fills
us with sadness :
A school-kid darting out from school
(“Fed up” with Euclid hoary),
Didst headlong i usheth in a dray,
Awhere-in —goes the story,
A “squatter” and 1 is “man” who met
A doom both grim and gory!
E.J.H.-: “Fourth of July” falls flat,.. .Francis
Foxtrot: You don’t foxtrot. You just b01t....
The Jackall: Poor verse and tangled thought....
Alan B.: Say less and mean more... .H.P.W.: Un-
usual, but doesn't grip anywhere... .Oliver B.: The
“Battle of Jutland” does it: —-
Oh, may this battle never be forgot,
That punished the German fleet;
Who thought to put us in a knot,
Only to find that they were fairly beat.
Oh, may we think of the day which was fought
in May,
» And long live Admiral Jellicoe;
They who thought had it their own way,
Only to find they were far below.
... .Tom Jones: No mirth there... .Dorrie W.: Less
likeable verses than “The Return” have been
printed. Keep going. .. .A.H.: “Looking at the
map of Australia one is struck by its appearance —
resembling a coeoanut without the nut.” Original;
but you overdo it..,. J.W.G.: Don’t worry about the
“filthy lucre.” Get to the job... .5.0.5.: You’re
wrong about women. Ask them and see.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.O’L.: “xVn Ingenious Parent Invents a See-saw”
—we can’t waste that :—
. ...C.D.: Yea can’t draw well enough, hut in any
ease you shouldn’t draw in pencil. The gag attached
is now going the rounds.... Briam: Feeble both
ways W.T.L.: Good boy! Keep your sublime
faith in yourself and learn something about art....
K.U.F.: You can’t raise a bob .on it here.... Bel
Mel.: A nice girl, but she bulges in the wrong
places.... T.R.M.: No reason why it should be used.'
Last news we had was that somebody’s match-factory
had closed down... .M O.I.: You are the inventor of
the one-legged chair and the flat people who can sit
on it Trident: The Devil’s forehead protrudes too
much and his horns are not on straight.. . .Jack IV.:
Both fall over J. 8.: Outed. The jest is only a
day or so younger than the decoration... .Bobfad:
Ugliness,without humor. Learn a bit about drawing
or give it best... .M.M.: Muddy drawing and the
beer king's remark doesn’t amuse.... \. J.Mcß.:■■ The
man is fairly right, but the girl has the sort of
figure that shouldn’t be revealed in a bathing dress.
Wait till summer comes again and have a 100 k....
0.H.: The Capital v. Labor diagram nas been for-
mally condemned by the Office Curser.... L.McD.:
It fails Stanley B.: Drawing poor but good idea.
May use it as a paragraph.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
ifew and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
nxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
- ivato Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
elates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
481 o! Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, AUGUST 6.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Dunking, Public Companies. Sic.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman): WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. : Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Cilice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TIIANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . .. .. 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD GIT'ICE - - - BRISBANE.
Brunches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throng bout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund .. £145,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARAVOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. I’ODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. . . .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
CRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON S CO.
Managing Agents for
AustralasiariUnited Steam Navigation C£i d .
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.)i Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. MAKURA, JULY.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, AUGUST.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes,, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
ds
fds
fds
fds
£3,9X2,440
£3,100,000
£3,912,440
£10,924,880
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Cnarles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner. Esq., M.H.R. 1
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors ; S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Thomas Buckland, Esq,
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager: Sir John Bussell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth.
HEAD OFFICE
f
Janfe o, Bustralia
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business ,
in the Principal Cities and Towns ofAustraliaand Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
dsf
Established 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Hater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow,
Esq. M.L.A.
0. E. Friend, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England: The London County and Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
INTER-STATE SAILINGS SUSPENDER
OWING TO STRIKE.
Huddart Parker
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co* Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
lator to: — t
TWEED, UICUMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
ltlVEltS; also to BYRON DAY, COEF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or secoud-cluss rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvillumbiili.
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail ami saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 6s.
For Guide and all particulars apply;—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every- four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiririg
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe, and Yokohama.
Passengers must obtain from the Quarantine
Authorities permits to leave New South Wales at least
three days before the steamer’s departure.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—AII Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised. by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
SYDNEY OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET.
Paid-up Capital . . . . .. £500,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . .. 570,000
£1,070,000
Uncalled capital . . . . . . 125,000
Keserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,820,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OEFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL. £500,000
Fire Insurances
t
Marine Risks
; effected on all classes of
' Buildings, Stocks, Furhi-
ture.&c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
c£ various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed . . . - £39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.


A. Saunders’ Cake Forks and Servers, pure Silver-
plated, AX Quality, complete in Velvet-lined Case,
21/-
A. Saunders’ two Jam Spoons in Case, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, engraved Handles, 13/6.
: a
A.. Saunders’ Cutlerv Set,. comprising X doz. 'table
Knives and. Forks, Xylonite Handles, finest Sheffield
Steel, in Velvet-lined Case.
Table size, 35/-. Dessert size, 30/-
CASED GOODS.
rT:.f^
m
s:
H
Zfi
mmgmftCTWflweagaißßi
A. Saunders’ Fish Servers, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, hand-
engraved Blades, Xylonite Handles, 21 /-
Si
A. .. ib.i jiaters, pure Silver-plated, Xylonite Handles, in
Velvet-lined Oak Case, £B.
SEND FOR OUR LATEST ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Soup Spoons, pure Silver-plated, A 1 duality,
hand burnished. Velvet-lined Morocco Case, 35/-
Saunders’ 3-piece Carving Set, plain Xylonite Handles,
finest-quality hand-forged Sheffield Steel, 30/-
Saunders’ Afternoon Teas and Tongs, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 duality, 17/6.
A Mara’s Pipe!
The value of the GBD lies in the
quality of its wood, its perfect
maturity, its symmetrical Shapes
—of which there are many.
If you want a sweet-smoking
Briar choose the
the perfect pipe.
Sold by Leading Tobacconists
and Stores.
?
Jl
Jk
nr
>TS
1
nsr
Sherwim-Wiuiams
Paint Prepared
makes a picture of your home.
XCOVER
/ T >
/ EAf
the
earth
This Trade-mark
appears on every
Sherwin-Williams
label.
“S-W-P” flows evenly under the brush
and dries evenly in an opaque coating
that protects the surface from the
severest weather.
“S-W-P” RETAINS the beautiful
surface and consistency which it
shows when first applied. That is
why it “makes a picture of your home*
Look for these letters on the label *
dsf
the Mark of the Perfect Paint.
The S herwi- Williams Co. (Australia!Ltd.
Paint, Color & Varnish Makers,
63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Agents in all principal towns throughout Australia.
Distributors?
SYD^EX: C. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd.; Watson & Crane, Ltd;
MELBOURNE: Janies JlcEwan & Co. Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd.
PERTH: A. C. McCaUum, Ltd.
BRISBANE: R. S. Exton & Co.. Ltd.


Mr. Arthur (Orbe) Orbell Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
i' ::
mmmm
*
Mr. ARTHUR ( ORBE ) ORBELL (from a Sarony
Studios photo).
Arthur (Orhe) Orbell, who is
now finding so much favor with
Sydney audiences in the part of
the Motor Salesman, in “Busi-
ness Before Pleasure,” is a
returned soldier, A.M.C., A.1.F.,
and has done Army Medical
work both ,as stretcher-bearer
and Army Medical to 14th
Battery, sth Brigade. He
knows the value of Dr. Shel-
don’s . New Discovery from ex-
perience, and writes as follows:
Dear Sirs, —
I ain dropping, you a line
to let you know what I think
about Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery, for I have used it and
can honestly say I have never
had anything' that always did
the work so quickly and
effectively as this Remedy.
I have reason to know, for
I have used it at the Front;
in fact, it was one of the
most valuable articles that I
received in my parcels from
home, and whenever I have
a cough or cold, it is always
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
that I rely upon.
I can most heartily recom-
mend it to all my friends as
a most excellent Cough and
Cold Remedy.
Yours truly,
ARTHUR B. OB BULL,
Late 16409, A.A.M.C.
Stops Coughs —Banishes Colds.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is known far and wide as an unequalled Cough
Remedy. It’s the finest remedy you ever used —bar none. When you use it you can
be mighty sure that coughs and colds will soon vanish. No wonder though, for Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery has been compiled on scientific ..lines, and is designed to
relieve the cold without upsetting the digestive organs. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
is the quickest, safest and best-known remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Bron-
chitis, and all Throat and Chest Troubles. It is the remedy that can be relied upon.
Don’t forget to take a bottle home to-night. Price 1/6 and 3/-
D« Sheldon s|
New Discovery
ds
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
n
I
re
m
Sbritish
TRADE
FOX
MARK
50075
SUPPLIES OF FOX’S
GUARANTEED SERGES
Are Now to Hand
NOTED the world over for uniform
high-grade quality for Costumes,
Suits and Juvenile Clothing. Does not
shrink or fade and wears to the last thread.
Look for the
Trade Mark Stamped
on every yard of cloth on the inside
n »- 3 ©
This in a Dream I Saw.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ONCE in a dream
I saw a painted ship sweep down
along
The tranquil stream of dusk into the night,
Where red stars gleam
Vnd all the lambent firmament with light
Was filled, down whose fine reach in savage
song
Thor’s monsoons scream.
A ragged cloud. . . . ,
Out where the sea-mists veil the land ot
~v. storm, • . ~
Rose, tossed and spread, blown by some virile
breath
,In conquest proud :
' Such tattered robes the Lord Supreme of
Death
Might seek to bind around his meagre form—-
A fitting.shroud.
Larger it grew.
And, passing, left no gap; for swiftly came
Ten thousand clouds where one before had
been,
And loudly blew
The battle-horns of Stress; athwart that
screen,
Marking Dawn’s mystic lair, raw streaks of
flame
The Sky-gods threw.
A wave I saw
In sudden turbulence assail the ship;
A maddened beast, it leapt upon the prow
With gaping maw,
Rending the sea-blooms trailed from stern
to bow
In scented ropes ; I saw her . shudder, dip,
Twist like some straw,.
Windblown, and ride,
Helpless, forlorn, under the driving rain
That hid the storm-rack with its silver flow.
In rebel pride
Then in my dream I saw the silk sails blow
And belly, and the great ship head again
Against the tide
With ehaos rife.
How any argosy earth-born might live
Through such profound distress perplexing
me,
Above the strife,
Dreaming, my spirit cried: “Gan it, then, be
To that which scorns Death’s; sway the high
gods give
Reward in life ?”
Glad as a lark'
A Voice in answer through dim vales of
sleep. .
In full-toned melody that stilled the storm,
Rang down. and. “Hark !”
It called ; “there is a godlike, patient form
Guiding the ships that p-css upon life’s deep
To dawn, through dark.”
A spectral hand
Caressed, the sea ; I. saw clear moonlight
whelm
The murk, and from the midnight blue above
A limpid band
Of light that shoreward shone revealed how
Love
Eternally bore down the straining helm
Towards the land.
N.S.W.
NIYA BECKE.
Shanghaied.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WONDER —I wonder,” said Kilpatrick
thoughtfully, as he fingered the card
he had found on the table. It bore the
words:
CAPTAIN NILS JOHANSEN.
Barque Svongard.
His holiday in Melbourne was at an end,
and by the time he had paid for his dinner
and the four cocktails he would be left with
twopence and a railway ticket to Sydney in
his pocket. The last evening promised to lie
heavy on his hands. The orchestra was play-
ing a ridiculous tune which shouted insist-
ently :
Everybody ought to know
How to do the Tielcletoe.
Vague thoughts suggested by the card wan-
dered about in Kilpatrick’s head, and the last
cherry he had rolled upon his tongue urged
that as Captain Johansen he would be a per-
son of importance. The debate with the
cherry lasted for some time, and then un-
steadily he paid the reckoning and wandered
up into Collins-street. It was nearly nine
o’clock and the air was brisk and frosty. Led
by the ghost of that merry, ruddy cherry,
Kilpatrick’s steps turned towards the Town
Hall, with a scheme dancing a tickletoe
through his mind.
Smiling benignly, he mounted 'the white
marble steps, for the doors of the hall were
open and a concert was proceeding inside.
There was a rough dignity about him which
impi-essed the bumble who found him stand-
ing solemnly in the foyer. He explained that
it was his desire to see the Worshipful Lord
Mayor, bowed slightly and handed him the
card. The officer led him up a flight of stairs
and down a dimly-lit corridor.
“If you will wait here for a moment, sir,”
the guide suggested.
Kilpatrick waved assent with a distant,
foreign air which pleased the beadle greatly.
For a minute Kilpatrick studied with in-
terest the massive door which told him in
letters of gold that it Sheltered the Lord
Mayor. Then Bumble emerged and beckoned
him with the air of one who ushers a worthy
of worthies into the holy of holies.
His Worship greeted him effusively. He
was a little man with a face like an apple
and eyes with an inclination to twinkle. As
be wore his rabbit cape and a chain he had
evidently just returned from a function, and
there was something in his manner which sug-
gested that more than a little champagne had
accompanied him from the meeting-place.
“I am delighted vou called upon me. Cap-
tain.” he said as they shook hands. “Fortu-
nately my duties kept me here late to-night
or I would have missed you. Delighted-—de-
ligh !”
“Being the first time... I come to your city
St was mv wish to have compliments with
you,” announced Kilpatrick. He felt rather
uncertain as to liis nationality, but there was
a ring in the sentence which suggested strange
hemispheres. He felt quite at his ease as the
seafarer..
“Too, too pleased ! Ah, is your stay long?”
asked the Lord Mayor.
He was disappointed to learn that the ves-
sel was to leave so soon, and her captain was
pained to think that Melbourne, with all its
hospitalities, would be only a page on the log
by that time to-morrow. He added, with deep
feeling, that it would live for ever in his
memory.
The Lord Mayor was deeply touched by
the sentiments—the simple feelings of a
sailor. He produced a decanter and a box of
ciears. His guest’s tongue wagged freely,
and with the radiator turned on the room
was cosy. He rang, and Bumble brought salad
and crayfish. The Mayor was entranced;
the simple saltwater compliments, the swift
glimpses of strange happenings on the high
.seas, the tang of adventure and whisky
:—everything was delightful. Kilpatrick felr
a rosy glow stealing over him, and the
romance of the crayfish fired him to greater
efforts.
The hour-glass of the decanter ran its
course, and white wraiths of cigars floated
about the room as the friendship ripened.
Kilpatrick felt that he had found a true com-
rade in the round little chap in the rabbit
skins, and the spirit of youth came back to
his Worship every time he glanced at the
staunch fellow who sat opposite him. The
yellow eyes of the decanter winked at them
both.
It was not until the solemn clock in the
corner sounded eleven that Kilpatrick remem-
bered that he would have to get back to his
boat or train or whatever it was.
“Ships, you know—must remember ships,”
he murmured.
“Jo, my boy—must call you Jo—forgive,”
begged the Lord Mayor, “those behold the
wonders of the Lord must go down to the sea
—pardon. Must take you to dock.”
He rang and ordered a taxi.
Bumble looked worried, but he was horri-
fied when the Mayor donned his hat, wrapped
his cape about him and followed the distin-
guished foreign navigator from the room.
Years of training could not quell his distress.
“Your Worship shouldn’t, mustn’t, go out
like that,” he urged.
The Lord Mayor shook the hand uplifted
in protest.
“Simpson, your sense of duty is keen, but
sense of courtesy’s rotten,” he explained
gently. “We owe something, I hope, to Swe-
den, or’s it Denmark? Owe ’em something.”
Bumble followed, imploring. Kilpatrick
wandered ahead With the air of a man who
overlooks a painful incident.
“Simpson, you’re dismissed, so kindly help
me downstairs,” said the Lord Mayor.
Simpson hesitated and then obeyed. With
all possible haste he bundled them into the
taxi.
“Drive us to Little Dock,” the Lord Mayor
commanded through the speaking-tube.
Simpson, who had been watching the
nucleus of a rude crowd, heaved a sigh of
relief as the car moved off. He hoped they
were going home.
A tracery of stubby masts against the
frosty sky, piles of cargo and a nest of vessels
bunched together in the dock met them at
the journey’s end. The Lord Mayor handed
the chauffeur a note and begged him to keep
the change. The driver prided himself on
knowing a thing or two. His action in hold-
ing a finger to the side of his nose and wink-
ing puzzled the Lord Mayor.
“If catarrh—inhale!” he advised as the
taxi moved off.
Kilpatrick sniffed the tang of ropes and
tar and felt that this was his proper element.
He took command, and linking his arm
through that of the man in the rabbit skins,
they swayed through the jumble of bales and
timber.
“At’s a ship !” he announced with pride as
they approached a craft which lay level with
the dockside. “Must come aboard and have
drink —just a nightcap before I ring for a
taxi.”
“Ah, the sea—lovely!” was the comment
of the Lord Mayor as they fell aboard. The
deck was a dark place of many ropes, but
Bacchus steered them-to the bows, where a
tiny companionway yawned before them.
“Cabin,” Kilpatrick explained briefly, and
pitched down the ladder. The Lord Mayor
followed him. feet first.
“Rough and ready, but very, very pleased,”
lie said when things had been sorted out a
little. The pale light revealed two bunks,
and Kilpatrick sought one of them hastily.
“Mus’ spend the night now, dear old fel-
low.” he said.
“True, yes, of course,” agreed the Lord
Mayor, and followed his example.
Half an hour later the skipper and two
boys of the Daisy came aboard and prepared
to sail. A dav’s harbor dues would be
avo ; ded if they left without delay. The petrol
engines coughed and stopped and coughed
again, the ropes were cast off and the bow of
the Daisy crept out into the river and pointed
down stream. Past the sleeping tramp steam-
ers she slipped ; and when the night breeze
freshened, Pat went forward to get his coat.
A minute later he was on deck.
“Holy smoke!” he cried. “There are two
drunks down there, and one of ’em’s got on a
fur coat!”
“Got a wot?” yelled the skipper. “’Ere,
’old this wheel.”
Sam took charge; and the skinner and Pat
went forward with a lantern. Their passen-
gers were sleeping soundly as they peered
down on them.
“Great fried bananas, it’s the Lord
Mavor!” breathed the skipper.
“Maybe it is and maybe it isn’t,” said Pat,
carefully. “Whoever he is he’s drunk.”
The skipner thought for awhile, sucking at
his nipe. Ideas did not come easily tn him.
Yoa’ve said it. Pat,” he decided. “Thev’re
drunk, and that’s what’s going to be the
makings of us. How much d’you think that
Mayor bloke is going to pav to ’ave this ’ere
forgotten ?”
“He’s worth his weight in quids,” agreed
Pat.
Tkat.settled it. They closed the ha-tch and
th° Da’sy chugged into wider waters.
The Lord Mavor awoke in a clammy sweat.
He turned cold with horror as he scared
about him. and then he saw a dim. half-re-
membered form opposite hiih. He stumbled
(Continued on next page.)


i
Rob Zam-Buk in gAvoid Winter Skin Troubles
THK skin is one of the most sensitive parts of the human body, and, because it is also the
most exposed to injury and disease, it ought to get more attention than most people
. . tllin .k necessary. One should be exceptionally careful just now, because July is a very
critical month for the skin. It has been fighting against big odds all thorough the summer,
and the odds are biss'er just now, both because of the trying weather and because the first
eruptions may be expected—unless the skin
is
crop of winter pimples and nastv
corrected and fortified by Zam-Buk
.V sudden chill, dirt in a cold-crack, or small abrasion and skin weakness are all likely
to lead to trouble. Neglected dialings, "chaps,' chilblains, cold sores or cuts-may also cause
nioie serious disease in the shape of festering wounds, ulcers or itching sores, and even chronic
Eczema is often traceable to neglect in the early stages of a simple affection.
_ Smearing the skin with Zam-Buk has an instantaneous cleansing effect. So pure are the
juices in Zam-Buk that they sink deep into the pores, permeating all the minute “machinery” of the tissues and
they end the trouble thoroughly and efficiently.
ZamdSuk treatment gives proper moisture and a workable flexibility to the tissues, and so induces the blood
to circulate better. I bus the outer skin gets properly fed, normal activity and strength are restored, and the
v hole tissue is made sound and strong. July winds are now powerless to hurt, and blotches, pimples sores
usual I v so common m early winter, are either quickly banished or entirely avoided.
LUMBAGO PROM CHILL.
Mr. Philip Marsh, -of Adelaide Street. Brisbane, says:—“l caught
a chill some time ago, which extended to the muscles of the back, and
de\ eloped into a very severe attack of lumbago, almost crippling me
wjth pain. A friend, who, from personal experience, had great faith
in Zam-Buk, induced me to try it. Having first reduced the balm
to a liquid state, I had it well massaged into the affected parts and
the result was immediate relief. This treatment was continued
initil the attack passed off. and I have not been troubled with lumbago
since. Zam-Buk is regarded as a necessity in our home, and we use it
for ail sorts of mishaps.”
AWFUL AGONY OF CHILBLAINS.
Mrs. A. White, of 333 Perth Street, Subiaeo, Perth, W.A.. says -
“From childhood I was a victim to chilblains, which affected my feet.
My toes and heels were very painful indeed, and, during winter, alwavs
if a fearfully swollen condition. For years I endured agonv, and
during this period I tried anything I could possibly procure. Nothing-
brought me permanent relief. At last I resolved to try Zam-Buk and
carefully massaged my feet with the balm. The burning was soothed,
and the swelling subdued. As I persisted with Zam-Buk all inflamma-
tion was withdrawn, and the sore places began to heal. I used Zam
Buk till my feet were cured.”
THE GREAT WINTER SKIN HEALER.
am
SOOTHES AND HEALS,
_ ________
In Winter Zam-Buk is
unsurpassed for Chap-
ped Hands, Chafings.
Winter Eczema, and is
to be rubbed in for Stiff
Neok, Sprains, Stiff-
ness, Rheumatism.
Back Pains, Chest
Pains, Sore Throat,
and other aches and
pains. Obtainable from
a 11 Chemists and
Stores at 1/6 and 3/6
per pot, or post free
from C, E. Fulford
(Aus.) Ltd., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
REFUSE
SUBSTI-
TUTES.
SEE
YOU
GET
ZAM-BUK.
£
r
*
A
o
“RUB IT IN.”
over to the other bunk and shook its occu-
pant savagely.
■‘ilere, turn it up.'' said Kilpatrick drow-
sily, and.then, as his eyes took ( in the weird
scene. “Where am IT
“That, my friend, is wliat I want to
know,” whispered the Lord Mayor, speaking
with difficulty. “Listen.”
Water was slapping along the sides of the
vessel, an engine was throbbing and timbers
creaked. The tiny place was shifting un-
steadily.
“Shanghaied ejaculated Kilpatrick.
“I’ll be no use as a sailor. This means the
quicksilver mines at Chili for us.” moaned
his Worship.
Side by side they sat in the bunk with
their heads buried in their hand's and tried to
think. The Lord Mayor made piteous noises
and Kilpatrick cursed.
From up above came the sounds of voices
and pattering feet, ropes ran through blocks,
and there was a rustle of canvas. With
strained ears they listened. The engine stop-
ped and started again and was silent. There
was a heavy bump.
“Told yer we should not have tried to come
alongside- till it lifted a bit,” said a thick
voice above.
The Lord Mayor shivered.
‘‘Carried away a pile and smashed a lot of
tackle,” reported another voice.
“My God! What have they done to us?
llow long have we been drugged? What port
is this?” asked the Lord Mayor. Then he
turned an accusing linger upon Kilpatrick.
"Ah, I remember you. You w-ege Captain
Somebody ! You’re an impostor-—l’ll hand
you over to the police—you”
“That was a long time ago,” was the
mournful reply. “Reproaches are too late
now, and 1 only wish we could lay hands on
a policeman. We must have lain down here
days and days—perhaps weeks!”
The patter of feet ceased and Kilpatrick
began to feel hope reviving. He was silent
for some moments while the Lord Mayor
wrung his hands.
“Listen ; we’re in a port of some kind and
must run for it,” he announced. “We can’t
be any worse off than we are here, and there
must be a British consul or somebody if we
can only find him.”
“Like this?” his Worship protested as he
touched his robes,
“Don’t you see those tilings’ll. save us?”
declared his companion. “They’ll help us p>
back up our story. You can follow me or
not, but I’m going to jump mi this ladder,
out on to the deck and run for my life.”
“But not like this— not like this,” urged
the Lord Mayor. ■>'
Kilpatrick made no answer. He crept up
the ladder, tossed the top aside and sprang
out on to the deck. iho Lord Mayor was
at his heels. For a second they botli paused
amazed.
Ihe world was wrapped in a white wind-
ing sheet. A ghostly vessel stretched before
them, and alongside was the beginning of a.
stretched away into an infinity
ot whiteness. Gulls were crying in the un-
seen heights above.
Two black shadows sprang on to the pier
and q cd
The skipper sitting in the stern dropped
bis plate of sausages and cursed.
. “■ C yelM ’
* A" vhused the fugitives and lent
SiThis
ind
la-ongbt up the real. Their clamor was ter-
l „- 0+ , T --i *■ i
„„ !, Ivilpatnck
townrE ~, 0t the whltenpss
,i„ r ,
A
' ° n t^ e and A he
i made btdeous dm.
The damp cotton-wool opened to reveal flat
Iml-Li’ bushes, and they blun-
... ....
lia t» tm, i* wi S Ar P I lllt bei it the.\ lull -
! L, ‘t i'" m? , 1 ' pf, , nt f -tni>l«ng on
, of ~a bait-seen
stunted tree. Ivilnntiick fell beside bint.
") Vhere t} f G are we?” he groaned
Ibe sounds of the chase rose and fell and
at la st died down and ceased. Then the
81111 *<> conquer the mist, which
wr sP ped ltB, 'fl iata f,dds and crept away
across the plain that stretched to the sea on
? nc 8,(la - ln front: of them in the dis-
lail,VV s pme white buildings,
T , , „ 11 f . J< IJI or somewhere in the
Inarms, exclaimed Kilpatrick.
1 be Lord Mayor was too bewildered to re-
E'Y* Hirough the files of mist they could
discern• people moving about the buildings.
I ben from one of the cavernous doors a vast
creature emerged. Kilpatrick felt a thrill
r ! in d °' vn b’ s w P<ne ; then he turned to seize
s ae , old Mayor, who had started to run,
q ,r 'be horrible thing was roaring towards
f H^ llddenl . y ifc ros(> th <‘ slanting
,‘ioL 1 morning sun and became an aero-
, C'vHisation. __yelled the Lord Mayor, and,
thoVhecK Shk l ? atl ' ic . k ’ S c ! ,ltc E fled for
, u 8 ', s r . obe streaming behind him
Z 1 E» f 1 W» »«* ten-
„l!.Ca“
,! llc b we let em slip away like that,
tha Daisy complained as they
T , f dll ™loadipg the cargo of timber for the
1 ° ,nt ' Cook aviatlon school,
DALE COLLINS.
Fried Eggs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was cokl; very cold. His pyjamas
were thin; the blankets were thin ; the
fabric of the hut was thin —and it was
not yet dawn. Only those who have been
in France in winter, and who have been
feasted in an R.F.C. mess the night before,
and so have gone to bed convinced of the
roseate hue of the world, can really grasp
the greyness of Bruce's mind on that par-
ticular morning, and the bitterness of his
outlook on life.
A strange servant called him • “Five-
tliirtv sir” He f o n a „ ar n - e
ihle wi , e , * e ° lder ’ lf poS '
sime. liie batman seemed a strange, bowed
old man, yet withal loquacious, as he busied
himself about the hut.
“You gentlemen was pretty lively-like
sir, last night. Reminded me for a bit-of
Hmnc . n. ,
TT " 11 1 t e war -* ll I may say so,
sn. I sed to be at the Bacchus Club then,
sir. It seems a long time ago now, sir.
don’t it? I’ll bring you a cup o' tea and
some ’ot water in a minute.”
. , • ~ . . . .
Aimj tea m the morning is a wonderful
thing. A one of your delicately-flavored
orange pekoe, served daintily in nice, clean
cups, about it. It is not merely strong. I
have often seen a humble spooii weep with
H.
e ip aud Biuce was awake, and by the
tyne he had swallowed the full-flavored stuff,
he had nerve enough to get up.
pnivermg still, lie tumbled down out of bed,
which consisted of green canvas stretched
on two poles and fixed near the top of the
hut, about five feet from the floor. The
rats grow big in France. With feet of ice
and head of fire lie walked gingerly along
the duck-board to the canvas hangars. By
dint of a few well-chosen words lie got a
flight-sergeant to be kind to him. The
good fellow disentangled Bruce’s machine
from the others, pushed it out, found his
cap, his goggles and his gloves, and helped
him in; and Captain John Bruce headed for
home. The engine roared and the ground
slipped away from him. A swift turn in the
mist and he picked up the little light rail-
way m the valley which leads to Bapaume.
Clusters ot little huts looking like match-
boxes on end showed here and there, with
blue smoke curling up and losing itself in
th • fi oon t .
i n o .P | over them at about 300 teet,
low enough to see drab figures in shirts anti
putteeless trousers stare up at him. There
was somethin"- wistful oml nntWin
these little > Pat “&J C <lbo H t
these little figures tied to a muddy earth
looking up at one of their number who had
been temporarily freed from the narrowness
of life. He roared over Bapaume and its
shattered houses. Then he picked up the
STI, I 'i“'V ch lc “V“ rth '£ Vv 1 '” 1
knew that it was only a matter of patience
So his brain started to wander on to other
subjects and he thought of many thing Af
his coming to France full of high ambitions:
of his hopes and his fears; of his first
Hun, and then the loss of his best pal iu
the Squadron and how it hurt. Life hadn’t
been the same since ; it had become fiat soda-
water, with no one whom one quite under-
stood and who in liis turn, understood. • They
had shared their hopes together, hopes of
promotion and dreams of glory. And now,
only the day before, he had heard a vague
rumor that he was going home for a rest.
He knew he needed it, but he hadn't got
what he wanted yet. True, he’d got his pru-
motion to Flight-Commander, but what did
that count? Lots of blighters who stayed in
England had got that. No. that: was only
half. The other half was a little- piece of
ribbon, purple and white, which one wore on
one’s left breast under one's wings.
It was the fashion (and he outwardly fol-
lo\vod f»shion) to sneer at decorations, but
—he wanted one. No use grousing, though.
only—well, life was rather boring and he
was very fed up. Even the thought of break-
fast failed to stir him. Ugh. he loathed the
greasy bacon; and as for fried eggs, words
weren't bad enough for them! This morn-
mg lie d go without breakfast, Yes, he was
cert ., in he would. At any rate, no fried
eggK. * * .
He recognised Arras, seeing it faintly as
a city of vague shapes in the morning mist,
with a watery sun struggling above. Then
m ured, “Strong drink is a mocker,”
jj e g out; w itli a slab,
“Yes, she’s running tine, thanks,” he said
to his flight-sergeant. ‘‘Did Mr. Dimmock
give you any orders last night?”
“Yes, sir. ’
“D’you know what patrol he put me down
for?”
“Your machine is ordered for sj'l o, sir.”
The mess was built in an orchard and sUr-
rounded by high green trees. I fit tie vego-
table plots had been laid out by industrious
members at odd periods, and those who came
later reaped the benefit of their toil. Bruce
strolled down between two rows of tall sttn-
flowers, taller than himself. “Oh, curse
everything!” lie muttered,
Suddenly a noisy, laughing crowd burst
through a gap ill the 'hedge and came rushing
towards him with weird cries.
’ Another rat-hunt, I suppose.” grunted
Bruce, feeling in no mood for this favorite
of snorts,
Bllt now they were all around him, hitting
him, .shaking his hand and waving a slip of
lmper af him He snatc lied it and read ;
I , le , s „ lu 111 t an loa< ';
. FoUowin * message from Headquarters R.F.C. in
the Field. Begins. AAA. Under authority from
Ms Majesty the King, the Commander iu Chief,
British Expeditionary, For®, has made the follow-
award, AAA. The Military Cross. Temp.S!/Lt.
lT eill P- Capt.) John Brace, AAA. Ends. AAA.
ffe WatuiaM this Officer AAA. G.0.C.,
«»* •ay ■!SSf a -
And at tUe bottom the Major had scribbled
A*!? * dd AT* congratulations from Umpty-six
Ain t ‘ T • ~
Captain John Bruce, M.C.. yawned might-
lly’ stretehea, and then stuffed the slip of
Paper into his coat pocket,
yell, chaps, ’ he said, “I’m going to have
som ® breakfast,” and strolled to the mess,
“Cool customer, ain’t he?” said one of the
# rou P> staring after him enviously ; then,
smiling, he listened to Bruce yelling out to
the . mess orderly: “Hey, Bloomer, ahoy!
Bring me a million fried eggs!”
C. BREWSTER JOSKE.


n
■
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
IESTINCHGUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
W.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office-99 Queen Stieet, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
ARE YOU
PTU RE
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
'Vant to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COM ['’ORTA H 1.15 TO Wl5 All, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
-Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE REST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
miderstraps. The pad is made of soft rubber.
"•Inch exerts a OENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the A nr!ia nee,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
ft is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
ft* Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver—healthy or clogged, active or
sluggish—makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow,blotchy,pimply A
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
fsd
Carters
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price,
GENUINE must bear signature
*
/
/ /
/
Ts>
4
««!
sIS
flgS
PIS
WRi<&£X§
®X»
gftEWlN^^S
in each
packet
for 3u
The greatest value in
beneficial, long-lasting re-
freshment you can possibly
buy.
Keeps teeth clean and
breath sweet. Aids appetite
and digestion.
Get it wherever confections
are sold.
Made by
WM.WRIGLEV JR. Prop. Ltd-
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W.
SEALED TIGHT “ KEPT RIGHT
The Flauour Lasts
C 33
(7Q
CZZZZZ3
crn
Q
f
dsf
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICKIT
MALTED MILK
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Ciuh and Ttvo Minutest
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 12/6 per clay, or apart
clients may be secured separately by the
day from 4/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
[«]
REM OIL
/
fin Bipr
IMS OIL
yV BOTTLE of Rem Oil is not only a convergence but a matter of
real economy to people who take prict in keeping .d?®***
in good condition. It will be found equally effective for all household
machinery. It is unaffected by climatic conditions and will not gum
or clog the most delicate mechanism.
V Enquire of your dealer or write for special descriptive circular of Rem Oil,
KS. “ so agun grease—and Remington U yIC Rust Remover; jflnm
REMINGTON ARMS UMt
8.6 P P-BRYANT, Australian Manager '
COMPANY
Box 686 G. P. 0., Melbourne


MANGROVITE'
dsf
LEATHER
iSLTTKS
MAXIMUM POWER.
iry machinery owner wants maximum
iwer transmitted by the belting he uses,
ite leather belting is unequalled as a
transmitter. Strong, durable and
ble. It never shirks the work, but grips
r pulleys all the time. Let us help you
with your transmission problems.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing; Director),
i 9 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney, N.S.W.
■ Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
' 3'th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
©
L
Don’t Do the Job Twice.
the first time, in such a way that you will
do it over again. Use
“An Eagle on a Globe”
High-Speed Twist Drills
Their trustworthy quality has gained the confidence of leading engineers
throughout the world. Prices on request to Desk A.
The Eagle and Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
MAKERS OF ULTRA CAPITAL HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Do it righl
not have to
AUSI KALIAN OFHCfcS:
379-381 Kent Street, Sydney.
201 Lutrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Moulder ltoad, KalgoorUe.
Cliff Street, X' remantle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co. Rtd., Adelaide.
Baal & Gray JLtd., Newcastle.
sd
Do You
Require?;
Choose from our large stocks of the fol-
lowing:—
Caustic Soda, Soda Ash, Bicarbonate of
Soda, Chloride of Calcium, Sulphide of
Sodium, Chloride of Ammonium, Naph-
thaline, Carbolic Acid (98% Pale Straw),
Bichromate Soda and Potash. French
Chalk, Dextrine, Aniline Dyes, Hemattee
and Fustic Extracts.
OILS.—A large quantity of Whale, Cod
and Herring. Write to-day for full par-
ticulars and prices.
JAMES HARDIE and CO.. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Corner York & Wynyard Streets, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (C lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKINC MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPEN DABIJLITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.’’ Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work, to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
• '
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
& SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, IM.Z-
fsd
fds
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2 34 inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from p to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS.
ALL TYPES ALL SIZES
FOR.
Town Lighting, Country House Lighting', etc.
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
(Australasian Office)—
BOX: P.O. 2550. Culwulla Chambers,
TELEPHONE: CITY 8931. CASTLEREAGH STREET——SYDNEY.
f
I*l
rm
:s >r «i*
SB*
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps, These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from Igin. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include: —
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
d
EA complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
mssm
rStSf-A
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4%
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
Success encourages Success.”
ICISTER SHEARING MACHINES
have a new money-saving' feature.
The name Lister has always been synonymous with “everything that could be desired” in a shearing
ou Jit, whether a compact 1- or 2-Stand Plant or an equipment for largest woolshed. Lister is a guarantee
of solidity, mechanical perfection and reliability—a combination that is the result of Australian brains and British engineering skill.
fds
f
Always well in the lead, Lister Shearing Outfits are now miles ahead because of the new Self-levelling Crown Plate now fitted in the
piece. It makes Handpieces trouble-proof, saves repairs, delays and money. Write for Special Lister Booklet to
<4st
tIITE
Chief
Agents :
Dang'ar, Gedye &, Co. Ltd.
9-13 Young Street, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
SUB-AGENTSi Winchcombe, Carson Ltd., Brisbane (Central and Sooth Queensland); Burns, Philp & C».,
Townsville; Mitchell & Co. Pty. Ltd., Footscray, Victoria; A. G. Webster & Sons Etd., Hobart; Malloch Bros,,
GAFFY Patent PRUNERS
Cut on both jaws—in half the
time and do not bruise the bark
0
816
Post Free.
BEST SHEFFIELD MAKE.
Write tor one pruning time is coming. Sole Suppliers—
“ABBOT” Australian FILTERS
■
|P«*Vf
l?ov
di©
render drinking water not only clear but
GERM FREE,
and are thus an absolute preventive
AGAINST TYPHOID FEVER.
Types for every service-
including Large Service
industrial, for Factories.
On Sale by all Good Stores .
Made by
GUTHRIDGE LTD., 350 George Street, Sydney.
