

XXETV6rAB’S —The Spirit of Reputation
R. 6. WATKINS &
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney’#
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUC TIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
nmummmmm
mu<n~- -
;
/llilllllin iiimt.t tuuiiMilii oi4\!
N SW- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74 SL., 74. Sydney.
" -ADVANCES-
I ON ALL CLASSES
S OF SECURITY
(without possession
fo/icfiejjt 215-17Swanston St.,Me!b.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane. ' ' .
29 King St.Mev/castlc 186 Castlereaqh 51., a, 159 George st.,West, Sydney.
CAPITAL & 200, 000 Phone City 932s .
gust ace Jejrrstett, G esteem/ ajrnagTes*.
mnnn
""\\\\
iiiiiim
b
I ...imuulftu, '
r
llfffrx
UuuuulUU
iWWWWWM
A City Sewage System
for Modern Homes.
You simply cannot afford to take chances
with the disposal of your sewage. For
the sake of your own and your children’s
health, study the merits of the
Montgomerie-Neilson
Sewage Disposal System
This modern system does away with the
old-fashioned cesspool or tin-pan style of
W.C. —the greatest sources of disease the
country knows.
The sewage is treated so perfectly that
absolutely no odor arises even on the
hottest days.
Over 600 are in use in N. S. Wales
alone, and the system has the O.K. of
experts the world over. '
Send for free booklet, which gives facts
in detail.
MONTGOMERIE - NEILSON
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY
’Phone City 8976.
V>orit Argue
9
pPLE
a
3
Nothing
to Angus
Asout!
Are the Best " ,«
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly uumtious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
L
For INDIGESTION
j,no DYSPEPSIA
■j' r
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
. ..CARS
Speaking of roofing:
The component parts are not the product of a dozen concerns
amalgamated to make up a roofing merely to sell, but are every unit of
them made by our own selves exactly to our requirements. Tests are
made in our own laboratory, and expert supervisors insist on the full
100 per cent, standard arrived at being maintained.
S
M
m
is “not the same as others.
99
Samples and illustrated booklet post free from
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY
D
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
MACQUARIE STREET AND CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
Exceptional Opportunity
for Sound Investment.
.Erect residential flats by altering and adding to a stone building with four on land having 29ft. lin. frontage to Macquarie Street, by a depth of 68ft. Bin.j
facing Circular Quay, where shops should readily let.
Torrens Title.
PRICE £9250. Excluding
Apply to OWNERS, BOX 2547 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
all Indoor Fittings
A.W. PREMIER.”
“T.Y.R.”
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS
Taper Shank
Straight Shank
Ratchet Shank.
Large Stocks, and Shipments now on the water from Jin. up to 2Jin. rising by 1-64 in.
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
Rounds
Squares
Flats.
All sizes in stock and on the water.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED.
manufactured by
Sir W. a. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Representatives:
GILBERT LODGE & CO..
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY .
PLEASANT AND
A TRUE ANTISEPTIC—
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
The Bulletin
To]. 40.—N0. 2040.]
[ Thursday, March 20, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmissio


w
i
VI
the perfect pipe!
Many Popular Shapes •
Quick-to-the-point—!
“I don’t care what a man says
so long as he says it in a few
words.”
Briefly then —if you want real
pipe - joy order a
,»•©••• o
/A
'A. / o
//in
*9.
O I
y Soft as aPeach*‘o.^'jp
« and fragrant at a flower, It
t * imparts a delicate bloom to the Complexion
u TETL ® ' S
. FACE POWDER
0 Soli In Five Tints.—
% Whits. Crespa, Pink. Flesh and Hrnnetto.
I bv oil Stores . Chemists and Perfumers.
* \ Per f
C *. tNGLIS> *74* PRICf O*
* •« l * •*
box rt
O •• • O**
A
Wholesale Di'slriouting A^entei-r
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., LTJJ.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS!
HENRY C. QUELCH & CO*
4 & 5. Ludg&te Sq.. Londonu Eng.
8-fc
S.B
QUEENSLAND.
THE KEY TO
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity for those
requiring land
Particulars ot the
millions of acres of
Crown Land
now available. will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE ——
/Vame_—
Address -
Queensland Government
UttMije&ce sad Tourist Bureau
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information withont
charge.
KELL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
FREE OFFER.— Write to "Must-
die,” Dept. H, Box 1520 0.P.0.,
Sydney, and a trial tin will be sent post
free; or forward 9d. in stamps for a
full-size tin.
HOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE.
:
[6
The Red Page
In the Romance Country
It wasn't precisely a wonderful night of
stars, but it was the sort of night that might
be expected. The utmost vigilance has failed
to prevent such nights. A pale, stout, speech-
less Jupiter was sliding like a bootless ghost
into the west. For a time it lurked behind a
greyish, whitish, brownish puff of vapor,
whose shape .for the moment was that of a
drowned; horse, upside down. It was a
changeful shape. A little while before it
had the* form of a fallen palace. A little
later it was going to develop into an oak
on which a curate had committed suicide.
Indefinite shades of drab and slate and
yellow shifted about as decomposition of the
icurs set in. When it had sunk a little
furtu.. the stout, refulgent Jupiter dodged
from its ...chush to the safer cover of the
horizon.
At the other end of the sky a round, white,
addled moon swarmed into view. It had the
face of a despondent preacher. A drove of
asteroids and other truck and small deer and
trash of the heavens covered the zenith, and
between them were black spaces which sug-
gested the preacher’s garments.
A grove of pines stood up on a great
plain in the fashion of a meeting of credi-
tors, and a plausible, muffled wind dis-
coursed among the leaves. It had the voice
of one who might a wail unfold. Sometimes
it spoke through its nose to suggest the
Hebrew of fiction who was going to sell up
everybody when the story really commenced.
A tall Pharisee or Leicester Dedlock of a
tree stood apart. It was a family tree.
Also, it was an affair with large, shoe-like
roots, and a lank, long body, and a stiff
neck, and a faint whisker of branches with
the birds’-nests of old age in the whisker,
and a top that was akin to a bigoted head
and a plug-hat. Round its feet a creature
that hung down at each end and humped up
in the middle was eating scrub. It carried
an aspect of poverty which was its sole
luggage, and was perfectly nude. Without
committing itself to be a stag or a Jersey, it
filled its part as a link with pastoral pur-
suits, and was reminiscent of deer parks
and ancestral greatness.
This was the stage-setting, and it sug-
gested brooding calamity. It is put in to
save details about the downfall.
Things developed and flickered and
changed form and passed. From the top-
most branch of the Pharisee tree the fate of
the ancient house was hanging by a hair. It
had a bloated, suffocated look. The sus-
pense was dreadful. The family skeleton
also hung from the tree, or part of it did.
Some of the bones had been boiled for soup
when the glory departed, and nothing was
left save the pride of race—which was
mostly horse-race, with the proud family
horse running last —and the equity of re-
demption of a bone stud. Tlje rest of the
stud had been seized by the creditors, leav-
ing the stable empty. The third article on
the tree was a pair of pants with the family
seat worn out.
A new darkness passed across the face of
the addled moon. It was the cloud which
hung over the hero’s birth. The bar sinister
had closed at six. The wind had dropped
some time ago and been succeeded by the
profound silence of the person who knew the
real criminal but declined to commit him-
self, knowing the magistrate would do that,
anyhow. Then a breath of suspicion blew
fitfully through the boughs, and it became
necessary to put on a gas-mask on account
of the poisonous aspersion that rolled along
the ground like a wide Axminster boa-
constrictor.
Just here the story started in a real
hurry.
Rising suddenly out of nowhere a stupen-
dous preparatory lunatic-asylum developed
along the horizon. It was white-washed
as a sign of hypocrisy, or innocence,
or some other old thing. The height
of it was 20 storeys and the length
of it, till the ends became invisible,
was a mile. At each window appeared
a young and beautiful but idiotic female
countenance. Apparently the female was
nude and unmarried—at least her shoul-
ders and arms and her swelling bust
had nothing on. The swell of her bust
was so marked that it made navigation diffi-
cult. She gazed fixedly at nothing. One ear
was slightly larger than the other through
listening for the voice of undeveloped love.
Most of her was an orphan. She had no
distinguishing marks about her alabaster
form unless they were on her spine.
Every now and then one of the row of big
iron doors of the asylum opened, and a
beautiful but simple and trusting female of
the average age of 23 was shot out in a
single paragraph without any luggage.
There was no bruise on her hinder part to
suggest that she had been kicked out. Either
she was propelled by invisible forces or she
came voluntarily, knowing that the time
had arrived. She was immediately seized
by a dai’k, aquiline female of varying height
and by a sinister sort of man whose breath
destroyed the vegetation. They put a white
frock on her and let her hair down, and
fixed chains on her hands and feet. Wear-
ing a look of resignation, she held up each
foot to be chained—in fact, she was so
anxious to be good and submissive and per-
secuted that she tried to hold up both feet
at once. They told her partly that the man
was her uncle, whom she had never heard
of: also her guardian and trustee, and they
intimated, partly, that all was discovered.
V\ ithout their protection the results of her
past deeds would be terrible, in addition to
which the mystery would blow up like the
hd _ blowing off Vesuvius. As the price of
their silence, she was to live with them in
secrecy and be handy woman in all their
crimes. She assented, weeping, though she
hadn’t the least idea what they were going
to be silent about. A drove of obvious detec-
tives was passing at the time, but she didn’t
communicate with them.
These preliminaries being fixed up, she
was removed on foot, and, carrying a tear-
jug, into which she sobbed bitterly, to sus-
picious premises which happened to grow’ up
in the vicinity. After being shaken till her
chains rattled and her patrician but vacant
countenance flew in all directions, she was
solemnly warned of the penalty of rebellion
and locked up with only her spelling bust
for company. Her request for* praying-
materials only resulted in her being slapped
and deprived of her lunch by the aquiline
female. Though somewhat heated by per-
cussion, she was glad to know that the story
had commenced.
In order to provide her with exercise a
long road was laid out and covered with the
blue-metal of tribulation, and on this she
walked in her bare feet at intervals for a
varying number of years according to the
size of the bo£k. Sometimes she was har-
nessed to a cart containing plunder, and
took it to a receiver with a fatal nose. The
road was' lined with entanglements, and
large quantities of explosive machinations
were buried in the neighborhood. The tall
young man whose family had nothing left
but the equity of redemption of the bode
stud began to take notice of her and lo
holler to her across the entanglements. But
out of loyalty to her uncle, whom she knew
w r as no relative at all, and to the aquiline
female who shook her till her beautiful but
unintelligent countenance flew in all direc-
tions, she always assured him that she was
happy and driving in her own motor-car,
and that she didn’t really know what to do
with her money. Which was true, for she
hadn’t any.
The tall young man spent most of his
time digging for a job at the foot of the
family tree. It was a sandy soil with no
auriferous indications whatever. To divert
his attention a bottomless pit was dug by
evil-minded parties, and the edges of it were
buttered, and a notice was put up to the
effect that there was a high-salaried position
at the bottom. Naturally he fell in at the
first sight of the notice. Then the board
was removed lest the hole should become
crowded with applicants.
It was. debated whether the lady should be
thrown in also, as her feet were getting
worn out after three years’ service, and her
haulage power with the cart of plunder had
diminished. But it was decided that she
was good for a while longer. Points in her
favor were that she was well broken in,
obedient, uncommunicative, pious and filled
with a spirit of dignified resignation, which
saved something in the way of victuals. She
would stand untied, and showed no signs of
bolting so long as her moral principles
weren’t interfered with. Also, she was tidy,
and answered to almost any name. The con-
clusion arrived at was that when she was
quite used up she could be boiled down to
prevent the secret leaking out, in which case
her master and mistress 'might be run in.
By this time the neighborhood was black
with lurking detectives, who suspected that
something had been up for several years,
but thought it was influenza. The discovery
of sundry bodies, and a wireless apparatus,
with a German accent, and large quantities
of bogus notes, confirmed them in this belief.
Many of them settled down in the locality,
and married, and brought up families of
young detectives, who practised lurking after
school.
The hero fell right through the hole, and
came out at the other end, where he was
arrested for trespass. Ultimately he worked
his passage home as assistant cabin-boy. His
idea was that he had passed the lucrative
billet in the hole through falling too fast,
and he proposed to have another try at it,
using a rope this time and taking testi-
monials with him.
Just then the whole conspiracy blew up
through somebody, who was never in the
story before dropping a hot cigarette among
the explosive machinations. The roar was
heard feet away. Nothing was found of the
uncle and the aquiline woman except a torn
coi’set. The atmosphere gradually cleared
of debris, leaving the landscape ready for
future use. And a new book began as soon
as the unresisting victim was selected and
enslaved out of numerous applicants.
JAMES EDMOND.
The Doc. in Egypt
“In the following pages,” the introduction
runs, “we have set out the problems which
faced the A.A.M.C. in Egypt....the necessi-
ties which forced one 520-bed hospital to
expand to a capacity of approximately
10,500 beds, and the manner in which the
work was done”; and the writers, Dr. J. W.
Barrett and Lieut. P. E. Deane, add that
“the officer commanding, Lieut.-Col. Ramsay
Smith, was responsible for a development
probably unequalled in the history of medi-
cine.” Dr. Ramsay Smith will not require
introduction to South Aus., at any rate.
When, in Kingston’s day in State politics,
there was a medical insurrection at the
Adelaide Hospital, two senior men were
brought from Britain to take charge. Ram-
say Smith was one of them. Kingston
picked his men well.
• During the first 10 days of the crisis
approximately 16,000 wounded men were
poured into Egypt—poured in without warn-
ing. Prodigies were done in those crowded
hours. It was no time to call up Melbourne
for authority to buy a bed or so. Things
were done and authority was sought after-
wards. Building after building was taken
°ver and hospitals extemporised. Over
10,000 beds were managed for a time by a
staff originally intended to handle 520.
Yet the organisation of the Australian
Defence Department on the medical side
was wretchedly poor. It could hardly
be otherwise. Few front-rank men had
had anything to do with the military
forces. A few zealous patriots had
attached, themselves; but for the most part
the medical officers of the Defence Depart-
ment were either old Army surgeons or
shallow men who loved to strut at social
functions in a uniform. When Dr Barrett
joined No. 1 General Hospital he “was in-
formed that specialists were not required.”
The first patient admitted was an eye case
there were from 60 to 100 in-patients
calling for the services of eye-specialists, and
1 0 out-patients. Yet “specialists were not
(Continued on page 26.)


2
It Will Pay You to Get it at
ANTHONY HORDERNS’.
Dependable Cutters
Ohio No. 9 Plantation Cutters £l4/5/6
Ohio No. 11 Plantation Cutters ...... £l6
Ohio No. 11 Ensilage Cutters and
Blower £2B
Ohio No. 14 Ensilage Cutters and
Blower, with Truck £5O
Ohio No. 100 Ensilage Cutters and
Blower £43
Hayes Corn Shelters
No. 8 Invincible Corn Shelter. Capacity 20
bushels per hour £6/10/-
No. 15 Double Hole Corn Shelter. Capacity:
Hand power, 25 bushels per hour. Engine
Power, 60 bushels per hour .. . £l3/10/-
No. 17 Double Hole Corn Sheller, with Elevator
and Twin Bagger. Capacity 60 bushels per
hour •• • ■ £l9/10/-
Wiard Ploughs
The name Wiard has ever been associated with
all that is best in Ploughs. Not alone in the excel-
lence of construction, but in the testing, altering and
improving, so that Wiard superiority may remain as
it is to-day—unquestioned.
Wiard One-horse Plough, No. 74 or 75. Excel-
lent value 90/-
Because if it comes
from Anthony Horderns’
—it is RELIABLE.
The fact that Anthony Horderns’
have supplied Farm Implements
to the man on the land for
genera t i o n s son, father,
grand=dad and back still further
—is a GUARANTEE OF
TRUSTWORTHINESS.
And this brings in Economy.
The honest, upright integrity reflected in
the wearing parts, in the accurate machining,
fittings and adjustments—all tell in the
absence of breakdown, the low cost of upkeep
and the constant, everyday, faithful, money-
making service you receive.
If you can get better im (dements at the
price—please tell us. Anthony Horderns’
ask you to accept nothing without a thorough
investigation.
Write for particulars of any Farm Imple-
ment you are interested in. You will receive
full information and prices—without any
obligation whatever.
Why not write a few lines now?
Address to Country Order Department.
Canton Disc Ploughs
Canton 1-furrow Disc Plough (Auto.), £l9/10/-
Canton 1-furrow Disc Plough (hand control)
£l9/10/-
Canton 2-furrow Disc Plough (hand control)
£24/10/-
Canton 3-furrow Disc Plough (hand control)
£2B/10/-
Wiard Hillside Ploughs
Wiard No. 21 Hillside Ploughs, 1-horse, 70/-
Wiard No. 120 Hillside Ploughs, 2-horse—
£s/17/6
Wiard No. 100 2-horse Single-Furrow Ploughs—
£s/10/-
Wiard No. 85 Hilling or Ditching Ploughs, 60/-
Wiard Disc Harrows
* T >
Wiard Harrows contain every feature of import-
ance in a Disc Harrow. Fashioned with strong chan-
nel steel frame and braces with the desired flexibility.
Adjustable seat, anti-friction rollers and most durable
rinsrs. with excellent system of lubrication.
Wiard sft. Disc Harrows £l3/15/-
Wiatd 6ft. Disc Harrows . . . £l4/15/-
Wiard Oft. Disc Gangs, to convert Spading to
Disc Harrows £6
Canton Lever Harrows
is?
tag
Jt F
Similar to ordinary U-Bar Lever Harrow, with
addition of Guards, which protect ends of tooth bars.
By throwing levers forward teeth are thrown back to
clear away refuse, or for transport reasons. Made
in two sections —50 teeth. Teeth are Sin. long by
Jin square. PRICE £B.
Wiard Spading Harrows
tA
m
Our experience is—and it is the experience of many
years, that this is undoubtedly the very best imple-
ment for pulverising the soil, and, with its many
improved features, it is the Harrow par excellence.
Swingletrees, neck yoke and cleaners included in these
prices.
Price.
£lO
£lO/15/-
£ll
£l2/15/-
£l2/15/-
£l3/15/-
£l4/10/-
£l5
£l5/10/-
extra.
ANTHONY
R
SONS, US
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
it i
ck fie 1 d Hill,
Sydney. Ss7ssg)


■ I
434 Miles of “ADAMAX” Roofing
were Used on these Buildings.
The illustration is from an unfinished photograph of the
huge Wool Storage Sheds, erected recently in Wentworth
Park, Sydney, by Messrs. Stuart Brothers, for the Central
Wool Storage Committee.
These buildings were erected in record time, and the roofing
used on them constituted the largest order ever placed in
Australia for roofing to be used on one contract.
It speaks well for the superiority of
“ADAMAX”
AspHaltum Roofmg
for such orders to come our way. Certainly exhaustive tests
were first made, and it was only after “ADAMAX” had been
subjected to rigorous tests that it was proved to be a fire-
retardant roofing that resists all the ravages of the elements—
wind, heat, rain, cold, gases, acids, chemical fumes, etc.—
none of which have any damaging effect on “ADAMAX”
ROOFING.
“Adamax” is the best Roof value that money can buy—a time-
proof Roofing that
Costs One-third the price of Galvanised-iron
with a corresponding saving in freight. Easy to lay, and
once laid it requires no attention, because it is made to give
long and satisfactory service under all weather conditions.
In Rolls, each containing' 22 square yards, allowing'
for 2-inch overlap. In 1-ply (thin), 2-ply (medium),
and 3-ply (thick).
WRITE TO-DAY FOR FREE SAMPLE AND DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET.
William Adams dD, Co. Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Cr. Edward & Mary Streets.
ADELAIDE: 90 Currie Street.
PERTH: 33 King Street.


Influenza.
“PLENTY OF MILK” is the doctors’
advice in all cases of influenza.
FRESH MILK modified by
Mellins Food
forms the best diet throughout the
course of the attack and in convales-
cence, because it is more palatable,
more easily digested and therefore
more nourishing than milk alone.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND
STORES.
Price 2/6 per large bottle.
Sample and booklet free on request.
Mellins Food Ltd.,
Colling wood.
AGENTS:—
GOLLIN & CO. PROPY. LTD., Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
HR
SAUCE
You
will be de-
k lighted with
the unique
flavour of the
oriental fruits
and spices
blended by
a secret
process.
You'll enjoy H.P.
Mquapeiia
(HARRCGAVc, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents: —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
guprnjj
hr
» tE/nOM SQUASH
LARGEST SALE IN THE WORLD
Jtes XeH t&k
&4y&txc\h.g | j
Mggi&ve jyefctr
.• 41kir' irufli- •
Of 8. A usMM
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OI'FICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; lion. It. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G. ; Sir Samuel
Hordern; Richard Teeee, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.. Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000.
H. W. APPERLY, Genera! Manager.
Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly £1,000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for ths
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
MERIT
In Fountain Pens, as in everything
else, it is merit that tells, and that is
why the “ Swan ” has for a quarter
of a century gained more users every
year. When you buy a “Swan”
you know you have a guarantee of
excellence in workmanship, perfection
of detail, and that absolute reliability
which has been the consistent keynote
of “ Swan ” manufacture for a
generation.
"SWAN”
PENS
•told by Station nrs and Jewellers Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 12/6
Safety Pattern with
Screw-on Cap, from 1 5/.
Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79-80, High Holbora, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—
(Wholesale only) 225 a, George St. London Factory—
-319-329, Weston St., S.E. Associate House—Mabie,
Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch : J, A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
BOSTOCK’S PRY CLEANER
FOR
Wl>itg St Colored Suede&CaiWaS Sijo?S.
It never fails to give entire satisfaction, being easily applied, does not
rub off, and is unequalled in every way.
COLORS:—White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne.
BoStock’S Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
sypNey.
the sign of
PERFECTION
"" *
JJJJJJJJ
■How to secure early
delivery of your post-war
SUNBEAM
The demand for Sunbeam cars for
delivery when we are again able
to attend to private requirements
is already such that early ship-
ment cannot be promised except
to motorists who order now.
Naturally it is our intention to
hasten production in every way
conducive with the maintenance
of Sunbeam quality. This
qualification, in itself, how-
ever, is sufficient to limit output
and to render impossible delivery
in vast numbers. Therefore order
your post-war Sunbeam to-day.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co. Ltd.,
Export Department: 54-62 Oxford Street,
LONDON, W.l. - - - ENGLAND
Head Office - Wolverhampton, England
VARIUSE VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beauty’s End.
Just like a beautiful pansy
Fluttering to and fro,
A butterfly came to my window
All in the noontide glow—
Oh, the delicate Fancy
That shaped and colored it so!
Flowers stood still in the garden;
Here was a winghd flower,
A sister-tking to the pansies
That die dewy hour.
Craving nor pity nor pardon
From Death in his moment of power.
Stern is dark Death in his duty ;
Grim, impassive and cold,
He takes as his own grey tresses
And tresses alight with gold.
Thus, in the end, comes Beauty
To sleep in the moist grave-mould.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
An Old Tasmanian Road.
It comes from days of agony and shame,
This old Tasmanian road,
When men the souls of other men might
tame
With stinging lash and goad.
I see them at their task, those convicts grey;
I hear a clanking chain
That fetters man to man along the way
Of toil and biting pain.
On hills where yellow-lichened she-oaks grow
The road winds up and down
To cross a stream, whose waters flash and
flow
Beside a ruined town.
Grey fences by the roadway fall and rot,
Gates, wind-swung, creak and groan;
By unmown lawns bleak homesteads, long
forgot,
Show fronts of crumbling stone.
And in the town are moss-grown tumbling
walls
That lapse round mouldered cells,
Where, memory-born, a brooding shadow
falls.
And of dark horror tells.
But lanes of alien oak and burgeoning elm
With summer’s kiss are green ;
Fair from forsaken gardens flowers o’er-
whelm
The shame that once has been.
And all the town is held by quietness;
No more the lash and goad
Drive broken men with aching feet to press
This old Tasmanian road.
So Time, the craftsman, weaves a mingled
tale
Along the changing years;
The old dark ways of shame in beauty fail,
Flowers bloom o’er olden tears.
TASMANIA.
O’PHIMERTY.
Evening.
The weary Day shakes down her burnished
hair,
Slips out each sunlight pin, each band of
pearl
Vapor unwinds; then flings aside her robes
Of gold airs girt with sapphire. Anon, wrapt
In neglige of amethystine haze.
Reclined upon a cushion of bright cloud,
With breezes light she combs her streaming
locks,
Bending her head to let the purple dusk
That in its fragrance hides, gloom all the
world;
Till, tired at length, she twists each dewy
tress
Into the white curl-papers of the stars.
N.S.W.
HELEN BURKE.
Out with Sally.
Sally’s hands are cool and quiet,
On the wheel that guides our going
Down the roads where roses riot
And the winds of song are blowing.
Road-songs rowdy, tough and hoary,
Love-songs with a tender rally—
Life is like a splendid story
Driving overland with Sally!
Thoughts that link themselves with sorrow,
Dreams wherein the sunlight sullies,
Haste away and swiftly borrow
Laughter from the singing gullies,
Then pursue, by zest made agile,
While, to make the pace the greater,
Sally’s shoes, like snowflakes fragile,
Touch the light accelerator.
We have flung aside earth’s bondage.
Stirring winds kiss waters dreaming.
On the sighing, swaying frondage
Golden-hearted sunlight’s beaming.
Sally’s thoughts are truly sunbeams.
Scorning deeps where doubts might dally,
And a laughing gleam of fun beams
Often in the eyes of Sally.
Sally’s eyes are like grey roses,
Warm and soft, with light, clear shadows,
As when Day her window closes
Over twilit shining meadows,
While the songs of bird and locust
Die away to fitful slumber—
On the road her eyes are focussed,
Lest a “trap” might take her number!
Sally’s lips—the scent of flowers
Floats across from some rich garden,
Where the slow bees court the hours.
Taking sweets nor seeking pardon!
Sally’s lips—l hear them saying
That this day is “not too bally”;
Through Elysian scenes I’m swaying,
Driven mad for love of Sally! ‘
MAOBILAND.
WILL LAWSON.


sfWje
The Perdriau Super Tread is true to reputation, and is giving surprising mileage results on all types of cars
and over all classes of roads.
The three ribs of Perdriaus make for road=sureness, prevent side=slip, and meet the road with a smooth
frictionless motion, causing the car to ride easily.
Obtainable from your local garage or from the manufacturers —
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd. "
270 George Street, Sydney.
Flinders Street, Melbourne
Adelaide Street , Brisbam
Gawler Place, Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
3'
9.
Never was satisfaction in the use of an
Instrument for the purpose of Castration
more broadly guaranteed than that of
enyers
Triple Crush Emasculator.
It is the safest, ojbickest ami most efficient instrument for the purpose yet
introduced by Veterinary)Science.
Jt carries the quality and efficiency guarantee of the Foremost Veterinary
House in Australia.
If the best results are desired, use Denvers' Kcdipse Triple Crush Emaseu-
lator—-and no other.
Price 50/'
Get our Catalogue of Veterinary Instruments and Appliances, and our
Instructive Booklet—both free for the asking.
DENYER BROS.,
A.:>
i
Jf/
jy 7^
Get on
The Track
of this
Canned Delicacy
When pou feel like making a change in the
mid-dap meal —when there's a picnic due and
pou want to “go one better ” than pour
friends in providing the spread—just trot
out a tin of
“REX”
CAMP PIE
No need for the wife to work over time in a
hot kitchen when there's a tin of this appe-
tising meat in the house. It is all readp to
serve—perfectlp cooked in the “ Rex ” fac-
tory. There's nothing better for the workers’
lunches, for picnics or meals at home.
Economical too —because there’s no cooking
and no waste.
BUY A TIN TO-DAY. SOLD EVERYWHERE
‘REX’ LUNCHEON CHEESE
Gives vou the "line clear” to
CHEESE SA TISFA CTION
Fog gitt, Jones
& Co. Ltd.
Packers of “ Rex ”
Pure Food Products
Carers of “ Rex ”
Hams and Bacon
J. 612
m
MP PIE
--^ggMnßwiiiiiiiiViiiinmiiiiiiiiJg l
Safety when you need it —
low cost mileage all the time.
GOODRICH
SAFETY
TREAD
m
The tread that makes
the brake effective.
Your car brakes cannot
stop a skid —we have put
brakes in the Goodrich Safety
Tread for you.
The Safety Tread Bars stop
the skid before it starts.
They push away the ooze,
they clean and dry the path
and grip it. No ooze, no
skid.
This non-skid feature is
great because it is there. It
works. It is just one of the
advantages in Goodrich
Safety Tread Tyres. Start- ~
ing, steering, turning, -
stopping, speeding or idling, -
Goodrich Safety Treads are
working with almost human
intelligence with you, your
.steering-gear and your
brakes. They mean control »
and confidence.
And they give you extra mileage, with more Goodrich *-
thick, tough tread rubber on the road surface. Get „
Goodrich Safety Tread Tyres now and make yonr car
100 per cent, efficient in any kind of weather.
Best in the long run ——Best in the short stop!
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St, 13 Castlereagh St. i 30D Adelaide St.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. • BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi. 40.—N0. 2040.
THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1919.
Price 6d.
JUSTICE—FOR CITIZEN-SOLDIERS.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. Od. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year , to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused. \
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
pari of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form jif
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings Street >
Vancouver, B.C.
U.3.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U'.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — Ignace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
1003., Id. ; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lsd. Only one neivspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: 80s., lsd.; Bloz. to lOoz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 21d.; elsewhere, )oz., lid., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1919.
THE MENACE OF A “DRY”
AUSTRALIA.
A recent message from New York stated
that the American Anti-saloon League was
“opening offices in- Melbourne, as well as Lon-
don and other European capitals, in order to
conduct a world fight against the drink traf-
fic.” About the same time a Miss Stafford
Miller arrived in Westralia from the
’U.S.A., and, after three days’ investi-
gation, stated that “Perth was the
most drunken city in the world, and
reeking with sin and infamy.” An
example of cause and effect. The anti-
liquor leagues exist to support people like
Miss Miller, and it is Miss Miller’s job
to supply them with scandalous discoveries.
If there were no case against the Drink trade
in Australia it could afford to smile. But
there notoriously is a case. The street
drunk is a feature of every big city and town
at certain hours. Crimes committed while
mnder “the influence” are frequent; and the
drink habit is responsible for a good deal
of economic loss. The anti-liquor reviv-
alists are helped by the fact that the evil
which the trade does is necessarily w T ell
advertised. Taking one thing with another
it looks as though the drink manufacturer
and drink-retailer may very soon have to
answer the question : “Will you get to work
and help make the trade decent, or do you
prefer to have it reformed out of existence?”
* * * *
America is in a favorable position to send
out missionaries of abolition. There is only
one wine-growing State in the Union —Cali-
fornia —and it produces a low-grade, article
at the best. American whisky is so poor
that most Yankee connoisseurs prefer to
pay a high price for Scotch. And there is
little sale outside the U.S. for American
beer In Britain the brewing and distilling
industries are of great importance. _ France,
in normal times, produces 1,100,000,000
gallons of wine, and without the wine-
indnstrv it would drop to the status
0 f a second- or even third-class Power.
Italy and Portugal are relatively in a
similar position. Australia is in its
infancy as a wine-producing country.
But its sun and its soil make it an ideal
place for growing the wine grape. Hocks
and clarets are already being manufactured
of a high class even when judged by Euro-
pean standards; and there is a big demand,
both at home and abroad, for Australian
champagnes. There seems nothing to stop
Australia being, in a comparatively short
time, the greatest wine-producer the world
has known —nothing but combined mulish-
ness and selfishness on the part of a number
of liquor retailers. America is listed at
present to go dry on January 16 next.. It
may or it may not. The statutory majority
of three-fourths of the States was obtained
not by referendum, but in the State Legis-
latures. That is to say, there was no dif-
ference between the voting strength of little
Maine, which has been dry for 30 years; of
Nevada, which has only 80,000 inhabitants:
and of New York, with its overwhelmingly
“wet” population of 9,000.000. California,
where a referendum was taken, voted “wet”;
its Legislature voted “dry.” These facts
may explain a vague cable message last week
stating that “the American Judiciary (Com-
mittee has decided that abolition will not
come into operation on the date originally
fixed.” But in any case, and notwithstand-
ing the difference between the two countries
indicated above, one of the main argu-
ments of the prohibitionists here will evi-
dently be a grand gesture in the direction of
theoretically bone-dry Amei’ica, coupled with
an insistence on the drink-sodden plight of
the Commonwealth. What is to be done
to avert the stampede?
* * * *
One of the most unedifying features of
Australian social life is the mean pub. It
provides the wowser with 80 per cent, of his
arguments. It is one of perhaps half a
dozen in a limited radius, and so competition
is fierce. The customer, however inebri-
ated, continues to be served so long as ne
has the necessary cash. The drink is as
bad as the retailer cares to make it. This
is because there is only one State —West-
ralia, where Miss Stafford Miller made
her discoveries —in which a system of official
inspection of alcoholic liquors for quality
exists. In N. S. Wales, for example, the
deadliest firewater may be vended. The
only occasion on which the seller falls in is
when he sells drink that is not alcoholic
enough. It is for this reason that some of
the wildest drunks are accomplished in appa-
rently respectable bars. It rests with
individual publicans whether they sell stuff
that is good, or poisonous; whether the
whisky in the bottle is as alleged on the
label, or crude rubbish. The old-fashioned
and insanitary boozing-den, the dive where
relays of men spit and drink six days a
week, the resort which 50 per cent, of them
are ashamed to be seen entering or leaving,
is a calamity not only to the public but to
the trade. And so are many of the more
ornate establishments, which in an elabo-
rately magnificent -manner serve spirits as
bad as any that are to be found in the
slums.
Wherever local option is there also
must be the mean and dangerous pub
in large numbers. There is only one in-
strument that will wipe out these places in
a way at once drastic and equitable—an
impartial body of experts sitting with a
fixed ideal in view. Any State in which
the sale of over-proof alcohol is legal, or in
which there is no check on the class of
drink, is bound to have a large tally of
drunks, even though everv liquor-shou be a
palace. Nothing will stop drunkenness
altogether, neither a drastic limitation of
pubs nor a rigid examination of all liquor
sold. The best that can be done, human
nature being w'hat it is, is to minimise the
trouble. There is no evidence that prohibi-
tion will do it. The Australian tempera-
ment is particularly unsuited to restrictive
control of this sort. Already, as an out-
come of such restrictions as exist in the dif-
ferent States, there are sly-grog shops in
plenty. They mostly sell a more or less
innocuous type of beer. With prohibition
there would be many more of them, and beer
would be barred owing to its bulk. Spirits
would be the line. There are 20 nips in
a bottle of whisky and six bottles go to the
gallon, which means that in a quarter-cask
(35 gallons) there would be 4200 drinks.
A quarter-cask is not a difficult article to
smuggle, and when filled with raw spirits
it wrnuld be capable of a wonderful amount
of damage. What is the alternative to pro-
hibition and its disastrous effects on the legi-
timate enjoyment of the people, on an indus-
try with vast possibilities, and on the crea-
tion of a new set of crimes? A measure on
the lines of a bill which was introduced in
the House of Lords last week should show
good results here. Its aim is “the trans-
formation of public houses into real refresh-
ment houses; the licenses for improved
mibh'c houses to include permission for
dancing, musical and other entertainments
on the premises.” There is no reason in
the w T orld why any hotel should not be as
reputable as any concert-hall or theatre.
As things are there are so many hotels, pubs
and bodegas which are infamous that the
public is beginning to take notice. The
electors, skilfully handled, might well decide
to sweep them, and with them the legal
manufacture and sale of all alcohol, out of
existence —just as a man might decide,
illogically, to burn down his house because
the drains were out of order. The trade
will only have itself to blame if the thing
is done.
COAL AND CHAOS.
The coal-mining fraternity in the State
which controls the situation shows signs of
arming for a general war — a hold-up of the
entire continent —to last till certain demands
not yet fully explained are granted. By
way of preparation the output is being
reduced in various mines under the “darg”
system, which prohibits any man doing more
than so much work and earning so much
money in a day. The object is to prevent
the accumulation of reserves of coal —unless
they are imported—to keep things going
when the output ceases. If there are no
stocks of coal whatsoever, industry will stop
in a day, and calamity will arrive in two
days, and civilisation will begin to totter m
a week. If revolution is aimed at there
will be as the nucleus of a force 20,000 coal-
miners with nothing to do but revolushe,
and all the other unemployed (almost every-
body being unemployed) and the miscel-
laneous elements of humanity to recruit
from. Barring imports of coal to keep the
wheels turning it should prove the same
easy matter as besieging a city which
omitted to lay in one square meal in ad-
vance.
* * * *
The situation is wholly different from that
which existed during the great silver-mining
and shearing and maritime and miscellaneous
strikes of 1890, or the shearers’ strike of
1894, or the famous Victorian railway strike.
When they happened Labor had never been
in power to put things right. But in N. 8.
Wales, the State which controls the coal
business and which (barring imports from
Japan or elsewhere) can hold up the con-
tinent, Labor was in power for six years
and would be there yet if it hadn’t thrown
overboard its old leaders for not being suffi-
ciently pro-Hun. The great, obvious, over-
whelming industrial job, over w'hieh Labor
had been cogitating during 19 years of Oppo-
sition, was to put things right in the coal-
mining industry. In ordinary years coal
is responsible for half or more than half the
industrial troubles, so it was obviously the
business to be attended to. Apparently the
party, after all the 19 years’ rumination,
didn’t know what its wrongs were, if it had
any, or didn’t know how to put them right.
Anyhow, it lived for six years in the old
coaly chaos and left the old chaos behind it.
A great deal has been said, and something is
still being said, about the nationalisation of
the coal-mines —the same thing that was
done in N. S. Wales and Victoria with the
original private-enterprise railways. The
scheme has much to recommend it, but
Labor, when in full authority, jibbed at it.
Now there is a party which repudiates the
idea of national ownership—ownership by
producers and consumers alike. It demands
ownership by a section of the producers only.
The men who opened the mines, and made
the machinery, and supplied the railways and
roads and ships for carrying purposes are
to be excluded, and everything is to belong
to the men who dig out the mineral from
holes already in operation. Therefore,
unless Australia took to importing coal, the
entire community would be controlled by a
much smaller body of men than the nobility
which once controlled old France. They can
answer for themselves whether they con-
sider that democratic.
No attempt has ever been made to create
co-operative coal-getting, either by the
miners’ union opening up new mines with
its own funds or by the same body buying
up the often-depreciated shares of existing
mines and acquiring control in that way. It
should pay better to spend money on indus-
trial production if the leaders know any-
thing about the management of industry,
than on industrial war and on keeping the
conscripted army of unionism always on a
war footing. But though the leaders talk
greatly about “taking over” industries they
haven’t built up a single one —barring a few
newspapers which mostly live by conscript-
ing subscribers among the unions—in order
to gain valuable’ experience and show how
the work should be done. Though they give
any amount of warning to the “capitalist”
not to create new industries because the day
of confiscation is at hand, they create none
themselves. They are as disappointing as
the Parliamentary Labor party was when,
having full authority to nationalise the
mines, they made no attempt to do it. If
Labor, during its long term of office in the
coal State and its terms of Federal office,
had put the most troubled industry on a
sound basis, according to its own ideas, Aus-
tralia would have acquiesced. It could do
nothing else, whether the scheme was re-
organisation, State purchase of the mines, or
tidy and orderly confiscation'. If the Parlia-
mentary Labor party explained clearly and
definitely even now how it is going
to put things right when it is next in
power, Australia would still have to acqui-
esce., But the obvious preparations for
a big strike suggest that the men who are
running the show don’t exactly know what
they want, and' propose to make a hash
of civilisation in order to find out their
own minds. The possibility that that part
of civilisation wffiich isn’t engaged in coal-
digging may object to be hashed under such
conditions explains why this country may
have a spell of living on foreign coal hewn
probably by brown men and brought prob-
ably in brown ships.
THE ALMOST EXHAUSTED MINE.
Nearly 60 years ago the gold yield of N.
S. Wales was four times larger than it is
now. And it w T as shallow gold easily and
cheaply got, and there was only one-sixth
the population to divide it among, and it
wasn’t swallowed up in paying interest
on foreign debts, as it is now, and 9Gi per
cent, of the area of the State was still to be
sold, and the world was young and wide, and
it was spring everywhere. Then the Gov-
ernment took the heroic measure of offering
practically the whole surface of the State
in comfortable blocks at £1 per acre. There
were details and exceptions, of course, but
the £1 per acre was a leading feature to
commence with, and it remained when many
other things changed. Land almost in
sight of Sydney came under this offer, and
as late as 20 or 25 years ago remnants were
still available within a few days’ drive —
horse-drive, not motor—from the big city.
People early recognised that there was
money in the business, and later they
realised that there was more money
in it than they had dreamed of. The
small price—for good convenient land
it was very small, and there was plenty of
such land at first—hadn’t e®:n to be paid in
one sum. The payment was spread over 30
years or more, and the interest charged on
unpaid instalments was 2) per cent., which
was hardly worth rnent oning. The one
drawback was the imprisonment clause.
Residence on the properly was compulsory
for a number of years lest population should
escape, and there were painfully elaborate
methods to prevent hasty sale to the accu-
mulator of big estates. The simple device
of striking the accumulator with a graduated
tax and then letting him do his worst was
an idea of later date. Mere boys were
allowed to select, and they married almost
any kind of girl in haste to break the loneli-
ness, so the marriage rate was high.
* * * *
For a comparatively short time things
boomed. The value of the land sold at fl
per acre—really about 10s. or 12s. per acre
if allowance is made for the fact that the
State practically lent the money to buy it
with fob a long term of years at half the
usual rate of interest —was pushed up by the
construction of railways and other works out
of loans. The interest on these was charged
to posterity, ana until land and income taxes
and local government rates were invented
very little of the charge fell on the settler’s
posterity. The State felt that it was on a
good wicket, for it was getting fl an acre
for what cost it nothing, though it had to
wait a long time for the money. The
original selector wasn’t on a very bad_wicket.
There are places as much as 200 or 250 miles
from Sydney where land apart from Jill im-
provements is worth £6 per acre, yet it was
taken up so recently that the term of 30
years or so over which the instalments have
to run hasn’t nearly expired, though the
period of compulsory imprisonment on the
land has run out. That is to say, the State
or seller has got fl per acre or part of it,
while the buyer has got £5 in addition to
his earnings. A multitude of purely agri-
cultural towns sprang up in the early days,
before the settlers reached the point at which
they were able to sell their selections and
clear out with the unearned increment to the
picture-shows of Sydney; and the money
spent on building the loan railways that
helped to create the increment was of ma-
terial assistance in the soringing up. Many
of these agricultural towns were really pros-
perous for a while, though they haven’t done
very much of late. A distinct change set
in when the best land was all sold and the
settlement boom was exhausted and the
settler, who had been tied to his gum-tree in
the terms of his contract, escaped by effluxion
of time. Last census showed that 53
counties in N. S. Wales were losing popula-
tion, and 15 of them were in the small east-
ern. or coastal or well-watered district where
settlement started first and the selector
escaped first. At the same time 56 munici-
palities of the 152 outside Sydney and
its suburbs were on the perishing list, a few
because local mines had given out, but most
because it is a poor busineess to be a purely
agricultural town when agriculture is in a
bad way.
So after half-a-century’s run the land-
mine is practically exhausted. There is
very little State land left, outside of the
drought country, to sell to the selector at
fl per acre, and that little is hardly worth
having. The land which was bought at fl
and sold in not very many years at £6 or
fS apart from improvements isn’t likely to
sell again in a comparatively short space of
time at £l6 or £32. The process by which
the buyer multiplied his capital by simply
existing has brought up short against the
fact that the price is now about all that the
earning capacity of the soil will stand. The
State has spent most of the £1 per acre that
it received when it sold cheaply the land that
cost it nothing, and is scratching around for
revenue to replace the easy land-sale money.
The original buyer can’t be tied down to the
soil a second time under pain of forfeiture,
so that chapter of the book of settlement and
development is nearly finished. In a
general way the change is from a time in
which the land bore two crops, one of food
and the other of increased selling value, to
a time when it bears a crop of food only, and
the food has to pay taxes which the early
selector with the unearned increment coming
in never dreamt of; and the market, through
the decay of inland towns, has got much
further away. In fact, the Ma State begins
to get down to plain agricultural business,
the safe and pleasant gamble which used to
back up the business having s*en its best
days. If Australia was a country where
industrial towns had a habit of springing up
here and there, so that the lonesome wheat-
patch might have a chance to become a
suburb, and a promising market might rise
up any day at the most despondent farmer’s
door, the unearned increment would have
another run for its money. But the few
big cities allow nothing to spring up except
themselves.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Repatriation Collapse.
Senator Millen. Minister in charge of
Repatriation, tried lately to put a good face
oh a very gloomy situation by saying that
70,000 soldiers have already come back, and
of these only 3 per cent. (2100) are out of
employment. This means that he knows of
that number —-in other words, that number
have reported ‘themselves as being in want
of employment. But a great many of the
returned soldiers are cripples, and are not
wanting employment because they aren’t fit
for it. That was why they were returned.
Now for the first time a vast number of
healthy soldiers who will simply howl for
employment are coming. The small and
partially disabled lot dribbled in during
several years. The big healthy lot is due
during several months. Then the early re-
turns often got johs by taking the places of
new soldiers who were leaving. There are
no new soldiers leaving now to make vacan-
cies. Again, a considerable number of the
men Millen talks about aren’t working in
the ordinary sense of the term. They are
living on sustenance allowances and learning
trades, and they will be wanting real work
later. Further, these early men were pro-
vided for in a sort of way while the floating
of stupendous paper-money war-loans for
local consumption was creatine- a temporary
boom, which makes another difference. And
—what is as important as anything —they


were provided for in a sort of way befoie
the amazing increase of imports came along,
under the miserably inefficient tariff, to make
local industry more superfluous and more
impossible. It was a common gag of the
Freetrade and importing party that the re-
duction of imports through the purely tem-
porary ship-famine in war time was I rotec-
tion in itself. That was true ; yet though the
bulk of goods imported was less, the cost
didn’t diminish much, for this helpless im-
porting country is at the mercy of the
profiteers of all nations. And even this
nominal Protection practically vanished long
before the armistice. As soon as the Hun
power was on the down-grade, the seas
became a little safer and goods began to
pour in. Here are the official figures:
Imports op Merchandise Before the War.
Year to Dec., 1912.. £76,483,360
„ „ 1913.. 78,196,109
During the Heat of War.
Year to June, 1915.. £63,563,781
„ 1916.. 76,740,899
„ 1917.. 75,354,890
„ ~ 1918.. 60,363,144
During tub Declinh op War.
Quarter to Sept., 1918.. £23,636,998
Or at the rate of £94,547,992 per year.
The Australian manufacturer was facing the
constant rise in wages and in the pr&6 of
materials, and the War-time Profits Tax,
which has been extended far ahead into
peace-time. The amendment of the tariff
against foreign cheap labor, which tariff is
so largely just free list, is postponed till the
general resurrection of the dead, as usual.
But the importer got in early and flooded
the country with more than double the quan-
tity of goods which he sent during the first
quarter of the previous year. The signs
are that there will be £34,000,000 worth less
work to do than last year, and probably
100,000 more able-bodied men wanting work,
with crowds to follow. A sufficient amount
of this sort of thing leads to trouble the
sort of wild, unreasoning trouble made by
men with no prospects and a bitter sense of
injury. And if the dawdlers in office don t
get a move on with the tariff the New Year s
Day of 1920 may see some big Australian
cities in trouble, and law-and-order running
for its life. There are plenty of leaders to
preach trouble, and Watt and Millen are
providing the followers.
A Lost Chance at Adelaide.
Forty-four carpenters were fined £5 each
the other dav at Adelaide for an illegal
strike. In two other cases there was a post-
ponement. They didn’t so much strike, they
alleged, as leave simultaneously without
notice in search of better jobs. Said the
hired man of law :
The men had considered the establishment of a
co-operative carpentry and joinery shop, but the
financial problem had deterred them from going on
with the scheme.
Yet there is hardly a doubt that they pos-
sessed the capital. In South Australia the
average savings-bank deposits are £29 7s. 3d.
per inhabitant, or £ll7 9s. for every family
of four —father, mother and two children,
which is about the smallest number possible
to prevent the population decreasing. These
46 adult males, who being skilled tradesmen
were probably no poorer than the average
clients of the banks of the comparatively
poor, might be assumed to command or be
able to influence £5403 in savings-bank cash
alone, in addition to whatever they possessed
in the way of houses, land, furniture, jewel-
lery, loose change, life-insurance policies,
building-society investments and sundries.
To start a complete, full-blown factory, in
which the bosses own (not rent) the land,
buildings and machinery, and have no debt
or mortgage on them whatsoever, costs £268
per worker. These figures are arrived at by
taking the value of lands, buildings, machin-
ery and plant of every sort employed in the
15,010 factories registered at the latest re-
turns, and dividing it by the number of
employees, boys and girls included. (This
list doesn’t include the vast number of tiny
“factories,” of which two or three can be
found in a street in any working-man’s dis-
trict, in which only liand-power is employed.
If they were taken in, the average amount
required per man would be less, but they
have no direct bearing on the case.) Land
and buildings stand for half the cost, so if
a firm of beginners is satisfied to rent them
or buy them on long terms the amount re-
quired is about £134 per man; and if the
new firm gets part credit for its plant, as is
the rule rather than the exception, the need
for capital is still less. Therefore it is im-
possible to believe that the 44 artisans who
were fined and two more who weren’t fined
were unable to produce the money required
so that they might have eliminated the capi-
talist and secured the full product of their
labor. Probably they felt that the business
would be a mess-up and a certain loss
because no one would obey the elected boss,
and too much time would be wasted in com-
mittee of the whole House. So they clung
to their savings, and went out to look for
more chances to be “wage-slaves.” Not once
has the One Big Union crowd, with all its
demands that the workshops should belong
to the workers only, attempted the establish-
ment of sample workshops to show how the
thing is done and to paralyse the world with
their success. The railways, owned by the
people on communistic principles, keep
. going because the Commissioners have a
definite standing instead of being chosen
from day to day by “stop work” meetings of
all hands and the cook. Their management,
like that of the Commonwealth Bank, is
denounced by the One Big Unionists on the
plea that the lack of “stop work” meetings,
and election of officers by soap-box oratory,
and the constant friendly consultations in
which the smallest employee is suffocated or
trodden to death in the crowd, makes them
“undemocratic.” They will probably con-
tinue that way.
Hours of Work.
The National Industrial Conference Board,
an American institution with headquarters
at Boston, is engaged in a scientific analysis
of the facts bearing upon the hours-of-
work problem “The investigation is not
made,” it is declared, “with the intention of
attacking or defending a workday of any
specific length, but, instead, to assemble the
available results of actual experience.” The
latest report to hand, dealing with the manu-
facture of woollens, is, to say the least of it,
disconcerting. Practically all previous
investigation had gone to prove that an
increased output followed a reduction of
hours. The American investigation suggests
that, in this industry in the U.S.A. at any
rate, the conclusion must be qualified. For
the most part the factories work 54 hours
per week, and 68 establishments now on
that schedule, but which previously worked
longer hours, have furnished comparisons of
the result of the change so far as output is
concerned. Only six of them show an in-
creased output; seven others show that the
output was maintained; the rest show de-
creased output. Factories employing over
half (50.6 p.c.) of the workpeople reported
a decrease about proportional to the de-
crease in hours worked; others employing
7 p.c. reported a decrease greater than pro-
portional. The most complete data came from
a large establishment which reduced the
working time by 9.3 p.c. It showed an
astonishing decrease of 13.8 p.c. in total
output. The industry is carried on partly
by time- and partly by piece-hands. Almost
invariably no increase in the per-hour out-
put of time-hands followed the reduction;
but in most instances there was an increase,
much or little, in the per-hour output of niece-
workers. The results of course are not con-
clusive. Data relating to one industry
cannot be taken as reflecting the facts of
all industries. At the same time they must
be taken into account in arriving at general
conclusions. The figures, moreover, are the.
most modern of all on the subject. There
certainly was a time, unless all previous
investigations resulted in a wrong verdict,
when a reduction of hours was followed by
an increased output. That obviously meant
speeding-up. And the persistent attacks
on speeding-up may have had the effect of
preventing workers from responding with
increased energy to a reduction of hours. In
some cases, unless the statistics are all
wrong, it appears to have led them in the
other direction. If so, it is to be deeply
regretted.
A Season of Bolshevism.
“J.N.P.” from Tokyo, Japan:—
Truly ghastly reports are reaching us from trust-
worthy observers now in Siberia of the terrible
social conditions in the western provinces, the result
of Bolshevik military successes and the fleeing of
whole communities eastwards before the advancing
terror.
It is of little profit to dwell on the accumulating
horrors suggested by reports constantly arriving, or
on the painful divisions among the Allies that result
in huge quantities of stores of all descriptions, so
badly needed, being held up at Vladivostoclc and
other centres, because authorities cannot agree.
Appeals now being made may set the railways run-
ning and oil the clogging machinery of international
“control.” But we may, with some profit, look over
the Bolshevik record, and try to discover if, amid the
carnage, social disruption and misery brought upon
the Russian people, there is anything that is good
in the Bolshevik idea, which so captivated the public
mind in two hemispheres a year and a half ago. .
It was on November 6, 1917, that the Bolsheviki
seized the supreme power in Petrograd, and Kerensky
was deposed. The historian of the future will have a
hard task in any attempt to describe the life of
Russia in those first days of national anarchy, but
he will tell us that the country immediately broke
up into many separate States, each proclaiming in-
dependence of its neighbor, and each announcing to
all the world that it was “free.” A period of bloody
internecine strife ensued. Russians fought Russians
on many fronts. From October, 19D> to April
following there were no less than 34 “fronts” on
Russian territory. In this period 37 so-called Soviet
republics were established.
This local warfare was conducted with a much
more fierce and barbarous zeal than w r as that with
the Central Powers; and especially vindictive was
the destruction of property. The financial corres-
pondent of the Russkoe Slovo estimated Aat the
economic loss caused by this civil .war far exceeded
Russia’s losses in the war with Germany.
It was shortly after this period of conflict that
many foreign travellers, mostly American, arrived in
Japan .with stories of the ruin of factories and mines
and other property in which they were interested, of
a character hardly credible, enormities that were
supposed at that early day to have been much orna-
mented by a rich imagination. But the facts as
since gathered suggest that anything was possible
during the delirium that then had possession of the
Slav mentality.
The people, in their fury, saw a particular enemy
in the railway. The Bolshevik economist, Juri
Larin, author of most of Lenin’s decrees, affirms that
during demobilisation 4000 waggons and 700 loco-
motives were destroyed; in the four months ending
February, 1918, a hundred and nine large estates
were pillaged—and estates in Russia are frequently
as large as an English county. Industry was para-
lysed—hut what do we mean by that common
phrase? The output of coal in the Donetz district
fell from two thousand million poods in 1916 to
half a million in 1917. Consider what sort of a
paralysis that would cause in a country where
artificial heat is essential to life, not to speak of
coal’s uses for other purposes. The output of iron
fell to one quarter; the production of naphtha
ceased. In two months, in the Moscow industrial
district, centre of the textile industry, 80 factories
closed down and a hundred thousand workmen joined
the mobs.
In places, during the civil fighting, the Bolsheviki
sometimes got the worst of it; but they never failed
in abandoning a town to take with them all avail-
able cash. Retreating from Kazan, they carried with
them gold to the value of 650 million roubles; in
Chita 300 poods of gold were carried away. The
Bolsheviki are never at a loss when running short of
the needful —plants for turning out millions of notes
were at work in Petrograd, Moscow, Toula, Orel and
Mogilev. In addition to this every Soviet repub-
lic issued its own currency. In Siberia alone there
are four different kinds of currency, and people in
happier countries have not the faintest idea of the
difficulties to which this fact gives rise. A few
examples: in the Amur district there are Muchin
notes; in Harbarovsk, Ivrasnostchekov notes; in the
Trans-Baikal, Mlatoboytzy notes. In two months
the Bolsheviki issued more paper money than the
Kerensky Government during its whole existence
of 18 months. Further, the Bolsheviki took a leaf
out of Germany’s book and levied contributions on
towns. In two months —March and April, 1918—115
towns were .made to pay an aggregate contribution
of 690,325,000 roubles, say £70,000,000.
The destruction of public monuments was early a
favorite form of diversion among the newly-free
men; another kind of monument, the newspaper
press, has been ruined, and only Bolshevik organs
remain. Railways are still disorganised; and rolling
stock is in the last stage of decrepitude. Industry
is paralysed. Nor is there any light showing ahead.
The country is not “settling down.” As might be
expected, in view of the activity of the note-print-
ing press, nominal prices are appallingly high. The
only cheap thing in the country is human life.
Noah’s Old Line of Business.
The building of wooden ships in Australia
for the Commonwealth Government has been
abandoned at a loss. The arks should have
been thrown together, and, having earned
400 per cent, profit while the war-freights
lasted, been about ready for the knacker by
now. But Hughes wrangled and wrangled,
so the Government had hardly got the first
one begun when the chance passed. The
first of the Government steel ships isn’t
launched yet, and they grow obsolete while
they are missing the ’bus. Now it is seri-
ously urged that the Commonwealth should
sell its bob-tailed fleet of purchased ships
and go right out of the business. The
vessels are a poor lot, though they paid
splendidly while the war lasted ; in fact, they
far more than paid their cost, which shows
what chances were missed. They aren’t
likely to do very well when affairs _ settle
down, and Australia must either decide to
build first-class vessels and do things on a
big scale, or fall back into the old depen-
dence on foreign private enterprise. Or, as
a third alternative, it might put such casr-
iron restrictions on the use of outside ships
and on the sale of Australian shipping
interests outside the country as to create a
big native private enterprise which would
spend its earnings here. Otherwise Aus-
tralia will in time own nothing that floats
except a few coasters and ferry-boats.
There are fine vessels on the coast which
are supposed to be Australian and some that
are registered here, but a larger and larger
proportion are owned in England. Regis-
tration means very little—a vessel may be
owned in Brazil and registered in Sweden if
it suits somebody’s convenience. This
country wants to really own ships, and this
isn’t a time for any Government to sell out.
unless it is the kind that hates to be found
working.
*
It Is All So Simple.
Interesting letter from Adelaide: —
Dear Bulletin, —The various scribes who have dealt
with the One Big Union scheme through your columns
should not be allowed to wander at large, as they
are doing at present; and in case your readers may
be led astray by their insane scribblings about the
methods and objective of the One Big Union, allow
me to say a few words. The One Big Union is cer-
tainly out to abolish the National Debt, but not in
the insane manner imagined. It will be done this
way. When the workers are organised into One Big
Union, the next act will be to reduce the hours of
toil, so that there will be a limited production,
leaving no profit at all for the boss. When the boss
gets no profit from his factory, or whatever the con-
cern may be, he won’t want to own it; consequently
it will fall into the hands of the workers, who will
use it to p#oduce sufficient only for themselves —no
more, no less. No interest can then be paid on
war bonds and' other loans, because there will be no
surplus. The workers will get all they produce, and
all who don’t work will get nothing. All the inter-
est on the War Debt and other debts is paid out
of Surplus Value. The workers in the One Big
'Union will simply refuse to produce any Surplus
Value, and this ends the argument. All the trash
about robbing the banks, insurance offices and other
capitalist concerns is not needed at all. There is
nothing at all wrong or illegal with the workers
refusing to produce more than they themselves need.
When this is done all who live wholly on or partially
on Surplus Value, in the form of interest, rent or
profit, will find their incomes from these sources gone,
and if they want to live they will have to work and
produce.—Yours truly, P.J.
And when the machinery of the factory
wears out, what then? And when “P.J.’s”
little Tom and Jack want jobs, which jobs
will require more machinery, what then?
If the world was going to stop with the
death of the present generation, the policy
of the One Big Union might be understand-
able. But if there is no surplus value —if
the workers produce only enough for them-
selves, no more and no less —how are fac-
tories and railways to be provided to
meet the labor requirements of the
largely-increased next generation? If the
miner produces only enough for his
own requirements, who is. going to do
the dead work of opening up the new
mines. And when little Tom, having
grown up, marries, and wants a house of his
own, where is it to come from? Little Tom
might think over these things. So might
Lizzie. And Lizzie’s mother. The scheme
of reducing the hours of toil, and limiting
production, and cutting out Surplus Value
sounds very beautiful; but it will leave
somebody very cold and hungry. And the
somebody isn’t going to be only the boss. It
is going to be rather the worker’s baby when
the worker’s baby grows up, and the worker’s
•widow when the worker dies and his former
fellow-workers produce only enough for their
own needs.
The Politics of a Great State.
“10-2-4” : As far as I can make it out, it is
something like this :—•
Major Blinks (Nationalist) : I am out, ladies and
gentlemen, to fight Bolshevism. What I want to see
is a jolt delivered upon the craven solar plexus of
the Bolshevist. Don’t listen to anybody else. I beg
you not to. Their aim is to prevent me becoming an
M.L.A. and hurting the feelings of the Bolshevik.
Remember Blinks, and the cliffs of Gallipoli, and
down with Labor.
Chaplain-Captain Guffe : Who, ladies and gentle-
men, was in the front-line trenches when the shrapnel
was bursting on the hills and the h.e. was exploding
over the dales? Who faced the liquid fire and min-
nenwerfer and the Blue Cross gas? Who but Guffe?
(Deafening cheers.) Ask the soldiers oyer there on
the blood-stained fields of France about Guffe. (Re-
newed cheering.) And when they have spoken, let my
enemies say, if they dare, that I am not the Man
for West Blitherton.
Mr. Bunkum, K.C. (in support of Captain Guffe) :
Why was Judge Jerusalem appointed to the Bench
without my permission and that of my friends ? Over
and over again I mentioned that our Union wanted
someone else. So did other members of the Union.
There was a strong feeling against a comfortable billet
of the sort being given to one who was practically a
non-member. I know nothing of Captain Guffe’s
performances in the trenches, and he doesn’t appear
to have a policy, but I trust you will vote for him,
and by so doing register your disapproval of the man
Jerusalem,
Captain Guffe : And there, ladies and gentlemen,
with the mines going up and the poison-gas coming
down, stood Guffe, calm as an iceberg. Ask the
Diggers about Guffe.
From the Morning Wine: Chaplain-Captain
Guffe’s name is not and never has been on the
West Blitherton electoral roll. His nomination is
therefore invalid.
Major Blinks : Down with Bolshevism!
Mr. Vine Leaf, ICC. (for Major Blinks) : Down
with Bolshevism! Captain Guffe, being a chap-
lain, didn’t see so much fighting as others. First-
class men, like Murray, V.C., saw more. (Disorder
and cries of “Liar.”)
Mr. Blobb (Laborite): I stand here, men and
women, in a great and sacred cause —that of opposi-
tion to so-called Nationalism. Why was Judge
Jerusalem raised to the Bench? Return me to Par-
liament and you shall hear. My policy may be
stated in a nutshell. I object
From the Evening Moan: Mr. Blobb’s nomination
for West Blitherton is, it is alleged, invalid. It is
believed that the nomination of Major Blinks for the
same seat is also invalid. ‘
Captain Guffe: No, ladies and gentlemen, thsy
aren’t going to put Guffe out of the fight by tactics
of that sort. Ask the lads in France what
No. 76 Private Smith: 1 been listening to ’em for
days, and what 1 can’t make out is what any uv the
blankers is for.
No. 67 Private Brown: Me too. Worrer-bouter
beer?
The Uses of People Like Barnes.
Minister Barnes, of Victoria, is of no im-
portance, save as an evidence that candi-
dates for Parliament should be required to
show a qualification—not the old property
kind, but a diploma certifying that they
have passed a stiff examination in history,
general knowledge of Australia, and, above
all, in political economy. Also they should
be liable to expulsion if their statements on
matters of fact suggest that they got the
diploma by hiring a similar-looking person
to pass for them. Plad that rule pre-
vailed a number of public nuisances
might have been warned off for. tell-
ing the community that the originally-
selected Federal-capital site was nearer to
Melbourne than to Sydney ; and a certain
blatant Freetrader, still in politics, might
have been put out of politics for persistently
declaring to the people that some old Protec-
tionist emperor built a Great Wall all round
China. Also Mines Minister Barnes of
Victoria would go out on his ear. Barnes’s
gag is that the gold-mining industry should
be subsidised and boomed “because for every
ounce sold to the Mint the Commonwealth
may issue twelve fl notes,” wherefore it is
the key to untold wealth. As a matter of
law the Commonwealth may issue within a
fraction of £l7, not for every ounce of gold
that reaches the Mint, but for every ounce
the Treasury contrives to retain after pay-
ing those foreign liabilities for, which our
notes are merely waste paper. But a§ a
matter of fact it can issue only as much
paper as the people want and have a use
for, unless it makes the issue compulsory and
irredeemable, and in that case it doesn’t want
any gold at all, and the notes are liable
to be Worth Id. in the £. On the evidence
of the circulation of the kind of notes that
people use —not the £IOOO sort which are
given as security for loans —the community
at present has a steady demand for perhaps
£25,000,000 or £30,000,000 worth, and
against these a gold reserve is only required
to prevent panic. It is the kind of reserve
that isn’t wanted when it is there, but would
be badly wanted if people knew or imagined
it wasn’t there. But if the Barnes kind
of man shoved out another £50,000,000 worth
of notes they would come back so fast that
in all probability a £25,000,000 gold reserve
wouldn’t cover them, nor even a £40,000,000
reserve. Australia has more than the
average number of politicians, and they are
of rather low average capacity, because, the
supply of capable men who care for politics
is limited. This is partly because schools
don’t teach politics. Some of the numerous
politicians are costly, inasmuch as their
misinformation destroys a lot of knowledge
that the community has paid for. Also, when
they get a chance they cost a lot in experi-
ments, like the doctor who doesn’t know that
prussic acid is fatal till he kills a patient
with it. For instance, no man of education
wants to try Barnes’s finance at this coun-
try’s expense. He can sit down and watch
at least half a dozen countries trying it at
their own expense.
♦ ;
The Australian Army Reserve.
From one who ought to know: —
“Returned Citizen,” who writes (B. 6/3/’l9)
about the Australian Army Reserve, has that little
learning which is a dangerous thing. Advisedly the
scheme interferes as little as possible with a man’s
civil life, and conditions are alike voluntary and as
elastic as possible; for this Reserve will consist of
men who have been trained in the only school that
really makes a man a soldier, and, consequently, a
four-days’ camp once a year will serve to bring
them in touch with their units, and be sufficient to
keep them from forgetting what they learned on actual
service. So it will “preserve for Australia the skill
and experience gained during the war.” In the case
of technical units I admit the keen soldier will ask
for more training, and lam equally certain that the
Defence Department will be glad to give it; but
everything has to have a beginning, and at this
stage the first essential is to ask for as little of the
man’s civil life as possible.
It is true, as “Returned Citizen” states, that all
citizens, including returned soldiers, are liable to be
called up for home defence; but he is wrong in say-
ing that “the scheme does not give the returned man
any further training or experience.” It does; and,
furthermore, it ensures to the man who joins it that,
if he is called up, it will be to a properly-constituted
unit—practically his old A.I.F. one —and that if he
has to fight it will be side by side with his old
mates. On the other hand, if he does not belong to
the Reserve he will, in the event of mobilisation, be
aliotted to the nearest Trainee Battalion, and will
probably have to fight with, and be led by, strangers
alike to himself and to 'active service.
The scheme, with all its faults, is going to give
Australia the finest Reserve the world has yet seen ;


Tfe Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A usttalia
Limited
The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Cooperative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of the Man on the Land to support this cooperative
company.
Write immediately for particulars.
Head Offices 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOOTH AUSTRALIA.
and I am confident enough of the patriotism of the
returned men to he sure that the fact that it is
voluntary and its conditions easy will in no way
impair its efficiency, but rather increase it. “Re-
turned Citizen” makes this quotation from “the
official literature” when referring to the camp: that
the Reservist may go, “if he chooses,” “where
he will meet his old comrades.” Does it not strike
him that this will be a most excellent and compel-
ling inducement for every genuine Digger to choose
to attend camp? 1 am sure it will, for the yearning
for the old companionship will grow with the pass-
ing years.
Rut supposing all that “Retitiined Citizen” urges
against the scheme were absolutely in accordance
with fact, I still hold the scheme amply justified if
it do no more than bring the men who have helped
to save Australia and the world together once a year,
with no expense to themselves, to renew old friend-
ships of bivouac and battlefield. It is the least those
who owe them so much can do, and I am sure every
decent man in Australia is prepared to pay his share
in the doing of it.
The Sawbones Trade.
From a city consulting-room:—
The remarks issuing from a country surgery (B.
G/3/’l9) call for some comment. The writer evi-
dently is of opinion that the B.M.A. is the proper
body to attempt to put the medical house in order.
He couldn’t be wider of the mark. What we require
in these times of medical unrest is not a company of
snipers to work for us, but a regiment of storm-
troops. There would be very little need to put our
house in order if all practitioners could be persuaded
to make a pilgrimage, every five years or so, to
British and foreign clinics, with a view to brushing
the accumulated cobwebs from their grey matter and
absorbing new ideas. The amount of professional
ignorance in the registered ranks is appalling, and
it is by no means confined to the riff-raff.
As far as the writer can make out by close obser-
vation for over 20 years, the general practitioner,
who is the backbone of the profession, has been con-
tent to go on plodding and pottering about doing
medical-hack work, year after year, piling pound
upon pound and filling his surgery-safe with mort-
gages at 8 p.c. Instead of being a kind of Iket Mo,
each and all of them should be waging war against
disease, imbued with the true scientific spirit of
inquiry, and should let the pursuit of boodle go
hang! Doing the same old soul-depressing, intellect-
cramping, body-exhausting, medical hack-work for an
indefinite period • prevents the practitioner from
becoming up-to-date; consequently a loophole is
afforded for aspersions on the profession of Medicine
in the lay press. The watchword, “We are all out
to make money,” should be altered to “We are all
out to become good doctors.”
Your country doctor talks of being “fed up with
the panic-provoking activities of the politico-medical
authorities,” and in the same breath requests the
B.M.A. to put the medical house in order. He must
know as well as I that 10 of the 12 members of the
N. S. Wales Medical Consultative Council are also
members of the B.M.A. Council. They can hardly
be expected to take action against themselves for
’flu blunders.
The B.M.A. has no political influence or power
whatever, and generally comes off second-best in any
attempted reforms. The Victorian lodges’ dispute is
as acute as ever; the N. S. Wales Education Depart-
ment has hail its own sweet way with regard to the
medical treatment of school-children; and ophthal-
mic and aural cases are sent up to the building near
the Railway Station, to the Department’s own special-
ists, notwithstanding all the fuss that was made not
very long ago about the nationalisation of the pro-
fession by the Association’s perfervid orators. The
Queensland Government has passed a Bill for the
registration of opticians in defiance of B.M.A.
opinions, and, at present, spectacle-makers can
prescribe glasses for any of the serious diseases of
the eye with perfect safety under the ®gis of the
Ryan Government. The Labor party’s troubles
about the blinding of Brisbane! Nothing but a
powerful medico-political union, or, better still, a
trade union with a carapace of sounding brass, would
have had the slightest chance of success against the
Queensland pachyderms. The B.M.A. listens to
papers being read on medical subjects, and prepares
various kinds of rules and regulations in camera,
which it springs upon members when they are not
looking, and which often cause a storm in a teacup
by their manifest bias and unfairness. At best, its
meetings serve as a hunting-ground for office-seekers,
and it is spineless and nearing its last kick.
A few words about the stagnant established prac-
titioner. If the general practitioner doesn’t soon
rouse himself from his professional lethargy, he will
find, like Othello, his occupation gone. If he would
only take the trouble to keep himself up-to-date
there would be no need for the host of new special-
ties which are springing up in town like mushrooms.
But “we are not breeding intelligence nowadays,”
says a London physician ; and he is about right.
India and the War.
Despite much official politeness, the fact is
plain enough that India was a disappoint-
ment in the war. Its greatest achievement
was the maintenance of 360,000 men, which,
in point of population, was about 11 per
cent, of Australia’s effort. Nobody ex-
pected the country to send 28,000,000 sol-
diers to the war, but what it did was less
than might have been hoped for. The war
contribution in cash was about 2s. 7d. (31
pence) per inhabitant. Nobody expected
our brown brother to lash out at the rate
of £SO or £IOO or more per head, as some
of the white Allies did, for he is not an
affluent brother; but even making all
sorts of allowances his effort was humble.
In Flanders his arrival was hailed with pre-
meditated enthusiasm, but little was said
about his numbers and less about his doings.
Presently he was allowed, to all intents and
purposes, to fade out of the story. The one
lamentable surrender which a British force
made in the war—at Kut-el-Amara —was
largely his surrender. In the Palestine cam-
paign he was let loose with his flying steed
and his picturesque accoutrements when the
Turk’s heart was already more than half-
broken. But he was tried very little at
the work which required illimitable patience
and profound endurance —the uphill fight
when the hill was perpendicular, or the
dogged retreat when there was no place
worth mentioning to retreat to and little
hope of getting there. The bulk of the
Indian peoples don’t even profess to be the
fighting sort; the Bengali, for instance,
would hardly blow a fly off a sheep unless
he was sure the sheep was unarmed, though
for miscellaneous tumult he can always hold
his own with the mob of stage hands in
“Julius Caesar,” And even the fighting
races are below a very ordinary European
standard, to say nothing of the standard
that was set at Mons and Verdun and Ypres
and Gallipoli and Mont St. Quentin, though
it wouldn’t be polite to let the fact leak out.
♦
The usual Parliamentary recess in Tasmania
lasts for six unbroken months, from Decem-
ber to June, and anybody who dared to sug-
gest disturbance of that tradition has been
looked upon as a dangerous iconoclast and a
person of no account. But the Lee Govern-
ment, threatened with internal combustion,
recently disregarded the ancient custom and
called a special session to select a Senator
vice Long, resigned. One result of this re-
volutionary proceeding is that the holding of
a business session in the middle of recess is
no longer held to be sacrilege deserving of
destruction by the lightnings of Jove ; where-
fore Labor Opposition-leader Lyons has
written to the Premier asking for an imme-
diate assembling of the House to deal with
matters of urgency. Among these items of
alleged importance are :
Provision for the payment to railway men of the
increased wages recommended by a Reclassification
Board since Parliament put up the shutters.
Legislation for improving the sanitary conditions
of workers employed in the hopfields in view of the
threatened influenza plague.
Consideration of the King River electric power-
scheme in the light of the recent dropping of nego-
tiations between the Government and the Read-
Rosebery Co. for the sale and purchase of 20,000-h.p.
of current for treatment of West Coast ores.
Mention is also made of the desirability of
Tasmania’s own legislature doing something
definite for Tasmania’s own returned soldiers
instead of tacitly endorsing Millen’s heart-
breaking go-slow policy. Looked at from a
distance none of these things seem to be of
the kind that ought to demand legislative
action. They are all matters of administra-
tion. But Parliaments, instead of laying
down principles, have got into the habit of
insisting upon going into details; with the
result that when Parliament is not sitting
Governments are either incapable of dealing
with emergencies or unwilling to do it.
“Keystone” : A recent case in a Mel-
bourne suburban court hits the point raised
by “F.C.” (B. 28/11/YS) about Victorian
manufacturers making goods for the local
market and branding them ui to the
standard of other States. Years ago _a
splendid Pure Foods Act was built up jn
Victoria, mainly by Professor Osborne and
Dr. P. Wilkinson. The standard set was
very high. A ' movement was presently
begun to have a uniform Commonwealth
standard. Victoria and N. S. Wales both
had fairly complete lists, but the N.S.W.
standard was much lower generally. Vic-
toria agreed to climb down on one or two
points, provided N.S.W. came up on some
others considered vital. N. S. Wales agreed
at first, but suddenly backed out. the sup-
posed reason being pressure by N.S.W.
manufacturers. So the conference fell
through, and now certain Vic. manufacturers
turn out stuff guaranteed under Bananaland,
Tasmanian or N. S. IVales standards. Why
shouldn’t a State insist that all goods sold
in it comply with its own regulations?
“Cargo Bill” : Since August, 1914, a score
or more mercantile-marine officers have
answered the call and joined up with the
Australian navy. Some left positions with
honorable employers, and will get them back.
The majority are not so fortunate, and now
that the war is over and demobilisation is
imminent they are wondering what to do
for a crust. During the war great oppor-
tunities occurred in the merchant service,
and promotion has been very rapid. For
instance, the Commonwealth collected 15
modern Hun steamers in various ports. Then
the Commonwealth became a shipowner in a
large way. Promotion in these vessels has
been very rapid. But the Reserve officer,
after being thanked very much for his ser-
vices and told not to trip over the mat, finds
himself standing in the street, wondering
where he will look for a berth. I make this
suggestion to the Naval Board: that, as the
Commonwealth (Government) line is as
much a national institution as the Aus-
tralian navy and is practically controlled by
the same authority, the Board should
arrange that Reserve officers, on being de-
mobilised from the R.A.N., be given positions
in the Commonwealth ships, their service in
the R.A.N. counting for promotion. This is
the least reward that can fairly be offered
them for their war services.
New York is chuckling. It wants
£2,000,000 of revenue. Though distinctly
wet itself, it has been ordered by the Union
to go dry with the rest. So, in view of the
loss of revenue from real liquor, some bright
mind has conceived the idea of taxing soda
fountains, soft drinks and mineral waters—
which take the place of tea in Australia.
“You have your reform: now pay for it,”
says the man who doesn’t vote dry; and the
Water Waggon has suddenly awakened to
the fact that the liberty of the subject is
a sacred thing which is being ruthlessly
assailed.
“Wings”: Over 500 pilots have been
trained for the A.F.C., and most of them
have had service in France or Palestine.
Those who are left are now coming back —
a good many have landed—and the Defence
Department doesn’t know whether it is
going to have a Flying Service or not. So
the expensively-trained specialists are taking
their discharges and scattering over the
country. Some day somebody in the dead
Department will have a brain-wave; and a
branch will be established to chase up the
addresses, of the discharged men and invite
them to chuck up the jobs which another
Department has employed a lot of men to
find for them. Or, more likely, having spent
many tens of thousands teaching us the fly-
ing business, the Department will establish
us a s bee-farmers, and Ihen send to England
for an expert to teach a fresh crowd at
further great expense.
From the Bar table:—
“Hear, hear” to the suggestion that returned sol-
diers—there are plenty qualified—should have the
judges’ associates’ jobs as they fall in. Before the
war the sucking barristers got them. Duffy and Isaacs
made a break by appointing their daughters. The
experiment is found awkward. A barrister can’t
call a spade a spade. At times, when pa thinks
a spade may have to be mentioned, Cissy retires
and a mere man is borrowed from a colleague.
“Stenog”: Randolph Bedford, when claim-
ing that the Ryan Government has given
Bananaland cheap meat and cheap insur-
ance, might explain that they don’t pay
award wages. At least, ‘the Insurance
Department does not. It is offering 275.
6d. per week for a competent shorthand
typist (female). Private firms have to pay
£3 ss.
What looks like a new dodge in spieling
was introduced to a Melbourne man in
Bourke-street when a casual stranger com-
mented on his lusty appearance. He
thought he would go “at least 15 stone. ’
The other reckoned he weighed nearly 16.
To test the matter the stranger slipped his
arms round the other’s waist and lifted him.
Then he confessed that he thought he had
miscalculated, wished the other good evening
and departed cheerfully. When he put
his hand in his pocket the stout person found
he was 3 stone 81b. lighter. The affable
stranger had got away with £5O.
Unless there is something in it that doesn't
meet the eye, why waste any more money on
costly appeals in the Judd case? The war
is for all practical purposes over, and the
War Precautions Act isn’t any longer re-
quired to prevent interference with recruit-
ing : so whether Cullen, C.J-, and Pring, J..
are right in saying that an indictment under
it can’t be signed by Groom, or whether
Gordon, .J., is right in holding that it can be
so signed as long as Groom is a Minister
carrying on in the Attorney-General’s
absence, makes no practical difference.
Joseph Leask, ship-constructor to the
Navy Department, has given the Australian
toiler a testimonial which goes to show that
there are still plenty of hard-doers in this
country. According to Leask, in the fitting
and re-fitting of transports, horse-carriers
and cargo-vessels, over a four-years’ war-
period “there was not one stoppage of work
on any pretext, nor a strike of any descrip-
tion, nor was there any evidence of the go-
slow policy.”
Australia is everybody's polite worm.
Recently the U.S. turned back a shipment
of Australian wheat because there was
weevil in it. Now it is frankly admitted
that the States have the prospects of an
overwhelming crop and don’t want foreign
competition; and weevil w T as the handiest
excuse. If the shipment had been copper
weevil might have been found just the same.
It isn’t the slightest use asking for compen-
sation for the freight money and the damage
done to the reputation of the goods,
country that was capable of the human emo-
tion of anger and was liable to retaliate by
prohibition of U.S. machinery imports mignt
get consideration ; but Foreign-trading Uh
tralia is regarded all the world over as an
easy-going commercial worm.
“ILB.”: Holman’s scheme to compel
employers to re-employ men who went to the
war and are back again is all very good,
but the Digger had better look out that it
isn’t loaded. If and when Billjim declines to
work for a hostile boss —the boss who has
been compelled to re-employ him- what hap-
pens? Will Holman say: “You have refused
the job I secured for you —now shut tor
yourself” ‘f
The Law can get. there all right when it
gives its mind to the job. The other Sab-
bath two Melbourne Hops noticed a weii-
filled stranger making a strategic retirement
from the side do.or of a hotel, with a binge
under his vest. The stranger observed
their advance and being unable to retreat
produced the causes of the bulge and
smashed them on the pavement. It looked
like a euchre, but the Law promptly ran him
in for “breaking glass in a public place.
Twenty shillings or a month.
The Defence Department lately sold ofi a
supply of military tents at Broadmeadows.
The method of sale, at fixed rates ranging
from ss. to 12s. 6d. per tent, was character-
istic. Samples were exhibited at the camp
site. Buyers had to visit melancholy Broad-
meadows and examine them, return to the
Victoria Barracks and pay for the required
number of a given sample and then make a
second trip to Broadmeadows to take delivery.
For complete disregard of the public con-
venience aiyl the ordinary rules of business
this instance is fully up to previous records.
Mouldy old Dr. Watts or somebody said
“Satan finds some mischief still for idle
hands to do.” When a mob of perhaps
400,000 idle hands, which means 200,000 idle
mouths, gets together it will do horrors that
no individual member would dream of, for a
mob has a conscience of its own. These
400,000 hands, carrying 400,000 bricks, may
rush Willie Watt before another year is over
unless he gets to work with the tariff and
finds some remedy for idleness. A French
mob made a most unpleasant mess of a man
who told the unemployed to eat grass. Watt
doesn’t sap that sort of thing, but he acts it.
Something of a problem arises about re-
cruits for the Australian navy. When the
Hun is disarmed —it is proposed to limit his
army to 100,000 men without reserves and
to reduce his navy to a skeleton —then other
countries will be able to cut down their
forces to. correspond, provided the United
States gives up its project of an overwhelm-
ing war-fleet. The soldiers and sailors who
remain should be the best-paid class in the
community, for when a very few men are
responsible for the public safety they should
be the best men the public can buy. Inciden-
tally, there can be shocking waste of sailors
outside of a navy. Australia, for instance,
employs a multitude of men to hump half or
more of everything it grows to the ends of
the earth, and hump back nearly half of all
it uses. If it were a self-reliant country it
could do with one-third of these seamen.
Superfluous sailors are a drag on the com-
munity just as much as superfluous dukes.
“Edo”: The Bulletin lately credited
Westralian returned soldiers with proposing
to repudiate the national debt. It isn’t so,
but Perth papers printed the rumor and
then would not rectify matters. The facts
are these. A few men belonging to the
R.S.A. convened a Sunday-afternoon gather-
ing and called it an R.S.A. meeting. The
R.S.A. executive at once objected, but to no
purpose. In fact, the advertisement appeared
too late for objections to do much good.
The meeting was attended hy every
variety of extremist, a few soldiers standing
around as interested spectators. Only three
returned men spoke, and when the repudia-
tion resolution was put it was voted for by
all and sundry down to small boys and flap-
pers. Since then, nearly every branch of the
Westralian R.S.A. has indignantly disclaimed
any connection with the meeting or any sug-
gestion of repudiating the debt.
From a man in the business:—
There are tons of experience coming to some of
those returned Billjims whom the repatriators are
putting “on the land.” Right and left of me are two
Diggers. One has eight acres of grass land, on which
he proposes to grow flowers and lemons. He ad-
mittedly knows little of either—and lemon-growing
is a profession which I don’t suppose more than 20
men in the Commonwealth have mastered. The other
returnee has taken a place that has vainly sought a
buyer for three years, and has been empty most of
that time. On it are an acre of pears and three
acres of peaches, badly neglected. This place has
already been thrown up by an ex-soldier who leased
it on trial. Probably the repatriators think the
present occupant, having been a carpenter, may make
a better do of it. Why doesn’t the Department get
the advice of competent local growers? This man
has no chance under the conditions, but with that
block cleared and ready for the plough he could have
made a living by growing potatoes and certain other
vegetables, provided he knew anything about the job.


m
Cool & Refreshing as
a Summer Breeze
3h<? Beer
Without a Riv’al"
ABBOTS
LAGER
THE COLD MONTHS ARE NEARING.
Driving or travelling in the biting wind you will need a good,
warm rug. Good rugs are scarce and expensive still—a fact which
strongly emphasises the value of the “Warrigal” Australian Wool
Rugs, made for Peapes’ under an early contract, prior to the great
scarcity. These soft, warm rugs are available in Dark and Light
Grey, Red and Brown mixtures—reversible check patterns. Fringed
Ends. Order now and have your rug for Easter travel.
Two qualities 30/- 8 45/-
Peapes’ pay postage.
PEAFES & CO., LTD.,
Men's Outfitters,
309 and 3 U GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Hello, Everybody’’
Criterion “Maytime”
Tivoli .. “My Lady Frayle”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Goody Two Shoes”
Royal “The Great Divide”
King’s “Jack and Jill”
Princess’s “Cavalleria” & “Pagliacci,” etc.
Tivoli “The Better ’Ole”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
The change to “Lucia” at Melbourne
Princess’s on Saturday seemed more unwel-
come to the sophisticated Italian principals
than to the comparatively untrained Austra-
lians who took the chief feminine roles and
provided most of the chorus. Probably one
trouble with the Italians, conspicuous in the
cases of Filippini and Barontini, was a sud-
den consciousness of the national inability to
wear Scotland’s draughty petticoat like a
religious conviction. Filippini, who is never
obtrusively masculine on account of a small
tubby figure and an air of anxious futility,
merely expressed in Henry Ashton a silent
supplication for a pair of trousers. Baron-
tini, less embarrassed than his senior,
appeared to be oppressed by the feeling that
the exposure of his calves was rather risque,
so he tried to make the most of a difficult
position by dramatically folding his arms at
intervals and affecting an attitude of ridicu-
lous composure. Both, however, sang well,
Filippini’s tremolo quite pardonably becom-
ing agitato as his legs grew colder; whereas
Lois, who had the advantage of the lyric
raptures which Donizetti has congested in
the mouth of Edgar, lost much of the effect
of his impressive entrances and pretty
clothes by obviously waiting for the guiding
hand of conductor Slapoffslii. He was
plainly not at home, and moreover he had
apparently devoted the interval since his
last appearance in acquiring from Cacialli
the complete spaghettiquette of the Dago
school of acting. Lois showed some dra-
matic originality as Turiddu in “Cavalleria,”
but. his Edgar systematically semaphored the
varied feelings that disturb that demonstra-
tive person. Cacialli gave one of his char-
acteristic hand-painted pictures of the burly
Raymond, and the Australian tenor, Brown-
ing Mummery, failed to reach eminence in
the role of Arthur Bucklaw. The one out-
standing achievement was the performance
of Gertrude Johnston as Lucia. She might
have developed a fuller flood of melody, but
she always had the right note and she never
once stumbled in the Mad Scene, which is
the popular standard. Also, her acting
in most places was an acceptable equivalent
of the behavior of a female in Lucia’s state
of distress, whilst avoiding the florid Italian
“business” which usually serves to heap deri-
sion on the character. The chorus again
showed high efficiency, but in its mechanical
semi-circular grouping it suggested a crowd
of pommies watching a roundabout. To-
night “Lucia” will be repeated, to-morrow
“Faust” is expected again, and on Saturday
the. double bill of “Cavalleria” and “Pagli-
acci” will get another turn.
** * *
If Melbourne knows of a “Better ’Ole”
'The Better ’Ole,” at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Arnold Bell as Old
Bill.
than the Tivoli it
is not acting on the
knowledge wi t h
any enthusiasm.
The multitude has
made the Mclntosh
house a popular re-
sort ; in fact, all the
World and its Other
Wife is crowding
in to view the
Bairnsfather men-
agerie, headed by
the human walrus,
William Busby,
and including the
Cockney spaniels,
Bert and Alf. The
trio have caught
the average ear
with their crude
saws and immod-
erate instances, and
there is no slack-
ening of the general
interest until the
lights fade away
and their tongues
die down. The main
item on the menu
is tongue; but
there is an occa-
sional peach for dessert when Vickie Miller
or some other sylph blows in.
At the Melbourne Royal Muriel Starr con-
tinues to let down her dark tresses and take
a violent farewell of her muvver’s photo
before confiding herself to the care of the
brutal person who has broken into her home
in Arizona. Tosca, with her virtue tremb-
ling in the balance, never showed a higher
consciousness of the impending sacrifice than
Muriel Starr, though Muriel’s captor is of
finer moral calibre than the dirty Scarpia
and eventually proves so dashed respectable
that he is allowed to marry the lady and
turn “The Great Divide” into a multiplica-
tion table. The arrival of the baby under
orthodox circumstances must be an un-
pleasant jar to the people who were con-
fidently expecting the Worst to happen, but
the infant’s appearance is so belated that
there are nearly two acts for spicy specula-
tion. In a sense the nipper constitutes a
“spoof” on the audience, but you only realise
the absurdity of tin 1 surprise when you come
to painfully think it over.
When The Bulletin last saw “Goody
Two Shoes” at Melbourne Majesty’s Dame
Stigant was endeavoring to brighten her
part in the story by doubling her allowance
of red flannelette; and there are now stiil
more blinding gleams of vermilion when the
stout lady collapses in the ecstasy of listen-
ing to her own rich jests. But Stigant’s
lurid underwear is not bringing in the
population in sufficient quantities to fill
the cash-box.
Cavities are visible also at Melbourne
King’s. Intending supporters of “Jack and
Jill” were violently dispersed by General
’Flu, and now all the King’s jokes and all
the King’s men can hardly bring the people
together again. So “Jack and Jill” will
probably be sent over the Murray to see if
Sydney has lost the panto habit.
** * *
At Melbourne Auditorium this week Der
Tag that the Hun Navy never expected is
happening. But evidently J. Bull allowed
his chivalrous regard for the enemy’s feel-
ings to overcome his desire to let his people
know all about the Surrender; wherefore
the views of the great spectacle are some-
what distant. The German ships are seen
gliding into Britannia’s clutches, but there
is almost a complete absence of close-ups.
Many would pay big money to behold a Hun
“Lucia di Lernmer-
moor,” at Melbourne
Princess’s.
Guido Cacialli as
Raymond.
Dreadnought com-
mander taking
orders from a
naval Soviet, or
get a glimpse of a
U-boat butcher
grinding his teeth
in impotent
Frightfulness. But
Britain declined to
supply those desir-
able snap sho t,s.
Seemingly she held
that the Moment
was too big for
personalities.
William S. Hart
has been sighted at
Hoyt’s Melbourne,
making his own
trouble in “Selfish
Yates.” It is a
characteristic item
with more Hart
than art, and follows a route that a
short-sighted Melbourne detective could
find in the dark. Elsewhere Vivian
Martin has to provide appropriate flapper
attitudes for the vicissitudes of “Vivi-
ette” as a pursuer of men. Vivian only
feels her assumed age now and again, but
the picture gets a special cheer because it
derives its inspiration from “The Loves of
Vinette,” by the popular W. J. Locke. At
the Britannia the amazing Tarzan is hurry-
ing through his jungle romance while ruling
his fantastic simian kingdom. The Melba is
more civilised with “The Mating,” but the
civilisation doesn’t go too far —Herbert Raw-
linson and Gladys Leslie furnish a glimpse
of primitive passion when the film threatens
to take the prize for politeness and breeding.
“Hello, Everybody!” is rapidly turning
into “Cheerio, Everybody!” The large and
glittering revue is skipping through its last
nights, and the curtain at Sydney Majesty’s
will fall on Friday, March 28.
“For a Limited Season Only” appears in
pencil on the label of “Bubbly,” now being
uncorked at the Palace (Sydney). This
seems to throw a thin shadow of closing-
time over the revelry ; but no guest has yet
become so gloomy as to mistake the leaping
Kurylo gentleman for the President of the
Methodist Conference.
% tS=
Vera Pearce, in “My Lady Frayle,” con-
tinues her heroic and generally artistic
efforts to bribe the Devil with somebody else’s
soul to exchange her grey hair and false
teeth and give her the year 1875 or there-
abouts. Meanwhile the' devil of Claude
Flemming grows more and more like a draw-
ing-room conjurer out to amuse the children.
How long will this quaint mixture hold the
Sydney Tivoli audiences? Odds are that
regular patrons would plump for a little
less Marie Corelli drama and a little more
songandance.
“Maytime” is giving a good imitation of a
winner at Sydney Cri. Hmvever, it is com-
ing off in ten days’ time to make way for
“Nothing but the Truth,” a farce framed on
the nonsensical idea of a world which sud-
denly goes completely veracious.
Till Saturday Alien Doone will persist
in the “Wearing of the Green,” and on that
night he will change into the nicely-laun-
dered ruffles of “Tom Moore,” That’s one
thing about Allen Doone: his linen is
always as stainless as his plays.
Ibsen built his “Doll’s House” for the
express purpose of having the roof raised
by his heroine. Elsie Ferguson at Sydney
Hoyt’s and the Haymarket this week works
the upheaval with great charm and sufficient
force to make the picture,-version of the
drama present a situation as vital as it was
when the woman of Ibsen’s time discovered
“ Maytime,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Phil Smith as auc-
tioneer Mr. Hicks.
that she had an ego
apart from that of
her lord and mas-
ter. But it's a
gloomy, dyspeptic
story, in spite of
the famous act-
resses who have
shed their glamor
around Nora Hel-
mar. On the same
programme are
healthy Jack Pick-
ford and Louise
Huff in a much-
tyred whirl called
“Mile a Minute
Kendal 1.” The
Strand and Crys-
tal Palace have
one of the good
old-time gold-rush
yarns. “Carmen of
the Klondyke” em-
bodies all the
material for the
story. Two men
fighting for the
favor of the one woman, she, believ-
ing herself betrayed, vampiring all men
for the sake of the defaulting lover;
dance-halls, poker games, - and the hurry and
scramble of get-rich-quick days. At the
Lyceum Mabel Normand “Goes Back to the
Woods,” and on the same sheet Kitty
Gordon trails graceful plumage in “Merely
Players.”
** * *
It has been a slack, though not a close,
season for amusements in Adelaide. Royal.
Majestic and Tivoli all closed for lack of
visiting artists. The Scarlet Gaieties at
Austral Gardens had the best of things.
Open-air shows were naturally the most
popular, and for a time they had the help of
Sydney .Tames and Madeline Rossiter, who
were unable to get away to Perth. The
Royal has reopened with the gloomily in-
structive “Damaged Goods,” finely screened.
The public has been invited to consider whe-
ther the Nude is Rude at West’s. The play,
“Hypocrites,” was so successful that it had
a further run at the Pav. “Sherlock
Holmes” as acted by Gillette is the present
attraction at West’s. Wondergraph replies
with Dorothy Dalton, the breezy Fairbanks,
and an unending drama showing how the
Secret Service of Uncle Sam outwitted the
local Hun spy.
Some of the Radical Liberal members of
the Vic. Leg. Assembly are going to propose
that the form of the preamble of"bills should
be altered to read: “By and with the consent
of the Melbourne Club, Collins House, and
Cliveden Mansions.” *
“Gyp” : The Huns’ secret service in Egypt
was up to the minute. Four pottering old
tramps, capable of doing six knots, left Port
Said harbor for the Med. one day at noon.
Before the last of the Noah’s arks had cleared
the breakwater her engines broke down
and she put back. The other three steamed
on, and about 4 p.m. a Fritz tinfish sank
them all. Then the Hun skipper looked
round and asked us survivors in the life-
boats : “Where’s the fourth ship that left
with you?”
“Dial-Sight” : The Digger stood and stared
when he saw the sallow little Portugee
greet a Lisbon friend. I first saw the per-
formance when a new arrival alighted from
a motor-waggon to join a fatigue party.
Spotting a cobber amongst the aroup he
hauled him to his chest. After the break-
away the attacking Portugee handed the
recipient what looked like a gentle kidney-
punch. Another clean break and a hand-
shake were followed by a peck in the region
of the right ear. Then they felt calm enough
to start talking.
Some years ago the wife of a Bananaland
M L.A., if travelling with hubby, was allowed
one railway journey each year, free of
charge, and the dead-head ticket was good for
a month. Squeeze No. 1 happened when
two trips per year,
each available for
14 days, were al-
lowed. Then four
passes per annum,
each available for
one week, became
the law. Last year,
when the extra £2OO
a year was granted,
cardboard
passes were
issued to the
wive s o f
members, en-
titling them
to free travel
when accompanied
by their husbands.
This latter condi-
tion did not suit
some supporters of
the Ryan Govern-
ment, so finality
was reached early
this month, when
each member re-
ceived a small gold
pass-brooch, which
nine wearer, free of
hind lines. Now
relations.
“Maytime,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Claude Van Zandt
(Sydney Stirling), an
unpleasant person.
will carry the femi-
charge, over all Banana-
what about the wives’
“Edo”: “Horace Cheese” (B. 0/2/’l9)
suggests political economy as a school sub-
ject. Over 25 years ago South Australia s
Education Department had it on its pro-
gramme of study. The text-book was a
well-written little volume by the late Cathe-
rine Helen Snence, “The Laws We Live
Under.” Unfortunately Miss Spence didn’t
suppress her personal views; so the Trades
Hall folk of the day had the book thrown
out. And I haven’t met a text-book since
that one party or another wouldn’t declare
to be heretical.
“Yarra Ben”: No wonder Melbourne
failed to detect the ’flu for days and days
after it had started killing people! In a
record just received by Chief-Secretary
Bowser, the cheerful tidings are published
that the crimes reported to the jxilice in
the State during February numbered 533,
of which 478 were undetected. The previ-
ous month beat that, for there were 656
offences reported and only 83 tracked down.
Gilbert notwithstanding, in Victoria a police-
man’s job is a nappy one.
The American female “reformer” threatens
to worry Uncle Sam worse than the Kaiser
ever did. Having killed liquor she is now
out after tobacco. The American tobacco
industry is bivger than the same industry in
anybody else’s back yard. But Mamie says
it’s sure got to go—both use and manufac-
ture. The Women’s Christian Temperance
Union, which did more than any other body
to bring about prohibition, has declared for
years that tobacco would follow drink into
the discard. The fight is now opening. So
Australia knows what to expect from the
American Anti-saloon Leaguers here on good
salaries and liberal expense accounts. The
Leaguers will never let themselves be run
out of a job. After liquor and tobacco
there will still remain racing, boxing, surf-
ing, the movies, dancing, draughts and eat-
ing.
“F.D.” : This is what two generations of
dependence upon the Government Cow has
done to Australians. A cattle-raiser from
the Gulf country gave a column interview
to a Melbourne pressman, and the burden
of his dirge was that the Government would
not replace the old punt which had sunk in
the river near Normanton (Q.). Said he:
“We are forced to make a detour of 34 miles
every time we have to cross the river,
because of the absence of a punt. It would
not cost more than £lOO to replace the
sunken one.” Let those self-reliant northern
cattlemen go on making their 34 miles run-
around ! Some day they may w T ake up and
help themselves to a new tub. Isn’t the
price of beef high enough for them?
From a man in the country:—
My brother and 1 carry on this business. At least
we did until he went off to the war. Since then the
Department for the Suppression of All Enterprise
has been taking a keen interest in our affairs.
First, I employed the leading accountant of the town
to prepare our War-profits Tax return, and he
assured me that it was done in accordance with
departmental instructions. Since then I have re-
ceived two letters from the Department, requiring
returns which were guaranteed to keep a clerk busy
for a week ; and now I am called upon to furnish a
statutory declaration that my brother was, amongst
other things, actually in a position of danger between
such and such dates. Beyond that he is a private of
the Battalion (and I have supplied them with
his regimental number) I know next to nothing, of
course. How could I know whether he was in a
position of danger on a certain date? If these
people have nothing for part of their staff to do
except harass people with idiotic questions, what
about thinning out their staff?


HUGHES' THE GfcEAT PEgSONAUTV
OF THE WAR.
Paris—Our correspondent hears on unimpeach-
able authority that Mr. Hughes great.lv
impressed everyone with his Domin-
ating Personality, and has un-
doubtedly proved himself the
greatest intellect at the
Peace Table.
fCAISER’S PRIVATE UFE7
The Kaiser is looking, old and worn, and
Ms whiskers now touch his knees. He
. walks with the a{d of three sticks, and in
a fit of anger recently chewed off his
host’s right ear.
DESPERATE RUSSIA.
Petrograd.—Conditions are deplorable here.
Beggars infest the streets.
AMERICA UNCONVINCED.
Washington Public opinion here is sceptical con-
cerning Wilson’s idealistic League of Nations scheme.
W V\<\Ts THIS LEAGUE OF-
NA<tONS , Jo£?
SOME" Nfvil £>A')&Sai-'-
-TEAM . I'Gueii.
jj PWK '■
ENGLAND’S WfLL. I
London.—Opinions are freely expressed in weighty 1
quarters that the Kaiser should be boiled down and dis- |
tributed to relieve the scarcity of butter.
BOLSHEVIK HORROR.
WOMEN STOLEN.
CAVE-MAN GOVERNMENT.
Spmsqwttz.—Our special correspondent was an eye-witness
of the Bolshevik’s latest brutality. Women are daily being
seized in the public streets and carried off to places under
Government control.
* I Sa-** Cm go -fg
an' -rtiey _
d'd’iT j %■
one aootw * r
good W
I CRISIS AT PEACE
f CONFERENCE.
Earls. —natters are rapidly approach*
=- a crisis at the Peace Conference.
—"Serious differences have arisen end
delations are strained.
OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENTS COLLECT THE NEWS.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered <BHAS> Brandl
JL
Producers of Lead in the following forms -i„+ Q a \
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products ‘
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals. Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses, Zinc
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary. „ „
LONDON OFFICE- pjw® T, s H' T L. FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. J. SMITH, London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY —
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE —
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS, PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI, N.S.W. _______
“PIONEER” Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLE . .
MAKERS,
J. C. LUDOWICI ca SON LTD.,
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALL STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Insurance Office of Australia,
Ltd. (Sydney), which was founded in 1910,
and began with a deficit of £5250 represent-
ing preliminary exes.: —
Towards
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
_ £5,250
1911.. £4,115 Nil £4,115 1,135
Doc., Loss.
1912.. 436 Nil 1,571
Adjustment Re-Insurance Co., £307 1,938
1913.. 963 Nil 2,901
1914.. 5,212 Nil 8,113
Re-Insurance Co. purchase, £3735. . 11,848
Profit.
1915.. 6,256 Nil 6,256 5,592
Re-Insurance Co. purchase, £231 .. 5,823
Reserves.
1916.. 20,953 10 p.c.= £9616 11,337 5,514
1917.. 16,892 10 „ ~ 9639 7,253 12,767
Further Re-Insurance Co. exes., £33 12,73.4
1918.. 28,247 10 p.c.= 9700 18,547 31,281
Established nine years ago this Australian
office, which deals in all classes of insurance
except life, has shown remarkable growth
of business. Gross premium income ivas
£146,000-odd in 1915 ; for the past year it
was three times greater. But it is necessary
only to glance at the list of the score or so
“marine settling agencies” created during the
past three years, and now proudly displayed
among the co.’s world-wide connections, to
learn the source of a big proportion of the
new business. Marine insurance during the
war provided fine opportunities for the ven-
turesome. Many big, conservative concerns
looked upon much of the business with a
cold eye and limited their risks, and smaller
and more aggressive offices have been able to
pick up more than their proportion of what
has been going. Some of the cos. that threw
their trust on the navy and plunged have
shown remarkable figures; for instance, there
is the case of the Western Australian Insur-
ance Co., whose premium income in 1913-14
was £3500, and in 1917-18 over a million.
Fortunately for the punters, the gamble
worked out all right, and the business has
proved highly profitable. For the year to
June 30, 1918, £411,948 of marine net pre-
miums were got in by cos. doing business in
N S. Wales at a commission cost of 6.81 p.e.
Losses called for only 37.36 p.e;, and all other
exes, chargeable to the business ran away
with a further 20.07 p.e. Thus no less than
35.76 p.e. of the net premiums was profit.
No doubt, because of the sudden disappear-
ance of Wilhelm’s tinfisli, the last months of
1918 showed a still wider margin.
The 1.0. A. has been showing steady ex-
pansion in other lines, but the effect of the
cheaply-got marine business and the low loss
rate has been to pull down the percentage of
outgoings in this way : —•
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1911. . £25,951 £6,748 £17,537 26.0 p.e. 67.5 p.e.
1912.. 47,241 22,443 27,845 47.5 „ 58.9 „
1913.. 54,618 22,911 35,275 41.9 „ 64.6 „
1914.. 67,510 39,292 35,222 58.2 „ 52.1 ~
1915.. 93,516 52,002 37,019 55.6 „ 39.5 „
1916.. 115,885 59,731 38,742 51.5 „ 33.5 „
1917.. 144,917 79,419 47,161 54.8 „ 32.5 „
1918.. 229,554 110,887 63,046 48.3 „ 27.5 „
For a co. which has been in business for so
few years that expense rate is wonderfully
low ; but, as explained above, it is mainly due
to abnormal conditions. It may be, as the
directors believe, “the lowest expense rate
shown by any Australian co.” But it may
bo different when, instead of some of the
business being practically left on the door-
step, the co. has again to scrap for every
new risk that is worth having.
As shown above, the underwriting profit
last year was £55,621. Interest and rents
brought in £5671. To arrive at the net pro-
fit of £28,214 shown in the first table, deduct
£2444 to cover rates, taxes, etc., on the co.’s
properties, £14,601 set aside for bad debts
and contingencies, and a further £16,000 pro-
vided for taxes. The reserve for contingen-
cies is apparently in connection with the
co.’s investments, and the appropriation is so
substantial for a co. which has had its plate
out for only a few years that it suggests that
the white-ants have wasted no time.
The least satisfactory feature of the
1.0.A.’s balance-sheet is the absence of any
reserve for unexpired risks. The Bulletin,
recollecting the shaky beginnings of some
old-established concerns, hates to throw
bricks at young shows which are gradually
finding their feet against fierce competition.
But a co. like the 1.0. A., which has already
handed out .three 10 p.e. divs. to its share-
holders and is preparing to hit out all over
the globe (J. Charteris Black left for Cousin
Jonathan’s country the other day as “foreign
superintendent” to “open up branches
throughout the world”), is looking for criti-
cism if its affairs are not entirely in order,
judged by accepted insurance standards. Last
year the co. showed a net premium income of
£229,554, The whole of this has been taken
credit for in estimating the year’s profits,
though obviously some of the risks on which
these premiums were collected will not expire
for some months yet. According to the
generally accepted practice 40 p.c. of the
year’s premiums should be held to cover un-
expired risks. On that basis, at December
31, instead of the reserves of £31,281, to
fully protect both policy-holders and share-
holders there should have been nearly three
times that amount in hand.
Capital is £96,497; and total funds repre-
sent only 56 p.c. of the year’s premiums.
Something nearer 156 p.c. is generally
considered a safer proportion to fully
protect both clients and shareholders. For
1917 the funds were equal to about 75
p.c. of that year’s premiums, so to
chase the doubtful profit from marine
business the co. overreached itself last
year. Such a position might easily have
put the concern in trouble; but luck was
with the management. No doubt with the
disappearance of war risks the premium
figures will shrink considerably, and a more
reasonable proportion will exist ’ between
funds and risks. Liabilities at December 31
amounted to £33,713; and the funds were
invested in this way: Deposits, cash, War
Loan and sundries, £138,905; premises,
etc., £41,948; shares in other cos.,
£16,420; and mortgages, £6443. Deducting
all liabilities and allowing for the contingen-
cies provided by the management, the co.
could at December 31 meet claims totalling
over £137,000. And when considering
current risks the incoming premiums have,
of course, also to be taken into account.
* * * *
Paul and Gray, Ltd. (Sydney), carrying
on business ship chandlers, hardware
merchants and general importers, at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane and elsewhere: —
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1907. .£14,389 17$ p.c.=£12,020 £2,369 £4,520
premiums on new shares . . 1,000 5,520
1908.. 9,142 10 p.c. = 7,468 1,674 7,194
Dec.,
1909.. 6,440 Si „ „ 7,468 £342 5,824
1910.. 8,387 10 „ ~ 7,468 124 795 6,619
1911.. 7,55110 „ „ 7,46 S 83 6,702
Premiums on new shares . . 1,330 8,032
1912.. 12,876 10 p.e. = 8,000 4,876 12,908
1913.. 12,747 10 „ „ 9,306 3,441 16,349
Premiums on new shares .. 122 16,471
1914.. 13,417 10 p.c. = 11,580 1,837 18,308
1915.. 21,890 15 „ „ 18,000 3,890 22,198
1916.. 25,021 15 „ „ 18,000 7,021 29,219
1917.. 28,342 15 „ „ 18,000 -- 10,342 39,561
Transferred to capital . . 30,000 9,561
1918.. 28,980 15 p.c. = 22.-500 6,480 16,041
The year’s profits were considerably better
than the figures shown in the last line. The
management did not know until last year
what it would have to part with in War-
time Profits Tax for the previous couple of
years; but instead of setting by some of the
profits of each of those terms in a taxation
reserve, P. and L. was left to take the full
shock when the tax-collector called. Dur-
ing the past 12 months £4552 has been paid
in taxes, as much, within a few pounds, as
was called for altogether in the previous
three years. Since each year’s contribution
cannot be accurately gauged, the whole of
this £4552 has been deducted from last
year’s profits, besides a further £6500 which
the directors have since transferred to a
newly-created reserve for taxation. It will
thus be seen that, despite the scarcity of
shipping, which might reasonably have been
expected to seriously affect the business of
the co., better results than ewer have shown
up. As a matter of fact, the war has given
it a big lift: for the four years to 1914
gross profits totalled £173,775; for the four
years since, £290,645. Of course, a lot of
this has been due to the new money put into
the business during the former period, and
which no doubt only began to earn some-
thing more than its board-and-lodging when
the war started.
This shows how capital and other balance-
sheet figures expanded over the two four-
year periods: —•
1910. 1914. 1918.
Capital .. ..£74,682 £120,000 £150,000
Sundry creditors.. 47,911 45,230 40,577
Premises and plant 21,310 28,875 52,655
Stock-in-trade . . 84,675 121,293 125,407
Book debts . . 26,375 38,808 34,163
Cash and sundries 710 1,317 17,095
Between 1910 and 1914 the liquid surplus
grew by £52,359 and fixed assets by £7565.
During the same period £45,318 of new capi-
tal was got in, and £1452 in premiums. So
after handing out 10 p.c. aivs. the co.’s posi-
tion was improved by about £13,000. Since
then the div. rate has been lifted to 15 p.c.—
£76,500 being distributed to shareholders
against £36,354 for the previous period.
Meantime the liquid surplus has expanded
by £19,900 and £23,780 more has been added
to the book value of premises and plant.
No new capital has been got in since 1914,
the increase of £30,000 shown in the table
being transferred reserves. Thus in the
past four years, after deducting the current
div. and omitting also the £6500 set aside for
taxes, there has been an improvement of
£22,150 in the co.’s position. The policy of
expansion which was decided upon after
some argument 10 years ago has thus been
justified. Whether during the rapid growth
of the concern shareholders have not been
a little too greedy in the matter of divs.—
particularly in view of the 15 p.c. now being
paid on the increased capital—is a matter
of opinion. It is doubtful whether it would
not have paid better in the long run to have
kept more of the profits in the business to
provide for further expansion in the better
years ahead. Still, the co. is now very
snug.
* * * #
Victoria Malay Rubber Plantation
Go., Ltd., office in Melbourne, vegetables at
Seremban, Federated Malay States:—
Outlay Total De-
Divi- on Devel- velopment De-
Sept., Profit. (lends. opment. Account, ficit.
1910.. £1747 £1,747 £404
1911.. 1432 3,179 689
1912.. 1996 6,175 1003
1913.. 2195 7,370 1711
1914.. 3485 10,855 2011
Preliminary expenses (net) £1550 1
transferred to development account j 401
1915.. £l6O 3262 15,667 301
1916.. 1130 5 p.c. =£loso 3054 18,721 221
Reserves.
1917.. 2820 5 „ „ 1250 3239 21,960 1349
Loss.
1918.. 677 5169 27,129 672
Last year was full of difficulties for the
Malayan rubber cos. Owing to lack of
shipping space and the restriction of im-
ports into the U.S.A., the Singapore price
slumped from 25.3 d. per lb. for the previous
year to 18.2 d. Since at that price there
was very little margin over the cost of pro-
duction, this co. decided to curtail its out-
put until prices looked up. So instead of
harvesting the estimated 85,0001 b., only
70,6011 b. were got, and at the close of the
financial year 27,9221 b. remained unsold.
Of course, maintenance charges went on as
usual; so, after writing off £832 for depre-
ciation, the year’s operations showed a loss
of £677. Since the armistice shipping diffi-
culties have eased considerably and prices
are improving. For the current year the
crop is estimated at 100,1621 b. If-the co.
can show the same margin of profit as in the
year before last (about Bd. per lb.), there
would be a profit of about £3340 on this out-
put, equal to over 13 p.c. on the modest
capital of £25,000.
The co.’s estate consists of 808 acres near
Seremban (F.M.S.).and 708 acres are under
rubber. So far 279 are in bearing, so the
estimated current crop of 100,000-odd lb.
is only a fraction of what should be got
later on. So far £27,129 has been spent on
development, and £3326 on buildings, plant,
etc. Owing to last year’s adverse condi-
tions, and because of the further £5169 laid
out on development, finance is not so easy as
it was: —•
1917. 1918.
Liquid assets .. ..£3705 £2821
Liabilities . . . . 1311 7586
Surplus assets .. £2394
Excess liabilities .. £4765
If everything works out all right during the
current year there should be a big recovery
in the co.’s position. And as the market im-
proves, which it certainly should do as the
world gets back to normal, shareholders
should soon see some fine returns for their
long wait. So far they have had only two
5 p.c. divs.
# # * *
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers, produce salesmen and suppliers of
station goods:—
Writ
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
.£ £ £/ £, £
Jan.,’l2.-. 10,445- 10 p.c.= 4250 6195 37,106
Reserves transferred tb capital, £10,000.. 27,106
Premiums on new shares .. .. 4000 31,106
July,’l2. . 10,742 10 p.c.= 4750 5992 37,098
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,000.. .. 58,098
Jan.,’l3.. 9,124 10 p.c.= 5000 4124 62,222
July,’l3.. 7,895 10 ~,, 5000 2895 65,117
Jan.,’l4.. 8,532 10 ~,,5000 3532 68,649
July,’l4.. 7,670 10 ~,, 5000 2670 71,319
Jan.,’ls.. 8,662 10 ~ ~ 5000 3000 662 71,981
July,’ls., 8,203 10 ~,, 5000 1000 1203 74,184
Jan.,’l6.. 9,121 10 ~,, 5000 4121 78,305
July,’l6.. 8,141 10 ~,,5000 3141 81,446
Inner reserves disclosed, £14,195.. .. 95,641
Jan.,’l7.. 8,526 10 p.c.= 5000 3526 99,167
Reserves transferred to capital, £25,000.. 74,167
July,’l7.. 8,125 10 p.c.= 6250 1875 76,042
Jan.,’lB.. 10,460 10 ~,, 6250 4210 80,252
July, ’lS.. 13,677 10 ~,, 6250 7427 87,679
Jan.,’l9.. 14,663 10 ~,, 6250 8413 96,092
Cash bonus (20 p.c.) distributed, £25,000 71,092
What a money spinner it has been! But
it was not always so. The story is told of
how at one time early in the co.’s career—
it is now in its 40th year—it was doing so
poorly that the bank had grave doubts about
getting back much of the money it had
advanced to the concern. In desperation
the bank demanded a change of manage-
ment, and at the instigation of one of the
bank directors F. W. Browne, of the McCul-
loih Carrying Co. of Vic., was put in charge.
Browne is said to have promptly requested a
further overdraft, which a nervous bank
directorate granted in the hope of seeing its
other advances made good. Very soon the
fortunes of the co. looked up; and when a
little later Browne again tapped the bank,
still further assistance is said to have been
almost cheerfully given. Not many years
later the bank had got every penny of its
money back and the co. began to prosper.
Go back to only the beginning of the table.
Capital was then £BO,OOO. Since, £14,000
of new money has been got in (£4OOO of it
as premiums on shares) ; but meantime,
after transferring £35,000 of reserves to
capital and paying a regular 10 p.c. on the
increased capital, £19,701 has been tacked
on to reserves apart from the £35,195 of
internal reserves which have been revealed.
And there is, no doubt, still a substantial
bit up the sleeve which the directors could
shake out if they cared to do so. Now, on
top of all the sweet picking's shareholders
have had, comes a cash bonus equal to one-
fifth of their present paid capital. There
are very few cos. which can show such hand-
some results from the recent difficult years.
This one, however, continues to progress
rapidly. Gross earnings for the Jan. half,
1912, were £31,812: exes., apart from depre-
ciation, £23,242. For the past six months
the earnings were £47,522, and exes. £32,619.
Meantime the balance-sheet figures have
moved in this way:—
Jan., ’l2. Jan., ’lB. Jan., ’l9.
Liabilities .. ..£62,099 £44,642 £70,930
Premises, plant, etc. 17,062 20,242 21,152
Stock . . . . 42,124 61,481 57,728
Book debts.. .. 81,656 88,038 125,170
McCulloch Co. . . 25,000 41,332 44,766
Public securities .. 20,000 28,000
Cash .. .. 15,614 21,926 18,330
The eo.’s position is thus very strong; and
even after the £25,000 bonus has been
handed put there will be a surplus of more
or less liquid assets over liabilities of more
than £130,000, apart from what may be
liquid in the McCulloch Co., which is wholly
owned by Wright, Heaton’s. Taking the
figures before distributing the bonus, the
increase in the liquid surplus in the past
seven years has been £Bl,OOO. Meantime
the book value of plant and premises has
grown by about £4OOO, and £19,766 more
has been put into the co.’s Victorian busi-
ness, represented by the McCulloch Co.
Deduct the £14,000 got in by the new share
issue in 1912, and there has thus been an
improvement of about £90,000 in the seven
years.
Manly Hotels, Ltd. (N.S.W.), which
began with a deficit of £2930, representing
preliminary expenses:—
To Reduce
Dec., Loss. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
S, £2930
1910.. £496 3426
Further preliminary expenses, £64 3480
1911.. 874 4354
Profit.
1912.. 43 £43 4311
1913.. 104 —. 104 4207
1914.. 2782 2782 1425
1915.. 3076 5 p.c. = £1750 £1326 99
Loss.
1916.. 1092 1191
Profit. Reserves.
1917.. 2072 —• 2072 881
To Reserves.
1918.. 2799 7 p.c. = 2450 34;9 1230
That is considerably better than the average
profit so far made out of the big residential
hotel which the co. established on Sydney’s
popular ocean-beach. Still, it’s far below
the estimate, based on 1910 conditions, of a
yearly net profit of £7400 mentioned in the
prospectus. When the co. first got into the
business the outlook was undoubtedly bright,
but the war, dearer provisions, higher costs
and restricted bar-trading have combined to
cut into profits. Since 1912 the balance-
sheet figures have moved in this way :
1912. 1917. 1918.
Liabilities.. ..£30,330 £27,571 £24,771 .
Liquid assets . . 3,340 6,383 6,240
Excess liabilities £26,990 £21,188 £18,531
Building’s, etc. ..£57,678 £57,070 £56,161
The position is thus being improved very
slowly. When conditions become more
settled, particularly if a run of good seasons
is experienced, tlieco. should do much better.
Capital is £35,000, and £20,202 is owing on
debentures.
A couple of years ago J. M. Deschamps
measured up the prospects of establishing a
high-grade steel industry in the Common-
wealth, and, finding that war difficulties
'would give at least temporary Protection,
established a co. with a capital of £40,000.
One electric furnace and other plant were
installed at works at Alexandria (near Syd-
ney). Since the war, because Sheffield could
no longer draw pure iron from Sweden for
the old crucible methods, the electric fur-
nace has been vastly developed, and leading


The British Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
offer an economical solution to the medium and small power problem.
They give highly satisfactory service in driving generators for small
electric lighting installations, industrial and agricultural machinery,
etc. Reliability, economy, simplicity and durability are the features
that have been aimed at and obtained, as proved by the large number
now giving efficient service in all parts of the world.
Ask for
literature from
mmrnmf
« Mar>che«ter
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Wprksi...Tralford Park. England..
Particular attention is called to the comprehen-
siveness of the 1919 line of G.E. electric fans. The
features of construction, the operating efficiency,
the effectiveness of air delivery, the quietness of
operation, and the attractive appearance combine
to make G.E. electric fans the choice of discriminat-
ing buyers. Come in and select 3' our fan. We
stock all sizes. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Make the water supply for your stock safe. Use
Alurainoferrie in the proportion of lib. to 2000
to 3000 gallons of the most turbid water. In about
3 houp all the sediment, mud or fine vegetable mat-
ter will be precipitated to the bottom, leaving the
water crystal clear and pure. Aluminoferric is
quite harmless, and has qo deleterious effect on the
water whatever. William Adams & Co. Ltd., 175
Clarence Street, Sydney. Melbourne: 521-3 Collins
Street. Adelaide: 96 Currie Street. Brisbane: Corner
Edward and Mary Streets. Perth: 33 King Street.
2] —Advt.
* * * *
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
Corroded pipes a thing of the past. Pioneer
AVood Pipe has made all the difference to the
engineer. He can now plan a permanent system by
specifying Pioneer Wood Pipe, which remains un-
changingly efficient throughout an unlimited length
of service. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian AVood Pipe Company Limited (Head
Office, Burns Bay, Lane Cove). P.O. address: Box
1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Contractors to all State
Governments.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorney, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
» * » *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. Citv 2723.— Advt.
* * * «
Avoid painting a new article and you will
probably be able to put off the ultimate painting day
tor years; and then it will only be a water paint
to freshen up your ceilings and walls. You can
only avoid this primary expense by using the right
materials, viz., Lottoid Snow-w T hite Plaster Sheets
for ceilings and inside walls, and Spriggs’ Asbestolite
for your exterior walls. AVrite for our price lists
B, which will also give you information re our
roofing materials—-3-ply veneers, etc. Spriggs’
Asbestolite-Company, 338 Pitt Street (near Danks’).
—Advt.
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The t ederal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific islands and Dutch East Indies.
Ihe workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
Advt.
* * * *
Macquarie Street and Circular Quay. Exceptional
opportunity- for sound investment. Erect residential
flats by altering and adding to a stone building
with four floors, on land having 29ft. lin. frontage
to Macquarie Street, by a depth of 68ft. Bin., facing
Circular Quay, where shops should readily let.
Torrens title. Price £9250. Excluding all indoor
fittings. Apply to owners, Box 2547 G.P.0., Syd-
ney.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * » *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selbv & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
* * ■» *
T. 11. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
pi ocesses, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. — Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
»• 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write fcr particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General li'anagor,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES
Tho Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Qelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS- IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street/
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
steelmasters throughout the world have
adopted the process for their high-grade re-
quirements. The first six months of the Aus-
tralian Electric Steel enterprise were spent
in experimenting and tooth-combing the cony
tinent for supplies. Then Descliamps got to
work in earnest, and the results of the past
IS months are probably unparalleled in Aus-
tralian industry. The co. has been supply-
ing the Broken Hill Prop., Mount Morgan
and other mining cos. and numerous indus-
trial concerns with machinery parts of a
quality that previously could not be obtained
outside Sheffield. That is a big claim to
make for the little concern whose staff has
been developed from Australian workmen, of
whom there are now 130 employed; but
official tests have shown that the quality of
some of its products are actually superior to
the highest grade previously imported. Plant
has, of- course, been enlarged considerably;
but the co.’s success has been so phenomenal
that to cope with the business which threat-
ens to come its way capital is being in-
creased fourfold, and, besides enlarging the
Sydney works, a foundry is to be established
in Westralia. All the new capital is being
put up by present shareholders. It is, how-
ever, admittedly impossible to manufacture in
Australia at the same cost as in cheaper-
labor countries. The awakening of labor in
Britain may level up costs to some extent,
but the only sure way to retain this and
other Australian industries is by a scientifi-
cally-adjusted tariff. Except in one or two
isolated instances, all high-grade steel pro-
ducts are at present admitted to the Com-
monwealth duty free.
» * * *
Minister for Mines Fitzpatrick called all
the N. S. Wales copper cos. into conference
last week. It was a brave thing to do,
because it was apparent the Minister would
not get rid of them without facing a demand
for assistance. Replying to the conference,
Acting-Prime Minister Watt made a state-
ment which bears out what this paper said
last week. According to Mr. Watt the
“situation in relation to the production,
treatment and sale of copper seemed to be
generally misunderstood.” Further, it is
apparent that there is no desire on the part
of those advising him that it should be other-
wise than “misunderstood.” Until the War
Precautions Act is abolished the truth in
connection with this metals business will not
come to the top, and when it does Mr. Watt
may possibly be a much-amazed man. He
added:—■
Encouraged by the Government, va-Sb development
has occurred during the war, and several branches of
the industry have been preserved and established.
Copper works have been extended and new plants
installed.
All camouflage! Certainly the Port Kembla
refinery has been extended, but the old, reli-
able and cheap-working E. and A. copper
refinery at Waratah (N.S.W.) has been
forced out of business through the methods
of the Government’s advisers. Despite
the war prices of copper, the small pro-
ducer has been knocked out entirely, and
although Kembla now has the whole of the
refining business in its hands it has been
compelled to pay off some of its employees.
Our present production is at the rate of
about 16.000 tons copper per annum, where-
as the normal pre-war production was 43,000
tons. From the day war was declared, in
face of the high prices ruling, the copper
production of Australia has been seriously
declining, and the causes are chiefly political.
Not only is the primary industry of mining
the ore being knocked out, but such of the
secondary copper industries as have been
started are taking the count because of
American, Japanese and Canadian competi-
tion. If the Federal Government does not
see to the tariff without delay, Mr. Watt must
cease talking about the development of in-
dustries, because the unemployed alone pr.ove
how absurd is the claim. To further justify
the copper position, the Acting-Prime Min-
ister dragged in a lot of irrelevant matter
concerning silver-lead and zinc. In due
course the present Government will strike
trouble with the smaller producers of these
metals also. Most of them went out of
business some time back, but they have not
forgotten exactly why they fell. Apart from
putting up cash to tide the copper-mines
over the present trouble (which is a shuffle-
some way of doing things, anyhow) the
Federal Government can give a certain
amount of relief by at once clapping on a
Protective duty in respect e£ all copper
material coming into the country. The
relief would have an immediate cash value,
inasmuch as those interested would at once
know that at least our own market was
being reserved for our producers.
* * * *
The Electrolytic R. and S. Co., Port
Kembla (N.S.W.), has struck industrial
stagnation that threatens to make that big
concern very sick. In fact, unless arrange-
ments are made to lift some of the enormous
stacks of refined copper at the works (which
doesn't seem probable), it looks like a shut-
down. A few years ago a co. known as Metal
Manufactures, jutd., secured a site adjoining
the Port Kembla works, with the object of
manufacturing all kinds of copper goods,
from rivets to electrical apparatus. This
concern is buttressed by the Electrolytic Co.,
but has experienced bad luck. One consign-
ment of machinery was sent to the bottom
by a torpedo, and owing to war circum-
stances it has been impossible to secure other
machinery required to get properly going.
So far an excellent quality of copper wire
has been turned out, but further develop-
ment is held up for want of other machinery.
But even with these works in full swing it
is estimated that not more than 5000 tons
copper per year would be required. As the
capacity of the Electrolytic works is about
80,000 tons per year, and the average Com-
monwealth production about 40,000 tons, it
follows than either the manufacture of fin-
ished articles here must be greatly extended
or an export trade fostered to keep the in-
dustry going.
* * * *
So that N. S. Wales Mines Minister Fitz-
patrick might better understand the copper
position, it was decided at the conference of
N. S. Wales cos. last week that the manage-
ments should provide him with “confidential
estimates” of costs. But why "confidential” ?
Unless a management is guilty of extrava-
gance, there should be nothing to hide in the
matter of costs. Though copper cos.’ annual
reports are generally loaded with figures,
Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) is about the
only concern which gives a straightforward
statement of all costs. These drawn-blind
methods are only playing into the hands of
the Bolshie. On the other hand, a complete
statement of costs would show Labor what
a big proportion of the value of the product
it takes even under normal conditions.
* * * #
With a little two-head battery and an
otherwise inefficient plant, for several years
Tungsten Mines, Ltd., has been working a
wolfram-sclieelite proposition near Frogmore
(N.S.W.). From 6584 tons ore assaying
2J2 p.c. 101 tons concentrates worth £15,868
were got. But no less than £lB,OOO worth
of the metal meantime found its way into
the tails. With a better plant it is reckoned
that at least half of this leakage could have
been saved. So a new co. is being formed
to take over the show. Nominal capital,
£30,000 in £1 shares ; 12,000 fully-paids and
£5OOO in cash to the vendor; 18,000 con-
tribs. offered to the public, to be called up
to Bs. to start with. An outlay of £l5OO-
- in plant is reckoned to put the show on
a 150-ton per week basis, which with a 75 p.c.
recovery from 2.66 p.c. ore should, with the
product at 525. 6d. per unit, give a net profit
of £4BO per week. If this all works out as
well as it looks on paper, there might be
dividends equal to 166 p.c. p.a. on the con-
tribs. To go on with, Mines Dept, geologist
Harper thinks well of the show r .
* , * * *
Brok-en Hill South is going into the Tas-
manian electrolytic zinc business. A meet-
ing of shareholders will be asked to sanction
the investment, which the directors will
recommend. It will take about a million to
complete the works at Bisdon.
* ' * * *
The sky is again cloudy at Daylesford
(Vic.), for the Ajax Central shoot at 1500 ft.
south looks like being of the squib type.
The stone came up into the drive, and car-
ried good gold for a few feet. Then sand-
stone split it in two and now has wedged
the reef in twain, though one run of quartz
carries gold. The intrusion was not alto-
gether a surprise, for deep mining on the
field throughout has been a thing of shreds
and patches. But everything on the Ajax
line hangs on the Central turning up
trumps. Ajax, working from 700 ft. to
400 ft. on the run of gold from which it has
been forking out sixpenny divs. monthly,
now has the battery playing to a sdwt. tune,
which of course isn’t good enough. So a
rise will go up north at No. 5 level to see
what is overhead, and there won’t be any
dilly-dallying over getting the No. 4 cross-
cut out to see if the shoot lives to that f x>mt.
These contretemps have upset 'he barrows
which the Nuggetty crowd were trundling
next door, for if big Ajax tumbles their cake
is poor dough.
* * * *
“Greta”: It took a lot of prodding to get
a move on at all with Peacock, Bowser or
.Lawson over Vic. brown coal, and now even
the specialists selected for the Board aren’t
of the material to make things hum. They
are Prof. Lyle, a Metropolitan Gas director;
George Swinburne, another old gas man;
and A. McKinstry, oerhaps the best qualified
of the lot, though he comes from the British
Westinghouse Co. The best of the State’s
electrical talent has been passed by to give
jobs to the crowd that were mixed up with
' Hughes and Higgins on the Federal Advisory
Science Board or munition metals stunts.
There isn’t a mining engineer on the Board,
though if electricity is to be got from brown
coal cheap mining is the factor of prime
importance.
* * * *
Perth Mining Association is overwhelming
the West with proposals for reviving the
industry. Its officials have been worrying
the Mines Department for months with a
scheme for cutting up the £50,000 voted by
Parliament to assist production. A lot of
peonle are anxious to get their teeth into
this grant, and as usual the least deserving
are reaching out with both hands. When
the Government was in* funds battlers apply-
ing for small amounts were often turned
away practically empty-handed, yet cos.
which had become hard-up through paying
dividends (often before they earned them)
managed to get what they wanted. This
sort of thing has happened over and over
again, and is likely to happen in the future
unless someone steps in and prevents it.
The Association has also butted in with the
object of having prospecting and mining in-
cluded in the Commonwealth scheme for the
repatriation of returned soldiers. About
13.000 men volunteered from Westralian
goldfields, yet no provision has been made in
the Act for assisting them on their return.
The only jobs offered returned miners and
prospectors are poultry-farming, bee-keeping,
selling sandwiches, or assisting poverty-
stricken cookies on the dismal wheat areas.
* * * #
Poor ore and water have been the troubles
of Lyell Blocks (Tas.) for so long that the
time has come to try another string.
So Frank Duff’s cupriferous clays—how
he used to roll the phrase out in the
’nineties! —are to be given a trial.
From the old 550 ft. level bores proved
that the clays lived down 40ft. under-
foot, and a hunt is to be started at 630 ft.
for them. Manager Carroll works out that
from the 440 ft. level of the old shaft down
179 ft. he ought to get 100,000 tons of clays.
As the old bores showed 3.5 p.c. copper and
as the material mined before was worth 2i
p.c., he accepts the latter value. If his
figures tot up all right he will have 1750 tons
copper to send to market. That at £BO per
ton would bring in, say, £140,000. If he be
right, there can be no question that it is
well to take a cut at the clays. But then
come in the factors of expense and the price
of the metal. To work the clays will not
be costly so long as the ground will stand,
and treatment charges should be easy. But
even so, it is all a forlorn hope. Carroll at
present is cleaning up at the I.looft. and
1200 ft. levels. He was driven out at the
1300 ft. by the water that burst through
when the No. 25 bore went into con-
glomerate at the 1200 ft. north drive. He
did 2000 ft. of boring during the past six
months only to disclose promising prospects,
so the most determined sticker to the Blocks
is pretty well satisfied that so far as deep
mining goes the property is only a stringer.
Last halt-year 872 tons were broken, assay-
ing 8.8 p.c. copper and 5.30 z. silver per ton.
The only pity, is that there was not ten
times as much, as it cost £7322 in calls to
win it and do development work. This is
what Lyell Blocks has cost the faithful: —
Mine account, £233,631 ; plant, etc., £27,010 ;
development, £77,788. And not a taste in
return. Last half’s loss of £493 has swol-
len the P. and L. debit to £11,859. At
Dec. 31 there was £6482 in liquid assets, and
liabilities amounted to onlv £695. The
300.000 255. shares have now been called up
to 235. 9d. *
* » * *
Etheridge (N.Q.), run by a Melbourne
crowd, is in a bad way. The belated figures
to June last were laid before shareholders
this week, but work has been suspended
since the middle of December. The co. has
been battling with exceptionally hard ore in
a 24in. lode, and sliming is necessary to
release the metal. Costs have been soaring
(wages have increased more than 25 p.c. in
three years), and labor has become scarce.
Consequently snly one shift was worked
during the year and costs ran away with
675. 6d per ton crushed. The mill gave
36S cons concentrates worth £10,665 from
5408 tons ore assaying from 18 to 23 dwts.
This showed a working loss of £424.
Including administration exes., the co. went'
£7OB to the bad. All the ore got out came
from the old Queenslander, in which potter-
ing around disclosed an unknown quantity
of pay ore in the collapsed workings. At
June 30 there were 2125 tons of 20dwt. stuff
in sight in this mine ; 3700 17dwt. stone in
the Havelock ; 3000 tons worth 15dwt. in the
Big Reef; and 500 tons worth 21dwt. in the
Nil Desperandum. Finances look sick;
at June 30 there were liquid assets of
£3210, and £4638 was owing to sundry
creditors. The 120,000 10s. shares are
fully paid.
* * * «
There has been a boom in saltpans all
through northern Victoria during the last
year or two, and salt-shovellers were busy
this summer—till the February rains flooded
them out —on the beds of salt-lakes of all
sorts and sizes, from Lake Tyrrell down to
stray lagoons of a few acres in the Mallee
About 2000 tons were scraped off one pan
near Swan Hill, and as it was of extra
quality the holder was looking for £3 a ton.
Cloncurry claims to have the largest iron
deposit in Queensland. Mt. Leviathan,
opposite the town, is reckoned to hold 10
million tons of ore above plain level.
(Continued on page 82.)


MEANWHILE, WHAT PRICE OUR BROTHERS?
AUSTRALIA: “Heigh, what are you doing that for?”
ONE OF THEM: “Well, you see, our brother-slaves the engine-driver and fireman ain’t paid enough for their labor, so we’re getting even with me
capitalists who own the train.”


fAUUDIN<s
K
V,JT3
las«
F.H.FAU tBIKCiCO
0
44
PERTH.,WD LONDON
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDING’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lcwt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE RJLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO..
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
Deaf?
Without good hearing you are greatly, handi-
capped, and the fact is brought home to you
every day. Why remain deaf? The
Acousticon
10 Days’
FREE TRIAL
will safely and surely enable you to hear.
Over 330,000 delighted users, including the
Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, who is using
his “Acousticon” at the Peace Conference.
Write for 10 Days’ Free Trial. No deposit,
no obligation. Convince yourself at our
expense, and DON’T STAY DEAF ! New stocks
arrived.
Lamson
Store
Service
102 Daking House. SYDNEY
vw.j oiderfleet, Collins St.,MELB
IV. A..
John Procter, 200 High St.. Christc’h.
11. Little & Co., 851 Ilay Street, Perth.
Sydney's Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
This beautifully-situated RESIDENTIAL
HOTEL is unique in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, being: RIGHT ON THE HARBOR
FRONT, with its own secluded BEACH AND
GROUNDS and AMPHITHEATRE SWIM-
MING BATHS, the whole surrounded by
natural Bush.
25 Fine New Bedrooms have just
been erected, built over the water,
every room
Head?.
Daily service of Steamers, including Theatre
Boat, to and from Nq. 1 Jetty, Circular
Quay.
A Delightful Ferry Trip.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths.
Apply Manager,
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL,
Telephones: Y3OOl.
Y 3002.
MOSMAN, N.S.W.
HOW TO RELIEVE STOMACH PAINS
IN A FEW MINUTES.
Nine times out of ten when your stomach
hurts, when you are doubled up with the
pains of dyspepsia and indigestion, it is
simply because of acid which burns and
inflames the delicate stomach lining, and
fermenting food which forms gas that dis-
tends the stomach just like blowing up a toy
balloon. In cases like this—and most all
stomach trouble is directly or indirectly due
to acid and fermentation —almost instant
relief may be obtained by taking in a little
hot water, immediately after eating or
whenever pain is felt, a half-teaspoonful of
Bisurated Magnesia, obtainable of any
chemist at small cost. This simple remedy
may seem old-fashioned, but those who have
used it say that besides being inexpensive,
it beats the expensive remedies they have
tried for quick and positive relief. Try it
and see.—Advt.
- Missing Friends.
MELIA GILLESPIE, last heard of
about 1889, then about to get married.
Brother inquires. Information Bulletin
Office.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Hardy old ex-Governor Macgregor has been
seriously ill, but is making good again at his
home in Scotland. The old man has been
hard hit by the war; he has lost, among
others, a daughter, who worked in the hos-
pitals in France; a son-in-law, Sir Alfred
Paget; and the only child of his favorite
niece, killed in an engagement with the
German raider Moewe.
The British “Governor of Germany.”
General Sir Charles Ferguson, who is to
administer the occupied Rhine provinces
from headquarters at Cologne (and stands
about as good a chance of getting assassi-
nated over his job as any other living man
who could be named), was closely associated
with Australia in his earliest days. Prob-
ably the first recollection he has is of a wild
night ride on a trooper’s saddle, through
suburbs of Adelaide, to the bedside of his
dying mother, wife of the State Governor.
The widower soon married an Adelaide girl,
although she was engaged to another (one of
S.A.’s most prominent citizens of to-day),
and made a dramatic finish long after in a
West Indian earthquake. The Fergusons
have a way of getting there. The Geteral’s
younger brother James, who was born in
Adelaide, commanded H.M.S. Thunderer at
the Jutland battle, and is now a rear-
admiral. A cousin is Administrator of
Llong Kong. Another, who chose a different
path, is Anglican parson Severn, well known
up and down the Murray in S. Aus.
The case of Justice Street, who has just
stepped down from the N.S.W. Supreme
Court bench for six months’ spell after 12
years’ hard work, makes some people wonder
whether success at the Bar ought to count
in the choice of judges. Street has been a
great success on the bench ; yet his practice
at the Bar' Was small—if it hadn’t been he
would no dotibt have turned down the offer,
as others, did, of a six months’ judicial job.
He had the temperament; but it was sheer
luck that made a vacancy on the bench before
his six months had expired. If it had
occurred before he had had the ehfince to
show himself in the temporary job whicli
others wouldn’t take, at least half \a dozen
men would have been better fancied.'
No Australian who wasn’t born in Vic.
has yet become an Anglican bishop in his
own country; and two of the three Vic-
torians have come from Geelong.
Big James Gibb, of Glenroy (Vic.), gone
out of the sheep business forever, started his
climb to fortune at Berwick, where he bred
Ayrshires at what is now Melville Park,
owned by Andrew Chirnside. He owed his
success to good luck as well as good man-
agement. The Gippsland railway, in a
deviation which cost the State many un-
necessary thousands, was taken through his
property. The estate was thereupon sold
for a large sum, and a big deposit paid.
And almost at once the boom broke and left
the buyer on the rocks. Afterwards the
property was sold at £2O an acre to Sam
Fandango Mackay, who in turn passed on
the land to Chirnside at £39. Gibb sat in
the Assembly for some years ap member for
Mornington.
Died in Sydney, after an operation,
WiLiam Henry Carver, who was the busi-
ness man behind Wolseley, the inventor of
the modern sheep-shearing machine. For
40 years he had been one of the managing
directors of Dangar, Gedye a,nd Co., which
still markets the Wolseley and Lister
machines. Mr. Carver was to have left for
Europe by the Osterley; and his sudden ill-
ness and death robs the State of one of its
soundest yet most genial business men.
THE PETERSHAM BY-ELECTION.
Major Shillington — Chaplain-Captain Wilson.
“At Landing”: The woman who landed
on Gallipoli (B. 27/2/Y9) had a sad mis-
sion. She was Mrs. Doughty-Wylie, widow
of Colonel Doughty-Wylie, V.C., of the 29th
Division, who was killed about a week after
the Landing. He was buried at Cape
Helles, and his widow went ashore there to
place a wreath on the grave.
A third auction sale of the late Dean
O’Hea’s immense landed property at Coburg
(Pentridge Stockade region) has just been
held. In this mere remnant there were no
less than 166 homestead lots, with still
more to follow. Mother Church was the
rich old Dane’s legatee, as with Backhaus,
of Bendigo.
TREASON.
FIRST BOLSH : “Why was he hanged, Com-
rade. Scratchski ?”
SECOND BOLSH : “He was agent for a safety-
razor, Comrade Stinkovitch.”
Mrs. T. Shoveller, who died a few days
ago, at 84| was tire first white piccaninny on
the Clarence. Ex-Mayor P. Smith, of Mur-
willumbah, was the first little Australian to
arrive on the Tweed.
A wounded Billjim from London :—•
I was waiting for the lift in Australia House the
other day with half a dozen other soldiers and twice
as many civvies. Presently down comes the lift, and
in steps the most insignificant-looking civvy. I
tried to follow’, but was pushed back by a horrified
attendant. I had almost intruded on the Prime
Minister of Australia! P.S. —I was in hospital blues
and on crutches.
Another Smith has come to the top in
South Aus. This one is G.J., lately Goods
Superintendent of State railways, now made
chairman of the Wheat Board, to replace G.
11. Prosser, resigned. He is 57, Northum-
brian by birth, but has been in S.A. since
childhood, and his whole’ life has been given
to railway work. His brother is Mayor of
Pori Adelaide.
“T.8.L.”: “Smith’s” question about the
only woman to land at Gallipoli (B.
27/2/Y9) reminds me of an Anzac yarn. A
Turkish sniper was giving our boys par-
ticular hell. After a few days’ observation
two Billjims located the “possie.” They
wont over the top that night, and a few
hours later returned with a very surly
Jacko. A little later two heroes were ask-
ing a very perplexed O.C. what they were to
do with her.
The long arm has been at work again.
During a thunderstorm in the Northam
(W.A.) district George Wilson, 25, while
driving a five-horse team, was struck by
lightning and killed. The two leading
horses in the team were also killed.
Another young man of 23, named Adlum,
likewise carting wheat with a team of five
horses, reached his end at the same time in
the same way, together with the two leading
horses of his team.
“8.0. N.”; Billy Hughes, in his most
waspish mood, rang up the chief clerk (he
is head now of a Commonwealth Depart-
ment) to deliver an official instruction.
After vainly trying to shriek down the
noise of the “buzzer,” Billy broke into gib-
bering rage, and threatened to visit the
G.P.O. and tear down the lines of com-
munication. When peace reigned again, he
said : “Did you take a note of what I said ?
Where were we?” The unperturbed official
repeated a string of blistering words.
“That was the last I heard definitely, sir,”
he replied.
“O. Blin”: Mrs. Woodrow Wilson is the
widow of one Galt, a Washington jeweller,
and she caught. Woodrow by her bouncing
physical attractions at a time when he was
looking for some distraction from the tyranny
of his restless intellect. Mrs. Wilson is still
a handsome woman, whose husband could
never be expected to notice an ominous chin-
line owing to the lady’s fondness for alluring
pink roses under large shady hats. She is
reckoned the best-dresser in Washington, and
has ndded prestige to the position of Presi-
dent s lady. Wilson’s enemies spitefully
whisper that she drafted the famous Notes—
whicn inspired the wicked witticism that
counterfeit Notes had become a State mono-
poly. It is certain that she has a large in-
fluence over him.
Dr. Donaldson, Anglican Archgaiters of
Brisbane, on being released from quarantine
intoned sweetly:
It has been an experience. I cannot pretend that
we are not glad to be out of it; and we have all
returned home with a definitely enhanced appreciation
of a comfortable bed, a clean dinner-table and a long
bath. We had, it is true, some luxuries which the
boys lacked.
But, my dear brethren, we must bear our
luxuries bravely. They are sent, so to
speak, to try us.
Among the expatriated Australians taken
oft' by the ’flu outbreak at ’Frisco was a
much-travelled Victorian —Harry Madden,
whose dad, the late Henry, Madden, is re-
membered by another generation of pre-
Federal politicians as housekeeper at State
Parliament House. The younger Madden
started his world-whacking career as a
Broome pearler. Afterwards he took in the
’Frisco earthquake, had various experiences
in the China seas and remoter parts, and
finally settled in California, where lie mar-
ried an American girl.
“T. 0.1.” : Up to and including Sir George
Gipps, all Governors of N. S. Wales were
soldiers or sailors, and depended chiefly on
their Imperial pay. Fitzroy belonged to
a ducal house and married into one, so we
will assume that lie had a private income.
Denison, an engineer officer, was well in.
Sir John Young had extensive estates in
Ireland. So had Belmore, though he took
the Governorship while the estates were
being “nursed.” With the help of cabbages
grown at Moss Vale he cleared off the en-
cumbrance. Hercules Itobinson was neither
poor nor wealthy, though he did maintain a
fine racing stable. Loftiis was poor, always
in debt, and badly treated by the British
Government after long service as ambassa-
dor at several Courts. Carrington, like
Belmore, was nursing liis estates. Jersey
was rich, Duff poor, Hampden comfortable,
Beauchamp wealthy. Bluff Harry Rawson
had an Imperial income to back up his local
screw. Chelmsford married a wealthy wife.
Gerald Strickland had an old estate and had
married into the peerage. He was fairly
well-to-do, but no spendthrift.
“Physiognomist” discusses the most-
talked-of man:—
Lips usually open —credulity; love of the marvel-
lous. When closed, the corners droop—grumbling,
discontent. Projecting lower lip—habit of tafu.
Large projecting teeth—self-esteem (yet. not quite
so large as in the case of the late President Roose-
velt). Flat cheeks with hollows —poor digestion.
Retired JUDGE DEA T NISTON, Chairman
of 'Maoriland's Epidemic Commission.
Full eyes-—an abundant vocabulary. Eyebrows raised
—little concentration of the perceptive powers.
Large ears —obstinacy. Good forehead —gobd mental
powers. Rather projecting and pointed nose—curi-
osity. Many straight lines in face —lack of humor.
With these factors, we can interpret the personality.
Having little sense of humor, the subject takes
himself veiy seriously; with small perceptions and
large credulity, he will depend on the report of
others. His long head and correlated horse-like
face make him slow in coming to conclusions; yet
the projecting lower lip and full eyes keep him
talking all the time. He wants to do right, and
his self-esteem and obstinacy will make him sure
that what he thinks —for the time being—is right.
Given time, and handled by an expert, such a mind
could wander all round the compass of opposing ideas
with positive assurance. He can be too proud to
fight; eager to fight; and then an apostle of non-
resistance. He may preach disarmament and then
order the biggest navy ever constructed. An enemy
to secret diplomacy, he will join in the most
important debate for the world’s future with closed
doors. Having no deep, self-thought-out convic-
tions, he sways with weathercock facility to crowd-
suggestion. Beside Lloyd George, Balfour and Clem-
enceau, he is an intellectual infant, and given time
his susceptibility to suggestion should mould him
to their will.
THE WOMAN ACROSS THE WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
*fle woman across the way is glad; she has decked
her window-blind
And trellised her garden porch with flags and a
banner of welcome designed—
But the ship that is bringing her son to her has left
my son behind!
Long hours since, when the day was young, she set,
with her face aglow,
The finishing touch to the lettered strip and the
flaunting portico,
And frets with her gloves and her bonnet-veil, and
waits for the time to go.
Somebody paused by her gate just now, gossiping
cheerily;
Out of the gossip there flung these words, “His ship
comes in at three.”
She smiled; and the joy within her smile struck
through the heart of me.
How should she know that I who sit, feeling the
dreadful dart
Of envy deep in my mother-soul, here in a room
apart.
Record in the lines on my furrowed face the lines
within my heart?
Armies and kings, and the strange, mad world that
kings and armies sway,
Strive, and we care not why they strive —such is the
woman’s way !
Only we know that the lives we love stand as the
pawns they' play.
God, who is wise, should know; and yet a sad and
a soulless thing,
Tangled and reasonless, it seems, that a woman’s
pang should bring
Babes to the world to grow and go stark to the
slaughtering.
Why do I seek (as a woman will), perverse and
stubborn-necked,
Vainly to probe to the heart of thijigs men’s selves
can scarce dissect,
Daring to match with their ordered; minds my patch-
work intellect?
Spartan mothers, perchance, would smile; and where-
fore then should I
Mope in the shade of a curtained pane, with leaden
lids and dry,
Feeling this awful envy cling, that gnaws and will
not die!
Yet how shall I reason, while through my brain the
blind thoughts reel and blur?
What can your rusted phrases give, your sophistries
aver
To woman who bears the pain, and find pain’s
guerdon snatched from her?
Soon he will be with her, bright of eye, stalwart
and service-browned ;
Rumor of laughter and song will flow over and
through and round,
From night till dawn, these poor thin W’alls that
cannot shut out sound !
And I, because of her happiness on whom God looked
and smiled,
Will cower and nurse in my froward heart my way-
ward thoughts and wild,
And gather the sheets about my ears, and wince like
a beaten child!
The woman across the street is glad: her house with
flags is gay!
If only the tears would blind my eyes, they would
blot the sight away !
I almost find in my heart to hate the woman across
the way!
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


rs
m
/A
V
%
V//
V///
W%
/y,
4^l>^
I
m
7
vz
'/i
*&Y
V
§
L
i
©
i
TOBACCO
Is Always tHe Same
Distinctive Smoke
iTo-day, To morrow—and Everywhere !
Natural thing, is’nt it, for men
Australia's* National Smoke
Cut (Flake or Mixture)
Also in PI Form.
DO NOT CRACK OR BURN.
pipe Guaranty


LADIES! Your Complexion is Part of Your Attire.
A PERFECTLY STYLISH ATTIRE FALLS SHORT OF ITS EFFECT
if your skin is not in harmony.
EVERY WOMAN CAN BE COMELY by attention to those little details,
which no one can afford to despise.
John §trange w
inter’s
TOILET PREPARATIONS WILL HELP YOU.
They have proved the greatest friend to womankind.
Powder (3 tints), New Face Cream (2 colors),
Fakshmi Cream and Potion, Soap, Hair Foods (Oily
and Non-Oily), Carmine, Dry Shampoo, and Dental
Cream.
Ask for them at The Civil Service, Farmer & Co.’s,
David Jones’, Washington H. Soul’s, Anthony Hor-
derns’, W. T. Waters', Hassetter’s, and all leading
Chemists.
Send 3d. stamp for Booklet and sample of Soap or
Powder (name the color), or Dental Cream, or New
Face Cream, or Dakshmi Cream, to John Strange
Winter (London, Paris, Rome). Sydney Office: 26-30
Jamieson Street. Melbourne: 218 Queen Street.
Adelaide: Kither’s Buildings, William Street. Bris-
bane: Taylpr and Colledge.
\Aeltoniar»
IT 1 HIGH-CLASS
[SPECIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE - WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
“Dale”: Bill was sick of it and wanted
to be sent back to Australia after con-
valescence. But the examining M.O. was
a hard nut, with a strict sense of man’s
responsibilities. All the blokes before Bill
had been marked for light duties or return
to the Front. When Bill’s turn arrived he
besought a private word with the doctor.
It was declined. But he urged his case
with such persistence that he secured the
removal of the other men from the room.
Then he explained his matrimonial complica-
tions to the M.O. “They’ll pinch me for
bigamy if you send me back to Australia,”
he urged. That settled it. “Return to
Australia,” was the prompt verdict. “Of
course, I only got one wife,” Bill told us;
“but I knew the, old ——
* * * •
“Iris”: Clear mental vision during periods
of public danger and disaster is given to
very few people on this old planet. In the
pathological experiment to which we have
been subjected recently in Sydney, there is
no possible doubt whatever that there was a
distinct tendency for medical thought to be
distorted and its judgment warped—a sort
of mental metamorphopsia
had occurred, if I may be
permitted to borrow an opti-
cal term. Metamorphopsia
in its visual sense means
that objects looked at be-
come distorted and bent out
of shape, so that telegraph-
wires appear crooked. In
addition there is sometimes
magnification of objects
viewed. So with the medical
mind during the recent epi-
demic. It couldn’t think
straight. It was biased by
what had occurred in other
lands under different social
and climatic conditions. A
disease that obviously in its
onset and terminations was
of the mildest possible
nature was judged by the
warped professional mind to
be a visitation of the most
disastrous and pestilential
kind; and the public has
suffered greatly in pocket and in body from
the blunder.
«-.***
“Moana” : The ancient Maori practice of
depositing on Henare’s grave all his house-
hold furniture and effects was revived at
New Plymouth when natives lately went
west via the ’flu. The cemetery soon
began to wear a gala look through being
decorated with Maori mats, nearly-sealskin
coats, sewing-machines, pink chiffon frocks,
gramophones, green silk handkerchiefs,
musical-boxes and gay things of that kind.
The accumulation was causing those respon-
sible for the good behavior of the burial-
ground a lot of sleepless nights, for it is
not easy to be rude to people about their
dead relatives; but when a funeral proces-
sion hove in sight lugging an ancient piano
and an iron bedstead, which it intended to
plant on the grave of the deceased, authority
rose up and asserted itself. It told Henare,
in language quite unpoetic, that a cemetery
was a place for planting the dead and not a
second-hand dump. The decision inci-
dentally solved a problem that was causing
a riot in a Maori family. A relative own-
ing numerous golden sovereigns had died,
and the family was debating whether the
cash should accompany the deceased in his
coffin or whether they should cut it up.
When they heard the decree that only the
dead were to be planted they suddenly
stopped fighting and said “Py korry, Kapai 1”
“Copabella”: A mixed squad of Aussies
and Tommies was on guard duty in London.
A carriage rolled by, and the guard saluted
lavishly. “Who’s the bloke?” asked a
Digger of a Tommy mate. “Oh, that’s
King George,” replied the awed English-
man. “Oh, King George !” retorted
the Digger. Tommy thought awhile in
amazed silence. Then came to him in a
flash the retort crushing: “And Ned
Kelly, too!” Then he carried on calm in
the conviction that accounts had been
squared;.
* * * *
“Silas”: A steam road-roller bogged in
Canterbury-road, Middle Park (Melbf), one
morning a week or so back, the front half-
section sinking so far in a soft patch as to
give the roller a cant that strained its intes-
tines. There had been strenuous efforts to
get the mass to move, when a little man with
whiskers came along. He was pushing a
pram with small twins in it. He was a very
proud little- Whiskers, possibly by reason of
those twins, and he may have weighed Bst.,
twins and all. He paused to look the
trouble over; then gravely he set his shoul-
der to the inert iron. “Now,” he said, “all
together!”
* * * *
“Henry Ilorsecollar”: A Northern Terri-
tory correspondent tells me that much of
the disaffection there is over small things—
the small things that count. For instance,
Darwin is a capital city without a water
supply, though there is abundance available
by gravitation only 16 miles away. There-
fore there is no gushing fountain in the
street, and the stranger who doesn’t want
fancy drinks has to beg a refresher from a
resident’s tank. The Government hotels
don’t even possess a lounge where the
stranger can sit down to brood over his rum;
the customer has to stand up at the bar and
drink like a horse, and then go out into the
glaring sunshine. I remember my solitary
visit to a Darwin Federal pub in summer.
The bar abutted on the street as if there was
a land famine. It left an impression of bare
boards and fried galvanised-iron. There was
a hard chair to sit on, a bare table to sit
at and a drink of dubious quality minus ice
to sit in front of, and the service was done
by a man who might have been the member
for the city of Indifference in the State of
Donkerdam. And I thought of a pub I had
met in a much worse town in a hot Spanish-
speaking land where ; space was equally
cheap. It had a big walled courtyard w’ith
HIS SECOND SIGHT.
THE ROMANTI SHE: “ It was a case of love
at first sight with him.”
THE MATERIAL HE: “No, it wasn’t. He
didn't know she had money till the
second time he met her.”
large wild trees in it, and glaring wild-
flowers and a wild mule. Inside, stone walls
nearly a yard thick made shade for the
shady characters of the neighborhood.
There was a stone floor full of echoes; a
massive flat stone roof for coolness; various
kinds of ramshackle seats; a cool draught
and a bag of cool water hanging in the
draught. The proprietor sold one different
kind of liquor, but he courteously asked the
stranger which of it he would have, and the
FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF THE OTHERS.
“Jack, I do wish you'd come to see me sometimes.”
“Why, I thought you were engaged to Reggie.”
“No, Em not; hut I might he if I could organise a little brisk competition.”
stranger had it. The scene was at least
restful, and a centipede, a dog and a bug
made it homelike. Darwin, as the capital of
a great country, possesses an Excellency, a
Bacteriologist, a Government Secretary, a
Judge, a Chief Protector, a Cliief Health
Officer, and many other things, mostly sup-
plied by Andrew Fisher when he was its
fussy fairy godmother. But a motherly sort
of pub it lacks.
* * * *
“M.S.”: Arbitration Courts and the like
ought to protect unions which show some
regard for the public convenience; but they
don’t. The Merchant Service Guild pati-
ently waited years after its last award
ran out before the Arbitration Court could
find time to listen to it. Then it was told
that it would be impossible to make an
award retrospective, though the owners
expected it would be. And it had been done
for the more militant cooks. The Sailors and
Firemen’s Union made much clamor, conse-
quently it got a variation of award and a
big rise of screw before the last award had
half run its time. This after having held
up not only our coastal ships but transports
and hospital ships in a strike not 18 months
before! Now they are not striking, but
merely refusing to work. As I write half
a dozen ships are tied up in Brisbane while
the individual fireman tries to make profit
out of the ’flu scare. It’s not a strike; the
Union secretary merely wants to confer with
the Shipping Controller about something.
All the same, the man who is willing to work
is a scab. These wasps have come to the
conclusion that the meek don’t inherit the
earth or the sea. Whose fault is it?
Largely, I say, the Arbitration Courts’.
The bigger the nuisance you make of your-
self, the better your chance of getting a lift
from them.
# * * *
Victorians are showing a tendency to
cling to single-blessedness longer than they
used to. From 1881 to IS9O, of every 1000
women who said they would 642 were under
the age of 25, but for 1917-18 the number
per 1000 was only 496, which means a
corresponding decrease in potential births.
Of the 9506 brides- in 1917, 1008 were
between 30 and 35, 527 between 35 and 40,
and 246 between 40 and 45. There were
1579 bridegrooms between 30 and 35, 843
between 35 and 40, and 416 between 40 and
45. No male abandoned bachelorhood before
he was 17, but five undertook to keep a
missus apiece at that age. There were eight
brides aged 15, and 35 a year older. The
fancies of seven males over 75 lightly turned
to thoughts of matrimony, and 17 took the
plunge between 70 and 75. No bride could
be induced to admit to 75 springtimes, but
three confessed to over 70, and a dozen to
more than 65. Two damsels under 25
became the darlings of dashhounds of ,65 and
>7O, and four girls between 45 and 50 kid-
napped youths in their early twenties —a tri-
bute to their enterprise in a State which
possesses 68,240 more females than males.
* * Hr *
The most belated young man in Australia
turned up in Melbourne the other after-
noon. He was found wandering in the
Town Hall and confessed to being of Gipps-
land origin. “Well, what, are you seeking
here?” he was asked. “I was thinkin’ of
enlistin’,” he replied, “and they tol’ me this
was the bookin’-office.” “But,” he was
assured, “the war is over ” The Gipps-
lander seemed a bit surprised. “Aw, well,”
he said, “y’ better take me name and address.
Y’ might have another.”
DOWN MELBOURNE WAY.
SHE ( after her first inoculation): “I don’t
think I’ll ever go again. I feel terribly
dona up!”
HE: “ Nonsense —you look as fresh as paint.”
“Hermish”: If George Steward, Victoria’s
new boss-policeman, w r ants to be favorably
noticed on the beat, let him put a stop to
the pernicious practice of 'allowing police
constables to don military uniform in order
to catch Bung serving drinks over the back
fence after six. Surely there is some other
way of doing the job besides degrading the
uniform of the Australian soldier.
(Continued on page 18.)
AT CLOSE OF DAY.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
She lies so sweetly at the close pf day
In her soft frame of whiteness and of lace,
When all day’s turbulence is put away,
And all the world has left us for a space,
That I’m content. The thought to me is wine:
“This is my wife, and all her heart is mine.”
Yet through the day my soul was sore with doubt,
And jealousies have bitten -at my heart.
Watching her lip 3 in little flirtings pout,
In little talks with Smith, or Brown, or Smart,
I’ve railed upon her as a flirt of flirts ;
But still she smiles, nor cares how much it hurts.
My jealous heart begrudges her the love 1
She gives the world. My soul is all aflame.
To some love-island with her would I move.
But when the world is gone, she calls my name,
And says.... Oh, jealousies are swept away—
She lies so sweetly at the close of day!
Francis.
HAMER.


= aimim mi
5\lllillll!ll(!H
ailillllllHllE
m
' I
i
J
S 3
! If'
sniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii/iiiiiiiiiiiE
ililli
m
Really good Whisky should
possess the virtues of
MATURITY & DESIRABILITY
Maturity. —Age ever did command respect. In
Ce war's to-day is to be found all the experience
of many generations in the arts of blending and
distillation, which has for its end the production
of a whisky—always ripely matured —worthy
of its universal designation as the Supreme
Spirit.
Desirability. —Charm and desirability always
go hand in hand, for without charm nothing
'is desirable. Dewar's is a fountain of fascin-
ation —-its triumphant quality persistently
pleases but never palls. The matured merits
of its magnificent mellowness may be enjoyed
year in and year out with never a trace of
tiredness of taste.
THE WHISKY OF MERIT.


IN THESE SERIOUS EPIDEMIC DAYS
Get CLEMENTS TONIC for your Blood
Pure Blood means less risk of infection and greater powers of resistance to epidemic attacks.
The purer the blood the stronger the body. Epidemic disease thrives on the debilitated system.
These are anxious days for Australia, when it behoves all persons to take every care of themselves and ward off to their greatest
effort the menace to health that threatens them. No one can afford to take any undue risk, and the person who has the best condi-
" e a ?J invading force, whether it is epidemic disease, nrivatiou. oppressive
, epidemic disease, privation, oppressive
It is the old story in a new way of the soldier well armed;
tion of health and the greatest powers of resistance w
climatic conditions, worries, or minor illness, is best fortified against it.
he is shielded from attack of destructive and destroying forces.
, £ le ™? nt ? Ton * c ’ which, for a quarter of a century, has beenadmitted a medicine of rare health value in keeping the nerves sound
and the blood cool and pure, should now be used as a means to fortify the body and the general health. It tones up the stomach as
well, has a palliative effect on the bowels, stimulates the liver and kidneys, and imparts a healthy influence Clements Tonic is
largely a blood and nerve medicine, and should be a part of the medical equipment of every home at the present time
Get it from your Chemist To-day. Use it as the Pure Blood Remedy.
Clements Tonic Ltd.. Rozelle, N.S.W.
Hobart tradesmen were furious at the
idea of barring mainland visitors during the
‘Hu season, holding that the city’s prosperity
depends largely on the affluent excursionist
from over the strait. A motto for Hobart:
“All’s well that spends well.”
Australia has to pay for giving itself and
the world the poisonous idea that its people
are poor creatures only fit for rough coolie
jobs. Keith Murdoch, writing to the Sun
from London the other day, said what every
Digger knows to be the truth:—
The earliest Anzacs will remember how, during
the training days in Egypt, and the days of Gal-
lipoli, all crimes were put down to the Australians,
and they were even accused of crimes they never
heard of. It was the set policy of the British com-
manders: British prestige must be maintained in
these dependencies, and as Australians were birds of
passage, here to-day and home to-morrow, they must
take the discredit of anything that offended the
natives. That is notorious throughout the A.I.F.
But if British officers thought that the good
name of Australia didn’t matter, Australia
being a country of sundowners and bush-
rangers, it might anyhow have been ex-
pected that Australian newspapers wouldn’t
throw the same sort of mud. Yet a week
or so ago, when there was a row in London
among the Americans, Australian papers put
up these headlines ; “Soldiers’ Riots —Melee
in the Strand. —Australians take part.”
Gradually the Diggers faded out of the
subsequent accounts until only one was left
in, and he was alleged to have been taken to
hospital. And finally even that solitary
Digger was scratched, and the truth was
told that not a single Australian had been
either arrested or injured.
“lI.McK.”: Here and there you get a
travel-tainted Digger. There was all the
usual excitement of a mother and an assort-
ment of sisters awaiting the return of big
brother Bill. I hadn’t had the pleasure of
meeting Bill, but the family assured me he
was a “typical Australian.” They agreed
among themselves that Bill must have
shaken up old London and- Australianised it.
Then he arrived —a fine big fellow. Frantic
sisters made a rush at him, and he gathered
them all to him. “Ba'i Jove!” he drawled,
“it’s priceless seeing you girls again!”
* * * *
“Bert R.”: The Malays’ method of
douching the nose, by taking salt water in
the mouth and forcing it out through the
nostrils, as described by “Chloe” (B.
27/2/’l9), looked so well on paper that I
decided to try it. But it was no good.
I’m no force pump. Can “Chloe” refer me
to a handy Malay, or do any of the business
colleges teach it?
* * * #
When recently heard of, the party which
is surveying routes and supply stations for
the London-Melbourne air service had been
doing four miles per hour per swift motor
over the rich, lonesome alluvial plains about
Blackall (Q.). It isn’t a bad pace for these
parts, where road metal is almost as scarce
as inhabitants—especially it isn’t bad after
rain. A little further on the Winton-Hugh-
enden express restricts itself to about 15
miles an hour even in dry times, for if the
earth is shaken violently it cracks, and if
the crack is too big the train might fall in,
and no one knows how far it might fall.
Next year the organisers of the new service
hope to travel aloft where the rich alluvial
habits of the country won’t trouble them and
the permanent way doesn’t crack or slide and
the speed is the same uphill and down. i
SPOILT.
THE BORE: “Yes, I am always thinking of
your happiness. I called yesterday to
see you when [?]ou were out.”
THE VICTIM : “Yes, hut you go and spoil it
by calling to-day when I am in.”
“H.R.L.”: The South Melbourne kid had
been riding free on the back of the tram for
10 minutes when the conductor grasped his
collar and hauled him on to the plat-
form, remarking, “Now you can come for a
ride right to the terminus! Perhaps the
walk back will teach you to knock off this
game.” On reaching me end he said, “Good-
bye, son. Hope you enjoy your walk
home.” The' kid screwed up his face,
rapped out: “Rats to you ! I’m home now,”
and was out of the danger zone before the
conductor could kick.
“Mayne Stay”: “J.D.” (B. G/3/T9),
speaking of the mercantile marine officer
and discipline, says the officer “is accus-
tomed to handle Lascars, Dagoes, Swedes
and a particularly miserable type of Brit-
isher.” Somewhat unpromising material,
yet even “J.D.” acknowledges the job is
fairly well done. But there is no “disci-
pline” about it. Discipline infers training
on both sides and, for the officer, power to
enforce obedience. It’s the knowledge that
the power is there and will be used to the
limit that makes the discipline in navy and
army. % In the mercantile marine there is
no discipline and officers are not trained to
.handle men. They painfully acquire the
knack—-if they have it in them. If not
they drop out. The flatfoot is usually
caught young. In sailing-ships the older
shellbacks exnlain forcibly at first (and his
own commonsense teaches him later) the
need to jump at an order for the common
safety. Further, lie sees it is the mate
who stands by the sheets when it’s “Clew up
the foresail” and the second mate who jumps
aloft first when it’s “Up and furl.” So he
acquires some respect for an officer and is
disciplined to a certain extent. But with
the firemen and many of the steamboat
sailors there is none of this. The man on
top is the boss who can give him the sack
JIMMY’S JOB.
“How about going up and getting dressed?”
“In a minute. Wait till Jimmy finds the key of my locker .”
at the end of the voyage. But as he doesn’t
intend to stay longer, in any case, what’s
the odds? True, if he gets drunk he can be
fined ss. If absent without leave he for-
feits a day’s pay. But it’s only when the rest
of his money is blewed up that that worries
him. One sometimes marvels that the mer-
cantile marine gets on at all. The politi-
cian has a kindly eye on the unionist vote.
The shipowner is not interested so long as
the ships keep moving. When he has deal-
ings with the union he only comes in con-
tact with clean, sober and plausible leaders,
who would give one the impression it is a
union of angels. Meanwhile the 1.W.W.-
One Big Union idea of going slow and
worrying the boss is growing all the time,
and the lives of officers and engineers are
made a misery.
* * * #
“William Wardroom” : I put in nearly four
war years and know how valuable the
R.A.N. ships were to this (apparently) in-
different continent. For weeks Yon Spee’s
squadron was in Australian waters, and
nothing but our one big stick, the Australia,
with her 12-inch guns, saved Sydney from
bombardment. We at sea had the privilege
each night of hearing the Hun ships queru-
lously asking each other where that thrice-
damned battle-cruiser was. So our navy
was not born a second too soon. But the
service even then was seething with discon-
tent, and most of the lower deck swore that
for them at any rate there would be no
more sea when the war was over. In most
cases the cause was not so much the tardi-
ness of promotion as the shocking inade-
quacy of pay. Admiral Henderson was
brought out to suggest a scheme for a locally-
owned navy, and. after studying Australian
conditions, also formulated a scale of pay.
The small coterie of Saturday-afternoon
sailors known as the Navy Board afterwards
reduced this by 25 per cent. Promotion
did not seem to worry many, because the
increase of pay was infinitesimal and the
increase of responsibility considerable; in
fact, several of the senior lower-deck ratings
would have actually lost money by accepting
warrant rank or even commissions, bearing
in mind the increased cost of living in an
officers’ mess, the cost of uniforms and the
loss of marriage allowance. I knew an
officer, 28 years of age, who did most of the
de-coding and confidential work of the ship,
in addition to his ordinary job, to whom the
fatuous Navy Board awarded the princely
sum of 10s. a day. Out of this .he
had to live as a gentleman, buy uni-
form, feed himself, and provide for a
wife ashore! Most of the officers in
the ship in which I served got consider-
ably less than the average miner, even when
he voluntarily puts himself on the .darg, and
the fresh-caught subaltern in the A.I.F. was
a bloated capitalist beside these men, who
had begun their job as cadets at 13 years of
age.
“Sgt. S.”: Re The Bulletin’s remark
that if the League of Nations permits Ger-
many to still hold and fortify Kiel Canal, the
decision may some day be a precedent justi-
fying the U.S.A. in fortifying the Panama
Canal. I don’t think the U.S.A. will bother
about a precedent or any other old cobweb.
In December of last year they had in the
Canal Zone guns from 14in. down to one-
pounders, 15 submarines (some of them the
very latest), with accommodation for 40
more, a flight of Curtis flying-boats, several
airships' and captive balloons as well as
mines and shore torpedoes. The guns and
depots are well sited, and the general scheme
would win the admiration of the keenest
engineer. We were shown everything at
Colon and Cristobel, and fSted in Panama
City. They ran a special for us and placed
cars at our disposal, a full band played us
through the big locks, and, as the pilot was
kissing the skipper good-bye, four tugs loaded
us with oranges, bananas and magazines
sufficient to last us to Australia. In all
their excellent arrangements, through which
they were to sell millions of “dallars’ ” worth
of stores to passing vessels, the authority
made only one bad guess. John Bull quietly
countered by establishing his own stores,
docks, etc., in the Indies, supplying his own
and friendly boats, at cheaper rates. Another
case of J.B. getting there without ringing
the bells of Saint Paul’s.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant” finds an old
pump:—■
Smart’s Hotel, at the corner of Pitt and Market
streets, in Sydney, has just been bought by Parkes’s
next-to-last P.M.G., C. J. Roberts, who has sold his
interest in the ancient Roberts’s Hotel at the corner
of Market and George. Smarts’s dates back to the first
’thirties, when H. S. Green, who was storekeeper at
Hyde Park Barracks, opened a pub on the corner
and named it The Cricketers’ Arms. The ex-store-
keeper kept it till the mid ’forties, when he died. His
widow worked it for a time as Green’s Hotel. John
Williams, Crown Solicitor, married the eldest Miss
Green. Following Mrs. Green came Edward Boston,
who had presided over many inns in old Sydney. He
was the patron of Queen Gooseberry, and this famous
old black sister died in-his kitchen at the Sydney
Arms in Castlereagh-street. Boston was in occupa-
tion of Smart’s until the early ’sixties, when Charles
Larny renamed it The Frankfort Hotel. He was
there until 1869, when Henry Robert Smart, a
jeweller, came along and installed himself in Smart’s
Family Hotel. Lately a limited co. has worked it.
In its 85 years the building has been thrice re-
modelled.
WILLING TO CHANCE IT.
JILL: “ You kissed me when you went away,
Jack; hut I teas quite a kid then. Am
I too big to kiss now?”
J ACK: “Oh, I dunno; I've kissed bigger.”
“Brizac”: Get your hooks into this. For
the past two years a bone-dry youth has been
employed by the Navy Department as a mes-
senger to deliver prodigious envelopes around
the city. Apart from this connection with
the Department he is a universal service
trainee in the It.A.N., and has “H.M.A.S.”
on his cap-band. Since the armistice was
signed this mariner lias been given authority
to attach three blue chevrons to his right
sleeve and has been presented with a badge
surmounted by a crown and bearing the
words “Imperial Service, 1914.” It appears
that he is rated as being “on active service,”
and has received a discharge which entitles
him to membership of the R.S.A., the badge
of which he wears. 1 have known the lad
for years past, and he has never in his life
been outside Port Phillip Heads on any sort
of vessel, let alone a ship of the navy.
* * * *
“O. Pip”: With the repatriation muddle
as a background the attitude of the Vic.
Education Department towards its men
stands out as a bright example of the way
the Aussie might be restored to citizenship.
The majority of the soldier-teachers who en-
listed were in the sixth class on the classifi-
cation roll. They have returned to find
themselves well forward in the fifth class;
and a 50 per cent, rise in salary—scant at
all times —is a common thing. Director
Tate’s generous policy will mean goodwill and
a struggle, anyway, for higher efficiency.
“0.L.” : A medical writer in The Bulletin
(6/3/T9), criticising my proposal for an
inquiry by tribunal, on national life-saving
grounds, into every death that happens, (1)
describes the suggested plan as a “Bolshe-
vik” one; (2) takes exception to my refer-
ence to the “criminall.v-neglectful riff-raff of
the profession” ; and (3) scoffs at the idea
of holding a nurse responsible before the
proposed tribunal for failure in her duty dur-
ing a critical period, “whatever that may
mean.” As to this :
(1) The sea-captain—to continue an analogy pre-
viously used by .me—accepts a system equally Bol-
shevik, doing so under conditions of pay and pros-
pects far inferior to those of many medical men.
(2) Two instances should suffice—(a) that of the
registered medico who; on occasion, wallows in alco-
hol or “dopes” to the danger of his patient’s life,
and (6) that of the practitioner who, against all
the teachings of his profession, is bestially careless
in matters of common cleanliness. Everybody in
the medical profession knows that there are such
rotters in Australian practice to-day, and that some
of them have been directly responsible for prevent-
able loss of life. “Criminally neglectful” hardly
seems too strong a term to apply in such in-
stances.
(3) Surely the writer knows that the actions of
the nurse at a time of crisis—-in such matters as
cool-sponging, for example, or the administration of
a stimulant—are of vital moment to the patient.
Regarding my critic’s prophecy that, under
the system proposed, “it would be unsafe to
practise medicine at all, and the patient
would die without medical or nursing atten-
tion,” the magnificent and self-sacrificing
records of these allied professions, under all
manner of conditions, make such pessimism
quite absurd.


/
LINSEED MEAL
Owing to our inability to secure
sufficient raw material, our Mill
has ceased operations for the
month of March. This will
necessitate delay in delivering
orders for Q All orders for @
on’ hand, and received, will be
treated in order of priority. We
anticipate effecting deliveries on
our usual scale during April.
Orders for Linseed Oil will be
delivered as usual for the month
of March.
Architecture,” the official organ of the Institute of Architects, October 21, 1918, says:
46 There is no better Linseed Oil in the world than that produced at Parramatta.
Catalogue No, 2 Mailed Free.
Tull particulars from Agents: Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Queen Street, Brisbane-
Messrs. Harrisons. Ramsay Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. W. Adams & Co
Launceston and Hobart.
Messrs. Clarkson Limited, Bundle Street, Adelaide
~ King Street, Perth; Messrs. P. W. Heritage & Co.
M EGG ITT LTD.
WORKS* PARRAMATTA.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia),
26 Ring' Street, SYDNEY
yNSEEDOUM^
/AOXITT L
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.


The Royal Bank of Australia Limited.
Capital Subscribed
Capital Paid Up
Capital in process of being i>aid up
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank)
£1,200,000
£300,000
£200,000
£310,000
DIRECTORS:
RANDAL J. ALCOCK, Esq., J.P. (James Service & Co.), Chairman.
ALEXANDER MACNEIL, Esq. (Briscoe & Co. Ltd.), Vice-Chairman.
E. NORTON GRIMWADE, Esq. (Felton, Grimwade & Co.).
ALFRED E. BRIGHT, Esq., C.B.E. (Gibbs, Bright & Co.).
The business of this Bank will be conducted on and after Monday, the
24th instant, in its new premises, No. 122 Pitt Street (corner of Rowe
Street)
By order of the Board,
H. T. WILSON,
General Manager.
SPANISH INFLUENZA.
The best precautionary measure advised by Australia’s leading medical
men is an antiseptic condition of NOSE AND THROAT.
EVERYONE IS RECOMMENDED TO CARRY A BOX OF
NAZETHA PASTILLES
THE VERY BEST NOSE AND THROAT ANTISEPTIC.
By their use the curative fumes are searchingly carried to all the breath-
ing passages.
I/O OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM ALL CHEMISTS J
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
[2
POLITICAL
POINTS
Carmichael looks a dangerous rival of the
old party leaders in N. S. Wales. He has
kicked himself free, and with the soldiers’
vote to start with, is more likely to make a
mess of the machines than anybody else who
has shown up since the Labor party
A FLIGHT OF FANCY.
“The people of Australia can rely upon my
giving my best attention to aerial possibilities.”
William Webster.
“Oh , Postmaster-General, whither so high i?”
“To sweep the cobwebs off the sky.”
arrived nearly 30 years ago. But Carmichael
isn’t the only person likely to disturb the
peace. Holman may lead the “Nationalists”
at the next general election. If he doesn’t
there won’t be much left of the “National-
ists.” But the coalition' can’t last much
longer: and after the Labor party has split,
as it also must, the Labor section of the
Nationalists will file off along three tracks:
one lot will go back to the expurgated Labor
party, another (a very small lot) into the
Liberals’ camp, a third to Carmichael.
Unless the Peacock section of Vic. Liberals
get the upper hand In the coming session,
John McWhae, Honorary Minister, may be
appointed Agent-General at the end of this
year in succession to Peter Mcßride. Mcßride
has five months to run, and McPherson is to
report on him and his work. In August or
September the discontented Liberals may,
however, make an effort to report to Irvine
(who will then be a temporary Excellency)
on the desirability of setting up a new
Cabinet.
“J.”: “Scrutineer’s” yarn (B. 13/3/’l9)
re the “cutting” of Holman by Carmichael
when the latter was going
back to France last year is
surprising—if true. For
weeks before he left “Car”
sought out Holman with
assiduity. He was after the
reversion of the Agent-Gen-
eral’s job at the time. Al-
though'Holman couldn’t pro-
mise it to him then the two
remained friendly. If there
ever was a coolness it is on
now, when Carmichael is
reaching out after the Pre-
miership. Which of course
makes it necessary for Carmichael to be
revolted With Holman.
Davey Hall, who is always put up when
it is hoped to catch the birds with chaff, told
Petersham the other night that it would be
a dreadful thing to have a soldiers’ party.
“What,” he demanded, with his tongue in his
cheek, “is the difference between the rule of
militarism here and the rule of militarism
in Europe?” None at all. But the struggle
of the soldiers for representation in Parlia-
ment is simply a struggle to escape from
militarism and get settled in civil life.
Considering the chronic row about valua-
tions, it might not be amiss to enact that
every advertisement of property for sale
shall include a mention of the value put on
it for tax purposes and the value put on it
for probate purposes, if it has been probated
within the last three years. The advt. might
read like this :
SPLENDID BLOCK, an Unparalleled Sacrifice at
£lOOO (municipal valuation £2OO. Sworn for
probate' in 1918, £6O). Don’t Miss This Chance.
That would at least keep the situation before
the public eye and cause recrimination in
the local council, which is usually too peace-
ful, and it might make the Government look
up the valuer who swore to the £6O, especi-
ally if he happens to be also the man who
did the £lOOO valuation.
No wonder the shires are always on the
cadge to the State Government. Some land
in the Turon (N.S.W.) Shire was lately
looked at with a view to pur-
chase for a soldier’s settlement.
The value was declared to be
from £37 to £4O, an acre. Yet
the shire was rating it at £4.
One of the queer things in
connection with the League of
Nations is the renewed talk
about a Japanese base in Mex-
ico. Mexico has a large and
fairly warlike and intelligent
brown population, and having
no nope of ever being a really
white, country it doesn’t mind a
few more browns. It has no
allies, though it has a very big
candid friend on its border, and
it wouldn’t mind buying a
strong new friend. When the
deal was proposed years ago the
U.S. fell on it like Wackford
Squeers, and forbade it as con-
trary to the Monroe Doctrine.
Mexico is no party to the Doc-
trine, and, anyhow, the Doc-
trine only says, and has said
volubly, for 96 years, that the
U.S. will regard the acquisition
of further territory in America
by any European Power as an.
unfriendly. act —it says nothing
about Asiatics, who weren’t
thought of in Monroe’s day.
Wilson was recently questioned
on the matter. He was moved
to say, though not quite in these
words, that if the League of
Nations couldn’t be persuaded
into falling like an avalanche of
elephants on Mexico’s right of
self-determination in this matter, the U.S.
would see the League dodgasted first.
By 216 votes to 41 the U.S. House of
Reps, has over-ridden President Wilson's
comfortable halfway-house doctrine that Ire-
land alone, among white-man countries,
should be refused that self-determination
which inevitably means an Irish
Republic. Presumably the Sen-
ate will go the same way, for
the same party captured both
Houses last November. And
that presumably means that the
League of Nations won’t be
accepted with Ireland left out.
Edmund d-e Valera’s appoint-
ment as President of the Irish
Republic seems to be coming
true. '
The sudden closure of Aus-
tralian copper-mines, which em-
ployed 8512 workers in 1916,
begins to be a calamity. In the
last year before the Avar re-
duced imports, this country paid
±4-19,970 to foreigners for cop-
per wire and pipes and copper
plates alone, and the local man-
ufacture of these goods would
supply work at £4 a week
to 2115 men. Probably
allowing for miscellane-
ous . brass and copper
articles imported it
would be possible, under
a strong Protectionist
tanft, to employ the
whole 8512 men in
copper-mines and cop-
per manufactures, even
ir the outside market closed for good.
The simple fact with regard to copper is that
during the earlier part of the war, when the
had to get the metal at any cost,
American producers, who absolutely con-
ro led the situation, put up the price sky-
£i 9 (^ e av erage for 1914) it
an to £loo 10s. There is no metal in the
world whose output can be so quickly in-
creased, partly because there are thousands
ol low-grade copper shows which are worked
only when the metal is high-priced. The
output in this case bounded; and for vari-
ous reasons---some of them discreditable—
tile .British Government went on buying
until to-day it has £30,000.000 worth in
hand Ihe war price was wholly fictitious:
and there cannot be even a normal market
until the accumulations are used up.
1 robably, as the biggest holder of stocks in
the world, the British Government doesn’t
want copper-mines to work, and won’t will-
ingly do anything to give them a free market;
and that doesn’t improve the outlook. If
any Australian Government gives any
assistance at all, it ought to be only on a
price-basis which would still leave opera-
tions at many mines unprofitable until costs
are greatly reduced.
In Wullie Ividston’s day, 12 or 15 years
ago, the Queensland Government ran to two
motor-cars. Denham increased the number
to three. Now there are 01. The taxpayer
still has the privilege of running behind.
The N. S. Wales Government last week
appointed J. S. Marks chairman of the new
Public Service Commission at a salary of
£2500 plus a pension of £6OO a year; and as
Mr. Marks is already 59 and must retire at
65 he seems to have made an excellent bar-
gain. There were numerous applicants, but
Mr. Marks wasn’t one of them. He was,
however, “a schoolmate of Mr. Fuller,” and
Mr. Fuller is Chief Secretary. Until a few
months ago Marks was manager of the City
Bank in Sydney; then he became general
manager, and, on the absorption of the City
Bank by the A.8.C., he became chief in-
spector. His whole working life, until quite
lately, was spent with the City Bank, which
was the least progressive bank in N. S.
Wales, if not in Australia —though that
probably was not Mr. Marks’s fault. The
new man may be a genius at organisation;
so far, however, he has had no opportunity
to handle any kind of a staff except a few
bank clerks, who are not the most trouble-
some people in the world.
John Storey, leader of the N. S. Wales
State Labor party, has been writing to the
press about the rotten finances of the State.
John Storey’s party was in power when there
was perpetrated that incredible imbecility or
swindle, the Norton Griffiths capitalistic
Private Enterprise loan and railway con-
struction contract, and John Storey’s crowd
voted solidly for it after secret debate (it
would be interesting to know what was said
at that debate) in John Storey’s caucus.
Though the party had split when the burst
and the stench came, John Storey, as leader
of the Opposition, couldn’t say what he
should have said because lie was in
the responsibility from his boots up toHiis
hair. So he denounces the State’s rotten
finance in general terms without allusion in
detail to the Norton Griffiths affair. Truly
the front of John Storey is high. He is
John the Skyscraper.
“Fighting and wars are wholly contrary
to the Christian faith,” says Archbishop
Clarke, of Melbourne, in a Lenten pastoral.
Then there is a misprint in the office Bible
which reports that the sons of lieuben
“made war with the Hagarites,” of whom
“there fell down many slain, for the war was
of God.”
E. E. Judd, who has told Australia
frankly what “direct action” means, scorns
AN EXPENSIVE FLIRTATION.
the Labor party’s objective of State owner-
ship. “State ownership,” he says, “strength-
ens the position of the capitalist class.”
Also: “Governments, acting as executives of
the capitalist-class State, invest the capital-
ists’ money in State-owned industries and
guarantee them a return on their money.”
It is a clod that the Labor party has well
earned. But there was a time when the
party didn’t propose anything of the kind.
It proposed then that the State should own
the industries and instrumentalities —that it
should pay for them, little by little. But
once in power it saw an easy way to buy
votes. It therefore adopted the old policy
of borrowing, and carried it further than
any bloated Government of capitalists had
ever dreamed of doing.
THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Light on the towns and cities, and peace for ever-
more ! . .
The Big Five met in the world’s light as many had
met before,
And the future of man is settled and there shall be
no more war.
The lamb shall lie down with the lion, and trust
with- treachery;
The brave man go with the coward, and the chained
mind shackle the free,
And the truthful sit with the Har ever by land and
sea.
And there shall be no more passion, and no more
love nor hate;
No more contempt for the paltry, no more respect
for the great;
And the people shall breed like rabbits and mate as
animals mate.
For lo! the Big Five have said it, each with a fear-
some frown;
Each for his chosen country, State, and city and
town;
Each for his lawn and table and the bed where he
lies him down.
Cobbler and crank and chandler, magpie and ape
disguised;
Each bound to his grocery corner—these are the Five
we prized;
Bleating the teaching of others whom they* ever
despised.
But three shall meet in a cellar, companions of
mildew and rats;
’And three shall meet in a garret, pungent with
stench of the cats,'
And three in a cave in the forest where the torch-
light maddens the bats —
Bats as blind as the people, streaming into the
glare—
And the Nine shall turn the nations back to the
plain things there;
Tracing in chalk and charcoal treaties that none can
tear:
Truth that goes higher than airships and deeper than
submarines,
And a message swifter than wireless—and none shall
know what it means —-
Till an army is rushed together and ready behind
the scenes.
The Big Five sit together in the light of the World
and day,
Each tied to his grocery corner though he travel
the world for aye,
Each bleating the dreams of dreamers whom he has
despised alway.
And intellect shall be tortured, and art destroyed for
a span—
The brute shall defile the pictures as he did when
the age began ;
He shall hawk arid spit in the palace to prove that
he is a man.
EARTH-RISE FROM THE MOON.
Gobbler and crank and chandler,. magpie and ape dis-
guised ;
Each bound to his grocery corner —these are the
Five we prized ;
Bleating the teaching of others whom they ever
despised.
Let the nations scatter their armies and level their
arsenals well,
Let them blow their airships to Heaven and sink
their warships to Hell,
Let them maim the feet of the runner and silence
the drum and the bell;
But shapes shall glide from the cellar who never had
dared to “strike,”
And shapes shall drop from the garret (ghastly and
so alike)
To drag from the cave in the forest powder and can-
non and pike.
As of old, we are sending a message to Garcia still —
Smoke from the peak by sunlight, beacon by night
from the hill; »
And the drum shall throb in the distance—the drum
that never was still.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


IS?
65=
1
is
an
,u ii^i
unis
nri
i
a
WMMXMM
i'j.
Ih-1
m
y
610
m
$
: J_
> Hu
n.
'<^'." r .>
--o''<
- ,-'f>
Clbrolritp
Proof!
Here is overwhelming evidence
of the Superioritv and Popu-
larity of PIANOLA PIANOS.
The New York Musical Courier , the accepted
authority of the Piano industry in America,
publishes the following:
Out of the total of 861 the Pianola Co'mpany
imported nearly
450 Pianola Pianos
well over half the total for
all Australasia.
These figures tell an eloquent story of superior
quality and outstanding approval of the music-
loving public of Australia.
PIANOLAS are obtainable in the following
makes of pianos: STEINWAY, STECK,
SI ROUD, ' EOLIAN, and the Famous WEBER.
15he
'Pratiefe
(6. Piyzffd.
384 GEORGE S iREET, SYDNEY.
252 Collins Street, Melbourne.
436 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Rundle Street, Adelaide.
SEND TH > COUPON TO THE PIANOLA. COMPANY.
Please send me catalog of Pianola Pianos, showing how l
can purchase an instrument for cash or easy terms.
Xante
Address


COUGHS ARE DANGEROUS.
USE TAR AND SUGAR TO GET QUICK
RELIEF.
Coughs and colds are dangerous because,
if neglected, they so frequently lead to more
serious complaints. Pneumonia, bronchitis
and lung trouble would be almost un-
known if coughs and colds were taken
in hand in time. To be sure of get-
ting prompt relief and to prevent
danger of your cough becoming deep seated
you should always keep on hand a supply of
bitrate of tar cough syrup, which can easily
be made at home for a nominal sum by dis-
solving- half a pound of sugar in half a pint
of hot water and then adding two ounces of
bitrate of tar. Stir thoroughly, pour into a
pint bottle, and when cool it is ready for
use. One or two teaspoonfuls of this simple,
inexpensive home-made cough syrup taken
every hour or two will quickly relieve coughs
and colds, loosen the phlegm, and clear out
the head in a most astonishing manner
Tickling throat coughs may usually be stop-
ped by slowly dissolving in the mouth a
lump of sugar on which you have first put
15 to 20 drops of bitrate of tar. Re sure to
ask your chemist for the bitrate of tar, as
this is a most suitable form for use in cases
of coughs or colds, and is also very pleasant
to the taste. — Advt.
L6£D
Water Lifted 500 ft.,
Pumped a Mile,
at a cost of about id. per hour.
OUR FARM PUMP
‘ENGINE will do this as
well as cut chaff, saw
wood, w ork shearing-
machines, etc. It can be
attached to a windmill of
almost any pump in three
minutes. Needs no mechanic
to fix or operate, and
works all day without
attention. Hundreds sold
and giving satisfaction.
£lO DOWN, BALANCE VERY EASY.
if interested in water supply or irrigation
state your working conditions and w’e will
quote. We stock Steam, Kerosene, Petrol
arl j A ,’ r Engines, Centrifugal Pumps
and Myer’s,” “Gould’s” and “Beming’s”
Pu . nl ps for all services. Maekie’s Rock
and Water Borer, Working Heads and
Plants for deep well and bore pumping a
specialty Immense -stocks Challenge
\ indmills .and Water Supply accessories.
\Ve erect plant if required and -give easy
terms. Catalogues and expert advice free.
Langwill Bros. 8 Davies Pty. Ltd.
110-114- Sturt Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
Near Princes Bridge.
King George IV
Jm WHISKY
11
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Glen Huntly”: Have just made the
acquaintance’of a photographer in the person of a
large Murray cod. On cutting it open, found
on a white slimy fluid in its innards an easily-
recognisable representation of the tree under which
it was caught. A fisherman friend tells me this
is no new discovery—that the cod makes a habit
of taking snaps of its dwelling-places and storing
the negatives in its interior. I’m told these photo-
graphs can be developed by being placed on a
piece of cardboard and left in the sun to dry. But
my informant is a fisherman.
*** * *
“March Fly”: Tell “Gouger” (B.
13/2/’l9) that his bootlace was not being tugged
by the bald-headed Calvinist who informed him that
snowed-urider sheep breathe easily through the
blanket. . It happens every year in the hills
around Methuen (M.L.) that jumbucks are snowed
in several feet deep, and often they reside in their
dugout for weeks without suffering any harm. The
only danger is that, if they are huddled together,
they are likely to breakfast on each other’s jackets.
In that case' the fluffy stuff curls into a ball in
their innards, blocking the gangway and bringing
about death. A sheep will hang- out on as little
as cousin goat. I knew of a ewe which, as the
result of a flood, was for 18 months stranded in
the Ashburton (M.L.) river-bed. For a year and a
half the only item on Mrs. Sheep’s menu was gorse,
and she was rearing a fine family on it when she
had to come home.
* • * * #
“Mookingah”: Peter Halfpenny, out in
the Delalah Downs open country, cutting scrub for
bis working oxen during the recent drought, caught
82 wild dogs in one month, worth £1 per scalp.
Peter ran out of tucker and put in the last two
'lays on pigweed and mulga. Smith, on Thirloo
Downs, caught 45 dogs in one night at Osaca bore ;
scalps £1 per head, bonus £2 per dog—a neat
£135 for one night’s work. But don’t rush it: the
stations have stopped the bonus.
“Tim Buektoo”: West of Winton (Q.) a
gargle costs a bob. A pound-note buys 20 drinks;
but if three thirsts breast the bar and place thereon
a half-crown, it buys the three drinks. This is
the “Barcoo shout.” Anybody know its origin?
“0.L.”: As long as one is alive there is a
chance of being carried off by flumonia or phthisis.
Either may be my own fate; but I have every
reason to back up “Chloe” (B. 27/2/’l9) in that
lady’s advocacy of the “sluicing” habit for prevent-
ing nose, throat or pulmonary disease. For the
past five years, following the advice of a bloke
from Outback who only caught cold when lie came
to town, 1 have got rid of possible germ-colonies,
after being'in doubtful company or in closed rooms,
dusty streets or among the wrong sort of smells, by
snuffing up and blowing out a few handfuls of plain
water —or, on special occasions, a weak solution of
soda bi-carbonate and boric acid. Salt, as recom-
mended by “Chloe,” doesn't suit everybody, because
in some subjects it causes irritation. In the old
days my “colds” lasted a fortnight or so; now-
adays l hardly ever get one—and never a real
“barker.”
“Death Trail”: “Poison” (B. 13/2/T9),
who oiled his chin to remark that although ho
had used phosphorus baits for the past 20 years
for rabbits he had never known native birds to be
poisoned thereby, must have operated where birds
don’t exist. I have been in different country, and
I can assure him that 1 have, by phis; horus, un-
willingly killed hundreds o; magpies, .kookaburras,
soldier-birds, butcher-birds and others. I’ve since
chucked the poison-cart, believing it to be a. sure
destroyer of the best friends that the man on the
land has.
THE BREACH.
“ Haven't seen you with Linda lately. Haven't parted, have you?"
"Too true, my hoy. Two thou, and costs."
“Chris” : Quandong is a question of atmo-
sphere. In town a squashy tomato would beat it
hollow. But come on it suddenly in the bush,
miles from the Dago store, and it becomes a peach.
Near Oodlawirra (S.A.) “wild peaching” furnishes
the week-end frivol. Masked with cream the stewed
“peach” is not bad. Eaten raw it is as interest-
ing as a Moreton Bay fig. Has anyone tried to
grow a quandong in a Melbourne or Sydney garden?
It would make a fine show on any front lawn.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: The duck-shooter meets with
some annoying surprises at times. I had a freezing
swim after a bird in a swamp. When I emerged
from the water I threw the game down on the
grass. I had carried it by a wing in my mouth,
and it didn’t stir a muscle on the journey; but the
instant it touched the ground it gave a flutter and
flew away blithely, laughing at the top of its voice.
“FY7”: “Gecko” in saying in a recent
Bulletin that some Australian snakes are cannibals
is only partly right. None of our snakes is known
to be an habitual swallower of his brother, like the
Indian hamadryad or the black snake of North
America. Both these find their chief food-supply in
the family, so to speak. But any snake will eat
another if occasion offers, especially in captivity. A
snake’s teeth do not allow him to let go once he
has taken hold, and the only thing for him to
do if he gets an accidental mouthful of his missus
or his mother-in-law is to go right on and hope for
the best. A python in Adelaide Zoo some years
ago got accidentally started on a woollen rug. He
carried on till the rug was stowed away, but he
didn’t long survive the meal.
* * * #
“Melos”: There are as many flavors in.
bush honey as there are colors in our flowers. The
eucalypts supply the greater part of the bee food.,
especially ironbark, grey-gum, stringv-bark and
flooded-gum. Spotted-gum yields heavily, but the
nectar turns into a somewhat inferior honey. Ti-tree
is another heavy cropper, but honey made from its
bloom is strongly flavored and rather unpleasant to the
taste. Bees sustained on this diet are notoriously
argumentative during “robbing” operations. Some
idea of the value of our native trees to the honey-
maker—-on the North Coast (N.S.W.), at any rate —
can be gauged from the fact that, during normal
times, an ordinary hive obtaining its supply from
bush blooms alone makes on an average 3lb. of honey
per day during the season.
“Gouger”: The Jap up north looks
around for a game with money in it. Then he goes
quietly to work to improve on the white man’s
method. Take beehe-de-mer fishing, for instance.
The old fashion was to chew cocoanut and squirt it
on the water; this, stilling the ripples, enabled the
diver to see the shallow bottom and the sea-slugs
lying there. The Jap soon made a pair of goggles
which, fitting tightly over the diver’s eyes so as to
exclude the water, enabled him, by swimming with
his face under water, to see the sea-slugs on the
bottom at a much greater depth. As the fleets
skinned out the sea-slugs at the shallower depths the
Jap made an oblong box, with a strong glass fitted
into the bottom. One man rows the dinghy, while
the other puts the glass end of the box under water.
As soon as a “patch” of fish is located the cutter is
signalled. With this box arrangement it is possible,
under bright sunlight, to see the ocean bed at a
depth of 20 fathoms—too deep for the boys to dive.
Then a 21b. lump of lead is tied to a long, strong
fishing-line. Pitted into the lead is a big fish-hook,
straightened out. On top of the lead is tied a
white rag, because at 10 fathoms the lead cannot be
seen. One man swims close by the boat, bolding the
lead and part of the-line in his hand. The rest of
the line is paid out by the boat-rower. When a sea-
slug is seen the line is dropped, and immediately the
white rag shows the harpoon to be -straight above
the sea-slug the line is slackened suddenly. Eight-
een fathoms, an extreme depth, has been worked
successfully by this method.
“G.C.”: After amusedly watching me for
about a week trying to catch Murray cod, the old
fisherman gave me some advice. “Mister, if yer
only here to pass the time away, vcr having a great
holiday; but if yer want to> catch some fish,, go
home and take off those pretty white clothes of
yours and put on some black ones.” I took his
advica, and next day, in the same hole, caught
over a hundredweight, including a 25-pounder. The
old fisherman gave me 2d. a pound for them, and
sold them straight away to some Chow market-
gardeners. He told me he had sold them nearly
two tons of cod this season. *They smoke them.
* * * *
“Frank R.”: The small boy in Rananaland
with the empty kerosene-tin and the hurricane-lamp
who used to make good pocket-money during Janu-
ary catching cane-bettles, which were purchased by
the farmers’ associations at Gd. per lb., lias bumped
against opposition from the ibis, magpie-lark,
yellow-belly, leatherhead, butcher-bird, minah, satin
bower-bird and the laugliing-jaek. The first two
are by far the most numerous, and have the advan-
tage that they follow their prey to the ground if
they fail in their attempt to secure it on the limbs
of trees. Most of the birds are too small to swallow
the beetles at one mouthful, so they beat them to
pieces on the branches before attempting to devour
them. Now that the birds are assisting to exter-
minate the" pest it’s up to the Queensland Govern-
ment to protect them from the youth with the pea-
rifle.
“Sieve Hart”: It has been pitiful to see the
birds, bees and fish, not to mention stock, dying in
thousands out in western N. S. Wales for want of
water. Met an emu within half a mile of a town t’other
day in a netted lane, and* tried to steer the dinkum
Australian to a hole of water I knew of; hut the
bird was too weak, and dropped exhausted. While
considering whether to put it out of its misery n;y
nomination for the mean-man motored up. “Got a
water-bag?” I asked. “I want to give this chicken
a drink.” “Yes, I’ve got a water-bag,” said the
road hog; “but not for those blanky things. Knock
him on the head and chuck him up here. He'll
make a feed for the dogs.” I was saying some
earnest words to him when he yelled, “Oh, go to
Hell!” and shot on.
* . * * *
“Steve Hart” : Will someone tell me why
lightning will strike a team of horses and pass a
bullock-tenm, though they may be close together ?
It cannot always be the harness or shoes, as I have
seen unshod horses struck in a paddock in which
sheep and cattle were also running.
* * * *
“Moana” : An eel with good claims to the
heavyweight championship has been bagged after
the manner of big game at Kaiuma (M.L.). A cocky
hearing a splashing in a small creek went to investi-
gate and found a couple of fair-sized eels on the
grass making hurriedly overland for foreign parts.
Their pursuer, who had got into shallow water and
was letting the whole world know it, was the gran’dad
of the eel family, and at first sight of him the
investigating cocky imagined that the sea-serpent had
arrived at last. The cocky reckoned a rifle was the
best weapon, and in consequence the eel was
accorded the honor of being shot. He measured
20in. round the body and tipped the scale at lcwt.
* * * *
“Leo Lear”: Have any Bananaland abos.
seen the dragon-bird, otherwise the noisy pitta,
lately? You may get a glimpse of them if you can
imitate the “whil-vchit-wheeeoo” and keep still; but
at most times they dart through the tropical tangle
like rabbits through bracken. Pittas wear a varie-
gated gown, but dark-green and black predominate;
there’s a blue patch on the shoulder and a scarlet
one underneath. If you find a large stone sur-
rounded by broken snail-shells in the scrub you
are fairly safe in betting it belongs to a dragon-
bird. Snails are their chief food, and each bird
seems to possess his own chopping-block.
* * * *
“G.C.”: Do sheep always travel faster
against the wind than with it? I know of a mob
that did 15 miles with almost a gale blowing
against them. When the wind was with them they
did only 10 miles in the same time. It was through
irrigated country; with plenty of feed and water on
both sides of the road. Incidentally the best sheep-
dog the drover of this particular mob had was a
greyhound.
* * * *
“Ivonini”: W. Vella, of Maoriland, who
claimed the shearing championship of the world last
year after stripping 339 sheep in nine hours, has
gone one better. This time his tally ran up to
347 jumbucks in nine hours. Square and all,
according to the manager of Taihape station, who
did the checking.
(Continued on paye 24.)
BEYOND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beyond the dismal sandscape
Lies the Land of God-Forgot,
Where the ice-cream does not flourish,
And the counter-lunch is not.
There is sand and there is sorrow—
Yea, there’s soreness of the eyes,
With a scarcity of oysters
And a plenitude of flies.
And every pain and every ill
That mortal ever got
Have nibbled at my vitals
On the track of God-Forgot.
Beyond the fringe of mulga
. Lies the Land of Dreadful Thirst;
Where the wild bull-camel rageth,
And the camel-man accurst
Smiles sleek behind his whiskers
As he contemplates the scene
Of a weary swaginan tramping
Down the track of Nevergreen.
But the language of the swag'gie
Is unfit for me to quote,
Though it seems to fit the climate
Of the Uttermost Remote.
Beyond the final gum-tree
Lies the Land of No One Knows;
Where , the spinifex and saltbush .
And the stunted samphire grows ;
Where tin* emugator creepeth
And the kangarooster flies,.
Where the jillawarra sleepeth
And the .fierce geramel cries ;
Where the whatsit and the whoyoo
And the whatyercallum grins
At the chap who humps Matilda
As a penance for his sins..
At the back of Jumbuck station
’Tis a pleasant thing to rest,
And review the situation
As the sun sinks in the west;
And it helps a man’s devotion
When he kneels at evening prayer
If the ants are in his whiskers
And a scorpion in his hair;
When a snake crawls up his trousers
You can het he’s proud and fond
Of living “close to Nature”
In the uttermost Beyond !
TOM BEASLEY.


Psr
■.• -
■ -
saw
•mi
M
I
*
n
i
:-
I
%
.•
■ ■
'
■
WmmmmmmmmKSmm
flliisll* i 'Met J. is * -
Hi
X
mi
......'SH
y
HP*’!
- i
>V , p
J
v
Mf.. ■:
# v . J
«ti
<***••.,
#
.^i
n?s
I
• • ii
.j
IwS
wmm
mm
■
wm
1
.
Jj
■BT 7 i MBBll
■
4’
I
B
M
/; ; : i
£65
Stationary.
Portable.
Throughout the Length and Breadth of the Five Continents it has Won
Extraordinary Favor among Woolgrowers, Contractors and Shearers*
Ttl :_ n _ Jv -r«,l normlaritv is well merited. As a result of more than a quarter of a century’s experience
in shearing-machine construction, Cooper Experts have been able to put into the Little Wonder everything
that has ever proved essential or desirable m a 2-stand shearing and crutchm & plant.
It is Strong, Sturdy, Compact and Efficient.
Sr o? rife
neighbors—the strongest testimonial that can be offeied an\ mac me
When pot shearing, the 2-b.h.p. engine can be used for wood-sawmg, pumping, chaff-cutting, etc.
Price! £65 Stationary ; £75 Portable. T “- ■" “ 11 '“I
We have ,ood .lock, nl cm m.ke immediate delivetv We c.n eupply l.rjet or .miller oot£t. oi tbe
«*- - *■»<"*» n—.
etc., will be on exhibit at the Sydney Show.
CALL AT STAND 26, MACHINERY AVENUE, and Inspect these Machines in Operation.
If unable to call, write for illustrated catalogue giving price and full particulars of an outfit to suit your requirements.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
430 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Hobart, Tasmania.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN' BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
ABSOLUTELY PURE AND SOLUBLE,
flanufactured in Australia from the finest selected Beans.
99
Obtainable ail Leading Grocers throughout the Commonwealth and N.Z.
Wholesale only from McINTYRE BROS., Sole Proprietors, Melbourne, Vic.
Agents: Mr. J. p. WILSON. Brisbane.
Mr. DAVID BLASHKI, Pitt Street-, SYDNEY.
Messrs. MADDOX & LAWRENCE, PERTH.
Mr. W. R. LANGSFORD, ADELAIDE. [2
“Firepot”: Here’s the approved method
for fixing- leaks in tanks which defy solder. (tot
a piece of calico or hessian, smear thickly on both
sides with fairly thin white-lead, paste over the leak.
If a large hole, plug with this material first, then
plaster over with another mixture of fairly thick
had. I’lie patch will adhere firmly and usually out-
lasts the tank. 1 need hardly remind you to use
Australian white-lead.
* * *• *
“Eloc": We were camped on the Moonie
(<t'.) with 5000 starving wethers. Handy to the
camp was a Chinese garden Where plenty of fowls
were kept. The fowls always roosted in small scrubby
trees. Somebody suggested that a quango of diet
wouldn’t hurt anyone. Black Harry, the cook,
said. “Me get, ’em!’’ That night he sneaked over
to the garden, sawed a shrub off at the butt, and
carefully inarched back to the camp with a bouquet
of five sleeping ehooks. Asked where he learnt
Hie trick he said, “Me bin traekem for Xew South
Wales police.’’
“Nymboida” : Some time ago on the
Clarence (N.S.W.) we watched some thieves at work
for better thieves. The river was full of mullet,
and about, oO divers or shags came after them,
feeding. But a crowd of pelicans were' hungry, too.
A shag would dive and come up with a fine big fish.
But as sure as lie did so an old pelican would go full
speed after him. The shag would flutter along as
fast as lie could, but in pretty nearly every instance
the pelican pouched the fish.
“D.F.”: Collins, Lieut.-Gov. of Victoria,
was, I think, the first official friend that the native
birds had in Australia. On November SO, being-
then camped at Sorrento, he observed in a general
order that many persons were daily bringing birds'
nests into the encampment containing either eggs
or young, unfledged birds. Wherefore:—•
It is necessary to prohibit a practice at once so
cruel and so destructive; any person found offend-
ing against this order will be punished.
Maybe it’s the weakness of old age that makes
bird protection in Vic SUch a farce now.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: As a rule the so-called black
duck (which isn’t black) makes its nest in deep
rush-beds or in thick grass ; but occasionally it
leaves the marshes and reedy swamps, even when
these offer the most excellent facilities for nesting,
in order to lay and sit in hollow limbs of trees. I
saw one ih a dead gum, 60ft. from the ground, a
notable departure for the black duck, which other-
wise never alights in a tree except when wounded..
When the young are hatched the mother carries them
down one by one in her beak. The clutch is usually
about 10. Each little one hides away as soon as
it is put in the water, and when the last one has
been brought down a soft call-note from the
mother brings them all to her Side, and . she swims
proudly away to some feeding place. Even when
freshly hatched the ducklings show all the instinct
of an old bird, their sense of danger being remark-
able. One moment they may be seen clustered
about the parent and the next they have disappeared.
At the approach of an enemy the old bird whispers
a warning, which brings the progeny to attention;
it danger threatens, the next injunction is more
decisive, and the family vanishes without asking
questions. If the group is suddenly surprised, and
the mother is consequently in a desperate hurry, she
speaks in a quick, loud voice and smacks the water
with her wings before taking flight. The infants
dive smartly, and thereafter they remain invisible
until the mother returns to the spot. After alight-
ing on the water she twists about for a little while,
taking observations; then at a soft call the ducklings
appear instantaneously from half a dozen directions.
The only infant prodigy in birdland that can beat
the wild duckling for sense is the young scrub-
turkey, which has to battle for itself from the time
it leaves the egg.
“Half-moon”: While anchored inside the
mouth of the Small River (Cape York Peninsula)
recently, I saw an aboriginal crone bitten bv a
death-adder. The gall bladder of file slain worm
was promptly extracted by the bucks (the bite was
scarified meanwhile) and the contents rubbed into
the wounds. Immediately after treatment Mary
resumed her interest in my tobacco pouch. If, in
such cases, the attacking reptile escapes, which isn’t
often, Dr. Binghi has a reserve and effective herbal
remedy.
* * * *
“Gypo” : What is the lung disease that
kills horses on a sea voyage? Some time ago our
transport took over 800 army prads from Queens-
land arid N. S. Wales to Bombay (base for Meso-
potamia), and 17 of them died on the water, 16
snuffing through lung trouble.
MATED—AND CHECKMATED.
BACHELOR (chirpily ): 'Well, old man, how's everything?"
BENEDICK ( gloomily ): “Oh, she's all right.”
IN A MANNER OF SPEAKING.
MRS. WIGGS: “Ain't you speaking to Mrs. Oldeat now?”
MRS. BIGGS: "Fm speaking to her all right, hut not in a nice manner
“Nymboida” : Saw it years ago from the
balcony of a Casino (N.S.W.) pub. School had
just closed and the street was full of children,
when suddenly a big' red bull tore round the corner
(he had broken the fence of the bull-paddock), bel-
lowing and tossing his head. The youngsters broke
for shelter and all got clear but one poor little
thin boy of about eight. The bull aimed himself
at the boy, and we groaned as the victim was tossed
in the air. But it was a comedy after all. The
bull was very wide between the horns, and, as he
raced on, tossing his old head and looking for
more sport, we picked lip the yelling kid. There
wasn’t a scratch on him.
* * * *
“Ida D.”: Biflghi’s words describing
water were very euphonious. “Coongboongboot.F is
water rippling among the stones. Can you not hear
it? “Kamballee” is “near a lake,” “minya-intha-eigi-
lona ’ is a waterfall on the Barwon. It means,
“What are you crying for?’’
* * * •
"Centurion” : I came across this yarn the
other day in an old book on Barb and Arab horses,'
by W. J. Gordon. After the Russc-Turkish war a
Jacko general presented to Sir Richard Airey a
horse which had carried the news of the Russian
repulse at Silistria to Turkish headquarters, a dis-
tance of 90 miles, without a stop. The rider died
from the effects of the journey. The prad was said
to be a pure-bred Arab. Airey sold it in England to
Earl Spencer, who showed him at Islington, under the
name of Omar Pasha. There he was promptly pro-
nounced a Waler by dozens of Indian cavalrymen.
They were correct, but how he found his way into
the Turkish cavalry is not explained.
* * * *
“Nenthorne”: If you, drive out from
Mcßae’s Flat (M.L.) you come in 20 miles or so
to the old Nenthorne goldfield, once the scene of an
Otago gld boom. To-day nothing remains of the
short-lived township of 3000 people except the
Croesus shaft-head and part of the mill, together
with a few stone foundations, overgrown heaps of
jam and beef tins, etc. At the Dunedin Exhibition
of 1890 one of the “star” attractions was a small
battery, at work crushing Nenthorne ore, with the
treatment complete to the recovery of the melted
bar of gold. Danny (now Professor D. B.) Waters
was in charge of the operation. This active
demonstration of how to do it stimulated the Scotch-
men’s imagination to the extent of many hundreds
of thousands, and a correspondingly deep regret
later on. The lodes were of the gash variety, small
in extent, without persistence, and earned the
description from those who knew them of being “poor
but upright. ’ Rich ore was often obtained ; 4oz. to
Boz. per ton was not unusual, but the quantity was
■very small. The poor old public was as usual
deluded by assays, the sample being in some eases
the whole of the mine. One of the assay tbs who had
a good connection earned the suspicion of genuine
mine-men by the rapidity with which he could
deliver an assay result, and also by the strange cir-
cumstance that he never obtained less than an ounce.
Some cynics once played him a dirty trick. The.'
faked a sample composed of broken bedroom-ware,
mixed with barren schist rock. It was said to
represent an entirely new lode of great promise, and
would he (the assayer) rush the result? An hour
after it was announced that sample so-and-so gave
1.250 z. and a rush set in for the Bedchamber lode.
Otago got such a lesson that it hasn’t had one real
flutter on lode mining since, though it has done
pretty well out of alluvial.
* * * •
“Nymboida”: About 1906 the people *of
Buenos Ayres were made jumpy by thousands of
snakes which swam to land from some large floating-
islands which had come down the Parana from the
equatorial forests in a big flood, and, when they met
the waters from the sea, became stranded. The town
was kept busy doing a sort of sword dance with
snakes until some large men-qf-war fastened cables
to the islands and slowly towed them to sea, when
the waves soon smashed them up and drowned all the
snakes that weren’t up town enjoying themselves.
* * * *
“Gouger”: The old hatter’s bushy whis-
kers fairly bristled with rage. The camp-oven was
empty. Instead of the lump of fried meat left over
from tire morning’s breakfast there was only a
• eplv-scarred layer of dripping on the bottom of
the camp-oven. A big, fat gohanna, his claws still
greasy with dripping, licked his chops reflectively
and stared at the hatter from under the kitchen
table. “Come out o’ that,” yelled the old man
furiously, “yer dirty, crawlin’, thievin’ skunk!
Call yerself a ganna ; yer dirty, slimy snake! That’s
wot ye are. A slatherin’, sneakin’, wop-eyed son of
a carpet-snake. Come out o’ that while I skin yer
alive.” The hatter made a wild lunge under the
table, but the gohanna, scenting trouble, dodged,
scrambled out through the kitchen-door and swiftly
crawled up a corner-post and climbed out on to the
ridge-pole of the hut. The hatter dashed out after
him, but the gohanna, from his safe vantage-point,
merely cocked his head sideways and looked down
on the old man with a cold, insolent stare. “Yer a
cold-footed coward,” cried the hatter bitterly.
“Shake ther last bit uv fresh meat in ther camp, an’
too damn seared ter wait an’ get what’s cornin’ to
yer. Here I am slavin' ter keep ther home over us,
an’ you doin’ nothin’ but loaf about ther camp, an’
sleep an’ shake ther last bit of fresh beef in ther
camp. Yer dirty, fat, greasy, slop-eared son of a
death-adder; yer puttin’ on more frills lately than
these ’ere returned sojers. Wait till I catch yer.
111 flay yer alive.” Still furious, the hatter retired
growling into the kitchen, while the gohanna turned
to licking his claws with his iong forked tongue,
preparatory to beating a discreet retreat to his
hollow log.
BREAKING THE NEWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sailor came up from the sea,
A solemn truth to bear to me—
A simple sailor with a tab;
Of how by sun, and salt, and gale
He’d won from some Pacific isle
Where God had cast his ship a while.
The mission-teacher's dear grandchild,
Blue-eyed and sunny, he beguiled.
It was of grandpapa lie told,
Tiie shepherd of a dusky fold
Upon that isle where grievous Fate
Had thrown the sailor desolate.-
“Your grandpapa was bold and true;
lie taught the Sheebmigs wliat he knew.
He won their hearts. At feast or play
He ever was as good as they.
When for a wager they might eat,
No man more resolute at meat.
“At that great final match he ato
A little sheep, and smiling yet
Devoured of taro and of rice
The full of such a basket twice.
His dusky friends the Sheebungs blent
Great honor with their wonderment,
“He only ceased when all was done.
Then Oozoo’s famed feast was begun.
He earned the prize!” By wonder swayed,
“What ate lie?” asked the little maid.
"A mighty eater he, for, ah,
My lass, lie ate your grandpapa !” •
VICTORIA,
EDDYSON.


w*
m.
£3
tel </ ?ni.
ir g'jalitieS ( .jj
\u
?o
%
n
CM
■ALti
%k
SUf
yy>
m
c\&ii
s£ss
m
■♦© £■': ■
a
,<
I 5
.
mm
SSMiSS
SI
mzm:
ww \v
H*
■'
\
Cigarettes of the Highest Class
at Moderate Prices.
CIGARETTES
The quality of these high-class Cigarettes
is exactly the same &s before the war,
NO SUBSTITUTE
whatever being' used in their manufacture.
The Famous Red Packet
No. 333. lO f ° r 3d.
STANDARD WEIGHT.
Obtainable of all High-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND


New Hupmobile Car
THE COMFORT CAR.
T
HE new Series R Hupmobile incorporates all the old good qualities of the Hupmobile with
many improvements and refinements. There never was a
with the present model in riding' comfort, economy of opei
Yet Hupmobiles have always been notably strong on these very
Hupmobile. that could compete
ation and all-round performance,
points.
Specifications.
BODY TYPES —Five-passenger, two- or three-passenger single seater.
WHEELBASE—II 2 inches.
CYLINDERS— Four, east en bloc, removable head —82 mm. bore x 140 mm. strode.
STARTING —Two unit system Automatic release.
IGNITION —Dixie high-tension magneto.
CARBURETTER—SpeciaI Stremberg, with two adjustments.
PETROL SYSTEM —Stewart-Warner vacuum feed. 13 Imperial gal.on tana two gauon
LUBRICATION — Pressure system. Gear pump driven from cam shaft.
COOLING— Thermo-syphon, 'extra radiator capacity.
CLUTCH—Dry-disc type. Seven steel plates faced with asbestos fabric. Fully housed.
REAR AXLE—Floating type. Spiral bevel gears.
TYRES 815 x 105 mm. clincher type. Plain in front, all-weather tread on rear.
UPHOLSTERY —Genuine leather, stuffed with real curled hair.
Eain^MoTwlndshidd 1 ; head, tail and instrument-board lights; petrol gauge; motor,
driven horn; ammeter; foot and robe rails; tyre earner; extra rim; side cui tains,
tonneau carpet: hood cover; pump, jack, full set of tools and tyre-repair outfit.
Write for complete illustrated manual and prices.
DEALERS.
1. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.,
Brisbane.
DALGETY & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.,
Adelaide. ,
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO.,
LTD., Perth.
Haptacbac
The Comfort Car.
1-
KM
m
»1
1
air
' \V
1 I
dealers.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE,
LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO., LTD., Wan-
ganui, New Zealand.
TTTP 1 NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’
™ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
OP CANTERBURY LTD,
Cashel Street, Christchurch,
jfew Zealand.
The Comfort Car.
required”! Naturally Barrett lias some-
thing interesting to say about the eye-causes.
An eve punctured by a fragment of a projectile is
almost'invariably lost. The metal is non-magnetic.
It, is usually situated deep in the vitreous.... it a
projectile enters the head in the vicinity of the eye
in most cases the eye is destroyed. \\ hether from
the velocity or the rotation of the projectile the
bruising disorganises the coats of the eye and rendeis
it sightless.
The doctor did not believe in sending one-
eyed men to the Front. One battler, how-
ever, eluded him. He reached Gallipoli,
where he was hit in the blind eye by a pro-
jectile. Barrett subsequently removed the
Not only had the Australian Defence
Department no use for specialists: it had
none even for dentists. Its failure to pio-
vide them in the first instance is, these
writers mildly say, “difficult to understand.
Actually “it becaffie necessary at No. 1
Generai Hospital to borrow two dentists
from the Maoriland Government, to tit them
out with Bed Cross money and goods, and
in this \Vay to meet informally the difficulty.
Of the Bed Cross and its activities the
authors have naturally much to say —most
of it in high praise, though there is some
helpful criticism as well. And the services
of the Y.M'.C.A. are given the most generous
recognition.
The book (Australian Army Medical Corps
in Egypt, published by H. K. Lewis and
Co., London) is not a model of either concen-
tration or arrangement. But it will serve
very well as a record of a remarkable
achievement, more successful, happily, in its
results than the great enterprise to which
it was supplementary.
The Army that had to be De-
loused
Modern Crusaders, written by Major V\.
S Kent Hughes, M.C., and published by
Melville and Mullen (Melbourne), is a
book which follows the footsteps and the
dust-cloud of the Australian Light Horse
from Egypt to Jerusalem and Jericho.
That trek of some 200 miles in a straight
line occupied years. The remaining
proceedings, which wrecked two Turkish
armies and broke the heart of the Unspeak-
able so that he humbled his fez in the dust
and asked for peace, took less than half a
year; but the book doesn’t deal with them.
The preliminary struggle was through the
shifty desert. The troops—scarce at first
and ill-supplied with, many things—were
their own explorers in a land where travel-
ling meant merely going up a wall of sand
and over the roof and down the other side.
They were to a great extent their own road-
makers where roads blew away as they were
made. They developed the natural re-
sources of the sand as they went along by
sinking wells, which gave few results and
these often salt, so that much of the water
had to be carried on camels; and as the
camel’s load was limited and he had to go
back for a drink himself just as the force
was becoming acquainted with him, troop*
went ahead by small instalments m short
stages. Over and over again it was a case
of taking a strong position in a day, or else
giving up the attack and retiring -A) or oU
miles for a spell because the next supply oi
water was inside the strong position. In
other words, the attacking force had got
so far from the last supply that it was
approaching the point at which the camel
consumed most of his own load. Two cam-
paigns against Gaza failed because night
found the place untaken and it was neces-
sary to retreat towards the source ot
Nature’s brackish cocktail.
But the railway kept crawling up behind,
being built sometimes at the rate of a mile
and a half a day. Distances became shorter
and food and water more regular. A rare
harbinger of civilisation began to appear—
the lice train carrying elaborate appliances
for de-lousing and de-bugging the army, much
of which hadn’t slept under a roof, let alone
a roof with a bath-tub. for lialf-a-year. A
pipe line was laid, and water was pumped
out of Africa. So at last the army climbed
tlie northern bank of the river of sand and
rocks, after 3f years’ crossing; and when it
got where there was hard ground and some
roads and a fair amount of water, and had
been rested and really de-loused and de-
bugged, its progress was of the whirlwind
order. Some 3500 years ago Tliothmes
111., the Foch of his day, sent his army by
sea to Northern Palestine and cut out the
desert road, but there were no Hun sub-
marines about then.
The Major supplies a readable book and
the numerous photographs are honest, and
haven’t been faked by the artist who takes
20 years off his client’s age for a considera-
tion.
A Satchel of Books
The Twin Ideals, by Dr. James W. Barrett, of Mel-
bourne (H. K. Lewis and Go., London). The writer
describes these two solid volumes as a collection of
“essays, memoranda, articles and letters,’’ and they
skirmish with many subjects—criminality, tropical
kitchens, the inflow of capital, Alexander Peacock,
the German menace, consolidation of the empire,
Empire Day, deafness, T. Bent, etc. Some of them
date back 17 years and are a trifle stale. Birth,
marriage and death statistics, for instance, that end
with 1898 have outlived most of their usefulness.
Also some of them are untidy; thus “persons
married” in Sweden are 12 per 1000, and mat-
riages” in Australasia a shade over seven. As it
takes two “persons married” to make one “marriage”
it was only necessary to reverse the process to make
the Australasian figure 14, and the Swedish one six,
which would have looked much better. No less than
87 of the items were apparently letters to the Argus,
with which the masterful Melbourne eye-doctor once
communicated three times in five days. That comes
of living almost next door to a newspaper office.
The .lneae Pilgrim’s Progress, Ballads of the Aus-
tralian Army, bv Lance-Corporal Cobber, edited by
A. St. John Adcock (Simpkins, Marshall, London).
Rough verses, with something of the spirit of Gal-
lipoli in them, that should enjoy a passing popu-
larity with the elocutionist. The verse never soars
very' high nor .does it dive very deep, but it is often
catchy and vigorous.
A Critical Revision of the Genus Eucalyptus, by
J. H. Maiden. Part 6 Of volume 4 of this stupen-
dous work has just been issued. Some day the epic
of the gum-tree may be written with a pen dipped
in Australian sunshine; meantime the A'. S. Wales
Government botanist gives us a history and descrip-
tion which is of the highest value.
The Flying Teuton , by Alice Brown (Macmillan,
New York). The first yarn in this book of com-
paratively short stories is, in its way, one of the
most enthralling of modern times. It deals with the
occult; but it is • the occult handled with strange
conviction working out the doom and repentance of
Germany. The rest of the work in the book is very
uneven.’ At best it grips hard; at worst it is read-
able. Alice Brown is occasionally tangled in her,
own eloquence; but she has always the saving grace
of something to say.
What is Spiritualism? by Horace Leaf (Cecil
Palmer and Hayward, London). Here you have the
whole story from the point of view of the true
believer. Evidence is piled up which points to
something; but exactly what it points to is not so
clear. The big name of Lombroso stands among-
those of the well-known apostles of the cult. Later
on, something convincing may be discovered.
In Our Street, by Peggy Webling (Hutchinson,
London). Here you are right in the heart of mys-
tery. Everybody and everything tries to be mysteri-
ous’ ; but tile young man rescues the young woman at
the right time. A novel for table-rappers.
The Women Who Wait, by Mary Marlowe (Simp-
kin, Marshall, London). Another yarn by a lady
who used to stand behind the Sydney footlights. The
clairvoyant heroine takes to the better and more'
prosaic business of nursing the wounded in France,
and, later, to the higher task of bearing children for
her blind husband. Fairly written ; but with no
particular grip. v
World Organisation Alter the World War, by T. C.
Chamberlain. A pamphlet reprinted from the Ameri-
can Journal of Geology (why geology the Lord
knows) setting out a plan something like the League
of Nations. The author’s idea seems to be that in-
ternationalised trade highways are the guarantee of
peace. A map endeavors to prove it:.
The Inky Way
“A. 8.5.”: “Marqui” (B. 27/2/’l9) adds
Jovee Kilmer to the roll of poets who have
gone west in the war. Let me nominate
William Noel Hodgson as another. He was
hardly so precocious as Rupert Brooke ; but
from his literary remains it seems that his
full stature would have been considerable.
Before he passed out in July, 1916, he served
with distinction, annexing a lieutenancy and.
a Military Cross. He seemed to share with
Brooke, and Alan Seeger a premonition of
his death. ' Observe this stanza, written two
days before the end, for its resemblance in
prophetic properties to Seeger’s “I have a
rendezvous with death,” or to Brooke’s son-
net “If I should die”:
1, that on my familiar hill
Saw with uncomprehending' eyes
A hundred of Thy sunsets spill
Their fresh arid sanguine sacrifice,
Ere the sun swings his noonday sword
Must say good-bye to all of this;
By all delights that I shall miss,
Help me to die, 0 Lord.
“Chasuble”: Archbishop Mannix’s put -
chase of the Advocate has precedent—the
Archbishop of London bought the Tablet
and the Archbishop of Boston the Pilot.
Mannix could be easy while the Winter
interest held the Advocate, but the family
had decided to sell. Both with Tablet and
Pilot the Church had felt the inconvenience
of private ownership of the leading religious
papers. For instance, the Tablet, before
its purchase, had been led by the forceful
influence of the Duke of Norfolk to wound
the Irish Jby opposing Home Rule.
“Oamelero” : There is a printer in Jeru-
salem who is himself that he
got a fine assortment of English type gratis
from the Hun. When Abdul and Co. were
feverishly fortifying Caza, Bosclie staff-offi-
cers heard that the Australians were growl-
ing that they had to bear the brunt of the
fighting. The Huns decided to shower
icirculars from aeroplanes upon the Austra-
lian bivouacs, advising them that J. Bull was
sacrificing them and sparing his own troops,
and that they would be welcomed with open
arms by their dear brother Fritz. However,
there wasn't a font of English type in the
Holy Land, so a supply was ordered from
Berlin and found its way to Jerusalem just
before Allenby started on his wonderful dash
to the Holy City. It was a coincidence that
Australians were the first troops to walk
into the office, and they were in time to read
proofs of a Ilun circular. One of them
pushed his foot through the forme, and that
was the end of the job. The Jew didn’t
mind, as two days later he was working over-
time turning out printing for British H.Q.
with the Iluns’ type.
“S.T.S.” : Why does Bernard Cronin, writ-
ing about Tasmania of to-day in “The Coast-
landers,” and seeming to know the country
well, make everyone talk an American
dialect?
That was surelv a great think of yours... .Ma’s
wise to the plot.'.. .Now you think over it a spell,
and maybe you won’t feel sore... .They’s no cure
for political graft but only a shotgun Its a
sure thing they’re right up against it.... 1 must
have looked pretty near -as mean as. a scalded hog,
standing there with my mouth open like T was a lad.
The whole thing is like that. A man “hits”
a town when he arrives, and “beats it” when
he leaves —and so on. Why select Tasmania
as the locality for that kind of talk?-
THE EARLY EPITAPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Here to-day, gone to-morrow.” —Advertisement o)
a neio newspaper.
All flesh is grass; all speech is chaff;
All paper is at best but tissue;
The journal’s solemn epitaph
Is written for its second issue.
Vain, vain are all the boost and boom,
The promise and the proud pretension;
Death has a little, silent room
For scores of papers I could mention.
What though the many sections float
Heavy with words of solid minting,
It is but wise that journals note
The dark, still hour the fates are hinting.
With us to-day, to-morrow gone!
Well, take the good the gods provide us.
A thousand summer suns that shone
May through the winter days deride us.
Death comes to all things soon or late—
The serpents of decay still hiss it.
If this for dissolution wait,
Well, let it hiss —and who shall miss it?
s.s.w.
RIMU.


mm
ig&pg m
■
•
S:h>
■
■
k „
■
,wr ,
lili
IMS
t
:
■" ■"■ '■
•. ■
t
ti
//
/.
ssi
wnm
P -
: v
• -'
■
'
L* />, *s* ,>« >
fik.
.
till
~ ■>
k
SOL
/
fe,
ram..
as
I*
II
I
■■■B
11
li
1 JLj
IiSISi
itt ~ i -. ■
■
...
L
:
•'
||
emn
;
la
k
.
- -■ 'I
■
mimrn
-..
■
■
mmem
• ■
\ v « , -* ,
I
PH
'
’ .a. u • •
4v:SS> ■■•asr
v* a,-
«y **
W»
Wi
‘ 1
;: -
a&c.'ipe
. «, ;
GEElectric Irons
It is a conservative estimate that,
in ironing for an average family, a
woman walks seven miles a year
between ironing board and stove.
The G.E. Electric Iron will
save waste effort. It furnishes its
own heat, and STAYS HOT until
the ironing is finished. You don’t
have to leave the ironing board,
and you can work wherever there
is an electrical connection.
Write for particulars.
GE.Fans
A GoE. Oscillating Fan will
cool your office— concentrate its
breezes if you like, or make
them swing around the room.
If you expect continued activity
and mental alertness through-
out the hot Summer months,
install a G. E. Fan and make
your office comfortable. Why
not put a Fan or two in your
home also ? You can enjoy the
same comfort during hours of
rest with equal economy. Your
family deserves it.
Write for particulars.
▲
m
WENTWORTN AY SYDNEY, O? OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
AGENTS:
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Etd.. Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie St.
AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tulloek & Co., Ltd., Launceston;
Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
Messrs.


A. Saunders’ Gent.’s High-grade Nickel
Lever, 25/- ; extra jewelled, 30/-,
40/-, 50/-. AH guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Pearl
and Aquamarine Necklet,
£3/10/-
■I
A. Saunders’
Lset.
Aquamarine Bar Brooch,
■ Gold, 35/-
AI
Vgj&jW’
A. Saunders’ pure double
cut diamond set Medal,
15ct. Gold, £4/10/-,
£5, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily en-
graved, 20 / 15ct.
Gold, 35/-
SfefcK
A. Saunders’
Diamond
Cluster Ring,
18et. Gold,
£5.
A. Saunders’
pure Diamond
Ring, 18ct.
Gold,
£4/1 0/-
A. Saunders'
pure double
cut Diamond
hali-hoop
Ring, ISct.
Gold,
£5/10/-
ARTISTIC JEWELLERY
A. Saunders’ Nickel or Gun Metal open-face
Wristlet, 25/-, 30/-. Solid Silver, £2,
£2/10/-. Gold filled, £3, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-. 9ct. Gold, £5, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Albert, £4/10/-; lighter,
£4/2/6, £3/10/-, £3; heavier, £5, £5/10/-,
£6, £6/10/-. Isct. Gold, £7/10/-; lighter,
£7, £6/10/-, £6; heavier, £B/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold plain half-rounu .bracelet,
with safety chain, £2; narrower, 25/30/-;
wider, £2/10/-, £3, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double cut Diamond
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Single Pearl Bar
Brooch. £2.
RY
A. Saunders’ Presentation
Returned Soldiers’ Medal,
9ct. Gold, 80/-; heavier,
35/-, 40/-. 15ct. Gold,
£3, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-
A Saunders’ £>ct. Gold
Links, daintily en-
graved, 17/6. loct.
Gold, 35/-
A. Saunders’
pure Diamond
Boat-shape
Ring, 18ct.
' Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
15ct. Gold
Ring, set Red
Stone,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’
pure double
cut Diamond
Ring, 18et.
Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Nickel Hunting Lever, extra-
quality movement, 40/-. Solid Silver,
£2/15/-, £3, £4/10/-, £5, £6,
£7, £lO. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Necklet,
set Aquamarines or Red Stones,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid 9ct. Gold patent expanding Watch
Wristlet, full jewelled lever novement, compensation balance,
£B/10/-. Extra quality, £lO. 15ct. Gold, £lo.
Guaranteed.
JEWELLER,
805=815 Georg'e Street, SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, 35/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold patent expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled movement, £7/10/-
Others, £4, £4/10/-, £6, £6/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S.BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68| PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
SAVOY HOTEL,
Hay Street, Perth, West Australia.
PERTH’S LEADING HOTEL.
Recommended to Visitors from Eastern States.
Tariffs £4/4/- per week,
12/0 per day.
J. M. QUIGLEY, Manager.
I
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s including Nana, 2/- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest, edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beadty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s • Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and ©il Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught. 1/6. How to Make
Sweets. Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide,' 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 .posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win Pr Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise. 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man ills Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society. 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide. 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3. 2/-. How-
to Head Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Ciieyasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers'. Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wipe’s Handbook, 1/3, posted.
Fruits of Philosophy. 1/- lOO New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. -Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (W hy
pav 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootaiaking and Repair-
ing 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors. 2/3.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/* posted.
Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s ManuA, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (onlyi.
m~BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME,
i®
- T *^##
<*%
< 'fc*^»A-v«*’s!P AfTi i-'-J sji f •;■•• "'•: •' ' -v
’- ■‘i'”"' ’ ■■• ~
]&#§}pitisatfs i;>: _ ..."
A|sf| C. *?
* *■ *;i'V**l I^£&s»**> t, m \ sM'r^ \
yi »-faA> v " s .
lilMf 11 Jfelfef —> jt^sr
PR
mt
$) i
mna»mw&
».
II: L|
m IflH
«* h V *W<.
*>»•**-
•***+*#
mmu ! «x fH;fff
Jg \ 1 'X-r
•m
•*<JTl».'*~>W'. 'J|
*3i
§»
p®
n t
£•'*
V«KfL<,
r
f S *«l
mtSfc/'
*//<
Zc
r
£>■
$
IN
iili
W*.
s_- ,/&?• r■ ™ ;. ■
f*%*
»ArwyiVK-^ w V'-Sft‘i<;f
&
. / ■v-yy^—
„v<>®
atfiisif
s?i
fsi
* t l’* ' s
.v.c r
(A
1 \ A|i
\ * ilii
jjr«*“-
*s/•>'• * ’'•'v i ,'> i ..''.ViV'-' - '
.-^•^i2xr\23tC*XS:
i!v'
L-Vfl
i
«*■#s*&***
..WAVS-'
f '
•?,-,> y;-
■;- V
•>: :
w^fpvv*^)
R ; ;’.>yv*A
-•c.^
•3
; , , £.s>- , -''!*'V , x-
'. -■- .v ;j
MyW^
SiMS
C>-
Kf >•• •: - . ,V='...;• •■• '•:•■•
:' •' r.< •
’.V ,. .• v ;'.H.V. , vC’-'
•’'V';
V/
•-> r---. •>«.••^••v'.C'-• Y‘v • “'-■■■ ;• •
-I- :,-vs : ,v ; -'?-;''
7-»'‘<.^--;.-\r.■. •-•-
v -v - • y-;.,. v• J: •<'T~''2' i Vi ; '. / ''
/
W
<cjZ
£
wa^sA’r
SKS
?? 7 /'; .
/'//• ;
.* * y ••w‘ f S
|<o fcj£t
Cobra,” Sfte Boot Polish.
Cbunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Takes his swift
Destroyer through
Where the Turk slept
By his guns
For the scheming
Master-Huns.
Nevermore will
England wait
At the world’s
Gr< sat water-rate.
O
Where the sun-track
Shines to-day
‘‘COBRA” cleaned the
Turk away.


RR
■
m
m
ffIIUVHIHIIIiW
.- -
jpnailH
s~.'\
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND |j C'A’C » | BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA —Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES—SB Pitt Street, Sydney ■
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
RENEW YOUR STRENGTH BY
TAKING PHOSPHATE;
RESTORATIVE OP VIGOR AND
VITALITY
The condition of the man or woman who
has lost his or her strength is pitiable, for,
above all, it is strength that makes life
worth living and renders possible the full
enjoyment of all that life offers. Illness,
worry or anxiety may have sapped your
vitality and robbed you of your strength, or
old age may be responsible for tissue wast-
age and consequent loss of power, but what-
ever the cause it is possible for you to renew
your strength, to regain the vigorous health
which is your birthright, and to defy the
advance of old age by simply furnishing
your system with bitro-phosphate. This
product is natural to the human body; it is
present in abundance in vigorous youth, but
in later life, or in consequence of illness or
excesses the quantity is reduced and its
reduction is marked by such symptoms as
weakness, depression, insomnia, debility,
languor, irritability, inability to withstand
mental or physical strain, etc., and, noting
one or more of these symptoms, you should
at once commence taking this restorative
bitro-phosphate treatment. No difficulty
should be experienced in obtaining the treat-
ment, for bitro-phosphate is now stocked by
practically all high-class chemists in the
form of small compressed tablets. - The de-
sired results are obtained in practically
every case, and you do not have to wait long
for proof that bitro-phosphate is doing you
good.—Ad\;i.
POVERTY
POINTS
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“C. Ockney” : The late Irene Browne just
missed being the original Lady Frayle in
London. Robert Courtneidge had engaged
her for the character, and she had rehearsed
it enthusiastically up to the eve of produc-
tion, being most anxious to make good in a
new line. But an attack of laryngitis pre-
vented her appearing for a fortnight after
the piece had been produced. Meanwhile
an understudy had had the most unusual ex-
perience of playing the principal’s part—
and the title role —at the opening perform-
ances.
“Bill Bile”: Moree, as “Treasurer” de-
clares (B. 13/3/’l9), may have looked upon
the Chautauqua show as a boon and a bless-
ing; but Moree isn’t N. S. Wales, and there
are several towns in the State that evidently
weren’t so well pleased to lose their good
money. This extract from the Orange
Leader, for instance, is fairly indicative of
the general feeling:—
Sad to relate, the guarantors did not sign on
again, so that Chautauqua will be seen no more in
Orange. They will have to put their hands in
their pockets, to the tune of about £3 each to make
up the deficiency. In this respect they are more
fortunate than other towns—Mudgee, for instance,
where it cost the original guarantors £6 apiece;
Bathurst, £5 ; and Lithgow a similar amount.
What would happen to a native-born slioav-
man Avho attempted to run his business on
Chautauqua lines? .
“Jean S.”: The mostly-Australian opera
co. at Melbourne Princess’s has now suffi-
ciently advanced in performance to justify
the management trying the experiment of an
all-Australian cast. The Italians are not
indispensable, and their dismissal for one
trial night could be justified on the ground
that many people would be glad to see the
unsophisticated locals playing as well as sing-
ing popular parts in a manner that derives
little inspiration from the Italian tradition.
The attractive Nellie Leach has shown us
what the home-grown product can do with
characters like Nedda and Siebel, and there
are other Australian songsters who have
been kept from giving a more vivacious and
natural readme of their roles by the deaden-
ing vicinity of some histrionic automaton
from Italy. The Italians are all capable
singers, but, with the immense exception of
Balboni, they act their parts like mechanical
toys.
A brisk little amateur comedian was lost
when Harold Allert died in N’Aork of ’flu.
In his young days in Adelaide he had a big
reputation in character parts. He went to
S. Africa seven years ago on business,
appeared on the London stage, got back to
Ins insurance work Avhen the war came, and
ended as partner in an American business.
He was in Adelaide a few months ago
representing his new firm, and had a great
reception. Only 34 at the finish.
“Private Boxer”: Recently dead in Eng-
land the broadly-humorous. Florence Baines,
seen in Australia 12 or 13 years ago
in a hotch-potch (said to be by Sydney
Grundy) called “Miss Lancashire, Ltd.” As
an exponent of the clog-and-shawl Manches-
ter mill-hand the late comedienne took a lot
of beating. But the play she appeared in
wanted more. •
Fanny Emily Mary Rose, Avliose name on
Poverty Point is Minnie Hooper, got into a
“leading case” in Sydney last week. J.C.W.
put her off for a fortnight, “plaintiff’s con-
tract for services being rendered im-
possible of performance by reason of
the Government proclamation closing the
theatres.” The firm paid her £10; she
asked for the other £3O of her fort-
night’s salary as ballet mistress. And she
gojc it, on two grounds: (1) that she wasn’t
engaged only for Sydney, where she hap-
pened to be when the proclamation was
issued; (2) that she was not a player, but
an inventor and teacher, and could work
whether the theatre was open or not-—in
fact, she did most of her work while it was
shut.
Arthur Maughan Humble-Crofts, who was
here a few years back, in his capacity of
husband of entertainer Margaret Cooper,
was one of England’s influenza victims. He
died in a military hospital at Dover.
Crofts is remembered in Australia as a
bored young man who spent most of his time
setting fire to cigarettes. Subsequently lie
told the press elsewhere what he thought of
the country, and what he thought didn’t
amount to much.
“Norbell”: Sara Allgood knows a lot
about ’flu and quarantine. After losing her
husband through the epidemic in Maoriland,
she had great difficulty in getting back to
Australia. She managed to escape in a
transport to Adelaide, where she was quar-
antined on Torrens Island for seven days.
Then she moved on to Sydney in the Wyan-
dra, and just as she had passed the Federal
doctor at Watson’s Bay, the State M.O.
discovered that the ship’s baker was ill, and
that meant another seven days’ dreary in-
ternment at -North 'Head. “Peg-o’-my-
Heart” is now back in her home at Mosman,
and is scared to go across to the city lest
someone should develop a temperature before
the ferry gets to Circular Quay.
“0.K.”: Died recently in London, Phil
Rae, a well-educated vaudeville comedian
Avith a fine baritone voice and a lively sense
of humor.. He Avas one of the brainiest
patterers in the business, and sometimes the
broadest. Three notable stage Phils I have
known, Day, May and Rae, avlio died before
their time. Phil May got his start in black-
and-white by drawing portraits of actors,
“BABES IN THE WOOD” PANTO.
Three acrobatic porters —the Paulastros.
and was himself so fond of the stage that he
even dreamed of taking to it in earnest.
Phil Day—well, there are no pilgrimages to
his Australian grave these days, but time
Avas when his Jaikes in “Silver King” and
his excruciatingly funny Bosco Blithers
made him the most popular comedian who
had ever come to this country. Phil Day,
like Phil May and Phil Rae, was Avell on the
right side of 50 Avhen he passed out. These
nippy names are strong incentives to
boliemianism, perhaps.
“Andrew Ralph”: “Galleryite” mentions
(B. 6/3/T9) Emily Rhead in “Milestones”
as the chief Australian success of the late
Irene Brown. Granted. But what about
including her passionate Berenice in “The
Sign of the Cross”? Although stagey and
theatrical as Bella Donna, she had moments
of considerable power and looked voluptu-
ously exotic. To make the snake-Avoman —
THE SILENT DRAMA.
THE TALKATIVE ONE: “They say she is paid
four times as much for acting in the
pictures as she got on the stage.”
THE INTERESTED ONE : “It would take more
than that to induce some girls to give
up talking.”
a glorified melodramatic villainess- —con-
vincing would have been a pretty difficult
job. And, anyhow, for myself I could look
at a starette being merely voluptuously exotic
seven nights a week.
“Stargazer”: It is again claimed that
the problem of talking pictures is solved.
This time it is the Marconi Wireless
that does the trick. I hope not. Give
these good, familiar people of the movies
artificial voices, canned speech, and more
than half their charm will be gone.
Besides, knowing the language of the
dumb show as thoroughly as we do now,
talk will be a wasteful and ridiculous excess.
Much of the print flashed upon the screen is
that already. The pictures have a pull over
the legitimate in not demanding absolute
silence on the part of the audience, and the
Introduction of those continuous noises
which tlje politicians make will be a risky
experiment.
“Glen H.”: Australia’s old-time friend
May Yohe crops up again. Her very latest
husband is Capt. John Andy Smuts, who did
things in the S’African unpleasantness. To
quote from the chaste pages of the San
Francisco Examiner : “Dirt poor, wage-
earners in Singapore, Honolulu and Pacific
ports, this strange pair profess no regrets
for lost wealth and splendor.” May shooed
away the reporter who sought to interview
her, remarking simply (doubtless in clear,
ringing tones) : “I am happy now and I
want to stay happy.”
“A Little Bit of Fluff,” a feeble farce from
which Melbourne theatregoers stayed away
with great enthusiasm, has passed its 1000th
consecutive performance at London Cri.
The record has been achieved only three
times, by “Our Boys.” “A Chinese" Honey-
moon” and “Charley’s Aunt.”
“J.F.H.” (London) : The new English
Actors’ Trade Union has a membership of
2500. Its programme includes payment per
performance, minimum wage of £3 a week,
payment for rehearsals at not less than the
minimum wage, and a provision that no
manager shall dismiss an actor on account
of illness unless he has been absent from 14
consecutive performances. The Union ex-
pects that, with the strike problem to face,
managers will in future lend a more sym-
pathetic ear to the complaints of the profes-
sion. If not the ear will be severely bitten.
Arnold Bennett, who has collected cartloads
of royalties, has written supporting- the de-
mand for payment for rehearsals and declar-
ing the yarn that the cost of production will
not bear the expense to be “ridiculous non-
sense.”
“C.S.G.”: Somebody will yet collate the
songs of the A.1.F., and, duly edited, they
will be sold on the bookstalls with the pic-
ture of an Anzac on the cover and an
alliterative title. When we foregathered in
billets or estaminets Ave sometimes burst
into melody. A general
favorite was “Mademoiselle
from Armentieres hasn’t
been kissed for forty years.
Inky-inky-parley-voo.” The
verses were many and the
sentiment—oh, c h a rming!
Another sweet melody ran
like this: “Oh, I don’t give
a blank for the A.1.F.; they
can blank blank blank blank
blank.” And the air of
this was most seductive:
“Apree la guerre fine e,
mam’selle from Gay Paree
(seven miscellaneous blanks
here), no bianky bon for
me!” But after a couple
of rounds of vin blanc the
boys tired of these frivolities
and became sentimental sun-
downers in a real Answers
to Correspondents song.
Adelaide friends of Jean
Robertson, who made her
first stage appearances with
the Rep. Theatre there, be-
fore joining a Williamson
co., continue to get glowing
press notices from America.
St. Louis Times said: “The
best-known names in the
cast [of “The Wanderer”]
are James O’Neil, Nance
O’Neik and Charles Dalton.
But Frederick Lewis as the
prodigal, and Jean Robert-
son as the beautiful Tisha,
almost run away Avith the
acting honors.” “Lithe as
a panther” the St. Louis
Republican called Ti er.
She must have developed a lot since her
Adelaide days, when she was too statuesque.
Miss Kyrle Bellew, a kinswoman of the
beauty actor who was once a Melbourne
Herald reporter, has become the second wife
of Arthur Bourcliier, the London actor-
manager. Violet Vanbrugh was the first,
and she had the tie snapped last year, by the
polite method of suing for restitution of con-
jugal rights which were never in danger of
being restored. The Bourchiers seem to
have acquired a winner in Cosmo Hamilton’s
“Scandal,” an artificial bedroom play in
which the heroine is not as naughty as she
seems or the hero as primitive as he looks.
“Old Villain”: Whilst we were playing
bellowdrama at the Cambridge Theatre
(now Hoyt’s Pictures) the electric light
failed, and we had to revert to gas. This
precluded the cutting-out of lights and shift-
ing scenery in the dark; consequently the
act-drop had to be lowered at each change of
scene. In simple language our stage-
manager explained matters: “Ladies and
gentlemen, the electrics having fused, we
can’t work a black-out whilst the back-cloth
is struck, so the drop will be lowered before
the box-in is set, and the props, raEing-
pieces and tormentors taken off stage. Of
course, ladies and gentlemen, this necessi-
tates alteration to the whole of the light
plot.” And the audience applauded. Audi-
ences will applaud anything —when the other
scoundrel is on.
Worlock, a handsome man who played the
Caliph in the “Kismet” that Oscar Asche
brought to Australia and was the first mem-
ber of the co. to enlist in Kitchener’s Army,
got badly Avounded whilst doing his bit. but
was* lucky in not being incapacitated for
hero parts. • Lately he took the place of
Pennington .Gush (what a name for a
mummer.!) in Marie Lohr’s “Nurse Ben-
son,” where his fine figure was duly com-
mented upon. It was another Benson —he
of the Shakspearean Co. —who
nursed Worlock’s histrionic talent when he
was a very young man.
Dorothy Brunton is noAV playing the
heroine in “Soldier Boy” at London Apollo.
According to one theatrical scribe who often
tells the truth Dorothy is now known as
“Queen of the Diggers.”
DROPPING THE MOTLEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Ships in the harbor are having their dazzle-
painting removed and are being repainted with their
original house colors.”- —Shipping item.
Farewell, the fancy costumes that we’ve frolicked in
so long ;
The wardrobe mistress clads us as befits our sober
ways
On the well-tramped paths of ocean, where the
cyclone’s chorus-song
Goes roaring in the stays.
AVe have done some giddy .pirouettes while clad in
dazzling guise ;
We cut the straight and narrow way and danced
in maddening maze,
Whose courses showed like fever charts to our long-
tired eyes
• Through sleepless nights and days.
We are glad to drop the tinsel and once more appear
to view
In house-colors made for working-—the rough work
which is our share.
We are sick of turkey-trotting, doing tangoes on
the blue,
Dodging U-boats here and there.
We’re respectable old ladies and can leave our call-
ing cards
In raiment none can jeer at or refer to with a
grin.
We can feel at home full-speed ahead, or grousing in
the yards •
While taking cargo in.
The dance of death is ended. We have gladly flung
aside
The motley of the past few years that clad us,
shore to shove;
Its nightmare colors giddied us, but now on every
tide
We’re sane once more.
N.S.W.
E. J. HILL.


m
raß™”
A
CS
MS
Ja
85=
4V
m
m
a
as
'{
3m
r
S£
The modern interior
needs GOOD varnish.
ECORATIVE treatment in the modern
room, while almost severely simple, is
usually rich in panelled effects. To-day,
more than ever before, good varnish is
essential, to beautify the woodwork and
show the natural grain to best advantage.
The perfect finish obtained with # Berger Varnish makes it pre-
eminent for all interior purposes ; just as its hard surface (which is
never BRITTLE) makes it ideal for exposed surfaces outdoors.
Berger Varnish is manufactured from the choicest
selected gums and is matured under the watchful
supervision of experts. The great Berger Factories
at Rhodes (N.S.W.) are equipped with the most
modern Varnish-making apparatus in Australasia.
For 159 years, the name of Berger has signified ,good
quality. To maintain the prestige so carefully created
all Varnish sold under a Berger label must be of a
uniform high standard.
Manufactured at Rhodes, (N.S.W.), by Lewis Berger & Sons, (Aust.), Ltd.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
MELE'OUKNE:
H. J. Ccrcer Ply., Ltd.
John Danks & Son Pty.,Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Jas. Campbell & Sons,
Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
W. & T. Rhodes Ltd.
PERTH;
McLean Bros. & Rigg.
HOBART:
T. J. Cans & Co., Ltd.
NEW ZEALAND
AUCKLAND:
Phillipps & Impey Ltd.
WELLINGTON:
Robert Martin Ltd.
m
n\
o
c mi
o
r r=s l
0
0
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


V ?
WINCHCOMBE,
CARSON!
said the angry bull. “They’re the people
who shorten one’s life.”
High prices tempt owners.
Winchcombe, Carson never fail to secure top
market values for Fat Cattle and Sheep at
Homebush.
Consign Stock:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD.,
Flemington Siding.
MOTOR OILS
—*—For the Motor Car
——For the Motor Cycle
——For the Motor TrucK
-—For the Motor Boat
For the Aerial Engine
lubrication with National Motor Oils is the
greatest safeguard against loss of power and
wear and tear. Their protective quality
never varies.
Obtainable all Storekeepers and Garages
in 1-gallon tins, 4-gallon tins and barrels.
Ask also for National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO., LTD.,
4 Bridge Street. Sydney.
JAMES W A HOLE & CO.,
Adelaide.
Columbia
Dry Batteries
When Your Engine Stops
When family auto, truck, tractor, or motor
boat chokes up and loses its gait, it is then that
you realize the advisability of carrying an extra
set of Coiumbtas.
Columblas put the sparK oi life into en-
gines, autos, trucks, and tractors; they ring
bells, give speech to telephones, light lanterns,
make motor boats go.
Wherever battery power is needed, Colum-
blas are the simplest source—full of energy to
the very brim. Steady, reliable—proof against
trouble.
Special attention is given to the all-important
detail of packing for export.
The Fahnestock Spring
Clip Binding Post, shown
in the illustration, is a Co-
lumbia feature that sells
batteries. With this Bind-
ing Post it is a simply a mat-
ter of pressing down the
spring and
inserting
the wire
—and the
connection
is made.
NO. 6
$•»»»•*« fcitlo
DRY CELL
t»MW FOR us hlok
GENERAL IGNITION
i
.Manufactured by.
L CARBON COL*
1.0H10.U.8.A.
PRESS
DOWN
iICRC ,
Dealers —lmmediate de-
liveries can be made. Write
for catalogues and details.
National Carbon
Company, Inc.
Export Department
Cleveland,Ohio,U.S.A.
Cable Addresß:
“Carbon Cleveland"
ar
Electrical Supplies
Electrical Manufactures
Electrical Repairs
Electrical Installations.
THE AUSTRALECTRIC COMPANY,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Telegrams: Expanse, Sydney.
Telephones: City
4254
4255
Conducted by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd .
ZINC
imßfflßHKlHl
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE 86LLINQ ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
w/
'TO
U
□
mm
You Take it
Approval
on
when you buy Ireland’s Baking Powder. You need
not keep it when it falls short of expectation even
to the slightest degree.
■ We insist—in fact, we demand—that you get your money back.
And the grocer from whom you buy will not hesitate an instant in making the refund.
Order one tin of IRELAND’S BAKING POWDER at our risk.
If you do not find it perfectly satisfactory ours will be the loss.
IRELAND’S Baking Powder
is an unusual quality that never varies.
It is your safeguard to better baking.
Your Grocer has Ireland’s Baking Powder to set i
you on Approval—Try it!
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle.
HOTEL ESPLANADE,
PERTH’S PREMIER HOTEL.
Facing; the Swan River and Indian Ocean. An ideal situation.
Close to Post Office. Banks, etc. ALL MODERN CONVENIENCES.
M. A. BEAVOR, Proprietress.
COUNTRY FOLK VISITING
MELBOURNE-
home.” This hotel is in the heart of
the city—handy to everywhere.
The menu is excellent and
ample, the accommodation
modern. By the day, 10/6.
Write
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
Overlooking; Botanical Gardens.
Ail Baleony Reams. Tariff, 15s. per day.
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High-class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 15/- day inclusive.
8/=> per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
SPECIAL OPPORTUNITY
F)R energetic sales manager to secure exclusive
selling rights for wonderful new Adding Machine.
Retails £2—does work of £6O machine. Auto-
matically adds, subtracts, multiplies and divides.
Whirlwind in speed. Infallibly accurate. Written
Five-Year Guarantee. Extraordinary opportunity
to establish permanent business with unusual profits
Write or cable for full particulars.
CALCULATOR CORPORATION,
Grand Rapids (Mich.), U.S.A,
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway
Co. (N.S.W.) %
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
June, 1911. . £2049 5 p.c.=£2500 £57,136
£25,000 of reserves transferred to capital 32,136
Dec., 1911.. 7676 5 p.c. = 3125 36,687
June, 1912.. 2385 5 ~,, 3125 35,947
Dec., 1912.. 5066 5 „ ~ 3125 37,888
June, 1913.. 2460 5 ~ ~ 3125 37,213
Dec., 1913.. 9101 7 „„ 4376 41,939
June, 1914.. 3006 5 „„ 3125 41,820
Dec., 1914.. 7354 5 „ „ 3126 46,049
June, 1915.. 4587 5 „„ 3125 47,511
Dec., 1915.. 4312 5 „„ 3125 48,698
June, 1916.. 1094 5 „„ 3125 46,667
Dec., 1916.. 4025 5 „ „ 3125 47,567
June, 1917.. 3750 5 „„ 3125 48,192
Dec., 1917.. 6082 6 „ „ 3750 50,524
June, 1918.. 5331 6 ~ ~ 3750 52,105
Dec., 1918.. 5256 6 „ „ 3750 53,611
This CO. expended £102,272 in constructing
and equipping a line to link up the country
around Deniliquin (N.S.W.) with the Vic-
torian railways. Since the district is not
a wildly progressive one—between the 1901
and 1911 censuses Deniliquin added only a
couple of hundred to its population—the co.’s
state of health has depended entirely on the
local weather. The profits column is con-
sequently bumpy; but the fat years have
balanced the lean ones, and, after giving
shareholders a moderate return on their
capital, the directors have been able to build
up the co.’s strength. This comparison
gives another view of the position:—
1905. 1915. 1918.
Liquid assets .. £11,254 £14,381 £21,342
Liabilities .. . . 30,917 230 1,653
Excess liabilities .. £19,663 —•—
Surplus assets .. £14,151 £19,689
50 after paying a dividend at the rate of 5
p.c. p.a. on a capital of £lOO,OOO between
1905 and 1911, and since then a shade under
51 p.c. on £125,000 —the additional £25,000
having been a bonus issue—and also after
providing for all renewals and repairs out
of earnings, the co.’s position has been im-
proved by about £39,000 in 13 years.
* * * *
Standard Mutual Building Society
(Melbourne) :
Profits on
Property Re-
Profits. Sales. Dividends. serves,
Jan., 1912 .. £2714 £2956 9sp.c.= £2231 £29,447
July, 1912 . . 3132 859 8 „ „ 2294 31,144
£9560 Reserves transferred to Capital.. 21,584
Jan., 1913 . . 3038 486 8 p.c. = 2294 22,814
July, 1913 . . 3237 122 8 „ „ 2294 23,879
Jan., 1914 . . 3295 423 8 „ ~ 2294 25,303
July, 1914 . . 3471 778 8 „ „ 2294 27,258
Jan., 1915 . . 3612 360 8 „ ~ 2294 28,936
July, 19*5 . . 3400 139 10 „ „ 2868 29,607
Jan., 1916 . . 3622 - 10 „ „ 2868 30,361
July, 1916 . . 3268 360 10 „ „ 2868 31,121
Jan., 1917 . . 3304 10 ~ ~ 2868 31,557
July, 1917 . . 3289 -- 10 „ „ 2868 31,978
Jan., 1918 . . 3317 10 „ 2868 32,427
July, 1918 .. 3343 11 „ ~ 3155 32,615
Jan., 1919 . . 3393 262 11 „ „ 3155 33,115
There’s very little of the old trouble visible
now. The book talue of properties in
possession at the beginning of this year was
£3733, and £7OO-odd of that represented a
recent foreclosure. During the past half
another old property was unloaded, realising
£262 in excess of the figure to which it had
been written down. However, there won’t
be many more titbits to be got in this way.
In 1900 the co. swept away the old wreck-
age, wrote down capital, and started life
afresh. This shows what progress has been
made since
July,’ol. July,’l4. -Tan.,’lB. Jan.,’l9.
Liabilities ..£37,015 £45,823 £31,242 £33,471
Advances .. 19,998 121,991 114,667 119,496
Foreclosures .. 72,305 10,576 3,693 3,733
Cash, etc. .. 2,778 165 5,738 5,198
As in the case of most managements who
had learned their lesson in the ’nineties, this
one kept a tight rein on new business during
the uncertain war years. It is feeling a little
more confident now. and during the pasr,
year has built up its advances business to
within £2500 of the 1914 figures. Money is
dearer now, and the new loans are more
profitable to the co., while some of the risks
which helped to lift interest rates have dis-
appeared. On the other hand, the holding
of deposits has been reduced from £42.570
at July, 1914. to £33,142 in January last,
and when, later on, the co. may want to get
in more outside, money, it won’t get it at the
old rates. But even then there should be
a good margin: for the interest earned in
advances works out at about 8£ p.c. p.a.
The depositors’ security is 1 very strong:
’ there are assets with a book value of
£128,427 to meet £33,471 of liabilities.
From. J. L. Strevens :
As “Observe” (B. 6/3/’l9) puts it, there is appa-
rently good cause for accusing the Fisher-Hughes-Cook-
Watt Government of bungling on the Papuan oil
question. The monopolistic character of the oil
trade, as brought about by huge oil combines in all
parts of the world without Government interference
—often, in fact, through Government apathy—
emphasises the futility of a policy involving sole
control of operations by neophytic officials totally
unfamiliar with the methods that must be adopted to
ensure success. Unlike most other enterprises, oil is
usually a 50-50 venture, the commercial and financial
side being balanced by the scientific and technologi-
cal side, the whole being interdependent and requir-
ing the utmost co-operation in the several branches.
The most heart-breaking work is usually connected
with pioneering efforts in reputed new oil terri-
tories. Thus the late W. K. D’Arcy spent £300,000
on his exploration and testing work in Persia, and
the Burmah Oil Co. half that amount before the rich
fields now controlled by the Anglo-Persian Co. were
discovered, notwithstanding the fact that the whole
country from the Caucasus, in the north-east, to the
Mekran coast, in the south-east, was teeming with
oil indications. The same in Trinidad and Assam.
Many authorities are of the opinion that an un-
broken oil belt runs S.E. from European oilfields
through the Caucasus, Persia, Baluchistan, Hima-
layas, Assam, Burma, the Straits, Dutch Indies and
the Australasian Archipelago to New Caledonia, and
that in it will be found the largest sources of supply
in the world. Of these countries the only one that
can benefit Australia directly is New Guinea, and
perhaps, indirectly, New Caledonia. But if Australia
is in earnest about developing Papuan oil the sooner
the Government gracefully (or otherwise) gives a
free hand to those who are really able to do the
matter justice, the sooner will it take its place
among the few Empire oil-producing countries.


Write for
Catalog
of Service
Brand
Footwear—
“a treat for your feet.
...
X ■ ; ;
m
?'
gsi!
'
«
■
m
t
■
■
w »
« i ?
1 i
. .
'
Xpt
mi
w
iv
y»
-
v- ; ;
;y;. 7
m
ifSl
v'x :
Mk*
-77
mm
m
m m
mm ■
1
m ;
?'"H- v ■
i'l
i
i i
m
fm
j
SSI
ijtyaSfv
ill
? •
l!
1 m
Q:M'
19
'
B I
. . 1
_ 4 j^ t
M
■ .s
■: HI
8 SSS.
•V
m
Just
Opened!
New Season’s
Hats for Men.
Illustrated
Catalog
ready for
sending .
Write to-da
Our only address
in Australia.
102
OFF ALL
PRICES.
Tailor made to Order-
D
one
O you know of any investment that will pay you
10 per cent, net? This announcement tells of
It is an opportunity you should not miss.
During the next few days you can pick out any
suit pattern, including Blue Serges, from our
Tailoring Department, and we will make a suit
to your order at 10 per cent, under usual prices.
To make this proposition perfectly plain we are
showing the usual price, the reduced price and
the saving yon make.
London Suits to Order:
Usual
Price
£3/10/- £4/4/- £5/5/-
IftO
Less 10 % 7 /" 8/6 10/6
63- 75/6 9416
This is the business logic of the offer. If we can improve our trade
and gain more customers, will not we be better off with small
profits —-smaller profits than ever? We believe in a large volume
of business on small margins as the best for you and for us. This
offer will emphasise these fpcts.
But after all it is not so much the low price—as what you get for
the moneys—that is the main selling feature of London Tailoring.
We start by standardising the quality of the fabrics, linings and
trimmings. Then we have the best-skilled cutters and tailors to
do the making, in our own well-equipped workrooms. Finally the
suit has got to be just right —or there’s no sale. '
Satisfaction Guaranteed
or Money Refunded
is our bedrock principle of trading.
This offer will be withdrawn as soon as present stocks sell out —
because it is impossible to replace them at anything like the price
we paid in early markets. Don’t be too late. Post the
Coupon for Patterns and Measurement Forms NOW.
Save 10% on your next Suit.
%
521
£5
Ltd.
PP.
P.O.
bourne
8?
<5
<C
&
V
5,
&
9S
£>
55
!S
<8
<8
a*
\
55
8


0
'/cyvD .
Jloswvy
C PE Cl A LI ZED
methods in desi&n-
in& and knitting pro-
duce in Luxite Hosiery
a closely woven tex-
ture of remarkable
durability and re-
splendent beau tv/un-
surpassed for f the
money by any other
hosiery in the world.
Don’t accept substitutes and think
you have “Luxite.” Insist upon
the genuine. If your dealer is
unable to supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty.Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
I I mm
CIDER
as
m
kit rm
****** oA*/JrW.
:sssfl
PURE SPARKLING APPie JUICE
“BOTTLES OF JOY.’
Every glassful of “Kitz’s” is a positive
thirst quencher; every bottle is a bottle
of joy and health. Have you ever had
a longing for a drink that would
definitely quench your thirst? Just try
“Kitz’s” Cider. It quenches and revives,
puts “pep” in you, and is healthful
and nutritious, too.
Get the Kitz Cider Habit—
It’s a Habit that won’t get you
In Baby Bottles at Hotels and Cafes—
Quarts and Pints at Stores.
AGENTS-
SYDNEY: Tucker & Co. Ltd., Caldwell’s
Wines Ltd.
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co.
CAIRNS”: Burns, Philp & Co.
GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co.
ROCKHAMPTON: J. M. Headrick & Co.
ADELAIDE: W. P. Auld & Sons Ltd.
PERTH: Philp Coyle.
HOBART: Ferguson & Co.
LAUNCESTON: John McKenzie & Co.
•HUNTS
MOSQUITOES
A Marvellous
DISCOVERY,
Gives absolute
PROTECTION
FROM THE PEST.
Nothing else
LIKE IT.
li
Id bettei
get
omc
Ye
Per bottle, all Chemists
and Stores or
9/.Posted to any part
tto/ 0/ Australia
/rom H.C.Pricb. Ch&tswood.w.S.W. r?.I»R
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils, Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
passed merits. They know it to be a safe
and perfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grasshopper Oint-
ment positivelydraws the po;' ons which pro-
duce these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should be taken in conjunction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
\r\
>VJ
I a:
//
ow. sim
\JOf MOOI
when next you set out
to purchase Fencing
Wire. It identifies
every coil of
“Waratah”
Fencing Wire.
1 From Ore to
Fence A us trallan
Waratah Wire is stronger and yet
lower-priced than imported. It is
used extensively on leading farms
and stations. The makers’ guarantee
stands behind all wire made.
Write for free book.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY-
Limited.
Ferrars Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN 8c -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
£
" THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSINQ TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.'
ABBEY
SHOES!
Men who realise that a smart and
correctly addressed appearance is
an ASSET should wear ABBEY
SHOES.
They are made in all the latest
models, and their long service
makes them economical, as well as
distinctive.
Being made in half and full sizes,
and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide—we are able to
guarantee a perfect fit.
We illustrate a choice Tan Willow
Calf Bal. .. PRICE 30/- and 42/-
Also in Box Calf, with dull Calf
Legs . . PRICE 40/-
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
The Best—Most Economical
Watch is a
OTHERHAMS
ENGLISH
LEVER
Gold Medal Watch.
Gent’s or
Lady’s
Sizes.
Keyless
or
Non Keylesfe
in
s
/
IT WILL LAST A LIFETIME.
Supplied by all Shippers & Itetuilers•
If a less expensive Watch is
required buy a
ROTHERHAMS SELECTED
SWISS WATCH.
Examined by Rotherham s’, Experts
St
&
POi«E
A
RfI*yar?MAMS»OTHEV
UTOTAi RHAHSBO'TI
pJOTHEffMAMS
ROTMERMAHS
NOTE ! It will have this label on
the back.
SOLD BY JEWELLERS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
nm.
A Dainty Laxative
The day of harsh purgatives, of
big cathartic pills is over—gone for
ever. No need any longer to
swallow a nauseating dose to give
nature the gentle assistance re-
quired. Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are little pink sugar-coated ovals,
easy to take and pleasant in their
action. They are not drastic,
although certain and thorough.
Pinkettes are designed to
arouse the sluggish bowels and tor-
pid liver, to correct bad breath,
clear the complexion, and banish
biliousness and headache.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GAPILLARINE
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
gTOwer. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
It any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Every snapshot of President Wilson up
to date shows him with his mouth open.
“Baynett Frogg” : Everyone in the batta-
lion was sick of Coldfoot’s complainings, but
he shut up for a week after Bill Bidgee had
put his shot 'in: “Sparemefiamindays!
Yer’ll be wantin’ flowers on yer grave next
It is always something of a gamble when
a church decides to import a new minister.
Which is probably why such a decision on
the part of Stow Church, at Adelaide, is
printed in the Register under the beau line
"Late Sporting.”
“Coot” : He was a beginner in the estate-
agent line and was unacquainted with legal
terms, so when the intending purchaser in-
quired whether there were any easements
subsisting ■ on or over the property he
promptly assured him that “of course there
are the usual conveniences.”
The idea that anything dragged- from a
great distance must be better and cheaper
than the local article is getting a rude bump
in Maoriland, where retailers are cursing
twine made from brown paper in far-away
Japan. The joke is that the retailer is
being asked to pay 2s. Off. per ball for the
stuff while a penn’orth of good Maoriland flax
could be spun into a ball of far better twine
that would return a profit if sold at six-
pence. Probably the Jap stuff could be sold
at a profit at sixpence, too; but why should
the Jap take sixpence from tis when for lack
of competition he can extract 2s. Gd. ?
“Camelero” : The Australians and Maori-
landers who died in Egypt and Palestine are
to have a line monument at Port Said. It
was originally intended to erect it at the
entrance to the Canal, but a site could not
be got, and it will be placed instead in
gardens on the town side of the stream.
The cash required for the work has been
collected by the Diggers, and artists have
been asked to submit designs. So far the
design of Sergt. Otho Hewitt, of Adelaide,
is favored. It sliows a wounded Maori-
lander lying on the field with a Light Horse
trooper standing over him and defying the
enemy. The verses for the memorial
have been supplied by The Bulletin’s
“Gerardy.”
“Croson”; Before we quite recover from
the ’flu scare and forget all about the restric-
tions, I would like State Ministers to explain
why they took such Strenuous steps to com-
bat a disease that isn’t wholly preventable
while _ they merely play with—when they
don’t ignore—certain other disasters that are
wholly preventable. There have been in
Victoria alone in the last three years no
less than 1486 accidents and 24 deaths
because dangerous machinery in factories
was not adequately safeguarded. These
cost the State Insurance office £39,144, and
private offices probably more. And that is
only part of the bill. Why not quarantine
a factory where more than one “accident”
occurs in a year?
“Hamer”: The tipping curse worries
everybody in proud old England; but the
Aussies and, later, the Americans have
made things worse by their inability to think
in copper. The Australian, who mostly
hates the custom, hates still more to be
mean; and, when he got to know that in
England certain people live on tips instead
ot wages, ho went to the extreme. The
generosity has made life a misery in London.
You go into a. threepenny shaving saloon,
and, if a sixpence is tendered, the pirate tills
the full amount, while an attendant steps in
the way before you get to the door and does
unnecessary things to your hat until the odi-
ous blackmail is forthcoming. Even at
private entertainments the waiter will whis-
per into your ear: “I’m going after this
course, sir.”
Inquiries made by Bowser, Vic. Minister
for Health, “lead him to believe” that
there is a lot of overlapping in the dis-
tribution of milk, while the safeguards relat-
ing to the purity of the Melbourne supply
are inadequate; and the Cabinet has commis-
sioned Treasurer McPherson to make in-
quiries during his trip abroad into the
methods of distribution in England and the
U.S. In a particular case, the Minister
has learned that ten different milkmen
supply a certain suburban street containing
13 houses, making 20 visits daily between
them. Such a state of affairs hardly needs
time wasted on it in Europe or America by
a responsible Minister. Any Melbourne
dairyman of experience could suggest a
remedy in five minutes. But he would
probably hate to do it.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” re some others:
Apropos the claim of the Hentys to have been the
first settleis in Victoria. Captain John Hart became
master of the schooner Elizabeth, 'of Launceston,
owned by Mr. John Griffiths, in November, 1831.
Early in December, he wrote, he landed on the
Laurence Kocks, Portland Bay,. ’‘where we were
joined by a boat’s-crew left there the year before.
They had procured nearly 400 sealskins.” On
November 3, 1832, Hart left on a second sealing trip,
landing on almost every rock Jpetween Bass’s Straits
and Doubtful Island Bay. He wrote: “Whales so
plentiful that on my visiting the bay [Portland] in
June I found all the casks full and the men putting
oil into pits they had made in the clay.... I took
the first eargo of oil from Portland on this occasion.
Mr. E. Henty made his first visit to Portland with
me, returning to Launceston the same voyage.”
Writing to Governor La Trobe from Portland on
January 16, 1854, Stephen George Ilentv (sixth son
of Thomas Henty—there were eight boys in the
family) said: “1833.—The Henty family" being in-
terested, in a whaling company whose operations were
carried on along the coast from Portland Bay to
Port Fairy, Edward Henty [third son], accom-
panied by my father, visited Portland. Bay during
this year, and, finding the country well grassed and
apparently very well adapted for grazing purposes it
was determined by the family, on their return to
Launceston, to send'over stock and other necessaries
for an establishment at Portland Bay forthwith.
Edward Henty reached Portland Bay (1834), and
fixed his habitation on what is now block No ’ 4 in
the township of Portland, and now occupied by me.”
Ihe Hentys may not have been the pioneers of Port-
Land Bay ; but they certainly were the first settlers.
Inc whalers were birds of passage.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
Xew and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, (J Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, APRIL 2,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Banking, Public Companies. See.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; AVILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Ollice: Brisbane.
Sydney Ollice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout' QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
. agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,069 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
lI ISA I> OI'IICJE ... BRISBANE.
Brunches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2 000 000
Capital Paid Up fi1.198^679
Reserve Fund £145,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman-
GEORGE J. SLY. %, LLD.; FRANK N
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R, LYSAGIIT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon F
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37* Thread needle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock..- .. .. £529,988
Preference .. . 750 000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
it , 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. . _ 500 00 0
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345’,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and
on Australia, New Zea-
- land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
transacts all other usual Banking business!* 1 10dS '
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian United Steam Navigation Clm.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED" ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through- Hookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU;*oMS
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
« Waikiki Beach—“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT" WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above servioes, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
s
£s&g
mwks.-:
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
. PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Inability
I
]
Directors :
£3,904,860
£3,025,000
£3,904,860
£10,834,730
The Hon. Sir Cnarles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors ; S.E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Thomas Bucldand, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. FaithfUll, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager : Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
fiommomvcalth
*(Bank c 2lustralxa
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking 1 Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR SAVING
are offered by this Bank—absolute security, liberal interest, and
the convenience of a Branch or Agency in almost every locality.
Deposits accepted from one shilling upwards.
Withdrawals P a y aWe on demand at the Branch where the account is
kept.
Interest allowed at 3% per cent, per annum on every £ up to
£5OO. '
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BANK that PAYS Si % INTEREST on SAVINGS |
Shipping.
' v, ! -!/: :>
wfmfatd&dS&St
s S 3
Osaka Shosen Kaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service
Manila, Hong Kong, Japan and
the East. Transhipment cargo
accepted for all Eastern ports,
Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
As Agents for Osaka Shosen Kaisha,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
'Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Intending passengers for other States
are requested to inquire at Quarantine
Department, Customs House, Sydney,
regarding necessary permits required
before sailing.
Permission to break journey at inter-
mediate Ports is suspended
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
Huddart Parker LIE
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMKi’S TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
arlv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY. COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steadier to Murwlllumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—■
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
fIEORGE HOTEL.
St. Hilda, Melbourne,
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Ihc Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SONGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Booit
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
5. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.


PAULINE et CIE
Announce their Autumn and Winter
Show of Millinery on & after March 11
Miss Gray will show Model Frocks, Coats and
Skirts, Blouses, etc., on and after March 25.
3rd Floor,Denison House Chambers
Telephone ioi67. George Street, SYDNEY,
<nr
H<v/r,Vj*C
—
CIM RlfS
Heidsiecks
Vintage* 1906
QiH
RE PLUS Ul* Rfl
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
■«#»»»?!;*
IMIO
t Wgi
6W«-
pitt st X’«t., .
&Og t r |t./s^ n £dney
SS
p* l ” «00l St” S «vdtvey „
ljiver ,Aat Q« ay> 85 .„ d at n 1
C itctt‘ ar A«» * eve ry
Shop®
Bu tiurto>
122 gt.jsvdo«
n 9b f st * atl Hyd»ey
n rßeSt.. sy
256 G *.°tt|acb e
» etn «00l St-. sy 'dneT „
l.ivefP" Quay* Ss " rt a t (^ge* lo *
Circuit M A"*!* »**•**
k —— .* ho ; 9 «U-
Your
Figure
Re-created
By the SHAVE -
system of model fit-
ting it is possible
to have your figure
re-created in the
Shave Workrooms
and upon the re-
creation perfect
gowns built without any fittings.
The name 1 'Shave' ’ is an assurance
of vogue.
Visits to Sydney and Adelaide twice
and to Brisbane once yearly
Ladies’ Tailors
Dressmakers
Centreway
Melbourne
May we invite you to our next Display ?
LADIES, PLEASE!
We do not want you to pass this advertise-
ment by, as it concerns every one of you.
The Dove Hosiery Stores, recently com-
menced, is the only store selling single pairs
of Hosiery and Gloves at wholesale prices.
We defy competition. Those who can, visit
our showroom; others, mail us your require-
ments. We guarantee every satisfaction.
Here are a few values:—
HOSIERY.
“American Beauty,” Pure Silk Hose, full-
fashioned, seam, black or white, full-length
silk 13/6 pair.
“L 37” Heavy Pure Silk Hose, full-fashioned,
seam, will not ladder, sold in shops at 21/-
pair, black only. Our Price, 14/11 pair.
Pure Silk, Ankle Hose, all Colors, very
superior 7/6 pair.
“OUR” Ribbed Silk Ankle Hose, black or
white, equal to any 7/6 hose, wholesale
price 3/6 pair.
Black or White only.
The Dove Hosiery Stores
(Take Lift to 4th Floor),
Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILLINERY
The Governor has consented to open the
Show, so evidently the G.-G. will not spend
Easter in Sydney as expected. The plague
is, of course, responsible, for quarantine has
no respect for persons.
New, or rather renewed, Mayoress
Richards, who, by the way, is a sister to
Mrs. Sam Hordern, sen., is quite used to the
odor of civic rabbitskin. Like the panto-
mime hero, her husband seems ordained by
a special Providence to draw up by-laws.
And her father was in the Sydney Council
for many years.
There is hopeful talk in maidenly circles
about the Club balls being re-started as soon
as the Peace is signed. That is to say,
during the coming Autumn race-meeting.
But the Union Club is very doubtful. The
rent is enormous, the charge on the garden
being a particularly outrageous expense, and
very few new members have been coming
along lately. The members who are in town
much are more or less in a transition stage,
socially speaking. They are rather too old
to go to dances unless dragged there with
grappling-irons, and rather too young to
have offspring of a dancing age. The Aus-
tralian Club is prosperous. On the other
hand, many of its social members are away,
or just preparing to go. The others look
somewhat coldly on the dance-going habit,
and they would be well pleased to let it stay
in abeyance as it has, without complaints
from anv quarter, since the war began.
Miss Onslow, the youthful daughter of J.
Macarthur Onslow, M.L.A., of Camden
Park, has engaged herself to Capt. Stan-
ham, A.D.C. He was hit in the early part
of the war and has a stiff leg in consequence.
She will be an heiress in a very big way.
The Onslows own the best part of Elizabeth
Bay and a tremendous quantity of house
property elsewhere.
All Sydney and Mr. Holman went to the
Town Hall on Saturday evening for the first
concert given by the State-guaranteed
orchestra. The ever-popular overtures to
“Tannhauser” and “William Tell,” with the
five movements of the “Coppelia” ballet
suite, were the principal dish, Meyerbeer’s
“Coronation March” and Lacombe’s
“Aubade Printaniere” were the sweets, while
George Whitehead’s baritone flashed out the
wine in the serenade from “Don Juan” and
Massenet’s “Promesse demon Avenir.”
The applause which greeted the performance
had the sharp sound of a heavy hailstorm.
Major Oliver Hogue, “Trooper Bluegum,”
good pressman and good Australian, will
come no more to his land. Influenza
exacted ultimate toll from him in London on
March 3, just a year after the death of his
twin-sister from pneumonia. In the big
fight from 1914 Gallipoli and Egypt knew
him; and with conquering Billjim he rode
into Jerusalem and Damascus. Three books
stand as his monument and his testimony
of faith in the land he loved.
Professor David, who is nearly a General
these days, returns to Sydney next month.
He will be chaperoned by Mrs. David, of
course.
Another well-known Sydney man who is
returning within the next few weeks is Cap-
tain Humphrey Browning, M.C. He is one
of the two sons of R. J. Browning, the
Crown Prosecutor. The other was badly
gassed two years ago, and has been ill, off
and on, ever since. Captain Browning is in
the famous 13th Battalion, and is one of the
few men who, having been captured by the
Germans, managed to escape back to his own
lines from No Man’s Land. A Hun raiding
party poured into the dugout where he was
with his major, preceding their arrival by a
shower of stick-bombs. As the two Aus-
tralian officers were being dragged, pushed
and kicked back to the Boche lines, their
own machine-guns opened out on the strug-
gling mass. In the confusion Captain
Browning got loose with one bullet in his
arm and another in one of his kidneys.
The Jim Burnses are expected home very
shortly. He went back to the Front in July
last after being wounded, and his wife
arrived in London just in time to miss him.
Of the three sons of the big shipping man he
was the eldest. One of his brothers was
killed and the other put out of action at
Gallipoli. It is a useful family record all
round, and, to top it off, their father has
given about £50,000 one way and another to
funds connected with the war.
Captain Frank Hurley’s war photographs
taken in Egypt and France have been on
view at the Kodak Salon since last week,
when Lady Davidson bestowed her blessing
on the show. The Red Cross bags the
modest admission fee and the catalogue
money (nurses, soldiers "and sailors in uni-
form half price) ; so J. O. Fairfax added his
few words of’congratulation, and waved a
glad hand, in passing, to the V.A.D., who
is once more doing her bit by taking charge
of the Salon. . The dramatic intensity of
Captain Hurley’s work is stirring. He
knows all about the value of light and shade
and grouping, and in such works as “Just
As It Was” and “Laying a Duckboard
Track” gives poignant meaning to the ex-
pression, “four years’ active service.” No
glamor of quick movement here, no thrill of
onward rush —just the grimness of those
quagmires of sucking mud. “The Morning
of Passchendaele” is tragically sombre, while
in “Alone I Did It” the camera has caught
a group of Diggers, grave, gay and sceptical,
listening to the cheerful camp liar describing
his glorious adventure; and the Egyptian
photographs are marvels of rich coloring in
high suulight. Captain Hurley was with
Mawson and with Shackleton in their Polar
haunts; but at present he is satisfied with
the peace of Vaucluse, where he is living
with his English wife.
There’s a new young man sitting under
the Chief Justice’s desk. When the liter-
ary Evatt left to pursue briefs, R. V. Shield,
home from the war with a Military Cross,
took up the running as Associate to the
Chief. For a while he was with learned
brother Street, but learned-brother Street
won’t want an Associate for six months, as
he left this week for Europe, after doing 12
years’ hard labor on the bench. Mrs. Street,
an incorrigible Comfoi’ts Fund worker, went
with him.
Sydney’s best image of Pickwick had a
“golden wedding” at Randwick the other
day; and Mrs. F. C. Crouch shared con-
gratulations with him. “Freddy” Crouch
was in the N.S.W. Parliament over 30 years
ago; but he likes bowls much better than
politics.
Dr. J. F. Bartley and his wife —who was
a Melbourne Fitzgerald—are off to England.
There is a young Jack who waited only for
his eighteenth birthday to enlist at Broken
Hill. After over two years’ service he has
been entered among the young Australians
who are to continue their studies in Eng-
land ; and dad and mother are going to have
a few months with him before he puts his
nose to the medical grindstone.
William Silver,
S. Australia’s bril-
liant home-g ro w n
pianist, has been
added to the teach-
ing staff of the Adel-
ai d e Conserva-
torium. The S.
Australian U n iver-
sity was the first on
this continent to
have a chair of
Music; and the
school continues to
be one of the several
things the State is
proud of. And the
more home-g ro w n
teachers it gets the
prouder it is. Sil-
ver is a bachelor, too
devoted to his art to have thought of marry-
ing. And yet there are things'he can do
besides play the piano divinely. He is
alleged .to be almost as divine a cook. In-
cidentally the late Eugene Alderman was
his great friend; and Eugene’s specialty,
away from his violin, was millinery.
That great worker for returned Billjim,
Mary Makinson, is mourning a younger
sister, Miriam, a nurse of Prince Alfred’s,
who died of enteric. The other nurses have
asked to be allowed to join the mother in
providing a memorial to their popular chum.
Two old Australian, families were repre-
sented at a wedding in St. Andrew’s Cathe-
dral when Reginald Hugh Cox, of the 6th
Light Horse, was mated to Rhoda Beatrice,
youngest daughter of the D. C. Rennies of
Sydney. The Coxes and the Pipers first
joined hands and lands when William Cox,
one time of the 46th Regiment, married in
1813 Elizabeth, youngest daughter of John
Piper of the 6th Foot. The glory of the
Pipers has faded, but the Coxes still flourish
in N. S. Wales, Maoriland and Tasmania.
Another engagement is that of an elderly
member of the Bettington family to a very
young Milson girl. The Bettingtons have a
stud sheep-station near Cassilis, and they
also abide periodically in Parramatta. Mil-
son’s Point takes its name from the other
family.
The Diggers’ friend in Durban, Natal,
Miss Ethel M. Campbell, is to get an Aus-
tralian maplewood writing-desk from the
boys of the Boonah, which was held up in
Durban for ten days, though no one was
allowed on shore owing to the ’flu.
Dolly, of the singing Castles, has been
married in N’York to Major Charles Finn
of Perth.
Life-saving Ella Gormley is off to see what
the Columbia University can teach her in
physical culture. Since last year, Miss
Gormley has been instructing the girls in
our high schools.
Soldier-artist Dave
Barker is a Victorian
who has migrated to
Sydney. Some time
ago a report got
about that he had
been killed; but it
was a very substan-
tial ghost that faced
Judith Fletcher’s
camera in Sydney
last week. His war
service began on
Gallipoli in August,
1915, with the 2nd
Division. He was
on the Peninsula till
the evacuation, when
he went to Imbros
and worked with
Bean on “The Anzac
Book.” Back in Egypt for awhile; then to a
map-making job in Mesopotamia. The Kia-
oka Coo-ee got what drawings he could spare
time for. Unfortunately for him and for the
picture-lover, he hasn’t brought back enough
color-stuff to hold a show of his own. But
there are a lot of sketches from which he will
probably make a set of war-etchings. At
present he is working on “Australia in
Palestine,” the souvenir book of the cam-
paign.
Fritz Burnell, one of the most romantic
of Australian minor poets, leaves for Eng-
land by the Ulysses to seek inspiration from
the Peace.
The elder Holdship girl, Edith, is on her
way back to Australia. She went to Egypt
to marry her first husband a couple of years
ago. He got killed, and she has just been
re-married to Commander Darley, R.N.
The Holdship girls are heirs to good looks.
Their mother’s sister was Mrs. Willie
Mitchell, one of the most decorative Sydney
women of her day—which was about the
Hampden period.
The Pat Osbornes are settled in a London
flat. She' was Miss Ruby Madden, and most
of the family are now in England. The
Vallanges have been there for years, and
Mrs. Harry Osborne, another sister, has her
boys at school near her in the country. Pat
Osborne went away with the Remounts from
N. S. Wales, and, failing to get a commission
in a fighting unit (he was over the age),
plunged into war work in London. He spent
two strenuous years searching for details of
soldiers -who were missing or killed.
Captain Maddrell, who achieved the
almost impossible last week —that is, got
his word and that of his witnesses taken in
preference to the statement of a policeman
—belongs to the well-known Braidwood
family. It is conceivable that the fact had
some slight bearing on his acquittal. Percy
and Bob Maddrell are first cousins ; also that
very picturesque young woman, Mrs. Venour
Nathan.
The Society of Women Painters has
feathered an eyrie where the artistic soul
of Sydney—feminine gender—can alight for
spiritual nourishment, k or pause on the wing
to peck at a sandwich to sustain the earthy
flesh. You may be an associate member
of the club if you don’t dabble with brush
and pencil. The rooms are in the old
Queen Victoria Markets, and there is a
well-lighted studio, a tea-den and an enter-
tainment hall. Mrs. W. A. Holman is
president.
The Conservatorium lecture-concerts are
with Sydney once more, and on a warm,
moist night last week little Jenny Cullen
was almost blown away by the wind of en-
thusiasm that greeted the quartet to which
she adds her slimness. Beethoven and
Brahms were the composers of the evening,
and the Master, bowing dismissal to the
thunder of handclaps, dissertated on the
music of the forthcoming season, the Per-
manent Orchestra, and the composers in
hand.
Cavell-house—the rest-home for tired-out
nurses—is richer by £7O through sale of
Hilder’s “Parramatta Bridge” calendars.
Vaucluse Park on Saturday afternoon and
evening was a village green where feats of
strength went round. There were greasy
poles and long jumps, and behind canvas
a boxing contest in full swing. At the old
Wentworth home the Vaucluse Red Cross-
ers served tea. For 3d. you could enter a
gaily-hung booth, and see not exactly the
carnet from Bagdad but the flasr from the
leader of the flotilla of launches that cleared
the way to Bagdad for the British moni-
tors. “Vaucluse” is the name she boasts,
and she was skippered on that occasion by
Lieut. Milford of Vaucluse. What is more,
she was built in Sydney, took her trial runs
around our own coast, and was then shipped
to England. All we have of her is the flag
with her name and number ; the sturdy little
launch herself is stationed in Indian waters.
At night the Scarlet Follies frolicked under
the moon. Proceeds for afternoon and even-
ing go into the collection-box for the local
Repatriation Committee.
Dr. Emma Buckley, graduate of Sydney
Uni. and first woman to be on the staff of
King George’s Military Hospital, has in-
dicted our expensive oversea staff at Aus-
tralia House for its criminal carelessness in
failing to supply the Osterley with baby-
food after issuing a mandate that mother
was not to bring baby’s rusks aboard, as they
would be looKea on as superfluous luggage.
Fortunately many women took no notice of
the injunction, and these filled the breach
till the lied Cross took the affair in its large,
capable hands and produced sterilised foods
and fresh fruit. So the 210 kiddies under 18
months were delivered from a very grim fate,
and arrived in sound order and condition.
Henry Charles Osborne, who has just got
an M.C., joined up originally in the R.11.A.
In peace-time the R.11.A. was remarkable for
its magnificence; in fact, on parade it had
precedence over the Guards themselves.
But in the trench warfare of France and
Salonika there was no call for mobile guns,
and so the R.H.A. became almost indistin-
guishable from the humbler R.F.A. Captain
Osborne won his distinction by good work in
the field —it is necessary to mention that,
since about 80 per cent, of M.C.’s are given
for Staff work.
The Herbert Allens, who left on the
Osterley, have not been outside Sydney for
years. He belongs to the big firm of attor-
neys, and, like his brother Arthur, is a man
of work and hobbies. Walter, the only
leisurely member of the family, lives per-
manently in England. During the war he
plunged into the hazards and excitements of
a special constable’s life.
Mrs. Wheeler (once Annie Laurie, of
Springsure, in Queensland) had “gone
abroad’’ for a two-year stay to see daughter
Portia “finished,” when war slammed the
door. She took a flat somewhere in London,
decorated it with mementoes of Bananaland.
and lonely travellers developed the habit of
dropping in for a yarn with the little woman.
Soon “Mother” was entrusted with the little
jobs that Billjim scarcely got. the oppor-
tunity of doing. She cabled messages for
them, received and redirected parcels, and
searched out mislaid lads. She held their
money, lent them hers, did the rounds of the
hospitals, sent parcels to prisoners in Ger-
many, and regularly forwarded a two- or
three-column budget of news about hundreds
of boys who wrote her regularly from the
battlefields. When she returns (perhaps
this year) half the State will cheer. Inci-
dentally Portia has said “Yes” to Captain
Fox, whose father owns Carfax station.
Lieut. H. Bowden Fletcher, D.F.C., of
Stanthorpe, got back to Bananaland last
week after 44 years’ service. He went
through the Gallipoli, Sinai and Palestine
campaigns, and was wounded at the unlucky
second Battle of Gaza. He fought first with
the 12 th Light Horse, but after being
■wounded went flying, and spent 15 months
with No. 1 squadron in Palestine. The
D.F.C. was earned during the preparations
for Jacko’s final ejection from the Holy
Land.
One of. the charming and quaint figures
in .“Maytime” is Angelica (Beatrice McEl-
wain), for whom Madame Christian, her
teacher, has ventured on prophesying a suc-
cessful career. Kindly Mrs. Hugh Ward
takes an interest in the girleen, too, and
Melba’s approval has also been won. Her
lyric soprano is getting further exercise in
understudying one of the stars.
If you desire to watch your buds put forth
their first petals at the Peace Ball you may
do so in an atmosphere of quiet comfort,
even though you do belong to the era before
the two-step and if your feet find the glassy
surface, of the floor more a menace than an
invitation; for there are to be bridge tables
and comfortable chairs in backwaters away
from the swirling billows of tulle and ninon.
If you are a coming-out Miss and wish to
dance your first Lancers at the Peace Ball
in the Debutants’ set, send your own and (if
possible) your partner’s name to Mrs. T. 11.
Kelly before April 12.


THE BEHNING PLAYER PIANO
Makes Home-life Happier. America’s
. most artistic Flayer. Exquisite tone
quality and touch.
THE ESTEY PIANO. Model B.
Specially recommended for hot climates.
Stands in tune for very long periods.
THE WONDERFUL VICTOR.
Academy Model.
Renowned throughout Australia for its
remarkable durability.
GRAMOPHONES.
PALING’S
for PIANOS and
PLAYER PIANOS.
Most people judge a Piano by its case, but there is
more in a Piano than a Piano Case. Pure tone-
quality and perfect touch are what you should look
for in purchasing a Piano or Player Piano. Buy
one of Paling’s Pianos and you make no mistake.
Piano or Player Piano
Catalogues post free .
Have a Piano in your home that will be a help to
the children in their study of beautiful music—a
Piano that will never disappoint you ; an instru-
ment that is honestly and faithfully built throughout,
one of Paling’s Pianos. Remember, we Guarantee
Satisfaction.
EASY TERMS, IF REQUIRED.
PALING’S
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE,
TOOWOOHBA,
NEWCASTLE,
LISMORE.
the behning player piano.
SHUT —In position to be played by
hand.
THE VICTOR PLAYER PIANO.
The banisher of lonely moments. A
most delightful instrument, which
everyone can play.
THE PLAYOTONE.
A very fine Player indeed, at a most
moderate price. Ask for particulars.
ESTEY ORGANS.
_
t'% i:
mi t,
W*-
m
- :
:
Cio'apetfe
C a sea
Heavy 9ct gold Cid~.
ci rette Case, concaves
to hold single t0w....
extra thin, in case....
<£23 'lo 'o
PHe illustration depicts one of me
mCoippanys many distinctive designs
in Soid Ctgarefie Cases suitable fat? o)
presentation purposes.
Slip Company will gladly {onward so
•lections on approval at their own
risk, and a copy of their illustrated cat
-aio
ue upon ncQuest.
D.
5% discount allowed
on ah cash purchases.
SYDNEY.
298 COLLINS ST
lELBOURNE..
% 'l ' . • .
. Jetue//e7\s
116:1*8 QUEENS!
BRISBANE...
AND-. AT
JL ONDO N..
TAKE PHOTOS
OF YOUR FIANCEE
The joys and pleasures of courtship—sweet as they are without any
extraneous aid—are wonderfully enhanced if either of the parties interested
possesses a camera and can take photos of the other.
A.
And how pleasant it is to teach your best friend
how to u%e your camera, and to look over and
criticise the prints together. In later years
the memory of those delightful days will be
brought back by the photos that have been kept,
and you will be glad that you were an amateur
photographer in your young days.
We will teach YOU how to use a camera
FREE. Call and let us show you how easy it
is to take photos, and make your seleetioß from
our fine range of
The World’s Best—
ENSIGNS, KODAKS,
BROWNIES, AHSCOS
AT PRICES TO SUIT ALL.
The Folding Ensign (British-made)—
No, 31 A, for Roll Films, is a fine, compact
camera in the popular post-card size. Can be
loaded and unloaded in daylight.... £3/5/-
Folding Autographic Brownies—
Daylight-loading, for Roll Films, —
37/6, 48/<3, 62/-, 67/6
Box-form Ensigns (British-made), and
• Brownies, 10/-, 15/6, 18/6, 23/-
HARRINGTONS’ LABORATORIES
WILL TREAT YOUR RESIDUES
QUICKLY and EFFICIENTLY.
The Residues, Sweeps and Waste Products of Jewellers, Dentists and other Metal
Workers will, if carefully kept and sent to us for treatment month by month, yieiu a
return which will well repay the small trouble involved. We specialise in this class of
work, also Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis.
We collect material for treatment, in city or suburbs, free of charge.
A note or a ’phone message to any of our branches will receive prompt
attention.
GF
Photographic anti Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts anti Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland;
266 Collins Street, Melbourne;
43 Rundle Street, Adelaide. *
42 Willis Street, Wellington, tf'.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney'.


Ci.
o
FARMER’S
AUTUMN
CATALOGUE 1919
Send for Your Copy Now —Post Free.
Farmer’s Catalogue for the Autumn and Winter Season, 1919, is
now ready and will be promptly mailed to country clients, post free
on request. Its 112 pages have been carefully compiled, and present
to country shoppers the fashions of the moment, enabling them to
buy with the facility and satisfaction of the city dweller. The
styles of fashion goods are authoritative, the quality of all
merchandise distinctly meritorious, and prices extremely moderate.
Send for your copy now.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Perry, Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night.
Tariff, from 10/6 per day, and
from £3/3/- per week.
The Chateau Napier,
Leura;
Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
THIS modern Residential Hotel is unique
in its situation on the highest point in
Leura, commanding extensive views for over
60 miles.
Tennis Court, Billiard-room, Smoke and
Card Rooms.
Motor Garages.
All dairy products supplied by our own
Farm.
Electric Eight throughout.
Private Sitting-rooms.
Golf-links and Bowling-green right handy.
Tel. 121 Katoomba.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
The Newmarket opened the Flemington
autumn frenzy on Saturday. There were
flood waters ail round the paddocks, but the
course had dried up enough to let the chief
race be run. The crowd was huge. Yet
only a few smart dressers came out; they
were bright specks in a sea of dowdiness.
The women who haven’t seen their dress-
makers yet for their winter frocks are out.
of it, because there is a sudden reversal in
the female silhouette. The wide, bunchy
pleated flare is now old-fashioned. Skirts
must cling at the ankles.
Lady Helen was in sables and dark colors.
Lady Stanley wore a dark frock and coat
and tied her hat with a sweet bow under
the chin. The Genthelps were frockcoated
5n black, spatted and top-hatted. The stove-
pipe of Chief Justice Irvine rose high and
glittered, and his dame walked in deep black.
Lady Doris Blackwood wore a Dutch-blue
suede overcoat and chattered on the lawn
with the flapper daughter of the Everard
Brownes, who was smartly gay in a Vene-
tian-red coat-dress. Mrs. Russell Gabb was
in simple tawny tailorings of real Fifth
Avenue cut, and a smart little hat. Mrs.
Jack Winter-Irving was another pleasant
episode on the lawn. Her dress was grey
stockingette, weighted down with the new
“manufactured” fur in grey. “Manufac-
tured” fur is the fad of the moment. Dr.
Murray .Morton’s wife was smartly tailored.
Captain “Duke” Watt walked proudly with
his young wife in grey and seal. Mrs. Jack
Wallace wore a sporty, short-tailored suit.
Mrs. Carlyle 8 my the (out of quarantine
from Maoriland) hung rows of Maori beads
over her brown dress. Norman Fenner,
just home from the war, escorted his slender
fair wife, who was decorated in black-and-
white stripes. Fan Dango Mackay wore a
veil from hat-brim to waist. Over a smart
sown. Returned youivev folk of the Bail-
lieu and Fairbairn clans paraded in civvies,
and seemed glad to bo homo,'
Belitoppers on the men of the vice-regal
party at Flemington looked distinctly old-
fashioned and unimpressive. They were
almost the only tall hats on the course, and
one of tlieim—the grey cloth with a black
band that Gov. Stanley sported as usual —-
was uniquely out of date. The Stanley Ex-
cellency must be haunted by the wowserous
notion -that his old-time headgear is the
proper thing to wear on a wicked racecourse,
seeing that it figures freely in ancient pic-
tures of the English Derby Day. But these
times there is something depressing in the
sight of a belltopper hat, whether it be all
black or grey with a mourning band round
it. Nothing at Flemington last Saturday
was more lugubrious than the appearance of
the vice-regal party, unless it was the band's
performance of “The moon hath raised her
lamp above,” from “The Lily of Killarney.”
Heaven knows why Bertie iZelman allowed
this operatic air into the brass band’s reper-
toire. It is a charming thing when a cap-
able baritone and basso sing it in duet,
but because it is pitched in a low key fox-
basso and baritone it is the last melody a
brazen band should try.
Several gilt-edged parties were booked for
this week, most of them farewells to the
Stanley lady. The G.-G. and Lady Helen
were At Home one evening at nine o’clock,
and the Gaud Mayor and his missus had a
spread earlier in the week.
The impending departure of the Madden
dame has caused a succession of fare-
Avell teas and lunches —in . fact, it has
been blowing a gale of food. Mrs.
Bill Leonard started the series with
a mid-day peck at the Alexandra Club.
On Wednesday the widow was expen-
sively fed again at the same address,
with the Sam Staughton widow as hostess.
After an interval the guest and most of the
other lunehers proceeded to daughter Lesley’s
showroom for further refreshment. The
Madden dame hopes to find three daughters
waiting to welcome her in London. The
fourth, Ruby, with husband Fat Osborne,
will have started the voyage to Australia
before mother arrives.
Lesley Madden and Mrs. Willard gave a
party last Wednesday to farewell the
Madden dame. Guests met at the
Madden undie shop and evei-ybody drank tea
and ate fruit-salad in the surroundings of
lovely flimsies. The Madden dame looked
pale and handsome in her widow’s weeds.
She has grown slender and wistful.
Daughter Lesley was dressed in grey and
snooded in blue while Mrs. Willard
wore a turned-up golden sailor-bat like a
halo.
The presentation of a set of Australian
opals to Lady Stanley by the Led Cross
Society was made an excuse for a pro-
tracted bout of tiresome oratory. After
listening to half a dozen speeches, extending
over three-quarters of an hour (including
one from a suburban mayor who arose and
spoke a piece off his own bat just when the
presentation was about to be made), the
audience was too limp even to furnish the ex-
pected laugh when John Grice, who handed
over the gauds, coquettishly announced that,
“despite the presence of his Excellency,” he
was going to refer to “dear Lady Stanley.”
The only burst of mirth happened when a
voice from one of the side galleries, almost
before the chairman’s last observation had
been made, pleaded “Can we take the photo
now?” The interlude gave the much-tried
little lady in the centre of the stage an oppor-
tunity to get control of her emotions.
The Rowes Kellys are still in Tasmania
owing to the quarantine regulations. Sister
Mrs. Miller has been looking after Moor'a-
kyne in their absence. The travellers have
been entertaining the vice-regal Newdegates
at their Apple Island house.
Mrs. Wanliss prepared a big farewell
party for the Irvine dame in Hobart while
waiting for a quarantine pass to the main-
land. Mrs. Norman Bayles is another
marooned Victorian in Tassy. She has been
putting in her time “up North,” and went
out Deloraine way to be at the Arthur sale
of cut-glass and other treasures.
Mrs. Percy Russell is again leading her
regiment of V.A.D.’s. The “shop” at the
base of the Equitable Buildings is to be
opened again—not for its original Red Cross
purposes but for ’flu hospital needs.
Mrs. Hackett-Moulden, wife of Adelaide
lawyer Moulden, and widow of the late
Westralian knight (lienee the Hackett), is
coming to Melbourne to place her elder
daughters at the Geelong Girls’ Grammar
School. There are four Hackett daughters
and one son.
Miss Tucker, a niece of the late South
Yarra cleric, is steaming off to England with
the Blackwood children, whose young minds
she has moulded for the past three years.
The medical Reggie Weigalls have post-
poned their projected American-English tour
till 1920.
Prof. Meredith Atkinson, who spends a lot
of time trying to improve the mind of the
toiler by arranging lecture courses, has gone
off to take the chair at the annual conference
of the Workers’ Educational Association in
Queensland. Atkinson still has hopes of
ultimate something-or-other, whatever that
may be; but nine bricklayers out of 10 don’t
know that the W.E.A. exists, or affect not
to. The association gets in most of its
work in the winter-time, when the prole-
tariat finds fewer counter-attractions and
likes to get together in a warm room. Be-
sides, summer-time is fishing-time for pro-
fessors.
Major Alison Walker has scored the second
Military Cross in his family. The other
went to Capt. Stewart Walker, killed in
France. Of the five soldier-sons of Presby-
terian Moderator-General John Walker, of
Ballarat, Major Alison is one of two sur-
vivors. His brother Maxwell is still with
the R.F.C.
Colonel Springthorpe, who has had a
couple of war-trip»> overseas and lately re-
turned to Aussie, is in Melbourne again after
a breather down the Otway coast with the
budlike Mi’S. Springthorpe 11.
Jack McComas, who follows the Law in
the intervals of plunging around in the
social pool, is down with appendicitis at
Toorak.
Portsea, which has lately blossomed forth
into a Mecca of week-enders and holiday-
fortnighters, has had its ’flu scare like most
other seasideries. A soldier came down to
stay over the Sabbath with one of the shack-
parties. He left for Melbourne on the
Monday and next day went into hospital—a
bad case of ’flu. At once the neighborhood
was skinned of butter-muslin and eucalyp-
tus, and everybody talked nothing but ’flu
for two whole days, though nobody went the
length of appearing in public behind a mask.
Then the matter was dropped and conversa-
tion re-opened about Mrs. Fatler’s extra-
ordinary knees and Jane Skimpleigh’s bean-
poles, while a lot more was heard about the
case of Mrs. Pingpong, who never went in
swimming when her husband was down from
town, except once only, and afterwards —
but that is another matter; and nobody
really knows, anyhow.
The Bowes Kellys’ tall eldest son, Capt.
Monckton Kelly, who has had over three
years’ service, has sent word from London
that he has got a French War Cross. It is
the third decoration in the clan. The Alec
Kelly son Wallscou’rt got his Croix
de Guerre in 1918. The George Kellys’
eldest son Charlie wears the ribbon of the
Military Cross on his Territorial tunic.
William Davidson, of Hawthorn, formerly
Inspector-General of Public Works, has had
a cable telling of the death from influenza of
his son-in-law, Sgt. John Lyon. The dead
soldier was a brother of Charlie Lyon, who
married handsome Vair Dodds and is just
back from a Government shipping job in
India.
Adelaide’s revelations: —
The Josiah Symons are preparing- to welcome back
their son Oliver, who has been loaned by the
British to the Australian navy, and will help to bring
in the Australian flotilla. He was in both the Heli-
goland and Dogger Bank actions, served in a
destroyer in the North Sea, and was for some time
in the Mediterranean and at Salonika. From his last
ship, the Dartmouth, he saw the Austrians hand over
their men-o’-war after the armistice.
On Friday a new Rest Room for soldiers was
opened at Keswick. It has been built and furnished
by the Children’s Patriotic Fund, and was handed
over to the Governor, as the representative of the Red
Cross Society, by Minister of Education Harvey. His
Ex. promptly passed it on to the Military authorities
with a bouquet of praise for the children and their
organisers, Miss Hyett, Miss Meithke and Miss
Watson.
We’ve had the first Button Day of the year, pro-
ceeds to the Soldiers’ Home at Fullarton. Receipts
showed a drop on last year’s averages. The Chil-
dren’s Patriotic Fund takings for March (about
£1000) are to be given to the home.
At a reunion of members of the Ist Stationary
Hospital, a small Soustralian unit that left here in
1914, a list was made of the distinctions won by
its members: a C.M.G., three D.S.O.’s, one M.C.,
many D.C.M.’s and M.M.’s and innumerable mentions
in despatches. At Lemnos, with seven medical
officers, 70 trained men and 80 or 90 untrained men
borrowed from the British forces, they put through as
much work per day as did a. later hospital with 30
doctors, 100 nurses and 250 orderlies; and at Anzac
they were the only hospital established within some
hundreds of yards of the enemy front trenches.
The women of the State have decided to erect a
memorial to the soldiers and sailors who have fallen
in the war. So far only the preliminaries have been
discussed.
Ruby Lindsay, sunny Australian girl and
brilliant black-and-white artist —the “Ruby
Lind” of hundreds of Bulletin drawings—
has died of influenza in London. She was
the charming and talented little-sister of the
famous Australian family and the wife of
cartoonist Will Dyson, with whom she has
been working in London for the past few
years. The two young Australians have
built up international reputations: Haldane
Macfall, in his “History of Painting,” says
of the girl for whom the local art-world is
now mourning, “She is the most remarkable
woman with the pen-line now living.” High
praise, but well eaimed. Melbourne studio-
visitors of years ago knew Ruby as a pretty
fair-haired girl, entirely unaffected, whose big
blue eyes - twinkled with gaiety and good-
fellowship—-the very embodiment of joyous
youth. It is hard to believe she has gone.
Two Bananalanders, Enid Sydney Jones
and her mother, -were delayed in Melbourne
by the ’flu quarantine and had to put up at
Menzies’ instead of journeying home. While
they were there Captain Arnold Weinholt
came back from the wars. He also is a
Bananalander, and mutual condolences led
to sympathy —and the engagement which
The Bulletin announced a week or two
ago.
. Paragraphs in the dailies about the mar-
riage of Lord Dudley’s eldest son to one of
the blue-blooded Leveson-Gower ladies made
no mention of the bridegroom’s parents being
present. It may be presumed that they
didn’t both take part. If only one w T as
present, and we had to guess which, we
would say Mother. Even the coldest of
countesses is apt to warm at the thought of
a wedding, whereas Dudley would be more
likely to scratch his head and wonder whether
the boy wasn’t looking for trouble.
The George Maslins are bringing their
second daughter Nancy from the N.S.W.
station for her wedding with Arthur Adams,
Mrs. Guy Sherwood’s eldest son by her first
husband. 'the ceremony is to happen in
the Melbourne Grammar School chapel on
March 26.
Tim Keigwin, that incorrigible bachelor,
has gone to the altar at last. lie was mar-
ried at Holy Trinity Church, Brompton,
London, to Gwendoline Kniglit-Smith,
known behind the footlights as Gwen
Hughes. This tall, pretty English girl did
minor jobs in such productions as “High
Jinks.”
Mrs. Tobin has arrived back from the Fog
with a mountain of baggage. The St. Kilda-
road home is being made ready for the
daughter who married a titled British sol-
dier.
The Stork has been working overtime
lately. The latest bundle is an infant
daughter to Mrs. Walker —once Aileen Whit-
ing. Her husband, Capt. G. B. Walker, is
soldiering at Quetta, in India.
Gus. Dudgeon left over £42,000, practically
all of which goes to his widow, formerly
Frances Innes, sister of the evening Herald’s
editor.
Melbourne Shakspeare Society begins its
year rather late. The first monthly meet-
ing happened only last week —at the Austral
Salon—when Bose Quong headed the bill
with a recital from “Anthony and Cleo-
patra.” A charming elocutionist of the
gently dramatic order is Miss Rose Quong.
From April 4 onward the society will never
miss a month, and on April 25 the Bard's
Birthday celebration will be thrown in.
Baldwin Spencer has decided to sell in
May all his treasures of Australian art.
probably the finest private collection in the
Commonwealth. In addition to its artistic
worth it has historical value, for it contains
the best of tibe earlier works of Streeton,
David Davies, Fred McCubbin and others of
the older school. All the worth-while
moderns are represented, Hilder by several
things of rare beauty, and Norman Lindsay
by some notable work.
On Saturday night the G.-G. and Lady
Helen went to the Auditorium to look at
the film showing the surrender of the Ger-
man fleet. The orchestra Ruled Britannia
until the hind-leg was nearly blown off the
trombone. A lecturer on the platform, with
his boiled shirt looking like a large egg in
the gloom, tried to keep pace with historical
explanation of the moving pictures. Fred
Collier sang a deep-sea song with live fish
in it. The vice-regal pair sat in the dress-
ch’cle with a bunch of aides. Doris Black-
wood was a dream in sea-green silk and frills,
with a red band round her hair. A pictu-
resque old sailor sat behind the party and
held up a silk Union Jack slung from a glit-
tering trident. The Naicest were grouped
round in the gloom in gleaming evening togs.
Australian Dorothy Cumming is being
much pictured and paragraphed in Ameri-
can papers. She has been Cyril Maude’s
leading lady for two years. Her first New
York appearance happened recently, when
she played in David Belasco’s production of
“Tiger, Tiger.”
May de Sousa, principal boy of the J.C.W.
panto., put in her ’flu vacation writing a
book. It is to be published soon and is a
theatrical story located in Australia and
America.
Jennie Brenan is back from her American
joy jaunt, wearing a blue feather in her cap
to match the Irish blue of her eyes. She
has seen all sorts of dances and is already
busy teaching Toorak the latest.
A big audience was allowed to pick out
its favorite kilt at the Princess’s on Satur-
day. All the stage Macs flaunted their
fighting colors for the benefit of Lucia, and
some were arrayed in home-made Tam ’o
Shanters advertising the tartan of the clan
MacAroni. The ill-fated Lucia (Gertrude
Johnson) first met her Edgar in an unbe-
coming frock of bottle-green: this probably
gave the preliminary push to her reason,
which was afterwards unseated by her
damaged romance. Georgina McCarthy, as
her supporter,' Alice, would have shouted her
presence in sky-blue and crimson if the chro-
matic curios in the chorus had permitted her
gowns to be heard. The sensitive eye, deeply
outraged by these horrors, was compelled to
find a sedative in the costumes of the men.
Young Lois’s black silk doublet, lace collar
and pearl-grey boots were very restful to
gaze upon. Also the rich black of Cacialli’s
appointments as Raymond were a rest-home
for a wounded eye. Incidentally Raymond
resembled contemporary descriptions of
Talleyrand, except, perhaps, about the waist
and intellect.
Phil Finkelstein, the affable J.C.W. press-
agent, is mourning the loss of his mother.
Mrs. Sol Finkelstein, who came to Australia
40 years ago and lived at St. Kilda. To
the end she was a prominent worker for
Jewish philanthropic projects.


FIVE MILLION
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
Sold During' February.
The public may be interested in knowing
some of the particulars regarding the part
played by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
in the present epidemic. They were not boomed, such
as was done by many, to use the influenza epidemic to
attract attention to their commodities, for which they
were of little use. Straight announcements were made
advising the public to keep their systems in order by taking
an occasional dose of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills together
with 10 grains of Aspirin or Quinine, but on no account to
try to doctor themselves should they show any signs of the
real Influenza, but to send for the doctor and to go to bed.
This advice has been followed to a wonderful extent. Tens of thousand
of bottles of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have been sold since the
epidemic started. One retail company alone has passed across its counters
five thousand bottles in thirty days. Many wholesale houses have
exceeded this quantity in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide. More than a
ton of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, was sold during February. There
are about two thousand two hundred pills to the pound (anyone can work
it out), which makes over five million pills sold during February in
Australia, or at the rate of about a pill for every man, woman and child on
the continent. The wonderful character of this sale is further emphasised
when it is known that no salesmen were employed whatsoever. Orders
came through the mail or over the telegraph and telephone wires, and were
in response to the genuine demands of the trade. It can therefore be seen
that DR. MORSE'S INDIAN ROOT PILES have played their
part, as already stated, in fighting the epidemic.
It Is not claimed they are better than anything else made for similar purposes, but it is claimed that
they are far better than most, and equal to the best made in this or any other country—and why not?
The Proprietors have been making pills for nearly a century, and for twenty-five years they have been
in constant use in Australia. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are like Ford Cars. It is quantity
production that makes them possible at the price. If the formula were taken to a chemist he would
charge five shillings to make it up, and there would be no guarantee that the ingredients had not lost
their .efficiency. That cannot happen in manufacturing Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. The ingredients
are bought in large quantities and rapidly used up, and the activity of this pill is certain. They are
sold to the public at a shilling, or a little more, subject to local conditions, and in any case the public
gets good value. These are the reasons for their immense popularity, which can be summed up in the
two words, “Absolutely Dependable.”


The all-absorbing question in Europe at present is:
Will the Elbert Government accept the Peace
terms? Their only alternative is to resign and leave
Germany to the Allies. In any case argument is
inevitable. The superiority of King George IV., the
topnoteh Scotch whisky, is bevond all argument.
—Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents; RICHARD HOLMES & CO.. PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
:& SYDNEY.
AT
StJ/V/y
S 3
Q
O
S \\W\\\N
i
Vwwv
IMW
\\y
I
«a\
U
v
!Sfi
AU3
Paton
fax/
Brincls
Gjf\ 'and
looli fbr
this label
YmiU
be pleased
wi th the
result
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
First impressions of the Newmarket Han-
dicap, as viewed from the grandstand, were that the
far end of Flemington straight was laden with water,
and that the heels of the flying field were kicking
up a spray. The effect was afterwards said to be
due to smoke from the abattoirs. It followed the
flying gees like fumes from a motor-car. The V.R.C.
track was certainly very damp, so the winner’s time
for the Newmarket —linin. 15sec. —was highly credit-
able. Of the 25 starters not more than eight or nine
ever looked dangerous, and of these Molly’s Robe
and Greenstead were practically in front all the time
until Sir Ibex, the top weight, came with a late rush
and split the pair. Previously Mistico and Haud
had looked probabilities, especially old Mistico, who
was going like a steam-engine in the centre of the
course. Save for the poor performance of Lucknow —
the English horse having obviously staled off, or
otherwise gone wrong, since the Tuesday when he
won the Futurity—the race was a striking vindica-
tion of recent form. Molly’s Robe had only missed
the Oakleigh Plate by a few inches. Sir Ibex, Green-
stead and Haud were second, third and fourth in the
Futurity, and they were second, third and fifth this
time, Mistico being fourth.
The odd name of Molly’s Robe would suggest
something of domestic interest in the christening of
the filly, seeing that she runs in the nomination of a
lady—Mrs. Ilillcoat. But the pedigree seems to
explain the name. The winner's dam was Microbe,
and if you pronounce it Mikerobe you get an idea as
to why the filly was saddled with her weird cog-
nomen. But why not just Mollyrobc?
Some of the glamor departed from the easy vic-
tory of Mistico in the w.f.a. race at Caulfield when
it was discovered that Magpie had been suffering
from rheumatism or kidney trouble when the ex-
Westralian horse beat him. Nevertheless Mistico
ran well enough in the Newmarket to show that he
was a good one when Magpie, Eusebius and Star
Comedian finished far behind him. Eusebius last
Saturday emphasised the incorrectness of his running
a week previously by winning the Leger from a weak
field in the easiest possible style. The slow pace at
the outset enabled the favorite to lie back at his
leisure until it was time to rush to the front and
win. As soon as he had passed the post Eusebius
Was slowed down to a canter. Star Comedian
appeared to have an even easier job in winning the
Essendon Stakes, so the plungers who lay odds on
the “good things’’ for w.f.a. events had two happy
times during the afternoon. The longest odds on the
two certs, were 9 to 4 and 5 to 2, and neither of
them gave any cause for real anxiety during their
respective picnics.
Precious little chance nowadays of securing a long
price about the “good thing” by getting on to it
early. In the bookies’ lists issued weeks before the
Newmarket, when there were still about six dozen
horses left in the race, not one of the ultimate first
eight was quoted at more than 20 to 1. Molly’s
Robe, Sir Ibex and Greenstead, which filled the
places, and stood at 6’s, 16’s and B’s in the market
at starting time, were quoted at 16, 16 and 12 three
weeks earlier. Two of them certainly did shorten in
price; on the other hand, a good many of the early
fancies dropped out of favor or were non est on the
day. For instance: —■
12 to 1 Tragic Sta-r .. Receded to 25 to 1
16 to 1 Haud.. .. ~ 33 to 1
14 to 1 Petracia .. ~ 25 to 1
10 to 1 Outlook .. „ 33 to 1
14 to 1 Probation .. Scratched
20 to 1 Yoorala . . ~
.20 to 1 Wedge .. ~
20 to 1 Col. Chutney..
20 to l Mareca .. ~
20 to 1 Hoprig . . Receded to 33 to 1
20 to 1 Headwind .. ~ 33 to 1
The inducement to back horses early for hedging
purposes is not nearly as strong as the warning to
refrain from having- a punt until the last moment.
How sadly ridiculous is the position of the punter
who finds on the day that his wager is already lost,
or that he could have saved half his investment by
waiting till the starters had weighed out!
New Tipperary, a 20 to 1 outsider, took the Aus-
tralian Cup, giving Earlborn (7st. 71b.), who was
second, 31b. Menin filled the other place.
The Welkin, sire of Cielo, the Oakleigh
Plate victor, is having- a brilliant season. To that
date, since August 1, his stock has won close on
£20,000 in stakes. They have annexed A.J.C.
Derby, Eclipse, Chelmsford and Debutant Stakes,
M.L. Derby. Great Northern (M.L.) Derby, Carring-
ton Stakes and Oakleigh Plate.
* * * *
Clark and Robinson seemed to get much
the same luck in winning the Futurity Stakes with
Lucknow that they had with imported Flash-of-Steel
in 1915. in both'cases the winner was being rapidly
overhauled at the finish. But, whereas Flash-of-Steel
was a 3-year-old carrying the bottom weight, Luck-
now is a 4-vear-old who humped 7st. 71b., and earned
a penalty of 71b. for the Newmarket, under a condi-
tion which has been added to the list of Futurity
rules since the youngster did the trick. Moreover
Lucknow suffered considerable interference—more,
perhaps, than Sir Ibex, who chased him home. It
happened that Clark was in Melbourne when the
younger nag took the rich prize. He backed the
horse heavily to win the double, and dropped it at
the second time of < asking. Yoorala’s fall in the
Futurity Stakes wakened recollections of how Ernest
Clarke’s Emir (as a 2-year-old) tumbled over in the
same race long years ago. Emir’s mishap occurred
inside the distance. Yoorala was rather further from
the post when she fell as the result of striking Luck-
now's heels.
* * * *
Died in Adelaide Hospital, John Hales,
only surviving brother of Tom, Australia’s one-time
brilliant horseman. In the ’nineties John, located at
Millieent (S.A.), trained a small string. He couldn’t
compare with Tom as a rider, but he could beat him
at billiards. Despite the failing of his sight of late
years, he could still dazzle the -youngsters, being a
fine exponent of Grav’s losing hazard.
* * * *
“0.R.” :Re jockeys’ rings. Here is my
remedy. If the racing clubs are to control jockeys
at all let them do it logically—that is to say, com-
pletely. In the first place, none should be allowed
to ride in a race of importance till they had been
carefully trained and examined for merit. Riders
should be required to ballot for their mounts imme-
diately prior to each race. Just before mounting, the
owner’s instructions should be handed in to the
racing authorities, under seal, to be opened and given
to the jockey, in the owner’s presence, at the last
minute. Trainers should be compelled to keep
apprentices in proportion to the number of horses
trained by them; and, in order to keep up the
supply of qualified horsemen, there might be one race
per day of every meeting for apprentices only. But
even with these precautions the bookie and the
swindling punter would doubtless find a way. The
proposed remedy would have its best chance of
success under a purely totalisator system, with
McNoses entirely abolished.
* * * *
Frank Darcy, whose portrait appears
alongside this, was to have met Barney Thompson,
the Vie. welter cham-
pion last Saturday
night. The latter
missed his train, so
the bloodshed had to
be postponed for a
week. The position
at Sydney Stadium
next Saturday will
'be something the
same as it was on
the night Les,
Frank’s brother, .first
met Fritz Holland
there in the long
ago. Les (like the
present aspirant)
was raw, and almost
unknown; Fritz
(like Thompson) was
a seasoned, warrior.
Holland gave Darcy
a good beating,
though the Maitland
crowd that had come
down to see their
man win wouldn’t
believe it, and to
prove the fact tried
to set the Stadium
on fire. Thompson
may defeat the cham-
pion’s young brother,
but it is safe to
prophesy one thing—■
he will find it as hard
to knock Frank as
Holland found it to
knock Les. The
family is a remarkably tough one.
* * * *
R. L. Baker has started a physical culture
business on a vast scale in Oxford-street, Sydney.
Harold Baker is still suffering from the spinal
injury which he got on a transport over two years
ago, but the other brothers are fit and will assist.
“Snowy” is to manage the show, which claims to
provide every bodily exercise within the knowledge
of mankind, and in the intervals he will go on with
hi* film business.
Jack Johnson, who has just challenged
Jess Willard, was 34 when he beat Tommy Burns on
Boxing Day in 1908. That is, he thought he was—
there is no great certainty about the average nigger’s
age. His prime was past, even then, and since those
days he has lived hard. He puts forward, persua-
sively, the allegation that he faked the Willard fight
—that he was squared to lie down. On the evidence
of the pictures it is a lie. He outboxed Willard for
20 rounds and then Anno Domini and the other
man’s giant bulk got to work, and he was exter-
minated.
Johnson may have been encouraged in his bluff by
a match that was arranged last month between Jim
Driscoll and Pedlar Palmer. It came off a week
ago, and Driscoll stopped Palmer in four rounds.
Driscoll must be years younger than Palmer, assum-
ing the person mentioned in the cables is the great
original. Pedlar Palmer, while at the height of his
fame, was journeying to Ascot by train. He was
provoked by a man in the carriage, and hit him.
The man fell dead, and Palmer got 10 years, which
he completed, with remissions for good conduct, just
before the war started. He Would be about the same
age as Johnson —nearly as old as Fitzsimmons was
when Lang outed him in Sydney.
* * » »
Jack Green is still bantam champion of
N. S. Wales. He met Bill Tingle at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night, and for over half the battle the
flyweight was a winner on points. But Green is
game and a stayer. By the seventh round he had his
clever adversary tired and apprehensive, and in the
thirteenth he put him out. The lethal hits were a
right to the head and a left to the body, immediately
followed by a smashing right on the jaw.
* * * *
Roamer, the great Yankee miler, is beauti-
fully bred—by Knight Errant (Trenton —St. Mil-
dred, by St. Simon) from Rose Tree II (Bona Vista—
Fanny Relph, by Minting). He has been racing for
six seasons, has faced the starter 80 times (first on
37 occasions), and has collected £18,542 in-stakes —-
and the stake-money is small in the U.S. His
recent mile in lmin. 34 4-ssec. is a record fc)r
America. He would be the ideal article for a
National Stud, only, like so many others in the sport
which is designed, primarily, to improve the breed of
horses, he is a gelding.
J. C. Harrison, the ex-bookie who collected
six years in M.L. last week for an assorted lot of
frauds, was well known in - Sydney and Melbourne.
He is one of those strange characters who, while
capable of making a fortune legitimately at most
forms of business, go crooked for the love of it.
He had all the qualities that bring success in the
Ring—nerve, judgment and a head for figures. In
the days when he was living upon the punters of
the Commonwealth it was the practice of the police
to periodically raid certain bookmakers’ betting-
shops. The raids were frame-ups for the edification
of the wowsers. By an error Harrison’s establish-
ment was entered instead of the one which had made
arrangements for an official visit that week, and a
fortune in ready cash was impounded. He claimed
at this time to be worth £lOO,OOO. He did a con-
siderable business in the confidence line, was an
expert card-sharper, and claimed to have stiffened
more jockeys than any man in the Commonwealth.
* * * *
There is a sound reason for the sale
abroad of the A.I.F. horses and mules in France;
yet, somehow, it has not been stated in the cables.
A big percentage are suffering from an incurable
eye-complaint. First one eye, then the other, is
attacked, and without treatment the animal quickly
goes stone-blind. Latterly the V.O.’s were inject-
ing a serum which inflamed the eyes hideously for
a time. On the bandages being removed the
invalid proved usually to be better—temporarily.
But there was always a relapse, and except in
special circumstances the vets preferred to evacuate
these cases out of hand. The disease is highly in-
fectious, as was proved by the fact that the well-
fed and cared-for A.S.C, horses living in stables in
back areas suffered worse than artillery horses whose
waggon-lines were mostly in open fields. Elderly
Backblocks Diggers sometimes claimed to have seen
the disease, or one very like it, in Australia in the
’nineties; but even so it could not have taken the
epidemic form that it did on the Western Front.
* * * *
After the commercial aeroplane the aero-
plane for pleasure. Both should be here within five
years, and what a vogue the latter will have in Aus-
tralia —notably in the big cities! For Melbourne
or Sydney the water-plane. In both places there are
vast stretches of permanently smooth water to rise
from and to land upon. All down the coast, for
months at a time, there is a trade-wind which varies
hardly at all in strength, and which can be relied on
to spring up and die down at certain hours with the
regularity of clock-work. Instead of doing his Sunday
surfing at Manly or Cronulla, the rich Sydneyite
will board his ’plane at Rose Bay or—best of all
inlets for this propose—Mosmah, fly along the coast
at a thousand feetr or so, past Narrabeen and Broken
Bay, undress on board, alight off (say) the Ninety-
Miie Beach, get to the first breaker in a dinghy, go
on to Port Stephens for lunch and an hour’s tunny-
fishing, and so home before the southerly. Not that
the stiffest southerly would be likely to do more
damage than give the ’plane-owner a cold. The ’bus
type of machine is already practically fool-proof.
» * # »
Schoolboy Keith Kirkland is Sydney’s
swimming crack nowadays. A week ago he won a
100yds. heat in 57 2-ssec. ; on Saturday he did
the same stretch in 58see. and again in 56 3-ssec.
Morris Christie was another 100yds. winner last
week (62sec. was his time), and he followed it
up by taking the 440yds. senior-cadet championships
in smin. 57sec., and the first heat of the President
Cup handicap (one mile) in 26min. 23 4-ssec.
* * * *
W. Smith, a Horsham (Vic.) rifleman, who
owns up to 78, scored 13 consecutive bull’s-eyes at
500 yards the other day.
J. Bogle (Sydney Uni.) smote 119 v.
Central Cumberland on Saturday—his fifth century
this season. Roy Bardsley (Giebe) made 109 v.
Balmain, he and Warren (69) putting on 119 for the
first wicket. Arthur Mailey (for Middle Harbor v.
Gordon) took nine wickets for 53. Amongst the
wicket-keepers Andy Ratcliffe (Balmain) didn’t give
a run in Glebe’s 245, and H. Carter (Waverley)
allowed but three in 215 and he caught two and
stumped one.
* * * »
The ancients did well in the Old v.
Present Boys Brisbane Grammar School match. They
started with 604 (Evans 175 and Boyce 101), and
then got seven of the youths out for 189.
* * * *
There was sensational bowling at Christ-
church (M.L.) when Auckland tried to tear the
Plunket Shield from Canterbury. The holders had
smacked up 291, and Auckland, being a strong bat-
ting side on paper, was feeling good. Then Canter-
bury tossed the ball to Mcßeth. * Within half an hour
or so he had bagged seven for 56. Then he captured
two more with successive balls, making 9 for 56
eight clean bowled. The last man arrived. Mcßeth
sent him down a mixed concoction, and lie spooned
it into mid-on’s hands. But mid-on dropped it and
robbed Mcßeth of the glory of getting all the wickets
and finishing with the hat-trick. Next innings
Mc-Beth got six for 112 on a wicket that didn’t suit
him so well. Canterbury won by close-up 200.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The “Sheffield Shield”—about
which there is a discussion whether it shall go on
indefinitely, or pass to the winner of the next two
or three matches after competition is resumed —was
given to Australia by the Earl of Sheffield when he
brought an English XI, with W. G. Grace in it, in
the summer of 1891-2. Giffen, Lyons and Jarvis in
those days had put S. Aus. cricket right in the
front rank; in the only two games it played that
season it beat N.-S. Wales and Victoria in turn by
an innings. So naturally the Shield was offered for
competition by those three. S. Aus. held it in the
second year, Victoria five times in the first nine
seasons. At the beginning of this century came a
big spurt by N. S. Wales, which won six times run-
ning, nine out of 11. When war stopped the com-
petition, the figures were N.S.W. 13, Vic. 7, S.A. 3.
The present idea of getting rid of the Shield as
soon as possible is not likely to commend itself to
the old players who have battled for it. It was
intended and accepted as a permanent trophy, and
there does not seem to be any justice in giving it
outright to the side that happens to get going
quickest after the war.
* * . * »
Doust and A. M. Jones (N.S.W.) and R.
Lycett (Vie.) are all billed for the English tennis
championships in May next.
* * * *
Jim Anderson and Horne Rice stood out of
the Sydney tennis singles championships last week. And
R. W. Heath (holder —who won in 1914) is on
active service. So the way was easy for Norman
Peach. He beat R. Neil by three sets to two (25
games to 23) in the final. He also won the chal-
lenge pairs (with Miss St. George) in straight sets —
6-4, 7-5. In the men’s doubles Rice and Pocklev
downed Hicks and Utz by three sets to one. Mrs.
Ford won the ladies’ singles, and she and Miss St.
George the doubles.
* * * »
At the annual meeting of the National
party in South Aus., Blundell, M.P., got laughed at
by people who didn’t know as much for urging that
amusements must be provided for country dwellers
if the young men are to be kept from crowding into
the towns. The returned soldiers on the Murray, he
said, had had to be given gymnasium and billiard-
hall, or they went off to the nearest town for recrea-
tion. The meeting found it “too bold and indefinite,”
called it a vote-catching scheme, and laughed it down
with a stupid suggestion that it meant kiss-in-the-
ring and kindred “sports.”'
* * » #
The two old rivals who started bowls in
Adelaide, the Oval and the “Drive” (the Adelaide
Club having its green on Victoria Drive), are still
at the head of affairs or thereabouts, though every
suburb now has a green, with a team that can give
the two central ones a hard game. These two, both
unbeaten so far this season, have at last met, and the
Oval won with unexpected ease, 126 to 78. Oval
players included Blimuan and Pettinger, both famous
batsmen of the past, with Clem Hill, his two brothers
and his father.
* * * *
An all-round bowling “carnival” arranged
by the South Park Club, Adelaide, brought all kinds
of well-known citizens into the field. The Chamber
of Commerce (Riley, Tassie, Prosser, Allnutt) was
beaten by the Civil Service. Governor Galway’s
military four beat the “executive” horribly. Archi-
tects (Smith, Milne, Counsell, Good) just lost to
the Church (Johnson, Casley, Haynes, Hughes).
Banks got home by one point from the Law (Solo-
mon, Evan, Thomas, O’Halloran). Insurance beat
Stock Exchange (Taylor, Sands, Pearce, Burner).
Another executive team, which included president
Sam Jacobs and cricketer Clem Hill, won from
another military four; and the Press was too good
for Parliament, the sides being the Sowdens (father
and son). Hadrian Moody and Mildren, against
Varden, Blackwell, Hague and Cowan.
» * » *
Those old sea rivals, Sayonara and Bona,
met again after 15 years in Sydney Harbor last
Saturday, under the flag of the P.A.Y. Club.
Sayonara had a topsail and Bona hadn’t, and after
a great race the ex-Victorian led Bona home by
25see. Aoma was third.
* * * *
The veterans of Adelaide Polo Club are
reviving the game, so as to have it in good going
order when the younger men return from the war.
They are a willing lot, but naturally on the mature
side. When their old supporter, Richard Law Smith,
now confined to his room by illness, was told the
names of the players on a recent Saturday, he is said
to have asked pleasantly: ‘‘Why don’t you get E. T.
Smith and Charles Goode in ?” The sarcasm lies in
the fact that those well-known citizens are 89 and
92 respectively.
* * » *
The Naval authorities at Fremantle have
notified Lyoh Wise, who has invented a method of
swimming which is called the self-rescue creep, that 20
naval-reservists who could not previously swim were
able, by adopting this system, to propel themselves
50ft. at their first attempt without aid. Hefe are
the directions; but it is not advisable to wait until
there’s a chance of drowning before putting them
into practice: “Bend your body well forward, make
under the surface of the water the same natural,
simple, easy movements that you would make on
land if you were slowly and steadily creeping with
your open hands, knees, feet, etc., up a sloping sand-
bank. Keep your eyes open, mouth shut, breathing
through your nose. Do not raise any part of your
body, except your nose, lips, eyes, etc., out of the
water.” By following these directions it is claimed
that non-swimmers, dressed or undressed, can sup-
port themselves for hours, and by simply turning
their shoulders to the right or left can swum in the
direction they wish.
BALLADE OF BYGONE PUGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jack Johnson has challenged Jess Willard for the
heavyweight championship of the world.
The work of Time is passing grim,
The obsequies of stiffened kine
Are now the chief concern of him
Who stiffened men in nineteen-nine.
Gone is the figure strong and straight
Whose perfect lines caused artists bliss;
11 is waist is in a ruined state.
How many pugs have coiue to this!
He who earned fortunes by a hit
Now draws a Dago hireling’s screw,
And is extremely glad of it,
Since jobs for has-been pugs are few.
Irt countless mean and petty ways
His life is the antithesis
Of what it was in bygone days.
How many pugs have come to this 1
His monarchy, the hempen square,
Wherein lie swaggered like a king
Is gone. He does his humble share
As super in another ring
Without an enemy or friend,
With none to cheer and none to liiss—
And so it shall be to the end.
How many pugs have come to this!
Envoy.
Yet lo! How Time may hint in vain!
Pat, old, with limbs and wind amiss,
K'i challenges the world again.
How many pugs have come to this!
K.S.’.t.
10-2-4.


Why Don’t YOU Have
Perfect Health?
Nature intended you to be strong-, healthy and vigorous.
If you neglect to exercise both your seen and unseen muscles
—if you fail to strengthen your lungs, digestive organs, etc.,
you must expect to pay the penalty and have indifferent
health. It cannot be otherwise.
But if you wish to enjoy perfect health —to become fit,
strong and well developed, as Nature intended you to be, then
you must have correct and sufficient exercise.
My Postal Course of Health 8 Strength Culture
will be the means of giving you renewed health and strength.
You will find my exercises both beneficial and enjoyable
pastime, and will look forward to the time when you have
to do them. You will find the benefits very rapid. The
deep-breathing exercises included in my course will build
up your chest, broaden your shoulders', strengthen your
lungs, and make you breathe in a natural way.
The exercises you receive will be those most suited to your
individual physique—just as the particulars you furnish tell
me you require.
My booklet, entitled “Health and Strength from Self-Culture,”
tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I should like to send
you a copy. Just write your name and address across this
advertisement and post it to me. I will know what you
mean. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. BAKER,
“The All-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,"
873 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
P
Prepare for Coursing
You Can’t Beat Beddome’s Medicines.
Worm Powders.
An excellent alterative,
create an appetite, keep
the clog healthy.
*/- each, 10/- doz.
Tonic and
Condition Balls.
Purify the blood and
produce a smoothness
of coat.
2/6 per box.
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog Owners,"
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME CSk CO.,
CHEMISTS,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable also from
JOHN BRUSH PTY. LTD., SYDNEY;
WALTHEB & STEVENSON, 393 George St., SYDNEY
m
fcHZHEB
THE CHOICE
OF THE PEOPLE
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAfI ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 Q.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
. - 5® 8S s? -
V"
i
I
V*
/jfeDs seen it
lop the job
ip France
That’s Why the Returned
Soldier is Choosing
He knows what it can rlo—he knows its
strength, its absolute reliability, its “get
there” endurance, and he’s the kind of man
who admires those qualities.
Catalogue with pleasure.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor-Cycle
Co. Pty., Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros., ltd., 156
Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle and Motor
Agency, Ltd., Adelaide and Creek
Streets.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79
Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON: John King & Sons,
Ltd., Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle & Motor
Agency, Hay Street.
A Good Cigar at a Moderate Price—
“CAROLA”
MILD, BURNS FREELY, FINE AROMA.
SAMPLE BOXES POST FREE.
11/6 Box of 25. 22/6 Box of 50.
A Really Pure and Healthy
FULL-SIZE VIRGINIAN LEAF CIGARETTE—
“SATIN FINISH.”
5/6 Box of 100. 2/9 Box of 50.
POST FREE.
A. A. MARKS, 576 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
Make your Rowboat a
Motor-boat in a Minute.
Marine Engines
For All Boats
■
Caille 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started.
Electric Lights
Caille Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7'a 10
Miles an Hour
Catlle 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversire Gear on Same Baso as Engine
The Caille Rowboat Motor
transforms the old rowboat into a
reliable, speedy motor-boat in a
minute. It enables you to get
all pleasure from boating, and
takes you where you want to go
like a big motor-boat. It is
portable, and you can take it
where you like without effort.
Simply clamp it on the backboard
of your rowboat or hired boat and
off you go. The Caille is the most
perfect rowboat motor in the
world because it is dependable.
Write for interesting booklet
about the Caille and ask for
prices. Also in stock a full range
of Caille Marine Engines, from 2
to 30 h.p.
Benson
Brothers Ltd.
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
138 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
Salvers.
SALVERS make both useful and acceptable wedding
presents, and, when suitably inscribed, serve to perpetuate the
occasion. Full particulars of designs and sizes other than
those illustrated may be had on application.
A.
PRICES range from 10-inch E.P, Salvers at 60/- to 24-inch. Salvers at £l4.
SELECTIONS will be sent on approval, if desired. Carriage paid and
at the Firm’s risk.
Mini. ©nimmonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.


/I
Australian
Collars for You
C OLDIERS ' returning
to "civies” after 2,
3, or 4 years’ service
usually find the clothes
they left behind too small
now. Especially collars.
Go to your Mercers, men,
and buy Australian-made Pelaco
Collars. They’re comfortable. In
quality and appearance they are
not matched. And they take
laundry punishment—lots of it.
COLLARS
Buy also
Pelaco
kOE
r£s
Shirts and
Pyjamas
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
m
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out tho
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing.
108 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN'& OFFICE USE.
-
II
P 9 a o e
Perfection
PITSK RUBBER.
t^OUND. —The Berol Method of Memory Building,
whereby anyone with a poor memory can, by
devoting a few minutes daily, develop the efficiency
faculty of recalling facts, figures, numbers and names
with little effort. The course of instruction is
mastered in your own home. Send to-day for Pros-
pectus “B.” Jas. Rodger & Co., 159 E Manchester
Street, Christchurch, N.Z. [ll
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New Yirk, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
SKF
ar
_ m
JT94
■Rg.ED I
S.K.F. Self-aligning Ball Bearings
The Perfedl Ball-Bearing
Equipment for Every Car,
The mechanic and the car-owner alike will find it distinctly
advantageous to specify, and see that they get, S.K.F. Ball Bearings
installed in every part of the car that needs bearings.
The S.K.F. Ball Bearing is self-contained, self-aligning, capable of
withstanding axial as well as radial loads, offers no resistance to
valve flexure, and is so designed that the load is sustained by the
maximum number of bearings.
S.K.F. is the only Ball Bearing that embodies all points of perfec-
tion, and this fact has rhade them the specified bearing equipment
by the great majority of car makers all over the world.
Specify S.K.F. Ball Bearings Always.
GARDNER, &Co.
Power and Light Engineers,
MELBOURNE: 3E4 City Road.
(Showrooms): 360 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Pitt Street.
BRISBANE: 367 Queen Street.
£p£N
rn
Ib
fills
lajk
Cleans
fLegula.
elf
British
ture
AVIATION.
New South Wales School of Aviation, Richmond.
H 1
ITHERTO the facilities of the New South Wales School of Aviation at Richmond have been utilised
solely for the training of pilots for war purposes. The need for these has passed with the suspension ot
hostilities. It has now become possible to train men who are interested in Aviation privately or wish to
engage in it commerciallv. It has, therefore, been decided that for the future the Aviation School shall
be carried on as a branch school of the Technical Education Department, providing two separate courses
of instruction—One for Pilots and the other for Mechanics.
The course of training for Pilots will cover a period of not more than 13 weeks, and students will
receive practical instruction in flying, the principles of aviation and practical instruction m adjustmen s.
The Mechanics’ course has been specially c 1 esigned for those who are gaining experience
in one or other of the various trades connected with engineering or woodworking, and who wish to become
aviation mechanics. These students will be given instruction in the adjustment and maintenance ot
aeroplanes, and will have special instruction in engine work and rigging.
The Mechanics’ class will be carried on so as to enable students to get the instruction by
attending on two week afternoons or for a full day on Saturdays, the latter provision being intended to
meet the special case of apprentices who can get off from their work on Saturday mornings. 1
latter course will commence at 10.45 a.m. and will last till 5 p.m., and the afternoon courses will he
from 2.30 to 6 p.m. in Summer and 2.30 to 5 p.m. in the Winter. All these times have been made to
suit Railway Time-tables.
Persons desirous of availing ihemselves of either of these courses of instruction should apply to
the Superintendent, Technical College, Ultimo, where full particulars as to fees, etc., may be obtained.
3b 4 8.
JAMES NANGLE,
Superintendent of Technical Education.
Cost less than 10%
A good saddle in fact even a Brooks,
the best, costs less than i o% of the price
of your bicycle. Yet without such a
fitment you forfeit 90% pl easure
your machine is capable of giving you.
Think it over and insist —always
o a BROOKS
Ask ynur Agent.
HORLICK'S
MALTED
MILK
FOR ALL AGES
Horlick’s Malted Milk
is more beneficial than
tea, coffee or cocoa,
and is the best food
for invalids, dyspep-
tics, and those who
are below par.
11l
©
***nYi«**' ! t
Ss4wtaA
■ OT
MAITtO •***
S-S
Vo Shortage of Supplies. Ample Stocks throughout Australia.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. A o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Alpha: Can’t follow you. If the Govern-
ment commandeers meat'to sell at how is the
price of stations fixed on a i 5-Bd. basis?... .R.S.E.:
Next week, we hope... .H. 8.: Let’s have those other
instances, and please space out your typing to give
the sub-editor’s pen an opening D.N.W.: A cloud
came o’er the reader’s brow. The story had a great
vogue in 1852 M.R.: Haven’t the space to reprint
articles Vingt: No A.L.P.: Remove the un-
clean thing.... Doreen: Feeble stuff. .. .J.L.: “Olden
Days” and the rest fall far short G.D.S.: Held
for consideration... . A.A.K.: Too lumpy... . J. 5.8.:
Truth doesn’t atone for the bad verse R.C.: Not
nearly up to standard... .G.W.: A first attempt and
a pretty poor one... .A.H.N.: Rumpty-tumpty verse
without any merit. There are men in the business
who do that sort of thing in their sleep... .A.F.:
Don’t like it J.W.G.: Sorry; but it doesn’t grip.
Jockabed: Very poor stuff A.H.: Glad you
find them “funny’!-... .Hannibal: Very far 0ff....
M.8.P.: N0....E.M.: Your rooster can’t crow here.
R.P.M.: Sorry; but the verse is not gopd
Alannah: One held for consideration. .. .J.L.8.:
Short weight 0.8. E.: No W.W.H.: Rather
insanitary H.S.C. (or something): “To the
Soldiers” is much less than they have earned
G.H.R.: No use W.J.: “Quarantined” gets to
nothing. .. .W.E.Iv.: Very feeble flutter... .L.J.8.:
Can’t do it R.H.: The summing-up:—
There’ll always be trouble away in the North
If all the country’s money was spended,
For the races that’s living away in the North
By the country can never be blended.
. ...R.J.S.: Been a thousand times better done....
L.G.D.: “Finegan” doesn’t hold us, and the copy is
horrible M.A.C.: It doesn’t make a yarn
A.D.: Very crude verse A.D. (a different one):
“Anguish” is not for us. But there are others....
J.A.W.: “Idea”—borrowed... .Evad: Lame in both
feet.. J.C.H.8.: Pars, are not acknowledged here.
Copy acoepted is acknowledged by publication. We
pay for what we print... .C.E.H.: Don’t care for it.
... .R.G.C.: Rather too slight. ... A.N.R.: No, thank
y0u....C.P.1L: Put something into your verse....
P.C.N.: Lyrical version of the Argyllshire foray
herewith-
They collared every boat,
They soon were all afloat,
But all were caught as you haye seen
And then sent down to quarantine.
All night they were awake,
Dreading the hated snake,
So they rebelled the very next morn,
And marched away in uniform.
Out to the Cricket Ground marched they,
All the way in the good old sway,
They hadn’t the ’flu, so they couldn’t see
Why they shouldn’t have their liberty.
. ...O.B.: The Kaiser has had a lot of cursing, but
nore| like this: —•
May his people see their error,
Get rid of this wild terror ;
Fasten him before his mirror,
There to die for one such an evil-doer.
There to face his own image,
To 'think he caused all this scrimmage; >
May he never stand on another stage,
Nor another war the world to engage.
. ...A.S.G.: It’s a feeble flutter. You speak of the
“idea coming to you.” Evidently it has flown again
—we couldn’t find it.... Kester Sully: Most of the I
alleged verse is very injurious. .. .A.L.R.: Shocking. 1
Try to find out what you want to do before next
attempt... .J.R.: Take it away.... Doc: Won’t do.
....Snooks: You made nothing of it W.C.K.:
“Night” misses... .C.P.W.: Not up by miles.... :
W.J.D.: “Vacant Chair” wanted better handling. 1
. ...E.F.: You contrived to make it very du11....
11. G.: It doesn’t make a yarn... .C.E.S.: Not much
mirth in that... .C.E.H.: “Three Christs” is rather
obvious yell for such stiff verse. The limping,
unrhymed line jars.... Bellerive: The little item on
“Flies” goes brightly:—
When the wind doth cease to ripple,
And the blazing sun is high,
We are pested by the families
Of Mr. and Mrs. Fly.
Buzzing here and buzzing there,
And buzzing o’er the table,
They must have populated
Since the days of Cain and Abel.
... .G.A.E.: Bump, bump, bump !... . J.H.: “Cutting
Scrub” misses... .It.S.E.: Verse must be verse. To
string words like that is easy; but easy writing is
hard reading.... Fanuela: N0....P.J.: Give us room
to jab a pen between the lines.... Tribune: It’s a
Scotch contraction of “day’s work” —“Hae you done
yeir darg?”
Do any of the “Freetrade” journalists
believe in their papers’ joss? T. W. Heney,
being no longer editor of the S, M. Herald,
has been talking to the Millions Club about
“Problems of Peace.” Among other things :
If through the competition of Japan the ground
was cut from under the feet of Australian manufac-
turers, she would be reduced to the position she
occupied before Federation.
“Federation,” of course, means the Federal
tariff —Kingston’s more or less Protectionist
tariff which, so far as N. S. Wales is con-
cerned, superseded the Yes-no tariff of G.
ReidT Heney sees, in spite of his long years
in the S. M. Herald’s chair —or because of
it —that the new competition calls for still
higher duties if we are not to be “reduced”
to the coolie position we were in under his
old paper’s Freetrade joss.
Bushell, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), declares that
“the Nationalists are paying Laborites to
encourage Bolshevism throughout the State
so that the Labor party will receive the
blame.” It is a trifle far-fetched, for it is a
rare sort of man who will pay another man
to kill him and burn his house so that certain
third parties may be suspected after he is
dead. There has long been a suspicion, how-
ever, that many Labor leaders and Labor
papers were subsidised by the importers. In
return, presumably for consideration re-
ceived, they have “sunk the fiscal issue,”
and directed all the fury of their party when
madness came upon a section of it to “taking
over” {i.e., confiscating) the factories and
workshops, with never a word about taking
over the importers’ warehouses, thus doing
their best to scare people from investing in
local industries. But real Bolshevik riot, in
the course of which an importer might be
hanged as high as an employer of Australian
artisans at union wages, was almost cer-
tainly not on the programme. The man who
buys a devil always reckons that it will be
an obedient devil and not go into business for
itself.


Stop Torturin
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
m
u
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring: Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 .Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just *s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
m
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfort.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
:*i‘***:*Nvt*x
it
u»i
»SS
■•Jt,
a
S
a
<s> f
§5
%
j - , «
oT
VbS
Vv-S
-v <S
*<y
LC
■4. O'
■# /asSn
*■<?
iiiS
gw, »
Ca _
TO DiflYi
When you can’t work, feel all run down, under the weather, blue,
Irritable, sick all over, it is a sign that your entire system is clogged up with the
dangerous poisons of dyspepsia, biliousness and constipation.
To obtain quick relief give yourself a thorough cleansing out with
Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and liver. Their action is quick, yet
mild and gentle. They strengthen the bowels and tone up the whole
digestive system.
Chamberlain’s Tablets do not form the pill habit, like most medicines,
but on the contrary help nature to re-establish the natural functions of
the bowels.
Chamberlain’s Tablets will make you feel like a new man-bright,
cheerhl and fit for work. There is no safer or better medicine known tor all
stomach and liver troubles and constipation than
CnAMBERIAINSTABLEIS
jfcr the stomacii Liver..
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
X&ay be avoided.
I3e Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamb'nrlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good* This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
p
LOCAL
m
J
>r
Your
Aim?
Then have aSIiOT
at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco
4
k\
T
1
X
“I’ve Struck It—
The Real Thing in Razors. Gets through the job
in a quarter the time, and makes the business a
pleasure. The ‘PLUM’S’ the Razor for me.”
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/G-POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO pears.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM
Razor.
m
When Shaving is a Pleasure.
right.”
Standard Outfit, consisting of EVER-READY razor, handle and 8 blades, in neat
ease.
Price //• Post Free.
Send postal-notes, or other remittance, for the amount To-day. \oull like it.
MANUFACTURERS’ SELLING AGENCY,
8 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
DIAMONDS as NEW YEAR GIFTS,
No other Gift in the whole list of Valuable Things has such
Personal Appeal as a Diamond King.
K79.—£11/10/-
Klol3.—Diamond
and 2 Emeralds,
£lO/10/-
AT.T, OUK DIAMONDS
ABE SET IN
PUKE PDATINUM
AND 18ct. GOLD.
K 923
£35.
ss
nPISjP
K 734. —Diamond
and Emerald
Cluster, £55.
J1040.—£17/10/-
£lO/10/-
CALL AND
INSPECT, or WRITE FOR OCR NEW CATALOGUE
OF USEFUL PRESENTS.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
largest jewellers of the empire,
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.


Amusements.
Xlarry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1“ IVO L 1 TIIISAT It E. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
MY LADY FRAYLE.
A delightful Musical Play in Two Acts.
Plan at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
“|"IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Hugh d. Mclntosh presents the reigning
SUCCESS OF LONDON,
THE BETTER ’OLE.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
AKITEItION THEATRE, SYDNEY,
w Direction J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
Including FLORENCE YOUNG,
in
MAYTIME.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s. __
|J E It MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY,
■ ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE LIMIT IN REVUE SPECTACLES.
HELLO, EVERYBODY!
A revelation in the art of stage-production.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
|JNI<>N X’ ICT U K E TXIISAT It K S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
UEK MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
■ Direction J. C. .WILLIAMSON' I,'f I).
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
TREMENDOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
GOODY TWO SHOES.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
*¥" XI 15 ATIt E It OYA J„ MEI.KOI It N i
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Everybody’s
Favorite,
MURIEL STARR, in
THE GREAT DIVIDE.
KING’S THEATRE, MELItO’UBNE.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. & N. TAIT and BAILEY & GRANT present •
THE MERRY CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
P RINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
• Lessees J. & N. TAIT.
Direction FRANK RIGO.
THURSDAY (MARCH 20), LUCIA.
FRIDAY (MARCH 21), FAUST.
SATURDAY (MARCH 22),
CAVALLERIA and PAGLIACCI.
Popular Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- (plus tax).
G. D. PORTUS, General Manager.
gy|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS OF
CHARLIE CHAPLIN in his Million Dollar
Feature,
SHOULDER ARMS.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
UOm THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS* WEEK’S FEATURES:
WILLIAM S. HART in SELFISH YATES,
and
VIVIAN MARTIN in VIVIETTE.
Prices as usual.
|y|ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATIIE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICIC.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, II a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d,
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
A
VON
TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money
Misftins: Friends.
TX7TLL Mrs. or Miss LEIGHTON, or similar name,
vv who received letter last year from Private
William H. Oooke, 35th Battalion, when in hospital
wounded, kindly communicate with his mother.
Djin Djin Tea Rooms,
90 Block Arcade. Melbourne.
PATTINSON. —Information required with
reference to the next of kin of MARY
MOXON PATTINSON, of 110 Exeter Road,
Exmouth, Devon. England, Spinster, Avho
died on the 18th May, 1918. Apply,
PETHERICK & SONS, Solicitors, Exmouth,
England.
Next of Kin Wanted.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
the next of kin of EDWARD BAX-
TER, formerly of North Shore, Sydney, and
latterly residing in Dunedin, N.Z., but at his
death a member (No. 8/1132) of the N.Z.
Expeditionary Forces, is requested to com-
municate with the Public Trustee, Welling-
ton, N.Z.
PORTER, EDWARD SAMUEL, late of
. (High Street, Fremantle, West Aus-
tralia.—lf the children of the above will
apply to the undersigned they will hear of
something to their advantage.
W. A. G. DAVIDSON & CO., Solicitors.
Bank Buildings, Acton, London, W.C.,
England.
Missing Friends.
IF GEORGE WRIGHT, son of the late
James and Louisa Wright, will com-
municate with the undersigned he will hear
of something to his advantage.
HARRY G. DAVEY.
107 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ANY information from or concerning
WILLIAM CHARLES MOIR, last
heard of in Sydney about 18 years ago, will
be very gratefully acknowledged by his sister,
Miss Moir. 35 Dunnottar Avenue, Stone"
haven, Scotland.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists,- Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
SPECIALIST OPTICIANS.
As Sight-testing experts and Specialist Opticians we think—
indeed we know—from hundreds of letters received that we
held a very high reputation amongst users of glasses.
One of our directors has done nothing but test eyes for the last 25 years.
Another director has publicly lectured on the eye and vision and allied subjects, perhaps more than
any man in Australia.
W it.h all our knowledge, best skill and attention added, yet our glasses cost no more than similar
lenses in London.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
-
Optical Showrooms Upstairs,
23 and 25 Hunter Street
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
Mllllil>lliii,iillilllilllllllllll!lliilllllllllllllll{itllltlllilllllliillllllMtllillllllllllllllltllllll!l!mnillilliil!thlUilllii!lliimilHHI!HlltilllT
INIV(j
mnmtoiMHHS
■i
ii
A full-bodied, free-flowing paint of remarkable
obliterative quality; a paint that is economical to
use because its ingredients are ground to the
utmost fineness by machines built for the purpose.
A perfect paint for all buildings. Order S-W-P!
COVER
THE
EARTH
The Sherwin-Williams Co.(Australia) Ltd.
63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Distributors:
SYDNEY: Watson & Crane Ltd.; G. E. Crane & Sons Ltd.
MELBOURNE: James McEwan & Co. Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: Colton., Palmer & Preston Ltd.
PERTH: A. C. McCallum Ltd.
BRISBANE: R. S. Exton & Co. Ltd.
Agents in all principal towns throughout Australasia.
Government Notice.
QUEENSLAND.
Applications arc* invited from per-
sons Qualified to fill the position of
General Manager of the Chillagoe Smelting
Works, about to be re-opened and Worked
under State control,
The salary of the position will be £l5OO
per annum, with house, light and fuel and
travelling expenses when travelling is neces-
sary on the same conditions as provided for
positions of similar salary in the Public
Service,
Applicants are required to have had recent
practical experience in the management of
metallurgical Works at which silver, lead and
copper ores were treated.
The Successful applicant must be prepared
to take up his duties without delay.
Applications must reach the undersigned
not later than 26th March, 1919,
HENRY MARSHALL,
Under-Secretary.
Department of Mines,
Brisbane, 4th March, 1919.
, Public Notices,
OTICE TO GOLD-PRODUCERS.
For the purpose of enabling Australian gold*
producers to realise the best price obtainable for
their gold, the Acting Prime Minister has agreed to
PERMIT the EXPORT of NEW GOLD from Aus-
tralia for a period of three monthsj This permission
Is conditional on (inter aim),
(a) The formation Of a Gold-producers' Association ;
( b) The admission of all bona-fi4c producers of
gold within the Commonwealth to membership
of Association if they so desire.
The memorandum and articles of the Association
■were prepared under the directions of the committee
appointed by the recent Gold Producers’ Conference,
at which all States were represented, and the Associ-
ation has been registered as a limited liability com-
pany with a nominal capital of £1250 in 25,000
shares of one shilling each. Each applicant for
membership will be required to take up one share
in respect of every four standard ounces of gold
produced in the month immediately preceding the
date of his application.
All bona-fide gold-producers are eligible for mem-
bership, and those who become members on or before
SOth April, 1919, will be entitled to participate in
the profits of the first half-yearly accounting period.
The business of the Association will be conducted
by a Board of five directors, two of whom will he
elected by the members resident in Western Aus-
tralia, one each by the members resident in Victoria
and Queensland, and one by the members in New
South Wales, Tasmania and South Australia com-
bined. The following are the provisional directors
appointed to act until the first half-yearly general
meeting of the Association, viz., E. C. Dyason, G. C.
King, T. W. Wellsted, J. L. Wharton and H. L.
Wilkinson.
Permits to export gold will only be issued by the
Commonwealth Treasury on the production of Mint
certificates for gold lodged by individual members,
and participation in any profits realised will be pro-
portionate to the amount of gold represented by
such Mint certificate. The Association will in no
way interfere with members’ existing arrangements
for realisation of their gold.
Intending applicants for membership should com-
municafe with the undersigned, from whom full
information may be obtained.
THOS. MAUGHAN, Acting Secretary.
Gold Prodiupers’ Association Limited, *4B Queen
Street, Melbourne, March 6, 1919.
m
&
ft.
/////A
r>
w
JrV«
7
fW
■ y/ /im
Ift H-
-7/l
// n
A HUNT Hat
becoming to men
of every type.
It will gain the approval of
men who select critically.
A Hat that meets the usual
requirements in an unusual
manner.
Shown in the newest shades
for present wear.
R. Hunt S Co.
314 George Street,
Sydney.


cunciiM,
Qukldij Heals
Eczemas,Rashes;*
Itchings and
Irritations
In the treatment of all skin
troubles bathe freely with Cuti-
cura Soap and hot water, dry
gently, and apply Cuticura Oint-
ment to the affected parts.
These fragrant super - creamy
emollients tend to prevent little
skin troubles becoming serious
if used for every-day toilet pur-
poses.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to
heal. "R. Towns & Co., hiydncy,
N. S. W.” Sold by dealers through-
out the world.
CHRISTIE?
L /A/£5
si# 5
, r>
i#
WPITF.
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGE S T SYDNEY
.HOOTERS' NEWCASTLE
m i
1
m
m
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
1
m
»
m
I
SS
ELBY .410 "Fourten”
Loaded with ELEY Smokeless Powder
ELEY.22 Long Rifle
“E” Brand
Eley .22 Rim
Black or Smokeless
ELEY Single Rise
Expert Trap
E LEY Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L® LON DON
1 to 5 tons
Capacities.
\awe. ttiktmtamifttMt
@ll AUTOMOBILE6ASBUKE E
ll U/111/l/l/WlilMlHMJllMlillJlhllnlllllWlllllllllllllllMljlllMl*-*
V.
Figure Your Delivery Costs per Load!
Compare the cost of hauling by team—as against a
Federal lorry and you’ll be surprised at the large saving!
Federal lorries are to-day saving money for thousands
of owners in all parts of the world. It is the lorry most
preferred because of its solid construction, its sturdiness
and its ability to keep on working under all conditions of
roads and loads.
1 Ton, $l9OO 2 Ton, $2600 5 Ton, $4400
1 Ton, $2350 3j4 Ton, $3350
Write for our magazine, ‘‘Traffic yews,’ and also full prices and discounts.
federal motor truck company
Factory—Detroit, Mich., U.S.A. Foreign Department—lB Broadway, New York.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
by
APPOINTMENT
TO
H‘M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
The Universal Dustier Pulveriser
Grinding Mills for All Glasses
of Material.
Write Us on Your Grinding
Propositions and we will
quote you for a Suitable
Machine.
Separator Screens for Super-
phosphates, Chemicals, Ores,
etc.
We also Manufacture Packing
Machines for Filling Packets
or Tins.
Keg and Barrel Elevators.
Platform Elevators for Boxes
and Packages.
Gravity Runways or Con-
veyors—no power required to
drive.
Steel and Cast-iron
Conveyors.
The Universal Dustless
Pulveriser, Rigid and
Swing-hammer Types,
Size No. 10, with
Shaker Feed.
Flour Mill Machinery.
Mixing Machinery.
Dressing Machinery.
We can Quote you for a Com-
plete Self-raising Flour
Flant.
Friction Hoists.
Apron anti Belt Conveyors.
Combined Grinding and
Dressing Plants.
Boiler Feed Power Pumps.
Suction Sack Cleaners.
Bottle-filling Machines.
Concrete- and Mortar-mixing
Machines.
Adjustable Feeders.
Factory Experts and Con-
sulting Engineers.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. 18
Produced entirely under
the British Flag
99
SI
Underwear
Made in England from fine Australasian Wool, Jason Underwear
gives greater comfort than any other you ever wore.
New “Olympic” Brand
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which Jason All-wool goods are
made, the manufacturers have introduced temporarily lower lines containing a
percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee of quality as the regular lines.
Your dealer will supply you. Sole manufacturers
JASON UNDERWEAR CO.. LEICESTER. ENG.
the palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Gleniris”: The inadequacy of . 8 W,® 1 ®
agricultural service was never bettei illus-
trated than in the issuance ot grass-seed to
farmers burned out by the bush-tires Cocks-
foot is now almost unobtainable. i .
Government has skinned the market, of sup
plies and the need for a substitute is being
tilled by Yorkshire fog. or woolly suit gras.,
a low-growing herb which, according to -
ncrts is “a pestilence in a pasture. A
reallv adequate agricultural administration
would have full supplies of standard grasses
in its own bins, and encourage the tanner to
use them. As matters stand, the nual
producer who builds up Ins own pastures is
the exception; and when he wants seed he
has to pay a price bloated by the profits ot
a succession of middlemen.
Explanation given in a Bade blocks ease
about an altered cheque for which the bank
held it wasn’t liable. The drawer had just
written the “six’ 1 of “six pounds. A dead
fly dropped on the paper at the end or the
“six.” The drawer couldn t conveniently
biow it off because he had his pipe in Ins
mouth. So his pen made a step over the
fly and that left a gap between the two
words —“six” and “pounds. When the
receiver added “ty” to the “six” the cheque
looked more natural than it did in its raw
state.
* * * *
“Edd.vson’s” tale of man’s inhumanity
Norton* had driven his car over the same track
several times, but in the gloom he failed to make
allowance for recent rains having undermined the
load from the big, self-made drain running parallel
with tiie track on the left, and presently found him-
self hurtling into a great, neglected furze-hedge,
striking a feeble post-and-rail fence hv the way,
while his car keeled over into the gutter and kicked
its wheels in the air like an expiring hen. But a
Good Samaritan was at hand. His name was
Harridan, and he was a shb'rt, copiously-bewhiskered
man in old black clothes. He threw his portman-
teau under the hedge, hauled Norton out of the
prickles and gave him drink from a corked soda-
water bottle he carried in his hip-pocket; whereupon
Norton opened his ey*. and feebly requested enlight-
enment—where was he? “Shire of Dunrobin, sub-
section 2,” said Harridan. Across a paddock to the
left a white house was visible in the dying day.
Up 'the road a quarter of a mile further a red house
was not visible at all. Towards the latter Harridan
began to pilot Norton, leaned heavily and
groaned. He was very sore. It, was quite dark when
they knocked at the front door of the red house.
Norton noticed that the windows were boarded.
Harridan knocked at the front door yet again. No
answer. He knocked for a third time. No answer.
Norton groaned eloquently. Harridan conveyed the
sick man to the back door and knocked again. He
had knocked for perhaps five minutes, when a coarse,
hard voice inside demanded what in Tophet he
wanted, “I’ve got a very badly-hurt man here,”
replied Harridan in thin, plaintive tones. “He has
been injured in a motor accident.” “Take him outer
this!” replied the hard voice. “But I tell you he is
badly hurt.” Swish! Somebody had opened a side
window, and swiped out a pail of very hot water.
Norton 'got some of it, Harridan got the rest. “Are
you goin’?” inquired the hard voice. “But what
am 1 to do with this poor| man?” demanded Harri-
dan. Aside to Norton he said: “Groan, d n you!
Why don’t you groan?” Norton groaned. “I’ve
got a bit of a dog in here,” said the voice. “I’ll he
giving him a run presently.” “But this is most
inhuman. This poor fellow may die.” The person
inside let the dog out for his run. He was a very
nasty dog. Fortunately he gave the best of his atten-
tion to Harridan, but Norton sustained three bites
before he could limp off the property. Then Norton
sat down; and so did Harridan. The latter took
his whiskers off and put them in his pocket.
“You'd better try Bates's, the white house down the
road,” he said. “This is the fifth attempt I’ve made
to get into that red house.” “Why, what the devil
arc you at?” demanded Norton. “Me?” replied
Harridan, dressing his bitten calf with a handker-
chief. “I'm a bailiff!”
“Jerry B.”: Last year Melbourne build-
ers started on a sort of strike, chiefly on
account of the high price of timbers. Then
the* armistice happened in Europe, and the
timber people took heart, believing that the
glad news would bring on a rush of orders.
It didn’t. Apparently everybody with a
building in view reckoned he would wait and
watch prices fall. The timber people kept
their prices firm, and the builders kept on
doing nothing. But at last there are signs
that some people are getting tired. Prices
for building sizes are on the down-grade,
with a number of unorganised timber-men
underselling the association. Even now.
however, builders are shy. The man who
builds houses to sell knows what is likely
to happen to his new property when another
10 per cent, comes off the cost of materials.
“Moana” : How’s this for a pair of over-
coats? At the Omakau (M.L.) Show two
Romney rams, owned by .1. Wilson and
exhibited in a class where yield of wool
counted, produced an average of 23Alb. per
fleece.
Bert Leywood, an energetic Australian
who has travelled the world over as a
vaudeville artist, has just left for India with
the idea of stringing the principal cities
together in a moving-picture advertising cir-
cuit. Leywood is going to barrack for Aus-
tralian goods by means chiefly of cartoons,
etc., prepared by Harry Julius in Sydney,
and he reckons that the enterprise will soon
produce enough cash to enable him to bio-
graph the virtues of Australian products
throughout Eastern Asia.
ABSOLVED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Clergyman, 50, widower, no _ family, medium
income “wishes introduction lady, view above; means
necessary. , Fitzroy P.O. —Argus.
He was standing for judgment at last.
Peter stated the plaint:
“You had money and goods when you passed,
Far too much for a saint.
Here are houses and land you possessed
Which attest to your shame.”
Quoth the soul: “I have never transgressed—
All is in the wife's name!”
VICTORIA.
D.


Madame
Stella
Power
sings for
1
m
■
The NEW EDISON.
Australia’s rising young singer—Madame Stella Power—who has returned
to our midst after a successful tour of the United States, has made for
us three records, comprising seven of her most characteristic numbers.
It was as a protegee of Dame Melba —whose judgment was endorsed by
the most impartial musical critics —that Madame Stella Power laid the
foundation of a career that will certainly not stop short of fame for
herself and her native country, where she is so well known and liked.
Madame Stella Power will shortly be giving concerts here. Get her
Edison “re-creations”—said to be absolutely lifelike—and then hear
the artist herself.
Madame Power sings exclusively for The 'MEW EDISON. Here is a
list of Edison “re-creations” of her voice:—
80400.
(a) BLACKBIRD'S SONG (Scott).
(b) SONGS MY MOTHER TAUGHT ME
(Dvorak).
UNA VOCE POCO PA (A Little Voice I
Hear). II Barbiere Di Sivigrlia (Ros-
sini). In Italian.
80401.
CHARM AXT OISEAU (Thou Brilliant
Bird). La Perle Du Bresil (David).
In French.
SPRING (George Henscliel).
80102.
BEE RAGGIO BUSING HEIR (Bright
Gleam of Hope). S'femiraniide (Ros-
sini). In Italian.
NYMPHES ET SYEVAINS (H. Bemberg).
In French.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 3G4-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
Bengers Food Ltd.,
regret to announce that in consequence of GOVERNMENT
LIMITATIONS placed upon EXPORTS they are unable to
keep their Overseas friends fully supplied at present.
Immediately these restrictions are removed every effort
will be made to send out sufficient stocks to meet all demand.
Any communications on this subject should be addressed to our Sydney Office.
Food
is in great demand for Civil, Military, and Red Cross
Hospitals, and in Convalescent and Nursing Institutions.
From a Captain of the Royal Army Medical Corps.
“Your Food was of great assistance to me in my treatment of convalescent dysentery cases."
BENGER'S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U.S.A.) 90, Beekman St. Depots throughout CANADA,
CRICKET
SEASON 1919.
Our stock comprises everything
for the Game. Now showing a
fine range of materials by the
world’s leading makers.
For full particulars of Cricket and all indoor
and outdoor Sporting 'Materials see a copy of
our new edition Sportsman’s Guide. Post
free to any address.
Smoße SUNOL
Sample 2oz. Packet
1/2 Post Free.
MEN’S BATS.
Each.
Men’s Cane-handle Bats (job line) ... 12/6
M.S., Haymarket Driver, double rubber 25/-
City &'Suburban Sport Co 35/-
(C.S. Sport Co.’s bats are specially faced
for Australian wickets, and require no
preparation before using.)
Dye’s Champion, specially selected .... 35 /-
Bats retail from 21/- are guaranteed.
MEN’S STUMPS.
Set of 6.
Blackwood, very strong, plain 3/6
Brass Top, steel shod, ash 7/(i
Half Solid Brass Top, steel shod 9/_
Solid Brass Top, steel shod, ash 10/-
Revolving Top, steel shod, ash 12/6
•
CRICKET BALES.
All Match Weights, viz., sloz.
Each.
Eclipse Compo., 3/6; Eclipse Victory.. 4/.
C. 8.8. Compo « 1/6
Haymarket Compo 2/6
Diamond Compo 3 /Q
Nicholson’s ... 5/6
MEN’S BATTING GLOVES.
Pair.
Featherweight, felt protection 7/6
White Kid, Gold, cape points, hair-stuffed 8/6
Superior, ex. stout tubular rubber 10/6
Surry Shields, R.or L. Hand 6/6
MEN’S GAUNTLETS.
Pair.
Ventilated, very strong 8/6
All England, rubber palms, padded tips 17/6
Celebrated Lilley, padded tips 21/-
M.S. Special, rubber palms 25/-
The Giant Special 32/6
MEN’S LEG GUARDS.
Pair.
White Drill, strong 7/6
Tan, continuous straps, good club guard 10/6
Tan, continuous straps, ventilated 13/6
Gold Cape, cont. straps, superior 12/9
Half Skeleton, Gold Cape, new pattern.. 15/6
Half Skeleton, White Buck 17/6
Best Skeleton, Gold Cape 17/6
Best Skeleton, White Buck 20/-
Gold Cape, ex. quality for wicketkeepers.. 17/6
CRICKET SUNDRIES.
Abdominal Pads 3/_, 10/6 each
Bat Covers, waterproof canvas.... 4/6 each
Bat Oil specially prepared 1/6 bottle
Canvas Boots, welted soles 12/6 pair
Club Kit Bags 17/6 each
Cricket Belts, two straps 1/3 each
Cricket Nets 50/-, 60/-each
Gripolene, gauntlet solution 1/6 bottle
Handle Rubbers ... 1/., 1/3, 1/6, 1/9 each
Scoring Books, full size .. 1/-, 1/6, 2/-each
Scoring Books, pocket size, 6d., 1/-, 1/3 each
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket
Bats, Skates, Golf Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse
Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired by expert
Workmen. First=class Workmanship. Lowest Charges.
\
TENNIS
WE HAVE LONG BEEN RECOGNISED AS THE LEAD-
ING SUPPLIERS OF REQUISITES FOR THE GAME.
RACKETS.
(Postage on Racket —N.S.W., 9d; other States, 1/2.)
BALLS.
Ayre’s and Slazenger’s 1919 Champion Balls,
35/- dozen.
(Postage on one 1 doz.: N.S.W.. 1/-; otlier States, 1/8.)
TENNIS NETS.
Full size, well made— 2l/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-,
60/-
Tennis Nets under 40/- are suitable for school use.
PRESSES, MARKERS, TAPES & ALL SUNDRIES STOCKED.
Rackets Re-strung and Repaired.
uowmii
MJSTRALm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
AND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
99 King St also at
Weiucasil: <L Brisbane ;


REXONA
the Great SKin Remedy
ti
DoiH* Sirs mmm ~
I want to tell you how wonder-
ful I have found both your Rexona
Ointment and your Rexona Soap
for my children. I have been
using them in my home for some
considerable time, and can honestly
say that I think the Ointment is
a wonderful healer. We are con-
stantly running to it, for it is
wonderful how often we find use
for a little healing ointment like
Rexona; and Rexona never disap-
points you. It is truly a magic
healer. , ,
Your Rexona Soap is delightful,
and is by far the best we have ever
used. I find it improves the skin
immensely, and pimples treated
with the Ointment and Soap soon
disappear. For use as a shampoo
Rexona Soap is unequalled,
because it cleans out all the dand-
ruff so thoroughly and makes the
hair so soft and glossy. I can
assure you that we would never
think of being without Rexona and
Rexona Soap in the house.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) Mrs. ENID JENKIN,
Alma Cottage,
Brisbane Street, Waverley.
EVERY HOME
NEEDS REXONA.
Mrs. JENKIN’S LITTLE CHILDREN
(Jrom a photo).
The Rexona Remedies consist of Rexona the Rapid H . e .^« r ®*
Facial Soap, both universal favorites. The wonderful healing po
made it a password in nearly every home in Australia.
For Cuts. Burns. Scalds or Skin Diseases and ®* SJ?’ be
unequalled, being: cooling: and soothing:. Try a 1/6 P°l ® f uridine- nearly four
glad to know that Rexona is put in larger-sized, triangular pots, holding nearly four
times the quantity, at 3/- , _
Rexona Soap is the best preservative for the skin and hair that is
and leaves the hair soft, fluffy and luxuriant. Shampoo your hair with Rexona So P.
and you will he delighted with the result. Price 1/- per tab e .
THE RAPID HEALER
C.'BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works: Birmingham, England.
These series* of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
NEURALGIA!
It is so easy to catch, those debilitat -
ing Colds, Influenza, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, etc. Help yourself to
avoid these by taking
Dhosformo
I THE ROYAL TONIC
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd,
London and Melbourne
The New-Born.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
I AM the everlasting Eve in Eve,
Born of the desert, of the sea, the air.
Man, who has made me mystical and
fair,
Xover a soil upon my soul can leave.
Thousands of kisses that my mouth has met
Ihe at his bidding like a feeble sigh.
Naked as Truth within his arms I lie,
Speechless and helpless in world-silence set.
Out of the rushing terror of the night,
Into the dizzy splendor of the sun,
Mother and wife and daughter —three in
one —
I drink his worship as a living light.
Father and husband, yea, and lover, too,
Long let him kiss the flesh that he has
wrought,
Hungered and suffered for in dream and
thought
Till its wild beauty to such magic grew.
Maker, creator, who has borne me free,
Triumphed o’er Time and set a seal to
space,
Only my soul can take his brave embrace,
Fettered no longer to old Memory.
New-born am I; pew-filled with holy fire;
Love-launched on Life with every joy
ahead
I, who but yesterday was all the dead,
To-day am Youth, the dawn of all desire.
N.B.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Magic of the Rain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Reverend Pennychook, good simple
man, believing that the natural phe-
nomenon of the rain, held back by
drought in its cycle, can be induced to
unseasonable speed by humiliation and
prayer, provided the prayer in the little
galvanised-iron church at Cloncurry
crackling like sticks in a furnace
while the meagre congregation was expected
to provide the humility. He held forth *o
them at length on their iniquities, which he
alleged had made Providence lust for re-
venge as if it were human. Stiff-necked,
proud and insolent had they been, said the
Rev. Pennychook, who knew nothing ot their
fight against the elements, their indomitable
courage and their sardonic humor, which
made them lighten trouble by grinning at
Sampson Hills the ploughed field
was broken by mad country of clay slate, red-
hot and shingly ; by. mica schists set on edge,
and letting fall to every hoof-beat the powder
of “new-chum gold” to shine like pinheads in
the dust. There were the green of lance-
wood tops and their saffron-red trunks mak-
ing a wild Chinese color scheme of red earth
and the steel-blue sky and inexorable sun;
dust impalpable as powder and pungent as
pepper; long tracts of gently-rolling grey
sand; dwarfed cabbage-leaf gums waving
across the earth in the wind, each a vege-
table housemaid sweeping the wilderness tor
the guests that never came. Never a bird;
not a kangaroo nor a wallaby crossed the
track of Walter Rossitter riding with Larry
the black stockman through hell to Sampson
Hills. They saw a few great gohannas. on
the carcases of dead beasts; and by .a dried-
up waterhole between Seymour River and
Gunpowder Creek they - passed a broken-
horned bullock, lunatic with the long drought
and cursed by a rare vitality that would not
let him die.
“Bad, Larry!” said Walter Rossitter for
the fiftieth time. _. . .. ...
“My word, close up dead finish all this
one,” replied Larry. “An’ Gunpowder
Creek been dry up altogether that way.’
He jerked liis head eastward in illustra-
tlo“What place that one where ducks been
sit down?” . „
“Where ducks been sit down one time,
corrected Larry. “Illy-gilly-afo that one.
Altogether dry up like this one horse.”
The big black smacked with his open hand
the tucked-up and hollow flank of the chest-
nut that stumbled under the weight, the
sweat caked into ridges of salt below the hip-
bones. , . ,
“We shifted the Ivundi Kundi cattle just
in time, Larry.”
“More better that one,” replied Larry,
greatly pleased at the collective foresight of
their own station. “S’pose no been shiftem
altogether die close up.”
“Rain not come long time now, Larry ! ■
Larry glanced at the sky and replied:
“Rain come when that one ready. When that
one sky been too thirsty, then say,
“By cripes! I rainem plenty now.’ ”
“You know blackfeller makem rain,
Larry?”
“One feller Kalkadoon boy makem rain
good feller. I been knowem that one.”
Walter Rossitter laughed, but without any
pleasure. “You tellem that one, Larry,
s’pose him been makem rain I givem two
tchillin.”
“All right that one,” replied Larry,
accepting the commission with due gravity.
They came to a carcase and flies; for all
the green food and shelter had gone, and
there were flies only where there was corrup-
tion to batten on. They rested at sundown
in country as waterless as all the day had
been —rested only for a little, for the horses
could not feed in that waste of sterile dust —
and then went on in the cool night five miles
to water. It was, as Walter Rossitter called
it, not real water, but a hole filled with
meat-extract. They joined bridle-reins and
lowered quart-pots to the abomination,
watered the horses out of their hats, and
then drank the half-corruption with beard
and moustaches pulled over the lips and the
teeth clenched to filter the feathers and ani-
mal remains from the fluid that tasted sweet
to their need.
White man and black man wiped their
mouths, looked at each other in the thick
starlight, and laughed. Thunder rolled east-
ward like the sound of far-off artillery; the
lightning flared ahead. The horses licked
the stones. *
* *
The rainmakers of the Kalkadoons went
through their service of invocation in much
the same spirit as the Rev. Pennychook con-
ducted his service of humiliation and prayer.
The thunder and lightning seen and heard
by Walter Rossitter and Larry two nights
before had been marked by the cleverer men
of the rainmakers, and m the spirit of, but
with more knowledge than, the Rev. 1 enny-
chook, they read the evidence and prepared
to make the denouement their own. lhey
set the stage for the matinee; for with these
people rain must be made when the sun is at
the meridian. Also, being actors, they could
not play convincingly to an empty house,
and to the station-homestead m the dust-
heap that had been the high-grassed plains
of Sampson Hills they sent an old gin to
tell Larry to invite Walter Rossitter and
all white-feller to witness tlieir magic of the
I,l ‘‘Rain-making in daylight?” said Walter
Rossitter. “The Yaroinga always make ram
'"“This one Kalkadoon,” said Larry.
Thev found the rainmakers m the sand
where in good seasons the creek ran a
banker. They were four old men ghastly
with white lines of kopi, their faces, necks
and trunks, back and front, and their arms
down to the wrists covered with emu-down
cemented to the flesh with blood, Young
men were not in the acting, but stood back
respectfully on tl.e creek-bank. Beyond the
bank, curious as boys around a circus and
afraid to risk a beating for entrance undei
the tent without a ticket, a tew gins■ were
collected singing of him who can use the
firestick, of the whistler duck, and the frog,
and the creatures of water, of bloodwood
blossoms and the flowers and honey ol a
good season. ,
Ahead of the young men at the cieek-
bank, but withdrawn from the rainmakers,
was a sulky, withered, gnarled old man, Jus
face wrinkled like a walnut shell. He was
a prejudiced critic before the play began,
he did not like the actors, the dressing-room
under the metallic sky, nor the libretto, nor
the theatre, nor anything. He was sure m
advance that the play would never get across
the footlights. Muttering to himself as he
sat in the sand, he attracted Walter Rossit-
ter bv his general air of grievance about
everything, so that the manager of Kundi
Kundi asked Larry why the old man should
be displeased. _ , , „
Larry explained : “Name that one Mika.
“The Mosquito—sh! He looks as if he
could sting. What name he get wild that
one?” . ,
“Him been makem ram long time longa
Leichhardt. No been likem this Wdrkia
rain song—no been likem all this feller.
“He works rain-making on his own? I
see. Ask him why he no been makem ram
now ?**
Larrv returned with the information that
Mosquito altogether despised any variation
from the text of his own personal incanta-
tion, and that, further, his magic was not
yet ready. ...
“The spirit doesn’t move him until the
clouds are black,” said Walter Rossitter to
the manager of Sampson Hills. “Well, 111
back that old feller. He’s very old and his
eyes show more intelligence than these magi-
cians’ ; but it’s all opportunism, and these
chaps may hit the bull’s-eye after all. Hello,
the stage-manager is going to begin.”
The < eldest of the old men disguised in
blood and emu-down advanced with the rain-
stick of white wood, the rain-stones of
quartz-crystal cemented to its top; hair of
a man’s beard cemented to the sides, and
leafy branches tied around its lower tip like
the straw of a broom. Another poured water
from a water-bag into a coolamon; the man
with the rain-stick took the centre, and the
other three moved around him and the coola-
mon, stamping on the sand. At intervals
they dabbled their hands in the water; some-
times splashing as if rain were falling, at
others laving their hands with a vibratory
movement to show ripples caused by fish
leaping from deep water. They waved their
arms to show a flowing river, and cupped
their hands in imitation of pools; held their
thumbs together to indicate the hinges of the
water-mussel shell, and moved their clenched
fists inwards and outwards to show the mus-
sel’s valves. . ...
The low singing of the gins had been
peremptorily silenced; the rainmakers
became more earnest in their wrnrk, giving
each figure of the magic its full value and
production. The diver-birds that were not
there in that hell of flame and dust dived
in pantomime in the river that did not
exist except as a gulf floored with drifting
sand. The frog of the tarrying monsoon
was represented by closed thumbs and
fingers thrust forward and downward; then
the fingers widely parted to show the leap
from webbed feet.
Meantime they sang—the singing of the
whistling duck, while flapping their hands
with the slow, steady movement of the fowls’
wings. They sang of katar, the short
sweet grass that grows in the first rains;
of pigweed and nardoo; of yams and lily
roots; of poisoning the water with crushed
leaves of the blue flower to make fish swoon
and bring them to the surface; of pelican
and crane; of water-bags made of the skins
of pady-melon.
They left the rain-stick in the sand by
the coolamon; the actors ascended the
creek "bank, imitating antics and voices of
all the living things made active and vocal
by the rain—the quack of ducks, the call of
the ibis, the croak of the frog and the cry
of corella and galah.
The little cloud on the north spread and
bellied; lightning came out of its womb,
thunder from its presence. The actors
yelled exultantly ; behind the creek banks
the gins held strips of bark, coolamons and
shields as for protection from the douches
of the rain.
The cloud waited sullenly, discharging its
electric load in lightnings no longer than
a walking-stiek, and thunder that grew
more and more distant until it was
nothing. Away to the south-east, in the
crackling galvanised-iron church, the Rev.
Pennychook preached on faith and works,
(Continued on next page.)


1
n
m\\
Mt'i
'\ 7
• >
1
f
Wm
Wr
wm
liiyJL.//^
s\W
WWW
W\' '\w\
J
S ,J
w.
■
CRIPPLING ULCER CAUSED TORTURING AGONY—NO RELIEF FROM
ORDINARY TREATMENTS—OPERATION ADVISED AS ONLY HOPE.
MORE GRATITUDE FOR PERFECT ZAM-BUK HEALING.
of the most remarkable cures of bad leg ever recorded in the form
~ n °4 X ar L cose u * cer * s the severe case of Mrs. Jemima Carter, of
16 uoodwm Street, Invermay, Tasmania, who relates her experiences and
her wonderful cure by Zam-Buk as follows
"As a sequel to the bursting of varicose vein just above the ankle my right leg broke out into
an ulcer, causing great pain and inconvenience. I could not sleep at nights, but used to toss
about through the long hours trying in vain to get respite from the
wearying, aching, burning pain.
"Even resting my leg afforded me very little relief, neither did
poulticing and a number of homely treatments. 1 went to a doctor,
who wanted me to go under an operation, but to this I would not
A chemist’s prescription did not meet with success. In
spite of various treatments the ulcer on my leg became about 2 inches in
circumference and about 1 inch deep. For many months I suffered terribly.
One day I happened to read in the paper about Zam-Buk curing a similar case,
ana as a neighbor strongly recommended me to try it, I got a supply of Zam-Buk.
. am-Buk proved so cooling, and took away the pitiful, throbbing pain almost
immediately. Then commenced a period of ease, during which the wound was
cleansed by Zam-Buk, and the inflammation drawn out. The hole gradually
f) sf. an i e , s ’ and as a result of keeping on with Zam-Buk- was soon filled up
witu firm* healthy flesh. My leg is now as sound as ever.
works eC °The S t ) pr,.mli e L?if ti *5 T? ist badly . cat through a bottle bursting at the cordial factory where he
nn,,e itsnrtoS if h T- du i te f ick - s ° l > ad was the injury that he was in bed for a week. I
healed the Via Z w??’ took all dan S er of Wood-poison, banished the pain, and quickly
Buk always S does S good " have had §reat faith in Zam -Buk ever since.” Acting in Nature’s way, Zam-
Mrs. Carter
who endorses
the wonderful
power of
Zam~Buk.
ZAM-BUK is proved unexcelled for
cuts, bruises, scalds, burns, sores,
laid legs, ulcers, abrasions,
abscesses, ringworm, barber’s rash,
scalp troubles, sore feet, boils,
festering sorbs, piles. sprains,
stiffness, and injured and diseased condi-
tions of the skin generally. From all
Chemists and Stores at 1/6” and 3/6 per
pot, or, post free, direct from C. E. Ful-
ford (A’lasia), Ltd., 39 Pitt St., Sydney.
Guard Against SUBSTITUTION,
When you ask for Zam-Buk Heal-
ing Balm, see that you get it. Do
not be put oft’ with something
which is claimed by your trader
as “just as good,” because it
returns him more profit. There
is NOTHING “just as good” as the
proved reliable, ever-ready and
effective Zam-Buk.
a®
THE GREAT HOME HEALER
on the vengeance of the Lord taken on
cattle, and on the urgency of humiliation
and prayer. Within four days the Rev.
Pennychdok had come to the belief that the
Lord had hardened his heart against
Pharaoh so much that lie would not send
even a plague of frogs; and the blacks
because “this one feller rain too dam’ ’toopid
altogether.” Then the aboriginal mechan-
ist of the Creek Theatre at Sampson Hills
removed the eoolamon and the rain-stick;
and the steel sky burned as if it hated the
world; and the broken and dried country
abandoned hope, and settled down again to
the clutches of the drought.
A fortnight left the sky still an inverted
cup of steel and the little life below it
gasping; and then Mika, or the Mosquito,
came to Larry—Rossitter still resting at
Sampson Hills—and asked to see the white
men.
The manager at Sampson Hills told
Larry to send Mosquito away. He had
had “too much of damn nigger foolishness,”
he said. But Walter Rossitter over-ruled
him, kindly but firmly.
“There’s nothing to do,” said he. “Let’s
have the old fraud along. lie doesn’t get
much out of his frauds, and the world’s full
of frauds, black and white—mostly white.
That’s a wise man, that Mosquito ; 'lie plays
at Ju Ju work, but he understands nature,
and he's observant enough to make Sherlock
Holmes look like ninepenee. What harm
is it? He knows a bit more than the
others.”
So they went down to the creek-bank and
found Mosquito engaged in the prelimi-
naries of his Big Magic, which is to Little
Magic as Knowledge is to Superstition.
Before proceeding with his Magic of the
Rain, Mika demanded the fixation of his
reward. He was no impostor—he had
invented a new charm and would he have
one-feller tchillin if he brought the raip?
To which the station manager responded
that if rain fell it should be paid for on a
sliding scale, such sliding scale to slide up-
ward.
‘ S pose catchem little feller rain, s’pose
catchem big feller rain, how much that
one?” asked Mosquito, looking at the sky
and its assembling clouds.
“S’pose catch little feller rain, one tchil-
hn,” replied the manager of Sampson Hills.
“S’pose catchem big feller rain, two tchil-
lin.”
“S’pose catchem plurry big feller flood?”
demanded Mika.
“Big feller flood —two tchillin. plenty
bacca, plenty jam, one old-feller pair
pants F’
The magician nodded his head in satis-
faction. A sudden clap of thunder came as
if at the cue, and Mika, seeing the. clouds
hurrying to a wind in the high vault, though
on earth there was not any breath or move-
ment. prepared his medicine, with one eye
on the work and the other on the sky.
Seeing this division of attention the white
men were in no wise surprised when Mika
announced that the charm would be long
brewing; for they saw the clouds opening
as usual and dispersing to the eastward.
“Yon see ’em no rain come. Mika, then
you say magic stay long time. My word,
you big feller damn fraud altogether,” said
Walter Rossitter.
“Byemby come —when him dark,” replied
Mika earnestly. "Bymeby rain come—iei,
rnadi, multa, multana.”
“One—two—three—big-mob rain,” trans-
lated Larry.
The night closed in heavy and electrical:
a big cloud hung over the homestead like
a great bellying sail. Lightning came out
of the cloud and thunder crackled behind
it like matchwood under a pot; the air was
breathless and leaden as with fear. Larry
brought the white men down to Mika’s tire
on the creek-bank; Mika was almost un-
recognisable in his disguise of emu-down
glued to his flesh with his own blood ; his
rain-stick of whitewood, its broom reduced
to a few dying leaves, he held solemnly over
the grey rift in the earth which was the
creek.
At his feet was a circular channel in the
sand, dug with a yam-stick ; the sand from
the channel was piled high in the centre
as if Mika imitated the castle and the moat
children dig in the sea-shore. Mika forced
the rain-stick into the central boss of sand
and holding it by the rain-stone with his left
hand sang in a weak and wavering voice
his rain-song as he stamped around the
channel, having first poured into it a little
water from a water-bag.
The rain-song became merely the accom-
paniment of his pantomime. With his body
lie imitated the animals that come to the
rain the kangaroo’s toe-pads represented
by extended finger-tips; the rounded hoof of
the horse by finger-tips touching palm, and
a pawing movement from the elbow to show
a strong horse galloping. He left the rain-
stick in the sand to use both hands flattened
and moving downwards to show the long,
steady hop of the kangaroo on his way to
the water; flapped his arms like wings to
enact the movements of the eagle searching
for a new-dropped lamb. Then he imitated
the lamb s bleat of terror, and bellowed to
show the bullock, whose horns were indi-
cated by a forefinger erect on either side of
the head.
Pantomime and rain-song ceased; Mika
poured all the water from the bag as he
walked around the channel accompanying the
gurgling of the water from the mouth of the
bag by mouth-noises imitating the frothing
sound of a swollen creek.
“Swish ! shish ! shish ! shish !” said Mika •
then suddenly stooped, looked up at the
black cloud, changed from a bellyidg sail to
‘ l , top covering the sky. and announced
that he was ‘altogether finish.”
“What name that one ‘Whish! shish ”
when you go all about, Mika?”
This one! S pose when cow losem
calt, cow been sing out loud feller
Moo-o-o-o, then calf been hearem that one
calf been sing out little feller ‘Ma-a ’ Then
cow been sing out two-feller time
Moo-o-o-o ; altogether then calf been
, This one water been say little-feller
Whish. shish . shish ! shish !’ This one
water been little v baby longa that one cloud.
That one mother cloud been hearem say
‘Whish ! shish !’ , Then cloud been sing out
loud feller, ‘Whish! shisli! shish.” Rain
come down findem little baby-water longa
sand. Thunder been fattier longa water-bag ;
thunder been sendem down rain tindem
water-bag; that one ratin been gin alonga
that, one thunder altogether.”
As if to its cue the thunder entered, roar-
ing through the tremendous eruption of the
cloud, tearing the blackness in a thousand
lightning rifts. Mika took his present of
tobacco as an earnest off payment on deliv-
ery of rain, and went buck to his wurlie and
feeble fire on the creek-bank. The night was
sultry as ever when Walter Rossitter and
the manager of Sampson. Hills went to bed.
At midnight the cloud swelled lower to
the earth and the earth seemed to rise
gently and warmly, yearning for its weight
and fruitfulness. Lightnung crackled inces-
santly and nearby, seeming to enter the
homestead at the keyholes and the slits
below the doors. Every board and every
piece of furniture cracked at the almost im-
perceptible change of temperature. A sigh-
ing wind lifted a loose sheet of galvanised-
lron, rattled it and sight*! itself to death
among the drought-killed trees. A lower
wind arose, lifted the dust upon a thousand
acres, sifted it carefully, and laid it down
again. A young dog that had never seen
rain awakened and howled his fear of the
unknown, followed his tail around three
times, lay down again and whimpered.
A soft cool breath puffed through the sul-
try darkness, the sky filled with light for a
moment, the thunder discharged all its guns
at once; and out; of all that clamor and
illumination came a drop of rain. The
mountain had produced the mouse yet again.
The cool breath became a draught, and
every chair and flooring-board creaked in
answer. The _ thunder' was on the wakeful
white men’s pillows, the lightning seemed to
enter their beds: the one open door became
an oblong of almost continuous light. A
wind came out of the south; the monsoon
swooped out of the north. The air became
strangely moist; a few raindrops fell upon
the roof. Behind it all they felt the rain
coming against the wind, and then, with
fight and roaring, the rain beat upon the
house, in cascades and douches, and made
mud of the dust.
Rossitter got up to close the door against
the ram.
“Beaten, by God!” he said. “The
drought’s beaten.”
In that divinely altered! air they slept like
happy children tired out with play.
* •* * »
Six jnonths later Walter Rossitter rode
from Kundi Kundi to Sampson Hills. The
land was park, garden and meadow; the
leturned cattle, almost too fat to move,
stared at him; the breeders suckling their
calves in the knee-deep grass; corella and
galah flashing white wings and grey wings
against the sunlight; the flies a horror, and
all the world forgetting that it had ever
known the condemned cell.
He had given a donation to the church of
the Rev. Pennychook, who claimed the rain ;
and tobacco to the actors of the Creek
h And - nov F ho met Mika, who held
that the promise of two tehillin for a real
old-man flood a pplied to Rossifter as well as
to the manager of Sampson Hills.
T been payem two other feller,” said
Rossi tter, teasing him. “Payem Misser
Pennychook—he say he make rain ”
•That one dam’ ’toopid feller,” replied
Mika, contemptuously.
i lien I payem all that other feller
singem rain-song alonga Workia.”
;fso good that one,” said Mika. “7 been
makem rain I wait plenty feller day alonga
that one. Then I makem rain-song that one
nignt. By cnpes, when piccaninny davlieht
come, close up flood 7 make ’em ”
"There is the two bob, Mika-I think you
make best magic.
All light that one,’ said Mika—“7 know
when makem rain.”
Randolph Bedford.
The Dawn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SO fair the dawn has come;
All things so peaceful seem;
Isow that the guns are dumb.
War, with its horrid scars,
Seems like a nightmare' dream.
Rosy, the feet of morn
Dance on the rustled green
Of breeze-stirred crops; and borne
O’er the hue-changing sky,
Rose-petal clouds are seen.
Gurgles a splashing spring;
Birds on a leafy tree
Pause for awhile to sing;
Barth seems indeed to me
Full of sweet harmony.
Surely it was a dream!
Surely he does not lie
Where things so pleasant seem
hi that soft, rustling crop.
Dead eyes towards the sky?
Slinking, on slaughter bent,
Through dark night’s screening pall,
Full_ of our grim intent....
Well, in the ill of night
Murder was natural!
Now, night is swept away,
Ah, it seems phantasy!
Why should man seek to slay?
Why should he silent lie,
My friend of yesterday?
PicFures I still can see—
Loved ones who hopeful wait,
Gaily he painted me ;
Till I could see them stand,
Grouped by a garden gate
Eager to see him come....
W aiting.... for their despair!
Now that the guns are dumb
War but a nightmare seems.
Yet —he is lying there !
FRANCE.
HAMER.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
MM
WESTINUHOUSE
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents- HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
9O Queen Street, Melbourne.
flWitfn n IMYJ m WKftMYM I*3l
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else,
'■'his is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
''n fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
m every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE
THE WINSLOW CO.,
340 Collins St., Melbourne. Vic.
Little Friends
of the Liver
They're little but they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind: they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they're
signed :
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
STYLE
BVER
PILLS*
ww l i
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pin,
Small Doss,
Small Prise.
This
long-lasting
sweetmeat
r,
m
A-.
■V. &
* I
1$
iitaa
;.VSC>
■O'*;
II
Si
now has 6
bars in each
packet for
3d.
It aids appetite and
helps digestion, keeps
teeth clean, quenches
thirst.
A delicious refreshment
and the most economical
sweetmeat you can buy.
Get it at Chemists, Confectioners,
Tobacco Shops and Stores. Be
sure to ask for WRIGLEV’S and
get the 6 bars.
J. C. Gambles & Coy*
Sole Australasian Agents
Rosebery, Sydney.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Sealed Tight
Kept Right
The
Flavour
( Lasts
r—yj
1
D
A
<1
D
L_/?
%
T?
Ji
LLJ
£au&
rQ
-J
JT/rn
■
** **ss*■*
ul'&L
fXpZ?} s
L®S*t
mm
You Can Lay
Certain-teed
Yourself
No technical experience is re-
quired to lay Certain-teed Roof-
ing. It is a task so simple and
easy that anyone can do it The
necessary nails and liquid lap
cement, together with full direc-
tions for laying, are packed in
the center of each roll.
Because it is so economical to
buy and lay and so efficient and
durable on any type of roof,
Certain-teed is the first choice
—everywhere. More than one-
fourth of all the roll roofing used
throughout the world comes
from the great Certain-teed
factories—thelargest roll roofing
factories in the world.
Certain-teed is weatherproof
and fire-resisting. It does not af-
fect the taste or odour of water.
Permit us to show you samples
and explain why it is the best
roofing for your building.
Australian Representative*— -C. C. McCANN,
Perpetual Trustee liiiildingr, Sydney, N.S.W.
SVDNEV AGENTS:
John Ranks & Son Pty. Ltd. Wunderlich, Ltd.
James Hurdle & Co. Ltd. James Sandy & Co., Ltd.
Manufactured by
CERTAIN-TEED PRODUCTS CORPORATION
World’s Largest Manufacturers of Roll Roofing
Certain-teed
Ron
Roofing
SAFEGUARD YOUR HealtH
QtJ.Coltis Brotfnels
Cblorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
amt in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A
well-proved
palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
acts like a charm in
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/5, 3/-, 5/-.
Made in England.


NGROvrr
LEATHER
LTI
IT GETS A GRIP
on the pulleys and transmits maximum power
all the time.
MANGROVITE RAWHIDE BELTING
is unequalled for difficult drives.
Prove it on your power plant. Let us give
you expert advice.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square (near C. P. 0.), Sydney, N.S. W.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Brigrht & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Eagle S Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street
Syd ney.
2fli Latrobe Street. Melbourne; Ivalgoorlie and Fremantle, W.A.
Charles Atkins & Co.j Adelaide. Paul & Gray Ltd.., Newcastle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
1
i
0®“- r, c
T STCtLC
-
HIGH-QUALITY STEEL-CUTTING EDGES., with Iron Backs., made to your order
from our own material.
When ordering state size on cut, depth, thickness, length and width of slots;
whether for Fixed Heads or Movable Bolts. If Fixed Heads Template absolutely
necessary.
HARDIE’S ‘FIBROLI » E”
Genuine Asbestos Cement Sheets
Cost two-thirds less to paint than weather-
board. Cheaper in first cost and upkeep.
Fire-proof, Weather-proof, Rust-, Rot- and
Whiteant-proof, Send for particulars and sample.
James Hardia ®> C ?'
Cor. Wynyard & York Streets,
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN lit INNING —which ijs pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.’’ Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25- years ago are still
at Work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design tire layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service. .
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
&
i
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE,
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2i% inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
-Good Pumps Only
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, hall valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from llin. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:—
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambcol
ijf A
.<
Q
Ts
O
O
y
9Z
SON^
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing: with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: ill)., 50/-: Jib., 25/-; 30z., 7/6.
lib. Flux will braze broken casting- 15 feet long by
1 inch thick —instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street) St. Hilda, Victoria.
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
m
a
SSL
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe-
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4% hours .
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street,
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
Melbourne.
"V
r
mism
isren
SHEARING
MACHINE
r-Svi
m
;:OKC
c®
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA
SUB-AGENTS :
MITCHELL & CO. PROPY. ITD.,
W. footscray, Melbourne,
Vic.
BURNS, PHILP t CO. LTD.,
Townsville.
MAIIOCH BROS.,
Perth, W.A.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD:,
Hobart. Tas.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMERS'
CO-OP. UNIOM, LTD.,
Adelaide S.A.
PURE WATER. IS AS ESSENTIAL TO HEALTH AS PURE AIR.
ace
AVSTSAj
sh}f> €Otk
Pressure Filter and Reoeiver.
“Abbot” Australian Filter
Approved by State Boards of Health .
PRESSURE.
Household Nos. 1 & 2,
Bar,
Counter,
Tank,
Large Service.
Pocket Filter In
Nick j -plated Case.
FOUNTAIN.
Glazed Stone,
1 to 8 Gallons.
Glass Portable,
Pocket,
Water Bag.
All fitted with New Style Improved Cylinder (or Candle).
If your store cannot supply, please write direct to the Sole Manufacturers —
13
ifl
UUUJUJ
urn
NEW RAPID
for
Large Factories,
Boiler Feed-
Water,
Aerated Water,
Laundries, etc.
CAPACITY :
Up to 300 gals, per
hour.
GUTHRIDGE LTD. City Office: Equitable Building', 350 George Street, SYDNEY.
