

S —The Spirit of Harmony.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
N S W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74- Si-., 74. Sydney.
“ADVANCES -
r-ij
iililh
WWWUum
mmmwimimd
\mmim
lON ALL CLASSES
I OF SECURITY
SWITHOUT POSSESSION
MUUuumuui
rf/ij/!c//ejjt 215*17 Swadon St.,Nelb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
29 King St,Mev/castlc. 186 Castlereaqh St.,& 159 George st,West, Sydney.
CAPITAL &200,000 ‘Phone City 932s
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “Thfe
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co, Ltd.”
Look foA
This tag
Without it is on each coil
you are liable to have
Inferior wire substituted
for
'' “ WARATAH”
FENCING WIRE
From the Ore to the
Fence Australian.
There ia no other so good for quality
and strength. Superior to the im-
ported and lower in price, yet each
coil is guaranteed.
Your storekeeper can supply you with
“Waratah”—we supply the trade only.
Ask us for Fencing Booklet Nl9.
Free on request.
Austral Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Ferrars Street, South Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
9
PPLE
*>
Nothino
to About
About!
Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
J
INDIGESTION
, and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Wolfes
Sdnapps
'• Not the same as others
For Bungalow roofs, use
MB
n
Has a very handsome appearance and lasts indefinitely—with reasonable care., of
course. Costs much less than galvanised iron.
Sample and illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
ENGINEERING COMPAN
m
r
"
GRANVILLE,
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy iron «fc Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
cSrfrthur
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
Modern Elevating and Conveying Machinery
TO SUIT ALL PURPOSES.
PLANS AND ESTIMATES PREPARED.
QUEENSLAND ENQUIRIES: The AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO.
LTD., 218-220 Mary Street, BRISBANE.
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH
Famous Brandis of
HIGH-SPEED STEEL & DRILLS
“A.W.” “T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER.”
manufactured by
Sir W. Q. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Australian Representatives:
lailrtn & C(\ ItA H 5 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vlioen LOUge O vO. LIU., 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED.
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
Make NO mistake —the “PAVILION,” Circular
establishment in Sydney for Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners and After-Theatre Suppers. Orchestral performances at all meals.
is the m ost p
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2070.
Thursday, October 16, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


MERIT
In Fountain Pens, as in everything
else, it is merit that tells, and that is
why the “ Swan ” has for a quarter
of a century gained more users every
year. When you buy a “Swan”
you know you have a guarantee of
excellence m workmanship, perfection
of detail, and that absolute reliability
which has been the consistent keynote
of “ Swan ” manufacture for a
generation.
"SWAN"
P&NS
f old by Stationers and, Jewellers Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 12/6
Safety Pattern with
Screw-on Cap, from 15/.
Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79-80, High Holbom, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—
(Wholesale only) 225 a, George St. London Factory—
-319-329, Weston St., S.E. Associate Hoe*®—Mabi®
Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago,
Australian Branch': .1. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 265 a George Street, Sydney.
o*
A Business Is More Efficient
With A Motor Lorry
Any sort of delivery can be done more cheaply and certainly
with a motor lorry than in any other way.
The Federal Motor Lorry is dependable with any hind of road
or load. It is built on the highest standards of perfection and
will last a lifetime—with reasonable care.
Write for our free maga-
zine, “Traffic News” —
also for full prices and
discounts.
H. W. CROUCH,
Sole N.S.W. Agent,
26-28 Wentworth
Avenue,
Sydney.
eral Motor Truck Company
►it. Mich.. U. S. A. Foreign Dept., IS Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
5KAUL
HMVfcST
808
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS;
PRIZES value £3,500
'Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 1, 1919.
Ist PRIZE, value £750
2nd PRIZE, value £3OO
3rd PRIZE, value £2OO
and 397 other
Valuable Prizes,
CHANCE FOR
TRY IT.
1919.
Murtough, Ken- Shilling
modest outlay of
Ist Prize in 1918 won by Mrs
sington, Sydney, N.S.W., for modest outlay
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOB 1919
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper, November 6, 1919. To
any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will
be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct from —
Trades Hall, Sydney. ARTHUR VV. YAGER, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
Fop Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the Preven-
tion of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The' Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bacterr-
cidally as is creosote.” ,
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the digestion; on the con-
trary, they have a beneficial result, as their anti-
septic properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food when taken after meals. ft
4.U.J
ro'C
DS
ON
HU
mmun
AN IDEAL REMEDY.
Sold by All Chemists, tins, 1/6.
The Red Page
The Safety of the Nation
Another book by lan D. Colvin, of the
intensely patriotic London National Re-
view. He deals in it with a multitude of
subjects calculated to blight the unpatriotic
Freetrader, among them these: —
The first Gorman commercial empire (the Han-
seatic League), which bossed England when England
was a low-tariff and raw-material-producing country,
made and unmade English kings, demanded and
obtained lower taxes on its product's than were paid
by English merchants themselves, had its own quarter
in London, nominated two of the six judges in the
English Commercial Court (two more being
Italians), and made England use its money.
The League’s occasional blockade of London and
Other ports, and its expulsion of early English
settlers from Iceland, Norway, Russia and elsewhere;
its monopoly of English mines and metal industries,-,
and its prohibition of English manufactures; also
its monopoly of the supply of English shipbuilding
mat; rials.
The day of the English Protectionist rulers —prin-
cipally Henry VII., Henry VIII., Elizabeth and Crom-
well —who ended the long Hun supremacy and proved
that Senator Millen’s dogmas were the last possi-
bility in the way of an ass. Also the fall of
the Hanseatic League in the Thirty Years’ War.
The temporary resurrection of Freetrade by short-
sighted dullards who thought the ascendancy Britain
had gained by war and Protection was a heaven-
born gift and didn’t require defence, thereby follow-
ing- in the wake of Louis XVI. Iluskisson spoke pat-
ronisingly of the part played by the "little com-
munities’’ of Hamburg, Bremen and Lubeck “in
the feudal ages,” evidently not knowing that these
little communities used to make arrogant laws for
England, and not being able to see that liis policy
was to make Hamburg the greatest shipping port in
the world and 100 per cent, ahead of London. The
spirit of Progress rose against Iluskisson and the
first locomotive on the Liverpool and Manchester
Railway ran over him. Cobden, his fellow-apostle,
defended Freetrade as “the only thing that can rid
■us 0} our colonies
The- rise of New Germany under Protection, and
then Bismarck’s sudden conversion to Freetrade. He
negotiated treaties giving French and British goods
the run of the markets of the German League, and
these countries were so impressed by this show of
friendship and so milch afraid of losing the blessed
privilege that they stood by while Denmark and
Austria were plundered and Britain stood by while
France was plundered. Prussia, having thus doubled
its territory and captured the richest ironfields in
Europe, secured the site of the Kiel Canal and made
itself head of the Empire. Then Bismarck “took
a lunar” at his dupes and re-established Protection.
During the time that he was fooling England he
was nominated a member of the Cobden Club.
And so on. A great experiment in commer-
cial and financial world-conquest was spoiled,
or at least postponed, when the amazing-
machine which Bismarck and co. devised fell
into the hands of a stage Richelieu who
thought he was the real man because he was
dressed for the part.— (John Murray, Lon-
don,)
"Fists"
The passing of J. F. Archibald and J. E.
Scantlebury in quick succession recalls to
memory some of the Australian literary
stars whose MS. I have handled with more
or less, feelings of annoyance because of
their outrageous hand-writing.
In my very early days I “held Copy’’ for
the reader of the Freeman’s Journal, and
struggled with Archbishop Polding’s and
Archbishop Vaughan’s contributions to the
then only R.C. paper in N. S. Wales.
Thomas Butler was editor, and his hierogly-
phics led to my introduction to comp.-room
blasphemy. And when Michael McGirr, the
manager, did write a par, neither he nor the
staff could read it. But the late W. B.
Dailey was easily first of that trio in the
competition, for unintelligible handwriting.
No piecework comp, of modern days would
attempt the task of setting his exasperating
scratches! It was a hopeless job to worry
over the shreds and patches of ink sup-
posed to express the thoughts of the long-
since-deceased and kindly-natured creator of
Australia’s military glory. Chief Justice
Martin, “W.B.’s” kinsman, had an appalling
fist, too; but he troubled us less. Bishop
was even worse.
In those far*-off days I many times fondled
and put in .type Henry Kendall’s effusions
written in very legible, disjointed letters with
his left hand. His copy was always neat,
and though I have handled thousands of
MSS. I have never met with any exactly
similar in character to that of Australia’s
sweetest singer.
Henry Parkes, “Mudgee” Taylor, B. R.
Wise and E. W. O’Sullivan were a political
quartette whose execrable copy was the de-
spair of the comps., though possibly the worst
sinner was E. W. O’Sullivan, who should
have known better because he graduated into
journalism and politics from the comp. room.
W. 11. Traill, J. E. Scantlebury, J. F.
Archibald, John Haynes, Frank Myers and
“Price Warung” Astley all trusted to the
intelligent comp, to understand what they
wanted to express. Myers’s caligraphy was
simply atrocious. Traill’s heavy, disjointed
letters and unfinished words were just as
ponderous as his big, blustering personality.
Archibald’s MS. was difficult on first ac-
quaintance, but quite easily read after prac-
tice. He had one fixed habit of writing on
any odd scrap of paper, and another of
writing his first line the whole width of the
paper and gradually diminishing the length
until he finished up the last line with one
word at the right-hand bottom corner. But
Archibald’s favorite pastime was “half-sole-
and-heeling” other people’s copy (and it
didn’t trouble him whose- copy it was), send-
ing it on in its emasculated condition and
leaving the worried comp, to sort out the
tangle. It was when the proof reached the
eye of J.F.xi. that the errors “came out in
the washing.” Archibald was an unsurpassed
proof-reader, and his merciless pen ruthlessly
continued the “half-sole-and-heeling” process
of cutting and patching with lightning
rapidity until few of the author’s original
expressions remained. The ideas had be°n
“bovrilised.” Those proofs were a hideous
nightmare to the comps., and probably the
direct cause of so many of them in the old
days being frenzied anti-prohibitionists.
Of our best-known deceased poets I “set”
Tom Bracken’s “Not Understood,” John
Farrell’s “How He Died,” and hundreds of
gems by Victor Daley from the original MSS.
Strange to say, this trio of sweet singers
wrote a most legible hand, and Daley’s best
work was invariably done in violet ink.
(Note to comp.—Please don’t turn this into
“violent drink.”) Of still-living poets I
helped “Banjo” Paterson on the road to
literary fame by setting his “Clancy of the
Overflow,” and have pleasant recollections
of his painstaking writing. Henry Lawson,
Steele Rudd, Rod Quinn and many lesser
stars are enjoying the plaudits of lovers of
Australian literature through, the struggles
of a worried comp, to read their MS., and,
incidentally, earn a crust. As Randolph the
Reckless is still very much alive and active,
it is hardly safe to assert that he very nearly
wins in y vote for careless manuscript.
W. H. E.
A Novelist on Novels
Since Arnold Bennett, in the intervals of
explaining to the world how to manage its
wife and live on 24 hours a day, taught
literary aspirants for the moderate fee of
Is. (Is. 6d. to Australians) how to write
novels and plays, other novelists have shown
an increasing fondness for talking shop. The
latest is W. L. George, who gained a. naughty
success with “A Bed of Roses,” and has
since written several passable novels and
books of criticism and speculation, includ-
ing a cheeky study of Anatole France. A
Novelist in Novels is the title of his new
book, which contains, among a mass of
platitudes sufficiently impudent to lend them
the appearance of epigrams, many suggestive
observations and some estimates of the
mightily-boomed dead so sensible as to be
almost startling.
George has a healthy disrespect for the
classics, and pokes fun at appalling lists of
“Best Books” recommended by Bennett and
Robertson Nieoll, In “A Library for Five
Pounds” Nieoll selects 61 books, and not a
single living author is represented. “It is
not a library,” says George,' “it is a necro-
polis.” George would not teach apprecia-
tion of literature by dumjn'ng Bede’s
“Ecclesiastical History” or “Decline and
Fall of the Roman Empire” in front of the
unhappy student. “.People,” he says, “can-
not plunge into old language, old atmos-
phere; they have no links with these things;
their imagination is not trained to take a
leap; many try, and nearly all fail because
their literary leaders go to sleep, or march
them into bogs. No crude, mind can jump
into ancient literature; modern literature
alone can help it—namely, cleanse its nearest
section and prepare it for further strain.
In a delightful passage he. plays the
idea of a sub-committee appointed by the
British Government to endow literature,
picturing it as consisting of Professor Saints-
bury, Austin Dobson, Prof. Walter Raleigh,
Sidney Lee and Prof. Gollancz—“all the
academics, all the people drier than the
drought, who, whether the god of literature
finds himself in the car or the cart, never
fail to get into the dickey:” If a similar
committee'were to be included in Hughes’s
“reconstruction” policy its personnel could
be forecasted with equal accuracy; Prof.
Wallace, Archibald T. Strong, Henry Gyles
Turner, the poet Webster, and. possibly, some
precious literary bantling recommended by
Melba. Le Gay Brereton might have a
chance; but Chris Brennan and Bernard
O’Dowd would not bo tame enough. Prof.
Walter Murdoch would be thought too frivol-
ous, and mere blokes who make a living
by manufacturing literature (or words to
that effect) would, of course, be rigorously
excluded. It is to be hoped that the first
stop toward, the endowment of literature in
Australia will be made by the Ryan Govern-
ment, for. then at least Randolph Bedford,
M.L.C., will have a place on the committee.
In an endeavor to “spot” the men who
will have the job of keeping the English
novel alive when Wells, Galsworthy, Bennett
and Conrad are dead or become as popular
as « j Caine. George reckons that, unless
a < \ ar * c h° r se” makes its appearance, we
will have to rely chiefly upon Compton Mac-
kenzie, Gilbert Cannan,’ J. D. Beresford, E.
M. Forster, D. H. Lawrence, Oliver Onions,
Frank Swinnerton and Hugh Walpole. It
will be noted that he has an affection
for writers inclined to be rather shocking.
Now that Hardy is silent and Wells dabbling
m theology, several of those he mentions
may be classed as being already in the
front rank.
Separate chapters are devoted to two
women novelists—Amber Reeves and Sheila
Ka.ve-Smith both of whom George considers
are eligible for first-class honors. Miss
Reeves, author of several interesting books,
including “The Reward of "Virtue.” described
as a remarkable piece of realism,” is a
daughter of Pember, former Maoriland poli-
tician. Rumor alleges that she was more
or. less the original of Wells’s “Ann Ver-
omca.” She is still in her twenties, was
brought up pious,’ attended Sundav-sehool
and felt a peculiar property in God.” Later
she was sent to Kensington High School
to learn to be democratic and meet .the
butcher s daughter.” At ten she was writing
verse, as a flapper she studied economics, and
she has since “taken up socialism, climbed
a drain-pipe and been occasionally sought
m marriage.” George paints a frank picture
of the young lady “so dark in the white
frock of simplicity or artifice, with broad
cheeks which recalled the rattlesnake, soft
cheeks tinted rather like a tea rose, with
long dark eyes, wicked, aggressive, and yet
laughing.” In her books: “Her men are
Tu er ?ross instead of strong; she likes
them, she tolerates them, they are altogether
brutes and ‘poor dears.’” It may be that
she will yet drag the woman-made novel
out of the- mire info which it has been
tipped by Marie Corelli, Elinor Glvn, Flor-
ence Barclay, Gene Stratton Porter and the
rest.
HARRISON OWEN.
(Continued on page 24.)


Economy in Summer Wear
iKa
p
k
Fx 613
Fx4173 (as illustration). — Child’s Natural Palm
Beach Dust Coat, shaped collar and revers, falling
full from shaped yoke in front; fastened girdle and
buttons. Sizes, 27in., 27/6; 30in., 28/6; 33in.,
26/6; 36in„ 31/6.
Fx6l3 (as illustration). — Child’s Attractive Crepe
Magyar Frock, scalloped neck and sleeves, smartly
embroidered laced front, In shades of Saxe, Biscuit and
Pale Blue.
18in., 5/6; 20in„ 5/6; 22in„ 5/11; 24in„ 5/11
-sr
k
y .
216
H 216 (as illustration Mouflon and Tagel Hat,
trimmed straw bow, fashionable coloring.... 10/6
H2lB. — Natural Rush Hat, lined and trimmed
swathe of Navy Ninon 8/11
We Pay
Carriage on all
Articles of
Wear
throughout
N.S.W.; to the
nearest port in
other States.
001 to
xr
xr
f>
s***
JXIIOO (as illustration).— Smartly-cut Assam
Silk Dust Coat, slightly gathered at waist, forming
new straight back. The cape, collar and cuffs have
groups of cable-stitching, giving a dainty finishing touch.
75/-
JX3I7 (as illustration). — New Military Cape of
Assam Silk, large stole collar, in an artistic design
of Bottle and Biscuit Shade Silk. Rows of silk cable-
stitching give a striking finish to the circular cut.
75/-
There are countless opportunities for economy at
Anthony Horderns’. From every comer of the
Fashion Salons, gaily bedecked in Summer
Attire, there are winsome modes a-peeping—Beautiful
Gowns, Chic Hats, Smart Blouses, Graceful Skirts—
all at keen prices that will delight the woman whose
wishes are too often curtailed because of a modest
allowance.
If you cannot' call and examine the real worth of
the various lines mentioned on this page, write for
the Fashion Book, posted free on request.
il
i?
X
!rj.Ju
K
£
*K
iW
I
x 913
Fx 915
Write for a
Copy of Our
Summer
Fashion Book,
an authoritative
Guide to the
Fashions.
Posted Free.
Fx9l3 (as illustration). — Maid’s Robe, prettily de-
signed in Taffeta Poplin, full blouse, square neck, large
fashionable collar, full-pleated skirt, tunic back and
front, ornamented embossing and cable-stitching to tone.
In shades of saxe and rose.
Skirt Lengths . 42in. 45in. 48in.
Prices 49/6 49/6 49/6
Fx9ls (as illustration).— Effective Net Robe, suit-
able for maid’s semi-evening wear, elaborately trimmed
tucks and imitation filet insertion, with embroidered,
kilted collar, colored silk belt, full-gathered, high-
waisted skirt.
Skirt Lengths 42in. 45in. 48in.
Prices 55/6 57/6 59/6
PJI32
£365
J)605/2
D605/2 (as illustration).— Well-designed Stone-
colored Two-piece Skirt in Good-quality
Sponge Cloth. Strappings and buttons decorate the
sides. A medium belt passes through straps. The
skirt is gathered at the back. Also in shades of fawn
and nigger. Sizes W. only 22/6
1)1132 (as illustration). — Skirt of White Gabar-
dine. Box pleats and buttons are treated in a novel
way. A belt offsets. Slightly gathered at back.
Size \V. only 22/6
D 365 (as illustration). — Smart Skirt in White
Linen, panelled front, with quaint empiecements and
large pearl buttons. Plain inset Belt.
1X1587.
1X1587 (as illustration). — Pretty Striped Fuji
Silk Blouse, wide roll collar, with wide rovers on
shoulders, front trimmed with pocket, smart linked cuffs.
In helio, saxe, vieux rose, myrtle or navy.... 24/6
Extra out-sizes 26/6
1X940. —Fashionable Heavyweight Ivory Jap
Silk Blouses, With roll collar, worn “V” shaped
or closed at neck, hemstitched and embroidered, plain
turned-back cuffs 27/6
H2lO (as illustration).— Natural Italian Leghorn
Hat, trimmed band and bow of ribbon. Excellent
value 21 / -
H2l9.—Large “Gage” American Sailor in Tag
Tagel Straw, trimmed smart band and bow. In
black, white or mastic 25/-
££5 03..
D 7526 (as illustration). — Stylish Robe of Plain
Colored Voile, panelled skirt, trimmed self folds;
bodice with rounded neck, finished embroidery and
buttons. In rose, grey, black, navy or saxe. . 39/6
D 2502 (as illustration).— Useful Frock, in All
Black striped Voile, square neck, finished self
buttons and roll collar, two deep tucks on skirt,
finishing at front panel... 39/6
Also in extra out-sizes 45/-
Size W., 16/11; 0.5.. 18/H
Anthony Hordern &, Sons Ltd.
605 BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.


THe price of other
makes may be a
little lower, but do
tbey give
Micbelin mileage?
o
S
O
The Cover
that costs least
per mile.
Michelin has never tried
to produce the lowest-
priced tyre ; but Michelin
has always set the Quality
standard in the tyre-
manufacturing world. And
so enormous is the output
that this tyre of un-
matched Quality can be
sold at a price very little
higher than that which is
demanded for a much less
serviceable article.
If other tyres showed
twice the difference in
price from Michelin that
they show to-day, still
would Michelins cost
least per mile to run.
Michelins mean more
mileage —and money in
your pocket, too !
MICHELIN
Universal
Tread
Recommended by all
Practical Motorpmen,
KOC
fr
v
Fr&
MICHEUIN CO. PTY. LTD., 31 King Street, MELBOURNE.
-
%
rR&


DISTINCTIVE
ABBEY SHOES.
Select Tour Shoes according to quality.
For the Dressy Man. Abbey Shoes are
favored. They express the final touch of
distinction and good taste.
We illustrate a high-grade Patent Derby
Bal.
PRICE 63/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf,
PRICE 52/6.
Stocked in half-sizes, and narrow,
medium and wide fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
HtjKROCKSLS’HOKRQCKSIrS’HORROCKSESMOftRQCnstS
THE WORLD'S
s]| BEST VALUE
HOBROCKSF*? HQgROCKSE.S'HORROlKSES';
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years, also a wonderful
Cure for Rheumatism.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l/2/-. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemist*-,
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
After reading, will you please send this paper to
the Red Cross Book, Magazine and Newspaper Dep6t,
5 Wynyard Street, Sydney, or place it in one of the
receptacles provided for the purpose. All copies thus
received are divided equally between the Red Cross
Society and the War Chest Fund, and are posted
weekly to our soldiers abroad.
•CELEBRATED
r m
V!sr.
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure —■
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
• —no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz:—
Duerdin& Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley. Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [1
MARCONI SCHOOLS
THE MARCONI SCHOOLS are the only schools in Australia
that have actual Wireless Stations installed. Daily our students
manipulate Marconi Ship Stations, Aircraft Apparatus and
Magnifying Valve Receive*
Our Courses of Instruction are absolutely complete in every
detail.
DAY AND EVENING CLASSES.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENCE COURSES.
The Correspondence Courses have been compiled by Wireless
Experts and are thoroughly up-to-date.
Our students have priority of appointment to all vessels of
the Australasian Mercantile Marine.
DON’T DELAY!
Write or call—
THE SUPERINTENDENT,
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
And—
-422 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE, Victoria.
Britain'* Greatest Writer:
CHARLES DICKENS 1812-1870.
Words alon* -even when joined together with the greatest skill—can never tell
the wonderful story of the ONOTO. Its daily use by thousands alone can tell
its tale. A perfect writing implement, it never leaks, and it fills itself.
Price at all stationers, jewellers, etc., 17/-, also Onoto Valveless for those who
do not want a Self-Filling Safety Pen 12/6 and upwards.
Manufacturers: THOS. DE LA RUE & Co., Ltd., < unhill Row, London, E.C.
Managing Agents: NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, Sydney & Melbourne.
A ,k for Onoto Ink-Beat for all Pens.
Stockings and Sock s
for Patriots’ wear
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
Are guaranteed by the Brand to be entirely
British made, and are produced from pure
Australasian wool. By buying only Jason you
help the Old Country—besides securing the
finest value in the world.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See thei Jason
Tab on every pair. Drapers and outfitters everywhere.
In case of difficulty vwite to
Jason Hosier* Ce. f Leicester, Eng.
Aa 61 <5)
• •
99
99
EASY SHAVING
no longer a
Barber s Secret
Man with tough, wiry hoards; men with tender
facesj men who worry the best barber while shaving
them; men toho could never before hone a razor into
decent shape, are writing us every day about the
smooth, easy shaves they are getting with the
Perforated Hone,
The Perforated Hone is the only one made that can be used
by the ordinary man. Use your finest blade or your poorest, give
a few strokes or hone all day, the result will be the same —a
perfect shave. The perforations prevent wire-edge, and make
it impossible for you to over-set your razor. They automatically
produce a perfect, keen shaving edge. The Perforated Hone is
made from an exceptionally fine natural stone found in British
Columbia. It lasts a lifetime.
KEEPS NEW RAZORS KEEN AND TRUE.
Try one—if it doesn’t make your razor shave to
your satisfaction return it to us within thirty days
and get your money back. Sold by all leading Hard-
I ware Merchants, at 4/6, or post free 5/-, from
The Perforated Hone Co., Dept. 16,123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fairer than the Lilies.
Behold, my Amaryllis,
The Spring is here. How t far.
Far fairer than the lilies
These white, pure snowdrops are!
The lilies are pale wenches
That neither toil nor spin;
Their sidling perfume drenches
The soul with languid sin.
But snowdrop, dear my lady,
Is fragile as your hand,
With past nor loud nor shady
(Maybe you'll understand).
Not so the gloating lilies,
That wanton as they sing.
Behold, my Amaryllis!
The Spring, sweetheart, the Spring!
Come out! The sap is leaping
Along my veins that glow,
And garden-gods are peeping
To see it leaping so.
Your lips are ripe for kisses
Now that rogue Spring is here.
Who misses kisses misses
The zest of life, my dear.
I know a corner sunny,
Where we two can forget
That we are short of money,
For love is plenteous yet.
The breeze caresses (shocking!)
The dimples of your knee;
A sheen is on your stocking,
A gleam is on the sea.
, M.v Amaryllis, linger
No more with doubts and fears!
See where that mad lad’s finger
Is beckoning! All the years
Cannot atone (remember!)
For one good moment lost.
(You’ll buy joy in December —•
At what tremendous cost!)
A sheen is on your stocking.
I'm waiting at your knee.
The wanton clouds are flocking
To woo the wimpling sea.
Ah, cease your frowns and pouting,
Hear how the violets sing!.
Pan pipes. The hills are shouting.
The Spring, dear heart, the Spring!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Fever.
Wet: roses dripping on the rain-drenched
grass;
Cold mists that cling to mountain-tops, and
pass,
Folding deep valleys in a pall of smoke;
Green running waters that from ice-packs
broke,
And leagues of crunching snow; a white
frost fain
To plan mosaic for the window pane :
Cool marble floors where burning feet might
pace;
Dawn dews on violets pressed against the
face;
Round Weedy pools where kissing willows
fall—
Mockeries of fever, born in hospital!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Seagulls.
All day long where the sunlight gladdens
Rock and headland, and beach and shoal,
White as the fierce salt surf that whitens
Crested breakers that shoreward roll,
Hither, thither, with brave breasts buoyant,
, Loiter the gulls from near and far,
Now aloft on their spreading pinions,
Now wings folded on beach and bar.
Salt airs breathing and lungs expanded.
Thus I watch them till day grows dim;
Nigh and distant, the great sea, psalming,
Lifts triumphant a ceaseless hymn.
Back from the shore when the shadows
lengthen,
Far, far homing before the night,
Sunset tinting their wings with color.
West, west ever, they take their flight,
Far, far westward the gulls go speeding.
League and league through the dying day,
Till, low specks on the western skyline,
Faint and fainter, they fade away.
Birds, brave birds, when your flight is ended
(Darkness veiling the rose-red west),
Stars above you, and night surrounding,
Where, O where do you take your rest?
Where I know not; but this I witness
(Dawnlight flooding the landscape fair),
Eastward flying, your snow-white legions
Course their way through the dewy air.
Back again to the white sea-surges,
Back again ere the world awake—
Brave breasts buoyant and wings extended
East, east eyer your course ye take.
N.B.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Girl from Gippsland.
Gippslanc} forests are far away,
But oh ! remember the great gum-trees,
The leafy towers that stand and sway.
The starry blossoms, a-swarm with bees:
Remember always the clearing wifle,
The song in the timber that comes ant}
goes,
The storm-wind’s song on the mountain-side
That only the girl from Ginpsland knows!
The plains are sunny, and blue skies smile,
New friends are many, and youth must
roam,
And only once in a long, long while
A young heart thinks of a far-off home.
But the plain-wind rises silently;
Bitter and chill in the dusk it blows.
And then how homesick a heart can be
Only the girl from Gippsland knows!
N.S.W..
McENSAY.


LARGE SUPPLIES OF MACHINE TOOLS, representing the very latest Practice in
Manufacturing, have now arrived and are being prepared for exhibition in our Showrooms.
CHAS. E. YOUNG
Sole Agent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD.,
MACHINE TOOL MAKERS AND IMPORTERS (Coventry, England),
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY (Aust.).
MACHINE TOOLS IN STOCK OR ON THE WATER:—
Hexagon Turret Lathes,
Combination Turret Lathes,
Capstan Lathes,
Vertical Milling Machines,
Universal and Plain Horizontal Millers,
Ball Bearing Drills,
Cylindrical Grinders,
Internal Grinders,
Oscillating Tool Grinders,
Tool Grinding Machines,
Surface Grinders,
Universal Tool and Cutter Grinders,
Sheet Metal Cutting Machines,
Auto. Turning Machines,
Universal Wood Working Machines,
Auto. Screw Machines,
High Speed Lathes,
Dieheads and Dies,
Grinding Wheels,
Small Tools.
OUR EXPERT IS AT YOUR COMMAND TO ADVISE ON MODERN MANUFACTURING METHODS,
AND TO INSTRUCT ON THE EFFICIENT HANDLING OF ALL PLANT SUPPLIED.
Telephones: City 10109, 10110. Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Lathe,” Sydney.
Codes used: ABC, Lieber’s, Western Union, and Private.
IS MONEY SAVED
TV/TANY a good animal’s lift' and worth is saved by having at hand just the
lvi necessary VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS or APPLIANCES to treat Un-
case promptly when occasion arises.
Are you equipped with Veterinary necessities to save your Stock and your
Money when illness or accident occurs?
If not. write us at once for our free Instructive Booklet and Catalogue of
Veterinary Instruments and Appliances—we are Veter,inary Specialists with a
service invaluable to Stockowners.
DENYER BROS.,
The Veterinary House of Australia,
281 George Street, SYDNEY.
IS&g
K
'Jfjiinwt
’M<aaaiSS^S
- UlUjpSj
uwmi»».afr^sg-
nmnnmmintniiinnniin
>5
£
US
-c.
£
JOP
ST S
IN
ham
BACON
VEA
and
tong
rS
Hi
-
w
m
A Tin Should Be in Every
Home
As an emergency dish there is nothing quite
so appetising and sure-to-be-enjoyed as
“Rex ’ Camp Pie. It is always ready to
serve instantly—always fresh, tasty, and
wholesome. But you should also serve
“Rex” Camp Pie
as regular fare. It is cheaper than fresh
meat—and just as wholesome. It saves all
cooking and there is no waste.
TRY CAMP PIE SERVED HOT
Immerse the tin in boiling water for twenty
minutes and it is ready. Turns out in good
shape, with a fine gravy that makes it ever
so good.
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE
A TIN SHOULD BE IN EVERY STORE
It is rare indeed to find a store that does not stock “REX” CAMP
PIE. But the other “Rex” Delicacies are also in keen demand.
Stock the lull line and secure the “Rex” business of your locality.
It pays!
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex’’ Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J J 25
Vi
6'
SAY-
DOYOO KNOW)'
WHO I AM ?
iKbomp—
TH* ROUGHEST,
, JOTT I(A
V TH-’COUNTY.'/
'ZAT,SO?\
r WEL-L DO ]
YOO KNOW,
! WHO X AM
T/M GOODRICH
TR’ TOOOHDST
h’world;
Goodrich Safety Tread Tyres
QUALITY FIRST is ever the upper-
most thought in the production of
Goodrich Tyres, and governs every step
of procedure, from the purchase of the
raw materials to the final inspection.
THE RESULT is Tyres of such super-
excellence that they SERVE BETTER,
LAST LONGER, and give much greater
satisfaction than those made to sell on
price.
GOODRICH TYRES are practical
tyres, big mileage producers and
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”
ONE TRIAL WILL WIN YOU.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
DUVAL ea CO
124 Russell St,
MELBOURNE.
13 Castiereagh St,
SYDNEY.
HORSHAM HOUSE,
Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, JS T .S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 40. —No. 2070.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1919.
Pbice 6d.
THE MINIMUM WAGE.
THE COUNTRY: “All damn fine, but is Billy Holman going to guarantee us a minimum of bad conditions, so’s we can pay
without going further into debt?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Husgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £] 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice,
Insufficiently stamped letter ; are liable to be
refused. ~, . ~
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
pari of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that *
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying tc The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or ivash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., I/il Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.B.A. —-V. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., 13)9 Conway Buildings,
Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, ~63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet—otherwise; 802., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to IZoz., Sid.; elsewhere, )oz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1919.
A HALF-LOAF—WITH A STRING
TO IT.
The expanded heads of State politicians are
still the chief obstacles to unity in Australia.
Each Premier, or prospective Premier,
aspires to the lion’s skin, irrespective of the
cost of the garment to the country in money
and decreased efficiency; and he will only
sacrifice his State’s dignity for the national
welfare when there is a party or personal
end to be gained by it. Both these old
axioms were interestingly exemplified dur-
ing the past month. Just before W. M.
Hughes made his latest demands for consti-
tutional amendments, the Government and
the Opposition in N. S. Wales came out
with their programmes. Premier Holman,
after outlining vast social, land and other
schemes, stated that “the Government would
not stand the growth of monopolies in any
direction,” and he gave his assurance that
“wherever there was profiteering it would be
stopped with a firm hand.” And Holman’s
brave words were surpassed for spacious-
ness by those of his rival Storey —naturally,
seeing that the latter is absolved by his
position from the immediate obligation of
delivering the wares which he cries, or any-
thing like them. Storey intends—assum-
ing the community goes mad and gives him
the chance —“to take immediate steps to
nationalise” (1) all monopolies, (2) practi-
cally all the mines. (3) all tne banks,- (4)
coastal shipping, (5) insurance, and (6) a
few other things. The idea is that by this
simple arrangement everyone will 'own
everything; wages will be high; and the
cost of living will retreat to the 1913 stan-
dard. Such propositions are so impossible
of practical realisation that their authors
probably will be relieved if the necessity of
attacking them is taken off their hands. The
clause which the Commonwealth Govern-
ment wishes to add to Section 51 of the
Constitution is designed to do it. If ac-
cepted it will vest in the National Parlia-
ment certain powers, intra- as well as
inter-State, over trusts. combines and
monopolies; and. though no reasonable per-
son dreams that they will ever be exercised,
a multitude of petty powers as welh
The State Premiers are willing now
to forego their direct powers over trade and
commerce, because the unexpected reactions
of the Great War have rendered the privi-
leges which were clung to so fiercely in 1911.
and again in 1918, menaces rather than
political assets; and they are likely to be
handed to Hughes by their owners in the
spirit in which the ancient Greeks gave
their gifts. It is noticeable, however, that
even Hughes, the cocksure, buoyant upon the
topmost crest of his popularity, does not
dare to ask for that control over the State
railways which was so angrily denied him
in the past. Yet railway control is an
essential part of trade and commerce con-
trol. Nine-tenths of Australia’s internal
commerce is conducted by rail, and will be
till the motor-lorry and commercial flying-
machine arrive. Railway control is also,
essentially a matter for the National Parlia-
ment, if only on defence grounds. Ger-
many, after losing the greatest war in his-
tory, is in an excellent position to start
again towards world-domination in large
measure because the Imperial Government
dictated the country’s railway policy. The
strategic railways to the Belgian and French
frontiers kept the Fatherland inviolate —just
as the North-South railway may some day
keep tile southern parts of Australia un-
touched, while the fighting proceeds on the
other side of the continent. And Germany’s
wonderful internal system, with its switch-
back sidings everywhere for quick shunting,
and its light roadside railways linking up
factories and even batches of outlying farms
with the main lines —a system designed ex-
pressly by the central administration to
foster national industry—is already assist-
ing the Boche to pay his debt to the world.
There is no such national spirit about our
State railways. They are not built or run
with an eye to any defence scheme, or to any
* interests other than sectional ones. They
are frequently exploited by the State poli-
ticians in power to gain support; and there
is mostly ready collusion amongst the indi-
viduals who see advantages coming their
way as an outcome of the swindle.
* * # •
It must be apparent to anyone that it
would be a far greater thing to “stop profit-
eering everywhere with a firm hand,” as
Holman proposed to do when lie made his
last policy speech, or to reduce the cost of
living, as Storey threatened to do at about
the same time, than to build a number of
railways serving, in the sum, a very small
part of N. S. Wales. The point is that
profiteering cannot be “stopped everywhere”
by Act of Parliament; and the politicians
who claim that they have any one infallible
prophylactic against the elusive curse are
charlatans. The. clamor to be allowed to
get at the profiteer is, therefore, bogus; its
analogue may be observed in the person of a
small drunk, firmly held, shouting defiance at
a formidable enemy. But the control of an
immense railway system is a different affair.
The party benefits which accrue from it are
beyond enumeration. Say that a Govern-
ment seat is in danger, or that it is particu-
larly desired to win one held by the Opposi-
tion. Nothing is easier, in the case of a
Labor administration, than to get to work
on an extension scheme, and for that pur-
pose to ship to the doubtful constituency a
contingent of men who, with their families,
may be relied on to vote the desired ticket.
Assume, again, that jobs have to be found
for supporters who. through their own
fault, or through nobody’s fault, are out
of work. One of the favorite party recipes
in every State is the inauguration of a new
railway to Nowhere, by means of which the
taxpayer makes a compulsory contribution to
the party funds. The private citizen, being
mostly shortsighted, is far from hostile to
this ruinous business. He may own a mine
or part of one which will be advantaged by
the arrival of a railway at its back door.
He knows that, though all around is wilder-
ness in a manner of speaking, there are yet
ways in which the scheme may be worked.
Or he may live in a district with a “pull,”
or he may inhabit one of those subtle con-
stituencies with a reputation for never vot-
ing the same way twice. In that case he
may reasonably expect to get more than his
transport dues in time, absolutely regardless
of the relation they bear to the general wel-
fare of the State. For the effective working
of this type of ramp it is necessary that the
controlling body should be handy and' ap-
proachable—as a centralised government
rarely if ever is. And for no loftier
reasons than these the National Parliament
has to indefinitely forego control over a ser-
vice which is intimately bound up with
defence; the Commonwealth has to put up
with the break-oLgauge foolishness and ex-
travagance ; and the present Government has
to take its trade and commerce powers
(assuming it does take them) with a string
attached. It is’ the penalty which each
Australian pays for his status and dignity
as a State unit. And more, infinitely more,
for the status and dignity of his Sta’te
politicians.
THE PARADISE OF £3 17s.
Some little time will be required to resolve
whether the new “basic wage” in N. S.
Wales is a basic wage or a sickening crash.
In 1914 a Court decided that the minimum
required to suppor t a family was 485., a family
being defined as one father, not more than
one mother, two children of dependent age
and no ancient retainers. This was assumed
to be the pay of the least efficient worker at
the least promising occupation. The more
efficient worker must, of course, be paid
more, for no matter how much effort is
devoted to levelling things down, the better
man will always command a premium. But
the outside person who rules almost every-
thing in this dependent country, and sup-
plies almost everything save a few bare
necessaries is beyond our control. During
war-time he put gp prices and freights
joyously—a 400 per cent, rise was the sort
of thing lie took in his stride. So the mini-
mum payable by the Australian employer,
who was suffering from the outside cor-
morant as badly as anybody else, was
advanced first to 555. 6d., then to 58s. 6d.
and again to 60s. Now it is suddenly raised
to 775„ and there is no guarantee that it
may not be 87s. next year or 105 s. 3d. the
year after. Incidentally,, there is no stipu-
lation about any increase in industry or
efficiency, or about giving reasonably good
work in return for more money. The new
wage is simply the amount that is required
to enable a white family to live as it
ought to live according to Australian loan
and lOU ideas. Whether the money is
really earned doesn’t come into the question
at all.
There is probably no country less fitted
than Australia to lay down hard-and-fast
seventy-seven-shilling laws. That is to
say, there is no white man’s country
which has less voice in fixing its own wages,
except, of course, in State enterprises finan-
ced out of loans, and there the pay may be
£lO a minute provided the loan money holds
out. Australia is a very large exporter in
a very few lines —wool, wheat, meat, butter
and metals in their raw state. The price
of them is what the world chooses to give,
and the world gives Australia the worst
possible show because it is further away
than most places from the great European
demand. It is also a very large importer in
a multitude of lines —in proportion to popu-
lation the greatest importer on earth
—and it has no more voice in fix-
ing the price of what it buys than
the price of what it sells. It is
especially helpless because its easy-going
habits of life make it less able to do with-
out things than many countries —to go un-
shod, and sleep on the floor, and dress
casually in a sheepskin. It is especially
helpless, too, because it is a country that
relies on shipping and yet doesn’t possess its
own'ships. In fact, it is the place above all
others to which dependence on foreign trade
means humiliation. True, Australian manu-
factures are growing, and are its most hope-
ful feature; but very few of them have got
beyond the stage where they rely on im-
ported machinery and, in some degree, on
imported materials. So, one way and
another, this country, less than any other
white man’s country, doesn’t fix its own
wages in the sense that it doesn’t fix the
price either of the things we export or of
the many things we import.
# * * *
It is reckoned that the new “basic wage”
will add either £14,000,000 or £20,000,000
to the aggregate annual wage bill of N. S.
Wales, which means that the Ma State has
been receiving that much less than the
amount required, according to its own stan-
dards, to pay for its holidays and its im-
ported goods. And still the increase won’t
apply to the great mass of little farmers
and the other people who run little one-man
industries. They are the serfs who make
the trades-union aristocracy possible. They
may pay more for things they buy and for
casual labor, but they will still get what
amount they can scrape out of the price of
things they sell. Therein lies the difference
between wages that go up because a State
is prosperous and wages that are pushed up
because the same State sees a prospect of
floating another loan. The award of 775.
per week is expected, for instance, to add
£1,500,000 a year to the cost of running tbe
railways. Yet these are already run at a
heavy loss, despite the fact that rates have
been raised 27£ per cent., and despite the
fact that most of them were built with cheap
loans (3£ per cent, or so) in fairly well-
watered and fairly populous country where
there are trees and hills and minerals and
reasonably adjacent ports. Now that it is
a case of building with very dear money
in very dry and empty parts, and the cost
of both building and management is to be
so largely increased, it is time to stop ex-
tensions till the Government can find out
how to make them earn their keep.
The Holman Government, putting on its
best bedside manner, has, however, a device
for partially camouflaging the rise of wages
and its consequences by making children a
public charge. They are to. be supported
out of a fund into which employers will pay
the difference between the wage that will
support a celibate worker and the one re-
quired for a married worker. Without
camouflage it is expected that, despite the
utmost precautions and the best bedside
manner and the biggest possible loans, the
business of employing labor will tend to
drift away from N. S. Wales. There are
three possibilities in the case. One is that
the people who require 775. to iive on
should do work worth 85s. and have a mar-
gin with which to pay off the country’s
debts, and possibly turn it into a country
with money to lend. Another is that they
should do work worth 775. and no more
and remain in the old hole. A third is
that they should get the increased wage, and
borrow the money to pay it, and go to the
races as usual—and wait for bankruptcy
and beggary to come about. No amount of
camouflage can’ alter the facts; and those
are the facts.
THE PEACE THAT PASSETH
UNDERSTANDING.
While the Peace Conference of the white
races sat in Paris the Peace Conference of
the yellow race sat in Shanghai. The wars
to settle which the two conferences were
assembled were both, in the large sense, civil
wars. The little and the big war were both
fought in the sacred name of democracy,
and in the final settlement democracy was
left standing on the doorstep without even
the privilege of listening through the key-
hole. The European war was fought to end
war. ' The Chinese one was waged in the
same pathetic hope. The final result of the
two upheavals has been to envelop the white
races in a more intense militarism, to keep
the Chinese in the cangue of martial am-
bition. The European peace is not a stra-
tegic or a diplomatic peace. It is unique in
being a financier’s peace. The Chinese peace
is not coherently anything.
There are many more parallels between
these two assemblages. The strange, new,
beautiful doctrines enunciated at the one
found an echo in the othey. The great prin-
ciple of universal disarmament was boldly
announced in Paris. The British Parlia-
ment followed it by prolonging conscription
and trebling the standing army. The
Americans launched out on a vaster pro-
gramme of navy-building. The Chinese
Peace Conference dealt with disarmament in
a more masterly and lucrative fashion. It
began by estimating the existing strength of
the rival armies of the North and South at
1,400.000 men. It decided to demobilise a
full million of these. This would leave a
standing army of some 400,000 men. But,
as the delegates perfectly well knew, there
are probably not more than 200,000 fully
trained and armed soldiers in China. The
rest are little better than banditti, and
could not enter into any scheme of demobili-
sation. The Tuchuns, the militarists, are
well satisfied with this arrangement. Neither
North nor South need turn off a single
soldier in order to carry out the scheme of
disbandment. The military bosses saw in
it good business: 170,000,000 dollars were
voted (out of loans) to pay off the soldiers,
but even if the entire army were paid off
at the usual rate of $3O per head there
would • remain a surplus of 150,000,000 dol-
lars to be divided amongst the generals and
politicians. So the Tuchuns’ armies will be
as big as ever, and they will have plenty of
cash for the raising of fresh divisions for the
continuance of the interminable struggle for
power and loot.
Between the European chaos and the
Chinese there is little to choose. In China
the North is purely militaristic, while the
South is supposed to be the last refuge of
Constitutionalism. Actually, the condition
of the South is worse than that of the
North. In Kwantung province alone, be-
sides the Military Government in Canton,
there are six military despotisms. The
Tuchun of the province squats on a hill in
Canton with 20,000 Kuangsi troops. Aeros!
the river on the island of Ilonan is Genera'
Li Fu-ling with 5000 Cantonese troops
At Shiuchow is Li Ken-yuan with 15,00 ft
Yunnanese. The overlord of Swatow anc
neighborhood is Liu CIUH-LU, with a mixed
band of Kuangsi and Kwantung troops, lie
keeps the fifth general, Chen Cihung-ming,
with a Cantonese army, bottled up in the
eastern corner of the province. This last
makes a poor living out or the people, but
the ruler of Pakhoi, with a force of Kuangsi
braves, has a more prosperous constituency.
These pillars of Constitutionalism are all
supported by local exactions. On the water
the situation is even choicer. The Grand
Fleet from the North is rusting at anchor
in Canton River. The provincial navy keeps
its guns trained on the Tuchun’s fortress,
but the Tuchun is probably in no more
danger than were the rebels in the fighting
around Shanghai in 1912. In that encoun-
ter the officers were loyalists while the gun-
ners were revolutionary, and the guns
trained by the officers on the rebel lines
mysteriously dropped their shells into the
Foreign Settlement, which was neutral —
until one burst between the masts of a
British warship, whose commander informed
the Chinese admiral (observing strict neu-
trality in a hotel on shore) that if his gun-
ners didn't shoot straighter the. British
would blow his fleet out of the Ilwangpu.
To complete the Canton inventory there are
the fugitive Parliament from Peking, the
old provincial assembly (dissolved), and the
new provincial assembly, all three of which
refuse to recognise the authority of each
other or of the Military Government. Trade
is at a standstill, and even the pirate organi-
sation is dislocated. Its grand annual fes-
tival and distribution of loot at Portuguese
Macao is in abeyance, and each pirate chief
functions independently. This is a cause of
great discomfort to the people, who find the
passports issued by one pirate are no longer
valid throughout the system.
In the North the rising power is the pro-
Japanese general, “little Hsu,” who, backed
by a “National Army” created ostensibly
to protect the north-west, frontier from Bol-
shevism, is preparing, by the establishment of
an economic monopoly over Mongolia, to
raise the sinews of war for a fresh attempt
at universal dominion.
With this melancholy spectacle before
them and with the European war off their
hands, foreign interests are turning their
beneficent eyes towards China. Peking
hotels are full of dubious-looking concession-
aires and agents of foreign armament firms.
The yamens and the legations hum with
rumor and intrigue. Every day some fresh
loan transaction with political implications
is nipped in the bud by the frosty breath
of newspaper publicity. Thousands of miles
of railways are laid down on paper in a
single night. Fantastic schemes for scat-
tering wireless stations and aerodromes all
over the Empire are sanctioned by Ministers
and cancelled within a week. But all this
activity is useless without order and
security, so once again the ancient cry for
intervention is being raised. The League of
Nations is to be the sponsor of these philan-
thropists. France is to have a mandate—
blessed word ! —over the vast garden province
of Szechuan, with its population twice as
great as, and its area equal to, the proposed
guardians; Britain is to have the Yangtsze
Valley with its 150 million industrious
toilers and its incalculable resources; Japan
is to be left with Shantung and Manchuria ;
America is to administer Chihli, which is
about the size of Arizona and 200 times more
crowded. These amiable intentions are not
put so crudely as above. The stated motive
is to establish ordered government in China.
The method is financial control. Financial
control nowadays is simply a euphemism for
government, and a government more subtle,
more despotic and more invincible than ab-
solute sovereignty.
Some years ago I pointed out in The
Bulletin how eagerly foreign capital was
winging its way to this sweaters’ paradise,
a paradise flowing with milk and honey
between mountains of coal and iron, in-
habited by a docile and innumerable multi-
tude. The Great War momentarily checked
this immigration ; but Peace, with European
insecurity and depression, will immensely
accelerate it. If the Great Powers now in
holy alliance can compose their differences
sufficiently to intervene effectively in China.


the development of industries by scientific
means must increase enormously. This
would re-act inevitably on higher-wage coun-
tries with disastrous results.
Australia must closely watch this move-
ment of intervention in the Central Glory.
The participating Powers would not long
remain in agreement over the division of the
spoil. Racial and national differences would
b'e exploited in the interests of their rival-
ries. Whether China borrows money in
Japan or in America and which Power shall
exploit the coal deposits of Shensi are ques-
tions which do not concern the White Aus-
tralia policy; yet that policy would inevit-
ably be dragged into their orbit.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
What It Matters to the Farmer.
When the perennial Wheat Inquiry was
jugging along the other day one llenky
Arthur Pitt, manager of the Wheat Board,
made a remark in passing. “The London
price of wheat,” he said, “was now 10s. 41d.
per bushel, so the Board here could not afford
to pay ss. per bushel in freight” and at the
same time give the Australian farmer the
ss. tid. per bushel he asks for. Certainly,
and as a plain matter of arithmetic the
Board can’t. The statement is a whole
volume of profanity and vituperation on the
tolly of the importing policy and the absur-
dity of neglecting manufactures. This
country’s overwhelming middlemen are these :
(1) The trade combines in England oy the U.S.
which fix the prices of what we buy and what we
sell. We buy of necessity because we don’t make
the things and won’t learn to do without them, and
we sell of necessity because we must send something
in payment as well as our 10U. Necessity knows no
law and very little equity.
(2) The combine's agent or gatherer of tribute
here, otherwise the importer, who helps to fix the
price.
(3) The carrier by sea, who fixes the carrying
rates at his discretion because we don’t manufacture
our own ships. He is the most middle of all the
middlemen and sometimes the most aggressive, llis
prospects of fleecing us are considered so glorious
that a little fleet of ships which trade to these
waters recently changed hands at four times their
original value.
The thing works out in curious ways. It is
a most obvious fact that woollen arid
machinery and thread and shipping and
other combines have put up the prices of
things we buy from abroad. Then we have
to pay in great part with wheat and other
things, and the combine asks two bushels
of wheat where a local manufacturer would
have to be content with one, and keeps the
second bushel to pay for the needless haul-
age which the importing and exporting
policy entails. It may look as if the price of
a scrap of cloth was merely put up from ss.
to 10s., hut if only half the price of the
things we send in payment is credited to us,
the middleman taking the rest, then the cloth
costs 20s. There is a lot of beautiful “trade”
to show in the statistics for this sort of
thing, and people remark that the com-
merce of the country is wonderful, but the
foolishness is still more wonderful. In
Canada, it was mentioned at the same in-
quiry, the farmer is just now guaranteed
Bs. 21d. per bushel for wheat delivered at
the nearest railway station, and the U.S.
farmer 9.5. 2d. Such figures are a dream
to the Australian on the land ; yet they are
quite within his reach. Long ago the people
in the land Columbus discovered expressed
their decision, by high tariffs, and other
devices, that the men who made their clothes,
machinery, paper, etc., in return for wheat
and sundries, must come and live among
them, so that the shipowner, the importer
and the foreign trade combine wouldn’t an-
nex half the value of the things in passing.
Canada and the U.S. may do some foreign
trading as a side-line, but they resolved that
they would be able to provide themselves
with everything really necessary even if
every ship w*as sunk, and then if their ex-
ports were stopped it wouldn’t matter much,
for they could sell to each other. Canada,
with about the same habitable area as Aus-
tralia, has about 4,00.0,000 more local cus-
tomers for its wheat —that is to say,
4,000,000 more to whom it hasn’t to sell
at half-price because the sea middleman
wants the other half for himself. Also it
can tax these 4,000,000 instead of letting
them be taxed by the British or some other
outside Government. Finally it doesn’t pay
sea-freight on the things they make for
it. and if some combine tries to put
up to Canada’s disadvantage the price
of the goods the combine makes, Canada
can can look after that combine itself.
All these may look remote matters when
dealt with in the abstract, but when the
highly protected Canadian gets 3s. 2|d. more
per bushel for his wheat and the still more
highly protected Yankee gets 4s. 2d. more
they become visible. They become especially
visible when a high official explains that the
Australian can’t get these prices because the
great importing-exporting policy or long-
distance-swapping policy, beloved of his
Freetrade press, is capable of eating up half
his crop in passing, in addition to charging
double for the pants it sends him in ex-
change. The farmer is the man to whom
scientific Protection and the encouragement
in every way of local manufactures really
matter. They matter just now 3s. 24d. per
bushel—or else 4s. 2d.
*■
The First Business of Government in
Australia.
The person who concocts the light and airy
cablegrams for us mentioned last week that
if furl her “colonial” loans are wanted in
London it will be necessary to pay a high
ifate of interest for them. Australia fondly
imagined that it was paying a disastrously
high rate already, but this seems to suggest
that the 5i per cent, which the Ma State
incurred recently, with a bonus or discount
of 2 per cent, thrown in, was only a pre-
liminary canter. The real high rates are
coming, not only for the new loans which
the country will have the pleasure of spend-
ing. but for the renewal of the old ones
which were dissipated years and years ago.
Still. there are proposals for raising
£18.000,000 of new loans (£15,000.000 Fede-
ral and £3,000,000 Ma State) in London
at an early date, even if the rate goes up
to 8 or 10 per cent., and further proposals
may come along any day. Our own local
loans, being subscribed in local paper, are
good enough to look at, but of no value
for buying foreign goods, and Aus-
tralia has apparently got to the stage at
which it would sell its future as a white
community, and its hopes, and its children’s
hopes, for foreign goods, especially clothes.
A few more new loans, and a few more
renewals of the sort which have to be made
on the lender’s terms because no provision
has been made to meet the case, can only
mean smash, and both State and Federal
politicians appear to accept a smash of
some sort as inevitable. Yet the position
is far from hopeless. It is all a matter of
exports and imports. Poor as this country
is it sells a vast quantity of goods abroad,
only it buys abroad so many rich clothes
and large hats and high boots, and so many
thousands of other imported things, that the
balance in its favor isn’t big enough to
pay its interest bill, let alone meet some of
the old bills as they fall due. So it pro-
poses to borrow £18,000,000 at anything per
cent., nominally for repatriation and rail-
ways and so on. But this country doesn’t
import repatriation, and in all the time it
has been borrowing abroad not one shipload
of railway cuttings and tunnels and em-
bankments has come here. We haven’t even
imported a post-hole to put a telegraph
post in. What does come is liquor, machinery,
fluff, tooth-brushes, absurd hats and the like.
The essential of national salvation is a law
—some kind of a law—which will keep each
year’s imports at least £40,000,000 below the
exports. That would leave a balance to
meet interest on old debts and reduce the
debts themselves. If a heavy tariff wouldn’t
do it, the result could be attained by flat
prohibition of the import of a long list of
articles, many of them fluff. If-the country
won't make its own fluff, then it must
do with a minimum of fluff until it reforms.
It isn’t seemly that a continent should perish
•for fluff—nor is it seemly to wait till bank-
ruptcy stops the supply without warning and
the fashionable ladies of Darling Point and
Toorak are suddenly reduced to gum-leaves
and sheepskins. .The securing of that
£40.000,000 balance of exports over im-
ports should be the first business of Govern-
ment, taking precedence over members’
salaries, the baby bonus, the increase in the
price of loafing, the Melbourne Cup adjourn-
ment and the defence of Ministerial honor
against groundless aspersions. liven if the
balance should chance to rise to £50,000,000
no harm would be done.
Pre-Election Economy.
The Federal Government is economising.
One of the most popular means of doing it,
with the community in its present frame of
mind, is to cut down the Defence vote. The
general public is nauseated with warfare;
rather sick of soldiers; somewhat tired of
the look of their uniforms. Another war
seems unimaginable, as it always does after
every great war, although the provisional
treaty ending the last one is still unratified,
while Italy, Poland, Roumania and other
countries are in a ferment of dissatisfaction.
So, taking one thing with another, the
Hughes Government has decided (1) to
suspend militia training “till the end of the
ye/ir” (the elections are to occur on Decem-
ber 13) ; (2) to declare that no ex-member
of the A.I.F. need train with the Citizen
Forces again ; and (3) to shelve the idea of an
Australian Air Force scheme which was ap-
proved in detail by the Cabinet last April.
The suspension of compulsory training is
an obvious political move, designed to appeal
to a formidable body of young men with the
franchise. But far more serious than that
is the dissociation of the A.I.F. and the
C.M.F. The leavening of the C.M.F. with
practical fighting soldiers would have done
its morale, its efficiency and its prestige a
world of good. On the other hand, one
effect of their withdrawal from it (and it
is a simple human-nature proposition that
99 per cent, of them will withdraw) will be
to make the citizen uniform a badge of
shame in respect of many young men. So
far as the third measure is concerned, the
aeroplane has become—say, since the battle
of Cambrai—a defence arm as important as
any. _ In the closing stages of the war, in
addition to photographing enemy positions
miles behind the line and enabling visual
reconnaissances to be made, the Air Force
supplied ammunition, co-operated with tanks
and the infantry, “marked” for both infantry
and artillery, and operated with ruinous
effect on enemy transport, railways and
bridges. Without this service a modern
army is situated as the S’African troops
would have been 20 years ago had they used
arquebuses instead of rifles. Without it Aus-
tralia might, in a very few years, be effect-
ively invaded from the North, even though
the R.A.N. were five times its present size.
This paper will be the last to decry legiti-
mate economy. But it never has believed in
the principle of a family man letting his
insurance policy lapse in a period of stress
so that he may still have enough ready cash
to buy his friends cakes and ale.
■ «
The Overcrowded Church.
The story of the ill-paid parson is told in
almost every paper every week, and the de-
tails about salaries are so pathetic that
something ought to be done. Even worse
than the school-teacher, the cleric has been
left to battle with the new war-prices on
the old peace wages—sometimes on rather
less, for people economise on the church in
hard times. The facts must be faced, and
the biggest of the outstanding facts is that
the profession is overcrowded. Each Chris-
tian church is understood to be a road to the
same Heaven, and when a small, dry, un-
prosperous town has three or even four
spiritual railroads running through it the
traffic is insufficient to keep the business
decently alive. Often the one Government
railway leading to the adjacent town of Dry-
ruin doesn’t pay except by virtue of a State
subsidy, yet all .the population uses it. while
a large number of people don't use any of
the spiritual tracks because they aren’t going
that way. There are few churches in the
world which pay their rank and file the most
moderate living wage, as the living wage
goes in Australia, except with Government
aid. And very few that do it even with
Government aid. In Australia the thin<*
is impossible save 4n a few big cities
—unless the churches coalesce. Even
m a fairly well-settled district a par-
son often requires 100 square miles
all to himself to reap a decent stipend
from, though his sermon may not carry that
far; and when small areas are divided among
three or four preachers, the crop doesn’t even
pretend to go round. The Catholic priest
economises by having no family. The Protes-
tant one collects the baby bonus, and there
is a new proposal by which all children after
the first two will be a charge on the
Treasury; but that isn’t likely to come to
anything, for most Treasuries are going mad
with the charges already on them. Yet with
all aids and devices the outlook is poor, and
it seems as if one or more churches might
have to be closed to make room for the rest
just as some pubs are closed so that the
others may earn enough to be comfortable
and habitable. The logic of events points a
leluctant finger at the Anglican Church dig-
nified and picturesque though it be, as one
that will have to defend, if not its existence
at any rate 4s isolation. It began not as
a national or religious movement uprising
from the people, but as a political and Pro-
tectionist device organised by a high-handed
kmg. Ihe ludoks found their country in
bondage to two sets of absentees and paving
tribute to both. The Hanseatic League had
a lien on its shipping, its manufactures and
its mines, while a religious authority in
Italy dictated its ecclesiastical policy" and
took up the collection. Three masterful and
long-reigned sovereigns-*-!wo kings and a
mannish queen—resolved to get rid of the
absentee capitalist in both directions, and
the Anghcan Church began with a flat pro-
liibition against recognising or paying rent
01 interest to any outside authority; and as
S'® 1 °P? Wollldn ’t come to England "and settle
tlieie, the monarch took over his billet. It
never had much spreading power outside the
l dominions, for a foreign head of the
London . 1S Politically objec-
tionable than one in ltome, seeing that all
his spiritual subjects have some pretence of
rbJ°f ICe m * he s . election of the latter, while
the former is a layman bofn to his job. in
fact, the part which the Anglican Church
played in England as a Protectionist orSini-
s Lon and a contemner of the absentee is
just the part which it can't play out of
England, where the objection to it is, though
other D Slow Way ’ the ° bjeCtioD *
♦
The Wail of the Children.
It should be a sign that Mexico approaches
its finish when philanthropic travellers from
the U.S.A. begin to publish appeals to tneir
own country to interfere in the name of
the , civil war lias left
110,000 little Mexicans fatherless and home-
css and hatless When the hatless condi-
tion of tue. little Mexican rouses so much
excitement it suggests that the untapped oil
deposits of the old Spanish State are badly
wanted. Diaz, who was one of the world’s
great men, was President for 31 years. His
trequent re-election made some people sus-
pect that lie counted the vote himself, but
he was so great that it may not have been
necessary. His old age was clouded by oil. The
us-e of oil for ships, motors, air-craft and other
things made petroleum wells the great prize
ot the world. Russia owned the Caspian
deposits.. Britain had those of Burma and
had a. lien on those of Persia. Roumania
couldn tbe bought. Slow-going Mexico was
darkly suspected of vast possibilities, but
Diaz thought his country was sufficiently in
pawn already to the people north of him.
then came a sudden wave of dislike which
led to the old man’s retirement and
Madkros election, and if the movement
wasn t financed by the U.S. oil interests ap-
pearances were against them. Madero was
notoriously complaisant and oily. On the
other hand, Huerta, who made short and
sudden work of Madero quite after the old
style of the one-legged Santa Ana, and
brought his dark countenance and his spec-
tacles to the head of affairs, wasn’t oily.
He was anti-U.S.A., and to him Diaz was
a hero and a god, and anybody who injured
the old man was a devil. The U.S. refused
to recognise Huerta, prevented other
nations doing so, and almost openly helped
half a dozen insurrections against him. Its
rulers said he was a man of blank; that his
hands were blanky; that he had climbed to
power by blankshed. With outside aid of
one sort, and another Carranza, Vila and
other mixed brigands wore Huerta down.
But Carranza is apparently too feeble even
to grant oil concessions that can be enforced.
Still, that can be overcome. There were for
a long time no reports of any very dreadful
happenings in Mexico, but now that the Hun
war is over it has been discovered that the
country is in a dreadful way and is crying
out for aid. These 110.000 unshod Mexican
kids, who may be increased if necessary, are
a heartbreaking affair—especially if there is
oil about.
——
The Federal Ryan and the State Ryan.
The decision of Thomas Joseth Ryan to
abandon the Premiership of Queensland and
retire to another State on the chance (1) of
getting in as a private Federal member. (2)
of displacing Frank Tudor from the Labor
leadership, and (3) of succeeding to the
Prime Ministership at some time not too
absurdly distant looks like a precipitate re-
treat. Ryan was the last Labor Premier
who remained in office in Australia, and one
of the very few who haven’t been thrown
out or elbowed out of leadership by their
own followers. Some of the vanished men
were passed out for being too intellectual —■.
that is to say, more intellectual than the
rank and file-ability being regarded sooner
or later as incipient tyranny. Failing
that they went out on a charge of luke-
warmness. Ryan’s time was probably com-
ing; certainly a deadlock of some sort was
coming. The things he did to the public
finances were calculated to make angels take
to drink, and inside four years he piled up
complications which it would take a genius
years to unravel. In his efforts to find jobs
for everybody he increased the number of
railway employees one-third, and still there
were more and more people ready to be
pacified with jobs. In his haste to give
good wages to everybody lie created a rail-
way deficit of £2.273,040 in three years.
Then being unable to ease off without
offending his followers, who had been taught
to regard him as a fairy godfather, he made
a deficit of £1.421,328 in his fourth year and
didn't really know where to find the money.
Having to go £2,000,000 or so to the bad in
his fifth year or else give offence, he flees
from the scene and leaves someone else to
break the news that the bottle is nearly
empty. Financial troubles drove him into
such legislation as the new Probate Act, of
which no one can make head or tail.
Finally came the proposed law by which
a Labor Council is empowered to order em-
ployers to do anything it thinks fit in order
to reduce unemployment. This scheme may
be a good thing to go to an election on,
especially if the election is in a different
State; but it isn’t the sort of thing a man
would want to explain in the place where
the affair was operating, after it had begun
to fall over its own feet. It has beeu re-
ported for some time that his colleagues
would see Ryan off without regret. It is
good tactics. After he is gone to another
sphere they can say that he was responsible
for the consequences, while he can say that
he left everything in good order, but that
inferior men mixed up the situation as soon
as his guiding hand and all-pervading eye
were no longer with them. He will know
that it is all rubbish ; but that won’t matter
if the rank and file of the voters, don’t know.
More About Aefial Anarchy.
Sydney Pickles was disturbed by an item
which figured in ‘‘Anarchy in the Air”
(H. 9/IU/TI)) —an alleged implication or
suggestion that he did “stunts” over Sydney
when he flew with Premier Holman. Of
course Mr. Pickles is blameless in this
respect. He was not likely to “stunt” with
a Premier for his passenger; and, indeed,
he frowns upon all such “flush” exercises.
His very sensitiveness on the point is as good
an indication as the public should require of
the attitude of the more responsible airmen
towards the “stunting” form of madness.
Anyone who wants further proof of the peril
which the person on the ground is in from
the man in the air, “stunf’-merchant or
otherwise, need only turn to last week’s
accounts of the proceedings in the big flight
across the TJ.S.A. Plainly, Hying needs to
be regulated for safety, and soon. How that
regulation should be applied is a matter for
inquiry. Pickles, for his part, does not
approve of The Bulletin’s suggestion that
the Australian Aero Club should take charge.
This paper is not enraptured with the scheme
itself. At the best it is a compromise.
Under Australia’s dishevelled Constitution
the National Government has no control
over flying. The States have, each within
its own borders. But the community has
seen the effect, in industrial and social mat-
ters, of purely-State as opposed to National
legislation. It happens because the States
have jurisdiction in industrial matters that
it costs much more in salaries and wages
to run certain businesses in N. S. Wales
than it does in Victoria; and to that ex-
tent the Vic. employer has a pull over the
one across the border. So if one State is
lax in its flying ordinances and another is
strict, then the aviation cos. will sell more
machines, mechanics will get more work in
and around the hangars, and the carpenter-
ing and other trades (including undertaking)
will boom in the lawless State, while busi-
ness will be slack in the other. The lax
State mav lose in repute and do harm to
flying iii the end, but it will draw jinmedi-
ate profit—like a country which encourages
casino-gambling and lightning divorces.
Nationally, however, Australia can only be
prejudiced by a system which means license
on one side of an imaginary line and its
opposite on the other. What is obviously
needed is a Commonwealth standard. Con-
trol by the Aero Club is open, of course, to
the same objections as control of racing by
the local bodies affiliated with the English
Turf Club. Its legal powers would be
limited.. But to be warned off the turf is a
fatal stigma, and similarly a citizen would
not lightly face the risk of being ivarned off
the air as many aviators now performing
in Australia would be had the local Aero
Club been operative as an authoritative
body. The great advantages to be gained
by placing flying throughout Australia
under the Aero Club are (1) unity of con-
trol and (2) immediate action. The ulti-
mate aim is, of course, Constitutional re-
form, enabling the new industry to be
handled by a Commonwealth Air Depart-
ment.
“Gordon”: “Amesbury” (B. 2/10/T9V is
right re Hughes’s lack of diplomacy at
laris. . Still, the matter of a White 'Aus-
tralia is not so simple as he assumes. He
claims that “the policy of Mr. Hughes was
to have it clearly stated in the Covenant
that control of immigration was a matter
ol domestic concern which could not be re-
ferred as an international dispute to the
Council of the League.” Now. Article XV
of the Covenant contains the following pro-
vision :
If the dispute between the parties is claimed by
one of them and is found by the Council, to ari4>
? f a matter which by international law is solely
within the domestic jurisdiction of that party, the
Council shall so report, and shall make no recom-
mendation as to its settlement.
This_ did not appear in the original draft;
its insertion was secured by the TJ.S.A.
delegation as a result of pressure from the
Western States. Opinion in U.S.A. seems to
be that the clause is efficient for the pur-
P“ e - But that is only half the picture.
H hat of the people whom we desire to keep
out: If immigration is not a question for
law, then it is one for war. If the League


T!l e Farmers & Settlers'Co-operative Insurance Co.ofA ustral i a
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Ca*, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
Council, Assembly, or Court of International
Justice cannot deal with it, then the
aggrieved party which resorts to war can-
not be charged with breaking the Covenant.
The mistake of “Amesbury” is in supposing
that any mere statement in words can per-
manently settle this question. Australia
must choose between risking a decision be-
fore the Court of International Justice and
war with the party which it desires to
exclude. I am for depending on the Court.
Custom is the mother of law, and the Inter-
national Code that is to be built up must,
to a large extent, start with existing prac-
tices. Backed up in our case by U.S.A.,
South Africa and Maoriland, we can be
fairly confident of success, particularly in
view of Japan's policy of , excluding the
Chinese. With the sanction of the highest
Court in the world we should be able to
claim a moral right for our policy that is
not now possible, and. in addition, should
the other party not abide by the verdict, we
could rely on support from the bulk of the
members of the League. Dare we display
the same confidence in the other alter-
native, war “on our own”?
Dear Bulletin, —Speaking of Mildura and
the Dried Fruit Association Mr. C. J. De
Garis is injudicious enough to say (B.
2/10/T9) “becausethe growers (A.D.F.A.)
were in control, this (export overseas at a
big profit) was impossible, and the Austra-
lian public benefited through all their re-
quirements being held in Australia at prices
much below export parity.” Now, what are
the facts? These: A.D.F.A. Four-Crown
products can be purchased more . cheaply in
England than A.D.F.A. Three-Crown pro-
ducts can be bought by the Australian people
in the land where, the products—and the
profits—of the A.D.F.A. are grown. In
other words, we must pay a higher fixed
price here for an inferior grade than people
in Great Britain rqust pay for a superior
sample. Why? Because A.D.F.A. agents,
brokers and merchants want to build up a
great export trade. After all, there are
only 5,000,000 people in Australia to skin,
as against 45,000,000 in the U.K. So prices
are fixed accordingly. Dear, inferior stuff
for the Australians; cheap, superior stuff
for J. Excelsior Bull. Great! Last year,
for instance, one could buy Mildura dried
pears and peaches in Melbourne for Is. Id.
to Is. 3d. per pound. To-day, the price
is Is. 6d. In England, how much? —Yours,
Grant M. Harvey.
+
“Ranger” : The suggestions of “Phthisis”
(B. 18/9/T9) about post- sanatorium treat-
ment for consumptives are useful to this ex-
tent. that they may help to draw public at-
tention back to a subject that it never should
have left, viz., the treatment and cure of
tuberculosis. With the general adoption
about 12 years ago of the sanatorium as the
healing agent for T. 8., the public and, alas!
the medical profession settled down into the
comfortable attitude that the White Plague
had been dealt with, and further worry was
unnecessary. The nublic does not know how
delusive this belief is. The doctors do know
it, and, to their discredit, leave it at that.
So scant is their knowledge that a large.pro-
portion cannot even diagnose the complaint
in its earlv stages. This ignorance is em-
phasised if one places their average futility
alongside the ease with which pulmonary
trouble is recognised by the occasional-skilled
man. Even should one of the incompetents
succeed in discovering the disease, what is
his cure? A sea trip, or a change to a warm
climate —the “geographical” cure so well
known to the unfortunate people who have
the luck to survive it. Why this paltering
with a subject of fearful importance? Sana-
toria are mere stopgaps, and all “Phthisis’s”
improvements won’t make them better than
makeshifts. They are, at present, fairly
comfortable and well conducted. Improve-
ments cannot do more than lull the public
into a deeper and falser sense of security,
at the same time bolstering the doctors in
their attitude of indolent indifference. Enough
of patchwork ! It is a cure that consump-
tives want, and it is inconceivable that
science is going to keep on failing to provide
one. Sufferers from consumption still have
souls, though their bodies may be broken,
and to talk of compulsory segregation in
“farm colonies” is cruel and hateful, besides
putting us further away from a real solution
of the problem.
■ «♦
Probably the developments Of the next few
weeks will decide whether Gabriele D’An-
nunzio is mad or simply a poet. He has
raised a sort of an army, taken a city, in-
vented a banner with the inscription “Flume
or Death” (in imitation of Garibaldi’s
“Roma o Morte”), started a sort of a king-
dom of his own, started a sort of republic on
top of the kingdom, declared a sort of a war
against a very robust little State, threatened
to take Rome and the Kingdom of Italy,
announced the re-annexation of fill the old
Venetian territories, which once included
Greece and regions even further off, and is
said to have taken to delivering an impas-
sioned address every hour, even while in bed.
It is said, by the way, that the public debt
of Italy now amounts to more than the value
of everything in th<? country. A nation in
that state must find its breezy circus poet
a relief.
«,
Some time ago a series of asylum post-
mortems momentarily turned the attention of
Victorians towards the gloomy institutions
where the mentally unfit are herded. Enough
was said in court to show that the conditions
are generally bad and always far from ideal.
Many of the attendants are people who have
“drifted” into their jobs, and, as a rule,
they have too much to do—or more than
they can do properly. Their methods of
dealing with violent patients are rough. But
no light gets into the ward until there is a
dead body as well as a dead mind. Under
the title “An Interesting Problem in Foren-
sic Medicine,” Dr. W. A. T. Lind, Patholo-
gist to the \ ictorian Lunacy Department,
writes this in the Medical Journal of
Australia (27/9/’l9) :
The association of ulceration of the ileum with
other bodily injuries found in each of three post-
THE LATEST ITALIAN COMIC OPERA.
“Rome newspapers give prominence to the intimation from London, expressing surprise at the
prolongation of the illegal Fiume situation, which Britain considers may endanger Italy’s position as
a member of the League of Nations. D’Annunzio declares that he could march to Rome 'at the head of
600,000 soldiers. He will do so when he feels disposed; he has more important things on hand at
present.”— Cable.
mortem examinations made on persons dying insane
may be a matter of coincidence, but the histories
of the cases are sufficiently interesting to warrant
their being recorded, especially as the text-books on
forensic medicine so far examined have failed to
record similar findings. The injuries in all three
cases must have been produced by violence applied
to the chest and abdomen, presumably by someone
kneeling on the supine victims.
Dr. Lind concludes that the injuries “may
be fairly judged to have been caused by
violence, such as kneeling on the supine
body while gripping the throat.” Then : “In
all the cases under discussion the position is
obscured by the fact that those who could
throw _ some light on the manner in which
the injuries were sustained would not come
forward and give evidence, either because
they were themselves guilty of brutality, or
were afraid of the consequences of informing
on the guilty party.” Into what hells of
violence may the loss of a man’s reason
drive him in Victoria? The great work of
asylum reform is still waiting there for any
man who is big enough for the job.
Australia House, London, our great loan
advertisement, has been earning an honest
brown by letting space for an exhibition of
English toys. A show of Japanese tooth-
brushes will probably follow.
Alfred Deakin’s epitaph goes into four
words: “He was a gentleman.” There is
the gentleman by birth, the gentleman by Act
of Parliament, and the gentleman’s gentle-
man. Deakin was simply a gentleman.
“Onbashi”: “Jobber” (B. 2/10/T9) is
quite correct about the officer caste in Egypt,
though he leaves a great deal unsaid. When
the Ist and 2nd Field Ambulances had a
clearing station at Kilo 295, there was a
washaway on the line at the Wadi Gliuzzi.
In consequence no hospital trains were run
for several days. It was declared impos-
sible. As a result the C.S. was overcrowded
with sick and wounded men. But the offi-
cers’ special train ran every day, and it car-
ried officers only—no man, however sick,
was allowed to travel by it.
The military hospitals of the Common-
wealth are bulging with patients, and it is
time a few of them were sieved. There isn’t
an experienced army nurse who doesn’t know
that scores of the patients are lead-swingers;
but they are able to dodge discharge because
there are doctors who know that discharging
patients means discharging doctors, and they
don’t want to lose their jobs. The whole
administration of the Defence Department
on the medical side needs overhauling once
more. It was shockingly bad at the outset.
Then men of capacity volunteered for ser-
vice, and things improved very much. But by
far the greater number ’of the capable men
have .gone back to private practice, and there
remain now, in addition to some of the
finest men in the country—patriots who are
ready to sacrifice anything in their devotion
to tlie Digger—a considerable number of
medical limpets. Knowing perfectly well
that they ought to be discharged themselves,
they won’t discharge their patients ; and that
doesn’t apply only to men who are in hos-
pital. Meantime there are hundreds, pro-
bably thousands, of men who ought to be
getting medical attention and are not. and
won’t have the chance while the lead-swinger
is suffered to pervade the hospitals.
A bit of Sydney land was sold the other
day at £lO5O per foot frontage; and that
isn’t the highest point that has been reached.
The crop of new land values that grew in
Sydney proper (3327 acres, or about five
square miles) in 1916 was officially
£3,942,621. That for a population of 106,000
was a. _ fine increase in wealth or the cost
of living in a single year. All the
unimproved land values of all the other
183 municipalities put together, and cover-
ing 1,834,207 acres, showed an increase of
only £1,851,625 in 1916 —say, an advance
of £1 per acre in the year, against £llB5
per acre in the Big City. It seems strange
that people should pay such prices and con-
sequently such rents to get on to one spot
in a State that is full of spots. That
£3,942,621 which was made for Private En-
terprise in one year through the State agist-
ing its two-legged animals on 3327 acres of
private property suggests misdirection of
some sort.
The Advisory Council, appointed by the
Federal Government to stall off the demand
for reform in the N.T., is collapsing, if it
hasn’t already collapsed. It was farcical
from the outset ;• it had no real authority, and
the downright people of the North were about
the last in Australia likely to be satisfied
with such a sham. Before the Council w>s
constituted a Labor platform of about 700
planks was prepared ; and trouble was struck
over the second—“ Strict economy in ad-
ministration” —which, as one of the men who
constructed the thing expressed it, really
meant “the dismissal of the silvertails.” For
instance, getting down to details, the party
resolved on “the abolition of the present
Mines Department, with its ultra-expensive
staff and costly upkeep.” The position in the
Territory calls for prompt attention in the
South. Nowhere else is there at all likely to
be any revolutionary trouble, because the
whole people have the franchise, and Par-
liaments are completely in their hands, and
no reform is beyond their reach. In the
Territory no man has a vote for any Parlia-
ment, either Commonwealth or State; he
takes the laws that others give him and the
administrators that others send him. How
long would that last if it applied to Sydney
or Melbpurne?
“Hamer”: An amendment of the Deserted
Wives and Children’s Act was one of the
first performances of the N. S. Wales Labor
Government; it provided that men . im-
prisoned for wife maintenance should be pnt
upon work, and portion of their earnings paid
to their dependants. The rest (I.os. 6d.) goes
to pay for their board and lodging in prison!
Prior to that the “wife-starver” could wear
his own clothes while in gaol, did not do any
work, and might have meals sent to him
from outside, besides being allowed tobacco—
was, in fact, treated as a man who had
deserved well of his fellows. The amend-
ment came into effect in October, 1913; and
figures given the other day by Holman
showed that confinees in six years totalled
1374, and their earnings £15,843, of which
£6935 had been paid to dependants. Holman
was proud of the figures. But these facts
remain: the sum of 9s. per week which goes
from the confinee’s earnings to his dependants
is no inducement to the decent woman to
send her husband to gaol. The deserving
wife who most needs protection lets the
loafing husband off when she sees prison
ahead of him ; but the adulteress who wants
her husband removed, the woman with a
grudge against a man who prefers someone
else, and the woman who wants to force her
husband to humble submission, find the Chil-
dren’s Court, which mainly handles these
cases, an institution full of usefulness.
One man, who went to gaol in January for
a debt of £l5, cape out in July owing £23;
and as his wife, who does not want a hus-
band interfering with her revelry, intends to
get him re-arrested, and as the Court will not
listen to his evidence of her misconduct
until his debt is paid, he has a long prospect
of prison ahead of him.
Speaking of the discovery made in Eng-
land during the strike that railways are not
wholly indispensable, after all, Sydney
Telegraph spoke (7/10/’l9) : —•
The warning is not one to be disregarded. Our
existing railways are the chief assets that represent
our loans, and it would be absurd to extend them
without considering how far they have been super-
seded by a more convenient and less expensive means
of transit.
The Bulletin has been noticing the absurd-
ity for some time. The railways have almost
unanimously ceased to pay—in Queensland
there is now only a single 100-mile section
that does it —though rates have been pushed
up in many places. They are getting fur-
ther and further ahead of the population,
and are being built with more and more ex-
pensive loans and materials and labor. The
job of tearing most of them up again so
that the. uniform gauge may be established
grows bigger every year. The airship is
coming, and the motor vehicle is a success-
ful competitor. The two-million-pound line
which was built 35 years ago with money
that cost £70,000 a year (34 p.c.) is begin-
ning to cost £lOO,OOO or £llO,OOO a year
through the country having to renew the
loan at 5 or 54 p.c.. and even if the con-
cern did yield a profit it was new it
now becomes a burdensome crock. So, as
the Telegraph says, extension without
serious consideration has become absurd.
But the Telegraph will forget it in another
week and bo the old borrowing and import-
ing rag, taking the orthodox line of least
resistance.


£B5.
msgfm
£l7/10/-
£l6/10/-
••
;! m
SMB**!
£25,
STEWART DAWSON’S
STEWART DAWSON QUALITY in Diamonds is
the criterion of value throughout the Commonwealth,
and the firm’s long-standing reputation as Diamond
Merchants is a guarantee of confidence for every
buyer. Your choice may safely rest upon this
guarantee. Call and inspect at any of the Stewart
Dawson establishments.
ALL DIAMONDS SET
IN REAL PLATINUM.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth (Aust.).
Regent Street, London.
£lO/10/-
Circle Diamond Brooch.
£B/10/-
Circle Diamond Brooch.
RARE DIAMONDS
OUR TEN HUGE ESTABLISHMENTS are daily
devoting their Ready Cash resources to provide clients
with the world’s best values in precious stones,
jewellery, etc. The purity and brilliance of the
Diamonds in Stewart Dawson’s Rings proclaim their
intrinsic character.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
CONTAINING RING SIZE CARD.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Hatton Garden, London.
£llO.
£2O.
f-.
£ll/10/
w
£l5/10/
POLITICAL
POINTS
Boynton’s financial statement is already
known as the two-and-sixpeuce-ha'penny bud-
get. Its two features were (1) an addition
of half a crown a week to old-age pensions
and (2) the reduction of the entertainment
tax by a ha’penny on the lower-priced
tickets.
Mr. Holman complains that Ministers’
wives and families are ruthlessly dragged
into public discussion„in this country. Yes
—and usually drugged in State motor-cars.
It is understood that the N. S. Wales
Government will hunt for another loan in
London—£3,ooo,ooo of real money with
which we can buy foreign machinery and so
on. Probably twice the amount could be
raised here at a lower rate, but it being
local Australian money it would have to be
used to pay men for making things here—
in other words, for local industry. The
horrors of local industry need no comment.
Sea-Minister Poynton never ceases to
jubilate over the fact that the handful of
old ships which Hughes acquired in England
paid for themselves in less than two years,
though bought at a high cost. The question
arises here: If Australia paid 50 per cent,
for the use of its own ships, which cut their
charges as a matter of sentiment, how much
was it paying for the use of private ships
which didn’t cut their rates, there being no
sentiment involved? Was it 75 per cent.?
And isn’t it rather expensive to borrow
money (for ships are money) at 75 per cent,
just for the privilege of being too tired to
build for ourselves?
The French Government has gone after the
profiteer and cut down the price of a man’s
suit to £4 Bs. While its manufacturing dis-
tricts were in the hands of the Hun France
was a clothes-importing country, and the
foreigner charged what he pleased. But
temporary factories are being rushed up
among the ruins of No Man’s Land to cut
out the foreign supplier and bring the pro-
fiteer inside the local jurisdiction. Possibly
for want of ruins to build among Australia
isn’t doing this very much, so if Mossoo, our
gallant ally, finds he has any superfluous
£4 Bs. suits he will probably let us have
them cheap at £l2 12s.
When the time approached to examine
Georgeson, the principal in the wheat busi-
ness which has thrown a shadow over N. S.
Wales Ministers, the Commission found that
that interesting citizen was at Elackbeath
suffering from a nervous breakdown. Medi-
cal evidence was forthcoming to the effect
that he was mentally stunned; and proceed-
ings were held up in consequence. Mean-
while Grahame, who, knowing nothing about
farming of any kind, was naturally appointed
Minister of Agriculture, remains at liis office
as though his name hadn’t been mentioned.
In other times, when certain suggestions
were made concerning Griffith, that Minister
declined to carry on until he had been
; and Holman had no difficulty then
in deciding that Griffith’s attitude was right.
But, then, Griffith wasn’t so dependable a
barracker for Holman as Grahame is; and
that may make a difference
People begin to crowd a little closer in
to Sydney. Recently the eastern enfi of the
Richmond-Blacktown line was the furthest-
out living area—as far as the city worker
could go out and as near in as the hen
farmer could come. But with a third in-
crease of railway charges looming, the hen
is being sold to unsympathetic strangeis, an
the person wffio lately dreamed of eggs is
looking for lodgings at Chippendale. It is
a poor sort of business, yet rates must go
up. Money must be found to pay the loss
on the ever-growing network of expensive
loan railways in far-out parts where they
are 30 years ahead of population, and the
network must grow, for it is the only way
either Holman or Storey knows of getting
political support.
It is unlikely that the Catholic Federation
will run candidates for the N. S. Wales Par-
liament, though that course was apparently
decided in Sydney last week. If it does it
will be once again seen how strictly this
country separates creeds and politics. Of
course, the Federation might score a sort of
success by backing candidates already in
public favor on general principles, but it
would have as little to do with their success
as a stray punter who backed him for 10s.
had with the victory of Rebus for the Metrop.
A political project of the kind, adumbrated
by the Federation, can end in only one way,
and that after stirring up several other
combinations of. similar stupidity but dis-
similar brand. Salvation may, however,
come from Archbishop Kelly, who has ex-
pressed himself strongly against the move.
After an absence of 21 years from its
usual haunts, on transport duty, the
familiar old E. and A. steamer Eastern
(owned in London) turned up in Sydney
the other day loaded with Japanese
kimonos and tooth-brushes. A daily paper
took occasion to remark on the amazing
progress of Japan during the war years,
when it rushed into the industrial breach,
and piled up money, and turned sleepy little
rice-growing villages into busy centres.
Well, old .Japan isn't tin l only pebble on the
Pacific beach. Anybody who contemplates
STEPS.
“It is intended to proceed with the construction of the Federal capital, and the Government proposes
to appoint a competent committee to report as to the steps necessary to provide at an early date the
accommodation for Parliament, the offices and the residences for officers.” —Federal Treasurer.
“Yes, and they better provide a relief expedition, too, while they’re about it."
the vast woollen and linen and cotton in-
dustries which have sprung into prominence
at Bathurst and Ballarat, and the new ship-
building yards of Portland and Eden, will
also be amazed —at the lack of them. And
this country can beat Japan out of sight for
rabbits. > That vaunted empire has hardly a
rabbit .to its name, while Australia has
12,000,000 in cold storage and can’t find
ships to take them away. Of course it
could build ships. But that’s a bother.
When it got down to details the Speck
Parliament found that in the matter of
profiteering it was pretty helpless; and
though it passed a bill, the Premier had the
grace to admit that the result would be
small, as the local Parliament couldn’t con-
trol the import prices of anything. And as
anything means nearly everything, the Pre-
mier hit the bull’s-eye. Protection and local
production, which implies also local con-
sumption of a vastly greater quantity of
“primary” products, is the only sure way
out.
The N.S.W. Fire Brigade Board is find-
ing out what profiteering is and how it can
be avoided. In 1915 a start was made with
home manufactures by putting on to the
streets a motor pumping-engine and a hose-
carrier iftade at the workshops in Castle-
reagh-street. These passed severe tests, and
have since lived up to them. In 1915, a
pump being required for motor appliances,
an order was placed with .T. Bull, who was
to get £BO for the job. Owing to the war,
however, he could not deliver it. Then
Uncle Sam offered one for £26 more, Last
year, English makers, being heard from
again, reckoned the damage would be £llO.
Then the Board decided to make one at its
, ow r n little works. The article produced is
alleged to be more efficient than any pre-
viously imported, and the cost was £46 only.
Hughes’s comic police force, hatched from
a stray egg at Warwick, has developed into
the “Commonwealth Investigation Branch.”
Heaven knows what it is going to investi-
gate ; but even the taxpayer can know
what it is going to cost. Last year the bill
was £3366, and the joke was dear at the
price; with its new dignity to support the
current year’s estimate is £7102.
The second progress report of Victoria’s
Profiteering Commission is strong and ex-
plicit enough for any Government to act
on if it has the mind to do so. It concerns
hides, leather and boots, and recommends,
among other things, that vendors be required,
on demand, to inform purchasers of their
“bench” or “delivered” cost, and that penal-
ties be imposed for adding more than a pre-
scribed profit, with the adoption of the
French plan of compelling offenders to ad-
vertise their convictions on their shopironts.
But the Lawson Government isn’t rushing
any reform of that sort. There are far too
many hornets in the nests.
Peake, the shrewd old Parliamentarian
who is Premier of S. A us., got some of his
early lessons from veteran Speaker Coles.
He hadn’t been long a member when, hurt
at the emptiness of the House, he formally
called attention to it. Afterwards Coles drew
him aside. “Look here, young fellow,” he
said, "it is the worst advertisement you can
ever give yourself to call attention to the
state of the House when you yourself are
speaking.” Peake learned his lesson, and
never afterwards made the blunder, nor
would he thank any of his friends to take
similar action, though it is a rarity for more
than a dozen members to be listening to a
speaker in the S. Aus. Assembly.
The four-year-old Farmers’ Union in Vic.
is sticking tight to the machine-methods of
the Labor party. It has hitherto been pos-
sible for Cocky to be both a Farmers’ Union
man and a Nationalist, but the union has
determined that henceforth all other poli-
tical bodies are to be given the cold shoulder.
Only farmers who are unattached elsewhere
are to be eligible for membership in the
F.U., and the country section of the Nation-
alist party is now holding its jaw and
searching in a dazed way for its missing
front-teeth. It seems a brutal act, consider-
ing the splendid promises Nationalism has
made to the farmer at various times and
which might have been carried out inside the
next 20 years if Cocky had been reasonable.
Now that Paul Freeman (Paul after the
apostle, and Freeman to express his rage
against tyrants) has been shipped off to
Europe as a plain Hun, perhaps Dr. Arthur
and the rest of the fussy philanthropists who
made so much trouble over him as an ill-
used American citizen will apologise. Pro-
fessional or habitual fuss isn’t a crime
exactly, but it is a boundless nuisance.
The Vic. Upper House has its uses,
though they took a long while to develop.
Last week a member rose to urge that the
salaries of members of the Lower House
should be raised. The Lower people, of
course, had never thought of this, but when
their Upper friend mentioned the idea it
struck them as very reasonable.
Ryan, flyin’ from the monster he has
created in Queensland, is to have Hughes's old
West Sydney seat in the House of Reps—a
gift for whoever has the Labor nomination.
After nearly a quarter of a century’s cogi-
tation, Victoria has decided to give a con-
cession to income taxpayers with families —
£26 off the taxable income for each child
under 16. Even now the justice of the
concession is only secondary to the desire
for uniformity with the Federal schedule.
When Watt was State Treasurer he re-
marked in deprecation that the concession
meant only the price of a pair of boots, and
got back the retort that there were many
families whose members had to wait their
turn to get boots.
If the party system wanted further damn-
ing it got it lately in N. S. Wales.
Although finance is the problem of to-day,
the old manoeuvres of delaying the estimates
and then forcing them through without dis-
cussion was played to the last verse. After
a couple of all-night sittings, besmirched by
a boozey row, the order went forth to apply
the gag, and after that hundreds of thous-
ands were voted without one word of ex-
planation. And everyone knew that had the
party positions been reversed Labor would
have run the business on just the same rot-
ten lines.
“Vandorian” smells something burning :—■
The Mexican border was closed when I got as far
as National City, a kind of P.S. to San. Diego, in
Southern California. So it was impossible to go the
few miles further on to Tia Juana (Aunt Jane),
just inside the turbulent country where revolutions
were said to be proceeding with more fury than
usual. Mexico, besides being a sharp thorn in the
toe of California, was making Texas feel particularly
annoyed. “Unoiticisvl” gangs were tramping down tin?
farmers’ crops in the Lone Star State, so somebody
in Washington had to ask questions. Hence the
closing of the border. Tia Juana, a small, untidy,
Indian-Mexican village, is too unimportant and too
lazy to be turbulent. It would rather sell souvenirs
to tourists. But ’if California could embrace old
Aunt Jane something would come of it. For the
Tia Juana River could irrigate much very fertile
land on the Mexican side. So if Aunt Jane is em-
braced I shan’t be surprised.
“Hardware”: We are a simple folk. Dur-
ing the war we learnt something of German
peaceful penetration. Now our American
friends blandly suggest that they send to
Australia an army of costing accountants
to show us how to arrive at the cost of
the articles we will produce when the
doubtful tariff starts our industries. And
our accountant societies swallow the sugges-
tion seriously. It will be good-bye to our
industries when the professional spies from
rival countries are asked in to tell us (and
incidentally their friends abroad) what our
manufacturing costs are. To anyone with
an experience of Australian, English and
American accountants the suggestion is an
uproarious joke. But there is some serious
business behind it.
When the Australian Metal Exchange
spent some of its easily-earned commissions
recently in entertaining W. M. Hughes, he
naturally took advantage of the opportunity
to say that the institution had been a great
success. Boiled down, the Australian Metal
Exchange was W. M. Hughes, and nothing
else. In practice no member of that Ex-
change was allowed to take his hat off to a
lady without first having the lady approved
by W. M. Hughes. The concern was a
mere blind for Government control, pure
and simple; and, as such it was a tax on
the industry that should not have been
tolerated for one moment. It meant commis-
sions to members who gave no service of value
to anybody. It might have been otherwise.
In the hands of men who know the metal
trade, it could have been made of great value
to the producer. It could certainly have
got for the producer higher prices for his
metals. But when W. M. Hughes says the
Australian Metal Exchange “is a great suc-
cess,” he is merely remarking “I am a great
success.” And as q business negotiator he
isn’t.
“A.F.P.”: “Mr. Ocky” (B. 9/10/’l9)
says that Billy Hughes was very amiable
while he was amongst the Diggers in France.
Evidently we met him on one of his off-
days. He paid a visit about July, 1918,
to the headquarters of the 3rd Division,
then resting at Coisy. We had been told
to prepare for him, and naturally polished
ourselves up. After waiting for two or three
hours we saw Billy for two minutes. Mon-
ash led him up and bawled in his ear:
“Would you like to say a few words to the
lads?” All that I heard was: “They’re
looking well on it.” Joe Cook added in his
nasal voice: “You can tell where they come
from,” and the show was finished. The
heads looked daggers and then grinned. The
Diggers’ invented 700 new maledictions.
IN MEMORIAM: ALFRED DEAKIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The silver tongue which had the sweet,
Persuading accents of a shower;
The golden voice which owned the power
To thrill; the brain, alert and fleet—
Homage for these we rendered him.
The patriot fire that in him burned,
The lofty mind which fed the flame,
The simple pride in well-won fame
Which from all proffered baubles turned—
From these things grew our love for him.
The faith which carking doubt withstood,
The chivalry all meanness spurned,
The larger vision which discerned
The path that led to nationhood —
By these will we remember him.
Seeking the common good, with scorn
For pride of place and lust for power,
Seeing an end beyond the hour—
Thus may his spirit be-re-born:
In this way shall we honor him.
VICTOIIIA.
HARRISON OWEN.


AT THE PROFITEERS’ DINNER.
“Gentlemen, the Next War —may it be a long and bloody one!”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS.
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms n
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products .
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue 1 otyder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silieious Silve r - Lea < Ore s, g ,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL, AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. »
A. .1. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOIvMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
PIONEER Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLE . .
MAKERS,
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.,
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
all stages or MANUFACTURE under modern scientific control.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
A Safe Investment, or money returned if better value can be obtained elsewhere
—the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
State Accident Insurance Office of
Victoria :
June, Revenue. Outgoings. To Reserves. Reserves.
1915.. £27,540 £7,837 £19,709 £19,709
1916.. 25,951 17,791 8,100 27,869
1917.. 20,922 19,393 7,529 30,398
Bonus distributed ..£7506 27,892
1918.. 28,200 19,498 8,702 36,594
1919.. 29,649 22,597 7,052 43,646
Each of the three eastern States has put a
new workmen’s compensation law into opera-
tion during recent years, and methods and
benefits vary as the climates. In Queens-
land and Victoria insurance was made compul-
sory ; in N. S. Wales the employer was made
liable, but is permitted to carry the risks
himself if he chooses. In the northern
State the Labor Government decided to cut
the private co. right out and gave a State
office a monopoly; Vic. established a State
insurance office to do the business at cost
price, but also gave the cos. a free run;
while the Ma State left the field entirely to
Private Enterprise.
The Queensland State office automatically
became a big concern immediately the Act
operated, but in Victoria there has been no
rush on the part of employers to take 'out
State policies. The Vic. State Accident
Office’s net premium income for the year to
June 30 last was practically only one-tenth
of that of the Ryan office, while the little
Vic. Chamber of Manufactures Insurance Co.
probably did a larger workmen’s compensation
business than the State office. But if its
business has been small its influence has been
great—its operations have resulted in a
pitched battle in which rates have been
slaughtered. At the beginning State In-
surance Commissioner Holmes kept his rates
high- so that he could accumulate reserves
to fall back upon in case of trouble, and
apparently for some time he was working
on an “honorable understanding” with the
cos. Three years ago some of the latter
were alleged to have “broken faith in assum-
ing risks,” so the Commissioner cut adrift,
siiice when there has been fierce competition,
both parties in turn undercutting. Early in
the current financial year, of the 853 items
on the State’s tariff GB3 were carved still
further, the reductions ranging from 20 to
25 p.c., and in the case of domestic servants
the premiums were reduced by one-half.
Notwithstanding these reductions the Office
was able last year to strengthen reserves by
an amount equal to almost 24 p.c. of the
total income. Here are the past three
years’ operations presented in another way :
Net Premiums. Claims. Expenses.
1917 .. £26,249 £13,976 £5417
1918 .. 27.426 14,251 5247
1919 .. 28,650 17,507 5030
The latest rate-reductions are estimated to
have represented a saving of from £3OOO to
£4OOO to -policy-holders. As a result of the'
smaller premium income in proportion to
the larger volume of business handled, and
also on account of a less favorable claims
experience, the year’s loss rate was 61.3 p.c.
compared with 52 p.c. for the previous year.
Meantime the expense rate has been slightly
reduced —from 19 p.c. in 1918 to 17 p.c.
for the latest, term. The financial position
of the office is easy; there are now reserves
equal to practically double last year’s losses,
so a very bad run would have to be experi-
enced before the Commissioner was forced to
knock at the Treasury door. .Still, the future
of the office is uncertain; its rates have
been reduced to bedrock, while apparently
there has been some doubt whether the 43
associated cos. in competition will not at-
tempt to strangle the operations of the
Government office by cutting rates further,
depending upon other insurance lines to
make good the loss on workmen’s compensa-
tion business. In view of “possible
contingency” the Parliamentary Public Ac-
counts Committee w as called upon towards
the end of last year to consider how any such
move could be checkmated.
If Commissioner Holmes had anticipated
being armed with some heavy siege-guns he
must have been sadly disappointed. The
Committee told him, in effect, to get work -
but not too much of it. The Committee de-
cided that there were three ways of preventing
loss of business to the State Office
(1) Follow the example of Queensland and
make accident insurance a State monopoly... .Your
Committee is of opinion that the time has not yet
arrived for such a monopoly.
(2) Regulate rates so that undercutting now exist-
ing may cease, and thus allow that financial stability
be retained. This suggestion has its attractions. . . but
the objection to a fixation of rates is that such a
course is practically useless unless the giving of
bonuses, preferential discounts, rebates and othei
concessions is prohibited. The Commissioner is
opposed to any such prohibition, and most likely
many, if not all, the managers of the cos. would
agree’ with his opposition.
(3) Allow the State Office to enter upon other
lines of insurance, such as fire, marine, personal
accident, etc. This would place it more on an
equality with those competing against it. .. .Never-
theless your Committee considers that the position
of the State Accident Office does not at present
justify the scope of that Office being so largely
widened.
The Committee did, however, recommend that
the Commissioner should be given power to
issue personal accident and tire policies
(but only on Government and municipal
buildings and property) and undertake
fidelity guarantees to Government and muni-
cipal institutions. Also it “considered that
action should be taken to bring under the
notice of public bodies, which from time to
time receive grants from the Government,
that there is a State Office, and that the
Government expects them to do their busi-
ness with that office.” How these “recom-
mendations” would protect the State Office
being trampled upon by the 43 associated cos.
in the event of their deciding to launch a
big rate-cutting drive is not clear. Yet
the seven politicians did declare that the
continuance of the State Accident Office
seems necessary to prevent the associated cos.
at any time contending, were it out of the
way, that their rates are unprofitable and
must be increased.” Notwithstanding the
Committee’s weak barrage there is not
the slightest doubt that the associated
cos. would be very foolish to try to squeeze
the State Office out of business m view ot
the precedent which has been created in
Queensland. . » *
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers, produce salesmen and suppliers ot
station goods:—
\V nt
Dividends ami ton To Re- Re-
Profits. Honuses. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ .0 £ I-
July, ’l2. . 10,742 10p.c.= 4750 5992 37,098
J Inner reserves disclosed, £21,000. . .. 58,098
Jan., ’13.. 9,124 10 p.c.- 5000 4124 02,222
July,’l3.. 7,895 10 ~,,5000 -- 2890 <55,117
Jan.,’l4.. 8,532 10 ~,,5000 3532 (58,049
July,’l4.. 7,670 10 „ ~ 5000 26/0 / 1,319
Jan.,’ls.. 8,662 10 ~ ~ 5000 3000 662 71,981
Julv '15.. 8.203 10 ~ ~6000 1000 1203 74,184
Jan'.,’TO.. 9’, 121 10 ~,,5000 4121 78,300
July, TO.. 8,141 10 ~,,5000 3141 81,446
Inner reserves disclosed, £14,195.. •• J 0,641
Jan., T 7. . 8,526 10 p.e.= 5000 3526 99,16<•
Reserves transferred to capital, 1125,000. . c 4,16.
July,'l7.. 8,125 10 p.c.= 0250 1875 76,042
.Tan., ’IS. . 10,400 10. ~,,6250 - 4210 80,252
July, TS.. 13,677 10 ~,, 6250 ' 427 87,6/9
Jaft., T 9.. 14.063 10 ~ ~6250 8413 90,092
Cash bonus (20 p.c.) distributed, £20,000 /1,092
Premium on new shares, £5OOO,
dropped into internal reserves.
July, 19.. 13,067 10 p.c.= 6562 6605 77,597
Reserved for taxes, £BOOO .. • • 69,097
This very successful co.’s pockets were bulg-
ing so six months ago that the diiectois
decided to distribute £25,000 in cash, equal
to a 20 p.c. bonus on paid capital. Since
then the management, reckoning that the
business could comfortably carry more capi-
tal, offered 5000 new £2 10s. shares at a
premium of £l, and shareholders’ faith in
the old concern was so great that they
rushed in applications for three times the
issue, offering to put in £52.500 in place of
tlie £25,000 taken out, despite the fact that
because of the premium a 10 p.c. div. on the
new issue will be equal to only just over
7 p.c. This div. return is, however, not the
bait; shareholders have done so well in the
past, and the margin between disclosed pro-
fits and dividends has lately been so wide,
that they see prospects of further _good
things. During the past nine years £45,000
of profits have been capitalised, and after
paying an uninterrupted 10 p.c. p.a. on this
additional capital and the further issues
paid for in money, and having distributed
£25,000 in cash and set aside £BOOO for taxa-
tion, visible reserves have grown by £30,000.
The management , has in the past made
liberal provision for contingencies, and since
1912 lias dipped into this stocking on two
occasions and brought £35,195 into the light.
Substantial amounts are apparently still
being stuffed away: during the past term
£5OOO was got in by way of premiums on
the new share issue, but this amount does
not show up in the balance-sheet, every
penny of it having been dropped into internal
reserves.
Profits for the past year were easily a re-
cord ; but they were the result of unhealthy
conditions. The severe drought in the back
country led to pressing demands for the
supply of fodder, and Wright. Heaton and
Co. has been kept exceptionally busy. But
if the drought does not soon break, what
the co. has made as a result of the vastly-
increased turnover must go to balance the
loss of business during the period of recovery.
Still, apart from the abnormal conditions,
the co.’s business has expanded very rapidly
during recent years, as this comparison of
the balance-sheet figures over the past two
five-year terms shows: —-
1909. 1914. 1919.
Liabilities .. . . £30,558 £49,473 £Bl,BOl
Premises and plant .. 15,382 18,740 21,770
McCulloch Co. . . .. 25,000 25,000
Book debts . . . . 84,454 118,073 181.100
Stock 30,668 45,719 59,279
Cash and Government
securities .. 11,745 16,760 13,180
Paid capital in 1914 was £100,000; it is
now £137,500, but only £12,500 of that in-
crease represents new money put up, the
remaining £25,000 being capitalised reserves.
Meantime £5OOO has been got in from new
share premiums and liabilities have increased
by £32,328. Apart from what may be liquid
in the £25,000 invested in the McCulloch
Co., and disregarding the £14,195 of internal
reserves disclosed in 1910 and assumed to
have been hitched to soluble items, liquid
assets now total £58,818 more than five
years ago. So apart from the internal re-
serves revealed and the McCulloch Co., and
after having distributed £25,000 in cash and
paid altogether 50 p.c. dividends, the co.
has been able to increase its visible surplus
liquid assets in the five years by at least
£9OOO, viewing the recent £BOOO taxation
appropriation as a true reserve and not a
liability. How much has been written off
stocks, book debts, etc., in the meantime is
not ascertainable. But the recent disap-
pearance of the £5OOO share premiums indi-
cates what is probably happening.; profits
have been so handsome lately and the
drought possibilities so threatening that it
is more than likely that managing-direc-
tor F. W. Browne has added to the “bit
up the sleeve” he admitted to only a year
ago. The disclosed liquid position is very
strong—£l7l,764 in more or l§ss liquid
assets after meeting all liabilities as at July
31 last, again apart from the McCulloch
Co.’s liquid surplus. This Vic. business is
entirely owned by Wright. Heaton and Co.,
and has rapidly developed the money-spin-
ning habits of its foster-parent.
# * * *
The Modkk.v Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne)
Profit
Trading on To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Sales. Dividends, serves, serves.
1911.. £4819 £329 3] p.c. = £3381 £1767 £23, SOS
1912.. 4954 1267 5 ~ „ 4830 1391 25,254
1913.. 5733 2422 64 „ „ 6279 1876 27,130
1914.. 6944 7469 7 „ „ 6762 7651 34,781
1915.. 8103 116 84 ~ ~ 8211 8 34,789
1916.. 8207 9 84 ~ ~ 8211 5 34,794
1917.. 8805 9 „ „ 8694 171 34,965
1918.. 8694 288 9 ~ ~ 8694 238 35,203
1919.. 8897 9 ~ „ 8694 203 35,406
The Modern has now been in business almost
half a century, but it is not proud of its
career for the score of years which precedes:
the first line of the table. This was one of
the building societies which crashed heavily
in the ’nineties, and for 20 years afterwards
it was bound hand and foot by its creditors.
In 1910 the management shook itself free by
paying off the old debts out of some
cheaper money it got hold of. Then share-
holders were consulted as to whether the con-
cern should make a fresh start in business,
or merely realise on old assets and wind-up.
They decided to give the co. a new lease of
life, so the directors proceeded to revalue
assets and sweep away the rubbish. Pre-
mises which had previously stood in the
books at £78,000 were written down to
£50,000, and £15,751 was written off the
£35,637 book value of properties in posses-
sion. Some of the writing-down proved too
severe, for when in better times the manage-
ment realised on some of the old properties
it was able to show surpluses considerably
over book values. Altogether the £11,840
shown in the second column of the table was
recovered. But this source of income has
now practically dried up, as only £3676 of
foreclosures remain. The realisations and
the pursuit of new business have effected
the following changes in the balance-sheet
figures since just after the clean-up: —
1911. 1914. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities. . .. £29.588 £44,098 £41,580 £41,616
Balances owing . . 85,511 124,516 122,027 121,941
Freehold house pro-
perty . . . . 8,000 2,500 2,500 2,500
Vacant land . . 8,542 1,299 1,165 1,176
Premises . . . . 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000
Other assets . . 1,384 550 2,526 2,840
Paid capital, £96,605; liabilities, £41,616, of
which £25,246 represent mortgage on pro-
perty and only £13,790 deposits. How vastly
different was the position in ’9l, when, with
a paid capital of £174,336 the co. was work-
ing on £653,061 of deposits, a lot of which
were held by nervous people at the other
end of the earth who made a rush for their
money as soon as trouble was sighted.
Higher interest rates have, of course, helped
the co. considerably during recent years;
at July 31 last there was £2500 less out in
mortgages than five years ago, but interest
earnings for the year were £9963 compared
with £7686 for 1914. Also the return from
the co.’s premises has looked up slightly,
though on the- £50,000 at which the property
now stands in the books last year’s net rents
were equal to only just over 5§ p.c.
The re-investment in the 'business of the
surpluses from realisations and the higher
interest rates have lately enabled the co. to
pay 9 p.c. divs., but the margin of surplus
profit has been so slender that it would not
take much to upset that rate of div. ihe
position from the point of view of depositors
is snug nowadays: after meeting all other
liabilities there are £150,032 of assets to
meet their £18,790. For shareholders there
are now net assets with a book value ot
£3 10s. lOd. to represent each £2 10s.* share.
The People’s Prudential Assurance
Co. (Sydney) : —
Expenses Total Assur-
and Divi- Out- ance
Aug., Income. Claims, dends. goings. Fund.
1907. . £15,919 £6291 £7.401 £13,692 £11,230
1908.. 17,796 7,041 8,094 15,135 13,891
1909.. 18,644 7,418 8,375 15,793 16,742
1910.. 19,586 8,291 8,443 16,734 19,594
1911.. 21,165 8,737 8,997 17,734 23,025
1912.. 22.389 8,144 9,633 17,777 27,637
1913.. 24,070 S,996 10,202 19,198 32,509
1914 . 25,252 9,049 11.544 20,593 37,168
1915.. 25,577 9.178 9,690 18,868 43,877
1916.. 27,236 8,840 10*825 19,665 51,448
1917.. 29,290 9.785 12,859 22,644 58,094
1918.. 31,135 8,642 12.162 20,804 68,425
1919.. 34,480 12,266 12,907 25,173 77,732
The People’s Prudential sets one good ex-
ample to some other offices: it does not
dawdle in making up its accounts. The
latest term closed on August 31, the auditors
had given their certificate a little over a
fortnight later, and shareholders met on Sept.
25. Considering all the difficulties of the
past 12 months the co. has come through very,
well. Most of its attention is given to side-
lines ; it provides services somewhat similar
to those of the friendly societies, but, unlike
the latter, it undertakes the door-to-door col-
lection of premiums or subscriptions. And
since these are mostly payable weekly or
fortnightly, a big proportion of the income
goes in collection and supervision expenses.
Last year’s premiums amounted to £30,bod
and “commission and superintendents
salaries’’ alone took £7796—equal to 5s. Id.
in the £ of premiums. The proportion ot
total exes, (including dividends to share-
holders) to income (premiums and interest)
has. however, been improved considerably
during the year, which is surprising consider-
ing the number of strikes, the disorganisation,
caused by the ’flu and other troubles. Any-
how, the latest figures are the co.’s best per-
formance to date: —
1910 .£43 2 2 p.c. 1915.. £37 17 9 p.c.
1911.. 42 10 2 „ 1916.. 39 14 11 „
1912.. 43 0 6,, 1917*. 43 18 0 ,,
1913.. 42 7 8,, 1918.. 39 1 3,,
1914*. 45 14 4 „ 1919.. 37 8 8 ,,
•Expenses include £1000 bonus paid to shareholder*. '
The expense rate is, of course, still high, but
the directors are hopeful of cutting it.
After paying all exes. £62 31s. 4d. p.c. of
last year’s income was available to meet
claims and strengthen reserves, compared
with £60 18s. 9d. p.c. for 1918; but flu
losses and maturities increased the outgo to
policy-holders from £27 15s. Id. p.c. to £3o
11s. 6d. p.c. Hera are details of the
losses for the two years, incidentally indicat-
ing the class of business handled by the co.:
b 1918. 1919.
Payments to doctors and chemists £2915 £28:6
Death claims. . . . . • • • 3534 47^8
Maturities .. .. •• •• 6-6 30-.
Surrenders . . . . • • • • 958 9J I
Compensation (accident and disease) 609 /•>'-
Though income expanded by £3345 during the
year, the heavier claims resulted in only
£9307 being tacked to funds, compared with
£10,331 in the previous term.
The People’s Prudential lias just completed
its 23rd year, and though it is accumulating
business, the pace is not rapid; its income
at the end of the first 12 years was £17,790
and that figure has not been quite doubled in
the past 11 years. . Still, considering the
growth of its lodge competitors the co. has
not done badly; and it has certainly per-
formed good service by providing insurance
opportunities for people who are too indiffer-
ent or too tired to send their mite to the
friendly societies. As the table shows, better
progress has been made in building up funds.
In addition to the assurance fund of £77,732
there is £10,000 of shareholders’ capital.
Liabilities, apart from those accruing
under insurance contracts, amount to
only £56, so there is £87,732 to pro-
tect policy-holders—equal to more than
the aggregate claims of _ the past nine
years. These funds are invested in this
way: mortgages, £55,997; Govt, securities,
£14,975; loans on policies, £4146; cash and
sundries, £12,614. The mortgages are ap-
parently a healthy lot, the directors “once
more being in the pleasing position of being
able to report that no interest whatever was
overdue and unpaid by any person to whom
an advance has been granted.” Shareholders
are doing very well; they are now averaging
almost 10 p.c. p.a., 6i p.c. of which is paid
by way of div. each year, and a 10 p.c. bonus
has of late been distributed after each tri-
ennial valuation.


The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency' of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company', Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
Your live stock need pure drinking water just as
much as humans do. See they get it! Fall in
line with the big cattle salesmen —leading water-
supply boards, town councils and stations —use
Aluminoferric for purifying the water in your wells,
dams and tanks. Aluminoferric quickly causes all
impurities to precipitate, leaving the water clear,
fresh and wholesome. Sold by storekeepers the
country over. Full particulars and prices free from
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [1
* * * #
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
jmported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
* * * «
Pioneer Wood Pipe.—Letter received from Humble
and Sons Pty. Ltd., Geelong. Dated 17th February,
1919: “Your favor of the 13th inst. is to hand, in
reply we would say that the wood pipes supplied by
you for hydraulic sluicing purposes have proved verv
satisfactory. We prefer them to the steel pipes",
which, owing to bad water, we And to be unsuitable.
Sgd. Humble & Sons Pty. Ltd.” Send for our illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Ltd., H.O. Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
P.O. address: Box 1570 G.P.0., Svdnev. Factories:
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and Footscrav,
Vic.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Alelbourne, op. Patent
Ohce; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.-— Advt.
* * * «
The manufacture of ‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
Wru ar J- v imposed engine on the market.
Advt Nelson & H°bertson, Lottus Street, Sydney.—
* * ♦ »
The high rates of wages now being paid make it
necessary for companies handling material to adopt
the latest labor-saving devices, and Arthur Leplas-
trier & Co., Circular Quay, Sydney, who maintain an
engineering department specially for the design of
elevating and conveying machinery with a view to
minimising hand-labor, thus reducing the cost of
handling, are prepared to submit proposals for plants
suitable for any service. Queensland inquiries: The
Australian Machinery Co., Mary Street, Brisbane
Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
RoUWc 6B, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. IT. B Selbv &Co
’’ f Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney; and 443 Bourke Street, Melh.— Advt.
. T - H - .Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc.. etc *consult-
mfnin P " a:, m P e t r ’„ ValUin |’. 0r ? advice,
minin„, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
piocesscs. Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
SSLSftln,. o"** 0 "** - ••■>«*£
arc Born
Insure in
Tk ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital ..
Income (Cross) 1918
Established
- £250,000
194,235
96,497
.. 457,852
1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
ft. K. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
JThe British Westmghguse, Electric and Mfg. Co., Ltd.
T ramway Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical
construction to stand the shocks and strains of constant service.
Westinghouse Tramway Motors possess these qualifications
and represent the best motor practice—the result of long and
wide experience.
There are types to suit varying conditions of service, track,
guage, size of car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest
efficiency, longest life and a reliable service in all kinds of
weather.
rstimiliousr
Cf - Manchester
V.ead Office for Australia :
Queensland Building. 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works; Trafford P«rfe, Manchester, England.
" '
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobef
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynam
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street Melbourne.
The small copper producer is still in
trouble. About 12 months ago he was put
out of serious business. Hughes could find
no market for his product, so he was com-
pelled fo accept an advance from the Elec-
trolytic Co. of £BO per ton against the cop-
per contents of his ore. Later the advance
was reduced to £7O per ton. It is under-
stood that two or three months ago copper
was sold, but the Electrolytic Co. savs it does
not know how much the metal' fetched.
Which may be quite true. But somebody
knows, and that somebody is not the small
man. There is no doubt the Copper Pro-
ducers’ Association, through which every bit
of copper has (nominally) to be sold, has
got the small producer by the wool. The
small producer is compelled to send his ore
to Ivembla; Ivembla is compelled to sell the
refined copper through the Copper Producers’
Association, and the Copper Producers* Asso-
ciation is told by Hughes what it may, or
may not, do. If the said Hughes has the
welfare of the small man at heart, will he
answer these questions: (1) What quantity
ot copper has been sold since last June?
(2) What price did it realise? (3) Whose
copper is involved in the sale? The Bul-
letin does not suggest that any preferential
sale price will be allocated to any favored
producer. The copper contained in the ores
of the various producers now goes into a
common melting-pot, and the resultant re-
fined copper is sold as opportunity offers.
It is common knowledge that sales were
made months ago. The representatives of
the three big copper cos. know all about the
sales. The small man knows nothing, and
can get no information. How is it to be
expected that he can intelligently carry on
his business if the price at which his pro-
duct is sold is withheld from him? What
is the reason for the secrecv?
* » * •
Great Cobar’s abandoned leases on the
Great Peak property, which were eagerly
rushed and put into three or four separate
cos. or syndicates by local speculators, oldest
inhabitants, boomsters, etc., have had a run
of the battery, and dreams of motor-cars
and champagne have vanished. The Brown
Lod-e Co. (mainly composed of Great Cobar
officials) got a crushing of 12dwt.; Blue
Lode, somewhere about Bdwt.; and the
Gudgeon and Wilson party crushed GO tons
for a recovery of Notwithstanding
these disappointing results, there still re-
mains chance *for systematic prospecting.
C.S.A., Cobar, recently got to work with
its smelters again, and for the week ending
October 1 treated 768 tons of its own ore
and 200 tons of purchased ore, mainly from
the Gladstone, for a total of 28 tons copper.
The purchased ore went 7 p.c., so apparently
the co.’s own ore gave only about 2 p.c. If
that figure is representative of the grade
available, prospects do not seem very bright.
The directors, however, persist in silence in
the matter of quantity and quality of re-
serves. The co. has dispensed with the con-
tract system, and is giving the day-wages
system a trial spin.
* * * #
Burraga copper (N.S.W.), which was sold
about 20 years ago to an English co. for
£loo,ooo—the shock of getting it so un-
nerved the old battler, Lewis Lloyd, that he
died shortly afterwards—has shared the fate
of nearly every N. S. Wales copper or gold
mine which has been transferred from local
to London ownership. The new co. started
with an inflated capitalisation of £250,000,
which was not warranted by records or pros-
pects; but even had it been the co. was
doomed to failure owing to the muddled work-
ing arrangements. There were almost as many
managers, consulting engineers and bosses as
workmen. There was no centralisation of
authority, no co-ordination of effort, no de-
fined system of mining or treatment. The
first manager (Stockfeld) retired in disgust,
and since then there have been several men
in charge, each of whom advised a reversal
of the order of things sanctioned by his pre-
decessor. The mill became a machinery
scrap-heap; but at the rate at which plant
of all descriptions is disappearing the only
thing that will be left directly to indicate
that there ever was a mine will be the 150 ft.
brick stack which was never used. The
late Lewis Lloyd was one of the most suc-
cessful reverb, copper smelters who ever came
to Australia ; he used to make the mines in
the Cow Flat areas pay when copper was
under £5O, but he had the physical strength
of a draught-horse, was as immune from
heat-effects as a salamander, and he spared
neither himself nor his workmen. His only
lament was that the financial stress was so
severe that for weeks he and his family had
to subsist on home-made bread and home-
grown onions and “not a bit of cheese
whateffer.”
After keeping its supporters in suspense
for many months, chieflv owing to the
drought, the best Mt. Dudley (N.S.W.)
could show was 210 tons crushed for 1370 z.
4dwt. gold, apart from concentrates and
sands. Whereupon there was a rush to get
out, the stock being knocked pack in one day
from 3s. 3d. to 2s. Id. (six weeks). The
previous clean-up, at the close of last year,
gave 42ozr. 19dwt., with lloz. 13dwt. in con-
centrates and sands, from 127 tons.
The Sydney jobbers who bought a large
parcel of shares in White Crystal Tin. Ard-
lethan, at about 2s. have had the satisfac-
tion of being able to boost them up to Ss.
The market manoeuvres have been quite in
keeping with the best—or worst —of the tra-
ditions of Ballarat, where the co. has been
controlled. The bulk of the shares are said
to be now held in Sydney, and steps are to
be taken to have the office transferred It
is an anomaly that a stock which is not
listed which, in other words, is not known
officiallj 7 by the Exchange—should be one in
which most gambling is done.
The Celebration’s chances seem to have
brightened still further. Latest develop-
ment is the discovery of a parallel lode 40ft.
east of the main shaft, though from the
meagre details so far available the value of
the find cannot be gauged. Meantime, the
only other item of interest from Hampton
Plains during the past week has been that
Ivalgoorlie has been shown “rich specimens
from a new find,” the location of which is
being kept a dark secret. Hampton Plains
is certain to produce a big team of mysteri-
ous dark-horses if the boom is sustained.
* * * *
As with the Bullfinch boom, Melbourne
oasts a very suspicious eye at Hampton
Plains. However, Fred Tricks’s office, with
the aid of Dorrie Doolette, has extended its
Westralian connection by putting off a couple
of syndicates. These cover options over
Borland and Rudd’s Oversight lease, at
Broad Arrrow, out of which 39000 z. came
from 400 tons, and its neighbor, the Tara,
belonging to Erickson and Godfrey, from
which 349 tons gave 45430 z. The basis of
the float in each case is 30 shares of £2O
each The crushings show rich shoots, but
whether they are sufficiently big to support
a co. or are fitted only for party work has
to be discovered.
* * * .
Westralia’s gold yield had a great fall
last month, the total (3G,2410z.) being less
than half that for S-ept.. 1918. and little
more than the output of one of the big Ka'l-
goorlie mines in the boom days. The decline
was caused by the strike on the woodlines,
which shut down most of the Golden Mile
treatment plants.
* * » »
In the wake of the Mararoa plods the
Commodore, of Meekatharra (W.A.). re-
named the New Commodore when re-floated
by Dick Osborne. Even he could not get
gold into the stone broken in the old claim
nor stop people getting the tired-feeling over
call-paying When Hampton Plains came
along 20,000 forfeited shares were placed
for £ll5O, and a part .of the proceeds has
been plunged into one of the Hampton blocks.
Terms, £2OO for a five-months’ option at
£3OOO. with 9000 paid-ups should the deal
fructify. W. Henderson, who was sent from
1 erth to run an eye over the selection, labels
it as carrying indications “favorable for
prospecting work,” which is just about all
that can be said of the bulk of the blocks.
However, some money will be spent bv the
New Commodore, though it is not likely to
be much, unless prospects show up quickly,
for Osborne is a cautious soul, and Hender-
son is an ancient at mining. Osborne has
also agreed to let the co. have a second prop
in the shape of a copper option at the
new find on the dreary Nullagine-Leonora
stock route.
* * # #
Golden Point (W.A.) has had a crowded
career. First it failed at Westonia, and
afterwards drew a blank at Mt. Holland, on
the South Yilgarn field. Then the Sand
I rince at Comet Yale was optioned, and a
job lot of second-hand plant installed thereon ;
but the first crushing was the last. Thereupon
the co. returned to Westonia and . started
to issue optimistic forecasts on the strength
of_ a report that the Central lode was cer-
tain to pass into one of its leases at depth.
However, it did not, and, after lying low
for a time, the co. had another reverse else-
where. Now it is claimed that the outlook
at Westonia is “more hopeful than ever.”
Nevertheless the co. is anxious to get a
finger in the Hampton Plains pie.
* * * *
Melbourne has just floated a weakly-
financed co. to work an alleged gold-mine
at Burtville (W.A.). Is the show identical
with the old Yilgarn Consols, which was
unable to pay its way, and had its effects
sold up by the bailiff early this year?
*****
Chairman C. A. Moreing told Great Fin-
gall shareholders, at the annual meeting in
London recently, that about £6OOO worth of
Westralian assets had been sold during the
year, and that every effort was being made,
to. realise remaining assets at reasonable
prices. But there has been very little de-
mand for gold mining and treatment plant
in the West lately. Portions of the mine are
in the hands of tributors, who are producing
a little revenue for the co. Great Fingall
nowadays has gold, tin, copper and wolfram
interests throughout the world, but the ac-
counts show no indication of any of the
ventures being very profitable. W. A.
Macleod, late of Queensland, Ivalgoorlie and
elsewhere, and now on 8., M. and Co.’s Lon-
don staff, has joined the Great Fingall Board.
* * # *
The plant at the South German, Maldon
(Vic.), is to be sold to wipe out debts, leav-
ing the claim to those who have held on to
it for so long. The shutters were put up
in 1917, when heavy water was struck. The
co. was without cash reserves, and its share-
holders would neither put up pumps to keep
the bottom levels dry nor sink a new shaft.
But so loyal are some of the crowd to the
mine that they will pay rent till a trusting
new generation provides the needful to get
things going again. South German’s record
is one of the best for Victoria. It paid
£340.000 divs. from £680,000 gold, mostly
got between 600 ft. and 1400 ft. Below this
level occurred the fatal floor that not only
sent South German to the pack, but killed
every chance of the adjoining Deep inheriting
the shoot. With Oswald’s at the other
end of the town, South German kept Mal-
don popular for a couple of decades after
all the rich surface gold had been worked
out of the other claims on the field. Nothing
of any note is happening there nowadays,
except at Oswald’s, and that show’s dough
has not been cake for some time.
* * * *
“Bendigonian” returns to the attack:—
“Jackar” (B. 9/10/’l9) evidently his in ”v'nd
the old regime when Lansell, Mueller, Hunter, Atkin-
son and Dyason senior formed a sort of national
reserve bank, drawing dividends from one group and
using some, but obviously not all, of their earnings
to support further mining enterprises. This group
for some years held approximately 70 p.c. of Ben-
digo mining interests. With their passing, conditions
changed and legal managers of Bendigo could tell
what effort has been required during the past few
years to gather in the unwilling call; even as far
back as the Central Blue uplift the profits were much
more volatile and a large percentage escaped. Then
there is this to be considered, too: on the success of
the Johnson’s No. 3, three shafts, namely, the Derby,
South Johnson’s and Oollmann, were started upon
the Derby line, but all these efforts lacked punch,
and it has been left to Bendigo Amalgamated, sup-
ported by the whole of the profits resulting from
the Constellation reef, to take the Derby shaft in
hand again, together with other half-finished jobs.
“Jackar” admires my cheery optimism because I
mentioned the possibility of the Constellation shoot
of gold continuing over the whole or part of the
remaining 800 ft. of unprospected ground. “Jaekar’s”
view is that it cannot last; no one can yet say. that
it will or that it will not, but to say that it cannot
is incorrect. Some of the notably rich reefs of
Bendigo huve been conspicuous for their length.
For instance, the Central Blue shoot was 1600 ft.
long; the Northern rich reef 3000 ft.; the Garden
Gully 300 ft. reef, the most productive on the field,
was over a mile long. So to ask the Constella-
tion shoot to keep going for another 500 ft. or GQOft.
may be optimistic, but it does not seem to be alto-
gether unreasonable.
Jhe position is this. Since Bendigo Amalgamated
was formed two and a half years ago two important
discoveries have been made on the field, and the
fact that both have been made by Bendigo Amalga-
mated has no special significance, though it is inter-
esting. If no more discoveries are made, both
Bendigo Amalgamated and all the other cos. will
sooner or later cease operations and the critics will
be justified, but, on the other hand, if important
discoveries continue to be made at the same rate
of about one per year, then Bendigo Amalgamated
will become a profitable venture and its supporters
will be justified. Nobody knows which of these
things will happen, and it is a waste of good time
to argue about it; but illogical statements on either
side deserve to be corrected.
* * * •
The wolfram miners in Queensland and
i' ■ \ ” ra \ es will be disappointed to learn
that there is no hope of the high fixed-price
continuing after the end of the year. The
British Government has a large accumula-
tion of wolfram, which is now being disposed
of at “best offer.” Vastly extended as have
become the uses of this mineral, it is thought
that it will take years for manufacturers to
absorb available supplies. Advices re
molybdenite indicate much uncertainty, there
still being a difference of opinion between
hmglish and American steel experts as to
its merits.
* * * *
John D. Millen, g.m. of the Bischoff Co.’s
big mine at Waratah (Tas.), has left his
job to sample Federal politics. He has been
at Waratah for 17 years, 14 as head serang.
The man who takes on his job will have a
big task m front of him, for the mine has
become a tougher low-grade proposition each
.year. The old porphyry rock is about cut
out, and outside of the alluvial stuff in the
North Valley flats the bulk of the milling
material is very heavily impregnated with
pyrites.
* • • #
The little-known, privately-owned Storev’s
Greek mine (Tas.) is opening up nicely and
promises to become a steady producer of
wolfram, and tin. Six lodes are known, but
stopmg is confined to the Nos. 1 and 2. The
length of any one lode has not yet been
determined, but all appear to be living
down without alteration of size or content.
The proportion of the metallic content in
No. 1 lode is two of tin to one of wolfram;
in the No. 2 the position is reversed, giving
the management a chance to play up to
the best market. Magnetic separation of the
tin-wolfram concentrate follows the mill,
which is more adapted for efficient saving
of the wolfram content than of the tiu.
The approximate value of the 1918 output
was £28,000, but very little information is
published by the co.


EXCELSIOR!
Premier Ryan, of Queensland, has introduced a Bill under which all employers must contribute £2 per employee the first year, and an unlimited sum afterwards, to an unemployed fund, and also do anything that may be ordered
by a new Labor Board to provide employment.


THE
Union Trustee Company
of Australia Limited
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees,
etc.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having:
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: lion. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C.. F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan
Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
CALL OR SEND FOR COMPANY’S BOOKLET.
deaf?
/
you can HEAR,
and we prove it
by sending ou,
t post f ree, an
easy • to - wea*
Acousticori
ON 10 DAYS’
FREE TRIAL.
\'o deposit, no obligation, no expense.
Over 330,000 delighted users, including the
’’rime Minister, Mr. lughes, who has
been using the '‘Acousticon” for more
thar five years! The “Acousticon” will
safely and surely enable you to heart
Convince yourself at our expense, and
DO?”’ 7 ’ STAY DEAF
lam con StoreT- 102 Daking House, SYDNEY
Lalilovm Service «0. oiderfleet, CollinsSt.,MELß.
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St.. Christc’h.
TV.A.: 11. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIING ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
The late J. F. Archibald’s estate has been
sworn at £89,000.
Archbishop Clarke (Melbourne) will take
off the apron on his 70th birthday—-Novem-
ber 23, 1920.
Deakin, though lie couldn’t be mean, never
spent on himself a penny more public money
than he had to. When he Went to London
to help put through the Commonwealth Con-
stitution Bill, the Vic. Government handed
him £lOOO for exes, fie returned £4OO of
it after he landed home.
Adelaide’s first woman lawyer, Mary Kit-
son, has been taken into partnership in a
well-known legal firm. Now that T. S. Poole
has been made a Judge the firm of Poole
and Johnstone has had to be reconstructed,
and will in future lie Johnstone, Ronald and
Kitson. It was Poole, by the way, who
made application in the Full Court for her
admission to practice.
The Dowager-Countess of Belmore, the
widow of the Earl who was Governor of
N. S. Wales 1867-72, has just died. She
was Anne Elizabeth Honoria, a niece of
W. E. Gladstone, and the mother of 12
children, nine girls and three boys. For
years it looked as if the earldom would have
to pass to another branch of the family,
but in May, 1870, nine years after the mar-
riage, a son was born in Government House,
Sydney. The Earl came to N. S. Wales while
his Castlecoole estates were being “nursed” ;
that accomplished, he left. Incidentally, the
departure was by a wind-jammer, which, the
wind having fallen, couldn’t get away on
the date fixed. The Earl sent ashore for
the extra day’s pay—and got it! During
bis term he did pretty well at cabbage-
farming at Moss Vale.
Fifty-one years ago an infant daughter
of Adam Lindsay Gordon died and was
buried at Ballarat. One day recently the
dust of the little one was disinterred and
placed in the grave with the father at
Brighton (Vic.). The Rev. Adeney, who
over half a century ago was at the Ballarat
graveside, conducted the service.
BLACKET, K.C., asks questions before the
Wheat Commission.
Captain G. C. Matthews, w-ho is now in
England tuning up his Sopwith aeroplane,
Wallaby, for the long flight to Australia, is
a keen-faced young Australian who used to
tramp the bridges of Howard Smith steamers.
Instead of a steady 16 knots, the angelic
thing he will try to navigate to the Com-
monwealth is capable of 121 miles per hour,
and has a cruising speed of 107. The air
captain when at sea was the holder of an
extra master’s certificate, and reached the
A.F.C. through the Light Horse, with whom
he won his commission on Gallipoli. But
his qualifications as a navigator at last re-
sulted in his being “lent” to the Aerial
Navigation School as instructor. He has
invented special instruments to correct the
aerial compasses of his ’plane, and hopes
to whiz home to the Commonwealth in a
fortnight. Sergeant Kay, late of No. 3
Australian Squadron, will probably be his
mate in the air.
In his panegyric Watt averred that
Deakin refused the Victorian Premiership
three times. As a matter of fact, had lie
made an effort Deakin could have had the
leadership of a Government any one of four
times —when Gillies got it, when Shiels “in-
herited”, it from Munro. when J. B. Patter-
son was in charge, and when the House was
getting tired of Turner’s first Cabinet. But
lie knew his limitations, and was not anxious
to tackle responsibility in Victoria in the
lean times from 1894 till 1899; and from
1899 till January, 1901, when he joined Bar-
ton in the first Federal Cabinet, he was too
keen on Federation to bother about office in
a State Ministry.
“In the fell clutch of circumstance I have
not winced or cried aloud” is clearly not the
motto of retiring Melbourne Gaud Mayor
Cabona. When beaten by Aikman. M.L.C.,
for the right to wear the robe and chain for
another year, Cabona licked his wounds in
public. Aikman, who lias x discarded the
draper’s yardstick for the squatter’s motor-
car, will begin gauding on November 9. He
has wealth to splash, and it is said that he
intends to “do things properly,” whatever
that may mean. As lie is a widower a
former Mayoress will probably be asked to
take charge of public functions at which it
is customary for the wife of the Chief Magis-
trate to be in the lead.
There was a vacancy for West Bourke
in 1879, and a depu-
tation waited upon
David Syme and in-
vited him to enter
Parliament. Of course,
he declined, but
he told them
that there was a
young man in
the office who
might suit them,
and Deakin was
sent for. He
charmed the
deputation, and with-
in a week or two had
charmed West Bourke
as well.
CON WALLACE.
M.H.R. for Went
Sydney, who gained
the Labor nomination
last week, hut under-
takes to hand it over
to Ryan, of Queens-
land.
P. S. Cleary, president of N. S. Wales
Catholic Federation, will no doubt be a
candidate for Parliament if the decision of
the C.F. conference to become a separate
political party is adhered to. In politics
Cleary has, however, always done the un-
expected. He supported easy-going Calico-
Jimmy Latimer for Woollahra against such
as McCarthy and Dwyer; later he looked
towards a seat in the Upper House ; and at
the last elections he canvassed for William
Caiman Grahame, the N. S. Wales Minister,
who is now busy explaining things before a
Royal Commission.
On the ground that, at 92, he found it
“difficult” to recover with anything like
reasonable rapidity from an attack of in-
fluenza, A. B. Ainsworth, mining registrar
at Alexandra (Vie.), wrote into the Mines
Department the other day, excusing himself
for a few hours’ delay in sending in a return.
The Department regards the voluntary letter
of explanation as much more interesting
than the return.
“De Facto”: The Bulletin printed a
short story in which a mother, to hide a
daughter’s lapse, took that daughter's child
as her own and acknowledged it in the face
of the world. The Defence Department
knows three such cases. It has the power
to administer the military estates of de-
ceased soldiers, and in these three instances
it was established, after careful inquiry,
that each dead soldier had been taken in
infancy by his grandmother, who, to save
her daughter, gave out that the child was
her own, and brought him up to consider
himself the youngest brother of his own
mother.
P.M.G. Webster on his early battles :
It wasn’t I but my opponent John Wheeler who
appealed to the N. S. Wales Full Court to upset
that early election for a seat in a Sydney suburban
council. The grounds were as The Bulletin of
last week said —that the returning-officer rubber-
-1 stamped the ballot-papers instead of signing them.
I appeared in person and won on the law point,
having the late Federal Judge R. E. O’Connor to
1 oppose. I was complimented by C.J. Dalles', Justice
Windeyer and Justice Foster respectively—not by
the Chief Justice alone. This still stands as a
record in Australia ; at any rate, I believe no other
layman has had a similar experience. I was beaten
• on the second day’s hearing, C.J. Darley being
absent, Justice Innes filling the third place on the
Bench. The' plea was that a boy had stolen into
the office and stamped some of the ballot-papers,
thereby making the act impersonal and illegal. I
have always regarded that plea as a frame-up, and
the extraordinary conduct of Justice Windeyer in
intervening for the returmng-officer as unjust. Other-
wise I should have won on that point also. 1 was
thus ousted, hut again contested the seat (it was
for Annandale Ward. Petersham) ; and, though the
election was fixed for a week day, and Sydney polling
bootti was cut put (I had previously led there), I
again won the seat, increasing my majority to 153.
But The Bulletin is wrong in saying it was my
first effort, as 1 had run three times for aldermanic
honors at Marriekyrlle, winning on the third try
in 1889, against Joseph Graham, who had been 25
years in the council and 12 times mayor. 1 had also
contested Canterbury in 1891 as a Protectionist
Labor man, was late in the field and did not lose
my £4O deposit which I staked, it being practically
all the wealth I possessed at the time. The Peter-
sham contest was about 1892.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Tom Dibbs, ex-
general manager of the Commercial Banking
Co. of Sydney, who will reach bis 87th birth-
day on October 31, is probably the oldest
living Sydney native. He was born in a
cottage in G-eorge-street, on the edge of the
Tank stream, within a hundred yards of the
bank which be guided for so many years.
Killed by the Northern climate, at the
tender age of 78, Isaac Daniels, for 30 years
associated with N.T. mining. Except during
a few years spent on mostly foreign-owned
gold-mines at Brock’s Creek, bis best work
was done at the Mount Wells tin-mine, which
he recently sold to a working syndicate.
When Qpmmending the Transcontinental
Railway Survey Bill to the House of Reps.
Deakin was interrupted by King O’Malley,
who asked what the Attorney-General would
do. if a train-load of soldiers on the way to
Westralia were stranded in the desert owing
fo a breakdown. Like a flash Deakin re-
called a cure-all fad of O’Malley’s, and re-
plied : “In that case, sir, I would administer
■ to each of the soldiers some boiled milk !”
Captain W. 11. Moseley, a B.A. of Oxford,
who died (at 87) in Sydney a few days ago,
was older when he reached the law than
perhaps any other practitioner Australia
ever knew. In 1870 he came to Australia
and took to squatting in the Narrabri dis-
trict. Six years later he married the
daughter of W. W. Billyard, solicitor, and
returned to England. Next he tried Fiji,
and finally he decided to serve articles with
his father-in-law, and at 55 was enrolled as
a solicitor. He was a great worker for the
War Chest during the big fight.
“Onoto”: I can tell a bit more about that
swift mobilisation of wireless operators when
war broke out. On August 7, 1914, a ’phone
call from the Fleet Wireless Operator
separated Fisk (of Amalgamated Wireless)
from his evening paper at 8 p,m. Sorry to
leave it a trifle late, but could Fisk please
enlist 12 expert operators and deliver them
between now and midnight aboard H.M.A.S.
Melbourne, under steam for a “hush” des-
tination? Incidentally, would he kindly rake
up GO gallons of siilph. acid a like
quantity of oil? To both Fisk and his late
assistant, Payne (now eternally at rest in
Mesopotamia), the one job worth tackling
was the sort that looked impossible. They
chartered every taxi within reach, and
streaked off on a recruiting campaign. Next
at the Wireless H.Q. in Clarence-street
there began to converge Fords and Rolls-
Royces from Leichhafdt; Marrickville, Par-
ramatta and all points of the compass. By-
midnight Fisk and Payne were handling
coffee and sandwiches to 24 pukka Aussie
civilians, each a fully certificated operator
and ready to face hell for his country, pro-
vided they’d give him 10 minutes to get his
toothbrush and say good-bye to Mother.
Meanwhile oil and acid, as per specification,
were located and hauled on to the island,
and at 4 a.m. Fisk awoke the F.W.O. and
delivered his 12 apostles aboard the cruiser.
By the way. that fine job of Peek narrated
by “Kyon” (B. 2/10/T9) was paralleled by
Hector Johnson (now a decorated A.I.F.
officer), who, without tools, erected a station
at Noumea and kept in touch with the main-
land. In that instance the French Govern-
ment officially recognised the initiative of
the individual. I never heard that thi)
British (or Australian) Navy said as much
as thank you!
Bendigo’s new Mayor, Jim Curnow, fell
foul the other day of Sam McGowen, pre-
sident of the Agricultural Society, wbo re-
fused to accept his Worship’s cheque for
£5 ss. as a life-member of the Society until
he had withdrawn
a letter he wrote
years ago. Curnow
wound up a frank
exchange of opin-
ions with : “I will
not wallow on my
belly before Sammy
McGowen for all
the gold in Ben-
digo.” The Bendigo
Advertiser gave
the correct text;
but it was too
much for the Mel-
bourne journals.
The Age left in
the wallow, but cut
out the belly, and
the Herald put in
his W o r s h i p’s
mouth some milk-
and-water phrase
about going on bis
knees.
W. D. S.
MACDONALD,
Maoriland M.P.
There’s £lOOO to be spent on an ornamen-
tal drinking fountain in Belmore Park to
the memory of John English, the first Mayor
of Sydney to die in office in three-quarters
of a century.
The eldest son of The Bulletin’s old
rev. friend, Cliebub Bevan, is to be chair-
man of the S.A. Congregational Union for
a year. After his University training he
had charge of the B.M.S. educational
work at Shanghai, and was principal of the
Medhurst, College there for ten years (1903
to 1913). Willett has the same cherubic
countenance as his late dad, and in addi-
tion to having a vast knowledge of theology
is an expert in ceramics.
Queensland’s Rhodes scholar for 1919.
Victor Grenning, went from the State School
at Zillnlere to Brisbane Grammar, and won
first place in his junior and senior Uni-
exains. In sport he is cosmopolitan, and
this season was in the Queensland Rugby
Union XV v. N.S.W. at both Sydney and
Brisbane.
“The Wanderer”: When Tom Hassall was
the much-discussed head of N.S.W. Lands
Department he was once jocularly baited
in the House by Jack Haynes. “I see the
honorable member’s photo in every shop in
the city,” said Jack. “Come outside!”
roared Hassall, now furious. “No,” replied
Haynes, “I won’t. I don’t want to be pro-
secuted for a breach of the municipal by-
laws—for killing a calf within the city
boundaries.”
“Hamer”: “Major” Murray, Ist Battalion,
A.1.F., who died at Tidwortli Hospital
(Eng.) last December, was, in fact, Harry
Peters, the Labor orator, who won the Can-
terbury seat for the N. S. Wales party, and
then went out of politics owing to his bank-
ruptcy. After that he tried to enlist, but
found his defective eyesight against him.
With the deliberate intention of overcoming
tins difficulty he engaged in outdoor work
with the Forestry Department, and this led
to improvement. Directly he felt that he
could scrape through he took the name of
Murray, and got a khaki suit. He was
wounded at Meteren; but it was an illness
contracted in Blighty that finished him. The
“Major,” by the way, never appeared in
orders. It was a rank bestowed by cobbers
on the transport.
Watt’s panegyric on Deakin, delivered in
the Queen’s Hall of Federal Parliament
House as he stood betwixt the old Queen’s
statue and the coffin of his dead friend, was
his finest oration. He eliminated the extra-
vagances that are so easy in such circum-
stances ; the apt word seemed to come to
him without effort, and the delivery was
well attuned to the occasion. Hughes and
Lawson, who had spoken tributes, were
there, and admitted subsequently to friends
that their efforts were puny by comparison.
Twenty-six years ago, when Watt was hardly
known outside the North Melbourne branch
of the A.N.A., Deakin began to take notice
of him and to treat him with respect. When
Watt became a member of Parliament Deakin
fraternised with him. and probably pulled
the string that caused his young friend to
be made P.M.G. in Allan McLean’s Cabinet.
Then, in 1904, Watt became State member
for Deakin’s old constituency, and he
held the seat for 10 years, till he entered
the Federal House of Reps, as member for
Balaclava. He was therefore well fitted for
the Mark Antony oration over dead Caesar,
“broken on the wheel of public effort and
service.”
ALFRED DEAKIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His was Australia’s voice, once heard, then lost
Amid the clamor of the little ways.
He gave his best, nor counted pain and cost
For that wide glory that he saw ablaze
In the long future of a continent
Made sweet with labor and the grace of dreams.
And if, too human-kind, his soul he spent
Believing all were gold that made the gleams
In the crude dust of other, baser minds,
Shall there be blame for that ? Shall it be doom
To his high memory that a dead year finds
A small lamp burning in a vast dark room ?
No; for the lamp burns on, though he be dead —-
A nation lives in that he dreamed and said !
x.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


mm
<gy?
Tobacco and
Cigarettes
SB
tf 11
i »
£ ftf s? a
>•• ••
5s :'-{v _
EH
lUM
&H
& H,
aNtAtn
■. .
H.
m
• • r
s*s
■ '
B*3®®
\/ V t ! »' 4, m ’»?K *«. 'i •' ' /!
WWIWIfeHW'SW &.-•_ . *•. * Vjli-. . -* JlrfwKftt* «<t I
■ i I
A GOOD JUDGE WILL USE
400
LMN
PIPES
ve ry p,pe Quarar %i
STM
S' 5
ess
•"P*
LM
<-ssX?sf
': ■••••-
■■■w


THERE IS NOTHING MORE ATTRACTIVE
THAN THE COMELY WOMAN.
THE QUALITIES THAT MAKE THE COMELY WOMAN ARE:—
The Luxuriant Hair, the fine, smooth Skin, the charm of dazzling: Teeth. Even
the plain woman who cares for herself and does not despise those little arts which make
for Comeliness, becomes the Comely Woman,
John Strance^^mter’s
TOILET PREPARATIONS make the COMELY WOMAN.
Our Soap, Powder (8 tints), Lakshmi Skin Cream and Lotion (for dry Skins), New
Face Cream (vanishing:, for oily skins—2 Colors), Dental Cream, Hair Foods (Oily and
Non-Oily), Carmine, Perspiration Powder, Dry Shampoo, Curative Ointment and Creme
Marquise
ARE USED BY ROYALTY and were AWARDED SIX GOLD MEDALS.
Obtainable from ail Departmental Stores, Civil Service, Washington H. Soul’s,
Lassetter’s, David Jones’, Farmer & Co.’s, W. T. Waters’, Anthony Horderns’.
Send 3d. stamp for sample of Soap or Powder, or Dental Cream, or Face Creams,
to John Strange Winter (London, Paris, Rome). Sydney Office: 26-30 Jamieson Street.
Melbourne Office: 218 Queen Street. Adelaide Office: Bathers’ Buildings, William Street.
F’remantle: W. H. J. Hardy.
\Aeltoman
I V % HIGH-CLASS
ISPEfIALTIES
Creams
?rd
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St, Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN @ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
All the best Society “Catering Functions” are regularly carried out by the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
Society
MINCHINBURY
SOMETHING LIKE A JOB.
“Provision was made for the appointment of a
board of experts, not connected with the industry, to
make recommendations to the Government in respect
to the standards and strength of beer and other
intoxicating liquors.” —Speech on S.A. Pure Liquor
Bill.
“Otira”: Maoriland felt the other morning
that it could never look a lord in the face
again. It was like this. Admiral Jellicoe
and some of his staff were going to Rotorua,
and at a refreshment room on the line decided
to breast the bar instead of having the tea
brought to them in the train. They pushed
up to Sybil of the urn and called for tea
and sandwiches just as you or I might.
Sybil was gracious yet not too much im-
pressed, and as there appeared to be delay
in cashing-up, she said, “Here, who’s paying
for this lot?” “I am,” said Jellicoe, before
anyone else could speak, and he had three bob
on the counter in two ticks. A newspaper
man was so stunned at the sight that he
wired the dreadful story through to Auck-
land, and the country has never felt the same
since.
* * * *
“W.L.” : The resumption of the full rail-
way service in Maoriland robbed the roads
of the Dominion of romance. Fast motor
mail and passenger cars have covered the
country from end to end for the past three
months, and the exploits of some of them
make breathless listening. There was one
service which made a daily connection, each
way, between Wellington and New Plymouth.
Behind each of the big cars ran a trailer,
on which mailbags were packed. The dis-
tance, over 250 miles, was covered in a little
over 10 hours, and in some places the speed
seemed awful to the passengers. Five
pounds was the fare for a ride, and many
would have paid £5O to cancel the contract
after it had started. The Taranaki roads
are asphalted—a temptation to speed at any
time. And at Patea, where there is a
straight two miles, the inhabitants got inside
their houses when the car was due. Even
then the failure to close the street door after
him nearly cost a cobbler his life, for a
loose rim and tyre dashed in one day, after
racing along beside the car for half a mile.
They talk about those mail cars in Taranaki
as men used to talk of the Flying Dutchman.
• * * *
“Bloggs”: The cable says there is to be a
court-martial in Paris on the people who
got out the notorious propagandist Gazette
des Arpennes. The Gazette des Ar-
dennes was not only circulated in the occu-
pied regions, as the cable states, but it was
also dropped freely over the Allied lines.
Toy balloons were released by the Boche
when the wind was favorable and the
Gazette fell out mechanically. There was
always a rush by souvenir-hunters —in
defiance of Army Orders, which forbade any
handling of the journal—but a duller publi-
cation I never perused. Nor a less in-
flammatory one. The pro-German parts
consisted of leaderettes pointing out either
that the people of Alsace had no desire for
the French connection, or that it would pay
them better to remain German. As for the
war-news, it seemed to be rather more
honest than the stuff we were getting then
(1918) from the London papers.
* * • •
“Naming”: A Newcastle priest who sped
the wavering footsteps of many of his flock
towards Gallipoli and France, recently met
a returned Anzac as they walked towards his
church where he was due to hear confession.
“An,’ bedad, it’s a foine lad
ye’ve grown,” he said. “Sure
now it wasn’t all war that
made ye so big?” The Digger
confessed that intensive physical
training and gymnastics had
laid a good foundation. “And
show me some of these gymnas-
tics,” said the.- padre as they
entered the building. So various
acts were performed, culmina-
ting in a brisk run up the aisle
on the athlete’s hands. At this
juncture a couple of his rever-
ence’s customers entered and
gazed in amazement and dismay
at the exhibition. “The good
father’s givin’ a terrible pen-
ance this marnin’,” said one.
“We ought to be better warned for such
Join’s. Oi'll —er —Oi’ll be back later on.”
• * * *
The “unwritten law” has had an innings
at Newcastle (N.S.W.). It was the usual
story—returned soldier; faithless wife ; and
a pot-shot at the paramour. The jury asked
the C.J., who tried the case, whether, if
they considered prisoner insane when he fired
the shot and sane immediately afterwards,
they could find him not guilty on the grounds
of temporary insanity. The C.J. answering
in the affirmative, the jury rushed at the
loophole and returned a verdict of not guilty.
But it would be a lot tidier if we put this
“unwritten law” in black and white so that
it could be examined. It may be wrong or
it may be right. But, wrong or right, at
least the community ought to be able to find
out exactly what it is.
# # • «
“Skipper”; Percival was on the Staff.
When we tied up at Honolulu on our way
home a platoon of Uncle Sam’s Army came
aboard with fixed bayonets to see that we
didn’t remove the wharves, steam cranes
or other U.S. property. There were tw T o
Japs, a half-breed Indian and a cow-puncher
from Noo Yark State, all in the white canvas
leggings and skin-tight tunics of Old Glory.
Regulations were posted up forbidding the
use of cameras on wharves, buildings adja-
cent thereto, street tramcars and foot police-
men. Percival was above the law. He
strolled majestically to the bow and focussed
on the gaping, cosmopolitan, parti-colored
crowd. The broncho from Noo Yark State
stalked him down, and demanded the film.
Percy looked along the gleaming bayonet
presented to him, and said: ‘‘Don’t be a
silly ass. Can’t you see I'm a staff-officer?”
But Uncle Sam’s Army stood its ground
to a man, and when the sergeant came up
Percy, with some display of petulance, handed
over his camera. The sergeant opened it—
TWO POINTS OF VIEW.
GLADYS: “M y husband is extremely anxious about his future."
MAIE : “And I suppose you are equally anxious about yow past!”
and found it empty. “Gee, Cap’n,” said the
Yank officer over a lactose and soda, “guess
that was some frame-up. Yew double-
crossed that slick guy o’ mine, sure!”
* * * *
“Narrung” : He died, and when his friends
of the road heard that the widow had
arranged a choral service prior to the
funeral they decided to roll up at St.
James’s in force. In the midst of the
solemnity a particular intimate blew in and
dropped on the end of a seat, obviously
overcome. As the coffin was slowly borne
down the aisle, unable to contain his
emotion any longer he tearfully wailed:
‘Toor Bob ! He was the best of the
whole bunch. If he could only get out of
that box now he’d say, ‘Come and have
a drink, Fred.’ Poor old” — He finished his
dirge on the pavement.
* # • #
“Good Australian”: There were 53,000
Johnsons, 51,000 Smiths, 18,500 Walkers in
the Yankee Army which says it
won the war. The most numer-
ous family in Jew York, the
Cohens, did not send many re-
presentatives, because the wages
were low. the meals irregular
and the hours uncertain. Some
of the names of the soldiers
were quaint. Paris Green was
a buck private, and so was
Dinner Bell Page and Asad
Experience Wilson. Willie
Darling,, E. Plurihis Brown and
Precious Eugene Grant were in
the same battalion. Mill Gosh,
of Chicago, went:, as did Green
Horn of Statesboro; Velvet
Couch, of Brinkley; Will
Swindle, of Centre; and
Slaughter Bugg, of Tarbin and
Louisiana, where the killing is
good. Here are some more
funny titles: Chocolate Candy
Clark, Owen Money, Wiley Fox
Hunter, Green Berry Ander-
son, George Sleeps From House,
Ilandsan Pleasant Ayres, Green
Hue Jackson, Lloyd George
Parliament, Grief Grimes. Free
Office Graves, Isaac Didnot
Butcher, and Fine German. The
latter name was evidently as-
sumed as a joke. Other curious
names were Orange Cobb and
his son. Lemon Cobb, General
Grant, General Wellington, General Jack-
son and General Servant. There were
12 Napoleon Bonapartes and hundreds of
Abraham Lincolns and George Washingtons.
They’re a queer crowd, these Yankees.
* » # *
“Bank Officer”: “Hamer” (B. 25/9/’l9)
points out that the road to the Industrial
Court is barred to the United Bank Officers’
Ass. by the Australian Clerical Ass. Ask
any bank-officer not directly under the sway
of the management and he will give many
reasons why it is imperative that the
U.8.0.A. should be registered as a body
separate from the A.C.A., whose constitu-
tion, even if it were wide enough to em-
brace all our members, would afford us no
protection. Banking is a skilled calling or
profession. The mere fact that we nse pens
no_ more makes us clerks than the same
thing makes clerks of journalists. The
clerical part of each one’s work is only an
incident in his business. It is significant
that banks which are opposing our registra-
tion as an industrial union, on the ground
that we could conveniently belong to the
A.C.A., previously preached to their staffs
the horrors of alliance with the Trades Hall
and P.L.L. Knowing that they can no
longer keep their staffs from uniting, they
accept as a blessing the very thing they
previously cursed. That fact alone ought to
impeach their sincerity.
* * * *
“D. 8.”: The writer of an article (B.
11/9/’l9) on the return of the Jews to
Palestine quotes Dr. Weizmann as saying
that “millions are waiting to return to the
Fatherland.” But he should have given We'iz-
mann’s exact words —that millions are wait-
ing “in Eastern Europe.” It is not, a ques-
tion, therefore, of Jews leaving “the amen-
ities of London, Paris, N’York or Mel-
bourne.” The London Jew (who is a mere
handful) is not the typical Jew. Finance
and money-lending is not the Jewish national
profession. The Jew was forced into it by
A. QUESTION OF STATUS.
“Pooh! You’re only an adopted child .”
“Yes, I was chosen; your parents had to
take you.”
the Christian nations of the Middle Ages: it
was the only vocation open to him in those
dark days. He was an agriculturist—still
is an agriculturist. Jewish colonies exist-
ing before the war -were the only beauty-
spots in Palestine: that much was admitted
by Christian travellers. The aim of Zion-
ism is to bring back the .Tew to his national
calling. Incidentally, the Jewish population
of Great Britain (1917) is only 258,000.
whereas the Jewish population of the world
is 15,000,000.
(Continued on page 18.)
MURIEL DECORATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The bare-leg stocking—if it may be so described
—is a step towards a more expensive development of
fashion, in which feminine legs will be beautified
with hand-painted landscapes by distinguished artists,
or portraits of husbands and sweethearts.”— Age.
And so our girls will presently reveal
Their chief attraction, paint from head to heel;
And that dear man will have small cause to laugh
Who pays the painter of the Gilded Calf.
Now, taking heed, I Muriel forswear,
And tack my fancy to a maid more spare;
For Muriel will a spacious landscape beg
To decorate a too excessive leg;
While Jessie has but little space to set
A sprig of snowdrop or of mignonette.
In either case Dame Grundy stands aghast—
Assuredly the colors will be fast!
Rut comfort take, ’tis here the women start
Encouraging our own Australian art.
Poor painters will be blessed, impoverished men
Whom fashion gives a leg-up now and then.
If ever on the vag. they’re dragged to court
Here are their means of visible support—
The legs of madame splendidly ornate
With twisted eels, or soles upon a plate.
In exhibitions of a future day
The maids their painted shinbones will display,
And art will boom. All men will gather there,
And each will be an ardent connoisseur.
Then e’en the lover meek perchance we’ll see
With downcast eyes below his lady's knee;
And he will be fair game for common chaff,
Whose head is stuck on any woman's calf!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


mmmmm
• - {
SS s
'
v. >
mm
mi
« •'
Hi®
i, i 'r
m
m
m
j- ■:
wa -
I;
n-
m
?.v'; ■ :
.. P Hi
’
m
i®
KKg§
; J
lliwti
in kiu
!l‘«|i H
I- 1 * ."U':; - •» 1
!:• :• t .'.I
L-il
Analysis and Plan
Two things go with every Goodyear Belt sold
first, the service-in-advance of the G.T.M.
(Goodyear Technical Man) ; and, second, the service-
in-wear of the belt you buy.
Either are worth as much as you pay —the first
because of the expert analysis which reveals the
conditions and peculiar difficulties of every drive
to be equipped, the second because (as a result
of the first) the Goodyear Belt specified is designed
to serve most efficiently under such conditions.
THE GOODYEAR TECHNICAL MAN is at your
call for just this service. His specialised knowledge
and continuous experience of results will assist
you to secure not only the maximum service in
belts, and the consequent economies of factory
operation, but will ensure the effective transmission
of power with its accompaniment of maximum
output of machines or plant.
Our specification of Goodyear Belting carries with
it the acceptance of responsibility for its satisfactory
operation and wear. Write to our nearest branch
for particulars of the G.T.M. service, which are
free for the asking.
Elder, Smith & Co. Limited,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.


A Former Minister of the Crown, Mr. R. P. Blundell, late Minister for Industry
and Repatriation in the National Govt., South Australia, writes of Clements Tonic
.National Party of S. Australia.
“CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD., Globe Chambers, Adelaide, 21/7/19.
niehtlv S berid e es rl at£nd;nl y *J {■ 9 ' B) ? g il 3 Very slrenuous campaign, addressing two and three meetings
nightly, besides attending to my duties as Minister of Industry and Repatriation.
•The campaign lasted two or three months, at the end of which time I felt completely fatigued and worked out.
I had recourse to Clements Tonic, and derived great benefit from it in recuperating my energies.
“Yours respectfully, “R. p. BLUNDELL,
— __ . “"Late Minister Industry and Repatriation.
This Remarkable Medicine is sold by all Chemists and Stores. “ South Australia ”
It can be obtained in any part of the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
rile Oldest Inhabitant”: Bathurst has
been eclebratmg the st>th anniversary of Ben
ilall s alleged raid upon the town, and eulo-
gising the courage of the bushrangers and
police. As a matter of cold fact, no courage
was displayed on either side. The bush-
rangers sneaked into the town at dusk, hav-
ing lured the police outside by the usual
bush-telegraph ruse. Their visit was the
result of a foolish remark by Randolph
M achat tie that Ilall and his men were not
game to come to Bathurst. In the “raid”
no one was stuck up, though Johnny Gilbert
visited Dublin Jack” I)e Clouet’s inn with
the intention of annexing the racehorse
1 asha ; but as old Jack De Clouet was firm
the deal did not come off. A visit was
also made to Redrotta's gunshop; but In'
had nothing to suit and they left. Then a
couple of them visited McMinn’s jewellery
store to make an innocent purchase, but the
moment one of the family screamed “Bush-
rangers!” the pair scooted. In a fruit-
shop they bought and paid for a bag of
oranges. Even the solitary policeman on
a”'.V ja the lock-up was not disturbed. The
raid ’ was, in fact, an amiable visit in
answer to a youth’s challenge, and there
wasn’t a ha’porth of romance in it from first
to last
A QUESTION OF PRECEDENCE.
MAUDE (in doubt an to the choice of a boy
friend ): “Grandad, which conies first, a
lieutenant’s son or a colonel's nephew?"
"Orb”: The Dog and Goat Act of 1898,
still in force in X. S. Wales, is a fatuous
bit of legislation. Half a crown per dog
per annum is demanded of citizens, and the
so obtained last year amounted .to
£18,311. But of this sum not one penny
was spent in attempting to protect either
dog or dog-owner. In all the other States
of the Commonwealth clogs’ homes and
depots are maintained, where lost or strayed
dogs and dogs wilfully abandoned by their
owners are collected. Sometimes these tykes
are restored to their masters; sometimes
homes are found for them ; and in the case
of hopelessly maimed or diseased animals, or
those for which no owner can be found,
they are painlessly destroyed in properly-
equipped lethal chambers. Duly appointed
officials _ look after the strays, and
the official dog-cart goes round collect-
ing derelicts. In some States a brass tab
is issued for affixing to the collar of each
registered dog. In N. S. Wales nothing of
this kind is done, and the strayed and starv-
mg mong. is left to the occasional care of
privately-organised and unofficial bodies. The
absuid Act provides that anyone mav seize
a stray dog cut its tail off. and on pro-
duction ot this trophy in a police court re-
ceive a reward of 2s. (Id. It is solemnly
enjoined that the tails so produced must
be immediately burnt in the presence of
e presiding magistrate. As there is nothing
to distinguish the registered from the un-
lettered dog, valuable animals are stolen;
™ xt ‘ a ransom is not forthcoming,
at bd. a tail it must be a fairly profitable
business it is putting a premium on
ciuelty to animals as well as dishonesty.
THE PRESCRIPTION.
GERALD: “Vault help it, old dear; the doc. told me to keep well off tobacco for at least
sir months.
“Dc Oriel”: Met another casual Aus-
tralian in the Speck lately. He had a
grown-up family, and there was also a very
young Australian crying lustily. “Your
sonV” I inquired. “No,” he replied care-
lessly ; "one of" my girls brought him home.”
IluiTundie : I’d like to know what put
oil Durwin. A natural harbor with
plenty ot sea room and handy to the next
war-stadium, it was rated as a splendid site
for a naviil base by the experts
on the Melbourne and accom-
panying destroyers. But Dar-
win is anathema to the powers
that be. The administration is
rotten, and the Australian who
can clean the mess up is going
to make his name. When the
first Australian Fleet arrived
from England the .stinking fish-
ermen who run the administra-
tion sent word that it was well
to give little shore leave, as
Bolshevism was in full swing.
But as it was a bit of Aus-
tralia, Jack decided to have a
look for himself. In a fort-
night the only entertainment
the sailors got was from the so-
called Bolsheviks and the alleged
Bolshie council—not a red cent
did the Australian Common-
wealth cough up. The crew of
the Melbourne nearly joined the
A.W.U. to a man, so pleased
were they with everything. The
naval chiefs should have a look at Darwin,
regardless of local politics, and realise what
Thursday Island as a naval base is, and
learn that Darwin fills every requirement.
* * * *
From an Australian singer in London :
The street-cleaners are on strike; so the dust and
dirt accumulate and are distributed impartially over
1 saint and sinner by the chill north winds" of a
British summer. The bakers are on strike, so no
biscuits or bread are to be had unless you can bake
your own, which is not easy in furnished apart-
ments without even a gas-stove. Returning to Lon-
don from tlie country you find that a strike of
engine-drivers has held up the service, and there
may not be a train until the day after to-morrow.
The police have gone on strike; so you arm yourself
with a bludgeon and arc on the lookout for foot-
pads. Coal-mining is “off,” and a household’s sup
plies are limited to 2cwt. per week. The laundryman
sends notice of a 50 per cent, increase—this is
the second in six months. Meanwhile you are wait-
ing for the shirts confidingly sent a fortnight ago.
You decide to go away from London for a few days
to escape its avalanche of inconveniences. At your
chosen resort you find all the hotels full: not a
bed to be had except in a cottage. The leading
hotel patronisingly informs you that it may be
able to accommodate you in a week’s time: rates,
355. pei- day for bedroom only, without meals. In- ,
eidentally, after paying first-class fares, you have
had to stand, the seats being occupied by a noisy
overflow from the third-class carriages. Shortage of
rolling-stock is the excuse. A sudden heat-wave
comes. Ices are unobtainable. Soft drinks in short
supply are “sold out. - ’ Peaches Is. 3d. and Is. 6d.
each; small pears 6d. each; bananas 4d., sd. and
6d. A village caterer charges you lOd. for a.
boiled egg. Happy England! Thank Heaven, we’ve
booked our passage back to Australia.
* * * *
The X. S. Wales drought which broke in
Sydney newspaper offices early last month
still prevails in most parts of the State. In
the North-East conditions have never been
worse within the memory of man, and in
the Far West they have never been so bad.
Out there stations which normally run up to
a hundred thousand sheep are without a hoot':
■ for drought came on top of a wave of rabbits.
Further east, but still in the, western Country,
the wave was made of mice instead of rab-
bits, and that had a serious effect, too. be-
cause thousands of stacks of fodder, saved up
for just such a crisis as this, tVefe practically
destroyed, till the food value being eaten out
of them. In patches here and there showers
have saved the situation; but over a large
area of the State the 1019-20 wheat crop js
now tin assured failure—so absolute a failure
in many districts that not even enough wheat
tor next season’s seed will be saved. In
1914 stock were saved by heavy importa-
tions ot fodder from South Aus.,‘which had
bad a good hay-harvest. This vear there is
not much salvation to be had from that
quarter; and the nearest large supply of
fodder is in Maoriland. ft is an expensive
beast that is kept alive through a drought
on straws dragged across the Tasman.
* * * *
“Hamer” : “Blood-money” is provided for
in King’s Regs. It is supposed to be a
division of the spoils of war, including the
value of prisoners. This time the war was
on ton big a scale for such a division, so
the soldiers of foreign countries are being
recompensed in the form of war gratuities
Apparently the Australian soldier is entitled
to some more money,
even if the Hun in-
demnity does not
come to hand, and the
Federal Government
had better hurry up
with the payment if
it wants any more
work out of my mate
Mick. Mick, as he
leaned against a post
near the Soldiers’
Club, told me that he
had spent his deferred
pay and the separa-
tion allowance that
his widowed mother
had saved for him;
but he wasn’t looking
for work; he was
waiting for his “blood-
money.” It is too
much to expect some
men to get flown to toil with the strain of
knowing that some money -which will need
to be spent is hanging over them.
* * * #
A frightful tragedy, the culminating blow
atter a succession of lesser troubles, has
overtaken one of Melbourne’s much-talked-of
patriotic” societies. With considerable
pi ess-agenting and blowing of shrill trumpets
the concern raked together a few hundreds
ot hard cash, designed to pay for a hand-
some but doubtfully-useful present to a body
0 i'('turned soldiers. The gift was made
months ago and two-thirds of the cash for it
had been assembled: and then somebody
levanted with the whole lot., leaving the
patriots tearing their hair and with the
dreadful liability still to meet. So far.
though the police have been making discreet
inquiries about the missing £4t)o. no trace of
the absent cash has been discovered.
* * *
A snort from a country town :
S. Males, in the opinion oi some Sydney cock-
neys, consists of two parts—the city and the bush.
The city is Sydney. All the rest is the bush. Such
places as Lismore, Newcastle, Bathurst, Broken Hill
and Goulburn are parts of the bush. People who live
in the provinical towns and cities are now being bom-
barded with “Bush Week” circulars (evidently writ-
ten by some tenderfoot who is bushed when he gets
0,1 1 of sight of the Sydney railway station) with
ihe object of boosting some scheme for making money
or limelight. The calling of people bushmen because
they live out of sight of our beautiful harbor would
be impertinence if it were not so laughable.
And when on top of the impertinence these
people throw their smug patronage it be-
comes too much to sillier in peace.
* * * *
“11.J.R. : How's this? A Digger, recently
returned, received his deferred pay-sheet and
on . debit side was marked, "damage to
ships property, 4d." It appears that he
hud said “Good morning" to (lie chief stew-
a rd.
* * * »
“0.K.”: There is a truly humorous side
to the "unwritten law’’ which permits a hus-
band —any sort of husband —to assassinate
the person who has evidently supplanted him
in his wife’s good graces. The humor is
in the fact that no other law was so selfishly
"man-made” as this, yet the suffragette sister-
liood remains discreetly silent on the matter.
Even stronger than the Pankhurstian pas-
sion for protesting against inequality of the
sexes, and the "injustice” of man-made laws
in general, is the passion for denying any
excuse to the cut who is caught going astray.
The blessed law of Propriety as regards
wives must have originated in the tyran-
nical nature of man, yet tyrannised woman,
owing to her keen sexual jealousy and her
hypocritical pretensions to a monopoly of
the virtue which plays the name-part, re-
frains from lodging any objection when a
practical advocate of woman’s rights is
cruelly deprived of her lover. The slaughter
of a paramour is an awful injustice to the
paramoured one. Site might have been pleas-
ing herself in “living her own life,” or
snatching hours of joy ‘midst Ihe misery of
being tied to a # distasteful partner, and so
forth. She may have been showing the
courage of her own opinion re the man she
married and the man she didn’t, or helping
to put the sexes on an equality where un-
faithfulness is concerned. But. alas! she
was an offender against the law of Mrs.
Grundy in being found out, and for the
matron who soils the supposititious impos-
QUITE AGREED!
THE DREAMY ONE: “What
would you say is the modern key to suc-
cess?"
THE PRACTICAL OTHER: “The one that
opens the other people's cash-boxes.”
siblo purity of the sex by indulging a natural
instinct, ancl being found out there is no
sympathy among the suffragettes, seemingly.
She, in their eyes, deserves to have her
lover murdered. As for the dead person
well, he doesn't matter.
HEBE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She glorified the homely plate
Wherein I chanced one day to dine,
A goddess with a lovelier face
than ever graced Liana's shrine.
The samite softness of her cheek,
The golden glory of her hair,
Her lily hand, supremely sleek,
Her bosom, delicately fair!
A nymph ethereal, refined;
Her liquid eyes of sapphire blue
Beneath angelic brows enshrined
Eclipsed all others that I knew.
I sat entranced, and mused the while
She came and went with supple grace;
1 marked the Mona Lisa smile
Complete the glory of her face.
She never spoke. I hung to hear
The tender cadence of her voice,
The dulcet accents, full and clear,
1 knew must make my soul rejoice.
At last she bent her queenly head
To one raw youth, who vainly tried
T° Press her hand. And then she said,
"Well, strike me fat, you gotter hide!’’
x.s.w.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


Meg'git
We walk along the sunlit street,
A cheerful trio, we three —
The Meggitt I was, the Meggitt 1 am,
And the Meggitt I’ll one day be.
With apologies to Norman Lindsay.
((
?*, Jf ii
y, v
rfr' *?/Z
m
D
ft.
'i%L
K
n
//
Cs
✓"'V'
\S>
*4
O
&
o
hs
ml
m
38
>
P
iV
■u
S
\
%
o
o
S)
r£
wm
i
> *- i
e?
y
r
s^
K
Q
/
O
\.
%
b
■
v
Umi
Thanks to the increasing support of the Oil Distributors, Painters and Oil Users of Australia;
New Zealand and the Islands, the output for our Oil this year wiU eclipse previous records.
“Architecture” says: “There is no better Linseed Oil in the world than that produced
at Parramatta.”
CATALOGUE NO. 2 MAILED FREE.
and Launceston;
MEGGITT LTD.
WORKS: PARRAMATTA.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia),
26 King Street, SYDNE.Y
MEGGtTTS
jjUSeed oiimjw
MEGCITT L T *
PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bay
guarantees quality ,


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS.
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOMS built over the watar—
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Road from Mos-
man. Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 'l2/6 per day or
£B/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
"King George IV
* UIIV m WHISKY
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
1 J.G.” : The durability of timber does not
depend on what time of the year trees are felled.
It depends on their grain—that is, of course, assum-
ing that the vegetable is sound. If the, grain is
good nothing else matters when the stick reaches
maturity. Constant* (B. 28/8/’l9) savs that trees
DAMPING HIS PROFESSIONAL
PRIDE.
DOCTOR ( complacently) : “You cough more
easily this morning.”
PATIENT ( querulously ): “I ought to, I
practised nearly all night.”
should be felled' before the sap rises; that when
the sap gets into the new leaves the tree is useless.
If this theory is correct, nine-tenths of Aus-
tralia’s sawn and split timber is useless.
There is not much timber-falling or split-
ting going on in the winter months, and that is
when the sap is down. I have never yet heard
of a piece of timber sawn or split out of a winter-
felled tree that was considered superior to that
ot’ the same kind of wood obtained from a spring- or
summer-felled tree. By the way, tests made at
the Melbourne University some years ago showed
distinctly that our Australian hardwoods would stand
a fur more severe breaking strain than the best
of the picked timbers from any other part of the
world. And there is still a lot of dashed fools who
think that our timber trees are only fit for fire-
wood and that scientific forestry is a waste of time
and money.
* * * *
Lance Skuthorp”: Syd Kidman, “the
Cattle King,” was the best buckjump rider I ever
saw. When I was showing on the Gawler (S.A.)
Showgi ounds, near Kapunda, where Kidman lived, I
had 14 of the best buckjumpers in the land. I was
offering £5 to any man that could ride one. Through
the crowd pushed a fine stamp of a man who said,
‘‘My name is Syd Kidman. I will be here for the
next session of the show to ride a buckjumper for
you. Tell these people—they all know me—and you
will get a big house. I suppose things are not too
good with you; feed so dear, and that.” I told
him business was good, but he shook his head. He
knew that it cost me £l9 to get £2O back. When
he returned I was saddling a yellow bay which I
called Fausho Ballagh. I was going to ride him
myself, as he could easily throw any of my riders.
Kidman walked into the ‘yard and said, “Is this the
horse for me to ride?” I told him that it wasn’t.
this is a bad one,” I explained. “He gets down on
his shoulder and spins in the air like a top. I will
bring you in a nice easy one.” Kidman walked up
to the yellow brute, fixed his stirrups to the right
length, mounted and gave the word. Then we let
the big horse go. The rider held the reins loose
and belted Fausho Ballagh with his hat until he
stopped bucking. I offered him the £5 forfeit. “Buy
a ton of chaff with it,” he said. That night the out-
laws had a great feed.
* * *
“ Phi l Harum” : An old building at Parkes
(N.S.W.) just pulled down afforded striking evi-
dence of the lasting qualities of cypress pine. The
vails and posts were in a good state of preserva-
tion after nearly half a century’s service, though a
stranger to the paint-brush for many years. On the
other hand the hardwood shingles had practically
perished. A. Pholeros, who spent some of his spare
time as Consul for Greece, occupied the place as
a store for a long period, and returned to his native
Smyrna towards the close of last century.
* * * *
“Senex”: I wouldn’t see a brother Abo.
stuck, so tell the bloke who was inquiring how to
load a four-wheel waggon that the proper way is
to distribute the weight pretty evenly over all,
then plank a couple of stone or a couple of
hundredweight, according to size of waggon, right
over the rear axle. If the weight is heaviest
for’ard of the after axle, the ’bus will go down a
hill with the rear wheels bumping and jumping,
and the vehicle swinging nearly broadside on. With
the weight aft the brakes get a chance, and she
goes down steady.
* * * »
“Pick”: To show the error of its ways
to a collie which rushes in and bites driven sheep
I have often seen Alick McCrae, a recognised Monaro
(N.S.W.) sheep-dog trainer, adopting this plan. To
the dog’s collar antf Mac’s own waistbelt he attached
a light line. When the four-legged partner made
his dash he was permitted to nearly reach the sheep
huddled ahead, and was then awarded a jerk that
threw him a back somersault. A few surprises of
that sort generally taught him that the game
wasn’t up to putty, and afterwards a little polite
admonition was sufficient to keep him in his place.
Gun-dogs given to the habit of too readily flushing
the quarry are easily cured by the same remedy.
“Barcoo”: Like Black Sister of Torres
Strait, her racial cousin of the interior of the main-
land is an accomplished weaver. I’ve seen
hundreds of beautiful dilly-bags woven out of
fibre gathered from various roots, as well as
from the tenacious, vine-like foliage of lignum
that covers the flooded water-courses of Centralia.
But Mary’s masterpiece is woven from
a material sometimes called native silk,
i This is spun by caterpillars working in
’ colonies in the building of the recep-
tacles in which to deposit their grubs.
The “silk” is of a dull chocolate color,
and for delicacy of texture, strength of
fibre and durability when manufactured
it can give the ordinary silk a handicap.
The gathering and weaving of the
material are tedious processes. The
greatest difficulty is the shredding of the
silk from the nest formation, and, in
doing that, as well as in the subsequent
making-up, the operator keeps her fingers
well greased, otherwise, owing to its adhesive
qualities, the delicate fibres would be impossible of
handling.
* * • •
“McNorth”: On many of the' numerous
uninhabited islands strung along the waters of the
Barrier Reef there are graves of divers and others
marked by strange headstones. On one of the Home
Islands a piece of a lugger’s broken mainmast stood
for many years to notify the last whereabouts of a
Kanaka bSche-de-mer fisher who had been fatally
mauled by a shark. One side of the broken column
had been adzed flat to carry the inscription:
ALBET.
DAMGOOD MAN.
Some years ago a party of wandering Binghis in the
Hinders Group showed me the resting-place of some
of the natives who were lost with the pearling
vessels in the Cape Melville cyclone of 10 years
before. The mounds had been levelled almost flat
by the heavy tropic rains, but the outlines had been
preserved with pieces of black coal. Binghi ex-
plained that they had been done by Kanakas from
various beche-de-mer vessels that called at the group
for wood and water occasionally. The coal had been
washed ashore from steamers which had, from time
to time, got stuck on the reefs and had to do a
bit of jettisoning 1 .
* • # #
Bill R.”: With many years’ experience
of all kinds of small firearms, I cannot recommend
O North’s” scheme (B. 18/9/’l9) for removing bar-
rel obstructions. Witter at all times is harmful to
a barrel, and should the smallest amount of air
remain between the water-plug and the cartridge
there would be every chance of barrel-expansion, if
not an actual burst, when the obstruction was fired
out. A safe and sure way to remove an obstruc-
tion is to fill up the barrel with kerosene and let
it stand overnight. Then the trouble may be pushed
out easily with the cleaning rod.
A KINDLY ACTION.
MAGISTRATE : "Did i understand you to sap that to king in hoarders was your business?”
IBSIKVEBT LADY: "No, sir; its the other way about; they took me in, and that’s why
I'm here."
“Sarg” : For rheumatism an old charcoal-
burner in South Gippsland (Vic.) will hear of no
other remedy than the stings of a bull-ant or wasp,
or a bee when these other Surgeons are not avail-
able. I have seen the old oracle with bowyangs
tightened and a grim look of fortitude on his dial,
standing barefoot on an ant-mound, counting till
20 stings were registered. Then he would bounce
off and brush away the crawlers. “Oughter get a
bit o’ sleep for a night or two now,” he would
beam as he hobbled off to his humpy.
* * * •
“Penner-up” : “Casey” (B. 25/9/’l9) asks
how to go about making a sheepskin mat. Get a
skin with plenty of wool on it, a crossbred or a
Lincoln for preference, and having trimmed- off the
neck and legs wash the skin thoroughly on the
woolly side to remove all traces of blood and yoke.
Then procure Jib. alum, lay the skin flat and rub
the alum W'ell into it on the inside. Roll up and
let stand for three or four days, then open out
and rub with a piece of smooth housebrick until
every particle of fat and flesh is removed. Roll up
again and let stand for another three or four days;
then repeat the rubbing process. Do this five or
six times until the skin becomes dry, white and
pliable, when it will be ready for use.
AFTER THE ARGUMENT.
SHRIMP-SMITH: “You are not fair, sir.”
KOLOSSUS JONES : “I don't have to he. I’m
twice as big as you. Ain’t I?”
‘Mulga”.: I was under the impression that
during the last few years the employment of aborig-
inals for station work was being abolished, and that,
as they were now unable to obtain opium, they would
be improving physically; but recently the illusion
was rudely dispelled. On runs that 1 know but
haven’t visited for some time, black stockmen, their
gins, dogs, etc., have increased. The condition of
their camp is as disgusting and filthy as ever.
Venereal disease is rampant, and it requires no vivid
imagination to realise the seriousness of this when
strong, healthy white men are camped near them.
In place of opium, chlorodyne seems to be easily
obtainable by the abos., and the effects of it will
be as terrible as the poppy drug was in the past.
Where black labor is employed on stations the Gov-
ernment should see that the same conditions apply
to it as to white labor.
* * * •
“Sassafras”: Easily seen that “Agricola”
(B. 18/9/’l9) has not been off the Western slopes
when he says that yellow box is the dinky-di at
breaking axes. Let me instruct him. Yellow box
will not torn an axe, nor gap it, if cut on the up-
and-down stroke. The timber to test a blade is the
knot of a hoop-pine, a vegetable which grows on the
tablelands of North-Coast N. S. Wales. .No axe ever
imported has beaten it yet, no matter how the wood
is attacked. I think I’ve put an axe into almost
every kind of fencing timber in the State, and I
reckon the yellow box is one of the cheapest to work.
Perhaps the blokes who decorated “Agricola’s” tree
with broken axe-blades were pommies who used
Yankee ironmongery.
* * * *
Ragar ’: In the New Guinea bush one
comes across unexpected records of forgotten or
unknown tragedies. In a small village in the
Western Division I recently found the bell of the
French ship St. Pierre, dated 1875. It was fastened
to the branch of a large shade-tree. The St. Pierre
was wrecked about 30 years ago off Sabai, a large
swampy island lying three miles off the coast and
25 miles from where the bell now hangs. At an-
other place beside the bush-track that I was follow-
ing I found a carved hardwood post about 7ft.
high and Bin. thick, around the base of
which was an assortment of odds and ends, includ-
ing the top of a primus stove, avclock face and a
sad-iron. Post and accessories had evidently been
there for years. The only explanation that I could
get from the ancient cannibal who was acting as
guide was that the post marked the spot where a
big man, “one who had taken plenty of heads,”
finally lost his own. The savage could not say
where the assorted hardware had come from. “That
big feller he take it some time, and when he finish,
dead woman belong him she put it there to make
that big feller spirit glad.”
(Continued on page 22.)
PUTTING IN THE TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The day was still at Dingo Town,
And Spring was in the air.
The locusts sang the snorers down,
Who lay abandoned there
Where Cronan’s bar sent forth the dear,
Alluring smell of barrel beer.
Then came Tim Canty roaring up,
And called for wicked drink.
He gulped a solitary cup.
And then, ere eye could wink,
His huge and hairy fist arose,
And fell across poor Cronan’s nose.
Jack Cronan roared, and o’er the bar
He threw himself, and soon
The racket of a thunderous jar
Disturbed the afternoon.
The sleepers from their dreams arose,
Distracted by the thud of blows.
Tim outed Jack. With proper .pride
He drank at Cronan’s tap.
Said one who humbly stood aside:
“Why did you start this scrap?”
“Twelve minutes” (so did he explain)
“I had to spare to catch my train!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


CALL AT PALING’S.
Catalogues
Post Free
We Sell on
Time Payment
We cordially invite you to call at our Show-
rooms —you will be delighted and charmed with
the beautiful models of Pianos and Player Pianos
to select from.
There, on three floors, you may see the very
finest and most perfect products of leading
factories of the world. In their various grades they
represent the very best value for the money.
Remember, you can rely upon getting perfect
satisfaction, as we sell only instruments we know
to be honestly built and thoroughly reliable. We
are not satisfied unless you are.
We sell Pianos, Organs, Player Pianos, Violins, Banjos,
Cornets, Flutes, Concertinas, Gramophones, Phonographs,
Music and Musical Sundries, Band and Orchestral Instruments
of every description, at lowest possible prices. Catalogues
free for asking. Will you call to-day?
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD.
338 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for CHappell, Sames, Estey ©. Vi<»or Pianos.
Also Behning, Laffargue, Ester Vidor Player Pianos.
SPEARING OF ENGINES!
HERE ARE SOME FACTS WELL WORTH CONSIDERING!
NEEDLESS to state, if you are doing any work at all where
engine-power can be utilised, you want an engine, not
altogether from a standpoint of convenience, but as an
absolute necessity from a standpoint of economy in both time
and money.
The question you have to consider is, What engine should you
buy?
There are hundreds of various shapes, makes and fashions on
the market. Therefore in looking about for an engine the
following points should be wisely considered.
First: The reputation of the Company which stands back of the engine you purchase.
Second: Have their engines been widely used throughout the world for many years.
Third: Have they a big distribution and a high reputation throughout Australia.
Fourth: Is the Company organised throughout Australia to give you promp
service, supply any necessary duplicates instantly, and look after their product
after it is placed in your hands?
If the above points are carefully considered, you will undoubtedly purchase a Cooper Engine.
Engines
are the result of Ion 0, years’ experience in manufacturing and operating engines. Ahej
have been and kept abreast of the times by our own experts m every country
on the «lobe. They are distributed direct to you by our own organisation in Australia,
which is here to guarantee you complete satisfaction and the right service ever afterwar ..
Pnoner Engines afe strong reliable and efficient, made of the finest material and work-
manshiD that brains and money can produce, and fitted with latest attachments of the
All e bum on the Helvy Duty type, and unconditionally guaranteed to give
I^'you 0 require an engine for any purpose whatever, write us for full particulars, and let
us send you Catalogue and price of an outfit to suit your requn ements.
Cooper Engineering' Co. Ltd.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
486 Collins Street, Melbourne
Clarke
f M flUGHli^E^\ F^u™Axian!V^;iL ( m & Co., HOBART
& H. F. Co., ADELAIDE.
Hart &
N.Z.
Sons,
Loan and M.A.
LAUNCESTON,
Co.,


■firinwi
■
C# Hr
1 T
®awuww.'v «*
PERMANENCE
fl
Not only Is the Company responsible to the
extent of all its capital and assets for the con-
scientious fulfilment of its obligations;, but each
of its directors, its manager and assistant man-
ager are likewise responsible.
No individual could possess the same experience
in trust business or the same specialised legal and
financial knowledge as the Company. The scope
of its business ensures sound methods, expert
administration and moderate fees.
“Mulga”: A jackcroo came up from the
city to one of our large western stations recently.
He was a confident youth, and stated that he posses-
sed considerable experience, most of which turned
out to have been obtained at an agricultural col-
lege. He was absolutely useless. At his first muster-
ing camp he complained to the overseer that he
could not find the latrine. After several dismal
failures he was told by the manager that he had
better go back again and try a. poultry farm or
something. The youth agreed that the place was
too big for him, and added that the country was
so dry he could not get any experience. He also
complained that since he had come out West he
had lost all his “spiritual essence.” None of us
know what that was unless it was a fa my name for
mozelle. (P.S. —The boss has recovered conscious-
ness.)
SIGNS OF HABITATION.
THE BOATMAN : “O’ course, I believe that
story of Jonah and the whale. Why,
once doton at Jervis Bay I found an
empty whisky bottle an' a corkscrew in
one’s stomach.”
“B.B.”; Next time a venomous snake
buries its fangs in me I’m going to try an oil bath
as a remedy. I got the idea from David Collins’s
book, “An Account of the English Colony in New
South Wales.” He relates that in January, 1795, at
Parramatta, a convict was bitten on the foot by a
black snake. The effect was an immediate swelling
of the man’s limb and the formation of a large
tumor in the groin. “The surgeon was fortunately
able to reduce the swellings by frequently bathing
the parts with oil, and saved the man’s life without
having recourse to amputation.” I can’t doubt the
word Of Collins, who was Judge-Advocate and Sec-
retary of the then colony.
“C.W.G.”: What days the coaching gold-
escort times of Otago (M.L.) were! My earliest
recollection goes back to a cold winter’s morning
in the bank dwelling, Queenstown, when 1 was
awakened at an unearthly hour by noise of hurrying
and scurrying and sharp orders’ Cobb and Co.’s
five-horse stage was at the door. Jim Dunkley, the
peerless driver of the time, usually navigated the
run, the starting day of which was always kept
ONE COMFORT.
THE PASSENGER: “ It’s wonderful how one's
financial troubles look so insignificant
from this elevation!"
secret, and to him and the tireless vigilance of the
bank and police officials the golden cargo was con-
fidently entrusted. They were men all, living men’s
lives, business first and pleasure close up after. Rut
never an ounce of gold was short at the delivery in
Dunedin. To my youthful mind the two police
officers mounted on the box-seat armed with car-
bines, and the heavy' lead-like boxes, locked and
sealed, were an endless romance. The coach horses
of those days were fresh and speedy, and resented
being held up so early in their trip, the cold,
darkness and bustle making them fidgety, and they
gave the driver and the grooms plenty of opportunity
to show their skill. A bank manager was always
in charge on the journey, and mighty was his power,
even to the extent of barring any passenger of
whom he had no knowledge. A crack of the whip
at 5 a.m., acrobatic wonders by the grooms, fancy-
pawing of the air by the leaders, and the escort
was swinging up the main street on the first stage
in the darkness and bitter cold of the lake wind.
Arrowtown was reached at 7 a,.m., where the
“heads'’ breakfasted, with the gold stacked in the
same room. Then to Cromwell, by noon, where
more consignments were added, and so on, down
past the Halfway House,. Clyde, Alexandra and Rox-
burgh, arriving there about 8 p.m. Here the gold
was lodged overnight in the bank. Breakfast was
at 3 a.m. From Roxburgh to Lawrence was a stiff
run, but here the train took over the load, deposit-
ing it at 7 p.in. in Dunedin, where an armed pro-
cession duly delivered it into the vaults—gold from
such famous diggings as the Shotover, Skipper’s,
Arrow, Macetown, Cardrona, Bannockburn, Cluthu,
Earnscleugh, Dunstan, Blax-ks, Beaumont, Gabriel’s
and Lawrence. The escort, being then free until
the next day, started in to see the sights and renew
old acquaintances, the Otago Club being the favored
spot. Sleep was scorned, overlanders contending
jthat they hadn’t cut out the hardships of the journey-
just to doss in the town.
“Ringer”: Gather round and I’ll show
you how to prepare a greenhide for plaiting. You
want a fairly woolly-haired beast, which must be
in fair condition. When skinning take care that
no meat or fat is left on the hide; sprinkle lightly
with salt, fold and leave for 12 hours. Then peg
it out in the shade for 24 hours. Next take a
bottle of malt vinegar and half a bar of kerosene
soap. Pour the vinegar over the hide and rub well
with the soap. Leave the pelt, for another couple
of days and it’s fit to be cut up for plaiting. The
cattlemen up north swear by this method.
“Wandi” : A vile nuisance in north-eastern
swamps and gullies is the water-leech, a hungrier
vampire than the black, bottle-shaped species of
the scrubs. Many' a good cow has been ruined for
dairying purposes by this pest, which gets into
Strawberry’s udder. I have squeezed five at one
sitting from a single teat. Some of the small pools
and gullies are so thickly infested tiiat when you
plunge a stick into the water dozens of the long,
striped horrors race for the spot. Fencing across
these shallow waters is an interesting process. The
the person most con
cerned is not consulted.
The tribes all have their
own particular slice of
territory, which has been
their ancestors’ home
from time immemorial,
and if the3 r are taken
away from their par-
ticular hunting-grounds
the Binghis will fret to
death. Black Brother
wants nothing more than
to be left alone. He is
of the happiest people
in the world. He sel-
dom works, because
there is no need for him
to do so, except to get
tobacco. A couple of
clays ago »nie ,of the
chaps told a boy that
the police were coining
out to round up his
people and take them
away. The boy ran to
the camp with the news,
and 1 don’t want to
leech goes to work so artfully on a man’s leg that
the attacker’s presence is seldom suspected until
it drops off gorged. It is the only living thing that
possesses three sets of jaws except a wheat specula-
tor.
* * * *
“Mc-Nortli”: Most of the inhabited islands
of Torres Strait run a church, but as it takes the
white missioner a month or more to
get round his parish many of the ser-
vices, are conducted by native off-
siders. At Badu I heard one of
these auxiliaries discourse to the
brethren in a little native-built
tenlple amongst the cocoanuts. He
was an old man, thin and wrinkled,
with skin the dulness of a blacked,
unpolished boot. From beneath a
surplice and cassock the frayed ends
of a pair of khaki trousers draped
his bare feet. Ilis name, translated,
was Alligator. He entered the holy
edifice by the front door, and as his
great feet thudded slowly up the aisle
the congregation rose and stood in
respectful silence. The service Was
that of the Church of England. At
first the Rev. Alligator was some-
what nervous because of the unaccus-
tomed presence of a white man, but
presently he warmed up'in a mixture
of bOche-de-mer English and native
lingo and laid down the law with
vehemence. In the height of a period
of his extra-earnest exhortation, a
village dog strayed in and began
smelling round the preacher’s feet.
Without pausing in his discourse the
preacher took a bearing out of the
corner of his eye, and with a nicely-
balanced kick lifted the mongrel down
the centre of the aisle. Nobody
laughed; the service went on with-
out a pause. There was no har-
monium ; a woman with a lob-sided
voice led the singing. At the conclu-
sion of the service all hands beefed
out God-save, in grotesque English. Then the preacher
walked proudly down the aisle between the wor-
shippers. On week days he was a fisher of bechc-de-
mef.
■» ♦ * *
“Hops”: The spur-winged plover of N. S.
Wales plains is a very pugnacious resident during
the mating season. We had four of them running
in our garden, and when one pair decided to set
ui> house-keeping in „uly they murdered one of the
other occupants of the area and very nearlv settled
the fourth. After many noisy corroboreea the mated-
pair exhibited the first egg on August 10, three
more being laid, one each on the 18th, 20th and
22nd. On September 16 the first chick was seen,
and by the 18th three more were having a peep
at White Australia. By the time they were 24
hours old they were picking up small insects and
grass seeds. Unfortunately they were spotted bv
a laughing-jack, who caught and killed one of
them. “Jacko” accounts for many young lives, and
I dun no if he’s the good Australian lie’s cracked
up to be.
£ ' 7, -
“Gouger”: Some interested Queenslanders
are agitating the Government to muster all aboriginals
and transplant them to a coastal island or a big
reserve on Cape York. The idea is to build houses
for them and clear the land in the expectation that,
at the end of .three years, Black Brother will be able
to keep himsc’lf out of the proceeds of his own toil.
The total estimated cost is £900,000. Of course,
hear again such howling
as the gins set up. .Next morning every nig- had
cleared for the scrubs. I don’t envy the police
their mustering job if the scheme operates.
* * * *
“Mick the Preacher”: The most casual
bloke in Australia ran into us near Cassilis (N.S.AV.j
a few years ago, where Bill and myself had a ring-
barking camp. One night, ak Bill was flaying his
fiddle, a horseman rode out from the darkness.
“Hello,” he said; “got some music?” Bill admitted
it. “By Gawd, 1 like music,” the stranger said as
he dismounted and tied his horse to the scrub. He
came and sat by the fire and asked Bill if he could
play “Love’s Young Dream.’’ Bill scratched out som?-
thing which he alleged was the juvenile vision referred
to, but the bloke said it wasn’t the dinkum dream.
He and Bill argued, whistled and hummed for an hour
or more, and parts of the dream were fiddled over a
dozen times. Then Bill played other tunes and
finally the stranger got on his feet and asked Bill
if he could play “Woodland Whispers.” The
musician started his violin whispering for all it
was worth (about 25 bob) and when he finished, the
sti anger took him by the hand and orated thuslv:
“It s not because I am saying it to yer face, mate,
but you are the best player I’ve ever heard. I
could sit and listen to yer all night, on’y me missus
is dyin’, an’ I’ve got to go an’ fetch the blankv
priest."
* ■ » .
Azac : General Cltauvel in “Australia in
Palestine” hands out this:—
Our horses had covered, with marching and fight-
ing', an average of 30 and 40 miles a day. Thou-
sands of Australian-bred horses must have covered
some 400 miles in 12 days, a very fine performance
when it is remembered that they carried a load
exceeding an average of 2501 b., and had been on short
rations.
Are there no decorations for horses?
‘ Bright”: The old sulky badly wanted a
painting*. Dad said he couldn’t do it, bo mum said
she s’posed she would have to do it herself. When
the job was finished—lining and all—it would have
done credit to a coachpainter. In fact, dad ad-
mitted that he couldn’t have made a better job
of it himself.
“Bardoc”: The queerest mishap I’ve
known happened at one of the Golden Mile
(IV. Aus.) shows, since given over to tvibutors. A
platman at the 200-feet level erected himself on t<y
the top of the cage to get hold of a loose knocker
signal-wire. Losing lij_s balance he unintentionally
signalled “haul!” In an instant he was thrown
off the cage as it shot upwards. The loose
wire whipped round his legs, yanked him off the
plat, head downwards, and carried him up the
shaft underneath the cage, bumping from side to
side. The driver at the surface nearly fainted when
he saw the fish he had hooked, struggling frantically
over the shaft-mouth. When they unwound the
cargo its language was dreadful. There was some
talk about prosecuting it for a breach of the Mining
Regulations, but nothing came of it.
* •» * *
“Melos”: Re “Constant’s” remarks about
the durability of timbers (B. 28/8/’l9). The time of
year at. which trees should be felled is of less import-
ance than the manner of treatment after felling.
There is practically no difference in the moisture con-
tent of green wood in summer and winter, but unless
the facilities for storing and handling are present,
timber felled in. the latter season gives the better
results. Fencing and other rough material are
more likely to be attacked by fungi and insects in
(he warmer months. In summer, too, seasoning
proceeds more * rapidly and may cause excessive
“checking,” but these troubles can be reduced to a
minimum by removing the bark and exposing the
timber freely to the air in a dry place, sheltered
MUCH MORE CONGENIAL.
OFFICE CLERK ( ex-Digger , fed right up):
“Oh. struth! Give me Hell-fire Corner
again and a 5.9 barrage.”
from the sun and high winds. The situation should
be well drained and the wood supported on blocks
so as to allow the air to circulate over its whole
surface.
PREPAREDNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He knocked old Sandfly off its feet.
We couldn’t understand
Why he selected for his beat
This God-forsaken land.
He didn’t seem the sort of bloke
To broil beneath the sun,
And guzzle out of Hogan’s soak
Just for a bit of fun.
He wore a sort of halo round
A Yankee looking head.
And Sandfly bet a level pound
That he was city bred.
He cooked his tucker in his tent
Pitched near old Whelan’s bore,
And every Monday morning went
To Martin Fagin’s -store.
For three full months he stayed with us,
And then, one Saturday,
I saw him board the outward ’bus
Which slowly rolled away.
And Sandfly doesn't really know
What brought him here at all ;
But / have heard it whispered, though,
The. reason of his call.
Tt seems he came from Melbourne way
To study close at hand,
And gather in the general lay
Of life in Mulgaland;
To feel the broken nmlga’s twig’s
Sharp crackle under feet ;
To learn the language of the nigs,
And how they live and eat ;
Beside the muddy stream to roam,
And hear the brshland’s call.
Preparing for his future home—
Canberra Cap-it-al.
X.s.W.
NE'ER DO WELL.


X
i
m
%
0.
07 a a
v.
0 7 (Q
0
o
CIGARETTES
“An inspiration in Cigarette Flavor,
Fragrance and Bouquet.”
m NUMBERS
JO
D
THE RED PACKET
FOR
c /n
m
&
©
'fibsolc*
e/,
1/&
o.
* rtf.
v/s*
'*S
Vt
"V
33
ARtrft
fc>.
?*<9
'V
c c
O
<^o
:«


nniHHHIIHIllHlHMllHJIIIl'lliliiutnini*inn | iiinii!iirnii*iiiiiiiiii | iii || i | ni |m| i ||||| i
dnouo
-\O0.
° Hi
\
w
'
■ASNOAS ‘Iss-'IS puoa Z
:3Dmo
sa I B M l unos M3M
VIHOADIA ‘ONOiaaD
PIT
03 $ 3UJB3jJ ‘9
(•D}9 ‘dno.i3
‘sp[03 ‘sqgnoQ)
s5jqno3]jsaio
oj uojprujsaQ
SUB9UI
„3Jn3 aijqjiKug
S ( 9U4B3|_|
99
JO dojQ AH3A3
I
\i
A Plain
Fact!
The True Story of Ulster
Ulster was the great centre of early Irish
ln Ulster Conor and Fergus reigned ;
for Ulster Cuchullain fought. Emain
Macha, the great capital of the lied Branch,
was close to Armagh. The Ultonian chiefs
belonged to one of the four distinct sections
of the Milesian race —the Irians. In the
year 332 the Three Collas, descended from
Con of the Hundred Fights, attacked and
burned Emain Macha and drove the Irians
into Down and Antrim. This is legend, but
legend so well established by its relation to
facts that it is accepted as history by modern
scholars.
The descendants of the great Ultonians
lived henceforth apart from the rest of Ire-
land, nursing their injuries and lamenting
the fall of their ancient stronghold. They
never forgave; and when, 900 years later,
Brian O’Neill met the Norman invaders at
the battle of Downpatrick, the Irian families
in the neighborhood looked on and refused to
make common cause with the Irish of the
South, O’Neill was killed in the battle:
and those who had chosen to be onlookers
soon found out the nature of the thing they
had allowed to pass unchallenged. The Nor-
man leaders were drunk with their conquest
and knew nothing of mercy. Persons called
De Courcy and De Lacy, with their fol-
lowers, rode up and down burning and
destroying; and soon the Irians were in terri-
fied flight. Scotland was a handy place of
temporary refuge. All through the Plan-
tagenet and Tudor periods the fight raged up
and down Ireland. When things became
too bad there were, thousands of Irish
families sheltering in Scotland; when the
enemy got a set-back they returned to what
was left of their own homes.
t The Irisjn was stm sulky with the rest of
Ireland, but the business of merely keeping
alive demanded his immediate attention.
About the time of Henry VIII. all Ireland
was very much disturbed. While the Eng-
lish fire and sword did not reach Down and
Antrim, a lot of native and semi-native
private wars came that way, with the result
that the Irian tribe had its chief headquarters
in Galloway and the country beyond. Mat-
ters did not mend in the time of Elizabeth ;
but something happened in Scotland which
a fleeted the exiles greatly. John Knox and
his friends raised the standard of religious re-
volt ; and, as religious revolt meant revolt
against the Government, the Irians joined
m. They still spoke Irish, nursed their
ancient grievances against the rest of their
countrymen, and sturdily hated anything that
looked like authority. So thousands of Irish
exiles became ardent Presbyterians.
The next move in the game occurred in
th-e time of James I. Colonies from Scot-
land were to be planted in Northern Ireland,
and any man who was out of work and
wanted a home could join in. Naturally the
Irians abroad rushed the chance. The proof
of that is furnished by the official records of
the time, which show that a very large per-
centage or the Scotch” settlers, many with
changed names, who came to Ulster, spoke
Irish and no other language. Thus the
1 resbyterian Irian Irish families, whose
hatred of the people of the rest of the island
was now nearly thirteen centuries old, came
back to their ancestral soil, to the land of
Cuchullain and Conor, backed and supported
by the English Government, and allowed a
pretty wide discretion in getting even with
anj thing that looked like an ancient foe.
They had merely added a spice of religious
bigotry to their former clan hatred. The
English settlers, brought by Cromwell, and
a sprinkling of lowland Scots, anxious to
better their fortunes, helped things along
an m t SO0 l u - cau & llfc the spirit of the others.
The history of the Irians is really the his-
tory of Ulster. Other Irian families who
were not among those originally dispossessed
—notably the Guinnesses, O’Farrells and
U Mores —were always pretty true to the
national cause; but the present political divi-
sum in Ireland goes right back to the burn-
ing of Emain Macha in pre-Christian times,
lhe Norman invasion, Presbyterianism,
Cromwell, William of Orange and Edward
Carson are mere incidents in the long tale;
for the men of Down and Antrim hated the
men of Kerry and Clare just as soundly
at the time of the fall of Borne as they did
even at the moment when they stood'with
German rifles in their hands to prevent the
British Government from granting them free-
dom. Their hate is now 1578 years old.
D. McaULADH.
A Satchel of Books
The, Three, Strings, by Natalie S. Lincoln (Apple-
ton, -New York), is an anaemic detective-spy story.
The spy utilises the international exchange system
ml c^iess . problems for the conveyance of “news.”
The heroine is the usual uncorseted flippancy; and
her lover, the French “ace,” a horrible libel on his
nationality and profession.
Experiments in Psychical Science, by W. J. Craw-
ford (John M. Watkins, London), is a short but
lucid text-book on the applied mechanics of psychic
phenomena, Crawford, a civil engineer, being one
of the few researchers who use laboratory methods.
It is quite refreshing, also, to encounter spiritualistic
propaganda so free from the nauseous jargon of the
faithful. As in his previous book, he particularly
devotes himself to levitation, which has been a sub-
ject of violent controversy ever since the dead were
first suspected of continuing to live. The book
contains no photographs of actual phenomena—a
very sensible omission, for no evidence claiming
accuracy can be more easily faked than the photo-
graphic plate. “Experiments” has at any rate a
dignity of expression which will appeal both to
believer and to sceptic.
In the Morning of Time, by C. G. D. Roberts
(Hutchinson, London), is a troglodytic fantasy. The
adventures of Gr6m and his tribe of cave-dwellers are
luridly done. One of the most thrilling of his
many fights is that with carnivorous dragon-flies whose
violet bodies were a yard in length. An improvement
on some of the author’s earlier animal stories.
Further East than Asia, by Ward Muir (Simpkin,
Marshall, London), is yet another example of a good
idea spoiled in the handling. A young American
is despatched to a mysterious island in Malaysia
to obtain a certain drug. The inhabitants are lepers
and their “Sultan,” who is a beautiful woman, falls
in love with the visitor. Out of such promising
material Muir only succeeds in evolving a patchy
melodrama. Also, it is about 35,000 words too long.
A short-story writer could do it in 5000. Muir should
read that little masterpiece about the two consump-
tives in Barbusse’s “We Others.”
Thieves’ Wit, by Hulbert Footner (Hodder and
Stoughton), is readable in spite of its title. The
entanglement of several destinies through the dis-
appearance of an actress’s pearl necklace is excit-
ing. The inquiry agent is a hopeless idiot, but is
saved by his cheerfulness—an uncommon quality in
the fiction sleuth. Thieves’ Wit is not up to the
level of “The Fugitive Sleuth,” but the detective
novel-eater will swallow it all.
The State, Historical and Practical Politics, is the
work of President Woodrow Wilson, and is brought
up to 1919. A further remark on the cover says it
embodies “Up-to-date and Authoritative Information
on the Governments of Fifteen Nations, by a Great
Statesman.” It might be better to say that it is a
fairly rich mine of information by a reliable school-
master; for if the writer is a great statesman that
is a side Issue and a dragging in of irrelevant mat-
ter, like advertising a book of hymns as by the
uncle of a great footballer. The State covers" more
space, longitudinally, than the Statesman's Year
Book, but lacks its breadth. That is to say, It goes
further back into the past, but doesn’t spread so
widely over the present. It is less flippant than
Whitaker's Almanac and much more sincere, but
not so varied. In fact, it is a good book of refer-
ence of the sort which might be written by a great
•statesman, but generally is written by an arm-chair
theorist who lacks statesmanship because he lives
in the past and hasn’t the capacity to improvise on
a sudden emergency. No great statesman within
the writer’s knowledge ever wrote such a book. The
nearest approach to it in English history were the
literary efforts of James I. and the most resourceful
of his contemporaries—who was soldier, king, states-
man, patriot, political economist and universal lover
all in one —-called him “the wisest fool in Christen-
dom.” (Harrap, publisher—copy from the Austral-
asian Publishing Co., Sydney.)
The Inky Way
“D.F.”: Years ago, before one of them
took to running Australia and the other to
spreading himself over the commercial and
financial columns of the S. M. Herald, W.
M. Hughes and the late Dr. Gellatly co-
operated in writing a novel. It never got
itself published.
“S.T.S.”: In reply to “110-ho” on the
crowning tragedy of the novel “Midas and
Son” (B. 25/9/’l9), I say mildly that: (1)
I do not, as he apparently does, consider
Stephen McKenna a supreme artist, to whom
sales are a matter of indifference. (2) There
is _no art in making pne’s hero commit
suicide just. as war is declared —unless the
national crisis in some way prompts the
action. To work up pointedly to August 4,
1914, and then make him kill himself for
purely private personal reasons, is simply to
play a trick on the reader, whose intelligence
must have assumed some significance in the
date.
“C.P.’s” retort:—
“Kanthus” (B. 2/10/’l9) is talking through his
hat when he remarks that very few doctors have
contributed to the store of general literature—medi-
cine and literature are intimately associated In
his. meagre list he has left out two of the bright
stars that the science of medicine can claim.
I refer to Keats and Goldsmith, both of
whom qualified in medicine and afterwards
produced good “copy.” Keats was a dresser at Guy’s
Hospital, and took his diploma as licentiate of the
Society of Apothecaries in 1810. He is said to have
practised surgery, but gave it up in less than a year.
Goldsmith, after taking his B.A degree at Trinity
College, Dublin, graduated in medicine either at
Louvain or Padua. He practised his profession at
Bankside, Southwark, but on seeking to obtain a
job on the Coromandel coast they “plucked”\ him in
an examination at the Surgeons’ Hall. He then gave
up the business in disgust—which proved a throw-in
for the sister profession. Coming down to modern
days we have a wealth of medical talent in the field
of letters. Sir William Osier, Regius Professor of
Physic in the University of Oxford, is a good
example of the happy union of science and litera-
ture, while his friend and colleague Sir Clifford All-
butt, who occupies a similar post at Cambridge, is
not behind him with the pen. Sir Frederick Treves,
the erstwhile famous surgeon of the London Hospital,
has written some entertaining books on travel, one
of which is called “The Other Side of the Lantern.”
Dr. Bridges, besides being the Poet Laureate, is the
historian of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. In addi-
tion to Conan Doyle, Dr. de Vere Stacpoole and
Somerset Maugham left the medical profession while
still young, and have made good ah novelists.
Maugham, while a successful dramatist, some-
times has as many as three or four of his plays
running in London at the same time, which is as
good a record as can be found. Dr. Andrew Bal-
four, before he took to specialising in tropical dis-
eases, was a historical novelist, and Stephen Pc get
is a well-known essayist. And the list could
easily be amplified.
“Scribe” : Apparently W. M. Hughes has
not yet recovered from his latter-day grouch
towards pressmen. When Higgs, of Capri-
c’ornia, asked in the Reps, “how the sale of
Australian wool affected the price of wheat,”
as reported to have been stated by the Prime
Minister in Sydney, Hughes replied that the
record which appeared in the press “did not
clearly set out what he had said.” The press-
man’s point of view, of course, is that it
was Hughes who didn’t set out clearly in
his speech what he afterwards claimed to
have had in his mind. His later “explana-
tion of tlie whole position to those interested”
seems to favor the pressman’s account.
“S.T.S.”: The modern typist, taking from
dictation, provides a quite new kind of mis-
print. The compositor or lino, man goes
wrong by the eye: initiate becomes “imi-
tate,” lonely “lovely,” county “country,”
and so on. The new mistakes are made by
ear. About Rupert Atkinson’s patented
idea of having a moving-picture background
for each ordinary play, I dictated that it
would make the cinema screen the hand-
maid of the stage; this was served up as
“scream the hand-made of the stage.” But
the most mysterious person I have met
was in a typed message (taken from the
telephone) asking for “tenesentries.” The
seeming new legal term turned out to be
just a private inquiry about entries for a
tennis tournament.
Business. Bobbery, etc.
ri n ,r i° n a “ dor 1 niade a fin<l the other
day. I rominently displayed in a shop win-
dow were packets of wooden matches adver-
tised as the Moa brand.” Thank God, I
said, here s some home-grown at last. I took
lid" h «: t Hi o i ff h° tho big bird P ict ured on the
thm,r hi, th « e was som ething unfamiliar
about him. lie seemed to wilt—and no
raJfthn'r In small type under his feet
lan lme, Made in Japan. 9f
• : The sandalwood trade in W.A
s booming In earlier days this smellfui
S ’ J 6nt mostly t 0 Obiua and to India
for the n'n > r ° Pol l tl ? n of £¥ timber i 9 va iued
lor the oil it contains, which is largely used
the 4 East e w^r n i’ ° f various leases. ' Since
tie East-West line was run through a lot
ot sandalwood has been coming from the
country between Kalgoorlie and the western
edge of the Nullarbor Plain. As usual the
cutting-out is done regardless of the future.
strZ e , Babaran * iko ’’ : Tbe iate Shipping
t ike was a godsend to owners of launches
i* the Townsville-Magnetic Island ferry
tiade. During the trouble the Townsville-
Cairns fare (either way) was £4 10s. (it is
;n!, f W i' S ° 35 fl brst saloon), travellers hav-
uig to bung their own provisions and “shake
down as- space permitted. It was a
stiemious time for those who ran the boats
but a profit of moo by oue owner iS
iientioned and when a leading question was
put to him lie grinned amicably.
* * #.
‘ Copab l' lla : : Tll ° old man entered the ser-
rmnhl/ f 1 ’ a'™ 38 a st £ iplill S of 20 and
loPini ~ . 4 )' years - Then came a shat-
flimicro i'P.hcuval; the boss died, the business
11 p fn - d n L t ndS ' 33(1 the neW ° Wller bad D 0
use for a shop-assistant aged 65. One Mon-
i a.\ awned on the unbelievable circumstance
mnn „ ol ® shop ? p ® n and bu sy and the old
man a meie outsider looking in from the
pavement. A friend found him a job. and
month ? 6gan to . 3 ° g „ alo ftfc again - Some
months later a traveller dropped in and'
recognised the veteran. “Hello ” said the
drummer, , “still at the old trade?” “Yes
fli 1- - ’ he answered in his gentle way’
t wasnit disengaged long—only a few
ST' • 9*l Tr ntUl ' ed a little confidence. “I
don t mind telling you, Mr. , that had I
dreamt my last position was not a perma-
nent one I should have sought a Kge
years ago!”
* * * •
'' /T'dlmug’s” complaint of
watered sausages (B. 18/9/19)'. Before the
war, several big importing firms were adver-
tismg their own special brands of Yank saus-
age-machine. ihey all quoted one important
feature in common—a water-spraying device
winch enabled the honest manufacturer to
S,/ g n quantlties of water as breakfast
meat. One concern boasted that its par-
ticular jigger foisted 33 per cent, of pump-
juice on the purchaser.
* * * •
J ® t ®' var * : 9' Gault”: Who has informa-
,, ai -r> as , to . pie growth and exploitation of
“c Baobab-tree (Ansonia digitata), which, I
ande^ stand - flourishes in the Gulf’Country!
North Q.? Has any attempt been made to
utilise it commercially? Over here, in Bortu-
guese East Africa, a large co. has been
floated to exploit the vegetable on account of
its paper-making and explosive-making pro-
perties._ A number of Australians are finan-
cially interested in the scheme, and they
would be willing to take a hand in exploit-
ing the plant in the Commonwealth if there
is any reasonable quantity of it growing
* * * v *
Exile’: There are 6,146,000 registered
; au^ m . obde ? bere * n U.S.A. compared with
1,(00,000 ill 1914. Automobiles, tractors
and motor-boats used up 3,500.000.000 gal-
lons of petrol last year. Gasoline or petrol
is the backbone of the oil industry. The
development of the airplane and the farm-
tractor is certain to result in higher prices
foi petrol here, to be reflected in Australia
later on. The output of petrol has in-
creased by 133 per cent, in five years, and
crude oil production by only 30 per cent
No wonder there is an oil boom raging in
Uncle’s land, and there’s no sign of it blow-
Want of oil is the reason why the
U.S. will intervene in Mexico very soon
That country promises to be the biggest oil-
field in the world. Next to passing a pro-
hibitive tariff the Australian Parliament
should set aside a few millions to develop the
Papuan oilfields and the N. S. Wales and
Tas. oil-shale deposits.
THE JAW AND THE PROFITS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The people groaned aloud to see
Food prices soaring high;
By opening a butcher's shop,
A noble ruler sought to stop
Their journey to the sky.
Yet in Bananaland, somehow,
The price per pound of slaughtered cow
Is much as in the days of old;
Veal still proclaims the calf of gold.
Another ruler, in the South,
Was shocked to hear of loot
Made out of footwear; so he, too,
Arose in wrath. To find out who
Was “putting in the boot”
And save the nation’s sole a wise
Commission sat, and found a rise
In leather-prices was to blame!
(The shoe is pinching j'ust the same!)
Then came a Strong Man who consigned
The profiteers to h —l.
He read them lectures by the yard,
With adj'ectives he smote them hard;
The shorthand-writers tell
Of phrases done to death by scores,
Decapitated metaphors,
Similes stretched on a bier—
But not one slaughtered profiteer!
And while the Strong Men rage and rant,
We’re paying through the nose
For things to wear and things to eat,
lor boots and shoes and bread and meat,
For cabbages and clo’es.
If statesmen have sufficient breath
They’ll talk the profiteer to death ;
But, meanwhile, prices upward leap,
And one thing only, talk, is cheap!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


Built up ky Years of Consistent Service.
To-day Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
stand higher in public estimation than
ever before, and have the reputation of
being second to none. This is a big thing
to say of a small pill, but it is never-
theless a fact, and the reason for it is
because the public know by long experience that these pills
always can be relied upon, which is contrary to the case of
most medicines that are popular for a time and then forgotten.
The demand for Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills is steadily
increasing, and the sales in Australasia alone now exceed a
ton per month. No amount of advertising could sustain
such a demand unless the article possessed the qualities
claimed. Exaggerated claims are not made for Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, the object of the proprietors all the
time being to present them to the public as an
every-day household medicine. For a quarter of a century
Dr. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
have been in use in Australasia as a remedy for Liver Ailments. They get
at the cause. They open the ducts, and allow the Bile to flow, aiding and
assisting Nature, not in any degree superseding or weakening the natural
functions. A pill occasionally produces regularity and good health, and,
with reasonable care regarding overtaxing the digestive organs with either
food or drink, a healthy condition can be maintained. This is the secret of
health in man, woman and child, and there is no getting away from it.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA, BY AUSTRALIANS, FOR AUSTRALIANS.


He
Catches
the Eye,
and he will catch
buyers’ eyes at Home-
bush.
Winchcombe,
Carson
will see to that. They
are expert salesmen,
alert and energetic.
CONSIGN STOCK:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Flemington Siding.
///
LTD.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
If you must
rear baby by hand
adopt a food which approaches
most closely to Mother’s Milk,
and which yields positive results.
Mellin’s Food is the tried and
proved equivalent to Mother's
Milk; its success is evidenced
by world-wide recommendation.
Simple to prepare; no tedious
cooking —it is alike a boon to
the nursing mother and satis-
fying to the child.
Mellinis
Food
Write now for sample of Mellin’s Food and
useful Handbook—‘The Care of Infants'—Free.
Than thara'a hia Bottle Mellin’s Feeding
Bottle is the perfect and simple Feeder.
Messrs. Gollim a* Co. Proprietary, Ltd.
SYDNEY
HORROCKSES’ HORROCKSES' HORROCKSf'
HORROCKSLS- HORROCKSES HORRQCKSES'HORROCkSES
ttORROCKSES'
LonqcloChb
ESTABLISHED |7ot
•‘HORROCKSES 1 '
VEOCC
tQRROCKSES HOBROCKSES’ HOR ROC KSE S MORROCKS E:
HORROCKSES' HORROCKSES’HORROCKSES
Mmm
FrosH
mmw
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
Eor our sigk and wounded
BOYS. —When yon have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
Australian
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
(a-Z
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BHAS
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N, KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
the: palace hotel
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
as*hion is correctly interpreted in
Thistle .Phirtr and their quality
ir such that you will want-as
others bearing the .rame label
Procurable in all up-to-date
SPhirt Deparcm&atr
Alenan Jor Stewa fk-S&r.s l!-
Mskors ~Brjsban &
m
3.
Z£
S R76
I
67?
/// ///
&
fl
m
\
%
mi ncivw
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
TO
M.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SGRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
" 4*.
Does This Interest Yon?
The Lightning
Package Packer
will accurately pack 1000
packages per hour:—Self-
raising Flour, Corn Flour,
Cocoa & Powdered Materials.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues.
Schumacher >
Mil! Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.
Port Melbourne, VICTORIA.
PROHIBITION.
[For The Bulletin.]
The prohibitionist to-day
With no new problem grapples ;
A Greater Power failed, they say,
With prohibition, in a way,
When it applied to apples!
victoria. DIDO.
Among the requests for assistance received
by the Salv’army during the recent ’flu epi-
demic in Hobart, was the following: “Please
send me something. We have eight children
and only one father to support them.”
“J.L.” : Met a Digger on the Strand (Lon-
don) loaded in both barrels. He bailed me
up and opened his heart. “Come an’ have
a drink, cobber. I’ll buy a bluejacket all
the shikker lie wants. Yes, the navy
cer’nly helped the Aussies to win the war.”
“Yacko” : Fashions change. When Colonel
Kobe was Governor of S. Aus. (1845-48) the
only time he was known to make a speech
was when a deputation forced him to it.
“Gentlemen,” he said, “I have nothing to
say.”
“0.L.”: The Vic. Protestant Federation,
judged by the rates paid to its organisers,
seems to be verra Scawtch. Lately it has
been seeking a John Knox for the Western
District, at £250 ner annum, which pans out
at a weekly wage of £4 16s. 2d. Consider-
ing the risks and unattractive features of the
job, this compares unfavorably with the
weekly £4 ss. earned by Victorian butchers’
assistants.
“Halcyon” : _As to those ex-sergeant-major
failures (B. 25/9/TO), I had three years as
a unit-commander in France, and met prac-
tically every other C.O. during the period.
I don’t hold any brief for sergeant-majors,
having held a citizen commission for many
years, but agree that most dx-sergeant-majors
made good : as, for instance, the brainy Mars-
den, D. 5.0., of the sth M.G. Battalion, and
"Old Dad” McArthur, D. 5.0.. battalion com-
mander in the 3rd Division. They were both
game and considerate battle-leaders. I also
had several Duntroon graduates closely asso-
ciated with me. There were no flies on any
of them.
“Norm”: The reorganisation of the Vic-
torian police by their new chief is leading
to some queer results. The detectives are
now assisted by 50 plain-clothes men, and
the “crooks” are so uncomfortable that most
of them have shifted camp to the" other
States. The “demons” having spare time
on their hands after the bursting of the
Vendetta mob, are now apparently clean-
ing up old scores. Four detectives boarded
the Wandilla early the other morning with
the object of looking up old and new friends
of the “Dip mob” bound for Sydney. As
they entered one cabin the “head” inside
got the shock of his life when the leading
Sherlock said, “Hello, Mick. We haven’t
seen you since 1907 when you got that
‘pogue.’ You’re wanted for that sentence of
‘once around the clock.’ ” Mick was too para-
lysed to do more than murmur sadly: “I
thought the blanky ' moths had eaten that
‘stiff” (warrant).
“Centurion” on religion at sea :
A Bulletin poet thought he had discovered traces
of Mathew Flinders’s landing on one of the southern
islands in Moreton Bay. He persuaded one of the
local dailies to finance a launch expedition to the
island with a write-up to follow. When this was
agreed to he invited another poet, who added black
and white to his crimes, and myself to make up the
party. We provisioned the launch overnight and
also celebrated the occasion. Next morning, as we
were starting, a chaplain and super-wowser presented
themselves with a letter from the newspaper, which
informed us that the pair were to be added to the
party. We put them on the strength with inward
groans. The parson, who was of some tonnage,
refused the poet’s first offer of “one to go on with”
with evident loathing, and his aide followed suit with
such contemptuous disdain that the poet-artist went
right up for’ard and sat there like a beaten dog dur-
ing the 40-niile trip. We landed at last and organised
two parties to search for the Flinders relics. As
soon as the chaplain and his off-sider vanished in
the scrub we returned to the launch, but had hardly
got on terms with the demijohn of beer when they
came back, driven out by the mosquitoes. That
settled it. We weighed anchor and returned, the
voyage home being worse than the outward trip. The
relics of Mathew Flinders were never written up and
the newspaper raised Gain over the bill.
The Broken Hill strike has had a sort of
birthday, or coming of age, inasmuch as it is
now the longest strike that the Hill has had.
Then 1892 stoppage lasted 18 weeks, and that
record has been passed. The Hill may be
summed up as a sort of national calamity in
this way:—
It is an unpleasant place where men work at an
unpleasant occupation, not so much to supply Aus-
tralia, which uses very little of the product, but for
export. The product used to be exported mostly to
Germans, who used them to attack Australia and the
rest of the empire with.
Australia toils at this beastly common job because
it must export something to pay for imported silks
and woollens and jewellery and machinery and ships.
In other words, it works like a mole underground in
a poisonous atmosphere so that other people may
have the healthy above-ground jobs.
If it made clean healthy ships and such-like to
supply the local demand, then it needn't dig u > -o
much unhealthy dirt at Broken Hill. It would be
more independent as well as healthier.
If it dug up only as much stuff at Broken Hill as
Australia needs then the prices could be fixed locally
and the wages also. While the work is done for
export it is no use kicking about wages in any
large fashion. The wages are fixed by the prices,
and Huns and others fix the prices.
If there were fewer men working for foreigners at
Broken Hill that wouldn’t matter, if the country
acquired a sane policy. All the men dispensed with
and more would be employed at making woollens and
linens and silks for ourselves, and in growing cotton
and flax. And what matter if it took 100 years
longer to exhaust the deposits of Broken Hill? They
won’t run away.
Broken Hill, except in the sense that a trifle of
the output is used locally, is a dry, desolate dis-
contented monument to the Freetrade, importing,
raw-material capitalistic crowd, which holds that the
Australian is a natural animal of burden to shovel
for the superior foreigner while leaving all the nice
clean highly-skilled well-paid jobs to the foreigner.
And the fiscal-sinking Labor leader is that unpatri-
otic crowd's prophet, either because he is a wooden-
headed ass or because he is subsidised by the enemy


m
Wk
m
m
m
wm
m
m
i
%
-
i
i
m
hi
■
>&>
1
1
m
uifil
1
m
mm.
:>S$
@s
gps
1
s;x?s?s
H
I
IS
Just Opened! New Summer Suitings.
Big Choice of English and Australian Tweeds.
ONDON Stores cannot guarantee you such savings next
E
season.
All Woollens will be very much higher. Therefore
you are urged to order now, while this special offer passes
on the full advantage of buying which was done some
time ago—a fortunate fact which takes a good slice off
the price.
Ideal Fabrics for the Australian Summer Season—fine range
of Greys in all shades; Browns relieved with stripes;
smart Fancy Mixtures and Herringbones and Diagonals.
Cut and made to Order by a skilled Tailoring
staff. Satisfaction guaranteed or money re-
funded. Post the Coupon Now for Patterns.
London Suits to Order
84
-—— v JS&.
Opp. G.P.0., Melbourne.
<<*
d°
O'
V
\ e
6
«°A
0
<*
O'
0


Auction Sale of Machine Tools
Percy A. Wells O, Co.
Will sell at Alexandria, Sydney, at 11 a.m., 30th October, 1919, under instructions from
Benson BrotHers Ltd.
\ Large Assortment of NEW Highest Grade Metal-working Machine Tools
consisting of
30 Engine Lathes from 6in. to 12in. centres—“Le Blond,” etc.
16 Turret Lathes and Turret Screw Machines, for Bars from fin. up to 3| in.—“ Warner
Swasey.”
4 Single and Multiple Spindle Automatic Screw Machines from lin. to 44-in.
“National Acme” and “Gridley.”
2 Automatic Chucking and Turning Lathes—“ Potter and Johnston.”
28 High-speed Drilling Machines, Sensitive and Power, from 13-64 in. to 2£in. Single
and Double Spindle—“ Henry and Wright” and “Foote-Burt.”
11 Milling Machines, Plain and Universal, Horizonte 1 and Vertical—“Le Blond,”
“Becker,” etc.
6 Universal Cutter and Tool Grinding Machines—“ Landis” and “Le Blond.” Capacity,
lOin. x 17in. to lOin. x 30in.
17 Assorted Tool, Drill, Disc and Plain Grinding Machines.
2 “Landis” Bolt Screwing Machines.
1 “Gisholt” Vertical Boring and Turning Mill. Capacity, 34in. diameter.
Sundry Foundry Machinery, etc., etc.
The foregoing Machines were intended for Munition-making, and have never been used.
This Sale offers a splendid opportunity to those intending to install complete Manufac-
turing Plants or to add to their existing Plants.
Machines set up and ready for inspection several days in advance of the Sale.
Extended Terms of payment can be arranged if desired.
Detailed Specifications, Illustrations and Cards to inspect obtainable on application to
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.,
Machine Tool Merchants,
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
71-73-75 Queen’s Bridge Road, Melbourne
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
ALL
BRITISH
§m.
;*vV". '
ALL
BRITISH.
Weldless Steel Pipes & Tubes
Made by British Mannesmann Tube Co. Ltd.
Spigot & Faucet Pipes
FOR WATER AND GAS SERVICE
FOUR BIG ADVANTAGES
Economy in laying. Long lengths of 25 to
30 feet reduce labor and jointing materials.
Economy in maintenance. The pipes are
practically unbreakable, whether by traffic or
subsidence, and having a reduced number of
joints, repairs and maintenance are negligible.
Reduced handling costs. These pipes are
only half the weight of Cast-iron Pipes, thus
saving freight, cartage, etc.
Long life. The Pipes are specially coated and
wrapped with jute cloth.
We also stock Special Service Connections,
Lead Yarn, Hemp Gasket, Caulking Tools,
etc.
Weldless Steel Boiler Tubes, Flanged Steam
Piping, Well Casing, Lamp Posts, Hydraulic
Tubes, Steel Cylinders, etc.
Write for descriptive Catalogues and Quotations.
NOYES BROS.,
(SYDNEY) LTD.* 115 Clarence Street, Sydney. (MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD.,
499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling Building, Adelaide. Selling Agents:
J. R. W. GARDAM, Perth; and CHAS E. BERNAYS, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane^
“Yaeko”: To South Aus. belongs the dis
tinetion of having the first Government rail
way built on British soil. It was opened for
traffic April 1, 1856. The Government of
the day had voted £45,000 for the work, but
labor being scarce, owing to the gold rush
in Victoria, the line eventually cost
£204,000 for the 71 miles connecting the
Port with Adelaide.
“Mr. Oeky”: Recently a Geelong (Vic.)
lad had some of Bis fingers shattered by a
dynamite cap which had been found and
given to him by a school pal. About the
same time somebody discovered that gravel
and sand being used on the foreshore beauti-
fication scheme contained scores of rifle car-
tridges. It had been shovelled for ship’s
ballast from the dunes in Belgium.
“The Lamb”: An aeroplane came grace-
fully to earth on a grassy slope at a little
place named Nelson (Eng.). The airmen
told inquirers that they had landed for petrol
and were going on to the pleasure resorts
to give flights to trippers. Pressed, they
could see no reason why they could not give
Nelson an air jaunt, and during the next
day or two they scooped in pounds as long
as they liked to keep the ’bus jigging. They
then sold the vehicle for £ISO, and gracefully
bade the town farewell. Diggers, of course.
“Ox"’: The first charge of illegal flying
was dismissed. It occurred several hundred
years ago when Lord Mansfield had before
him an old woman accused of being a witch.
Among other things she was charged with
riding through the air. Mansfield dismissed
the case, remarking: “My opinion is that
this woman should be suffered to return
home, and whether she do so by walking on
the ground or riding through the air must
be left to her own judgment; for there is
nothing contrary to the laws of England in
either.”
“Exile”: —•
In 1918 237,021 foreigners entered the United
States belonging to 45 different countries, as follows:
Negroes, Armenians, Bohemians, Moravians, Bul-
garians, Serbians, Montenegrins, Chinese, Croatians,
Slovenians, Cubans, Dalmatians, Bosnians, Herzego-
vinians, Dutch, Flemish, East Indians, English, Irish,
Scotch, Welsh, Australians, Maorilanders, Finnish,
French, Germans, Greeks, Hebrews, Italians, Japan-
ese, Coreans, Lithuanians, Magyars, Mexicans, Pacific
Islanders, Polish, Portuguese, Rumanians, Russians,
Ruthenians, Norwegians, Swedes, Danes, Slovak,
Spanish, South Americans (20 sorts of these),
Syrians, Turks and West Indians. And they persist
in calling it an Anglo-Saxon community and the
people Anglo-Saxons!
A rather complicated story about 214
Maltese immigrants was mentioned lately
in the Senate. This handful of white fel-
low-subjects and fellow-Christians arrived in
1916 with a view to working hard and de-
veloping the great natural resources of the
country. A mere 214 aren’t many in a
country of nearly three million square miles.
But after the importer has sold £70,000,000
or £90,000,000 worth of foreign fluff to the
people per annum, and enjoyed his first call
on the market, there is so little work for any
mere inhabitant to do that the handful of
Maltese created a panic in the labor market.
About £7OOO was spent in disqualifying them
and in detaining them on ships and hustling
them to and fro. In the end something not
very well defined happened to them, with
results that might be more specific than
they are. Anyhow the importing interest
was preserved, and the danger of too much
work being done locally was averted.
In 1910 the N. S. Wales Ministry
of the day gained a reputation for
being a jolly good fellow and a friend
of the worker by establishing a fund
into which the railway employee paid 1§
per cent, of his wages in return for benefits
which could not be honestly granted for twice
the amount. This would have been right
enough if it had charged the revenue with
as much as would make the fund solvent,
and found the money ; but it preferred the
usual pose of the genius who does good at
nobody’s expense. The fund was insolvent
by June, 1916; more so in 1917; rather
broke in 1918; very broke in 1919, like the
old Civil Service Superannuation and Police
Superannuation Funds. The amount to lee-
ward isn’t very much as yet, but the service
grows bigger and older, arid there is no very
definite limit to the sum that may have to
be paid. Two or three millions poured into
the fund now might make the situation
right. But who ever faces the situation in
Owestralia ?
“Civvy”: In B. 2/10/T9 “Alienist” dog-
matises as follows: (1) “The onset of G.P.
is extraordinarily insidious” ; (2) “it is due
to V.D. in 90 per cent, of cases”; (3) “it
occurs in middle age.” I have come in per-
sonal contact with four deaths from G.P.I.
in my life; and the assurance of eminent
doctors, here and in London, that all such
cases arise from syphilis has filled me with
an abiding horror of that disease. Three
of the four victims were far from middle-
aged. One of them was just 30. As regards
the alleged gradualness of the onset, here is
an exact account of what happened to this
young man. He was one of a party of half
a dozen who were fishing in Norway 20
years ago. At the beginning of the trip he
was absolutely normal in every way. After
perhaps a fortnight he began to brag about
his bridge—we were learning the game at
the time. The bragging got worse. At
the end of a month he started to buy things
in large quantities, such as lax by the cwt.
and Norwegian ponies by the dozen. Several
of his cheques were dishonored, and he jour-
neyed to the nearest town and harangued the
natives about the iniquity of bankers. We
decided to get him home with all speed. On
the steamer crossing to Hull he had to be
tied up. In Hull he was transferred to a
padded cell —and not a minute before it was
necessary. Within four months of his ar-
rival in Norway he was dead. His brother-
in-law, a doctor, who had been seeing him
pretty constantly during the preceding 12
months was amazed to learn that he had
G.P.1.; and he was even more astonished to
hear, what was common knowledge apparent-
ly among many of the dead man’s friends,
viz., that he had had syphilis at the age of
19. I understand that the modern view in
the profession is that all cases, not only of
G.P.I. but of locomotor-ataxia as well, are
due to syphilis.


At the War.
CHUNDER
HOME.
TAKES
TRIP
iSp®
vC( %
IxbnsK
Snow^^
£'t y '' t ••/
:•
■ jyx<*',v i' fee” -'v•>■*•- : r• ..'
1 1- : -;*>rr. ■<'
rr ; % *£"%- ! w?-. a X fCßft \
%%%&£&& ■
B£a
pr'V-’'?*•'#« “• .*s> i-yi < •
.vr v/x-*!-- • -’ .•••■■'.
yja
•;V
/' ~ •«';
t 'S , ' i .V'».?.l*
V ; .'wf' bi'-'&Wi
... 1
ilp;i
ImViA&ip
p|l|
A' - ,
«"*■ v. ; V ,**\;««■; <yfr-v v •> -'
■•* <«?*: &&s&*■£*&(&
• <•&,'.*/ .>‘»*• .••!* v®;.': ■•*,».* o •
J-y ,y.
S
. >a;o -i.-i: lx..
SJ
O
v*’ . - *= ’:r^.»^.v
z
' v v,.« - 'V'' .i*. v
>
*• / .rr&tfjfr -’
./•l-.«-V * ** ST**”
jr ..' *•v * r-;.; - ..,
r.r'V:/'' '.>rt‘'v^"-l''
•• ;■ s
/i' .;•* , v" : ' i ‘ ls M < '
■iV, ' s Wrs‘.#®s»® w
v i <#•'.•• *.
f %.r
L ,r.; v '
\
ci—fr\,
9^
's. s
>% j. r „
? •>-
,y"*.
ffljti
<*
»■*' -X
■it
\
■ v< v
yS^i ? s>^p
7
sffcr
" ?
?/!
r K
'Y^'&syei '
v s*
f^V‘7
'5. j/ 5
'''•&/£ /
c.
S\
s
@B^
a
■y.
/■fe;
I > .#>7,/ W-A
W &/.&?'{ '••
i.-v <
? \. /-#,* - 1 -" 4?
v. c , A " :
v A \c/
V.V 7|f ■ {
t-
V
:i
7 ?*
2’
■ Ast
to* £
ft
;••:>■••
/f/f
« '
V
V
■ 53 5
/rcsji|
?■
a
Ssr^^nr-:
mmm
T'
m wigS
✓tig
Mil
»38
™sg?
Wmmm
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Sails a British
Airship, too.
When a wind
Sp rings up, you see
Bear and Dog
o
Must careful be.
Though th
e y pull
With all their might,
They are dragged
From left to right.
Gkinder calls:
u You’re doing fine!
Stick to it
Like ‘Cobra’-shine!”


Ready For His Bath
With Cuticura Soap
A
£
Cuticura Soap is ideal
for baby because of its
absolute purity and
, delicate medication.
Assisted by touches
of Cuticura Oint-
ment to rashes,
itchings and chaf-
ings it is all that
is necessary to
promote and main-
tain the purity and
beauty of baby’s skin.
Soap to cleanse and Olntrajmt to heal. "*•
Towns * Co.. Sydney, H. S. VT.' Bold by dealers
throughout the world.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell§ Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
f QUEENSLAND?
THE KEY TO
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
L prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ol the
millions ol acres ol
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE
JVame - 1
Address — —— 1
Queensland Government
ktctfiiatce «nd Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE /]
Public Notice.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY OF NEW
SOUTH WALES LIMITED.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
/t\hE THIRTY-SECOND ORDINARY GENERAL
1 MEETING of Members will be held in the Royal
Exchange on Monday, 20th October, 1919, at noon.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance-sheet to 30th
September, 1919. . _ ,
To elect one Director in place of J. Moir, Esq., who
retires under Clause 82 of the Articles of Association,
and who offers himself for re-election.
To elect one Director in place of 0. E. Friend,
Esq. (appointed to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of T. F. Knox, Esq.), who offers himself for
e ’ C To' elect Auditors in place of Messrs C. A. Le M.
Walker & Co. (who retire under Clause 131 of the
Articles of Association), and to fix the amount of
their remuneration. „ ~ , .
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given in accordance with the
Articles of Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
Rv order of the Board, the Share Register will be
closed from Bth October to 22nd October inclusive.
Permanent Trustee Building,
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3rd October, 10X9.
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone by taking
Dhosfonno
I THE ROYAL TONIC
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worry with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
czn o/vc-
g|( ca-c. gr^>-
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND |j C'A-C 1 | TZ BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
aluminium; GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES ;
VICTORIA— CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - -
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
=<czrj o^-0
c-a-c- L
0
jC-A'C-
BALL
BEARINGS
The factory engineer who installs 5.K.F.
SeK-Aligning Ball Bearings throughout
his plant has done the utmost towards
reaching highest efficiency with maximum
economy, for S.K.F.’s save from 50% to
100% of their value yearly.
S.K.F. Ball Bearings are made from Swedish
Crucible Steel, are accurately finished and uniformly
hard throughout.
S.K.F. Bearings do NOT become hot,
hende they prevent loss of power due to ex-
cessive friction. They assure smooth, free
running, saving of power, saving of belts and
supreme durability.
Specify S.K.F. Bearings (the World’s
best) for every part of your plant that
needs bearings.
SKF
WECP
GARDNER,
W/ERN
&CO.,
Power and Light
Engineers.
MELBOURNE-
-384 City Road
Showrooms—
-369 Flinders Street
SYDNEY- „ .
225 Clarence Street
BRISBANE —
367 Queen Street
Talking about the complaint that Portugal
did not get a cent indemnity at the Peace
Conference recalls the remark made by the
Fritz General in German East Africa after
surrendering to the British. He said that
he had tried several times to surrender to
the Portuguese, but could never catch them.
“Rego”: Re-visiting Hobart after an
absence of five years, I desired to use the
public telephone at the G.P.0., but found I
had no coppers. I made for the stamp
counter and asked for change of three-
pence ; the tortoise in charge did not have
it; neither did any of the other three snails.
At the last counter I exploded and con-
gratulated them on their progressiveness and
good business methods. Eventually I rushed
into the main street, bailed up a tram-car
and got the coppers. The whole Speck wouldn’t
support one self-respecting bushranger.
“8.T.”: An effort to standardise motor
horns has been made in the Vic. Leg. Coun-
cil, and has failed to come off, but the need
of a happy means for assorted mechanical
screams, snorts, whistles, howls, grunts,
whoops, rattles, bellows and snarls put out by
motorists is admitted by all pedestrians, and
there are those amongst us who have de-
veloped a sort of nerve trouble, the new
locomotor-ataxia, as a result of the continual
apprehension set up by auto horns. I was
walking with one of these unhappy ones far
from the madden’d crowd the other day,
when a maternal goose came suddenly hiss-
ing at our heels. My friend sprang a yard
high, and “D—n the motors!” said he.
“Bill Bowyang’s” yarn :
You don’t hear much about the chaps who perform
heroic deeds in Barrier Reef waters, wherefore let
me spin this tale. Some years back a man
named Joe Stepheny was in charge of a skiff which
capsized in Gloucester Passage during a squall. Step-
heny’s two comrades in the boat could not swim,
•so Joe hoisted them to the keel of the
upturned craft, then dived and cut away the sails
with a clasp-knife. Though it was 10 miles to
the nearest land', Stepheny stripped and swam the
distance. He landed at a pilot-station in an ex-
hausted condition. The pilot-boat rescued the others.
Here’s another. Whilst the trepang lugger Doris
was working in Barrier Reef waters some months
back the Jap skipper was swept overboard at night.
An aboriginal, hearing the brown man’s cries in
the darkness, dived to his assistance. The lugger
hovered around the spot until daylight, when the
abo. was spotted in the water about half a mile
away, holding the unconscious Jap with one arrn
whilst he feebly paddled with the other. Binghi was
in the water for six hours, and his luck must have
been in, for the waters close to the reef are in-
fested with sharks.
“H.IL”: It is not impossible thut, now
the greai strike is over, Britain may tear up
some of its railroads, and sell the steel and
iron and grow carrots on the permanent way.
In small, densely-peopled countries railways
have had their day. They have become
superfluous, like kings; but it required a
sudden shock to bring the matter home to
the people. Britain has excellent roads, some
inherited from the Romans, who left roads
everywhere; and for the first time it has
something faster than a horse to run on
them. When the motor-car proved that it
could travel as fast as the train, with the
advantage of being able to vary its route,
the over-rated thing that Stephenson made
his name by was doomed. The airship, which
is even more versatile than the motor-car,
has come to take over light traffic jobs. Then
Britain, which is the same size as Victoria,
has suddenly remembered that it possesses
nearly 5000 miles of canals —that is to say,
it has more mileage of canal than Victoria
or N. S. Wales has of railway and has been
making very little use of them in recent
years. It is crowded with rivers, more or
less navigable, and it is pretty nearly all
coast line and harbor. The little coaster
that Jacobs wrote about has been regarded
rather as a joke in recent years, but it is
quite serviceable. The Briton is a seafarer
by instinct, though he may have overlooked
the fact in recent years, and he can always
return to his old element. Last of all, he
prides himself on being a pedestrian who
takes his mythical cold “tub” on rising, and
then puts on his belltopper and walks ten
miles (in novels, if not in reality) before
breakfast. Taking one thing with another
he doesn’t require railways so much as he
thought he did.
“Gouger” : During five weeks of the sea-
men’s strike my mates and I, in Far North
Queensland, had to live on wild pig, fish
and yams. Often we went close to starva-
tion. The position set us thinking that we
would have been in exactly the same posi-
tion if an enemy squadron had been blockad-
ing our coast. In that case, the
women and children of the little north-
ern towns would be deprived of ordin-
ary food, and would _be compelled to
rely on the bush- —which would mean
death. Northern Queensland is not
connected to the South by railways. Between
almost all the northern towns on the coast
are practically impassable mountain ranges.
To get from, say, Townsville to Cairns, or
Cairns to Cooktown overland, the traveller
has to go hundreds of miles inland to dodge
the coastal ranges. The track overland to
Cooktown, after leaving Mt. Carbine, is a
faint, seldom-used pack-horse trail of 130
miles. So the idea of a transport column
hurrying up from the railway terminus
(Gladstone) to the inhabitants of Cape
York Peninsula in the event of an enemy
cutting off communication by sea is. ridicu-
lous. A fleet transport of aeroplanes would •
be the only possible means of doing the
trick. I hope the Defence authorities have
got them. What is going to happen if a
strong enemy force lands anywhere on the
unpeopled shores of the vast Northern Terri-
tory? A fairly strong naval Power would
easily checkmate our fleet before Great
Britain could arrive. It would be a mat-
ter of months before Australia could move
an army across the hundreds of miles of
railless and inhospitable country that lies
between North and South, and it would
arrive, to find the enemy in possession of all
the great cattle-stations. That would mean
sufficient meat supplies to last the invading
army for years. It’s about time that big
overland line was built.


Stop Torturing
Toothache Quickly.
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfort.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug C 0.., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
o
OT 1
§3
Influenza is about—lock
your door at once with
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy.
It will drive away coughs, colds and
croup, and keep the germs of influenza
from your home.
Don’t delay —get a bottle to-day.
Jen -—
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
ant when this remedy is at hand all danger
may be avoided.
Be Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severed
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
YV'b Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’. HALL, LONDON, E.C,
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worM.
CAPILLARINE
for
Quick
Results.
<r
A. splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIL-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache," and start using CAPILLARINE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established, over SO years.
r;
The “PLUM”
RAZOR.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
Thousands of “Plum" Razors are sold annu-
ally, retaining their position of supremacy
through sheer consistency of merit. Try the
“Plum,” and you’ll stick to it.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case. 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/-
All the above Post Free.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
SAFEGUARD YOUH HEALTH
QtJ.CoJIis Browne’s
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS ami
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains ol GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
i ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IS
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, lji, 3/-, 5/-.
Made in England .
Used the
.World Over
m
B
MOTOR
...CARS
m
For Kiddies
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children ; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Largest Manufacturers of HIGH-SPEED ENGINES in
AUSTRALIA
For Mines, Collieries, Irrigation, Waterworks, Sewerage, Factories,
Electric Lighting and Generating Sets, Power Plants, etc.
Steam Consumption and Full Satisfaction Guaranteed—WHY IMPORT?
Steam-driven Pumping Set, comprising Triple Expansion Q.R. Forced
Imbricating Engine, speed 450 r.p.m. Direct connected to Two-stage
Turbine Centrifugal Pump, delivering 450,000 gallons per hour at a
pressure of 651b. per square inch.
Q
j : ’ ,
/V—i
S--V
&j
> \
w: X
*mX ; '
...Wl*'.
i *
I m 1
f
ljn~S <
Vertical direct connected steam-driven Electric Generating Set.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(CASTLEMAINE)
PROP. ETD.,
Telegrams
and
Cables:
“THOMPSONS
CASTLEMAINE.
m
ffii s
z m
KM
Telephone:
CASTLEMAINE
EXCHANGE,
Nos. 9 and 113.
ENGINEERING WORKS,
CASTLEMAINE, VICTORIA, Australia
Enquiries invited for any Machinery Requirements.
OUR ENGINES CAN BE SEEN AT WORK IN ALL THE STATES.
r
-
Vertical Steam-driven Multi-stage Pumping Set, with Gear-driven Feed Pump.
Vertical Triple Expansion Quick Revolution Engine,
650 b.h.p. at 400 r.p.m.
AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA AND ABROAD
MELBOURNE:
Gibson, Battle (Melb.)
Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
Gibson, Battle 8 Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co.
of Australia Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown, Bureau Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister S Co. Ltd.,
Singapore, etc.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman, Sons 8 Deekes,
Fenchurch Street.


Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Bracelet, 15ct.
Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-c u t Dia-
mond Necklet,
15ct. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £3/15/-
A. Saunders 15ct. Gold
Links, set pure double-eut
Diamond, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine
double-c u t Di a-
mond Single-stone
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-c lit Di a-
mond Single-stone
Ring, 18et. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders' fine
double-c ut Di a-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£23.
A. Saunders’ fine
Diamond Crossover
Ring, IBet. Gold,
£2.0.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid uoid pure double-cut Diamond
Set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement,
£35. Others, £2O, £25, £3O, £4O, £5O.
A. Saunders'
double-cut
Diamond
Scarf Pin,
] fict. f!old,
£7/10/-
We guarantee all our Watches.
A. Saunders
fine Di anion
Scarf Pin,
loct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Cluster Brace-
let, 15ct. Gold, £l5.
*2B
t. Saunders’ Gent.'s
fine double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £5O.
Smaller, £lO,
£l5, £2O, £3O.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18cc.
Gold, £2O, £25,
£3O, £4O.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders loot. Gold
Links, set pure double-cut
Diamond, £4.
Larger Diamond, £5,
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Dia-
mond King, 18et.
Gold. £25.
Others, £lO,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £lO, £l5,
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Diamond
Necklet, 15ct. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch, Isct.
Cold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Colt!
Pendant, set Diamond,
£35. Very effective.
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Knife-
edge Bar Broocch, 15ct. Gold, £tO.
Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold double-cut
Diamond Set Expanding Watch Wristlet, full-
jewelled lever movement, compensation bal-
a nee, £l7/10/-
Extra quality, £25.
Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Bin-
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine dou. .c-eut Diamond Knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5,
A. Saunders’ 16et. Gold
Locket, set Diamond
and Rubies, or Sap-
phires, £5/10/-
All Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street (o>p. Railway Station). Sydney.
Bumble knows where the votes are. In
its City Council the other day Richmond
(Vic.) decided, after long discussion, to fly
the towu flag for 48 hours in the event of
the local football club gaining the premier-
ship. Heaven only knows what mad jubila-
tion there will be if the local bowling club
also wins the pennant!
Amusement*.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
I" I VOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinGes Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.30.
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
The Latest and Greatest Musical Play.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
-|*IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
LONDON’S LATEST DAZZLING REVUE,
BUZZ, BUZZ.
Prices as usual.
QRIT E It 1 O N
T II E A T It K. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
AGAIN THE LAUGH MAKERS,
M. B. FIGMAN and
LOLITA ROBERTSON in
A TAILOR-MADE MAN.
A HIGH-SPEED COMEDY,
ENTIRELY IN THE FIGMAN MANNER.
Plan at Paling’s.
|_| E K MA.IES T Y ’ 8. BYI>N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinCes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
THE
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
GOING UP.
Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
A L A C E THEATRE, S Y D N E Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
J. & N. TAIT present
DADDIES.
A Fragrant Romance. A Sparkling Comedy.
A New Comedy Featuring a New Company.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
u
NIONI’ICTURE T H 15 A T ft E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILM&.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Austr; lia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Crosp Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
HlSIt MAJESTY’S Til EAT KB, JIKIJiOUKNE
Direction J. C. WILLTAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present for a brief
revival only,
KATINKA.
Elan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Til 10 ATIt I, It OVA L, MKLHOU ICN IC.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
I. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Famous Play
of Sentiment, Pathos and Humor,
LIGHTNIN’.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
KINO’S THEATRE. MELItOU It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present the Delightful Comedy,
OLD LADY 31.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan s.
OVT’S Til EAT RES, MEL BO U ItN E
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
EVELYN NESBITT in
THE WOMAN WHO GAVE.
CHAS. RAY in
NINE O’CLOCK TOWN.
Prices as usual,
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
DESERT GOLD.
Beaumont Smith’s Australian Racing Drama.
MATINEES DAILY AT 2.30. NIGHTS AT 8.
Plans at Allan’s.
QLYMRIA,
WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
WIRTHS* NEW CIRCUS LTD.
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY, OCTOBER 18
(Caulfield Cup Night).
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
ELBA
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
fVI
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
•he productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
-|-HEATRE ROYAL, CHRISTCHURCH.
THE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY,
including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER- WATTS,
Touring New Zealand —11th week in
HINDLE WAKES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY,
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING.
Amusements.
IACIAR'IUM, MELBOURNE.
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING. ,
EVERY EVENING,
8.10 to 10.45.
DI GILIO’S SPECIAL BAND.
Admission 17-
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tickets ... 3/6
■y OW N HALL, MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY—2.3O and 8 p.m.
E. J. CARROLL presents
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
a Screen Classic In eight Acts, adapted from
C. J. Dennis’s world-famous verses.
Now showing to capacity houses, hundreds being-
turned away nightly.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
P> KIT ANN IA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Missing Friends.
IF MRS. MAY DERN (formerly May
Reece), wife of Conrad Dern of Isisford.
Queensland, who left Isisford for Chiltern.
Victoria, on 29th November, 1908, will at
once communicate with the undersigned she
will hear of something to her advantage.
Should she be dead, any person able to
afford proof of her death is earnestly re-
quested to write immediately to
RONALD F. SWANWICK, Solicitor,
Blaekall, Central Queensland.
McKERNAN, Olive Clapton, daughter of Violet
Louisa Campbell, will hear of something to her
advantage bv communicating with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY.
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
IF this should meet the eye of FARRELL
DOLAN, or anyone knowing his address,
kindly communicate with GAVAN DUFFY,
KING & CO., Solicitors, Melbourne, and
information to be supplied by them is to his
advantage. He carried on mining operations
for years at Menzies, and was last heard of
from Perth about four years ago.
Amusements.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB.
FLEMINGTON.
CUP WEEK.
Derby Day Ist November
Cup Day 4th November
Oaks Day 6th November
Steeplechase Day . . Bth November
Stakes Will Amount to About
£32,000.
The Magnificent Improvements Add Much
to the Comfort of Visitors.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
Legal Notice.
mO RABIN A ALEXANDRA BEAU-
X MONT, daughter of Frederick Beau-
mont, deceased, and formerly of Palmerston
North, New Zealand, and all persons claim-
ing by, through or under her.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
25th day of September. 1919. by a Judge of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of January,
1920, your claims to the estate of Frederick
Beaumont, formerly of Palmerston North and
late of Wanganui, who died on or about the
24th day of May, 1918, leaving a Will which
has been duly proved, failing which the
estate will be distributed amongst those
entitled thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 27th day of
September, 1919.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, N.Z.
For Sale.
To Squatters or Anyone Desiring an
Ideal Home.
FOR SALE.—A charmingly picturesque
RESIDENCE, situated in one of the
leading suburbs, within a few miles of the
city, with a long frontage to the Brisbane
River.
Area of Land 3| Acres, beautifully laid
out in flower garden, lawns., shrubs, shade
and fruit trees.
The house contains ten main rooms, with
10-feet verandahs all round, substantially
built and in perfect order.
Telephone, Acetylene Gas Plant; Electric
Light shortly available. For further par-
ticulars,
Apply “OWNER,”
Box 768, G.P.0.,
No Agents. Brisbane.
; If any illustration appearing in The
| Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
i Manager, who will quote you price for it.


V-
f/Yeaswe after
jQusmes’s
BREWED FROrt PUCE OAIT i HOPS ONLY
I? «
t>S
§£ W
c
jy
\
MKIttniR
mQ
&
'Ns
H
$3
■S
CO
N
L
Jk
k'v
E3»
=03
c
=va
CFO
Cv3
“AUSTRALIA’S OWN”
“ WARRIGAL” WOOL UNDERWEAR.
In the forthcoming display of All-Australian goods wool under-
wear will take an important part; particularly the “Warrigal”
brand of the pure Australian wool.
Peapes’, proprietors of this underwear, quote a special light-
weight texture for Summer. The value is unique—prices being
far below those charged for imported lines.
LIGHT-WEIGHT PURE WOOL UNDERSHIRTS
Half-sleeves—
34. 36. 38. 40. 42. ,44 inches.
12/- 12/- 13/- 14/- 15/- iG/-
UNDERPANTS TO MATCH—
13/- 13/6 14/- 15/- 16/- 1(7/-
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state chest and waist measurements.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's "Going Up”
Criterion “A Tailor-made Man”
Palace "Daddies”
Tivoli “The Officers’ Mess”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's "Katinka”
R° YAII “Lightnin’ ”
King's “Old Ladv 31”
Tivoli “Buzz Buzz”
Hoyt s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Town Hall "The Sentimental Bloke”
Glaciarium Dancing
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
M. B. Figman continues to turn Sydney
Criterion into a Commercial College, and
demonstrate to large classes the way
in which a man may rise in the world
of business. Lolita Robinson, principal
assistant at the academy, continues to be
lovely in her appearance and restful in her
methods. Accredited tipsters forecast that
“A Tailor-made Man” is in for a record
run.
** * *
“The Sentimental Bloke” will mooch on
to the screen at Sydney Royal on Saturday,
and there should be a big roll-up to see the
Australian-made film. Producer Raymond
Longford found an ideal Bloke in Arthur
Tauchert, and Lottie Lyell is a dainty
I >oreen. The season begins at the matinee.
There will be a good orchestra, and Carrie
Lancely and her Melody Maids are to sing.
* * m= *
There is a full passenger list at Sydney
Majesty’s for every “Going Up.” Moreover,
all the bands round town are blowing the
melodies, and they sound very well except
when a Hunnish concertina squeals a vote
of censure from across the street.
MS Ms MS Ms
Domesticity is raging at Sydney Palace,
where the bachelors of “Daddies” continue
to acquire ready-made families. If the
stage has any influence on the birth-rate the
N.S.W. vital statistics of a year hence
should make cheerful reading for patriots.
“The Officers’ Mess” continues to open the
wine off entertainment at Sydney Tivoli, and
there is always a good muster to see how
dancers Valentine Adami and Andree Flo
manage their feet.
Ms Ms Ms Ms
The interjections of a Sydney critic: —
Norman Lindsay has a show of etchings at Gay-
field Shaw’s rooms in Penzance Chambers, Sydney;
and they take the breath. Nobody has portrayed
horrors with such a mastery of color-values in black
and white. Not even Hogarth was Lindsay’s equal in
that. His women walk frankly in the pride of the
flesh; his men have a satyr gleam in the eye, an
ape-like touch of the hand. The Seven Deadly Sins
are here depicted by a poet-artist who sees them with
an hereditary Scotch conscience. Greatest of all
in the show is “The Death of Pierrot.” But “Dan-
seuse” and “The Bride” are pieces of exquisite work-
manship, though in an exhibition so altogether good
it is hard to make comparisons. Already, of course,
the sold tabs are stuck all over the remarkable col-
lection.
* Ms * H:
Sydney Lyceum is screening Muriel Starr’s
“ Buzz-Buzz ” at Mel-
bourne Tivoli.
Arthur Aldridge sings
about the Heart of
a Rose.
long suit. “Within
the Law,” with
Alice Joyce as
the girl who was
changed from a
poor and honest
wash -your - cotton-
stockings - in - the -
bedroom-basin shop-
girl to a woman
with a silken-
hosed banking ac-
count and an utter
indifference to the
6.30 morning alarm’..
The Strand and
Crystal Palace also
deal in crooks, and
show Anita Stew-
art as “Mary Re-
gan,” another
young lady who
seeks her diver-
sions among law-
breakers, but ends
up by marrying
one of the Force.
Hoyt’s and the
Haymarket show
pretty Enid Ben-
n e 11 “Happy
Though Married,”
and at the Globe
is another Sydney
good-looker, Louise
Lovely, the lady in
“Johnny on the
Spot.”
The Bad Girl of the Family is now tell-
ing her old, old story at Sydney Opera House.
f At Melbourne Majesty’s a revival of
. Katinka” comes not too soon after the first
innings of the melodious production. Apart
froni its enduring grip on the public ear,
Katinka ’ has good, wearing stuff in its
story and stage pictures. The material is
of strong texture, as musical plays go, and
is stylish in design. Besides, the revival has
changes in the cast, and the performance as
a whole loses nothing by them. What it
loses by having G. Welch in the part that
1. Smith used to bustle in, it gains by
getting L. Holland in the job which Welch
used to perform. This sounds horribly
rough on the spry little dark man (who
makes a particular hit in his dance with
h lorence Young), but it only means that
he is the victim of circumstances. Smith
had the more suitable personality for the
character of the Yankee who elopes in purity
i nnoceilc e with Gladys Moncrieff; and
Holland has a more effusive style than
Welch’s for the comparatively straightfor-
ward part of the man in quest of ballets.
Gladys Moncrieff and Roberts racketty-coo
together as of old, Florence Young is the
plump and unimpeachable matron who gets
locked up in a harem by mistake, Ralston
is again bowled out for bigamy in the in-
terests of the racketty-cooers, John Ford?
resumes his task of putting them on the
first wife’s track, and Oliver Peacock is the
same terrible Turk he ever was. Olive God-
win, by the way, appears no more as the
sorrowing first wife of Ralston, the poor
lady who found sanctuary in another fel-
low’s harem and amused herself by singing
from the balcony while some dear little
Turkish Circassian flappers supplied a dance
accompaniment. It was a poor wandering
sort of part save for the ballad from the
balcony, so the difference between the ori-
ginal first wife and the new one doesn’t
matter. Eva Webber warbles the balcony
“ GOING- UP," AT SYDNEY MAJESTY'S.
Robinson ( Field Fisher) tries to cheer up
the spurious aviator (Alfred Frith),
who is about to go up.
song very sweetly, whilst Hazel Meldrum
figures in the centre of the movement in the
street below. As for the dance at Leslie
Holland’s cabaret, the lady is again Maie
Baird, and Robert Jackson helps hex'.
It looks as though “Old Lady 31” will last
out the month at Melbourne King’s. Young
love has enjoyed an arrogant monopoly of
human interest in stage-life for many years,
for even where the limelit principals
looked old enough to know better they
usually had to be accepted as tender ex-
ponents of love’s young dream. Elderly, not
to say ancient, affection is now getting a look
in. There are also a pair of fresh and early
lovers in “Old Lady 31,” but they have no
more to do with the case than a bit of parsley
on a dish of cold meat.
❖❖ V *
“Lightnin’,” at Melbourne Royal, threat-
ens to run right through race-time. Any
managerial hint to the contrary will be at
once communicated to Our Readers.
Touching “Buzz Buzz,” at Melbourne
Tivoli, the arrival of George Gee may be
mentioned. The comedian with a name so
appropriate to the horsey season is also a
grotesque dancer, and the programme is all
the better for the addition. Previously it
was none the worse for the disappearance
of Minnie Love’s very mushy song in favor
of another ditty, which introduces her as
a. young min in khaki, seated alone with
his meditations.
❖
Wirths’ Circus opens its annual visit to
Melbourne on Saturday night, in the Olym-
pia building, which was originally built for
it. The menagerie travels with the circ.,
which is said to be bigjjet than ever, but
whether the menag. also is bigger than ever
the announcement doesn’t state. Maybe it
only smells bigger. Anyhow, the whole out-
fit is coming, and Melbourne has been duly
warned to watch for full particulars.
sj: 5-: :Jc :Jt
At both the Hoyt houses in Melbourne
this week' Fatty
Arbuckle is doing
his funniest in
“Love,” and Eve-
lyn Nesbit and her
son Russell Thaw
are keeping the
Thaw tradition
green in “The
Woman Who
Gave.” But Doro-
thy Dalton in
“Hard Boiled” fis
a De Luxe picture
only. The most im-
portant of various
considerations on
the Majestic screen
is “The White
Heather,” with its
uncanny duel of
divers in the ocean
depths, and its
other memories of
Bland Holt spec-
tacles. Beaumont
Smith’s racing
dram a, “Desert
Gold,” gets a show
at the Majestic
next week.
“The Sentimen-
tal Bloke” is carry-
ing the rest of the
entertainment on
its strong Austra-
lian back at Mel-
bourne Town Hall.
Everybody loves
“A Tailor-Made Man"
at Sydney Criterion .
lan MacLaren as the
snarling Sonntag.
the picture told in verse, and when the verse
is slangiest and sauciest it gets the loudest
laugh. One has to be a seasoned, even a
hardened, student of the movies to keep pace
with some of the silent domestic melodramas
from foreign lands, but the romance related
in quotations from the book of Dennis hits
the most inexpert visitor in his understand-
ing with unerring aim.
Another Melbourne Show :
In the Australian Art Association exhibition at the
Melbourne Athenaeum Clewin Harcourt’s display of
Spring goods in his large portrait, “September,” is
just a trifle too “slirieky.” Harry B. Harrison has
a finer sense of repose and color in the large portrait
of his wife, who is posed in the manner of Whistler’s
mother to disclose the sweeping profile of the velvet
gown. Harrison’s studies of David Low and Hal Gye
are decidedly happy, but his “Jester” was surely
brought up on the Anous. Leslie Wilkie’s one suc-
cess is “Great Grandmother’s Frock” —a simple bit
of painting. Ruth Sutherland’s view of Edward Goll
would alarm a phrenologist, but her “Audrey” is
graceful treatment. Norman Carter sends two
smallish portraits from Sydney, and Constance Jen-
kins (San Francisco) is represented by a “Peri,”
whose Hibernian clothes are notable. Florence Rod-
way’s “Fancy Dress” is a symphony in cream, but
the figures seem rather conscious of having their
portraits taken. Miss Asquith Baker’s “Study in
Green and Grey” etherealises a summer girl, but
Cumbrae Stewart is more definite and bewitching
with her “Lady in Pink.” Like Dora Wilson, Miss
Stewart has induced a couple of models to disrobe,
but the subsequent revelations are exceedingly “miss-
ish.” Miss Stewart takes the prize for prudish
fatuity in the meaning and the manner of “Model
Alarmed.” Jo Sweatman’s “Violinist” is passable
and Bernard Hall’s study of a red-haired lady omits
naught of her dorsal emaciation. The landscape
painters make the greatest impression. The swelling
green pastures of Mclnnes’s canvas, “As the Sun
Goes West,” is not more enjoyable than the big opal
distances of Nicholls Anderson’s formidable subject,
“Australian Summer.” Penleigh Boyd’s “Breath of
Spring” is inclined to bellow the yellow of the
wattle, but his three smaller water-colors are delight-
ful in their decorative beauty. The same might be
said of McClintock’s studies, though this artist is
more insistent on the subtleties of atmospheric
effects. W. Knox has a graver, warmer tone in “The
Shadows Lengthen,” and realists might maintain
that he has too much glow. Edward Officer’s brush-
work.shows up strongly in two or three taking can-
vases ; and the more effulgent palette of Norman Mae-
george gets a chance for expression in the vivid im-
pression of a Chinese market-garden. Will Ashton
contributes one of his favorite Seine scenes, but he
is rather woolly in his aspects of winter in
Cornwall. C. Hampel’s “Mallee Frost” is more
attractive, and the quality of Napier Waller’s “Near
Bapaume” is also very good. Harold Herbert’s water-
colors grow more charming with every exhibition.
A. M. Boyd’s “Whaler” ik also interesting, and the
etchings of John Shirlow and H. Rose demonstrate
that pictures can be discovered in the most unex-
pected places.
*!•
Verbrugghen’s 80 struck Adelaide in the
middle of the first week of the opera season ;
hut Adelaide opened its purse and crowded
both. The human cyclone, as Prof. Davies
called the Belgian at a Conservatorium wel-
come, had public and critics using up their
superlatives at the Town Hall. The pro
grammes were in the main popular, with
things new to Adelaide by Ravel and Ber-
lioz and Tschaikowsky. At the Royal.
Harry Musgrove, visiting the city again aftei’
a long interval, has for his- chief duty the
pacifying of the public who cannot get into
the opera. There has been fine work by
Balbohi, Carl Forthes, Lois and Wheatiey;
and by Leah Myers* Strella Wilson and Ahiy
Castles. Slapoffski conducts with his old-
time vigor, and it is a pleasure, after the
lean yeats* to hear h full-size male chorus.
The Brisbane Boys’ Grammar School had
1002 old scholars at the war. A library
is to be built as a school war-memorial, and
a book containing the records and photos of
the boys is being compiled.
“How are the people being treated with
regard to woollens?” asked Prendergast in
the course of an anti-profiteering speech in
the Vic. Assembly. “They are being fleeced,”
answered Martin Hannah.
Thanksgiving from Hobart Mercury :
I desire to thank all the staff of the Elizabeth-
street Hospital, especially Dr. , Sister ,
Sister —■ — and Nurse , for the kindness and
untiring attention and perseverance in the ’ sale
recovery of our dead daughter and sister. C. H. —-■ ■,
One little d made all the difference,
“Wayth”: The way-back mine-mahager
has to keep his end up against all-comers;
as one in the Speck recently discovered.
Having “dressed down” an engineer the mine
cap’n was invited to “put ’em up.” The
mine boss emerged from the hostilities With
a pair of beautiful blfie-blacks, and on the
way to the dressing-station he was heard to
remark: “The job is worth more
moneys ”
“Karee”: The cook at Beaucourt Chateau
was a wizened old dame who proudly boasted
of having ruled her kitchen for 50-odd years,
and she looked it. Every morning she called
the roll of her array of dazzling copper pans.
One day she found one “struck off the
strength,” and waxed eloquent about the
Aussies’ taking ways. One of them (Fritz
was at that time chasing the Fifth Army
over the horizon) said: “Never mind,
mother. Boches promenade here tout suite,
finish all your saucepans.” The old lady
flared up : “No, no ! Boches never promenade
here. Australians beaucoup brigands, shake
pig, shake chook, but also Australians beau-
coup tres bons soldats!”
“Driver”: There were many occasions
when we had to use strategy to keep our
tucker-bins stocked; and this was one of
them. We were going up to relieve a Tommy
division that had been badly knocked, and
was said to have the wind up. The Tom-
mies were making preparations for departure
just as our hungry advance section arrived
after a fatiguing march. As we came in we
sniffed a savory meal, steaming hot and
ready to be issued, and We wanted that meal
badly. Scouts were, as usual, sent forward
to reconnoitre, while our officers took over
from the Tommies. Their confab was sud-
denly interrupted by a succession of yells:
ear-splitting motor-horn blasts were heard
in the distance, and out of the dust and
noise emerged an excited despatch-rider who
was shouting: ‘‘Frits has broken through!
He’s on top of us —nearly !” Without wait-
ing to gather up their kitchen utensils, and
forgetting all about the savory dinner, the
Tommies lost no time in scuttling to the
rear, while the famished Diggers devoured
the plunder. We issued the despatch-
rider a double ration for his initiative.
“Vingt-cinq” : The idea that Belgium was
inhabited by none but ardent patriots is bad
enough to be cut out. Many a Belgian
trader dreaded the time when the Hun occu-
pation would cease. We had been at Mar-
chienne-au-Pont about four days when some
local boys back from the war decided to show
the village traders what they thought of them
After a couple of plate-glass windows had
been broken in the main street, a pastry-
cook’s three-storey shop and dwelling were
tackled. In less than five minutes beds and all
kinds of furniture were hurtling from upstair
windows, while youngsters were filling bags
and baskets with pastry and other plunder.
Next day all business houses were closed,
and as the authorities heard whispers tha,
another “riot” would take place during tbe
afternoon they requisitioned a number of
Diggers to help the local police. During the
afternoon the police heard that the next
place marked for a raid was a butcher’s
shop. The Diggers were taken by the chief
constable and. formed in a half-circle around
the front of it. We inquired of the polic'
about the back entrance, but were assured
everything would be O.K. if the crowd in
front were kept back. A few minutes later
we heard a crash as the butcher’s front win-
dows and shutters were sent flying from in-
side and a stream of people rushed out of
the wrecked premises festooned in sausages.
The harlequinade was worth the wait. We
winked at the police as the “rioters” mixed
with the crowd and faded a wav.


The Powers Unseen!
wmm
iHS
<
mam
Hk* *
A
r
:tmm /
W&Jjft f
United States Tyres
are Good Tyres
’. a
i :
The “Chain” is built from the
inside out to give wear and
service—to resist hard usage —
and save needless depreciation.
Obtainable from aii leading garages and
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited ,
53 York Street, SYDNEY; and 130-2 William Street, MELBOURNE.
W. A. SORRELL, 157 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND : Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Brisbane,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
LAUNCESTON : Irvine & McEachern.
HOBART: Buchanan, Davidson & Co. Ltd.
NEW ZEALAND: Magnus, Sanderson & Co. Ltd., Wellington
~ ~ Dexter &. Crazier Ltd., Christchurch.


XeQulvi i U hfamfim
A LONG, COOL SMOKE AND A GOOD ONE
A FINNEY “LONGFELLOW” is a Mild, Big, Fragrant, even-
burning Cigar, manufactured from Choice Selected Manila Leaf.
Light up a Finney “Longfellow” after a busy day, and blow your
troubles away in a Cool, Aromatic Smoke.
BOX of 100,
26
a§2
ACTUAL SIZE OF CIGAR.
Mail your Order for a Box of these Good Smokes to
FINNEY, ISLES S CO. LTD.,
The Big Block,
BRISBANE.
From Poverty Point to Luxury— -a meal at the “PAVlLlON”—Sydney’s Dining Rooms de luxe, Circular Quay.
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“0.K.”: The “Sentimental Bloke” film is
uniquely successful in one respect. The
text of the pictures moves the audience to
laughter every time, and, seeing that not all
the audience can have read the lines before,
the film seems to me to be a valuable ad.
for Dennis’s book of Bulletin reprints. A
noticeable feature of the acting is Doreen’s
ability to keep her face true to the situa-
tion. You never catch a suspicion of a
smile at the wrong moment, whereas a num-
ber of vaunted American screen-actresses are
apt to lose control of the countenance under
a temptation to smile where sadness or mad-
ness is required. The Bloke, too, takes him-
self seriously, and all the love scenes are
neatly rounded off. It is only when muvver-
in-law comes to light that the work _ gets
weaker. As in “Old Lady 31,” so it is in
this comedy. Women don’t take kindly to
being unattractive old things, with a carica-
ture .of a face. When Doreen’s mother com-
mands a kiss from Bill his soul is supposed
to shrink from the ordeal, the middle-aged
party being fat and plain, according to the
verse; but the matron in the picture is so
comely that any ordinary Bill would easily
make a show of enthusiasm in kissing her.
Reginald Kenneth, who quitted the stage
“Lightnin," at Mel-
bourne Royal.
H. H. Wallace as
Peters, the manager.
to grow peanuts
in Westralia, pro-
duced an amateur
version of “San
Toy” in Perth re-
cently, playing
juvenile. He was
in the original
English production.
The same amateurs
staged “The Mik-
ado,” with Katislia
played by Ivy Tur-
ton, who shortly
ships for Europe
to try her luck in
grand opera.
“Ox”: The next
few months will
possibly see Nellie
Stewart back in
complete produc-
tions. The trend
in America is to-
wards costume
dramas, and there
have been a num-
ber of picturesque
successes which
sooner or later are
bound to come this
way, and there are
few actresses who
could fit dressy
parts as well as the lady who is still
Sweet Nell. Miss Stewart, however, names
a Dickens play as her preference in the
event of her return. Zaza is her favorite
part, and she gives the very unactressy rea-
son “because I felt always that I was not
as good in it as I might be.” She has. too,
a kindly feeling for poor Trilby, though the
part nearly ruined her eyesight. To get the
proper hypnotic glare she insisted on the
lights from the dome being focussed on her
eyes as she came toward the footlights.
Sweet Nell wears glasses now.
“Biobox” : Snowy Baker is out to be the
Billdoug Fairhart of Australian movies. He
can out-Doug anything in this country in
the matter of athletic stunts, and Bill will
have to look to his laurels when Snowy
starts reforming villages. His first picture
with Carroll will reveal him as a fighting
parson.
“8.J.”: When Phil Smith dropped out of
the cast of “Buzz-Buzz” at Melbourne Tivoli
the other night his place was taken at short
notice by comedian Charley Workman’s 18-
year-old son, Roy. He provided a capital
imitation of the absent Philip, many in the
theatre being unaware that Smith was not
on the stage; but the young man seems to
have talent enough to hit on a line of his
own. He came to Australia four or five
years ago for a holiday while dad was en-
gaged for “The Girl in the Taxi” ; but the
family liked the country too well to leave it.
“Stargazer” : Throughout the long stay of
Oscar Asche we had the pleasure of the
society of a minor member of the co. at our
boardiug-liouse. Judging by the work he
put him to Oscar had no high opinion of
Macready’s genius, but that didn’t affect
Macready’s high opinion of himself, and he
was determined that everybody within the
range of his voice should be invited to
share in his generous admiration. One day
it took him nearly all lunch-time to go over
the parts he had played in a brilliant pro-
fessional career—Hamlet, Romeo, Lear,
Wilfred Denver, Ingomar, Melnotte, Othello,
lago, Peter Teazle and so on. At last the
coarsest boarder broke in. “Let him be, let
him be,” said Blank, the rising young
painter. “Poor fellow, he is confessing his
sins!”
“A TAILOR-MADE MAN,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Huber (Herbert Leigh) and his ambitious
assistant, John Paul Bart (Figman ).
“T. D. Emdee”: Harry Diver’s last ap-
pearance was in “The Servant in the House”
at Sydney Repertory Theatre, and, although
he was dying on his feet, he had all those
niceties of speech which characterised the
adventure referred to by “Ike Pagliacci” (B.
25/9/T9). Diver first came into nrominence
in Australia when he supported Frank
Thornton more than 30 yeans ago in “The
Private Secretary” at the New Opera House,
Sydney. He was always a careful actor,
and when he had to play a historical charac-
ter he went and delved into the tomes at the
Public Library until he found the right
“atmosphere.” In George Rignold’s produc-
tion of Sardou’s “La Patrie,” staged as
“Flesh and the Devil” at Sydney Criterion,
Diver was the Duke of Alva, and looked as
though he had walked but of the pages of
Motley’s “Dutch Republic.”
Wallace Bromlow was, in the old days,
now and then guilty of verse. He had this
in the Australian Stage Annual for
1903:
THE PLAY OF LIFE.
There is a playwright, older than the years,
Who makes all mankind actors in his play;
And though they know not what they do or say,
The purpose' of his plot in all appears.
Each in his turn, beset with infant’s fears,
Enters unseen. Youth’s comedy so gay
Laughs through the hours that glide too soon away
Beneath the clouds of soul-consuming tears.
Then manhood’s tragedy, with perils fraught,
Pursues its fickle fortunes to the end,
When Fate, the villain of the piece doth send
(By him the last exciting scene is wrought)
A timely stab from Death’s sure-falling knife,
And drops the curtain on the play of life.
“J.F.H.”: The newly-founded British
Drama League has started a magazine en-
titled Drama, the first number containing
contributions from Frank Benson, Queens-
lander William Archer, Eric Patterson and
Granville Barker. The last-named, who has
had considerable experience in play-writing
and production, wants to reform rehearsing
procedure. The cast, he considers, should
be a committee, with the producer as chair-
man, which should discuss every scene so
as to “arrive at a common understanding and
unity of intention about the play.”
“Ibsenshaw”: This to correct “Glen H.”
(B. 2/10/T9), who asserted that an Ameri-
can was part author of Cyril Maude’s money-
spinner,“Grumpy.” T. W. Pereyval and
“Daddies,"
at Sydney
Palace.
Jerome Patrick
as Robert
Audcry, who fell in love
-with his orphan.
Horace Hodges,
mummer- play-
wrights, are Eng-
lish —one a York-
shireman, t’other a
Londoner.
“J.F.H.”; (Lon-
don) : The late Sir
Herbert Tree had
practically decided
on an Australian
tour when he made
his exit with such
tragic suddenness.
In anticipation he
had stored away in
Montreal a lot of
Shnkspearean pro-
perties so that
they could be
easily carted
across Canada
t o Vancouver
and then
shipped to Syd-
n e y. T hey
were to be used
in “Henry the
Eighth,” “The
Merchant o f
Venice” a n d
“T h e Merry
Wives of Wind-
sor.’ They have just been auctioned
at ridiculous prices: the stage equipment of
“Henry the Eighth,” estimated to have
originally cost £4OOO, was sacrificed for £BO.
Some of the articles vvere secured by ad-
mirers as souvenirs, but picture-palaces and
stock companies were the principal pur-
chasers.
“Stargazer”: George Rignold was giving
us “Henry V.” at Melbourne Royal, and
had come to a favorite morsel. I had busi-
ness behind, and was waiting R.U.E. Near
me there xvas a little I’ing of men and women
chattering with an eminent manager rather
too loudly, and this (or thereabout) is what
I heard from the stage:—
In peace there’s nothing so becomes a man
As modest stillness and humility,
But blast those swine whose chatter’s in our ears.
George stuck to the text for a few lines,
but the conversazione went breezily on, and
the actor said —
As fearfully as doth a gall&d rock
(Oh, hang and scuttle those confounded brutes!) —
No cessation on the part of the coterie of
conversationalists, and the player continued:
Dishonor not your mothers. Oh, the pest
That those whom you call fathers did beget you.
When I come off I’ll spill your grocer blood!
Here a stage hand chipped in. “Gostruth !”
he said, “the guvner’s cursin’ you people
from Geelong to breakfast.” But I doubt if
anyone in the audience noticed the liberties
G.R. had taken with the sacred text.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Jimmy Moore, best
known in the palmiest days of “Plugger
Bill,” returned to Australia the other day
after 18 years’ absence in Yankland. For
several seasons Moore was never unplaced
in any cycling event in which he competed.
In football he never took part in any match
without scoring one or more goals. He went
to America to follow up engineering, but
couldn’t get away from the wheels, and
though he chucked cycling he took to skat-
ing, and now comes back with a new name
(De Sylvia) as a vaudeville act. His skill
on the rollers got him a job with the Richard-
son Co., the biggest skate manufacturers in
the U.S.A. They sent him to Cuba, where
he taught the wealthiest inhabitants to jazz
on wheels.
“P.M.G.”: A theatrical strike kept Ethel
Buckley (Mrs. George Marlowe) from get-
ting her chance in America. She did not
use the return half of her steamer ticket be-
cause the Belasco management found her
exactly the type for one of its productions.
Then, when rehearsals were practically com-
pleted, the strike indefinitely postponed the
shew.
“Biobox”: The most pathetic job in the
show world is held by feather-brained flap-
pers who bear an unfortunate resemblance to
famous movie stars. “In this scene.” the
producer tells the star, “you have to jump
from a moving motor and roll over and over
in the dust.” “Thank you,” says the star
“I’ll do no such thing, and if you insist 1 n
tear up my contract and produce at my o\vn
studios.” The producer doesn’t tear his Imir.
He simplv calls in Miss Featherbrain. You
are so like Theda Barearms,” he says, that
she wants you to double for her this &tter-
noon. Just a little motor stunt.” And Miss
Featherbrain is so overwhelmed at getting a
chance to be a real star that she doesn t
think about insuring her life before rolling
in the dirt.
“R.F.” (London) : Who says the English
are not a music-loving race? Even a tropi-
cal heatwave (91 degrees in the shade) can-
not keep them away from the historic
Lyceum Theatre, where the Carl Rosa Opera
Co. has been displaying “house full” pla-
cards at each of its nine performances weekly
during July and August. Oldest and most
popular of British opera cos., the Carl
Rosa is enjoying a great boom, and at no
time in its 50 years has it been stronger
or more prosperous. “We fear no foe in
foreign armor,” is the Carl Rosa motto, and
results have justified its daring in entering
into open competition with the “grand sea-
son” at Covent Garden, whose foreign
warblers do not always outshine our native
songbirds. In Beatrice Miranda, the Aus-
tralian singer, the Carl Rosa has a star who
would shine in any surroundings; her Tosca.
Butterfly and Mimi are, both vocally and
dramatically, on the highest level.
“S.T.S.”: One detail will have to be
altered when “The Betrothal,” the sequel
to Maeterlinck’s “Blue Bird,” is played in
Australia. It is the age of the lovers. The
fairy questions Tyltyl about his sweethearts,
and, when he hedges, asks angrily: “What
do you mean —you don’t know? Who does
know if you don’t? At your age a boy ought
to think of nothing else ; if he doesn’t, he’s
a booby, a nincompoop and not worth bother-
ing about.” On which he produces six sweet-
hearts. The rest is a close copy of the
Blue Bird. The ancestors are visited, and
so are the yet unborn, and finally Tyltyl
finds what he sought at his own fireside, in
a seventh girl, whom he promptly assures
(the information having been got from his
posterity, when visited) “We’re going to
have six children. I know it’s a great many,
but we’ll manage somehow.” The age of
the prospective bridegi’oom is stated at 15,
the girl being presumably younger still! One
knows that Juliet was a mere kid; but a
kid Romeo is an affliction.
“Norbcll”: “Ike Pagliacci’s” rude remarks
about the egregious Yank “movie-perdoocer”
(B. 9/10/’l9) remind me what imitators
most actors are, and how reverently they
regard “props.” I was one of the congrega-
tion at a “movie matinee” at Sydney Tivoli
lately, when producer Claude Flemming per-
sisted in making remarks to the audience
through the perdoocer’s sacred megaphone.
No one understood a quarter of what he
said, except when he momentarily forget to
use the weapon and spoke to the house in
the ordinary way. And Flemming plays an
important rble each night at the little Tiv.,
and manages to be heard without his speak-
ing trumpet—l don’t suppose he ever thinks
of using one. Flemming, by the way, was
First Alderman in the original Australian
production of “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
at Melbourne Princess’s in February, 1902.
and if he had tried to express his thanks
for Nellie Stewart’s gift of the King’s Royal
Hospital at Chelsea through a gramophone-
horn I’d have given a dollar to hear George
Musgrove’s comments on the performance.
“Jaekar”: A recent writer recorded the
feat of a Dago who supported on his back
for 20 seconds a case of iron weighing half
a ton. When Chiarini’s circus was here the
strong man offered to forfeit £25 each to
a hospital and asylum if any man would
come forward and do any weight-carrying
feat which he (the circus-man) could not
do. It was a town in which the Cornish
element was conspicuous. “Cousins” held
a meeting and decided to accept the chal-
lenge, and Big Jim, a giant in stature and
strength, was selected for the job. The
circus-man was not informed as to what he
was expected to do, but it was arranged
that the contestants should toss a coin, and
the loser must have first go at the task.
Unfortunately for the Italian, he lost. At
the appointed time six stalwart Cousin
Johns marched in sprawling and puffing
under the weight of a 9-feet cast-iron pump-
column, 10-inch bore—over 6cwt. The
Italian was told that he was to lift this and
carry it around the ring. All his ingenuity
and strength were in vain; he could not
get the awkward burden on to his shoulder
But Big Jim had no difficulty in wriggling
himself under it, balancing it and trudging
around with it. The Italian noted how the
job was done, and on the same night accom-
plished it.
IT BROUGHT DOWN THE HOUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas Bill and Jim. Two hundred miles
They’d come to see the show.
They met fair Hebe of the smiles,
They saw her bottles glow,
They saw the oysters in the plate,
The Cray’s effulgent stain.
They hadn’t met a cow of late;
They didn’t care, they rose to state,
To meet a cpw again.
All in this happy mood they went,
And, Seated in the pit,
They saw a play where music blent
With old, accustomed wit.
They liked the dancer’s kilted clo’es,
They liked the funny chap.
What grave thing happened or jocose
They clamored for a double dose
With an uproarious clap.
The lads soon found they were as dry
As eozoic rocks.
They knew a little backdoor nigh
That oped to double knocks.
Then Bill and Jim arose. The slick
Young singer tipped a wink.
Yelled Bill to her (his speech was thick) :
"Hold hard. We won’t be half a tick.
We’re goin’ to have a drink!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


- -
V
,
.
<%t - < :x.
V'.'
i
9C*h?.
*-• "•
; v i":
08$
a
Chandler Six
T is a matter of history that TWENTY CHANDLER SIXES, fresh from
their packing-cases and with their “parts” just assembled and connected
up, and without any preliminary trial or dress-rehearsal, recently under-
took the overland journey to Brisbane—by the most gruelling route,
including the Blue Mountains, the Great Dividing Range, AND the Black Soil Plains
(a searching trio, that!) and ARRIVED ON TIME at their destination, after completing
a journey of 850 miles.
One, or two, or even three cars might have done it—but, surely it’s some
performance for TWENTY cars to have made good over such a test! THE point we
wish to emphasise is that what ONE Chandler can do EVERY OTHER CHANDLER
CAN and WILL do. They’re all true to standard, and they ALL “KEEP FAITH!”
For FLEXIBILITY of ENGINE, for ALL-ROUND RELIABILITY, for
GENUINE SERVICE, for MODERATE RUNNING COST—there’s one car that has
proved itself: it’s THE CHANDLER. Why experiment with other cars—which may
or may not give satisfaction, when you have the fact established—not once or twice,
but TWENTY-FOLD—that CHANDLERS “KEEP FAITH”?
Ring City 2567 and arrange a demonstration; or write for illustrated booklet.
Marcus Claris. & Co. Ltd.,
Agents for New South Wales.
Garage and Showrooms: 147-151 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special i s
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED. Redfern. Sydney.
LEWIS &
WHITTY;
MAKERg
Hffi
Sugnff
. ympJl
s^sSIS
ki&S
SOOQ
i-y.z
PATQN
filLcffic
cwQiir
PURE
MALT
'~UovU UKq it;
-its so motions.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
The disaster suffered by punters at Caul-
field last Saturday was not without its sporting
interest. Stephanotis, the colt from Adelaide that
won tiie Debutant Stakes at a highly remunerative
price, is a son of Sea Prince, one of the imported
horses that ran for Eric Connolly in his most boom-
some days, and was, on one public occasion, nearly
as good as he had been cracked up to be. Now, Sea
Prince was a most interesting savage, not because he
concluded Ills career of notoriety by winning the
Williamstown Cup quite brilliantly, but because he
was addicted to swearing in the birdcage. Before
being saddled for the Melbourne Cup he protested
against going into his pen. He barked and shouted
his rebellious sentiments: Being led towards his
corner allotment the churlish animal stuck his toes
in the ground and cried “H —1!” So the parentage
of Stephanotis seemed a bit against him. Yet the
colt ran a game race in the Debutant, suggesting
that his mother had more to say than the old man
in furnishing the youngster’s mental qualities,
The Caulfield Stakes put Surveyor to the test for
the first time in Melbourne, and his unearned reputa-
tion for being a great three-year-old sent him to the
post at 7to 4. It seemed absurd for a Maoriland
gee that had run only moderately at Randwick a
month ago to be backed at a shorter price than
Night Watch in a w.f.a. race, but punters would have
it so. The result cast grave doubts on Surveyor’s
stamina. He dropped away from the lead whilst
Night Watch was making headway, and at the dis-
tance the consistent son of Wakeful came stealing
away, with Sir Ibex and Eusebius in hopeless pur-
suit. On this showing Surveyor could be counted out
for the big coming events, nor is there any strong
reason for expecting the form to be reversed. Who
said that Surveyor can stay ?
The big field of 13 for Caulfield Guineas included
the A.J.C. Derby dead-heaters, as well as Bigaroon
and Royal Comedy. Belief in Bigaroon died hard,
and he went out second favorite to Artilleryman, only
to be badly beaten. The race confirmed the Derby
form in a great measure, for although the favorite
won easily the less adaptable Richmond Main was
coming on at the finish. Probably Artilleryman will
beat the “Baron’s” colt in the V.R.C. Derby, but it
isn’t certain he will do it in the Melbourne Cup,
nor that both of them will not be placed for the
two-miles race. On appearances each is a good advt.
for the other.
Lucknow’s defeat in the Toorak Handicap was just
a matter of bad luck in the start. He lost the race
through having 20 nags ahead of him when they had
already travelled one' furlong of the eight. At the
finish, when St. Mira was fighting out a tight finish
with imported Highflown, the baffled Lucknow came
with his usual rattle, and was only a length or so behind
as they passed the post. The big chestnut lost no
friends by his failure. Lucknow seems just the
cut of a Caulfield Cup winner. In his last three
efforts he has run as consistently as his stable com-
panion Night Watch, not to mention his other stable
companion Chrome, whose clumsiness is always call-
ing for excuses to be offered for him. Lucknow
is big, but not clumsy. Perhaps he is not as good, at
their weights, as his unassertive friend Night Watch
(who promises to go very near the Melbourne Cup if
he doesn’t win next Saturday), but it is permissible
to prefer the English horse for this particular event
on account of the dashing way he has when about
to catch the judge’s eye. Outside of Bradfield’s trio
of trusty performers one hardly knows where to look
for anything to beat them. Ard-na-ree, in running
nowhere in the Stakes (and a bad “nowhere” at
that), suggested that his trip from Sydney had upset
him. Luteplayer promises to be in fi-ont a quarter-
mile from home, but the race is not won at 1} mile.
Richmond Main, if he starts, will be handicapped by
his want of slickness off the mark, so unless a serious
rival bursts upon the scene at Wednesday’s, meeting
this sceptical prophet will fancy Lucknow, Night
Watch and Chrome in that order.
» « * *
The sin of Parmen and Co. in the Steeple
lost no time in finding them out. As the result of
an inquiry by the Stipe. Stewards the owner-
trainer, the jockey and the gee were disqualified for
five years. The crudity of the crime deserved all the
punishment. And how about the books who laid
the everlasting 6 to 4, but wouldn’t lengthen the
odds lest the public should sniff the swindle?
Shouldn’t some of them —or all of them—be wiped
out by the totalisator?
* * * *
Poitrel is perhaps the best distance horse
seen at Randwick since Abercorn and Carbine starred
there. The little wonder was a late beginner, but
since first coming into notice by running third in a
handicap two seasons back, he has scored nine firsts
and a third in 10 attempts. He has won eveiy start
at w.f.a. and it is a moral that in any field that
could be got together in Australia to-day for a trip
over a mile and a half, or upwards, the books would
field against every other horse. Last Saturday in the
Randwick Plate he had Sasanoff settled half a mile
from home, and at the end beat off the hard-ridden
Kennaquhair so easily that his rider, Bracken, was
able to finish looking sneerfully round. Poitrel
reeled off the last six furlongs of the two miles in
“125.” _
Wolaroi, who began by winning the three rich-
est stakes in the Commonwealth for two-year-olds,
took the V.R.C. Derby in the next season, and
lately appropriated the Epsoin, has won £19,000
after three seasons’ continuous racing. Poitrol’s
winnings are £ll,OOO. He didn’t start at all as a
two-year-old ; he raced for a month at three, for a
day last Spring and fqr a week in the Autumn; and
he has started three times this season.
* * * *
“Concession’ bookmakers are becoming
numerous at Mel-
bourne meetings, and
holiday punters may
nave a bit by backing
favorites on the con-
cession ticket, rather
than by going for the
win and nothing but
the win. All the same,
tin; modern device is a
poor substitute for the
tote. Where the field
is not too small you
get your stake re-
turned if your horse
runs second, arid when
the field is largo you
get th(> same conces-
sion if . backed the
third. With the tote
on, say, the Metropoli-
tan, backers of the
second got more than
their money back, and
the mvv.v on the third
horse was at the rate
of 8-i to 1. Betting
with bookmakers you
can't finish up a good
winner on the day by
m ere) v backing a
couple of thirds.
FRANK
MUSGRAVE,
the Caulfield
trainer.
While Harrison was riding four winners
at Caulfield on Saturday Maorilander Ben Deeley
steered three home si t Randwick. Deeley is one of
the few youths who ride with brains as well as hands
and heels. In the Waverley Handicap (lj mile) lie
was aboard the ex-hurdler British Arch, and running
to the front he adroitly slowed his field down. While
the heads of three other horses were being pulled off
he waited patiently in the lead. When he judgd
that the opposition had been pulled about enough ne
suddenly set forth in chase of victory. The one-
time brilliant Thana never had a hope. Carbern—
who has cost the punters liatsful lately—finished
like a hunter. It was a fine demonstration of the
artistic side of jockey ship.
* * * *
So far, this season, the mares have<been tak-
ing a back seat; but judging by the two-year-old’s seen
at Randwick lately their turn is coming. Anyway,
the fillies look better grown and are more numerous
and are galloping more takingly than the colts.
Delight, one of the Stead (M.L.) team, is well-
developed and smart. She took the Giniciack
easily. Tressady Queen, winner of the Canonbury
Stakes, is hard to catch also. Cool Light, by the
way, who won the well-gilded Breeders’ Plate tor
the Thompson brothers, gave none of the other colts
a chance. ....
The Craven Plate was easily lifted by Gloaming,
from WQlaroi, Rebus, Prince Viridis and Sasanof.
As in the Spring Stakes at Rosehill, he walked
away from Wolaroi and won easing up. These
two wins, a couple of smaller races taken by
Rossini, and a handicap annexed by Karo, made
owner Greenwood’s trip over the Tasman worth
while. Meantime the other bunch of invaders are
having a rough spin.
-* # * *
Last week Sam Hordern, of Sydney,
bought Kenilford, the big Kenilworth gelding that
got touched off in the Metrop. by Rebus. It simply
means that S’Sam is betting four figures that his
faeny can win the Melbourne Cup. It’s not a bad
wager, either, for one able to afford it. In the
Metrop. Kenilford carried 7st. 41b. In the Cup he is
weighted at 6st. 131 b. It is a certainty, however,
he will have more on board than this. He is a
great slug, and the main instigation for the pur-
chase is the belief that with a stronger horseman
on top he would have won last week. Meanwhile
Kenilford has been solidly backed for the two
miles. For many years the “book” shows that
horses which have done well at the end of the
Metrop. argued' the point effectively afterwards at
Flemington. Kenilford is a good galloper and won-
derfully well handicapped. But Ard-na-ree is in
the Cup at 7st. 31b., and if he misses at Caulfield
he should have a prime show at Flemington.
* * * *
At the Q.T.C. meeting last Saturday imp.
Ivatuna’s previous success was proved to be no fluke
by the way Had-I-Wist was beaten in the Mooney
Memorial Handicap. True, Had-I-Wist was giving
the “pommy” 301 b. In the Flying (6 fur.) Sarrail
(Prudent King—Belle Grafton) was timed to run
the distance in lmin. 14see., beating the 2min.
lsec. favorite Ercanil, who is about the most con-
sistent horse racing in Brisbane. In the Welter
(7 fur.) Sycelight provided a stylish exhibition in
giving such a good performer as Manhattan 131 b. and
a length-beating.
* » * •
The second round of Sydney grade cricket
started on Saturday, and Charlie Macartney “starred”
again for Gordon v. Middle Harbor. Playing with
the precision of a Tr.umper he scored 97 in 60
minutes. Dr. Tozer provided a strongly-defensive
innings of 130, and Austin Diamond scored 72 (not
out). All three are ex-Diggers. Gordon lost six
for 412. It was unfortunate for Middle Harbor
that fast bowler J. D. Scott was away, as it was one
of Mailey’s erratic days.
Austih Punch was lucky to score 111 for Norths
ag’ainst Petersham. He was “on his own,” and
realised it, playing consistently for the strike.
His score, made right off the middle of the blade,
took as many minutes. The rest of the team made
only 95 between them. Petersham have so far lost
one wicket for 89.
M. A. Noble’s bowling is especially suited to the
Snails Bay ground, with its strong breezes. Had he
put himself on earlier for Paddington Balmain’s
score might have fallen a lot short of 233. As it
was he took six for 33. Folkard (consistent as
usual), B. L. McCoy and the brothers Ratcliffe were
’Main’s brightest features.
Asher’s bowling for Sydney against C. Cumber-
land was too “heady” for the latter, who could only
subscribe 79, of which “Gar” Waddy was responsible
for 34. Sydney smote 163. Every plaver helped—
except Oohen.
Glebe, playing Waverley, are all out for 122, while
Waverley still possess eight wickets and are 19 runs
on. It was lucky for Waverley, which is Notoriously
weak in bowlers, that I res found a length, thus
enabling him to go right through the weak Glebe
batting side. Graves made his 49 (not out) in
brick-wall style.
* * * *
Some of the most creditable performances
in Vic. cricket at the re-opening on Saturday were
put up by returned soldiers. Going in dead last for
Prahran (v. Uni.) .Junor made 62; and he and his
partner Ellis were still n.o. when wickets were drawn,
the score being 278. Norths, playing Souths, sent
in Stokes, another ex-Digger, first wicket down, and
he smacked up 38 attractively. Souths have lost
eight for 218. Bracher, of ancient fame, being 55
n.o. ’Roy did feebly against ’Wood, the top scorer
being Chapman (28), and the total 175. East’s
innings v. ’Cote bore a resemblance to that of P’ran
above mentioned. The last joints of the tail got
together and put up a faultless 140—Smith 78,
McNaughton n.o. 62. Total 263; and ’Cote has
no wickets down for 18. Ironmonger howled with
deadly skill for Melbourne, outing Richmond for 125.
But the gloom of liis side’s exhibition at the wickets
was relieved only by a peerless 59 n.o. by champion
Hansford. The other seven have, so far, made only
20 between them.
«•<***
As far as Vic. League football is con-
cerned Saturday was Colliligwood’s day out. First
its Juniors smashed ’Varsity and annexed the pen-
nant ; then the Seniors took Richmond in hand and
showed those novices how the game should be played.
The Magpies never once let their opponents get on
top. Always when the yellow-and-blacks snatched
a few points the others regained their lead within
five minutes. After half-time they methodically set
about, destroying Richmond’s hopes, so that when the
bell rang the Magpies owned the premiership, with
78 points to Richmond’s 53. A bright, fast game,
whose outstanding feature was ’Wood’s organisation.
For instance, their crack forward, Lee, was damaged
in the first half; thereafter they played systemati-
cally to another man, who passed on to Lee, and
the accuracy with which they found that man was
deadly. This is ’Wood’s fifth League premiership
and Richmond’s first appearance in the finals.
Attendance about 55,000 and gate about £2600.
.Tack .Tannese was well licked bv the
youthful Jack Green at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night. The one-time champion bantam is losing
speed, if not fire, with age. Both boys are conven-
tional boxers with good straight lefts; there was
only half a pound difference in their weights; and
neither is easy to hit vulnerably at any time. So
the bout lacked thrill. On the other hand, it was a
fine exhibition of clean and skilful boxing. Green’s
reward is a match with Frankie Dailey, one of the
visiting Yanks, on the 25th.
* * * *
Fernand Quendreux. the French welter who
has been doing so well of late, bit off more than he was
able to chew when he took on Tommy Uren, middle-
weight champion of Australia, at Brisbane Stadium
last week. Quendreux lasted 16 rounds and then
his corner mercifully flung in the towel. He was so
knocked about by this time as to be almost unrecog-
nisable. A good advt. for Gallic endurance and
pluck, but a rotten one for the management’s match-
making ability.
* * * *
The first amateur athletic championships
held for some years in Adelaide brought a crowd of
competitors and officials to the Oval; but the local
public is curiously indifferent to this branch of
sport. Yet there was plenty for all tastes, including
boxing, tug-of-war, and items for those expert with
various kinds of balls. The walking and long-distance
events were mostly competed by experienced men
who learned the game before coming from England.
As a sprinter, L. V. Pellew, of the University, won
hundred, hurdles and 220 in 10 l-ssec., 16 2-ssee.
and 23 l-ssec. •
* » * *
Adelaide, which in war-time shut down on
games very severely, has been rewarded by getting
the most successful football season it has ever known.
It was entirely characteristic of the play that, near
the end, the three leading teams were all beaten on
successive Saturdays by West Adelaide, who had done
so badly up to then that even this dash could not
get them into the finals. The ultimate leaders,
Sturt, went stale, and were beaten badly in a semi-
final. North Adelaide and West Torrens, meeting in
mud for the so-called final, tied. On a re-play
Norths won by rather less than a goal, and then tied
again on meeting Sturt in the challenge round. By
this time cricket was in full swing, but the season
had to be finished. With 40,000 maddened specta-
tors on the Adelaide Oval for the absolute final
Norths led by a little all through. With the bell
about to sound, they had one point in hand and
Sturt had a free kick. A behind would mean yet
another tie. It was a goal. So Sturt are premiers;
but which is really the best team, among about
four, remains a matter for heated discussion till next
winter.
■** * *
Balmain-Fernleigh handsomely defeated
West Wallsend for N.S.W. Soccer championship
(Gardiner Cup) last week. Score, three goals to
nil. It was the Club’s second championship this
vear: it had previously won the Sydney League
premiership. In the Kerr Cup at Newcastle on
Saturday, West Wallsend defeated Pyrmont (Syd-
ney) by three goals to one, and Minmi downed
Weston by two goals to one. Balmain and Minmi
will be the semi-finalists at the coming week-end,
and the successful club will tackle West Wallsend
in the final.
* * *
At the N. S. Wales Rifle Association’s
matches Randwick Literary Institute A won the
“Hoad” (disappearing target and running man) and
the B team was successful in the “Itawson ;
while H.M.S. Submarine A shamed the land-
lubbers by winning the “Anderson.” At the station-
ary targets in the “B” series M. O. Wray (New-
castle) and A. J. Paterson (Springwood) each not-
ched a possible in the “Cortis” (500yds.) ; and
in the “French” (600yds.) Major J. Cranston (Con-
cord), W. Le Page (South Sydney), P. Lawless
(Berowra), H. Beatty (Queanbeyan) and R. J.
Vaughan (Roseville) each put up 49 (out of o 0).
In the “McAlister” (300yds.) T. A. Ninness (Tweed
Heads) also missed the possible by one. In the
series A. A. Hayes (Millthorpe Police) got the
onlv possible in the “Mills” (500yds.). For the
Schools’ Challenge Shield Sydney Grammar again
came out on top, with 565 points, against Kings
504 and Newington’s <196; and in the cadet matches
the Naval teufns filled all the places, with G. Con-
nerton pocketing the individual prize with a credit-
able 47 out of 50.
H. W. Reid, who won the championship
of Scots’ College (Sydney)' on Saturday, is a youthful
giant. Though not yet 18 he is over 6ft. high and
built in proportion. He was first in 121 b. shot putt
(35ft. 4in.), and second in broad jump, high jump,
100yds., 220yds. and 120yds. hurdles. In 1917
G.P.S. championships Reid won three titles in the
under 16 class; last year be was second in the
open broad jump with 19ft. lfin. R. W. McFadyen
was also busy, and won 100yds. (llsec.), 220yds.
(24sec. —a college record) and 440yds. (54sec.).
Over a distance, Davis showed good style in win-
ning the half-mile (2min. 15 3-ssce.) and mile
(smin. 3 3-ssec.), and is likely to do well in this
class of event at the G.P.S. championships this week-
end.
* * * *
This year’s M.L. golf championship was a
tussle between E. S. Douglas (pro.) and holder
of the title, and S. Morpeth (amateur). In the
first and second rounds Morpeth sprinted away with
158 against 168; but in the third and fourth
rounds Douglas found his punch, with 159 against
169. The aggregate left the scores level with 327.
In the play-off over 16 holes, the pro. won with
82 against Morpeth’s 85.
* * * *
The position has arisen as The Bul-
letin goes to press that the Davis Cup challengers
can’t get berths on any passenger-ship which will
land them in Australia in time for the contests. A
simple way out would be for the Government to sell
them berths on an A.I.F. transport, as has been done
so often in the case of Imperial officers and men,
war-workers and others. If volunteers were called
for amongst the returning Aussies there would be
no difficulty in finding men willing to stand down
for a month or so in favor of the tennis-players,
whose arrival here before the end of the year means
so much to the game in the Commonwealth.
* * » *
Tetratema won the Imperial Produce
Stakes at Kempton Park (England) by a length last
week. He is by Major McCalmont’s wonderful flea-
bitten grey The Tetrarch; and is a grey himself.
“Barney” Garslake, the Australian, piloted him, and
the price was 100 to seven “on.”
* * * *
A couple of imported horses were con-
spicuous failures in the Metropolitan, but, on the
other hand, the winner came from the English mob.
The mob has started the season well by supplying
the second in the Epsom and first in the Metrop.
Last year the winners of the Epsom and Caulfield Cup
were imports. In 1916 the first or second or both
in each of the big Spring handicaps came from over-
seas, so it doesn’t do to nurse a prejudice against
English horses in general because a number of them
soon get knocked out under Australian conditions,
and because their temper, as a rule, is inequable.
Rebus has proved himself a most trustworthy battler,
and Lucknow, although one of the nervous sort,
seems a game, good-teinpered animal.
The notion that this season’s three-year-
olds would be equal to supplying a Derby and Cup
double seems to have petered out, like the reputation
the M.L. horses brought with them. The dead-heat
for Sydney Derby doesn’t prove that either colt is
brilliant, but it creates the assumption that if either
of them can win the Cup the other must finish a
close second. And the odds against two three-year-
olds carrying Derby weights at the head of a Cup
field are—-Well, it has happened twice in 13 years.
FORESTALLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We'll say you are boxing with an opponent who is
continually getting you in the face with his straight
left. Often you’ll be inclined to say you’re fed up,
and not going on. Don’t do this; think out this
move, practise it, and ‘pull it off’ on him. As he
leads his left at you, throw your right open glove
at his hand, catching his glove, and glancing it
across your left shoulder. Swing in your own low
left to his stomach; at the same time bend your
body slightly down to the right, and forward.”
— “Snowy” Baker, in Sydney Evening News.
“It’s ludicrously simple,” mused young Hector, as
he read,
“I merely swing and dodge and jab and block and
jolt his head,
Then counter-move and cross my right and bang
him on the nose,
And then —why, then his friends will sky the towel,
I suppose.”
With buoyant mien he clambered through the sway-
ing ringside ropes
And grinned and waved, as he bad seen a hundred
fistic “hopes”
Salute in days gone by; and then, with optimism
bright,
He shed his outer clothes, shook hands, and settled
down to fight.
Alf Garskin was a lusty lad who owned a dirty left;
Of pity or compunction he was utterly bereft;
He smote young Hector on the ear, the diaphragm,
the jaw—
And oh! The stars and stripes and whirling lights
that Hector saw!
They brought him to in time; and, as his memory
returned,
He thought of all the hits he had so sedulously
learned.
“Were they no good?” he cried. “Be frank! I
want to know the worst.”
“The hits was right,” his backer moaned, “but
Garskin done ’em first l”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Unless You Learn to Box You Can’t Expect to Win
You may have all the qualifications, but
strength, determination and pluck with-
out skill will not avail you against a
Scientific Boxer.
The Scientific Boxer is cool, calm and
collected. He is constantly drawing his
opponent into position ; puts the weight
of his body behind his blows; plants
his punches where they are most felt;
bewilders and confuses his opponent by
evading and countering his attempts to
“land.”
The Scientific Boxer is master of his
movements. His muscles are lithe and
elastic. He can hit from any position
without “telegraphing” the blows.
You would surely like to be a Scientific Boxer —ami
now is your opportunity to learn.
I TEACH BOXING BY POST,
The instruction is practical, simple and easily under-
stood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates every
serviceable movement in Scientific Boxing. You
reap the benefit of my many years’ experience and
keen observation of the best moves of the world’s
best boxers. You now have the opportunity of
cultivating your natural ability, of making good use
of the means which Nature gave you to protect
yourself.
“SNOWY BAKER K. 0.” BOXING GLOVES, in two
grades, 15/6 and 21/. per set of four gloves. Post
Free. Every set personally selected and guaranteed.
Those desiring to avail themselves of personal instruction at in.- Insti-
tute are invited to call and have a chat with me and see a demonstration.
Write for my FREE BOOKLET, “Scientific Boxing in the home.”
Send three stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“ The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,”
133 Municipal Buildings, Oxford St. (Cor. Crown St.), Sydney.
«s».
m
, THE GREAT —v
AtlantigFlight
r.
A
» *>
SHE! jj
BENZINE
WAS USED
in the Vlckers-Vimy Bombing
Aeroplane flown by Capt.
Alcock nnd Ifleut. A. W.
Brown.
ORLICk’S
MALTED
AfcT^PMliK
is needed.
\
;at, A.
eeps
lever *
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk,Wheat, ’
and Malt). Keeps'
for years and never
becomes stale or loses
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made
in a moment, any-J
where. Only waterJ
In hot climates it isij|
invaluable.
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 Q.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
&A
rv
SC
•\
m
The Dip of * To-Day
Years of experimenting by skilled chemists, combined with the
most modern manufacturing facilities and unlimited supplies
of necessary ingredients, have resulted in the production of
Powder SHEEP DIP
—A product of exact science, and the most effective and
most Reliable Sheep Dip on the market. “Vallo stands four
square” to every requirement of the Australian Woolgrower.
All Stores Supply
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
A Well-matured Tobacco at JLast!
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is Too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe;
10/8 per lb. 51 4 per ilb. 2/8 per ilb.
Postage—N.S.W.: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/3, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
&
RlGHT—first time and
ALL the time!
The French Briar wood in the
GBD Pipe is so well seasoned,
so free from flaws, that the
GBD gives a sweet, cool smoke
from the commencement. You
will do well to choose the
—the perfect pipe!
Many popular shapes. For sale everywhere.
GBD


MEN'S SHIRTS
■fl
i a
a
THE reliability of the materials, the
style, the fit, the finish and the ease
witn which they launder, place
" Farmer ” shirts on the plane of pre-
eminent value the shirt invariably
chosen by the man of discriminating taste
RWS4--Cambric Golf Shirt, with double
cuffs and collar to match, in small black
and white check designs; all sizes.
Each .. .. 10/6, 3 for 30/-
RWS5 —Best quality French Cambric
Golf Shirts, double cuffs and collar to
match. White grounds, smart, neat stripe
designs; all sizes. Each 10/6, 3 for 30/-
Wc Pay Carriage Box 497 G.P.O.
FARMER'S
e Uhe Store for JltCen
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel,
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from. Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night.
Tariff, from 10/6 per day, and
from £3/3/- per week.
PARIS
GARTERS
No metal
can touch you
The modern and most
comfortable Garter.
The kneeling figure and
oval trademark is always
on Paris Garters— YOUR
guarantee of satisfaction.
Obtainable all Mercers.
Stein & Co., Makers, Chicago, New York.
Indents and V h Resale:
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney.
VISITORS. —Don’t miss one of the city’s greatest attractions—the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s
Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
The Caulfield Guineas started the race-
dressing in a typical briekfielder, and
woman’s clothes didn’t stay still long enough
to be recognised as fashions. Everything
smart is flimsy and floppy and fringed, so
that a dead-calm is required for exhibition
purposes. Every second woman had a collar
of ostrich feathers, and the w r ind was always
ready to blow the plumage into the wearer’s
mouth. Conversation was difficult all day.
Lieut.-Governor Irvine came out with his
lady in dove color. They lunched with the
stewards, also with Mrs. Woodforde, the
Sep Millers, Clive Baillieus and Powers-
court Mills. Mrs. Clive Leonard had the
smartest black top. Sam Hordern had a
joyous time after the win of Artilleryman in
the Guineas, and the Macdonalds skirled the
pibroch or something when Night Watch won
the Caulfield Stakes.
The Glaciarium began its career as a
Jazz Palais on Saturday night, and the
dancers came along by the hundred, and
were so enthusiastic about the wonderful
floor, which has been laid down in sections,
that the dancing space will certainly have
to be increased. Hugo orange and amber
shades softened the light. The girls arrived
in all sorts of dainty frocks. A light, low-
necked dress with a big black hat seems,
however, to be the uniform of the best-
informed jazzer. Lesley Madden was
noticeable in pale dove-grey. Mrs. Benja-
min wore a clingy frock of purple with a
gold turban. Some men wore evening dress;
others appeared in sac suits and kept their
pipes or cigarettes going. The new dances
are very like skating with their gliding steps.
The men are to bo tuned up in the matter
of prices. The admission money is only a
beginning. After that there are to be dance
coupons.
Courtesy and charm of manner are not
the strong points of retiring Gaud Mayor
Cabena, and the Melbourne press-gang gave
three cheers when it heard that it had not
to put up with him for another year.
McEacharn, Gillott, Hennessy and Weedon
could he civil when not: communicative.
Cabena was not conspicuous for either virtue.
A function should nave happened in
Mayoress Cabena’s room at the Town Hall
the other afternoon, but the star performer
was unfortunately absent. The Mayoress
and other dames had invited Elsie Holmes,
head of the Busy B patriotic workers, to
come with her staff-officers and be fussed
over. An illuminated address and a bunch
of tulips were in waiting for Miss Elsie,
whose war work had been so splendidly suc-
cessful. Well, owing to some misunderstand-
ing as regards the date the Busy B’s were
not there; but some of the pen Women pre-
sent were earnestly besought to refer to the
proceedings as though no hitch had occurred.
Then Mrs. Cabena and Mr. Crosbie jour-
neyed down to Swallow and Ariell’s factory
and made the' presentations on the premises.
It was expected that the burial of Alfred
Deakin would provide spiritualists with a
field-day, but the rites of the Anglican
Church were observed. A large crowd of
citizens and politicians of all hues gathered
in the Queen’s Hall, where Archdeacon
Ilindley read the service. Many of the poli-
tical panjandrums looked very untidy in
their habiliments of woe, but Hugnes might
have stepped straight from the Tailor and
Cutter. Deakin’s old chief, Edmund Bar-
ton, alert and upright, despite his 70 years,
was the most distinguished-looking person
present. Herbert Brookes and Dr. Rivett,
the dead man’s sons-in-law, stood by the
coffin, while Willy Watt, who had rushed
hack from a much-needed holiday, spoke of
his former colleague. Abel Bennett, who
was on Deakin’s committee when he first
stood for West Bourke in 1879. hobbled up
the steps of Parliament House to be present.
Mrs. Deakin nursed her grief in the back-
ground.
Governor Stanley, who has now gone
through nearly half his leave, has been suc-
cessfully operated upon in England for the
internal ailment that was troubling him be-
fore he sailed. He will exhaust his leave
on January 31 and then retire, but some
official people continue to be interested in
him, as they think it is possible he may
return as Governor-General. It many re-
spects he was a “safe” man, and one of
that type saves the bored Colonial Office a
lot of worry.
Admiral Wemyss (pronounce it “Weems”
if you would avoid the sneers of the
Debrett-experts) is of all the Empire’s
sailors easily the most popular at Court.
He w r as a great friend of the King when the
latter was in the Navy, and he was for
some time his equerry. Then he com-
manded the Ophir when George and Mary
had their grand tour; and he has also had
charge of the Royal yacht, which is quite
the “cushiest” job, as they used to say in
the Army, at the disposal of members of
the R.N.
As it will be necessary, apparently, to
provide some post for Wemyss if Beatty is
to be first Sea Lord at the Admiralty, the
Vic. Governorship has, it seems, been men-
tioned, but at the time of writing there is
nothing official on the subject. In inner
\ ictorian official and political circles the
view is hardening that Lieut.-Gpv. Irvine
will be in command as Administrator for
many months yet. The State Cabinet is
not unanimous on the policy of ceasing to
import Governors. Lawson and McPherson
think money could be saved without weak-
ening the Imperial tie, but other Ministers
doubt the wisdom of having as Governors
men who may have been former strong party
politicians.
Another blow at the importing craze has
been struck by the choice of the Rev. F.
A\. Rolland, an old Scotch College and
Melbourne University graduate, as principal
of Geelong College, where the sons of the
all-wool families of the Western and South-
Western districts spend their early years.
It is true that the new master has* lived a
little time in England, after war service
as chaplain, that lie has spent six months
at Oxford, and that he has wedded a knightly
person’s eldest daughter. Still he is a Vic-
torian. Only a few months ago another
Public School (Xavier) had Father Sulli-
van, S.J., a Victorian, allotted to it as
rector. A little more faith in ourselves, and
we may get an Australian for an Anglican
archbishop in succession to Lowther Clarke.
General Chauvel has had to go into a
private hospital for a long-postponed opera-
tion. The trouble followed the tlieft of
his appendix while he was on active service,
but he was too busy attending to other mat-
ters to give the surgeons a look in, so to
speak.
Everard Browne, who lately had a disas-
trous driving accident and has made a pain-
fully slow recovery, is parting with his
Colac acres, and means to retire to a quiet
part of Toorak.
Mrs. Reggie Power is hurrying back from
England with the Power baby to see husband
Reggie, whose war-injured leg has just been
operated on. The late Herbert Power’s
Toorak homestead, Moonga, is to be auc-
tioned next month, and the remainder of
its park lands will go the way of all farm
acres by being cuf up into villa allotments.
Miss Pughe-Jones is in Australia inves-
tigating the possibilities of employment for
British women in
gardening, orchard
work and other
rural pursuits. She
is a countryw’oman
of Billy Hughes, and
during the war did
good work with
the W.A.A.C.’s in
France. After two
years there she was
landed in Salonika
and had the care of
500 v’.A.D.’s, mostly
orderlies to the hos-
pitals. In Salonika
in those days no
woman was allowed
out after dark with-
out a convoy, and
Miss Pughe-Jones
had a strenuous time keeping tally of her
brigade through the 24 hours. As a horti-
culturist the lady, who is here pictured by
Burlington, of Melbourne, is keenest on
lavender culture, and draws a fair revenue
from a still in Wales.
Directpr of Campaign Ryan and his
missus had a preliminary canter at the
Federal Houses one day last week. The
Director must turn his attention to physical
culture, or he’ll never get through the cam-
paign. His wife is handsome and sturdy,
and looked this day as if she wasn’t to be
trifled with.
Gregory, M.H.R.. lost his mother last
week, a charming Irish lady, who was in
her eightieth year. She came to Melbourne
in 1842, and had much interesting talk about
the city’s golden age.
Diana Wilson has made a hit socially, and
is being f§ted everywhere. She is visiting
Mrs. Nathan, of Christchurch, at her Clive-
den flat. Mrs. Nathan belongs to the Maori-
land racing clan, and is in Melbourne for
the Cup revels.
Vice-Chancellor Grice and his lady are
having a big University spree on Friday,
October 24—the eve of Henley. The recep-
tion is to be at the Town Hall, and is in
honor of the University returned soldiers,
and particularly of the soldier oarsmen.
Uniform will be worn.
The Donald Mackinnqns gave a dance
when their younger son got back from the
war with his Parisian wife. Sister Hilary
Mackinnon is showing her cheerfulness at
the reunion by appearing in a race dress of
bright red, with turban, shoes and stock-
ings to match.
Prof. Baldwin Spencer has cut trip
to England, and is rusticating at Upper
Fern Tree Gully.
Lieut.-Col. J. J. Scanlan, D. 5.0., has
become secretary of the Profiteering Com-
mission in succession to C. W. Prohasky,
who has got a better job in the Repat. Dept.
The members of the commission consist of
a major-general, a brigadier-general and a
captain. With a lieut.-colonel as sec. and
a non-com. as typist, military precision, at
any rate, ought to mark the results.
Melbourne’s Mayor-elect is Councillor J.
G. xVikman, pictured here by Talma. Aik-
man has been one of
the City Fathers for
10 years. He is
chairman of the
General Purposes
and Legislative Com-
mittee, and carries a
punch in the Metro-
poli t a n Board of
Works. Still he has
plenty of energy for
other things. He
has acted as Presi-
dent of his uproari-
ous Football Asso-
ciation for years
and is also at the
top of the Fire Bri-
gade’s ladder. His
mo s t quiet and
peaceful job is iu
the Legislative Council. Lord Mayor Aik-
man was toasted into his new job at
Cabena’s luncheon party last Thursday,
when the Fors and Againsts glared at, each
other over their glasses.
Aikman generally gets what he goes for
though he certainly did miss the honorary
Ministership he aimed at when Bent was
in power. He was not quite so influential
then.
Last week Witchwood, the South Yarra
hut of the Ernest Keeps, was the scene of
a dancing revel for daughter Heather. The
guests left in time to meet the milkman
approaching up the avenue. Witchwood is
a delectable spot set in an oasis of green
■and crammed with rare china, old prints
and tapestries of mellowed colors. The ball-
room was lighted by a huge old candelabra
bearing many waxen lights. Heather Keep
clad her slimness in golden brocade. In
the thick of those stepping it to the crash-
ing of a jazz band were Mrs. Freddie Grim-
wade, looking like a ripe peach in pink;
handsome young Mrs. McCaughey (once
Una McKellar), in black, with her locks
bound in paddy green ; the youngest Ham-
mond Clegg girleen Hope; and Mrs. Jack
Knox, in white brocade. The soldiers
present included medico Colonel Balcombe
Quick, flying-man Sidney Dalrymple, Cap-
tain Geoff Strachan, Denis Lawrence and
the Falkiner brothers.
Hughes has got back to horseback exercise,
and is in so nervy a state that he needs it
badly. Any morning between six and seven
the early risers of Kew see the little man,
who rides almost Tod Sloan fashion, go
full gallop up Cotham-road and down Burke-
road as far as the river, then back again.
Adelaide’s week:—
Some of us don’t quite know whether we would like
to have to put up with Verbiugghen for good. On
Wednesday night lie knocked off work and climbed from
the rostrum to remonstrate with a couple of girls
who were whispering in one of the organ galleries;
and he has spoken his mind concerning the Post
Office clock, which dared to go on chiming while he
was fiddling.
Races and football were the chief items of the
Eight Hours’ Day programme. Occasional showers
and a blustering wind made banner-carrying a dismal
job and drove most feminine racegoers back into
winter clothing. In the evening there was a dinner
for racing men at Government House.
The engagement is announced of Marion Alinutt
to Kenneth Hamilton, son of the late Dr. T. K.
At the end of the month at a concert which is
being arranged by Brewster-Jones, half a dozen of
his pupils are to play their o\ln compositions. Tak-
ings for the Burnside Soldiers’ Memorial.
George Coates’s “For the Empire” is at present in
the Gallery, on loan. Its original, picked by the
artist as a fine type of Australian when he was
visiting a military hospital in England, was R. E.
Claridge, an Adelaide boy who was afterwards killed
in France.
Died at St. Peter’s on Friday, Mrs. S. C. Mann, one
of whose sons was recently added to the Vic. Supreme
Court Bench. She was a daughter of the late Arch-
deacon Wollaston, and landed in Westralia with her
parents in 1840.
Bombardier Waller has one of his one-man left-
handed war-picture shows at the Institute Gallery.
In reproduction, his work seemed powerful but hard.
Now it is seen to have grace. Sowden, of the Art
Gallery Board, opened the show, and gave hints of
State patronage. Governor Galway said he had come
to encourage a wounded soldier but found a real
artist, and he will add some Wallers to his Aus-
tralian collection. The canvases hung are mostly
fresh work, Sydney and Melbourne having taken
heavy toll of the old lot.
Sybella Grey Smith has decided to change
her surname to Murphy in the near future.
Her fiance lately peeled off the trappings of
an English Territorial major. His late
mother was the Grice dame’s twin sister.
They were the Powers of Powerscourt, Gipps-
land, and their double wedding was one of
the social events of Toorak in the latter
’seventies.
Cecil Barrington Hearn and Lilian Kelly
were married on October 5 at Clarendon
House, East Melbourne. The Clarendon
House folk provided a wedding breakfast
for them and about 50 guests.
There was a great wedding in Auckland
early this month, when Captain Clutha Mac-
kenzie, blind soldier, son of the Maoriland
High Commissioner in England, was mar-
ried. His bride is an English girl—Doris
Sawyer, daughter of Harcourt Sawyer, of
Windsor Great Forest. Admiral Jellicoe
gave the bride away.
A note from the North :
Two popular Brisbane girls acquired wedding-rings
last week, and both bridegrooms were returned sol-
diers. Dorothy Kilroe, only daughter of the
hospitable J. H. liilroes, was married to Denis Ram-
say Needham Walker (a cousin of Admiral Beatty’E),
ut All Saints’, which had been turned into a white
garden by the bride’s girl friends. Holly Needham
Walker and Claire Elliott were the bride’s seconds.
Among the gifts to the bride was a flag taken from
the 80th Turkish Regiment on December 28, 191 C.
A champagne breakfast was eaten in Finney’s Roof
Garden Cafe. The other wedding was that of Alma
Johnston, second daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James
Johnston, of Windsor, to Lieut. F. W. V. Stratford,
late of the 41st Battalion, a fine young Australian
who left a leg in France. Dr. E. N. Merrington
tied the knot, and Lena Hammond raised a contralto
voice in song. Mr. and Mrs. Stratford will live in
Lismore (N.S.W.).
Geoffrey Luttrell and Mrs. Geoffrey (who
was Alys Bridges) are rejoicing over an
heir —a bouncing boy born last week. He
is an important arrival, as he has excel-
lent worldly prospects on both sides of his
family. Dad is a nephew of the G.-G.
Mary Gaunt, the Australian novelist,
finds the English climate very trying, and
has been ordered to leave it for the winter.
She intends going to Jamaica.
Frank St. Leger is in London acting as
accompanist to Melba and coach to the
principals at Covent Garden. The gossips
say he is working himself to a shadow.
The pale, eager face is a little paler than
usual; but his big, round spectacles are as
round as ever.
Jennie Opie has closed the doors of Caris-
brook on its “paying guests.” The idea was
to turn it into fiats, but no move has .been
made in that direction, and the old house is
for sale once more. Jennie Opie has joined
up with Williamson’s Royal Comics, and is
to appear as Lady Teresa in “Theodore and
G 0.,” their next production. Buckley and
Nunn are making the costumes for the
Firm’s new piece.
Dorothy Murdoch, the singer-haired young
contralto who was coached by Melba, is to
give a concert in the Town Hall on Novem-
ber 14, and the vice-regals have promised
to decorate the front row. There is already
£2OO or so in hand towards Dorothy’s pro-
jected trip abroad.
Chai’lie Kenningham, the J.C.W. operatic
tenor of years ago, is a sick man in the
Maryborough (Q.) Hospital. After two
serious operations he is on the way to con-
valescence ; but the doctors say his career
as music-teacher is ended, his hearing having
failed. There is to be a big benefit concert
in Maryborough about November 19. The
Charles Kenningham Benefit Committee has
appointed Aid. H. J. Hyne and J. M.
Ilorsburgh trustees to receive subscriptions
—and none will be too small. The address
for generous music-lovers is Box 122, Mary-
borough (Q.).
“Wally” Cattlin, who for many years
looked after the passage-arrangements of the
Howard Smith Shipping Co., has shifted his
typewriter and inkstand into the office of
the Melbourne Cricket Club, where he will
sit among the financial machinery of that
prosperous concern. Cattlin is a M.C.C.
committeeman of long standing, and has a
sound reputation as one of the “old reliables”
of the club’s honorary administration.


c/u
list
<75
in
BLACK and WHITE
WHISKY
Obtainable in
Bottles, Half-Bottles,
FlasKs Half-FlasKs
<James Buchan am & Co Ltd,


Charles
HeidsieckS
Vintage 1906
GlMffl
HE PLUS DLTR/1
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
J
Conquest
Mademoiselle knows that it is
easier when she is gowned in an
adorable creation by Shave. She
knows, too ,■ that she is spared
fatigue by the Shave Model-fitting
System.
SHAVE
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway
Melbourne.
HOSIERY!
GLOVES!
UNDERWEAR!
“ ( /Wm MILANESE SILK
GLOVES, double-tipped guaranteed, all colors,
_ 4/9 pair.
Other qualities 5/0 7/0 pair
“DOVE” HEAVY-WEIGHT PURE SILK
HOSE, every pair guaranteed ladder-proof. Sold
in shops 25/- pair. From us, in black only—
-16/6 Pair
“OMI” ARTIFKTAL SILK ANKLE
HOSE, Australian made, noted for splendid dye
and good wear. In black,' white and brown—
-3/6 pair
“DOVE” AMERICAN COTTON SING-
LETS, very long and full size. Short sleeves.
4/11 value for 2/11 each
KAVSER MILANESE HOSE, in Mastic,
Navy and White IQ/U pair
MAIL ORDERS SPECIALLY CATERED FOR.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
The Dove Hosiery Stores,
313 Collins St., Opp. Equitable Building, Kelbiurne.
y
LOOK!
I’ve Split my
NEW GLOVES.
This is iust one of
those articles which
could neatly be
repaired with
( v )€Qd-&-7ca,r
THE WONDERFUL NEW
MATERIAL WHICH SO
SIMPLY-SO N~
Repairs almost all wearing t
WITHOUT STITCHES. “
Sample Outfit
post free on
receipt of 1/4
WHICH SO ;
> NEATLY- i
G APPAREL J
')
Sole Wholesale Distributors for N.S.W. and
Queensland—
Bennett S Barkell Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
Buy Peace Bonds.
The Dainty Afternoon Teas served at the •'PAVILION,” Circular Qtiay, Sydney, are patronised by the best people. Orchestral performances daily.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVEID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Races! Nothing else mattered all last
week. The holiday Monday poured out its
gold alike on bookie and the season’s frip-
peries—very gentle and modest fripperies,
with scarcely a suggestion of the freak.
Charming little grey frocks, reminiscent of
“Miss Gibbes”; beautifully tailored cream
costumes, straight as to line and loose as to
coat; crisp organdy and the cool, tubby
freshness of voile, clothed the flapper, old
and young. Georgette and soft silkiness
and wide black hats came into their own.
Rest dressers were Mrs. Philip Morton, who
floated in draperies that had caught the
opalescence of the moonstone, and Mrs.
J- O. Fairfax, all soft greyness and wide
black hat, who graced the vice-regal pen.
There were two sensations at Wednesday’s
meeting, the first the appearance of Gov-
ernor Davidson’s Daphne and Diana in the
.seats of the mighty, the little girls in sedate
mushroom hats looking exactly as if they
had stepped out of a Penny Reading for the
Young. They studied the neddies with an
appraising eye; but even the most querulous
admit that they weren’t seen either laying
the odds or putting their little hit on the
tote. The second sensation was Gloaming's
running away with the Craven Cup from
Rebus and Wolaroi, while good Maorilanders
like the Steads and the Robertses and Green-
wood cheered for joy. The thunderstorm of
the morning had added a sparkle to the air,
and Woman turned out looking more dazzling
than even at the ball the night before. They
were all there once more—Society and near-
Society dames, and it was a tragedy for one
little lady in a foulard dress and a small
hat who looked 15 at the back and 51 in the
front. Mrs. Alec Hay, in besprigged mus-
lin,_ was more than ever the beauteous sma 11-
waisted heroine of the old-fashioned romance.
Mrs. Elliot represented the Gilbert Islands
m grey ninon, and the I’at Osbornes saw
Eearte fall into the ruck, and a pretty Cup-
paidge girl showed what Gympie can do in
the matter of profiles.
It is a good thing that trade follows the
flag; if it were the other way around the
blossoming of Randwick on Saturday into
what looked like a field of Japanese sun-
shades might have caused an apprehensive
eye to be turned in directions other than
towards the tote. Wherever it wandered the
gaze fell on Oriental-flowered /silk ; only
here and there a Western shape raised its
feathered fluffiness or a gaudy tent above
the owner’s millinery. The lawn was a
comedy in muslin; crisp or soft, hut always
frilled, it billowed about the girlish figures
of mother and flapper-daughter alike. Mus-
lin was everywhere. It was the whole hat
or the. trimming of it. It was the whole
dress or part of it. It was hemstitched, it
was plain, or it had lace upon it; and it
had no prettier wearer than Westralian girl
Enid Woolfe, who chose it in palest yellow,
wearing with it a hat all pink softness.
Feathers and flowers vie for pride of
place in the newest tiles. Some of the
feathers are plainly old stock that owners
dread to have remodelled. Not of this
prudent class was the lady who had her
plumes split and caught loosely into a knot
on top of her hat to form a thick Tam o'
Feather crown. As for the Thomas Hughes
lady, she left the ostrich scarcely a feather
to fly with; Mrs. James Ashton, clothed a
slim silhouette in bladk and white suiting;
another handsome magpie-dresser was Mrs.
Edward Noyes; arid Mrs. Sheldon thrust
her diamond clasp into a silk stockingette
costume, deep-pink in shade, and wore a
sailor-like hat, the brim level with her eye-
brows. Sam Hordern’s lady, in honey-
colored draperies, walked with daughter
Doreen in navy blue; graceful Mrs. Figman
was the ideal tailor-made woman in cream;
medico Lucy Gullett looked competent in
navy, and Rosamund Lumsdaine was like a
little yellow canary.
Miss Eadith Walker, all in blue, with a
posy in her hat, was fairy godmother to a
party in a large car that was drawn up
in front of the Members’ Stand. In it were
very bright-eyed young soldiers, who will
not walk again, enjoying tlieir first outing
since Fritz marksmen crippled their young
limbs. Blue sky, warm sunshine, the shift-
ing, well-dressed crowds, the satin-coated
f. 66 ®: It was something like an outing.
Eadith W alker! They reckon s/ie’s all
right.
To aid the Children’s Hospital Sydney
spent a small fortune on its costumes for
the Dazzle Ball. The night that had been
talked of and written about for months
arrived, and Pierrot and Columbine, Jack
of Spades and Queen of Diamonds, and be-
frilled and hooped early-Victorians dashed
gaily to a Town Hall camouflaged into an
inverted forest, rustling and billowing for
joy that the paper shortage was at an end;
or if you were merely a homely person it
might have suggested a ham-and-beef shop in
Christmas-week. Across the paper scrub,
from the four corners of the galleries, flashed
green and gold and pink lights, and showers
of balloons fell during the evening.
Everybody had come to the ball as some-
body else, and the Futurist people made you
feel like Alice in Wonderland when she had
to keep hopping quickly from one square to
another. Most of the girls’ costumes were
of the corue-late-and-go-early disorder, so we
had the twinkly leg of Rainbow, the merry
leg of Pierrette, the lurid limb of the Goddess
of Flame —she had once been christened Val-
kyrie, but times have changed. Of course
there were other legs—some that you tipped
as having dimpled knees, and some whose
plumpness you guessed as camenlarged. And
some there were that might be classed as
the glad leg.
The most vivid set was without doubt the
Back of Cards, with its knaves, and its kings
with their swashbuckling cloaks, and the
queens with their crowns. However, they
were euchred by the guileful simplicity of
the 1860 set, with its frills and its curls, and
its women who might have stepped
from “Pride and Prejudice” or Edg-
worth’s Moral Tales. Barbara Knox
and the Colin Stephen lady cast the
parts for this sot, which included Mrs.
Willie Collins in pink brocade, her powdered
hair dressed high, with a ringlet that didn’t
always coquette with her shoulder. Ruth
Morton was in this set, too, all white tulle,
pink rosebuds and black ringlets. Another
Knox hud whistled up a reckless bond of
apaches. Powder and patches ladies were
everywhere, one of the most striking
of these being President Mrs. Arthur
Allen. Bobbie McMillan and Mrs. Clay-
ton had usurped the clerk of the
weather’s job and brought the Rainbows and
Clouds. There were Dazzle sets, and
Razzle Dazzle sets; grubs and butterflies
came together; there was a lady in a mask
that, suggested a small girl’s nightmare of
Euclid; and a flaming devil at the portal
greeted everybody as an old friend. The
serpent of old Nile came with Antony and
her court, and pulled off the second prize,
leaving the third for the Sain Hordern lady’s
sparkling cluster of Pierrots, the scarce
knee-length skirts of Pierrette being a suc-
cession of tiny black .and white frills.
Muriel Window looked like a very naughty
Bunty. There were men in mutton-chop
whiskers, and one incongruous cavalier,
satin-breeched, powdered wig and all, who
stuck to a drooping brown moustache.
Brown-eyed Muriel Carter looked like a
checker board. Mrs. Sep Levy, in coloring
that suggested fire-glow, took the floor with
Hugh Ward. And a belle of the ball was
a little Chinese miss with a moonflower face
and exquisite eyebrows who walked about
under the guidance of Mrs. Herbert Marks.
May Moore’s camera has cleverly re-
produced the sensitive expression of Mrs.
Baker, who has
been helping in the
discussions which
the National Council
of Women have been
holding in the Edu-
cation Buildings.
Mrs. Baker is presi-
dent of the Vic.
Branch of the Coun-
cil. She has atten-
ded conferences in
Berlin, Canada and
Switzerland, and is
quite willing to
attend one at Tim-
buctoo if the women
of those parts feel
the need of improv-
ing their conditions.
She is intensely in-
terested in the welfare of woman in indus-
trial life.
The Town Hall concerts will have an
added witchery, as Dattilo Eubbo Pan, with
his pipes, was seen peeping around the
boulders of the Garden of the Ilesperides.
which was pitched in the neighborhood of
the city organ. Juno sowed no discord
among the modern miss with the mischievous
pippin, for when at 12.25 Paris McCulloch
aided and abetted by Arcady’s oldest in-
habitant, Souter, found his Helen in the
Spanish-like beauty of Lolita Rubio, from
Manila, the other girls said: "Beauty is in
the eye of the beholder.” and found their
apples in the eye of attendant Prince or
apache.
Yice-Regalty was there, of course; and a
modern French miss who lit up and smoked
a cigarette in one of the doorways leading
to the ballroom.
The S. M. Herald, recording the fashions
on the first day of the Spring meeting, said
that Lady Davidson wore osprey plumes.
She promptly and indignantly denied it—
she had never bought an osprey, and is
in entire sympathy with the object of the
Society for the Preservation of Wild Life.
The wives of some of his Ex.’s Ministers
are not so solicitous either about bird-life
or the laws their husbands are supposed to
administer. Two of .them wore ospreys at
one recent chivoo.
The National Council of Women had the
Government Plouse hand and sandwich ex-
tended to it on Friday, when Lady David-
son’s hair sported a black anything-but-
osprey in its honor. Black was worn by
the Fuller, Cullen and Richards ladies, but
president of the council Mrs. McCallum ran
to heliotrope and black lace.; and Mrs.
Arthur Allen wore a gold tunic with her
black satin. Everybody connected with
“movements” crowded the drawing-room and
the ballroom, while Aide D’Apice acted as
usher.
This is Mrs. Dob-
sun, president of the
Tasmanian Branch
of the National
Council of Women.
Mrs. Dobson is con-
nected with every
philanthropic move-
ment that Tassy
knows. Hobart is
her home, and the
whole world of
woman her interest.
Her Sydney stay has
been spent at Hun-
ter’s Hill.
A pretty and strik-
ing personality
among the delegates
i s Mv s. Snowden,
from Tasmania. She
will he remembered as an attractive Sydney
girl named Isaacs.
His Ex. and Lady Davidson will leave
Sydney on Oct. 30 for Melbourne to attend
a parade of imported clothes. Private sec.
-Lamb goes with them. Mayor Richards
and his lady will also be of the congrega-
tion.
There were D.S.O.’s and 0.8.E.’s and
M.C.’s and V.C.'s about St. Mary’s when
Helena Booten, all satin, tulle, georgette and
silver butterflies, married Major John Austin
Chapman, D.S.O. Helena is a pretty Ameri-
can giid whose d; d had marble works in
Brussels up to the time the Hun went berserk ;
but on her wedding day you’d never have
guessed that her satin-shod feet had stumbled
for a dreadful 40 miles before the German
advance. When she and her mother reached
England, _ Helena took up war work, met
her Aussie and came to Australia to marry
"? m - „„ TKe Bootens claim descent, on the
distaff side, from the Wolfe who is famous
for the storming of Quebec and the neat
remark about every bullet finding its billet.
John Austin is son of politician Austin
Chapman, and a Duntroon graduate. Pro-
fessional and military R.C. Sydney was
summoned to the wedding feast, perhaps the
most striking among the women being the
wife of barrister Coyle.
Three brilliant men married three sisters
about quarter of a century ago. The sisters
were the Misses Baird, of Northumberland.
One of the men was Sydney’s late B. R.
Wise, K.C.; another—and the biggest of the
lot was E. T. Cook, who died last week.
The third was H. B. Irving, who played a
season in Australia, with Dorothea his wife,
under the J.C.W. management, shortly after
the latter bought out the Clarke-Meynell
combination. A fourth Baird sister was also
a connection of Australia by marriage, so
to speak. She married Richard Threlfall,
who was Professor of Physics at Sydney
Uni. in the ’eighties. All the Baird ladies were
very talented and earnest. Yet Mrs.
B. R. Wise was somehow never a success in
Sydney; and she was delighted when the
opportunity offered to escape to London and
settle there with her only son, Tony. Mrs.
Threlfall was almost unknown locally; and
Mrs. LI. B. Irving, the “Trilby” of Beer-
bohm Tree’s greatest success, was over-
shadowed off the stage as well as on it by
her husband the whole time they were in
the Commonwealth.
. But Mrs. Irving had her undoubted quali-
ties. Some Sydney people were having
supper at the Australia after ILB.’s first
night in “Hamlet”—in which his wife played
Ophelia in a notably uninspired manner.
Their comments on the lady’s effort were
frank and free. No one observed a tall,
drab young woman, with her sparse fair hair
lashed into a small knot at the back of her
head, who was drinking coffee at an adjoin-
ing table. Then Irving entered and was
immediately greeted by the hostess of the
party. He indicated his wife —the coffee-
drinker. Everyone knew that she had heard
every word that had been uttered; and she
knew they knew it. She was one and they
were many. However, she sailed over and
joined her husband and exchanged banalities
with her assailants of a few minutes earlier
with a nerve of iron.
Cecily Cattrell, the slim, fair girl who
wears her clothes like a queen ought to but
mostly doesn’t, and has been for a long time
past High Priestess of Dorrien’s. is acknow-
ledging her engagement to the G.-G.’s Aide
Duncan. It’s said that the pair met when
the lady was returning from a study of
fashion in America. Duncan, who has lived
most of his life in England, is of a well-
known S’Australian squatting family, and is
credited with a banking account that a
mountain of fripperies would not shake.
A Brisbane send-off : —•
The new Agent-General, his wife and their daughter
were farewelled before they left to catch the Sonoma
at Sydney. J. M. Hunter is a courteous and kindly
man, who should make a success of the job. His
wife is one .of our best-dressed matrons and lias a
charming personality. The Premier and Mrs. Ryan
gave a farewell party in the Exhibition Hall. And
“citizens of Brisbane” took the Hunters voyaging on
the Lucinda, in order to make speeches and presenta-
tions and have supper.
Dennis Connelly, son of Mrs. Harry
Peters, has cabled from Vancouver to expect
him shortly in Sydney, He enlisted in
England the day war w r as declared, went
right through, and, when demobilised, joined
the staff of the London Star as cartoonist.
His only brother was killed in battle.
Organisers Mrs. Trefie and Mrs. Kerr wore
beaming faces at the Spring ball last week,
for if the Paddington Town Hall had been
elastic there would have been still greater
numbers of girls and boys whose people are
interested in St. Michael’s Orphanage to
jazz upon its floor. Mayoress Richards, in
spite of a fatiguing race-week, flung civic
approval about the gathering. S’Owen Cox
came from Castle Hill, and brought a party
with him; and the philanthropic James
Burns, of Gowan Brae, had dropped his
cheque into the hat held out by the cajoling
Mrs. Trefie earlier in the week.
Helen Hume, a daughter of C. L. Hume,
of Castle Stead, Boorowa, and a grand-
niece of the explorer, will wed Cyril Spicer,
of Wagga, next Tuesday, at the Boorowa
parish church.
Miss Cox was in Sydney for the races for
the first time in many years. She is a
daughter of the snowy-haired old doctor who
married, for the second time, late in life,
and died a few years before the war. Miss
Cox’s sister Millie wedded just on 30 years
ago a Carrington A.D.C., who is now the
Earl of Lindsey.
Ituth Lumsdaine, just engaged to Harry
Whiting, of Melbourne, is a daughter of
the well-known Darling Point clergyman.
She is of the dark and dashing order of
beauty, and has been one of Sydney’s
brightest amateur theatrical stars for years.
The AVhiting girls were a lot in Sydney,
where they have relations, eight or ten years
ago, and the festive Harry has been dashing
over for race-weeks and similar functions
for as long almost as the oldest social in-
habitant can remember.
The Battle of Flowers was not the scene
of youthful abandon that the press-agent
had expected. In the cold wind of Satur-
day night, the small children, clothed mostly
in petals, were forced to the expedient of
an eternal game of tig to keep themselves
warm. Then the one band was inadequate;
only a few dancers, fitted probably with
long-distance telephones for ears, were able
to catch sufficient of the music to jazz to.
So the rest of the crowd wandered aimlessly
around, or sought the merry-go-round, which
was the liveliest spot.
On Oct. 27 the. Town Hall will see the
croXvning of, the Prince of the Christian
Brothers’ jubilee drive. The princes are
nominees of the different branches of the
Brothers’ schools, and range from curly-
headed youngsters to youths in the “longies”
and voice-changing class. Owen Cox is
archbishop in charge of the coronation cere-
mony.
Off to America and England by the
Niagara Mrs. H. S. Dutton and youngest
daughter, Leonie Elisabeth. The Duttons
are of the Northern State, where hubby was
an Under-Secretary at the time of his death.
Leonie hopes to find a market for her pretty
and fanciful stories in London.


Hardy Brothers Ltd.,
Established 1853. Established 1853.
JEWELLERS.
Fine Diamond and Platinum
Pendant, complete with Plati-
num Chain, in case,
£265.
DIAMOND
JEWELLERY.
Hardy Bros. Ltd. Specialise in
Highly-finished Diamond and Gem
Jewellery, the illustration being
representative of the Very Choice
Selection Available.
All Gems are of Finest Quality,
Pure Platinum being used for the
Diamond Settings, the Workman-
ship throughout being of Highest
Standard.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY
are invited to inspect the Company’s Showrooms.
13 HUNTER STREL V, SYDNEY.
298 Collins Street, Melbourne. 116-118 Queen Street, Brisbane.
AND AT LONDON.
THE POWERS 6B BIOGRAPH
Gives PERFECT SATISFACTION
Under Most Exacting Conditions.
In an article entitled “Censoring the
Movies.” which appeared in the Sun on
September 24 last, describing the tremendous
amount of work done by the Board of Cen-
sors. in the censorship of films, a splendid
tribute was paid to the efficiency of the
machines used —the Powers 68. It stated
“Mie most up-to-date machinery procurable
A\ms installed, the chief items being the
British C.M.B. Auto-Converter, and two
Powers 6B Cameragraphs for projecting the
pictures on the screen. Quite recently tilt 1
representative of one of the biggest American
producing companies who has watched cen-
sorship methods in many countries expressed
the opinion that, as regards outfit and
facilities for prompt and economical handling
the Sydney installation stands unrivalled.
The quality of the equipment may be
gauged from the fact that in handling over
nine, million feet of new film
NOT ONE FOOT WAS LOST
through any fault of the machine, although it was run through at
DOUBLE THE NORMAL SPEED.
The Powers (iB was selected by the Board of Censors after careful examination of
all bioscopes on the market, because in their opinion it appeared to be the
MOST PRACTICAL BIOSCOPE AVAILABLE,
the movement being so designed that wear and tear of the film is reduced toi the
minimum, while the construction is so substantial the greatest durability is h j®® sur
Their opinion has been amply justified by the above record, and, despite the high late
at which the machines have been running, they are working now
As Satisfactorily and Efficiently as When New-
wo will' l-p rdeased to give YOU a practical demonstration of this machine at any
of our establishments. If you live out of town, send for new illustrated Cinematographic
Catalogue.
METALLURGICAL AND ASSAY WORK.
Our Laboratories are equipped with the most up-to-date appliances for all classes
* Metalworkere’
Sweeps, Residues and Waste Products, every grain of metal that is of value being
extracted.
YVK RESERVE REFERENCE SAMPLES of every
m ent is complete, and collect material to be treated
free of Charge. A note or ’phone message to any of
receive prompt attention.
order until settle-
in city or suburbs
our branches will
G?
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
ocg George Street, Sydney. 266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane. 43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
Queen Street, Auckland. 42 Willis Street, Wellington, NZ.
Laboratories and Works: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale.
mt
O
m
%5Q
€
P
C 3
LooK
at these Tools
and parts o/ Machinery
THE NUMBER of valuable tools and broken machinery
parts which are thrown on scrap-heaps is appalling. Oyer
and over again the Oxy-Acetylene Welding Blowpipe has
shown that apparently hopelegs, broken tools and parts can be
made as strong as new without trouble. There are Oxy-Acetylene
Welders everywhere throughout Australia ready for instant service.
In repairing anything composed of cast and wrought iron, mild steel, b«w»PP«.
aluminium and gun metal—no matter what it is—from a huge piece of machmery to a
common or garden kitchen pot—the Oxy-Acetylene Welder will gladly make it strong
a trifle compared with cost of a new article. Oxy-Acetylene Welding must not be
confused with brazing or fire welding. The Oxy-Acetylene Blowpipe gives a.perfectTusmn
of the parts to be joined. Write for interesting booklet full of illustrations and particulars
of many money-saving welding jobs.
Oxygen G?Jig-
FOV ST BAJLFLA.FNC
SIDNEY • TST-5 -W
MELBOURNE: Fyvie
TASMANIA: Harrison
121 Eagle St. PERTH
& Stewart, 362 Collins St. ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt St.
Bros. & Co., Ltd., 20 Patterson St., Launceston. BRISBANE. Evans, Deakin & Co.,
: George Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray St. FIJI: Brown & Joske, Suva.
8.245


A *
mm
COLLARS
» o
“ 7
m
mm
kft #w ./• ■
j I^R-V.v.: •.- •;•'•-• •'.;'.V.V. t • : :'X..- *.. • :•.'•'. v
UAt /'>'&{§
r*>*
r
iiiizL.
EARS of pursuit of the
highest Collar-making
ideals haveresulted in Pelaco
Collars being something bet-
ter, something beyond ordin-
ary collars. You prove it.
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
The above
is the title)
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WIESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—-
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.’’
1
nT^I
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
153 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY
AGNES PLATT,
4 Manchester St., London, W. England.
Advice given on plays, novels, cinemas.
Manuscripts placed. Plays produced.
Correspondence course in stage, novel
and cinema technique.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
■
a
MADE
Perfection
F>iriK RUBBER
H. G. HARMER, L.R.1.8.A., C.E.,
ESTABLISHED 1907,
having taken into partnership
A. C. LAVINGTON,
will henceforth practise as
HARMER & LAVINGTON,
ARCHITECTS
and
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS.
SPECIALISTS IN REINFORCED CONCRETE,
TIMBER AND STEEL STRUCTURES.
SILOS, WOOLSHEDS, TANKS, FACTORIES
AND HOMESTEADS.
Country work a Specialty.
’Phone: City 50. Box 468 G.P.O.
52 WAR LOAN CHAMBERS,
114 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HOLEPROOF HOSE
have been bought by
millions of people for
many years. That fact
alone is proof enough
of extraordinary
value.
Have you ever thought
what YOU may be mis-
sing by going without this
brand ?
Here is practically . . .
ABSOLUTE FREEDOM
from darning and you
have the choice of pure
silk and fine lisle.
If your
dealer is
unable to
supply you,
write us.
Indents and
Wholesale thru
"AL T E R
ATH R O
PTY. LTD.
. 0 Yo»»k St.
SYDNEY.
DNiav3i s.mssKra
The last word in comfort.
Convenient to Theatres,
G.P.0., Rail, and all tram
routes
THE GRESHAM
BRISBANE
T. M. AHERN. Prop.
Easy to Keep
Hair Trimmed
Distance from a barber’s need not matter when
you have a good pair of hair-clippers. The hair-
clippers illustrated are made by one of the best
known Anns in U.S.A., and are thoroughly reli-
able. Solidly made of steel and with extra combs
to slide over end, enabling hair to be cut i n lo/C
different lengths. Simple to use. Post free. . > / O
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Gronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Kogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
. should read the British Australasian,
(id. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and neivs
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
THRIFT”—tk National Watchword
In these present days of economy, when apparel is required to give the utmost
service,
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
provide an excellent polish, which will increase the wear, preserve the leather and
give a bright and lasting shine. Bostock’s Violo Cream, for Patent Leather and
Glac6 Kid, is a scientific emulsion of high-grade waxes, which keeps the leather
soft and pliable, thus preventing cracks and insuring added service.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Tins, Bottles and Tubes.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
COmONITy PLATE
lMvp»aivdi
i jaggy]
fra
i
IB
As dainty as she and as beautiful. You
knew she would like it —a whole case of
COMMUNITY PLATE-that high grade
SILVER PLATED CUTLERY. She
delights in the designs of those old masters
—Adam, Sheraton and Hepplewhite—its
wonderful quality, and its guarantee of 50
years service, knowing too, that NO COM-
MUNITY PLATE designs are duplicated
in the other qualities.
An additional overlay of pure silver reinforces
spoons and forks at the base of the bowl, thus doub-
ling the life and ensuring durability. Services of
COMMUNITY PLATE may be obtained at prices
ranging from £5 to £5O.
On sale at the leading shops.
Oneida Community Limited
The Banking House, 228 Pitt St., Sydney
Established 1848, Incorporated ISBI, Oneida, N.Y., U.S.A.
Al»o makers of Oneida Community Reliance Plate
(Guaranteed 25 years)
Oneida Community Par Plate (Guaranteed 10 years)
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Twilight George: That’s the stuff
C.S.C.: Dreadful.... Kane B.: Obliged, just the
sort of thing we want to know.... Detector: Can’t
undertake to return MS. of pars that ar e not
printed. It’s no use sending stamps with them. .. .
A! .J.T.: Better whisper “Amourette” into the lady's
ear. ft “Passion” fell on this line—'“Your sweet
breath panting close against my face.” The E.:
“For it all is a part of God’s own plan.” That
removes a cwt. of responsibility Marie K.: Well,
Marie, if “you’d with the lambkins play” you can’t
do it here. We have no lambkins on the premises.
The drought in George-street is very bitter E.W.:
Try it on our friendly contemporary, the War Cry.
. ...A.H.M.: Lamentable. .. .Jason: Well enough
done, but slight J.H. (Owanyilla) : The metre of
“Dawn Song ’ makes it difficult reading in spite
of the good phrasing... .D.H.W.: Poor as Lazarus.
Don Three: A bit thin 5.J.8.: Misses the
margin.... Anarchist: That “Alphabet” business is
always dreary... .Kay K.: Verse futile; prose no use.
.. . . R.A.: (Geelong) : Its chief faults are bad rhymes,
bad scansion and a complete lack of anything that
would make it something J.W.S.: Verse has a
few wooden legs—in fact, it is all wooden....
C.V.J.D.: Poor stuff made poorer by the stupid
Americanisms. Isn’t the Australian language good
enough for y0u?....11.H. (Melb.) : Your friend’s
advice was very bad. The verse is rotten. . . .E.J.M.:
Bad workmanship and poor thought. ...H.S.T.: No
humor. Anyhow, did seven men eat a hen that died
a natural death ?.... K.T. (Coogee): Doesn’t get
anywhere near. .. . A.D.N.: Not up. .. .Ada P.: Send it
to a Sunday-school journal.... St. Elmo: Pretentious
nonsense J.R.H.: Your “Southerly” has a very
feeble flutter. .. .M.B.P.': “Painted Lady” won’t do.
....Lillian M. C.: “Brotherhood” is a failure as
you depict it Tas. Murphy: You’re about the
limit, and that’s saying a lot T.E.: “Poor
Sarah” returned. She is as bad as she was when
she arrived.... D.K.C.: You haven’t got w'hat we
want... .Pisces: Better give it up... .Mary II.: Well,
don’t let us stop you:—
The flies were bad> the heat intense,
The rooster plumed his feather.
Quoth William, “This is just immense!
Look out for dirty weather!”
... Ex-Digger : Sorry, can’t find a place for it Myra
M.: “Somewhere beneath the heavens, he! Some-
where beneath the heavens, I—alone with thoughts
of him. Love, love—Oh, love, watch out for me.”
All that this Christian journal can advise is to be
reasonably careful S.A.C.-K.: No Mid-Chan-
nel: Leturned....Re-oh: It wouldn’t reproduce....
George S. R. : Thanks for this—“ You are at liberty
at any time to publish these stanzas in your paper.”
We’re sending them back in the meantime....
Deloraine: No use. .*.F.V.E. : You can’t very well
have cursed” (two syllables) and. “curst” in the
same verse L.G. (Albury) : “Outcast” doesn’t
thrill The Man in the Street: Horrible little
thing... .C.D.C.: “The Jest” doesn’t get its effect.
....Aunt Janet: That “Telephone” would make a
smart paragraph. Try it that way D.G.E. : You’ve
got a capital idea. Now work the humor into it...
C.F.P.: “Wistaria” misses Plodder: The dog and
the bird are both far off G.L.T.: Yarn too wild.*
. ...J.D. (G. 1.) : Not for u 5.... J.L.8.: Verses nos
good enough. . . .Trebar: Napoleon’s a nice fresh sub-
ject. And why all those interjections? To serve
as barks and so keep us awake ?.... M.J.M.: Doesn’t
get to anything.... Arthur A.: Might sell somewhere
else Chick: Doesn’t get us B.A.L. : Some of
its feet have corns and some are about a long.
....A.R.G.: Too frail. The wind blew it away....
V.T. (Brisbane) : The same old Spring with the cow-
slips and snowdrops! You didn’t mention the
budding elm and the robin-redbreast. Surely you
> noticed them when the ice broke on Moreton Bay*. . .
Anchorite: “Aeolian Pipes” don’t make the tune...
Smudge: Then our taste has grown more severe....
F.M. (Seacliff) : Verse very crude. .. .M.Z.N.: Not
up L.R.K.: Feeble flutter T.S. (Cleveland):
‘Curly” looks hopeful.... Masu: Work poor and sub-
ject not much iEneas : Too slight A.S. (Bal-
main) : Don’t mix regular and irregular metres like
that. .. .Gideon: The Devil can quote Scripture for
his purpose, but you haven’t any purpose that can
be discovered... Frank H. :No use. . . A.P.T. : Misses,
but not by a mile A.N.J. : You offer us the goods
gratis. We wouldn’t accept them if two archbishops
and an engine-driving duke went down on their
knees and asked us to do it. . . .T.Y. (Bendigo) : Not
much good A.R.N.: Those rhymes—“dull,”
“pools.” Avaunt!.... Senex: The matter is no
better than the handwriting. .. .A.H.T.: The yarn
gets nowhere and isn’t well enough done A.F.
(Chatswood): All right; genius is disease. Let it
stay at that. P.S.—lt isn’t infectious, we’re afraid.
. ...G.F.D.: “Australia the Free” is poor verse;
“Golden-haired Children” gives a hint of something
better. .. .Bellerive: Ah, this will move ’em:—
Upon the banks of the Yarra
Towards the close of day,
Dragged out by the police
A woman’s body lay ;
Swollen and drenched,
The gruesome, sight
Lay stretched upon the banks
In the grey twilight;
Borne to the morgue,
Unreverent and rough,
The grim mortal remains
The Yarra give up';
Laid out on a slab
For a doleful inquest.
From this world and its trials
Her soul was at rest.
H.F.W.: Doesn’t go R.S.Y.S.: You spoiled
“Dan” by using phrases as no bushman would use
them Olden Days: Not good enough; but you’ve
got the matter Fanuela: Don’t like “Introspec-
tion.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.J.M.: The young man with his hands in his
pockets is just about to fall downstairs. Apparently
overcome with amazement at the shape of the bulg-
ing girl.... Mrs. P.: They’re very stiff and some of
the infants take the wrong sizes in heads.... M.:
That old jape about pulling mother-in-law' through
death's door has been in the tomb for many years.
. ...Iv.A.: Condemn you on a first attempt? We
refuse to do it! Cheer up and work hard....
R.V.F.: It’s wrong in several directions, but we
dislike most the lunatic leaning against the wall., . .
K.: Not a bad try. Work 0n... .G.C.D.: Don’t
cramp your drawing like that. .. R.F.: Colored draw-
ing more promising. All the figures are interesting.
W.J.C.: Crude thing.. .F.P.: Very small and muddy.
. ...F.D.M.: Wooden... .E.W.L.: Take it aw r ay....
C.N.D.: Not boiled sufficiently... .A.T.G.: Scratches
only.


Shipping-
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted,
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabmes-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads anci
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel—City 4246.
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street.
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, NOVEMBER 12,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons. 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation ‘Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, UELUNGEIt,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COKE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Miirwilluinbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
HOUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—•
HOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Bunking, Public Companies. Xc.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
, SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 691,850 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. ~ ~ 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Buuning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OHICE - - - HU IS DANE.
Branches—Herndon, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund . £160,000
Directors: HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howf.ll.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest" for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping-, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, October 30.
R.M.S. MAKURA, November.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies —is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visiteu.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS. PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£4,000,000
3,100,000
4,000,000
£11,100,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.B.
The Hon. Rejjinakl .1. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucldand, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. W'a'lker.
Auditors :S. E. Laidlev, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street. Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies, in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. . ...
. Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreicrti places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World,
Commonwealth
m
JBanfcßustolia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
inthe Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE BEST PLACE FOR YOUR SAVINGS
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
139 Branches and 501 Agencies.
3J% INTEREST on all balances up to £,500
DEPOSITS received from 1/- upwards.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts Opened.
Shipping.
Osaka Shosenßaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
GANGES MARU, sailing October.
LIMITED ACCOMMODATION AVAILABLE
FOR FIRST-CLASS PASSENGERS.
MITSURI MARU, sailing November.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
INTER-STATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting:).
FOR MELBOURNE.
Huddart Parker Li^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ttegular sail-
ings between, Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA. —From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
y by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
sland, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing: Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheatli Collieries Ltd.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


s\\V
BILLIARD
w
£-2, b
SjttfiW..
*•«... l( **
~y.*
.to
t
£
In play they are resilient —faultless in running—true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizes: l|in. l|iu. 2in. 2,iin,
10/6 15/6 21/- 30/-set
(Postage on One Sct-N.S.W., 9d.; Other States, 1/2).
SNOOKER BALLS
Sizes: lfi n . 14 in. 2in 2,Li n.
£4,4/- £4/15/- £5.5;- £8 8/- set
(Wo Pay Carriage on Snooker Balls).
Sole Australasian Distributers:
DC
Headquarters— Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
A superb phonograph
—the Edison Amberola
Among those who love music,
the Edison Amberola never
fails to make a favorable
impression.
The Amberola is equipped with a
Diamond Stylus Reproducer, and plays
the famous Blue Amberol Records, which
comprise the latest and greatest musical
successes in the world. These records
are practically unbreakable, and new lists
are published every month.
Illustrated is The Edison Amberola 30, a low-priced instrument, but its tone is
life-like and superb. Available in fine golden oak. Splendid value at price,
£lO/10/- (in Australia).
Call on the nearest Edison dealer for a demonstration, or write for illustrated
catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
RE
as*
YOU could not make a better invest-
ment than in a bottle of Rem Oil. One
drop judiciously applied to the wearing
surfaces of light machines will prolong
their usefulness and render them capable
of better service. Every household should
have a bottle of Rem Oil. For firearms it is
unexcelled, being at one and the same time a
lubricant, powder solvent and rust preventive.
Ask your dealer for further particulars cr
send for special descriptive circular, also
complete catalogue of Remington UMG
Firearms and
Cartridges.
V
ff
-m
s \N
m
T
y
PS>
V
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. BRV'AKT, Aosisraliai! Re;«-esentatiye, Box 686, G. P. 0., Melbourne
PEACE HAS ITS VICTORIES
Super “Fx and R” Watches always
triumph.
The following is just to hand: —
“I would like to express my satis-
faction with regard to a wristlet
watch from you in April,
1915.
“It is a clear face, luminous dial
watch, and is as good to-day as it
was when bought. It accompanied
me on active service, and during that
period of over three years had some
very rough usage. Among some of its
experiences were: Being completely-
submerged for several minutes in
very muddy water, being buried in
fine, desert sand, trodden on bv my
horse, and dropped times out of num-
ber. Except for purposes of ablution
the watch has never been off my
wrist, the only repairs have been
three new glasses. It is keeping very-
good time, and.it will give me pleas-
ure to recommend these watches to
anyone I hear requiring a watch. This is one of five watches in this family, all purchased from
you, and giving great satisfaction."
Gent.’s Silver Super “i'x and R" Wristlet Watch,
with luminous dial and hands, on pigskin wristlet,
£5/5/-
In Nickel Case ......
£4/4/-
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain Figures. Cash onlv.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote yoi. price for it.
For Aching Heads
When your head seems splitting and your nerves are all “on
edge” —“Vaseline” Mentholated will bring you blessed relief.
Rub it over your forehead and throbbing temples. Then relax
and rest.
“Vaseline” Mentholated—just pure menthol and “Vaseline”
Jelly—is cooling and refreshing. Use it when you first feel a
headache coming on. Safe and sure. In sanitary tubes; at
chemists and general stores.
Other “Vaseline” Products
“VASELINE” CAPSICUM—for chest colds, sprains, muscle pains.
“VASELINE” BORATED—for inflamed and sore eyelids.
CHESEBROUGH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
New York
(Consolidated)
London
Montreal
Vaseline Mentholated
Trade Mark Tetroieum Jelly
trade VdScime Me*
MENTHOLATED
PETROLEUM JELLY


Delightful Miss Madge Elliott
is a REXONA Girl.
Miss Madge Elliott is one
of the most charming artists
of the J. C. Williamson Co.
Ltd., and has rapidly come
to the front as a clever and
artistic solo dancer. To see
Miss Elliott is to love her.
Dear Sirs, —
Add me to your Rexona
Club, please. If anyone
deserves election I do,
for I use nothing but
Rexona Soap for my
bath, my complexion and
my hair. If I knock my-
self in hurrying on or off
the stage, or get a little
stiff, I use Rexona. It
is worth its weight in
gold in one’s medicine
chest. Please notify me
when elected.
I am,
Tours sincerely,
(Signed) %
MADGE ELLIOTTjSI
Miss MADGE ELLIOTT (from a photo)
THEY GO TOGETHER
Beauty and REXONA.
The Rexona Remedies consist of Rexona the Rapid Healer and* Rexona Skin and
Racial Soap, both universal favorites. Noted dancers and acrobats And Rexona
unequalled as a rub-down for stiff muscles., as well as for the knocks and cuts of
everyday life. Rexona Soap gives natural beauty to the skin and hair, and is a
favorite* with every girl and woman who values her appearance. Rexona the Rapid
Healer is sold at l/<> and 3/-, and a dainty tablet of Rexona Soap is only 1/-.
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
i
w
IV
*
*
fu €4wiri- vtiuJiiit
I
Pa I nt
Now
Don't wait
UNTIL THE
.Damage
15 DONE
Property protected by good paint not only lasts longer,
but will bring better rental, and a bigger sum, if you
decide to sell.
The most economical paint that gives effectual protection is
Sh erwin Williams
Paint
PREPARED .
earth
Agents in principal towns throughout Australia.
The Sherwin-Williams Co.( Australia) Ltd.
Paint, Color and Varnish Makers,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Manner.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LAUNCHED on Life’s spacious Won-
der-way,
Astern white, weaving, flag-like hands,
[ left the placid ports of Day,
Night-bound to far, forbidden lands.
Yith every sail upon my barque,
The whining cordage taut above,
[ shipped the Pilot of the Dark,
And left the anchorage of Love.
On the horizon crouched the Storm,
Breathing from deep and hollow lungs,
A monstrous and an eyeless form,
Wild-baying with a thousand tongues.
I heard the loud oaths in his mouth,
Sensed each premeditated blow,
But ever for the fabled South
Sailed where the wanton flowers grow.
Strong will had I with hands that gripped
And closely held what they desired :
I sought the passion, lotus-lipped.
To which my lips had long aspired.
The bold bluff won, the anchor screamed,
And hushed itself in its white bed;
There lay the city I had dreamed.
Its strong wine mounting to my head.
There all the days passed in delight
Of revels, devil-planned and long,
And like an opium-sleep the night
Went drifting by, a sensuous song.
The poppy was the royal flower
Of that new Herculaneum,
Wherp shapes obscene in every bower
With fiendish eloquence were dumb.
Lust in rich marble made parade,
While frescoed limbs among the beams
Locked closely, and the high roof swayed
With Riot in polluted dreams.
Fair women with the Circe eyes
Of dusky amber ringed with white.
With swelling busts and out-turned thighs,
Stalked nudely through the shameless
night.
And lechers on the piers and quays,
From east and west, from south and north,
Foul broods of frequent harlotries
Belched pestilential breathings forth.
Each turned, half-sated to his lust,
Like a sick dog that eats anew
His gluttonous vomit from the dust.
But O dear God ! the sky was blue!
Half-drugged as yet in every sense,
With Sodom flowering on each sod,
Before my dimmed intelligence
Self stood, a cold, contemptuous god.
I slipped my anchor from that den,
Reeking with foul adulteries,
Where palsied horrors that were men
Gloat o’er young nymphs with supple
knees;
Fled from the lurching drunken roll
And horrid blubberings around,
And from the Fury without Soul
To where the hidden Peace is found.
Once more upon the ocean swell
I harnessed each marauding wind
Until the leering lights of Hell,
With frightful guttcrings died behind.
Over the gulf like a great horse,
With canvas-colors loosed away,
She over-leaned her flying course,
And from her hawse-holes snorted .spray.
Glimpsed here and there, now seen, now
gone,
Between ribbed whirlwinds on the skies,
The face of my great Pilot shone,
The God within a woman’s eyes.
MAOBILAND.
D. M. R.
In Chinatown.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f whole trouble arose when Ah Sin
managed to wriggle out of his enemy’s
talon-like fingers, reached into one of
his voluminous pockets, plucked therefrom
a revolver, and, taking careful aim, sent a
bullet through the heart of Nee Yip, who
dropped his evil Boxer knife and fell over
dead. It does not matter much who started
the fight between the two Chinamen; but
within 10 minutes guns were popping and
wiry yellow forms on opposite sides of the
street were dodging behind telegraph poles,
guns in hand, taking pot-shots at one
another. A fresh Tong war had broken out
in that Oriental palimpsest, San Francisco’s
Chinatown.
Of course, Tong wars did not always
break out in that way. Nah Gong’s favorite
slave girl, Tin Wo, having met nocturnally
Ah Nit, a bon viveur, and having suddenly
become possessed of a passion for that wily
son of Confucius, might so far forget herself
as to betray him to her master, middle-aged
and passionate Hi Loo, who would wait for
Ah Nit, without telling either him or Nah
Gong, and the morning would find Ah Nit
stiff and cold on the footpath. Or, perhaps,
Ilip Nah called the mother of the pakapoo
banker a female dog, when losing heavy sums
of “coin,” and immediately would wake in
the Chinese Paradise with six inches of cold
Pekin copper in his chest. •
There were many ways of creating a Tong
war in the palmy days of old Chinatown,
before the fire, when the red lamp still shone,
and the Fish Alley fantan schools were
always open and ready. Peace was never
in Chinatown then. And this is a tale of
Old Chinatown —a Chinatown that will never
again be- —and of the people who lived before
“respectable” legislation put the final touches
to the remodelled Chinatown, and the final
extinguishers on the red lamps that had
scandalised the world since the palmy days
of ’49.
But all this has nothing to do with the
story. The Tong war had started. For
the instant Nee Yip had gasped out his life
on the matted floor of his shop, a diminutive
youth had rushed a couple of blocks down the
road. He had leaped into a room and had
startled two benign-looking old Chinamen
who had been playing loosan, or Chinese
dominoes, and had roused them to action
with a word; whereupon they had produced
revolvers and rushed out into the street.
And within two minutes Chinatown was in
a state of W'ar.
Unfortunately for Ah Sin, who was a
member of the *Sah Gong Guey Tong, he had
killed a leader of the Lee Fong Guey Tong,
one of the most important secret societies
outside the Tammany of Pekin, which held
sway over most of California, including a
whole alley of white slaves and gambling
hells on Broadway.
Shot after shot rang out along Bartlett
Alley, whither the murderer had rushed.
But Ah Sin, who was a cutf, rather satur-
nine individual, after watching a very fat
Cantonese writhe with a bullet in the
stomach, and the subsequent arrival of the
patrol waggon—which meant truce for a
day or so and a couple of arrests —grinned
over yellow teeth, and darted into a narrow,
tottering doorway. At any rate, he was safe
for the time being.
Down one flight, two flights of stairs, he
rushed, and stopped, panting at cross pas-
sages. With a quick look around him, he
opened a door, and disappeared.
* * * *
About ten minutes before Ah Sin had
fled into the open doorway, Long Wah,
Chinese adventuress and courtesan, was sit-
ting cross-legged before a large mirror. Her
slave-girl—for the Mann edicts did not affect
the Oriental —was busy pomading her sleek
black hair. Long Wah was smoothing her
silken garments, and humming softly the
eternal tune of “The Love of Leong San.”
“I think I am beautiful,” she said to the
girl. "Tell me, little dog, am I not beauti-
ful? Quick, else I shall have thee beaten
by old Cheong with my seaweed whip.”
The girl, a small coolie, did not lose time
in acceding to her owner’s request.
“Yes,” she faltered. “Like the sun and
the moon and the glorious heaven, art thou
beautiful.”
“Ah !” said Long Wah, “I am well pleased.
Now, you, I hear the door-knocker. Open !”
The slave-girl got up quickly, and ran
t.o tlie door of the room. She opened it to
admit a tall, handsome Chinese. He was
bandaged about the head, and showed signs
of a recent encounter. Long Wall made no
attempt to conceal her pleasure.
“Welcome, welcome, indeed, Ling Yip,!”
she cried, stretching out her arms to the
man as lie stood by the couch on which she
was lying. “I have wanted thee many times
this month, and have almost sent my boy
after thee to tell thee that my heart ached
for thee!”
The man bent down silently, Orientally,
and folded the woman to him in a close
embrace. Then, sitting beside her, and
lighting a green cigarette, full of opium, he
said: “Moon and star, there was war this
afternoon. My father was killed.”
"Your father!” broke in the woman.
“How terrible!”
“Yes,” continued Ling. “That pig Ah
Sin and lie were talking in the shop. 1 was
out —I had to show a tourist a jade joss—
and when I came back he wa's lying dead on
the floor of the shop with a bullet through
him. I was on the track of Ah Sin when”—
“Ah Sin? Why, I know him! But he
is week-kneed and harmless. You can kill
him with your fingers. Stay with me and
let love be your portion for to-night.”
The man stirred uneasily.
“Love? With my father dead? And the
Tong unavenged? Girl, your breath is like
the lotus scent, and your limbs like polished
sandalwood, warm and firm ; but I must be
avenged. There is war in the streets,
although it is not of my seeking. Let me
bathe my knife, O goddess, in the dog’s blood
of Ah Sin, and we will talk of love. Oh,
my beloved, I burn to be with thee —I will
pay 400 taels silver, 2000 dollars, for Ah
Sin quickly, alive or dead.”
He paused, and puffing at his opium pipe
sank moodily on the divan, with his arms
around the neck of the girl.
Suddenly there was a sound outside the
room. The pair started. Then came three
loud knocks on the inner door that is in
all Chinese houses. Ling Yip started to his
feet, and the woman ran over to the door.
“Who is there?” she cried, with her ear
close to the thin partition.
Ah Sin, well pleased at having made his
escape from the dangers of revolver bullets,
had no hesitation in calling out his name.
“Open, light of my life,” he said, and stood
waiting for admittance.
Long Wah. the woman, smiled evilly at
Ling Yip, who had drawn a knife.
“Quick!” •he said. “Beloved, open the
door and I will kill this devil.”
“No,” said the woman coyly. “He has
come to be loved—let him be happy! Go
quickly behind the curtains”—pointing to
the Chinese sleeping corner —“and wait.”
“Ah Sin,” she called, “is it indeed you!
Enter.”
He thrust into the room without further
preamble. Rushing over to the divan where
Long Wah had thrown herself, he knelt
beside her. She stroked his glossy hair.
“And what does the noble Sin wish?” she
crooned. “This is love’s kingdom.”
“Flower-blossom,” said Ah Sin. “I come
to you for love —and protection for a few
days, There is war in the streets. The
Tongs are out. I—l killed the father of
Ling Yip, who pursues me. But he is a
dog and will never find me. See—” produc-
ing a well-strung cord of “coin” —“see. I have
money and will pay you well.”
“Give it me,” said the woman, and Ah
Sin obeyed. “Come to my.arms.” she said.
“Forget your troubles on the sea of love.”
Ah Sin climbed on to the divan and folded
his arms abour the woman. She nestled
close in his embrace, after having put the
money on her little table beside the couch.
“I love you. Ah Sin !”
Ah Sin was happy—very happy. This was
better than gambling, better than marking
pakapoo tickets. He did not notice that
the hold of the woman’s hand on his neck
was growing tighter, tighter.
“Now, Ling Yip!” called Long Wah.
Ah Sin was powerless in her grip, hard
though he struggled. Before he realised it
Ling Yip was standing over him. A flash.
(Continued on next vags.)


Zam-Buk is Mother’s Trusty Friend.
JX would be impossible to calculate how much suffering and
anxiety Zam-Buk saves in the house, especially amongst the
little ones. The mother who always keeps a pot of Zam-
Buk handy saves herself a lot of worry and expense. This truth
is forcibly illustrated in the case of the following grateful mother:^
“My little girl, Elizabeth, one day was climbing a picket fence,” says
Mrs. E. Thomas, 20 Eureka Street, Ballarat, Vic. “She slipped and the top
of her head came in contact with the end of one of the palings, taking a i
piece out of her scalp and the hair with it. It was a very serious injury.
I took her to a chemist, but he said it was a case for the doctor. I did
not take his advice, but washed the head thoroughly and then applied
Zam-Buk. Zam-Buk took all the inflammatory condition away, gave her
great ease, and finally, with continued application, it healed the head.
“Another unfortunate accident occurred when my little boy cut his toe
nearly off through the breaking of a teapot that was knocked off the table.
He trod on a piece of it, with disastrous results, as stated. After washing
the injury I treated it with Zam-Buk and bandaged it up firmly, and after
a fortnight’s treatment his foot was healed perfectly.”
&
V,
’N
$
vg
XT
V/.
M
\
\
J
J
a
7'
11 It will
soon be
better
now
Sfce EVER-READY, EVER-RELIABLE HOME HEALER
SOOTHES AND
Zam-Buk is invaluable for Cuts, Bruises,
Bums, Scalds, Scratches, Abrasions, Boils,
Eczema, Pimples,, Running Sores, Scalp
Diseases, Poisoned Wounds, Festering Sores,
Bad Legs, Ulcers, Abscesses, Ringworm,
Teething Sores, Barber’s Rash, Swellings,
Stiffness, Scabs, Itch, Bed Sores, Face Sores,
Sore Lips and injured and diseased condition
of the skin. Zam-Buk is also excellent for
Pimples, Blackheads, Eruptions, and all Skin
Troubles; while as an embrocation for all
deep-seated local pains such as Rheumatism,
Sciatica, etc., it is unsurpassed. Zam-Buk is
obtainable from all Chemists and Stores at
Is. Cd. per Dot. and 3s. 6d. family size.
INSIST ON
ZAM-BUK
AND REFUSE
WORTHLESS
SUBSTITUTES.
and the blood from Ah Sin's throat dripped
slowly on the embroideries of the woman’s
gown. Long Wah disengaged herself from
the stiffening form.
She turned to the avenger, who was wiping
his knife.
Darling, he said, “the war is done—the
night is long. We can love.”
Yes, ’ smiled the courtesan. “After you
have paid me the reward.”
F. E. BAUME.
In the Crow’s Nest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
watch below, newly awakened
from a sleep of bone-weary torpid-
ity, was blasphemously searching
for oilskins and seaboots. The air within
the fo’c’s’le was hot and mephitfic with
human perspiration, and the opened front
of the stove glared through the eddying to-
bacco fumes like an incandescent eye.
“Whose first lookout?” demanded Liver-
pool Joe, expectorating into' the ashpan.
Mine, grunted an ordinary seaman
whose face was shining in the hot-house at-
mosphere like a wet cameo in a setting of
sou’-wester. “Of all the red-hot, stinking
holes I ever slept in this is the blasted
limit. What the hell you want the damn
stove lit for I don’t know. There she goes!
Eight bells, boys.”
A dripping apparition jerked open the
door and broke in on the conversation with
a snarling ioar: “Don’t hurry, you web-
footed swine—don’t hurry. We’ll do your
watch if you feel too tired. By hell we
will!”
The ordinary seaman choked back ian
obscene retort and stepped out over the wash-
board into a world of darkness and freezing
air. He groped his way to the foot of
the foremast and crawled up the iron ladder.
Thirty seconds later the relieved man was
descending and the new lookout was stamp-
ing his feet on the floor of the crow’s nest
to keep warm.
After a time he became aware that the
star-splashed dome of night was losing its
black intensity and the constellations were
changing into mere luminous smudges upon
a mighty arch of He observed
vvith languid interest that the sharply-de-
fined fo’c's’le-head below was apparently dis-
solving into a misty shadow, and the fore-
deck was almost invisible. His attention
was attracted by a squat and oblong shape
that appeared to be crawling out of the
fading line which indicated the horizon.
Strangest of all, the zenith seemed to be
criss-crossed by spidery cracks, and in the
centre of every square thus formed there
was a small beautiful flower with golden
petals.
Gradually a memory-picture became visual-
ised upon the gloomy background of leaden
waters. By degrees he realised that he was
gazing with sensuous content at the deco-
rated ceiling of a familiar room. The blue
and crimson carpet on the floor caressed
his naked feet, arid tne sensation of silky
fibres squeezing themselves upward between
his toes delighted him. Tne long, divided
curtain suspended over the doorway and
trailing on to the carpet looked like a frozen
waterfall, and its very immobility wearied
his eyes and increased his drowsiness. Then
he recognised the squat shape that had
crawled out of the horizon, lie fought to
remain awake long enough to reach it. At
last, with a mighty effort, he fell forward,
and the couch swayed gently under the sud-
den impact of the tired body. . . .
The head and shoulders of one of the watch
on deck leaned over from the starboard
rigging.
“Hi!” shouted the angry messenger, peer-
ing into the crow's nest. “The Second wants
to know why you didn’t report that bloomin’
light?”
The ordinary seaman awakened abruptly
and stood upright. A violent gust of icy
wind tore across his face over the rim of
the nest and almost suffocated him. “What
light?” he growled.
“Over there. Go on, say you can’t see
it?”
“Tell ’im to go to hell —’im an’ ’is blasted
light! Can’t you leave a man alone?”
“ ’Ere!” snorted the outraged messenger.
“What the ’ell’s up with you? ’Avin’ a
snooze, I s’pose. An’ the Second says the
next time you misses one ’e’ll come up an’
wash yer eyes out, an’ it wouldn’t do ’em
any ’arm either. Eh? Don’t give me none
of yer lip. you pup, or I’ll get in an’ stiffen
you !”
The lookout laughed sarcastically. “For
Gawd’s sake take yer face away,” he said.
“I’ve seen enough of you—you two ends an’
the bight of a flamin’ nightmare!”
The messenger’s reply was silenced by the
smothering burst of a spray-cloud which
flattened him against the rigging and hast-
ened his descent.
The lookout peered over the iron rim and
swore with fierce emphasis at the depressing
surroundings of the present as compared with
the interrupted dream of that alluring
“house.” Why were men such damned fools
as to go to sea whilst the shore life offered
so many restful and pleasant prospects?
Why did sensible men—what the hell was
the use of regretting? Damn the sea life!
Out of the blackness to the eastward he
could hear the far-off growl of an approach-
ing storm, and all around him sounded the
vibrant hum of straining wires twitched by
the rising wind. As lie looked aft lie saw
the smoke from the funnel flying back over
the wake in a long, black streamer which
dissolved into the gloom. Away ahead, and
almost reaching to the zenith. stood a
lightning-crested stormcloud like an enor-
mous black wave aboiit to break over the
edge of the world. The waters alongside
seethed and hissed under a deluge of rain,
and the whole ship was full of its noise,
the whoosh, whoosh, whoosh against the
deckhouse amidships and the throbbing rattle
of bombarded canvas. The voice of the
wind was rising in a vast crescendo as
though some titanic sorcerer was singing
whilst stirring the elements in his hellpot.
The ordinary seaman suddenly realised that
he was undergoing a kind of subtle trans-
formation, for the blood in his veins seemed
to be thrilling in response to something he
could not understand.
All at once a monstrous figure seemed to
hump itself upwards out of the boiling seas
until its shoulders thrust the stars aside;
then it leaned over and roared into his
face. The dreadful strength of that mighty
voice almost his ear-drums. Sud-
denly a swaying infinity of foam-streaked
mountains leaped into view, whilst the light-
ning crackled and ripped across the dark.
The momentary spectacle was one of appal-
ling magnificence. The whole universe was
a pandemonium of mad -and screaming ele-
ments w’herein seas upflung themselves into
glistening mountains and smashed each other
like frenzied beasts. Through this world of
liquid earthquakes and cyclonic strife the
tramp steamer fought her way with the
obstinacy of insignificance.
At his post the lookout clung to the iron
rim and strove to keep his face to the storm.
He was lmlf-blinded and suffocated by the
spray which the gusts plucked upwards from
the surface: yet he would not lower his
head below the edge of the nest, for the
exhilaration of the, storm was upon him.
Strangely enough the steamer and himself
were rapidly losing their relationship. He
was aware in some fantastic way that even
tlie palpability of the iron nest was but an
illusion. He and the storm had the world
to themselves.
The steamer's bow lifted high out of the
water. Down went the wet and gleaming
fo’c’s’le-head, and the foremast behind the
watcher -leaned over like a falling pillar.
He vaguely felt the sudden shock of a flac-
cid impact. A huge wall of shining ebony
reared up over the fo’c’s’le-head and crashed
down on the foredeck with a thunderous
roar. Its foaming summit, flicked off by
the wind, lashed his transfigured face, and
the great taste and smell of the storm
whirled into his mouth and nostrils like the
Elixir of Life. He greeted every wave that
flung its mountainous bulk over the side
with a shudder of delight, for he was fast
in the grip of stormlust —that ecstasy of
naked contact with the forces of the world
—which makes the insignificant feel omni-
potent. He knew that he was striding like
a giant across the tempestuous waters, lie
laughed at their puny efforts to overwhelm
him —he who was God of the Air and Sea
—and mocked their futile rage. Fn a little
while he would tire of their defiance, then
he would enchain them once more.
A hand gripped his shoulder from behind,
and the voice of his relief yelled into his ear:
“Hi! Rotten night, ain’t it? Down you
go !”
Two minutes later the ordinary seaman
was thawing himself back into human
semblance in front of the stove in the
fo’c’s’le.
“Hello!” said a quartermaster, just re-
turned from the wheel. “Pretty cold on
lookout, wasn’t it?’’
“Hell of a night!” snapped the ordinary
seaman. “Who finished that blasted
whisky ?”
HAROLD LIMDSAY.
Castle Wonderful.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I BUILT me Castle Wonderful
All in the morning gold ;
Its battlements leaped high and white,
Its turrets sprang through misty light
To break the eagle's wheeling flight,
Above the peak’s blue fold.
Oh, it was Castle Wonderful,
My own, my Castle Wonderful,
All in the morning gold !
Above my Castle Wonderful
Was never sun or moon,
But that clear light that dares to beat
Upon God’s very judgment seat,
That knows nor cold nor any heat
Of stars that swirl or swoon ;
Yea, over Castle Wonderful,
My own, my Castle Wonderful,
Rose never sun or moon.
Into my Castle Wonderful
Grief entered not, nor Wrong;
The days ran out in singing sands
That trickled through seraphic hands
To weave the super-human strands
Of sempiternal song.
Nay, into Castle Wonderful,
My own, my Castle Wonderful.
Came never Grief or Wrong.
AH out from Castle Wonderful
The flinty roads of gray
Went winding east and winding west,
By singing vale and purple crest,
In opal robes of sunset drest;
Into the far away
Ran out from Castle Wonderful,
My stately Castle Wonderful,
The flinty roads of gray.
All into Castle Wonderful
In royal raiment came,
Through gates of amethyst ajar.
From lands beyond the morning star,
Such men as fared with Balthasar
To praise a holy name.
All into Castle Wonderful,
My own, my Castle Wonderful.
From all the world they came.
Came into Castle Wonderful
Such wealth as gods devise,
Rich tapestries of purpose wrought
On empyrean looms of thought,
Such spoils as are not sold or bought
For ransom or for prize;
Came into Castle Wonderful,
My empty Castle Wonderful,
Such wealth as gods devise.
Alas, my Castle Wonderful
That was so fair to see,
Upon its towers the gray moss creeps,
Upon its walls the lizard sleeps,
Within its courts the white owl keeps
A lonelv watch with me!
Ah, me! my Castle Wonderful,
My ruined Castle Wonderful,
That was so fair to see!
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
✓ - tj* ;/ ’ .
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Sueensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
ARE YOU
TUBE
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? _ Do you
want to obtain an. Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAST
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and _we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chaffing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
849 Collins St., Melbourne
Vic.
To succeed in life good spirits and hopeful
thoughts are required. The man who is de-
spondent or irritable always fails.
Low spirits and irritability of
temper are often caused by
a dull, torpid liver.
Wake up your liver
with Carter’s Little
Liver Pills and start
the day with a bright
cheerful face. Both.
your health and*
business will bene-
fit. No pain, no
CARTERS
BTTLE
VER
PILLS
discomfort. Thousands recommend them.
Good for old and young—purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature s
* s
The Greatest Name
In Goody-Land
A
i
m
fS
RIG LEYS L«e.
the PERFECT GUM P^IASTs
WRiGLEYS.
CHEWING GUM FL
£2*.
P
P
If
sasa
SEAL EB
TIGHT
KEPT
RIGHT
6 big bars
In each
packet
for 3d.
Made by
Wm, Wrigfey Jr. Co. Prop. Ltd.,
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W.
@4
I
I
1
1
1
1
i
fi
I
I
I
1
*
i
FOR
&
Si
S 8
m
%
Easy
Matchless 8 B
Screws, lin., I}in.,
I|in., 2in. tubes,
without change of
dies or guides.
Cuts taper screw.
3 other sizes.
Screwing
Matchless
(Self-contained)
Screwing Tackle.
Easy starting, easy pulling, easy
adjustment have all been perfected
in the absolutely self-contained tool.
No loose dies nor bushings.
The expanding dies lighten labor and cut
screws to just the right taper. A patented
shield keeps dirt and chips from getting
into the leading screw, preventing clogging
and wear. Dies open automatically when
screw is finished and reset instantly to size.
Built with ratchet handle for use in close
quarters.
In stock with extra parts at ironmongers,
hardware and plumbing supply houses.
The Ostcr Mf g. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Australasian Representative:
CHAS. WRIGHT, Turner Chambers,
16 Hunter St, Sydney.


MANGKOVITEf
LEATHER
'PfeLTIjl
FOR EVERY DRIVE
No matter what the conditions, whether the
drive is easy or difficult, slow or fast, you
will find Mangrovite Leather or Rawhide
Belting give absolute satisfaction. It
transmits maximum power all the time —a
profit-earner for plant-owners who take ad-
vantage.
Prove its merit on your plant.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York St. (Wynyard Square), Sydney, N.S.W-
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Saws with Service Behind Them.
For nearly three-quarters of a century we’ve been developing the
knowledge that makes for greater sawing efficiency.
‘An Eagle on a Globe Hack Saws
are correct in cutting angle and clearance, so that they can he
used on a wide range of work, and thus cheapen the cost.
Blades up to 20in., in Standard Gauges, stocked.
Prices promptly supplied on request to Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel.
379-381 Kent St., Sydney.
261 Bat robe St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road Kalgoorlie.
Charles Atkins and
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid and Nephews, Brisbane.
Paul and Gray, Ftd., Newcastle.
Co., X,td., Adelaide.
4 ®i,e on ►
J
Building Costs Infinitely
Less when you buy from us
We make a specialty of the following lines, t,e. :—
"FIBROLITE,” Australian-made Genuine As-
bestos Cement Sheets, and Slates.
“FIBRO-C” Cold Water Paint.
“FIBERLIC” Building Board.
“CBKOWOOD” Stains.
“REXILITE,” British-made Roll, Roofing and
Dampcoiirse.
“CEBXAINTEED” Roll Roofing.
REINFORCED Cement Tubs.
REINFORCING Bars for Concrete, etc., etc.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST & PARTICULARS.
James Hard ie&Co.Ltd.
“Asbestos House,’’
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 5456 (6 lilies).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide,
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE- ’ lheir strong
construction, and the great care taken In their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work.to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not oniy to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDCE & SINCLAIR LTD ■ f 'Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
f
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2*4 inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Kails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
PUMPS -Good Pumps Only
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from ljjin. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:—
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
% 5
5222
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS
for All Purposes.
THE PIONEER. PLANTE PLATE.
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
P.O. BOX 2550.
TELEPHONE: CITY 8931.
(Australasian Offlce)-
Cttlwnlla Chambers,
CASTLEREAGH STREET
SYDNEY.
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Mouses, Stations, Stores
Schools of Arts, etc.
a
a
a
y | .. tl ' , r r'***
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4% hours.
Rum on
Kerosene
Safe.
.Reliable
SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street,
SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
Melbourne.
Th© name that shearers
like to S 6 ——
Shearers everywhere have always found pleasure and profit in the
use of Lister Shearing Machines. Famous always for continuous work
and big tallies, the Lister Hand Piece is now miles ahead of others,
because of the Adjustable Lid Bush and Self Levelling Crown Plate—two features which have eliminated
wear and tear, delay and irritation for all time. Put your faith in Lister All-British Shearing Machines—
get particulars from—
Agents : Dangar, Gedye & Co. Ltd.,
9-13 Young Street, SYDNEY.
SUB-AGENTS.—Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd. (Central and South
Queensland) ; Burns, Fhilp & Co., TOWNSVILLE (North
Queensland); Mitchell & Co. Fty., Ltd., LOOTS CRAY, VIC.;
A, G. Webster & Sons, HOBART; Malloeh Bros., PERTH.
E 256
HOT WEATHER MEANS THIRST.
THIRST SHOULD CALL FOR PURE WATER.
PURE WATER DEMANDS GERM-PROOF FILTERS.
The ABBOT
is the Australian Germ-proof Filter
Par Excellence.
Demand the “ABBOT” Improved Candle (or Cylinder), which in the New
Mounting is Practically Unbreakable. Price 6/6.
If your store cannot supply you, write to the manufacturers, To be had of all Dealers.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 350 George Street, Sydney.
Makers also of the “NEW RAPID” Filter for Aerated Waters and Butter Factories,
l
