

he Spirit of Confidence
€3- a' ■wtwt Tina C30« 9
A HSr IBr ■JS»9An ■■■■ ■dttaaSHßheisJafna
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent StSlTOeti, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining [Requisites.
’ Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
mmwimwwwm
unn”
nmmtmvw^
41!
'
NSW- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74> St-., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES-
SON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
frj/tcfcjaf 215-17Swanston Stjlelb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
29 King St.,Newcastle. 186 Castlereaqh 5t.,& 159 George st.,West, Sydney.
‘ ?? uris&gr az&ys'ngr
000 003 5 IVXIJVD
me City932s.
vVs fsia&es*.
pn
■gh--
MS
«f*A
BE
jMSpyr:
gßaas^
S4S
r£m„ ;
KM
:t V'J
Wim
mum
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
fE/sciflc Wire
m
r,y)
'-vr.it
w,
"J,
hi
r t
costs less.
Enables you to erect the
best permanent fences at
lowest cost.
Each roll of “Waratah
Fencing Wire bears an
identification tag, which
guarantees quality, strength
and full measure. It is far
ahead of imported wires and
Your storekeeper can supply
“Waratah” —we supply the trade
only. Fencing Booklet N. 19 free on
request. Austral Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Ferrars Street, South Melbourne.
9
pPLE
fi
£
V 1
<? V
4
NOTHINO
td Argue
About!"
Are the Best ”
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
PAN SEN’S
d
xzc
INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken -daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
ttolfes
Sdinapps
i
»
II
P
i
I
gives double life to
IRON ROOFS
ensuring perfect protection and service—and fine
appearance as well.
Protects all metal surfaces
—is weather- and rust-proof, and most assuredly
unequalled for the purpose. By far the most
economical in the long run. Write for full details,
post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Aus-
tralasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
-
J at
SBS
■H
THE
E ENGINEERING COMPAN
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENI
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines .
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
Srfrtinir
6 <3
MACHINERY.
ce,
ead Office,
SYDNEY
“ROBEY Patent steam Engines.
SUPPLIED in POWERS RANGING from 100 to 1000 INDICATED HORSEPOWER.
THE “ROBEY” UNIFLOW ENGINE represents the LATEST DEVELOPMENT
in the construction of HIGH-CLASS STEAM ENGINES.
HIGHLY EFFICIENT and ECONOMICAL in Steam Consumptions.
SIMPLICITY OF CONSTRUCTION, consequently low upkeep costs.
SUITABLE FOR HIGH STEAM PRESSURES and all temperatures of Superheat.
SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR SMALL FLOOR SPACE.
CATALOGUES AND COMPLETE INFORMATION FROM
Sole Representatives—AßTHUß LBPLASTRIER & CO.. HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY.
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH
Famous Brands of
HIGH-SPEED STEEL & DRILLS
"A.W.” “T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER.’*
manufactured by
Sir W. Q. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Australian Representatives:
Gilbert Lodge 8 Co. Ltd.,
115 PUT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED.
xzc
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay
xz
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2062.]
[Thursday, August 21, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Poßt Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, tor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


AUSTRALIA’S GLORY
HOW IT WAS WON.
Here are books which have already won their way to fame. Written by
Australians for Australians, about Australians. Here is history shown
in the making by those who helped make it. Alt should be on your
bookshelf and in the hands of every young Australian.
Postage shown thus (id.).
The Australians: Their Final Campaign, 1918. By F. N. CUTlack. An account
of the concluding operation of the A.J.F. in France. With 15 Maps and Plans, 10/6 (4d.).
Modern Crusaders. By Major \V. S. KENT-HUGHES, M.C. An account of the work of
the Light Horse in Sinai an«l Palestine to the capture of Jerusalem. Illustrated, 6/- (-2d.).
Khaki and Cassock. All Australian C haplain’s Memories. By K. T. HENDERSON, M.A.,
C.F. A series of short intimate sketches of all phases of life in the A.1.F., 4/6 (2d.).
Australia in Arms. By P. F. E. SCHULEIt. The only complete narrative of Australia’s
part'on Gallipoli. With Illustrations-and Maps, ))/- (6d.).
“Over There” with tile Uistraliatts; By Capt. It. 11. KXYVETT. "In-tinet with true
Australian sentiment.” Illustrated, 5/- (Id.).
"Letters from Bob” (Captain George Pollard Kay). A vivid narrative of life and work
in the R.F.C. Illustrated, 4/- (2d.). *
Dinkuni Oil and Square Dinkum. Two volumes brimful of Australian Wit and Humor.
, Each 1/- (lid-).
WRITE US NOW.
Melville (SL Mullen P ty. Ltd.
202-204 Collins Street, Melbourne.
jNP p aMP JS*- jS
Can You Meet Competition Without a
Motor Lorry?
The waste of slow, expensive delivery
is a serious handicap upon a business
these intensive days.
The Federal Motor Lorry will deliver
merchandise—heavy or light —over
any kind of roads, with a saving of
time, labor and upkeep.
It is perfect in mechanical construc-
tion.
Federal Tractor
and Trailer
operating in
Hawaii.
czx
Write for our free magazine “Traffic News”—also for full prices and discounts.
H. W. CROUCH, Sole N.S.W. Agent,
26=28 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Federal Motor Truck Company
Mich. U. S. A. Foreign Dept., 18 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
Z'?y >':*'**?*&
czx
TRY IT IN YOUR
BV
APPOINTMENT
cx
TO
H.M. THE K«NG.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
cz
THE ROUND TABLE.
A Quarterly Review
of the Politics of the British Commonwealth,
JUNE NUMBER contains excellent articles written
since signing of Peace —The Peace of Versailles;
finance hnd Reparation ; The League of Nations and
the British Commonwealth. Other articles: The
Military Effort of the British Empire; Russia’s Re-
volt against Bolshevism. Contributions from United
States, India, United Kingdom and Dominions.
Price 2/6 per copy, 10/- per annum.
MACMILLAN & CO., Ltd., Russell Street, Melbourne.
Used the
World Over
L
MOTOR
...CARS
NUPSON’S E(in)€i)tbol JUJUBES
The Great Antiseptic and Prophyladic.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea
; me "
n
5*
The Bronchial
Tubes of a Dis-
sected Lung.
). The Lobe of one
6i the Lungs.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Hoarse-
ness, Bronchitis, Influenza, and the Preven-
tion of Consumption.
An Ideal Remedy, containing no Cocaine or
other poisonous drug. Suited for old and
■young.
Medical Press and Circular states: “These
jujubes should be of special service to lecturers, pub-
lic singers .and speakers, and, indeed, to all who are.
called upon to use their voices frequently for pro-
longed periods.”
Hudson’s Eumepthol .Tu Julies arc sold
only in tins. By all Chemists.
Price 1/d. £lO
The Red Page
The Awakening of Asia
The major part of our great Northern
neighbor has long been in troubled sleep
under alien rule or influence, and in The
Awakening of Asia (Cassell and Co.) H. M.
Hyndman thinks it is turning over and
likely to get up soon, stretch itself and do
something unpleasant to those who have ex-
pected it to keep quiet indefinitely.
It is not so long ago since the Asiatic
races were the invaders and conquerors of
Europe; earlier, Europe was virtually a
colony of Asia. The Asiatic invaders made
a permanent mark upon Europe; the Euro-
pean attacks upon Asia left no trace worth
mentioning until* those of modern times,
which combined trade, religion and armed
force, succeeded in getting control of about
half the area and. population. Hyndman re-
minds us that the Asiatics of old produced
generals of first-rate ability—Ghengis Ivlian.
Batu, Baber, Kublai Khan, Attila and many
others. They may do so again.
Later European conquests in Asia were no
less bloodthirsty; but were carried out in
furtherance of trade', and the trader stayed.
With the missionary he forced himself upon
the Chinese on the plea of benefiting the
benighted heathen, and thereby created a re-
sentment which remains. The foreigners
demanded Freetrade for their cheaply-manu-
factured goods and displaced the Chinese
spinners, weavers and other workmen. The
foreigners built railways which employed a
good many Chinese temporarily and threw
others out. of work. In the teeth, of the
Government they forced opium on the coun-
try. Discontent burst out spasmodically,
and was brought to a head in the Boxer
rising, which was occasioned by the effort
of the Emperor Huang-IISu to bring China
up to the Western level in a great hurry
after his defeat by Japan in 1894. But the
people could not be turned into militarists
by a wave of the hand. Yet, though Huang-
Hsu was wrecked by his reforming edicts,
they paved the way for an era of progress
in the Western direction, and the object-
lesson of Japan has always been before the
eyes of Chinese leaders. The price that had
to be paid for the rising of the Boxers, who
cried “China for the Chinese’’ too soon, is
not forgotten ; the helplessness of China be-
fore European Powers and now before Japan
is not unnoticed. China is waking up. A
good deal depends upon what Japan does
before the young Republic is fully awake.
Hyndman thinks that, although Japan is
distrusted in China, Asiatics understand one
another better than Europeans do, and that
Japan will, as a trader in China, defeat all
outside competition. The war gave her a
tremendous lift as a manufacturing nation.
Her standards are low; she makes inferior
goods and undersells other makers; all the
evils of capitalism are in full blast and labor
is in a state approaching slavery. Neverthe-
less, the Government is speeding up techni-
cal education, and socialistic organisation
for better labor conditions is making head-
way. Her exports are likely to increase, and
the unrest there will add to the desire , for
emigration.
Britain meanwhile will have to face
trouble in India, where the long-standing
unrest of the educated natives has been
stimulated by Japan’s advance and the Bol-
shevik rising. Hyndman is emphatic on the
ruinous effect of Freetrade upon Indian
manufactures. In the interests of Lanca-
shire. India has been bled heavily. The
native States are administered more cheaply
and spend more on education than the rest
of the country. Out of the total revenue of
India proper, only one penny per head is
spent on education and only 1.9 of the
population go to school —a condition worse
than that of Russia. All that can be
claimed by way of advantage to Indians
through British rule is more than offset by
the economic drain to Britain alone. This
is recognised by- educated Indians, and their
numerous ‘grievances have' been aggravated
by the oppressive treatment of native advo-
cates of Indian rights. “Unrest is due to
British misrule” is Hyndman’s judgment.
Hyndman does not always state the case
against British administration fairly:
still, the facts are eloquent, find all who
know India believe that her vast population,
though divided by caste and religion, is
liable to awaken in earnest if a national
anti-European- movement is started under
the leadership of Japan.
An Anzac in New York
Signaller Tom Skeyhill’s impressions (he
is still lecturing and meeting people in New
York)
Vicente Blasco Ibanez, the Spanish writer, has
taken American literary circles by storm. His
translations cannot be got off the press quickly
enough. “Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse” and
“Blood and Sand” are easily the present best-sellers
in the U.S.A. John Masefield won his way very neat
to the hearts of educated Americans. /His books
are in great demand, and his two lecture tours were
highly successful. Philip Gibbs was lionised. He
lectured to immense audiences in Carnegie Hall and
other places—is a good talker and has personality.
His brother, “Cosmo Hamilton,” is a successful
dramatist here. John Galsworthy, who came over
for the Lowell Centenary, did not stay long. He
delivered a few lectures, wrote about half a dozen
articles for magazines, and then skipped. Robert
Nichols, the young English poet, put in some good
work. He toured the States lecturing on the . new
Elizabethan movement in English poetry, and prac-
tically introduced Siegfried Sassoon and Robert
Graves to Uncle Sam. Nichols told me that in John
Masefield’s judgment Captain Charles Sorley, v ho was
killed in France at the age of 21, was the greatest
of the war poets. America seems to give the palm
to Rupert Brooke, whose book sells easily the best
in the poetry departments. Other war poets well
received are Allan Seeger, Siegfried Sassoon, Robert
Graves, Joyce Kilmer and John Mcßae. As for
Australians, C. J. Dennis’s books are on sale, but on
account of the “slanguage,” which is uot understood
by the Americans, there is little demand for them.
Gordon’s poems are in fair request, and Henry Lawson
is known —mainly through the Independent and
Literary Digest, which quote Tin-: Bulletin freely.
Probably the States’ own most prominent poet to-
day is Edgar Lee Masters, of Chicago, whose “Spoon
River Anthology” had a great sale. Their most
popular novelist is Booth Tarkington, whose new
“Magnificent Ambersols” has made a stir. Irwin
Cobb and Isaac Marcossan share the honors of the
magazines, whose verse shows the marked influence
of Walt Whitman and Mathew Arnold.
Blastus, the King’s Chamberlain
“Herod was highly displeased with them of Tyre
arid Sidon, but they came with one accord to mm,
and having made Blastus the King’s Chamberlain
their friend, desired peace.” —Book oj Acts.
Two Biblical characters have always fas-
cinated me—Saul, the tall king who refused
to outlive his fortunes; and Blastus, the
King’s Chamberlain, whose solitary appear-
ance in Holy Writ is quoted above. As
an anatomist reconstructs the long-extinct
legendosaiu us or mytholophodon out of a
bone and a footprint, so I endeavor to recon-
struct Blastus.
lie was an only son and his mother died
when he was very young, tlis father, Cussus
by name, was a middle-class man a fairly
prosperous merchant. His word was good
in business, and he was respected around the
synagogue on Saturdays.. 1' or his son he
entertained high ambitions, and Blastus
lived up to them. The young man was a
brilliant success at school. Later he became
learned in the law and began to make his
way in official circles, llis inlluenee seemed
much greater than his ostensible status could
account for. In a time of stress, when
great changes were in the air and Ca-sars
and governors and sub-kings were fishing m
anguished waters, there was an impression
that Blastus was a dark horse and might
win a big race. By religion lie was a »Sad-
ditcee, being too politely cynical to be any-
thing else. At the same time he was on
the best of terms with leading Pharisees
and shook hands with Dashers —those men
who dashed their feet against the stones
as they walked, in order to show that they
were so buried in pious contemplation that
they didn’t see where they were going. They
were the same folk who offered up long-
prayers at street corners.
Being a presentable man with a future
Blastus married a girl of wealth and of
rather higher social standing than his own.
He always had an eye to advancement. Lie
was a good husband and a good parent. Like
his father, he had an only son. The son’s
name was Darnmus. There was also a
daughter.
At the time when he makes Ins solitary
appearance in Scripture Blastus was the
factotum or vizier of a king in Galilee who
was the one remaining hope, and a very
shadowy hope, of Jewish nationalism.
Blastus attached himself to this, kindly,
gentlemanly vestige of a monarch either out
of patriotism or because, after the finish of
the monarchy at Jerusalem,, he couldn’t get
a better job. The chamberlain was aged
about 35: but, then, he had started young.
He was rather above the middle height, hand-
some, fairly athletic, and measured 44in.
round the stomach. He was scrupulous iu
his dress and cumbered with less heard than
was customary. People remarked that he
was courteous to those beneath him, know-
ing that the mob of Hebrewdom was a good
friend, a useful implement and a dreadful
beast when roused. He was polite but re-
served to his equals, and no
than he could help to’ his superiors. ’
As a matter of course he took bribes. It
was the universal fashion of Asia then as it
is now. Herod Agrippa knew that he took
them, and he knew that Herod knew. But
Blastus belonged to the wise and gentle-
manly class of bribe-takers. That is to
say, while it was necessary to pay him to
get a respectable item of business through,
he couldn’t be bought to aid anything glar-
ingly disreputable, as a matter of fact,
the happy, easy-going, popular Agrippa was
a man of brains, and wouldn’t have kept an
adviser who could bethought promiscuously.
Possibly to a different Agrippa the chamber-
lain might have been a different Blastus.
When the delegates from Tyre and Sidon
called with a view to fixing up a matter of
“bithnith,” they found the chamberlain ap-
proachable and hospitable. The man who
makes, a success as vizier knows when to
be approachable and knows in advance who
is going to approach.. He received the visi-
tors in a stately apartment, the furnishings
of which hinted that things were done on a
hirsre scale. Also he asked if they had a
mouth on them. They had. Their matter was
settled without difficulty, for nobody doubted
the chamberlain’s capacity and good faith.
So Blastus flits across the page of history
as a trusted dealer in international affairs
for a consideration. There is no doubt about
the consideration. The folk of Tyre and
Sidon “made” Blastus their friend. He
wasn’t born that way. At’ the same time
it is characteristic of the man that the busi-
ness was the highly honorable one of
arranging peace and averting a blockade.
It wasn’t an execution or a seduction or a
confiscation. Probably there was a glint in
the eye of the good-humored king when the
matter was laid before him and he looked
hard at the chamberlain. But the latter
was absolutely inscrutable as usual. All
successful chamberlains have been inscrut-
able during business hours.
Agrippa was a sick man then. These
were the’ last days of the last king. When
he sat on his throne shortly afterwards to
deliver his famous, eloquent, affable, capable
oration to the people, legend has it that a
stray and unaccountable owl flapped away
from above the canopy, and Agrippa recog-
nised the omen. The coming of an owl was
the sign that brought good-luck to the first
Herod, and the departure of one signified
that the fortune had flickered out. But all
the same, he spoke bis peace speech in his
best style and the audience said as he"fell
dead that it was a dashed fine effort.
After that Blastus retired from official
life (or official life retired from Blastus),
and lived in dignified ease on his steals.
The Hebrew land lost the last sem-
blance of being a kingdom, and the
Roman governors brought their own thieves
with them from Italy. They were crude,
gross thieves, and no fit company for a
man who knew the gentlemanly points of
the game and was accustomed to shake
hands with Jewish politicians who could
(Continued on page 24.)


10* \
m
' ,^»pps9
■W -Av V'A VrV
?\ : v?.v3i
aSs
7 * ”
V;>
jsas^
V.v
7 -«i3l®Q**
,\
VrtK/feW
f. *■s;
ai&pi
i :
1
\
H
W
88M,5
Anthony Horderns’
Mail Order Service
To the many people who are acquainted with Anthony
Horderns’—that immense storehouse of the world’s
merchandise, with its brilliant displays, choice and
varied, in the fifty spacious departments, and replete
with modern facilities for the comfort and convenience
of shoppers —to such people no hesitation would be felt
in entrusting an Order by Post to
Anthony Horderns* Mail Order Department.
Your order will receive the same discriminating care
in selection of goods required, the same faithful
attention to detail and prompt attention, as the order
received from you in • person. And you get the
advantage of the lowest city prices.
Anthony Horderns’ pay the carriage on Family
Drapery, Fashion Goods, Women’s and Men’s Wear,
Boots and Shoes, Silverplate, Cutlery and Jewellery
to any part of New South Wales or to any port in the
other States.
There are several helpful catalogues, nicely illustrated and full of
information, which make shopping by post very simple You can have
one, or more —they cost you nothing and are sent to your address direct,
postage paid, immediately on receiving your inquiry.
WHICH CATALOGUE DO YOU WISH*
Agricultural Implements.
Floor Coverings and Mattings.
Electroplate.
Men’s Matters.
Poultry Supplies.
Sporting Goods.
Travellers’ Requisites.
Electrical Goods.
Spring and Summer Fashions (ready next week).
Mark an X against the catalogues you require.
xcxz
cxz
cxz
cxz
czx
ANTHONY HORD
Only Unlver sal Providers,
BRICKFIELD HI LL ,
New Palace Emporium,
SYD N EY N. S .W.


■■f.
mw.
m
m
m
¥
I
l
yw
«9R
y>?°^k
m
m
and roof with
ADAHAX
Adamax Lasts Longest.
Gives Best Service.
The proof of its goodness is in the wearing. “Adamax” is time-proof.
It is* preferred and recommended by users who have given it many years
of severe service. Let us tell you why it will last as long as the build-
ing it protects —why it is adapted to steep or flat surfaces—why it is
fire-resisting and proof against water, heat, cold, wind and acid fumes
—in short, why Adamax is the most satisfactory and least expensive
roofing in the world.
Write to-day for free sample and descriptive pamphlet.
For I uteriors Use LOTTOID. You will never have to go
back to a job if you use Lottoicl Plaster Sheets for your Ceilings and
Walls. Ihe sheets possess a hard, snow-white surface, showing no
trace of fibre. Made in 24 convenient sizes. Lottoid Art Panels,
Centres and Continuous D esigns for Ceilings, Cornices, Mouldings,
etc., help to beautify the home. Write for full details to our Sydney
or Brisbane offices. We are agents for N. S. Wales and Queensland.
We also stock Durabestos, the Durable, Hydraulically-compressed Asbestos-Cement Sheets and Slates for
Walls and Roofing.
We will gladly send you, without any obligation on your part, information,
samples and prices of these Australian Products.
cz
\
xcxz
SYDNEY . BRISBANE . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH


LL visiting l.ouauu
should read the liumsti Austhal-
asiax, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
• ontaining mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the Bitixisu Austk.u.asian
Beading Loom at the Offices. 115 High llol-
born. London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tha
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
c
PARIS
GARTERS
No metal
can touch you
iohe name “Paris”
is the endorsement
of comfort, and your
guarantee of Garter
quality.
Obtainable all Mercers.
Indents and Wholesale:
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney.
9
'A^S
msk
m
m,
ci //
* j
£ SS.
m
c
L_sr
THE HIGH COST of LIVING
and
The Low Cost of Shaving.
Five Shaves for a Penny. That is the cost of shav-
ing with the WORLD’S BEST.
WILLIAMS’
You may perhaps get as many as Eight Shaves fo ■
a Penny with the Second Best. Is the chance worth
taking ?
WILLIAMS’ SHAVING STICK easily lasts four
months- —one hundred and twenty shaves for 2/-.
Five Shaves for a Penny.
If your Chemist hasn’t got it, don’t blame us. Send
us 2/- in stamps and you will receive Williams’
Holder Top Shaving Stick by return post.
“Williams,” Box 98 G.P.0., Sydney.
Williams’
Holder Top
Shaving
Stick.
Tell at? ?kk
|l||: ; 'Restore jy<Jur
HP 4!air unH|
SAV-**
1
or 8. al mm
!*W
Australia's Foremost Schools
. of
WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY
THE MARCONI SCHOOLS are the only Schools in Australia fitted
with actual Wireless Stations. Therefore, they alone are able
to give instruction in Radio-Telegraphy in all its branches.
You must have practical experience on Wireless Stations before you
are proficient, and our installations are there for that purpose.
DAY AND EVENING CLASSES.
SPECIAL! SED C 0 RRE SCO NT) ENCE C ()U RSE S.
Prepare now for the future world-wide expansion in Wireless Telegraphy.
Write or ca 11— SUP HR I N TENDENT,
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
AND 422-424 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
“SEA, LAND and AIR”
TOPICAL AUSTRALIAN MONTHLY.
ON ALL BOOKSTALLS.
9d. per copy. 9/- per annum, post free. Get a copy to-day.
xzc
zxc
Every Careful Man has one
and Every Careful Woman too.
It's the Pen for the careful— always ready to write, and write well.
Ii has two supreme mlrits-it FILLS ITSELF from any ink supply, and it
CANNOT LEAK. , .. „„ nNOTfI
Price y i7K r a e i f “o OnotoVal^ve! tss for those who do n* wants Self . Filling Safety
Pen 12/6 and upwards of all stationers, jewellers and stores.
Manufacturers : THOS. DE LA RUE & CO., LTD., Bunhill Row, London. E C
Managing Agents: NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, Sydney & Melbourne.
Ask for Onoto ink—Best for all Pens.
SAFEGUARD YOU* health
OtJ.Collfe Broynes
CWorodjwe
The Original and Only Genuine.
TIIR BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
anil in tlio Cough of BKONCHITIS ami
CONBCM I’I’ION.
Checks Kli VEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COT.TC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS I. IKK A CHAU SI IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
0 / all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3/-, 5/
.Made in England.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
the Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centiinrs.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Osed since 15U6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S* GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London. England
Insist on “Singleton’s”- refuse all substitutes.
Mixing and Sifting Machines.
Complete Self-Raising-
Flour Plants.
Feeding, Mixing and
Conveying Plants for
Manures and Chemi-
cals.
Package Packers.
Concrete Mixers.
Rolled Oats Cookers
and Steamers.
Bag Hoists.
Combined Grinding,
Collecting & Sifting
Planfs.
Baking Flour Mills.
Roller Mills.
Pulverisers.
Disintegrators.
Centrifugal Dressing
Machines.
xzc
High-speed Sifters for
Hand and Power.
Dustless Sack Cleaners.
Dust Collectors.
Bottle-filling Machines.
Rough Breakers.
Chilian Grinding Mills.
Beef Hfltsts.
Boiler-feed Power
Pumps.
Steel Conveyors.
Cast-iron Spiral Con-
veyors.
Belt Trippers.
Belt Carriers and Re-
turn Idlers.
Barrel Elevators.
No. 14 Size Heavy-duty Mixing Machine, with Rough Crusher & Removable Sieve.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, POST FREE.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [2
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
National Park, N.S.W.
Spring hung her little ladder of vine
Over the brown rock’s face,
And carried a climbing hope of mine
Out of that ferny place
Up and up to the bough and blue
Where the slow, white peaks of the cloud-
land grew.
The rungs of the ladder were made of flowers
Pale on the leaves of green and brown ;
Till, born of the lyric noonday hours,
The glimmering soul of a dream swung
down ;
Step by step on the vine-stair’s sway,
Lightly balanced, it came our way!
Lyre birds, scraping in bank and fern,
Shy and stately, they stalked us there,
And the jetty mutton-bird took his turn
To dart and forage and peck and stare,
Rustle of leaves, and the waters’ gleam
And hands that reached —till they met the
dream!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Death.
Let the dark curtains fall
Softly: the din without —
Swift wheel and noisy shout
That once did mingle all
Into the surge of life
That I have loved —is strife,
Jarring and meaningless.
Craving a silence deep,
And sweet forgetfulness,
1 wish to sleep.
Let the cool darkness come,
Like a soft hand that, laid
On fevered brow, lends aid,
Easing hot veins that drum
Dreams to the brain. O Light,
Darkness lends better sight!
For there are flowers abloom,
Sweet glades and splashing
streams
Far from this tawdry room,
Found by my dreams.
Life is a fevered thing,
Love but a turbulence.
You that were friends go hence
Tiptoe, and let me* fling
My sou], with life opprest,
Into the seas of rest.
Let the dark’curtain fall ;
Let the cool silence sweep
Over my soul and a 11... .
Leave me to sleep.
N.s.w.
HAMER.
The Great Adventure.
The world was wide, a-throb with life;
Its white roads stretched to merge in blue;
It pulsed with passion and with strife,
And called on Youth to dare and do.
Oh, there were glorious songs to sing!
How is it they remain unsung?
And heights to scale —why do we cling
To safety on some middle rung?
One started out with mind intent
On great adventures, keen to probe
All myst’ries ; in his veins was blent
The life-blood of the pulsing globe.
Ilis gonfalon he made the skies.
Great cities grew T about his feet;
His mind nursed schemes of vast emprise,
Of viewless surf he heard the beat.
(Oh! there were grievous wrongs to right —
Their serpent-heads uprear to-day —
And tyrants it were sweet to fight;
Why did we falter by the way?)
The world was wide, the world was new ;
But on his plot he stayed instead,
Because a young girl’s eyes were blue,
Because her mouth was red!
The wars of all the eafth he’d win.
He felt, with Blue Eyes by his side;
So paused amidst the battle’s din
And made Blue Eyes his bride.
White roads stretched forth and merged in
blue ;
Of viewless surf he heard the beat,
So sought to start his quest anew,
But love hung chains about his feet.
Rich dawns flamed red upon his sight,
But common cares came with the day ;
The eyes of love were kind by night
And kept him to the safer way.
(Oh, there were battles to be won,
And tyrants red to overthrow!
Vet, when the fight had scarce begun,
We saiv our dear dream-kingdoms go!)
More precious grew his native turf
Than cities builded in the sky ;
The thunder of the viewless surf
Was muted to an infant’s cry.
The common ways of men seemed good;
He sought no dim. enchanted shore.
The prison-house of parenthood
Was hung with roses round the door.
The sordid round, the hated task.
Held strange romance, exotic bliss;
No question needed he to ask—
Life’s Great Adventure, then, was this!
(The wide roads stretching out afar
We meant to tread remain untrod;
More distant now that great white star —-
Our graves will be our native sod.)
To Life’s eternal purpose true,
He glories that his dreams are fled;
Because a young wife’s eyes are blue,
Because her mouth is red !
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.


u
For Mileage in Comfort.
Perdriau
Tyres.
Perdriau big mileage is simply the natural result of
first=class designing, allied with highest°grade
materials and honest workmanship.
Perdriau Tyres give you absolute freedom from tyre
trouble as far as human skill and modern science
can secure you.
They are Australian. Try them.
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
A/so at Flinders Street, Melbourne
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Gawler Place, Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
For Physical Unfitness
If it is necessary for yon
to use Crutches or Artificial
Limbs, or to wear Surgical
Appliances, our advice on the
matter would be highly im-
portant to you.
VVe carry most complete
assortments of the necessary
helps to minimise the incon-
venience of physical unfit-
ness.
Illustrated is shown a
Below-Elbow Arm complete
with Knife, Fork. Ilook and
Brush. These implements can
be inserted in slot in hand,
or hand can be removed alto-
gether to use them. Call, or
write us, with every confi-
dence.
«agga»*H^r^r_\
Denyer Bros.,
Makers of Trusses,
Artificial Limbs and
Abdominal Belts,
281 George Street, SYDNEY.
A
M
7a
mi
%
SssSn
“REX”
Goods Have
Won Their
Place in the Sun
—through their perfect quality.
One of the most popular is
‘REX’ CAMP PIE
An appetising meat delicacy packed in
thick j?llu—whole some--economical-
ready to serve.
“ REX ” CAMP PIE is relished the
year round.
Always keep a tin in the house.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
FOGGITT, JONES & COMPANY, LTD.
Packers of "Rex” Pure E’ood Products
Carers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
zx
]jr ft*
cx
POCKET BOOK
PICKET DUTY
01
%
V*-
vm
Something Worth While
Looking Into.
O vyners have been reporting to us the suc-
cess they are having with GOODRICH
TYRES.
THEY CLAIM MORE THAN WE DO.
Service is the very backbone of our business. Without
it, nothing‘we can do in the way of advertising would be
of any lasting benefit.
GOODRICH Tyres MUST fulfil this high Service Good-
rich pledges for them. When one fails, we are more
eager than the buyer that its shortcomings be made good.
We invite every Goodrich patron with a vestige of a
grievance against a Goodrich Tyre to send in his
grievance with the tyre.
We will make these adjustments gladly and generously.
Let Your Next Tyre
be a GOODRICH.
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St., 13 Castleraagh St, 300 Adelaida St,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40.—N0. 20 >2.
THURSDAY. AUGUST 21, 1919.
PiUCE lii).
PEERS AND PLUMBERS.
THE KING: “And in handing you this V.C. I appoint you also hereditary plumber to your village.”
THE COBBER: “Plumber! But I don’t know anything about plumbing!"
THE KING: “My dear fellow, I have just appointed these Generals and Admirals hereditary legislators; and though they don't know anything about
politics they’re not making a fas? about it.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosrnan, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Tor £ 1 6r. Cd. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you. every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
6000 words, are specially acceptable) , Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no iI TS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Klack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
■illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to M 3.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.0.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., 1849 Conway Buildings,
Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
llono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Tostagre Kates.
Single copies of Thu Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lOot., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz., 3d.:
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 40z., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 21, 1919.
WHO FEARS TO SPEAK OF
’SEVENTY-ONE.
The proposal that a royal commission should
be appointed to inquire into industrial
troubles is the sort of thing that might be
expected from men with red-tape minds. A
royal commission, like a motion for the
adjournment of the House, or the building
of a loan railway with a rabbit for ter-
minus, or an address-in-reply is a refuge for
the mentally destitute. But it doesn’t meet
all cases. The present need is for an inquiry
into urgent troubles that are not industrial.
For industrial troubles the people have a
remedy in their control of Parliament. If
this moves too slowly it can be made to go
faster, for the people own and drive the
machine, and there is no speed limit. The
Arbitration Courts furnish another remedy.
They are the people’s own courts, and if they
are not good enough the people have all
the power in the world to make them better.
But when a crowd arises which says that
the people are unfit to govern, and that
control must be taken out of their hands
and assumed by Tom Walsh’s followers,
with Tom Walsh and his camarilla at the
head of affairs, there is nothing industrial
about the matter. It is a mere case of
little Napoleons reaching out for power
without the least idea what to do with it
if they got it. The violent declamation
about alleged shipping companies, which
don’t belong here and over which we have
no control, having made £15,000,000 during
the war, and such-like fantasies, may be
used to buy the support of sill.v dupes. They
don’t make the reach-out for power any
less a private grab than would an allegation
about extortion in Jupiter, which is probably
pretty bad.
* * * *
If a royal commission is appointed to in-
quire into complications which pretend to
be industrial but aren't, it will probably be
struck with the parallel between the pro-
gramme now talked of and that of the
Paris Commune of 1871. Three notable
upheavals —the French Revolution, the Rus-
sian Bolshevik trouble and the Commune of
1871 —are frequently bracketed together.
They were in reality as wide apart as the
poles. Each had features of its own, and
though to some extent the proposed revolution
approximates to Bolshevism, the Commune
is its nearest relative. The French up-
heaval was the rising of a people long bur-
dened by a rotten monarchy and aristocracy
and a shameless land monopoly, suddenly
beggared by an insane Freetrade policy
and disgusted by unsuccessful wars. In
that respect France and Russia started
from the same point, save that Russia did
not have Freetrade. Both revolutions
were begun by moderate men and passed
into the hands of very strenuous men. But
the leaders of the first movement were natives
of the land and loved France with a pas-
sionate love. They were patriots, per-
sistent fighters in their country’s cause, not
devoid of constructive ability, complete
believers in Parliamentary rule, and never
suspected of taking bribes from an enemy.
The Russian movement, starting from the
same point, presently fell into the hands of
imported sharks who scattered the army
instead of putting a new spirit in it, and
surrendered to the enemy everything he asked.
These imported men of dubious honesty re-
duced Parliamentary Government to nothing,
replacing it, as is proposed in Australia,
by the rule of a class; and even the class
doesn’t rule much more than its dictators
allow. The Government is bankrupt and
non-constructive, and has been even more
successful in reducing Russia to starvation
than Walsii and co. have been in famishing
the outlying parts of Australia, though
Walsii and co. have done marvels consider-
ing the time and means at their disposal.
But, despite these points, it is the Paris
Commune of ’7l which is the real parallel.
The Commune wasn’t a protest against
imperialism, for imperialism had fallen long
before and been replaced by a Parliamentary
republic. The empire fell, not through
tyranny, but because it was too weak and
too much alarmed at its own weakness.
Nor was the Commune a protest against big
estates. A growing trouble in France was
that the subdivision of a deceased man’s
property among his children was making
estates too small to furnish a living area.
Nor was it a serious demonstration against
conscription, for the Empire had struggled
along in a futile way with the voluntary
principle copied from England. In fact, it
was so voluntary that in 1866 Prussia was
allowed to annex most of the smaller Ger-
man States and create a towering military
monarchy on the French border, France
being unable to find at short notice more
than about 43,000 soldiers. Nor had the
new order any complaint to make against the
peerage, for the peers had lost their lands
and their privileges long before. In its
rising against the republic the Commune cer-
tainly demanded the separation of Church
and State; but this amounted to very little,
there being no State church with vast
landed properties, though a trifle was paid
to recognised preachers out of the revenue.
There wasn’t even a very definite industrial
programme to start with, and nothing
definite was developed.
The Commune began after an unsuccess-
ful war, just as the present Australian
“industrial” movement showed itself at the
Perth Labor Conference in the midst of a
war which the organisers hoped and openly
prayed might be unsuccessful. The Com-
mune was started in the absence of most
of the French army; and the Australian
army was away in France and else-
where when Tom Walsh first loomed large.
A vast National Guard existed in Paris for
local defence during the German siege. It
included many who had come there to avoid
the advancing Germans before the siege
commenced. This was very much akin to
the local defence force advocated by
the Perth Labor Conference people; and the
National Guard “retained its rifle” after the
war with the foreign enemy, just as it was
proposed should be done in Australia and
for the same purpose. As is the case with
the incipient revolt in Australia, the leaders
were to some extent imported men ; Slavonic
names like Dombrowski (commander-in-
ehief) and Wroblewski were common.
These men may have been mere villainous
adventurers. On the other hand, they may
have been honest madmen who snatched at
the throat of the French Commonwealth
because of the wrongs of Poland, just as a
strange man might turn dog on Australia,
the land of small freeholds, because of big
estates in Ireland, or as a strange raving
woman might “perform” in this adult-
suffrage country because there was no
woman suffrage in London.
The army of the Commune took the offen-
sive against the Republic, but even with odds
of two to one in its favor it won no victories.
In its career of two months it constructed
nothing, but destroyed much. It was better
led than the meat-workers of Townsville,
but none too well led. It opened the prisons,
of course, and released all the I.W.W.
prisoners. It massacred a procession of
passive resisters. It levied Contributions,
suppressed papers, and also suppressed
people who were suspected of being un-.
friendly. It struck the idea of seizing
“hostages” to be executed unless the Re-
public abandoned Paris to it, which was
only an elaboration of the idea of starving
women and babies unless the Commonwealth
abandons its self-governing rights and its
Arbitration Court to Walsh, etc. In its
last hours it executed an archbishop, 17
priests, an elderly lawyer, 38 policemen and
64 business-men to show that it wasn’t to
be trifled with, and proceeded to set the
public buildings and the better-looking
quarters of the city on fire. Unsexed women
like those who have assaulted and expecto-
rated on returned soldiers in Australia went
around with petrol turning the picturesque
old metronolis of a thousand glories into a
bonfire. Direct Action had got started and
didn’t know how to stop itself any more
than a runaway train does on a down grade.
Direct Action never knows how to stop itself,
and if Walsh and Garden and Brookfield
and John Storey run behind, and cry out
with tears that they never intended things
to go so Tar. they run a great risk of being
shot for lukewarmness. The French Com-
monwealth, for its part, had little pity for
the usurpers who had tried to steal its
right of self-government. When a free people
really become terrified by the risk of being
handed over to the tender domination of
Dombrowski or Judd or Walsh or Wrob-
lewski it is apt to run riot itself. The
number of Direct Actionists who were
executed in Paris ran into many thousands.
* -* # *
The moral is that when a handful of
fanatics or plain criminals rise in the pre-
tence of Liberty or anything else against a
free nation, Direct Action, though. it may
succeed for a time, is apt to take part in
a very unpleasant execution.
CORRUPTION THAT IS NO LONGER
ASHAMED.
With the death of the Censorship this coun-
try! like others, has awakened to the in-
sanely extravagant methods of its rulers.
Conditions, bad for many years, have grown
worse during the war. And until our system
of government is altered, we cannot hope
for great improvement. In Britain the two
chief parties raise money, to be spent in
consolidating their strength, chiefly by an
almost open traffic in titles. Here there is
nothing higher than an occasional 1v.8.E.
for sale; and no Government is in a posi-
tion to guarantee so much as that. But
power is even more desirable to most of our
Ministers than it is to those in Downing-
street. To the Australian politician, in the
majority of cases, loss of office means the
discomforts of comparative indigence: men
like Balfour, Bonar Law, GeiSdes, Cham-
berlain and the rest suffer from the catas-
trophe only in their dignity. Our politicians,
in consequence, fight more bitterly than
those in Britain do to hold their jobs. Situ-
ated as they are, they have to purchase the
necessary support by a side-line. Preferen-
tial treatment of doubtful groups is the
method relied on here, as in other countries
where the Party system prevails. The differ-
ence lies in the fact that in Britain the in-
dividual plutocrat pays either in the form of
money spent in his constituency or by a
cheque handed to the party whip, while with
us the bill is paid with money borrowed on
the security of the public and private pro-
perty of the citizens. It is to the doubtful
spots that the Minister hurries with his.
brimming bags of ready cash and sows the
golden grain broadcast in the certain expect-
ation that the party will reap a useful crop
of support. There is little real corruption in
Australian politics—in the sense that few of
our politicians steal public money. But it
would be cheaper from the taxpayer’s point
of view if they frankly pocketed large sums
while in other respects acting honestly. The
country would thus be saved from the bur-
densome railway between Dog’s Creek and
Nowhere, from the superfluous bridge, and
from the grossly extravagant day-labor
enterprise undertaken adjacent to a city be-
cause the workers concerned happen to be
unwilling to toil in the country. All these
things mean votes, and, therefore, a steady
living for the members of the Ministry in
power; but the cost to those who are re-
quired to find the money is incalculable.
* * * *
Everyone in Parliament knows all about
the scandal; but its age has helped to sanc-
tify it, and there is also the factor of party
discipline. The discipline of Prussianism at
its most effective was nothing to that of
party discipline as it exists in the Common-
wealth with the war for Liberty won. Under
it men are silently agreeing every day of
their lives, in the Federal and State houses,
to measures and expenditures which they
hate, and offering no protest against works
which have never been submitted to them.
They would interfere with a swindler in the
exercise of his calling, and they would stop a
lunatic from throwing the money of others
into the sea; but dishonesty and waste per-
petrated on party grounds are condoned by
the most obtrusively upright of private mem-
bers. So thoroughly have the party organ-
isations got control that an entirely fearless
and outspoken party man is as unthinkable
as a social pariah or a kind-hearted poisoner.
* * * *
If any proof is needed that neither the pol-
itical leaders nor those who live in hopes of
some day doing a little in the leading line
themselves have any intention of altering this
state of affairs, it is to be found in the fact
that, while all hands from W. M. Hughes
downwards are calling for more production,
none of them are saying a word about
economy. And yet economy is needed, equally
with production, if Australia is to remain
solvent. Paradoxical though it may sound, it
is needed also in the interests of industrial
peace. Display and extravagance breed social
discontent. The habit which Governments
have got- into of doing things on the grand
scale, produces a similar tendency in private
life. Lavishness, public and otherwise, may
have been all very well before Australia lost
60.000 of its best workers for good, and
400,000 of them over a period of five years.
The new conditions make it not only unecon-
omic but indecent. State and Government
House entertainments, (all of which are paid
for wholly by the taxpayers) and obtrusive
semi-public affairs which have been common
everywhere of late, do a little good in the
way of employment-giving, and much harm
otherwise. There is a suggestion about them
nowadays of dancing by the graveside; and
they draw needless attention to the dispro-
portionate manner in which the community’s
wealth is distributed. It is good taste and
good policy, in view of the world’s present
temper, for States as well as individuals to
spend such money as they have to spend
carefully. Sensible people don’t consume a
champagne luncheon in a Rolls-Royce car
just outside a cottage where a death in the
family has synchronised with the arrival of
the bailiffs.
* * * *
If the constituencies were corrupted only
with money raised by taxation, there wou’d
soon b£ not much of it to complain about.
Unfortunately the politician has discovered
a way of dodging that difficulty. He bor-
rows the money on the security of the
national assets; and the citizen fails to
realise that the politicians have given the
creditor a first mortgage over his property.
Thousands of people who would not dream
of mortgaging their homes applaud the
“vigorous constructive policy” of a vote-
hunting Ministry whose vigor is based upon
the mortgaging of those very homes. The
total stoppage of borrowing would strike the
most effective blow at the sort of corruption
which is most rampant. But is there any
Ministry in sight that would not consider
it straight-out suicide to turn off the life-
giving flow by which it endears itself to one
set of the electors at the expense of all
the others? The country’s first and best
hope, the constitutional position being as it
is all over Australia, lies probably in
elective Ministries. And with Ministers
chosen for merit irrespective of party, by
a general vote of the House, there would be
much more likelihood of legislation being
initiated which as things are is carefully
left alone. In fact, it may reasonably be
said that without elective Ministries —
Ministries composed of men chosen for
special purposes and dependent for their job
on their good behavior —certain badly-
needed reforms will never come. More par-
ticularly governmental economy. To look
for thrift from a Hughes or a Holman
under the conventional Party Government
system is equivalent to searching for a
stripeless tiger.
HISTORY AS IT MAY BE WRITTEN.
The lesson of the European war had alreadv
been forgotten in Australia. The Tory papers
took up the cry of “a scientific frontier.” It
became an electioneering gag. All the latent
hostility of interested persons to the White
Australia policy awoke. The specious argu-
ment that Australia could best repay the
devotion of the Indian troops by allowing their
brothers to be exploited in developing tropical
Australia gained an enormous number of
adherents; and this despite the fact that
Indian opinion itself had long compelled the
British Government to stop the degrading
traffic in human bodies that had grown up
between Southern India and Malaya. The
fanatic racialism bred during the war had
been followed by a reflex wave of sentimental
internationalism. Persons ignorant of the
awful consequences of miscegenation clam-
ored for a more Christian interpretation of
our duty towards our neighbor. Despite the
fact that considerably greater congestion
existed in Europe than in Asia, and that the
problem of Britain with 347 persons to the
square mile was far more serious than that
of India with 194, Japan with 300 and
China with 307, Australia was asked to
abandon her exclusion laws in favor of Asi-
atics, and to the consequent detriment of
Europeans. Labor, alive to the advantages
but always reluctant to shoulder the obliga-
tions of a White Australia, remained apa-
thetic. In one disastrous campaign the
policy which for half a century had been con-
sidered sacrosanct was destroyed and its
provisions wiped off the statute-book.
The new policy was an immediate and
astonishing success. The “scientific fron-
tier” beyond which no native settlement was
to be allowed was drawn in a direct line
from King Sound in Westralia to the Queens-
land border, where in deference to that
State’s more successful tropical development,
it turned due north to the Gulf of Carpen-
taria. The area enclosed was about the size
of N. S. Wales. Splendidly organised by
men who had learnt their art in the tremen-
dous transport business of the Great War, the
flood of Asiatic immigration poured into and
was absorbed by the new territory. At first,
in accordance with the terms of the policy,
the immigrants were drawn exclusively from
the Tamils of Southern India, their numbers
and cheapness making up for their notorious
inefficiency. But presently the sturdier
Chinese were being freely recruited, the law
being evaded by the simple process of con-
veying them from China to Singapore, where
they were registered as British subjects.
Singapore became a vast clearing-house for
Australian emigration. Daily the big liners
of the B. I. Co. discharged their living freight
at the wharves at Darwin, which speed-
ily became the busiest port in Australia.
The vast potentialities, the unbelievable fer-
tility of the Northern Territory, which had
been ignored and scouted by tire politicians
and people of Australia, immediately re-
sponded to this vigorous stimulation.
The prosperity of the white exploiters rose
llk ® a flood. An oligarchy of sugar-, rice- and
coffee-kings began to rise. Their influence
was strong enough in a decade to achieve
useful amendments in the immigration laws.
1 he period of indenture, which at first was
based on the Indian model, was extended,
ihe natural corollary, the introduction of
women, was soon reached. The prosperity
of the North could not fail to benefit the
[south, and public opinion was quietened by
liberal redemptions of taxation. The North
was still purely an agricultural country, and
did not menace the industrial development of
the South, where labor and capital were
immersed in the age-long struggle for the
control of the profits of production. Between
them stretched the frontier, whose scientific
infallibility had grown, like the inviolable-
ness of the great Wall of China, into a
superstition.
Twenty years after the repeal of the Ex-
clusion Laws the population of the Northern
Territory had grown to 6,000,000. This is
not surprising or even exceptional, when it is
remembered that previously Chinese had been
pouring into already occupied and less fertile
Borneo at the rate of .350,000 a year, and
that they had swamped the indigenes of the
Malay Peninsula in a single generation. Port
Darwin presented at this time a sufficieutlv
astounding spectacle to anyone who had
known it at the end of the 19th century. On
steaming into the magnificent harbor, which
could accommodate the largest vessels, a
vast and populous city greeted the eve,
streaming far back over the low hills that
had formerly been green with secondary
jungle. The grandiose ambitions of mission-
aries who had hoped to turn the pagan influx
into Christian channels had been proved
abortive, and the gloomy temples of Kali-
ha, the shrines of Buddha, the burning
ghats of the Hindus, and the minarets of
Mohammedan mosques stood in every narrow-
street. The official intention of making Eng-
lish the universal language had also been
powerless in face of the unsuspected vitality
of romanised Chinese, which had become the
medium of commerce, of speech, and of the


dangerously active native press. The curse
of cheap labor lay on every civic enterprise.
Rickshaws and handcarts thronged the streets.
Coolie scavengers took the place of any cor-
porate sanitary scheme ; transport and water
supply were performed by the innumerable
hands of Chinese coolies, and it was only in
industries in the pursuit of profit that the
astute native contractor utilised the appli-
ances of civilisation.
As in Malaya, China and Japan, the con-
trol of industry had gradually slipped out of
white hands into the capable hands of the
Chinese. The Chinese chambers of com-
'merce, the powerful merchants’ guilds with
their elaborate freemasonry, were beginning
to be the real masters of the country, their
operations receiving a merely formal sanc-
tion from bewildered Australian officialdom.
The growth of native institutions and of
a strong national spirit kept pace with the
increase of population. A people as rev-
erential towards learning as the Chinese could
not neglect education, and national culture
stood at as high a standard in the north of
Australia as in the south. The fourth
decade of the new era saw the population of
the North climb above that of the South.
The insistent demand for Northern auton-
omy could no longer be ignored, and a
small measure of self-government was
granted. It was, of course, inadequate for
national needs, and within a few years, by
the aid of party machinery and financial pres-
sure and with the backing of certain
Asiatic Bowers, complete autonomy, except
in the matter of defence and foreign
policy, was wrested from the Southern Par-
liament. Thus far had Australia gone, who
had thought to cultivate her tropical gar-
den by imported labor and then step in
and reap the harvest.
The white inhabitants of Australia had
now to face a well established situation.
The North was already considerably more
prosperous than the South, which carried an
enormous burden of debt acquired during
the Great War and in the muddled days when
seven Parliaments competed in the world’s
markets for loans. Development built on
loans had been slow in the South : built on
production had been swift in the North. Net-
works of railways connected the populous
cities of the North, which hummed with
special industries. The magnificent rivers
of the Territory, navigable from 40 to 100
miles from their mouths, bore the products
of an incomparably rich soil down to the
sea. The markets of Asia and the East
Indies were within a few days’ steam, and
what they demanded was what the North
could supply—tropical products. The
people were virile, intensely nationalistic,
terribly fecund. Their numbers already
exceeded the population of the South, and
their rate of increase was twice as large.
Their Parliament was merely the expression
of the great commercial and financial inter-
ests of the country. Their real rulers were
an oligarchy of Chinese and half-caste pluto-
crats, controlling a docile and efficient popu-
lation at the same stage of industrial develop-
ment as the Japanese at the beginning of
the 20th century.
The intentions of their leaders were now
quite undisguised. They aimed at com-
plete independence, the withdrawal of the
white garrisons and the right to organise
their own defence. As that defence had
already been highly organised by their
immensely-powerful secret societies, it was
a right that could not he denied them
without resort to arms; and for the second
time in Australian military history Austra-
lian politicians burked the supreme issue.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Roumania.
Roumania has told the League of Nations
to go to Sheol, and the League hardly knows
whether to go or not. It realises that even
if it was in full working order it would have
no .force of its own to meet such an emer-
gency. The Roumanian army entered the
Hungarian capital of Budapest—the first
time that an Ally has entered an enemy’s
capital in battle array. In the case of
Sofia and Constantinople, there was merely
a peaceful occupation after the country had
surrendered. Impassioned postcards were
sent ordering evacuation. They received
no attention, Roumania’s answer being that
it didn’t join in the treaty and has a legiti-
mate Scrap of its own on hand' —the first
real war of the Peace. It is impossible not
to have some sympathy with it. It used to
be a dismembered State like Poland and
Serbia, divided between Austria (or rather
Hungary) and Turkey. The Turkish part
got free and set up for itself. The Hun
part remained unredeemed. When notice
was served on the kingdom that it must join
the llun-Turk alliance with all its re-
sources or be regarded as an enemy, it
decided to be regarded as an enemy. There-
after the Roumanian subjects of Austria
were reauired to fight against their own
people, and were liberally flogged on sus-
picion. Their hope was in Russia ; but when
that monster collapsed the Bolshevik Gov-
ernment became rather hostile to Roumania
than otherwise. After that it looked for
relief to come through the Dardanelles.
When that hope died Roumania became a
small, isolated detachment, hopelessly cut off.
and was trodden down. The terms amounted
to the looting of everything the country
possessed and a tribute of nearly everything
it was ever likely to possess. The Allies
later on declared these conditions null and
void. When the luck showed signs of
turning, Roumania. being still an Ally
according to the declaration of the other
members of the Alliance, re-entered the war.
It had a score centuries long against the
Hungarian oppressor, and the last part of
the score was the worst. So it stood out of
the Peace and tried to recover its self-
respect by a single-handed scrimmage with
the ancient enemy. Serbia, Montenegro and
Belgium, having a line of retreat, had never
been forced to complete surrender, so they
were in at the death, and probably the Rou-
manian wanted to show that he was as good
as any of them. He proceeded to do good
service by making an end of the Bolshevik
administration in Hungary ; but his attitude
makes the League of Nations feel rather
like a theory or a dear old lady in a poke
bonnet.
Diverse Gauges.
The pathetic futility of Australian Govern-
ments is evidenced by the fact that the
uniform railway gauge question has quite
dropped out of sight again, while the build-
ing of diverse gauges with loan money at
5,1 per cent, is understood to be about to
put on a spurt. Everybody knows that a
very large proportion of this railway build-
ing will be mere throwing of money down
a sink; partly because many of the enter-
prises are not expected to pay even as
much as working expenses for lack of
customers, and partly because whichever
of the three gauges is ultimately adopted
the other two must be largely waste. As
regards the building of railways, regardless
of the lack of population to use them, and of
goods—except agricultural produce—to carry
on them, the cause is simple. Any fool-
Premier with loan money can build a rail-
way to employ the people who, if left
unemployed, would throw him out of office,
just as any fool-Emperor can start a war
to keep the people employed. At June, 1914,
State and Federal lines open for traffic
were at the rate of one mile for very 267
inhabitants. At .Tune, 1918, they represen-
ted one mile for every 225 inhabitants.
With 42 less people to find work for each
mile of line the case of many new ventures
was naturally hopeless. Yet these war years
are spoken of as a slack time in construction,
and the job of building lines that will have
fewer and fewer people to find work for each
mile of them and to carry the debt that they
represent is to be pushed on faster. The
new lines are mostly agricultural; and
agricultural produce is the stuff that is
freighted at half the cost of carriage,
wherefore all purely-agrieultural railways
are paupers living on taxes. If the 4ft.
Biin. gauge is accepted as the standard,
then about a quarter of the mile-
age requires no alteration. Another
quarter requires reduction, which is not
very costly in itself, but involves a vast
reconstruction or replacement of rolling-
stock. And about half requires to be
materially widened, which means new
rolling-stock, bridges, tunnels, road-bed,
stations and almost everything else. Of the
three gauges the one that is certain not to
be finally adopted has grown during recent
years at an amazing rate, so the always-
postponed question of the uniform gauge
grows apace. Yet some day the problem
must be faced, unless by the blessing of
Providence wh’oh is said to have a care
for the sick and lame and lazy, the develop-
ment of air navigation covers up the mon-
strous blunder and the shirking and the
incompetence by throwing the whole affair
into the scrapheap.
»
Rough on Ma.
The depressing tale of the Walsh Island
(N.S.W.) shipbuilding yard, as told by the
Royal Commission appointed to inquire into
it, is the same old story. The Common-
wealth gets some ships built for it
by the State Government at these New-
castle works, the terms being that
they are to be paid for at the rate which
similar ships cost at the Williamstown
Federal yard. In the case of the Dromana,
which recently did a successful trial, that
rate was £2B 15s. per ton, and was less than
had been expected. If the cost at Walsh
Island is a great deal more the Ma State
loses the difference. It is admittedly im-
possible to find out what ships do cost at
Walsh Island, either because no one knows
or because the subject is a painful one, and
Admiral .Tellicoe went out of his way to
mention that this was the one detail which he
simply couldn’t drag to light. It is generally
assumed, however, that N. S. Wales is losing
a heap of difference. As a matter of fact,
N. S. Wales is the worst of the States, bar
Queensland, in which to hope for economical
management or work. Within the last four
years it has held the record for spending
easily-gained but expensive loan money. So
it is essentially a “dem the ha’penny” place,
and a place that holds a very bad name for
strikes. Also it is a place which, by reason
of its abnormal habit of living by building
loan works that aren’t even expected to
pay, has become painfully obfuscated on the
simple proposition that there is something
wrong with paying 255. for constructing an
article that will sell for only £l. And, as
the Holman Government promises to go in
more furiously than ever at employing the
people on loan jobs where it doesn’t matter
if 255. is paid for an article worth only half
of £l, this is a specially bad time to tell
the employees at Walsh Island that more
work is expected for the money. They may
reply by asking the Government if it wants
to go out on its ear, and may then proceed
to work on a loan railway where value
doesn’t matter. They may also reply that,
even if there is anything wrong with the
work, it is a great deal better than the
management, which would probably be true.
Walsh Island is the great effort of a Govern-
ment (once Labor, now “National”) which
should no more be left alone with money
than a baby should be left with a gorilla—
the Government which negotiated the won-
derful Norton Griffiths scheme. Walsh
Island began, indeed, to blossom in the
best Norton Griffiths days. It was
created with £770.000 of the money that
doesn’t matter because it is posterity’s funeral.
The enterprise wasn’t even authorised by
the Public Works Committee as the law is
sunposed to provide. The Auditor-General
said in his report for 1018 that it “is
neither an administrative department, a
business undertaking nor an industrial under-
taking.” He remarked that if it had been
officially declared an industrial undertaking,
it would automatically come under “the
continuous and searching audit” provided for
such things, which is presumably why it
hadn’t. He also said “the accounts are a
medley,” and that even lie couldn’t dig the
facts out of them without further informa-
tion. This rackety public institution doubt-
less has its private uses iu the way of bring-
ing popularity, which means votes, employing
people at good wages and big salaries, which
sometimes means votes, and enabling a crowd
of futilities to pose as captains of industry
and doers of Big Things. But trouble was
inevitable when its own Railway Depart-
ment quitted it in disgust and it got down
to building ships for the Commonwealth at
the same price as the fairly well-ordered
Commonwealth dockyards and charging the
difference to the Ma State. It is rough on
the Ma State; but as the charge is cloaked
by floating another loan, what does it
matter?
The Long-distance Agitator.
“IL Sxngemoine’s'’ sentiments:—
A cable states that “under Sir Edward Carson's
presidency, the Ulster Unionist Council has decided
to revive the political organisations in order to fight
Home Rule.” All the leading members of the Coun-
cil live outside Ireland, and most of them—such as
Lord Londonderry, Captain Craig, W. JL Long and
the President —are Londoners. The vociferous Car-
son, despite his elaborate Belfast brogue, does not
own a foot of Irish soil; and he has not spent an
aggregate of six weeks in Ireland since he left it in
.1894. These agitators differ chiefly from our own
Walsiies and Le Cohnus in that they are rich and
that they lack the courage or inclination to live in
the country which' they are trying to egg into revo-
lution. Over a quarter of a century ago the then
Duke of Westminster— -another Ulster enthusiast
who never went near Ulster or any other part of
Ireland —had a painting of W. E. Gladstone. When
Gladstone declared himself a Home Ruler, the Duke
turned the picture to the wall; a piece of bellow-
drama which was emulated just before the Great
War by Rudyard Kipling who, in the course of. a
speech against Lloyd George's Home Rule Bill (de-
livered, of course, in England— Kipling is said to
have never visited Ireland in his life) rinsed his
mouth after a reference to the Redmond family, and
then spat, remarking: “You have got to clean your
mouth for this filth.” In the course of that speech
Kipling said to his rustic Sussex audience, about
Irishmen who, like the Redmonds, were very soon to
fight and die in Flanders: “They have done nothing
and suffered nothing to be done for the peace or
material advancement of their land. They have
never faltered in their hate for this Empire. They
have prayed for the success of our enemies in every
quarter of the world; they have jeered at our
defeats; and they have mocked at our dead.”
It was largely by such stuff that Gladstone's
efforts to settle the Irish question were defeated, and
it succeeded in 1914 in producing a state of affairs
in Ireland bordering on civil war. The Home Rule
Act of 1914 was a reasonable measure, as it should
have been, since it was based on the recommenda-
tions of a Convention composed of men of all politi-
cal views. But now, owing chiefly to the embitter-
ing methods of wealthy anti-Irish agitators who live
in England, a majority of the Irish who would have
accepted it gladly five years ago are hostile. The
Ulster crowd, like our Direct Actionists, offer nothing
constractive. And they oppose all palliatives. They
demand the status quo or nothing, in a world which
is incapable of standing still permanently. The out-
come can only be one of two things. Either Ire-
land, with its great manufacturing and agricultural
possibilities, and its magnificent rivers and ports,
will continue to stagnate, or it will be afflicted with
the bloody upheaval which the Ulsterites in Britain
have been seeking for so long. What makes the
tragedy worse is that it isn’t local, but world-wide.
People in Australia and America, who don’t know
the name of an Ulster county, are inconvenienced in
various ways by the province’s ancient grievance;
and the whole British Empire is emperilled more or
less by the political Ulsterman’s refusal to agree to
any scheme designed to give the proud and virile
people whom he blindly hates a chance of nationhood.
One of the best services that the British and
Dominion Parliaments could do to the cause of
world-harmonv would be to introduce a sort of resi-
dential qualification for persons taking a hand out-
side Westminster in any Irish political question.
Ireland is the only country in the world’s history
four-fifths of whose most violent agitations are con-
ducted in entire safety, material and physical, out-
side its borders. Offered the choice between living
in, say, Ulster and ceasing to sow dissension amongst
Irishmen, practically the whole Ulster Council would
decide on silence. And very soon after the overseas
flood of lies and abuse had been thus checked, the
politically-hostile Irishmen of Ireland would no
doubt come to terms, as such Irishmen have man-
aged to do in every other part of the world except
Ireland.
The Digger ami the Shark.
“O. Blin” : The system followed by the Vie.
Closer Settlement Board in acquiring land
for returned soldiers is beginning to annoy
the warriors. The Board is great on ‘'in-
dependent” valuations; but as the outside
valuer’s principal beauty is a capacity for
basing his estimate at a bit below the price
demanded, owners constantly inflate their
values to overcome the discrepancy. Re-
cently an orchard was offered for £1500;
three independent valuations averaged
£l2BO, and the place was bought for a re-
turned Digger for £1275, though the Govern-
ment officer and the shire committee reckoned
that £9OO was enough. A smaller place,
offered for auction with a reserve of £675,
was sent on to the Board for £9OO and
accepted for £SOO. Another lump of land,
for which the owner £iloo, was
bought for a trifle over £B5O after the
Government officer had reported its value at
£4OO. There is still another instance of
dairying land which was to be cut in two,
but the shire president refused to sign the
subdivision as a protest against- the ex-
cessive price paid for the ground._ Any
number of other examples could be cited to
show that Billjim is being plundered with
the connivance of a weak and foolish system.
But it must be said that Bill is often the
victim of his own impetuosity. llis igno-
rance of land values, coupled with his hurry
to secure a holding that he fancies, makes
him an easy mark for predatory landowners.
And here a word should be said for the Re-
patriation Dept., whose alleged “delays” are
frequently caused by inquiries to protect an
obvious innocent from exploitation. In the
same way the Housing Commission, an
earnest body of honoraries with no personal
interest to serve, has by its vigilance and
public spirit saved Bill many a hole in his
bank account. Some pretty stories could be
told of the Commission’s valuable interven-
tion —stories that reveal no less the Digger’s
tragic artlessness than the equally tragic
artfulness of profiteers.
Australia’s Humble Job.
Australia is by way of gaining inter-
national renown as the world’s dump-pile.
Ferrin, U.S.A. Trade Commissioner in Mel-
bourne, has been telling the people who sent
him here all about it. Ho reports that
Australia’s chief exports—wool, gold, meat,
hides and skins —normally went to British
markets, but the war has “changed all that,”
so that a stream of raw material may now be
made to trickle to America. And we can
easily be forced to take payment in American
manufactured goods. “An Australian market
for American goods ought to be especially
desirable,” says the New York Times, “as
the seasons are the reverse of those in the
United States, permitting American manu-
facturers to make goods during the dull
season. One of the drawbacks is (lie ques-
tion of credits, but Australian bankers
realise the situation and are willing to make
arrangements with New York banks to pay
American manufacturers for their goods on
receipt of invoices and shipping documents,
when properly authorised by Australian mer-
chants, who will pay tin; interest, exchange
and collection foes on terms pre-arranged
with the bankers.” In plain English.
Australians who might start industries, and
other Australians who might work in such
industries, must endure an endless “dull
season.” so that Americans who have started
industries, and other Americans actually at
work in such industries, may never endure
a “dull season.” G. Bruce llkatiicote.
who has just got back into his chair as
manager of the San Francisco branch of the
Canadian Bank of Commerce after six
months’ survey of Australia and Maori-
land, sums up thus: “If the United States
will purchase the food oroducts and wool of
Australia, which can be very largely in-
creased, this will assist the American manu-
facturer in finding a market for his manu-
factured goods in Australia.” This country
has had a long spell as Europe’s wood-and-
water joey. If it is ass enough (o go on
working for Uncle Sam it must have wood
and water on the brain.
Cinderella and Her Pawned Slipper.
The “firewood trouble” at Kalgoorlie has
suspended mining. It is the same sort of
thing as a “coal trouble” in N. 8. Wales,
with the addition that the hunt for firewood
in a rather bare country has always been
difficult, and the elusive stick has to be
chased further and further afield. So the
Government, which has just had its sixth
big consecutive deficit, set to work to supply
rations to the local population of unem-
ployed, and these rations not being sump-
tuous it has been served with a demand for
more of them, backed by a threat of very
direct action indeed.. By this time some
Westralians wish Kalgoorlie had never been
heard of. Yet it would have been a great
asset and a wonderful stroke of luck if the
community hadn’t gone mad on hearing of
the fortune that had been left it, and pro-
ceeded to drink up the fortune and all the
previous assets including the cat and the fur-
niture. In the pre-gold days Westralia was
a quiet, backwashy place with the smallest
debt per head in Australia, a credit balance
at the Treasury when N. S. Wales and
Victoria had a shortage of over £2,000,000
each, the best birth-rate bar that of Queens-
land, a few immigrants and no worries. It
was the Land of Sunset Calm. That was
up till 1801, when Murchison was found.
Coolgardie followed in 1802, and Kalgoorlie
immediately afterwards. Then there was a
rush of immigrants, the biggest revenues
per head on record, the biggest loans, the
biggest railway-building boom that such a
small population ever had, and the biggest
swelled head. The Government didn’t take
into account that Kalgoorlie, unlike Ballarat,
Bendigo, Gympie or Bathurst, had no
visible future in potatoes or cheese when
the mines gave out, but would go back to
its primeval solitude. Or if it took the fact
into account it soon forgot. Big John
Forrest’s original idea certainly was that
the public works which depended on the
goldfield for their earnings should be paid
for either out of revenue or by loans with
a big sinking fund attached: but the foreign
mineowner promptly got to work on that
wise provision and made it as if it had never
been. The gold output reached its maximum
as early as 1903, when the borrowing was
just fairly started, and the debt has increased
nearly 300 per cent, in the time that it
took the golden security to drop 50 per cent.
Now Westralia has a net State debt of £ll9
per inhabitant; a Federal debt of about £6O
per inhabitant; an accumulated shortage of
£3.543,553 (about £l2 per inhabitant), and
its special subsidy from the Federal
Treasury is nearly run out. And at this
inauspicious moment its second-biggest city,
the goldfield on -whose security all the
big loans were raised, is asking for rations.
Nothing more grotesque ever happened to a
"spirited loan policy.” Even Julius Vogel,
of Maoriland, who was a Father of Loans in
his day and a cynical Hebrew gambler to
boot, conceived nothing like it.
*
Slandering; the A.I.F.
“Digger” remembers some Furphies:—
Bishop Long, who was with the A.I.F. in France,
told a meeting at Bathurst the other night of . a
story repeated to him by the Archbishop of
Canterbury about 500 Australian brigands who
had been operating in a wood near Abbeville. A
party of Australians were sent to hunt these
brigands. The band was found to number seven—
five Tommies, one Frenchman, and one Australian!
A thousand tales told of the “wild Austra-
lians” had just as little basis of fact. The men
had been in uniform about a week when I heard
an affluent-looking female in a Sydney tram say,
in reference to a couple of slightly blithered sol-
diers, that Australian soldiers were “all the
same,” and that “the sooner the place was freed
of them the better.” Many people looked on the
A.I.F. as a joke or worse in those days, and
hundreds of peerless fighters met death on Gal-
lipoli before the cloud began to lift. The row
in the Cairo Wazzir gave rise to anti-Australian
yarns that travelled all over the world. For
years Egypt was never mentioned in so-called
polite English or Anglo-Australian circles with-
out gloomy references to the lawless Australians.
Meanwhile, not a word was said of the Gordons,


T h J Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A“ s J2ji a
EACH YEAR A RECORD !
The following figures indicate the progress of the Company —
Year.
PREMIUMS ... 1916 £,8,849 Each year the
1917 £20,336 Income has been
1918 £42,807 more than doubled.
The figures for 1919 will also be a record.
Insurances
transacted
FIRE (Homesteads, Woolsheds, Crops § Stacks).
HAILSTONE.
WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT.
'motor CAR.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders.
EVERY Farmer and Grazier should join this Progressive Company.
Full Particulars cn application to HEAD OFFICE; 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. W. R. DIMONP, Mam 'nil gr Director.
who had hit things up in Cairo with equal vigor
and less cause lo.ig before the Aussies got to work.
In England one heard circumstantial .stories,
particularly up to about the beginning of 1917,
representing the Australian to be an offensive
ruffian. 1 never analysed one that it didn’t
turn out to be absurd. I was in a railway car-
riage with some R.F.A. subalterns —elderly men
who were on a home-service job near Salisbury.
After a casual remark or so about the Austra-
lians’ work in the field, one of them related a
regrettable incident that had happened in a vil-
lage near his camp. Four Australian officers had
burst into the barber’s shop, drunk, had smashed
a quantity of glass, and brutally assaulted the
barber. I said that I hoped the police had
been sent for. Of course they hadn’t. The re-
tailer of the story asked us to believe that no
one in the shop or neighborhood had done any-
thing to check the outrage; that the officers had
been allowed to reel into their car unassailed;
and that the number of the vehicle hadn’t beeh
taken!
From 1917 onwards the Australians 'steadily
rose in the estimation of the llritish people; and
over there they have now very few detractors.
Rut they still have plenty in their native land.
The criticisms of Bolsheviks and cold-footers don’t
matter much. They are discounted as they are
uttered, by their source. a It is abuse of the
A.I.F. by members or ex-members of it which
counts. The most frequent assailant is the “regular”
ex-sergeant-major type —British or local. This class
of warrior proved almost without exception a failure
abroad. Now that he is back, and in a home-
service uniform again, he justifies himself by pointing
ont, whenever he can get a hearing, that the genuine
soldier was at a disadvantage amongst such a riotous
and undisciplined body. There is also the ass
who levels charges of cowardice right and left (dis-
plays of cowardice were so rare that a Y. 0.-
winner told me that in four years’ service ho had
never witnessed one) ; and the kindred liar who
whispers baseless tales of decent men being gaoled,
cashiered and immured in V.D. hospitals. As one in-
stance of this tendency I was informed in Flanders
that Hijohik Memf.gan, the boxer, was employed
“dealing with” recalcitrant Diggers in Wandsworth
(London) Prison. Two days later I met him in
Kemmel; and a week afterwards he was dead. To
one who knew him the idea of Mriiegan knocking
soldiers about under the orders of a gaoler was she?r
insanity; but, no doubt, some could be got to
believe the slander.
A Soldiers and Sailors’ Federation (non-political)
is in course of formation, and the idea is to make
it as wide as Australasia. One of its chief planks
should be the protection of the reputation of the
A.I.F. After previous wars the soldiers have had
to sit down under vilification: they were too weak,
numerically, to resist it. The position of the
A.I.F. is different. The spirit of the best of the
public in regard to the army is admiring, frie->.py,
even affectionate. It will depend on the men them-
selves —partly on their social behavior, but equally
on their 'loyalty to and charity towards one another
whether or no they retain the respect that 95 per
cent, of them desene.
The Profiteer in the North.
“Te Bababantiko” : Nothing is of greater
national importance than that population
should be attracted to the North; but it is
being repelled by shameless profiteering.
Traders are as frank about it as if it were
a virtue. When I demurred, in Townsville,
against paying Bs. (id. for a doorlock of the
kind I had paid Is. 4d. for in Sydney, the
question came instantly: “Would 7s. fid. be
too much?” When my wife objected to pay-
ing Is. for packets of haricot-beans sold at
sid. in Sydney, the counter-hand strolled
across to the manager. “You can have it
for 10d., madam,” he said. I saw the same
building material go up in price three times,
10 p.c. each time, in seven months; and the
catalogues indicated that it had risen sev-
eral times before. When the Shipping Com-
mittee at the outbreak of influenza put
Is. 7d. per 100 super on timber freight, the
timber ring promptly advanced the price 2s.
per 100 super, and asked for a rebate from
the shipping people because the public had
to pay too much for its timber ! It required
four months to convince one firm that an
overcharge of £l7 was over the odds on an
account of little more than £5O. When Syd-
ney dailies quoted potatoes at £l4 per ton,
on a railway line south of Cairns I paid
f>d. per lb. Overshadowing us is the Ather-
ton tableland, which grows potatoes, fruit
and dairy produce in profusion; yet prices
of Atherton produce are regulated on a Syd-
ney-famine basis. Rice is Od. per lb. In
the midst of prolific sugar-growing lands un-
refined brown mill-sugar is 34d. per lb. Plain
flour at 3d. per lb. is cornered by the store-
keeper to keep the temporarily resident
cane-cutters going, and permanent residents
have to apnly for police aid to obtain a few
pounds of it from the profiteer.
Australian Gods.
“T.S.”: When the importer’s hack vaunts
the Australian soldier he always has an
ulterior motive. For instance, the S. M.
Herald :—-
Compton Mackenzie, in writing his account of the
landings Gallipoli, referred to the Australians as
“this race of athletes.”.... The term was first used
by the Greeks to indicate a man who fulfilled their
ideal of a perfectly developed human being.... The
Australian soldier is the product of his time and his
environment. Australia is an open-air country....
Young Australians are not at home within four walls.
Life to them is made up of action that befits a man.
This sort of thing always leads up to an
exposition of the blessings of being a
“primary producer” in the free and glorious
atmosphere of the wheat-field or the cow-
pasture, instead of being a sordid creature
in a factory—always assumed to be dirty
and ill-ventilated. The armies which made
an hour of glory for Athens and Sparta
were composed of men like the best of the
Australians. They had innumerable slaves
to work for them, so that their masters
might avoid mean and cramping jobs; thus
they kept their condition. The men of Jeff
Davis’s brief Confederacy were of the same
lordly type. They also had slaves to work for
them. The Australian to some extent keeps
up his god-like pose by hiring .allegedly
inferior races to make his riding pants, and
often his saddle and bridle, likewise the
handkerchief carelessly knotted round his
sunburnt throat, and his picturesque slouch
hat and his characteristic pipe, and the
tobacco in it, and the match that won’t
strike that he lights it with. Australia owes
hundreds of millions abroad, and not a
cent of it came here in money. It all
THE MARINER ASHORE.
“The seamen have decided to go rabbiting to raise food and funds to assist them in their strike.”
A.B. ( directing his mate to rabbit-trap): “Hi, avast, Bill—forehead of them trees a
bit; on the starboard a couple of points!”
arrived in the shape of material for the god-
like pose and other apparatus for the out-
door life. Jeff Davis’s magnificent Vir-
ginians were worn down by the sordid work-
men of the North because the drudges could
make guns and the gods were too haughty to
know how. And if Australia had been “on
its own” at the war and dependent on itself
for fighting appliances, its soldiers might
have made fine models for a Statue of
Liberty, but they would have been helpless
objects of massacre, and it would have been
better to send Kanakas. The Australian
as a whole soldier —not merely the meat
half of a soldier —is far below the Italian
and not in the same street with the Chilian.
It is time he improved.
—*
Fitoji a man whose job it has been to watch
it:—
It is important that the members of the Citizen
Force, who start their training at 18, should first
undergo a course of training in the Cadets because
of the improvement it should effect in their dis-
cipline, physique and morale.
But to get these results the training must be
entirely remodelled. At present it is waste of
money and time. Most of the military training
should he cut right out. It is useless and uninter-
esting. The rifle exercises and musketry should be
eliminated. They are costly, and of no value. The
youngsters go out to the rifle-range and simply
pull the trigger, learning nothing excepting perhaps
a number of bad habits. The object of the training
should be the development of the physique and
character —to teach discipline, self-control, resource-
fulness, patriotism, etc. These objects can be
attained by physical exercises, organised games,
squad-drill, and an adaptation of the Boy Scout
training. Carried out on these lin;s, the Cadet
training would appeal to the lads. It would im-
prove them physically, mentally and morally, and
would show a far better return for the expenditure
involved. For such training there is need of men
of experience and mature judgment. The Depart-
ment so far seems to have regarded the organisa-
tion as of no importance and has consequently
appointed callow junior officers to control it.
The hold-up of the British coal-mining
industry, in which Hun ageucy is very
obvious, is meant to reverse the results of
the war. In 1916 Britain managed to
supply itself with coal and also export a
trifle of 85,843,000 tons. It sent more coal
abroad than all other exporters in the world
put together. The liold-up has been so
successful that Britain has ceased even to
supply itself. It is hoped in Hun circles
(hat Italy, which depends wholly on imports,
will revolushe and blow up in fragments
and cease to be a Power, through sheer
starvation and stoppage of industry. Also
that France, which depends partly on im-
ports and had its best coal-mines wrecked
in the war, may do likewise. Then, amid
the breakdown of the Allies, the Hun may
come to the front again. There are sus-
picions that the Australian trouble is part
of the big scheme.
Even the “moderate” section of the new
Laborites now includes in its programme the
abolition of all land-tax exemptions. But
not one “moderate” or “extremist” proposes
to abolish or even reduce income-tax exemp-
tions. Land is a luxury to the man who
owns more of it than he can use, or who
holds it as a mere investment or speculation.
But for the drudge who owns just enough
to live on with long hours and poor pros-
pects, it is the essential tool of his trade.
For the present the movement to have Vic.
State members’ screws increased is off. Law-
son indicated to the Ministerial caucus that
the Cabinet would block any motion sub-
mitted in the House, and Peacock told the
advocates bluntly that it was futile to pro-
ceed in view of the Ministry’s attitude. The
proposition for free passes on the railways
for life for all members of the present Par-
liament not already entitled to travel on the
nod was swept aside in much the same way.
But McGregor will probably get a salary
as chairman of committees, and Prender-
gast’s chances of bagging an allowance of
£3OO a year or so for acting as Opposition-
leader have improved, though the country
would be better served if, instead of thus
recognising the two party machines, a bonus
was given to men who dared to be in-
dependent.
Lawson does not intend to appoint a
successor to the late Hodges.. J., at present.
He will see whether five Judges cannot
handle the work of the Supreme Court for
a while.
Adelaide knows what sort of man to choose
when it wants the Industrial Court to award
higher wages. The grindery trade was the
applicant the other day, aud its represen-
tative told the Court that he had 18 children.
As the exam, for Vic. State service clerical
division proved such a ghastly failure last
December, when only 54 candidates pre-
sented themselves for 50 jobs, and 16 passed.
Public Service Commissioner Morrison has
asked secondary and high-school headmasters
the reason. He ought to know already. The
pay isn't good enough.
Adelaide made an effort to live up to its
reputation the other day. The Industrial
Court was trying to ascertain what it cost
young women to live thereabouts, and called
for a budget from nine female witnesses.
With one accord they included .‘ld. a week
for church collection. They differed more or
less about everything else ; but the thrummer
for the plate was a constant factor.
Even Toorak is a Socialist now! The
wealthy municipality of Malvern, having
observed the happy effects of municipal
tramway-ownership in introducing new rate-
payers, is taking a further step into “the
quicksands.” Its council —mostly lawyers and
house-agents—is building 16 brick cottages
for letting. Toorak, which is included in the
Malvern municipal area, thus now finds it-
self plunging headlong towards revolution,
with municipal fish-barrows and all manner
of such degrading things looming in the
middle distance.
Geo. Prendergast lately told the Vic. State
Legislature that socks “made in Germany”
are selling in Melbourne at four times pre-
war prices, and said passionately “No
wonder we have strikes !” And with strikes
no wonder we have dear socks. There is
only one strike which Prendergast might
organise that is calculated to keep his feet
warm for less money. If the unions
announced that work would stop on, say,
November 1 unless a tariff of the 100 per
cent, variety was through by that date, and
would remain stopped till it was through,
the inrush of Hun socks might cease —pro-
vided we got to worn and made our own
socks. If we don't do that the inrush will
go on in spite of any tariff so long as we
can borrow the money to pay for the goods.
London University has found a chair
apiece for two ex-Sydney Uni. men. Prof.
W. D. Hill has been 'its professor of zoology
since Ray Lankester went to S. Kensington,
and now Elliott Smith has been taken from
Manchester to look after anatomy. Austra-
lians may be good enough for London, or
Manchester (where Bragg has just been
given a chair), or Toronto (whence Brails-
ford Robertson is coming back to Adelaide,
not worrying over the financial sacrifice).
Even Berlin had an Australian professor
till the war broke up F. S. Delmer’s home.
But what’s the betting -on an Australian
winning even one of the chairs —classics and
zoology—to be vacated by two imported men
at Melbourne? That thev should get both
is clearly absurd.
Garland, N. S. Wales Attorney-General,
provides an example of the shameless
demoralisation of public life. His chief’s
wife being in a vehicle that ran over and
killed a man. it transpired in the Coroner’s
Court that she was at the time going from
one shop to another in a Government motor-
car. Asked the other night at “a lively
meeting of Nationalists” whether the wives
and families of Ministers used Government
cars, Garland replied that “when his wife
went on Government business she used a
Government car. Little is known,” he
added, “of the amount of semi-official busi-
ness the wives of Ministers do.” This prob-
ably is the first time it has been openly
claimed that Ministers’ families are
to the use of Government motor-ha ; aiid
the matter ought to be cleared up- If
Ministers’ wives have public duties to per-
form. then Ministers’ wives must be paid ;
and they must submit their qualifications
for public inspection and criticism. If the
Ministry stands on its Attorney-General’s
defence, then for the future Mrs. Holman,
for example, is not a private person, and
her conduct, good or bad. must be matter
for public discussion. Ministers can’t have
it both ways. If their wives are doing
public work, and are therefore entitled to
the use of public cars, then their fitness to
do the public work must be a matter for
public criticism.
The United Commercial Travellers’ Association of
Australasia announces in connection with the loth
issue of its National Annual, Australia To-day,
its ninth Children’s Portrait Competition, for which,
as detailed in an advertisement in this issue, the
Association requests entries from every State in the
Commonwealth, by October 1, addressed to Editor,
Australia To-day, Melbourne.— Advt.


£l3/10/
£3O
£3O.
£l5/10/
£B/10/-
£9/10/-
si-
£lB/10/
EesimWlt
£135.
Quality Diamond Ring's
from Stewart Dawson’s.
The combination of Cash and Purchasing Power is the factor which counts in the Value
of Stewart Dawson’s Diamond Rings. The vast requirements for their Ten Establish-
ments in London and Australasia command' purchase of the World’s Finest Values in
Precious Stones.
The Purity and Brilliance of the Stones in Stewart Dawson’s Diamond Rings diffuse that
light and lustre known only in
DIAMONDS OF FIRST QUALITY.
To buy inferior Diamonds is money wasted. The firm’s long-standing reputation is a
guarantee of confidence for every buyer, and YOUR choice may safely rest upon this
Guarantee.
ALL DIAMONDS SET IN REAL PLATINUM.
Cal] and Inspect at any of the Stewart Dawson Establishments, or Write for Latest
CATALOGUE.
Stewart Dawson & Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Also Resent Street and Hatton Qardon, London.
£lO/10/-
£l6/10/-
£l4/10/
£llO.
£l6/10/-
•B=s
£3O.
rc'few
t:
mmm
£l7/10/-
£l4/10/-
POLITICAL
POINTS
Premier Massey, back in Maoriland, re-
lates that Clemenceap, in reply to a protest
about the slow progress made at the Peace
Conference, said: "How can we get along
fast when 1 have a man on my left who
imagines himself a latter-day Napoleon, and
on my right a gentleman who holds the
opinion that he is the world’s Redeemer on
a second visit to earth?”
As it humps along, the Federal Nationalist
party sees a particularly horrible excrescence
on the track. The Vic. Farmers’ Union has
decided to contest the next Senate elect'ons
and is about to call 'for nominations. This
means, that, no matter what the farmers of
other States may do, the Government must
introduce a system of proportional voting
to save its own Senators’ bacon, or some of
it.
On August 11 N. S. Wales added £140,000
a year to its expenses without a penny to
show for it. An old loan which the people
had a song-and-dance with eight years ago
fell due, and that was the price charged for
renewal. It will fall due again in 1924 (one
half) and 1929 (the other half), and no one
knows what will be charged for renewal
then. The prudent business man who has
to borrow money aims to reduce his debt
because’ he knows that, among other things,
the money market may turn against him,
and the interest rate may rise. Australian
Governments don’t worry. If on a faked
estimate a work can be made to show 31
p.c. and the money can be borrowed at 84
p.e., the; thing is done. No attempt is made
to economise and reduce the debt lest the
interest should rise to 5£ p.c. There is
always the taxpayer to skin for the missing
2 p.c.
The cable lately gave us the hareboned
news that a bill had been introduced to the
Commons “for the destruction of rats and
mice.” Wellj there is always hope for a
country that will rid itself of its vermin.
Bflt the job won’t be half-done if it stops at
rats and mice.
Opposition-leader Collier threw a no-con-
fidence bomb at Westralian Premier Mit-
chell, in obedience to Trades Hall instruc-
tions, but it proved a dud. Collier didn’t
have his heart in it. The Government had
been in office only four weeks, its pro-
gramme had not been tested, and it was too
much to ask the Parliamentary Labor-leader
to appear sincere in blaming Mitchell for
the hi eh cost of living, unemployment, and
the strikes which are making a mess of the
best country on earth. The only point of
interest in the attack was the neutral atti-
tude of National Laborists Underwood (who
was a Minister under Lefroy), Mullany and
Foley.
Apropos N. S. Wales Attorney-General
Garland’s defence of the use of Government
motor-cars by the wives and families ot
Ministers. You get a pretty fair idea of how
the political conscience has altered by recall-
ing that once, when it was discovered that
Parkes had charged LOs. for a cab which
he used merely for the purpose of reaching
his home after doing his public work, a
motion of censure was actually moved in the
Assembly on the matter. It wasn’t carried,
of course; but there was a general feeling
that nobody else but Parkes might do it.
And that was only about 40 years ago.
A number of new factions are forming in
Maoriland, and unless Tom Mackenzie is
given a substantial renewal of his High
Commissionership he is liable to return and
lead a soldiers and farmers’ party". He may
even step into the Prime Minister’s shoes.
The Holman Government’s liquor pro-
posals include the banishment of local
option ; and that will be welcomed by every-
body. Under local option the slum pub is
safe, while the well-conducted residential
hotel never knows when it may be wiped out
by the votes of people, who have no occasion
to use it. The reduction-board system, v
which the Government introduces from Vic.,
gives each liquor establishment a fair run;
THE FORBIDDEN THING.
"The Supreme War Council has sent a message to Roumania suggesting that the latter is defying
the Council.” — Cable.
THE LEAGUE BOBBY : "And darned if I know what I can do about it except throw my
glove at him!”
and it raises the general standard by elimi-
nating the worst first. Within the next 18
months a bare-majority referendum is to
be taken to decide the question of straight-
out prohibition or otherwise. That is to
say, “the trade” has a little over a year in
which to clean itself up. And there is a
lot of cleaning-up to do.
A.L.F. president Panton. who won the
late Henry Briggs’s West Province seat on
the second count, makes another member
of the Westralian Leg. Council sworn to
“white-ant” that institution. The West
Province embraces the Fremantle Assembly
electorates, and contains a considerable in-
dustrial element; but the old Council Presi-
dent beat the Labor nominee pretty com-
fortably at the last election. The Fremantle
branch of the National Federation sought to
help its candidate by the issue of a circular
suggesting that anyone who voted for Pan-
ton wanted to shake the blood-stained hand
of the Kaiser. This had reference to the
resolution of the Federal Labor conference
in Perth advocating “peace by negotiation”;
but it w'as a poor card to play against Ser-
geant Panton, with two years’ service in
France and honorable scars of battle to his
credit, not to mention a share in the Boer
scuffle. It cost Wray, the Nationalist, some
votes, and did the Labor man no harm.
The latest pronouncement of the Federal
Labor party is that “every alien who has
been threatened with deportation should re-
ceive a public trial before extreme action is
taken.” But who talked of taking extreme
action? That sort of thing may happen in
Russia, where Lenin lately executed a num-
ber of strike leaders, or in the U.S., where
I.WAV. men have been lynched or Direct
Actioned at the end of a long rope. Aus-
tralia only proposed to give the stranger who
interferes jtvith our affairs a comfortable
voyage home free of charge. These men
don’t belong to the Australian Union, and
when they “scab” too noisily the Union
naturally expels them. Even the most viru-
lent non-unionist in the Labor party should
see the point.
Commissioner Allard’s report on the
N.S.W. State shipbuilding yard at Walsh
Island is full of cheery items. One con-
cerns a small order given by the Tramway
Department—value £358, the Work to be
done in five weeks. The fittings cost £1945
to make, so the yard lost £1592. They were
no good, so the Tramway Department lust
£853. And the job took 80 weeks, so some-
one lost 25 weeks. Apparently nobody lost
bis job. t
Two remarks by Statistician Knibbs in
a just-issued report on labor organisations,
unemployment, prices, etc., should make
good reading for Walsh, Le Cornu and their
followers. In the last six years Direct
Action in the shape of strikes Jins caused
Australian workers the loss of £5,073,346 in
wages alone, to say nothing of the indirect
loss. On the other hand, in 1918 Wages
Boards and Arbitration Courts gave Aus-
tralian workers an aggregate increased
weekly wage of £85,200; which runs out
at the nice dry sum of £26,600,000 in six
years. It will take many strike “victories”
to equal that record.
Twenty-five years’ experience as an M.P.
and 18 months’ tenure of' the two highest
offices have not ridded John Bowser of his
nervousness. He told the Assembly a few
evenings ago that he was only technically
responsible for giving a second option over
the training-ship Dart while a first option
existed ; and as he made his explanation a
foolscap sheet fluttered in his trembling
hands. Bowser paid £l5O out of his own
pocket as compensation to J. G. White,
broker, Sydney, who had obtained the first
option, through J. A. Boyd, M.H.R. Bowser
added that Herbert Macdowell, chief clerk
in the Chief Sec.’s office, offered to share the
payment of £l5O, as he considered he should
have “resisted” sending- the message giving
the second option when he knew the first
had been granted. There might have been
fewer grins among business men outside ; f
Bowser had let his permanent head handle
the whole business or in association with the
Crown Solicitor. But it is the same in
practically every department: Ministers will
persist upon looking after details instead of
concerning themselves with policy and
general watch-dog work.
One by one the belated arks come in from
the U.S.A. —the arks that are paid for out
of our good loan splosh. They are all
shapes except the shape a ship should be;
of all speeds except fast; of all degrees of
leakiness save that the worst has some sem-
blance of a bottom; also they arrive at all
times except in good times. They were a
rush order, and the Yankees rushed them
when their own ships wore through, and
gave us all the advantages of the material
that was left. Probably they didn’t expect
any more orders, thinking that a Govern-
ment wouldn't stick at the shipowning busi-
ness, and that the loans would give out in
any case. Besides, the U.S. are not out to
build ships for other people to catch trade
with. They want to build ships for them-
selves and catch the trade themselves. The
nation that buys its gun from an enemy and
then goes out to fight that enemy is liable
to find that the enemy has sold him a gas-
pipe.
Westralian farmers are asking a guarantee
of ss. per bushel for wheat to enable them
to live. It would be quite feasible if they
were growing for a great industrial popula-
tion here. But our manufacturing popula-
tion is largely in other countries, and when
we send wheat in exchange for clothes the
other country takes the stuff at its own
valuation, which is what it can get the
food for elsewhere. No doubt a Government
guarantee of ss. per bushel would raise a
lot. of wheat, but if the Government had to
sell most of it abroad at 3s. plus freight,
etc., there might by and bye be no Govern-
ment. A real wheat-growing boom in West-
ralia might produce a surplus of 20,000,000
bushels, and the loss on that would eat up
the whole revenue. If this is to be a country
which sells wheat abroad and buys clothes
abroad, it had best give up its five-bob
visions, and take off everything except a
loin rag, and call itself ltam Chunder. Then
it can live as Ram, its competitor, does.
Alex. I lean, the Speck's most persistent
office-getter (he has never been out of a
paid office for more than a few months at a
time during his dozen years or so of pol-
itical life), again drops in a soft place; ibis
time as Minister of Lands and Soldiers'
Settlements, a new portfolio. With five
Ministers, each with £3OO more than the old
log gave them, the Speck may now be
expected, to fly along the road to Prosperity.
Meanwhile monster public meetings are being
hfeld. in Hobart whereat the yells and roars
against price-raisers and profiteering become
so threatening that Ministers are hurrying
in from their caves of Recess, shouting prom-
ises as they run and threatening to do some-
thing severe immediately they can lay hands
on the right party, if not sooner. Ministers
have even published their willingness to meet
the leaders of the opposition Labor party in
conference to discuss the quickest and best
way of dealing with the outrageous cost of
living. So perhaps there will be hanging-
day, soon for profiteers. And perhaps not.
Murphy, Vie. Secretary of Labor, is to be
associated with the Federal Commission on
Industrial Unrest as secretary-general—to
plan out the:investigation on lines that may
produce some result, if possible.
The impression is growing in Maoriland
that Massey and Ward are bringing back a
kind of Pandora’s box with them. All sorts
of good things are expected to jump out:
but who is to turn back the lid V Since
Party warfare is to be resumed in politics,
if both Ministers open the box neither wall
score, and Labor hopes to have another
chance to profit by circumstances which it
did not create.
Australia is going to get a lot better
value out of the steel ships she builds her-
self, than the wooden sieves for which she is
paying a heap of good money to U.S.A. The
Dromana, the first of the steel ships to be
finished, has cost £157,750, or £2B 15s. per
ton of cargo-carrying capacity; but Curchin,
director of shipbuilding, promises the next
one for £24 a ton. Except for some of the
steel plates, imported because the Broken
Hill Prop, hadn’t the machinery to roll
them, and some Oregon decking, imported
the Lord knows why, all the material and
fittings of the Dromana are Australian, and
all her machinery was made in Australia.
How the encouragement of local industry
can steadily cheapen things is shown by the
fact that while the B. 11. Prop, charged £23
for the structural steel for the Dromana, it
has already been able to bring the price
back to £l7 a ton, and with an assured
market hopes for still better things.
THE GATHERING OF THE SHIPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Every vessel of the fleet is now in Sydney Harbor.”
These have come back from the grey seas,
And these have come home from the green;
They have tasted tire tang of the battle breeze
And their eyes in the dark have seen
The high death stalking, the low death creeping,
And the flame-death’s banners unfurled,
While, at watch and ward, they steamed to guard
The faith of a shaken world.
These are our own, these are our own,
Steel of our heart and dream 1
Never for us were the trumpets blown ;
We knew not the death-tire’s glen ill;
Hut a thought came Stealing, a voice came calling,
Till rivet and hammer wrought
The furnaccd steel and the deep-laid keel
To the force that the ages taught.
Glider the cliffs and the sea-walls
These from their wanderings cease:
Tire skies are blue and the sunlight fails
And the great, cold guns keep peace.
But they still shall listen at dawn and midnight,
And their watch of the seas is ours;
For Australia speaks where the Spring wind seeks
To whisper about their towers.
t’asths that rode on the grey seus
And stems that furrowed the green,
bet it be peace; but we hold by these,
For or.r eyes and our hearts have seen
The high death stalking, the low death creeping;
And this shall our children prize:
That a nation’s youth stood bold for truth
And her ships were her hands and or es:
X.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


THE MYSTERY OF A HANSOM CAB.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in tiie following forms — ,
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead. Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead. Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silieious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. Tj. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .1. SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
E. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: G 2 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWTS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
PIONEER Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLF. . .
MAKERS,
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.,
PIONEER WORKS,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We. make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALL STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
(N.S.W.) : ,
Bonus to Added Capital
Not Policy- to Ro- and Re-
Profits, holders. Dividends. serves. serves,
.lane, £ £ £ £ £
1907.. 18.763 6,707 14$ p.c. = 6,707 5,339 94,615
1908.. 15.620 7,048) 15jj „ „ 7,048* 1,523 96,138
1909.. 15,768 7,571 16} „ „ 7,571 626 90,<64
1910.. 19.355 7,890* 17*,,,, 7,890* 3,57 4 100,338
1911.. 989 8,491 16 „ „ 8,491 12,007 112,345
1912.. 22.251 9,294* 15 ~ ~ 9,294) 3.062 116,007
1913..26,284 10,359* 16$ „ ~ 10,359 5.566 121,573
1914.. 11,840 17 „ ~ 11,840 2,304 123,87.
New capital got in . . £54,889 ( 179,749
Premiums on new shares 983 )
1915.. 045 13,949 17 p.c. = 13,949 1,148 183,897
New capital . . ■ ■ £l2 ( 183,909
1916.. 33.571 13.955 11 p.c. = 13,985 5,601 ) 189,610
1917.. 618 14,812 10 „ „ 12,500 181,816
New capital .. .. £991181,91a
1918.. 450 14,693 12* y.c. = 15,652 9,232 ) 191,147
1919.. 37.323 15,243 12) „ „ 15,625 6,455 197,002
Though premium income expanded and claims
were slightly under those of the previous
year, additional taxation made profits less:
Treasuries and lire brigades extracted
£11,066, which was £2756 more than in
1918. For 28 years the Mercantile Mutual
confined itself to N. S. Wales, hut shortly
after Federation it branched out in \ ic.
and Queensland. A little over a year ago
it opened in South Aus., and lately crossed
to the Speck. These extensions have resulted
in a much larger volume of business; but
a further change of policy has also helped
to expand the premium income. Formerly
the co. was very particular about the class
of risk it. handled; but though this select
business was very profitable, the manage-
ment- decided that the smaller surpluses to
be won from the less profitable lines were
also worth going after. The co. now even
contemplates writing marine business, which
has so far been barred by the Articles.
The change in policy has brought about
this very rapid growth in the underwriting
figures:—
Loss) Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
I 595. . £.34,333 £13,376 £14,356 38.9 p.c. 41.8 p.c
1900.. 37,235 9,068 18,489 24.4 „ 49.7 „
1905.. 50,534 12,051 26,961 23.8 „ 53.3 „
1910.. 72,406 21,656 35,078 29.9 „ 48.4 ~
1914.. 1.30,673 48,868 62,007 37.3 ~ 47.4 „
1915.. 136,858 50,664 61,458 .37.0 „ 44.9 „
1916.. 143,320 46,267 68,841 32.3 „ 48.0 ~
1917.. 153,702 70,090 71.709 45.6 ~ 46.6 ~
1918.. 164,791 57,066 76 828 34.6 „ 46.6 ~
1919.. 169,0.31 56,135 83,973 33.2 „ 49.7 „
’Che advance has been so quick that risks
have outpaced the growth of funds, though
they have more than doubled during the
past 10 years. The present funds of
£197,602 represent 117 p.c. of the past year’s
premiums, whereas a proportion of about
150 p.c. is generally deemed desirable. How-
ever, the directors now propose to improve
the position by putting out. 50',000 new
shares of £1 paid to 10s., holders being
eligible to take up one new share for every
live at present held. The additional £25,000
which the new issue will bring in will make
the funds equal to 182 p.c. of last year’s
premium income; and this additional capital
is none too much. Still, including the
£25,000 which is now being got in, the co.
will hold net assets sufficient to meet losses
not far short of the total paid out during
the past four years.
The distribution to policy-holders and pro-
prietors prior to 1916 was made on an un-
usual basis. Shareholders and clients equally
divided 20 p.c. of the fire premiums. Tlie
dividend distributions were thus dependent
not on profits, but on income. How unten-
able was this procedure the poor run in 1917
demonstrated, when hailstorms smashed
c-rops and the 1.W.W.. was busy in the city.
To give both parties 10 p.c. of the fire pre-
miums would have called for £lO.OOO more
than Ihe actual earnings. Nowadays, how-
ever. divs. are calculated on profits. Whether
the 121 p.c. rate can be maintained during
the next few years depends on the co.’s luck.
Just at present Bolshie troubles and the
abnormally large volume of expensive stocks
of merchandise are matters of some concern
to insurance cos. Fortunately, though many
merchants are finding difficulty in unload-
ing, there has been no general slump in
prices, and the moral hazard is better than
it would be under other circumstances. To
maintain the present rate of div. on the en-
larged capital will call for an additional
£8125 per annum, and on last year’s ex-
perience that will not leave much margin
for strengthening reserves. Since policy-
holders are no better off than in other re-
futable offices (they all refund 10 p.c. ot
the premiums, though the rebates do not
always show up in the balance-sheet), there
can be no cutting of # the bonusl rate m
adverse years. Also it is unlikely that exes.
~a n be curtailed in view of the cost of ex-
tension and the certainty of increased taxa-
tion Even if income should increase to
£1,50,000 during the current year and the
same expense rate be experienced, losses
must not exceed 39 p.c. to provide a 124 p.c.
div without putting anything into reserve.
Still things would have to be bad before
shareholders were denied a reasonable re-
turn on their investment. Interest and rents
alone are sufficient to provide just over 5i
p.c. on the capital as increased.
The Mercantile Mutual is making a splash
in premises. Five years ago it acquired for
1122 000 the handsome building in Martin-
place which the Mutual Life of New York
bad erected as its headquarters when the
gilt-spurred roosters descended on the Com-
monwealth to teach it how to run life assur-
ance. The effect of this property purchase on
the balance-sheet is that of total assets of
£222,220, no less than £151.300 represents
freehold premises in Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane, less amounts owing on them, com-
pared with the £101,121 which represented
city properties and mortgages, deposits and
debentures five years ago. The co. had to go
into debt to make its big purchase, but to
what extent is not disclosed. Assets nowa-
days are distributed in this way: Premises,
58*8 p.c.; mortgages, 4.9 p.c.; deposits, de-
bentures, War Loan, sundry creditors and
cash, 36.3 p.u.
* * * *
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship
Go., Ltd. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Rrofits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., ’ll. .£23,861 131 p.c. = £7,040 £16,821 £72,683
Transferred to capital, £62,803 .. 19,880
June, ’12.. 19,245 13J p.c. = 10,5,61 8-684 28,564
Dec., '12.. 2.3,705 131 „ 10,501 13,144 11,708
June, ’13.. 21,405 131 .. .. 10,561 10,844 52,552
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £52,803 . . 251
Reserves.
Dec.. M 3.. 54.765 131 p.c. = 14,081 40.6.84 40.433
June. ’14.. 18.600 131 „ „ 14,081 4,525 44,958
Dec., ’14.. 19,791 131 „ „ 14,081 5,710 50,668
June, ’15.. 17.210 131 „ 14,081 3,129 53,797
Dec., ’l6. . 16.336 131 - „ 14,081 2,255 56,052
June, ’16.. 13,909 131 „ 14,081 -- 55.880
Dec., ’lO.. 14,360 13,1 ~ „ 14,081 279 56,159
June, ’17.. 14,076 131 14,081 56,154
Dec., ’17.. 13,021 131 ~ .. 14,081 55,097
June, ’lB. . 17,114 131 .. „ 14.081 3,063 58.160
Dec., ’lB.. 15,476 1.31 „ ~14,081 1,395 59,555
June, ’19.. 12,276 13j „ „ 14,081 57,750
The proprietors of the P. J. and Manly S. S.
Co. have the laugh on Sydney Ferries again.
For the second time within a couple of years
the latter concern is under the X-rays of a
Royal Commission. Several witnesses have
come forward to testify as to the “mon-
strously excessive charges” of the Sydney
Ferries compared with its beneficent deep-
sea neighbor, which transports the casual
traveller seven miles for 4d. Further, they
have expressed the opinion that the inability
o-f the Sydney Ferries to pay a reasonable
dividend is chiefly due to the capitalisation
of so much profit in the past. But in this
respect Sydney Ferries is only in the novice
class compared with the Manly co. Fifteen
years ago P. J. and Manly capital stood at
£25,000. Since then £4335 of debentures
have been converted, and no less than
£181,877 of profits have been capitalised.
Sydney Ferries capital 20 years ago was
£60,000, and the £466,660 now paid up
includes £lBO,OOO from new share issues paid
in cash and £226,666 of capitalised profits.
Put another way, for every £lOO of present
Sydney Ferries capital pas.a ngers have
donated £5l, assuming that none of the
writing-up represented appmei ited values of
properties. Meantime the Manly tripper has
presented his ferry co. wiih no less than
£B6 of every £lOO of present capital. And
whereas the Sydney Ferries shareholder has
been told by a Royal Commission that the
most he should expect from his investment is
an 8 p.c. p.a. on the face value of the shares,
nobody has pressed for a Royal Commission
to decide whether Manager Doran should
continue to hand out 13) p.c. divs. to his
shareholders. Go back only to the first line
in the table above, and it will be seen that
owing to capitalisation of reserves the
present div. is actually equal to 26| p.c. on
the paid capital as at Dec., 1911. Nowadays
the eo. distributes each year among share-
holders an amount not far short of the
entire cash subscribed to the co.
Lately the concern has had a shockingly
poor run. According to the directors’ state-
ments, during the past three years the net
profits totalled £77,640 —'the discrepancy
shown by adding the figures in the table is
accounted for by additions to a public risk
fund. Though the directors say the co. has
earned only £77,640 they have not hesitated
to hand out £84.486 in divs. But what the
management says was earned and what was
actually earned may be quite different.
Like all shipping concerns, this one nmkes
unspecified clips for depreciation before
showing profits. Whether the allowances
have been more than ample or whether they
have been insufficient cannot be ascertained
from any one balance-'Sheet, but a comparison
of some of the figures over a period of years
throws light on the subject:—
1913. 1916. 1919.
Assets other than steamers,
freeholds and plant .. £71.243 £108,973 £137,422
Liabilities .. .. 1,724 , 1.918 2.,548
Surplus liquid assets £09,519 £107,055 £134,874
Thus during the three lean years in which
the dividend distributions have exceeded the
“net” profits by £6846, after paying for all
renewals, repairs, etc., the management has
been able to pile up an additional £27,819
surplus of liquid assets. What is a fair set-
off against depreciation of steamers The
Bulletin does not know. But going back
to 1913, since when no new vessels have been
added to the fleet, it is pretty clear that
the £65,355 of surplus liquid assets which
have meantime been accumulated is not
wholly required for making good the, steamers
which will sooner or later have to be pen-
sioned off. Even during the past six months,
when ’flu cut into traffic receipts and dis-
closed net profits fell £lBO5 short of the div.,
the surplus of liquid assets over liabilities
expanded by £6BlO. The present book value,
of .the fleet is £110.291, while freeholds, plant
and works stand, in the books at £37,875.
During recent years, however, the co. has
not been having nearly so prosperous a run
as it used to. For instance, during the four
years to 1913 it was able to distribute
£72,164 to shareholders, purchase three of
its best boats out of profits, and even then
build up its cash by £24,000. Maybe, owing
to increased costs, its most affluent days
have passed r still if the co. behaves itself
the future should not be lean. Apart from
the rapidly-growing subscribers’ lists ns the
Manly back-country is opened up, the district
maintains its position as the most popular
Sydney holiday resort:,, and Any increase in
the metropolitan population must help re-
ceipts.
The Ballailvt Banking Co. (Ballarat.
Vic.) :—-
Added to Ko-
ProOts. Dividends. Reserve* «<>rves.
Dee., 1911.. £4356 7$ p.c. = £3187 £llO9 £80,904
June, 1912.. 4395. 7* ~ ~ 3187 1208. 52.112
Dee., 1912.. 4481 8 „ „ 3400 loSl 53.193
June, 1913.. 4449 8 „ „ 3400 1049 84,242
Dec., 1913.,. 4480 8 .. ~ 3400 1080 85,322
June, 1914.. 4514 8 .. ~ 3400 1114 80.436
Dec., 1914.. 4534 8 ~ „ • 3400 1134 87.570
June, 1915.. 4566 8 , . 3400 1166 88.736
Dec., 1915.. 4581, 9 „ „ 3825 756 89,492
June, 1916.. 4611* 9 „ „ 3825 780 90.278
Dec., 1916.. 4033 9 „ „ 3825 808 91,086
June, 1917.. 4078 9 „ „ 3825 553 91.939
Dec., 1917.. '5238 10 ~ 4250 988 92.927
June. 1918.. 5267 10 ~ „ 4250 1017 93,944
Dec., 1918.. 5294 10 „ „ 4250 1044 94,988
June, 1919.. 5270 10 „ „ 4250 1020 96,008
Some time ago Ballarat’s, solid little, trustee
eo. decided that its home-field was too
limited, so it established a branch in Geelong.
Ballarat’s equally solid little bank has lost
what chance it ever had of becoming widely
known outside the old goldfields district; for
not only is it too weary to attempt to hustle
with the big concerns elsewhere, but the
latter are also competing with it on its own
allotment. Still, in spite of the operations
of the affluent cos., the little bank has held
its ground, though it has not been making
any progress worth recording. Here is a
80-years’ survey:—
1889. 1909. 1919.
Capital and reserves . . £114,050 £164,143 £185,258
Liabilities .. . . 277,493 244,471 256,844
Liquid assets .. .. 38,697 92,978 95,439
Advances.. .. .. 349,197 311,404 344,163
Premises. . .. .. 3,650 4,232 2,500
The bank thus holds less of the public’s
money than it did 80 years ago, but from
the depositors’ point of view it is stronger
than it used to be. The bank’s own funds
have been built up by £71,200 in that time
—paid capital is only £7s,ooo—and at
present the management holds only £1 7s. 9d.'
of the public’s money for every £1 of its
own. Because of this verv. mild proportion
of risks to funds, the profit-earning possibili-
ties are necessarily small. The past year’s
profits, for instance, represent only 5.7 p.c.
of capital and reserves combined, and the 10
p.c. div. is equal to only a poor 41 p.c. on
sh a r eh old ers' f u nds.
John Hicks and Co., Ltd., which in 1915
took over the business of John Hicks. Ltd.,
house and general furnishers (Brisbane) :
t Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Apl., Profits. (7 p.c.) Ord. serves, serves.
1916 .. £3024 7 p.c. = £2BOO £224 £224
1917 .. 377 £3lO Nil 67 291
1918 .. 3121 453 5 p.c. = 2000 668 959
1919 .. 5477 500 7 „ „ 2800 2177 3136
The John Hicks business had been estab-
lished 15 years when this co. took over. Re-
sults so far have been disappointing: for the
four years prior to 1915 the prospectus
claimed that net profits had averaged £6741;
for the four years of the new eo. they have
averaged only just £3OOO. The latter period
has been abnormal, of course, but since war
borrowings have created boom conditions the
slump in profits cannot have been due alto-
gether to a dearth of possible customers.
From the beginning the co. had difficulty in
increasing its turnover to any extent, while,
chiefly owing to increased prices, capital
proved too small to provide adequate stocks
and finance book debts. From its inception
the management has had to lean heavily on
outsiders; in 1916 capital was £40,000 in
£1 ordinaries, while liabilities amounted to
£26,517. An effort was made to get in 30,000
7 p.c. prefs. which would also rank equally
with the ordinaries for any distribution over 7
p.c., but £7lBO is all that has been raised by
this issue. So, though the co. had a con-
siderably improved run last year, its in-
debtedness is still heavy. Here is a com-
parison of the present balance-sheet figures
with those.at the end of the first year: —
1910. 1919.
Liabilities .. ..£26,517 £19,024
Property, plant, etc. .. 11,070 11,830
Stocks .. . . 39,255 39,147
Book debts . . . . 18,122 20,981
Cash, etc 13 1,030
The co. at April apparently carried smaller
stocks than it did three years ago. Further, it
is clear that' if the management desires to
build up stocks, after paying the current
divs., it will have to go still further into
debt. However, a few cos., particularly t.-p.
traders, have found the house-furnishing
business highly profitable, and there is no
reason why, with good management, John
Hicks and Co.. Ltd., should not show good
results in the Northern capital. But share-
holders will probably have to put up more
capital to give the business a shove along.
* * * *
Some time ago A.M.P. directors consid-
ered the refunding of the extra war-risk
premiums levied on new members who went
on active service; but they decided that,
unless the general body of policy-holders con-
sented, they would not be justified in dip-
ping into the coffers. The other day some
members decided to petition the Board on
the matter. Other offices have already re-
funded their war-risk premiums, but the
A.M.P. is on a somewhat different footing.
During the first two years of the great
trouble the society charged an extra 5 p.c.
on all new policies subject to war risks,
whereas English offices were asking 15 to
20 p.c. Most other local concerns were shy
of war policies, with the result that the
A.M.P. got a big volume of purely war
business. The 5 p.c. loading was soon found
to be quite inadequate, and though the rate
was increased to 71 p.c. experience showed
that nothing under about 15 p.c. would cover
losses. The A.M.P. is reckoned to have
handled a greater proportion of war-risk
business than any other office in the world,
while its losses have also been proportion-
ately greater. It paid out- over 2\ millions
in war claims, and bonuses have been cut into
in consequence.
The But.t.etin contended from the
beginning that a Government insurance
scheme should have been established, as
was done when the U.S. came into the
war. Instead, only those who could afford
to pay the extra premiums were able to
insure. Also, no doubt the greater propor-
tion of A.M.P. policy-holders who went, on
service were already members of the society
prior to the war, and now it is suggested
that their future bonuses, as well as those
of other policy-holders, should be cut into
to refund the extra premiums paid by men
who had previously not taken the trouble to
insure. Undoubtedly it would be a gracious
proceeding to pay out the £400,000-odd of
extra premiums collected, on which a heavy
loss was incurred. Also there is no doubt
that if policy-holders are content to curtail
their bonuses the amount can be found
easily enough. But The Bulletin cannot
overlook the fact that a grave injustice will
be done to many a dead Digger who could
not protect his dependants because, while
willing enough to pay the ordinary pre-
miums, he could not find the extra premiums
which it is now proposed should be refunded.
* * * »
Other things besides charity should begin
at home. Sydney manufacturers have
launched a campaign to impress on Aus-
tralians the necessity for patronising locally-
manufactured goods. One striking poster
shows the millions which go out of the
country to pay wages and dividends to people
overseas. But many of the manufacturers
themselves are offenders. For instance, at
least half of them—one estimate says 60 p.c.
—place their insurances with cos. whose
shareholders are all at the other end of the
world, while there are. locally-owned offices
which can offer equally good terms and often
stronger protection. There is only one word
for the manufacturer who pleads for the use
of Australian goods on the ground that the
money should be kept in the country, and
then himself sends that money out of the
country to buy insurance which is available
here. He is a fraud.
South Aus. will be tin* next State to
produce a State Insurance scheme, on
present appearances. Though Premier Peake


The advantage of having- battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Batten
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with tin-
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a batten, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
Alumihoferric works wonders! One pound will
clarify 2000 gallons of water. You throw it into
the water and allow it to dissolve. In about two
hours all the impurities will start to precipitate and
the water will lie left clear and pure. Will not
harm cattle-or slock. Use it in very small propor-
tions when clearing water for household use. Sold
by storekeepers everywhere—or direct from William
Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [2
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as llicv can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis 'Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for tlie mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. Thev have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the most satisfacto y pipe to
ibstal. This letter comes from the Anchor Tin
Mine, Ltd., Lottah, dated June 23, 1914: “Dear
Sirs, —Tiie wood pipes supplied by you in May.
1910, have proved satisfactory in every wav. They
were easily handled, took little labor or skill to lay,
developed no leaks, and show no sign of deteriora-
tion. Yours faithfully (Sgd.) James B. Lewis,
General Manager.” Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Aust aliaii Wood Pipe Company, Ltd. (11.6.),
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. l’.O. Add.:
Box 1570 G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Kassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, link’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Ohicp; tel. Ce». 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
I lace, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
Tou can have walls and ceilings that are just as
permanent as your hardwood floors. Instead of using
inflammable lining-boards or shrinkable wall-boards,
select-Lottoid, and you’ll never have the job to do
again. Lottoid Sheets are snow-white, hard, and
smooth as glass. 2/6 per sq. yd. We carry large
stocks of Asbestolite Cement Sheets and Roofing
Slates, Malthoid, Seal Roofing, 3-plv Oregon, Pabco
Paint for iron roofs, etc. Write for post free
Catalog “L.” Spriggs’ Asbestolite Companv, 338
Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt. ' [->
The manufacture of 'Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
leeching the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
Ihe I-ederal Government lias placed an order for a
iaige marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
I lie workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” eom-
pares with any imported engine on the market,
vvi-ite Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
Advt. ’ " J
“Robey” Patent Uniflow Steam-engines, supplied in
powers ranging from 100 to 1000 indicated h.p. The
‘ Kobey Uinliow Engine represents the latest devel-
opment in tlie construction of high-class steam-
engines. Highly efficient and economical in steam
consumptions. Suitable for high steam pressures and
all temperatures of superheat. Specially suitable
for small floor space. Catalogues and complete in-
formation from sole representatives, Arthur Leplas-
Irier & Co., Head Office, Sydney.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Eoreign Patents
obtained. Colli. son & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirtv years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’«
Balances, Heights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
I 3- wrlte for Particulars. 11. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd 260 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
. .Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soo., etc., consult-
ing _ engineer valuing, organising, technical advice,
mimng, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes. Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
TI “ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
CF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established J9IO.
ACENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. K. CAVK, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The British Westinghouse Electric and Mfg. Co., Ltd.
T ramway Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical
construction to stand the shocks and strains of constant service.
Westinghouse Tramway Motors possess these qualifications
and represent the best motor practice—the result of long and
wide experience.
There are types to suit varying; conditions of service, track,
guage, size of car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest
efficiency, longest life and a reliable service in all kinds of
weather.
Nlanchesier
H ead Office for Australia '• —
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works t Tralford Park. MaafhetH.fi England.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Qelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
told the Assembly that the Government was
not yet ready to bring down a bill, he
admitted with sorrow that the amount paid
by the hard-up Government to insurance cos.
in the last five years under the Workmen's
Compensation Act was £12,71)7, while the
total amount paid to Government employees
lor the same period in respect to such
liability was £2579. Whether the Govern-
ment will simply take its own risks or
follow the Vic. lead and accept risks also
from the public is still undecided. Ministers
are, however, not prepared to go the whole
hog, as in Queensland, and establish a State
monopoly.
Austral Malay, which does not work any
properties on its own account, has fathered
a family of lusty infants. Here are a few
of the offspring on which the co. has col-
lected more or less substantial baby bonuses:
Ivamunting, Kampong Ivamunting, I.arut,
Austral Bolivia, Asarn Kumbang, and Ulu
lain. The interests in Larut and Austral
Bolivia have been disposed of. Meantime
the co. has been prospecting a number of
other properties with varying results. To
represent the £20.000 of capital which share-
holders put: up there are now the following
assets: Kampong Kamunting shares, £BOOO
(approx, market value, £22,000) ; Asarn
Knm.bnng shares, £22,525; Ulu Yam shares,
£21,(100. The recent Ulu Yam float appar-
ently put the co. in funds to the .extent of
£7OOO. Kampong divs. so far have been used
lor prospecting, but as soon as the Asarn
Kumbang dredge begins to churn out divs.
Austral Malay proposes to commence its
cash-dividend distributions. Meantime, the
prospecting campaign is again being livened
up in hope of getting on to further sweet
I hi rigs-.
'* . * * *
Asarn Kumbang should have had its dredge
at work months ago, but though assem-
bling commenced towards the end of last
year, owing to shipping delays the job has
only just been completed. So the directors’
report, to the end of last month, is a record
ot how the co. had to go deeper into debt.
Kampong Kamunting has obliged with the
necessary advances, and the Kumbang show,
it is estimated, will owe £08,400 altogether
before production begins. In consideration
tor the £OO,OOO which Kampong has loaned
it has the call on 25,000 Kumbang shares at
os. premium, so the arrangement has suited
both concerns very well. Assuming that
Kampong takes up the shares Kumbang will
mLr K ' (1 ,,, tlle whoJe of its capital of
i- w ki]e with the aid of premiums
I'll alia 69 be cut ‘to something like
£06,000. The c-o.’s original holding com-
Vuoronnri a , cres containing an estimated
c, ib. yards, of an average value
ot .91b. Since then an additional 240 acres
have been secured, 200 acres of which are
reckoned to average .715.
**■*■*»
Bolivia lin Corporation, tho
show in which Sydney is heavily interested,
bl rt which its headquarters in the Feder-
ated Malay States, while managing-director
Lawrence hangs out his sign in Potosi
I, . America), has lately been handicapped
bv engine troubles on its Perak (F.M.S.)
dredge. The directors are now considering
the installation of a more satisfactory power
plant. The three months run to July gave
an average monthly production of 43 tons of
bo p.c. concentrates.
# * M.
* * *
If there was less bull-juice and more de-
tail about the report of Edna Deeps it would
help to a better understanding of the mine
position. But digging gives these results:—
From shares and calls . . £37,421
Debentures . . , . . . 9 ,-,00
Gold won .. .. .. 94,342
Total receipts .. £141,213
Total outgo .. £133^493
In the last item are included disbursements
on account of dividends, £12,473 ; payment
to vendors, £7500; and £lOOO for lease'. The
tally does not vary a great deal from that of
the Edna Central. But at the Deeps man-
ager Stuckey started his job bothered with
water. Both Central and Deeps have been
good gold winners, but gluttons to eat up
profits. Both have liad strokes of luck—
Central, when it seemed to be down and out,
in striking the New reef, and Deeps in get-
ting the patch of rich ore just across the
Edna May border. The average obtained at
the Deeps is an ounce of gold for the wNile
24,357 tons crushed since August, 1910,
when the reef was struck. Lately profits
have been on the down grade, dwindling from
£12,525 in the May term of 1918 to £2523
for the half to November last and a loss of
£2219 for the past six months. Apparently
0360 tons were treated during the last half,
and, if so, total expenditure works out at
almost 605., which accounts for the loss's.
Stuckey’s plea is that he has had practically
to keep four shafts going. So he holds our
that with the ventilation shaft finished and
the main shaft opened down to the 600 ft.
level he will churn profits out of the lower-
grade stone. He dreams, too, of the Deeps
getting the Consolidated shoots at a depth
of from 1400 ft. to 1600 ft. after they have
passed through the Central lease. This ex-
pectation will not cause any loss of sleep to
the hardy bear, as the point that concerns
him is what ore is in sight. So far four
levels have been opened below the Edna
boundary. One is intact, and from the three
others about half the stone has been beaten
out. Still Stuckey estimates that he has
£150,000 of gold in the 48,500 tons of prob-
able reserves in the mine. There is need for
some reservation in the statement, because
work above the No. 5 level shows that the
bulge in the greenstone dyke on the footwall
lias shaken things. This is a reminder of
what happened at 476 ft., and of what is
taking place in a part of the Edna May
bottom level stopes. As Stuckey expects to
£et 24,000 tons to the battery yearly in
future, he has two years’ mill supply of ore
underground.
* ft * ft
Two more Wegtralian gold-mines which
should never have been taken up by cos.
have ceased work. The Victorious-Gimlet
group, at Ora Banda, has been worked for
years, with occasional breaks, by the
Associated Northern. But shareholders have
had nothing, and if the co. had listened to
the advice of experts who reported adversely
on the show r for other option-seeking cos.,
they would have been saved all the loss and
anxiety. The other property now shut down
is the Leonora Gold Blocks, for which The
Bulletin never had any compliments.
* ft ft «
Westralian lead producers are being badly
hit by the Federal embargo on exports other
than in the refined state. This is how F. B.
Trude puts the position in a report to a syn-
dicate from another State which had an
option on a Westralian lead show
Owing to the embargo producers are com-
pelled to smelt at a prohibitive cost. Especially
is this so in Westralia,, Where there is no coke.
The position therefore is that successful lead-mining
is not at present a commercial possibility. All efforts
to obtain redress have so far failed. Pressure has
been brought to bear on the advisers of the Gov-
ernment by deputations from all metal producers,
but without success, and the free sale of concentrates
is still prohibited. It seems incredible that a policy
which means ruin to the metal industry of the
State can be persisted in; but, if so, our share-
holders had better surrender their option and cut
their loss. Provided suitable concentrating plant
be erected the proposition will pay, but only pro-
vided the product can be sold in the best market as
soon as freights become normal.
As the Federal authorities are adamant, this
option, like others, will probably be aban-
doned, and another blow will be given the
already badly rattled Westralian mining in-
dustry,
* # * ft
“O.B.” : Three cos., known as the Kurra-
wang, Kalgoorlie and Westralia, furnish
most of the Kalgoorlie mines with fuel and
props, chiefly from salmon-gum country. This
wood is of great calorific value and is tip-
top mining timber, although to secure the
best possible results it must be used in a
green state. To date the three cos. have
delivered to the inine-ow'ners many million
tons of firewood; at one time their combined
monthly output was about 40,000 tons. Two
of the cos., the Ivurrawang and Westralia,
also cater for the food and clothing require-
ments of their woodline employees at what
are supposed to be Kalgoorlie prices. A few
people have made a lot of money out of the
industry, but the whole of those profits
should have been, retained for mine-owners
by co-operative effort.
S.O.S. signals are again being sent out by
Southern Cross (W.A.), For a long time
after the Bullfinch boom it just managed, to
keep, out of the receiver’s hands, and then
a few storekeepers’ rashes, followed by
Mclntyre’s great gold hunt, livened things
up until Victor Leggo came along and
started to dig arsenic out of the Transvaal.
Now operations have ceased, and the outlook
is blacker than it ever was.
- ft * * ft
Though the first crushing from the old
Wood’s Point (Vic.) Morning Star mine re-
opened by George Dickenson got close up to
the lOdvvt. mark, there was not enough of
the stone to keep the co. off the call list.
\\ hen the rich shoots cut out in the old days
there were too many attractions elsewhere
for the miner to waste time in sinking
on the off-chance of getting fresh floors in
the Morning Star, but a lot of the sports who
made good money out of other shows are now
taking that job on. The double has not come
off so far, for the shoot of stone now got at
400 ft. is small, and a second formation 100 ft.
deeper down fails to run to a decent ton-
nage so far. But the chance of a good strike
is ahead, as another floor shows at 600 ft.
A bit of luck there, and a lot of the old half-
forgotten identities of the district will soon
be in the market.
* « # *
So far the Fates have no more favored the
Miller crowd at the Bendigo A 1 than they
have Teddy D.vason at the Amalgamated.
On the surface it looked as if a plum might
exist in the New Moon, but the saddles wher-
ever tested from 763 ft. down to 2418 ft. were
too poor to linger over. This has led to a
winze being shoved down from the 2418 ft.
level in centre country to see if the exten-
sion of the old Clarence run of stone under-
foot carries gold. Most of the Moon work-
ing faces promise, but don’c develop, well.
That is the fun of mining at Bendigo. It
takes a big heart and a lot of oash to win
out, as George Lansell so often demon-
strated. The North Argus is also being tested
with somewhat similar results to those in
the Moon. Bendigonians favor prospecting
on the Derby line from the Neangar shaft.
Here absolutely fresh country would be
entered, and as the line has been a good gold
producer the A 1 may have better luck on it
than in pottering about in old claims.
A loss of £6OOO at Al, Gaffney’s (Vic.),
follows a run of divs. and heroics over the
corner in shares. The want of sufficient
labor is said to be responsible for the stopes
above No. 5 level not being sufficiently
opened up to keep the mill on pay dirt.
But what wage has been offered to get the
miner to brave the snows of Gaffney’s?
Whatever the cause the fact is that only
2250 tons got to the battery during the half-
year; and the grade was only 7dwt. as
against the old ounce, John Till expects
better times when he gets to the eastern
wall of the dyke off No. 5 level. Since he
regards as payable the stone that went undez--
foot at No. 7 he is optimist enough to
think that the floor, when shaft-sinking is
finished, will give him. the reserves he so
badly requires. Meantime the Al has to
keep in the ruck with other call-making has-
beens.
* * * *
“Wayth”: As usual no information is
forthcoming from the Bischoff concerning its
smelter profits. The inference is always
that there is very little in the work. But
take the case of a producer sending in tin
oxide grading 70.0 p.c. tin, .41 p.e. lead, .75
p.e. arsenic, sulphur, etc., slightly pyritic,
not for sale but to be smelted to metal for
transference to producer’s agent or buyer.
The tariff works out like this: Smelting,
£5 per ton oxide; lead ’wnalty, £1 per ton
oxide ; arsenic penalty, £1 10s. per ton oxide ;
calcine penalty, 10s. per ton oxide; total.
£B. In addition the smelters deduct two
metallic units for every ton oxide as a
smelting loss. Re-smelting and re-grinding
of slags recover prills, the discharge grade
of the slag being about p.c. tin. So that
the co. makes a clear li units on each ton
(less a problematical volatilisation loss),
which, with tin at £KX», gives the co. a
further 305., or GOs. with tin at £2OO. Clean
ore, of course, comes off lighter. In the
case of direct sales of oxide to the smelters
the Co, gets a larger margin of safe cover
than, above. Precisely how much profit do
the smelters make per ton treated? Various
estimates place it at about £5 per ton. If
that is so, it makes the eo.’s mine look a
pretty poor proposition.
• * • *
The South Ileemskirk (Tas.) tin lodes,
which were scratched in the ’eighties, when
tin hit £lOO but soon collapsed to about
£GO, are almost certain to be given another
go. The Federation Tin float, embracing all
the old leases, is assured, it seems, and the
co. should be registered next week. The co.
proposes to instal 60 head of stamps to
enable J. B. Lewis, late of the Anchor, to
handle his estimated 120,000 tons .75 p.c.
US’ annum f or a working profit of
£77,400, on the basis of tin oxide at £126.
Lewis’s “moderate estimate’’ of ore avail-
able is a million tons, apart from possib'e
developments. Nominal capital is £120.000
in £1 shares; 60,000 shares were offered to
the public (15s. per sliai'e is all Lewis
reckons he will require), vendors and pro-
moters get 45,000 full-paids, and the remain-
ing 15,000 are held in l’eserve.
• • * •
Little Magnet silver-lead has put up a
record for Speck galena shows. A couple of
months ago the co. decided to sink the shaft
another lift, and now at 960 ft. manager
illales reports that he has cut sft. into the
*ode, and that 50 p.c. of the ore showing is
of first-class quality. One sample showed
llOoz. silver and over 77 p.c. lead. This is
the greatest depth at which payable values
have been maintained in Tas. silver-lead
mines.
* * * *
A co. is being formed in S.vdnev to ex-
tract salt from sea-water, and probablv a
site near Bulli will be selected. It is
claimed that a marketable product can be
made for less than £2 per ton. Manv years
ago a similar scheme was tried at Austin-
mer; but, although an excellent article was
produced, it could not compete against
cheap importations. The sea-water on the
southern coast of N. S. Wales is heavily
charged with chloride of sodium, and is re-
markably free from impurities. The marvel
is that some attempt has not been made to
utilise even a fractional part of the heated
gases which escape from N. S. Wales coke-
works for the production of salt by the
evaporative process. The facilities for cheap
production in this way could hardly be
excelled.
( Wild Cat’’ continued on page 26.)


'Course Duchess ,(d<w.ch«xv)yer must (crunch)
expect to get Some Crunch) roughs IiKC
themin e^- spilt yer le^,DucheSs.
"Hi ! &rf mo',Bill.
Molher sdd i\ 1
Seen you, to tell
yer,dohl /omd
lo cedi /or them
SkUSevges on ,
yer Wcxy Home!’
Rev’ Bones conducts
Prohibitior\ meeting.
A Bolsk
in the
Crown Room.
"Bored.’'
AT BUCK'N’AM PALACE.
“Ten thousand war workers assembled at the Royal garden party, at the invitation of the King and Queen, and presented the liveliest spectacle in the
history of Buckingham Palace. The crowd which mingled with society people included aproned nurses, waitresses, policemen, Salvation Army girls and
municipal dignitaries. Some of the workers were provided with new belltoppers and tailcoats, and some of the women were in the latest fashions.” — Cable.


THE
UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ACTS
in the States of NEW SOUTH WALES,
VICTORIA and QUEENSLAND
as Executor or Joint Executor of Wills,
. Trustee of Settlements, Administrator,
Attorney under power for Absentees, or
as Agent for Management of Estates or
Investment of Moneys.
BEING THE ONLY TRUSTEE COMPANY
EMPOWERED TO ACT IN MORE THAN ONE
STATE it affords its clients unique advantages
in the way of FAVORABLE REALISATION
AND INVESTMENT OF ASSETS, AMPLE
SECURITY, EXPERT MANAGEMENT, CON-
TINUITY OF CONTROL, LOW CHARGES.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
'M.L.C.-, F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd, \V. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan
Sinclair. - -
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR.
■ Assistant Manager. ' Manager.’ v
CALL OR JSENO. FOB COMPANY’S BOOKLET,
cxz
You cun HEAR-
and toe prove At
by sending you,
post free, an easy-
to-icear
on 10 Days’
FREE TRIAL/
—f.
No deposit, no obligation,, no expense. Over
330,000 .delighted users, including the Prime
Minister, Mr. Hughes, who has been using
the “Aeousticon ’ for more than five years!
The “Aeousticon” will safely and su'ely
enable you to hear. Convince yourself at' our
expense and
Aeousticon
DON’T STAY DEAF.
T omenn StoreA. 102 Daking Hniee,SYDNEY
L,aUliyilg erv j C gDW. o! )ns.Sjt,,.MELB.
, N.Z.t- John Procter, %00 High-,St,, Ghristc’h.
W.A.: H. Little <6- Co,, Sol Hay Street.:,, Perth,
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIINQ ROOF GARDEN.
. . .. Management E; X,. CHEESEMAN.
Si
-WORT
S.UICE
PLU
TKe
finest
TOBACCO
Will Not
Bite the
Tongue.
EDGEWORTH
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNESL
INSEED
OIL
Attacked by ’flu in a bad form, Arthur
Robinson, Vic. Solicitor-General, was close
up to the border-line when lie turned back.
His ability as a public man was never
adequately recognised inside or outside of
Parliament till he took charge of affairs for
the Lawson team in the Uppah House. He
lias retained traces of the sane radicalism
which he imbibed
on the board of
directors of the
A.N.A., but has
jettisoned most of
the conc e i t he
carried till he was
close on 40. At 47
he keeps in stock
just about suf-
ficent self-esteem
for ordinary re-
quirements. The
environment of Mel-
bourne Club, Clive-
den Mansions and
Collins House, and
the ourring (or
scratching) of the
dames of the
A.W.N.L., has not
unsettled him. As
lawyer, investor
and judicious specu-
lator he is making
—well, more than
his solid old father,
A. B. Robinson,
ever made as a
pressman.
The late
SIMON FRASER.
The Federal Gallery’s send-off: —
Palmer, M.H.R., who died the other day, could
smell a Hun further than any other politician. Few
Germans in his territory could be proclaimed as
“loyalists” without the little man sniffing sus-
piciously and generally producing embarrassing evi-
dence that he wasn’t misled by his nose. Pearce’s
Department, which was officially rather tender to
Germans, was kept in a constant state of annoyance
by the midget’s persistence. Give Palmer his due,
he had the courage of his superstitions. ; We knew
hint as a man with a torpedo beard and a stoop, who
delivered his convictions with all the penetrating
fluency of the local preacher—which profession he,
like Fenton and Cook, followed on the Sabbath Day.
Though in all social pleasures he was an unmitigated
wowser, his life was full of color. For the major
part of hjs manhood in little Euroa he was haunted
bv the lilue Ribbon, the Yellow Pup and the Scarlet
Woman. That lady and Freetrade, however, were
the only two chimeras of a rather well-kept mind.
Niels Nielsen, Minister for Lands in the
McGoweu Government, whose later appoint-
ment as Trade Commissioner to the U.S.A.
was cancelled by the National crowd, arrived
back from Wilson’s country a week or so ago
by the Niagara. A day or two afterwards
he was busy at the auction sales of furred
skins buying opossum- and fox-skins for
shipment to America, now Australia’s big-
gest customer for raw furs.
S. W. Copley, who, the cable says, has
bought 100 passenger aeroplanes from the
British Government; was a barber in Fre-
mantle (W.A.) 25 years ago. Then he
moved to Perth, and embarked in money-
lending and land speculation and also took
a hand in the ferry service across the Swan
to South Perth. About 15 years ago he
acquired grazing interests in the North ; then
he formed an insurance co., and when the
war started plunged in marine underwriting,
and is now reckoned one of W.A.’s wealthiest
men. He claims to be a Yorkshireman, but
might easily be mistaken for a Jew.
THE IMPARTIAL PARTISANS.
"Wot I like about the papers that are on
our side is that they put both sides
fair."
A M.L. shipping man of weight is G. B.
Bullock, who is recuperating in Australia
after four years of war work. He was one
of the Overseas Shipowners’ Committee
which rationed the shipping space allotted
to Maoriland. In this he was hand-in-glove
with R. Triggs, Controller of the Imperial
Supplies Department, so it is appropriate
that Triggs and Bullock should be recreating
in Australia together. When he. returns
Bullopk will take the whole weight of the
Maoriland end of the New Zealand Shipping
Co., as present general-manager W.. A. Ben-
net, of Christchurch, is about to retire after
many years’ service. - In future the centre
of gravity of the co. will be in Wellington.
AY hen he was at the Bar in a jury case
Henry Hodges would fix those, of the twelve
who seemed most reluctant to believe in the
innocence 'and good intentions »,f his client,
and pour into them broadsides of turgid
emotion that, in nine cases out of, ten, soft-
ened the hardest, heart. On one big occasion,
when prisoner at the bar was a young
man who had gone astray in the violence of
his passion, counsel for the defence spread
himself on one rather sour-visaged juryman,
and pumped and pumped the bathos, till at
length the wretched man in the jury-b'ox
gaye way to sniffles, and.' forgetting every-
thing, stood up, and, addressing Henry
Hodges, sobbed, with a hand thrown towards
the prisoner at the baf“Excuse me, sir—
your son?”
Adelaide has lost a bright young citizen
in Eldin Moulden, second-in-command of the
Tramways Trust and acting-manager for a
year and a half lately while" Goodman was
away. The Moulden family are nearly all
lawyers, but this one took up engineering,
and gained experience at Newcastle (Eng.)
and Chicago. For the past 12 years he had
been chief assistant-engineer on the electric
tramway system of his native city. He was
a great motorist and game-shot, enthusiastic
in all be took up, and widely papular. He
was only 36 when bronchial pneumonia took
him,
Lieut.-Colonel Sir Maurice Hankey, of the
War Cabinet Secretariat, who has been re-
commended for a grant of £25,000, is third
son of the late Robert Hankey, of South
Aus. For some years the father owned War-
cowie station, in the Ilawker district, and
married Miss Bakewell, daughter of the late
William Bakewell, a former partner of Josiah
Symon’s.
C. N. Pay ten, senior S.M. in Sydney, who
dropped under a stroke of paralysis while
playing tennis on Saturday and died soon
afterwards, was one of the most pleasant
Beaks a straying human could face —the
antithesis of G. H. Smithers, whom he suc-
ceeded. Payten started at 15 as a clerk in
the Water Police office, and when the end
came had seen 49 years’ service.
Died at Ivadina (S.A.), aged S 5, T. Bur-
chell, who on his arrival in South Aus. from
England in 1854 was engaged by the late
Henry Ayers to build the first plant at the
Burra copper-mine. After working there
for five years Burchell went to Wallaroo,
where copper had lately been discovered by
Boor, a shepherd employed by Captain
Hughes. In the ’sixties Burchell became
the first licensee of the Wombat Hotel,
Ivadina—the pub got its name from the
fact that Boor found his copper ore in a
wombat burrow.
Percy Russell, who has bossed the Muni-
cipal Assoc, of Vic. for
lt> years, mostly as chair-
man, and has ruled the
Hawthorn Council for
nearly twice as long, has
decided to retire from
public life and give more
time to law and golf. He
tried to get into the
House of Landlords
three years ago, but the
30 per cent, of available
voters who turned up to
use blue pencils showed
a preference for Goody
Edgar. This defeat sur-
prised him nearly as
much as the way in
which a Scottish lady
paid him a bill of costs
in war-time. He hap-
pened to mention that he
played on links close to
her property. She asked
him how much each golf
ball was worth. He
named the figure, and
added that supplies of
the right sort were diffi-
cult to get. The lady
smiled grimly, and next
day brought in a paper-
bag of cleaned-up golf
balls and 3s. lid. or
thereabouts in cash. Russell gave her a
receipt as resignedly as he had paid his
election exes, when beaten for the House
of Yawns.
By a man at Mildura:—
G. Madison Harvey first got us interested by writing a
series of letters to the local press; then he visited us
in person and laid before a meeting of business men a
proposal for making Mildura the capital of a new
State —a memorial State to be peopled principally by
returned soldiers. He proposed that he should be
appointed to lead Mildura to its destiny for a remu-
neration ; of £lOOO p.a., and a motion was put and
carried that it was “desirable that the services of
Mr. Harvey be secured to carry out the proposal
as set out by him.” Later, Harvey addressed a
public meeting. After opening the proceedings with
prayer the visitor got down to material things, and
discussed Mildura’s established institutions, includ-
ing the Aus'. Dried Fruits Assoc. This was bad tac-
tics, for Harvey should have known that the
A.D.F.A. is our special pet. The Director of Publicity.
C. J. De Garis, was riled into saying that he would
like to answer the queries, but, instead, would put
some questions to “Harvey.” These led to the latter
revealing his identity as Grant Madison Hervey, and
admitting a few things about himself. Whereupon
the Shire President, who was chairman, was much
annoyed, and closed the meeting. Then all our
dreams faded. And they were very nice dreams;
and, up to a point, the business hall been very ably
handled.
F. M. Cutlack, the Australian journalist
who was Second Official Correspondent with
the A.1.F., and was lately admitted to the
Bar in London, is returning to his own
country. He proposes to seek permission to
wear the gow r n in Sydney Courts.
J. E. Croniy (“Cobber” of The Bulletin)
lately quitted the job of secretary to the
Speck’s Minister of Lands and Works, to
take to the Inky Way in earnest. He will
be sporting editor of the Hobart World.
In his time he has composed oratorical
efforts for various Ministers and has piloted
Senator Mulcahy, Jim Belton and J. B.
Hayes through their respective terms;
and, in spite of red tape, he has found time
to win something of a reputation as a sport-
ing writer as well as a political scribe.
Robert Triggs, rajah 0 f M.L.’s big and
exceedingly important Public Trust Office k
taking a rest in Australia. \ Maorilmlkv
born Triggs had valuable exp^ien ce in ?£
local railway service before he w*nt to Aus-
tralia to engage in similar work. v« r j Ipn 1 p n A,
M.L. Public Se rvice Commission wa s ni "
pointed, . eight years
ago, lie was a member ;
and just before the
war he took over the
control of the Public
Trust Office from Dr.
Fitchett. While the
Hun was loose. Triggs
was placed in charge
of the Maori land end
of the Department of
Imperial Supplies;
and the number of
frozen things that lie
has shipped across
the world to help feed
Europe is higher than
the Alps. Lately,
when Massey had a
book written about it,
Triggs sat up all night
and found that the
farmers of M.L. had
been paid nearly
thirty millions in cold
cash for the wool and
meat that had been
shipped.
COMMODORE
F. C. DREYER.
Chief-of-Staff,
H.M.S. New Zealand.
“Sea-Tea”: “Chasuble” (B. 7/18/TO)
states that Cranswiek. the new Bishop of
Gippsland, was trained in England. lie may
have been born there, but he adopted this
country very early in life, and received most
of his training at one of the oldest institu-
tions in Australia, the King’s School, at
Parramatta, his father at that time being
rector of the parish of Castle Hill.
Lord Kochedale. who is likely to establish
woollen mills in Tasmania, visited this coun-
try just before the war, and his straw hat,
with the I. Zingari ribbon, was familiar for
a month or two. As “Peter” Kemp he was
in the ’eighties the flannelled idol of the big
Lancashire manufacturing town whence he
takes his title. One of the finest amateur
bowlers of his time, he played for Cambridge,
Lancashire and the Gentlemen of England.
Adelaide Uni. has had six chairs to till
in one year. Law and Pathology are still
open: to the others the only stranger
appointed is Wood-Jones, who will take
Anatomy, the veteran Watson not caring to
go on now that his old friend Stirling is
dead. Wood-Jones’s latest office was in the
London Uni. Medical School for Women.
He has not been to Australia before, but
got as near as the Cocos Islands, where he
was once medical officer and married the
daughter of Clunies Boss, the Governor.
James Gloudesley Betts, who passed out
at Manly fX.S.W.) the other day, was a
grandson of Samuel Marsden, the carly-day
blacksmith-chaplain. The Gloudesley comes
through Mrs. Samuel Marsden, grand-
daughter of Sir Cloudesley Shovell, wtio did
the cabin-boy-to-admiral trip in the reign of
Queen Anne. He was commander-in-chief
of the fleet during part of the Spanish War
of Succession, and helped destroy the French
fleet at Toulon in 1707. His ship was
wrecked that year on the Scilly Islands. It
is said that be reached the shore alive, but
was murdered by a woman for the sake, of
his rings.
Four years’ imprisonment was the punish-
ment which Judge Mann awarded James
Job Brokenshire, the Ballarat auctioneer who
had for long been defrauding his clients.
Brokenshire, who pleaded guilty to many
charges of fraud, begged for leniency be-
cause of his age (67). The Judge hearkened
as far as duty would permit. For 25 years
Brokenshire was a member of the Ballarat
Council, and was Mayor three times.
He was a strong temperance advocate, and
posed as a model of rectitude. His partner,
William Coltman, a man nine years older,
was _ also convicted, but owing to the state
5i s J was released on a recognisance
ot x2OU to come up for sentence in October.
Retired last month, after 44 years' service,
William Thomas Sisson, the longest-service
constable in Tasmania. He joined in ’75
at Port Arthur, and was stationed there
and at Eagle Hawk Neck. While at Port
Arthur he came across the notorious Mark
Jeffery, a “lifer,” in for murder. Jeffery
was he says, so powerful that irons could
not hold him. He defied the authorities, and
would not eat food cooked by the prisoners
so he was put on Dead ‘island (where
prisoners and officials were buried), given
hiaown tucker..and allowed t 6 live by him-
self m a shack of his own
ELIZABETH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
And you are gone, Elizabeth!
There is a shadow on the day
That sealed upon such kindly clay
The ma.hle majesty of Death.
Oh, man-tides’ pulsing ebb and flow !
Oh, noon-flame on the city roofs! '*
Oh, clang of rails and ring of hoofs —
And one that will not wake for woe!
For all the measure of our pain,
With lore of all good fellowship
Full-freighted, hand and eye and lip,
You may not come this way again.
For you have heard the liturgy
The high white lords of being spake,
That opened for your sweet soul’s sake
The gracious gates of ivory.
There are a thousand tongueless things
That mourn from out the empty ways,
The muted music of the days,
The broken harp of many strings.
There is a window looking east,
A window that your busy hand
Touched with some spell of fairyland
To magic of a Tyrian feast.
By that still stream we may not cross
A" grey old sorrow sits and sings <
Till dumb forgetful household things
Have grown articulate with loss.'
Oh, little friend that never knew
The noble bounds of your estate,
Nor lark sang Higher Heaven’s gate
Than soared the singing heart of you!
Nor wild rose set by stony ways
More bravely bloomed through heat and dust
And lifted up its head in trust,
And gave the perfume of its praise !
Oh, sadly play the pipes of Death;
Oh, sadly play through falling tears!
There is a shadow on the years—
Elizabeth! Elizabeth!
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


TO SEAT^TAVE
'/A*
Y/a
A
im
ij
W.i
:a
’r.y
ay
rv
r "wbi
irr^'iv
ST^gi
;/ «
mu
t@i
S 6
*ls^
w/,
In,
fa t
, '/f*L-/h .
w
< i >
,-*•' <r\,v
T
THE CENTRE OF ATTRACTION.
NAVYCU'
H REE STRENGTHS
The world renowned brand of
W D.r H O.WILLS.
THE
PIPE
OF PEACE AND QUALITY-
-400
__2>
Pipe Gueran,^
m
\LMN
-


xzc
WATCH your
BRUSH and
COMB.
They first indicate
the sickening stage
of the hair.
Dandruff and loose hairs are the warning: signs on the way to baldness and the
immediate need to cleanse the scalp, remove the dandruff and keep the hair vigorous
and healthy.
John Strange Winter’s hair foods non-oiL y
will prevent baldness, stop falling lia'r and dandruff.
Obtainable all leading Chemists and Departmental Stores.
Send to JOHN STRANGE WINTER (Condon, Paris, Kome)> 26 Jamieson
Sydney, for Booklet, illustrating all our toilet preparations.
Street,
Me It onian
IT 1 HIGH-CLASS
{SPECIALTIES _
Creams
led
Pastes
for
Cleaning S Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN (§> SON 3 LONDON
AGENCIES • ALE • OVER • THE • WORLD
T' P
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Path
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Directo*-.
Society
MINCHINBURY
“Chov”: Chief Secretary Fuller, with
John Perry, member for the district, and the
usual camp followers of a travelling Minis-
terial circus, stopped a few minutes on the
station platform at Bungalow (N.S.W.) on
Sunday, rn route for Byron Bay. A few
of the locals were on hand to welcome the
THE COURAGE OF HER SEX.
“Oh, I think ice women arc more courageous
than wen.”
“So do I. No man would dare to go out on
a cold night with only his trousers and.
braces on."
visitors. After several minutes’ conversa-
tion the whistle blew, and Councillor Gurn-
tree proposed a vote of thanks, “to be carried
in the usual manner,” i.e., by acclamation.
liut the most religious local feared it would
break the Sabbath ; he suggested “that the
vote be passed in silence,” and it was done
that way witli graveyard solemnity. There-
upon Fuller, with a twinkle in his eye,
leaned out of the carriage window and cried,
"Gentlemen, three cheers for the King!”
That put ’em to the test. There was a
moment’s anguish on a face or two; then
they chanced eternal damnation, and let it
go.
“Henry Ilorsecollar”: So, after all, it
wasn’t the real St. George of Cappadocia
whose bones some Australian troopers arres-
ted in Palestine. It was a picturesque idea
that we should have captured and annexed
the patron saint of the Empire, and I feared
all along that it was too good to be true.
Still I had commenced on . the off-chance a
poem beginning:
After life's fitful fever he sleeps sound;
The waliaby leaps on his burial mound,
when I learned that the arrested saint was
merely one of the ruck of Georges, and even
his claim to be any kind of saint is doubtful.
Perhaps, after all. it is as well. The bones
of old holy men, like castles and cathedrals
and wonder-working relics and hermits and
witches, don’t tit into the scheme of a raw
sort of country with a King Billy ancestry.
Shrines take up room, and they accumulate,
and they cause wear and tear of the hat-
brim if the hat is taken off to them in
sincerity, and ribald laughter if it is taken
off in mockery, and dissension if it isn’t
taken off at all. The people who built real
castles did so, not because they liked castles,
but because Bolshevism in high quarters
made castles necessary. The people who
preserved the bones of saints did it because
relics of that sort were considered useful—
in fact, almost essential—for salvation.
There was no romance about these folk ; they
were strictly bent on business. It is
grotesque to try to turn this business—
nearly extinct now—into romance in this
town-planning century.
# * * •
“Hamer”: If one Digger hadn't been
counted several times over N. S. Wales
Health Minister Storey’s bald head would
not have blushed so violently when he heard
of the number of V.D. cases in the A.I.F.
And in some cases the return to hospitai
was not the men’s fault, but a recrudescence
o the original trouble. Numberless com-
plaints have been made by men who, owing
to the cure being incomplete, have had to
undergo extra periods of treatment and
antler a double forfeiture of pay. 1 dealt
with many such complaints in England, and
call to mind one man who was seven times
admitted to V.D. hospital, another who had
six entries against his record, and two others
five each. Officially these four men are
rni Australian soldiers suffering from V.D.
I hats how to make a scarecrow to frighten
an impressionable Health Minister
“8.T.”: About a year and eight
months ago the owner of an eight-
roomed villa on the southerly edge
of Brighton (Vic.) died, a childless
widower, and the house was sold.
A week or two back the purchaser
set to work to convert a brick
stable into a motor garage, and
under nine inches of earth came
upon a stout wooden door which,
on being raised, exposed the stairs
to a cellar bricked and floored.
I lie cellar was plainly of recent
construction, and was stocked with
foodstuff- rice, flour, oatmeal,
bacon, c-heese, biscuits and tinned
meat, vegetables and fish, to the
i alue of at least a hundred pounds
at present prices. There was a
cooking stove, also a mattress and
blankets. The neighbors now
lecollect that deceased bad an in-
ordinate dread of the Germans,
and was convinced they would
triumph, and eventually put in an
appearance in Australia to practise
the little arts and graces that made
them so popular in Belgium. It
is surmised that the stocked secret
cellar represented the deceased’s
htt e attempt at a dugout in which
to lie perdu pending the departure
of the detestable invader; but none
ot the neighbors seem to have had
a hint of the work when in pro-
hand 3 oollsi(,erflble job for a lone
Observations of the Office Curate-
to7mn!wl g !, , ' SI Vn leri v W , hom Bendigo An sUcari S wanted
to import as their bishop has turned the offer down
and the gaiters are still empty. Hitherto Bendigo has
jeeu content with locally-raised bishops; and though
ICh^ U ', ers Wn 2 ht is tugging the strings to get an
imported parson, two dioceses have just given Ben-
' ,! s ° , the tlp to stick to the local product. Cecil
Wood, imported a few years ago to bish in Melanesia
an Anglican missionary diocese with headquarters
at Norfolk Island and stations in the Solomons and
adjacent groups—resigned lately after his staff had
passed a vote that didn’t breathe confidence; and the
clerics, determined not to risk another importation,
have elected in his place one of themselves—J M
Steward, who has been in the Islands for 17 years!
and has latterly run the mission training-college in
the Solomons. Kalgoorlie (W.A.) has also elected a
new bishop in place of Dr. Golding-Bird, and didn’t
find it necessary to go outside the State. W. K.
Elsey, head of the Bush Brotherhood at Williams
near Bunbury (W.A.), gets the job. Counting Ben-
digo, now vacant, there are 23 Anglican sees in this
continent, besides the mission 'ry dioi eses in Papua
and Melanesia. Only seven oi the? , are filled by
imported gaiters. Of the remaining 15 bishops
three are Australian-born, and the rest are either
Australian-trained or at least served their time at
the collection-plate in this country before becoming
“My Lord.” But of course the seven imported men
have the best jobs—Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
THE DOUGHTY DIGGER.
THE OLD PARTY: “Ain't it just, grand,
Suzanne, to have all the bogs a-comin'
hack from the war again?"
SUZANNE : “Yes, hut don't they get yeh all
of a whirl, what with their maltin' eyes
at yeh and their a-goin's on?”
Adelaide, Perth, Ballarat and Grafton. Even in
ecclesiastical matters Australia is regarded as a
wood-and-water joey.
* * * •
•‘Dig”: It is a disgraceful thing that the
returned soldier who has need for medical
attendance for members of his household
seldom thinks of applying his preference-to-
soldiers ideal to the medical man who lias
done his bit. Most of the doctors who went
with the A.I.F. suffered for their patriotism.
While they were away the stay : at-home men
have been going ahead —often at the expense
of the fighting doctor over the way. Many
of them have had to start affesli on the
harsh job of building up a practice, their
old ones having been collared by men who
in some cases stayed at home in cold blood
for that very purpose. Whatever grievances
a Digger may have had against “the quack,”
he is a brother, and should be given a hand
with a fee in it. '
* * « *
Lena Louise Douglas in aggressive mood :
the women of Paris going stockingless to defeat
their hosiery profiteers teach the women of Australia
how to protect themselves against their profiteers. I
saw the women of New York twist the food ex-
ploiters smartly in 1917. There then, as in Aus-
tralia now, the price of everything went soaring.
Poor homes could not have fruit and vegetables.
Meat was used as a sort of flavoring extract. Eggs
became a curiosity. Bread went up. Milk went up.
With the bitter winter approaching the cost of fuel
became prohibitive. The position was intolerable.
Then the women formed a housewives’ protective
league, which was really a buyers’ union against the
sellers’ combine. It declared war against the food
banditti. The league led by boycotting certain com-
modities. It posted an official blacklist. On th it
docket appeared such commodities as were most
obviously “cornered” and held for murder prices.
Of course the profiteers cooked up all kinds of lying
excuses to explain their attitude, but when the
women just sat tight the Food Ring showed signs of
breaking. It was the Chinese boycott over again on
a small scale. As the league grew in numbers and
influence it adopted more elaborate plans. It issued
certificates to such shopkeepers as it had faith in.
One of those certificates in a man’s window was the
best advertisement he could get: “This shop will
give you a square deal. Your women’s union says
so. You can shop here without fear.” Then a but-
ton was issued to league members. Every “cause”
in U.S.A. has its button. Influential public women
joined the league. Wealthy women came in, not
because they couldn’t afford the profiteers’ gouge,
but out of sympathy for their poorer sisters. The
city was divided into districts, in each of which
there was a committee that kept a hard eye on even-
shopkeeper within its range. The combination of
publicity and determination was too much for the
profiteers. In some way best known to themselves
they discovered that they could charge fair prices
for the necessities of life and still remain in
business.
‘•Dial Sight”: Our battery, located near
Lagnicourt, after being
blown out of two precarious
possies, moved behind a
slight undulation and trust-
ed to a liberal camouflage to
save us. Imitating the little
moles, our only companions
in that waste, we scratched
out feeble holes by night be-
hind the .slight cover, and
moved stealthily bv day in
tear of Fritz’s spotters.
Jerry and Tom, bombardier
and fitter respectively, shared
a I x % <> warren. When they
were both at home it was as
full as a Saturday-night pic-
ture show. Stealing round
to get his mess-tin for lunch.
Jerry heard the great news
that the Tommies were to
relieve us. In this festive
mood he got a rear view of
a bulky form, which he
promptly recognised as
Tom’s, groping in their ken-
nel for some gear. Picking
up the top of an ammunition
ease he handed him the
'"one” he had owed him for
some time. There was a
bellow, and the immense tar-
get started to advance back-
wards. The delighted Jerry
took cover to watch develop-
ments. It wasn’t Tom at
all. but the pompous major of
iln; relieving battery searching for a suitable
tin gout!
* * * *
The Vic. Anglicans have got what they
deserved. The vicar of Swansea (Eng.),
having considered the Bendigo gaiters laid
on his hearthrug, has picked them up will)
the tongs and put them outside. The poor
gentleman has probably seen some Diggers
go roaring past, and wondered what sort of
a “message” he could give people like that,
and if they would listen if he tried to de-
liver it. Then prudence pointed to the tongs,
and Australia missed another amiable after-
noon-tea -expert.
"Itch” sends an affidavit with (his: —
I raised the hair of a Melbourne burglar the other
night. 1 was suffering from eczema on the face, and
the doctor ordered me a thick white ointment to
smear all over it. I plastered my dial and neck
till I looked like a resurrected corpse and went to
bed. But my make-up was too much for me and I
couldn’t get to sleep. After an hour of it I sneaked
out of the room in search of a drink and was gently
feeling my way in the dark to the dining-room, in
bare feet and light pyjamas, when I heard the
TEE WOMAN’S PREROGATIVE.
"Father objected to my skirts being so short.
So I said, ‘Father, pleasc remember that
I am no longer a child, so I shall wear
my skirts as short as I please.' ”
dining-room door slowly open. I stood rigid, and
immediately an electric torch flashed over me.
There was a suppressed yell; the torch fell, and a
scared burglar knocked lumps off the furniture in
his efforts to get into the open. When I arrived at
the back gate he was doing even time up the lane.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE SURGE OF SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'the sun is out, the wattle blows
Across our fragrant street;
Like fire the golden jonquil glows.
Up-bubbling from iny feet
I feel that hot, delicious thing,
The witching, drunken surge of Spring.
Like bubbles in uncorked champagne
The season’s spirit flows;
A bird is singing in the lane,
And by my window goes
A maiden fair with Shining eye.
1 wink at her to her surprise.
The rhymes are dancing in my bead,
But all outside is calling;
And on the sward "with color spread
The magic light is falling.
I'll call on Kate, and, young and gay,
We’ll dance off to Beaumaris Bay.
The wind is howling in the streel,
I'm feeling old and chill;
The rain is pouring in a sheet
From every eave and sill;
Kheumatics catch me in the arm
Ah, curse! it’s all a false alarm!
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


Bring icq •i'ldnKi n d
<5 /I\isic -Together
pi.'
I'l l I
II.I
i'i 1,1
'll
'll J
'l.l A
II
kU
IJ.
‘
j
_ V
i OTVi
o,\
ft?,
// .N
i.'i'i i.'.'i'i
, Vi:»,','i
z
OR
X
w
m
\t
//w
p
.• , • i
m
>
•.*
'/ n
*/ft//////'
'll
r
:r.*. i
m i..
m
i.'i'i I I.',', I i.'i'i I ',
i:;: !;:;
i;*::
■mwm
It'
"ill!
i ;
ir
liiiiiii
i i.i
til,'
11
. 1 .11 •. 1 1 r
'i'i I I,'|'l I
1.'.'l I 1.'.'l
I"
'.l'.','it- 1
11 . >
11 .'
ii.'
'i'i ' ' 1
nil I
'll'
I ».'
I ».'
1.l »
i'i.i'.'ii i.i, I*
ii','
'i ll 1 , 1 I I I 1 1
I ' ' '.'ll' ', .
If.'
i:i: : : Ii ;
mmk
".. " 11; "
iiiii
ll.f
i: •» 1
1.1.
I 1.l
iii
ii'
iiiii: iiliiiiii
"ii"
ii.'
Mi':':'
I'l I
"i V:
m i:
Mil
V
4r/
f,
'l I 'i'i'i'i I' l .•I'
l,'l'l i'i.'i I I I '
’ i*
'■'i'i i I i
itf::
i
W:"
I "i'i
. I • 1. 1
• I •
ll.'
i' I I • 1 . 1 .
I *,VI I
' 1 1 1 1 1 , 1 *
1 1 !'.
'.ii *.fi i 1 • I
m
i«»
ii.*
•:ii :i i
'.'.'i'i I. 1.'.'l I.«
'• , i , ra , , , i , i!' • 'i 1 ? 1 ! '.'i'i!' ' 'i'i I '!' ■
■imft
ki
Perfection in
b Tone— <
Production!
HPHE AEOLIAN VOCALION
J_ is so scientifically constructed that every
note it plays is not only beautiful in tone
quality but also true to the distinctive character
of every instrument and voice it reproduces.
It is free from all foreign noise and stridency.
Musical notes produced by voice or instru-
ment are really a composite of a number of
tones. These are known as “partials” For
instance, a tone from a violin may contain
12 partials consisting of a “ fundamental ” and
11 overtones, and so forth with other instru-
ments and the human voice.
No matter what the tonal waves are, the
intricate and sensitive’ mechanism of the
Vocation is so perfect, it is capable of exqui-
sitely expressing the minutest sounds and
swelling volumes of melody
Yet the superiority in tone is but one of
the many exclusive Vocation advantages
which include the mgenius “ Graduola ” tone
controller.
Vocations are Priced from £9 to £75.
I
SEND FOK BEAUTIFUL CATALOG
The Pianola Co.
Pty. Ltd.
384 George Street, Sydney
i


A Distinguished Member of the Great Cast of the Williamson Grand Opera Co., Sydney,
Count Ercole Filippini, writes:
‘‘Fulfilling extended operatic engagements without sufficient recreation brought
on nervous depression , which I found could only be relieved by the use of a
good stimulating medicine, and that I found to be Clements Tonic .
■ ‘ This I have proved beyond all doubt. ’ ( Signed ) ERCOLE FILIPPINI.
All professional people should keep this medicine on hand. It does good because it is good.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
Dear B., —In view of the impending
afflux of aerial motor vehicles, our firm
would be glad if you would advise us as to
the law. For instance: If an aeroplane be-
longing to X flies within five miles of a
freehold belonging to Y r , being driven by Q,
and collides with an airship owned by V,
and both ’plane and ship catch fire and
drift on to l r ’s property (terrestrial), and
burn down his house and kill his wife and
children and prize Persian cat. can Y sue Q
or 'A or both, or should he sue himself, for
damages?—Yours, Sherlock Nil & Co.
* * * *
“Jimmy Nodule”: This is the true history
of one of the strikes at Alligator Creek Meat-
works, near Townsville (N.Q.). An employee
owned a “gold” ring which was coveted by a
“comrade” who offered to buy it. The owner
of the ring didn’t want to sell; but the ad-
mirer was so persistent that he finally sold
it for 20. The purchaser gave it to his best;
girl, who on examination declared it a brum.
An expert confirmed her suspicions and valued
the thing- at about 15s. The furious pur-
chaser hurried to the nearest solicitor for
advice. His fellow-workers, on hearing that
a “comrade” had been to a solicitor, laid
a meeting and decided that the bloke who
went to law when he had been taken down by
a “comrade” was as bad as a pimp; and they
could not work with him. Uproar followed
and for a week the works were thrown idle.
Eventually the secretary of the Union found
an honorable way out of the difficulty by
placing the miscreant (the purchaser of
the ring, not the seller) in a job at another
works. Labor solves its “problems” in its
own amazing way.
“W. J. Digger”: Apropos “Dial Sight’s”
story of Fritz’s dummies (B. 7/BT9), we
had them, too. Early in 191 S our camouflage
factory supplied to order any number of
THE TELL-TALE TYPE.
“How long will your wife remain at the sea-
side?”
“Until I begin sending her typewritten
letters.”
kneeling, running and lying figures that
looked real even by daylight at 100 yards.
They were equipped with mechanism for
operating them from a distance. When a
raid was to be made the fakes would be
installed in No Man’s Land on a neighboring
sector, and a “Chinese” or dummy raid
would start one minute or so before zero
hour. This drew Jerry’s fire away from the
assembly trenches opposite the real objec-
tive ; but it was very rough on the string
manipulators.
* * * *
“N.-M.” : When young Bill was asked what
the word “hypocrite” meant he chewed hard
for a moment and chirruped: “Please, miss,
a boy who likes goin' to school.”
“Gunner K. D.”: Sutton Veny is a big
Aussie camp around a diminutive Euglish
village, and within 20 miles or so of the
nearest place of interest—Bath. Yesterday
was a fatigue day for
the qu o t a—nothing
much, of course, but
enough to provide a
Digger with a chance
for head-work. A
party was required
‘‘to escort prisoners to
Bath,” and the N.M.
was surrounded soon
after by a crowd of
volunteers. We were
told to report at 11 at
the clink. An hour’s
solid spit and polish,
and a cheerful party
duly paraded with all
trappings on. Then it
hit us! In terse official
style we were
told that the
escort was to
the camp ablu-
tionary bath—a
score of radiant
soldiers to five
sorry birds’
THE SOFT ANSWER.
“Did yon see that? Your damn dog bit me ankle.”
“Well, what did you expect the little darling to do —kiss your foot?”
“William .Tames”: In Egypt, on March 1,
1916, the 4th and sth Divisions were
formed; 500 veterans marched away from
the original 16 battalions, and in their
place came 500 recruits, many of whom had
the vaguest notion of rifle exercises, and
none at all of guard duty. Pte. Newcome
was the sentry on a certain quarter-guard;
he challenged the field-officer of the day
correctly, but on receiving the reply “Grand
Rounds,” instead of turning out the guard
for inspection he went through some amazing
evolutions with his rifle, finally coming to
rest with butt on ground, and his chin
Testing lovingly on the muzzle. “What the
Devil are you doing?” asked the bewildered
F.O. Pte. Newcome was nettled. “Well,
you said ‘Ground arms,’ didn’t yer?”
As Australia’s war-historian Bean re-
cently stated, great care is
being taken of the graves of
the Commonwealth’s dead
soldiers in alien lands.
Already 7000 photographs
of mounds in France and
Belgium have been sent to
relatives of the men who
sleep there. Unlike other
nations, Australia is raising
a cross in memory of every
one of her sons who fell,
whether bis body has been
found or not. Also, the men
who, on their way to one or
other battle-zone* died on
transport are to have
memorials in the cemetries
adjacent to the field of their
objective. Demobilised Dig-
gers will have these ceme-
teries in their charge, which is as the silent
Diggers would wish.
Before the centenary of the auld Scots’
kirk on Church Hill (Sydney) can be
celebrated in 1924, the dour building will be
of the past, as the church authorities have
decided to erect a Presbyterian Hall upon
the site. There is a legend that under the
pulpit the body of a brother of Dr. Lang
awaits the Resurrection.
* * * *
By the office herald and pursuivant: —
The Leinster family seems about due to be dis-
qualified from the Duke business for insufficient men-
tality and lack of “lawful visible.” It dates back
to the days of John, the sovereign who had a palace
on the Isle of Dogs, among other things. He made
the first of the clan Baron of Offaly. Next the head
of the family became Earl of Kildare, and at one
time it wasn’t certain whether the Earl or Henry
VII. ran the country. Henry got out of the trouble
by making Kildare his agent. A recent duke died by
violence —on account of too many ill-gotten girls,
some said. He had a habit of offering to take out part
of the rent in girls. His son, the present duke, is a
childless person of weak intellect, and is said to
have once come to Australia to visit a relative who
lived at Riddell’s Creek (Vic.). The fact of the lela-
tive living at Riddell’s Creek suggests a desire for
concealment. The gorgeous property is alleged to be
still worth £45,000 a year, and the heir-presump-
tive sold his chance of it for 18 months’ purchase
( £67,500) and had a royal time with the money.
Nosv the Bankruptcy Court has swallowed him up.
He is Lord Edward Fitzgerald, the last of the
brothers possessed by the duke with insufficient intel-
lect. As he has children the tarnished dukedom may
survive, but apparently the family, after having the
hereditary roof of Offaly over its head for Gl4 years,
may have to hang out permanently at Riddell's
Creek.
♦ * * *
“Wandewoi”: Steamer thieves (B.
27/2/T9) haven’t anything to learn from
the birds who float round the Y.M.C.A. and
other buffets and rest-houses in London.. In
those places the careful and sober Digger
always puts the legs of his bed in his boots
prior to retiring, and sleeps on, or in, all his
other clobber; otherwise he would parade
without them next day. This thief’s confrere
of the nob-spinning fraternity is also fierce.
Although they get “stoushed up” regularly,
they come again. Many Diggers will re-
member one at Hurdcott who used to average
a couple of hidings daily, but still wouldn’t
turn the game in.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Like Melbourne, Wellington
(M.L.) and a lot of other places, Brisbane
is going under an alius. When the settle-
ment was started in 1824, it was named
Edinglassie—said to have been suggested by
Chief Justice Forbes (N.S.W.). A few
weeks later Surveyor-General Oxley adopted
the alias out of compliment to Governor
Brisbane.
“Fore-and-Aft” : The biggest vessel turned
out in the Speck’s 100-odd years of ship-
building was launched at Hobart the other
day for Jones, the Jam King, and christened
Amelia J. She is a 000-ton three-masted
schooner, built mostly of Tasmanian timber,
and if the shipping strike lasts long enough
she will make a pound or two in the trade
between Tas. and the mainland. In gen-
eral she will carry timber. As far back
as 1823 Tasmanian shipbuilding got an advt.
from Earl Bathurst, Secretary for the
Colonies. Governor Brisbane had asked
that a couple of 200-ton brigs might be
bought and sent to Sydney for the service of
the colony. Bathurst told him to build them
in Port Jackson, and hinted that if Sydney
was too tired or stupid, Hobart Town, in
V.D.L., could do the job. For 30 or 40
years after that shipbuilding flourished in
the Speck, and Ocean-going barques and
ships up to 500 tons were turned out by the
dozen. Most of the Hobart Town whalers,
which worked as far afield as Kerguelen
Land and the Crozets. were built on the Der-
went or dow T n the Huon. The last big
sailer before the Amelia J. was the barque
Loongana, launched at Hobart in 1879, and
lost amongst the Line Islands some years
ago. Since then the shipbuilders have
filled in time with the mosquito fleet.
* * * *
Melbourne is losing no time in helping
the poor Hun back into business. A client
of the Argus offers this leg-up:—
Player l Piano required, for Masonic Lodge; Ger-
man maker preferred.
“The captains and the kings depart”; and
the good Masonic intentions race them off
the premises.
‘‘Snell” : The poet scarcely ever forgot to
call on me when he was fu’ the noo. No
matter how late at night it might be. lie
must look me up. He almost invariably
borrowed a book before leaving. He would
glance my bookcase over, fish out some de-
sirable-looking volume, and express an over-
whelming wish to read it. He then took it
off in his pocket, and 1 never saw it again.
Came the day when he cast a covetous eye
on my lately-acquired “Dorian Grey,” bound
in grey board and vellum, sprinkled with
fleurs-de-lis, Wilde’s own design. “I’ve never
had a chance of reading it,” said the poet,
handling the book lovingly. “You shall have
it back within a few days. You know a
good book is sacred to me.” He went away
with my prize. This was on Saturday. On
the Monday morning l discovered a copy of
Wilde’s “Dorian Grey” in the window of the
little second-hand shop at the tram terminus,
marked ss. I went in. “The chap that
sold it to me wanted 7s. for it,” the book-
seller explained, “lie said there was a half-
daft feller would he in offerin’ me half a
guinea for it first thing this mornin’. llut
1 thought five bob plenty.” I bought the
book. Of course it was my copy.
* * * *
The yarn of a senior officer: —
“Plain Digger” doesn’t tell the whole story (B.
7/8/’l9). When Foch “guaranteed” Amiens he
sent all five Australian divisions to the rescue, the
First, which was in the line astride the Ypres-
Comines Canal, going south as soon as relieved by
two shattered Tommy divisions from the sth Army.
When Fritz broke through up north a few days later
Plumer shouted loudly for Aussies, and the First
Divvy was sent north again. At Hazebrouck, bat-
talions moved off from the troop-trains with ad-
vanced guards to gain contact with the Hun, whose
whereabouts were unknown, and with o. ders to hold
the town at all costs. They sat down on the Strazeele
Ridge and lived in luxury, the deserted farms yield-
ing calves, sucking-pigs, ducks and fowls, and the
villages wine in profusion. I’ve seen 60 fowls
hanging round a company cookhouse plucked; ready
for the mid-day meal. Every company had at least
one cow until things settled down, when they were
collected and handed over to the Mission Frangais.
The elaborate system of divisional baths was by
this time miles behind the Boche lines, so when a
Digger wanted a change of raiment all he could do was
to go into a deserted house and help himself. I have
seen a whiskered hero wearing a dainty what-d’ye-
BAFFLED.
THE MOUSE: “Well, that's peculiar—Eve
been here five minutes, and I can't (jet a
scream out of her!"
call-it trimmed with blue ribbon in lieu of a shirt,
and garments even more intimate were pressed into
the service of man. The Division was in the line
for four months continuously, harassing Fritz all
the time, driving him back a mile and taking over
1000 prisoners in minor stunts. When at the end
of July it was found that German storm-troops
were holding the line, showing that Fritz had no
men to spare for an attack on the Channel ports,
it was decided that the Aussies weren’t wanted there.
Within three days the First Divvy was hurrying
south for the big move on August 8
BALLADE OF REASONABLE RELUCTANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The gentleman who occupies the bed
Upon my left imagines he’s at sea;
lie calls upon the Lord to strike him dead,
Then bellows for the stewaid lustily;
The mournful cove gave up the ghost at three
H ho used to lie and groan upon my right;
The undertaker’s waiting now for me —
1 don’t think 1 would like to die to-night.
I wish they’d bore a hole behind my head
To set the boiling water in it free;
1 wish the sheets were not so fiercely red ;
I wish they’d let me have a cup of tea.
Though demons tear my lungs in fiendish glee,
And hateful visions prey upon my sight,
I’ll Leat the coffin-maker for his fee—
-1 don’t think I would like to die to-night.
1 heard the dismal wo.ds the doctor said
When with the matron, buzzing like a bee ;
But to the world I’m honorably wed,
And mean to fight ’gainst the proposed decree.
Though creditors await their £ s. d.,
And gas cos. seek to raise the price of light,
And Hughes is coming home, I would not flee —■
I don't think 1 would like to die to-night!
L’Envoy.
Lord, Thou who made the germ and such as we,
Who (aught the lark to sing, the flea to bite—
If it would make no difference to Thee,
I don't ihink 1 would like to die to-niglit!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


MEGGITT LIMITED Guarantee Satisfaction
V
o
/
A
')
2J
mx.
\
Cvw
Because their Genuine and Pure Linseed Oil has No Superior.
It is scientifically treated throughout the entire process by good Australian workmen at
Parramatta; is well tanked, filtered, and must satisfy our rigid laboratory tests.
Gives satisfaction for all classes of work where quality is demanded.
CATALOGUE NO. 2 MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents: Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Messrs. W. Adams & Co., King Street, Perth; Messrs. Clarkson Ltd., Bundle- Street, Adelaide; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and
Hobart; or
MEGGITT LTD.
WORKS: PARRAMATTA.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia),
26 Ring Street, SYDNEY
UNSraaiMEU
m
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.


Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/6 per day, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002.
Apply Manager.
Fencing Wire
OALVANISED-
No. 8 Gauge, £JQ
per ton.
No. 10 Gauge, £J2
per ton.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St. f Melbourne.
King George IV
IYIIW JR WHISKY
n
the'TOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES - LINSEED OIL
“Parhassius” : Here’s another way to get
the hair off wallaby skins and make leather. Quarter
fill a kerosene tin with slack lime or dead carbide
and fill with water. Put in the skin and leave for a
day or two, keeping it well stirred. The hair will
then come off as it does from a scalded pig. Wasli it
well in weak vinegar to neutralise the alkali, chop
up some wattle-bark, pour boiling water over it, and
when cool dip the skin in and keep it there. In a
week or two, according to the strength of the bath,
you will have a beautiful piece of leather. Wash
it well with soft soap and work till dry.
UNAPPRECIATED KINDNESS.
"'Oo give yer the black age?"
"One uv the Diggers. 'E come 'ome of a
sudden an' copped me wiv 'is girl. An’
I on’y used to take 'er down of a
evenin' to the newspaper shop to see if
'e wuz killed or not.”
“Hay”: “Jim Carew” (B. 3/7/T9) in-
quires if any Abo.-writer ever saw a properly-tamed
dingo. I have been acquainted with two. Hot far
from Lake Frome many- years ago, and remote from
any settlement, a dingo pup was brought in from the
bush and reared. There was no question as to his
being a pure dingo. It was in the days when sheep
were shepherded, and it often happened that a small
mob was dropped from a flock. In that event the
man in charge had only to put the dingo on their
HE'D MENDED MACHINES BEFORE TO-DAY.
'"Ere. Bill, his engine's gone hung. Go and get that fencin' wire off the plough, and
I'll fix it up for him."
tracks, and a horseman could follow him at a canter.
The dog would go after the sheep with his nose to
the ground and never stop till he found them.
Then he would help to drive them back, never push-
ing or biting. He was of a most friendly disposi-
tion, and, though brought up amongst other dogs,
never lea nt to bark. The other dingo was trained
on a station farther south, and was one of the most
amiable animals imaginable. He was usually kept
tied by- a ring to a long wire strained between two
stumps, and spent his time racing up. and down
looking for some one to play with. He never
barked, and would have been allowed his liberty
only for his appetite for poultry.
*** ■ *
“Jayruac”: This is the njodest load that
Willie Powell d agged into Tumut (N.S.W.) re-
cently per horse and sulky—lo 3 fox skins, 601 b.
rabbit skins, can of cream, box of butter, ditto
prunes and sundries. In vacant crevices he inserted
himself and a hundred-weight of turnips. The value
of the bush ca go was about £lOO.
“T.0.M.”: If you want a clean pipe go
into the kitchen and ask the cook for the essence
of vanilla bottle. Then chase a bird till you get
a feather. Pour a few drops of the essence into the
bowl, and run the feather down the stem. P.S. —-
Don’t empty the drops back into the bottle.
* * * *
“Gougcr”: Up our way the niggers move
with the times. Lately some of the “boys” returned
from a beehe-de-mer cruise, and a week later, on a
moonlight night, the whole cruise was
portrayed in pantomime on a small flat
in the river bend. The orchestra con-
sisted of half a dozen gins, who kept up
in perfect time a booming, drum-like
sound by clapping their hands down
smartly between their thighs. The
cutter’s ere\v, young bucks, much painted,
went through the motions of hauling up
the anchor, unfurling sails, diving for
the sea-slugs, cleaning and drying them,
etc. —right through the experiences of
the recent voyage from beginning to end.
If a boy has a trip away from the tribe,
if it’s only 12 months in gaol, when he
returns he relates his experiences and
straight away the tribal stage-manager
draws out the designs, and the play is rehearsed and <
produced to the entire satisfaction of the tribe,
except for a disgruntled critic or two.
“Huffin-Guflin” : If I were after the best
timber for mauls 1 would not pass by a chunk of
good old seasoned wattle. A lump of the samc-
adjectived redgum is not too bad, either; but
there’s a lot in making the maul, fitting the rings
and using it. For a handle, give me a 3ft. length
of the trunk of an old-man light-wood (or is it
black-wood?) tree and I’ll split and carve out of
it as many handles as one man will need in a life-
time —if he hits his wedges square. To keep the
business ends of a maul worn evenly my' old dad
reversed the handle periodically', and if anybody
removed the covering of a sheet of bark from hi 3
maul after knock-off time, and the maul got wet
thereby—Well, there was trouble !
“Cicada”: “Romney (B. 17/7/T9), writ-
ing re a patent sheep-lick, made some cocksure and
incorrect statements. The blowfly plague is not a
sheep disease in the way that he suggests. It is
a reaction on the greed of the sheep-breeders who
over-developed their merino sheep until they pro-
duced a skin composed of many wrinkled folds to
grow an ever-increasing fleece (the Vermont strain)
and an extra supply of strong-smelling yolk, which,
when wet or tainted with filth on the outside (the
outer surface of the fleece), sets .up a smell that
attracts all kinds of carrion-blowing flies. They,
thinking it suitable food for their maggots, drop their
eggs or living larvae. The statement that blowflies
only infest the wool of diseased or sick sheep is all
nonsense, as every squatter knows by bitter experi-
ence. When flies are bad and the season suitable, in
the height of summer, when all feed is dry, the most
healthy and sound sheep a e just as subject to the
attention of the blowflies as the most sickly sheep
if their wool becomes wet and tainted through the
decomposition of urine and yolk. The man who says
that healthy sheep are never fly-blown either does not
know what he is talking about, or he is interested
in the sale of some simple compound placed on the
market under some high-sounding name as a sheep-
lick or sheep-dip, and alleged to cure everything.
* * * *
“Allanbie” : What is a hogget ? Speaking
from the woolclassers’ point of view a sheep is
a hogget up to the time it appears on the shearing-
board, usually at the age of 15 to 18 months.
Whether it has been shorn as a lamb or not, up
till that age the fleece shows characteristics that
are not seen in the fleece of older sheep. The age
of a hogget is often varied to suit the purpose of
interested persons whether buying or selling, and an
official decision by sheep-breeding associations would
save endless disputes on the subject.
* * * *
“O. Cripes” : Joe Ayrshire, finding his herd
increasing and labor difficult to obtain, decided to
press his matrimonial suit as a way out of the diffi-
culty. So he wrote :
Dearest Edith,- —It is some time since my last
letter, but I have been ever so busy. I am now milk-
ing 23, and with your help and the assistance of the
Almighty I hope to be able to increase the number
to 30. —Jok.
Edith replied briefly:—
Dear .Joe, —I am pleased to hear of your progress,
but would advisp you to stick to the Almighty, for
1 cannot milk all.— Sincerely yours, Edith.
“FY7”: Where did “Azac” (B. 24/7/19)
discover the breed of emu which is obliging enough
to stand still and let a dingo scratch a bare place
in the feathers to get in his bite? The bailed-up
emus I’ve met are not that sort. When the indig-
nant fowl lias had enough of sprinting he rounds on
his pursuers and the forward and downward stroke
of. his leg is worth watching. The tip of the claw
Will rip a dog open. The hold used by the sophis-
ticated dog on, the emu is the one he employs on
the- kangaroo— at the thigh, from behind. Held this
wpy, neither emu nor ’roo can hurt the attacker.
Young dogs overtaking an emu invariably grab the
bobbing bustle of loose feathers in front of their
noses —the dogs’ noses, not the emu’s. When the
concussion has worn off and they haver coughed up
the feathers and gravel they let father do it.
* * * *
“G. 8.” : The other day there was a mob
of about 4000 sheep grazing at Pekina Creek, near
Quorn (S.A.). At one part, where the banks are very-
steep, the head of the mob tried to cross, and fell
to the bottom. The mob, nevertheless, followed its
leader, 104 committing suicide, and hundreds more
would have done the same had not the piled up
bodies made a more-or-less safe landing place for
the tail-end.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE GREAT FISH STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sat on a forgotten stone
Beside a scarce-remembered sea,
And heard the waves in solemn tone
Counting from twelve to twenty-three.
Splash after splash 1 hea d it pour—
It never got to twenty-four.
“Thirteen, fourteen,” I heard it sound ;
“Fifteen, sixteen,” and then a lull.
At “twenty” little pebbles round
Complained that things were getting dull.
Wave twenty-three was softly green :
And then the next one called “Thirteen!”
It was the saddest kind of song
I ever heard the water sing.
The count was absolutely wrong
By evidence that I could bring.
I told the sea it was a fool,
And urged it to go back to school.
The water seemed to snarl and grin.
It splashed a bubble at my feet;
And then I heard the thing begin
It’s “Thirteen, fourteen” to repeat.
On that forgotten stone I sat
And called the spitting sea a cat.
And then the lady came in sight.
Her beauty took my breath away.
Her hair was lovely as the night;
Her smile much fairer than the day.
She stood upon a wisp of sea
And said, “Did you refer to me?”
“To you?” I cried. “Oh, whiting’s scales,
Oh, murmurous mirth of wind and sky !
I swear it was this bed of whales
That moved my wrath ere you came by.
You are the most uncatly thing
That ever bard could love or sing!”
“Then that’s all right,” she softly sighed;
“Now we can come to business straight.
Don’t mention this absurd old tide ;
Its methods are quite out-of-date.”
I said, “I’m absolutely sick
Of it, and its arithmetic.”
She said, “I am in need of cash.”
I gently murmured, “So am J.”
She wept. I saw her white hand dash
The gathered moisture from her eye.
“Then I perchance can have my wish,”
She cried. “Great soul, can you sell fish?”
A strong emotion at that wo.d
Filled all my breast with eager fire.
I said, “The question is absurd ;
To sell it is my heart’s desire.
Here at the budding of the Spring
I would sell any blessed thing.”
Ah, now she smiled in sweeter light!
She lightly stept from sea to shore—
“ We’ll fix the little scheme all right!
'the sea is aged, dull and hoar,
But it is deep and very wide
And all the fish are fresh inside.”
She whispered details in my ear.
Her breath was musical and hot;
And when her meaning grew quite clear
I think I simply said, “Great Scott!” —•
Her mouth was like a poppy bloom—
“ Where can we get a sample-room ?”
I ran, and shouted as I ran,
I danced wild capers to and fro.
Soul of my mother’s frying-pan !
A scheme like this was bound to go.
I found a trusty millionaire
And offered him a thirteenth share!
We bought the landscape far and wide,
A thousand acres wild and free,
The while the angry growling tide
Was spitting like a cat at me.
Its wrath I did not mark or heed
Knowing we held that title-deed.
At dead of night there came a sound,
A sound of rustling scale and fin ;
Across the creeping ocean’s bound
Cavo ting fish began to spin;
They spun, they span, they danced with glee
After the millionaire and me.
A thousand acres white with fish
Were there to greet the morning sun,
All lively as a heart could wish,
Offered at eighteen-pence a ton !
The buyers came from near and far
In tram and boat and motor-car.
The town went mad. The wonder grew.
Vast freezing works in haste were built.
Each night the long hill bathed in dew
Beheld the wealth the ocean spilt;
And every morning saw at five
The lady of my dreams arrive.
Like partners true we shared the cash;
Our wealth was such as fools desire;
And then we grew a little rash,
And thought that we could play with fire.
“This fishing venture rather stales,”
I said, “Now let us deal in whales.”
Oh, she was sweeter than the song
Of peaches on a summer tree 1
She simply said, “We can’t go wrong;
The whales and all belong to me.”
“Dear heart,” 1 cried, “you call them in.
Fresh whales will sell like hot-cross sin!”
Like mountains moving in the night,
A hundred thousand whales arrived ;
And, romping homeward with delight,
Upon our land the swarm had hived
Before the people were aware
The sea had all that oil to spare.
A city sacked by angry foes
Makes no such c y as rent the sky
When, leaving jazz and tickle-toes,
The eager merchants thronged to l uv
Whole whales, full blubbered tail and crown,
At tiro-pounds-five apiece, cash down.
Oil! Here was oil to fill all lamps
From Finisterre to Easter Isle,
To meet the wants of courts and camps
And farms and fleets for quite a while.
The world was filled with splendid hope
Of cheaper candles, wax and soap J
One kind indulgent father bought
A whale as play-mate for his son.
lie thought the thing could soon be taught
To dive for apples or a bun.
He dragged it down the garden path
And stalled it in the swimming-bath.
And still they came and on they came,
The live whales rolling on the dead,
In distant vales without a name;
Then cursed the noses on their head —
No matter what the price of oil
No one could stay that smell to boil.
And where was she whose mighty word
Both shark and whiting paused to hear?
Could she not stay the march absurd
Of whales that filled the land with fear?
Where had her glowing beauty gone
While that stupendous stench was on?
Alas, that I should tell the tale,
Sitting on this forgotten stone 1
Alas, alas, that love should fail
And leave its victim sad and lone!
That sweet one, fickle, false and fair
Eloped with my tame millionaire!
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


WJi
'
o
Sl7
0
CHAPPELL
Mignon Grand
A perfect example of the
British Piano-maker’s
art Used in the lead-
ing Conservatoria and
Musical Colleges in
Great Britain.
BEHNING
Sheraton Grand.
Possesses a remarkably
full and resonant tone
of liquid purity and
resonance, and a touch
which is perfection it-
self. Undoubtedly an
artist’s Piano.
SAIVIES
Boudoir Grand.
A small and compact
Grand eminently suit-
ed for the home where
space is limited. The
Durability of this in-
strument is assured.
BRITISH MADE.
BEHNING
Boudoir Grand.
An ideal instrument for
those who appreciate
artistic excellence of
tone and responsive-
ness of touch. Superbly
finished, justthe Grand
an artist would love.
CHAPPELL
Bijou Grand.
This highly artistic in-
strument is finished in
Sheraton style and is
noted for its chaste
design and pure sing-
ing-tone quality.
Touch is perfection.
Any of these glorious instruments may be purchased on Easy Time Payment
Catalogues free. Please write for one.
w.
o & Co. Ltd,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, NEWCASTLE and LISMORE.
Australia’s Favorite 2-stand Shearing' Plant—
The Iwopefo Little Wonder.
A Remarkable Combination of Higb
Quality, Completeness and Low Price
It has successfully settled the Crutching and Shearing
problem for more than 1000 woolgrowers in Australia.
LET IT DO THE SAME FOR YOU!
MOUNTED ON A LORRY, with Everything
Ready for INSTANT WORK, for only
£65 Portable, or
£55 Stationary.
An Ideal Plant for Crutching and Shearing from 500 to 5000 Sheep.
Comprises a High-grade 2-b.h.p. Tank-cooled Engine, fitted with
.Magneto, Automatic Lubricators, etc.
It is free from vibration, and there is unlimited room for Shearers.
A boy can start and run it, with our book of instructions, without di -
cultv The Power Grinder includes Glue, Emery and all extras.
Handpieces are our latest model, which have made a name in Australia
-for lilht running and LOW COST OF UPKEEP never before equalled.
The lorry includes wheel chocks, tarpaulin and tool-box, as shown.
Made in one quality only —THE HIGHEST.
Sold at one price only—THE LOWEST.
WritP for Illustrated Catalogue, giving full particulars.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
134 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY. - 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
There are far more
Little Wonders in use
than all other Portable
Plants Combined.
51
<rw
w
/in


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COFFINS ST.. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSFAND BRANCH—
E. S. Sc A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGFE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH .»USTKAFIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIFDING, GREN-
FEFF STREET, ADEFAIDE.
m*»sg
w-
zxc
xc
xz
c
xc
xzc
xzc
xzc
MIUK
a
a
/
VV
LX
OUMTYRE BR?:
xzc
Our Delicious Chocolates —
FUSSY GIRL
Fancy Boxes.
FUSSY CAKES
Vanilla, Nut and Nut .Milk.
OTHER EXCLUSIVE LINES
IN FANCY BOXES—Louise
(very large), Sepia, You’re in
Love, Tableaux and Birthday.
Equal to Best Imported.
CONFECTION IN PERFECTION.
Wholesale only—
McINTYRE BROS., Melbourne.
Inter-State Agents:
DAVID BLASHKI, Pitt Street, Sydney.
MADDOX & LAURENCE, Perth
J. P. WILSON LTD., Brisbane.
W. R. LANCSFORD, Adelaide.
“Azac ’: To ascertain the live weight of a
beast, square the girth in inches ( i.e multiply the
figure obtained by itself), multiply the result by the
length of the beast in inches, and divide the figure
thus obtained hv 7344. This gives the live weight
in stones (141 b.). In measuring the beast, the
length is taken straight along the hack from the
square of the shoulder to the square of the buttock
and the girth immediately behind the shoulder.
Approximately three-sevenths of the live weight of
butcher’s beast is offal, i.e., every 141 b. of live, weight
will yield 81b. of dead meat.
* * * •
“P.”: Lieut-Col. Henry, M.R.C.V.S., of
N.S.W. Agricultural Department, comes from France
with the next verse of the Song of the Aussie Horse:
The first winter we were over there we were on the
Somme, and our horses had practically no shelter.
1 hey were standing fo quite a long time in about
2ft. of mud; the ration was low, and the cold was
•such that we did not know how we endured it. The
horses stood it very well, and 1 am convinced that,
for general utility, the heavy draughts from Australia
were as good as any in the field, notwithstanding
the very different conditions under which they had
been reared.” As to the relative merits of breeds
for heavy army draught work, Henry passes tin-
oats to the Clydesdale, which does better under hard
conditions than the Shire, and is much more active
than the Percheron and the Belgian heavy draught.
The Percheron is a fine worker as the French fanner
uses him, but Henry doesn’t think he would suit Aus-
tralian conditions as well as the Clydesdale.
* * * *
“Waclter”: Tell “Pick” (B. 17/7/T9)
that 1 have seen the Angora rabbit caught in a trap
set at the mouth of an ordinary burrow. This was
in the Ri\erina, about midway between Wagga and
Albury. the little beast tallied with the description
of “Pick’s” rabbit, only the fur w-as nothing like
3 in. long. We called them Frenchies, because their
hair pointed towards the head instead of lying flat
and directed to the rear, as in other animals.
* * * #
“Maid Marian”: I had gone to bed at the
hotel at about 11, and about two in the morning
woke to find myself in a pair of strong arms. It
wasn’t quite so formidable as it sounds, because most
of the bedclothes were up there with me. I was
the kernel of a considerable bundle of bedding.
Naturally 1 made a loud noise. The room was not
dark, and I saw that the face above mine was that
of a stranger over-run with whiskers. I spoke up ;
I asked to be restored to my proper footing. I
talked briefly of the police. Then understanding
came to the dim intellect behind the whiskers.
“Cripes!” said my captor, “I’m in the wrong
room.” He restored me to my bed. He even
straightened the quilt before he bolted. At the
door he paused and gulped: “I beg your pardon,
lady ; I made a mistake.” He fled, ca efully closing
the door after him. He was really the most polite
man I have ever met, all things considered. You see,
while I lay thinking it over I discovered that the
hotel was on fire t
ENGINE TROUBLE.
FIRST AMATEUR (to second ditto ): “For
God's sake, man, hop out and give 'er a
swing over!"
“Paul Cupid”: This is how to dehair and
tan wallaby skins. Remove the hair first by steeping
the pelts in lime-water for 48 hours. Then scrape
the fur off. If you’re not in a hurry put them in
a weak bath of wattle-bark liquid. After a week
change them into a stronger bath. At the end
of another week change into a liquid as strong
as possible. Thus in 21 days the skins will have
turned into leather. If you’re in a hurry adopt
IT TAKES THE INK BETTER.
HEBE: "Had no lunch, eh? Silly boy! Don't yon find it harder to draw on an empty
stomach?
THE CARTOONIST: “Well, certainly, I prefer Bristol board."
the lightning- process. First soak pelts for an hour,
and then let them drain. Put'a quart of bran in
4gals. of water (boiling). When the soup is about
lukewarm pop the skins in and keep them stirred
about for 20 minutes. Take them out, dry in the
shade, pull and stretch well while drying, and you’ll
have them as soft and pliable as the cheek of /your
first lover.
* * * #
“Kell B.”: Let me applaud “John Diay-
man’s” (B. 10/7/’l9) excep-
tional horsesense re the slope-
headed galoots who flog a jibber
in the middle of a pulling
spasm “to keep the cow going.”
At the Eight-hour Day Sports
in Orange (N.S.W.) last Janu-
ary one driver of a jib (in the
tradesmen's cart turnout) handled
the nag with a gentle per-
suasiveness when it wouldn't
gee; but no sooner did it start
off well than he laid on as
hard as he could with the whip
—presumably to punish it for
changing its mind. At a station
not 10 miles from Wallendbeen
I saw a hulking ex-sailor spoil-
ing good horses by the same
stupidity. A young Australian
lad with him was encouraged to
flog one horse when the remain-
der of the team were halted.
M hen I asked him what kind
of Hun folly he was engaged in
he replied: “I'll learn the cow
to pull!” I got a jib to pull
once by putting a lolly in its
mouth. The explanation is sim-
ply that the strange taste of
the sweet took the horse’s mind
away from its jibbing stunt,
and off it went. But this, like
any other trick, is not a cure.
It is only a temporary ex-
pedient. I've dealt with more
jibs than 1 like to remember,
and the principle indicated by
“John D.” is the only one of
practical .value —to let a horse
understand that to do his work
is the only way to ensure peace.
Why in the name of sense
should not the Education De-
partments give weekly lessons
to boys (or men) who wanted
to excel in horsemanship, and
award certificates which would
enable employers to place some Confidence in a
driver?
• * -» *
“\Y.”: Me and Bill were on leave in
Blighty. We hopped into a “boozer,” and Bill, who
come from B.inanaland, winked at me and said, “I'll
put one up on the bride serving.” When she asked
our drinks Bill said, “Mine’s a virgin lubra, please
miss.” Without a word she reached down a bottle
of squareface, poured out his nip, replaced the bottle
(they don’t let you handle the bottle in Blighty).
Bill nearly dropped dead. It turned cut that she’d
pulled beer up “Rocky” way. Bill and her got
friendly afterwards.
“Barcoo”: Apropos Judge Bevan's diffi-
culty in getting a definition of “hogget.” “Werri-
mee” (B. 17/7/’l9) remarks that everywhere he has
been a sucking sheep is a lamb, and from then up to
the age of 17 to 20 months the animal is a hogget.
I haven’t found it so. After a lamb is weaned, at
about from five to seven months, it is a weaner. On
up-to-date stations weaning time and shearing time
synchronise, and the lamb’s overcoat when removed
at that age is known to the t ade as lamb’s wool,
and the bartered animal after being pelted down
the shoots is referred to as a weaner till its first
birthday (12 months). After that it is catalogued in
all sale-lists as a two-tooth. Should the shearing
of the young sheep be delayed till the age of eight
to 10 months, or even 12 months, and the staple be
of only medium length, the wool would be classed as
vveaner’s, although as a term for wool “weaner” is
to be deprecated. Still, it is the only one applicable
to that stage when the young sheep’s fleece is
neither actual lamb's wool nor hogget’s fleece. Hog-
get wool is fleece wool still carrying its lamb tip
and of from 10 to 18 months’ growth.
Cry for help by urgent wire, reply paid:—
Notice “Bad Aust alian” (B. 17/7/T9) reports
having seen black rock-wallabies carrying twins.
Presume means wallabies trained domestic service.
Anxious procure one wallaby reasonable p ice take
charge our pair. Also willing pay good price cook-
laundress wallaby if procurable. Presume reliable.
Followers allowed. John Dishiugge, Anywhere.
“Azac”: While we’re wrangling over the
definition of a hogget, will somebody break away to
explain what is a wether? The question cropped up
at the recent Sydney sheep show. There was a class
for 10 export wethers, any age ; and the judge found
a pen of heavy withers over two years and a pen of
young crossbreds nine months to choose between. He
awarded the prize to the older sheep, but declined
to give second prize to the other pen, because, in his
opinion, the sheep were not wethers. The owner of
the young sheep disapproved, and entered a protest
in order to have the point settled. However, it was
discovered that there were only nine wethers in the
first-prize pen, and the conditions required 10. The
committee decided that the first-prize pen should he
disqualified, and although nothing has yet been done
in awarding the prize to the owner of the young
crossbreds, the opinion was expressed that he should
be given first prize in view of the disqualification,
ihus it would appear that, in the. judgment of
some sheepmen, a wether need only be nine months
old. Where are we now?
■***•*
“G.”: Apropos the Digger’s friend, “the
donk.” Melbourne Zoo has an unusual kind of mule, a
cross between a zebra and a donkey. In looks he favors
the donkey, though he has a few stripes, especially
about the legs. He is 20 years old and still lively.
In his palmy days one Professor Semple, who boasted
that he could sit anything with hair on, put in three
days trying to hold him, hut gave it best at last.
1 u ' } vhile we are speaking of the
old whalers and their “wives” (B. 5/6/’l9) does
anyone know what became of the half-castes on
Kanga oo Island? (’apt. Sutherland in 18‘>6 10
years before law-abiding settlers arrived, mentioned
that tlieie were x 40. men, women and childrtn. At
present there are but the descendants of one couple.
* *
“Pick”: Instruct “Leo Lear” (B. 24/7/,T9)
that almost any Australian hardwood with a wavy
gram will make a servicab’.e maul if properly shaped
and tinged with i on that has not been buttered on
the wedges. The head must be trimmed to allow the
nags a constant backward pressure as the wood is
burred up. An expert maulsmaii will never strike a
wedge on the ring. Even straight-grained timber, if not
of the brittle sort like ribbon-gum, will often wear
long if the maul is kept from weathering and justlv
treated when in use. Also, the maul handle should
fit perfectly' and tight, otherwise the timber will
be split into small sections and beaten inwards.
Many busliies favor for an everlasting maul-handle
a length of one-inch iron piping, or an old gun
barrel; but almost as durable, and much more
springy and less wearing on the hands, is a well-
seasoned and oiled lilli-pilli sucker.
* * * # *
“Riveriuii”: There are some oddities
amongst citrus f.uits and the family is larger than
most people are aware. Here at Yanco (N.S.W.) are
grown oranges (many varieties, hut chiefly navel and
Valencia), lemons (principally sweet-rinds), man-
darins (several varieties), comquats, citrons, shad-
docks (three kinds), grape-fruit (two kinds), poor
man’s oranges, Seville oranges, and a freak known as
the citraine, which was imported from Japan. The cit-
raine-tree is very handsome, with a beautiful blossom,
double the size of orange-blossom, and of the purest
white. What the Japs use the fruit for is the pro-
blem. It is ordinary orange size, but flattened, with
deep indentations in the rind, ma king the shape of
the “quarters.” Skin, pith and juice are of an un-
paralleled bitterness. One enterprising housewife
tried to “jam” it, and the result was appalling. It
took days to remove the taste.
“E.S.S.”: A big cedar-tree is a rich prize
these days, but getting it out of its jungle home
is not all joy. Leeches swarm over the bed of
decaying leaves and drop from drooping branches—
vampires that race with long strides for the intruder.
Men who work there wear watertight bluchers and tie
the bottoms of their trousers over the tops of the
boots. Huge ticks that bury themselves in the flesh
of man and beast; the cudgera (a small tick) that
fastens to the body in swarms and takes hours to
pick off ; mosquitoes that keep no regular hours, but
sting all day ; snakes that are hard to see in the
everlasting twilight—these, with stinging-trees and
lawyer-vines, are all in the day’s entertainment. But
there are compensations in the interesting bird and
plant life of the scrub.
HOPING FOR
THE WORST.
“ D'you know what I
done to the last bloke
that wouldn’t gimme what I asked 'im
fer? I burned ’is place down!”
“Oh, you bad man! I von’t give you no-
thing, too.”
“Roko”: When the Indian cane-planta-
tion laborer in Fiji does a murder, mutilation nearly
always follows. Tliana Singh does this deliberately
so that his victim will be ruled out of order by
Buddha. Struck a number of Indian murder cases
on plantations during a four years’ residence in the
tropical Fijian group, and was impressed by the
fact that in each instance (without a single ex-
ception) the executioner sub-edited his victim. The
favorite parts to be operated on are, in their order:
(1) fingers, (2) hands, (3) nose, (4) ears, (5)
arms, (6) legs.
* * *
“Jacko”: Though Kangaroo Island (S.A.I
is roughly 100 by 40 miles in area, and only nine
miles from the mainland, there are no animal pests—
not even the rabbit. Yet 40 years ago or there-
abouts there were any amount. Snakes and gohannas
are nothing to speak of either. What’s the ex-
planation?


ad
■o
r\
\
rx.
6*
/'
41
i
f
/
A
\
Ci^
\
sT#E(|PRttt
CIGARETTES
3 Something different —something better
than you have ever smoked before.”
® NUMBERS
P
O
XD
THE RED PACKET
FOR
c /n
©
'Absolc*
e/.
(yo
%
"V.
Cvx
6vc
SS
CIGARtt
?C>
'V
C C
6>-
O
SJ
WA\


Fi
EVERY Drop of
liearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA,
New South Wales
' Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY
/
A Plain
Fact!
N
T «Oo
ULES
6\J>
CROUP 7Y
/ / /
show a clear descent from Abraham, and
with Dashers and stern Covenanter-
Pharisees who prayed at street corners.
He played at. being a Tribune of the
People while things were working up to that
stupendous catastrophe about which
Josephus lied so magnificently.
He was an elderly man when the downfall
really came. Yet somehow I think that
Blastus, and his son Damnlus, and probably
his son-in-law Blightus were among those
who died valiantly “under shield” in the
final rally.
And that is how the theosaur is rebuilt
and made to walk abroad.
A question has been raised, by the way,
whether the solitary footprint which Robin-
son Crusoe found on his desert island and
the solitary footprint which Blastus leaves
in the New Testament are twin symbols,
and whether the former signified that the
ghost of the latter was still abroad. But
the matter is beyond me.
JAMES EDMOND.
Irish Drama
During the latter part of the eighteenth
century and the early years of the nineteenth
Dublin and Waterford were the great testing
ground of the English stage. The play or
the actor that made a hit there had a reason-
able chance of a London success. “The
Irish Players” from the Abbey Theatre
proved that a real genius for dramatic work
—the natural drama with a direct appeal
to heart and intellect —existed among Irish
people with no stage traditions and little
artistic opportunity. •In the light of these
facts it is curious that no drama is to be
found in early Celtic literature. The
nearest approach to such a thing, says
Douglas Hyde, is in the Ossianic poems:—
The dialogue between St. Patrick and Ossian — of
which there is, in most of the poems, either more or
less —is quite dramatic in its form. Even the reciters
of the present day appear to feel this, and I have
heard the conscious self-satisfied tone of Patrick, and
the querulous vindictive whine of the half-starved old
man, reproduced with considerable humor by a reciter.
But I think it nearly certain—though I cannot prove
it.—that in former days there was real acting and a
dialogue between two persons, one representing the
saint and the other the old pagan.
In a footnote he adds; “I once saw a letter
in an Irish-American paper by someone
whose name I forget, in which he alleged
that in his youth he had actually seen the
Ossianic lays thus acted.” So the modern
Irish tendency to seek expression in drama
has its roots far away in the days when a
Christian Ireland still looked back with
longing to stalwart pagan times.
D. M. W.
A Satchel of Books
A Naval Lieutenant, by “Etienne,” is a book that
can be recommended for five distinct reasons: (1) The
writer can w ite, which many writers can’t; (2)
he was in the war in and about the North Sea,
where most of the naval troubles lived, from the
first day of the disagreement to the last; (3) he
did service in a cruiser and a battleship and had a
brief experience in a submarine, so he saw various
aspects of the service; (4) his ship was in the thick
of things at Heligoland Bight, at the Dogger Bank
and at Jutland, so he has biggish events to relate;
and (5) he finished his book after the armistice,
when the Censor had to some extent gone home to
his ridiculous bed, and in consequence he speaks
more candidly than some previous writers were
allowed to do. One result is that the description
of the battle of Jutland is coherent and impressive.
The hole that Admiral von Scheer got into and got
out of are fully explained, and the account makes
Jellicoe’s strategy look at least reasonable. (Methuen
and Co., London.)
The great Russian Antarctic explorer Bellingshausen,
the narrative of whose Voyage is being published in
English, for the first time, by the British Admiralty,
visited Sydney twice in 1820. On his first visit he
stayed in port refitting from April 11 to May 19; on
his second he stayed from September 21 to November
1. From Sydney he went, after his second and l ist
visit, to Macquarie Island, and he gives the one
first-hand, account preserved of the life of the sea-
elephant hunters of that God-forsaken spot a century
ago. lie savs that the headman of the gang had
lived on the island for six years. At that time
there were 40 men on the island ; they lived largely
on sea-birds, the paws of the young sea-elephant, and
on the eggs of penguins and other birds, with
the Macquarie Island cabbage for a vegetable.
Chino-Japanese Treaties of 11)15 and The World
Peace ami Chinese Tariff Autonomy are two pathetic
pamphlets issued by “the Chinese National Defence
League in Europe.” They tell how China has been
forced for 70 years to admit British and other goods
almost free of duty, and to‘grant, foreign merchants
even better terms than native ones. And they tell
how China has been plundered by this one and
that, and how in 1915 Japan dropped on it with a
demand for concessions as far-reaching as those which
Austria demanded from Serbia, only without any dead
Japanese prince as an excuse. And China, not having
the capable and heroic army that little Serbia pos-
sessed, caved in. In fact, the pamphlets are an
appeal to the world to help a nation which doesn’t
help itself, and the world passes by on the other
side.—(Geo. Allen and Unwin, London.)
A Source Ilook of Australian History, by Gwendo-
len H. Swinburne, M.A. (G. Bell & Sons, London).
This is the Australian cont ibution to Bell’s series
of History Source Books; and no doubt it suffers
from the fact that we haven’t got a great deal of
history. Still Miss Swinburne takes us back to 1642
and Abel Jan Tasman’s “Journal of a Voyage made
from the town of Batavia in E. India for the dis-
covery of the unknown Southland.” “May God
vouchsafe His Blessing on this work. Amen,” the
old navigator piously added to his preface. No
collection of old records bearing upon our beginnings
could fail to be interesting; and perhaps it is
equally certain that no two people would make the
same collection if under the requirement to put it
all into 200 pages. The major difficulty is that,
setting out with the purpose of enabling the student
“to visualise past events,” the editor does not appa-
rently feel justified in condensing the records, and
giving us only the bones of the matter. Hence, after
all, comparatively few subjects that have a large
place in our history are traced to their source.
Apart from our wool and gold industries, there
is here practically no reference to the genesis of
the things by which we live; yet surely, for
instance, the birth of our iron and steel industry,
the beginnings of our irrigation, the start of our
manufactu es were worth attention. And what his-
tory of Australia could be complete without refer-
ence to either our Labor partv or our borrowing
policy? On the other hand it may be seriously
questioned whether Capt. Glossop’s lengthy account
of the sinking of the Emden or the Argus's de-
scriptive report of the opening of the first Common-
wealth Parliament should have a place in a History
Source Book. However, there is interest in the vol-
ume, though as an Australian Book of Genesis it has
so many chapters missing.
The Follies and Frauds of Spiritualism, by G. P.
Mann, announces itself as a counter-offensive to
Conan Doyle and Oliver Lodge. It tells some enter-
taining stories about the exposu.es of historic im-
postors. There was, for example, the unmasking
of “Dr.” Slade, the slate-writing medium, by
Truesdell. Truesdell discovered a slate in a corner
of the room containing a message already written.
He wrote under the first message the words: “Henry!
Look out for this fellow; he is up to snuff!
Alcinda.” (Alcinda was Slade’s deceased wife.)
Soon after Slade appeared and the seance commenced.
The spirits could be heard writing on the slate. “At
the conclusion of the writing the doctor raised the
slate and turned it over in a t iumphant manner,
when his eyes fell upon the two messages. Suddenly
turning to me, his countenance livid with rage and
excitement, he exclaimed: ‘What does this mean ?
Who has been meddling with this slate?’ ‘Spirits,’
I coolly replied.” Slade’s collapse into confession
was only a matter of seconds.
The Texan, by James B. Hendryx (G. P. Put-
nam’s Sons, through Dymock s). There are the usual
ingredients in this story of the cattle country;
but they are exceptionally well mixed, and the con-
fectionery is exceptionally well served. There is the
noble cowboy who was probably something else
once; the girl who wants to see life in the raw ;
the bad man, who is beaten at everything he tackles
by the noble cowboy ; the faithful half-breed. It
departs a little from the familiar recipe by the inclu-
sion of a noble Easterner ; and the girl has to choose
between him and the noble cowboy. The Texan is
really the sto y of the test; and there is good read-
ing in it.
The Inky Way
“R.S.V.P.” : Shortly before he went to
gaol Walsh, of the Seamen’s Union, was
orating at the Bijou about “unfair report-
ing.” Somebody in the audience remarked
that the reporters were unionists, where-
upon Walsh got off the ancient, malodorous
gibe that such journalists were “mental
prostitutes.” Typographers, printers’ opera-
tives and journalists are all affiliated nowa-
days for their mutual protection. Typo-
graphers and coalminers are affiliated with
one central body; and the seamen, who have
for many years carried coal in ships to
supply the power for the Argus printing
machines, also look to this body of fellow-
unionists for moral and financial support in
times of trouble. Yet the Walsh sort of
person publicly scarifies the journalist,
blinking the simple fact that the latter
couldn’t be articulate, no matter how hard
he tried to get his false reports into print,
unless the typographer-prostitute and the
seaman-prostitute did their essential bit to
make him so. Moreover and alas! the sea-
man prostitute didn’t go on strike, after all
these years of ignoble complaisance, because
he wanted to get back to the blessed path
of virtue. He struck because the wages of
his prostitution weren’t high enough.
“J. 8.”; Two Maorilanders are making a
name for themselves in Birmingham—J. A.
Macintosh and E. F. Hiscocks. Working-
together—Macintosh writing, Hiscocks
drawing—they are getting the llardware-
man and Ironmongers’ Chronicle talked
about.
Ex-Australian journalist E. C. Buley, one-
time editor of Northcliffe’s Weekly Des-
patch and author of “Glorious Deeds of
the Australians” and “A Child’s History of
the War,” has just had published, by Mills
and Boon (London), two sporting novels,
“Paddy Doran” and “Golden Barb’s Victory”
—both of better literary quality than most
sporting novels.
“Leva B.” (London) ; Harold Boas, the
young Perth architect who has been the
Jewish Y.M.C.A. rep. with the A.I.F. in
Franee and England, is busy here compiling
a record of the Digger Hebrews and their
share in the scrap. It will mention over
two thousand sons of Israel, from General
Monash to Pte. Bileam, who is reported
first in Chronicles.
“U.P.”; Mention was made in the Adel-
aide Register lately that an atlas of 1832
in the possession of W. A. Clutterbuck was
to be handed to the Public Library. But
it is modern compared with an atlas owned
by Mrs. Charles Manthorpe, also of S. Aus.
This one was printed by Cadell and Davies,
of the Strand, in 1802. Australia is shown,
but is merely marked: “Not Asia.” All the
southern coast is uncharted. A few gulfs
and promontories are shown on the east and
west coasts, but the only settlements men-
tioned are Botany Bay and Westemport. In
the map of Maoriland (Cook’s Land) the
north and south islands are called respect-
ively Eaheinomawe and Tavvia Poenami-
noo. A hemisphere map of Australia is in
the atlas, and there the name New Holland
appears. Tasmania is called Van Diemen’s
Land, and that name is also given to the
Northern Territory. The words “New South
Hales” are spread over all the east coast.
Southern Westralia is Lion’s Land ; a little
further north on the western coast is Edel’s
Land, and further north again is C. De
Witt’s Land.
“0.K.”: Every time an Anglican Church
parson bemoans a falling off in religious ob-
servance I am reminded of the Sabbath
adventures of Sam Pepys, the diarist, a con-
sistent stickler for respectability in an age
of reaction against Puritanism. Samuel
went to church almost as religiously as he
went to the theatre; and he left these re-
cords ;
a.d. 1667, May 26th (Lord’s Day).—My wife and
I to church, where several strange -s of good condi-
tion come to our pew. After dinner Iby water
alone to Westminster to the parish church, and there
did entertain myself with my perspective glass up
and down the church, by which I had the pleasure
of seeing and gazing at a great many very fine
women; and what with that, and sleeping, I passed
away the time till sermon was done.
August 20th. —We had a good haunch of venison,
powdered and boiled, and a good dinner. I walked
towards Whitehall, but, being wearied, turned into
St. Dunstan’s Church, where I heard an able sermon
of the minister of the place; and stood by a pretty,
modest maid, whom I did labor to take by the hand;
but she would not; but got further and further from
me; and, at last, I could perceive her to take pins
out of her pocket to prick me if I should touch her
again-—which, seeing, I did forbear, and was glad
I did spy her design. And then I fell to gaze upon
another pretty maid in a pew close to me ; and she
on me; and I did go about to take her bv the hand,
which she suffered a little, and then withdrew. So
the sermon ended, and the church broke up, and my
amours ended also.
The Christian world can’t have lost much
by a slow decline in the sort of religious ob-
servance whereof Sam Pepys was an earnest
and honored advocate. Better to stay at
home and brood on virtue than seek tempta-
tion among Sunday hats and furbelows.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Hamer”; “Dial-sight” (B. 24/7/’l9) did
not mention the worst about the Yids who
did business with the Digger on leave in the
vicinity of Horseferry-road, London. A feel-
ing prevailed that at least some of the men
employed in the clothing-issue store received
a subsidy from the pirates outside. The
man from France needed, and was entitled
to, a fresh issue of clothes, and the frequency
of unsatisfactory issues was certainly sus-
picious. The disgusted Digger who wanted
to make a good appearance while on leave
was practically driven into the shops of the
clothing sharks. In one or two of the estab-
lishments, also, there were girls who had
a habit of folding up a postcard or some
similar light literature intended to remind
him subsequently that he had made a con-
quest. If he bit he was due for some fur-
ther robbery. The threat of holding a second
Wazzir carnival in Horseferry-road in the
shops of the swindlers was often made, but
the aggrieved men were here to-day and gone
to-morrow, so nothing happened.
* # * *
“Obadiah Ren”: From an English paper’s
report of the Anzac Day parade through Lon-
don :
Experts in military etiquette were surprised to
see the Australians marching through the city with
fixed bayonets and flags flying, hitherto a privilege
reserved for the Grenadier Guards and one or two
other English regiments. Soldiers in the crowd were
comparing the free, swinging march of the Aus-
tralians with the regulation stiffness of the soldiers
of these isles, and looked at their splendid boots
with envy.
Australian-made men are rated as first-class
by the world since the war. Now Australian-
made boots get honorable mention. We are
marching on.
* * * *
“Wymac”; The Australian record price
for a bullock’s hide was reached at Brisbane
recently, when 31£d. per lb. changed hands
for a hide taken from a Manumbah station
Hereford. The green weight was 1151 b.; the
value, £9 14s. 6d. The Commonwealth’s pre-
vious best was 27d. per lb.
From an American lately returned to
Australia
Owing to their short summer and severe winter
the children of North-Western Canada gow to
maturity without knowing whether apples, peaches
and pears come on trees or are hatched. Yet you
will Be e more fruit on hotel tables in Manitoba or
Alberta in one week than you will in Australia in
three months, notwithstanding that it has all to be im-
ported—largely from British Columbia and Ontario.
The absence' of fruit from Australian tables is the
more extraordinary and deplorable because there
isn’t any settled part of the continent which won’t
grow fruit. I myself have just had from far-away
Bourke as fine o anges as can be grown anywhere.
Which recalls that 12 years ago I crossed the Pacific
with a Californian who had been out to the Darling.
He declared that there was no better country for
fruit-growing at home, and as a good Californian he
thanked God that the Australian was too feckless
to make use of his opportunities and become a
serious competitor. Changing the subject to vege-
tables, I paid Is. lOd. recently for a bottle of
gherkins. These were grown in South Carolina,
bottled in Pittsburg and forwarded to Sydney. That
meant I had to pay for about 2000 miles of train haul-
age and th ee times as much water carriage. Yet when
occasionally you can buy Australian-grown fruits or
vegetables in Australia you are made to feel sorry
for yourself. I lately bought a tin of peaches,
locally-grown, and paid Is. Id. for it. A tin of
the same size and as good quality could be bought
for from sd. to 7d. in California a year ago. What
is the matter? It certainly isn’t that the Govern-
ment hasn’t helped. My one-and-a-penny tin of peaches
came from a section on which about eight millions
of Government money has been spent; and without
hard, resolute work things would have been no better
had the State spent 20 millions.
* * * *
“G.L.D.”: “W. R. Crittenden” directs
attention (B. 3/7/T9) to the high returns
that sugar-cane growers are receiving
compared with other farmers. He points out
that the cane-planter gets twice as much
per acre as the wheat-grower. But this com-
parison is valueless unless you add the acre-
age which each kind of farmer can handle.
One wheat-grower, with a little assistance at
busy times, can work about 300 acres. One
cane-grower can work only 30 to 35 acres.
The sugar land would have a capital value
of £6O per acre; the wheat land £5 to £7.
There is, it will be seen, practically nothing
to choose between the two lines of "farming;
and if there is any profiteering in the sugar
business, the grower is certainly not gett-ng
the benefit of it.
THE CAPTAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Court of Inquiry into the loss of the Wim-
mera expressed its deep admiration of the conduct
of her captain in that, true to the sea-tradition, he
stood by till the end, and went down with his ship.
Since first horizons wide on
The chartless seas were spanned
By ships that sailed from Sidon,
Or keels by Tyre were manned,
Has run the law unaltered
From which no sailors bend—
Where ships storm-shattered faltered,
Their captains saw the end.
A ’berg on Death's dread mission,
A hell the night-tides send; ' L
But, steadied by tradition,
The bridge will see the end.
Just time for boats and orders,
Time for the last hand-grips,
Ere past the lonely borders
God’s pilot hails the ships.
And when from far sea byways.
Where ships link ends of earth.
Or'from the ancient highways
The boats win home to berth.
We hear, with heart-beats faster,
How men to gods come nigh
When ocean brings disaster,
And vain flares search the sky.
Oh, men on ships far riding
Across the evil sea
Greet” ye who, Death deriding,
Won immortality I
MAORILAND.
FERNLEAF.


-
- It H - * ;
• .- . *c
. •-. S'.s.
*rV 'V, r*?*?
- <
<;•• ■
■ :
n
. -
K ; > ‘ '-2
?.;■ . :
.
ss m
' :. Vv!
«/ ja
gchS
- H,
Goodyearite
The Most Efficient
Asbestos Packing
WHERE high pressure, super-heated steam or acid work are the
packing conditions to meet, engineers have found Goodyearite tne
most efficient asbestos packing to use. The exceptionally high
tensile strength, due to the superlative grade of asbestos used, eliminates any
risk of a burnout, blowout or squeezeout.
The common failures of ordinary rubber sheet packing are due to the fact
that they are designed for low-pressure steam but are used for super-heated
steam. The resulting blowouts have produced a powerful reaction in favor
of asbestos in sheet packing to resist the high temperatures common in
modern practice.
But many asbestos packings fail utterly when subjected to oil. The amount of rubber
binder employed to hold their short-fibred asbestos together cannot resist oil’s rotting
action.
Goodyearite not only withstands super-heated steam, but it withstands oil. It is made of
long-fibred rock asbestos requiring little binder material.
A sheet of Goodyearite 1/16 inch thick measuring 36 inch x 36 inch weighs approximately
6 lbs. and sells at 4/6 per lb. For your protection it is stamped Goodyear Goodyearite on
every two inches of packing.
Send to one of our branches for a sheet and we will explain the method of application
proved most satisfactory by experience. Here is an opportunity to prove our claim that
Goodyearite is the best High-pressure Asbestos Steam Packing on this market.
ELDER,
SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
PERTH.
- BELTI N G I
-
m
mm
m
mum
&SSBL*
Pa lves'-


xzc
Wool
Men!
Aerial transport may come.
But meantime Rail or Ship
your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney OR Brisbane. LTD.
If you must
rear baby by hand
adopt a food which approaches
most closely to Mother's Milk,
and which yields positive results.
Mellin’s Food is the tried and
proved equivalent to Mother's
Milk; its success is evidenced
by world-wide recommendation.
Simple to prepare; no tedious
cooking —it is alike a boon to
the nursing mother and satis-
fying to the child.
Metlin’s
Food
Writ* now for sample of MelHn's Food and
useful Handbook—‘The Care of Infants’—Free.
Then there’s his Bottle Mellin’s Feeding
Bottle is the perfect and simple Feeder.
MESSRS. GOLLIN CO. PROPRIETARY, LTD.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
All y Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Horrockses'
7”
WEAR
ASH
ELL
■
fl
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
COFFEE
lsiDOzS.un
\ V
For our sick and wounded
BOYS—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depdt, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
c
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
«=*)
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BH as;
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES- Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
A. W. LEWIS, 62 Broolunan Buildings
MERIT
In Fountain Pc:\s, as in everything
else, it is merit that tells, and that is
why the “ Swan ” has for a quarter
of a century gained every
year. When you buy a “Swan*
you know you have a guarantee of
excellence m workmanship, perfection
of detail, and that absolute reliability
which has been the consistent keynote
of “ Swan ” manufacture for a
generation.
"SWA PC
PENS
Sold by Staiioners and Jewellers E very where.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with Safety Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 12/6 Screw-on Cap, from 15/.
Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79-80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—
(Wholesale only) 225 a, George St. London Factory—
-319-329, Weston St., S.E. Associate House—Marne,
Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
ss
m «*
:
?
Australian Branch: J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
CHEMICALS.
OUIt business is primarily that of exporting American
chemicals —heavy and fine pharmaceutical products and dyes.
We are manufacturers of caustic soda, soda ash, chloride of
lime, carbon tetrachloride, bichromate of soda, epsom salts,
permanganate of potash and carbon bisulphide.
Pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals and drugs—standardised and
repacked in retail containers at our own plant.
Dyes—Our Pyramid Aniline Colors represent quality, not
cheapness.
Importers of raw materials for American industries, oils, foodstuffs, etc.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT, Inc.,
80 Maiden Eane, Holbrook Building,
IVew York, U.S.A. San Francisco.
Cable Address (Both Offices) “Beachfred
BUSH. BEACH & GENT me.
New York. - San Francisco.U.SA.
xzc
BUY the British White Stocking
to-day —“ Jason ” Elite—of all
Drapers.
Try the cooling, skin-soothing effect of this
“Jason” hot-weather wear, a very special
line bearing the “ Jason ” Brand, which guarantees
the finest, silkiest “ finish ” ever put on a stocking.
Wear “ Jason ” because of their quality, their entirely
British make, and the satisfaction ensured by the
brand—
Quality Stockings & Socks for Ladies, Children & Men.
Illustration shows the "jason” Elite Stocking.
Finest woven plain mercerised lisle leg, ankle &
instep and all-wool 3-in. double top. Specially
strengthened wool foot ; in champagne, black & white.
Drapers and Outfitters everywhere. In case of difficulty write to
JASON HOSIERY CO., LEICESTER, ENG.
:
(7ij
THE PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney), who sell
tobacco, haircuts, fish-hooks and _sporting
goods, and began as a co. with £20,0 < i ot the
capital represented by goodwill and other
hypothetical assets: —
Written Towards De-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, ftcit.
1911.. “ £20.01 7
1912. .£12,268 10 p.c. = £B,OOO £1132 £3130 1t,541
1913.. 13,128 10 „ „ 9,000 1381 2747 14,794
1914.. 13,295 10 „ „ 9,000 1555 2740 12,054
Added to goodwill, £BBO .. • • 12,934
1915.. 15,533 10 p.c. = 9,000 1565 49G8 (,966
Added to goodwill, £738 . . • • 8,704
1916.. 16,166 10 p.c. = 9,667 2080 4419 4,28 a
Transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 14>,280
1917.. 12,955 8 p.c. = 8,800 2215 1940 12,340
Added to goodwill, £237 . . • • 12,582
1918.. 17,230 10 p.c. = 11,000 2622 3608 8,974
1919.. 17,798 10 „ ~11,000 3942 2856 6,118
Compared with the previous year the direc-
tors have just clipped 50 p.c. more for de-
preciation, so the net profit for the year is
£954 less, in spite of the improved figures
shown in the first column. Further, income-
tax called for £.1750 more than in 1918. Con-
sidering that so many of the co.’s customers
have been at the other end of the world its
war record has been surprisingly good. Nor
has the loss of this patronage been the only
difficulty. Exes, have been increasing all
round —particularly wages, £29,862 being
paid out for the past year compared with
£18,223 for 1915. Except in 1917 the co.
has, however, been able to more than even
things up in passing on the extra charges.
Gross profits on trading have thus shown big
increases: £70.518 for the past term, com-
pared with £50,872 four years ago. Mean-
time exes, apart from depreciation have
moved from £36,840 to £58,147. Extension
of business has helped to swell the figures,
the management having established itself in
Brisbane jn the meantime.
The co. started eight years ago with a
paid capital of £90,000. Since then share-
holders took up at par a further 10,000 fully-
paid £1 shares and,£lo,ooo of reserved profit
has been capitalised. Goodwill, trade-marks,
etc., represent £22,399 of the capital, but,
as the table shows, all but £6llB has been
made good out of surplus profits. This shows
the progress in another way:—
1912. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities ..£20,179 £38,696 £37,313
Stock . . . . 57,041 87,865 99,287
Sundry debtors . . 16,999 16,766 21,861
‘ Plant, etc. . . 16,325 21,349 20,277
Cash . . . . 6,549 19,246 4,240
Since 1912 liabilities have increased by
£17,134. Meantime more or less liquid assets
have expanded £44,799, and £3952 more is
in plant, which is apparently well written
down. Allowing for the £lO,OOO of new
money put into the business, the co. has thus
improved its position by about £21,600, after
handing out £67,467 in dividends. Share-
holders have received 10 p.c. p.a. except in
one year, when 8 p.c. was paid, so they have
done very well. Immediate prospects are
good, too; for the return of the Diggers
means increased custom, while the revival of
sport will help receipts in that department.
* * * *
Aarons’s Exchange Hotel (Sydney) :
June,’l2. Dec.,’lB. June,’l9.
Assets apart from goodwill,
lease and furniture ..£1416 £4427 £4928
Liabilities . . .. .. 993 1418 2508
Surplus assets .. £423 £3009 £2420
From June, 1913, onwards the profits and
dividends have been as follows :• —-
June, 1913 .. £l4OO 121 p.c. = £765
Dec., 1913 . . 1375 124 „ „ 765
June, 1914 .. 1113 124 „ „ 765
Dec., 1914 . . 752 10 ~ „ 612
June, 1915 . . 747 10 „ „ 612
Dec., 1915 . . 64 Nil
June, 1916 . . 913 10 p.c. = 612
Dec., 1916 . . 779 10 „ „ 612
June, 1917 . . 767 10 „ „ 612
Dec., 1917 .. 623 10 ~ ~ 612
June, 1918 .. 1004 10 „ „ 612
Dec., 1918 .. 785 10 ~ „ 612
June, 1919 . . 23 Nil
’Flu, panicky Government restrictions, and
the abandonment of the Show and Autumn
race meetings practically wiped out profits.
Had things not looked up towards the end of
the term no doubt a loss would have been
shown. Though there is a balance of £2950
in the P. and L. account, shareholders have
to go without a taste, for the co. has other
uses for its accumulated profit. Carrying on
business in leasehold premises, it has also to
provide for a return of shareholders’ capital
when its rights expire. When, the co. first
went into the business £15,000 of its capital
of £17,500 was represented by froth and wast-
ing assets. It had a bitter experience when
its lease ran out and the landlord intimated
that a renewal was contingent on the co.
improving the premises. This ran away
with £5063. and in 1912 there was a re-
construction : a little fresh capital was got
in and £8750 was swept out with the de-
cayed goodwill items. Since then things
have run fairly smoothly, and on their
written-down capital shareholders have been
able to get an average of almost 10 p.c. per
annum. Meantime, as the first section of the
introductory table shows, the co. has been
able to build up its surplus liquid assets,
though the recent lean half has put the pro-
cess back a step or two. Goodwill, lease,
furniture, etc., are lumped in the balance-
sheet at £12.191, and the management has
still about 11 years in which to pile up
assets of a sort which shareholders can stuff
into their bags should the landlord then de-
cide not to renew the lease.
# * * *
From an Australian in Rhodesia :
The taking over of the Umoukwe chrome and
asbestos properties by a Cold Country syndicate
concludes easily the largest mining deal brought off
in this country. Unless great discoveries are made
elsewhere the buyers will be the controlling factor
in the chrome market, having a known 12 million
tons of 52 p.c. to 76 p.c. ore to deal with. It is
estimated the ore can be put on boat at Bula for
18s. per ton. In addition to the chrome deposit
one of the finest asbestos properties in Africa was
taken over. The price was £450,000. The deal was
put through by the late “Natty” Arnold, to whom
many an Australian “dips his lid” in grateful
memory.


NOW, MEN I HERE’S A REAL
GOOD PROPOSITION.
'
- —" I
■ ___
->. -4
.. ■ ' ■m ' '~’*' ’"- i i '‘- !*aw*
'’ ~ * <. * jgjjj
_...m. mg ’ m
• V
HHMt
111
1
:
-CS-'U?-
* %*
. :
•" : J
‘
I W£m£.
. “
".. .1
* X
: @' :
- ' / l's-\
S
3;'v
y /. £ f Jr " M
|
■ ■'■■ ~aV:;
I
■ 3|
ppp 7,
3S§S
• ■■ ■ ‘ I J
%
I
V •?■■
-
:
-
•-’ \:.'
4 ' i • .s**-
. *... .
■HE
■• S ' , J
r*—*.
y
mtm
■
%/,
■:■- ;:=
■3:
13 ■■' > * -
5 .1 /
>1 ■
■
: - : -'
1 i
V • I-
f.A
m
w
.
: ,^r|
i\"
lllifl
■
m
AN opportunity to receive a Suit
/A London Tailored to Order in
handsome and serviceable
materials at the moderate price of 84/-
The policy of London Stores is to
keep stocks constantly on the move.
In a few weeks we will need room
for Summer Suitings that have been
ordered.
To make a quick clearance we are
now offering a big choice of Tweeds
in present Stocks in
London Tailored
Suits to Order
..ij
84-
Don’t miss such a
good thing as this.
—but Order BARBY while the choice of
patterns is at its best.
Would you like your suit made under
this condition—that your money will be
refunded if you are not satisfied ? That’s
just what we DO guarantee — Opp. G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Don’t let this opportunity pass without at
least investigating. You can do that by
signing and posting the Coupon to-day.
/
♦
»
♦
(OPR G.P.O.)MELBOURNE
&
&
Our Only Address in Australia,


m
<>>
Ai
r
.■ • m
' ■■
i tfe
B; 5 f
m
sm
■ .
M
LVs.v\l
,f'V
2000 bolts screwed every day.
LANDIS SCREWER.
THE demands of war work immediately brought Landis Screwers “on active service.” Their
wonderful simplicity and non-stop production enabled them to be operated right away by
eager women war-workers, with big production all the time. Ihe bolt shown above gives
WMi
you some idea of Landis Capacity. Simplicity is only one of the many
Landis features. The Landis Die Head abolishes waste of time, and
the expense of maintaining; stocks of bobbed dies. There is no
re-hobbing or re-tempering with Landis Dies. Landis Screwers on the
job mean maximum production with minimum maintenance cost. We
are also Sole Agents for better-class Machine Tools, such as Le Blond
and South Bend Lathes, Warner & Swasey Turret Lathes, Gisholt
Turret Lathes, Prentice Radial Drills, Heald Grinders, etc.
Send your enquiries. Expert advice on machine-tool problems without
obligation.
Benson Brothers Ltd.
76-78 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
71-75 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, MELBOURNE.
138 CURRIE STREET. ADELAIDE. C2ll
These metals are
made in Australia
DO YOU USE THEM?
THE products of the Austral Bronze Company are everywhere recognised as superior to imported
metals. They are produced by an expert organisation of Australian Metallurgists and are
the result of searching laboratory investigations and severe service tests. AUSTRAL
BRONZE CO.’S PRODUCTS are being used extensively by leading Railway, Tramway, Marine,
Motor and General Engineering Shops throughout Australia.
Rolled Copper, Brass, Muntz Metal, Manganese Bronze
and Tobin Bronze in Round, Square, Flat and Hexagon.
All Usual Trade Sizes. Hig'hest Quality. Immediate Delivery.
“Graphine” Anti-Friction Metal, in a variety of
grades, for different loads and speeds in all
classes of machinery. A distinctly high-class
and thoroughly reliable bearing metal.
“Austral” Chill Cast Phosphor Bronze (Sticks
and Bushes) is close grained without the hard
skin common to sand castings. Has increased
elastic and tensile strength and machines easily.
“Austral” Plastic Metal adheres firmly without
tinning.
Babbitt’s Metal—Original formula.
“Austral” Navy Bronze, for heavy bearings, high
and low speed.
“Propellor” Brand Manganese Bronze (Ingots).
A high-class metal practically non-corrosive.
Phosphor Tin (Ingots), containing 5 per cent.
Phosphorus.
Phosphor Copper (Phosphorus 10 per cent).
Star Antimony (99.5 per cent, purity).
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES !
MANUFACTURERS—
THE AUSTRAL
BRONZE CO. LTD.
264 Botany Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
SELLING AGENTS-
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD.,499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
and Darling Building, Adelaide.
Also from GEO. KENT LTD., Perth; & CHAS. E. BERNAYS, Brisbane.
Sydney Telegraph dolefully asks why it
is necessary to pump water to Canberra.
Does the D.T. expect the stragglers in the
locality to drink their whisky raw?
Hannah continues to contribute to the
gaiety of the Vic. Assembly. The other day
he turned the hose on Hutchinson, Minister
for Forests, who remained unperturbed.
“It’s going off him like rain off a duck’s
back,” urged Beai'dmore. “This water,”
declared Hannah, “will hear fruit!” “On
the duck’s back?” asked a friendly member,
desiring to help.
“Petramos”: Adelaide has dropped the
habit of decorating its statue of Queen Vic-
toria each 24th of May. It got on some
people’s nerves. The monument reveals a
very massive and matronly figure, and the
decorators had to climb all over the old lady
to turn out a good job. And, as I heard one
dear loyal old soul remark to a friend, it
“didn’t seem right for that young fellow to
be standing on the Queen’s stummiek.”
Dr. Frank .Jaffery, lately dead in Eng-
land, was son of Archibald .1., one of the
early South Aus. settlers, who made a pile
in land, and (after the bad old custom) re-
tired to England to spend it. The doctor
was educated at St. Peter’s College, but
went to St. George’s Hospital, London, in
1885, and never returned, taking the highest
honors there. The Rymill family in Adelaide
still manages the Jaffery estates for the
absent owners.
When the 4th Light Horse returned on
the Essex there was one popular face miss-
ing. Maygar, V.C., stayed behind in the
sands of Palestine, where a chance bomb from
a Hun ’plan" laid him. Although he had
won his Cross away back in S’Afriea, he
remained so agile that he even raced the
expert Gyppos up the Pyramids. The thin-
legged experts did the climb in 11 minutes;
Maygar, bv this time a portly senior officer,
was only GO seconds behind.
“Lampost”: People in England have be-
come acquainted with the Diggers’ propen-
sity for leaning, but it stunned me when
nicking up the Times yesterday this hit me
in the eye :
AUSTRALIAN VICTORY.
Co i.lapse op the University. . •
However, it was only the report of the
cricket match with Cambridge, which the
A.I.F. team won by an innings and 200-
and-some-odd runs.
Now that the Pentridge prisoners and
staff have almost all recovered from ’flu,
the gaol industries are to be resumed.
Nearly GOO items are manufactured, for use
mainly by Government departments. Needles
and anchors are not in the list, but pretty
well everything else, including ladders (to
remind the prisoners of the blessings of
freedom, no doubt), bedsteads, bedding and
blankets. When Bowser’s Act of last ses-
sion, providing for paying wages to
prisoners for their own and their depen-
dants’ maintenance, is brought into opera-
tion, Pentridge will resemble a Ford factory
unless the whole population spitefully turns
respectable. Thomas Walsh has not helped
forward any industry while a guest, except
that he has worn a suit of prison clothes,
and thus made more work for some other
prisoner.
A send-off from a messmate:—-
Cone on his last stunt, at Randwiek (Sydney)
Military Hospital, Major R. N. Franklin, D. 5.0.,
best known and most popular A.I.F. officer in Pales-
tine. When the 2nd LiH. went to Gallipoli Frank-
lin was left behind, a very disgusted officer, in
charge of details ; but he followed a couple of weeks
later, and stuck it until near the Evacuation, when
he was invalided to Blighty. Retuning to Egypt
in ’l6 he was detained by A.I.F. Headquarters for
several months’ administrative work, rejoining his
regiment on the eve of Rafa. Later he gained his
majority and was awarded the D.S.O. for conspic-
uous work during the attack on Beersheba, where
he Was wounded. But his best work was done be-
hind the lines, organising sports and ente tainments
for the men while the brigade was in rest; and
when operations ceased he was specially detailed to
carry on his job whilst the army was awaiting em-
barkation —with what success only those who
endured the hell of waiting in that land can fully
appreciate.
“1.P.” : I can’t believe that Hugo Throssell,
V.C., has become a Socialist. When we were
together at Prince Alfred College, Adelaide,
he was the hungriest of boarders. Judging
by his appetite I would have said he was a
monopolist. But he always had courage.
Oncs someone sent him a turkey, which was
duly cooked by the college chef. As custom-
ary, a master served. After each plateful he
pausled, with weapon in air, inquiring of the
bird’s owner “Is Jones to have any?” And
Throssell would say yes or no. If he said no
the unlucky one fell back on college grub.
It was worth any number of V.C.’s to look
a big chap in the face and deny him roast
turkey. Throssell was a great barracker for
his school. When he came back with the
V.C. he slept one night in his old dormitory
amid a mob of hero-worshippers. P.A.C.
never before witnessed such a pillow-fight as
it had that night. And the sport in charge
swore he heard nothing but innocent snor-
ing.
Randolph Bedford for the Government: —
These are the facts regarding the compulsory
resumption of Tolga (Q.) lands. Minister Coyne,
finding certain freeholds leased to Chinese by resi-
dent and absentee white owners, resumed them for
soldiers’ settlement. An inquiry was held at which
the owners could state objections to all or any
resumptions, and the Minister decided on the evi-
dence. Care was taken not to resume land worked
by white labor; in many resumptions only part
of the land was taken; in the case of a holder
having a soldier relative an area is held for him
where desired. The Minister found five cases—
one a widow with five children and a returned sol-
dier son, three old men on their own holdings, and
a deceased holder’s nephew just returned from
the Front —where resumption would have been un-
just, and these resumptions were cancelled on the
condition that all colored aliens must be discharged
and the land worked by white labor only. Com-
pensation for resumption is fixed by a Judge of the
Land Court at Atherton. Both as to policy and
administration the Government has been careful
to make things as easy as possible for white holders
working their land with white labor.


CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the War.
V --
wm
,
X ~ S'
f/y
k :
6 .f
M
ir
rM<
y
Cf v #
&
■1 /J^M#
V.
;r y --' i
-'A*
II
w*
T ''H >: •
a
Wf
’ *
-A
x iM/Z
r
>//>:, , * , f V;
«*>"
m
% —y'"
Si/
<U> : ■ " 4':
m
ss
y>
•**
<s'■
♦»
x.>Vv-’ /»•>>■' .■■•’ •-*;•
* •'./"/*
'At
wm
j*
if*
<f.
/,>
/y
4-/y /
.->.lyf /r -■
mm
yA. /• l ■
//'■
/./
//
.3"V
ri
/
/ ./
m
w
im
it
W / /*
•vfipf
}J*
*jk
/
W
Zs' <fk
‘]"kZ %
lift- > \.x.m i/v**i‘.' , y-' v <-^
' ‘ ... •*
U
-fw«yx.<«»*"• - ■ ‘ '
>? - ■ . -i—
-is
4<t*.v - ...»
.•- r r <
m
Z
FJ
c
\
e;
~..,
I
\
X
9 A
>
\
\
J
W
V-4' /•<
S<A
OPS**
M
-/
... •
. O r-. £'4L t ,«.!)] ft-
Cobra,” TSho. Boot Polish.
Chun cler Loo,
Of Akim F 00,
Sends the Hun forts
Skv-higdi too.
“Let her go!”
The key*is pressed,
And the powder
Does the rest.
Boom! The smoke mounts
To the sky.
So the hopes of
Pirates die!
‘‘COBRA” cleans th
Sea and sand.
That’s the end
Of Heligoland.


Cuticura Quickly Relieves
Itching Skins
Bathe with Cuticura Soap, dry and
apply Cuticura Ointment. For ecze-
mas, rashes, itchings, irritations, etc.,
they are wonderful. Nothing so en-
sures a clear skin and good hair as
making Cuticura your every-day
toilet preparations.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
The new
flavour
HP
sauce
This new, thick, fruity sauce
from England is simply de-
licious, and such a welcome
change to the old-fashioned
sauces.
Wouldn’t it be worth your
while to try the one and
only H.P. Sauce ?
' O-' Soft as a Peach "*
** aad fragrant at a flower, ll O «_
# * imparts a itlitau bloom to ths CompltxiOM *»«£
; TETLOW’S '*•
FACE POWDER
Sold 6* Five Tints.—
White. Creeps. Pink. Flesh sad HrnaeMa .
by oil Stores, Chemist* and Pirfuuurs. • I
% PER //A
English Q -yd. price a*"
, BOX.
.0
t
Wholesale DisrriDuhng A^enfs:*-
Jiessrs. ELLIOT! BROS., Liu.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN ' DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
uindou wholesale agents:
HENRY C. QUELCH S CO.,
4 & S. Ludgnte Sq.. London Eng.
r 0
OM* O-e
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.,
PINNERS’ lIALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worM.
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone by taking
Dhosfori
rmo
I IHE ROYAL TONIC
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worry with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- . 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES:
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street. Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane Phone 2382
SKF
3730
DO
rrr
I
m
A
*
Self-Aligning
Ball Bearings
On motor traction of every type—
cycle,_ car or truck—S.K.F. Self-
Aligning Ball Bearings are giving the
acme of service.
In fact wherever strains are greatest
—where dependability is vital—
S.K.F Ball Bearings are almost uni-
versally used. You should be sure
to specify S.K.F. They are your most
definite guarantee of reliability, dura-
bility, efficiency and economy.
Prices and full particulars from
ISDN
m
I MELBOURNE SYONEV BRISBANE |
Melbourne: 384 City Road.
Showrooms: 369 Flinders Street.
Sydney: 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane: 367 Queen Street.
Friends are sometimes a disaster. It was
a polite ass of a soldier who made an end
of Nurse Cavell by writing to thank her for
helping his escape. The Hun censor did
the rest.
One of the last of the Australian ’forty-
niners has gone west —William O’Hanlon,
of Carlton (Vic.), at 91. He joined in the
’49 rush to California, was shipwrecked on
the way back, and spent 12 days in an open
boat. That cured him of wandering, and
thereafter he lived for GO years in the same
house.
Beckett, Labor M.L.C. for Melbourne
North, put his finger on a pest when he
suggested in the House of Sloth that some-
thing should be done at once to scotch “those
bloodsucking middlemen,” the cash-order
pirates. The system has lent itself to such
scandalous abuses that its practice should be
either ended or mended.
S. A. Rosa, who is now linked with A. C.
Willis in the leadership of the new “Socialist
Party of Australia,” formed in Sydney, was
the leader of the unemployed in Melbourne
in 1890. The workless then met on the
land in Bowen-street, off Latrobe-street,
where the Workingmen’s College now stands.
Rosa led a deputation to Hopetoun, then
Cov. of Victoria, who received the crowd at
Government House and listened for an hour.
'But he did not hand out any champagne on
that occasion. That sort of generosity was
reserved for five years later, when “Chummy”
Fleming was unemployed leader. Fleming
sold the wine, or some of it, and bought
bread for the families of the out-of-works.
“O. P. Queue”: Before 1914 Fritz loaded
John Chinaman up with over 24 millions
worth of dyes annually, and John'forgot all
about his own abounding vegetable colors.
Indigo now comes into its own, and in 12
months China exported 5000 tons of it in
liquid form. Vegetable dyes are being used
up in Ah Fat’s own home towns, too; for
with the Turkish and Persian rug industry
practically dead the Chinese rug found that
someone wanted it, and it is going to the
U.S.A. in many ships. John’s straw hats are
also finding overseas markets, and so is his
lace, though he can’t understand why fashion
demands patterns any different from those
turned out by his honorable ancestors. Soon
the manufacturers will look south ; and then
Australian workmen, unless a high tariff pro-
tects them, will find that they have another
competitor whom their wages awards don’t
govern.
“E.H.”: Thus the American Lumberman
of Chicago :
The Australian Government expects to spend a
quarter of a million dollars within the next 10 years
in building homes for returning soldiers with families
or dependants, and is already asking for quotations
on doors, sash, , flooring, sheathing, etc., in large
quantities. The requi ements for the coming year
are estimated at 60,000 doors 6-8 x 2-8; 120,000
sash 6 x 2-10 ; and 70,000,000 feet each of tongued
and grooved flooring and ceiling.
If the Australian Government is negotiating
with America for the import of doors,
sashes and windows of the Digger’s home, it
is a Hunnish massed attack on Australian
industry; for doors and sashes are lines
which for many years have been manufac-
tured in Australia. A revival of the import-
ing policy will mean that the Government
will build imported homes for soldiers to
starve in.
Thus far Australian manufacturers have,
as a rule, been in mortal terror of putting
their own names on their products. The
campaign of Associated Chambers of Manu-
factures to boost Australian goods may help
them to hold their heads a bit higher.
Hitherto the Australian manufacturer has
been made to realise that he was some sort
of worm to be trodden on by anybody’s hoof.
If the brotherhood tells itself often enough
and loudly enough that, instead, it is the
hope of Australia, and that the distributor
is a person of quite second-rate importance
when lie's of any importance at all, the
Australian manufacturer may presently be
bold enough to insist on branding his goods
with his own or his trade name. Thereby
his business will acquire a goodwill of
enormous value which it mostly hasn’t got
at present.
England is nearer revolution that it has
been for a couple of centuries —nearer a
people’s revolution than ever it has been
before—-and vulgar ostentation has as much
to do with it as anything. The profiteering
in England during the war was wicked:
Australia had absolutely none of it by com-
parison. Now the money that was made is
being flung about in an orgy that is with-
out parallel. On top of this is the insolent
swanking of young officers. The English
working man is, for the most part, still a
Conservative, and more than ready to respect
the squire or the titled person who didn’t
make a garish display of his wealth—who.
in snort, was a gentleman. Frank Anstey
used to despair of him on that account.
What Frank Anstey didn’t realise was that
the same person would refuse to tolerate
the spendthrift who ostentatiously flung his
wealth in the face of the world.
From a returned Digger:—
Apparently the inclusion in many advertisements
of the phrase “Returned soldier only,” or “Re-
turned soldier preferred” is merely an empty formula.
I rior to my enlistment I had qualified under the
N.S.YV. Local Government Act for the position of
town or shire clerk. After four years’ active service
I have applied for two town-clerk jobs. In both in-
stances it was stated that preference would be given
to returned men. I failed both times. Thinking
other returned men better qualified had been suc-
cessful I was satisfied. But I have since ascertained
that both positions went to men who had not en-
listed , in fact, one was known as a notorious shirker.
Apparently the reference to returned soldiers is only
included to bluff a few local people. Later on,
probably, they will not even bother to camouflage.
In order to ascertain what local-governing
bodies are co-operating with it, every Gov-
ernment might well ask its shires and coun-
cils to furnish a return showing (1) the
men who have been given jobs during the
last two years; (2) whether they are re-
turned soldiers or not. With the informa-
tion in hand Governments would know how
to act when appeals for special considera-
tion came in from any municipality.


Stop Torturing
Toothache Quickly
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
SR
u
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickiV, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Wiiy punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns Quickly.
At la<jt a rpnl i wlinf if savs * Corn flnrfir
At last a real ' does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfort.
Handy Corn Cute is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
I
C 3?
r-2
C 2
54
These Winter ailments
attack whole families.
Be prepared —get a medi-
cine to-day that is good for
the whole family.
Not one that is good for some particular
cough or cold, but for coughs and colds
in general.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is just
this kind of Remedy. It is good for all
kinds of coughs and colds.
It is a product of thought and study.
An ideal remedy composed of things
which soothe and heal without harming
the most delicate tissue of the throat.
© E El? N
COUCH REMEDY
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges tte stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when ‘his remedy is at hand all danger
may be avoided.
6e Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most sevefe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s, including Nana, 2/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse. 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy. 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Tea Cup Fortune Telling, 1/3.
How to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
W'riting Explained, 2/3. The Australian Fruit
Gardener, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler's Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof, Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle's
Card (James (llules for all Gaines), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise. 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide. 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- . posted.
Secrets of Beauty. Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON'T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
Sew Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Odd Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
illustrations, 3 /-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll s Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
ChevaSse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wife's Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illns.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 2/3.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound. 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/3 posted.
Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from thr
Dock, 2/-. Life's Shop Window, 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/-. Six
Women (by Victoria Cross), 2/-. The Black
Prophet, 5/3. Tom Jones (Fielding), 3/-. Aus-
tralian Miners and Prospectors’ Guide, 2/-.
Adventures of John Johns, 2/6.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
the big book store, ft g $9 Market Street, Sydney (only).
\W~ BOOKSELLER TO
THE COMMONWEALTH. -»flf


A. Saunders’ Pickle Jar and
pure Silver-plated, Crystal
Jars, 25/-
l-'ork,
(Hass
A. Saunders’ Flower Vase,
pure Silver-plated, A l
quality, hand burnished,
L Saunders’ Four-cup Egg Stand and Spoons, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished. fiO/-
TABLE APPOINTMENTS
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish, pur
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, 22/6
A. Saunders’ Two-cup Rgg Frame and
Spoons, pure Silver-plated, Gilt-lined
Cups and Spoons, 40/-
A. Saunders’ Four-bre-eh Flower Stand. A 1 quality, p"re
Silver-plated, handsomely embossed, Venetian Glass Tubes,
90/
A. Saunders’ “Victory” Coffee Set and Tray, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished and engraved, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street 'Xrr Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Luncheon
Cruet, pine Silver-plated,
Crystal Gla-s Bottles,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Sauce Boat and Tray, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, plain design,
hand burnished, embossed edges, 40/-
A. Saunders’ Hot Water Jug,
pure Silver-plated, band en-
graved, “Empire” design,
50/-
gf*
Saunders’ plated
Flower Vase,
Gin., 4/6.
7in„ 5/6.
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly burnished and engraved, 42/-
mMs
•a
me
A
f&M
a
tw
ol' !' «
A/AV
A
4"
• < ATO
r?
ffii
C 3
,>, Ay
3,3. Jr
AG
cc
\A
C-J
W
A
GAr-
"S
BRIGHTEN UP!
ir
The Coming of Spring suggests
SherwinWilums
Paints €- Varnishes
CWE»
THE
earth
—best for all buildings—inside and outsidej
THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS CO. (AUSTF.AVJA) LTD.,
Head Office : 63 Pitt Street, Sydney. Agants Everywhere-
Music Through
Diamond
Mr Edison’s
.Secret
a
The one and only
Re-creation Instrument—
The NEW EDISON
So perfectly is music Re-created that the
trained ears of the foremost musical
critics failed to distinguish by actual and
direct comparison the artist s performance
from Edison’s Re-creation oi it.
Think what this marvellous invention means to music. think
what it means to you—to members of your household and your
friends —no matter how critical they may be.
Write now for details of this line, unique instrument; printed
matter post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 3G4-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


Amusements.
Hurry ICU-kurds Tiiuli liieutres LKI.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSII.
Jl VOI.I l’ II EAT It IS, SVI>N It Y
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF A BOX O' THICKS.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 23,
Commencing at Matinfe at 2.30.
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
The Latest and Greatest Musical Play.
Plans at Nicholson's and the Tivoli.
1”t VOLI ' THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGIIT, AUGUST 23.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
LONDON’S LATEST LILTING TRIUMPH,
THE LADS OF THE VILLAGE.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
LJ It It .M A .1 It S T V ’ S. S Y I) N It A
* Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
NEXT WEEKS PROGRAMME.
LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR, Saturday M Tuesday.
FAUST, Monday k Friday.
IL THOVATORE. Wednesday Matinee.
LA BOHEMK, Wednesday.
CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA k 1 PAGLIACGI,
Thursday.
Clt I T E It I O N T II It A T It It. St l> \EV.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 23.
RETURN OF THE
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY 00.
GOING UP.
Plan at Paling’s.
PAI,A C It TIIItV T It It. SYI)N It Y.
* Sole Direction—J. &N. TAIT.
LAST NIGHTS.
HARRY LAUDER,
the World’s Greatest Entertainer,
and
INTERNATIONAL COMPANY OF ARTISTS.
Prices: 10/-, 7/0, 5/-, 3/-, 2/-
Plans at Nicholson’s.
UNI O N I* ICTU It E TIIEAI’ It It M
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND. GLOBE. LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
|_|ltlt MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
' 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGIIT, AUGUST 23.
•I. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Exquisite
Musical Play.
MAYTIME.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
T* II It A Tit It ROYAL. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. p esent the Famous Play
of Sentiment, Pathos and Humor,
LIGHTNIN’.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE. MItI,ItOV It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
•I. k N. TAIT Present the Sparkling Comedy,
DADDIES.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
U OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
n Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
ETHEL CLAYTON in
THE MYSTERY GIRL.
FRED STONE in THE GOAT.
Prices as usual.
|y| V.IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT ‘SATURDAY.
ALICE BRADY
in
A WORLD TO LIVE IN.
Plans at Allan’s.
Public Notice.
KALUMPANG TIN NO LIABILITY,
Kalumpang, Federated Malay States.
NJOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT A DIVIDEND
’ (the 2nd) of Is. per share has been declared
payable at the registered office of the Company,
National Mutual Buildings, 395 Collins S'treet, Mel-
bourne, on Friday, 29th August, 1919.
Transfer books close on the evening of Thursday,
21st August.
By order of the Board,
E. ,T. KENNEDY, Manager.
Government Notice.
QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS.
Office of the Commissioner for Railways,
Brisbane, August 8, 1919.
Tenders for the Purchase of 39 Lathes.
TENDERS will be received at this office until 2
p.m. on Tuesday, 2nd September, 1919, for the
purchase of the whole or part or each of the 39
lathes recently used on the manufacture of munitions
(11 on hand at Ipswich and 28 at Rockhampton).
Tenders to be endorsed “Tenders for Lathes.”
Particulars are as follows:
lOin. centres, to take 3ft. 10in. between centres.
Height of bed from floor, 2ft. GJin.
Length of bed, Bft.
Width of bed, 17in.
Pulley on jack-shaft, lain, dia., to take 4in. belt.
Saddle, 2ft. 2in. long by 2ft. 3in. wide, fitted
with turret tool-holder to take lin. x lin.
steel with cross-feed stops.
Lathes will be delivered f.o.b. Brisbane or Rock-
ha moton.
Specification, drawing and photograph may be seen
at the offices of the Chief Mechanical Engineer,
Ipswich; Deputy-Commissioner, Rockhampton; and
the Chief Mechanical Engineers, Sydney, Melbourne,
Islington (S.A.), Midland Junction (W.A.).
The highest or any tender willl not necessarily
be accepted.
By order of the Commissioner for Railways.
ARTHUR J. CROWTHER, Secretary.
Amusements.
LACIAIt IU M, MELBOURNE.
REAL ICE-SKATING.
GRAND CARNIVAL, SATURDAY, AUGUST 30.
Di Gilio’s Band.'
gItITAN.NIA '!’II EATItI2, MELIJOCRNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y|ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Situation Vacant.
The Federal Limited.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Applications are invited for
the position of
MANAGER
of an up-to-date Residential Unlicensed Hostel of five
storeys, which will be completed about the end of
the present year. The building will contain 360
rooms, with all modern conveniences, including wall-
beds, hot and cold water services, and will be capable
of catering for 500 guests, and a moderate tariff will
be adopted.
Applicants must be proficient in all branches of
catering for the travelling and residential public, and
must state experience and salary requi ed to the
undersigned by Ist September, 10i.9.
J. HOWARD BURGESS,
Secretary.
No. 8 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Missing Friends.
W ANTED to know the whereabouts of CATIIER-
COUGHLIN, daughter of FRANCIS
COLGHLIN. of Clonlyne, and BETTY WHALEN of
Newtown, King’s County, Ireland. In case that she
is dead, then I would like to hear from any of
hei descendants, or friends who may be able to give
me any information of her. She left Clonascarra,
Kings County, for Australia many years ago.
MELBOURNE AND OTHER AUSTRALIAN
PAPERS PLEASE COPY.
Any information of her will be appreciated by her
nephew, son of her sister Dorothy (generally called
“Dora”).
Address: FRANCIS J. CLARKE,
34 Wall Street,
Brockton, Mass., United States of America.
IATYART, HENRY, deceased, late of
-MJJ Adelaide River, N.T., intestate. The
relatives of deceased, or any person knowinj.
their whereabouts, are requested to com-
municate with
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Darwin, Northern Territory.
Re William Purves, dec’d.
/“'EORGE PURVES, son of the late William and
V - J Ann Purves. of No. 2GO Lennox Street, Rich-
mond, Victoria, last heard of working for Mr.
Synott, Maeedon, Victoria, please communicate with
the undersigned. Or any person knowing his where-
abouts or particulars of his death please communi-
cate with
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY LIMITED,
85 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
6th August, 1919.
T F JAMES CAMPBELL, son of Hugh Campbell, who
came to Australia with a brother from tin- neigh-1
borhood of Crieff, Scotland, in 1880, will apply to
ATTHOW and MoGREGOU, Solicitors, Brisbane, he
will hear of something to his advantage.
WANTED NEWS of EVAN THOMAS
LLOYD, who emigrated to Australia
from South Africa in 1913, was heard
from Quirindi in January, Junee in July,
and last from Stockton in November, 1914.
Please communicate with
JOHN LLOYD LLOYD,
Gumtree, Orange Free State,
South Africa.
lf any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
«*■ sn«a,
'
I°NCIY
w
V
m
IF
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
PRIZES value
Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 1, 1919.
Ist PRIZE, value £750
2nd PRIZE, value £3OO
3rd PRIZE, value £2OO
and 397 other
Valuable Prizes.
CHANCE FOR 1919.
TRY IT.
Ist Prize in 1918 won by Mrs. Murtough, Ken-
sington. Sydney. N.S.W., for modest outlay of
One Shilling
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1919.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper, November 6, 1919. To
i , . a ny person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will
be posted. Tickets may be bad from Agents Everywhere, or direct from —
Trades Hall, Sydney. ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
Better Lighting
'
iiisS
i : «l
i
m
m
W;
«St
m
m
MORE Artistic, Attractive
and Serviceable —is the
outcome of carefully-
chosen Fittings at Danksh
For Gas or Electricity, whether
in the home, offices or showroom,
our display of Modern Fitments
present such a wide and varied
selection that each particular
requirement can be suited to the
best advantage.
Many new ideas are in evidence.
The latest introductions for a
betterand more economical light-
ing scheme are here—priced with
thereasonableness which charac-
terises all our specialties.
View this display in our Show-
room.
The House for Heat 8 Light
JOHN
a-*-' 1
mtimmiiiiu
ijuiiiimii
mi iiiiuiii
imiiiii
&SON
324 Pitt Street
( near \
VLiverpool Street/*
SYDNEY
and 391 Bourke Street, HELBOURNE.
Situation Wanted.
EXPERIENCED Australian Mining
Prospector. Lode and Alluvial Prac-
tice. returning from F.M.S., open engage-
ment October, in charge or Assistant to good
Mining-engineer; age 82 years, single, in
good health. Reliable, c/o Sydney Bulletin,
Sydney.
Legal Notice.
T X THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND
1 MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION.
No. 21 of 1919.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE
BETWEEN
WILLIAM AH SEE Plaintiff and EVELYN MARY
All SEE Defendant and GEORGE FERBER Co-
Defendant.
To the Defendant Evelyn Mary Ah See and to the Co-
Defendant George Fcrber.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the
fourteenth day of January 1919 commenced against
you AND that the plaintiff by his writ of summons
claims a dissolution of his marriage with the de-
endant Evelyn Mary Ah See and by his petition
filed m this Honorable Court on the fourteenth dav
>f January 1919 the plaintiff alleges that in or
about the month of May 191 G and on other davs
between that month and the month of December
1916 the said Evelyn Mary Ah See committed
adultery at Paddington Brisbane aforesaid and at No
25 Campbell-street Milson’s Point Sydney in the
State of New South Wales with the above-named
George Ferber who was during the period above
mentioned a soldier in the Australian Imperial
l'orces and that during the months of May to De-
cember all in the year 1916 and in the month of
January in the year 1917 the said George Ferber
visited the said Evelyn Mary Ah See at Paddington
Bnsbane aforesaid and lived and cohabited with the
said Evelyn Mary Ah See at No. 25 Campbell-street
Milson s Point Sydney in the State of New South
jj? aforesaid and on divers of such occasions at
I addington Brisbane and at Milson's Point aforesaid
committed adultery with the said Evelyn Mary All
See and prays to have such further or other relief
in the premises as to the Court might seem meet.
K ® NOTICE that the Court has by order
dated the thirtieth day of July 1919 authorised
service of the said writ and petition on you bv
notice-board in the Registry of this
Honorable Court at Brisbane an office copy of the
wnt of summons issued herein, and the office copy
of the petition filed herein and the insertion of this
nohee twice in The Bulletin a newspaper pub-
lished in Sydney in the State of New South Wales
once in the Brisbane Courier and once in the Bris-
bane Telegraph within thirty days from the date
ot the said order and by sending bv prepaid regis-
f prod letter three copies of such notice addressed to
|,! 10 defendant to the care respectively of George
lurvey No. 2 Railway Workshop Ipswich Mrs. Mor-
gan Annerley-road South Brisbane and Mrs Conn
Latrobe-terrace Paddington Brisbane and two copies
of such notice addressed to the co-defendant care of
the General Post Office Sydney and care of the Re-
patriation Sydney respectively AND
TAKE NOTICE that you the said Evelvn Mary All
See and George Ferber are required within tiiirtv-
four days from the performance of the last act re-
quired by the aforesaid order to cause an appear-
ance to be entered for you at the Registry of the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane and that
in default of your so doing the plaintiff may pro-
ceed in this action and that judgment may be given
against you in your absence.
Dated this fifth day of August 1919.
(1.5.) CHAS. S. NORRIS,
ATTIIOW AND McGREGOR, Registrar.
Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
City Chambers, Queen and Edward streets,
Brisbane.
Buy your Presents
for a Soldier
from a Returned Soldier.
zc
All kinds of medals
and presents suit-
able for returned
soldier s. Also
brooches for
mothers of men
who have fallen.
The medal illus-
trated is one of the
most popular de-
signs. PRICES:
9ct. Gold—
-17/6, 22/6.
15ct. Gold-
-38/-, 47/6.
Many other de-
signs. Write for
lists and quota-
tions. S-p eci a 1
allowance to com-
mittees.
FRANCIS P. J. KILLEEN
(Late of 19th Battalion A.1.F.),
g SPRING STREET, BYDNEY.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years, also a wonderful
Cure for Rheumatism.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, ffov
Woy, N.S.AV., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l/2/-. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all I.ending Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
CAPILLARINE
xcz
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIL-
LARTNK. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPIT.LARINE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.


xcxz
QYeasure a/ter
'jßusmes's
ABBOTS
LAGER.
m 7/u? jßeer without a 7?/Vaf m
BREWED FROM PURE MALT 6 HOPS ONLY
cz
r
“WARRIGAL” Underwear
Value 25% better than the Imported.
In “Warrigal” Underwear (registered and sold only by
Peapes’) you fret the pure Australian wool —all wool!
In quality, texture, make and "«hape this Australian Underwear
is better than any other offering to-day—price considered. _ It
is fully 25% lower in price than British Underwear of similar
quality. Obtainable only from Peapes’. Each garment bears
the “Warrigal” trade-mark.
PURE WOOL UNDERSHTRTS (Half-sleeves)
34 36 38 40 42 44
12/- 12/- 18/- 14/- 15/- 16/-
UNDERPANTS to match—
-13- 13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6
Peapes’ pay postage. Please state chest and waist
measurements.
PEAPES & CO LTD,
MEN'S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
?l§3
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's
Criterion ....’ ‘ Goin S , u P r
I'ALACE h “ Ut,C^
Tivoli ‘ The Officers Mess
Hoyt’s . Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's
Hoyai, Lightnm ”
Kino's les v)
Tivoli “The Lads of the \ tllage
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia . Moving Pictures
Glaciarium lco Skating
There are full houses for all the sudden
changes of the Grand Opera kaleidoscope
at Sydney Majesty’s, and the Firm con-
tinues to do its duty nobly in the matter of
presentation. The well-trained Australian
singing girls are exciting a patriotic interest
that would not be roused by imported
stars of wider experience, and alto-
gether the venture already has a gilt edge.
Quite a lot of ground-level theatregoers are
finding that, prices being equal, grand opera
is more satisfying than musical comedy
froth and bubble; and the serious musical
set are picking up the theatre habit again.
* * * - *
The first performance of “II Trovatore”
brought forward Strella Wilson as Leonora.
She has a slim figure for the Countess’s
antique gowns, is a pretty and appealing
young actress, and owns a soprano that is
sweet and full. When she starts “stunting”
amongst the top-notes, the lark hands in his
resignation and the canary gets out his note-
book. Lois, in the Steel Trust waistcoat of
Manrico, enjoyed himself thoroughly. Filip-
pini made a short, resonant villain who
always looked dangerous, and Caccialli, as
Captain Ferrando, A.D.C., rumbled splen-
didly to the boys in shrapnel helmets. The
tall basso, in black, with plumed hat and
flowing cloak, has the manner and voice of
the ideal bishop. Thelma Carter scored a
success both ways as the distressful gipsy
lady who wants to get back to the bush, and
Isla Gamble (Inez*) was a decorative friend
to Leonora. In the garden set the two
graceful girls made a fine picture. The
chorus work was well done, and Slapoffski’s
orchestra showed that it had played itself
into form. At a second performance Elsie
Treweek took her turn as Leonora and got
through with honors. She has the gracious
knack of sending every word to the back
rows.
* * * *
First performance of “Faust,” on Satur-
day, was Mephisto’s evening out. Alfredo
Valenti made the Devil a fine, athletic
handy-man in British Empire red. He fairly
earned his Faust, and if he could have cap-
tured the high note the tenor missed in the
garden scene he would have handed it to the
singer on a plate. Walter Wheatley has the
tender sincerity that goes with plumpness,
and in the vocal line he got along happily
enough when flying low. Amy Castles made
the sort of placid Marguerite any father
would bank on. Her voice was full and robust
right up to the instant she joined the angels.
Thelma Carter wore the tights of Siebel, and
contralto Vera Bedford (with spirited assist-
ance from the merry Devil) infused some
“Merry Wives of Windsor” humor into the
job of Martha, who practises her elderly fas-
cinations on the visiting fiend. Carl Formes
died a lingering musical death as soldier Val-
entine soon after the A.I.F. marched home
in strange clothes and roared their tremen-
dous chorus about war. It was so well done
that they had to come home twice. To-night
(Thursday) "B. li'une” again; Friday, “Caw
a fieri a”- and “Pagliacci” ; Saturday, “Lucia
di Lammermoor.”
** * *
A Sydney one-man show :
Penleigh Boyds show at Gayfleld Shaw’s rooms
comprises over 20 water-colors and one oil, all
painted since his return from the war. There is a
good deal of similarity in the subjects, as nearly
all his work has been done at Warrandyte, where
the Yarra is at its best; but that does not affect
the quality of his landscapes, which are of the
graceful, poetic order. “Pastoral” is the best of
them. The texture of the gum-tree bathed in
light in “Edge of tire Forest” is well represented.
Pen Boyd's skill in handling water-color is con-
siderable, the mists over the river in “The Valley”
being a distinct achievement. Barring a tendency
to prettiness, which a water-colorist with a decora-
tive sense is liable to, he represents the beauty of
the bush honestly and well. His solitary oil,
“Wattle Gold,” which was sold on the opening day,
shows that lie can paint strongly in the more diffi-
cult medium. Ilis water-colors sell readily; in oil
lie, is likely to reach greater artistic success.
* *
“Going Up,” which has been doing well in
Melbourne, goes on at Sydney Cri. next
Saturday. The management’s opinion of
its merits is supplied in the cold intimation
that, as regards this show, the free list is
entirely suspended.
* * * *
“The Officers’ Mess” begins at Sydney
Tivoli at the matinee on Saturday. it
opens in Sydney with the challenge that it
has just done 10 weeks in Melbourne. Vera
Pearce, Bert Clark, Marie Le Varre and the
rest of them will probably keep Sydney in-
terested for as long. Spring is on tile way,
Sydney Palace.
Baritone Colin Crane.
the “form” of race-
horses is being
carefully studied,
punters are on the
alert, and there is
a general atmo-
sphere of hope and
e x p ecta n c y. A
proved cheerful
show should flou-
rish exceedingly. “A
“Box o’ Tricks”
closes at the Tivoli
on Friday night.
** * *
J. and N. Tait
have hung out the'
red lamp, hoisted
the blue peter and
set the alarm-bells
ringing. Har r y
Lauder’s season at
Sydney Palace is
ending, and pre-
sently the gay and*
graceful Muriel'
Window will be
seen no more.
Emelie Polini wll
start a return sea-
son at the little*
Pitt-street theatre on Saturday. August 30.
The unfading “Eyes of Youth.”
At Sydney Opera House the smooth down-
grade cf “Her Road to Ruin” has the
familiar old hurdles of Virtue, Good Friends
and True Love to baulk the villains and
save the girl from destruction.
** * *
“Men” are under the microscope at Syd-
ney Crystal Palace and Strand. They are,
not so enthralling as last, week’s array of-
Woman. Two parted sisters help out the
story, the model (artist’s) one bringing the
happy ending with her “I Forbid the
Banns,” thus saving sister Iligh-tone from
marriage with the villain. Hoyt’s and the
Haymarket have a handful of trumps:
Ethel Clayton, who stops burgling when a
beyond-the-dreams-of-avarice wooer heaves
in sight, is known as “The Girl Who Came
Back” ; Fatty Arbuckle ns the Sheriff takes
some getting around; and there’s a fas-
cinating young man who has “Too Many
iUillions.” The Lyceum has an attractive
film which elucidates “Life’s Greatest Prob-
lem.”
If Winchell Smith’s name were not men-
tioned as author of “Lightnin’ ” at Mel-
bourne Royal, one would suspect his inter-
vention from the sudden reappearance of his
elderly Reuben in the grip of his favorite
crooks. This motif gave some substance to
his “Turn to the Right,” and in “Lightnin’ ”
he repeats the same old trick, only prolonging
the journey to a virtuous development by
multiplying the irrelevant themes. Thus where
“Maw” Bascom had merely the ingenious
Muggs and Gilly to challenge her right to
the centre of the stage, “Lightnin’ ” Jones’s
missus has to interpolate her tragedy be-
tween a timber-stealing episode, a couple of
love affairs and sundry droll jests by the
leading man. It seems probable that “Light-
nin’ ” was originally a smart little sketch
that grew by elaboration into an evening’s
entertainment. Anyhow, John Marvin, as
an alleged timber-thief, is quite superfluous,
although the provision of a pub bisected by
the border line between Nevada and Cali-
fornia is'dramatically in his favor when he
is pursu 'd by a Nevada sheriff. Further,
the pub has its possibilities for Californian
“Lightnin',” at
Melbourne Royal.
John D. O'Hara as
Lightnin' Bill
Jones.
citizens who are suf-
fering from chronic
matrimony and need
the tonic of a Reno
divorce. Mrs. Jones
is one of the first
patients under the
advice of the two
sharks who find Light-
ion’ an impediment to
the capture of her
home; but “Mother”
repents her hasty de-
cision, and the two
swindlers, being outed
by the superior lungs
of John Marvin, leave
nothing but a few
explanations and en-
dearments to restore
th. j > innocent status
quo.
* *
The point of the
story, however, is im-
material beside the
personal ascendancy of
Lightnin’. This ex-
tremely languid and
semi-lubricated ancient
is the first human
being to adopt the pace
of a Webster subur-
ban telegram. He
crawls in and out. only
shaken from his inertia by a toper’s whims,
yet tempering his regard for biting fluids with
a pathetic consciousness of his insobriety.
Credit must be given to John D. O’Hara for
a singularly attractive portrait of Lighthin’;
it presents an arresting outline and pre-
serves the right balance of light and shade.
Coming after the restless Figman, O’Hara
seems very reposeful. In fact, his economy
of effect would be artistic parsimony in a
less subtle interpreter. Mrs. Jones is sus-
tained by the sentimental good nature of
Victory Bateman, who in her final canoodle
with her embarrassed husband presents the
dismayed relic of a youthful simper. Robert
Toms is just a nice girl’s fancy in the part
of Marvin, and carries out. his part of the
contract without squandering the grease-
paint to improvise Apollo. The nice girl is
I.izette Parkes. who makes rather a prude’s
progress to her inevitable happiness, but
shows a gleam of Eve when John spruiks his
avowal of hive. The crowd of expectant
divorcees in the Calivada Hotel is headed by
Diana Wilson, who is almost a throng in
herself. Frederick Esmelton lavishes the
fruits of a long experience on the part of the
amorous Judge, who. in divorcing D ana
aforesaid, almost collides with his own judg-
ment in his hurry to grab the lady. Kenneth
Brampton and Arthur Cornell represent the
conspiracy against the peace and happiness
of Lightnin’ and his family, and John. Beck
is a lugubrious sheriff who conceals his sus-
pected humor with tremendous skill. Tien
Hogue, Fred Cambourne and T. W. Lloyd
arp the principals among a quantity of
superfluous people. Most of them appear to
have been gathered together to adorn the
moral and distend the tale.
** * *
*‘Tligh Jinks.” revived at Melbourne
Majesty’s on Saturday, set Field Fisher
scattering the perfume that- makes staid
patriarchs giddy with rapture. This time
Fisher is provided with a fresh victim in
George Willoughby, who doesn’t need to
push the lumber king to the front, but easily
attains prominence by his generous waist-
“Daddies," at
Melbourne Kiny's.
Oracle Dorran, as
Ruth, talks about her
little children.
line. Wi 11 ia m
Greene is now cast
as Jacques Rabe-
lais, whilst Alfred
Frith, re-appearing
as Colonel Slaugh-
ter, now and again
trembles at the
temptation to hurry
his gazeka grin
into the picture.
Gracie Lavers is a
success as Sylvia
Dale, and Maude
Beatty as Adelaide
Fontaine is not so
much a mis-hit as
in her previous im-
personations. The
charming Madge
Elliott is Mile. Chi
Chi, but Madge’s
“kick” is purely
physical and never
gives the intellect
a knock-out blow.
Next Saturday the
much- advertised
“Maytime” takes the stage.
* * * *
“Daddies” is still the bill at Melbourne
King’s.
5’C 5|C * #
A fleeting revival of “Lady Frayle” at
Melbourne Tivoli served to show that Vera
Pearce is acting with more ease and less
pose than her earlier self; that Marie Le
Varre’s style as a “society entertainer” is
gingery, and that Bert Clark is not so much
a butler as a licensed low comedian. On
Saturday will come "The Lads of the Vil-
lage” to the Tiv., with some new faces in
the co. Meanwhile the house is closed.
“The Blindness of Divorce,” screened by
Hoyt’s in Melbourne this week, is showing
how a damsel threatens to tread the broad
track of her mamma’s purple past, but takes
the right turning instead. The story is told
by Charles Clary and Rhea Mitchell, and
the film is a Fox. “The Mystery Girl,”
another Hoyt starter, provides a lively career
for Ethel Clayton. But Ethel never belonged
to the rest-cure class, so she is not per-
turbed by her present obligations. “The
Goat” is the excuse for the appearance of
Fred Stone, Avhose stunts are ingenious and
original. At the Majestic Ceeil Raleigh’s
tarnished melodrama, “Sealed Orders.” is
given another life under the title of “Stolen
Orders,” and Montague Love, June Elvidgc
and Kitty Gordon faithfully fill the principal
parts. The other Majestic study is “Wives
of Men,” with Florence Reed and Frank
Mills to hammer home the salient points.
* i;.
“The Lads of the Village,” given its first
Australian run by Mclntosh at Adelaide
Royal, is one of those London war-time con-
coctions which already seem to belong to a
past age. It tells of the girls who did the
country’s work while the boys were giving
the Kaiser . Even the hero had to be
bluffed into recruiting by a glorious dream
of Drake, Wellington, Kitchener and the
rest coming down out of their frames to
persuade him. This, shown per film and
screen, is well done. The rest is ’Erb and
Bert, camp life, German spies to be foiled,
patriotic songs with chorus, and a striking
close in a nantomime palpee at Bagdad,
where Arnold Bell, as ’Erb, gets entrance as
a magician and rescues the captive hero and
heroine. The “find” of the show is a new
importation, Arthur Aldridge, with hand-
some face, portlv figure and robust tenor
voice. Nolle Fleming, who comes with him,
is a pleasant American heroine, but Florence
Fox and Clarice Hardwick have as much to
do. Jean Keith, Percy Cahill and Jose Bap-
tiste (an extra violin turn) are others who
score. And Billy Rego, who suffers from his
reputation: the audience laughs the moment
he opens bis mouth, and he has to,bark or
go unheard.
At Adelaide Tivoli Mclntosh’s mostly-
Australian co. is giving a succession of
comedies. Wilfred Hilary and Maurice
Nodin arc making good, while Gwen Bur-
roughs ai d Audrey Worth are increasing
their renutation. “Never Say Die” was on
last week : “Officer 0»n>” is this week’s bill-
Variety business continues at tbe Majestic.
Harry Burgess is funny, and Les Warton
has mastered the great truth that any song
will knock an audience hard if sung ve-rv
slow and loud. McEwen the mysterious is
at the Town Hall on n return visit. In
pictures the powerful old “Magda” is at
West’s, with Clara Young as the rebellious
daughter; at Wondergraph romances of
American small towns, with Charles Ray
and Dorothy Dalton astonishing the natives
in- their various ways; and at the Pav
Emmy Whelen has a spree on Broadway.
“IL TROVATORE.”
In the mournful Middle Ages, when they had no
comic papers,
tV hen the Steel Trust canned the nobles and put
labels on each breast,
All the laws were sharp ami sudden and they cut
some rotten capers
Grilling gipsies on the off-chance it would give
a sick child rest.
One poor fizzling gipsy’s daughter took the Duke s
son, yes, and dumped him
On the gas-stove with poor mother. How she did
it there's no hint,
For the opera-plot condenser (pity no one ever
thumped himl)
Hatties onward in this fashion, and it makes a
new-chum squint:
“To her horror, Azucena finds that she has burnt
her own child.”
(That's the sort of thing that even hurried people
rarely do;
But the Middle Ages mother, witjh a fretful "Do
not groan, child 1”
Would continue with her singing with a whole
creche in the stew.)
“Azilcena • reared the Duke’s child.” (Not one word
of explanation
Does the yarn-compresser offer how she got the kid
away;
’Twixt a soap ad. and a pub ad. lie must crowd our
education
Skimming o'er the minor details of this idiotic
play.)
“To the wars goes brave Mnnrico” (that’s the name
the gipsy gave him).
Wins the D.C.M. and later “pleads bis passion” in
a roar;
The young Countess Leonora from his brother cannot
save him
And there’s heaps of trouble coming to the steel-
bound troubadour —
Interrupted “twilight meetings,” shrieks and sword-
play, fire and fury,
And much “casting into dungeons” (very airy
places, too) ;
But without a proper trial with an honest judge
and jury,
’Twas annoying for the lovers, even though they
had a view.
Leonora tells the villain she will wed him if the
hero
Can be freed like a canary, but Manrico won’t
run loose;
So the lady swallows poison and the lovesick Village
Nero
Sends the hero to the headsman like a quacking
Christmas goose.
Then the gipsy (she's in gaol, too) shrieks, “You’ve
gone and killed yer brother!”
And she dies right there before him as he looks
extremely blue.
p’raps he gave up executions. If he ever had
another
He “looked up” the singing victim in a copy of
“Who’s Who.”
N.S.W.
KODAK.


A Titan Among Tyres!
2*.
m
MADE IN
CANADA.
What you want from your Tyres is
Comfort — Mileage — Service.
You don’t want excuses or alibis.
Better shoe your car with Dominions.
OBTAINABLE FROM
NEW SOUTH WALES
BENNETT & BAR KELL LTD.,
Cor. Meagher & Chippen Streets,
Chippendale, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
CHENEY MOTOR CO. LTD.,
42-8 Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA & TASMANIA —
DOMINION TYRE AGENCY,
27-31 Little Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND-
Metropolitan GARAGE & MOTOR AGENCY ,
George Street, Brisbane.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES: 53 York Street, SYDNEY.


M
A Specially Good Riding' Boot.
The StocKman, 1716
Post
Free.
This is not only the best Riding Boot on the market, but the best value too. It’s a solid Tweed
Seamless Emperor, light in weight, but exceedingly strong. Note the patent strip on elastic.
This is a special feature, and ensures a double life for the elastic where it wears out so quickly
in the ordinary riding boot. Has standard screwed soles 17/6 post free.
SPECIAL PRICE, 17/6 POST FREE.
Mail your Order for a Pair to-day .
Finney, Isles Co. Limited,
Queen &. Adelaide Streets, Brisbane— The Drapers of Queensland since 1864
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
E[?]gucste
‘'“Dido” : The progress of a kid drama in
town reminds me of a previous effort to
stage the adorable offspring. It was at Mel-
bourne Royal. There was an awfully good
little boy in this drama, and everybody loved
him. The sweet child was always butting
in, and he was full of good advice for his
elders, and homilies and wise sayings for
the young ; and when he fell sick in Act 3,
stalls, pit and galleries were expected to be
harrowed to pieces. One night a mfin in
the back stalls gave way to such violent
sobbing that the management deemed it. ad-
visable to interview him in person. He had
to be stilled if the play was to continue, and
meanwhile a lot of dumb show was going
on over little Willie’s bed, where the actors
were sparring for wind. “Come, coine,” said
Simonsons, “you must not give way like
this.” The stricken man uttered an even
more dolorous cry. “There* there, lealm
yourself,” said the manager. “I had >a
little boy like him once,” moaned the im-
peder of traffic. “A dear little lad just like
SYDNEY PALACE.
The Creightons, comedy jugglers.
that one.” “Yes, it is very sad,” murmured
Simonsens; “but we all have our sorrows.
Recollect he is among the angels.” “No,
no,” wailed the heart-broken wretch, “that’s
just the trouble —-/’re yot him yet!”
“S.S.” : “Daddies” could hardly have been
worse named, but then it could hardly be a
worse play. Hobble, or Belasco, whichever
wrote it. has set himself to work in cold
blood to exploit man’s affection for his
young, a perfectly legitimate theme if it is
the true factor in a good story; but in
“Daddies” Belasco, or Hobble, has made a
clumsy attempt to burglarise the soul of
humanity, and every spectator with half a
grain of perception discovers the lawless
intention straight away. Hobble (or Belasco)
has said to himself: “Folks love kiddies.
Very well; why not sell them some? There
should be dollars in the deal.” Then Belasco
(or Hobble) got out after those almighty
ingots, and till through the play, when
Hobble (if it isn’t Belasco) is gurgling
love for little ones, with an effort of emotion
that threatens to burst his buttons, you
cannot shut your eyes to the avaricious claw
that is reaching for the oof. In short,
“Daddies” is a play on the love for kids
based on the love of quids, uninspired,
prattling, and worse than dull, since it turns
to contempt one of the most powerful
emotions of the human soul, and gives the
judicious an unpleasant sense of being pre-
sent at an unseemly exposure of the domestic
virtues.
“0.K.”: Whereas the stage is a less dan-
gerous proposition for the casual young man
than for the girl who is “dying to go on” but
has no family influence to help her on when
she gets there, the rule with theatrical mana-
gers is to make actresses of their daughters
rather than mummers of their sons. Robert
Courtneidge is a case in point. His pretty
and clever daughter Cicely got a start in
his theatre while she was still in her teens.
As a married woman she is doing big things
at the music-halls. Now a younger daughter
of Courtneidge is leaving school to go on the
stage, so he writes to an old Australian
friend. But he doesn’t talk of his son, back
from the war, being encouraged to take up
acting. It is for the girls with influence,
and a parental eye to watch their interests
all the time, who can turn their qualifica-
tions to good account in the profesh.,
especially when the talent is in their blood.
Courtneidge’s daughters get it from both
sides. Their mother’s mother (Cicely Nott)
was an actress whose husband was one of
the very early managers of London music-
hall business. Their mother was in the
Gaiety Co. when she married, and she had a
sister or two who had been brought up to
think of playhouses as workshops.
“Smike”: Irby Marshall, the Queensland
girl who started with the Firm, and on one
occasion made an attractive Nellie Denver
in Melbourne, is well in the spotlight in New
York. She was lately doing the heroine in
Maeterlinck’s war-drama, “The Burgomaster
of Belgium,” at the Belmont Theatre, and
was rising magnificently to her opportu-
nities.” Her husband, Leonard Willey, was
in the cast as a truculent young Teuton.
“Midchannel” comes home :
1 saw between 40 and 50 plays produced on
Broadway and only about three impressed me as
being worth exporting. These were “Baddies,” “The
Saving Grace” and “Sleeping Partners.” The last
is a short three-act play which covers two hours only
—all right for N’York, where the curtain rises at
about 9 o’clock, but no good for Australia. A
Belasco show is always the last word in “produc-
tion.” “Daddies” was done by Belasco, and the
Taits are equal to the task of giving an equal repre-
sentation here. The idea that any New York pro-
duction is faultless is absurd. I came to the con-
clusion that J.C.W. productions of musical-comedy
were at least 50 per cent, in advance of those in
N’York; and the l’aits’ “Turn to the Bight” tsvo
years ago was far better than the production I
witnessed in New York. Also, Australian audiences
should shed the illusion that they suffer from the
performance of Yankee plays by local talent in Aus-
tralia. Certainly I never saw a “juvenile” lead the
equal of Cyril Mackay or Lizette Parkes. It is
pleasing to note that the Firm and the Taits have
supplemented the imported people in their produc-
tion of American plays by a considerable proportion
of local talent. Australian audiences can rest assured
that such employment will produce a far more satis-
factory result than the wholesale importation of so-
called American stars. I saw only three really great
actors in New York. These were Cyril Maude, Louis
Mann (“Friendly Enemies”) and H. B. Warner, and
oidy one really top-notch actress, Miss Crews, who
played opposite Maude. The rest, including Collier
and the much boosted John Barrymore, were dis-
appointments, not to say abject failures.
“A.,LA.”: “T.D.” (B. 7/8/T9) asserts
that during the past 36 years he has seen
only one Camille with black hair—Margaret
Anglin. I’m afraid he doesn’t patronise the
classiest shows. Nellie Bramley drew
gallons of tears last year at Melbourne
Princess’s. Her hair was aa black as a
black cat in a cellar.
“Fax” : Another shower of eulogistic criti-
cisms has fallen on Eva Quin, the kind re-
marks this time being apropos of her per-
formance in a one-act play at the I.ondon
Comedy Theatre. Seemingly she is still
waiting her chance to score a notable success
in a notably successful piece. The talent of
the Australian girl who did so well in “The
Morals of Marcus” is beyond question, and
it is (or was, the last time this country
heard her) a pleasure to listen to her musical
voice.
“Petramos”: Just dcad-Leoncavallo took
his art to the music-halls a few years ago
and wrote a grand opera for London Hippo-
drome. I saw him conduct the orchestra of
65. When his portion of the programme fell
due he waddled from the back of the stalls
wearing a bowler, picked up his baton, and,
without a bow, turned on the music while
he was leaning down to put his hat where
he wouldn’t sit on it. Great scholars know
that in English “Signor Leoncavallo” should
read something like “Mr. Lion-Horse,” which
gives the point to the story of the conductor
at Milan and the brother of the great com-
poser who played a trombone in the
orchestra. Latter, indignant one day, ex-
claimed: “How dare you criticise me? Do
you not know who I am? I am Leoncavallo.”
To which the conductor is said to have re-
torted : “Sit down. You are neither a lion
nor a horse. You are an ass.”
“J.F.H.” (London) : Melba is turning
journalist in her old age. After a little pre-
liminary canter of a column or so in North-
cliffe’s Sunday paper, the Weekly De-
spatch, she (or a ghost) is now doing a
regular series of articles in Evening News.
They are reminiscent and advisory, intended
primarily for the instruction and encourage-
ment of all ambitious young flappers who
would follow in her footsteps to Covent
Garden. She dwells on the obstacles and
the disagreements she had to contend with,
and says she went round selling tickets for
her first concert to people who had heard
her as principal soprano in St. Francis’
“LA ROHEME," AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Colline (Alfredo Valenti) sings farewell to
his coat. Schaunard (Fred Collier )
brooding in the background.
R.C. Church (Lonsdale-street) and the
Scots Church (Collins-street). And then her
papa followed in her tracks and besought
the people who had purchased tickets not
to go to the concert, “in the interests of the
family,” the result being that only two per-
sons entered the hall on the eventful night.
But Melba heroically sang her whole pro-
gramme as precisely as if the hall had been
packed. In the original version of the story
the audience numbered 20 and stood
outside exhorting and entreating intending
patrons not to go in; also he went round
Melbourne with a bucket and a brush de-
facing his daughter’s posters, and did a lot
of other things that most likely never
occurred to him at all.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Charlie Mortyne, just
back on the Sydney boards, deserves well of
the profession. Seven years ago he was the
hero of a real life drama. A severalth-rate
eo_. played Wardell, in the N.S.W. Northern
Rivers district, and after the show finances
were so shattered that the principal actor
abandoned the scene and the remnants stag-
gered to Alstonville, figuring out how it was
to plav “East Lynne” without the deserter.
The first in command managed somehow to
get an SOS to Charlie Mortyne. The good-
hearted old chap didn’t have the price of a
ride, so he trudged the nine miles between
towns, doubled Lord Mount Severn and Bul-
lock. and, waiting for neither salary nor
thanks, walked back to his fishing job. He
was then 62.
“Ox”: Off to the U.S.A. in September
part of the Hoskins steel-making family,
including son Leslie, recently back from
France. He had a flutter in theatrical life
as partner with Beau Smith in “The Glad
Eye” and other comedy productions. On
the voyage across he will be able to swap
stories with one of the first theatrical ladies
he met professionally—little Vera Spa till,
remembered as the heroine of “The Blue
Bird” and the red-headed Miss Bobbie of
Ethel Turner’s “Seven Little Australians.”
She goes to try her luck with Uncle Sam's
folk.
“N.F.”: Young Eric Diver, who enlisted
at 17 and is due back in Australia i s a
son of the late Hairy Diver and his wife*
Helene Burdette. The lad is musical and
while on leave in Blighty was pianist and
baritone soloist to a Diggers’ travelling
concert party. s \
MINUS HAMLET.
(For The Bulletin - , j
“He (the Prince of Wales) is to be the guest of
General Cornelius Vanderbilt, and as there is
charming daughter can you wonder conjecture i
rife? There is Prince Aage, too, a nephew of the
King of Denmark, but in the excitement of Wales’
projected visit the Dane walks on.”
—“Australian Girl in N’York” (B. 7/8/’l9)
The Dane “walks on”
When it’s his cue to enter,
lie just stalks on;
Another takes the centre.
Ophelia’s pretty eyes on Wales are cast—
“ Hamlet” is played without the Prince at last!
VICTORIA. j,; -j-
-“E.T.”: Worthy of note that Hugh I).
Mclntosh is the only Australian manager
who is offering his patrons English-made
goods in preference to American and not
doing too badly either. In continuance of
his policy Mac intends to let us see two of
London’s biggest winners in the near future
—“The Lilac Domino” and Asche’s “Ohu
Chin Chow.” Where lie is going to find
the huge cast for the latter production is a
problem that Robert Greig and the author
will solve when they meet in London in a
few months time.
“Ibsenshaw” : Though it is somewhat un-
profitable to discuss at this time o’ day
whether Julius Knight was a clever copyist
or no (personally I think he was). Wilson
Barrett’s naive remark to “S.T.S.” (R.
14/8/T9) concerning Knight’s Marcus
Super bus —“They tell me lie makes melo-
drama of it” —is worthy of remembrance.
The good old “Sign” is, of course, melo-
drama of the rankest —“all dressed up,” but
still melodrama, though it was cruelly desig-
nated by one of the ablest critics (William
Archer) on its first production in London “a
Salvation Army pantomime.” “S.T.S.” calls
Barrett the “original Marcus.” Correct.
But it seems to be forgotten that he also
wrote the piece, and the author surely knows
how the principal part should be played.
“Vaudeville Veteran”: Audiences in Aus-
tralia are not consistently tough as they
are at some English halls. First and only
time I played a Midlands town the name
of which I swore to blot from my memory
I struck “vegetable night.” It was the
local market-day, and visiting gardeners
brought their surplus stock to the theatre
for ammunition. When I came off I
showed the manager the marks made by an
unsold cabbage, and told him that the thing
ought to be stopped'. “Stopped!” he cried.
"Why, man, they pay to do it! Do you
think any of your rotten old acts could
draw a crowded house like to-night’s?”
Sunderland was a very hot shop for vaude-
ville folk at times. When the Bovis Bros.,
of Australia (the Portuguese twins in the
London production of “The Belle of New
York”), went there they found themselves
next to closing on the programme. Charlie
asked a stage-hand, rather nervously, how
he thought they’d get on. “Oh, you’ll be
all right, Mr. Bovis,” was the reply.
“You’ve got a good position. All the drunks
will be asleep by then.”
“T. D. Erndee”: Harry Pliminer, now m
America, figured more than any other Aus-
tralian actor I know as a “star” stop-gap.
When Julius Supremus fell ill during the
Knight-Jeffries season at Sydney Royal,
Plimmer played all the leading roles, except
Monsieur Beaucaire. That was reserved for
J- B. N. Osborne, because of his knowledge
of French. Though tEe amateur Osborne
aped Julius remarkably well, I am certain
that Plimmer, who may or may not be a
French scholar, would have left him far
behind. . Plimmer was the original Sherlock
Holmes in Australia. He played the great
investigator in Westralia prior to the arrival
of Cuyler Hastings, and I have been told
that he simply lost the imported star in the
part.
UNITED WE STAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pale Hamlet trod the limelit stage,
Ai:d, in soliloquy,
I>eli\e ed the immortal speech:
“To be, or not to be.”
He spoke as doth become the prince,
With every accent due,
And in a voice of tenderness,
He gave Ophelia’s cue.
There came a pause....for all the stir
Ophelia might be dead.
Softly the melancholy Dane
Breathed curses ou her head.
He sought the tardy prompter’s box
With eyes of dull despair,
The “book” was closed, the light was out,
Tlie prompter was not there.
Again lie gave the maid her cue.
His voice rose to a yell;
And when the noise had died away,
A cloud of silence fell.
Then from the “flies” a voice exclaimed
“Shut up, yer fool ; don’t shout.
Y’ ’aven’t got a ’ope;
We’ve called yer Union out 1”
VICTOItIA.
TALORD.
WORSE AND WORSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
forgery, robbery, burglary and murder happen in
swift succession. Scenes of midnight carousal intro-
duce a stall more sinister color to the proceedings."
—h. M. Herald theatrical notice (9/8/’l9).
A burglary or two is nothing much;
Such things are venial errors, after all.
The nether depths of sin they do not touch ;
But you —you also haunt the midnight ball
M here females, scanty as to skirt and blouse.
And evil men, dance jazzes and carouse.
All know your record as a homicide—
B hy burrow deeper in the mire of sin
And visit places where folks dip and glide
And drink amidst a gay, ungodly din?
Is arson not enough, and murder fell.
And forgery, that you carouse as well?
N.S.W.
A SCANDALISED SCENE-SHIFTER.


'
mmSm !
*. ■
-:-'V
;;w.
*/ ' \> ,
'i
'
till
» •:
ill
\
I
3
%
•■f
m
*
M
m
wm
ata
*T l /HI ] O
Ihe bhinw Lye
The Graceful form
c
xc
w
mm.
*■
v, Tt ? y <,, y
Hal


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Svdnev.
LEWIS &
WMITTYI
• . * ■ ;• i. £
MAKER'S
: V
58C
rs*
SR .
mm
mMm
<?fe
m
rase
PATOn I
A Recipe for a Pleasant Evening
A Pal, A Pipe and a Glass of —^
BRINDS CIN
A Pure Pot Still Spirit of Finest Grade
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
for
SPORTING
MEEDS
Not content with having dropped their
money on Gladful for the big race at Caulfield the
previous week, punters made the disappointing
animal favorite for the steeplechase at Flemington
last Saturday. And Gladful did as before. The pace
seemed too fast for the favorite at the outset, and
later on one of the fences was too high. After the
small field had turned for home it looked as though
Lord Cecil was about to recoup his followers with
a nice win at a nice price. But the imported nag
is not yet back to his best form, and trusty Pinon,
who had picked up a couple of stakes at the Grand
National meeting, gave Lord Cecil 51b. and a nar-
row beating. At any distance up to miles or
thereabouts Pinon must be equal to the best of them
in the jumping game.
Court Jester put up a highly respectable perform-
-ance in winning the August Handicap almost from
end to end. The Comedy King horse, who has just
begun to be a six-year-old, gave two and a half stone
to the runner-up and not less than a stone to every-
thing else. Apparently Jester is a better horse now
than ever he was in the past when they used to
boost him.
Two children of Red Streak won races at the
meeting. One was Red Dome, a four-year-old mare
by The Welkin ; the other, Noorilim. by Land of
Song, took the Three-Year-Old Handicap in good
style. Noorilim promises to be a gelding of some
importance this season.
Malm, who ran second to Silent Way in
the August Hurdle (two miles) at Flemington on
Saturday, holds the world’s record for the distance
over hurdles. The time is 3min. 40sec., and it was
put up at Sandown last November. Last week’s
race took 4 $ secs, longer.
* * • *
The Oakleigh-bred Iranian, trained by II-
Foley at Randwick, has been drawing attention to
the fact that he is in the Epsom at 6st. 101 b. On
the last two Saturdays lie has won in fair company
at Rosehill, firstly over six furlongs with 9st. 81b.,
and secondly over a mile with 9'st. 4lb. He might
do something remarkable with 361 b. less to deliver.
Iranian is by imported Aryan from a Lochiel mare.
* * * *
The Stead-Richmond lot of Maorilanders
now working at Randwick include Australia’s old
friend Sasanoff; The Spanner, acquired as a year-
ling in Sydney for £75 by one of the Auckland
Alisons and subsequently sold for a couple of
thousand; and last season’s two-year-old M.L. sen-
sation, Surveyor, who is after the V.lt.C. Derby.
* * * *
Richard Mason reached Sydney from M.L.
on Monday after an adventurous trip with the
Greenwood horses aboard a tramp. The vessel called
at Melbourne, and, what with one thing and another,
the nags were below’ deck for 14 days. In the
string are Gloaming and the Derby colt Rossini, a
son of Martian. As the winners of the last two
A.J.C. Derbies were trained by. Mason, the youngster
with the musician’s name may deserve serious con-
sideration. Gloaming is, of course, after w.f.a.
events. It is due chiefly to the gelding that Green-
wood heads the M.L. list of winning owners with
£10,155. Gloaming is responsible for £6765 of
it.
» « * •
The Destroyer, last year’s calamitous
boom for the Epsom and Metrop., went out a roar-
ing favorite for the second division of a maiden
event at Rosehill on Saturday and couldn’t get
within three lengths of the winner. The imported
grey has now cost the credulous punting army about
a ton of cash, his record at six years old being once
placed in eight starts.
* # * *
Elfacre, Campbell Wood’s Derby colt who
made such a hack of The Destroyer in the Maiden
at Rosehill on Saturday, is in both Derbies, the
Caulfield Guineas and the Melbourne Cup. He
has had experience of Victorian courses, which is an
advantage to a Derby colt.
* * * *
With the suspension of Lillyman at Rose-
hill on Saturday for a couple of months for crossing,
a pair of prominent Sydney horsemen are on the
shelf. Bracken has been there for some time, and
is nearly due to climb down. But William will have
to watch the big Spring meeting from the side.
“Bad Australian” (from London) :
Out at Epsom to see the Derby run, I was amazed
at the condition of that hill-and-dale course. Owing
to the recent spell of dry weather the ground was as
hard as a brick and the surface as badly cracked as
that of a dried-up sludge dam. The course we've
read so much about was covered with innumerable
depressions like old crab-holes. When these draw-
backs, the desperately sharp turn into the straight,
and the 1 in 8 or 1 in 10 cross-section of the last
000 yards is considered, it is a marvel how the field
got home in the time it did. Almost any bush track
in Australia offe s better conditions for the horses
than Epsom did for the “Victory” Derby. The
number of three-card trick, crown and anchor and
other spielers who pursued their illegitimate business
apparently without interference from the police
seemed out of propo.tion to the crowd, and mugs
were plentiful and willing. A regular water-supply
seemed to be non-existent; and, although beer of a
sort was plentiful enough, I didn’t see a single drunk
on the course. The sanitary arrangements away
from the enclosures were little better than those of
a blackfellows’ camp.
Oopina easily won the G. X. Hurdles at
Adelaide on Saturday, carrying list. 41b., and cap-
ably steered by C. Boyd, 'fully, ridden by .Mooney,
was second in a field of 18. Six fell. The satisfying
tote-dividend of £3Ol 17s. for a sovereign was forth-
coming in connection with Argosy Boy during the
day. It is one of the biggest divvies paid in the
Holy City since D.O.D. earned his only supporter
£BOO 36 years ago.
* * # *
S.A. Jockey Club has gone far afield for
a successor to the late A. O. Wliitington, who had
been its secretary since the revival of racing in
S.A. 30 years ago. The new secretary—chosen from
a crowd of applicants—is A. V. Ivewney, one of the
best-knowm figures on the Westralian goldfields. He
came from England at the end of last century as
representative of some mining cos., but for the last
four years has turned to the management of racing
at Ivalgoorlie, which he has changed from a twice-
yearly into a once-monthly affair. He is to take hold
in Adelaide next month.
It looks as though Eric Connolly, the most
speculative of Vic. horse owmers and trainers, will
be giving punters something to worry about in con-
nection with the two Cups. The other Saturday
he won a race with Toison d’Or, which the Tyes
imported from England as a two-year-old. A very
well-bred animal is Toison d’Or, now a five-year-old
by Australian time. Connolly, who always had a
liking for the shapely stranger, became his owner
when the Tyes had their sale last November; and
now it appears that Toison can gallop. Whether he
can shake either of the Cups with 7st. 71b. up is
quite another proposition, but because he belongs
to E.A.C. the imported nag is pretty certain to be
boosted in the market for all he is worth, or more
so. No owner has been more successful than Con-
nolly in getting good hedging for his early outlay on
his own nags.
* * * *
Frault Brogan, who took the lightweight
championship from Bob Williams the other day,
and before that had beaten Harry Stone, scored an
easy win over Herb McCoy on Saturday night. Never
has the Victorian veteran put up such a feeble
display at the Sydney Stadium. Brogan out-
pointed and outpunched him with painful monotony.
In the fifth round Herb smote his opponent low,
but the referee passed it. In the seventh round
he repeated the stroke and was disqualified. The
match was a bad one. McCoy is ageing, and he
has had a lot of punishrgent in his time, while
Brogan is young and full of strength and confidence.
The preliminary between Wright and Stanley was
a far better go than the eyent of the evening—as
has often been the case in Sydney lately.
The youthful Brogan assists McCoy back to
retirement.
“Timo”: Jerry Jerome, the only front-
rank abo. fighter we’ve had for many years, now
lives at Fraser (Great Sandy) Island, ’ and has
grown very fat. It’s a long time since he donned
the mits. Next to a good feed he likes a little game
of two-up. He spends week and other ends in -Mary-
borough (Q.) occasionally. .Jer y reckons he learnt
a thing or two from the shrewd-heads when lie was
in the fighting game, including how not to he taken
down at cards. Lately lie came across a little knot
of schoolboys playing penny nap. Jerry took a
hand. Second deal he held ace, king, queen of
clubs and ace, with a king of another suit. “I’ll
go nap,” said Jerry. He got the first two tricks.
Then the dealer threw down his hand. “You’re
tossed, Jer y! I’ve got jack of clubs fourth.” “Dem
boys very good for der ages,” said Jerry later.
# * * *
Tom O’Malley and Bill Rudd —noddies
with reputations as punchers—clashed at Sydney
Hippodrome on Monday night. Thomas proved the
heavier hitter, and had his opponent beaten within
three rounds. The referee stopped the slaughter in
the middle of the fifth.
Eddie MeGoorty must have been very
hilarious last week to get himself locked un as a
drunk in London. The London policeman is con-
siderate to drunks and does not proceed to extremi-
ties unless he is driven to it. When Johnson was
training for the Burns fight he had a large nigger
who was subsidised to drink heavily in public places
and claim to he the champion, the strongest thing
the real man imbibed, at tne time, being gmger-ale.
The idea, of course, was to lengthen the already
generous odds on offer against the black. It is
possible that MoGoorty was making a demonstration
on similar lines. lie was a quiet-living man when
he was in Australia.
*** * *
11. C. Aiacfie leaves Sydney directly for
the Cold Country on aviation business. He is pre-
sident of the IS'. S. Wales branch of the Australian
Aero Club, which has for its immediate object the
finding of employment tor returned members of the
A.F.O. “It is,” says Macfie, “our duty as citizens
of a country for which these gallant men have risked
their lives.” Another object of the club is to piv-
vent if possible the attempted exploitation of the
Commonwealth by foreign aeronautical bodies. For
some time past non-Australians have been edging in,
particularly a hunch of English aircraft manufac-
turers who recently got to Pearce’s ear in London
for concessions. Macfie sails by the Ormonde on
August 15 to try to put a spoke in the wheel.
In Sydney on Saturday Glebe beat Bal-
main and Easts downed Annandale, with the its It
that the men who live nearest to the illimitable
ocean now lead for the premiership with 20 points.
Balmain is one behind and Glebe four. In the
Easts-Annandale game Messenger did all the goal-
kicking, and the final scores were 28—nil. Glebe’s win
over Balmain was not unconnected with the fact
that five of the beaten
suburb’s stars are play-
ing in M.L. All the
same, it was a meri-
torious effort, in which
the red-jerseyed players
were on top practically
from start to finish.
Scores 21 —12.
• *
Frank Burge, the
giant who leads Glebe
in N. S. Wales Rugby
League football, is the
greatest scoring for-
ward the XHI-aside
game has known. In
1915 he headed the
season with 19 tries;
in 1916 he achieved
24; and in 1918 was
on top with 25. Burge
has worn the rep.
jersey v. M.L. and Q. ;
and is one of the
cleanest exponents of
the game.
FRANK BURGE,
a brilliant League
forward (Sydney).
Uni. and Glebe-Balma in still lead in the
Sydney Rugby Union Premiership with 20 points
each. Manly, which is an improving team, domi-
nated by Mingay, stands third ; it gave Cambridge a
31—S hiding on Saturday. But the feature of the
day in this division was the good fight put up by
Easts against the very strong Glebe-Balmain team.
G.-B. won by only 3.1 —22. The Westerners are so
good individually that they may yet down Uni.
*** * .
Souths had another win on Saturday in the
Vic. League competition, their victims being ’Don,
and the score 87 —55. The conquerors have com-
bination and tl ey play no weaklings. Souths now
hate the dominating lead of 44 points in the run
for premiership; ’Wood and Richmond next (36
each).
* « * *
“Adelaide” : Could any other State except
S. Aus. devise a whole Football Assoc, made up not
merely of church teams, but of those of one particu-
lar sect? Adelaide has such a tiling—the Churches
of Christ Football Association. The semi-finals and
finals for the season are just coming on.
J. J. Miller’s “Sporting Annual” for 1919
is out, and no sportsman who desires to hold his
own in argument can afford to be without it.
Besides a mass of racing information the little book
contains every known record. Miller himself vends
it in Melbourne; elsewhere Gordon and Gotch supply
it—price Is. 9d.
* * * »
The Federal Government threatens to do
a dastardly thing to followers of the ancient sport
or pastime of stamp-collecting. It has £97 Bs. Bd..
worth of German stamps—seized by the military
authorities when the Hun's island possessions were
occupied. These stamps are known as “G.R.I.
stamps,” and they have a market value hundreds
if not thousands of pounds in excess of their face
value. The Commonwealth proposes to lay aside a
complete set for the War Museum, and to put the
rest on the market. Collectors —especially those
who already own “G.R.l.'s ’—contend that this is
unsportsmanlike, and that the only decent thing for
the Government to do is to destroy the surplus
paper. It is probably poor business not to.
Stamps of all denominations cost about a shilling
a thousand to produce. Hundreds of thousands of
them are bought annually by stamp-hunters, and
are never sent through the post—greatlv to the
profit of the Governments concerned. Any Govern-
ment which threatens to ruin the market by becom-
ing a stamp-trafficker itself is in danger of losing
this easy source of revenue, or, anyhow, greatly
decreasing it.
“The Digger Ba tracker” : I was at Lord’s
when the A.I.F. Were playing the M.C.C. As I was
flush at the time, 1 had a half-dollar’s worth among
the top-hats. In the pavilion among these people
you speak in whispers, and any hilarity on the part
of a spectator draws glances of disapproval. It’s
almost as cheerful as a funeral. Bull, the N. S.
Wales man, bowling at express speed, sent down a
long-hop and caught the Hon. in the ribs ; the
thud sounded like the lobbing of a 12-inch dud. An
old gentleman next to me gave a gasp and murmured
“Dastardly 1 Dastardly 1 ”
The two-day match system is doomed,
according to an English cable. During its brief
existence the arrangement has served to disorganise
the County championship competition, so that the
last in point of cricketing merit have a good chance
of being first by the time the season ends. The
bowling in England is remarkably weak this year—
with the exception of Hitch (Surrey) there is hardly
a fast bowler of class in the country—and the
batting is strong. Take this in conjunction with a
fine summer, and it is not strange that about 70 per
cent, of the matches have been drawn. Throe days
is, na doubt, the irreducible minimum for a first-
class cricket match. It may seem painfully gradual
for these strenuous times, but that is ilie soit of
game cricket is.
* * * *
The Indianapolis 500-mile stved contest
provided a wonderful proof of what the modern
motor-car tyre will stand. The first and second
cars had four tyres (Goodyears) between them that
nad covered the whole course-—the hardest on tyres
in the world —without u change.
* * * *
Brig.-Gen. Brand, Vic. State Command-
ant, tells the yarn. Certain privileges are allowed
limbless and maimed returned men, including free
admittance to racecourses. Passes are issued, and
have to be renewed from time to time at the bar-
racks. One morning up stumped a man minus a
leg—so he said. The officer tapped the supposed miss-
ing member and struck wood. Still doubting, he
ordered the "wooden” leg to be displayed. This
was done and a piece of paling not altogether
artfully affixed to the genuine leg was revealed.
* * * #
“Melos”: They hud some tough prads in
the old days. A piebald pony bred by Rev. Janies
Hassall ran in a coach f 0111 Sydney to Parramatta
within the hour for a wager of £lOO. His three
mates were changed at iiomebush Half-way Inn,
and all had to gallop tp keep up with the little
fellow, whose ti'ot was unbroken throughout. The
pony was open to pace any horse in N. S. Wales,
lie passed Into the hands of Mr. Robe ts, u
well-known racing man, who drove him from
Pieton to Sydney in record time. That was the end.
The game tiling dropped dead as he entered the yard
at the journey’s end.
* * * *
If he isn’t very careful, A. Grimsey will
find himself lepresenting the Speck at Bisley before
long. Two years ago he Was a promising but un-
distinguished member of the Metropolitan Riiie Club
(Hobart). Now he pours shots into the bull with
a regularity that grows mohotonous. Shooting for
the M.R.C. in the Golding Shield Competition—l l «
biggest thing in Tassy—lie registered 102, and
recently he put up three possible o in one shoot. if
M. men no less than four —Hubbard, Whitting-
ton, Humphries and Golding—have hitherto been
chosen to rep esent the Speck at Bisley. The cap-
tain of the club is Chief Justice Nieholls.
# * * #
The match between the local one-armed
champion B. St. John and Horace Rice of N. Si
Wales was the titbit of the Rananaland tennis
championships last week. Each set was grimly
fought till “five all” and then the effete Northerner
won 5 —7, 7—5, 7 —£>, 7 —5. This astonishing sports-
man has played for his State in Rugby Union foot-
ball, and he is also a topnotcher at cricket and
chess.
H. ft. Turner, who put up fastest time
(lGmiii. 11'.°. ft.) in Botany Harriers’ 34-mile wadi
handicap at Sydney on Saturday, is a rapidly im-
proving athlete. He recently won the five-mile
cross-country championship in 30min. 27 l-fisc:.,
and is much fancied for the open cross-country'
championship next week.
J. R. Hooper beat G. B. Shailer by 515
in 2000 up for N. S. Wales amateur billiard cham-
pionship at Sydney last week. It made the fifth
time running that lie has licked Shailer for the
title. The winner will play for N. S. Wales in the
Australian championship at Melbourne next month.
; . - * * * *
Brookes and Patterson are inspiring tlio :
same reverence in America that they did in Eng-
land. In their recent Boston doubles matches the,
steadiness of the old champion and his mastery as
a tactician seem to have caused as much admiration
as the younger man's brilliant serving and smashing.
All the Yankee top-notchers are some 20 years
younger than Brookes; yet America probably has no
team to equal the Australian combination.
* * * - *
Barnet Glass tyres put up a great per-
formance in the 24-hours’ Reliability Trial held in
N. S. Wales last week. Of the 12 Barnet Glass-
fitted machines that started nine finished. In each
of the two events, solo under 600 c.c. and slue-;
cars under 600 c.c., only one pilot finished, and on
each occasion his machine wore Barnet Glass tyres.
“J.F.H.” (London) : The record for the
biggest hit on the cricket-field stands to the credit
of that well-known athletic Melbourne parson Walter
Fellows. The fact is mentioned in the latest of the
highly-interesting series of cricket reminiscences ire
the Times. Fellows played for the Gentlemen oi
England in his Oxford clays, and later put on the
flannels in Melbourne, although Bishop Perry made,
no secret of his disapproval. Playing at Oxford
he drove a ball 176 yards measured from bat to
pitch. “’This,” says tlie Times, “was an immense
hit, but it was carefully measured, and there is
no reason to doubt its authenticity.” The champion
Australian 6logger, G. J. Bonnor, is described as “a
magnificent specimen of a man and a tremendous
hitter,” but lie had many failures, and in general
was greatly surpassed by the S. Aus. slogger, J. J.
Lyons. Albert Trott, the Australian who afterwards
rendered such splendid service to Middlesex, is also
recalled as “another mighty hitter,” and the “best
all-round cricketer in England between 1898 and
1902.”
“Drofsed”: This year the country around
Lake Corangamite (Vic.) is swarming with hares.
The best day’s shoot tallied 301 pairs, and several
others over 100 pairs. Yet those figures do not con-
vey a correct idea of the density of the furry popu-
lation, because before a paddock is hemmed in with
guns, bunny’s cousin scents danger and races for the
openings. Even when the ring is complete he
charges through in bunches, perhaps only 25 p.e. be-
ing detained. They fetch 2s. 6d. a pair on the spot.
OVERDOING IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Some Sydney fisherman hooked a devil-fish last
week. It attacked and badly damaged their boat,
and they with difficulty prevented it getting aboard.
Having cut the monster loose they at once made for
home.”
This is the end of every man's desire
Who hires a fishing-boat and goes to sea:
A comfortably ruinous attire,
Some friends, food, ' beer, bait and a guarantee
That, when the party starts for home at night,
Tiie catch will not be noticeably light.
A twenty-five pound snapper is a dream
Enthralling 'to the worshipper of sport;
So also is a seven-pound black bream.
Tiie fisherman feels happy whom report
Credits with venturing upon the seas,
And basketing such rarities as these.
Vet, even here tiie golden rule applies,
And when the captured monster goes insane
And at his captors in a frenzy flies,
The latter feel no pride, but only pain.
1 n record bags they cease to place a store:
And all they want is to be safe ashore.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


YOU OUGHT TO LEARN BOXING
*-
L
BECAUSE YOU may have to defend yourself at any moment. The less able
YOU are to “use” vour hands, the more often you’ll have to. the weakest
is always picked out. The unskilful boxer is at a mighty disadvantage.
He lacks confidence —he doesn’t know how to apply his strength he
his head — he’s in his own way. In fact, he’s simply at the mercy of a
skilful man.
MY POSTAL INSTRUCTION
WILL MAKE YOU SKILFUL.
It lays thoroughly bare the secrets of skilful Boxing. It teaches
every serviceable hit, guard, coun’er and move known to ringcraft.
It shows how to use and preserve your strength, how to develop
hitting power, how to “fool” an opponent—in short, you learn
everything worth knowing.
You'll find it a fascinating recreation, and healthy
exercise. You'll look forward to your lessons, and
just think how handy such a knowledge will be.
You’ll be ready for any emergency. Remember,
an experienced boxer can give a “novice” a couple
of stone —and beat him.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment and I will send you my interesting booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home.” Send three
stamps for postage.
“SNOWY” BAKER K.O. BOXING GLOVES,
In two grades, 15/(5 and 21/- i»er set of four
gloves. I’ost Free. Every set personally
selected and guaranteed.
Those desiring to avail themselves of
instruction at my Irstitutc are invited to
have a chat with me to see a demonstration
personal
call and
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BARER,
Natural Health and Physical Culture Expert,
93 Municipal Building's,
Oxford Bt. (Oor. Crown St.), Sydney.
0
NLY a Healthy Dog can be a Good
Beddome’s Dog: Medicines keep
vvuiam. y OUr Dogf (n oood Health.
91
DISTEMPER POWDERS.—Absolutely un-
equalled for this complaint, so prevalent at
present. Price 2/6 per Packet.
TONIC AND CONDITION BALLS.—Purify
the Blood. Produce a smooth, velvety ap-
pearance in the dog’s coat. Price 2/6 per box.
STIMULATOR FOR RACING GREY-
HOUNDS.—To alleviate stiffness and fatigue
during coursing. Used by best trainers.
Price 3/6 per Bottle.
Now ready. New edition. “HINTS TO DOG
OWNERS.” Price 6fl. Post Free.
IV. W. BEDDOME (EL CO.,
Chemists, (Dog: Medicine a Specialty),
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable also from JOHN BRUSH Ptv. Ltd.,
Sydney: WALTIIER & STEVENSON, George
Street. Svdnev.
Stpz
renz |NE
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS
USE IT -AND PROVE IT.
Mk hopefUl 09 C* L*
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 0.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 0.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
“ VALLO ”
(POWDER)
Sheep Dip
Guarantees
Absolute Protection for your Flocks
Destroys Ticßs and Lice.
Prevents Fly Strike.
Promotes Growth and Improves
Lustre of Wool.
ALL DEALERS SUPPLY.
DISTRIBUTING A GENTS
SYDNEY Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.
ADELAIDE James AVardle & Co.
BRISBANE Brabant & Co.
ROCKHAMPTON.WaIter Reid & Co., Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE. . .Cummins & Campbell, Ltd.
PERTH . . . Malloch Bros.
NEW ZEALAND . . Farmers’ Co.-op. Wholesale Federation (N.Z.), Ltd.,
Wellington.
MANUFACTURERS:—
A. VICTOR LEGGO CO.
Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.
A Well-matured Tobacco at Last!
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is Too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
10/8 per lb. 5/4 P er ilb. 2/8 per ill).
Postage—N.S.W.: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/3, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, 576 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
/
Universal Milling Machine
pPv
jpf v
SPECIAL FEATURES;
Square over-arm.
Constant speed single pulley
drive.
Sixteen changes of speed.
Sixteen changes of feed.
All sliding gears, no tumbler
gears.
All gears and shafts hardened
and ground.
Feed-box in knee.
All operating levers within
easy reach of operator.
Bronze bearings throughout
One-piece elevating screw for
knee.
No universal joint for feed
drive.
Column and knee automatically
lubricated.
Delivery from StocK.
Lathes, Drilling Machines, Hacksaws, etc.
Woodworking Machines and Supplies.
Engineers’ Tools, Packings, Jointing and Waste.
Valves, Cocks and Engineers’ Brasswork of every description.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.
490-492 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Telephone, City 1753, two lines. When ordering please mention this paper.


i
IR?
IR3
A New Moth Preventive—
Red Pine Compound
Motlis become more and more prevalent with the
advance of Summer, and against this destructive
pest strict measures should be taken. Red Pine
Compound, made to a special formula held by
Farmer’ B , lias unique qualities—rendering Furs,
Wearing Apparel, Rugs, etc., immune from moths,
silverfish and other insects. Write for a box now
and sprinkle a little in all drawers, wardrobes, etc.,
where garments are kept. Sold only by Farmer’s,
in two sizes. PRICES 1/. and 2/- BOX.
Fur Travelling Rug.
A very warm and serviceable Rug, suitable for
all travelling purposes. Made of Natural Grey Rabbit
Skms. carefully mounted on suitable rug cloth.
Size 50 x 60 inches. PRICE, £7/19/6.
FARMER'S, SYDNEY,
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
“Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night.
Tariff, from 10/G per day, and
from £3/3/- per week.
VANITY FAIR
SILK GLOVES
“Perfect to the Last Detail.’’
the way I always feel about my hands in
J- Vanity Fair Silk Gloves.
The Fabric is pure silk, beautiful and enduring, the
workmanship is faultless and the lines so shapely
that they lend to the hands an added grace and
slende: ness.
Vanity Fair Silk Gloves launder satisfactorily, as
often as you like—they’re double-tipped for double-
wear.
Each pair contains this Guarantee:—
“If these Gloves wear through at the finger-
tips at any time before they are washed, and
before the rest of the Glove has had reasonable
wear, we will, upon receipt of this ticket
and your Gloves, replace them with a new
pair.”
THE SYDNEY AGENT FOR THE MILL IS
EMPOWERED TO REDEEM THIS GUARANTEE
TO THE MERCHANT. [«
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rusr Proog
Corsets
Government House at Malvern is now
occupied by Lieut.-Governor Irvine. For
special or emergency meetings of the Execu-
tive Council the Judges’ Chambers at the
Law Courts are found very handy by
Ministers. Before or after his Ex. has
lunched, he can preside at a meeting or give
assent to a bill, as he did on Thursday.
Last 'week his Ex. officially associated him-
self with the operation of turning the search-
light on profiteers, by assisting to pass the
orders creating the Profits Commission and
the Increased Gas Price Inquiry Board. He
has appointed Lieut. Ewen Wanliss, his
brother-in-law, to be his A.D.C. Wanliss, who
was formerly a Judge’s associate, served in
S’Africa with Brig.-Gen. Tivey 20 years
ago, and is or was a grazier. Ilis and the
Irvine dame’s father was a member of the
Leg. Council from 1893 to IS9B.
Newdigate Newdegate, of Tasmania, seems
to be something of a mascot. TJp to his
departure recently on a jaunt to the main-
land the Apple Isle had escaped the ’flu.
Then it was suddenly assailed, and its in-
habitants now go in masks. Schools,
theatres, skating-rinks, football matches,
billiard-saloons, churches and other places of
entertainment have been closed, and the
citizen who wishes to brace himself with a
cordial must find a bar where not more
than two other citizens are on the same
mission. And he has, by regulation, onlv
five minutes to get his drink and tell the
barmaiden his favorite Scripture text.
Barrister Woolf, presenting Franz Wal-
iaeh s divorce petition to a sympathetic
Court, omitted one interesting circumstance
in the petitioner’s career Mrs. Wallach, it
appeared, tore up a letter she received from
the co-re., and on hubby wanting to know its
contents she said, “Only a letter from Bran-
don telling me of his own unhappy life with
his wife, and saying he contemplates sui-
cide. ; “Shortly after that, Wallach was
interned,’’ added the barrister. Never a
mention that for one short hour or two Wal-
lach got himself disinterned, on the order of
Chief) Justice Madden, but was promptly
taken; back to camp on the order of the
Hughes Government. The appeal against
military authority and the indications of
State political and social influence at the
back of that appeal, were the talk of the
time. ! Another interesting revelation was
the fact that the husband got permission to
visit his wife’s flat (escorted by a military
guard) while the lady was away, and had
the inspiration to look in a drawer and find
a bundle of incriminating letters, after
which he went back to internment a gladder
and a wiser German. He was then able to
force his wife to restore certain property in
consideration of her being allowed £250 a
year for life. Indeed, Franz Wallach had
quite a busy time during his internment
preparing for his suit.
There is no pettiness about the Aus-
tralasian : it is just a big, generous paper,
printed in the office which is demanded Of
conscience to speak the truth—rand the truth
it speaks, impugn it whoso lists. The Mel-
bourne offices of The Bulletin are in the
Old Exchange, recently sold to the Common-
wealth Bank; and in an Australasian
photograph of the building the name of the
paper which makes the heavy weekly seem
so dull and unprofitable has disappeared from
the facade. “The Bulletin is its own adve, -
tisement,” said the Australasian in effect.
It was a pretty compliment for any paper to
pay another.
A sudden dramatic display of feeling
broke out on the Block one mild, afternoon
recently, when a dressy dame dropped her
sense of decorum all in an instant, and dis-
played a tendency to run wild, while a man
in a greasy hat followed her up in all her
windings and twistings, protesting that there
was no occasion for alarm, yet obviously
adding to the poor woman’s great uneasiness.
The dame was crying aloud in her anguish
of mind, but making no definite charge, and
giving no sizable clue to three or four
gallant gentlemen who were promptly on the
spot with offers of assistance, beyond ap-
pealing to them with the voice of despair to
go away and remain beyond hearing and
vision. Meanwhile the original offender', the
party in the greasy hat, was still active,
trying to assure the woman that if she would
only restrain herself for one moment he
would do the rest. Eventually two military
nurses} took possession of the demented
citizeness, and ran her into a chemist’s shop.
A crowd formed about the door, foremost
being the fellow in the stained hat, who
shouted strong speech having reference to
missing valuables. Presently the chemist
appeared, holding something in his hand.
“Is this what you are after?” “Yes, yes,
that’s him,” replied the man in the bad hat
delightedly. “The little swine jumped out of
my pocket as I was coming up the street.”
It was a ferret!
Mrs. Major James slipped ou a rug laid
on a polished floor and got a heavy fall that
fractured her jaw. The lady is a keen public
speaker, but has been out of all such affairs
now for six weeks. She was not even able
to tell her friends about the marriage of her
soldier-son in London some mouths ago. The
difficulty was got over by showing a movie-
picture of the event. The film was put on
at the Auditorium on Thursday afternoon
after the big item had been shown. Mrs.
James sent out numerous invitations for the
show.
Harry Payne and his wife will give a ball
at their Toorak house the night before the
Derby for their just-grown-up daughter Ella.
This is the first Cup revel of pre-war type
yet booked.
Clive Baillieu has been made an Italian
Cavalier and will in honor bound now eat
spaghetti daily. The title, coming with the
Cross of the Crown of Italy, is a grateful
recognition of Clive’s unobtrusive energy ou
behalf of the Italian Red Cross. The dis-
tinction is rare among foreigners. The only
other Australian victim was the late John
Forrest.
After 41 years’ service Dr. J. A. O’Brien
is to retire from the post of Government
Medical Officer. He is due to go out at the
end of the year, but it seems likely that he
will be granted at least three months’ absence
on full pay. Dr. Godfrey, assistant medical-
officer, is to succeed him, according to the
gossip of the lobbies.
John S. Woolcott, solicitor, aged 92 and
very much alive, was aggrieved at being
referred to as “the
late Mr. Woolcott.’’
The reference was in
a contributed para-
graph about Charles
Dickens. Mr. Wool-
cott was “copy-boy”
when Dickens was
on the staff of
London Morning
Chronicle and a
reporter in the House
of Commons. It’s a
good while ago, for
he has been in Mel-
bourne since the
’fifties. lie was one
of the first solicitors
enrolled in Mel-
bourne, and one of
the first Commis-
sioners of the Supreme Court. He is still
active, and is proud of being able to write
without glasses. The office sees him at
intervals, for there are some old estates that
he considers no one should handle but him-
self. He and his wife still occupy their
big old home at Brighton. The children
have now homes of their own; but grand-
father’s house is well filled at seasons of re-
union, for there are 18 grandchildren. One
daughter is married to Packer, of the Age :
another is the wire of just-returned General
Grant, who has a sheepery in Queensland
and has just dropped into a neat fortune
of £BO,OOO or so left by his father, who w T as
one of the early mine-owners in the Sta-
well district. John Woolcott, in his young
solicitor days, acted for the mine-owners
in the famous case against the “jumpers”
from Ballarat. In the Dickens days he
worked for Bradbury and Evans, of Fleet-
street, the publishers who handled Dickens’s
stuff. The accompanying photograph was
taken this month by Alice Mills.
General Johnston, military commandant
of Rabaul and formerly of the Fifth
Division artillery, is looming large on club
steps in Melbourne, lie sports a fine skin
of tropical tan, and his military overcoat is
the last word in warrior tailoring.
While the General is in Melbourne, await-
ing something or other, a commission lias
gone north to find out what ought to be
done with our new Pacific troubles. Atlee
Hunt will see to the Red Tape aspect of
the matter; Lucas, Burns-Philp’s eager
islands manager, will see things from the
trader’s point of view; and Lieut.-Gov.
Murray, of Papua, will represent the
administrative side. Various politicians
smacked their lips when the roving com-
mission was mentioned; but the Govern-
ment shook its head and said this was
serious business.
General Stanley is once more available for
tea-parties in the smart cafes. He com-
plains that duty has made him suffer three
winters in succession during his recent
tia\els. But he is as erect as ever and
does his daily tramp through the parks.
The committee of lhe dance in aid of the
Loretto Convent School is feeling pleased
that there was no postponement as sug-
gested. The revel was held in the St. Kilda
Town Hall, and, in spite of tram troubles,
500 people arrived. There was little ex-
pense. President Madge Hogan (one of the
Loretto’s old girls) got the hall, and her
husband, Tom, paid the piper. Mrs. Rus-
combe Poole (another old girl) provided
programmes and so forth. The young girls
of Loretto were the decorations.
James Job Brokenshire, of Ballarat, the
elderly auctioneer who has just gone into
retirement for four years for fraud, made a
point of walking on the other side of the
street if he had to pass a pub. He hap-
pened to be Mayor of Ballarat when the
Duke of York arrived, and the city still re-
members with a grin that he spread lemon-
ade and ginger-ale at the mayoral banquet.
He was inclined to think that the King took
him as an example during the war.
H. S. Gullett, official war correspondent
with the A.I.F. in Egypt and Palestine, who
returned by the Oxfordshire last week, was
snared at the Press Club and given a
welcome-home. Some of the inside chief-
tains, usually hard to shift from their knolls
at 5 in the afternoon, joined in. Before the
formal welcome Gullett put forcibly the view
that, taking the Gallipoli and Palestine cam-
paigns in combination, the Australians
(notably the Light Horse) predominated in
smashing Turkey.
The grim old Milestone Barracks in St.
Ivilda-road have shed their dingy front fence
and show a well-kept flower garden. The
transformation is like that worked by the
plain old society dame when she bares her
neck and hangs the family jewels on her
chest.
There was a solemn little ceremony at the
Bank of Victoria, Mildura, on August 11,
when three J’s.P. broke the seals of the 41b.
parcel of “Sun-raysed” fruits round which
the £2500 prize-competition has raged. After
the breaking of the seals the berries were
counted and checked. The names of the
winners will be made known presently. As
there were thousands of entries from all over
Australia it will take some time to allot
the 1604 prizes; but every entrant will be
put out of misery as soon as possible.
Adelaide has a busy week: —
Tlie Blue-and-White dance—in pre-war days one
of the most cheerful festivities of the season—is to
be revived, with St. Peter’s old scholars and present
sixth-form boys as hosts. Suburban mayoral balls are
also being revived, the first occurring at Norwood.
On Friday there was a delightful floral dance at
the T. R. Scarfes’ picturesque home at Marryatville.
On Tuesday the Peter Woods gave a dance in their
own house, and on Thursday the old scholars of
St. Peter’s School for Girls rotated in the Osborne
Hall.
Saturday-night dances are increasingly popular,
and the week-end saw two —one at the O. H. Angases
and the other, with Mrs. Arthur Rymill as hostess,
at the house of her mother, Mrs. Wm. Campbell.
An Adelaide man, W. A. Potts, 8.E., is to be lec-
turer in mathematics and engineering at Hobart Uni-
versity.' He annexed the Angas Engineering Scholar-
ship some years ago, and put a final storey on his
studies in America.
Died on Saturday, at 64, W. T. D. Clindening,
a son of the late Dr. W. T. Clindening and a
brother of Mrs. William Gilbert, of Pewsey Vale.
Ilis only brother, also a doctor, holds a commis-
sion in the British Army.
Take the 3rd, the 9th Light Horse came home as
a composite regiment and got a huge welcome. In
the evening the men were guests at a dinner at
the Cheer-Up Hut, and afterwards at a smoke
social at the Y.M.C.A. Soldiers’ Lounge.
A corner of the National Park is to be set aside
as a Hills • gardeners’ memorial to the men of the
A.T.F. Fifteen acres are to be planted.
Dr. PouTton has ceased to be hon. surgeon to
the Adelaide Hospital after long service. Dr. Hal
Newland, who did such great things at Sidcup Hos-
pital, takes his place, with Poulton to stand by
as consultant.
Mrs. Lovelock, the last, or almost the last, of
the pioneers who came to South Aus. in the
Buffalo with Governor Hindmarsh, lias died at
Willunga. She was 90 if she was a day. She
always insisted that the old gum-tree preserved
at Glenelg was not the tree under which the procla-
mation ceremony took place. As she was the last
of those who actually attended, the argument of
the past 50 years will perhaps now slacken.
Aileen Shiels, oldest daughter of the late
William Shiels, one-time State Premier, is
to quietly marry Norman Peebles on August
27.
Mimi Murphy, daughter of the Secretary
for Labor, who helped to deck out sister
Dorothy for the altar a few months ago, is
preparing her own trousseau for Sept. 8.
Her choice is H. D. Sutherland, of near
Hamilton, a son of the late Hugh Suther-
land, who had spacious holdings at Elcho
and Kenilworth. The bridegroom returned
from the war a few months ago.
Mrs. Douglas Cooper (formerly Adelaide
Schneider, of Melbourne) has married again.
Her first husband, Lieut. Cooper, died
suddenly on his ship while it was on the
way from Australia to the war zone. Her
second husband is an Englishman, Colonel
William Anthony. The first venture was a
brief one, the bridegroom rejoining his ship
directly after the honeymoon. Soon after
his tragic death the youthful widow went to
England.
Last week’s social sensation was provided
bv *‘Babs” Eddington and naval-surgeon
Carr, of the Sydney, who had a really quiet
wedding at St. John's, Toorak, without re-
vealing their intention to anyone but th<-
bride’s mother and best girl-friend. The
pair had agreed to be made one before the
war, but Dr. Carr had to steam away in the
Melbourne before the date was fixed. Later
the bride-elect and her girl pal started for
Canada and the altar, but had only got as
far as Maoriland when a cable was received
saying that Dr. Carr’s ship had been ordered
to sea. So the girls came home again. Dr
Carr hails from England, and he and his wife
will settle there. The bride’s late father
George Eddington, was a Brisbane banker
who settled at Toorak.
This is the clever
head of Mrs. Laurie
Kennedy, who was
Dorothy Mcliride of
Adelaide. In Dorothy
the soul of music is
allied to a pair of
clever piano hands,
and to the teachers
of her native city—
beginning with hex-
father —she owes all
her training. In in-
fancy she started to
win scholarships and
bursaries, and con-
tinued to do so till
she pulled down tin-
laurels of Mus. Ban.
of the Adelaide Uni.
Dad is inspector of
schools in South Aus., and his 1000-voice
kiddies’ choir is one of the good many things
the State is proud of. One more appearance
of Dorothy’s ’cellist husband with Verbrug-
ghen this Thursday evening, and (lie two
ybung Australians are off by the Niagara,
just as her brilliant scientist brother, who
had so big a share in the colossal engineer-
ing work at Hill 60, returns to his home.
Florence Fawaz, a Uni. Conservatorium
soprano who has won numerous bouquets at
recent Melbourne concerts, joins the flight of
song-birds for Europe.
Pianist (101 l has latterly been working
with Leila Doubleday, and the pair gave a
concert last week. The Melba Hall at
the University was not big enough to hold
the crowd, and flocks had to be turned away.
The Australian Literature Society will
remember its name for once in an All Aus-
tralian evening at the Austral Salon on
August 27. Pieces of Gordon, Lawson,
Paterson, Dennis and others will be tossed
to the famished audience, and there will be
Australian songs and a new one-acter, “The
Justice of the Bush.”
Poet Rupert Atkinson, who has invented
a method of combining the cinema with the
spoken, drama, starts off to America to talk
about it. With him goes Hugh McCrae, in-
ventor of poems, manufacturer of drawings,
actor, censor and good fellow. Some years
ago Granville Barker tried to keep McCrae
grease-painting in America; but the Austra-
lian was headed for home and nothing could
stop him.
Sylvia Little, the St. Ivilda heiress who a
few years back became the wife of Dr.
Webb, is coquetting with her histrionic in-
clinations, by filling a corner of the cast of
“Lightnin’,” at the Royal. Her beauteous
blonde hair, “done in” in imitation of Buster
Brown, is concealed beneath a green hat
which should be removed in the interests of
aestheticism or something.
“Lightnin' ” brought the first-nighters in
full force to the Royal. All the boxes were
stacked with Importants, and stalls and
circle were a directory of our very exclusive
sets. “Lightnin’ ” Dan OTYira had a great
reception and returned thanks in a whimsi-
cal speech which had an undercurrent of art-
ful flattery. In some profiles the aged mum-
mer’s visage suggests Nature’s half-hearted
attempt to repeat Gustav Slapoffski, but
the look of the elderly Roman emperor dis-
appears when the visitor turns on his best
smile. Diana Wilson, the new leading lady,
is a tall, handsome brunette with a hint of
copper in dark brown hair. She brought the
glasses into action with a pallid short-
sleeved creation, but masculine interest was
not properly kindled until she underlined her
beauty with a vivid scarlet and black con-
fusion surmounted by a large black hat.
Judge Hodges was only 10 when his
parents brought him from Liverpool to Vic-
toria : and that was 65 years ago. Old Dr.
Bromby and Melbourne Uni. were respon-
sible for his education. While lie was finish-
ing it, and before bite call /to (lie Bar
(1873).. he was tutor in the family of the
late Chief Justice Stawell. lie was a great
football “kick” in those days, but not much
of a player.


BLACK WHITE
• ’
-
m
7.
■~: fflk’Xsfrr
As
r t *
iM
7>S
“ ! r«S pj ' ~jgg& «/% , MBit It
m
• ", .Vy-i
■..
Klilil
-7 ,
■ ■
7 - : v
m
•77:5
|wiS#r;
■;
i‘ . i
PT r ';;' *
• ■ ffif -g fty
H Ml mS £m
? 5 * B £ iv!
. ; , .-7>
Ifefstfl
Sri
■ ... , -,,
. &£& * 8E.,...:i
Is
ifelliife ... ’
. -
j _ '• ’., .!
mmmm
mmmm
7; ■
:
% *V SM 1 "' X S \ j
_ _ !
Ip
mm
■ f *«■ **. yi
*7
mm
'
“DUBLIN FUSILIERS.
WHISKY
BOTTLES
HALF-BOTTLES
Obtainable in
FLASKS
HALF-FLASKS
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.


Charles
Heidsieck's
Vintage 1906
(mmm
HE PLUS DLTR/I
cxz
czxxcz
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents-
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Your
Figure
Re-created
By the SHAVE
system of model fit-
ting it is possible
to have your figure
re-created in the
Shave Workrooms
and upon the re-
creation perfect
gowns built without any fittings.
The name '‘Shave" is an assurance
of vogue.
Visits to Sydney and Adelaide twice
and to Brisbane once yearly
xc
Ladies' Tailors
Dressmakers
Centreway
Melbourne
May we invite you to our next Display ?
HOSIERY!
GLOVES!
UNDERWEAR!
“% l A^^§ PI ? € 3 r 1 Alj MILANESE SILK
JjrJUIJV Ik©, double-tipped guaranteed, all colors,
rwu 4/9 pair.
Other qualities 5/6, 7/6 pair
“DOVE” HEAVY-WEIGHT PURE SILK
HOSE, every pair guaranteed ladder-proof. Sold
in shops 25/- pair. From us, in black only—
-16/6 Pair
“OMI” ARTIFICIAL SILK ANKLE
HOSE, Australian made, noted for splendid dve
and good wear. In black,- white and brown—
-3/6 pair
“WOVE” AMERICAN COTTON SING-
LETS, very long and full size. Short sleeves.
4/11 value for 2/11 each
KAVSER MILANESE HOSE, in Mastic,
Nayv and White 16/lt pair
MAIL ORDERS SPECIALLY CATERED FOR.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
The Dove Hosiery Stores,
Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Australian Childhood
Portraits Competition
NINTH SERIMS.
SEVEN AND SIXPENCE FOR EVERY
PHOTO USED.
'yvIIE United Commercial Travellers’ Association of
x Australasia, proprietors of the National Annual,
Australia To-day, encouraged by the success of
their eight previous yearly competitions, when
several thousands of photos were entered from every
State in the Commonwealth, wish to include in their
coming Christmas issue at least FIFTY OF THE
MOST ATTRACTIVE PORTRAITS OF AUSTRA-
LIAN CHILDREN (Boys and Girls). They want
them from every State in the Commonwealth, and
will pay 7s. 6d. FOR EVERY PHOTO USED, while
all the others will be promptly returned after judg-
ing, post paid. Ages of children to be from young-
est babyhood up to 15 years. Previous entrants may
compete; but ALL THE PHOTOS MUST HAVE
BEEN TAKEN DURING THE LAST 12 MONTHS.
The help of all Australians is cordially solicited in
making these pages of Australian child-life worthy
of Australia. They will be CIRCULATED ALL OVER
THE WORLD. No objection to receiving more than
one photo from- same family. On BACK OF EACH
PHOTO must appear NAME OF CHILD AND NAME
AND ADDRESS OF SEN'DER, and photos must reach
the EDITOR of Australia To-day, Box 496 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE, by Ist OCTOBER, 1919.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Had the crew of the New Zealand been
the prodigal son it could not have had a
greater feast of fatted calf than it got on
Thursday, when the best ladies of Sydney
climbed the high grey sides of the battleship
in the teeth of a howling gale. The new
Spring hat that the unwise virgin had
topped herself with required careful mooring
with both hands, and the unchecked skirt
billowed mast-high. All Society was there,
mostly actuated by the fear that if it didn’t
turn up a cat would purr that it was one
of those that had been cast into outer dark-
ness. An extra warmth had crept into this
final official handshake of the Jellicoe
couple, and Church and State stood about
and drank cups of tea and spoke feelingly
of the hardships of those who go down to
the sea in ships. From group to group
wandered a black dog that had come aboard
with a launchful of political heavyweights.
Everybody stroked him. “So used to being
petted,’’ cooed one immaculate pair of white
kids. Then the coxswain’s piping announced
the approach of the G.-G. The Jellicoes,
she in dull sapphire dressing, went forward
to greet their Exes. Up the human avenue,
erect to “God Save,” came Sir Ronald and
his lady. The stray dog, attracted by the
cosiness of Lady Helen’s sables, walked for-
ward to ingratiate himself. “He doesn’t be-
long to the ship,” came in cold tones; and
the deposed hound was lifted in a blue-
jacket’s arms, and the quarter-deck knew him
no more. The Walter Davidsons came, the
dame in rich black velvet and black furs;
and—and Everybody. There were long tea
tables; but the above-the-salt guests drew
their rations in the Jellicoes’ cosy drawing-
room and dining-room. Here are photographs
of the children everywhere; and photos of
George and Mary. The loose chintz covers
on easy chair and couch and the cushions
and the silver fittings give a snack of home
comfort to the little Admiral in his hours
off.
It was a blue-and-gold afternoon, carpeted
with the green whisper of Spring, that the
Chief Justice Cullens drew from the weather
lottery for their garden party. Never have
the grounds of Tregoyd been more beauti-
ful ; the shelving lawns that dip to the
sapphire of Middle Harbor look down upon
emerald gullies overgrown with native shrub
and tree where the kookie still laughs enjoy-
ment of his bit of the bush. Society was
there in full force, and the newest hat was
worn for the occasion. The party was ten-
dered to the Sea Lord and his lass ; but the
Admiral was far away in Melbourne, so his
little Countess, like a well-nourished prim-
rose in her georgette drapings, walked the
garden paths with the State Exes. Davidson
and Newdegate of the Apple Isle. Hostess
Cullen, true to tradition, wore grey; Lady
Helen in thinnest black wore her white-
feathered toque; Lady Davidson, fearing a
cold snap, stuck to black velvet and furs,
but honored the season by a large picture
hat. The distinguished-looking Mrs, Ilunger-
ford was dressed in velvet as blue as the
harbor; Mayoress Richards was a brown
harmony; Consul Teppema’s tall young wife
wore posies in her hat; eight of Australia's
democrat knights and their ladies were
strewn about the garden turnings, and 20
military masseurs in their uniforms brought
a touch of life’s realities to the thistledown
afternoon.
The Fleet festivities ended on Thursday
evening, when the Conservatorium Orchestra
thundered out a complete seven seas of
British songs. Hundreds of gilt-edged cards
had been issued, so the roped-in enclosure
was a billow of pretty wraps and dresses,
and further back were the good public who
had paid their money to see the face of the
man who had stood through the long watch
m the North Sea. Unfortunately the little
Admiral was late by an hour or more, and
missed “Rule, Britannia”; but one of the
gentle secretaries chassed a-tiptoe to Ver-
brugghen, and the skipper of the State Or-
chestia remounted his bridge, ordered the
h «avy guns up to action, and Britannia
ruled the waves once more. The vice-regals,
off-sided by gent.-helps and the fair flowers
of our political pastures, held court in the
middle of the enclosed space. Lady Helen
drew a black and gold coat about her oyster-
grey frock; Dame Davidson had taken her
white fox from the moth balls; the High
Seas lady was in black georgette. The
flutter that attended the Jellicoes’ arrival
had scarcely subsided when a small party
from the Tait show, all good looks and
Paisley-pattern cloak, breasted the barrier.
There was another flutter ; somebody hastened
to get the lady a seat above the cord. Then
peace settled down in time for basso Harry
Dearth’s next number. Harry, by the way,
rumbled out “Songs of the Fleet” in true
nautical style, and so realistic were he and
the Orchestra in “The Song of the Sou’-
wester” that the audience had to regain its
land legs at the end of the performance.
The Royal Yacht Club and its effect on
the growth of the Empire was the important
business that caused Jellicoe to miss almost
the entire concert arranged in his honor.
The Harbor-Front Marines had run to a
perfectly gorgeous feast, and the speeches—-
well, the press wasn’t admitted; but fluent
Walter Marks, who has been bidden to a
tea-drinking competition by Thomas Eipton,
is rumored to have caused the Admiral to
shed tears.
Joe Cook’s captain-son and his pictur-
esque dark-eyed wife will leave this week
for China. Father Joseph will arrive .in
Melbourne on August. 28. Ho and his dear
friend Hughes are on board the Friedrichs-
rulie, a transport. Little Billy and The
Bulletin are somehow inseparable; so in
the natural order of things the Friedrichs-
ruhe brings home one of the young men
whom The Bulletin contributed to the
war nearly five years ago.
The proposed Girls’ Friendly Society
1 fostel sent a long line of motors up the
Darling Point roads last week, when Bishops-
court flung wide its doors in the interests, of
its pet scheme. Archgaiters Wright having
pointed out that the effort was due to a 33
years’ accumulated hatred of rent, Lady
Helen launched the sale, and everybody was
free to patronise the lambs of the Arch-
bishop's flock who sold tea tickets and
heaped-up flower baskets. At the foot of the
handsome old staircase panniers of oranges
and lemons glowed against the dark panelling
of the hall. In the rooms were stalls billow-
ing with a froth of lace and fine needlework ;
and the undies must have been a joy to the
trousseau-gatherer, for. as the shop advertise-
ments say without a blush, the articles were
“given away.” On the verandah the flower
stalls were spilling over with violet and prim-
rose and frilled daisies and the glory of
stocks and carnations. Mrs. Alexander Gor-
don and Miss Docker, old friends of the
G.F.S., were among the hard workers of
the afternoon. Mrs. Venour Nathan’s troupe
of amateurs performed, and Jack Cannot
threw his weight into the programme.
Same afternoon Sydney's other Arch-
bishop was giving a kindly push-off to the
annual fete of the Waitara Home, where
smiling kiddies greeted their friends ivho
had come to help smooth their pathway. The
fete lasted until Saturday, and tlie Sisters of
Mercy can feel assured of nourishment and
clothing for Patrick Church and his little
brothers and sisters for at least another 12
months.
•May Moore is responsible for this photo-
graph of soldier-artist Penleigh Boyd, whose
Sydney show opened
on Monday at Gay-
field Shaw’s rooms.
A gentle bushland
spirit pervades the
pictures that carries
a balm for town-
weariness. “Pen” is
of the Chom 1 e y-
Weigall clan, and is
descended in a long,
direct line from
Thomas a’Beekett,
who is not to be
confounded with a
somewhat later con-
nection, Justice
a’B eckett. Both
father and mother
were artists, which
makes it less sur-
prising that in early youth his exhibition iii
Melbourne netted the young man over £BOO.
Penleigli lives at Warrandyte, 20 or 30 miles
from Melbourne, where there is a growing
colony' of artists.
The Wentworth had its first supper-dance
last week, and this is not to be confounded
with the dinner-dance, if you please. The
supper part of it starts at 10, and is served
in the American way', each course with its
separate knife and fork or spoon, a style
which must be received with a fervent Deo
Gratias by the social newchum who is freed
from the horror of being entangled in a
thicket of table implements. Between the
three courses of the supper couples get up
and dance, quite as they do on the Continong
—American and European. Good-looking
Mrs. Willie Anderson was among those who
took the floor last week; Mrs. Davis and
Miss Rubio from Manila added their peach-
bloom complexions to the gathering; and the
McKays from Walcha and the Dents from
Cooma entertained parties of determined
dancers.
When the New Zealand reaches the M.L.
coast she will be personally-conducted from
port to port by Ben Wilson, head of the
Tourist Department in the Islands, who is
collaborating with civic heads in arranging
receptions in the places where the big war-
ship can find berth. No special trains are
to be run. owing to coal shortage, but the
crowds will congregate by motor-car where
possible, and the ship’s company is to be
taken to see the sights by the same means.
The admirable Share is an old friend of
the Jellicoe family. He’s godfather to their
youngest daughter, Prudence.
Major Beavis, D. 5.0., was married last
week to Ethel Blumer, a pretty Sydney
girl. He is the only surviving son of a
well-known Bathurst family, the other
brother having been killed on Gallipoli.
Three Duntroon boys left with the Fifth
(F.A.) Brigade in 1915—Hatton, Roy
Thompson and Beavis. The first was killed
after winning an M.C.; the second lost his
arm and got a D.S.O. and M.C.; the third
returns whole.
Among the smart weddings in London in
June was one which united two well-known
Australian families. Phyllis Lang, a daugh-
ter of the Langs, of Newcastle, was the
bride; and the bridegroom Lieut.-Colonel R.
J. A. Massie, son of the Massies of Point
Piper and grandson of veteran Thomas
Dibbs. It happened at Brompton Parish
Church, where the bride said “I will” in
ivory charmeuse, with a covetable old-lace
veil falling well over the train. In father’s
absence cousin J. Wood handed her into her
Colonel’s keeping. Two sisters and Miss
Hixson, froeked in white satin, with
green georgette capes, green tulle veils and
wreaths and bouquets of delphiniums, were
the maids of honor. The hoileymoon was
spent at the English Lakes, The young
couple will make tracks for home towards
the end of the year.
Betty Marsh, only bud of the Macquarie-
street John Marshes, is the latest Sydney
girl to give a promise to the Navy. The
young man is. Lieut: Hugh Stevenson; but
as he’s off to bring back destroyers, the
wedding bells don’t chime till February
next.
Two young Chatswood people have de-
cided to keep their romance in their own
territory. They are Alva, eldest bud of the
G. Ooms. of Chatswood, and Robert Wat-
kins, -of the same North Shore suburb.
George Castles, who has just finished his
four years of active service, has been over
staying with his two song-bird sisters. Sun-
day’s express took him to Melbourne,
whither Dolly meditates a flight in order to
pick up her doctor-husband on his return.
The little lady thinks they may settle in
Sydney for good. Amy has received cables
of goodwill about her Australian season
from many overseas social and professional
heavyweights: Countess Gleichen, who was
the lion. Sylvia Edwardes, favorite lady-in-
waiting to Queen Alexandra; Otto Kahn.
Monsignor Mooney, Lady Dallas, Daniel
Mayer, Mrs. Clarence Mackay, and Joseph
Devlin, the Irish M.P.
The Charlie Fairfaxes, whose long-deferred
divorce suit came on in Sydney last week,
have been absentees for many years. She
was the very rich s'ster of Dr. Ewan Frazer
he married Jessie Middleton, of Goulburn,
and shortly afterwards settled in England.
The Fairfaxes owned the very attractive
house 011 Bellevue Hill which is now th*
P. H. Kellys’. They also had a lovely
place at Burradoo, within a mile or
so of the Bong-Bong Racecourse, and they
entertained there a good deal before their
temperaments became hopelessly incom-
patible. Their only son published a book
of remarkably good verse some years ago.
Mrs. Noyes, who dresses as well as any
woman in Sydney, gave a small and very
cheery dance at her Darling Point bouse
last week. There were Knoxes, Allens,
Austins, Laidleys and a crowd of blue-clad
young men from the warships. The Mac-
-51 rthur Onslows also had an entertainment at
Camden—a farewell affair: Mrs. Onslow and
her unmarried offspring are leaving on the
Ormonde.
The Walker twins—George and Monty—
are back after over three years’ service. So
is Telford Simpson (only son of E. P.). who
did great things as a bombing pilot in 1917.
St. Paul’s College dance was a tremen-
dous success. Nearly 200 took the floor,
and refused to leave it until half-past four
in the morning, and if that’s not something
like a narty, what is?
The Rajah and Ranee, with the baby,
go by the Ormonde on Saturday.
( Laurie Kennedy, the Sydney' boy whose
[cello playing has gained him ’ Melba’s aid.
is off by the Niagara with bis clever pianist-
wife, who was Dorothy Macßride. of Adel-
aide. They intend to see what of knowledge
and fortune the wide world holds for them
The brush and palette side of the Women
Painters’ Club got in a stroke last week,
when Mrs. Sherwood and Mrs. Eric Linden
were at home in the club-rooms. Artists and
their followers were everywhere. Mrs. Monty
Severn had Hilda Rix Nicholas in tow; con-
tralto Lilian Gibson flung her ’cello-like
notes over the gathering; and the tea-drink-
ing was accompanied by much chatter con-
cerning the Women Painters’ show in
November.
Miss Rennie, of the Sailors’ Welfare, and
Sister Helen, on a visit from Melbourne,
gave a jazz-tea last week, and, spite of the
competition of the Cullen garden party, frag-
ments of Society were at the Fresh Food
rooms, and varied the One Step and the
Foxie to their hearts’ content. Lots of the
Navy were there; and good-looking Gron-
dona. who carries half a ton of shrapnel
inside him; and Dorothy Schlesinger from
Melbourne, and Mrs. A. E. Hughes and the
Ranee.
“Just for plugging along”—that’s how
Sister Lillian Sutter explains her Red Cross
decoration which arrived by the last mail.
Away nearly five years, this fine Australian
saw service in France and England. She
was “in it” when the Huns bombed the hos-
pitals, and she helped to evacuate the
soldier-victims under fire. Of the Spring-
field family of Suttor, sin; was born in
Bathurst, and is a'niece of that serviceable
old politician, the late Francis B.
This is Australian girl Claire Newton,
who has attained
overseas popularity
as a song composer.
The “Coney Can-
ter.” her latest
effort, became the
most popular one-
step. and she
couldn't go to the
cinema or to the
seat-tide without be-
ing pursued by her
own melody. Miss
Newton is not long
back from Harefield
and Sutton Veney.
where she worked
through the war
period. “Hush” and
“I Told My Love to
the Roses” are two
songs that captured London publishers. Miss
Newton hopes that her next song will be
typically Australian. Judith Fletcher took
the photo.
Major Guy Featherston, who recently
arrived in Sydney as British Trade Com-
missioner, has a classic-faced English wife.
He is a Maorilander by birth, But domiciled
for some years before the war in London.
The young pair and their one infant are
camped at Mosman.
Miss Wright, sister of the Archbishop,
who since her arrival in Sydney has been
an assiduous church-worker, has been
appointed superintendent of the Deaconess
House, in succession to Miss Pallister.
When any big undertaking wants a vol-
untary organiser, ask Le Maistre Walker.
No sooner was his work with the War
Chest finished than he took on the Sydney
Hospital appeal. To cope with the task he
and Mrs. Walker have left Pymble, and taken
a flat at St. Michael’s, Hunter-street.
Mrs. Royle, the kindly sec. of the Junior
Red Cross Record, now carries the badge
which was presented to her at a farewell
tea at the stronghold in Primrose-buildings.
President Mrs. Mackinnon, the hostess,
added an armful of blooms to the emblem of
Mrs. Royle"’s service.
A cable mentions that “Holme Lacy, the
Lucas Tooths’ historic mansion, is for sale.”
When the rich Sydney brewer bought the
famous Hereford seat from the indigent Earl
of Chesterfield his intention was to found a
county family. But ill-luck pursued him.
One by one his sons died or were killed, and
now he is a baronet and a millionaire with
no one to leave his money to but a daughter,
lie was talking recently in London of return-
ing to Australia to avoid English war-taxa-
tion plus the Australian absentee tax.
There’s to be a second “Remnants from
Randwick,” the jolly publication written and
illustrated (Maud Russell knows who gave
many of the boys their first lesson in draw-
ing) by the patients of No. 4 General Hos-
pital. The first number brought in £221,
which went to buy chairs or beds on wheels
for convalescent boys. Literary and other
contributions for the new effort are called
for from patients, ex-patients and returned
sisters, and may be sent to Sapper Healey
at No. 4, or Private Ringrose at Gray-
thwaite.
Still another ball —for the Alexandra
Hospital for Children —is being arranged
under the presidency of capable Mrs. Arthur
Allen. %But it won’t take place until Oct. 7.
It will be the “Dazzle.” The Hordern dame
foots the bill for the Town Hall, the presi-
dent supplies the programmes, and Mrs.
Ellison Rich pays the orchestra.


Hardy Brothers Ltd.
JEWELLERS. Established 1553.
WATCH BRACELETS
Hardy Bros. Ltd. have a large selection of Watch Bracelets in
new designs, those illustrated being but representative of the many
distinctive models available. All Watches are of finest quality.
f><t. Gold High-grade Watch, in new bevelled shape,
complete with black moire silk strap and gold snap,
£8 10 0
Of
38ct, Gold Watch, with highest-grade Lever move-
ment, fitted on wide leather strap with gold buckle.
A new model.
£24.
Five per cent, discount allowed
on all cash purchases.
Selections forwarded on approval.,
if desired.
ALL WATCHES GUARANTEED BY HARDY BROS. LTD.,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298 Collins Street. Melbourne. 116-118 Queen Street. Brisbane.
AND AT LONDON.
Print your^napshots
SELTONA
on
The Finest Printing* Paper of the Age,
Day I ight= Printing—Self=Toning,
lhe veriest beginner in photography can obtain beautiful rich prints without
any trouble if he uses “Seltona,” the wonderful paper that only requires
:i J l£r exposure has been made. It only requires to be exposed in
lul day I: ght—in the sun if the negative is dense, in the shade if it is thin
(under-exposed)—and you can watch the picture growing until every detail
ot it is fully printed a shade or two darker than you want the finished print
to be, then take it out, rinse in water for a few seconds, fix in hypo, then
give a final washing, and your printing is complete!
A NEW SHIPMENT JUST OPENED
In (ilossy Matt-Smooth, Cream-Smooth, Antique White and Cream, Unique
and Jioardoids.
All Sizes. V.P.K. to 4*4 x Inches 0(1. pkt.
All Sizes, A x 3 (2C) to H-plate 1/4 pkt.
Postcards, Court Size (*4 -plate) 1/- pkt.
Postcards, Full Size (s><j 1/4 pkt.
Whole-plate (B*6 x«*6) 1/10 pkt,
Also a full range of Cameras, including
ENSIGNS (BritisH-made), KODAKS,
BROWNIES and ANSCOS.
We Invite your Inspection. If you Live out of Town, send for Catalogue.
METALLURGICAL and ASSAY WORK.
Onr Laboratories are equipped with the most up-to-date appliances for
all classes of Metallurgical and Assay Work, Ore-testing and Chemical Analysis.
We specialise in (he treatment of Jewellers’, Dentists’ and other Metal-
workers’ Sweeps, Residues and Waste Products, every grain of metal that is
of value being extracted.
WE RESERVE REFERENCE SAMPLES of every order until settle-
ment is complete, and collect material to be treated In city or suburbs
free of charge. A note or ’phone message to any of our branches will
receive prompt attention.
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney. 266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane. 43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland. 42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney.
How can the Oxy-Acetylene
Process save money for You?
WORN AXLE
BUILT UP
AT BEARING
■ m
w
in
"frame repaired
For the Householder!
When metal kitchen utensils, garden tools,
sewing-machine parts and so on break or
become worn it is sheer folly to throw them
away when replacing means such a lot of
money now, when such things are so high
in price. Hundreds of householders who
have thought repairs either too hopeless or
too trifling have been amazed at the way in
which Oxv-Acetylene Welders have repaired
broken parts for a trifling sum.
Fracture repa red here
Share
welded
and point
built up
For the Man on the Land !
Nowhere is the Oxy-Acetylene Welder so much in
demand as by men on the land. Farmers are saved
big outlays for spare parts, and, what is more, the
delay in getting them when machines break down
when they are most needed. Ploughs. Harrows, Har-
vesters. Feed Mills, Pumps, Engines, Hand fools and
every kind of metal work will be speedily repaired by
vour nearest Oxv-Acetylene Welder if you just write
to us for his address. Don’t buy new parts or new
tools.
THE OXY-ACETYLEXE PROCESS shows remarkable savings wherever there is metal to he
cut or joined. Huge machinery parts, small tools, metal utensils and everything composed o. '.i-t
or wrought iron, mild steel, brass, copper, aluminium, practically am metal can be spccm \
repaired for a trifle compared with the cost of replacing them with new paits. Ox} . vt,\ cue
operators can be found in almost every part of Australia, ready at any time for the smal <. t 01 ai„e.
repair job. It is wise to get the address of the nearest Oxy-Acetylene 'A eidei now, i.* <■> °
emergency. Ask for illustrated booklet, showing the enormous possibilities of the (xv . ut\ ene
Process.
Oxygen. G? JJ4*
xcz
FOY >ST BALMAIN
*
SYDNEY FI. • S -W
xcz
AGENTS:
MELBOURNE—Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street.
Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street. BRISBANE —Evans, Deakin A: (o,
LAUNCESTON—Harrison Bros. & Co., Ltd., 20 Patterson Street,
and Co., Ltd., Murray Street; Brown & Joske, Suva, Fiji.
ADELAIDE —Alex.
, 121 Eagle Street.
PERTH —Geo. Wills
Workshops & Factories
A crack in this lathe-bed put it out of coin-
mission, but an Oxy- Acetylene Welder soon
nut it in again. X’o matter how small or
large the break in any part of machinery,
Oxy-Acetylene Welder* prevent expensive
“hold-ups” and repair the damage in quick
time, for a trifle compared with the cost of
new sections. In fact, very often. Oxy-
Acetylene Welders stand between you and
the cost of a complete new machine.
For Foundries. .
Tremendous savings are effected in foundries
by the use of the Oxy-Acetylene Process.
The Welding Blowpipe enables defective
castings to be. made good. I'he Cutting
Blowpipe enables risers and adhesions to be
removed in minutes compared with hours
taken by any other method.


mmirnw
Theses a
'j/' Con)f6ff
in a collar that really fits you and,
additionally, gioes CORRECT-
NESS to your appearance.
Such are PELACO Collars.
They ’re made for men who like
comfort, whilst appreciating the
value of good style. Pelaco
Collars, Shirts 6r Pyjamas are sold
by reliable Mercers everywhere.
COLLARS
Made in Australia
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN."
t'i
W
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
142 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Pen Points for Parents
POOR Pens are plentiful. Good Penmanship is
rare. Your boy wants to excel. Give him a
chance. ESTERBROOK’S are made for him. Send
2 Ad. in stamps for cost of postage on free samples, to
ESTERBROOK. Box 98 G.P.0., Sydney.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
mm
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
F>mK RUBBER.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schtite, Bell § Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to soil.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
xcz
V
ffise
ofjfuxite
Begin to Wear
Them !
Hose of Luxite excel
because of specialized
methods of knitting.
For more than 16
pears these Hose have
amazed the public bp
their durabilitp, and
thep are just as dur-
able to-dap as ever,
besides being more
beautiful.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street ::
SYDNEY.
AGNES PLATT,
4 Manchester St., London, W. England.
Advice given on plays, novels, cinemas.
Manuscripts placed. Plays produced.
Correspondence course in stage, novel
and cinema technique.
xczxcz
STYLE
WITH
COMFORT
There 1; no need to sacrifice style to
comfort, if you 'wear
ABBEY SHOES.
They are a rare combination of irre-
proachable correctness, perfect fit and
absolute COMFORT.
The boot illustrated is a smart, made-to-'
•order style in Tan Willo.v Calf. .
Price 30/- & 42 -
ABBEY.
313 George Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney .
THORNYCROFT
Commercial Motor Vehicles
B*2
'
m
■
i
■
■
m
■A
mm
-
j'O-U.p. Type “«T Lorry , with War Department Body.
BRITISH. RELIABLE. ECONOMICAL.
PETROL or KEROSENE.
SPECIFICATIONS AND QUOTATIONS FROM
The McArthur Engineering Co. (Sydney) Ltd.,
13 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
BOSTOGK’S—the Sign of a Good Shine
cxz
xzc
THE SIGN Of
AGOOD SHINE
The present being times for the practise of economy, no better preservative of
leather can be rfccmnu rulei! than
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
Thi. well-known Shoe Poll* po»eu« .11 the qualities for enluncinfe the «* j
rie„, kec,.in S the le.thet .0.., pli.bl, ant hrilli.nt. Shoe,
t 'h's -rive added service.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brov. % Ox Blood and White. In Tin,, Bottles and Tubes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s VioSo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except oj a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. *N '■
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
(i.H.J. (and others) : We cannot return
M-S. of unpublished paragraphs Roger M.: You
confide to us that your soul “is pure as Spring’s pure
air.” Advise you to copyright it. The world is
short of pure 50u15.... Keynote: In a faint way it
imitates Kipling, and imitation is not what Ihe
Bulletin wants... .Annie \\.: No use to u 5....
A.P.S.: “Ode to Spring” to hand. You’re first in
—and out Louie C.W.: You slop over a good sub-
ject. Returning copy... .K.A.G.: Have a look at
this section of your ode to an owl: —
Grey citizen of gloom, thou gazest at stars;
Thou lovest the solitude and scomest the light ;
Thou liuntest the dav birds, ghost bird of the dark;
Thou weird screamer, wild buzzard, grey eagle ot
night.
K.G.: No 0. Bates: “Sox” gone to the wash.
". . .Miss P.M.D.: No; try again J.F., Ex-Big.:
Might lie printed—by some other paper Belle-
rive: The “Double Tragedy” carries the punch:—
Within a train carriage a despe ate man
Met the rival who’d eloped with he’s wife.
And between the two did fiercely ensue
A diabolical struggle for life;
While round a curve the rattling train
Daslied speedily upon its way,
They did wildly writhe in each other’s grip
As they grappled like beasts of prey ;
On to lie's knees the revenger forced
The form of the guilty one.
With bated breath choked him to death
And shrank from the deed he’d done.
In horror he opened the carriage door,
Overwhelmed at the ghastly sight,
For a faithless wife did end he’s own life,
By plunging forth into the night.
Kemo: “Rulin’” fails Q. Mots: No; imrove
it.. .M.P.C.: Hush, keep the Irish-king ancestor dark.
There are hundreds of your relations within stone's-
throw, and most of them are very poor W. 8.:
(Vic.) : No declared slam; therefore the score is
100...W.8. (Q.) : Appointed 1910. Non-permanent.
Cecil Harmsworth, Under-Sec. for Foreign Affairs,
stated last month that relations might severed. . .
Jimmy: Now, exactly where was that bar?.. . .M. du
C.: Not bad verse; but why should a Queenslandei
chant about wolves on the ice?... .H.K.W.: Send
it to a journal with a Potts Point flavor A.L.P.:
Take it away and wash it Catholicus: Interest
too local R.8.F.: As you are only 14 we forgive
you P.A.F.: Lamentable C.R.8.: Good try,
but not quite up. ... W.E.F.: “Hiawatha” was meant
for a savage Indian chant; its metre doesn’t suit
your needs E.M.K.: Read some good verse; then
write if you still feel like it. You probably won’t.
....The Immature: We can’t adopt I leurette.. . .
E.P.: S’air work, but not interesting.... Vagabond :
A poor parody is about the worst of liteiaiv crimes.
The other doesn’t appeal to us. . . .C.J.M .: Very poor
. A.S. (Marrickville) : Not much there W.J.L.:
Doesn’t quite do it Heimno: You have a manner
all your own. Sample:
Ho you dwellers in your wooden houses,
Look this way. I’ll just put you m range.
I’ve seen you and your narrow wowsers.
And me, a simple worshipper of Change.
Perhaps you’ll say you’ve never met us,,
If ever argued o’er the virtue of a lady’s hips;
Never mingled in your politics and fuss.
Maybe—for we look a lot on wheels and ships.
. ...O.I.: “Annabella” would have made a yarn if
delicately handled Kookaburra: Nothing in it...
Alan B.': Not up Wollong: It isn’t poetry, and it
doesn’t say anything worth saying... .X.X.X.: Held
for consideration... .W.E.M.: Tou can’t rhyme
“charge” with “barrage.” A.11.M.: Can’t find a
smile in it E.G.S.: It’s probably a high price for
what they publish.... J. Jingle: It’s a good case,
but not well stated Sparkileto: Don’t like it
Tavistock: Verses not up.. . .P.A.L.: Why do you
think filth connected with eating is humorous?
E.11.K.: Verses full of faults. .. .J.R.: “Pawned
Prosperity” very crude.... E.C. (Castlemaine) : The
verses say nothing Tomas: Pretentious, but with-
out quality.... A. W.L.: “Gentlemen! The King!”
is no use. The toast may sound well, but the verse
sounds like a disordered sewing-machine Gslmet:
Verse must be verse. You might just as well label
that stuff 50ap....El Dorado: Don’t try trick forms
till you master ordinary scansion. Look at your
seventh line again; but, above all, get something to
say e.C.F. : Too vague and uncertain Pisces:
Weak verse and equally weak subject matter.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
jj-.G.: The pilot without a face goes overboard
C.M.R.E.: It isn’t a winner... .A.C.M.: Two hideous
children condemned... .C.H.L.: Average album stuff.
George II.: The sort of things that people don’t
say. Improve your drawing... .II.G.II.: Why should
the triangular nightmare-without-words come to us ?
. ...L.J.G.: The stamp will take your diagrams
home. There’s no humor in them.... Roy M.: Try
again... .Hector C.: Learn to draw. Then buy
some Bristol board and Indian ink 11.L.E.: Where
are the editor’s legs?... .D.R.P.: Crude and muddy.
. A.W.0.: You belong to the Grand United Order of
the Half-Baked. Study... .G.F.G.: Don’t patent tho.-e
Highlanders. Also, cease using an old joke long
gone in the feet E.F.L.: It took all the sun-
shine out of the day. What is the dreadful mother
offering'the improbable boy? J.S.: There was no
reason why the two beautiful fashion-platers should
turn away from the motor races to get off that
wheeze. . . .D.McF.: Has a stained-glass window
appearance without any stained-glass humor
E.R.E.: The voung man was badly brought up as
well as badly drawn....J.P.J.: Persevere; the line
is quaint Naval Stoker; Some gaiety in ihe
letter sketches, but can’t use them I.R.W .: The
-gag is almost a story, but the drawing succeeds m
being a misfit. Look at the hat of the soldier on
the left and the leggings of the soldier on the
right.... Kenneth W.: We heard the thump of a
stick on the stairs and then that old joke came in
again.. ..L.G.1.: Sentiments admirable; but we had
to shoot the horse... .A.C.G.: Comic-paper stuff....
line): The demand for flat parsons is very limited.
When small bovs say “Gam” to them there is no
demand at all A.C.M.: A man capable of making
a neat remark like that would have worn a hat
that fitted him. . . .0.5.8.: Study perspective and
buy some Indian ink and Bristol board.... 3 11 '
T C.: There is humor in your little sketch. Study
and draw larger... .Spinks: Fat German floated out
like a ba1100n....A.1L: If that author-farmer jest
hasn’t come out of America it ought to be niarke e 1
there Chick- Chucked Donald McG.: Crude.
Work your present market, study and lets see vom
work again when you’ve made some advance. .. .
S.H.: Poor drawing and long-winded gag. .. . A.L J.:
Is the Jew trying to sell the wooden Indian an
allotment of land or a thunderstorm ? F.W.P.:
That jape is as old as the overland telegraph.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, ti Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, SEPTEMBER 10.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
lelephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Mmiklng. Public Companies. &c.
I'HK
Bank of Queensland Limited
Author feed Capital, £ 1.000.000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
ht. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; £. IL
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. .J. THYNNE. M.L.C.
General Manager : J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOU'III WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Ac t ISfi.'i.
Hankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June .'lO. 1021.
Stlliscrilieil I apilal £8(10.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital 601‘.550 10 0
Reserve Fund . . .. . . . . 272,000 0 0
Inteiiniiialile Inscribed Deposit Stock o.mil ,60!) 1 jj
.ill new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors—-Geo. Kdwd. Bunning, Esc). (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. : James Love. Ksq. ;
AV. 11. Hart, Esq.; Joseph Hughes, Esq., t.S.O.
General ManaccFit -\Y. V. I!ALSTON.
HHAD Oi l ICE - - - lIICISHANE.
Branches— London, .Mrlitotinie, Sydney and
throughout <)iifen*hiii<L
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the Ea9t.’
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman •
MARK SHELDON, Esq.; GEORGE J. SLY. Esc).’
" N '
' BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: .1. N. 11. BimvcN.
Manager: G. 11. llowkm..
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places thcouuiiout New South Wales
and (Queensland. Agents throughout the re.-t ui
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business 'Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and YVYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000 000
Uncalled Capital 500.000
Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
CHANTS DRAFTS
Britain and
un Australia, Now Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Ireland, and other places.
receives deposits
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON $ CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian United Steam Navigation Cu d ,
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping-, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMEIvS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
11.M.5. MAKURA, AUGUST.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, AUGUST.
*
The most beautiful Scenery in tile World—tlie Canadian Rockies—is on the All-lied Route.
The Prairies, the Brent Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of tlie United States, Canada, or to. Europe.
Tlie Great Cities of the United States can be seen on tlie journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 25!) GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
. --4 ppr
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BIKvNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Pun cl
Reserve Liability -
Directors:
08# f n6‘oT3
on‘zia‘«3
ooo'ooi'g*
Olf‘c.l6'B3
The lion. Sir i n.irles K. UncKdlar, K.C.M.G..
President.
K. B. S. Falkiner. K-q.. M.ll.l!.
The Hon. I’e<rm.il<l .1. Bi nt;. MT, <‘.
Tiigiiiiis Buck-land, Esq.
Charles Binnic, Esq.
iiobcii E. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. .Tames T. Walker.
A inf it or- : S. K. baidley, Esq. : A. (3. Milton, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Ollier —Oeorge sstreet. Sydney. London OfFee—‘JO Threadneedle Street. E.C.
330 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Rills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
xcź
xxcz
JM ot Australia
HKAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
m the Principal Cities and T owns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE BEST PLACE FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
136 Branches and 501 Agencies.
3f% INTEREST on all balances up to £5OO.
DEPOSITS received from l/= upwards.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts Opened.
Shipping.
.. ■
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service
Manila, Hong' Kong, Japan and
the East. Transhipment cargo
accepted for all Eastern ports,
Pacific Coast ports ami Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
ROHSO MARU, sailing August.
MADRAS MARU, sailing September.
GANGES MARU, sailing October.
LIMITED ACCOMMODATION AVAILABLE
FOB FIRST-CLASS PASSENGERS.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4160, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
INTER-STATE SAILINGS SUSPENDED
OWING TO STRIKE.
Huddart Parker Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STENUKUS TO NKW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice verm; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney
“THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
Die Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly io:—
IUKED. RICHMOND, CCA RENCIC, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
It IVKItS: also to BYRON ISA Y, COFF’S
HARBOR ami WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALKS and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to incimie first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
liience to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillnmhah,
ail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
here connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
late liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
teamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
=teamer, £ ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:— -
ROOKING OFFICE, 201 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(.! A PAN MAIL STEAMSHII* COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
bv this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
■slantl, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong',
Nagasaki, Kobe, and Yokohama.
Passengers must obtain from the Quarantine
Authorities permits to leave New South Walts at least
three days before the steamer’s departure.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PI 11LP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
I Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded..
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds exceed
\nnual Income over
£1,000,000
£1,700,000
£39,000,000
£ 5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. AV. APPERLY, General Manager.
George hotel,
St. KiUa. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.


xcz
Cvw
D
BILLIARD &SNOOKEI
M
a
imiuiuutfumiuiwiuuua
I
Q
*<r
ms™
In play they are resilient —-faultless in running—true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizes: l|in lfiu, 2in. 2sin.
10/6 15/6 21/- 30/-set
(Postage on One Set—N.S.W., 9d.; Other States, 1/2).
SNOOKER BALLS
Sizes: l|j n . Hill. 2ill 2,6111.
£4/4/- £4/15/- £5/5/- £B|B/-set
(We Pay Carriage on Snooker Balls).
Sole Australasian Distributers;
xcz
Headquarters—Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
“A Complete Food
by which even the weakliest can be nourished and
strengthened ” —such is Binder’s, the Food which is always
prepared with fres.% new milk.
The unique sell - digestive ingredients in Benger’s
partially digest both milk and Food wh le you prepare it.
Tnis is why
źxczx
Food
224A-
can be fully nutritive when digestion is weakened.
Benger’s Food is for Infants, Inval'ds, an l the Aged.
During 35 years’ use by the medical profession it has
fulfilled every claim made for it.
Beneer’s Food is entirely British in origin, ownership, and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc. everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin w en preparing it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from :
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: «7, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at NEW York (U.S.a.) 90, Beekman St. Depdts throughout CANADA.
REMOIL
YOU could not make a better invest-
ment than in a bottle of Rem Oil. One
drop judiciously applied to the wearing
rurfaces of light machines will prolong
tiheir usefulness and render them capable
of better service. Every household should
have a bottle of Rem Oil. For firearms it is
unexcelled, being at one and the same time a
lubricant, powder solvent and rust preventive.
Ask your dealer for further particulars or
send for special descriptive circular, also
complete catalogue of Remington UMG
Firearms and
Cartridges.
c
SL:ftys
xt
&
//
(f
\
»e
■(;
B-4
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative, Box 68S, G, P. 0., Melbourne
QUEENSLAND.
THE KEY TO
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity tor those
k requiring land _
Particulars of the
millions ol acres of
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE
yVame- ... ■—
Address
Queensland Government
kteiiije&ce ud Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE
e-
S.B.
fIIALSI
um
For Sick Headache
Many people suffer at regular
intervals from sick headache. The
trouble is caused by accumlation
of poison in the digestive organs
and this poison produces nausea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacks may
be avoided. Pinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act so
gently that they are the ideal laxa-
tive to use in correcting a tendency
to sick headache;' They have no
unpleasant effect to make them
objectionable to Ihe extra-sensitive
sick headache patient. Old fash-
ioned harsh purgatives will not do
at all in such cases.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.'
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
■
• -'..V
The “PLUM”
RAZOR.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
Thousands of “Plum” Razors are sold annu-
ally, retaining their position of supremacy
through sheer consistency of merit. Try the
“Plum,” and you’ll stick to it.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- d
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing', 1/-
All the above Post Free.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Boo's
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


An Australian Actress Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
'
m
. '■ • :
iti *3kS®K
m
~ >-fg ' t
IS
J/t'ss TIEN HOGUE (from a photo from Durr Lilz Studios).
Miss Tien Hogue, one of the
brightest and prettiest young
actresses, is well known to all
Australians, as her father was
Minister for Education for
many years, and her brother
was the popular military cor-
-1 espondent—Trooper Bluegum.
Miss Hogue is a favorite
with all theatre-goers, and is
always sure of a warm wel-
come. This charming New
Discovery Girl writes us as
follows: —
I have been using Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery
during the last three
weeks, with most mar-
vellous results, and I have
decided that I would write
and tell you, for it was
not until this year that I
ever had occasion to try it.
I'or many years each
winter I was troubled
with throat trouble or
colds. I used to always
have a recipe at the
Chemist's that was given
to me hv a l'riend of mine.
This always seemed to licit)
me a great deal, and I
thought it wasaboutas good
as anything I could get.
Unfortunately (as I
thought at tlie time) I lost
tliis recipe, and when I
had tlie misfortune to con-
tract a bad cold this year,
which affected my voice
seriously, I could not find
this recipe, and I was
recommended to trj' Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery,
by a friend who said she
had used it with great
success. I obtained a
bottle, and the etfect was
marvellous. It is simply astonishing how quickly it helps one, for in less than two
days the cold was entirely cured, and my voice improved with the first dose that I
took. Needless to say, I shall never bother about getting any recipes put up again,
for New Discovery shall always be my remedy for a cold. I think it marvellous.
Sincerely yours,'
(Sgd.) TIEN lIOGUE.
Stops Coughs Banishes Colds
Men. women and children all over the country use and know the worth of
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. Are you one of them? If not. don’t delay, but buy a
bottle at onee and be ready to pounce on the first cold that makes its appearance.
Don’t forget Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the ever-ready friend that should be in
every household to protect you from all coughs and colds. Price 1/6 and 3/-
D« Sheldons,
New Discovery
çzx
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
ZBBI
czx
TH ERE is always plenty of power in
the Maxwell motor-—power to climb
hills and pass bv cars that are far
more expensive —power to pull through seas
of mud or through sandy desert in fact
plenty of power to run on any road conditions
encountered.
And yet the Maxwell Motor-Car is surprisingly saving of
petrol, tyres and spares.
The satisfaction of getting a real bargain in the original
purchase price grows from day to day by this proverbial
saving to every Maxwell owner.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc
OF DETROIT, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Callc Address: “Liandum —New York.”
Afore miles per gallon.
More miles on lyres.
CLUTTERBUCK BROS. LTD.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.
Convalescent.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To match the sea,
A The baby waves creep up to lisp and
play,
The gulls fly lazily across the bay,
This golden day ;
And I am free to lie upon the sands
And watch cloud shadows roll in purple bands,
but there, from whence I came, are shadows
only,
And rows of folk who toss, fevered and lonely.
Here breezes whisper nonsense to the soul
And make it whole;
There that wan girl still gabbles on the
’phone
With her ghost lovers, and her pleading moan
Would woo a stone.
Then troubled by the tables she must set
She cries she cannot rise to do them yet;
The nurse’s soft tones whisper, but her crying
Kings shrill above the wheezing of the dying.
The night, for me, hangs stars upon the trees
And brings soft ease;
But on the ward the darkness drops its mesh
Like filthy blanketing, and weary flesh
Tastes* pain afresh.
The place is full of mournful, sighing sounds,
And as the weary watchers make their rounds
The peeping lamps among the beds go
creeping—
-11a! I sit late and watch the city sleeping!
They still have broths and milky stuff on
plates
The stomach hates.
But I dine out and hear the music sing
And pick the white meat from a chicken’s
wing
While glasses ring.
They lie in small, hot beds with pain and
dearth —
I. who am free, walk gay about the earth,
Tasting with relish life’s red biting flavor
I>est I should miss a fraction of its savor!
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.
The Cloud,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was myfirst voyage in the Guilderland,
a dumpy 500-tonner which was taking
a cargo, mostly gin, from Rotterdam
to Batavia. I had joined as first mate
with a Dutch captain. Jan Bosboom, who
spoke bad English and Tittle of any language,
lie was broad in the beam, fish-eyed, fond of
schnapps and his pipe, and seemed incapable
of displaying emotion on any occasion what-
ever. The crew was the usual mixture,
Norse predominating, with one powerful
Geordie amongst them who was afterwards
a tower of strength to me. The second
mate, named Wallen, was a rubicund young
Dutchman who had picked up some English
from hymn-books and the assorted swear-
words of the sea. He was sentimental and
bad-tempered. I found it hard to put up
with his lachrymose confidences about women,
alternated with periods of huff over
trifles in which he acted like a snapping
turtle; but his was the only company there
was, as the skipper didn't count in that line
any more than the compass.
We had a good run from the Cape. The
south-east trade took us further east than
we should have gone, but I had learnt that
at sea two sides of a triangle are sometimes
together less than the third side.
It was late in August and fairly dry for
the tropics when we passed Christmas Island.
I remember it was my watch in a forenoon
when Hirst, the Geordie 'carpenter, drew my
attention to a thin black cloud low down in
the north.
“Looks a bit queer, sir.’” said he.
“May be a storm coming.” I answered.
“But we don't get bad weather in that
quarter, as a rule,” Hirst said, and went on
with his work.
We were waddling along without much
wind, and, save for that black streak, the
sky was almost a cloudless blue. I had heard
of extraordinary weather in the tropics, and
old Gibbons, the bos’n with whom I sailed
in the Paumonock as a boy, used to get quite
poetical in talking about the typhoons. So I
thought this might possibly be the first sign
of nasty weather, but I didn’t worry about
it just then. I mentioned it to the captain
when I met him in the cuddy, and he only
grunted.
Later in the day I came on deck and
noticed at once that the black ribbon had
grown to a bis: round black mass with lace-
like edges. The blessed thing grew as I
watched it, and I can tell you that I watched
it for a lone while, fascinated. It wasn’t the
leaden black of a storm-cloud ; it was deal-
black against a clear sky. What was also
strange to me was a prickly sort of smell in
the air. if you know what I mean, and a
sense of oppression. The barometer showed
nothing out of the ordinary. Wallen hap-
pened to see me looking at the glass, and I
suppose I seemed puzzled, for he asked me
what I was worrying about.
“Oh, nothing.” I replied, “except that
there’s a hell of a storm coming.”
“Not so. I think”- —this in a prim way
that irritated me with Wallen. “I rather
think it is a big fire. Pulan Panaitan lies
over there.”
“All right, fire it is,” I said, scornfully,
“and it’s going to scorch us a trifle before
it’s done.”
Before long I decided to dig up the skip-
per, who was having a snooze below. He
cursed heavily when I shook him, but fol-
lowed me on deck and looked north at the
blackness a long time before he "said any-
thing.
“Don’t like it, Mr. Grayson. Best take
in sail and tidy up.”
Having solemnly delivered these instruc-
tions, Captain Bosboom was about to return
to his cabin, when the man at the lookout
called out the Dutch equivalent for “a sail.”
It was some distance aft, a clipper-built ship
with nearly every rag of sail set. Bosboom
watched it while I ordered the men to
shorten sail. Soon he turned to me, jerking
his thumb over his shoulder, and said: “Tea
boat; China.” Then he ambled off.
I was more interested in the thing ahead.
The cloud grew as we approached and
slowly went up the sky like the broken end
of an irregular arch, black as the Pit at
the huge base and appalling in its menace
to the puny Guilderland, which seemed to
be standing still, so slow was our progress.
Late in the day the clipper came up and
veered in towards us. I saw through my
glasses that it was the .Tohore, a tea ship,
bound like ourselves for Batavia, I suppose,
on the way to Singapore and China. The
captain appeared alongside of me at the
break of the poop, smoking his long pipe,
lie answered the hail from the Johore and
shouted a warning about the coming trouble.
“Don t like it. Dirty weather coming.
Hadn’t you better get ready?” he roared.
“I’m not worrying. I’ve slipped through
worse than what’s coming. Bet you 10
dollars I’ll be in Batavia before vou,” came
from the stranger.
“I take your bet,” Bosboom said with
sudden animation. “The loser pays at the
Packet Company’s office!”
“Ilight-oh ! Good-bye!”
\vith that the Johore drew off, set her
royals and went ahead.
In a short space the sun went down. I’ll
never forget that sunset. Many sunsets I’ve
seen on all the oceans, but none to surpass
that one. The sky above seemed to have
every color in it in gorgeous profusion. It
was like a giant fan covered with jewels,
the knob of it a great glowing ruby.
Only for a few minutes it lasted, and then
it was night.
I had seen night come down in these lati-
tudes like the drop-curtain at a theatre.
This time you could almost hear it click
like a knife when shut. T remembered a
poem I read at school in which —
The stars rushed out;
At one st ide came the dark.
The curious thing was that the stars didn’t
come out, except in the south. The black
pall seemed to be stretching over us from the
north and threatening to envelop the world.
I confess that I was affected by the eerie
feeling of the night and the noticeable roll
in which the old Guilderland wallowed, and
when my watch was over I turned in. I
had a stiff nip of Scotch —no Hollands for
me while my private stock lasted I —and I
slept like a log.
* * * *
It was after three when I was awakened by
a tremendous bump and a noise like distant
cannon. I pulled on my boots and tumbled
up the companion-way thinking that the
end was about to arrive. Bosboom was
out before me and was shouting orders to
the men when I joined him.
Wallen had been on duty when we struck.
Tie came up close to where I stood in the
light of the binnacle and said, sarcastically,
“Fire, all right,” with a nod of his head
to the north, and walked away again.
Sure enough, jets of flame split the inky
blackness in the direction where the great
cloud had been! I must say T was be-
wildered. There was an astonishing roll
on ; the wind wasn’t even a second cousin of
a gah; let alone a typhoon, yet we had been
carried out of our course and had run
aground somewhere or other. There was
neither the sound nor the white flash of
breakers, and as far as our lights could
pierce the blackness there was no land in
sight.
Bosbooom went to his cabin to consult
his charts. He had already sent men below
to see if any damage had been done, and
was puffing calmly at his long pipe when I
looked in on him. He told me he couldn’t
make out where we were nor what had
happened ; but all hands had better stand by
till morning. We had been travelling at less
than six knots in the evening, and at the
time we hit trouble our speed was not much
greater, so T wasn’t surprised when the men
reported that all seemed well below.
When the dawn came I went to the bow
and looked down; but could see nothing
clearly at first. As the light grew I was
able to recognise the sloping side of the
land we had struck —apparently a pinnacle
or hill —and before my astonished eyes the
forms of trees and rude houses took shape
far below. I could distinguish a cluster of
huts, one much bigger than the rest, and
from it the outline of a path leading away
westward. Then it dawned upon me that
the startling phenomena of the night and
the previous day were due to some huge
volcanic eruption which had upset the
regions beneath the sea and submerged the
land we ran into. In a sense Wallen was
right about the big fire, which didn’t in-
crease my liking for him.
I turned to tell the captain my con-
clusions and found the deck was covered
with fine cinders, and more were falling.
Bosboom nodded agreement with what I
said about volcanoes, and pointed with his
pipe-stem over the port quarter, where I
saw in the distance a small island with some
•buildings on it similar to those beneath the
water. It looked as if we were over a por-
tion of a bigger island—a portion that had
snapped off and slipped below in the night.
To the north the pall still hung in the sky
where it had been the day before, but was
now shaped like a mushroom. I could
imagine that the disaster we saw beneath us
was only part of the result of the night’s
upheaval, and I longed for information.
On and off during the day we tried
various expedients to get the ship off; but
we were wedged firmly into the top of the
hill or headland, and there wasn’t enough
wind to help us. In the evening Bosboom
informed me that he would take a boat’s
crew and go off to Batavia in the morning
for a tug. He should be back, he said,
inside a week.
He went off in the morning in our best
boat, having picked the strongest of the
crew, save Hirst, as I specially asked him
(Continued on next page.)


f am
B
MAKE ZAM-BUK A DAILY NEED
ACCIDENTS are always happening in the kitchen, in the
workshop, in the garden, at the children’s play, and
during every kind of work or athletic pursuit.
Directly Zam=Buk is applied to a wound or sore it alleviates the
pain or inflammation, reduces any swelling and prevents the place
“taking bad ways.” Not only is Zam=Buk a highly concentrated
and reliable healing agent—it also has splendid antiseptic
properties.
In a natural way, belonging to the natural extracts
from which it is manufactured, Zam=Buk stops the
growth of harmful microbes that account for the
festering of a neglected or wrongly=treated sore;
it kills or nullities all dangerous influence at
once, and causes the tissues, which it has
first made clean in a medical sense, to
knit together once more, until all.trace
of the sore or injury has gone.
Zam=Buk carries on its anti-
septic healing without hindrance,
because of the balanced and re-
fined character of the balm;
and the work is not im teded
by the presence of any
of the coarse animal
fats that are to be
found in other
salves. Zam-
Buk is the
ideal
healer.
nS
V
LHH
\
iililldF
.1
CHILD’S
SCALDS
Healed.
Mrs. T>. Hawkes, of 35 Ware Street, Hobart,
Tas writes: “A kettle of very hot water was
spilled over mv little son’s right leg, scalding
him terribly. The sores'festered, and he suffered
fearful pain. Knowing that Zam-Buk is most suc-
cessful for burns, we procured some of the balm and
dressed his injuries. He experienced relief almost immedi-
ately Zam-Buk was applied, for it proved most soothing to the
raw surfaces of seared flesh when the blisters broke. Although
a bad case, the terrible wounds were completely healed by Zam-Buk.
I have also used Zam-Buk with great success for other injuries.”
The Chemist said: “Use Zam-Buk.’’
A striking example of Zam-Buk’s indispensability in the home is given by Mrs K. Ryan of .
Albany Street. Crow's Nest, North Sydney, who says.-“ Some time ago my little I)or i s l “
and cut her knee. The sore steadily grew worse, and the Inflammation spread, so I went to toe chemist
for some ointment, and he advised me to try Zam-Buk. I purchased a pot of Zam-Buk, and after ea
dressing the sore grew visibly better, and in a few. days it was perfectly heale .
Rubbing Zam-Buk in is the surest way to rub pain out. It is
excellent for stiff neck, cold pains in limbs, joists, or back; chappet
hands, chilblains, eczema, piles, ulcers, festering cuts, bruises, ana
injured, diseased conditions of the skin. Price 1/6, or 3/0 lami jpo ,
from all chemists and stores.
REFUSE
WORTHLESS
SUBSTITUTES.
m
I
<Ol
r>-J\
cum
rrm
tWJ
3
0
to leave the only English-speaking seaman
with me. Wallen accompanied the captain
and I was left in sole command. It was
difficult to find employment for the men,
who were restive in face of circumstances
they didn’t understand, and I was afraid
they might broach some of the gin cases
below. It occurred to me that as the weather
was so good I could employ them in shifting
the cargo to the island, and when emptied
the ship might be warped off. I called Hirst
into my cabin, told him my proposal, and
urged him to keep an eye on the men and
lay out anyone who tried to break into the
spirits.
We began in the morning, loading two
boats with cases of gin. I went off in the
first boat, taking a revolver in case of acci-
dents, and leaving Hirst, with the captain’s
revolver, in charge of the ship. The few
natives who met us on the landing were
harmless, good-natured folk who brought us
fruit, and gesticulated and jabbered a great
deal, but could not make me understand any
of their meaning except that they were
frightened. They accepted the tobacco I
took with me and helped the men unload.
The work went on all day, Hirst going
over with the second lot of stuff and again
with the last, lot of the day to keep guard at
night. I didn’t know what the islanders’
curiosity might lead them to, and felt respon-
sible for the cargo, so didn’t take any risks.
Three days’ steady going at unloading
made a difference in the Guilderland, and
with a capful of head wind lo help us we
warped her off. It was a proud moment fra-
me when the old scow bobbed freely again.
I ventured to set a sail or two and draw
in nearer to the land, keeping the lead going
and dropping anchor at what Seemed a safe
distance. Then I set the men to work at
reloading the cargo. The job took much less
time than the unloading, and my luck so far
as weather was concerned held good.
When the last case was stowed I sent
some odds and ends ashore as presents to
the natives —there wasn’t much to send, as
the Guilderland wasn’t an island trader-
served out an extra lot of grog to the crew,
and then we made off for Sunda.
Hirst and I divided the watches, and in-
structions were given to keep a sharp lookout
for the overdue tug. in case the captain
should pass us in the night. So many
strange things had happened lately that I
was quite prepared to find that calamity had
overtaken Boshoom and his boat’s crew be-
fore they reached Batavia, or else surely
someone would have come to our assistance!
As we passed up the Straits of Sunda .ve
soon became aware of the source of the
recent disturbance, for Ivrakatoa seemed to
have been recently blown to pieces,
and was still smoking and steaming.
We struck dirty wea I her before entering
Batavia Roads; but that didn’t matter. I
landed at last on a wet morning in Septem-
ber, 1883, after the Guilderland was safely
tied up, her cargo intact and the portion of
the crew left with me sober snd well.
I hurried to the Company’s office, reported
myself, and inquired for news of Boshoom.
An English-speaking clerk came forward
with a very surprised air and said :
“What, you have come back without the
captain?”
“Certainly,” I replied. “He left th->
'Guilderland over ten days ago to fetch a
tug.”
“Yes, yes, we know; he has been here and
was authorised to do what Was necessary
and bring the ship in.”
“Well, all 1 know is that he didn’t return.
I got the ship off, and here we are.”
The clerk went off and brought the mana-
ger, to whom he translated my story. I
learned that much damage had been done to
the company’s boats by the eruption, which
on the day I saw the black cloud had put
out the sunlight in the city, a hundred miDs
away from the volcano, so that the gas had
to be lit at noon. Much destruction had been
done in nearer districts and many lives lost.
Things had been upset a bit since then, and
perhaps, the manager suggested, something
had happened to the captain. Inquiries
would be made, lie said; meanwhile 1 was
thanked for my services, which would not be
forgotten, and told to report again.
A day or two afterwards I met one of the
captain’s lot coming out of a drinking den
in a back street. He looked at me sheep-
ishly and turned to re-enter the place. I
jumped forward and grabbed him by the
arm, demanding in what little Dutch 1
could muster what had become of Captain
Bosboom. From him 1 got some of the story
and picked up the rest afterwards. Bosboom
had been much upset on arrival at Batavia
to find that one of his family had been lost
off the coast on the day of the eruption, his
schooner (which belonged to the captain)
and all aboard having Iren sunk. Bosboom
drank heavily to diae i lls sorrow, and was
in a bad state of d.i.'s when I found him.
Wallen had met a, fair lady with whom be
fell madly in love, and, as his captain had
disappeared, he went off with the lady to
Buitenzorg. The boat’s crew had scattered
-—the fate of the Guilderland was none of
their business.
That’s the story as I remember it. Of
course, the eruption of Krakatoa has been
written about —it is in the history books;
but the little adventure of the Guilderland
has not been told before. Doubtless there
were others equally strange at that extra-
ordinary time.
By the way, the Johore did not arrive at:
Batavia, and was never heard of again, so
Bosboom won the bet, which he could never
collect.
FRANK' GRAYSON.
The Test.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mils. CHRISTIAN knew it was a
risk, but she took it. Neither her
heart nor her vanity could rest till
she made the experiment. She told her-
self before she actually did the deed that
she was quite sure of John. But when the
portrait stood on the mantelpiece of
Christian’s sanctum her heart quailed within
her.
Why had John kept Vera’s portrait all
these years? Vera! Mrs. Christian hated
her name, the innocence of her eyes, the
sweet, unsophisticated lips of her—lips,
Mrs. Christian was convinced, that were
neither unsophisticated nor sweet. She
hated the demure neck of her white blouse,
neither high nor low, the tiny string of
pearls clasping her round throat, the dark
rose tucked in her bosom. Most of all she
bated the ripples of her brown hair, ripples
even a woman might long to stroke.
For a single instant Mrs. Christian
wavered; then she set the portrait firmly
back. After all these years she was not
afraid. She would dare all. risk all, any-
thing rather than endure the smouldering
jealousy that consumed her. John should
decide between her and his Vera to-night.
But for the missing gas-bill Mrs.
Christian would never have known that
John had preserved Vera’s portrait. Rum-
maging through his papers she had hap-
pened on it cunningly hidden beneath a tile of
old papers, the tell-tale little portrait, signed
“Vera,” carefully wrapped in thin tissue
paper. The little minx wrote as she looked,
like a child. There was something appeal-
ing in that unformed "Vera” to even Mrs.
Christian. n ,
Standing with her nose flattened against
the pane of the French window, the fuming
wife stared across the misty garden to the
river bank where a gardener was raking and
burning piles of crisping sycamore and
chestnut leaves. In 20 minutes to the tick
John would arrive home, trim and neat m
his Chesterfield coat and bowler hat, walk-
ing smoothly and evenly through his well-
kept garden to the immaculate establish-
ment and wife that awaited him. For he
was an old bachelor, was John. Disordei
or incompetence would have driven him to
distraction. Had he married Vera the
manage of the dreamy, unpractical child
would have sickened him —Vera, with her
verse-writing and her singing, doing accounts
and interviewing the butcher! Phew! Mrs.
Christian would give her fur coat to see
Vera’s housekeeping books. And she would
never have the wit to keep the chimneys
swept.
A racehorse passed the gate, m its smart
tan-colored coat; and Mrs. Christian sighed.
That was John’s one failing—he would put
on his bit. and he invariably lost. Well,
to-night John’s wife would have her bit on,
Would she win or 105 e?....
Mrs. Christian’s knees quaked beneath her
after dinner, as she and her husband drew
up their easy chairs on either side of their
comfortable hearth. An adorable and
economical fire of coke glowed, in theff ate.
It was the hour for tobacco and fox coftee as
only Mrs. Christian knew how to piepaie
The conversation turned to little John’s
school report and the price or eggs. 'V!
and sixpence if you will believe it.... <.
you remember, John, to change the li ran
books and have your thick boots re-so ed.
John, lighting his pipe with precise de-
liberation, had remembered. As Hie mate 1
Hared up, Mrs. Christian for the millionth
time admired his clear-cut, lawyers piohle.
The jut of his chin made her heait leap
even now. Her cup of happiness would have
overflowed —but for that wretched little
Meanwhile John pulled at his pipe, with
regular, even puffs. Every action ot John s
was regular, neat and finished. . uddenh,
however, he ceased to puff and let lus pipe
rest on his knee while he stared in amaze-
ment at the portrait on the mantelpiece.
Mrs. Christian’s moment had come. John
had seen the portrait of A era.
What did you see, John? Instead of a
coke fire (an economical fire), a nre ot
wood, big. red, extravagant. Instead ot Mrs.
John’s well-groomed, tidy head, a ruffled,
curly pate, two sweet passionate eyes, and
an innocent mouth that begged for lasses.
A warm cheek aginst your own, John; two
hands that twined and clung—a voice that
laughed and sobbed, and mocked. \ era.
Sweet, fond, improvident, passionate. loving
little Vera! Little Vera whom your-.pru-
dence crushed, whose heart was the stepping-
stone to Airs. Christian’s sense and purse.
He sacrificed you then, Vera; he’ll sacrifice
you now.
* * * *
“Where did you find that, Mary?” It was
John’s calm, throaty voice ; and John s calm,
deliberate gaze met his wife's. “Queer old-
fashioned thing, isn’t it? Girls don t wear
their hair like that nowadays.”
“I found it looking for the gas bill, Mrs.
Christian stammered breathlessly, “under a
file of old papers. And (wasn’t it ridiculous.
John?) I felt —jealous—and put it there for
ft st !’ 1
John laughed—his quiet, reasonable laugh.
“And you're satisfied now?”
Airs. Christian laughed too. She had been
absurd, petty, childish. John’s cool attitude
told her that. She crossed to him, and
kissed him slyly.
“Yes. dear, I am quite satisfied now.
* * * *
Autumn helped, no doubt. If was autumn
when John first lost his heart to A era. He
remembered it all as he went through the
mist and the falling leaves. He pulled the
bell, his elderly heart aflame.
Accra's mother was distinctly triumphant
and barely civil to John as she slammed the
door behind him. But she had time to tell
him first that AVra lived in England now.
Poor John! Poor A'era ! But Mrs
Christian was happy. Her test had sue-
reeded.
DOROTHY FRANCES McCRAE.


8
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
M.Z. Office—B3-107 Featherstou Street, Wellington.
Vfotorian Office—BB Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
YOU n ______
U RE U BRAIN WAVES
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
.and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
In fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chatting leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT arid SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It ia suitable for men. women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
849 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
If you want to prosper in life—to think out
schemes which will bring success, you must
have a clear head and a brain free from dullness
and fatigue. Headache, Las-
situde or Indigestion must
not come to distract your y
mind. Avoid Head- '
aches, Dizziness, In-
digestion, Bilious-
ness and that “tired
feeling ” by taking
Carter’s Little
Liver Pills, the
Great Liver Invig-
orator. Thousands
çz
CARTERS
ITTLE
SVER
PILLS
have attained success by their timely help.
Just try one after meals. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Doss -Small Price,
GENUINE must
bear signature
xc
SSnSiaiiHiia
i
THE ps
rt IGLEVSJC'
jgESzzsm*
ERFECT GUM r[££3
RIGLEYS.
hmmsihi
jHEWING GUM
%
%
►
w
/-
6 bars
in each
packet
for 3d.
The longest
lasting bene*
fit, the
greatest
satisfaction
for your
sweet
tooth.
On Sale
Everywhere
SEALED TIGHT
KEPT RIGHT
Made by
WM. WRiGLEV JR.
Prop. Ltd..
■I Rosebery,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The
Flavour
Lasts
95
i 4'%s
•••«.. -
zmm%
■. H
(Sii
mt
mmmm
*.=£> f
'
t- 'f. «
>
a ;
» -;
V-v
88?
H
mmi
m&m
■ ■ ■
THEY ARE
BEECHAMS
PILLS
\\%
Sk
m
V=
VA
;
«a
*v
Horlicks
MALTED
MILK
Baby knows the difference.
He knows what makes him feel good,
happy, and contented.
You know that he thrives upon this
easily assimilated, nourishing food,
therefo e insist on always having
Horlick's Malted Milk for him.
Write for sample, sending 2d. in
stamps to HUTCHINSON & Co., Ltd.,
26. Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
No Shortage of Supplies. Ample Stocks throughout Australia.
ACCIDENTS WILL HAPPEN
And even the slightest scratch may prove serious it
not kept absolutely clean. “Vaseline” Carbolated
a mild antiseptic—disinfects and prevents infection.
Just “Vaseline” Jelly and carbolic acid. ’ Use it as
a dressing for all cuts, bruises and abrasions of the
skin. It helps nature in the healing process. In
sanitary tubes and glass jars; at chemists and general
•tores.
Other “Vaseline” Products
“VASELINE” CAPSICUM—for pains, muscle strains, tooth*
“VASELINE” MENTHOLATED—for headaches, neuralgia,
sore throat.
CHESEBROUGH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
(Consolidated)
New \ ork London 'v -Montreal
Vaseline
irM. vdseune H * r| "
CARBOLATED
. PETROLEUM JELLY
(Contains IM% Carbolic Acid)^
Vaseline Carbolated
'i rade Mark
Petroleum Jeny


LEATHER
It Saves Power
because it sticks to the job—does not slip
on the pulleys, but keeps a close acquaintance
and transmits maximum power. Strone,
callable and economical. It answers everv
power demand. Try it on your power plant.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Charles Ludowicl, Managing: Director),
i®y®Tj‘ B * re ® t > W/nyardSquare, Sydney, N.S.W.
e,Au^ rn^ U 8 a • Gibbs, Brig:ht&Co., Perth
S th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
çzx
INCREASED EFFICIENCY
MUST BE SOUGHT
Any machine-shop overseer interested in increasing produc-
tion and decreasing operating costs should investigate the
merits of—
Ultra Capital High-Speed Twist Drills
They cut accurately at highest speed and retain their cutting edges
longer. Used the world over by leading engineers. Stocked with
straight and taper shanks.
attentimf *° Desl< or P r * ces an d other particulars receives prompt
1 hi Eagle $ Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379-381 KENT STREET, BYDNEY
[Makers of
Ultra Capital High-
Speed Steel,
Chemicals Cost Less when
= —- You Buy from Us. s
We have large stocks of the following:—
Caustic Soda, Soda Ash, Bicarbonate of Soda,
Chloride of Calcium, Sulphide of Sodium,
Chloride of Ammonium, Naphthaline, Carbolic
Acid (98% pale straw), Bichromate Soda and
Potash, French Chalk, Dextrine, Aniline Dyes,
Hematine and Fustic Extracts.
OlES—Whale, Cod and Herring.
Write 11s for prices and particulars.
James Hard ie &, Co. Ltd.
“Asbestos House,”
Cr. York and Wynyard Streets, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
LAIR
~ Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
£
;
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2 Y z inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £25. s.'.
Correspondence invited.
mdler Pty.
Ironmongers and
HcirdWciro Merchants
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
zc
x
xcz
_\Ve manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12m. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:— *
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK.—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
xczcxz
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
ibgßi
a
Reliable
1 MaHMawnmraa
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for hours
’ARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Queensland; SMELLIE & CO. LTD., liii-bane.
c:
Like Julius Caesar, LISTER Shearing;
Machines “Came, Saw and Conquered/’
GO back to the commencement of machine shearing in Australia and
you find the name Lister figuring in every new development.
Every real improvement, in shearing machines, that has been worth while
has been a Lister improvement, until to-day the name Lister is accepted as
the Hall Mark—the sign of everything desired in a sheep-shearing outfit.
The Lister Hand Piece alone, with its two famous features, Adjustable
Lid Bush and Self-levelling Crown Plate, enables you to shear more sheep,
get more wool and abolish the time, trouble and' expense of repairs that
characterise most other shearing machines. Whether you have 100 or
100,000 sheep, write for Lister Catalogue to any of the following:—
xcz
Chief
Agents
9-13 Young' Street, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
SUB-AGENTS: Winchcombe, Carson Etd., Central Queensland: Burns, Philp & Co., Townsville; Mitchell & Co., Pty
Footscray, Victoria; A. G. Webster & Sons, Hobart; Malloch Bros., Perth.
isTen
xcz
E 229
93*6% EXTRACTION OBTAINED BY THIS LITTLE TABLE
HE “CURVILINEAR.”
> ' *
Six weeks ago we installed Two Curvilinears in the
mill of The New Venture Tin Mining Co., Ardlethan,
N.S.W. After working a week, samples were taken
over 8 hours to confirm the obviously remarkable
recovery being made.
The sampling was done by Mr. S. Robinson,
A.S.A.S.M., and the assays by Mr. Basil Purner,
A.R.S.M.
igpg
tf U'ED—lscwt. per hour, including Slimes, 1.1% tin.
TAlLS—lncluding Slimes .07% „
MIDDLINGS 22.9% „
CONCENTRATES . . 65.7% „
The Extraction obtained by Concentrates and Middlings
thus
t never before obtained by any Table on any ore.
FLOOR SPACE—I2ft. x 4ft.—less than half of that usually required.
WATER —25% less.
POWER —l-10th H.P.—l-Bth of the usual rating.
WEIGHT—6cwt. packed.
repairs—-N^giigibief tons ,K ‘' bom ' COST —£75 f.o.b. Sydivey.
information and suggest
N. GUTHRIDGE
sent free on request to Sole Makers—
-350
