

The Spirit of
Machinery Merchants, Kent Street, Sydney,
t i****J'®\ i '®“ tracto , rs ’ an '*’i Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
p y: UCiii; J - ? :.faRS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales.
New and Second-hand Plants always available.
MW.V.'mK
w.'vM
I
sss
V'Y.w;
Advance Moj\ev
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
TRADE BILES DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS and LOWEST INTEREST.
NSW-MONT DE PIETE D 610-11°
HEAD OFFICE 74 CASTLEREAGH S T SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building. And at
186 Castlercngh Street, Sydney.
ISO George -Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W. Telephone: City
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says:—
“The Company is very
well managed, and the
name is quite a house-
hold word in Sydney.
Its reputation is excel-
lent, and, although the
money-lender is gener-
ally regarded as a
vampire, the charge
cannot be laid at the
doors of the N.SAV.
Mont de I’iete D. & I.
Co. Limited.”
A City Sewage System
*1
for Modern Homes."
You simply cannot afford to take- chances'
vvith the disposal of your sewage. Kor
the sake of your own and your children’s
health, study the merits of the
Montgomerie-Neilson
Sewage Disposal System
This modern system does away with the
cesspool or tin-pan style of
the greatest sources of disease the
country knows.
The sewage is treated so perfectly that
absolutely no odor arises even on the
hottest days.
Over 600 are in use in N.’ S. Wales
alone, and the system has the O.K. of
experts the world over.
Send for free booklet, which gives facts
in detail.
MONTGOMERIE - NEILS ON
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY.
. ’Phono City 8976.
t>ont Arg U Q--^^
pPLE
a
$
<r
$
PCOTHIWS?
TO Arguc
About!
6 BA C °
Are the Best
• ■ .•. .... - 0 ■ • . - • '' V- ■tS’.M
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs,
mazmze
F.r INDIGESTION
DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
AVON
-il. TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money
M
0
Roofing"
is “not tHe same as otHers.”
Actual samples and illustrated booklet post free on request.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Enai**.*
Sugar Mil, Machinery. Heavy Iron * Malleable Castings. Cast-iron PoZlaLEnamldeXnllT^r^
Arthur
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
<j (3
MACHINERY.
“ROBEY” Portable Steam Engines.
STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
8-nom.-h.p. SINGLE CYLINDER, max.-b.h.p. 20 to 30
14-nom.-h.p. DOUBLE CYLINDER, max.-b.h.p. 36 to 52.
ALIIIAXEST T IMPRDVEMEN^CS lEBOXKS f ° r burning lons ,engrths of "ood, and
Enquiries: The Austrian Machinery Co. Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
"T.Y.R.”
“A.W. PREMIER."
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS
Taper Shank
Straight Shank
Ratchet Shank.
Large Stocks, and Shipments now on the water from Jin. up to 2Jin. rising by 1-64 in.
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
Rounds
Squares
Flats.
All sizes in stock anti on the water.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED.
manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
_ Sole Representatives :
GILBERT LODGE &. CO.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. 115, PITT STREET, SYDNEY*
GIVE YOUR OWN
COUNTRY A SHOW!
TRY OPALOID
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2032.]
[Thursday, January 23, 1919.
WAR-TIME PRICE, Bd.
Registered at the General Poßt Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BEFORE THE MIRROR
Freckles and How to Cure Them. —It is always
those with the finest and fairiest skins who
freckle most easily, but this knowledge is poor
comfort when the face is disfigured with these
ugly little blemishes. To, prevent the forma-
tion of freckles a wash should be applied to
the face which will form a shield from the
rays of the sun. A simple and inexpensive one
can be made up at home by dissolving an
ounce of cleminite in four tablespoonfuls of
hot water. Shake the bottle, and when cold
apply to the face and allow to dry on the
skin. If this is done every day, renewing the
application whenever the face is washed, and
a little mercolised wax rubbed into the skin
every night, freckles will not make their
appearance, no matter how hot the sun. To
remove freckles which have already formed,
apply the wax every night, rub it well into
the skin of the face and neck and leave it on
till the morning. Then wash off, using Pilenta
soap and warm water.
To Reduce a Double Chin.—To reduce a double
chin, give hard, firm massage every night with
mercolised wax, stroking the flesh firmly back-
wards from the chin towards the lower por-
tion of the neck. Do this every night, and in
the morning bathe with cold water and rub
into the skin a little parsidium jelly. _ This
treatment will strengthen the flabby tissues
and restore the contour of the face. Occasion-
ally a double chin is due to stooping over
books or work, but generally it is the result
of putting on weight. When the latter is the
ease a few clynol berries, eaten regularly every
day, will greatly assist in reducing the super-
By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few —the more
stoical among us—can avoid worrying over past or prospective events, we
mav all with a little care and forethought, succeed m preventing the result
of worrv from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
I .nous flesh. A glass of hot water should be
Ipped after each meal-
[flic Hair —To Increase the Growth. —To arrest
m undue falling of the hair and increase the
growth, scalp-massage and the application of
. good tonic is absolutely necessary. Part the
lair in the centre, "and. starting at the fore-
lead, massage for at least ten minutes. Then
ipply a tonic. A simple and inexpensive one
•an be made up at home by mixing one ounce
>f boranium (which can be bought at the
diemist’s) with a quarter of a pint of bay
•um. Add the boranium to the bay rum, allow
o stand for half an hour, then strain and add
sufficient water to make half a pint. Da%
imongst the roots of the hair with a soft
sponge.
•Superfluous Hair.—Dark-complexioned women
ire far more frequently troubled with _ a
growth of superfluous hair than those with
fair skins, and at the first sign of these objec-
tionable hairs steps should be taken to remove
;hem, or they will develop into a strong growth
which will take a very long time to destroy.
A little powdered pheminol applied to this
growth will remove the unsightly blemish,
destroying it permanently if the hairs be but
few. Two or more applications may be neces-
sary, if the growth be unusually strong, but
about one ounce of pheminol should be suffici-
ent for the most stubborn case. Pheminol. can
be obtained at the chemist’s, and a little
powdered alum should, be obtained at. the
same time for dusting the skin before applying
the pheminol.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
TO DARKEN THE EYEBROWS (L.M.).' —
There is no dye which I could recommend as
“safe,” but if you rub a little mennaline into
the eyebrows and at the roots of the eyelashes
regularly every night it will darken them
naturally, and will also increase the growth
of the eyelashes.
TO REDUCE WEIGHT (SADIE).—Yes, your
weight and measurements are certainly more
than they should be for your height, and I
quite agree that being so stout makes you look
old. I am pleased to be able to tell you of a
quick, easy and pleasant way to reduce both.
Get a small quantity of clynol berries from
the chemist’s and take one after each meal,
three times a day. Weigh yourself after one
month’s treatment, and you will be delighted
with the result.
TO KEEP THE PIAIR PAIR (DORIS).—If
you shampoo your hair regularly with stallax
granules it will prevent it from turning dark.
One teaspoon of stallax is sufficient for a
shampoo, and an original packet will make
from 25 to 30 shampoos. Stallax keeps
indefinitely. E 4
TO IMPROVE A DULL, MUDDY COM-
PLEXION (D.B).—Your complexion is dull
and muddy-looking because it needs thorough
cleansing and renewing of the outer cuticle.
To do this get a tin of mereolised wax, and
with the tips of the fingers rub a little gently
into the skin, going over the entire face and
neck. Leave the wax on all night and in the
morning wash it off with a good soap (you
will find Pilenta excellent). In a month s time
you will notice a most surprising improve-
ment. (2) Liquid per&ol will prevent the
excessive perspiration of which you complain.
(3) Nothing can be done.
TO ARREST GREYNESS (FLO).—You are
indeed far too young to go grey yet. Get
about two ounces of concentrate of tamma-
lite and mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
Dab this on the hair and amongst the roots.
It will soon make matters all right.
TO WHITEN A BROWN NECK (W;K.).—To
whiten your neck use .iettaline. Get a tube of
this from the chemist’s and rub a little well
into the skin of the neck; leave it on till next
morning. Do this regularly every night -for
three or four weeks and you will find that the
skin will become beautifully clear and white.
CHARM OF MANNER
may be enhanced by beauty of the face- A
touch of SWAN DOWN give* just that i
delicacy and purity to the complexion which,s
beina scarcely perceptible, is admired the more. !
TETLOW’S
m
*
FACE POWDER
Imparts a delicate bloom to ■
t/ie complexion. So'Punefhat
it-wiftnot harm the most <
delicate Skin.
ENGLISH
PRICE
rjD
er
Z box
In five Tints:
White, Cream, Pink.
■ Flesh an.d Brunette.
. QfStores. Chemists
First Class Drapery Houses
r s- PerfUmers everywhere.
Wholesale DistribuHna^gefilsw
Messrs. ELLIOTT BUGS.. LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
lONOOH WHOLESALE AGENTS!*
H*of*C. Ouelch & Co. 4 & S.Ludgete Sq„ London, E.C
If any illustration appearing , in 'J-'i
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to t
Manager, who will quote yon price for it.
r QUEENSLAND^
THE KEY T© }
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
open 9 the door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land „
Particulars ol the
millions ol acres of
Crown Lano
now available will he
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE -—-
Name
Address
Queensland Government
ItuMijcftce ihd Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE i
S.B.
1
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER
MUSTDIE
sag*
•*k
9d. A TIN, AT CHEMISTS,
GROCERS and STORES.
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
free trial.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H,
Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney, and
sample tin will be sent post
free; or forward 9d. in stamps
for full-size tin.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
The Red Page
THE UNWRITTEN BOOKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By faith I see them, neatly ranged,
Each in its decorated wrapper.
They’ve stood just so, untouched, unchanged,
Some portly tomes and. others dapper,
For many years, and as to-day;
With authors’ egotism bitten,
I’ve gazed on their devices gay,
Ant) wondered at the fine display
Of splendid works I’ve not yet written.
Here stands my volume tall and slim
Of lover verses, “Tears of Acid,”
And here the novel fat and trim
That was to limn the painful, placid
Besotting life of little trade,
A book with bubbling springs of wit in,
A volume blitho of sketches made,
And one of essays strong and staid—
All noble books I have not written.
The books I have not written are
The only ones I’m proud of owning;
Their verses have a virtue far
Above the rhymes’ innocuous droning
You’ll find in printed books of mine,
The wretched things I ne’er admit in
Where polished blackwood forms a shrine.
And, marshalled smartly line on line,
Are cased the books I have not written.
These masterpieces have no flaw
Of paper, type or' illustration ;
Their get-up honors every law
That Morris gave an eager nation.
Content I’ll rest, if when I lie
Some dust-strewn, old, forgotten pit in
Posterity will judge me by
These works expressing all that’s I,
The noble books I have not written!
VICTORIA.
E. DYSON.
Invention and Discovery
For several years past American maga-
zines have been sprinkled with what editors
over there are pleased to call “free verse.”
Thoughts, sometimes good, sometimes com-
monplace, are set out in longer, or shorter
gasps, without rhyme and practically with-
out rhythm. Usually the diction is that of
prose, but here and there is a line or phrase
that surprises and lingers in the memory or
stirs a real emotion. Never does the alleged
poem as a whole capture the imagination or
hold the fancy, for the good and sufficient
reason that its method defies the genius of
the English language and that the author
has entirely mistaken the nature and scope
of verse. Each language has its natural
and individual rhythm—an undersong in its
everyday speech which shapes its true song
into definite form. The head-rhyme, as it is
called, of the Hebrew, the alliterative chant
of the Saxon and the scansion by quantity
of the Latin were all developments of the
character of the language used. Consequently
invention in verse is practically impossible,
while discovery in verse is narrowed only by
the adventurous literary voyages of the past.
The English language is a world in itself.
Capes and islands and continents of song
have been explored, and there may yet be
uncharted lands; but you cannot make a
new island or continent however you may
subdivide or re-arrange the old.
The so-called “free verse” bears no relation
to the undersong of English speech. No
stretch of imagination will. allow us to think
of the natural singer breaking into emotional
expression in this way. Some of the things
printed might stand for the natural music of
barking dogs, for the pulse of the motor-car,
even for the beat of hammers or the run of
the circular-saw; but the human heart and
mind do not express themselves as dogs and
hammers and saws. There is a sweetness of
rhvthm and a musical cadence which has
already found its accepted forms and which
ia all human and all in conformity with the
genius of the language used.
There is nothing arbitrary about our verse
forms. They have grown up naturally. Ex-
plorations of all kinds have been made, and
the thing which was valueless and failed to
win its way into the heart and mind has
been thrown aside. Take the story of Eng-
lish blank verse. We have only one blank
verse line, consisting of ten syllables, alter-
nately accented and unaccented. All kinds of
subtle minor variations are possible owing
to the differences in stress and the diversi-
ties in the length of vowel sounds; and a
lialf-elided syllable here and there may give
strength and freshness to the line. Howard
discovered that blank-verse line in the time
of Henry VIII. No literary law- fixed it as
an arbitrary form, nor did any sort of con-
vention stop succeeding poets from trying-
other roads ; but Howard’s lino still stands.
There is no other blank verse in the language
with the same music and flexibility.
Look into the regular experiments made in
English verse without rhyme and see how
true this is. Longfellow tried in “Evange-
line” and again in “Hiawatha.” The result
was infinite monotony. Tennyson in his
“Boadicea” lifted a noisy chant which
achieved force without much grace and
would have been utterly intolerable if
it had been carried further. In his lines on
Milton the same author scored a triumph in
close, non-rhyming imitation of classic forms;
but the effort was very short and could not
have been sustained. Compare these things
with the elastic wonder of the metre in
which “Paradise Lost,” “Alastor” and “Hy-
perion” were written and it is at once evi-
dent that Howard’s blank verse is something
in keeping with the whole genius of English
speech, and something which, for that very
reason, can never be superseded except by
some yet undiscovered verse form which lias
a still surer relation to the rhythm of our
speech and thought.
Something of the same sort is true of all
our best-tested and most firmly established
forms. They stay because they have been
found the best; and to the singer with some-
thing to say this is not a handicap but a
very great advantage.
Of delicate irregularity within the bounds
of regularity there is a lot that might be
said. Confusion between quantitative scan-
sion and scansion by accent has led to a stiff-
ness which Is own brother to monotony. The
number of beats in the line of a song is more
important than the actual number of sylla-
bles; and on the gliding movement with halt-
elisions down, to weak ending's the most
delicate and fairy-like of all thought-music
may be made. This is matter for the soul,
tlie assertion of the principle of keeping
verse true to its aim does not touch the
question of discord-in-harmony. To accept
the view of American editors that very bad
prose displayed in a particular way by the
printer may be worthy verse would be equiva-
lent to believing that song is dead and that
human thought and feeling no longer move
to the rhythm of the worlds and stars.
D. M. W.
The Very Greatest Bolshevik
Leo Tolstoy, by Aylmer Maude, is an
oft-told story but it is told exceedingly well,
and the tale of the Great Bolshevik is
appropriate just now. Tolstoy lived to over
80 years with increasing whiskers. He was
a powerful novelist of a miserable type; a
story-writer and journalist; a strenuous
educationist; a large-hearted philanthropist
till his creed got him down and brutalised
him; and a most disastrous crank. Inci-
dentally, he was an enormous student.
Russia, his own country, had lived for
a brief space—brief even compared with the
length of the absurd scrap known as written
history—under a bad Government. Tol-
stoy, being utterly devoid of the con-
structive faculty, propounded no scheme of
better government. Rushing to conclusions
at top speed he formulated the doctrine of
no law, no defence, no resistance, no pro-
perty, and complete abasement. The good
were to submit and the wicked were to run
the show. He got, in time, to a point at
which he declared that a ruffian who was
beating a child to death should not be inter-
fered with, because interference implied re-
sistance, force, and therefore some sort of
law. In time lie drew the line even at
legislation for shorter hours, better wages,
improved factory conditions, the establish-
ment of hospitals, care for infant life, etc.,
because it was legislation, and thus
represented law and force. So at last he
became an impossible sort of animal, all
introspection and whiskers.
He never earned his living by manual
toil, but with proud and haughty humble-
ness he occasionally made flagrant boots to
prove the dignity of labor. Thereby he
wasted much time and damaged . a
friend’s feet. In a moment of excite-
ment he gave up meat, salt, tobacco and
tidy clothes, and adopted Henry George’s
doctrines. The burden of George was that
the Government (which Tolstoy said
shouldn’t exist) ought to raise the revenue
(which Tolstoy said shouldn’t exist) by
taxing private land (which Tolstoy said
should-ex*’st even less than the other two).
And he regarded the 12 apostles who
taught instead of working as the real
exemplars, not noticing that if 1,200.000,000
apostles followed in their footsteps the other
1100,000,000 folk would have to work like
the very devil to feed them.
The Great Bolshevik founded a number
of labor colonies to be worked on his
principles, so that the world might see how
to do it. They all burst up in disgust, but
the bull-headed prophet, being incapable of
learning by experience, went on prophesying
just the same. One of his theories w T as that
everybody should give away his property,
which of course there would be no one to
receive, but he died With his worldly goods
in decent repair.
Tolstoy passed out too soon. If lie had
lived eight years longer he would have seen
his policy of negation in full blast and have
smelled the burning. For he preached ruins
and forgot to say what should be built with
the ashes. (Methuen and Co., London.)
A Gallipoli Diary
Major Graham Gillam, D. 5.0., a British
officer in the feeding and munitions branch,
is the writer, and he gives a plain, unvar-
nished account of a pottering campaign
whereof he saw the beginning, the middle
and the end. Being in the supply branch -he
had a permanent address, at first behind a
biscuit-box and later in a dugout, and a
home in which to store his papers. That made
diary-keeping possible. The drawback of a
diary is that it is like a Chinese picture with
no perspective in it. The event which looks
10ft. high when it happens may prove in
the light of later events to be only 6in.
high, or vice versa; but no adjustment can
be made if the volume is to be honest. Thus
if Cortez had been a diarist he might have
recorded that on the day of his historic land-
ing he was bitten by the most fearsome
beast in America, and learned afterwards
that a mosquito was hardly even the begin-
ning of his troubles. On the other hand, a
diary is a photograph and not a fake. It
shows what was done under circumstances
as they were or seemed to be at the moment,
not what should have been done in the light
of what was learned about these circum-
stances afterwards—possibly from docu-
ments found in the enemy’s baggage. Major
Gillam writes as a man who had a full view
of the tiny battle-ground and pervaded the
whole of it with his mule-teams. He sat
on' his biscuit-tin on the shore and watched
his fleet and army at the same moment, like
Xerxes, and he saw ships torpedoed and
other happenings. Strategy was spread out
before him. His story from the first chap-
ter to the last is that the expedition, like
the one that surrendered
was hopelessly undermanned. The position
was bad at first, and as Turkish soldiery and
Ilun submarines poured in it became worse.
A big force, he holds, might have rushed the
position in a day or two. for a single lull
made all the difference. Then it could have
commanded the Dardanelles; bombed the
Turko-I-luns off the Asiatic shore; made an
open road for the fleet to Constantinople,
where the Sultan was already trembling in
his boots: brought the plausible Ferdinand
of Bulgaria in on our side instead of against
us. seeing that the plausible one only wanted
to be on the winning side; and extended a
hand which might have saved Roumania and
prevented the collapse of Russia. The Major
considers the management of the campaign
as good as any hardworking commissariat
officer, with headquarters behind a biscuit-
(Continued on page 26.)


/
,
Z IGC
CHALLENGE OIL ENGINES
The CHALLENGE OIL ENGINE has been DESIGNED to MEET the
REQUIREMENTS of the MAN on the LAND, who DEMANDS an EFFICIENT,
RELIABLE, EVEN-RUNNING Engine. The CHALLENGE has MAGNETO
IGNITION, is QUICKLY started, EASILY operated, and REMARKABLY
economical in FUEL CONSUMPTION.
m*
S 3
OWIIEMCB
WE STOCK THE CHALLENGE
OIL ENGINE in SEVEN SIZES,
as follows:
The Challenge Oil Engine
is neat and and
even the lower-powered
types are capable of per-
forming heavy work. We
quote the following as
having been done by a
2-h.p. model: —Drove a
2in. Centrifugal Pump,
giving 5000 gals, per hour
on 20ft. head; 31n. Centri-
fugal Pump, giving 11,000
gals, per hour on 12ft.
head; Dynamo, 20 lights;
Bone Mill, 100 to 200 lb.
per hour; Hay’s Corn
Sheller, 25 to 50 bushels
per hour; Cream Separ-
ator, any usual size;
Chaffeutter, up to Oin.
mouth, 2 blades; Meat
Chopping Machines, 351 b.
in 5 minutes; Churns,
Wheat Grader, Milking
Machines.
THE MAN ON THE LAND has OFTEN to
LEAVE the FARM WORK he is doing to RE-
PLENISH the HOUSEHOLD WATER supply. The
ACTUAL operation of PUMPING daily from a
WELL to the HOUSE TANK does not take up a
GREAT DEAL of time, but in the AGGREGATE it
represents HUNDREDS of WASTED HOURS
YEARLY. He should install a CHALLENGE
WINDMILL to do the pumping for him. The TIME
SAVED would be REFLECTED in the MONETARY
RETURN from his farm. The UP-TO-DATE MAN
uses a CHALLENGE WINDMILL and CONTINU-
ALLY SOUNDS its PRAISES.
The CHALLENGE CONSTRUCTION is the
EMBODIMENT of SUPERIOR MECHANICAL
ELEMENTS. BROUGHT TOGETHER for the first
time in ONE UNEQUALLED COMBINATION;
and PRODUCING A WINDMILL of EXCEP-
TIONAL MERIT.
Briefly stated, these elements consist of an
INTERNAL GEAR, CENTRE ONE-PIECE
CRANK. ROCKER ARM, SPLIT BOXES, with
detachable, reversible BABBITT BEARINGS,
interchangeable with graphite, SIDE VANE and
MULTIPLYING SPRING GOVERNOR.
The internal type of gear is recognised by
mechanical engineers as superior to an external gear
in at least two respects. First, twice as many cogs
in mesh. Second, noiseless. These features secure
strength, long life and satisfaction —all that is obtain-
able in gear transmission.
Ere
TR
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ STOCK THE CHALLENGE WINDMILLS IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES:
TOWERS FOR CHALLENGE WINDMILLS.
4-post, in 10ft. sections —
20ft.
30ft.
40ft.
Weight-
Gross
Nett
£9/5/-
3981 b.
3151 b.
£lO/18/6
4851 b.
3601 b.
£12/15/6
7851b.
6651b.
ILLUSTRATED LEAFLET SENT ANYWHERE ON REQUEST.
The OHIO No. 11 CUTTER and BLOWER, as shown, will DEAL with ALL
KINDS of DRY FEED, as well as ENSILAGE, at the RATE of from 3 to 5
TONS per HOUR. The model shown, the plain-table type, although a POWER-
FUL machine, requires but sor 6 h.p. to drive it. The OHIO No. 11 is STRONG
and DURABLY built, and is fitted with two knives of high carbon steel which retain
their cutting qualities. OHIO BLOWERS ELEVATE MORE ensilage per
horse-power than any other blower. The reason is plain. The same shaft that
receives the power from the engine carries the cutting knives and the blower fan.
No. 11 Cutter and Blower, with two 11-inch knives, cuts | and 1 inch. £2B
Prices are for machines complete,
with Blower and Hood.
7in. Galvanised Pipe, in Gft.
lengths, 3/6 per ft.
m
The OHIO No. 13 STANDARD FEED and ENSILAGE CUTTER is also
a NECESSITY on an UP-TO-DATE FARM. The good points which a farmer
looks for in such* a machine are these —STRENGTH, DURABILITY and SATIS-
FACTORY OPERATION. The OHIO No. 13 contains all the latest IMPROVE-
MENTS, and is in EVERY WAY RELIABLE. From 4 to 6 tons of ensilage or
from 25(10 to 3500 pounds of dry feed can be cut per hour. By substituting
shredder blades for the cutting knives, perfect shredding may be accomplished.
With two knives it cut $, 1, IJ, and 2 inch, and i, i, f and 1 inch with four
knives. The speed is from 450 to 600 revolutions per minute. The train of
feed-gear pinions, clearly shown in picture, vibrate as the feed roller raises and
lowers, yet their movable bearings maintain the respective distances to each other
and keep the gears properly in mesh without friction, which gives a uniform motion
to the roller. The backwardly-inclined motion of the upper roller, as it raises,
assists in taking hold of the feed, and this, combined with other
good points, makes these machines strong feeders. Price ...
£l7/10/-
m
■
H
liil'.’i' ■
ERN H SONS. U:
P n !y Universal Providers,
[Slew Palace Emporium,
«a
Bt~i ok £i o 1 d Hill,
S.ydrfc ey.


I
■—
..
V 5--
i
:
....
■ |
.:x '
IS
isij
1
II
.* -
■
9
iSSi®
;
1
■
"
I.
£»V i , r i
4 .... "
■■ ■’ - 1 :
• y •
#.m
Si*!
i-ri
fis?*
. %
' ■
\ >i*4 *
■ ■ : :
?;aa«
KSiSiSlial
mmmm
s- ■■
■'/ v-
■■
* ■
* t m * ®
M «t. ®
:
Br*
IH
• :
; . --
l
.’'l
■ H
W m
mm
mss
mmm
ff 5
■ r :
W£K*."f///
XL
■
/
Judge “ADAMAX
by Results
The first function of “ADAMAX” Roofing is to yield greater and more
satisfactory service —and it does !
On the strictest basis of service measurement —
ASPHALTUM ROOFING
m
reveals superior quality and stamina. These inbuilt superiorities have
made “ Adamax ” Roofing the choice of wise Roofing Buyers everywhere,
selected after comparison, after proving that it is everywhere living up to
our claim that “ Adamax ” Roofing is “ the best Roofing value that money
can buy.”
One big feature which “ Adamax ” Roofing alone possesses is largely
responsible for the greater service reputation that Adamax has earned.
This exclusive feature is the process by which the long-fibred felt, after
being thoroughly saturated with pure mineral hydrocarbon, is finished to
make the surface itself, and the whole roofing, proof against all the
ravages of the elements. Ram, Wind, Heat, Acids, Gases, Sea An
or Chemical Fumes have no ill effect on “ Adamax, and, unlike Galvanized
Iron, it is a fire-retardant roofing that is destined to roof the Nation’s
homes.
Costs One-Third the Price of Galvanized Iron,
with a similar saving in freight charges.
Free booklet, “ The Adamax Series,” gives the facts in detail. Send for copy.
William Adams Co. Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
fIELBOURNE: 521=523 Collins street.
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street,
PERTH : 33 King Street.
BRISBANE: Cr. Edward & Mary Streets.


BURNS
%
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns 90# Air 10# Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. No iVlck! No Urease!
No Smoke! No Odor!-Hang or Set
it anywhere. Over 100 Styles.
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, which also
contains Hollow Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
is now
enjoyed daily by
those who previ-
ously never used
sauces.
Its new, thick, fruity
flavour is quite unique.
Try a bottle right away.
EU ICIU Hll
|l
MADE FRO [A LEMONS ONLY
y? BROOKE S
r te/non squash
'LARGEST SALE IN THE WORLD
tfquajteria
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all chemists.
Distributing Agents’. —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
TtaXc'.
‘Restore i>
k!
iv
m
mm
««ww^.v».v;wAW!.vAy»Cv.»>6wc*x*:
A uMm
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY’.
Directors: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman,; lion. It. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq..' K.C.. C.M 0.; Sir Samuel
Hordern : Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000.
H. W. APPERtY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASE BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly £.1, 000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for tha
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £555,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
MERIT
In Fountain Pens, as in everything
else, it is merit that tells, and that is
why the “ Swan ” has for a quarter
of a century gained more users every
year. When you buy a “Swan”
you know you have a guarantee of
excellence in workmanship, perfection
of detail, and that absolute reliability
which has been the consistent keynote
of “ Swan ” manufacture for a
generation.
"SWAN”
P6NS
Sold by Stationers and Jewellers Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 1 2/6
Safety Pattern with
Screw-on Cap, from 15/-
Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79-80, High Holbom, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—
(Wholesale only) 225 a, George St. London Factory—
-3J9‘329, Weston St., S.E. Associate House —Maine,
Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch: J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
For Fine Shafting,
Machine Tools,
Mining Machinery,
Saw Milling, and
Factory Equ i p-
ment, etc., etc.
Ball-Bearings
are the very last word in
Bearings.
Ball-Bearings
of all Sizes
for
Automobiles.
Steel Balls
of all
Sizes.
: jy
I
i
N-
H
U
The. SKF Self-aligning Ball-bearing Plummer Block saves 50 to 90 per cent, of
frictional resistance over the ordinary Journal bearing, and . practically eliminates
lubricating and maintenance costs.
Thousands of factories throughout the Commonwealth are now wholly equipped with
this bearing, saving our producers many thousands in hard cash per annum.
HEAVY STOCKS NOW LANDING.
GARDNER, WAERN & CO.,
Chief Agents and Ball-Bearing Specialists,
MELBOURNE— BRANCHES—
Office, 384 City Road, S. Melbourne. SYDNEY . . . 225 Clarence Street.
Showroom, 369 Flinders Street. BRISBANE . . . 367 Queen Street.
The Universal Dustiess Pulveriser
Grinding Mills for All Classes
of Material.
Write Us on Your Grinding
Propositions and we will
quote you for a Suitable
Machine.
Separator Screens for Super-
phosphates, Chemicals, Ores,
etc.
We also Manufacture Packing-
Machines for Filling Packets
or Tins.
Keg and Barrel Elevators.
Platform Elevators for Boxes
and Packages.
Gravity Runways or Con-
veyors—no power required to
drive.
Steel and Cast-iron
Conveyors.
The Universal Dustless
Pulveriser, Rigid and
Swing-hammer Types,
Size No. 10, with
Shaker Peed.
Flour Mill Machinery.
Mixing Machinery.
Dressing Machinery.
We can Quote you for a Com-
plete Self-raising Flour
Plant.
Friction Hoists.
Apron and Belt Conveyors.
Combined Grinding and
Dressing Plants.
Boiler Feed Power Pumps.
Suction Sack Cleaners.
Bottle-filling Machines.
Concrete- and Mortar-mixing
Machines.
Adjustable Feeders.
Factory Experts and Con-
sulting Engineers.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [5
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Sunset.
Lord of the azure, flame-arrayed,
A god’s work done,
Ending the life of the day he made
Down sinks the sun.
Peopling the roseate coast of cloud
With dome and spire,
Mansions of wonder stand gleaming and
proud
By capes of fire.
Rising, he summoned the leaves from their
dreams
Of Night, dew-laved ;
Burning all day on the seas and streams
He slew and he saved ;
Now like the crimson casque of Mars,
A glory strange,
Seeking his rest amid the stars
Beyond the range.
Mystic and mighty the wide sea swims
To the darkling east —
Flows, till the sweet of its purple dims
In the Night’s grey mist;
These, since the first, have mocked the sight
Of mortal eyes—
Glory that closes in mist and night,
And beauty that dies;
Perishing pageants, made to die,
And lights that fail;
Even the glowing flowers of the sky,
Like earth’s shall pale.
But, Night forsaking, the sun wheels back
Awaking the sea.
Scattering roses in his track
And lifting the tree.
So, from the endless chaos of strife,
Defeating the gloom,
Drooping superb from the Tree of Life,
New stars shall bloom
1.... but a wind blows down from above,
Two names on its breath—
Peace, more deep than the sea, and Love
That is stronger than Death.
N.s.w.
P. E. QUINN.
The Sleeping Beauty.
She lies upon a gilded couch,
Her round, white arms beneath her head,
And shadowy slaves about her crouch
Mute and immobile as the dead.
Soft azure silks her limbs enfold,
And shimmering gauzes fine as mist,
And milky veils with broidery scrolled
Veil her thick tresses’ heavy twist.
Some glittering dream the day beguiles,
Some sweet thought through the dream-
ing slips,
For joy too delicate for smiles
Haunts the curved flower of her lips;
And shrived she seems from stress and dole,
As one who sees in magic trance
Through the dark forests of the soul
The silver-footed fairies dance.
No voice may break the calm profound
, Nor echo pierce to where she lies
To stir the vision that has bound
The languid glimmer of her eyes:
Nothing, till Eventide shall press
Those lips and break the tranced swoon
That holds in thrall this fair princess—
The golden summer afternoon.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
After Four Years.
I wish the blamed thing would end,
An’ let me get back to me job.
I’m sick of ’op overs, an’ ’Uns,
An’ five-nines, an’ trenches, an’ rum;
Of duckwalks, an’ sandbags, an’ mud,
An’ the luridly crimson blank line.
I’m sick o’ rest camps, an’ billets,
An’ madamosells an’ vang blong,
Of cafay nore, fried eggs an’ chips,
An’ lousy, damp straw for me bunk.
I got no use for brasso, or bianco,
Or for drill, or blood-pink rout-marches.
I can’t stand the sight of a leave pass,
Or a flat in little old London ;
Or the resterong down there in Soho,
An’ Susanne who said that she loved me.
I jest want the damned thing to end,
An’ let me get back to me job.
FRANCE.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.
After the Battle.
What had the bloody hands of war for these
Whose bones lie rotting, putrid in the
earth,
Feeding the maggot under grass and trees,
Who should have fed life’s endless line 'of
birth ?
W hat have they had for all their sweating
fears,
Blood poured as water from a sewer vent.
Their anguish and their broken hopes, their
tears,
Their young lives scattered ere their
youth was spent?
Companioned of the things that know no
name,
The rat , the louse, the maggot and the
worm, . - ....
They had the passion of a living flame,
The wind of tempest and the might of
storm:
And had companionship of men, and saw
In one declension everlasting law.
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.


A Wise Decision to fit
PERDRIAU TYRES
to Your; Ford Car.
G
They offer distinct advantages in guarantee, in quality and in price.
We guarantee 4000 miles to Ford Owners
with Perdriau 30 x Tyres, though their
actual mileage goes far beyond this.
Obtainable from all Oarages or from the Manufacturers—
Perdriau Super Tread Tyres, 30 x 30S
Cover, £3/16/6.
High-grade Laminated Red Tube-
Heavy, 24/-; Light, 19/6.
Perdriau
Co. Ltd. All States.
PROVIDE FOR EMERGENCIES.
On the station or dairy farm—wherever the fortunes of the owner depend on the
health and well-being of hia stock—emergency precautions are vitally important.
DENVER’S EMERGENCY KIT OF
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
provide the stockowner with the means to personally treat an animal expe-
ditiously, safely and humanely. They embody the highest attainment of nio er
Scientific Veterinary Instrument manufacture; they are easy to operate, ana sa c
their cost many times over.
No stockowner should be without them. Write to-day for full particulars, ca a-
logue of veterinary instruments and appliances, and free instructive
handbook.
'jk
DENYER BROS.
supply house
£Ol GEORGE 5T
D
YER
tz &
cm
i in?.
•r-
-\\v
G
m
w *-v
i
ifit*
BACON.VEAt I
-£•!!£. TONGUE. J
Hot Weather Meals
Ready in a Minute
Cool moments of comfort take the place of hot hours in
the kitchen for the housewife who keeps handy a tin or
two of
“REX”
CAMP PIE
Whether it be luncheon at home, week-end trips or a
picnic—there is joy for all in “REX” CAMP PIE. It is all
ready to serve—the tastiest meats cooked and seasoned to
perfection, then packed in a fine jelly.
Serve it with any kind of salad—there
is nothing more appetising.
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE
‘Rex” Luncheon Cheese
makes the kind of Sandwiches you really ENJOY
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex" Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex" Hams and Bacon J. 399
vt
fifes
m
You will see it only on
GOODRICH
Black t?*3 Tires
“Best in the Long. Run”
CONSIDER
THIS' TREAD
DESIGN
Mr.
Motorist:
FULL SIZE.
GOODRICH
Black SAFETY TREAD Tyres.
No mere pattern of an ornamental letter or mere
meaningless words is this design.
It is scientifically constructed to perform a definite
and important service—THE PREVENTION OF
SKIDDING.
You need only to see the clean-cut imprint of the
parallel bars and cross-tie in the slush or mud
to know that it accomplishes its purpose
effectively.
GOODRICH is the only efficient
NON-SKID TYRE,
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN.’’
DUVAL <a co.
145 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
13 Castlereagh St,
SYDNEY.
300 Adelaide St,
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40.—N0. 20 ‘>2.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 23, 1919.
Wak-time Price, Sd.
REPATRIATED.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length , or , say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or presei'ved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, _ those
sending MS. to distinctly Understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgaie Circus.
South Africa.. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu. .
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
lloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Strs3l,
Hong Kong. , _ .
CTeylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fori
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
l\d. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet——otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, joz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
HTurtßxxll^ix/Ti.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 23, 1939.
THE GREAT INSANITY.
In the last few days several Federal and
State politicians and a number of Trades
Hall officials have stated, with the stolid
calm of the well-fed ox, that Bolshevism
is being “organised” in Australia. It is
like chatting placidly about organising an
epidemic of cholera. Australia has been
as remote from Bolshevism, so far, as
it has been from war; it has not
come in contact with the bitterest sufferers
from either horror. It is able, therefore,
to view them in an oddly detached, im-
personal fashion. But people in Europe
have lived cheek-by-jowl with both, and
they cannot talk so calmly about either.
* * * *
What is this Bolshevism which is being
“organised” here? It is no new manifesta-
tion. The world has always known it in
one form or another, and always it has re-
presented a reaction against conditions
which were not only intolerable, but
also incapable of being altered ex-
cept by force. France became Bolshevik
under the Bourbons for the same reason
that Russia did under the Romanoffs.
There was no other way. But what reform
does Bolshevism offer a country like Aus-
tralia that cannot be achieved without the
shedding of a drop of blood or the destruc-
tion of one atom of the community’s wealth?
If Australia is tired of the British con-
nection it only needs to say so: it will not
have to fight to get free of it. If it is
weary of imported Governors, the whole
band can be speedily sent back to England,
in a constitutional manner, and local poli-
ticians or aldermen or even Trades Hall
officials substituted for them. If Australia
wants disarmament it can have it on the
same lines as it achieved the C.M.F. and
the Navy. The six-hour day and profit-
sharing would have been instituted long ago,
in many industries here, if the union rules
and the big union bosses had been agreeable.
\n even shorter working day and a re-
adjustment of the wage standard giving em-
ployees the whole profits of the concerns in
which thev work are practicable politically,
even if they are economically impractical.
It would only be necessary under our form
of o-overnment for a majority of the electors
to 'decide that the experiment was worth
trying What lunacy for a community to
organise death and devastation to get some-
thing which is to be had for the asking!
* * * *
Bolshevism invariably runs on the same
lines. In Australia —after a distracted herd
of Governors had fled or been destroyed, and
after the various Parliament Houses had
been closed and put in a state of defence—
the Government would pass into the hands of
someone with a name like Schmidt or
Maekiewitz —a person with a genius for
grievance and recriminatory speech, but with
no practical experience in directing so much
as a fowl-run. Bolshevism always starts in
the great cities —the places where there is
the biggest amount of portable and drink-
able property. In the early stages of every
previous Bolshevist outbreak —in Paris in
the beginning and middle of last century, and
recently in Petrograd and Berlin —the lead-
ers have done well for themselves. They
have inhabited palaces, bathed in vintage
wines and collected and secreted money and
valuables. It would be no different in (say)
Sydney. Schmidt and friends would put
ud at Government House or the Union Club
and get to work on the business of uplifting
humanity. The uplifting always takes the
same form—the erection of barricades and the
establishment of shooting posts. The
luckier Comrades —that is, those reformers
who were handy with revolvers and bombs,
quick at dodging Lewis-gun bursts, and
whose activities happened to be in the neigh-
borhood of the banks and jewellers’ shops—
would then begin to reap their reward. It
was noticed in Paris during the Commune
that the Comrades tended always to gravitate
towards the Rue de la Paix: in fact, long
after it had been cleaned out they continued
to pour in from the Rue de Rivoli on one
side and the Avenue de I’Opera on the other.
The next stage is one of disillusionment. The
discovery is made that very little property is
worth anything in the absence of settled gov-
ernment. Wardrobes, carpets, tables, arm-
chairs, stoves, mantelpieces, dinner services,
sofas—they are all useful, but they are not
easy things to personally carry through agi-
tated streets. Looting is only a payable
proposition really in war-time, and even then
it is limited to a small class. The Crown
Prince got away with a lot of stuff, for
example, because he had a supply of G.S.
waggons and lorries to carry the goods, and
an army to guard and deliver ‘ them. All
through history the majority of Revolution-
aries—Communists, Bolshevists, or whatever
they have happened to call themselves —have
had the same experience. They have burst
into premises at great risk, and emerged
either with nothing of value or with some-
thing that they have not been able to carry
for 50 yards. The Russians made the dis-
covery a year ago when they surged along the
Nevski Prospekt and into the Grand Baza.ar;
the French found it out in 1798 and again in
1871. The French burned their Treasury
Building, the Town Hall, the Docks and the
Palais Royal, by way of protest; the Rus-
sians did the same with their public build-
ings and they are still at it. The Berliners
have begun. Indiscriminate incendiarism is
one of the appanages of Bolshevism.
* * * *
Still, Bolshevism in the business quarters
of cities has at first the charm of thrill and
novelty. The fighting rages from street to
street. Epic deeds are done. Reputations
are made and ruined. The joy of battle
acts, as always, as an antidote to the sur-
rounding ruin and carnage. But away in
the suburbs and the country are the less spec-
tacular sufferers —perhaps 75 per cent, of
the community. They are mostly people who
at first took no interest in the new move-
ment; and who, later, told themselves that,
anyhow, nothing wmild induce them to join
in the fighting. They quickly find their
error. Bolshevism having been successfully
launched, and Schmidt having established
himself more or less, the suburbanites dis-
cover that the first effect of the coming re-
generation of mankind, so far as they are
concerned, is the abolition of their jobs. They
remain at home. The trams and trains that
once brought them to the city have other uses ;
they are sand-bagged and piled up at street
corners. The power-houses are full of
machine-guns. The gasworks are out of
action and the water-mains have been blown
up. For the first time the outlying citizen
is made to realise the part that transport
plays in modern life. It might be possible
to deliver necessaries like bread, meat and
milk in armored cars or tanks, but there are
none available, and, anyhow, the organisa-
tion is not there. Starvation begins. It
is at this stage that the suburbanite seizes
the nearest lethal weapon, and, leaving
famine and pestilence in his home, plunges
into civil war on whichever side his fancy
directs. Schmidt is assassinated and his
place is taken by Johnson. The struggle
to uplift humanity continues. In 1871
35,000 Parisians—men, women and children
—were shot in the streets, and as many more
died of preventable sickness. No official
estimate has been made of the slaughter in
Russia in the past 12 months, but it is
known to run into hundreds of thousands.
The fully-roused Australian is as warlike as
any man. He could be confidently relied
on, in the event of Bolshevism being “organ-
ised’l here, to establish a casualty list that
would impress humanity. Meanwhile the
following—from a recent cable—is the sort
of thing that would be happening:—
The revolt of the peasantry continues, though it
is ruthlessly suppressed. In despair the peasants
are destroying the railroads, thus stopping food
transport. The situation in Northern and Central
Russia threatens general starvation.
Justice in the law courts does not exist for
the most part. Youngsters of 18 have replaced
dismissed magistrates. People are frequently shot
by their guards while being taken from one prison
to another. The population is starving upon an
ounce to four ounces of black bread and a little
fish daily.
The situation in the provinces is worse than
in Petrograd and Moscow.
* * * *
A time arrives in all these struggles to
regenerate mankind when people begin to
stop and ask if it is worth while. It is
then that Lenin or Liebkneciit or John-
son or whoever is in charge at the moment is
advised to grab his bag and run. It is a
sign that the jag is over, that civilisation
is about to get back to the social conditions
which. it has taken 5000 years to evolve.
The citizens hanker more and more for the
old peaceful life —for streets that are not
swept by cannon and rifle-fire, for shops
that have not to be guarded like fortresses,
for the punishment of murderers, robbers
and ravishers; for real justice as opposed to
the sort that is dispensed by Whitechapel
Jews and boys of 18; and, above all, for
food, fuel, water and some sort of organisa-
tion to deal with disease. A desperate
struggle begins to regain the old landmarks.
Through shame, misery and sickness the
goal is reached. It always has been and it
always must be so. In Australia, as the
community started attending to its wounds,
buryinv its dead, and repairing its property,
there would be the additionally bitter reflec-
tion that any permanent reform that had
emerged from it all could have been got
without killing .anybody, without starving
anybody, without rendering anybody home-
less.
WATT’S “POLICY” AND ITS “DIRECT
RESULT.”
During the past few months, or few years,
something new has crawled into Australian
politics. For instance, announcements like
this appear quite casually in the press:
Mr. Watt stated to-day that, as the direct result
of the policy of the Government in the encourage-
ment of new industries, he expected shortly to be
able to announce the establishment of tin-plate
manufacture in the Commonwealth... .Though Mr.
Watt would make no statement as .to who would
be the manufacturers or where the industry would
be started, it is understood that the Broken Hill
Proprietary Co., Limited....
So it is suggested, as a virtue, that, as
the direct result of some sort of Govern-
ment action or negotiation, a rich co.
is to start the manufacture of tin-plates,
doubtless on a profitable basis, while smaller
and less influential people are not. There
are quite a multitude of industries, such
as iron and tin and shipbuilding and
certain branches of machinery making, to
mention only a few large specimens, that
the wretched free list seems to make im-
possible in this high-wage and short-hour
country for people w T ho aren’t in com-
munication with the Cabinet, and the mass
of the people ought to know more than
they do about the nature of that com-
munication. What is the process of getting
at the Ministerial ear, and where is the
ear, and do certain parties go to the ear
or does the ear go to them? When the
Government policy of encouraging, say, the
tin-plate industry is going to be put in
motion it is a pity that the nature of
the motion isn’t advertised for the benefit
of all and sundry, instead of there being
a hole-and-corner confabulation with some
firm the very name of which is too sacred
to be officially revealed, though its identity
seems to be an open secret. It is certainly
the business of the Government to en-
courage new industries, but not to
encourage any one rich firm’s industry in
particular. This “injurious differentia-
tion,” as Bruce Smith used to say in
his best days, is apt to arouse angry com-
ment. Some recent transactions with soli-
tary firms even roused an Auditor-General
to angry comment, though there is. no
milder man on earth than an Auditor-
General.
* * * *
A stout Protectionist tariff is open, hon-
est, unbiased encouragement to new indus-
tries. Everybody who cares to go into a
certain line of business gets the same meas-
ure of support. The new firm or company
or co-operative society or solitary industrial
adventurer who isn’t started yet, and so can’t
approach any official personage, is offered the
same terms as the old, full-grown concern
which is worth millions and operates in
four States. The Watt policy, on the other
hand, only offers a chance to the big, rich con-
cern already in existence, for it is impos-
sible to ring up the unborn on the telephone.
In other words, it is necessarily a process
of greasing the most affluent hog, and it tends
to make a few big affairs bigger and give
them the aspect of a monopoly. The Pro-
tectionist tariff encourages competition. It
doesn’t lead to industrial men wearing out
the stairs of Government offices on their
way to see the Ministerial ear about
the establishment of a tin-plate or steel-
plate factory. The man to whom every step
on every official stair is more familiar than
a brother is no more advantaged than the
one who was never on an official stair in
his life. Proximity to the place where official
consideration is located ceases to count.
The mute, inglorious Milton of toil, 700
miles away, has the same chance as the one
next door. There is no need for any darkly-
reticent portfolio-holder to practise conceal-
ment about the name of the man who pro-
poses to open a job and employ Australian
union labor at union wages. It isn’t a sort
of hidden crime like Pearce’s departure for
England, or a secret treaty such as Bis-
marck used to make. Nor is the establish-
ment of the job a lordly gift handed down
to the common herd as an evidence that
Wattsisname, the indefatigable states-
man, or Thingumbob, the unsleeping poli-
tician, has been perspiring brains in the
public interest and deserves a monument.
If in the Government’s thirst for per-
sonal interference the making of books ever
becomes a matter of State, like the compil-
ing of tin-plates, the effect of the Watt
poficy will be more apparent but not more
ridiculous. When it is decided that a book
is wanted the job will naturally be assigned
to someone who has made books and so is
already in the business, he being a sort of
Broken Hill Proprietary Author. Limited,
and known to the men in office. So no new
writer will start unless he lives close enough
to some Minister to state his case, and a
remarkable monopoly will set in.
* * * *
This country is, or ought to be. in some
haste about new industries. It wants
thousands of them, most of the thousands
being affairs that are small in themselves
though ■ Ti >antic in the aggregate. It wants
tags for bootlaces, bungs, frames for leather
bags, buttons, buckles, needles, pins, slates,
umbrellas, blotting paper, paper bags, door
knobs and knockers, and countless articles
that Watt doesn’t know of and which he
wouldn’t have time to attend to even if he
lived to the age of Noaii at the Flood, and
which his elephantine friend, the Broken
Hill Proprietary Co., would scoff at. The
rage of that institution, if requested to make
buttons and paper bags and blotting paper,
can be imagined. Yet the lack of a multi-
tude of small industries not only drains the
country of money, and creates an unemployed
class which has to be supported out of loan
moneys, but it cripples big industries for
which the small jobs should supply raw
material. The occasional founding with
great sweat and mystery of one rich-men’s
factory—if it really founds, which doesn’t
always happen —as a direct result of the
policy of the Government is poor compensa-
tion "for the loss of multitudes of factories
which should belong to men who are not rich.
The real policy of the Government seems to
be to discourage all industries except those
that can be personally meddled in and
muddled in by Ministers. Their direct in-
terference is supposed, in very isolated cases,
to counterbalance the lack of a tariff; but
the people can’t live on isolated cases, all
planted at one small corner of a great con-
tinent and within telephone-speech of the
flappy thing that the official wears on the
side of his head.
THE GILDED AGE.
The deceased year was a boom period for
the property-jobbing interest in Sydney. It
was so also as regards Melbourne, but Syd-
ney, as the biggest city and the capital of
the State with the biggest population, led
the way. Judging by the reports of eight
or nine big firms, and allowing for the mul-
titude of small firms and for private sales,
it appears that £6,000,000 worth of city
and suburban property changed hands. This
was a large increase on the figures for 1917,
while they, in turn, were double those of
1916. No land was created during the year,
the creation of land being a lost industry,
except for small reclamation jobs in those
parts of the earth where volcanic action
has simmered down. And the value of the
new buildings created was only equal to about
half the useless trading done. It wasn’t a
time when much new property came into
existence; in fact, the building industry was
miserably flat. But it was no end of a
time for passing the old property from
hand to hand, which is a simple, brainless
occupation, teaching nothing and leading to
nothing. Prices were unusually good; the
fact that new structures were scarce put'
a fancy value on old shacks. The financing
of these big transactions wasn’t very diffi-
cult. Part of the purchase money was paid
in Government paper money, good only in
Australia, and the rest by signing p.n.’s
and mortgages on imported stationery,
which made a sort of new currency of a
sort, also good only in Australia. The com-
mission that Bacon, the dealer, made by
transferring Ham’s old tenement and bit of
dust to Pokk, and the money which finan-
cial institutions and solicitors made by dis-
counting Pokk’s promises to pay or by draw-
ing up conveyances and mortgages between
him and Bacon aud Ham, amounted to a
sort of national prosperity in itself.
* * * *
This is the Gilded Age in Australia. The
country is full of currency of one sort and
another, and of new securities that are so
handy that they pass from Smith to Jones
almost as currency. There is ordinary
paper money of which nearly £60,000,000
has now been issued. In proportion to
population Australia got far. ahead of
Britain for its issue of paper money. Wheat
certificates are another form of artificial
affluence, the amount of which is uncertain.
They are based on the inability of the Gov-
ernfnent to get the wheat crops to market,
and have the deadlock as a sort of special
security. Something like £5,000,000 worth
of War Savings Certificates are almost as
handy as the practically-extinct sovereign.
The War Loans, which, being mostly sub-
scribed in paper money that was only good
in Australia, had to be mostly spent or
hoarded in Australia, added something like
£150,000,000 to the paper exuberance of
the country. (The cost of the armies at
the Front, being a liability that couldn’t
be met with local paper, was met in part
by accommodation to the amount of about
£90,000.000 from the British Government.)
Money for local purposes was never so abun-
dant, or half so abundant, as during the
Gilded Age of the war. In fact, it was
the first time Australia possessed a huge cur-
rency which had to be used for local pur-
poses, because it was of no value for other
purposes.
* * * *
There arose a natural tendency to do some-
thing with all this money which couldn’t get
away. The corrupting influences of idle
weaith, even if it is only printed or rag
wealth, are proverbial. It is the kind of
thing that leads the sons of millionaire
fathers to fast women and slow horses and
marked cards and cocaine orgies and shat-
tered constitutions and premature burials.
The clumsy incapables of the Australian
Government supplied the riches by manufac-
turing, during the brief term of the war, so
much stuff of one kind and another that the
banks had three times as much “cash’' re-
serves in 1918 as in 1901. The
“cash” had accumulated on their bands
and the heap threatened to topple over. The
Government also sunplied the idleness. B.v
its War-time Profits Tax, its refusal to supply
any extra Protection to counterbalance the
constant increase of wages arising from its
paper boom, and by a multitude of war pre-
cautions, all of them prohibiting something,
it was brilliantly successful in preventing
the establishment of new industries. Aus-
tralia was craving for hundreds of things
.that it couldn’t get, but if anybody was
found attempting to sunpl.v them he was
smitten with a club. Building was placed
under severe restrictions, at the same time
that there were bitter complaints about
house-famine. Ship construction, measured
by the tonnage completed, not by th<u
which was being put together in the
imagination, was little more than one-
hundredth part in 1916 of what it
had been in 1902. A new shipbuilding en-
terprise at Newcastle was warned to stop.
Hotel bars were closed early to restrict the


local manufacture of grog. 1 This infer-
ence is drawn from the fact that the tariff
was readjusted in favor of imported grog, so
that it might not suffer by early closing.)
There was no slave market where superfluous
paper money should be spent on the purchase
of girls; no Monte Carlo, no legalised cock-
fighting, dog-fighting or two-up, and less than
the usual amount of horse-racing. Every
effort was made to keep down ordinary work
or ordinary dissipation, except the land-
gambling variety. In 1918 the pile of avail-
able lOU riches was at the highest, and the
chances of using it in useful industry were
at the lowest; so people devoted themselves
with unusual energy to buying and selling
dust and chances of unearned increment.
Failing that, they might have gone to bed
and stayed there in disgust.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wanted—Some Strong Men.
Unless the Government wants a series of
sordid troopship rows it will pay particular
attention to the type of “C.O. troops”
selected for duty in the coming months. In
the past the most prevalent classes, both out
and home, have been: —
(--) “Non-starters”—elderly and otherwise.
(2) Ex-Imperial and Home Service Army officers.
(3) A.I.F. “duds.”
The “non-starter” was in a false position
while the war was on; now that it is over
(if it is over) and lie can never see active
service, his last justification as a commander
of expeditionaries is removed. A number of
ex-imperial or Home Service officers are
also understood to be now available —-more
or less young men who, for whatever reason,
have take.n no part as combatants in this
war. It is no reflection on them personally
to remark that at this stage of the proceed-
ings their services are undesirable. The
men do not understand them, and, as a rule,
they cannot understand the men. Almost
equally undesirable is the A.I.F. field-officer
who has managed to get and hold his rank
without acquiring the liking or respect of
those under him. His besetting trouble is
usually weakness —or a weakness. He makes
a deplorable C.O. troops. The average offi-
cer who is angling for this sort of job at the
present time is under the delusion that it
is the soft one it used to be; and the authori-
ties have always looked on troopship com-
mands as duties that can be safely given
to any fool or weakling. Both views are
wrong. The submarine menace may be over,
but no expeditionary is as easy to bring back
as he was to take away. The C.O. of the
future will have to do a lot more than hold
a daily inspection and spend most of the
rest of his time in the best cabin on the ship
if he is to prevent friction. As regards the
other side of the question, it is notorious that
the Government lost hundreds of thousands
of pounds, directly and indirectly, by putting
weak C.O.’s on transports. The typical
ship’s master is not a weak man —far from
it. Part of his job is to do the best he can
for the company that employs him. Here is
the way one of them did it on one troopship.
There were 1500 men aboard and the con-
tract provided that they should get 2oz.
cheese and 2oz. jam per man per day. In-
stead, the cheese was supplied one day and
the jam the next. The contract provided
for 3oz. sugar per man per day; actually
the men got 2oz. Meat for tea was in the
contract: the men got no meat at this meal.
Each day not less than 80 men, who should
have been drilling, were secured by the
skipper for “necessary ship’s duties.” For
some time from 20 to 30 of them were em-
ployed painting the ship ! The explanation
was that the captain of the ship, a masterful
Scot, had the C.O. well bluffed. A first
reouisite on all these voyages is that the
C.O. should be at least as strong a man as
the shipmaster. It is equally essential that
he should be the master, and, incidentally,
the friend, of the men. Australians are
the most docile troops in the world—so long
as they ‘are under a C.O. whom they know
and respect. There are plenty of first-rate
men available on this side, and there are
hundreds in France and England. It would
pay the Government handsomely to detail
so many picked field-officers to do nothing
but command troops on transports till the
demobilisation of the A.I.F. is finished. It
is an expert’s job if ever there was one.
Mr. President.
President Woodrow Wilson of the United
States belongs to a political class which
includes, or has included, such widely
diverse specimens as Stead of the Review
of Reviews (also of the spook Julia) ;
Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., of Sydney; St. Louis
the first ( not the second) ; Mrs. Tanquekay :
Pecksniff as he would have been if he
had been what Tom Pinch thought he was:
Gladstone; and the Sermon on the Mount.
This is the antithesis of the class which
included Henry VIII., Henry Parkes and
Henry of Navarre. Wilson belongs to
the Early Perpendicular or Long aind
Narrow school of architecture. He suggests
a marble tower —firm, erect, spotless,
and with no stomach worth speaking of:
that is to say, the kind of stomach that
implies joviality, not the mere bag you
put victuals in. He is precise in his speech
and his collar and square-toed in his boots.
His conscience is the biggest article in his
luggage. When be defines a thing he uses
very many words so as to leave nothing
out, and in his anxiety to be fair and not
violent he uses them very indefinitely; con-
sequently his famous sketch of the terms
of peace ran to 14 Articles, and has been a
blessing to the Hun and a nuisance to the
Allies. The Articles mean almost anything,
but the general tendency is that we
shouldn't be hard on a defeated enemy, or
hit a boa-constrictor when he is down, keep-
ing in mind that he may be a married boa-
constrictor with a large family. The Presi-
dent was an unsuccessful lawyer even in
a quiet backwash sort of city. This was
not because he lacked parts—he is, indeed,
nil of them—but because the successful
lawyer must be aggressive and one-sided
and not a man of peace. But he was an
ideal Professor of Jurisprudence, which is
very different from being a Professor in a
Military Academy, as Focii used to be.
Among other things Wilson is an elder,
a teetotaller, a philanthropist, an opponent
of bigamy and capital punishment, an early
riser, takes cold baths, and has a leaning
towards vegetarianism. He was never out
of his own country until his present trip
to Europe, and during that trip he avoided
the poker-school in the smoking-room.
Naturally he has never seen war, and his
ideas of it were based on the rather gentle-
manly strife of the U.S. civil disturbance
in which there were no atrocities worth
speaking of, save those which Wirz, the
German Confederate, who was in charge of
Andersonville Prison, and the Huns he
gathered round him, inflicted on the Federal
prisoners of war. There was no indemnity
when the row was over. Wirz was the
only man executed; Jefferson Davis, the
boss rebel, was merely disqualified as an
elector, and everybody shook hands, more
or less. With that idea before him, and
not knowing how it feels to be a citizen of
a small, weak country living under the
shadow of militarism, Wilson never got the
Allied point of view. In his desire to be
absolutely just he is apt to lean towards
the plausible person who spoke last, so
the Huns tried hard to secure him as a
guest that they might breathe in his ear.
If they had got him they would probably
have dressed up two parsons as Hinden-
burg and Ludendorff to show him how
mild ( those individuals really are. He
hasn t one redeeming vice and his respect-
ability beggars description.
The Man Who Has the Misfortune to Be
Pearce.
Having made up to climb into the
limelight in London, Senator Pearce laid
low and remarked nothing until the time
was ripe for his arrival in the Big Smoke -
not in the stress of work, but in the days of
jubilee. Prior to the war the good-natured,
well-meaning tradesman had throughout his
ministry enjoyed the patronage of the brass-
hats of the Defence Department. Then came
the thunder of the drum, and, utterly at sea, he
left himself more than ever in the hands of
his Department. It would be an idle hope
that in such a turmoil as the world has
passed through any man born of woman
would not make mistakes. They were in-
evitable. Rut even mistakes may be par-
doned. They may indeed be magnificent.
The mistakes of Australia’s 'Defence Depart-
ment, for which Senator Pearce was respon-
sible, never rose above the drably calamitous.
Yet, in spite of all that, the man who has
the misfortune to be Pearce has booked
his passage to Europe to “take charge,” as
he pleads, “of demobilisation and repatria-
tion arrangements.” Everybody knows that
General Mo NASH is doing that job, and
everybody knows, too, that he will go on
doing it even after Pearce has reached
England. The outcry on all sides against
the Defence Minister’s going to England in
such circumstances demanded one of two
things: abandonment of the programme or
its justification that the outcry is unjustified.
Instead, he merely puts forward to the Re-
turned Soldiers’ League a wretched ad miseri-
cordiam appeal, something in this shape:—
(1) During the war he had in the course of his
duty to his country to do many things which had
earned him enmity and dislike from those affected.
(2) It had been his duty to intern over 4000
enemy aliens in order to protect Australia and pre-
vent interference with the soldiers of the Empire.
(3) He also had to deal with disloyal elements in
the community, and by checking their nefarious
actions he had earned the lasting enmity of that
section.
(4) During the war he had deemed it his duty
to put his country and Empire first and foremost,
and when the political party with which he was asso-
ciated found that it could not prevent him doing
so, that party had expelled him.
(5) There were in Australia ultra-conservatives
who could not forget that he was a National Labor
man, who also refused to put their country before
their party, and who throughout the war, through
their press organs and elsewhere, had done their
best to harass him.
(6) It would be bitter irony if all these were suc-
cessful in using the soldiers, who had fought for
the Empire and for this country, as their weapon to
accomplish their ends.
These pitiable “points,” because they have no
bearing on the subject in hand, need no
answer. If there was anything to be said in
defence of Pearce’s trip, Acting Prime
Minister Watt would have spoken. But
Watt, Acting Prime Minister, is as silent as
the day after to-morrow. Wherefore Defence
Minister Pearce leaves Australia for the
places of the mighty with a dead cat thrown
after him for good luck.
r ♦ —•
Webster’s “Muddle” Department and
the Censorship.
“W.P.”: On Friday, November 8, three pri-
vate telegrams were lodged at Sydney (two
at the G.P.O. and one at Central Railway)
for country offices, and accepted without
comment. Two of them contained words to
the effect that special newspaper editions
reported that the armistice had been signed,
and fighting had ceased. Two weeks later,
the telegrams not having arrived at their
destinations, an inquiry was forwarded to
the Department, and a reply received, say-
ing the non-delivery was due to circum-
stances over which that Department had
no control. On December 24 the following
circular arrived (the form suggested that
many similar to this had been sent out) :
With reference to your communication of Bth
inst., complaining of non-delivery of a telegram
dated Bth ult., addressed , , I have to inti-
mate that the non-delivery was due to circum-
stances over which this Department had no control.
In this connection, I may state that proclamation
by the Governor-General, published in the Common-
wealth of Australia Gazette of 3rd August, 1914,
provides that cablegrams, etc., are accepted at the
sender s risk, and subject to censorship by the
Commonwealth authorities; that is, they may be
stopped, delayed, or otherwise dealt with in all
respects at the discretion of those authorities, and
without further notice to the senders. The pro-
clamation provides, further, that no claims in re-
spect of them, whether for the reimbursement of
the sums paid for transmission or otherwise, will
be considered by the Government of the Common-
wealth in any circumstances whatever. It is re-
gretted your application for a refund of the charges
cannot, therefore, be acceded to at present.
If the news was not to be made public, why
was it allowed to go through the press, and
come out in special editions? The with-
holding of the other message is more astound-
ing still. This was the text: “Sydney gone
mad, stores closed, tremendous excitement,
great celebrations.” One can analyse that
thoroughly, and he will find no word to
cause alarm and nothing referring to hos-
tilities. Was the withholding, then, a ruse
of the Postal Department. to prevent over-
loading the lines? If this is the case
it amounts to taking money under false
pretences. Certainly, had the senders been
notified at the counter, most of the messages
would have been withdrawn. One feature
very well worth noting is that the Depart-
ment, having pigeonholed a message, is not
under any obligation to notify the sender;
and as any message may evidently be sup-
pressed it is obvious that great loss may be
occasioned to one or both parties, especially
as the sender will naturally conclude that
the addressee has received the message and
will act accordingly. If the commercial com-
munity doesn t kick against the maintenance
of this regulation, having evidence of the
manner in which it is made to operate, then
the commercial community deserves to suffer.
Cocky and His Markets.
A report has been presented to the Lawson
Government of Victoria by agricultural-}
superintendent A. E. V. Richardson, who
has lately been examining the rural-research
work conducted by the State authorities of
California and other parts of North America.
One of the matters mentioned in the report
is that of the help given by California,
through its district advisers, to the “market-
ing and buying organisations” of the rural
-producers. To what extent this assistance
is given Richardson doesn’t precisely
state, but he will find plenty of scope in
Victoria for applying whatever information
he has collected on this vital matter. It is
a simple fact that, in Victoria, as in the
other States, the farmer who is encouraged
to grow surplus crops is left almost entirely
to his own devices to market them. In
some cases, such as that of perishable goods,
everything seems to be against the producer
who lives ahy distance out of the city.
The roads are often bad. The railway
authorities don’t seem to care whether they
take the man’s goods or not. They offer
no adequate facilities for carrying the stuff
in an economical manner; and consignments
are tossed out when they reach the city into
the hands mostly of private dealers, who
frequently put their own prices on the goods
and thus double or treble their legitimate
commission. Now that agricultural-superin-
tendent Richardson has “done” the States,
Oman, the Minister, might put him on to
fmd out exactly what the commission agent
and the railways are doing to the Victorian
farmer who sends his produce to the city
and has to depend on produce-handlers for
fair treatment. And then he might write
another report drawing comparisons as
odious as the differences demanded.
A The Military Police.
In Sydney, recently, an A.I.F. corporal and
Military Medallist had a misunderstanding
with a G.M. policeman. The corporal was
knocked out with a baton, and last week he
appeared before a district court-martial.
The Bulletin has no sympathy with the
“flash,” swashbuckling variety of expedition-
ary; this class of man is a nuisance to civil-
ians and a curse to the A.I.F. But the re-
currence of these cases suggests that the re-
turned men, who behaved remarkably well
abroad are not altogether to blame. Neither
probably are the G.M. policemen. On all
the evidence the fault lies with the system.
The trouble arises from the fact that a large
proportion of the G.M.P. have never been
to the Front. Many of them tried to get
there, no doubt, and are as good men as
those who went. But there is no logic or
reason in these matters. The expeditionary
remembers what he and his friends suffered,
and he feels resentment at being handled, not
to mention batoned, by men who—for how-
ever good a reason —were living in the pleas-
antest country in the world while he was in
Flanders or Palestine. The community has
always accepted the principle that distaste-
ful laws cannot be enforced. It is much the
same here. There is only one type of man
who possesses the necessary moral authority
to deal Avith an expeditionary where military
offences are concerned, and that is another
expeditionary. And the more distinguished
service the latter has to his credit the greater
influence for peace and quiet and law and
order generally he will wield. This was
discovered at A.I.F. Headquarters in Lon-
don about a year ago, with the result that
a number of men who had done practically
nothing but Provost Corps work were sent
over to France, and their places taken by-
fighting soldiers in need of a rest. The effect
on discipline was excellent. There is another
reason why a seasoned expeditionary makes
a good policeman—of expeditionaries. lie
knows their language. He knows the argu-
ments to apply. One returned n.c.o. who
knows his job, or for that matter one level-
headed A.I.F. private, could do better work
by a neatly-timed appeal to an obstreperous
warrior’s pride in his battalion or brigade
than half a dozen home-service ipen with
batons. It is a question of human nature,
and on that all who handle men base their
general conduct if they are wise. It was
announced last week that a military police
force is now to be sent to Colombo to check
possible rows there. If it is on the lines of
the G.M.P. force in Australia its only effect
will be to cause them. The Government is,
of course, in a difficult position. In the
G.M.P., as in other branches of the service,
it has a large number of officers and men
who have done good work here in the last
four years; and it would be a hardship in
some cases if they were to be abruptly dis-
pensed with. As against this there is the
credit of the A.I.F. and the comfort of the
civilian population, both of which are ad-
versely affected by the retention of the pre-
sent men. None but the best of military
police should be good enough for a country
in the throes of demobilisation; and the
Government will only find the best amongst
the pick of the returned men.
♦
When the Revolution Came to
Switzerland.
From Corporal Digger, at Berne;—
Syedah! This is good! lam out of Hunland—
six months in three prison “hospitals” and
seventeen months in assorted Hun gaols! Now I’m
booked for home. That’s best of all.
These people, though kind, are simple-hearted,
and funny—damned funny. You see, they’ve
been out of the war because their Federal
Council was ready for it, and, though they
looked across at Belgium and shivered and
were scared of the Huns, still nothing happened.
They adore military displays and pageants and
processions—you should see the pride even the
train conductor takes in his red bag and starting
horn! So when the armistice was signed they
felt they’d missed the ’bus. France, next door, was
shrieking with delight, and Switzerland had
nothing!
And that’s where Bill the Bolshevik came in.
There have been 36 of him at Zurich a,nd Basle
hot-airing to the unions this last 12 months
about Militarism and the Federal Council being
curses to the country. The Swiss hard-working person
vaguely inclined to agree with him because it
promised some excitement, but he remembered
about . the missus and the kids and went and
did his three months sentry-go on the frontier
each year, and up near Basle he watched the Huns
and the French flinging sudden death at each
other and wore a gas-helmet when the wind blew
his way, and was glad and sad by turns. He
and his home were safe, but he was out of all
the excitement. He wouldn’t strike, though. To
down tools would mean that the Huns would come
in “to restore order,’’ and he had noted Fritz’s
methods in Ivan’s country.
But now Jacques over the way was rejoicing,
and, as the Swiss climbed the fence to have a
look, the Bolshie put the hard word on him again
—and he stopped work. All over the Federal rail-
ways the wheels stood still. The trams stayed .
in the sheds, the carters fed their horses and
yarned, the timber-getters greased their axes and
came into town, - the shops closed, and the popula-
tion everywhere set out .to enjoy themselves. They
dmnt mean any harm really, only they were tired
The Great Adventure.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“There will be new formations, new enterprises,
new possibilities, new and closer combinations and
alliances, new adventures for Gon and for man. This
is not going to be a statesman’s job, or a Parlia-
ment’s job, or a parson’s job; it is the people’s
job all through.— The Archbishop of Canterbury.
Had God grown old, and did He cease to
keep
His watch below the starlight and the sun?
Was there some breach of Fate that Hell
could leap
Out from her central fires and sulphurous
deep
And make Hate dance to music of a gun?
Did the four great archangels drop their
shields,
And tremble wing to wing in sudden fear,
While the vast Reaper on the stricken fields,
Harvest on harvest, counted his pale yields
Of garnered youth that cost the world so
dear?
I know not if the shattered battlement
Of Truth rained broken pearl into the void,
And jasper flakes, from the foundations rent,
By storming Falsehood, to the far suns sent
Rumor of Heaven defeated and destroyed.
I know not what a silver clamor fell
Along the shining trenches far and high
Where sworded angel ranks were seen to
swell
And the clear captain-word of Gabkiel
Rallied the white defenders of the sky.
But this I know: the heavens were dark with
doom,
And Truth strove mightily when hope was
fled;
And tortured earth below became one tomb
Of youth and joy; and in a little room
Of every street a woman wept her dead.
This, too, I know: through darkness and
despair
There came a sudden glory on'the night;
The very rose of death bloomed white and
fair;
Triumphant bugles shrilled along the air
And faith stood victor-crowned in all men’s
sight.
Perchance at that great moment bolts of fire
Flamed thunder-linked, with keen, white
lightnings shod;
And Heaven’s artillery with loud desire
Swept from the Holiest over wall and spire
To scourge black ruin from the gates of
God.
Perchance, with beat of w’ing and clash of
shield
. And shouting of innumerable hosts,
Vast angel armies strove in open field
And saw the ranks of darkness break and
yield
Along the cloud-capes of their golden
coasts.
Perchance into the horror of the deep,
. O’erflamed with tumult of supernal woe,
A cataract of vengeance, leap on leap.
Poured Hellward, roaring, from the crystal
steep,
Weighted with broken legions of the foe.
I cannot tell; but this the winds have told,
Blowing across the grasses of our graves:
The world is wide, the ways are manifold ;
And all the stars of night that seemed so
cold
Are warm to burning with a faith that
saves.
Speed, sneed the ship of high adventure fast!
God has uncharted lands of life to find;
The pennon of the truth flies from His mast.
Together,. through new seas, out of the past
We sail into the wider ways of Mind.
Heaven wins. Earth cheers. The ranks of
Hell are broken.
On! On to find God places in the sun !
Each to his post. The last great word is
spoken.
The wind of victory for splendid token,
The voyage of the ages i s begun !
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


The
JL
’ & Settlers Co-operative Insurance Co. of A usttalia
Limited
The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Cooperative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of the Man on the Land to support this cooperative
company.
Write immediately for particulars.
Head Office s 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOOTH AUSTRALIA.
of the deadly monotony of the daily grind,
and wanted an excuse for a spell and to join in
the tin-kettling across the road.
But the Federal Council was taking no risks.
It stuck up proclamations imploring the people
to “maintain order in this national crisis,” and
the people gathered round the placards and were
thrilled and thought what hard-doers they were.
Then the Council mobilised some of the strikers,
sent them into the towns, and told them to keep
order. For three days I lived in a comic opera.
Cavalry and machine-guns clattered up and down
the old cobblestones. The infantry marched around
with bayonets fixed, piled arms in the city squares,
and attitudinised before an admiring public.
Patrols were all round us. The women came out
and fed the soldiers with cakes and buckets of
hot chocolate. Everyone was delighted. Each day
the soldiers did marches to freedom, looking mighty
proud, and the people applauded. Each night
the unions came out and proceshed with union
banners and red flags, and the soldiers cheered.
Whiskered agitators climbed the übiquitous foun-
tains and made excited speeches in Swiss-German
to which no one listened. There was one “re-
grettable incident.” The soldiers were pressing
the crowd back when one of them accidentally
discharged his rifle, and an elderly frock-coated
citizen, who was doing his best to keep out of
trouble, got it. He was highly indignant, and
i 3 now engaged in suing the Federal Council.
Early on the third day the Council got fed
up and made a coup. It arrested the 36 Bolshies,
put. them into motor-lorries, took them to the
Hun frontier and chased them across. The Hun
sentries recognised their old cobbers from Berlin
and let them in. The Unionists, feeling some-
what bored, promptly met, sang their national
anthem umteen times, and declared all strikes off.
The Swiss had had their war and their peace
celebration all in one 1
Next morning the municipal sweepers got busy
and by midday all was normal again.
-♦
An individual who begins to be rather con-
spicuous is the loafing soldier who wants
a drink. So far a mere handful by com-
parison have returned from the war, and
those few got the first chaise at the avail-
able billets. How many soldiers will want
a drink when the multitude returns to
scramble for the fag-end of the billets is a
large and thirsty subject. Already there is
a wild-cat debate about the rights of re-
turned men to wharf-lumping jobs, though
wharf-lumping is as uninspiring work as
anyone could imagine; but even the profit-
less dispute about wharf-lumping doesn’t
keep all the men off the street corners. So
this semi-Freetrade Australia, which dare
not find work for its people even at making
their own clothes, lest it should interfere
with its wonderful brass god the importer,
has started to raise criminals and wasters
out of the aftermath of the war —a pretty
large crowd that is already forgetting the
ways of industry for lack of anything to
be industrious about. The incurable tee-
totaller says the remedy lies in closing the
pubs. It doesn’t seem much of a remedy.
A man loafing in the street with a full
knowledge of the degradation of his work-
less state is more dangerous than a man
loafing in a pub with only half a knowledge.
P.S. —This is especially the case when it
rains, for even a wet hen gets angry.
In his character of martyr to duty the
wandering Minister of Defence is something
more than a joke. He is a scream. In his
published ’list of sworn enemies and dis-
likers the vainglorious bungler has the
audacity to cite 4000 interned enemy aliens
plus their relatives and friends. Pearce
the free-and-independent personal interner
of 4000 enemy aliens! Why, public opinion
simply had to compel the gathering-iq of
foes in our midst; xvherefore, broadly speak-
ing, the man who had the last word in
matters of military precaution earned the
disrespect of well-informed loyalists, rather
than the dislike of disloyalists. There never
was any rash courting of alien enmity on
the Minister’s part. A number of Germans
and German sympathisers may have ceased
to glorify his name as much as they had
done before the war; but the chances are
that far more were thankful for their liberty.
4
The splendid capacity of State Parliaments
for making asses of themselves is exemplified
in the Vic. Fruit-grading Act. which the
growers assured the legislators would be in-
effective and merely a nuisance. Under it
the grower has to paste on all his cases a
label setting forth his name and address and
the grade of the fruit—A, B. C or D. The
buyer—the fruiterer or greengrocer—-unani-
mously ignores this label. He mostly buys
from some half-dozen men whom he
knows, and he judges the grade of the fruit
by personal inspection. Anyhow, the grower
invariably marks his fruit “Grade D,” to
avoid the chance of prosecution by an in-
spector who may not know a peach from a
nectarine, or an apple from an anricot
(writer has known that happen). But—
this is where the damfoolishness of the Act
comes in—-the up-country grower, who also
labels his produce “Grade D,” is at the
mercy of the city agent, who may sell the
stuff at a good price on the personal inspec-
tion of the buyer, yet may send back a re-
turn at the market price of a fourth-class
product. Of course, the fruit-agent, being
like the butter-agent, a strictly honorable
man, would not dream of doing any such
thing; still there is a powerful temptation.
Anyhow, the Act has done no good and has
merely given the grower a lot of unnecessary
work.
Tennyson Smith, recently imported lec-
turer for the prohibition propagandists, is
out to see that the trade in intoxicating
liquors ceases to be respectable. It is his
candid admission, and is valuable as an in-
dication of the exact position taken up by
himself and those who have hired him to
put a little foreign zeal into a cause which
without perpetual clamor grows very languid.
The trade needs td be made not less but more
respectable. The hidden evil is the worst;
and Tennyson Smith and his friends have
so far failed to prove that there is neces-
sarily any evil at all about the business if
thorough respectability is insisted upon by
the public. A thoroughly respectable trade
would produce no drunks at all; the part of
our present trade which operates out of
sight during hours when prohibition is sup-
posed to be in force produces a lot.
“Solomon Malaprop” has a few words; —
I read (12/12/’18) that proposals regarding new
industries “shall be promptly and sympathetically
considered.” Also, that “the Federal Cabinet. .. .is
anxious to hear from manufacturers and others....
who are contemplating the opening up of new in-
dustries in the Commonwealth, and it invites definite
and fully-detailed proposals.” “Manufacturers and
others” who have work to do haven’t time or
patience to submit their proposals to Hughes, the
talky barrister of few briefs; and Cook, the
local preacher. They don’t want to give
full particulars of their businesses to a
leaky crowd of dilatory theorists not one of whom
has much mechanical training in any case. Life is
too short to wait for a cheque which is six months
late with its own balance-sheet. Why, in the name
of all that is wonderful, should the doing of honest
work with Australian labor at Australian union
wages and conditions not be allowed unless these
impossibles are approached for their godlike per-
mission, after which they will, presumably, leave the
manufacturer to . take all the risks, and annex half
or three-quarters of the profits under their special
war-tax, and let in the goods of British rivals, free as
usual? The manufacturer would be more than satis-
fied if he were put on something like the same- basis
as his rivals in Japan and Canada and the U.S., and
didn’t have quite so much of his profits embezzled on
the plea that he is a Peace-War-Armistice industry.
He doesn’t want the Cabinet’s dashed blessing, nor,
having no wireless-engineering works to sell, does he
feel like furnishing “fully detailed proposals.” The
documents would probably be lost, and would next
turn up as the basis for an argument in an I.W.W.
paper, and no one would know how they got there.
—4
“Ulsterman” in response:—■
Being well aware that “Henry Horsecodlar” is
endowed with a fine command of forceful language,
I was not at all surprised that he described me as
“a rotten historian.” After this relief to his feel-
ings he admitted half of my statement and then
followed with a series of dogmatic assertions which
left the impression that his opinion of historians —•
“rotten” or otherwise —should not be taken seriously.
He 'states that the trouble with Ulstermen is that
“they won’t be Irish” ; but I venture to think that,
on reflection, he will consider that they were quite
Irish in 1798, when they allied themselves with the
people of Leinster and Munster in rebelling against
the British Government. On the other hand, he
will probably think that they have been quite un-
Irish in their refusal to forget certain actions
which were done at that time by their southern
allies. Probably “Henry Horsecollar” will admit
that Ulstermen again became Irish in 1868, when
they sent 10 representatives to Parliament to help
to pass the Land Act of 1870, the Irish Church Act
and the Ballot Act. After Ireland had become the
most favored part of the United Kingdom, Ulstermen
and all other reasonable people throughout that
country were content to let matters rest; but not
so the impulsive and the ignorant, who were easily
misled by political agitators. In 1798, when there
were genuine grievances, there were genuine Irish
patriots; but since then the character of the self-
styled patriots has gradually declined till they have
at last reached the Trotsky and Lenin stage. At
present, of the two “Irish patriots” who are most
prominent in the limelight, one is a half-bred
Spaniard and the other a semi-lunatic lady who is
a scion of an aristocratic English family, and is the
wife of a Polish “artist.” I have no doubt that
both of these Irish patriots would heartily applaud
“Henry Horsecollar’s” cheap sneer at Ulstermen
as “aliens.” It is quite natural that, as leaders of
the Irish Bolsheviks, they should have a deep dislike
for the people of the only part of Ireland which, dur-
ing the recent war, was not a disgrace to civilisation;
but at this side of the world we expect something
better from a writer such as “Henry llorsecoli.ar.”
Pearce, Minister for Excuses and Pre-
tences. has once more fallen over his feet.
For some weeks Melbourne has been taking
a mild interest in the situation at the
Queenscliff siege-artillery camp. A number
of the young men there reckon that,, having
enlisted with the sole idea of going on ser-
vice abroad, they should now be demobilised.
Pearce recently made the public statement,
to justify his refusal, that the lads “practi-
cally enlisted to take the places of men who
were on active service” —a really shocking
thing to say if it were incorrect. _ Now
Alfred Joubert has published the certificate
given to his son, who is one of the siege-
artillerists in question. The document
specifies that the young man had “passed
the medical examination for the R.A.G.A.
for reinforcements, 36th heavy artillery
group, for active service abroad:’ The
swearing-in happened on January 14, 1918,
so young Joubert, instead of going as he
desired to the bloody fields on which other
members of his family had already dis-
tinguished themselves, was detained for a
twelve-month at the Heads; and then he
was told, by the inadequate and shifty per-
son who invited him to join up because men
were badly wanted at the Front, that he
stayed in Australia from his own choice.
xVs soon as this country is declared free
from pneumonic ’flu’ Commonwealth and
State Health officials had better try to come
to an agreement about inoculation. The
process has been tremendously boomed,
especially in Sydney; but it is quite obvious
that State and Commonwealth authorities
are not equally enthusiastic; and in the
U.S.A., where they have had umpteen times
more experience of the disease than we
have had, they practise inoculation hardly at
all. An influenza specific which is claimed
to unexpectedly cure rheumatism, epilepsy,
varicose veins, deafness, etc., etc., sounds
too much like cheap-jackery to be passed
without calm and serious inquiry.
A glaring example of profiteering was dis-
closed by Prendergast, M.L.A., in asking
for the extension of a little woollen-mill in
‘Melbourne, lately started by the Repatria-
tion Department. Prendergast’s contention
is that hundreds of men should be employed
instead of only five, seeing that the cloth
is of excellent quality and costs, he alleges,
only 7s. 6d. a yard, whereas it is being sold
to a city firm at 15s. If Prendergast’s fig-
ures are right the Department is shockingly
guilty of neglecting a chance to push trade.
The mill could, on Prendergast’s showing,
sell excellent stuff at a reasonable price;
but it demands double the cost of production
for a very limited output, and on those terms
the output would deserve to remain limited
for evermpre. The business of the Govern-
ment should be to encourage local manufac-
ture in the interests of the consumer as
well as of the worker, not to run a mill in
order to sell a handful of goods at 100 per
cent, profit.
Australia is being allowed to hear a little
of what happened in the middle of last
year out towards Amiens. It was dreadful,
certainly: the only difference between
officers and men of some portions of the
Fifth Army was that the officers ran the
faster. They both beat the Boche by miles.
But every time any; Australian sees or
hears a reference to that performance he
ought to visualise a few other things. He
ought to picture the British Fleet keeping
a way open across the seas, and escorting
no less than 80 p.c. of all the American
troops that landed in France; the British
mercantile marine, feeding not only Eng-
land, but largely France, Belgium and Italy
also, and carrying over 70 p.c. of the
American troops; the British coal-mines,
supplying not only home requirements, but
those of France and Italy too ; the British
munition-works, supplying four-fifths of the
Allies’ needs, American included. It wasn’t
marvellous that in the British army—the
largest of any army in France—there were
some poor weeds. The wonder was that
Britain could have any army of consequence
there at all.
“Wealsman”: The newest Senator,
Mulcahy, of Tasmania, owes his selec-
tion for the job to a “Loyalty League”
anti-Catholic circular letter distributed
among Parliamentarians on the morn-
ing of the voting. The circular set
forth that the Speck’s Senatorial team con-
tained only one Protestant, and urged that,
in view of the persistent and increasing push-
fulness of the R.C. authorities in their en-
deavor to secure political advantages, etc.,
the position was dangerous and ought to be
checked. As Mulcahy’s chief opnonent for
the Senate vacancy was M.H.A.,
who is also Launceston president of the
Loyalty League, the circular looked like an
attempt to boost Marshall on the sectarian
issue. At any rate, it was so regarded by
the 11 Labor members of Parliament, who
so resented the intrusion of the serpent that
they unexpectedly and unanimously cast
their No. 2 votes for Mulcahy. The figures
at the penultimate count were Marshall 20,
Mulcahy 15, Hurst 12. As the Labor party
had previously announced that its members
had decided to nominate only one candidate
for the vacancy, viz.. Lieut. Hurst (the ex-
M.IJ.A. who fought on Gallipoli and collected
a commission and a smashed arm in France),
and had left all hands free as to their second
choice, it seemed highly probable that Labor’s
No. 2 votes would be about equally divided,
in which case the Senate seat would go to
Marshall. But the final count showed that,
of the 12 votes cast for Hurst (one Govern-
ment supporter, probably Whitsitt, voted for
the Labor soldier), li had alternatively
voted Mulcahy and only one Marshall,
An apologist for Pearce and family’s visit
to England has been found in Melbourne. He
urges that the thing of first importance is
that demobilisation shall not proceed faster
than the men can be “absorbed” in Austra-
lia, and says that Mr. Pearce is to see to this.
In other words, and according ;o this ex-
planation, the Minister’s job is not to assist
demobilisation, but to be a brake upon it.
The Digger on the other side, longing for
home, will welcome Mr. Pearce !
Thirteen Westralian shearers put up a
good joke recently. They were under con-
tract to the Boolathana station and, oh
Jan. 13, decided by ballot (8 to 5) that the
jumbucks awaiting the shears were too wet
to deal with. The station prosecuted them.
At the hearing evidence was given that not
only had no rain fallen since December 19,
but" the sheep were to be shorn in a speci-
ally-protected shed. Solomon gave judg-
ment for the barbers, on the ground that by
the terms of contract a ballot by the men
was the only authority for deciding the
question of wetness. Then costs amounting
to £3 15s. 6d. per shearer were solemnly
given against the station-owners!
“Soe”: “Soller” (B. 9/l/’l9) was wrong
when he said that 3s. 6d. is the charge made
by the N. S. Wales Government for a death
certificate. When correct particulars ate
given a certified copy of an entry of birth,
death or marriage (or an extract therefrom)
costs only 2s. If particulars are incorrect
a search is necessary, for w T hich an extra
charge of ss. is made for each name searched
under. Records for five to 10 years are
usually searched through, but in lots of
cases applicants get 60 years (i.e., from 1856
on) for the same money. If they want the
search made in the records of ah earlier year
than 1855 there’s another ss. payable, and
for that modest sum they can have the re-
cords probed as far back as the wicked old
days of 17S8.
Another tragedy comes from South Aus.
Isaac Gully, living in a wild part near
Nuriootpa, was shot dead by his daughter,
a girl about 20, and the coroner’s jury
called it self-defence, “with no blame at-
tached.” The man was in the habit, it
seems, of threatening to “wipe out” all his
family, and when he took down the cart-
ridges and reached for a gun she used the
revolver that had been bought for her by
a brother in the city. As the brother said
candidly to a newspaper man, “It was
either father or the others. The sister got
in first.” After the verdict the matter
seemed to be at an end; but the Law
Department has decided that it is serious
enough to deserve some further inquiry.
Lefroy, Premier of Westralia, got a better
gift than his knighthood early in the new
year. It was a large-sized tin containing a
tongue. The new knight thought at first
someone was attempting a joke; but it
turned out to be the first product of the
State Freezing and Canning Works. at
Wyndham. According to the W.A. Minister
for Works, business will be in full swing by
May next.
Died in Sydney last week, “Tom” Knox,
of Dalgety’s. He started his commercial
life in a bank; then became a stock and
station agent, dropped that to manage a
M.L. branch of the firm w T hich was ulti-
mately to become Dalgety’s, Ltd., and finally
settled in Sydney. He put in half a century
making money for himself and others, and
at the end of it there wasn’t one reasonable
person to say that he was other than a
straight and kindly boss and a man. He did
a little peace-soldiering long ago, and, lat-
terly, interested himself in Polar exploration.
But his lifelong hobby was business. That
and Respectability.
Cable, 21/1/’l9: —
It is reported that ex-Emperor Karl, of Austria, is
still seriously ill. His entourage denies that his
condition is due to alcoholism.
Neither is his friend Wilhelm any longer on
the Spree.
While old Captain Hancock was at Moonta
he was the nearest approach Australia
had to an old-time patriarch. He wasn’t
merely boss of the one group of big mines by
which the town lived. He was the religious
boss, and often the domestic boss as well;
and he kept Moonta a little bit of Cornwall
—the little bit of Cornwall that Oswald
Pryor pictures sometimes. It used to be an
old gag that the first words the little
Methodist-to-be learned to say were “God
bless feyther and mawther and Cap’n Han-
cock.” You have to know these things to
understand how it happens that Wallaroo
and Moonta have in 50 years had only one
strike that was worth calling a strike.


o
o^=
JO
1
O in
Ulu
Li-
Sts'
LLI
O'
I b
■Sj^
\ §,
fe==Si,
Wfc«
Vlilw
o UmuZntifi** W’*"
MOHAIR Lightweight SUITS
Another popular Peapes style.
Mohair is a DARK material needing less frequent washing than
silks or light-colored cloths, but is equally cool. It is a British
c oth, very soft in texture, porous and open in weave. It is ideal
for late Slimmer wear.
No-Veste ’ style, with 3 outside patch pockets, seam in back,
" lutton front. No lining nor shoulder padding. Trousers: Side,
hip and fob pockets and permanent turn-up. Shade: Dark Grey.
Ready=to=wear, 63/=
Peapes pay postage. Please state height, chest, waist and inside-
leg measurements.
Peapes (SL Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hello, Everybody !”
Criterion “The Pink Lady”
Palace “De Luxe Annie”
Tivoli “Everybody’s Doing It”
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s ■. Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Goody Two Shoes”
Roval “Nothing but the Truth”
Tivoli “Bubbly”
King's “Jack and Jill”
Princess’s “Rigoletto”
Hoyt’s Du Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic I Moving Pictures
Mei.ra Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Follies, St. Kilda John McCallum’s Courtiers
♦—
The Itigo Opera Co. made a promising
opening in “Cavalleria” and “Pagliacci” at
the Princess’s (Melb.) on Saturday. Of
course there were the defects that are seem-
ingly inseparable from first-night produc-
tions, but considering that the. operas were
given in mixed English and Italian and the
moderate orchestra had to behave like a
much larger band, the achievement was
pretty satisfactory. One of the brightest
features was the mostly-Australian chorus,
which sang with decision and brought the
reinforcement of its fresh young voices to
one or two sad and wilting occasions.
These occasions were due to the bloodless
quality of a couple of the Italians, who,
after a lifetime’s experience, were incapable
of appreciating the tumultuous sexuality of
each little play. The worst offender by far
was Filippini as Alfio in “Cavalleria.” A
small, mild citizen, with the air of regarding
a harsh word as a terrible adventure, Filip-
pini is the typical vocalist who refines rude
feelings for the pleasure of young ladies at
suburban social evenings. His profession
of sturdy disdain for his rival Turiddu would
have been disqualified by his lack of physical
resources, even if he had not ruined the
whole impression by standing stolidly with
his feet turned out in a manner which makes
him the Ned Duggan of the operatic stage.
But where Filippini inevitably failed through
his petty personality, Cacialli, who was
weakest in “Pagliacci,” had merely reached
the crisis of the orthodox Italian who has
discovered that the malignancy of a character
like Tonio cannot be translated into a couple
of handwaves and a gleam of teeth. Caci-
alli’s Tonio wanted the crooked wickedness
which the former exponent, Scamuzzi, never
failed to drive home. His singing, though
nicely phrased, had rather a portentous suet-
pudding effect. Lois, the old Gonsalez per-
former, tenored the heady passions of
Turiddu with an abundance of gesture which
seemed unwarranted by the feebleness of the
enemy (Filippini). Leah Myers’s soprano,
in the part of Santuzza, occasionally emerged
somewhat bruised by the higher flights of the
score, but she made the tragedy apparent on
the histrionic side, whereas Ethel Hems, as
Lola, hardly gave a clue to the giddiness
that beguiles the erratic fancy of Turiddu.
Balboni’s heartbroken clown in “Pagliacci”
was easily the hero of the evening. His
Rigo Grand Opera,
Melbourne Princess’s.
Thelma Carter ?
Lucia, the mother,
in “ Cavalleria. Rusti-
cana.”
recognition of the
state of affairs
which made him a
zero in his wife’s
affections was a
spectacular exhibi-
tion of wrath and
hatred overwhelm-
ing an effervescent
nature. His warb-
ling of the familiar
“Vesti la giubba”
was almost gran-
diose as a bit of
drama, but the
action always
suited the word
and in cases made
it doubly poignant.
For Nedda, Bal-
boni had Nellie
Leach, a young
lady who seemed
too sprightly and
elusive for the
gross fervor of Sil-
vio. She has a
crisp, sweet so-
prano of the light-
est texture, and is
unembarrassed by
the size of her job.
Fred Collier pre-
sented Silvio as a
solid seducer, and
Joseph Mummery
was just sufficient
for the role of
Peppe.
On Tuesday and last night Anita Roma
and Pattie Russell were the heroines of
“Cavalleria” and “Pagliacci,” and will sing
again in the same parts to-morrow. On
Saturday the bill will be “Rigoletto.”
The weather in Melbourne has been won-
drous kind to the pantos this month, and
their prosperity abateth not. At the King’s
the performance continues to be carried on
under the name of “Jack and Jill,” and by
w’ay of apology for founding any sort of
panto on a bald and unconvincing nursery
rhyme J. and J. are required to walk up a
hill for the purpose of sliding down it in a
conspicuously harmless manner. A wild
caricature of a plot requires the water sup-
ply on the top of the hill to be drawn, in a
dry and rusty bucket, from a Magic Well.
Lupino and Bert Bailey sit near the windlass
and converse on divers subjects, and every-
body grows rich beyond the dreams of avarice,
owing to the kind attentions of a Good Fairy
who provides the panto with a Punch and
Judy show at matinges only. Espinosa has
now added his personal dancing efforts to
his artistic ballet effects.
At Her Majesty’s the panto excuses its
title with the fact that an unaccount-
able fairy supplies a young person called
Goody with Two Shoes. It is eccentric
behavior on the Fairy’s part, considering
that her protege’s mother is a terrible man-
she with a bibulous nose, and no amount of
magic power can ever make the family thor-
oughly respectable. But these unwise things
are always being done at Christmas time—on
the stage. The scarecrow Dame invariably
becomes mother-in-law to the principal boy,
if she wasn’t plain mother in the first in-
stance. This time it is the Duke’s Rightful
Heir (May de Sousa) who weds the sole
product of the appalling Dame. Her senti-
mental songfulnefes makes one feel sorry for
Mav’s matrimonial future. When the sutfer-
audible orchestra permits the words of the
principal boy’s ballads to be heard she is
found to be singing with as much feeling as
sweetness.
** * *
“Nothing But the Truth” will keep Figman
Rigo Grand Opera,
Melbourne Princess’s.
Filippini as Alfio, the
teamster, in “Caval-
leria Rusticana.”
and Co. talking
stocks and shares
and dollars a t
Melß. Royal for
one more week;
but on the first day
of next -month
Muriel Starr will
be back there with
“The Great
Divide.”' So the
time is ripe for in-
tending patrons of
the Figman enter-
tainment to carry
out their intention.
If any are still har-
boring the idea that
social life needs a
stronger infusion of
truthfulness than it
gets at present,
especially on musi-
cal evenings, they
can’t afford to miss
Figman’s earnest
effort to win his
wager.
The sands of
“Bubbly,” at Mel-
bourne Tivoli, are running out, a new bill
being promised for February 1. The coming
change will be “The Better ’Ole,” and Mel-
bourne is desired to watch the advt. for full
details.
* * if:
The fine, rich voice of Peter Dawson, who
was lately in khaki, will be heard again at
Melb. Auditorium on Saturday and Monday
next. The accomplished Peter is a host in
himself, but there will be half a dozen vocal
and instrumental artists to help him
through.
** * *
The latest communique from the Courtiers
at St. Kilda (Vic.) reports an increase in
the exuberance of Percy Clifton, who this
week is a Bairnsfather hero and is also com-
ing out worst in a sketch about Beer. Clif-
ton and Zoli almost exhaust the humorous
resources of the Courtiers, for, though there
is a light comedian, Oswald Browne, he has
more the style of an elated milk-ho. Some
of the ladies possess fair voices, and one of
them, Maggie Foster, fiddles very tastily;
and there is a tenor, Leslie Jephcott, who
owns a rather thin tootle.
# ❖ 'r v
Elsie Ferguson is reigning for another
week at Hoyt’s Lyceum (Melb.) in “The
Lie.” At the same house Claire Whitney
is exhibiting “The Ruling Passion” with
all the brilliancy of which her dressmaker
is capable. At De Luxe Wallace Reid gets
a full helping of applause in the intense
war special, “The Firefly of France.” A
whole menagerie of spies is let loose in the
outbreak, and there are things that happen
to Wallace beside which a fall off a high
building is a snooze in church. Sessue
Hayakawa and Florence Vidor are teaching
the art of Jap lovemaking in a series of
ceremonious lessons. The film is called
“The Bravest Way” and describes the
heaviest heartaches in an elegant fashion.
At the Britannia the latest sensation is the
midget May McAllister in “The Killjoy.”
The Melba borrowed the captivating Mabel
Normand in “Mickey” for another three
days, but will finish this week with “The
Power and the Glory” wherein June Elvidge
has a five-reel spin.
“De Luxe Annie,” with Emelie Polini in
the lead, goes on scoring dollars for the Taits
“ Katinka ,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Knopf (Leslie Hol-
land).
at the Palace
(Sydney). Its
construction is so
fine that the play-
goer can come back
two or three times
and enjoy at leis-
ur e the sudden
twists and turns of
the plot that left
him a little puzzled
at the first sitting.
The Tait Reper-
tory Co. will sup-
ply Ibsen’s “John
Gabriel Borkman”
at a Palace mati-
nee this afternoon,
and will repeat it
next - Thursday.
After that the
Repertorians will
be away from Syd-
ney until after
Easter.
It is still “Hello,
Everybody!” at
II e r Majesty’s
(Sydney). Dancer
Maudie Amery is
one of the delights
of the big show; but that diverting dance in
the dry well or deserted bear-pit has still to
be explained.
“Everybody’s Doing It” (second edition)
keeps the dingo from the door of the Tivoli
(Sydney). “My Lady Frayle,” with Vera
Pearce at the head of a new co., will arrive
on Saturday, February 1.
* * * *
There was a revival of “Katinka” at Syd-
ney Criterion on Saturday night. The cast
is a seasoned one, on the whole; but the
players make up in zest what they lack in
youthful spontaneity. Florence Young,
Claude Bantock, Olive Godwin, John
Ford, Reginald Roberts and Leslie Plolland
are in it, and they do all the old familiar
stunts that have gratified playgoers for gen-
erations past. Gladys Moncrieff uses her
clear soprano with finished effectiveness, but
she makes no visible effort to act. Phil
Smith is diverting on strictly normal lines.
For the purposes of the plot he is a wealthy
Yank; in reality lie is just Phil Smith. The
eight chorus-lads who swing their sticks,
and wave their hats, and hop absurdly round
in unison, are in evidence throughout the
show, and this paper tires of the whole
futile tribe. “The Pink Lady” goes on next
Saturday.
Sydney’s principal picture-theatres adver-
tise special inducements to customers to
leave their homes unattended this week and
chance the Burglars’ Union, which is un-
usually busy just now. Leading stars on
the first-release films include Norma Tal-
madge (at the Crystal Palace and Strand)
Sessue Hayawaka and Wallace Reid (Hoyt’s
and the Haymarket), Roy Stewart and Gladys
Leslie (Lyceum) and Belle Bennett (Globe).
At the Globe “Australia’s Own,” mostly
filmed in New Guinea, is adding interest to
the screen with Nellie Romer as lead, and
at the town Hall the lesson of the week is
To Hell with the Kaiser”—as if Hell was
a place where any body could be dumped !
The drama mostly gives Adelaide a miss
in the iimmer months; not that the city is
torrid for many evenings at a time, but it
is always liable to be. The Royal, which
now fills in its odd weeks with pictures,
3S . going again with Allen Doone, and the
Tivoli promises to re-open at once. The
Camille three, as funny as they are clever,
continue to be the brightest thing in the
Majestic bill, and the Hamptons, Elmars,
logos and Delsoes help to build up a good
programme. Pictures are good as well as
plentiful. Enid Bennett at Wondergraph
has a circus to back her, and Jack Pickford
is nearly as popular as Mary. At West’s
Chaplin has. a big thing in which he makes
a tool of himself over the American army,
and at the Pav. a revivial of “The Better
ole does the same for the English Tommy.
S-C $
Colies. having finished the Hun, does
the halls:—
Little Tich seems the most likely successor to
Dan Leno. His long- shoes that w e knew in Australia
have been discarded; and his stunts nowadays are
mostly clever burlesques of every-day types. That
old stager Wilkie Bard comes a very close second.
His are mostly well-acted one-man comic sketches,
but he is without the vivacity of Tich. Harry Weldon
is a red-hot favorite at present, mainly on account
of a peculiar clumsy, rolling gait, like that of a
restless ruminating elephant, and a lisping of his
s’s—which is copied from one end of London to
the other. Billy Merson is a novel example of a
scientifically constructed comedian entirely lacking
in spontaneous humor. I wasn’t surprised to read
that he was also an active member of a big engineer-
ing firm. Another distinctive turn is that of Albert
Whelan —late Waxman, of Melbourne —whose lean
Digger dial, Australian twang, and a calm, cold,
unsurpassable casualness on the stage typifies the
“grim resourceful,” etc. Australian. Whelan de-
pends almost solely on his own dry personality ;
but, like many English comedians, he’s been doing
the same turn for two years or more, and it’s be-
ginning to show signs of wear. Neil Kenyon is
going strong with humorous, well-written character-
sketches. Will Evans and George Graves are about
the best exponents of conventional low-comedy stuff.
Evans does roug'h-female impersonations, while
Graves always scores as a master of humor of the
panto.-“baron” kind. Our long friend Carlton lives
well on his tall bald head and his waggish conjur-
ing and burlesque-hypnotising stunts.
On the female side, everlasting Vesta Tilley puts
up a wonderful show as a male impersonator. I
daren’t make a guess at her age, but her activity
on the stage is amazing. Her Tommy sketches are
splendid. She has several imitators, but is easily
in the lead. Babs and Beatty, two young Jewesses,
are firm favorites. The humorous lady of the firm
isn’t afraid to sacrifice her natural attractiveness 1
to the highly ludicrous. Marie Lloyd is still giving
em the “rough stuff” with superb artistry. In
the same line, but more on the daintily-naughty
side, is Maidie Scott. Lorna and Toots Pounds are
still precocious exponents of the noisy soubrette
business. Their advertised Australian origin and
certain rough imitations of popular English artists
have won them great popularity. Margaret Cooper
holds a good place as a consistent entertainer af
the piano.
Peake, of S. Aus., has his troubles, too.
Recently the wheat muddle in the State
became worse than usual, and Treasurer
Butler, the Minister in charge, was told
that he had too much work to do altogether,
and for the good of his health ought to give
up the management of the scheme, which
he did after some demur. Yet within a
week or two there was a re-shuffle of port-
folios and the allegedly over-worked Minister
was given Agriculture on top of his other
jobs.
The Court of Inquiry, taking evidence
as to the laxity of disciplifte y tet&jfcn the;
transport Sardinia, 1 1 om li
a grenade dropped into its jKedilr .
Monday. Throughout the j|K week
a mouthful had been made RfrliWa
habit of breaking the mohijfonyf' ijr
voyage with two-up, and the” facwffLi AT
officer, a nurse and a haAhPPn
amongst the crowd at a ringi wJ .> ah o,wi
as if they had committed ' ince&disrv
bigamy or something. Then nnhU
to the newspapers from the Commonwealth
Bean) 1 corresponcleilt (Presumably C.iE. IV.
The Prince of Wales left the ' , .
Headquarters in France amid the
of the corps’ staff-officers and n
him delightful company At a j
certain division he saw a group ~ a
apart. He walked over and fouM&i)|fe«« g
two-up, which the military lng
illegal The Prince joined in for iiCwTSSn,,*— 8
and used the kip twice for the a? .»
great enjoyment. The first time T§WHj||ifcJ™? r
did not give the proper twist to
the coins, whereupon he repeated tile \i>wtibjnancv
It shows you what Billjim aiid his
are coming to!
Gone oyer the range, Ernest Sando Emer-
son ( ‘Milky White”), verse-, story- and
sketch-writer and nature student. For The
Bulletin and other Australian publica-
tions he did much graceful work, particu-
larly in verse. He was 49 when Death shut
the inkwell at Brisbane.
“D.F.” : The loftiest boat in Australia is
one which has just been taken up to Lake
Babylon, also called the Nameless Lake, on
tlm high tableland near Deloraine (Tas.).
which is not far short of 4000 feet above
sea-level and some hundreds of feet above
the Great Lake (3250 feet). The Hydro-
Electric Department is putting a big power-
boat, 40 feet by 12 feet, with a draught of 3
teet and a capacity of 15 tons, on the Great
Lake to carry material across to the point
on the western side where the cutting of the
canal to bring the waters of the Upper Ouse
into the lake is to begin.
Sometimes, thank Heaven, the man who
sends out of his own country for something
his own country could supply as well gets
his deserts. In London, a while before the
war, a publisher sent some popular tunes
to Dresden to be printed—“ Melodious Melo-
dies” he called it. There was something
there from “Florodora.” The Hun printer
made it “Floro-dora.” The publisher sent
back the proofs, writing “join” over the
hyphen. When the book was printed, there
it was: “ ‘Tell Me, Pretty Maiden,’ from
I loro-join-Dora.”


THE MELTING POT.


LEAD
British Owned and Controlled.
SILVER
The Bro Ken fiill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Smelting Works : Port Pirie, S.A. Coke Works : Bellambi, N.S.W.
Branch Offices:
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’sßuilding. SYDNEY :25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCKIts OF
Soft Pig: Lead Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead Chemical Lead
Assay Lead (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (liar and Granulated)
Linotype Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
BUYERS OX A SPECIALLY
FAVORABLE TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade;
Slags, etc., containing silver or lead
Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
Registered
<BHAS>
Brand.
LITHARGE
All Enquiries to
be addressed to
the Secretary.
ANTIFRICTION
LINOTYPE
METALS
PIONEER Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLE . .
MAKERS,
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.,
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ the steel OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNFY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland National Bank :
Towards
Repaying
Gross Written Private Nominal
Profits. Off. Depositors. Reserves.
■June, 19X0.. £45,626 £20,626 £20,000 £89,000
Dec., 1910.. 46,174 21,174 20,000 94,000
•June, 1911.. 46,275 10,275 80,000 100,000
Dec., 1911.. 47,542 11,542 30,000 106,000
June, 1912.. 48,159 36,159 118,000
Dec., 1912.. 48,179 36,179 130,000
June, 1913.. 48,214 36,214 142,000
Dec., 1913.. 49,915 37,915 154,000
June, 1914.. 50,090 38,090 166,000
Dec., 1914.. 50.104 38,104 178.000
June, 1915.. 51,746 39,746 190,000
Dec., 1915.. 50,536 40,536 200,000
June. 1916.. 51,398 39,398 212,000
Dec., 1916.. 51,458 41,458 222,000
June, 1917.. 51,896 51,896 222,000
Dec., 1917.. 52,160 52,160 222,000
June, 1918.. 53,070 51,506 223,564
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1918.. £53,951 10 p.c. = £24,000 £29,951 £253,515
That last line tells of a sort of glorious
resurrection. The Q.N. crashed magnifi-
cently in ’93, and after the wreckage had been
overhauled a lot of capital and reserves was
written off to cover losses, while three-
quarters of the customers’ deposits were
converted into interminable stock, the re-
maining ss. in th(> £ being struck off, though
it was arranged that shareholders were to
get no dividend until the whole of this ss.
was made good out of profits. Besides this
indebtedness there was also £1,833,327 of
Government deposits to be repaid. Alto-
gether in 1897 shareholders were burdened
with 31 millions of debts which had to be
met before they could get a taste; and
about half of this total had to be paid out
of profits only.
The clean-up was swifter than general-
manager Ralston anticipated in his nicely
planned repayment scheme. The final
instalment to the Queensland Government
was met six years ahead of the scheduled
time, while the indebtedness to the other
depositors was lifted very rapidly during
recent _years. In 11 years to Dec., 1908,
only 15 p.c. of the debt was repaid ; in the
next five years the bank managed a further
30 p.c.; and during the 41 years to August
last the remaining 55 p.c. was got out of the
way. Meantime the bank’s position has . been
steadily strengthened : in the 10 years to Dec.
31 last £179,515 has been added to visible
reserves after providing for last half’s divi-
dend. And there is not the slightest doubt
that the directors took advantage of the
unusual position to build up internal reserves.
Shareholders could not get anything until
all the old troubles had been unloaded, no
matter how large the profits might have been ;
and since the management was running well
ahead of its time-table, there was very little
advantage in showing big profits while such
a fine opportunity offered to lay down solid
foundations for the future.
How remarkably the Q.N. has developed
is shown by this comparison:—
Liabilities.
Dec.,’oB. Dec.,’l3. Dec.,’lB.
Interminable stock £3,116,621 £3,091,669 £3,091,669
Other old debt . . 947,075 198,293 Nil
Deposits . . .. 3,087,677 6,810,442 8,099,745
Bills and other lia-
bilities .. .. 568,120 105,183 562,240
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 2,239,297 4,330,373 4,860,272
Advances . . . . 5,505,340 6,176,894 7,286,317
Old account (under
realisation . . 201,683 Nil Nil
Premises, etc. . . 280,494 303,653 352,580
The interminable stock (representing 75 p.c.
of the old deposits) is practically pref. capi-
tal—cheap, too, for it carries only 3£ p.c.
p.a., and in these dear-money times it must
be earning nice profits for the bank. Every
1 p.c. the £3.091,669 brings in above 34 p.c.
means £15,458 added to each half’s profit.
Capital is .£480.000 and visible reserves
£253,515. Including the inscribed stock, the
bank’s funds total £3,825,184, while all lia-
bilities to the public amount to £8.661,985.
So for every £1 of its own funds (reckoning
the interminable stock as capital) the bank
holds less than £2 6s. of the public’s money ;
which is a wonderfully strong position. Of the
£8,661,985 of liabilities no less than 56 p.c. is
held liquid. To meet the £3,801,713 of lia-
bilities not thus represented, there is the
£7,638,897 in advances and premises, and
these items would have to depreciate by over
one-half before creditors were denied their
full 20s. in the £.
As to the future, nobody knows quite
what is going to happen. The splashing of
loans has not ceased yet, and the period of
depression which most bankers anticipated
has not been sighted. Bananaland has been
favored w'ith good seasons during the past
couple of years, and has done well out of
its produce. But the prospects are. not
wholly promising. The copper outlook is
not bright; the sugar industry is unable to
accommodate itself to the new labor condi-
tions ; and the Bolshevik of the Northern
State threatens trouble. Still, things will
have to be very bad before Q.N. divs. run
dry again. The margin between visible
profits and the 10 p.c. is very wide. By
and bye it may become uncomfortably wide
and capital will have to be increased. A
div. in excess of 10 p.c. is likely to be
misunderstood by people who don’t know
the sad history of the past sixteen years.
* * * *
The Australian Mercantile, Land and
Finance Co., Ltd.:—•
Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Oil. serves.’
1905. . £53,259 6 p.c. = £31,200 £20,943 £250,376
1906.. 100,354 7* „ „ 39,000 12,394 305,336
1907.. 157,490 12* „ „ 65,000 23,000 374,826
1903.. 102,933 12*,, „ 65,000 6,680 406.079
1909.. 51,631 12* „ „ 65,000 7,012 385,698
1910.. 78,177 12* „ „ 65,000 8,304 390.571
1911.. 189,349 12$ „ „ 65.000 8,828 506,092
1912.. 108,824 12* „ „ 65,000 22,394 527,522
1913.. 103,365 15 „ „ 78,000 27,975 524.912
1914.. 177,125 12* „ „ 65,000 10,609 626,428
1915.. 61,352 10 „ ~ 52,000 30,000 605,780
1916.. 58,051 10 „ „ 52,000 100,000 511,831
1917.. 134,671 10 „ „ 52,000 26,000 568,502
1918.. 88,071 15 „ ~ 78,000 5,000 573,573
“The continued purchase of the woolclip
by the British Government at 55 p.c.
advance on pre-war rates, and irrespective
of shipment, has been a great boon to the
pastoral industry,” say the directors. They
might have added that the arrangement has
proved very sweet for the pastoral finance
cos. also, as can be seen from the A.M.L.
& F.’s figures :—•
Exes, and
Gross Debenture Net
Profits.* Interest. Taxes. Profit.
1915 .. £222,547 £126,242 £34,953 £61,352
1916 .. 231,595 127,361 46,183 58,051
1917 .. 248,227 131,131 32,425 84,671
1918 . . 263,478 133,411 40,996 88,071
“After writing down premises and providing for
■contingencies.
The profits for 1917 shown in the first
table are swollen by £50,000 surplus over
book values on the realisation of assets.
Not only are profits better, but the abnormal
conditions have strengthened the co.’s
finances. Assets, apart from properties and
advances, in 1915 had a book-value of
£1,004,319: they now amount to £1,267,901.
Meantime liabilities have been reduced by
£53.571. And that does not tell the full
extent of the movement, for the conglom-
erate of “loans on land, stations, stock and
other securities, and properties” now also
includes some fixed deposits. On the other
hand the book value of properties jand
advances has shrunk from £2,467,210 in
1915 to £2,130,852 at June 30 last. This
reduction has, no doubt, clipped something
off profits; but that has been more than
made good by increased commission earn-
ings ; and, since nobody knew how the war
was going to work out, the directors prob-
ably viewed the strengthened liquid position
with much satisfaction.
There's a big element of gambling in
this, business. The co. puts its money on
Jupiter Pluvius, who can be guaranteed to
win more often than he fails. And the
co. is such a solid punter that when its
luck. is out it can always make a recovery
within a few seasons. Prior to the ’nineties
the A.M.L. and F. had paid almost a con-
tinuous 20 p.c. div., but after the big
drought and the subsequent smash it found
itself with many square miles of western
N. S. Wales thrown on its hands. Though
some heavy losses were made, the co, was
not very badly hit in the long run ; and, as
mentioned above, the realisation of old
properties resulted in a surplus of £50,000
over the book value, and the chances are
that the surplus was much greater, some-
thing being put up the sleeve to meet any
new troubles which should happen along.
But drought was not the co.’s only bugbear;
the Labor party, which threatened to smakh
up the big estates, gave the gilded share-
holders cold feet, and they . rushed to
the Argentine with some of their money.
Probably they’re a little sorry now; for.
after all, the Labor Party’s graduated land-
tax created a market for some of this co.’s
properties, most of which were leaseholds.
And the Argentine has proved not quite
the. country it was thought to be. The
chairman told shareholders last year that
“in Argentina there is a great diminution
in the number of sheep, not from causes
w T hich periodically cause a reduction in Aus-
tralia, which is speedily redressed, but from
various causes likely to be permanent.”
Capital is £520,000 and the eo. works on
£1.911,090 of debentures, almost wholly
4 p.c. money, which in these high-interest
times gives a good margin of profit.
Kodak (Australasia), Ltd., formerly
Australian Kodak, Ltd., which began as from
June, 1908, with a small deficit representing
preliminary expenses : —•
Written
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1909.. £22,038 9 p.e.= £ 11,250 £596 £9,714
Sept.,
1909.. 12,984 10 „ „ 7,500 358 14,840
1910.. 25,273 10 „ ~ 15,000 3869 21,244
1911.. 24,346 10 „ ~ 15,000 3067 27,523
1912.. 36,227 124 „ „ 18,750 5219 39,781
1913.. 30,890 124 „ ~18,750 5238 52,683
1914.. 40,640 12| ~ „ 18,750 6240 68,333
Transferred to capital, £30,000. . 38,333
1915.. 54,228 15 p.c. = 26,250 5852 60,459
1916.. 76,132 20 „ ~36,000 6538 94,053
1917.. 66,517 20 „ ~36,000 6657 117,913
1918.. 66,673 20 „ „ 36,000 5942 142,644
Formed just over 10 years ago to amal-
gamate the. Baker and Rouse and Australian
Kodak interests, this co. has had a wonder-
fully successful career. The earlier profits
were helped somewhat by the sale of assets —
shares in the Eastman Kodak Co. of the
U.S.A. —but recent figures have not been
swollen in this way. Since the war started
the co. has been on a fine wicket, partly
because its Kodak connection guaranteed an
ample supply of raw materials for the local
factory. Further, when Uncle Sam got busy
on war supplies the American Kodak people
passed their Asian and Maoriland business
temporarily into the Australian co.’s hands.
The big increase in profits during the past
few years has been due almost wholly to the
greatly increased output of the factory; and
the directors give home manufacture this
testimonial: —
The policy followed during the war, of increasing
prices only when absolutely necessary, has been con-
tinued ; so that plates, papers, films and cameras are
still being sold here at considerably lower prices than
are ruling in England, <
Another view of the co.’s progress can
be got from this comparison :
1909. 1917. 1918.
Liabilities .. ..£28,015 £59,531 £76,886
Freeholds 52,100 95,196 100,637
Plant, etc. . . . . 28,120 21.724 18,295
Stocks 33,185 166,541 181,745
Shares in other cos. .. 77,071 12,430 12,430
Book debts, cash, etc. . . 9,880 70,552 95,423
The co. started with a paid capital of
£150,000, and shareholders have put up
nothing further since, though capital has
been increased by the transfer of £30,000
from reserves. In the 94 years covered by
the figures, liabilities have increased by
£48,871. Properties and buildings alone now
stand in the books at £48,537 more, after
the directors have clipped 2 p.c. off the
value of the buildings each year—an unusual
but wise proceeding. Meantime £148,500 has
been added to stocks and £20,902 to other
more or less liquid assets, while plant, though
extensive additions have been made, now
stands at £9825 less than formerly owing to
the very liberal allowances made for de-
preciation. Shareholders have done exceed-
ingly well. On their original capital they
have received in the 10 years divs. totalling'
over 172 p.c., and even then there has been
left in the business an amount some
thousands in excess of the £150.000 capital
they started with. Nowadays there are net
assets of a book value of almost £1 17s.
to represent each £1 share (including, of
course, the bonus shares) ; and excepting
possibly stock (which, no doubt, has been
accumulated at war prices), they are a
particularly solid lot of assets. There are
very few balance-sheets which indicate so
clearly as Kodak’s what the directors are
doing in the matter of depreciation. Further,
not a penny is represented by goodwill,
trade-marks or processes, though at the
moment they are undoubtedly worth a lot.
The co. lately acquired 120 acres at Kew
(Vie.) where a model factory suburb is to
be laid out.
* * * *
The Electric Light and Power Supply
Corporation, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Profit. Dividends. Written Off. Deficit.
Dec., 1911..£2,321 sp.c. = £1075 £6BO £11,286
June, 1912.. 3,255 7 „ „ 1505 1164 10,700
Dec., 1912.. 3,158 7 „ ~ 1505 1000 10,047
Debenture capital exes., £527. . 10,574
Apt, 1913.. 2,666 7 p.c. = 1003 840 9,751
Debenture capital exes., £109.. 9,860
Dec., 1913.. 7,020 Nil 3340 6,180
Debenture capital exes., £7531 13,711
June, 1914.. 4,429 7 p.c. = 1795 3000 14,077
Oct., 1914.. 4,795 7 „ „ 1588 10,870
Debenture conversion exes., £504 11,374
Apl., 1915.. 8,826 7 p.c. = 4409 5300 12,257
Oct., 1915.. 11,628 8 „ „ 5776 3500 9,905
Apl., 1916.. 9,523 8 „ „ 6177 4000 10,559
Oct., 1916.. 14,132 8 „ „ 6602 4280 7,309
Apl., 1917.. 11,174 8 „ „ 7405 4929 8,469
Oct., 1917.. 15,226 8 „ „ 8168 5100 6,511
Apl., 1918.. 15,976 8 „ „ 8920 5100 4,555
„ Reserves.
Oct., 1918.. 21,357 8 „ „ 9624 4156 3,022
The two features of that last line are: (1)
the record profit; (2) the fact that the
whole of the capital is now represented by
tangible assets, with a margin to spare of
£3022. Ten years ago, when the co. issued
its first report, £7500 of the paid-up capital
of £18,125 was represented by “rights” and
£2680 by preliminary exes. As the business
expanded a further £8671 was absorbed in
handling debenture issues and conversions.
The co. was formed under arrangement with
the Balmain municipality, whereby in re-
turn for the destruction of garbage it was
given the right to supply light and power;
and the co.’s special Act permitted it to
extend its mains. Other municipalities have
signed up with the Corporation, on terms
“not less favorable than those offered bv the
Sydney City Council Electric Light.’' De-
partment for similar services.” These muni-
cipalities have the right to take over the
whole outfit on a valuation basis at stated
periods; and last year there was a move-
ment on the part of several councils to
acquire the business. A couple* of the
municipalities, however, were hard-up, and
the others apparently decided that even if
they could find the money they probably
could not provide any more efficient service,
while the risk (especially with an uncertain
labor outlook) was too great. But the fact
that the local governing bodies have the
power to take over the plant, and also that
the co. must not charge more than the City
Council (which isn’t out for dividends)
would be prepared to do the business for,
makes it very unlikely that this private
concern will ever grow very fat. Nevertheless
the net profit for the past half-year shows
a return on capital of over 13 p.c. p.a..
and considering the fact that a lot of capital
is at present in War Loan and deposits,
awaiting the time when further supplies
can be made, the chances are the co. will
show still better results later on. If the
profits increase to any extent the directors
will probably do shareholders a good turn
if they voluntarily cut their rates to
customers a trifle. It may save a lot of
trouble later on.
The co.’s balance-sheet is quite healthy.
Paid capital is £253,113 and there are
debentures (mostly bearing 51 p.c.) totalling
£54,400. All other liabilities amount to
only £7OOB. On the other side £4014 has
been put into land and £298,147 into plant
and machinery, against which there is a
depreciation reserve of £46,117 —an allow-
ance more liberal than American life-tables
for this industry prescribe. The co. has
£11.311 in stocks and £59,604 in cash, War
Loan and sundry creditors.
* -X- * #
The Farmers and Citizens’ Trustees
Co. (Bendigo, Vic.) :
Deficit
. Towards (Flotation
1 rent. Dividends. Reserves,’’Expenses).
Dec,, _ £740
1910.. £9O £{,9 • > u \
1911.. 307 Ml 307 334
c--. Reserves.
1912.. 371 Ml 371 37
1913.. 291 Ml 291 328
1914.. 402 3 p.c. =£353 49 377
1915.. 518 4 „ „ 471 47 424
1916.. 734 5 „ „ 589 145 569
1917.. 995 5„ ;; 589 406 §75
1918.. 835 5 ~ ~ 589 246 1221
Only a small concern, but doing good work,
progress, so far as direct results to share-
holders are concerned, is necessarily slow in
tne early years of a trustee co., for it has
to wait until its friends die before it picks
the sweetest plums of the business. No
mention is made of the value of the estates
now in hand —-it does not much matter, any-
t£VYi’ * or % ure s wouldn’t be impressive.
. the management can show that it is giv-
"T entirely satisfactory service it will grad-
ually build up its connection, for there’s
nothing like the satisfied client to bring in
new business. To guarantee that the man-
agement will behave itself in the presence
ot trust funds, shareholders have £13.001 in
the business—£lo,oo4 in Government stock
(as required by the Act), £464 in other
Government: securities, £l6BO in mortgages,
and the rest in cash and office furniture. As
soo f^l hei Y P rotec tion for clients there is
£38,220 of capital callable.
* * * *
Quidam”: What becomes of the splen-
did promises of W. M. Hughes con-
cerning the prohibition of the export of
crooe. ore, etc., and the subsequent
establishment of the refining business in
Australia? The principle was sound; in
fact, such principles are vital to the growth
ot Australia as a nation, but unfortunately
the brilliant expounder lefts its materialisa-
tion m such a half-finished state that its
workings were productive of as much dis-
cord as possible. But the great need of
the world to-day is raw material, and Aus-
tralia has. plenty of raw material, while the
mere digging out of raw material and sell-
a rough and read y and not too
prohtable business resulting in speedily-
gutted mines, a roving, unsettled population,
and non-development of the technical and
scientific skill required in the separation and
refining the various metals. The disadvan-
tages were clearly enough felt during the war
when we had to some extent to depend on
ourselves, but the public memory is short


Particular attention is called to the comprehen-
siveness of the 19X9 line of G.E. electric fans. The
features of construction, the operating; efficiency,
the effectiveness of air delivery, the quietness of
operation, and the attractive appearance combine
to make G.E. electric fans the choice of discriminat-
ing buyers. Come in and select your fan. We
stock all sizes. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Street, Melbourne.—Advt.
Conserved water, especially in country districts,
quickly becomes contaminated. To drink such water
exposes one to grave danger from disease. Alumi no-
ferric quickly clarifies and purifies water in dams,
tanks, etc. You use it in the proportion of lib. to
every 3000 gallons of water. Most effective and quite
harmless. Used by leading Water Supply Boards
throughout Australia. William Adams & Co., Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Melbourne: 521-3 Col-
lins Street. Adelaide: 96 Currie Street. Brisbane:
Corner Edward and Mary Streets. Perth: 33 King
Street.—Advt. [3
* * * *
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is ttiat of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
Above or below ground Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe
is the_ most satisfactory conduit. No fluid can harm
it, neither'’can it taint any fluid. As a pressure pipe
it is unexcelled. We also manufacture bore casing,
bend for illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd. (II. 0.), Burns Bay, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
.0. Add.: Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Factories:
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic ; and Pt. Adelaide,
S.A. Contractors to all State Governments.— Advt
* * » ,
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
* —Advt.
* * «
Patents. Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb.— Advt.
tc •* * * *
Hard l w a n eV pi t f° l ot e t 0 mend ” if you use Lottoid
, Plaster Sheets when making’ renovations
walls Z P r^ ntS - Broken and discolored plaster
with InHnfrf rP 1 3 " 6 6a , Sily and covered
P f.n, and artis tically. Lottoid is
veWent * — lble ’ and ’ being made in 21 con -
bonklpt tn c tber6 > , n 0 waste - Call or write for
Street Blo l *l6 Com P any > 338 p; tt
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
m Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
hrir: ri V e l’ a ? c th - ir exam P le has been followed
Tasmania 1 tn t n e fading firms in Australia,
lasmama, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
WHt-p Nplsn a ?' ™P°rted engine on the market.
Advt 6 Nelson * Roberts on, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
* * * *
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines.—Stocked in
Sydney: 8-noin.-h.p. single cylinder (max. b.h.p. 20
"“)> 14-nom.-h.p. double cylinder (max. b.h.p. 36
to 52), fitted with brakes, large fireboxes for burning
lit ien,; rths of wood, and all latest improvements.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., head office, Sydney.
Queensland enquiries: The Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Mary Street. Brisbane.—Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 C.ollins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
E at , es - „^ all ° r wr rte for particulars. 11. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tk 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. .. 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The British Westinghouse Electric & Mtg. Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse
Magnetic Brakes
With improved skid-proof attachment, absolutely
prevents skidding even »t the highest speeds.
SPECIAL FEATURES:—
Immediate and powerful action.
The wheels cannot be skidded.
Prevents motor “ flashing over.”
Reduces destructive arcing in the controller, and
materially reduces the strain or the car insu-
lation by preventing the voltage in the braking
circuit from reaching dangerously high values.
Head Office for Australia
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Trafiord Park, Manchester, England.
MOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS- IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
and there are many temporary advantages
in a return to the old system. On the other
side there is the direct profit to be derived
trem the sale of refined metal, the develop-
ment and demand for science and brains,
the establishment of large, permanent
industries instead of evanescent ones,
and the realisation of as much benefit as
possible from the depletion of Our minei'al
resources, instead of almost the minimum.
With a tariff that would prevent the de-
struction of home manufacturing business
by foreign goods, on the refining business
would be superimposed the manufacture of
the metal itself into finished articles. By
such means alone can Australia rise from
her present helpless, undeveloped state.
Gordon Lyon’s Adelong Creek (N.S.W.)
staggers heavily in the wake of its lusty
son, the Estates, which is working higher
up stream. Certainly the Creek’s two
plants are not over-big, but that doesn’t
explain why the yardage keeps so low. The
trick in dredging is to plug through stuff.
Otherwise costs mount up and profits don’t
collect in the riffles. A year back No. 1
plant showed • that in six months it- could
get through 338,900 cub. yds. at an
average cost of 2.93 d. per cub. yd., while
No. 2 handled 266,600 cub. yds. for 4.2 d.
per yd. For the half-year to November
last No. 1 plant shot its bolt with 239,800
cub yds. costing 4.48 d. per yd., while No. 2
bucketed 272,700 cub. yds.' for 3.71 d. per
yd. The result was a net profit of only
£3OO for the six months. The falling off
in profits recently has been startling: Nov.
’l7, £4813; May, ’lB, ' £1887; Nov., ’lB,
£3OO. The obvious cause is the decline in
the value of the grotind, as No. 1 plant ran
down to s id. wash and No. 2 couldn’t rake
up more than 3.83 d. dirt. Just now, how-
ever, better yields are showing up from
both dredges, and as the co. still lias some
cash in the till a few divs. may be possible.
* * * ‘ *
A couple of weeks ago the bears got on to
Gundagai Long Tunnel (N.S.W.), and 10s.
shares, which had been up to 14s. 6d.,
bumped to 4s. Bd. L. F. Harper, of the
Mines Department, had a look over the
show, and his report only added to the
gloom. Further, H. W. Cosgrove, under- i
ground manager for five months until he re- i
contly dropped out (put it that way if you :
like), rushes in to say (1) that values in
the winze below 300 ft. were under 2dwt.;
(2) the 100 ft. driven on the bottom level
won’t go a ’weight; and that (3) “there was
not, on January 1, a face of ore with a re-
coverable value of sdwt. per ton over a
length of 20ft. and a stoping width of 4ft.”
Harper weighs in with the opinion:—
Should the contact zone material, as a whole, have
even low gold values, an enormous tonnage is avail-
able, and the average yields should he kept up by a
judicious blending of the rich ore, but the outlook
for this ia not favorable at the present time.
Samples from the contact zone at the sur-
face gave “uniformly poor results,” and
another taken “right across the face”, at No.
3 letel, just under the winze from No. 2, in
which a rich make of ore was proved, showed
only a trace of gold. Further: —
That the ore bodies are going down was proved in
the winze above referred to. The size of the rich pipe
vet remains to be proved, but it certainly does not
persist through to No. 3 1eve1....N0 evidence could
be obtained which would afford definite information
as to the position of new makes. Apparently the
future of the mine depends upon the size and fre-
quency of occurrence of these rich makes.
All this provides sad reading for sharehold-
ers who recall the report of two years ago by
manager Geo. Hepburn. He came from the
Boddington (W.A.), and “guaranteed” that
the 300 ft. level from his proposed new shaft
would “open up enormous bodies of payable
ore,” and that “shareholders may with
reasonable confidence expect regular divs. for
years to come.” Still, Harper’s “revela-
tions” do not come as a surprise; for values
at the Long Tunnel have always been
erratic. The gold is largely found alongside
reefs, in big formations, ranging from 10ft.
to 20ft. and upwards. Pittman, years ago,
pointed out that most of the rich patches
were to be found in the neighborhood of the
crosscourses intersecting the lode at nearly
right angles. Some of these patches were
wonderfully rich: 3001 b. dirt gave 3500 z.;
another 3001 b., 500 oz.; And 2cwt., 900 oz.
Optimists who know the country anticipated
another bonanza in the vicinity of the winze
between 300 ft. and 380 ft., but if it really
does exist it will probably be 20ft. or
so further south, and the picks are working
to find out.
The Long Tunnel is suffering from the
usual complaint—the battery is ahead of the
mine. There are only two working faces:
one at 300 ft., the, other in the south face at
380 ft. John Allen, who sampled the show
some years ago for an English syndicate
which offered the previous owner, George
Rice, £30,000 (and was refused), has been
called in to have a look. His report will
be ready at the end of this week. The bat.
tery is also to nave a word —the clean-up is
announced for the end of the month. Mean-
time the bears are having the time of their
lives.
Butler's Tin, Torringtun (N.S.W.), has
been gasping for water. So despite a record
market the working account for the half-
year to November 30 is credited with only
£705, compared with £4401 for the previous
term, and £1390 for the November half,
1917. The result was a working loss of
£3431. The mill has now been idle almost
seven months; but there have been other
troubles besides the drought. When T.
Hooper took over the management in Aug-
ust last he found “it would be impossible
to carry on the stoping, even supposing
water was available for the mill, without
filling up the stopes with mullock.” This
work has now been done as far as practic-
able. The N. S. Wales Mines Department
came to the aid of the co. six months ago
and subsidised 100 ft. of driving south-west
in No. 2 level and the sinking of a winze
below the No. 3 level. The 100 ft. of driving
has disclosed nothing of any great value,
the lode averaging 34ft., “showing tin all
the way, but nothing very rich.” Hooper
recommends getting to work to determine the
size of the lodes in the stopes of the three
levels. However, he is ready to set the mill
running three shifts throughout this year
as soon as rain comes. Meantime the finan-
cial position is becoming less cheerful. The
50,000 shares were recently increased from
20s. to 305.. and calls have brought in £2692,
while £S32 was outstanding at November 30.
The co. owed £6262, including £2305 still
owing to vendors, and had only £Bl9 in
more or less liquid assets, apart from plant.
Still, its past record and .Tames Lewis’s re-
cent report both confirm the possibilities of
this complex show.
* * * *
Bendigo Amalgamated’s final kick for 1918
was 34970 z„ including plates, from 6531
tons. Carlisle, Constellation, the Nelson and
the Northern w T ere the' best mining props.
The co. needs to handle twice or three times
the foregoing tonnage ; then, with the same
average yield, a bit of cash would flow back
to contributors. In Dyifson’s opinion bet-
ter stone is opening out at 2100 ft. on the
Victory, back in the Carlisle .western ground
off the south stopes, and as fair prospects
show in the western make of spurs cut into
off the Unity shaft at 1255 ft., the chances
are that both the Carlisle and the Unity will
be able to supply a lot of crush dirt during
the current year. In the Constellation the
stone from the west leg of the South Moon
saddle is making up for the poor stuff in the
Pyke reef, on which work has had to be
stopped. Then, too, chortling is going on
over the better stone in the Derby line at
1225 ft. from the Nelson shaft. This is off a
strong easterly fault, and stone worth up
to 50s. is being trucked. No one is
able to size up this development yet, for
the working is far below anything done on
the Derby line north and south of the shaft.
However, the miner is being hustled into
the south workings.
* * * *
Mine-owners in the West are bitterly com-
plaining about the further increased price of
explosives—all imported. Those whose con-
tracts have run out have had to pay since
the beginning of the year an additional
21s. 6d. per case. With the armistice it was
thought that a more plentiful supply of
explosives would be available and prices
would come down instead of going up.
Some struggling claim-holders are consider-
ing the matter of asking the Government
to come to their assistance. There would,
however, be no cause to growl if the mine-
owner had adopted The Bitlletin’vS sugges-
tion and established a co-operative body to
purchase stores on his behalf. Now the in-
dustry is almost down and out the proposal
is to be considered at the forthcoming
Melbourne conference.
* * * *
The New Wallsend Collieries (W.A.) pro-
ject is a far-away pasture that looks dis-
tinctly green. The block is over 2800 acres
in size and covers the area in which the old
Wallsend seam, cut off by a fault, was lost.
W. D. Bedlington at last traced a 12ft.
seam by putting down hand-bores, and it
was to find capital to work this that a West-
ralian crowd came east a while ago. Terms
don’t seem outrageous, for all the water
squeezed is 8000 paids and £2OOO cash, leav-
ing 22,000 £1 shares to be placed. To find
machinery the co. is to allot 10,000 ordi-
nary shares to the Western Machinery Co.,
Ltd., but the terms have to be looked up in
a Perth solicitor’s office instead of being set
out in the prospectus.
Ida H. (W.A,), which is little heard of
nowadays, has issued a report in London
covering three years to June 30 last. A
receiver was appointed in Oct., 1916, and a
year later the Australian creditors were paid
off, largely with the proceeds of the sale of
57,000 Nigerian tin shares. The accounts
aow show a debit balance of £11,950. The
,show is at present being tributed on a 10 p.c.
royalty basis, and the manager reports that
this arrangement is profitable to the co.
Burma Corporation, the silver-lead concern
in which a lot of Lake View and Oroya capi-
tal is sunk, shows receipts amounting to
£796,200 for last year, an increase of £271.300
on the previous 12 months. Despite diffi-
culties in working occasioned by the war, the
ratio of expenditure was reduced from 63.71
to 60.24 p.c., the net surplus running out at
£158,500. The co., however, has so far not
distributed profits and will probably not
do so for some time to come, as big plant
expansion is contemplated. Ore reserves are
estimated at 4,138,000 tons, assaying 24.60 z.
silver, 27.2 p.c. lead, 18.9 p.c. zinc and 0.7
p.c. copper.
Mararoa (W.A.) is busy straightening
up tlie workings and adding to the plant
on its new show at Cue. Considerable
savings are expected to be effected as a
result of alterations and additions, and
when everything is in full swing develop-
ment will go ahead. About the first Work
of importance to be undertaken will be the
further opening up of the rich shoot in
the lower levels, from which the late owners
got most of their gold. The northern end,
where good values were formerly obtained,
is also to receive attention.
* * * *
North Mt. Farrell (Tas.), having been
taken over by the Byron Moore and Day
(Melbourne) crowd, has issued the last
accounts from the old Speck headquarters at
Devonport. Although ore worth £12,706 was
got out during the half-year to Oct., P. and
L. account benefited by only £B7O. The co.
had to hand over £2485 to the Federal
Treasurer for 1915-’l6 war profits, and
£558 additional was due when the books
were closed. However, the co. still had ore
valued at £11,218 to be settled for. That,
with other liquid assets, gave £14,243
against debts of £11,579, so there isn’t much
of a margin to play with.
* * * *
“Traveller”: Tripping down the east
coast of Tasmania one learns why the cash
shovelled into coal-mining was never re-
covered. From St. Helens to the Schoutens
not a single harbor exists wherein a decent-
sized boat can shelter. The one possible
point, is at Seymour. There, 50 years back,
two jetties tried to serve old-time believers
in the Speck’s, coal seams, but Neptune bat-
tered one to pieces and tolerates only a few
piles in the other. Daltnayne has tried its
luck four miles further north, but the sea-
end of its jetty is now hobbled down by a
big mooring chain. This leaves barrister
Morley’s new co. still with the shipping
problem to handle. Down Bicheno way
McWilliams, M.H.R., is awaiting calm
weather and a steamer to test a bulk lot of
coal dug out from near the Douglas River.
Then, 30 miles south, some of old Bill Lyne’s
folk have driven under Mt. Paul on a 10ft.
seam ; but, bar Dalmayne, sufficient work has
not been done anywhere to disprove old
statistician Johnson’s declaration that the
Speck coal measures came into the world
2000 years too late to fight against the older
fuels of the Greta and Newcastle seams.
* * * *
“Bim” offers his prescription:—
Standard gold is worth £3 17s. IOJd. per oz. at the
Mint, and fetches up to £6anoz. in India, China and
Japan. There is an embargo on the export of gold
from Australia, and the Chamber of Mines thinks
if it were removed our gold-producers would be
able to take advantage of the higher price which Is
paid outside. And the Chamber means to ask for
a Government subsidy on gold production. Both
well and good’ and still quite unlikely to 're-open
the low-giade mines of Australia, where nr'llions of
tons of poor dirt carrying gold are waiting cheap
modern methods of' treatment. A subsidy of ss.
or 10s. an oz. would be ineffective and trifling. The
Mint should buy local gold at the price it will
fetch in Calcutta or Tokio, and it would then pay
to re-open gold-mines all over Australia. The
bookish critic will point out the ill effect of such
action on the value of the sovereign and the Bank
of England note. That ought not to concern Aus-
tralians, because Britain is big enough to look after
the welfare of her pound sterling, and does not need
our aid, although she will badly want our gold before
long. The easiest way to settle this difficult ques-
tion would be to restore silver to its old tie with
gold on the basis of a ratio of 15 to I—-15oz. of
silver to equal one oz. of gold—in the settlement of
all debts, domestic and international. If it had not
been for Bismarck destroying silver as money by
putting Germany on a gold standard in 1873, the
world would still have been using the gold-silver
standard. There is not enough gold in the world
to act as a sort of continental shelf to support
the mighty mass of paper recently' reared upon it.
For 5673 years silver was a monetary standard along
with gold, and it would hurt neither individuals nor
nations to return to the double standard. It would
help Australia as a debtor nation, which, however, is
another story.
There have been times when gold, instead of
being very cheap and buying very little, was
very dear and bought a great deal. There
have been times, for instance, when, instead
of getting only 121 b. or 151 b. of wool for his
sovereign, the gold-mine owner could com-
mand _4olb. This paper doesn’t remember
the gold-mine owners offering to do anything
to ease that situation. The present situation
is admittedly very rough on the gold-miner.
But every situation is likely to be rough
on somebody; and the simple truth is that,
compared with others —base metal miners,
for instance —the gold-mine owner has been
extraordinarily fortunate. Perhaps that is
why he feels so sore now.
The Speck produced 2369 tons black tin
last year valued at £451,943, or £l9O per
ton. Mt. Bischoff paid £3 per share
(£36,000) and even Bischoff Extended broke
the ice and distributed 2s. Pioneer and
Arba cos. are getting old, and as nearly all
the profit is divided shareholders must
consider part of last year’s distributions as
a return of capital.


THE NEW CAMPAIGN.
A former director of a German banking firm is acting as the Bolshevik foreign financial agent. Bolshevik propaganda was first carried abroad by German Forigh Office conriers."-Cable
KAISER-DEVIL: "Aha! They thought I had done all the harm I could I destroyed Belgium. Now, off with you and set to work destroying the world!"


• --.3
fAUbPIN^
1 SrONev
PERTH AND LONDON
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDIN G’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lcwt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
Why
be
deaf?
Without good hearing you are greatly handi-
capped, and the fact is brought home to you
every day. Why be deaf? The
Acousticon
10 Days’
FREE TRIAL
will safely and surely enable you to hear.
Over 330,000 users, including the Prime Minis-
ter, Mr. Hughes. No matter what you have
tried before, write for 10 Days’ Free Trial of
an “Acousticon.” No deposit, no obligation.
Convince yourself at our expense, and DON’T
STAY DEAF!
Co.,
Lamson
Store
Service
102 Daking House, SYDNEY.
Olderfleet, Collins St.,MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St., Christc’h.
W.A.: H. Little & Co., 861 Hay Street- Perth.
WARATAH
Fencing Wire
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
The Austral Nail
Co. Pty. Ltd.,
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
A WIRE SUPERIOR
TO ANY IMPORTED.
Support Home Industries
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
“ THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.'
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
February birthdays: Prof. Warren (Syd-
ney), 67, on 2nd; Geo. Swfinburne (Vic.),
58, on 3rd; Dr. G. E. Morrison, of Pekin.
57, and General Alex. Godley (M.L. forces),
52, on 4th; Colonel James Burns, 73, and
R. R. Garran (Federal Solicitor-General),
52. on 10th; Archgaiters Donaldson (Bris-
bane), 56, J. M. Chanter, M.H.R., 74, and
F. W. Bantford, M.H.R. (born Dvbbo,
N.S.W.), 70, on 11th; ex-Senator Albert
Gould. 72, E. H. Wittenoom (W.A.), 65,
Brig.-Gen. Rosenthal, 44, Prof. Carslaw
(Sydney), 49, and Prof. Ewart (Melb.), 47,
on 12th; Edward Lucas (S.A. Agent-Gen.),
62, on 14th; “Banjo” Paterson, 55, and
Bishop Shiel (Rockhampton), 46, on 17th;
Archdeacon Samwell (S.A.), 58, on 18th;
Tom Gill (S.A. historian), 70, on 23rd;
G. F. H. Schuler (editor Age), 66, Admiral
Patey, 60, and 11. W. Apperly (A.M.P.), 58,
on 24th ; and Vic. astronomer P. Baracchi,
68, on 25th. Justice Duffy, of the High Court,
born Feb. 29, 1852, has a birthday once in
four years.
“Plantagenet” : The fellow who writes for
the romantic young
person often re-
marks that the
handsome hero had
won the V.C.,
D.S.O. and M.C.
As a matter of fact,
since the day when
the M.C. was insti-
tuted only 14 offi-
cers have won the
three decorations,
and of the 14 only
five survive. Of
that gallant group
four are airmen—
Bishop, Barker,
Beauchamp, Proc-
tor and Collishaw.
One padre won the
three and was killed
soon after Only
two bars to the
Victoria Cross
have been awarded,
and both to doctors.
LEGKIE, M.H.R.,
( Indi ).
George Reid’s will has been proved for
probate at £7713 net.
Some Australians who reach their 70 this
year: Justice Barton (High Court), Justice
Sly (N.S.W.), geologist E. F. Pittman
(N.S.W.), F. W. Bamford, M.H.R. <Q.),
A. W. Meeks (chairman of A.M.P. Soc.),
Lancelot Stirling (Pres, of S. Aus. Legisla-
tive Council), and Eustace B. Grundy, K.C.
(Adelaide).
Three of the State Premiers —Lefroy
(W.A.), Lawson (A r ic.) and Ryan (Q.)-
■ are native-born Australians. Holman (Ma
’ State) and Peake (S. Aus.) are Londoners.
* Captain Hancock, just dead in Adelaide
at 82, was for a generation S. Australia’s
best-known mining man. He came from
Cornwall, of course, had a small job at the
start, and finished up with many years’
service as general manager of amalgamated
Wallaroo and Moonta. If there had been
no other brains in the world the “king of
Munta” might not have been much of a
potentate. His strong point was his ability
to assemble the little bits of knowledge of two
or three or 50 men, and put the result to
good use. Probably his biggest service to
the copper-mines was the introduction of
the system of driving levels every 15 fath-
oms instead of every 10, as prescribed by
the old Cornish plans. He did something
valuable £or Broken Hill, too, for though he
never managed a mine there he and Green-
way were the first men to try on a commer-
cial scale the present system of concentrat-
ing sulphide ores—or the crude thing that
developed into the present vast industry.
Edward Mitchell, who died the other day
in Melbourne, aged 98, was a member of
the Burke and Wills expedition in 1864.
But William Cant of Westralia is our
oldest surviving explorer. He accompanied
the Austin party in its exploration of the
Murchison in 1854. Mr. Cant lives in
the Geraldton district and is reputed to be
in his 100th year.
Bigjohn Forrest’s widow is returning to
Westralia ; and all that remains of Bigjohn
himself will return shortly afterwards for a
public funeral.
Edward Mulcahy, the new Tasmanian
Senator—he takes Long’s place—is a Limer-
ick man, born in 1850, and proud of it that
he worked for his living at 14. Hie has
talked for it pretty constantly for the past
27 years.
John Butler Wood, pioneer of the Bland
country (N.S.W.), who died recently when
within coo-ee of his hundredth birthday, was
son of John Wood, one-time a director of
the Bank of England, who came with his
family to Sydney about 1814. He brought
coin which he invested in land and stock on
the Nepean. Soon after his friend Mac-
quarie had crossed the Mountains Wood
took up land at Hartley Vale. Later, he
secured Wangoola, on the Lachlan, at wkat
is now Cowra. The son just dead, while
in his teens, was sent to manage the station,
and did a good deal of pioneering, eventu-
ally selecting Brundah, which the family
held for many years.
There’s a man nursing two stumps in the
Adelaide Hospital who deserves something
better. He forgot bis age in August, 1914
—forgot that he was with the Black Watch
in the Soudan 32 years before; forgot that
he held the long-service medal (30 years).
He just joined up, was at the Landing, and
a few months later —being then Sergeant
Peter Molloy—had to be sent back home
with a shattered foot. One leg had to come
off; and, recently, the other. But the old
warrior isn’t complaining. He has plenty,
he says, to comfort him —including the
Queen’s Medal with six bars and four boys
in khaki, the youngest of them with a
D.C.M.
W. C. Hill, who died in Sydney recently
at 81, was an Australian, and so were his
father and mother. The father, one of the
earliest white settlers, was Richard Hill, of
Bent-street. A quaint little cottage that still
buttresses the Australian Club was his
home. The mother was a daughter of
Francis Cox; another daughter married
William Charles Wentworth, the “father of
his country.” W. C. Hill was one of the
original partners in the stock and station
firm of Maiden, Hill and Clark, which later
became Hill, Clark and Co.
Edward Dyson has “Hello, Soldier!” a
book of war-verse ready, or just about ready,
for the book-sellers and the book-buyers.
“Hello, Soldier!” sub-titled “Khaki Verse,”
is unique in one particular at least, being a
famine-time volume printed on brown paper.
The illustrations, by Will Dyson, Ruby
Lindsay and George Dancey. are on a chance
supply of suitable paper, tipped in,
and the verses are drawn from Dyson’s large
Bulletin resources in the main, material
written in the course of the last four years.
The author claims that the avidity with
which his rhymes have been prigged all over
the English-speaking parts justifies the
assumption that they meet a want.
Amongst those who went down in the
United Kingdom elections is Dr. W. A.
Chappie, formerly of Wellington (M.L.). He
had a brief experience (five months) in the
M.L. Reps, as member for Tuapeka, but he
brought no light to dispel the political
gloom. A wealthy man, he went to Scotland
and found his way into the House of Com-
mons as Liberal member for Stirling at the
general election of 1910. He held the seat
until the fight at Stirling the other day,
when he was descried at the bottom of the
poll. He is 55 and a native-born Maori-
lunder.
President Wilson is believed to be the
only leading statesman who is a competent
typist. He delights in a battered old “grid
which he carries with him everywhere,
clattering it even in the train. The President
rarely uses a pen, and composes. all his
speeches, messages and other public docu-
ments straight off on the sausage machine.
“B.”: On one occasion Shiels, when a
Minister, tried to conciliate Robert Harper
by walking over to the Opposition side of
the Victorian House to explain away a mis-
apprehension. Harper turned his back, and
Shiels was his enemy thereafter. It was
David Gaunson who nicknamed him “Chic-
ory Bob.” Isaacs, when State Attorney-
General, hit him hard on one occasion.
While opposing a measure providing for one-
man-one-vote, Harper, who had been baiting
Isaacs, quoted a German or French writer,
and remarked: “Perhaps the Attorney-
General has heard of that authority?” “Not
as you pronounce it,” flashed Isaacs, and,
the Housq sniggered.
Dr. Gibney, formerly R.C. Bishop of
Perth, celebrated his 82nd birthday recently.
He retains much of his old vigor, and his
interest in the problems of the present keeps
him thinking hard. But history may prefer
to write his name as that of the bold priest
who was present at the capture of the
Kellys.
Adelaide Register staff, which claims to
retain its men in active work longer than
any other paper in Australia, has been con-
gratulating Robert Rusk on half a century
in the office —45 years of it on continuous
night-work. Among those who spoke were
J. S. Knox, also of 50 years’ standing in
the office, and C. H. Franklin, of 60, still
going strong.
THE JUDGMENT OF PARIS.
PEARCE: "You fellows are all right; but just
let Paris see me!”
One of the best-known photographers in
the Commonwealth, W. H. Hammer, died at
Norwood (S.A.) the other day. He was
the principal of the old-established firm of
Hammer and Co. and partner and director
of Studio, Limited. Born at St. Austell,
Cornwall, 74 years ago. he came to South
Aus. in 1880 and started in the photo,
business. In England he was prominent as
an organist and conductor of choirs' and
bands; but £ s. d. claimed his time in
Adelaide.
General Rosenthal, just made a knight, left
Sydney with the First (Artillery) Division
as Brigade-Major. He had been a C.M.F.
soldier before. After the Evacuation he
created the Fourth Divisional Artillery—
practically out of nothing. He just settled
down in a tent at Tel-el-Kebir and manu-
factured gunners and drivers from Infantry
and Light Horse. Not five per cent, of his
then officers had any artillery experience at
all. Yet three months later he delivered the
Division in France, equipped and organised
and ready to go into the line. “Rosey” or
“Bubbly,” as lie is variously called, hardly
seems to know the meaning of fear or
fatigue. He is 6ft. 2in. and heavily built,
yet every day in France, wherever his H.Q.
were, he started to go round his batteries by
sunrise. The country, with its bottomless
mud and endless shell-holes, has to be seen
before Rosenthal’s daily feat can be appre-
ciated. He has been wounded oftener than
any other officer of his rank.
Alex. Cameron is one of the tipped for
the chairmanship of Melbourne Tramway
Board, in the gift of the Victorian Govern-
ment. He is a lawyer and was a councillor
of Malvern. When the electric tramway to
Prahran was projected he studied street-
transit matters and became chairman of the
Trust at £3OO a year, rising in these later
days to £lOOO. His former official colleague.
West O. Strangward, secretary of the same
Trust, is the secretary now of the Tramway
Board.
Died in England at 77, Donald Mackenzie
Wallace, who visited Australia as assistant
sec. to the Duke of Cornwall and York,
now Geo. V.
Two Sydney brothers, both lawyers, have
won the Military Cross : one, Lieut. Dudley
Williams, a young hasn’t prac-
tised yet; the other, Major Keith Williams,
is a solicitorl
South Aus. is again deploring the fa6t
that, although it has produced numerous
young men who have distinguished them-
selves in science, their services are rarely
retained in the State. A. E. V. Richardson,
M.A., some years ago became Superinten-
dent of Agriculture in Victoria. H. E.
Laffer last year left Roseworthy College to
become Viticultural Expert in N. S. Wales.
It is now announced that Fred K. Watson,
M.A., B.Sc. (England), has received an
appointment in the Ma State in connection
with the Yanco irrigation scheme. This
young man, after doing brilliantly in the
Adelaide School of Mines and Roseworthy
College (S.A.)', studied civil engineering,
agriculture and arts at Edinburgh, where he
graduated with special distinction. Then
the S.A. Government offered him a position
at a salary which an unskilled laborer would
strike over. Still the S.A. Government has
some money to spend, as evidenced by the
£250 per month paid to P. A. Anthony to
report on the Railways. But lie was im-
ported—from the little Malay States—and
that increases a man’s value wonderfully.
Valentine Bailey, a Malvern (Vic.) citizen
whose name is embalmed in two local
thoroughfares—Valentine Grove and Bailey
Avenue—proposes to turn a historic pos-
session into flats. This is Gardiner House,
the homestead of the ancient Gardiner
estate, upon which
one of Melbourne’s
early citizens ran
the stock which
helped to build it.
The squattage used
to include what are
now Government
House grounds.
There are very few
grey-whiskers still
living who can recall
the days when abo-
rigines corroboreed
in the neighborhood,
and most suburban
householders had a
few hundred acres
around them. The
venerable Bailey, by
the way, now spends
most of his energies
in making two cows
grow -where 200
Gippsland rabbits grew before. His four
sons ai - e also pretty hard doers —all at the
war and all booked to return presently.
Just as England produced McCuddin as
successor to Ball, so Canada has developed
Barker, Y.C., D.S.O. and bar, M.C. and
two bars, Croix de Guerre, and the Italian
silver medal for valor, as the heir to the
laurels of its air-king Bishop. Starting
with the Canadian infantry in ’l4, Barker
fought at the second battle of Ypres, and
has been iat it ever since. In his first flight
as a pilot his was the only ’bus to land
after a stunt in which four British machines
were downed by a sudden attack while
they were observing for artillery. Later
he went to Italy in charge of a “camel”
squadron and did great work. Then things
became dull on the Italian front and Barker
forfeited his temporary rank of major to
return to France as a squadron oommander.
There be won the only remaining military
honor available.
“Marqui” on a big dead man ;—■
Roosevelt in late years carefully prepared his
speeches and delivered rather than read them from
manuscript. As he finished with each sheet he cast
it from him with an almost contemptuous flip. His
voipe was a light one though it carried well. When
he was particularly scornful it soared to a falsetto
as when, in the last Presidential campaign, he re-
vealed an intimately guarded secret of Newton D.
Baker’s life. Roosevelt alluded to his victim as
“Mr. Baker, the Secretary for War, an amiable
gentleman who knits.” Of course it got the crowd.
When Hughes—the Yankee Hughes—was accepted as
a Republican candidate in preference to Teddy, the
latter was reported as saying, having in view
Hughes’s non-committal attitude on the war, that
he didn’t see much difference between Hughes and
Wilson excepting the whiskers. The newspapers glee-
fully handed on this sting until someone, on Roose-
velt’s behalf, repudiated it. But it sounded authen-
tic.
HERE—AND THERE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is raining hard in Ploegsteert Wood
(I know it’s raining—it always did) ;
And round the shell-holes and through the mud
The Belgian farm-carts slither and skid.
But I am lying on Manly Beach,
Watching and smelling the vast clean sea,
The air is warm and the sky is blue —
It is more than good enough for me.
In the shattered streets of old Bailleul
The townsfolk wander in angry grief,
Noting the work of the German guns,
Tracing the path of the German thief;
But I can travel my city through /
And not be met by a scratch or scar;
A gracious thing when one thinks of towns —
Ruins of towns —like Hamel and Pas.
In filth and darkness and stinking slime
The French are draining and building hard,
While I am watching a tennis match
Or marking a Randwick racing card.
The yachts are dancing off Middle Head,
Their white sails shine and their pennons fly—
And the broken stone that once was Ypres
Stares up at the leaden Flanders sky.
It’s good to be safely back at home
And know the things that Australia missed;
To live where men have the heart to play
And laughing, trouble-free girls are kissed;
But on beach and links and course and courts
My mind, with a sort of nagging pain,
Keeps turning, turning to spots I know
Where no one will play or laugh again.
N.S.W.
SARI BAIR.


hffldock
i
Iwn ifc (in
h
V 4
yj
<v
O .Q
n 4? 43
*\P,p
UT7
-S»
-O
-5=3 £L« «
W
.£>
CD o
m
Yr
=*'—•«3 ee, «‘-c
r\3*<C
Vlvl''
i
In the way back as in the crowded cities of Australia
men find solace and content in the soothing, restful pipeful
of fragrant, friendly “Havelock/’ It is the smoke for all
places, all times, all men.
Cut (Flake or Mixture).
Also in Plug Form.
PATON 7742
Australia’
National
Smoke
400
THE LAST WORD IN
CLMbD
PIPES
Every p,p e Guar^
:


LADIES!
IT IS THE LITTLE THINGS THAT COUNT.
THEY ARE, OFTEN ENOUGH, YOUR SECRET.
BUT BEAUTY LAUGHS AT ALL DISTINCTIONS.
inter s
ohn
trange
TOILET PREPARATIONS are THE GREATEST FRIEND OF WOMANKIND.
grange
NEW
ACECRmW
Our Soap, Powder (3 tints), Pakshmi Skin Cream and Potion, New
Face Cream (2 colors), Dental Cream, Hair Foods (Oily and Non-
Oily), Carmine, Perspiration Powder, Dry Shampoo, Curative Oint-
ment and Creme Marquise
are used by ROYALTY and were AWARDED SIX GOLD MEDALS-
Obtainable from all Departmental Stores, Civil Service. Washington
H. Soul’s, Passetter’s, David Jones’, Farmer & Co.’s, W. T. Waters’,
Horderns’, McCathie’s, McDowell and Hughes’, etc.
Send 2d. stamp for sample of Soap or Powder (name the tint) or
Dental Cream, to John Strange Winter (Pondon, Paris, Rome).
Sydney Office: 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street.
Melbourne Office: 218 Queen Street.
Adelaide Office: Kithers Buildings, King William Street. "" '
eltoman
HIGH-CLASS
SPECIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
■p
E. BROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL * OVER • THE • WORLD
J
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe' in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director-
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
The story comes from Ivew (where some
of the Naicest Melbourne lunatics are
housed) that an old resident of the asylum
lately failed in his duty of driving a covered
van, containing beer and other refreshments,
to his hay-making brethren in the paddock.
The waggish patient drove himself and the
beer to Bendigo, where he had a happy two
weeks before the warders recovered possession
of him. The point of the yarn is in the
means the genial escapee adopted to avoid
detection. The covered van had ASYLUM
KEW painted rather conspicuously upon it.
The driver obliterated the letters ASY with
axle-grease, and travelled to Bendigo in
the supposed capacity of LUM KEW, a
Cbow trader.
.
THE SACRIFICE.
THE KID: “Oh, George, how lovely! But
how you must have screwed and scraped
to get it for me!"
THE BOY: “Aw, go on, kid — don't make it
too ’ot. I pinched it off a dead Ger-
man."
“Senior Officer” from France :—-
Down to the signing of the armistice the A.I.F.
had been awarded 11,067 British distinctions and
557 foreign—2l9 of them Belgian and 190 French.
This tally does not include naval decorations or
1914-15 stars, information as to which is not avail-
able yet. The return will dispel the illusion that
foreign decorations are given away freely to our
troops. If you ever see a Billjim with a foreign
ribbon you can bet he is an outsize soldier, as it
would ‘probably only be given him on account of
his failure to get a British reward after repeated
recoihmendations. This is not the case with officers.
If you observe an officer who wears a foreign ribbon
and make inquiries, you will find that he got it
whilst on the staff or whilst he was adjutant. The
common or garden regimental officer —the man who
does the bulloeking in the field —never gets a chance
to acquire one. He lives too far away from the
office. The most decorated member of the A.I.F.
is, of course, “Birdy.” But the dinkum Anzac
who wears most is either Colonel Murray or Colonel
Wilder Neligan. Each left' Australia as an n.c.o.
The former has Y.C., bar to D. 5.0., D. 5.0., D.C.M,
.and Croix de Guerre; the latter has C.M.G., bar to
D. 5.0., D. 5.0., D.C.M., and Croix de Guerre. The
scarcest of the lot of medals i-s the bar to the
D.C.M., of which only 16 have been won; and you
can safely say each of these has been granted when
a V.C. has been recommended. The equivalent of
this in the case of an officer is the D.S.O. to a
lieutenant. Despite all this, judge not a man by
his ribbons. Many a red-liatted hero with a breast
full of ribbons has never heard a shot fired, and
•doesn't intend to.
* * • *
It begins to look as though Australia had
its leg well pulled lately; and it may be a
good thing that it had. Dr. Purser, who
stands so high professionally that he is vice-
; chancellor of Sydney University, writes,
now that the scare is over, that "all medical
men know there was a great increase in
the number of cases of epidemic influenza
in N. S. Wales during Sept., Oct. and
November especially, and the type of influ-
enza was more potent than probably since
the invasion of 1891, more severe complica-
tions occurring and many more deaths en-
sued.” Dr. Purser doesn’t say that all
the talk about “Spanish” ’flu’ having been
kept out was moonshine; but “examina-
tion of the sputum revealed exactly the same
germs [as those from the quarantine cases],
the germs staining in exactly the same man-
ner, and under the microscope were exactly
the same, and the culture growths were the
same.” Maybe, of course, the ’flu’ from
which a few people suffered and one or two
died at the Sydney quarantine station was
not “Spanish” ’flu’ either; and in that case
what was kept out was the thing that was
in alreadv.
* * * *
“Wealsman” from Hobart: —
Our first mob of Anzaes to return—about Armis-
tice Day—got a tremendous reception. The next
lot failed to excite quite so much enthusiasm, though
the bands played “Johnny Comes Marching”
and “Conquering Hero” as vigorously as ever and
the rose-leaves almost bogged the wheels of the
n.ctor-cars. The third lot got a very fair reception;
the fourth batch a middling one; the fifth crowd
and the sixth received a welcome in a slowly de-
scending scale of magnificence. The last lot billed ,
to arrive, owing to a bungle in the arrangements
for their embarkation in Melbourne, didn’t turn
up till two days later. Meantime, the indignant
reception committee had resigned as a protest
against military muddling, and a scratch team,
headed by the Mayor, was only prevailed upon to
welcome the incoming drove of Anzaes and wounded
men because some large person pointed out how hurt
poor B.illjim would be if the Mayor didn’t welcome
him home with a speech and a brass band and flags
and fuss. The scratch team did as well as could
be expected, and most of the citizens who stayed
away had the good manners to wave a flag or a
handkerchief or the old man’s shirt from an upstairs
window as the procession crawled by; so Billjim
was quite satisfied. He will probably feel just as
satisfied if the motors and the flowers and the
speeches are cut out altogether. Though none of
them appear to have so far expressed rude dis-
approval of the proceedings, it is easy to see that
most of them would prefer something less showy
and more substantial by way of a welcome home.
A good many of them would rather the Mayor or
an old cobber should meet them quietly at the end
of the train journey and hand them a steady job at
standard wages.
* * * *
“Gypo” : As an officer in the Australian
Naval Transport Service for close on three
years, I can speak with fair authority, and
I agree to a certain extent that the Diggers
have grievances. All the food troubles
originate in the stewards’ and storekeeper’s
department. These people are out for all they
can get, and if they see an opportunity to
make a few pounds by cutting down the
Digger’s rations and selling what they save,
they’ll do it. Here are a few examples of
what took place on a transport carrying 1500
troops:—■
0) When the men asked for more meat at the
mess they were informed that they’d had their share,
but on slipping round to the galley they found they
could get plates of meat at Is. a time.
(2) The hot fresh-water tap outside the galley
was padlocked and hot water (for shaving) sold
at 3d. per mug.
(3) Steak and chips were sold at night at Is. 3d.
per plate.
(4) Tins of jam and milk were sold on the quiet.
Then, again. Billjim invariably complains of
the differential treatment of himself and the
officers in the matter of liquor. It was the
lot of a certain 1200 Anzaes to be at sea
when news of the armistice rang out. Many
of the officers * were “three sheets in the
wind” not long after, while the Diggers
looked on from afar off and muttered, “Half
your luck !” Even if the men get the stuff
from “somewhere,” they are fleeced for it.
Transports should be made either wet or
dry; they certainly shouldn’t be wet for some
and dry for others.
LOOKING AHEAD.
“ Well, how do you like your new mother ?”
“Not too had. I hope the newt one is as good.”
One Billjim at least has an idea that they
carry the coupon business too far in Eng-
land. This romantic warrior, with his lady,
wandered into Hyde Park, where- —though
they didn’t know it —a charge is made for
the chairs. The lady perched on his knee.
Just as she had dropped her head on his
neck a harsh voice from the fog asked,
“Have you got your tickets?” “Cripes!” re-
plied the Digger. “D’you collect a tax on
this, too?”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Some of the biggest
Australian mistakes weren’t even original.
When Bartolome Perestrello set out to col-
onise the island of Espiritu Santo, shortly
before the discovery of the larger island of
Madeira, he took among other live stock a
female rabbit, which after a few days at
sea brought forth a family. This was hailed
by the Dagoes as an omen that the expedi-
tion would increase and multiply and wax
fat in the Land of Promise. The omen
panned out in a way. The rabbits increased
to such an extent that whatever the settlers
planted was eaten off as soon as it showed
above ground. At the end of two years
rabbits were “a pestilential and irremediable
plague” and the pioneers were starved out
and forced to abandon the island and return
to Portugal.
* * * *
“Hamer” : When London was standing on
its head over the signing of the armistice,
an elevated lady in Trafalgar-square gurgled
joyfully into a Digger’s ear: “Ah, well,
peash only comes once a year.”
* * * *
“Gouger”: Two days after the battle of
Bir-el-Abd our regiment was watering its
horses at one of the small oases about 12
miles from the battlefield, when someone
called my attention to a riderless horse,
saddle on and bridle dangling, coming across
the desert. The poor beast must have
smelt the water, for he stopped, pricked his
ears, and, catching sight of our thirsty
horses pressing eagerly around the well,
neighed shrilly, and came across the sand at
full gallop. He dashed among a group of
horses, knocked one man backwards down
the shallow hole, and thrust his nose in a
canvas bucket of water that one of the boys
was holding out for his own horses. It took
14 buckets of water before we could get any
control over the thirst-maddened animal,
which, by this time, had been recognised as
belonging to one of the men- missing since
the battle. There was dried blood all over
the saddle, and big patches of dried blood
down the horse’s neck, showing that a despe-
rately wounded man had clung there. “I’ll
take the poor beggar back to camp and give
him a feed,” said one of the lads. He mounted
his horse, and catching hold of the riderless
horse’s bridle rein, tried to lead him towards
the camp. But the horse was of another
mind. Ha walked very slowly, continually
looking around the way he had come, and
whinnying. Finally he stopped altogether.
The man leading him, getting impatient,
jerked the bridle. The horse reared, the
bridle fell, and off went the charger at a
tearing gallop the way he had come. Sev-
eral men went after him, but it turned out to
be a 10-mile ride before he stopped. When
they caught up, the waler was standing
quite still beside his rider. The man was
GREEDY PIG.
DOLL : “Why did you break off your engage-
ment until Boh ?”
MOLL: “He said I wanted the earth and he
really couldn't spare it all."
lying face downward in the burning sand,
shot through both lungs. He was not quite
dead, but went west before the ambulance
sand-cart could get him into a dressing-
station. That’s why the boys shoot their
horses rather than sec them sold into slavery.
(Continued on page IS.)
SUMMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nt>w in her latest frock of golden hue,
Bedecked with filmy frolic of love-lace
And looped with laughter, Summer flaunts her
grace,
Her eyes mischievous melodies of blue.
Her fragrant hair with many a starshine pin
And clasp of sunlight doth the fair jade bind
To poets prating passion down the wind,
What time She lures churchwardens into sin.
Behind her flirted fan of whisp’ring trees
She sits and slyly ogles you and me,
Here where we watch the wide smile of the sea
And' dodge the moisture of the surf’s salt sneeze.
Within the scented hush of this deep shade
How might we rest and let the world slip by—
A' murm’rous dream beneath the glow-lit sky—
Were Summer your sole chaperon, sweet maid !
N.S.W.
HELEN BURKE.


I#
r%
4!
mm
•mmm
/
. md
'
mm
■
/
/ I
* *v
:
A
/ :,-
\
A GREAT SCOOP.
BARNET GLASS TYRES
AGAIN PROVE UNBEATABLE.
Sydney-Melbourne (680 Miles) Motor Cycle Reliability Trial
December 26 to December 30, 1918.
RIDERS OUT OF THE
TO SCORE FULL POINTS
E. Tyler—7 h.p. Indian (Side-Car)
V. R. BlacKett — 3)4 h.p, Zenith (Solo)
The Only Solo Rider to Finish and Score FULL POINTS
A WONDERFUL PERFORMANCE
RODE
BARNET GLASS TYRES.
Brisbane-Sydney Motor Cycle Record
Established January 1, 1919, by
Mr. F. Berry (7-h.p. Harley-Davidson (Side Car)
725 Miles in 31brs. 57mins.
on
Barnet Glass Boomerang' Tyres
Sellicks Beach. S. Australia
“Boomerang” Cup Meeting, 31st Dec.
S. Ferguson (8-Valve Indian) covered
1 mile in 38 seconds
AN AVERAGE OF 94 MILES AN HOUR (ELECTRICALLY TIMED) ON
BARNET GLASS TYRES.
As in all other contests of reliability
of roads—BARNET GLASS TYRES
and endurance—over bush tracks, hills and the worst condition
again proved their undoubted Superiority over all other makes.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED,
Founders of the Rubber Industry of Australasia . ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND


NURSE DUGGAN.
Nurse Duggan, of 195 Cowper Street, Waverley, writes that
Clements Tonic is a remarkable medicine for convalescent people.
•CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
am sending you permission to use and advertise as you wish my thanks to Clements Tonic.
My daughter was taking it for some time, and it improved her nerves so much that I recommend it to
any of my patients or friends.
I have been nursing for the past 13 years, and had an extensive practice in South Africa (Johannesburg)
and am professionally known in nursing circles to-day in Sydney. I have a very great and good opinion of your
“Yours faithfully,
medicine.
This letter is but one of hundreds. This medicine gives new stomach strength,
appetite, regular bowel action, good rest and health, and new strength after Dengue
or Typhoid Fever, Operations or Wasting Illness.
All Chemists and Stores sell it in Australia and New Zealand.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
GET IT TO-DAY.
“Bully Beef”: Every “picture” yarn that
deals with the Western Front fails to con-
vince in important particulars. In “The
Heart of the World” there is gas, but no
gas-masks. With gas coming over in clouds
the Highland piper stands blowing into his
dreadful instrument on the parapet. The
battalion goes over the top without masks;
and the batteries shoot without masks. In
real warfare xro one is allowed to be a min-
ute in or near a front-line trench without
carrying his respirator at “the alert” — i.e.,
under his chin and ready to be dashed on
at a second’s notice. Even the Australian
newspaper men who made a dash or two
to the Front (or thereabouts) had, immedi-
ately on landing in France, to go through
gas-drill at Boulogne; and their masks were
part of them till they left Boulogne again.
In the newest Chaplin film there is one mask,
and Charlie has it. But even that one is a
conti’ivance on the lines of the “P. 8.,” which
went out of date early in 191 S. In no pic-
ture that I have seen is there anything re-
sembling a real shell-hole. “The Heart of
the World” had one shell-hole, but it had
obviously been constructed with a spade.
The Chaplin fake has none. The notable
feature of all the town and village scenes, in
all the films, is the absence of devotional
pictures and crucifixes. In France, and even
more so in Belgium, it is practically impos-
sible to find a room without half a dozen pic-
tures of the Saviour and two or three cruci-
fixes.
* » * *
Most drivers of vehicles carry lights at
night for their own protection’ because there
is no knowing when an excited horse or a
depraved motor- may come along and spill
them into the gutter; but as a certain per-
centage. of every generation are born idiots,
Parliaments have passed laws ordering
lights to he carried between certain hours.
In Victoria the local statesmen passed on
the administration of the Act to Bumble,
told him he could pay a constable not more
than £25 a year out of the rates to see that
the regulations were carried out, and then
disconnected themselves from the matter.
The other day a Niinawading (Vic.) woman
lost her life indirectly through a cyclist rid-
ing without a light, and then it was discov-
ered that nobody need carry any illumina-
tion in Nunawading unless he felt so dis-
posed, there being nobody to see that he did it.
The shire council had offered the local John
Hop Is. 2d. a week for the work, but he
wasn’t agreeable; he was afraid it looked
like profiteering in war-time. So Bumble-
dom just didn’t bother, and the woman is
dead and the cyclist is next door to it and
the motor-bike and rider he ran into are
smashed. But the council saved its one-and-
tuppence
HER HEART WAS IN HER WORK.
OLD THING: “It is gratifying to find all of
you young ladies still persisting with a
cheerful heart in your efforts to drive the
war on to a perfectly satisfactory con-
clusion"
YOUNG THING: “Oh, I just love my bit!
I’ve seven fiances in Palestine and twelve
in France, and if the war hadn’t fizzled
out till Easter I’d have made up the
two dozen."
“Phoongyee”: We were pushing up into
German East Africa. There were no stripes
available when Briggs was promoted cor-
poral, so he marked his tunic with two
thick indelible-pencil stripes. “Wetting
them” that evening it became necessary to
pinch him at 11 p.m. He spent the rest
of the night in the digger and the o.c.
disrated him in the morning. Water
HOUSE KEEPING AU FAIT.
LITTLE PET: “Halloa, Gertie, hear you’ve been housekeeping while your mother was
away! How d’you get on?”
SOMEBODY DARLING: “Oh, ripping! This new’s hat’s butter, and a pair of new shoes
were eggs, and these stockings went down as vegetables!”
wouldn’t remove the emblems of office, how-
ever, and it wouldn’t do at all for a private
to be running round as a corporal (salute) ;
so he wrote across the offending chevrons
"Cancelled” and carried on.
* * * *
“Gouger”: A quaint wedding took place
on the Daintree River lately. The bride had
been a widow for 20-odd years, living by her-
self in one of the loneliest
parts of N.Q., her nearest
neighbors a couple of white
men across the river, half a
dozen aged kanakas, a tur-
bulent tribe of blacks and
the alligators which bathe in
the river and devour the
lady’s goats. The parson
was transported all the way
from Cooktown in a ketch,
which also carried the bridal
gowm. Owing to no meas-
urements being given, or the
fashions or the lady’s waist-
line changing in
the last quarter-
century. the frock
wouldn’t fit at all-
The bride groom
had to be hulloed
for across the
river, and he
finally put in an
appearance in his
working flannel,
cossack boots and
Sunday whiskers.
When the parson
mildly suggested
that he should wear
a coat, it was dis-
covered that he
didn’t own one. “Anyhow,” he said,
"she don’t want to marry the coat.”
* * * *
“Haka”: In connection with the rumpus
at the Wanganui (M.L.) Detention Bar-
racks, the Commissioner in his report says:
“I have been able to discover little or no
exaggeration in the statements' of the prison-
ers, and as far as I have been able to check
them, they are fair and truthful.” To
which he adds: “On the other hand, I am
satisfied that many of the statements made
to me by members of the barracks staff were
untrue.” The Wanganui Detention Bar-
racks was the destination for Maoriland’s
conscientious objectors, and here is the kul-
tur treatment meted out by a staff that has
since been swept off the premises:—
A weighted pack was put on a prisoner’s back and
a rifle fastened to his side by means of handcuffs and
cord, one handcuff being attached to the sto.k of
the rifle, and the other to the prisoner s wrist The
barrel was secured to his shoulder by a cord. If
he was in uniform the barrel was passed through
the shoulder straps. Prisoner was then ordered to
inarch and if he refused he was pushed from behind
and dragged along by the arms around the yard
When he came to a corner he was given a push
which caused him to bump against a wall of tin so
that he landed head first. At times he was given
a punch, thumped on the back and neck, his heels
trodden on, and in some cases the boot was put in. In
one case a rope was used to drag a prisoner around
the yard, while In two instances prisoners were
escorted around by the hair of the head.
The inquiry was ordered last June, and the
report was laid before Parliament _on
Dec. 5, in nice time to avoid a discussion.
But the scandal should not be permitted to
be snowed under. The w’orst _ feature of
nearly all such “punishments” is that they
are class outrages, just as the “cat” is. You
never see a rich or socially well-placed man
given the “cat”; nor do you see his son
escorted around by the hair of the head.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.” : In the old Melbourne Cemetery,
which it is proposed should be resumed for
market purposes, is a stone
to the memory of James Jack-
son, of Toorak, who died at
sea in 1850 at the age of 47.
Although he died so young he
was Melbourne’s greatest mer-
chant of his time. His house
at Toorak, or rather the house
which he built when his cir-
cumstances justified it, and
which he did not live to en-
joy, was long the finest in the
place and served for years as
the Governor’s residence.
Hotham, Barkly. Darling and
Canterbury (earlier known as
Manners-Sutton) all lived
there. Before the gold fever
had attained its height a
prominent trader had leased
it from the widow Jackson at
£3OO per annum. In the
middle of the lease, a demand
suddenly arising in 1854 for a
hohse for Govei-nor Hotham.
the place was sub-let at
£lO,OOO a year!
“Trevallyn” writes a page of history :
The many are wrong who think that the flag of
the Southern Cross was first flown by the defenders
of the Eureka Stockade in 1854. It had been
hoisted three years before that—on February 1, 1851,
by the Australasian League.
This League was the idea of the Rev. J. West,
of Launceston, who afterwards wrote what is still
the best history of Tasmania. Its objects were to
bring about a federation of all the anti-transportation
leagues scattered about the colonies, and to work
for union under the Grown. The League’s motto
was “The Australians are one.” The five stars stood
for N. S. Wales (Queensland was still unseparated),
Victoria (which was just about to be separated),
South Aus., Tasmania and Maoriland. The Swan
River settlement was at the time almost deserted.
Tasmania was in a ferment owing to the landing
of the Neptune’s convicts after the Cape Town people
had refused them. After a conference of the Tas-
manian leagues, the Launceston branch was em-
powered to arrange an inter-State conference to draw
up a covenant. The Tasmanian delegates were Jas.
West and J. P. Weston. The covenant hound the
subscribers to have nothing to do with convict labor
and to use all their powers to stop transportation
to any part of the Australian colonies.
They drew up addresses to their fellow-colonists
and to Great Britain. That to Great Britain said:
“We address words of supplication, not of threaten-
ing. A few short years, and that which is now a
grievance will grow into a quarrel. By instant con-
cession, an act of justice will become a monument
of the Imperial clemency. But these colonies are
solemnly pledged each to the other by their mutual
interests, their future destinies, their fellowship of
weal and woe, and now by their League and Solemn
Engagement, to achieve the freedom of their com-
mon country.”
At a meeting of the Victorian Association held
on February 1, 1857, the covenant was signed by
the Tas. delegates and by Wm. Nicholson, Wm.
Westgarth, M.L.C., and Montgomery Bell, alderman,
and then a banner was unfurled. The Southern
Cross was on a blue ground; the Union Jack was
in the corner. The whole was bordered with white,
the date being added in letters of gold.
When the Tasmanian delegates left' for home
they were presented with a banner, bought by
general subscription, as a present to Tasmania.
The Mayor, in presenting it, said: “Gentlemen, I
pray you to receive it in the name of the people of
Port Phillip. May it remain nailed to the mast
until these colonies are emancipated from convict-
ism.”
The Tasmanian delegates returned from the con-
ference by the Swift. The banner which was pre-
sented to them was flying at the masthead, and
was afterwards carried round the town. Later,
it was presented, along with a silver casket of
sovereigns, to Henry Dowhy, a Launceston bookseller,
for the part he took in the anti-transportation agita-
tion. His son, Wm. Dowhy, a few years ago pre-
sented the banner to the Victoria Museum, Laun-
ceston.
Captain Bell, of the Raven, was the first to carry
the flag at sea—the ancestor, so to speak, of the
flag which the Australia flew at her jackstaff when
she headed one of the lines and took charge of the
battle-cruiser Hindenberg at the surrender of the
German Fleet.
One of the toughest handfuls that the
Sydney police have had to juggle with for
some time was a member of the crew of
the Huddart-Parker steamer Zealandia, who
raised Cain in the Government shipping-
office because a bonus which he expected
was not forthcoming. He introduced him-
self as a Liverpool Irishman, and the
language with which he did it would have
melted, down an asbestos tank. Two athletic
AND HE WAS A SWEET-TOOTH!
“I suppose you found the English girls
sweet?"
“ No-o-o. Only substitutes for sugar in
Blighty, you know!"
Hops started to put him off the premises,
and there and then commenced such a scrap
as happens only once in a leap-year.
The Liverpool Paddy kicked —anywhere and
everywhere—butted, wrestled, punched ana
put in the deadly knee-jolt. All of which
was not new to the Hops, but when the
animal buried his teeth in one of the Joans
insteps and tore from his boot three of the
brass lace-cyelets they reckoned that they
had run against the limit. Six months was
the reward.
SLEEPLESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last night I could not sleep.
The trailing hours went by.
Oft-tirne my eyes would weep
A nervous lullaby.
Darkness and dawn the . same—
I churned Life’s praise and blame—
And then....
Thank God, the milkman came.
N.S.W.
BILLY. B.


WILL PRICES DROP FOR 1919?
THe Cooper
“ Ideal **
One-stand Shearing plant.
Fitted with 1-h.p. low-speed,
heavy-duty engine, grinder,
and all extras. Price £4O.
Cooper Improved
Overhead Belt-
driven Machine.
Can be supplied in any num-
ber of stands.
The Cooper
“Little Giant
Pumping Plant.
Fitted with high-grade 2-
b.h.p. engine and all-metal
pump jack. Will pump water
600 ft. high. Price £47/10/-
During the past few weeks we have received inquiries from our clients
and agents throughout Australia regarding the above possibility. We
also find a general feeling among the public that a big drop in prices
is possible for 1919.
We Take this Opportunity
of Advising You of the
Exact Situation.
Machinery and metal goods are not manufactured by magic. Any goods
available for delivery this year were already in the course of manufac-
ture, or the raw material for same purchased when hostilities ceased.
These goods, when placed on the market, will cost more than deliveries
six months ago.
Again, stocks of machinery have been -extremely short throughout
the world for some time past. Manufacturers the world over are
scrambling for raw material to supply the above shortage. As a con-
sequence, the metal market, since hostilities ceased, has advanced
instead of declining.
We hope lower freights in the near future will enable us to keep our
prices at present figures, but other Cooper branches throughout the
world are calling for stocks of Cooper machinery, and it will be diffi-
cult to supply all.
A WORD to THE WISE IS SUFFICIENT.
If you contemplate purchasing shearing machinery, oil-engines, pump-
ing plants or spraying outfits this year, now is the time to place your
order, not only to protect yourself on the price, but to insure prompt
delivery.
MACHINERY
is known throughout every corner of the globe for its sterling qualities
of construction, long life and unusual economy in upkeep.
We illustrate herewith a few Cooper plants which are household words
throughout Australia. Others can be supplied of any size or type to
suit your requirements. If you have sheep to shear, crutch or spray,
water to pump, or any work whatsoever requiring an oil-engine, write us
now, and let us send you a catalog with price and full particulars of
an outfit to suit your requirements.
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.
129 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
CLARK & FAUSET LTD., Brisbane, Queensland.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO., Rockhampton, Queensland.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & M.A. CO., LTD., Hughenden, Rockhampton and
Townsville, Queensland.
G. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & Co., Perth, W.A.
AUSTRALASIAN I. & H. F. CO., Adelaide, S.A.
W. HART & SONS, Launceston, Tasmania.
BUCHANAN, DAVIDSON LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
Cooper Air-cooled
Handpiece
(as fitted to all Cooper Machines).
“The Demand” in old and new sheds alike throughout Australia.
This handpiece stands on its own for cool, light running and constant, straight-
ahead work in all classess of wool. It requires very little experting and holds
the world’s record for number of sheep shorn before requiring repairs.
Pits any make of overhead gear. Hundreds of sheds where other makes of
machines were installed in past years have lately fitted their plants with the
Cooper Air-cooled Handpiece. They have saved the cost the first season.
Write us for full particulars.
THe Cooper
‘Little Wonder.”
A complete 2-stand shear-
ing or crutching plant, com-
prising 2-b.h.p. water-cooled
engine, 2 complete stands of
shearing-machines, grinder,
and all extras, all mounted
on a good, strong hand-
lorry. Price: Portable, £75.
Stationary, £65.
The Cooper
“ Big Gun ”
Two-stand Shearing Plant.
Pitted with 3-b.h.p. heavy-
duty engine, 2 stands of
shearing-machines, grinder
and all extras. Price; Port-
able, £95. Stationary, £B5.
The Cooper
Spray Plant
Comprises a 2-b.h.p, engine,
a Cooper Duplex Pump,
heavy galvanised-iron spray-
tank and all extras, ready for
work. Price complete, £BO,
Can also be supplied with
two stands of shearing
machines if required.
Cooper Standard
Vertical
Oil Engine.
Made in all sizes. Especially
constructed for farm work.


“A GEM OF A PIE”
. PO','l')^,
AO 57
is what you will say when you taste the
pastry in which
IRELAND’S
BAKING POWDER
has been used. It will be the connoisseur’s
pastry—pastry that fairly melts in your
mouth. It will be the commencement of a
new era in pastry-baking once the housewife
commences to use it, for all the bakings will be of the same uniformly high
standard- —the crust will be light and flaky and the pastry perfectly
cooked and easily digested.
And the same good results obtained in Pastry are yours also in
Scones, Cakes, Biscuits, etc-, while you stick to Ireland’s.
Insist on your grocer bringing it to you. Sold everywhere.
J. Ireland Ltd. — ——Newcastle
The Brand and the
Texture, both protect you#
6*
nderwear
Is British through and through—the
Brand protects you against inferior
German-made goods.
New “Olympic” Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton —bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. 'Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers:
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 66 <f>
POLITICAL
POINTS
Senator Pearce is like a bad egg that is
broken to the public by degrees. First he
wasn’t going; Senator Millen, the man who
thinks that new manufacturing industries
are unnecessary,' regarded it as an insult
when another Senator asked him if Pearce
was going after Watt had said he never
heard of him going. Then he was going.
Then # his secretary was also going—at the
public expense, of course. Then his whole
family was going at the public expense, but
the idea that the family’s hotel bills and
pocket money in England would be charged
to the community was scoffed at as an out-
rage, just like the original report that
Pearce was going. By-and-bye it may be
found that Australia pays for everything,
including the trousseau and dowry of any
Pearce who gets married during the trip.
Wonderful how much depends on the way
things are put. It is proudly announced
that £lO,OOO a year is to be saved by doing
away with superfluous forms and documents
in Pearce’s Defence Department. In other
words, it is Found that Pearce’s oflice has
been wasting £lO,OOO a year. That amount
is to be saved by ceasing to waste it, just as
Herod increased the birth-rate by not mas-
sacring any more infants.
BACCHUS GOES TO THE DENTIST.
An inter-State conference of brewers’ associations
will be held in Melbourne to consider the proposal
for the reduction of the strength of alcoholic
liquors.—SUN.
The revenue of N. S. Wales was £1,694,921
more for the past six months than for the
corresponding period of 1917. In other
words, thanks to increased taxes and rail
and tram fares, the revenue has jumped
£3,389,842 per year. Yet the Ma community
still can’t, it seems, under the Holman
regime, build a yard of railway without bor-
rowing the money at 5$ per cent. Is thi|re
a curse on the State, or is there, a curse on
Holman, or is Holman a curse himself? Or
is the alleged revenue really a ln
fact, is there any such place as N. S. Wales t
A country where the alleged revenue doubles
and trebles in a handful of years, and which
is less able to pay for its own shirt or its
drain the more the income grows, must
be one of those places that ghosts come
from.
This is what the Age, hotfoot after
economy, didn’t print:—•
Although Sir Arthur Stanley has several months
of his extended term as Governor of Victoria yet to
serve, the question of his successor is being discussed
in certain quarters. It is considered probable,
however, that, in view of the known public feeling
against importing any more sub-Excelleneies, the
insistent demand for economy in administration, the
continued ignoring of promises made when Federa-
tion was accomplished, and the shrieking absurdity
of a small handful of people maintaining seven
Governors, the Imperial Government will decline to
any longer placate its supporters or its too-strenuous
opponents with Australian Governorships.
What it did print was same piffle about
Birdwood, lan Hamilton or somebody.
The usual answer was given last week
that the importing business can’t be inter-
fered with for the sake of any mere dashed
Australian industry. Frames for travelling
bags are on the free list, like almost every-
thing else, but when the war stopped im-
portations a local industry started. Now
the new inrush of frames made by cheap
labor in protected Japan has shut the transi-
ent business up. Being spoken to about a
duty, the Watt Ministry opined that
the new source of employment might well
be silent. The Vay it put the thing was
that it “regi’etted” a
duty couldn’t be im-
posed. But as a duty
could be imposed
people take leave to
doubt that the Gov-
ernment regretted. An
idea is growing that
when an Australian
factory closes up the
perverted gang is
rather glad.
A. W.
LOONE,
M.L.C.,
Anti-shouting
champion of
Tasmania.
President Wilson., being a past-master in
beautifully deceptive argument, professes to
have discovered a way of checking Bol-
shevism :
Bolshevism is steadily advancing westward. It
cannot be stopped by force, but it can by food.
As a matter of fact, Bolshevism is the doc-
trine of well-fed agitators, who mostly re-
present rascality directing ignorance in the
way it shouldn’t go. In any case the Presi-
dent is ignoring the report, published not
long ago, of his own Committee on Public
Information: —
'The present Bolshevik Government is not a
Russian Government at all, but a German Govern-
ment acting solely in the interests of Germany,
and betraying the Russian people as it betrays
Russia’s natural Allies for the benefit _ of the Im-
perial German Government and its allies.
Stop it by food! Is Bolshevism in Australia
short of tucker?
From a gallery man: — •
Pearce’s “nerve” in going to England is nor
so remarkable when one considers that he has the
almost unanimous support of the Cabinet. He
is being despatched because he is no longer
tolerable to the Liberal wing; and even his
old Labor colleagues in the Government are rather
tired of Hughes’s demand for Pearee-at-any-price,
especially as it has been productive of so much
rancor and bitterness. If a few steamer fares
are the price that the Government has to pay
for a little respite, then Watt and Co. are willing
to pay and stand all the clamor that the scandal
involves. It is a dirty business all through; but
the worried Watt, who is doing three men’s work,
can be forgiven if he takes advantage of a position
which relieves him of a political incubus. Inci-
dentally Watt and his Liberal colleagues will next
quietly consider whether they can’t send Webster
to inspect the American silkworm industry.
Australia dug out about £5,427,033 worth
of gold last year—say £750,000 less than in
1917, and £1,650,000 less than in 1916,
and £8,500,000 less than in 1901. It
is estimated that a subsidy of 20s. per ounce
is required to arrest the decline of this
wonderful natural industry, which would
amount to £1,276,949 oil lhst year’s output.
This means that more than the whole tin
crop, or about tworthirds of the potato crop,
or twice the baby crop (officially valued at
£5 per infant) is asked for to pay for get-
ting out the gold crop. Is the time coming
when the natural resources of the country
must live by taking in each other’s washing?
Bricks are being flung at the Australian
manufacturer because during the war he
did some profiteering. But if he took big
profits he had this excuse—he didn t know
how soon the war would end and dumping
begin; and when that happened he
knew that, without a tariff, his often-costly
plant, etc., would most likely be scrap. Had
the Government given him the more or less
permanent protection of a tariff, he could
have supplied goods at a much lower price ,
and still been better off.
If the ’bus waited 50 years some people
would still miss it. For lack of shipping
Australia missed the best market that ever
was for its wheat, and lost hundreds of
thousands of bushels into the bargain. It
missed the best market that ever was for
munitions, while Canada caught it and
made millions. Only when the end was in sight
did Australia start ship-building; and now
naturally the Commonwealth Government
finds that it will pay handsomely to cancel
the ’bus-missing contracts and buy steel
ships. But if it doesn’t have those steel
ships made in Australia, so that the in-
dustry may be kept on the premises, then
Australia will be' just as badly off when
the next trouble comes. Of course there
may never be another trouble. But it is
just as well to remember that every great
war has always been the last one.
It is a good rule after a war to make
haste with the peace. At the first Congress
of Vienna in 1814 the diplomats had just
begun to reach for each other’s hair and
ears when Napoleon’s return from Elba
averted a most unholy scrap ; and just now
the Jugo-Slav State and Italy are barely on
speaking terms, because of a strip of Dal-
matian territory. Serbia and Italy both
fought Austria for the recovery of the strip,
and Serbia claims it on the plea that it
fought longest, suffered most, and represents
the bulk of the people. But at the moment
Serbia’s prospects don’t look very good. The
profoundly well-meaning but unpractised
Wilson has been to Italy and has been im-
pressed with the Italian side of the case, and
also by the architecture of Venice and its
gondolas. Serbia, on the other hand, has
very little architecture left and never had a
gondola, and Wilson hasn’t been there.
The Speck Parliament recently concluded
has had a unique history. It witnessed the
expulsion of a section of the Press from the
Gallery; the deposition of Labor-leader
Earle; the resignation of Senator Ready
and Earle’s substitution; the expulsion of
Dicker from a Committee and a resolution
condemning some action of his; a fight in
the lobby between two members; and a
joint sitting to elect a Senator in place of
Long. In addition it has seen the abolition
of Sergeant-at-Arms as a separate office ; an
accusation of attempted bribery against a
Minister which involved a Commission ; and
two other Commissions in consequence of
Parliamentary discussions involving serious
charges; while the House of Dodery in its
ultra-wisdom solemnly condemned the Pre-
mier for a statement of his in “another
place.” The Parliament has also lived
through a number of resignations and a
death —Earle, Woods, Watkins and Howroyd
were lost by resignation and Burgess by
death. Each new Assembly has, on an
average, five new members. This time there
are likely to be more. Soldier candidates
promise to be a conspicuous feature of the
elections when they happen—probably in
May.
Randolph Bedford in Ryan’s defence: —
A mean mind attacks Premier Ryan (B. 16/1/T9)
because “potatoes are dearer in Brisbane than they
have been for 30 years,” and proceeds: “Ryan has
cheap meat to his credit (it happened that the State
had a superabundance qf beef) ; but when it comes
to cheap anything else ihe seems much the same as
the rest.” Queensland Ihas cheap meat because the
Government not only has State shops, but keeps the
price of cattle down by the ownership of cattle. Cab-
bages have been 15s. a dozen wholesale in Brisbane;
but the Government doesn’t own cabbage gardens.
The fact remains that the Government has cheapened
all the public utilities it is responsible for initiating.
Despite even the tinkering of the State Produce-
agency Bill by the House of Zifs, it has made the
handcuffed and leg-ironed agency a new dividend to
the producers. Same issue of The B. speaks of recent
prebate-duty legislation as “catch-penny devices
which don’t pay much.” It may be a catchpenny
device, but it also catches an estate held by an
absentee millionaire which otherwise would have paid
nothing.
Webster, the Heaven-sent P.M.G., has
come to the defence of Pearce and his trip
to England. Hughes and Cook are in
Europe; but “they have more than enough
to tax their maximum energy and capacity.”
And as for Monash, “I say respectfully that
the military cannot be expected to grasp
other than the military side.” Well, even if
there is a civil side that Monash, the engi-
neer, can’t attend to as well as Pearce, the
carpenter, what is Andrew Fisher in Lon-
don for?
The public begins to learn how hale sol-
diers are treated on Australian transports.
Sick soldiers have been treated in just the
same or a worse way for two years past:
but the Censorship kept the public from
knowing anything about it. No wonder the
responsible politicians and some other people
are hanging on to as much censorship as
they can with all their claws.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRY.
If Australia continues borrowing for development
she will be forced to seek new fields for capital,
and will naturally turn to America, where the
world’s surplus will be available. —Beeby in U.S.A.
B EEBY: “Well, good-bye; glad to see you
so busy in there. If you've a few spare
millions, remember there are plenty
more of us boys who could do with a
little trip.”
As. an excuse for demanding a standard
wage of £5 a week for 40 hours’ work P. J.
Smith, Federated Builders’ Laborers’ secre-
tary, states that, “as many workers will be
returning from the Front, a reduction in
hours is required to enable them to be
absorbed.” But why doesn’t Smith follow
out his proposition? To absorb still more
and more “surplus” labor, the hours might
be reduced to 30, then to 20, then to 10.
Ori the other hand, Smith and his friends
might try a Protective tariff. Then employ-
ment at interesting work at high wages
would be so plentiful that nobody would
take on monotonous hod-carrying at 2s. 6d.
an hour, and these professors would be
able to insist on 3s. an hour for 36 hours
without creating an overflow of brick-shift-
ers waiting to be “absorbed.”
Still the same old centralising policy! N.
S. Wales Taxation Department is notifying
all and sundry that “income-tax stamps,”
from half a crown to a pound, are on sale
“at the State Treasury, the office of the
State Commissioner of Taxation, the Head
Office of the Government Savings Bank and
at the Oxford-street and Haymarket
branches.” The real object of the stamps,
of course, is to get in the money before it is
due; but even for such a thing as that equal
facilities might be given to country people.
There is no reason why all branches of the
Government Savings Bank shouldn’t be used
for the purpose.
As the French Revolution progressed
leaders who hadn’t kept pace were- propelled
swiftly out of the front door and bumped
their heads on the pavement—men like
Desmoulins, Philippe Egalite, Danton
Vergniaud, Fabre d’Eglantine and many
more. In the Russian revolution, new as it
is, the first and second crowd have already
disappeared, and the latest crowd is busy
disqualifying each other. And in the brand-
new German revolt the second lot is even
now fighting the first lot with a third lot
pushing behind. As for the Australian re-
volution, it moves so fast (on paper) that
there is a fair chance of its Robespierre or
Trotsky being hanged, in effigy, before the
first shot is fired. Even Ryan, of Queens-
land, doesn’t look Quite the demigod he was
a few weeks ago. Before he gets back from
England this time they may even knight
him.
ONE BIG JOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There is a time coming,” said one of the speakers,
“when we shall require every policeman on our side.”
The firemen, too, were also to be recruited, for “even
under our system there may be fires,” another
interjected naively. —Report of One Big Union Con-
ference.
Out upon arbitration! This is plain:
The boss is only always out to rob;
And we shall organise and vote in vain
Until we smash the man who finds the job.
He thought out ways to make the wheels go round.
Out on such thinking! Out on all who strive
By paying twenty shillings in the pound
To keep the old, bad scheme of toil alive!
Bring the policeman in ! Arrest the cash!
Show them the stocking on the other leg!
By simple universal biff and bash
We kill the goose that lays the golden egg.
Let it be slain ! There will be cash enough
For one great pay-day in the coming years.
Well, let us have it. ’Tis the final bluff;
Then let the scheme dissolve in tears and beers.
Ho ! Bring the fireman 1 Things may take a turn
Not quite so pleasant when the food runs short;
And hungry crowds at last may want to burn
The One Big Unionists who spoiled the sport.
Keep the hose handy! Pour it on the mob
That through our talking would not pause to see
The truth that taking up the One Big Job
Was the sole road to Labor victory 1
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


WhatdsEthe^=>
=SecretMoflthe
COMPANY’S
u
z
LU
World Wide ;
I Success?
BRISBANE
BRANCH
PERTH
AGENCY
SYDNEY
BRANCH
FRANCE
ADELAIDE
BRANCH
riELBOURN
BRANCH
• "v
AUNCESTON
Fa^hcy
HOBAR
Erie
AMERICA
\S~i
? RUSSIA ,
m
AUSTRALIA
Here are Some Reasons!
HE PIANOLA COMPANY is the largest manufacturer of musical
instruments in the world. To-day it dominates the music business
of the world. In all countries the Pianola Branch establish=
ments are the leading music houses, and in Australia
it is the one piano house with big branch organisations
in the four principal Capitals with hundreds of employees.
This success has been mainly built up through the tremendous sale which
the wonderful Pianola, which has become a household word the world over, enjoys,
and which instrument has contributed to the musical enjoyment of millions of
music-lovers.
The latest model 88=note full scale Pianola, found in the Steinway,
Weber, Steck, Stroud, Aeolian and Farrand Pianos, represents an array of
instruments of the highest quality, offering an unequalled range for selection, and
the fact that prices are moderate from manufacturer to consumer has been a big
feature in the Company’s success. These beautiful Pianola Pianos represent the
result of years of experimental work commencing with the old type of cabinet player,
and evolved from that model to the present high standard by clever men who have
invented and NOT IMITATED. The Pianolo Company was the first big
house to recognise the advantage of a Pianola action and Piano combined in
one case, and pioneered the trail which has been followed by hundreds of
imitators.
The Pianola Piano contains patents representing extremely clever devices
for rendering music with the highest musical expression that can never be
approached by others, and the difference between THE ONLY PIANOLA
PIANO and a Player Piano of other make claiming to do what the great and
world-renowned Pianola accomplishes is so marked that it led an enthusiastic
Pianola owner on one occasion to remark: “The Pianola Pianos are like the
Battleships of the British Navy. When new ideas come along your Company
is always the first to adopt them, and I notice you do not hesitate to
eliminate all unnecessary and non-useful cheap devices and displays which
may attract an unthinking public. Keep going as you are, and, like the
British Navy, rule supreme; so will the Pianola out-distance all competitors
and imitators.”
THE PIANOLA COMPANY m. ltd.
“The Largest Manufacturers of Musical
Instruments in the World.”
CUT OUT THIS COUPON AND POST.
VALUATION COUPON.
My present mono is a Bought in {date)
........ Kindly let me know how much you
would allow on this instrument towards the pur-
chase of a Pianola Piano, sending me, c*t the same
time, complete catalogues of these instruments.
A 7 am e
Address
384 George Street
SYDNEY.
252 Collins Street
MELBOURNE.
436 Queen Street
BRISBANE.
Cr. Gawler Place
and Rundle Street
ADELAIDE.
irara
inn
w
Su m
A
?•-
m
ML
'W4S
/Srf «,
a *
□a*
chh
QBE


SAYS PHOSPHATE DOUBLES
STRENGTH AND HEALTH.
Numerous notices have appeared in the
Press from time to time telling of the re-
markable benefits to be derived from the
regular use of bitro-phosphate instead of
drugs and medicines. Investigation shows
that bitro-phosphate, which is obtainable of
any good chemist, enjoys its great popu-
larity because of its peculiarly valuable
property of quickly restoring the strength
and vitality of the depleted nervous system.
Neurasthenia, nervousness, sleeplessness
and physical and mental weakness are
almost invariably due to a starved nervous
system. This condition can only be cor-
rected by supplying to the nerve centres
the necessary phosphoric food elements, the
lack of which has caused all the trouble.
For this purpose specialists almost invari-
ably prescribe taking with each meal a
tasteless o-grain tablet of bitro-phosphate,
which, while being inexpensive, is un-
doubtedly the most remarkable nerve-builder
and restorative of health and strength
known to medical science.— Advt.
LDID
Water Lifted 500 ft.,
Pumped a Mile,
at a cost of about id. per hour.
OUR FARM PUMP
ENGINE will do this as
well as cut chaff, saw
wood, work shearing-
machines, etc.. It can be
attached to a windmill of
almost any pump in three
minutes. Needs no mechanic
to fix or operate, and
works all day without
attention. Hundreds sold
and giving satisfaction.
£lO DOWN, BALANCE VERY EASY.
If interested in water supply or irrigation
state your working conditions and we will
■ We Steam, Kerosene, Petrol
f”, <Vnf t A , lr „ En l?i n es, Centrifugal Pumps
and Myer’s,” “Gould’s” and “Deming’s”
. a i ] ser vices. Mackie’s Rock
r,5» ter , B °rer, Working Heads and
!niV r de x P well and bore pumping a
WinJwu immense stocks Challenge
\v! lr U f 3 ? nd . Water Supply accessories.
termf ri ?" lf rec l uired and give easy
terms. Catalogues and expert advice frpe.
Langwill Bros, g Davies Pty. Ltd.
110-114 Sturt Street, SOOTH MELBOURNE,
_ Near Princes Bridge.
g George IV
v WHISKY
the TOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
THE UN KINDEST CUT OF ALL.
FATHER: “She scratched yer, did she? Well,
well; that ain’t Huffin’, to howl about”
DAUGHTER: “Oh! d-d-dad, it ain’t that I’m
’owlin about. It’s wot she said about
you!”
FATHER: “'WHAT did she say about me?”
DAUGHTER: “Oh! Oh! Wow! Sh-sh-she
said you teas the dead spit of Billy
Hughes!”
“Ses”: I have just discovered another
use for the kerosene-tin. A new settler at Pankstown
was fencing in his poultry-farm, and when adzing
the rails, having an awkward implement in an awk-
ward pair of hands, he stood each foot in a kerosene-
tin for the protection of his shins.
* * * *
“E.A.D.”: A tall, slim gum-tree is
bravely holding its own at the foot of an abrupt
hill in Connemara. The sides of the hill are scarred
by tearing torrents, and one, brown and frothy,
rushes within a few feet of the stranger. It faces
Killary Bay, one -of the wild, black-watered fjords
of Ireland, and beyond are treeless mountains now
in full autumn splendor of purple heath, yellow
gorse and red bracken. The gum’s lower branches
rustle the little white cabin of the weaver of the
village. “Bedad,” he said, “it stays there like that
all the winter. Och, it’s like a tree that the mother
would be gone from it. It comes from Amerikee.”
I assured him it did not. “Och, well, Miss, anyhow,
it’s a poor orphint, and it’s never afther taking its
sjeep. I think I’ll be making a coat for it for the
winter.” ,
* * * *
“Samblebe”: Does a queen bee or a hive-
committee send out a scout to find an empty residence
for the new swarm about to depart from the old dug-
out? This I vouch for happened at Buchan (Vic.)
on 22/11/’lB. I was seated under an apple-tree
in my own yard when I heard an angry buzz, and
looking up saw a bee tangled in a spider’s-web
woven over a small hollow. I liberated the honev-
gatherer and destroyed the web. The bee entered
and re-entered the cavity in the tree many times
and I concluded that it was a scout. I placed a
box near by and darkened it with a bag. The
insect entered and explored the interior of the box
and after taking photos from various angles made a
line for h.q. Next afternoon the swarm was in
possession.
* * * *
“Ida D.” : Though this has been an ex-
ceptionally dry season, the gumtrees are bearing
a heavier crop of blossoms than they have done
for years past; and in the early spring the bush
flowers were much more profuse than usual. Also,
in our paddock (south-east corner of N.S.W.)
springs that have been dry for three years have
started to run freely again. I have seen dry,
sandy ereekbeds become full of water an hour
or two before a heavy thunderstorm. What’s the
answer?
* * .* *
‘‘G. P- Brown” : Hollo’s legs were short
and concave, quite unsuitable for fast locomotion.
By way of amends Nature had given him long arms
and hefty biceps, alertness of eye and a mobile neck.
His ability with his fists was superb; his reluctance
to “put them up” most pronounced. Brillen had the
best pair of runner’s legs in the township. His
thighs were abnormally long; his knees knocked as
he walked, and from his knee to his ankle was as
short as a creditor’s good morning. His temper was
fiery. Brillen and Rollo quarrelled over something
or other, and the former ordered Rollo to put ’em
up ; but Rollo, always peaceably inclined, made pour-
parlers until Brillen struck at him, whereupon he
waddled away at his equivalent for a run. “No you
don t! remarked Brillen, as he made fistic impact on
the overtaken Rollo’s shoulder point, spinning him
around with a vigor that made Rollo’s arms take a
defensive pose in an endeavor to restore equilibrium.
Brillen’s menacing eyes in contiguity to the up-
raised arms formed too suggestive a combination
even for the peaceable Rollo, so he smote his pur-
suer and downed him. Then Rollo resumed his
retreat. Brillen’s running ability soon enabled him
to come up with the enemy again. Once more he
was sent down, and then Rollo moved off again.
The natural runner soon had the natural fighter at
bay for the third time. On this occasion Brillen
led with a round-armed right, which Rollo parried
and simultaneously made violent contact under
Brillen’s left ear. Brillen lay dazed for five min-
utes, Rollo standing by, contemplatively. Then
Brillen painfully arose and supposed that the inci-
dent could be regarded as closed. Rollo supposed so
too, but said it would have been better if Brillen had
won a bloodless fight by letting Rollo run home
peacefully. “Nice yarn it would have made,”
replied Brillen, “for me to say you beat me at
running!”
* * * *
“Tee Bee” : I want to give some of our
crack shots a chance of doing a big thing for
Austialia. Ihis is my idea. The prickly-pear
plant is heavily charged with moisture. Therefore
I want to get contracts for sowing seeds of water-
cross over big blocks of pear country. To get the
work done quickly the seed would have to be
shot into the prickly-pear from cartridges. After a
season s shooting we could go back over the ground
and watch the cattle fattening off the water-cress
and notice the pear shrivelling up from exhaustion.
“The Wanderer”: George Farley, of
Gloucester River (N.S.W.), owns a heifer that
hasp t had a square drink for three years and a
hall. She’s a queer lot ; her owner says that if
anyone tries to drive her she circles round and
round and falls on her ear. She dw'ells on the
top of a mountain, and has spent her life circling
round on five or six beaten tracks, which she has
worn as bare as a Bourke holding in drought time.
Ihe hill is of a porous nature and water cannot
be struck anywhere. The heifer never leaves the
top, where there is an area of about ten acres.
This is covered with kangaroo and blady-grass and
the supposition is that the animal gets sufficient
drink by licking the dew as it falls.
VERY DIFFERENT.
CUSTOMER : “Have you got my boots done, Mr. Snob?”
MR. SNOB : “No.”
CUSTOMER : “But you said you would have them ready to-day.”
MR. SNOB: “No, I didn't; I only told you to call to-day.”
“Azac” : It has been claimed that the hare
produces from three to five young ones in each litter
and from five to six litters in a year. If the
fecundity of hares is as great as that, what becomes
of them? It would, I think, be nearer the mark
to say that mamma produces from two to four young
ones in a litter and only one or at the most two
litters per year.
* * * *
“Wandi”: The mule is a stubborn animal
in some ways, but when a mob of him is on the
droving track I respect him. Horses are good :
with one man riding in front and one at the
tail you get them along serenely all day. They
don’t jib at gates or crossings like sheep and
cattle, but at night, when you let them go, they
have a habit of wandering and scattering and
making back. Donkeys are fairly good too, and
goats are not bad. But the mule takes the palm
for good conduct on the overland. I travelled
six weeks with a flock, and after the first week
all I had to do when starting away from camp
was to call out “hee-haw,” like one of themselves,
and every other ass would answer and, trotting to-
gether, follow after me like so many foals.
“Billy T.” : Brother Praetor had proclaimed
himself champion pig-sticker of Waddy and district,
and felt it not inconsistent with his position as ex-
superintendent of the Waddy Wesleyan Chapel to
challenge all-comers to a friendly contest, offering
to back himself for’ five pounds. There were no
takers, but John Notch, the local publican and
butcher, feeling himself professionally reflected upon,
offered to take up Praetor's bet of three pounds
that he could catch Notch’s black /pig in Notch’s
back-yard, kill it, scrape it, and suspend it fully
dressed in the doorway of Notch’s storeroom within
the space of one hour, Praetor being blindfolded
to the satisfaction of a committee of three all the
time. The event was the most popular sporting
fixture in Waddy in ten years. The hot water,
the tub, the scraping board, the knife and steel,
and all the appliances and means to boot were
placed in position under Praetor’s eye. Spectators
were confined to the fences and the roofs of Notch’s
sheds, and then the slayer was carefully blind-
folded, time was called, and the quarry was let
in. Praetor went after the porker quietly and
with the guile that had made him notorious as a
manipulator of pigs. Eventually the doomed animal
was seduced into a corner. Praetor precipitated
himself upon it, and a moment later it was in
position, and the knife was busy with its vitals.
Strict silence had been imposed, but excited men,
many of them adepts themselves, applauded
liaetoi s artistic stroke. The pig was slain
(scarcely a drop of blood ran to waste), the scald-
ing water was slopped on, and Praetor’s favorite
scraper, a stout billy lid, went to work. The
expert was at no discoverable disadvantage in being
blindfolded, so familiar was he with the anatomy
and peculiarities of pig’. The animal was gutted,
scoured, and presently hung from the hooks provided
in the doorway “as clean as a Christian corpse,
you,” as Brother Best eloquently attested —time 67
minutes 7 seconds. But Praetor did not get
Notch’s money, 1 and the justice of the committee’s
decision in favor of Notch was a cause of battle
in Waddy for long months after. As a matter of
fact, Praetor had not killed and cleaned the black
porker in the time specified. Notch, inspired by
subtle guile, had turned two animals into the yard,
and Praetor, in his blindness, had killed the wrong
pig!
RESOURCE.
“What’s up, Bill?”
“ I’m tryin’ to look like a sandbag.”
“Melos”: Tell “Pompy” (B. 28/11/T8)
that I have seen a gin with twins. The lady (a
chronic loiterer in a North Coast town), although
as black as the 10 of spades, had a pair of light-
colored urchins —so light, in fact, that I had seri-
ous doubts concerning the bona-fides of the case. Her
ladyship’s candour, however, convinced me that
there was no deception on her part.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE STAR HOTEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Staying at the Star Hotel” means, in the
language of the Hush, camping out.
The city streets are aglow to-night,
And the noise is harsh and loud
As hurrying on in the glaring light
Go the pleasure-seeking crowd.
But there’s one whose thoughts will drift again
Where the bushland breezes swell;
Where the stars are clear over creek and plain,
And the box-trees whisper the old refrain:
“Come back to the Star Hotel 1 .”
Here there is noise where the townsfolk tread;
At the Star there is peace and cheer —
A fire in the gums, and a blanket spread,
And a quart-pot standing near;
The clink of hobble-chains in the trees,
And a softly-sighed “All’s well”
From the leaves that stir in the cool night breeze,
As the campers smoke and lie at ease
Out there at the Star Hotel.
There are men to meet from the runs up North
With tales of the Backblocks full,
And men from the South who are making forth
At the magic call of “wool,”
With the yarns of tallies’ that shearers know,
Or of sheds that proved a sell
When the drought seemed a thing of long ago
And weeks of rain made the tall grass grow,
Out there at the Star Hotel.
There are blokes who are going to lift v. mob
From the edge of the One Tree Plain,
And fellers “on spec” of a station job
Telling the tales again;
Swapping their yarns by a boxwood blaze
To the tune of a bull-frog bell,
Of silver cheques and of bumper pays,
Giving a sigh for the “other days’’
In the glow of the Star Hotel.
Bv the black lagoons they are camped to night
And along the Billabong ;
In the quiet bends of the Kyalite,
The big green gums among;
Hearing again the curlew’s call
Till the weird jnotes weave a spell
As the hush grows deeper, and stray stars fall,
And the lure of the bush is over all
Who stay at the Star Hotel.
The noise in the city to-niglit is loud,
And the streets are white in the glare;
But some there are in the surging crowd :
Whose thoughts are otherwhere. <
They follow a track that leads away
To the parts where the bush-folks dwell;
Across the rivers and plains they stray >
To the camp-fires lit by the mates who stay :
Out there at the Star Hotel.
MAORILAND.
RIVERINA


CHAMPIONS ALL
Message to Country
Storekeepers, Saddlers,
Blacksmiths and Farmers.
Last year, through your agency, as
many as 700,000 cases of Salt Licks
were sold in Australia. This year
these figures will be left far behind,
judging by present sales. ARE
YOU HANDLING BONDO SALT
LICKS ? If not, write our agents
at once. We give you a popular line
which carries a fair margin of profit
to you. We are out to place
■i ■
mmSßk
Pfß m
WtM.
Mmrm
* «■
w
>3
n
*
;■ I
M—
» i
11111111
H
■I
'
;r...
■/' ‘
1
BIPLANE, Winner A.J.C. and V.R.C. Derbies, etc.
BONDO Salt Licks
on every farm in Australia and New Zealand. This is a very ambitious programme. With your co-operation
we shall succeed. For ourselves, we are satisfied with a big turnover on a tiny margin of profit.
Remember that the farmer cannot do without this universal line. He must —to treat his cattle well —give them
a daily ration of Salt Lick. The intense heat of Australia must be counteracted by health-giving Salt Licks.
The Up-to-date Farmer is Well Aware of This.
Sheep, cows, calves, poddies, horses and pigs must be fed with Salt Licks if the farmer wishes to reap the full
advantage from his animals.
We manufacture in Australia the Best Salt Lick obtainable.
They are distributed in handy troughs to prevent wastage.
We manufacture in full knowledge of climatic conditions.
The price is less than that of imported licks by at least 25 to 30 per cent.
WE GUARANTEE IMMEDIATE SUPPLIES.
Ask for BONDO SALT LICKS. The Best and Australian.
»
STOREKEEPERS, SADDLERS, FARMERS, etc., WRITE OUR AGENTS AT ONCE
»• ■ t
1
■ I ■
.. c
BROOD MARES. To be sold at Elderslie, ~N.Z, by H. Chisholm <£• Co., on February 7 next.
Wholesale Distributing Agents—Victoria: DALGETY & CO. LTD., Melbourne.
New South Wales: BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Sydney.
South Australia: THE S.A, FARMERS’ CO=OP. UNION LTD., Adelaide.
West Australia: E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO. LTD., Fremantle.
BOND MANUFACTURING CO
72 and 74 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.


Maitins Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend' them. Be sure
yon get the genuine with the signature:
Martin. Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
ABSOLUTELY PURE AND SOLUBLE.
Hanufactured in Australia from the finest selected Beans.
U
Obtainable ail Leading Grocers throughout the Commonwealth and N.Z.
Wholesale only from McINTYRE BROS., Sole Proprietors, Melbourne, Vic.
Agents:
Mr. J. P. WILSON. Brisbane.
Mr. DAVID BEASHKI, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Messrs. MADDOX & LAWKEXCE, PERTH.
Mr. W. R. LANGSEORD, ADELAIDE. [2
“Mon C.": Barwon Mary, a black gin, was
the mother and Jimmy Gowan, a white man, claimed
to be the father of a family of healthy half-
castes. Jimmy was employed on the station and
lived in a hut near the homestead. Bill, the
groom, had a standing invitation to Gowan’s hut and
for over a year dropped in almost nightly for a
quiet game of euchre with Jimmy and the missus,
and all went well till one night Jimmy spotted
Bill giving the missus the seductive eye. Of course
there was a scene, and Bill was ordered out of
the hut with the promise of a hot time in the old
town if he showed himself there again. But Bill
was prepared to take risks, and Gowan, coming in
unexpectedly one afternoon, found him chatting
over a pannikin of tea with Mary. Then
the fun started. Jimmy floored Bill with a
right kick to the stomach and proceeded to knock
the stuffing out of his rival. It was then that
Mrs. Jimmy started a corroboree around the strug-
gling pair, screaming: “Jimmy, Jimmy, don’ kill
that pfeller—he’s th’ father of your las’ chile.”
* * * *
“Rexieorn”: “Lantana’s” greenish-brown
“snake with fins” from Cessnock (N.S.W.) is
merely one of our many species of legless lizards,
sometimes known as slow-worms. “Lantaha’s”
specimen is probably the „ common legless lizard
(Pyijopus lepidopus), which has a round head that
end. There are 22 scales girdling the middle
of the body, the 12 uppermost being fairly
strongly keeled. The color is very variable, and
the rough-looking, keeled scales give it a very
unsnake-like look. It is really very hard to dis-
tinguish between legless lizards and snakes without
a minute examination, the main structural differ-
ences being skeletal; however, if “Lantana” ex-
amines his find he will notice the following
characters which will place it as a lizard without
legs, it having only two rudimentary ones, as
stated by him. The ear is exposed as a hole
in the side of the head. (This is not visible in
THE PAGEMAKER.
JOHN HOP (new to the game, giving evidence very rapidly) : "Iamapolice coustablesta-
tionedat Regentstreet. On the night of the twenty third of November conse quentona telephone
message I proc[?]ded to theintersec"
P.M.: “Why do you speak so fast, witness?”
JOHN HOP: “I'm trying to keep up with the shorthand reporter, yer Worship.”
snakes.) Lizards have eyelids; the legless lizard
having a circular scaly one. (Snakes have none,
(heir eves being protected by a scale, shaped like
a watch glass.) Legless lizards have a more or
less fixed, ordinary tongue. (Snakes are provided
with u long, slender, forked tongue which is re-
tractile into a sheath inside the mouth.) The
l:zard has scales all round the body, whereas the
snake (sea-snakes and another distinct species
excepted) have large oblong-shaped belly plates.
r lhe lower jaw is united in lizards, and not exten-
sible as in the snakes. This will be noticed during
eating. The lizard has to chew its prey, whereas
the snake extends its jaws and swallows whole.
Hie queer little lizard is quite harmless. It
gTOw-s to a length, say, two feet, and about
three-quarters of its total length is taken up by
the tail. As in the geckos, its tail is very brittle
and breaks off easily when handled, after which
another, though rather rudimentary affair, is grown
in the original one’s place. The reptile is fairly
common all over Australia and Tasmania.
* * * *
“Ragar”: The natives of the Torres Strait
islands have their own ideas about showing respect
to the dear departed. One trick is to anoint the
body with half the contents of a bottle of cheap
scent sold by the enterprising Orientals of Thirsty.
The rest of the bottled stink is corked up and
left on the grave. There is a tiny grave on Moa
at tlie foofc of which is a baby's feeding-bottle—
the probable cause of the unfortunate infant’s death.
’I hough some of the larger islands have cemeteries,
graves are scattered all over the place. Generally
decorated with empty and inverted rum-bottles,
they are often found beside the corpse’s late resi-
dence. Where the relatives have been more
ambitious—or better off—a “proper marble” has
been procured from Townsville or some other coastal
town. The setting-up of one of these stones is
the excuse for a general gorge. Such an event
recently took place at Darnley, where a “proper
stone” was erected over the grave of the late
Mamoose—head man or king. The ceremony was
followed by a three-days’ gorge of pig, yams,
turtle, etc., which was shaken down—and room
made for more—by vigorous dancing and singing
by all hands.
“Werrimee”: In some hand-shearing sheds
a couple of stands are set apart for learners. Here
the novice suffers the pains of apprenticeship. What
looks so easy when performed by an expert turns
out to be horribly painful to learn. After the be-
ginner has hacked through a few woollies he is a
puffing, perspiring, bloodstained streak of misery,
praying for the day’s end and glorious rest. Minutes
seem like hours; he struggles along, adding to his
aches and pains, till finally he leans against the pfen,
a limp and dejected wreck. The next day is one of
agony. His wrist is stiff and sore, and he can
scarcely stoop. After nearly a week of this sort of
joy the learner may shear about 25 in a day. Then
his numerous physical ailments begin to leave him
and he has a notion that if he lives long enough
he will some time or other shear a hundred in eight
hours. When the shears take long, full bites, instead
of nibbling at the wool, and the sheep, so awkward
and annoying at first, drop easily into their proper
positions, the apprenticeship is over.
JOY IN THE SCHOOL-YARD.
ELDERLY STRANGER: “Can you explain to
me, sir, the appearance of excessive joy,
not to say ecstasy, apparent on the
countenances of these innocent child-
ren?”
NATIVE : “Well, yer see, loss, their teacher
’as just been run over be a motor-car.”
“Laura Duncan": Ain surprised at
“Barcoo’s” statement that Cork is the furthest
south - a buffalo has been located. In 189 S, when
I came to Mooraberrie station, Windorah,
as a bride, the horns of an ancient and
most disreputable buffalo stood in the living
room (they are still there) and most of
his hide had been made into dinkum hopples.
This buffalo was shot by William Duncan, with
a Schneider that Noah used when the rain stopped,
at a waterhole on the rabbit fence, which for the
ensuing 20-odd years has been known as the Buffalo
hole. The beast came from the Gulf with travelling-
cattle, got into the mob and sulked, and the drover
could not get him out. He wandered as far as S.A.
and back, and was seen on Canilgo station by Mr.
Wymberley, then manager. An old blackfellow,
Cbookie Chook, of Mooraberrie, always became very
excited and mysterious when he marshalled any of
his dusky friends up to see the “debb'il debbil’S”
horns. “Me and Mitta Duncan bin shoot ’im,”
he made known. It transpired' that Chookie
Chook’s share in the slaughter consisted in climb-
ing the highest tree to be found—an unusual feat,
as these desert blacks never climb unless under
great provocation.
* * * *
“Across Australia”: I watched him from
a nearby cattle-pad. He was standing in a medita-
tive attitude on a log beneath which flowed the
sluggish waters of the Styx (N.Q.) —a tall and lanky
being. Balancing daintily on the slippery foothold
he took off his felt hat and tied it on to the end of
a ten-foot stick. Presently a fish came up to the
surface. Swiftly and skilfully the improvised
landing-net was shoved under the disturber of the
peaceful calm and he was lobbed into a flour-bag.
In half an hour the bag was full.
* * * *.
“Tim Buctoo”: The prize rat lives out
beyond Boulia (Q.). When I saw him he was turn-
ing: a grindstone in a northerly direction, whiie a
large centipede was going south around the periphery
of the stone making a frantic effort to keep on top.
“Training him for racing?” I inquired. “No,” said
the rat ; “I was wondering how long he’d keep
going before his feet wore out. But that’s a good
idea of yours; a bloke could make a lot of dough
out of the silly coots ’round here with a fast santer-
pea. I. think I’ll work it.” I left him still .turning
the stone.
* * * *
“Tintack”: Binghi was never much of a
surgeon, yet he liked mutilating himself or his
missus. In the old tribal days operations of all
kinds were practised, from the simple one of break-
ing a tooth off to mending a broken limb. Others
were bestial and indescribable. The N. S. Wales
North Coast tribes always appointed a fisherwoman
in each family. This worker was known by the
absence of two joints of the little finger on her
left hand. Strong spider-web was tied round the
second joint and left on till the flesh mortified.
When that had taken place the finger was held
in the opening of an ants’-nest till it was eaten
away.
“Umntu”: “Melaleuca” (B. 17/10/’18) is
wrong' in saying that bees, were first introduced to
Australia by Dr. T. B. Wilson in 1834. In “Two
Years in New South Wales,” by P. Cunningham,
surgeon, R.N., published in London in 1827, is
the following: “European bees were introduced
some years ago, but falling into careless hands,
little attention was paid to them for a while.
Lately, however, some . swarms have been obtained
by a careful individual, and we may soon hope to
see the colony stocked with them.”
*■# * #
“Nimrod”: There is nothing about which
so much pseudo-scientific rubbish is written as the
boomerang. Bought half-a-dozen of them once from
Carnage’s, in London. They were made in Eng-
land—just flat, crescentrshaped pieces of .ash or
hickory, with no warp or twist about them; nor
was one side any more convex than the other,
as far as I could judge, and it didn’t matter which
side up they were thrown. I am no expert, but
could throw any of them 50 yards, and they
would “come back.” If you take a piece of
cardboard) about the size of a playing card, and
cut it into boomerang shape, either crescent or
obtuse-angled, you can flick it with your finger
across a room and back. Even with any old flat
piece of metal, such as the end of a kerosene
tin, one can put up a fair performance with a
bit of practice. The warps and twists that are
sometimes, though not alvvays, seen in native
boomerangs are evidently the result of accident,
not design, and have no particular effect on the
flight of the implement, except probably a detri-
mental one.
*♦**.
Mrs. D. M. Bates has been telling the
S. A. Royal Society something that it gravely
considered about Binghi’s habits and customs
at the Wirilya native camp, and at other
places on the State’s West Coast. In nam-
ing children the abos. are often influenced by phvsi-
cal circumstances. A girl was named Raincloud be-
cause a soft shower was falling when she was born.
Sea clouds hung over the coast when another girl
arrived, so she was Summercloud. If a bird or
animal, or even an insect, is seen near the spot
where a birth occurs the child will receive the
name of the creature. Boys’ birth-names mav be
dropped when they are initiated. Men have ‘been
named The Whistling Eaglehawk, Dream Moon and
Crow. Natives now frequenting the West Coast come
from districts far north and east of the East-and-
Y est lailway, and the tribes are hopelessly mixed.
One man has married his wife’s mother, ' and his
wife’s daughter by another father. The natives
affirm, the man became blind “because he did this
thing.” An interesting circumstance durmg Mrs
Bates’s residence in the camps of the Euela and
\\ est Coast natives was the meeting of two cor-
roborees, the starting-points of which were North-
Eastern Queensland and North-Western Australia.
The travelling of these two performing troupes to
their meeting-point occupied years.
A SHRINKING SOUL.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The one with large, pathetic eyes
Came to me at my gate.
He was a man of average size
And only normal weight.
His clothes had never been the best,
And now were quite the worst.
He was, I learned, bv Man oppressed.
By Fate unduly cursed.
But, ma am,” he said, “not for myself
Is it I plead. Please lend
A trifling meal, a little pelf
For my poor, starving friend!”
He pointed where the other stood
In pensive thought alone,
A man, it seemed, whose health was good,
Who weighed some eighteen stone.
“That big, fat chap?” said I. “Tut-tut!”
lie whispered: “Ma’am, I know it—
Bill’s dyin’ of starvation, but
He is too proud to show it!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


\\[M
£
o \irtelq
dpi a
l>drc]u3l
03^
-tTCS
5'AT£
Orp
ClG^
''ESS
Cig'arettes q/ the Hig'hest Class
at Moderate Prices.
SHSTE(ftPRKS
CIGARETTES
The quality of these high-class Cig'arettes
is exactly the same as before the war,
NO SUBSTITUTE
whatever being used in their manufacture.
The Famous Red Packet
No. 333. lO f ° r 3d
STANDARD WEIGHT.
Obtainable of all High-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
rrrrrn
*5
m
5


1
... *vt
X
j£
&U ■
ESTEY
PLAYER PIANOS
rm
ke
TEY
Ml©
©
is
easy to
An ESTEY PLAYER PIANO will turn many a dull
evening into a bright one. The glorious beauties of
music are always at your hand, and you can revel in
the sweet entrancing music of the classics or the jolly,
bright, free and easy popular music of the day.
Just what you want you can play, and just when you
want it, and without having to worry to learn it—the
music roll does everything for you.
Every shade of expression and tone=quality is instantly
obtainable by means of the Player devices. The
pedalling is a revelation, and so easy, too. It never
makes you tired.
You can purchase an ESTEY PLAYER on Easy Terms
if required. Your present piano taken in exchange
and full honest value allowed.
Write for our Player Piano Catalogue and PRINTED PRICE LIST
(post free).
o
33S GEORGE STREET, SYPMEY.
Branches at Brisbane. Lismore. Toowoomba & Newcastle.
tin on the shore, could ask for. The motle'y
army did its duty well, and the Australians
and Maorilanders he describes as magnifi-
cent. When the former made their first big
attack he says briefly: “Not a straggler
among them. If a man gets an honor in
their ranks it will be one worth having.”
But it was a case of sending a boy on
Goliath’s errand. And though the position
might have been redeemed even after some
months, Goliath never turned up. When
Bulgaria decided that the Ilun and the
Turk were winning, Bulgarian armies
were also made available for the defence of
Gallipoli; and then it wasn’t worth while
sending Goliath. His chance was gone.
(George Allen and Unwin, Ltd., London.)
More Gallipoli
The Dardanelles Campaign (11. W. Nevin-
son) is a rftelancholy volume. It would
have been so easy for Britain to retain the
traditional Turkish friendship. Right up to
1913; when Liman von Sanders went to Con-
stantinople, Abdul might have been bought
by the Entente, and bought cheap. Eyen
after the first irrevocable cast in the “im-
mortal gamble” there was hope. It was
frustrated by hesitancy, by lack of foresight,
even by plain stupidity. Because the Ger-
mans had reduced Liege and Namur by
high trajectory fire from giant howitzers, it
was argued that forts like Seddel Bahr and
Kum Kali could be blown out with naval
guns! Any bombardier in a field battery
would smile at such a notion at this time
of day. If the famous 29th Division had
arrived earlier; if there had been one grand
assault (say at Sari Bair) instead of a
number of minor ones; if there had been
no “inertia,” as Mr. Nevinson euphemistically
puts it, at Suvla on August 8; if any one
of a dozen conceivable things had or had
not happened, the road to Constantinople
might have been thrown open and the war
ended so far as Turkey was concerned.
Much of Mr. Nevinson’s brilliant work is
an exposition of how and why these things
did not happen. Much of it consists of
generous tributes to the Digger of the period
—tributes which Englishmen of the Nevin-
son type have always been readiest to pay.
(Copy from Angus and Robertson. Pub-
lished by Nisbet and Co., Ltd., London.)
Publishing in Australia
“0.L.” : Something might have been added
by Thomas J. Symons, formerly in charge of
the publishing department for George Robert-
son’s (Melb.), to his remarks about that
firm’s publishing methods (B. 19/12/T8).
Symons’s par. followed a suggestion (B.
28/11/T8) that there was room for improve-
ment on the 40 per cent, commission plan of
publishing at the author’s risk, allegedly
adopted by the recently-retired Robertson
firm and by most other Melbourne pub-
lishers. “During my connection with the
firm we published about 200 books,” Symons
explains, “and of these only 18 books were
ar the author’s risk.” This statement needs
some trimming, for the Robertson co.’s pub-
lishing machinery was also used by many
authors who did not have the Robertson
firm-name on their volumes. These books,
actually “published” by Robertson's, in part
at least, were of course at the author’s risk,
and Robertson’s condescended to handle them
for the 40 per cent, commission mentioned ;
while the same financial rule also applied,
naturally, to author’s-risk volumes on which
the firm’s name did appear. Of this sum
25 per cent, was supposed to go to retailers
supplied by the firm and 15 per cent to the
firm itself for its publishing service. The 40
per cent, deduction, however, was also
applied to all volumes sold over
the counter at Robertson s shop, so
that firm can hardly be said to have
tiea’ted the author with liberality. Cole’s
and Mullen’s, on exactly the same footing
as Robertson’s in this over-the-counter
trade, charged only 25 per cent, for
similar facilities. Again, circulars re-
lating to the publication of books by Robert-
son's on a subscription basis have reached me
in days gone by. Such publications would
not have been at the author’s risk, and there-
fore not included in Symons’s list of 18
prints of that class; but neither would the
venture have been at Robertson’s risk.
Where does Symons put this sort of publica-
tion in his calculations of his late firm’s
efforts? The Australian author, I believe, is
a long-suffering citizen with a lot of genuine
grievances. I began collecting my own lot
of grouches over 20 years ago, though not
naturally of a gloomy or pessimistic disposi-
tion, and I confidently allege that the author-
bloke, in his dealings with publishers, is
not usually treated even with reasonable con-
sideration. “Safety first” is the unwritten
motto of the general run of Australian pub-
lishers —no doubt a very business-like prin-
ciple and all that; but it should be possible
for the publisher, while playing perfectly
safe, to act more fairly to the men and
women who provide him with his job and
daily bread. The job is not necessarily a
parasitic one, but some publishers have cer-
tainly made it so.
A Satchel of Books
The Feminine in Fiction, by L. A. M. Priestley
(George Allen and Unwin). A little book of illus-
trative extracts and comment from the best-known
novelists on the Feminist question. Pleasantly done.
Echo Personalities; Frank Watts, who writes this
book, states his purpose very clearly on the cover.
He “makes an attempt to estimate the value for
educational practice of recent investigations into
the nature -of those mental characteristics of
crowds, Of hysterical subjects and of defective
subjects which do but echo the characteristics of
authentic personality.” And he states on his very
first page: “The conception of the study of the
abnormal as an aid to the understanding of the
normal was naturally impossible while the obvious
and more startling differences between normal life
and abnormal life obscured their fundamental
similarities, indeed, so long as the abnormal was
thought to comprise factors at once mysteriously
incomprehensible and unique, so long was the
serious and disinterested study of the subject held
to be a matter suitable merely for the trivial and
indolent attentions of the more eccentrically minded
among philosophers, litterateurs and doctors.” The
book more than lives up to the expectations thus
aroused, but the chapters about simple methods for
the teaching of mentally deficient children don’t
assort well with the writer’s thundering diction.
If a mentally deficient child was attacked in that
fashion its blood would be on Watts’s head.—
(George Allen and Unwin.)
The Papal Conquest, by Rev. Alexander Robert-
son, D.D. (Loyalist League of Victoria). The Pope,
according to the author, aims at the conquest. of
England because there is a lot of gold there. Much
alleged information as to the awful ways of the
would-be conqueror are set forth side by side with
the information that his powers are waning. If one
part of the book is right there is no reason for the
rest; and if one part is false there is a large sus-
picion resting on the remainder. So the book fails
to depress anjbody except the Orangeman who loves
depression.
A Floating Home, by Cyril lonides and J. B.
Atkins, with' illustrations by Arnold Bennett (Chatto
and Windus). A Thames barge under sail is cheaper
and more comfortable than a London home in the
suburbs. The authors and illustrator make a brave
attempt to prove it; but even wilted geraniums
have a sweeter smell than the banks of the most
storied river in the world.
The Kaiser in Heaven, by Alex. C. Welsh (Aus-
tralasian Authors’ Agency, Melbourne). A pamphlet
of verse of fair quality. The author states that it
was “Written Saturday, 22nd December, 1917, be-
tween 9.15 am. and 12.10 p.m. at Capri, Echuca...
with much joy.” It looks as if it might have been
written in seventeen minutes less.
Verses Afloat, by Claude R. Beresford (The
Mail, Adelaide), the name Beresford should carry
some distance in matters of the sea ; and these verses
are not unworthy of their subject. If they never
touch high poetry they never entirely lose grip, and
there is sometimes a tang of real salt about them.
The Changing Year, and other verses, bv L. .T.
Villiers (H. E. Stone, Adelaide). The author of
this little collection of sonnets and rhymes did not
live to see his book ; and the getting together of the
work has been left to other hands. A sonnet cycle
of the months, in Australian vernacular, is Villiers’
leading achievement; and very remarkable sonnets
they are, with a melody ringing through the gro-
tesque phrasing. Worth many volumes of more pre-
tentious and precious writing.
His Keeper, and other poems (Australasian Authors’
Agency, Melbourne). The writer doesn’t give his
name; and the poverty of the verse possibly explains
why.
The Dough-boys, by John O’Gorman (Herbert
Jenkins, London). A yarn about the Americans at
war. The camp sketches look very unmilitarv, but
the deeds are great enough. A boy in Boston or
Chicago may like it.
Hospital Sketches, by Frances Lyndall (George
Allen and Unwin). Good observation, tenderness
and homely simplicity make the little book worth
while. Many soldiers of many races pass through
the hands of this nursing sister; and she sees all
their faults and has a good word for them all.
The High Purpose, by Alan Cross (Australasian
Authors’ Agency, Melbourne). A very small book of
verses mostly on war subjects. The work, which
is sometimes bright and tuneful and often has a
hint of force, seems like that of a literary beginner
who might do bigger things.
Press, Platform and Parliament, by Spencer Leigh
Hughes, M.P. (Nisbet, London). Mildly interesting.
As a pressman he led the sheltered life' of the House
of Commons gallery, which is very different from
the battle-mm der-and-sudden-death existence of the
man who reports riots, epidemics, slum mysteries and
tragedies, wars, revolutions, hangings, conspiracies
and meetings of infuriated aldermen. As a political
platform-speaker he adhered to the primrose way
and never had an egg thrown at him at Warwick.
And as regards Parliament he is a highly respect-
able member himself, with no desire to be cut
dead in the refreshment-room for giving away trade
secrets. Some chapters are devoted to travel along
beaten tracks where brigands and cannibals and alli-
gators are not, and one to a dispassionate account
of his dogs, which were two very polite dogs, both
dead. A really horrible dog would have brightened
the book.
Yellow English is the work of Dorota Flatau, for-
merly of Sydney and now of London, and the book is
reported to have sold over there hot off the stove. In the
circumstances of the hour The Bulletin is prepared
to believe the report. One almost suspects that in
Yellow English the reader’s leg is being gently
tugged, and the suspicion seems to get some support
from the author, for the first page is decorated with
an explanation about “the characters being purely
imaginary.” If in the course of a novel pretending
to reveal conditions of society and the attitude of
public men towards great national issues, incidents
and speech and relationships are -draped, so to speak,
on and about a collection of literary dummies, the
suspicion of the whole thing being a canard becomes
inescapable. There are depths for consideration in
Yellow English, which is published by Hutchinson
and Co.
A pleasant little book of mirth and inverted logic
is The Philosophy of Mr. Bertrand Russell. It deals
with identity, immortality, ambiguity, generality,
symbolism and other subjects, and treats
them all lightly and agreeably. Also it treats
most of them convincingly; for instance, the
proof that a man with an unlimited income hasn’t
anything is too solid to be worth arguing against.
There may be a flaw in it, but the only way to
decide is to get an unlimited income and see what
happens. If Solomon had been a flapper and had married
Lewis Carroll of “The Hunting of the Snark” their
son might have written this book, but more probably
he would have bought a farm near Hay and attempted
to grow wheat. (Geo. Allen and Unwin, Ltd., Lon-
don.)
Diogenes at Athens' and other poems by Row-
land Thirlmere (Selwyn and Blount, London).
The title-pibce is a play in rhyming verse intended
to show the condition and spirit of England at the
beginning of the war. The dialogue, which goes in
a series of lopes and jumps, is so -tedious that, it
becomes almost unreadable. The other verses l lire,
for the most part, uninteresting and without
strength of thought or grace of manner. This,
entitled “An Australian Soldier,” makes curious
reading:—•
If was not his great wound of which he died:
Your blank, impassive faces killed his pride.
For slaying friendship and youth’s confidence
There is no weapon like indifference *
Our returned Diggers don’t seem to have noticed
the murderous effect of those “impassive faces.”
The Minister of Evil (Cassell and Co.), by William
Le Queux, gives a further instalment of the revela-
tions contained in “Rasputin the Rascal' MoffkJ’ The
story is allegedly the confession of Feodor Rajevsld,
the son of a Polish violinst, who. knew and saw -much
of the amazing charlatan with Che shaggy whiskers.
The Inky Way
The Express. Wagga Wagga (N.S.W.),
which has been celebrating/itk diamond jubi-
lee, was established by James Thorburn
Brown in 1858. He held it for a short six
months, when he was /Succeeded by Fowler
B. Price. There were but five provincial
papers in the State men— Courier (Yass),
Post (Albury), Free Press (Bathurst),
lleralp and Chronicle (Goulburn).
E. H. C. Oliphant, Melbourne champion
Hun-hater, formerly of the Mining Stan-
dard. joins Map. Herald staff 5. as leader-
writer. He nifi/le his start on the inky way
as proprietor of an organ of public opinion
in (iippsland, and drifted from there to the
country subeditor's desk in the Argus office.
Twice he lias appeared as a playwright
under Repertory Theatre auspices; but
there’s /no need to keep on harping about
that.


The Pioneer of Linseed Oil and Meal.
%
\
a
4
S
5
A
f.
r?
_3
n
l
ll.i
:'
HI!
i : i
I M !
: ! >
! I
I
'
■
V
HltlUl
fe
11
*
111
■>h
»n
,
1 he Australian Manufacturer savs :
j '
“Perhaps there is not in the whole of Australia a more striking and stimulating
example of enterprise, grit, pertinacity and ability than Meggitt Ltd., Oil and
Meal Manufacturers of 26 King Street, Sydney."
Meggitt Ltd.’s Linseed Oil and Meal—Unrivalled in Quality.
SK&ft&Vfe&S'SSS g’SJi;
Full particulars from Agents:
Messrs. F. W. HERITAGE
MECCITT LTD.
WORKS s PARRAMATTA.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal Manufacturers of Australia),
26 KING STREET, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Ike Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality .


A. Saunders’ Gent, s nigh-grade Nickel
Lever, 25/-. Extra Jewelled, 30/-,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-,' Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster
Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £42/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires
set Ring. 18ct.
Gold, £l7/10/-
All Diamonds,
£3O.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Half-hoop
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Diamond-set Links,
loct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster
Ear Kings, 15et.
Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18et.
Gold, £lO,
£l3/10/-, £l5,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Pur
Diamond Cross-
over King, IBet.
Gold, £3/15/-
A. Saunders’
Scarf Pin, set
Pearls and Tur-
quoise, 15ct.
Gold, 20/-
JEWELLERY DESIGNS.
A. Saunders’ Lady s, .u Gold Pure Double-cut
Diamond-set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full
• Jewelled, Lever movement, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Cluster Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £2O.
Larger Diamonds, £25, £3O, £35.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Knife-edge
Bar Brooch, 15ct.. Gold, £25.
Smaller Diamonds, £2O, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Rinpr, 18ct.
Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster
Rin?, 18ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
«
ass
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Circle and
Spray Brooch,
15ct. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 3 Bct.
Gold,' £3O, £4O.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/-. £3,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full Jewelled, Lever movement,
Compensation Balance, £B/10/-, £lO.
15ct. Gold, £l5, guaranteed.
U N
Jeweller, 805-815 George St. (quo, W\\vtw
ERS,
Station). Sydney,
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Links,
set Diamonds, £4/10/-
AYith Diamond, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Ear Rings,
loct. Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Ring. 18ct.
Gold, £35.
aaig'ss:
A. Saunders’ Pure
Donble-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5O, £6O,
£75.
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamond
Scarf Pin, 15ct.
Gold
A. Saunders’ Nickel Hunting Lever,
Extra Quality Movement, 40/-. Solid
Silver, £2/15/- £3. £4/10/-, £5,
£6, £7/10/-, £lO, Guaranteed.
Solid Gold, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5,
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Cross-over
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£45.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Gross-over
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Pure Double
cut Diamond
Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £7O.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, £2/5/-
Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Cluster
Bracelet, loot. Gold, £25.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PE’.RTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
681 PITT STREET,'; SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
SAFEGUARD Your HEALTH
pT j.Coliis Broiling
CWorsdyce
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
ami in tlie Cotigil of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts shqrt all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
acts like a charm in
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, IjS, 3/-, 5/-
Made in England.
SCHUTE. BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices! 4-4- BRIDGE _STREET, _SYDNEY^
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfiel
testified to the benefits he received irom Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasici. , .
If any illustration appearing in Th
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tn
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
BOOKS! BOOK
OOKSi F
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED*, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. .BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR. .
No such Complete Pane rama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
civeri to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUf '.TRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE :
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FR: EE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. ' How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamarti ne’s Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravi, ngs, 1/6. How to
Dance 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare boi * by Defoe), 1/3
nosted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s including Nana. : 3/- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-dati ■ Comic Reciter,
posted. How to £ trengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s St and a RD Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2/-. How
to Make Youis Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing' Explained, 2/3. Career of Beaott
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, .1/6. r or-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 1/9. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History or the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/9. How to Train for
All Sports, 2/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and- Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught; 1/6. How to Make
Sweets. Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers' Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 1/9. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle s
Card Games '(Holes for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/9. Man eROM Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, l/o.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History op the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Hush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner's Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers' Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How Me Doug all Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. W annan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
cacqio. Heptameron. and many others, all at
4/6 each, posted. Lef/s Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women’s Secrets. 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
AH These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Thicks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, «>/ ■
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About '
eators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New’ Edition, 1/9 P
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology.
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3, 2/-. »
to Read Heads (Jas. Coat.es;, 1/3 P°l[. , '
Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. ERL-
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers ass -
ant, 1/9. The Wife's Handbook, 1/3 P° ’
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. W ‘
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousa
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster s L a
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 hi
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid, tj '
pav 3 and i guineas?). Bootmaking and KE ".„
ing, -2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, a/o.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Comple
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 P osl ■
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, P° S m„'
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses. 1/3-
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Damag
Goods. 1/6. ‘ One Day, 1/3 posted Ihb
Wizard's Manual. 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9. ih kej>
Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROB ERT BEAR, the big book store, $7 gs 9 Market Street, Sydney (only).
MT BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
- •_
A
is.
«—0
b
CjT'TK
A
A
d
yswm
jr
\
wm
A\
m c^:
f
A/
w
as
A
rrjti.
j
m
\w.
m
9.
-y •
-Lir
-£■
A
/
,
(s
J
r
b
///
<D
£
V
D
6
m
>7
J
m 3
H
SJi.fcv
m
'(TS A '
Mi
S ******
m
'•■ .
- ->
a
SSfe.
' v^serAlZ
•*
m
A
u
' S«C.
mAA a
¥t
' ..s
A
m&r,ir a
v'/CA fV" 1
y .:
>?
AfyC.
y yiyyj*wf§y \
''WWi
4fA yr»
,
\
A
j.
A
f o-*
tis^O
Cobra,” Tohe. Boot PolisH
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Acts as aide to
Wilson through
o
All his travels.
H ere you see
Chunder on the
Balcony.
Wilson’s words and
Chunder’s grin
All the hearts
Of mankind win.
Ever ready,
Clear and bright,
“COBRA” is their
Guiding light.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
&
TO
H-M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Pa
'V
[/
A Specially Good Riding Boot
THE STOCKMAN, 17/6
POST
FREE.
This is not only the best Riding Boot on the market, but the best value, too. It’s a solid Tweed Seam-
less Emperor, light in weight, but exceedingly strong. Note the patent strip on elastic. This is a
special feature, and ensures a double life for the elastic where it wears out so quickly in the ordinary
riding boot. Has standard screwed soles.
Special Price, 17(6 Post Free.
MAIL YOUR ORDER FOR A PAIR TO-DAY!
FINNEY, ISLES & CO. Ltd.
QUEEN & ADELAIDE STREETS, BRISBANE. The Drapers of Queensland—since 1864.
POVERTY
POINTS
CHARLIE
CHAPLIN'S
MILLION
DOLLAR
COMEDIES.
SUPER
FEATURES
“Fax” : Charles Wyndharfi, who . has just
finished his long innings, had less claim to be
knighted for his theatrical services than, say,
even Squire Bancroft. Wyndham was only
a breezy light-comedian to begin with,
making one of his first London successes in
a piece called “Brighton,” a disguised
American farcial comedy which didn’t seem
so very puerile in those days. He got a
lease, later on, of the little Criterion Theatre,
and there he stayed till he was one of the
oldest-looking comedians that ever played a
youngish part. He never was identified
with great productions or great perform-
ances. But he got a good social start in
London long ago, and his American friends
were many and influential, and one way and
another he came to die a “Sir.”
Charles Wyndham studied medicine before
he went on the stage, and was an army
surgeon on the Confederate side in Uncle
Sam’s uncivil war. He got his earliest
Yankee pull that way.
“The Cracked Tenor” : Now that Paderew-
ski has taken on the job of leading armies
in battle, I wonder what the insurance cos.
will say about the policies on his hands. In
premiums he paid
±'Boo annually, so
that if anything
went wrong, and
he could no longer
earn money at the
pianb, he would
become entitled to
a cash payment of
£lO,OOO. Once when
he cracked his
finger-nail and was
unable to play for
a week, he drew
£5OO as compensa-
tion.
Melbourne is to
see Muriel Starr
once again at the
conclusion of the
“Nothing but the
Truth” season,
although we had
been warned to
watch out for
“Friendly En-
emies.” Muriel is
“ Katinka ,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Thaddeus T. Hopper
(Phil Smith).
to give us a new piece somewhat similar in
design—a New York play known as “Three
Faces East.” The title will keep the public
guessing, anyway.
“J.F.11.”: In some reminiscences of an
old playgoer recently published in London,
reference is made to the meteoric career of
Charles Coghlan, a handsome and brilliant
actor who captivated the playgoing public for
a season and afterwards dropped into mis-
ery. “He was a victim to the same weak-
ness that destroyed Edmund Kean, G. V.
Brooke, Charles Dillon, Leigh Murray and
Robson.” Old Australian theatregoers re-
member G. V. Brooke and Charles Dillon.
George Coppin had occasionally to come be-
fore the curtain and apologise for the
absence of Brooke who was “indisposed.”
“Drunk, you mean,” shouted a candid Bal-
larat digger one night. “Well, you can
put it that way if you like,” said George,
as he retired behind the scenes. This old
London playgoer asked a well-known stage
wit what was really the matter with Cogh-
lan. “My dear fellow,” he replied, “when
the leading actor goes wrong it’s drugs, but
with the poor low comedian it’s whisky.”
“Ancient Prompter”: In the co. that
toured Australia with J. L. Toole, middle-
aged playgoers may recall a well set-up
young fellow named Lowne, who appeared
in light-comedy parts. Charles Macready
Lowne, to give him his full name, has since
made an enviable reputation on the London
stage. Recently he lost his father, who was
in his 89th year. Lowne, senior, when a
stage-struck youngster, became acquainted
with Macready and sought the great man’s
aid in connection with starting as a profes-
sional mummer. He never started. In Mac-
ready’s diary, under the 'date Nov. 29, 1850,
appears this entry: “A Mr. Lowne called
just as I was going out to dinner to thank
me for having saved him from going on
the stage.” Then follow's the fervid declara-
tion : “I feel grateful to God that I have
been instrumental in so much service to a
fellow creature.”
“E.T.”: “Cockaigne” (B. 9/l/’l9) should
have known that Frank Thornton was “tell-
ing the tale” when he gave the assurance
that his “Private Secretary” was original.
Thornton was merely a copy of Penley, “do
you know” gag and all. But the gag was in
the part long before Penley played it—and
before Beerbohm Tree played it, for that
matter.
“Fax” : Film-exchanges seemingly have so
far been merely an indirect benefit to show-
men who take shares and keep them going.
Lately the directors of Co-operative Films
in Melbourne gave a luncheon ’to their
clients to celebrate the renewal of the co.’s
contract with the Metro producers. It was
freely admitted between drinks that the
Co-op. had been the salvation of inde-
pendent showmen in Victoria by enabling
them to dodge monopoly. Yet shareholders
haven’t thusfar drawn much dividend. In
fact, the chairman dampily remarked that
he didn’t know of any film exchange which
was paying anything fat. However, in more
sanguine mood he might have remarked that
the picture business was still in its early
youth.
“Ancient Prompter” : Lie,” by Henry
Arthur Jones, mentioned (B. 16/1/T9) as
having been adapted to picture purposes, is
not to be confounded with “The Liars” of
the same author. Jones was over-fond of
imitating himself in his plots, effects, titles,
etc., but he produced “The Lie” 18 years
after “The Liars.” The former is a drama
done in. New York in 1915; the latter is
of course our old favorite comedy of the
Rrough-Boucicault days, originally staged
at the London Criterion in 1897.
“The Saving Grace,” the Haddon Cham-
bers play which would have received
its first production in Australia at the hands
of Cyril Maude had not the MS. of the
fourth act been submarined on the way out,
has been staged in N’Yark. The critics are
inclined to regard it as less than a comedy
and more than a farce. Maude, in the lead-
ing role, is praised with discretion rather
than with enthusiasm.
Hugh Marelyn, who is trying to induce
J. Bull to take an interest in his own com-
posers, talks of producing an operatic ver-
sion of Masefield’s “Nan.” The story should
provide fine opportunities for a musician
with a sense of drama.
“Fax” : Australian playgoers, even of long
standing, have almost forgotten Clifton
Alderson, an exceptionally tall actor, who
came twice to this country. The first time
he was imported by George Coppin as chief
supporter of the inefficient Laura Villiers
in a co. which produced “The Dancing Girl”
and other pieces, Julius Knight being the
spry “juvenile” of the co. Subsequently
Aldersbn came along in a light comedy
capacity, with a co. that played “The New
Boy,” or something of that sort. Nowadays
he is “dramatic representative” of the
Sacks, Limited, firm, which runs three or
The lady mentioned in a recent Sydney
Sunday Times par. might be pardoned for
classing it amongst things better left un-
said :
Miss , who will also appear in ,
is a prominent American musical comedy actress of
striking beauty, whose father was tormerly well
known in Australian waxwork circles as Jo Jo, the
Dog-faced Man.
four theatres in London. The theatrical
world is always discovering new names for
old jobs, and “dramatic representative” is
seemingly one of them.
“O.Iv.”: When are Australian managers
going to abandon the ancient custom of
importing panto “boys” from Europe or
America? Every good comic-opera chorus
of local girls contains at least two or three
potential “principal boys,” who would only
need a little training in the easy tricks of
that simple line of business. The managers
should have a school of instruction in
principal-boy duties, open to ladies of the
chorus only. Every young woman student
endowed wuth the essential voice and figure
would then have a hope of looming large
on the Christmas bill, with other opportuni-
ties to follow.
“C. Ockney”: Matheson Lang, here a few
years ago in “The Passing of the First-floor
Back” and “Pete,” is emulating Oscar Asche
in England, being now his own manager, his
own leading man and his own author. So
far he has made a success of it, and is
raking in profits with a piece called “The
Purple Mask,” which he adapted from the
French under the pen-name of Charles
Latour. It has already been played at three
West End theatres.
A very practical prize was offered at a
recent competition for unknown conjurers at
the Maskelyne “theatre of mysteries” in
London. It was a professional engagement
for a year at that house. The.winner was
one Conyere, a mere boy —said (improbably)
to be an Eton schoolboy—and within a fort-
night he was on the bill there.
“ EVERYBODY’S DOING IT,” AT
SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Softsoap scandal between Mrs. O’Mara
( Chas. Workman ) and Mrs. McQuibble
(Lottie Sargent).
A very expensive law-suit' over the play
“Within the Law” has just been decided in
London, after hanging on for nearly five
years. A. H. Woods, an American mana-
ger, claimed that the late Beerbohm Tree
had made various breaches of the contract
with him, when successfully staging the play
at London Haymarket, and in the “pro-
vinces.” He wanted an account and heavy
damages from the executors, but the judg-
ment was against him.
“Monsieur Beaucaire,” with charming
French music by Messager, is to be played
as an English comic opera some time this
year. The story doesn’t seem to invite a
musical setting. “A Marriage of Conveni-
ence” would seem more promising, if a
chorus could be introduced into it.
About a quarter of a century has evapo-
rated from the sea of time since Australia
saw Maxine Elliott in the flesh, but she is
now re-appearing on the picture-screen, and
there she still holds her own as a large and
lovely creature. The photographs are kind
to Maxine insofar as they rarely bring her
close enough to the camera to reveal any
markings of age about the eyes and mouth,
but they can afford to be quite truthful
otherwise. Her grace and graciousness are
good to see. The lady, who one time was
Sirs. Nat Goodwin, retains all the “majesty”
of comeliness that distinguished her of yore.
She is a queen among actresses —a Diana
of the movies.
“Bellowdrama”: Whether our advance-
agent didn’t know a pub from a printery, or
whether the cash-box was empty, never trans-
pired ; certainly the Wild Dog Banner
didn’t get the usual ad. The Wild Dog
dramatic critic, nevertheless, witnessed the
opening performance, and on the following
morning hit us and the Tasmanian West
Coast with this :
The “Belle of the Bowery” Dramatic Co. opened
its season in the Gaiety Theatre last night. The theatre
was well ventilated, and during the evening the
orchestra rendered one or two pleasing items.
We packed our stock-in-trade early, and
boarded the first outgoing train.
“T. D. Emdee”: There has been some con-
fusion over the two Normans in Bland Holt’s
co. Albert was Bland’s stipendiary villain;
Harry (no relation) was stage-manager,
Holt himself doing the producing and direct-
ing. I recollect the entrance of the Nor-
mans into the profession. Albert, one of
the finest-looking men on the stage and the
only one I know who could wear tights with-
out pads, gained a lot of experience in Dan
Barry’s co. Later on he joined Plain Bill
Holloway and supported Essie Jenyns.
Albert was a good all-round Sliakspearean
actor. He married Blanche Lewis, also in
the business, and a sound artist. Eventu-
ally he became a martyr to rheumatism and
I have seen him walk briskly^—Heaven only
knows at what cost of physical pain—on
to the stage when he could hardly hobble along
off it. When he retired the Australian stage
lost a fine player. Harry Norman joined
Holt about 32 years ago, when in his teens,
I should say. He grasped the technical side
of the business rather speedily, soon “held
the book” and eventually became
ager. But he was at no time out of the
ordinary as an actor.
“E.T.”: Australia’s old limelight friend
Robert Courtneidge, not content with man-
aging and. producing, is seeking further kudos
and kwids as writer. He is the author of a
musical-comedy “book” entitled “Petticoat
Fair.” The thing was tried on the provincial
dog a few weeks ago with a strong cast,
which included comedians William Cromwell
and Edwin Brett, both well known on this
side of the world.
ACTIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life all round’s a jolly farce.
Dad pretends he’s awful sore
Jus’ because Sain cleared away
lted-hot on the scent of war.
Now Sam’s wearin’ his M.C.
Dad’s as scotty as can be—
Jus’ actin’!
And though Mura is awful proud,
Not a word she dares to say,
Else she’d have Dad cursin’ loud
At the pigs the live-long day;
So she cracks she’s also sore
’Cos Sam’s sniffin’ round for gore—
Jus’ actin’!
E’en our chickens love to play
At pretendin’ what they’re not;
By their cacklin’ one would say
They were layin’ quite a 10t....
Like some human frauds we know
Cacklin’ on through life they go—
Jus’ actin’!
VICTORIA.
RITA SUNYASEE.
HIS AUDIENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I met him after all these years •
At some convivial gathering.
Time has intensified his airs
Of self-assurance. He can sing
His own warm praises as, of old,
And thrice the company was told
Of his success—how much of gold
He,-could from fervent patrons wring.
He cornered me with such a tale.
“I have my clientele, you see.
No artist, sir, on this poor vale
Can hold his audience,” said he,
“As I these faithful friends of mine.
Whatever I essay’s divine
To my. good following. In fine
Through good or ill they swear by me.
“They come whene’er I choose to act;
They listen to my every word;
And every time the place is packed,
And every heart is truly stirred.”
I listened, wondering at the same,
For still I dabble in the game,
And William Horace Spence’s name
For years and years I had not heard.
To-day 1 caught his strident roar.
A terrace house. I stood apart,
And presently from out the door
Beheld a dozen youngsters dart.
Here was his paying audience!
This said the- plate upon the fence:
“Professor William Horace Spence,
Instructor in Dramatic Art!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


lie Shining
lie Grace
u
c
'J-
gOgl
: :.iV!
m
, : f
mMf
. • ii
SSStt
■
.
*r Bare! *.
i a
■
fj • „ H J=f. f - ;
IHHtfi
■
'
ill gs ng
mm
.
.
iV
I
I
*
m
m.
11
•.-' v'
V ■
".V>
: ' m
I
■■■flßl■
MIBBiMHHI
:■-. _ ■ ;
.
■K


Ml
CfrijonM
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
HATIOfto
w
OILS
l^ OMp ANV
I
h °tor oils
MOTOR OILS
—For the Motor Car
—For the Motor Cycle
—For the Motor TrucK
—For the Motor Boat
—For the Aerial Engine
lubrication with National Motor Oils is the
greatest safeguard against loss of power and
wear and tear. Their protective quality
never varies.
Obtainable all Storekeepers and Garages
in 1-gallon tins, 4-gallon tins and barrels.
Ask also for National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO., LTD.,
4 Bridge Street. Sydney.
JAMES WAIIDLE & CO.,
Adelaide.
Columbia
Dry Batteries
When Your Engine Stops
When family auto, truck, tractor, or motor
boat chokes up and loses its gait, it is then that
you realize the advisability of carrying an extra
set of Columbias.
Columbias put the spark of life into en-
gines, autos, trucks, and tractors: they ring
Dells, give speech to telephones, light lanterns,
make motor boats go.
Wherever battery power is needed, Colum-
blas are the simplest source—full of energy td
the very brim. Steady, reliable—proof against
trouble.
Special attention is given to the all-important
detail of packing for export.
No. 6
LUMBIa
jgnitorV
PRY CELL
FOR ai'ta.orr.
GENERAL IGNITION
Manufactured by.
L CARBON CO.Ik
/nmuwT
The Fahnestock Spring
Clip Binding Post, shown
in the illustration, is a Co-
lumbia feature that sells
batteries. With this Bind-
ing Post it is a simply a mat-
ter of pressing down the
spring and
i nserting
the wire
and the
connection
is made.
Dealers —lmmediate de-
liveries can be made. Write
for catalogues and details.
National Carbon
Company, Inc.
Export Department
Cleveland,Ohio,U.SJV,
Cable Address:
“Carbon Cleveland”
0
What do YOU know
about WIRELESS?
\ \ /IRELESS is revolutionising the
communications of the world.
It is still in its infancy, and those who
take up the work NOW will be ready
for the demand which must soon arise
throughout the world.
Commence your studies now —under
the direction of experienced men, in
schools equipped with modern
apparatus —-at:
THE MARGONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
97 Clarence Street, Sydney, and
' »
422-24 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
2\mm\na
THE MOST DELIGHTFUL PERFUME IN AUSTRALIA
ZINC
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
■•.l'
QNVHB
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
vvJv»V|
, -.i. rr-
\ HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic \Zinc.
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins street, Melbourne.
SPANISH INFLUENZA.
The best precautionary' measure, advised by Australia’s leading medical
men is an antiseptic condition of NOSE AND THROAT.
EVERYONE IS RECOMMENDED TO CARRY A BOX OF
NAZETHA PASTILLES
THE VERY BEST NOSE AND THROAT ANTISEPTIC.
By their use the curative^fumes are searchingly carried to all the breath-
/ ing passages.
j/0 OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM ALL CHEMISTS | jfo
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
INCORPORATED 18SS BT SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALE'5, LTD. 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Adr ainistrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Pro; perties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
RECKLESS FINANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bolinski’s getting on in life,
He’s well towards seventy-five,
Yet faces he the city’s strife,
And long he may contrive
To live to see the new years dawn
While shicksers still have goods to pawn.
Bolinski has a neighbor, Cohn;
Their friendship fairly new;
The train Bolinski travels on
His neighbor uses, too;
And riding in they talk of trade
And ways by which, good money s made.
The eve of New Year’s Day and stout
Bolinski went with Cohn,
And took his season ticket out.
Cohn turned his neighbor on:
“Vot risks you’re runnink,” wailed the sage—
“A yearly • ticked at your age 1”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
“J.F.11.”: Passed out, Horace Cox, long
time head of the big Srm that produces vari-
ous London weeklies — Field, Queen, Law
Times, etc. It was from his house that “An
Australian in China,” by Dr. Morrison, the
Geelong boy who is now Political Adviser
to the Chinese Republic, was issued. Horace
Cox as a youth ran away from a farm and
made his way to London, where he sought
out a relative who was running the Law
Times, got a job and eventually a partner-
ship. He remained on the premises over
50 years.
“Quidam”: Especially in the country, no-
body gets so scandalously overpaid for his
services as the undertaker. For instance,
for taking a corpse from the hospital to the
cemetery in one up-country town, a distance
of about a mile, and carrying out a funeral
of the plainest description, the charge was £B.
For trotting out with two ancient horses and
a venerable hearse, worth at most £25, and
planting a deceased in the local cemetery,
an afternoon’s work for one man, the bill
was £lO. Compaied with the charges for
other services rendered to the public this is
grossly exorbitant. A motor-car can be hired
to do the same trip for £2 or under; and
the actual cost of the coffin was trifling.
It’s about time the cost of dying was con-
sidered along with the cost of living.
“F.N.T.”: I see (B. 2/l/’l9) that “An-
zac” is now on the map as the name of a
village in the Canadian Rockies. A cloth-
ing-manufacturer in the U.S. recently
adopted the name as a brand for a make
of boys’ clothes. Isn’t it time, if some
American tradesman hasn’t already fore-
stalled the Commonwealth Government, that
this country’s administration registered
“Anzae” under U.S. laws-—and that of
other countries, is necessary—and prohibited
its use for trade purposes there, as is done
here? Melba, when she reached N’York on
one of her pre-war trips, found that a local
product had been given her stage name,
whereupon she promptly had “Melba” regis-
tered and warned off the offenders.
“D.”-: F. E. Smith, the new Lord Chancel-
lor in England, is a society man with brains.
His metier, hitherto, has been “leading” in
a cause c&ebre in which he already knows
the principals and most of the witnesses on
both sides. Not by any means a great law-
yer, but a great advocate by reason of his
knowledge of his world and of human nature
generally, of his readiness of speech, and of
his extraordinarily attractive appearance.
He has had his failures. For example, re-
cently, in America, where he went as a sort
of ambassador and ended by being accepted
as a mild joke. The antithesis of the im-
pression created by his fellow-lawyer, Lord
Reading—born Rufus Isaacs. Smith comes
of bourgeois, Nonconformist stock, and his
father was at one time a sergeant-major in
the “Regulars.” Leaving the Army Smith
senior became a barrister, and “F.E.” pro-
ceeded to Oxford wifh a scholarship. Since
when he has steadily gone ahead —socially
(which means much in London), at the Bar
and in the House.
“Horatio” whoops:—
Some years ago when my hard-hearted relatives
iri the Old Country put it to me plainly that I must
either stop drinking and cease from borrowing, or
else keep on drinking and live in Australia on a
strictly-limited allowance, I chose the hero’s part—
that is to say, Australia and the s.l. allowance. At
that time I hated Australia because it sounded like
a lonely cabin in the woods. But, thanks to the
policy of centralisation and the splendid Micawber-
like attitude of Australia’s politicians, all the dear
boys are clustered together in one or two cities, and
nobody cares' a damn for the cabin in the scrub.
This atmosphere suits my temperament. 1 have had
a devilish good time ever since I landed, and only
noticed a slight slackening of the fill-’em-up-again
spirit during the period of the war. Now all that
wretched fag is over, and I can see a splendid time
coming. Even in the dear Old Country, so used up
downing the beastly Hun, they are arranging
grand pageants. Now, if they can do that there,
what shall we not be able to do when we start! I
see a dashed top-hole time ahead in dear Australia,
where money simply doesn’t matter. These Royal
Commissions and Auditors-General make a frightful
fuss when some johnny in power goes and pays a few
thou, more than he need have done; but I’ve got
no sympathy at all with these pettifogging book-
keepers. The Australian knows how to live like a
gentleman, and when he buys a thing he doesn't
count the change like some bounder of a clerk out
on a holiday. These bally pawnbrokers who are
always overhauling the accounts are just the sort of
people who would drink by themselves instead of
asking a sportsman to drink with them. I like this
care-free spirit with money, and I am looking for-
i ward to the Australian celebrations when peace
comes. The only thing I am sorry about is that
Australia hasn’t got a Minister for Fireworks and
Public Rejoicings to see the thing is done well, and
that everything is of the best. But the Australian
is such a dashed adaptable beggar that perhaps every
Federal or State Minister in Australia will turn
into an ideal Minister for Fireworks and Public
Rejoicings when the time conies. These are great
times, and this is a magnificent country. In the Old
Country there were often times when, in spite of my
rjatural optimism, I was made to feel that I was a
hopeless loafer with a love of insolvency. In dear,
sunny Australia I feel that I am a man and a
brother absolutely in tune with the splendid
fellows who are running 4he country. It is the right
environment for me. The sunshine suits me, the
drinks suit me, the damn-the-expense attitude suits
me. In fact, everything suits me. What!


\
H
*
■
I m
%
3
mPI
J
0*
‘H’ .
% ..
di
■pi&
i H
«'4
|H
S
V;
■*
P 3 * £afe JssSm
>
f
■
w 1
n
I
HP
I
■■
sss
I
llS»r
"
'■•■
:
m
‘ |»
a
■ V
i : ! S
■
:
r-
?
"
rfr
I JSiiSP'
|fi|
fa I -. ..H
■ if ns
II ,
M
a
im
mm
' '«C 3
, V 1..
■ ■ ■■■:■
W?K\r;*r*'
: :" >:v
py®*
V
- --••••'
i 1
fcaj^fc-^va^^>^^^'33S3S£!SBBSCagi^SS3SBSSafeg , BgSgg3SaBB3£6SC^B£<!
$
:
■
.
f-i
& 3S
IHf ‘i
n
*ii§l
This wash
drawing was
specially
designed and
drawn for
London Stores
Ltd., by
Jim Hannan,
Melbourne.
OUR ONLY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALIA . . .
The Right Way
to Buy a Suit of
Clothes.
BUYING right is not only a
matter of price but ol getting
value. The “right” in buying
London Tailoring comes in the,gain-
ing of tested fabrics combined with
fine workmanship, not only where you
can see it but where you can’t.
The outside finish and workmanship
of London Tailoring is self-evident.
Some time during the life of a suit
the inside workmanship will manifest
its presence—by keeping the shape,
by wearing better, and by holding the
stylish effect until the very goods
wear out.
The right way zo buy a suit of clothes is to measure
the number of days’ service you will get for each
£\ of cash. Buy London Tailoring on that basis,
and you will buy right.
1
TaiYor made to Order-
Splendid, Choice
Hard=wearing
Summer Tweeds,
Cool and Stylish
Fancy Greys
and Browns,
70
84
14oz. Fine Blue Twills and
Smooth English Worsteds,
C/1
c/i
I
OPP.
G.P.O.
Melbourne.
on
0
*
*
O'
O'
6
O'
*
*
< N


'Ct/D •
Jlosiery
CPECIALIZED
methods in desi&n-
in& and knitting pro-
duce in Luxite Hosiery
a closely woven tex-
jture of remarkable
[durability and re-
splendent beauty un-
surpassed j for the
money by any other
[hosiery in the world.
f Don’t accept substitutes and thinl:
’you have “Luxite.” Insist upon
| the genuine. If your dealer is
; unable to supply you, write us.
Walter CathroPty.Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
MECHfAiNTCS. —Commence in business on your own
account as motor experts. The Dyke System of
Instruction enables you to master the science of motor
construction. The principles of engine, magneto, car-
buretters differential, transmission and clutch are ex-
plained visually by working models. This is not
merely a ‘‘correspondence course” —it’s a system of
practical instruction. Send for Prospectus “M” to-
day. Ajddress: Jas. Rodger and Co., 159 E Manchester
Street, Christchurch, jSLZ. [3
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Sydney’s Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Xhis beautifully-situated RESIDENTIAL
HOTEL is unique in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, being RIGHT ON THE HARBOR
FRONT, with its own secluded .BEACH AND
GROUNDS and AMPHITHEATRE SWIM-
MING BATHS, the whole surrounded by
natural Bush.
25 Fine New Bedrooms have just
been erected, built over the water,
every room looking out to the Heads.
Daily service of Steamers, including Theatre
Boat, to and froip No. T Jetty, Circular
Quay.
A Delightful Ferry Trip.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths.
Apply Manager,
CLIFTON GARDENS' HOTEL,
Telephones: Y3OOl. MOSMAN, N.S.W.
Y 3002.
Stuw-Skfiet
SSir
MOSQUITOES
A Marvellous
discovery.
Gives absolute
PROTECTION
FROM THE PEST.
Nothing else
LIKE IT.
me.
O)
QOa or
ic rs
>
\[6
Per bottle, all Chemists
and Stores or
/rom H.C.PRICE. ChAfswood W.S.W.
RXR
Public Notice.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell. Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great .War. Good prices will be
paid for good material.. Address Mitchell
Library, Macouarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees,
W. 11. IFOULD,
• Principal Librarian and Secretary.
Reduction of Price.
Having completed arrangements to
manufacture in Australia we are
pleased to inform the public that the
price of
Mellins Food
is now reduced to
2|6 per bottle (large size),
Fresh Australian Milk mixed with
Mellins Food yields the surest and
safest diet for children from birth.
Sold by all Chemists, Grocers and Stores. If
you have any difficulty in obtaining it in
your district write us and we will arrange
for supply.
AGENTS: —
GOLLIN & CO. PROPY. LTD., Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
MELLINS FOOD LTD., Islington Street, Col-
lingwood, Victoria.
MORROCKSES'HORROCKSfc'S'HORROCKSES'
2CZD
•'SO SOFT AND
COMFORTABLE"
nORROCKSES!
ESTABLISHED 1791
sec
HORROCKSES
On StLVEDCt
imrasnss
hr.1,1-m4ii:^^TO:l:r.T4!^4.-am
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS
DRAUGHTSMEN* & OFFICE USE.
iiSiii ; ,. &&& * ti fm.
m .
——
t
liiflSH
f«JAOE
MM
Perfection
rubber
ABBEY
SHOES!
Men who realise that a smart and
correctly addressed appearance is
an ASSET should wear ABBEY
SHOES.
They are made in all the latest
models, and their long service
makes them economical, as well as
distinctive.
Being made in half and full sizes,
and in three fittings—narrow
medium and wide —we are able to
guarantee a perfect fit.
We illustrate a choice Tan Willow
Ca.lf.Bal .... PRICE 32/6, 45/-
Also in Box Calf, with dull Calf
Legs PRICE 37/6
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Used the
World Over
£3
MOTOR
.. .CARS
EEQ
r
s
I
Certain-teed
Costs
—less to buy
—less to lay
—less to maintain
In practically every community under the
sun Certain-teed Roofing gives longer and
better roofing service, at a lower cost than
other kinds of roofing.
It is economical to buy. Costs almost
nothing to lay. Anyone who will follow the
simple instructions on the roll can lay it. It
is weatherproof, immune to the corroding
action of smoke, acid and fumes, is clean,
sanitary and does not affect the taste or
odour of water.
Call or write for samples and valuable in-
formation before you buy your roofing
material-
Australian Representative—C. C. McCAXN,
Perpetual Trustee Building:, Sydney, N.S.W.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
John Danks & Son Pty. Etd. Wunderlich, Etd
Janies Hardie & Co. Etd. James Sandy & Co.. Etd
Manufactured by
CERTAIN-TEED PRODUCTS CORPORATION
World’* Largest Manufacturer of Roll Roofing
Certain-teed
THOUGHTS AT THE ZOO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There are crowds of surprising things about
Taronga Park.”
There, are surprising things about this place:
The elephant’s long trunk, the lion’s grace,
The snakes that eat the frogs, the monkey’s face.
The way some creatures spit and others chew,
The various stunts the camel doesn’t do,
The tiger’s stripes, the weary kangaroo.
They say that education can be found
In merely looking up and smelling round
Among the prisoned beasts that hokl the ground.
It may be true. I only see some pain
To creatures eager freedom to regain,
And not a little danger, to be plain.
High flavors, hair, great bulks of uselessness,
That narrowing space and trenches still distress;
ITow these may educate I cannot guess.
Children within the town are hungry still.
The tiger’s cost a dozen mouths would fill;
One camel’s breakfast pay a doctor s bill.
The summer breezes with a gentle kiss
Mix the aromas for the evening’s bliss,
Lest the proud State-kept stink the stars should
miss.
N'.S.W.
MARY McC.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Can any reader
identify for me the I’ilgl'im Inn, which stood
atop of Capstone Hill some 80-odd years
ago? It was the first pub met after leaving
Jacob Josephson’s Governor Bourke, at Emu
Ferry.
“C B.”: I met him at night in Fitzroy.
lie fell into step beside me, and after a
couple of preliminary Observations, men-
tioned that it was a hot and thirsty evening.
I agreed. He spoke words of indignation
anent the tyrannical Government which
dried up the wells of gladness at six o’clock.
I agreed some more. This, apparently,
caused him to decide that 1 was a promising
subject, and drawing a bottle from under-
neath his coat, he proffered “a good pull for
a tanner.” When I declined his attitude
was that of a man whose valuable time has
been trifled with. A few nights later a
friend of mine was similarly approached in
the same suburb. The recent energy of the
Ipolice in raiding unlicensed shanties seems
to have called into existence the peripatetic
groggery.
“Riverina”: In 1916, when cheese was
plentiful among the MX. troops, our boys
had a playful way of increasing the rat death-
rate. A Digger would spear a piece of
cheese with his bayonet, then put the muzzle
of the rifle round a corner and wait. As
unfailingly as a politician to a banquet along
would come a rat and begin the feast. A
little extra pressure on the trigger did the
rest.
“Thomas De Kaye” : Re castor oil (“G.A.”
28/11/T8). The plant in Australia can be
made to produce excellent quality seeds. As
a matter of fact, the commercial castor seed
is found on plants growing wild in all the
States, but more especially in W.A. and S.A.
There is a market in Melbourne for 3000
tons of castor seed per annum. Up to the
present all the seed used has been brought
from Java and India, and recently the price
has been in the vicinity of £3O per ton. I
have tried to wake up various Departments
of Agriculture on the matter, but officialdom
merely opened one eye, turned over and went
to sleep again. In India a fair yield is three-
quarters of a ton per acre, so even when the
price is normal (about £l2 per ton), the
returns per acre on suitable country should
be encouraging. Harvesting is not difficult,
and can be done by women and children.
A. E. V. Richardson, Supt. of Agriculture
in Victoria, who returned recently from
America, gives an instance of the distaste
in that part for “knocking” one’s country.
He dropped into two big wheat provinces
in Canada, where they had been suffering
from an Old Man drought. Yet he hadn’t
heard a whisper about it until he struck the
localities. Knowing that if the same thing
happened here the papers would be full of
it, he asked and was frankly told that they
didn’t see any sense in advertising droughts
and other calamities. Still, the way of
the newsrag is hard. A few years ago, in
a dry spell, the usual flaming reports started
coming into one big office in Sydney. Hav-
ing a brain wave the editor decided to
smother them, arguing that they didn’t do
the drought-stricken cocky any good, or the
country either. Silence followed. Then
came ferocious yells _ from cocky, accusing
the paper of callous indifference to his suf-
ferings. The only visible explanation was
that cocky saw in the drought an oopor-
tunity that was being wasted to bleed the
Government for remittance of rent and for
free seed and fodder, special railway rates,
etc.
“The Oldest Inhabitant’s” yarn:—
The N.E. corner of Market and George streets,
Sydney, at which a big Are occurred recently, is one
of the most noted spots in old Sydney. In Governor
Bligh’s time the corners of Market-street and the
western end of the street itself were a leasehold of
John Fleming, who was permitted to join the New
South Wales Corps and rose to the rank of ser-
geant. Having cleared his time, he desired to return
to England, and sold his lease to John Blaxland for
£7OO. In course of years Blaxland parted with the
lease, Market-street was opened up, and the original
Dan Cooper secured both corners. On one he built
the Waterloo Warehouse, which was for years a com-
mercial landmark. John Hunter now occupies the
corner. On the opposite, or northern, corner, Tom
Burdekin had an ironmongery business, which he
sold to one John Thomas Wilson, who in 1839 cleared
out with some thousands of pounds’-worth of pro-
perty, leaving his creditors lamenting. Soon after
that, Thomas Baker, who had an inn, The Crown and
Anchor, in George-street, nearly opposite the G.P.0.,
removed his sign to the corner of Market-street,
where about the year 1850 Henry Roberts took over
the business, and it has been in the Roberts family
ever since. On the site of Blow’s Crown Studios 80
odd years ago was one Hawley, an ironmonger, and a
door or two south stands the old house in which John
Sands first started business. In Market-street, ad-
joining Roberts’s Hotel, stood the City Theatre.
Some portion of the building is gtill standing. A
couple of years ago Farmer’s Limited bought the
freehold of Roberts’s Hotel (14 years of the lease
unexpired), which gave the firm control of the entire
block, George, Market and Pitt streets, one of the
most valuable sites in Sydney.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de -
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MARCH 5,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Ollice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. .. . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1593 specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) :
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
II1SAI) OHiCI! - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £130.000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager; C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750 000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345 702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
„ . , T . , land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
AustralasiariUnited Steam Navigation C“m.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
1HE “ALL-BED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACII'IO
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN F'RANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital -
Reserve Fund - - - - ' -
Reserve Liability -
Directors:
£3,904,860
£3,025,000
£3,904,860
£10,834,720
The I-lon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, 'Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Auditors :S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager : Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
JBank
“Hustralia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
for e a n n General Banking Business P rPn*pai
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Minimum
Deposit
1/'
Saving's Bank Department
Branches, and over 2750 Agencies at Interest at 3°/
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon per annum /o
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific, up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor
1918
DENISON MILLER, Governor
HAVE YOU A SAVINGS ACCOUNT?
This Bank offers you every facilitator Banking your Savings.
Deposits received
from 1/- upwards.
132 Branches and
500 Agencies
throughout the
State.
ir
3
3
Qc
4
UJ
INTEREST
S 3
ON
c?
DEPOSITS
3*
s
H
Interest paid at 394
per cent, per annum
on every £ up to
£5OO.
No Agencies at Post
Offices.
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
Huddart Parker LIM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airv Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
I4IRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
\LD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWR.AITH,
McEACHARN & C-0. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH h CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
HVEEd! RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are irYied in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and Ealoon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY,
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
For Constipation
Constipation is dangerous be-
cause it means that poisonous
materials which should have been
expelled from the body are being
retained. The appetite fails, diges-
tion becomes disordered and the
breath offensive. Pinkettes, the new
laxative, are a real help in correct-
ing constipation.
They do not aggravate the com-
plaint as strong purgatives do; and
they do not wear out in their effects.
Taken according to directions they
assist the patient so that the use of
an opening medicine is not a con-
stant necessity.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.'
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


'Charles
! HeiosieckS
; Vintage 1906
fflnpuw
ME PLUS DLTRfI
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Geo* 8 6 ** aydn ey .
Wgfc®* 8 -
Bo«.i®Sfß»» s a V,
13^::’
v v fthoP
dney t .genoV
»r\d _..«y-m
PAULINE et CIE
announce
GREAT REDUCTIONS
in their exclusive stock of Model Millinery.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers
George Street, SYDNEY.
QUEEN’S ARMS
■HOTEL
■ *
I
T - sumptuously ap-
pointed and situated 1
right in the heart of the
City of Melbourne
Tariff by the day 10/6
Cr. Swanston Street
and Flinders Lane,
Melbourne
C. R. KERR, A
Ik Proprietor M.
*r t _
/
H. TVit K®
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
wearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrow*.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer’s.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILLINERY
Melba’s second farewell concert in Syuney
was a testimonial to John Lemmone. A
record audience, squeezed into every crack”
of the Town Hall, had in scores of places to
take its music standing. The G.-G.’s seats
were crowded so close to the platform that
the v.r. circle slowly backed, for si craned
neck does not make a pleasant evening. The
Dame, in white velvet, illuminated with dia-
monds and emeralds, wore as accessories
long-winged sleeves of green tulle _ that
floated over the vista of skirt. Assisting
were Leila Doubleday, her melodious fiddle,
Francis de Bourguignon, his piano, and
Andrew Black The veteran singer, not so
often' heard of late years, appeared at John’s
special request. He began as nervously as
a schoolgirl, but warmed up later in an old
Scottish song. The Sydney Madrigal Soci-
ety lent its aid. W. G. Layton was hon.
treasurer, and J. E. Brownlow the hard-
worked manager of a concert that panned
out £2OOO for invalid John.
In 1914 Sydney yatchsmen, as a body,
gave up the pleasant habit of flying before
a stiff nor’-easter on summer afternoons.
With the Peace Conference fighting its way
to a settlement, the Harbor fleet has just
had its first big rendezvous for nearly five
years. Surgeon Alex. MacCormick, commo-
dore of the R.S.Y.S., on the Morna, flew
the signal “Follow me in line,’’ and with
the G.-G. and a big party on board led the
way to the anchorage off Steel Point.
Walter Marks, commodore of. the Prince
Alfred Club, is away on war service, but a
vice-commodore took his place in the toast
list on the flagship Argus. There were no
shipwrecked . mariners; but some ■of the
It.S.Y.S.’s guests were aboard a steamer
which had its anchor caught in a rock. So
they sat tight in the same place till 7 p.m.
Some of the masseuse girls who put on
freshly-starched pinnies for the event never
had even a bird’s-eye view of Excellency
Ferguson at Prince Alfred Hospital the other
afternoon. He was there, nevertheless, with
Lady' Helen and a bodyguard. Prof. Andy
Stuaft —the institution has grown from a
small hospital to a hamlet under his eye —
Albert Gould, Dr. Nash. Matron Boissier
(who got the Royal Red Cross for her ser-
vices at the Front), Dr. Sinclair, Superin-
tendent Clayton, Secretary Epps and A.D.C.
Duncan made an imposing retinue.
Welfare-work, that balm which is rubbed
by the best of l!.S>. employers into the sensi-
tive cuticles of their employed, is getting
more attention here. A promising sample
was opened last week by Melba in a top
storey of Farmer and Co.’s workrooms, in
Kent-street. A Social Welfare Hall —it
sounded dull, but a few casual guests of
the co. were aghast to find themselves the
Cinderellas of a frilly party, the frilliest of
it being the attractive staff. The Dame, in
a blush-pink evening-goWn, was assisted out
of a gorgeous black-and-gold wrap before
mounting the platform. Directors Norman
Pope and James Chalmers addressed all
hands briefly. Neither would give away the
inner secrets of their hearts re helpings of
Welfare to come, but they agreed that the
time was ripe, and that from this new
centre greaj; things might proceed. The hall
—large and handsomely decorated —has a
stage which the staff can use for concerts,
theatricals, etc. Electric light falls in softly
from ground-glass globes.
Remember' Gerald Mussen, once a news-
paper man in these parts? He has been
taking a hand in another sort of welfare-
work —for the big smelting company at Port
Pirie (S.A.). A Palm Beach has been built
for employees and their families, well away
from the dust and dirt of the drab port,
and the other day it was opened with cheers
and other refreshment. Workmen who don’t
miss more than I-forget-how-many days in a
year can have a fortnight on full pay in cot-
tages provided for them, water and lighting
free and champagne and chicken at cost
price. The Broken Hill Prop, is watching
results; and.if it gets any encouragement it
will follow suit at Newcastle.
An anxious Australian girl has, like many
others, been waiting for the ships to resume
their Maoriland trips. Lyle Bowen, who
was to have been married in Sydney on
Christmas Eve, hopes now to see her ’groom-
to-be within a week. He’s Frederick Flan-
agan, -for many years \ aluer-General over
there. Headquarters in Wellington.
Nobody has mentioned the thing that
made the stewards on these M.L. boa.ts stick
out for concessions for taking 'flu’ risks.
When the Makura was sent into quarantine
there weren’t enough stewards to go round
among the three or four hundred passengers
who were put ashore; so a few waiters had
to be hired in Sydney. They got 15s. a day
and 2s. 9d. an hour overtime, and four
hours’ overtime wasn’t a rare thing. Twenty-
six shillings a day—and the stewards, doing
the same work and belonging to the same
union, got five-and-soinething! From that
hour the Union Co. was booked for trouble.
The spinning-wheel which turned in war-
time with Bill’s socks as its objective is a
novel addition to the toast-rack and butter-
cooler of the modern bride. The Moore-street
Camelero depot girls gave Daphne King
(lately wed to Dr. Roberts, of Candelo) a
handsome wheel. The new Mrs. Roberts
was for some time chief spinner for this
comforts fund.
John Spencer Brunton and his impressive
lady—an amateur contralto who would have
had a Career if fortune hadn’t lapped her in
happy domesticity—went off in the Niagara.
A youthful soldier son on the other side is
the magnet. ' The Bruntons, who hospitably
turned their Darling Point mansion upside
down a year or two ago to give Melba the
rooms she fancied, have the Dame as a
fellow passenger.
En route for home, Lieut.-Col. Ted Norrie,
who owns a D. 5.0., an Aussie wife, and a
daughter, all acquired since he left . for
Anzac, after a term at Rabaul. He is a
son of late solicitor Norrie and Mrs. Norrie,
of Rose Bay.
One batch of home-coming Aussies who
travelled via Panama gives a cheero for Pav-
lova, the Russian dancer, who was in Colon
when they called. She sent along a big sup-
ply of smokes and fruit and such-like to
our boys.
Edward Mulcahy, who succeeds ex-Sena-
tor Long, is a much-married man. He has
three times faced the music. First and
second wives were sisters, and all three were
products of the Speck. A son lives in Syd-
ney, and a daughter is married to the son of
Hobart’s archdeacon.
Homeward bound, Major E. O. Milne, son
of late Railway Commissioner Milne, and a
1914 inan who did great transport work. He
is accompanied by his wife,, and packed
away in their luggage along with the D.S.O.
is a new Croix de Guerre.
Engineer McEnally, who set out for Papua
on the Matunga, but reached Ilunland in-
stead, will be home directly. Mrs. McEn-
ally, of Manly, his wife, is greatly rejoicing.
Also, with his course set for Aussie is Cap-
tain Donaldson, who was captured on the
same ship.
Australia grows the finest wool, soldiers
that rival the world’s best, and the largest
crop of musicians to the acre. Its vocalists
are becoming so
plentiful that some
industrious person
should compile a dic-
tionary of striking
native nouns. Where
the aspirant decides
to adopt a profes-
sional label, a name
with a eucalyptus
flavor promises to be
a rare advt. in the
years to come. Mar-
jorie Beeby, daughter
of the Minister who
is in U.S. just now,
will, for her part,
stick to her own
home-grown tag. A
pupil of Roland
Foster at the Con-
servatorium, Marjorie at 20 summers is
already counted amongst the intellectuals.
With a generous helping of her dad’s brains,
the Sydney girl has a voice of exceptional
beauty; and she hopes to go to Europe
presently to learn the rest of the musical
catechism. Oratorio is likely to have
another star in the next few years, and
its name will be —guess !
Through a Brisbane periscope;—
Robert Philp and some of his household, and W.
H. Barnes, MX.A. for Buiimba, his wife and his son
Cedric and his wife, have . fled south. They are
going to look in at Melbourne on their way to Tas-
mania.
G. H. M. Addison, architect, fed a bunch of
grey-haired boys and slightly younger soldiers at
our best cafe on Monday night to celebrate the home-
coming of his Anzac son. There was a partnership
with dad waiting for this young man.
Aid. McGuire arrived at the last City Council mtet-
ing with fury in his eye and a folded English news-
paper in his hand, and read to the almost suffocating
mayor a par. stating that Mr. Watt had forbidden the
flying of a Red Flag on the Brisbane Town Hall. It’s
easy enough to mangle “Trades Hall” into “Town
Hall.” But England remains calm.
James Allan, of the Australian Y.M.C.A., is back
again after 10 months in England. His job was
chairman and treasurer of the London executive in
England and France.
Novelist Kathleen Watson-Dearden and her daugh-
ter are holidaying in the bush near \ arraman. Son
Charlie is keeping his eye on the paper-pulp manu-
facture which goes on at the Queensland Pine Co. s
milt there.
Cupid has ended the public career of Matilda
Maud Henneasy, only female clerk of Petty Sessions
in Bananaland. A few weeks ago Matilda said I
will” to one McGrath, of the Esk Club hotel.
Pianist Francis de Bourguignon, born in
Brussels and trained in its Conservatorium,
took his diploma and became a teacher
there at 18 —a
record so far as
that musical hub is
concerned. On Au-
gust 4, 1914, he
enlisted. After a
fortnight’s training
he, like thousands
of other young Bel-
gians, went straight
to the trenches. Bel-
gium had mislaid
its soul. “Only one
out of each family,’"
the young pianist
says, “had to go
through any mili-
tary training, and
even this was not
carried out with
efficiency. Then, too,
for £65 you could buy a man to take your
place in the conscription list—and the
bought man, what could he be?” After
fighting at Termond and Malines, the
pianist was severely wounded at Antwerp.
“I knew no more,” he says, “till I woke
up in a London hospital, to wonder what
had befallen me.” Given 12 months to
I recuperate, in 1915 he came to Australia
and met Melba, who has not only engaged
him for many of her concerts but has
been most kind and hospitable to him.
Coombe Cottage lias been his Australian
home. Returning to report himself in
London for service again, a Board dis-
charged him as medically unfit. He toured
South America; then went on to North
America, and in 1917. Melba, who was
then in the U.S., again engaged him for
a tour. He goes home to Brussels within
the next two or three months. A crowded
career for a young man in the early
twenties. Photo by Judith Fletcher.
With Mrs. Connell in the chair, mothers,
wives and sweethearts of soldiers and sailors
met in the Town Hall vestibule to return
thanks to the Red Cross and other volun-
tary war-workers. Then there was talking
and talking and more talking—from Chaplain
Green, Chaplain Wilson, State Treasurer
Fitzpatrick and Opposition-leader John
Storey; and a silken scarf of red, white and
blue was sent to Lady Davidson (unable
to be present) from the Women’s Associa-
tion.
The French Government has handed Mrs.
R G. Bowen (formerly Corinne Bruce-
Nicol) the Medaille de la Reconnaissance
Francaise for three and a half years’ devo-
tion to French Red Cross work in Queens-
land. Of French extraction, Mrs. Bowen
is the wife, of that Lieut.-Commander who
was badly wounded at the Rabaul landing
and is now in Westralia.
Lieut.-Commander Moyes, R.A.N., from
Sc-uth Aus., recently married a good-looking
Strathfield girl, Miriam King. The ’groom
is an F.R.G.S., having been a member of the
Mawson party.
“Half a crown a minute” is the catchword
in Prince Alfred Hospital’s struggle for
cash. As the Sydney citizen worms his
way through the crowded streets, seductive
voices challenge his steps. “One thou-
sand pounds for a shilling,” is the lure.
This fat war-bond is one of the prizes in
the P.A.H. Art Union. Somebody will
achieve the record deal on April 30. The
huge healing haven in the ’Varsity paddocks
actually costs 60 times 2s. 6d. every hour
to keep it solvent.
The Peace Ball Committee has slightly
altered its objective, which is now the
raising of the wind for the Church of
England Home for kiddies. Tickets one
guinea. Donations accepted with enthusi-
asm by Mrs. Stuart Osborne and Mrs.
Walter Brunton, hon. treasurers. Likely
to be the most dressy. event of Easter
race week. /
The two extra-good-looking -laughters of
Mr. Willgoss (Gordon and Gotch) are en-
gaged to marry respectively a King and a
Prince. Fortunately only the names—not
the jobs—of the bridegrooms-elect are royal.
Matron Creel, who succeeded Matron
Nellie Gould at Sydney Hospital, was in
the recent list of nightingales due for Royal
Red Cross decorations. She is—or was a few
weeks ago—chief comfort in the big Aus-
tralian Hospital, Cairo.
From an Australian girl:—
The Hotel Vancouver, 8.0., is these days the
happv meeting-place for war brides and Australian
soldier-husbands who are' dashing from France across
America to regather up their families. Mrs. Jimmy
Burns was an exception to the general rule. She
has gone across America to London to meet her man.
Captain and Mrs. Paul—she was a Toowoomba Mac-
Callum —have just met and gone home with a small
son. Lieutenant and Mrs. Jack Chandler had a
second honeymoon at Honolulu before going back to
Queensland. Lieutenant Fairbairn had no wife to
meet him, but he didn’t lack a sympathetic audience
when he told of his adventures as a prisoner in
Germany.
Kathlene Macdowell rushed straight to New York
as soon as the ship was anchored at Vancouver.
She is now busy rehearsing a new play which is
said to promise her even more scope than “Daddy
Long Legs.” Margaret Wycherley’s return to
America was hindered by ’flu’ in Auckland. She
had to go to Wellington and ship by the Moana
to San Francisco, where her husband, Bayard
Vieller, impatiently awaited with the script of his
newest play, in which the heroine is said to be a
cross between Joan of Arc and Mary Turner of
“Within thG Law.”
Lots of American women thought they’d rush to
London and Paris as soon as the ink was dry on
the armistice. Officialdom in stern tones said “No.”
For six more months they must wait, and then they
may not. be allowed to go. In revenge they bought
more clothes and danced new dances at the rate
of a thousand steps to the bar.
Torn Simpson, Tom Monaghan and one of
the Ellison brothers sail away in the
Marathon. They’ve just finished their
course at Duntroon. Instead of going
straight to the Front they will have to
do 12 months “finishing” service on the
other side. Some Neutral Bay girls sped
the boys with a launch picnic last week.
Lieut. Ted Billyard Leake, D. 5.0., of
the Royal Navy, and one of the heroes of
the Vindictive-Zeebrugge incident, was wed
in England during November. The Austra-
lian man’s bride was a Midlothian lass,
Lelia, daughter of Captain and Mrs.
Traquair. An uncle of the ’groom is that
brisk youngster, Captain Moseley—B6 not
out in April—who spends his mornings
working at the War Chest head depot in
Elizabeth-street. Dad is the ex-Sydney man
who lent Ilarefield to the Diggers for a hos-
pital.
A big Sydney clan is interested in a S.
Australian engagement—Miss “Johnny”
Fearon, whose father manages the B.N.S.W.
in Adelaide, to John, son of the late well-
gilded William Barker, of Baldina station.
The 1 girl is a niece of Mrs. Tony Weaver.
A former Gallipoli man, | “Bill” Sheppard,
late of the 17th. was married to the girl of
his heart in St. John’s the other day. The
graceful bride was a Junee maiden, Wini-
fred Plumley. Captain Sheppard, who
added fighting in France to his Gallipoli
experience, returned thanks for the good
wishes of his friends, at the Wentworth
Hotel.
Mrs. Haffenden Smith, whose students’
patriotic concerts have been frecpuent items
during the war, is off. to the other side in
March.
The singing season, which usually closes
up like a defiant oyster during January
and February is still open. Two Melba
concerts this month, the Phil. Pops next
month, and Dolores in the Town Hall on
February 1, 4 and 6 keep the public pretty
well nourished.
The Fruit and Vegetable Fund (16 Cab-
rington-street) means to go on helping
soldiers’ wives and dependants till the last
i is dotted in demobilisation. So you can
go on sending your turnips and ’taties to
the above address. The railways and most
of the coastal shipping cos. generously for-
ward the goods free of charge.
A Maoriland girl, lately in Sydney, got
a gentle shock when the first Harborside
shoplady called her “dear” in the ordinary
way of trade. Miss Maoriland Was used to
the more formal “Madam”; but she soon
got accustomed to the friendliness of her
sisters behind the counters, and saw that
it was a sort of tribute to her youth and
gentle methods. Aggressive matrons with
four extra chins got “Madam” right off the
ice every time.
Died recently at St. Vincent’s, Sydney,
Ernest Joseph Wheble. late of Mayfield
station, Coonamble, aged 64. He was second
son of Lady Catherine Elizabeth AVheble, the
eldest daughter of the third Earl of Howth,
who lived in the picturesque Howth Castle,
on Dublin Bay.


,em-<sei Jewel lent
' \
VLZcS&U I
xj
The distinctive design. specially
selected the perfection of
setting combine to make the (am/iany's
Jewellery exclusive in character^.
2/45
Plat. num /horded and 15ct Gold Dar>
Drooch sel wilh Diamond Cluster, in case.
j£/2~0~0
2067
Ttto Stone Crossove*
£39-0-0
0.089
Emerald & Diamond
Square Cluster^,
jC95~0~0
2002
Sinole stone wirh
DiamoricLShouldepa
£f/Q~OrO
A selection will be sent on approval and a
copy of 1 the Company's illustrated catalogue
forwarded on request, J
Hardu Brothers lid
«3 HUNTER ST
S V D N E Y.
290 COLLINS ST
MELBOURNE
116 118 QUEEN SI
B RISBAN E
Er
LO N DO IS
Photography Gives an
Additional Interest in
Every Phase of Life.
In business, in pleasure, and in every activity of life the possession of
a camera gives its owner an interest which dispels monotony and causes
time to fly all too quickly.
For this reason a camera is a profitable investment, and, in order to
make the path of the budding photographer as easy as possible,
WE TEACH PHOTOGRAPHY FREE
To Every Purchaser of a Camera.
We invite you to take advantage of this offer. Call and inspect our
stock, which includes
THE WORLD’S BEST MAKES OF CAMERAS
—ENSIGNS, BROWNIES, KODAKS—
And Other World-Famous Brands
at Prices to Suit Every Requirement.
If you would like a small Vest Pocket Camera, that you can carry
anywhere and at any time, we recommend the
ENSIGNETTE NO. 1 (British-made), takes photos 2J xli inches 35/-
ENSIGNETTE NO. 2 (British-made), takes photos 3x 2 inches. . 42/0
V.P.K., takes photos 2 x If inches 40/-
If you live out of town, send for illustrated catalogue—post free to any
address.
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers, have your
Residues Treated at HARRINGTONS’.
We have the latest Scientific Appliances for the Economical Treatment of Ores.
Residues, Sweepings and other Waste Products, every grain of precious metal that is of
value being extracted and paid for at market rates, less a small charge for refinement.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver, Platinum and other Precious Metals, and
can supply those metals and their alloys in plate, granulated or wire. We specialise in
Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis. A note or ’phone message to any of
our branches will receive prompt attention.
IT?
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney.
New Hupmobile Car.
THE COMFORT CAR.
WHEN anyone mentions Hupmobile you instantly think of strength, comfort, surplus power
and economy of operation. There must be some good reason that prompts this train of
thought. Have you ever thought that this reason is a good one for buying a Hupmobile?
Specificatio
ns.
BODY TYPES —Five-passenger, two- or three-passenger single seater.
WHEELBASE—II 2 inches.
CYLINDERS —Four, cast e.n bloc , removable head —82 mm. bore x 140 mm. stroke.
STARTING —Two unit system Automatic release.
IGNITION —Dixie high-tension magneto.
CARBURETTER —Special Stromberg, with two adjustments.
PETROL SYSTEM —Stewart-Warner vacuum feed. 13 Imperial gallon tank —two gallon
reserve.
LUBRICATION —Pressure system. Gear pump driven from cam shaft.
COOLING —-Thermo-syphon, extra radiator capacity.
CLUTCH —Dry-disc type. Seven steel plates faced with asbestos fabric. Fully housed.
REAR AXLE —Floating type. Spiral bevel gears.
TYRES —815 x 105 mm. clincher type. Plain in front, all-weather tread on rear. '
UPHOLSTERY —Genuine leather, stuffed with real curled hair.
TOP —Neverleek, khaki.
Rain-vision windshield; head, tail and instrument-board lights; petrol gauge; motor
driven horn ; ammeter ; foot and robe rails; tyre carrier; extra rim ; side curtains
tonneau carpet; hood cover; pump, jack, full set of tools and tyre-repair outfit.
Write for complete illustrated manual and prices.
DEALERS.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.
Brisbane.
DALGETY & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.
Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO.
LTD., Perth.
w-
m\i
M
tat
ii
DEALERS.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE,
LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO., LTD., Wan-
ganui, New Zealand.
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’
CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
OF CANTERBURY, LTD.,
Cashel Street, Christchurch,
New Zealand.
Hupinobilc
The Comfort Car.
Hupmocae


An Innovation at Farmer’s.
Gentlemen’s Manicure
Hours :
Daily 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Sats. 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Appointments may be
booked to suit the con-
venience of gentlemen.
Specially Pitted Manicure Rooms, near
Men’s Boot Section, Ground Floor.
Conveniently situated, adjacent the Men’s
Footwear Section on the Pitt Street ground
floor at Farmer’s, are the newly-opened
Gentlemen’s Manicure Rooms. This innova-
tion has already proved popular, and the
expert, hygienic service rendered by capable
manicurists should meet with the approval
of well-groomed men.
Farmer’s, pm, Market semte streets, Sydney
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel,
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night,
Tariff, from 10/6 per day, and
from £3/3/- per week.
The Chateau Napier,
Leura,
Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
THIS modern Residential Hotel is unique
in its situation on the highest point in
Leura, commanding extensive views for over
60 miles.
A new wing has just been added, furnished
in the most modern and luxurious manner.
House heated with American ideal heating
system.
A new smoke-room with sunny open bal-
cony has been added.
Electric light throughout.
Tennis-court. Billiard-room. Motor-garage.
Golf Links and Bowling Green right handy.
Private Sitting-rooms.
Tel. 121 Katoomba
MELBOURNE
CHATER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
The memory of Major Miles' Seton, shot
dead in London the othey day, will flourish
in many a damsel’s heart. A handsome
bachelor of 45, with tremendous health,
charming manners and more income than he
knew how to play with, he seemed a gift
for any female who was clever enough to
penetrate his inner defences. But he was
rather a reserved man, and when his large
medical practice in East St. Ivilda per-
mitted he spent much time in secret wor-
ship of his Blood. He was a direct
descendant of Mary Seton, maid-of-honor
to Mary Queen of Scots, and favored friends
were allowed a glimpse of a vast family tree
which showed him as a lonely twig on one
of the lower branches. His next of kin is
a lady living in Scotland, so she will pre-
sumably get a big Cornwall oroperty which
the warrior inherited from his mother.
The shooting of the Major seems to have
all the ingredients of a crime passionel. He
was on home service: the Colonel was in
France. The cable-man, his mind dis-
tracted by emotion, said on Saturday:—
Lieut.-Colonel Rutherford throughout has Ibeen
quiet and collected, though he momentarily broke
clown when his wife’s name was mentioned in court.
His friends believe his action was dictated by a deep
sense of chivalry.
Mrs. Rutherford is referred to, significantly,
as “a charming woman with fair hair and
blue eyes.” Seton was for a couple of years
on the staff of Harefield Hospital before
going on to H.Q. staff at Horseferry-road.
The recent announcement of the death of
Mrs. Ferrier Hamilton, at Mrs. McGrath’s
place in Scotland, might have been more
interestingly paragraphed. The name of the
letter lady concealed her identity from most
of the readers. Melbourne knew her well
enough when, as the daughter of J. Mac-
pherson Grant, Minister of Lands, she mar-
ried Frank Stephen, the brother-in-law of
.John Maddc-n. She divorced giddy Frank,
and then, in England, she married Fitzroy
Fletcher, whose death left her enormously
rich. The war had started ere the wealthy
widow married Captain McGrath, of the
Armored-car service—a splendid figure of a
man who is hardly too old to be the lady’s
son. Incidentally one may remark that he
is a connecting link between his wife and
another notorious divorce case. His first
cousin—also a McGrath —is the second hus-
band of beauteous liuby Wallace. You see.
a lot of social interest attaches to the late
Macpherson Grant’s much-married daughter
when the details are filled in.
Tenor Balboni was quoited with wreaths of
laurel after he had gratified his outraged
honor in “Pagliacci” on Saturday at the
Princess’s. Tenor Lois was also lassoed
with a huge bangle of vegetation, and the
loot of various florists fell in profusion about
the feet of the leading canaries, Leah Myers
and Nellie Leach. Nellie, as Nedda, sang
her columbine part in short, stiff, pink skirts
over slim white legs, an effect reminiscent of
the pink frill round a ham-bone.’ Manager
Rigo, greatly pleased with the reception,
spoke several words of thanks and played
“bandies” with conductor Slapoffski, who, he
said, was a fiddler when he (Rigo) was a
call-boy at Covent Garden over 30 years
ago.
In the auditorium, Louise Dyer, wrapped
up in the hearthrug or something like it,
sparkled at the head of her usual procession
of guests. Ex-Gaud Mayor Stapley and his
wife sat in the front of the d.c. with the
sad expression of epicures. The Monash
dame fidgeted with a pink scarf which
threatened to strangle her at any moment.
Solicitor Bona brought along his slender
bride, and there were parties of Kozminskys
and Finks, not to mention organist Steele
with a tableau in black and white. Down-
stairs, Walter Kirby, in command of a whole
box, got into a state of almost religious
ecstasy. He kept his best bouquet for Bal-
boni, and his manner of hurling the vege-
tables ought to make him a terror at
rounders.
Other boxers included the Conways, Lin-
tons, Barry Thompsons and Minogues.
Attorney-General Hall (N.S.W.) and his
wife, were stalled with J. D. Fitzgerald. The
musical Buessts occupied a few seats. Little
Benno Scherek and his wife listened criti-
cally from the front row of the circle. The
Tom Hogans and Mrs. Pohlman were also
present, and Mrs. Wharton hostessed a
party. Fritz Hart was in a state of sup-
pressed excitement, as 18 of the Conserva-
torium girls were in the show.
For the first time in years Melbourne saw
a smart, daintily-dressed grand opera chorus.
It was a startling novelty. When Italian
opera arrives its chorus is invariably shabby.
If the season is a success the chorus puts on
a new apron or a new head-dress, and is
happy—but only a trifle less dingy.
Walter Kirby gave a reception at the
Oriental to meet members of the Rigo Grand
Opera Co. Attorney-General Hall and J.
D. Fitzgerald, from Sydney, made two of
the speeches, and Gaud Mayor Cabena and
ex-G.M. Stapley also orated. The Melbourne
musical set swarmed, and the stars gave
thanks in song. One Henley, a Melbournite
who has spent years in Naples and Florence,
sang loudest. Kirby stretched a point as
host and sang once. The doctors have put
him on musical rations for the time being.
Miss Hems, a Sydney girl who is prima
donna of the first production, was present
in a pretty frock with half an ostrich round
her neck. Leah Myers, another Sydney
star, turned up in the neatest tailorings.
Captain Tahu Rhodes, of the Grenadier
Guards, has been spending two hurried
months in his native land. Badly gassed be-
fore the armistice, Captain Rhodes got leave
and fetched out his wife, the Hon. Helen,
daughter of one-time Governor Plunket and
niece of our own Ladj' Helen Ferguson, for a
short sojourn in Christchurch. The youth-
ful pair returned recently by the Arawa.
Picturesque Mrs. Tracy quitted Melbourne
again last week ; she returns to her old job
as official lecturess for the Commonwealth
in Britain. Her subject is Australia, and
she used to deliver, on an average, 12 dis-
courses per week. Several people, now in
Australia, who saw and heard her do it have
declared that, taking one consideration with
another, they reckoned her the most effec-
tive platform speaker in skirts they ever
listened to. Mrs. Tracy’s only trouble last
week was that she would have to leave be-
fore she could arrange for a local perform-
ance of son-in-law Howard Carr’s impres-
sive musical composition, “The Three
Heroes.” This was included by Sir Henry
Wood in every performance of the Halle
Orchestra during its latest tour of Britain.
Quite a number of soldier-boys are angry
with this Letter for having commented on
the emptiness of the vice-regal box at Flem-
ington on New Year’s Day. The spacious
enclosure did look cold and empty on Jan. 1,
but that was only because there was a
lack of maimed Diggers to claim a place in
it. From the time when Flemington began
to be attended by one-legged boys in khaki
the vice-regal box has been open to them and
no other people. At the Cup meeting it was
full of invalids, more than one legless soldier
being carried there in his cot. So the boys
won’t hear a word said in criticism of tiie
V.R.C. The Club has been good to them
abroad and at home. Up to now it has spent
£BO,OOO in comforts and luxuries for Aus-
tralians on active service, and the expendi-
ture is. still proceeding. And didn’t the
V.R.C. invest the whole of its reserve fund
in the War Loan?
Sister Edith Con-
nolly, pictured here,
has been decorated
with the Royal Red
Cross, an honor that
the Dudley countess
roped in at the
same time. Sister
Connolly is one of
our gentle veterans.
She nursed i n
France at first, and
then was put in
charge of the Base
Hospital at South-
ampton (Eng.).
Eric Connolly, the
racing man, is her
brother.
The Western District has been spending
a lot of petrol in speeding across-country
to give Captain Gordon Chirnside the glad
hand on his return from France to his
native sheep-country. The young man has
been in khaki for four years, and for the
latter part of his stay in France was A.D.C.
to Birdy.
Squatter Robert Landale passed out last
Friday at 52. Squatter Bob was the son
of Squatter Robert and took oyer the
management of his father’s sheeperies long
ago. The Landales have been noticeable
figures in society for many years, the girls
being beauties with much money and many
startling frocks. Bob Landale was a direc-
tor of Dalgety’s and a prominent Riverina
turfite.
Brig.-General Robert Smith, of the Mel-
bourne Wool Exchange, garnered the follow-
ing war-honors during his absence abroad:
C.M.G., D.S.O. with bar, M.C. and Croix de
Guerre. Smith, who was given a rousing
welcome home last week by the members of
the Exchange, is a son of that wool-wise
John Smith who runs the old Como wool-
scour at Abbotsford.
The Atlee Hunts are making a sailor of
their lad. Bob, who is one of the Marathon
contingent on its way to help man the Aus-
tralian warboats.
Octogenarian Mrs. Joseph Duffett, whose
death is reported from the fatted pastures
of Dunkeld, was the widow of a man who
brought a very substantial bank-account
with him when he decided to join the
western district squatterhood. The late Joe
Duffett was in an earlier day a lawyer with
a succulent family practice, the profits from
which were largely devoted to the purchase
of grazing property. Son Edmond, well-
known among the sheepmen of the western
district, died last year.
This veteran of 26
is Colonel D. T.
Moor e, D. 5.0., a
1914 man who
worked up to being
O.C. of the Third
Battalion and is now
on the Rhine. Moore
drew a C.M.G. in the
last Birthday honors.
He is one of the
Moores of Singleton
on the Hunter, one
of the oldest families
in N. S. Wales. His
eldest brother was
killed at Gallipoli.
The Colonel was
one of the cadets
who went with
Major Wynne to the
Coronation years ago. He left for the war
with Colonel Owen among the infantry, and
later proved himself an expert in machine-
gun work.
Norman Brookes met his wife in Sydney
at the end of last week, and they are coming
on together to Melbourne. He is just back
from Red Crossing, a job he has been at
since the verv early days in Cairo. He
could have had a knighthood, but declined—
for one reason, because others in the Red
Cross movement whom he considered had
done as much as he were not offered the
decoration. If, indeed, one can call it a
decoration.
Lieut. Philip Aitken, who marched to the
war as a private, has the Military Cross.
Phil is the youngest of the Scotch Aitkens
of Torbam, Toorak. His father directed
Dalgety s for many years with a rough man-
ner which concealed a kind heart. They
are all made of solid stuff and do their job
without fuss.
Dr. Rag. Weigall will hand over the
Automobile Club presidency when he and his
Wife flit off on a silver honeymoon trip to
the United _ States before paying a few
months’ visit to Mrs. Weigall’s native Eng-
land. Medical brother Albert Weigall has
taken over Reggie’s Elsternwick house and
practice.
Dr. \ era Scantlebury, who did big things
m research work here, is in London on the
stafl of a hospital run entirely bv women
&he is batching with Mrs. Teddy Bage.
The John Maddens’ home, Cloyne, dropped
to the status of a hash-house when the
family moved into. the Cliveden flats. Now
the old grey pile is to be restored to peace
and dignity. Solicitor Edward Hart has
bought it for a residence.
Adelaide’s secrets and so forth :
Half social Adelaide was at the station on Monday
to say good-bye to the Galway lady and Miss d’Erl-
anger, and the travellers were nearly smothered in
flowers, letters and packages before the train pulled
out. His Ex., who is to stay here till April of
next year, and Miss Macaulay went with them as
far as Aldgate, and then motored back to Marble
Hill.
Major Gordon Campbell, M.C., has had to turn
down the offer to be manager, treasurer and selector
of the Anzac cricket team that is to play in Eng-
land. His doctors have ordered treatment for a
knee injury that will take some weeks, and as
soon as that is done with he is coming back to
S. Aus.
Dr. Souter, author of many a fine verse, has had
word that his daughter has been given the Royal
Red Cross. In the early days of the war she was
at Keswick Hospital, and left in August, 1915, for
Bombay with the Indian contingent of S.A. nurses.
A couple of years later she went on to Salonika,
where she has been ever since.
Westralia’s new commandant, Colonel Heritage,
passed through at tl.e beginning of the week on his
way to the new job, with barely time to shake
hands with various officials on the platform, the
Melbourne express strolling in three-quarters of an
hour late. Another passenger on the train was
Archdeacon Clampett’s son—an Anzac sergeant.
Tramway-manager Goodman is back in Adelaide,
after a trip to England and America that dates
from July, ’l7.
Polo was revived at Plympton on Saturday. A
good many club members are still not back from
the war, but enough old hands turned up for a
sciateh game. Captain Neville Colley, who was No.
1 of the Adelaide senior team in pre-war days, has
joined the Indian Army.
W. B. Poole, who joined the staff of the Savings
Bank in 1869, and was appointed manager in 1896,
is retiring from his job in March.
Elsie Crowther, daughter of the popular
Brighton doctor, has said “Yes" to Lieut.-Col.
Victor Hurley, of the Army Medical. Elsie
got home by the Niagara last trip and is
collecting welcomes and congratulations
together.
Sergeant Digger F. A. Marryat is engaged
to Doris, a daughter of racing novelist Nat
Gould.
E. W. Carboy, the 22-year-young Labor
member for Swan, began the New
Year by taking unto himself as wife Miss
Tobin, of May lands (W.A.). Before her
marriage the lady was a prominent member
of the Shop Assistants’ Union over there.
Catherine Hay Thomson (“Tommy”
among her fellow-press women) has changed
her name to Mrs. T. F. Legge. The event
transpired at a registry office. “Tommy”
was one of the founders of the Austral
Salon, and is a prominent member of the
Writers’ Club and the National Council of
Women.
Having returned from London, Mrs. “Ada
Cambridge” Cross is established in Mel-
bourne. She finds that reflective articles
of a high moral tone find a ready market in
Yankeeland, but her friends are hoping that
she will produce another “Three Miss
Kings.”
Just before the armistice “Poppy” Buesst
was made a sergeant. They say Poppy car-
ried his violin about with him as another
Digger might a mouth-organ.
Walter Kirby, still on th,e sick list, tenored
one song at Fasoli’s the other night, and
brought in a good sum for the Little Sisters
of the Poor and the old people in their care.
The Little Sisters live from day to day and
never hoard money or goods. The chari-
table are expected to do that for them.
Melba is rather excited about getting hack
to Paris. A few months before the war she
was in her Paris home when she got word
that her father was ill. She fled ,at once,
telling the maids to leave everything as it
was. Then the Hun broke loose and in-
stead of a few months’ absence she hasn’t
seen Paris fob nearly five years.
Some years ago a Melbourne theatrical
girl married a bright lad with considerable
prospects in his profession and a fairly-
sound cash position. Both the parties had
a ready knack of spending, however, and
presently the bills began to pile up faster
than the receipts. After a whirl of expen-
sive good-times, hubby at last ran full on
the rocks. Other things happened, and the
lady got a divorce. After a Avhile the voting
man went off to the U.S. to do better'. lie
did, and now r the slashed bonds are to be
sewn up again by a re-marriage, the ex-
missus having already made her cross-Paeific
departure with this romantic end in view.
Nellie Wilson, back on the Australian
stage, has been in America for years. Sister
Elsie. May lives in Los Angeles. Elsie
married Julian, an actor who was liere with
J-ulius Knight. Julian is now a big film
producer in Los Angeles.
An Australian actress making good in the
more or less United States is Margaret
Linden, whom Melbournians will remember
as a beauty girl in various shows, including
“The Barrier.” She is at the George M.
Cohan theatre in N’York.
.Young Frank Williams, an artistic Adel-
aide soldier, is hoping to produce in the
early autumn in Melbourne a ballet of his
own invention. The performance is to
benefit blinded Billjims. and Melbourne’s
society. girls have, promised to help. The
theme is enacted in a peacock setting, and
the dresses and scenes have all been de-
signed by the Adelaide man. The “Garden
of Eden” ballet (produced in the “Samples”
revue last year) was his triumph.
Mrs. Bob Greig, whom the “gods” love
Beatrice Holloway, has had to put her-
self in the doctor’s hands, owing to nerve
trouble. Her work in “Bubbly” is being
shared by Noel. Geddes, Ethel Bennett and
Clarice Hardwicke. Bob Keers, musical
director at the King’s, is also on the sick
list. During the week his appendix was
amputated, but he is bearing the loss with
fortitude.
William Cosgrove is in Melbourne with a
drama of his own and is getting ready for
a pounce on the next vacant theatre to pro-
duce it. Cosgrove stage-managed that open-
air production of “As You Like It” in Gov-
Hb use grounds and played parts in
Wilkie productions.
Australian visitors to Calcutta write ex-
cited letters about the Victory celebrations
in that comic-opera locality. Thev lasted
tour days and four nights, and Aladdin and
his arc-lamp weren’t in it. The illumina-
tions were gorgeous things made up of mil-
lions of tiny oil-lamps. There were colored
processions by day, and fireworks, dinners
and dances by night till the local owls sent
in their resignations.


DEWAR'S
w WHISKY -
These three points
denote good Whisky
TRADITION-CHARM-
RIPENESS.
Tradition : Just as tradition makes one proud
to be a Britisher, so it promotes pride in your
choice of Dewar's. Long years of good
opinion stand behind the fascinating flavour
and seductive mellowness of Dewar's Whisky -
It is, and always has been; the choice of the
experienced.
Charm l Whenever anything possesses charm,
then genius had a hand in its production. The
persistent power to please of Dewar's Whisky
comes from a genius in blending and distillation
—hence the elusive charm which places Dewar's
far above the ordinary into an ever-widening
circle of praise from men able to discriminate.
Ripeness ; There is a moment in the process
of maturation when Whisky reaches its fullness
of perfection. At that moment and in that
state of absolute ripeness Dewar's is offered
to its patrons —never before or after that one
culminating point of prime condition. And so
Dewar's is ever a constant source of pleasure
and benefit to mind and body.


The British Empire emerged from the furnace of
the world’s great war with her reputation for busi-
ness capacity and sound diplomacy triumphant
because her leaders know the value of King George
IV, Whisky—the Whisky of the Wise. — Advt.
Amusements.
|y| KIjBA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Showing: the pick of the world’s films, includin','
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATHE.
WOULD, FOX and SELZNICIv.
gRITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRTANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d, and 6d.
Missing' Friends.
AMELIA GILLESPIE, last heard of
about 1889, then about to get married.
Brother inquires. Information Bulletin
Office.
ROBERT LLOYD B.—Write to me.
please; important; letter for you
Queensland G.P.O.—GEORGE.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIfUTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUtt© ?
LEWIS &WHITTY MAKERS
BRSNDS
of O verFir ty
Years’Experiencc
BRINKS
GIN
7Fy/S
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
Byron Moore, secretary of the V.R.C., is
just turned 80, and still going strong. The slim
and wiry sec., full of ideas and capacity for work,
is a long-standing satire on Government methods of
dealing with public servants. Long years ago, when
Graham Berry was king of Victoria, brainy Byron
Moore, who couldn’t help being industrious in any
billet, figured among the crowd of civil servants
sacked on “Black Wednesday.” The Vic. Lands
Department dispensed with his services, whereupon
he settled' down into a man of affairs and notable
citizen. Had he remained at the Lands he would
doubtless have been restricted to' the old groove.
Moote had no political ambitions after the “Black
Wednesday” episode, but Walter Madden, a fellow-
clerk in the Lands, who was passed out at the same
time, subsequently got into Parliament and became
Minister of the very department in which he had
labored in vain for a modest salary.
Desert Gold has gone—she was shipped to
M.L. last week. Australia loses in her a champion
of champions. She is six and has been racing hard all
her life, and up to the last not only were her legs
as flat as boards and sound, but she was so little
tired that anything that beat her had to
smash a record to do it. Thus at the
last Randwick meeting Poitrelle beat her (w.f.a.)
over IT mile, but he at the same time
had to beat the record Comedy King put up when
he beat Trafalgar. Cetigne had to break a record
in the Craven Plate, and Magpie had to break
another at Flemington to down this incomparable
mare. Almost up to the day she sailed racegoers had
ground for hope that she would be seen at the next
Autumn Meeting of the A.J.C.
Why has Desert Gold, although raced so long on
the iron courses of Australia, never gone wrong?
Apart from her breeding and her perfect conforma-
tion there is another possible explanation. She is
like an ambidextrous man. She is a freak
inasmuch as she can race on either leg. Other
horses, if their riders make them change legs in
a race, are all at sea. They lose lengths as they
spreadeagle about the course. Desert Gold changed
legs of her own accord, at any stage of <a race,
according as she tired on one side or the other,
and did it so perfectly that she never lost a nose-
length as a result. It must have saved her tre-
mendously first and last.
She emphasises, by contrast, the calamitousness of
the unsound horse—which is to say about 90 per
cent, of the horses imported here from abroad. For
example, Redfern. Redfern arrived a little over
twq years ago, with the reputation of being the
second-best horse in England. Because his owner
died, and because in England an owner’s death voids
all nominations, William Cooper was able to get
Redfern for £5OOO. He turned out to have an
enlargement as big as a quince on, the off foreleg
just above the pastern joint; likewise a nasty splint.
Of course he has been a ghastly disappointment as
a raeetaker, and there is no reason to think that
he will ever be anything else. His future, if he
has one, will lie in the stud.
There are two explanations of the count-
less cases like Redfern’s that are seen in Australia.
One is that Britishers, who know as much about
horseflesh as any people in the world, are not such
idiots as to readily ship away their good stuff.
When they have in the past —as notably to Russia
and the Argentine—the prices have been fantastic.
The other is the damage that is done to many of
them on the way over and immediately after land-
ing. After standing for a couple of months their
tissues and tendons get soft, and they tend to go
easily. If they are raced soon —in fact, at any time
under from six to nine months—they will break
down for a certainty. In any case none of them
last—in the sense Desert Gold did. Lanins is a
good example. He won a w.f.a. well in Victoria,
went out at 5 to 2 for the Melbourne Cup
and wasn’t sighted. Starting in another w.f.a. on
the last day of the meeting he was beaten easily.
He came to Sydney for last Easter meeting and
started by taking a w.f.a. in an effortless fashion.
Then he petered out, the fatal work being completed
on the strenuous courses of Queensland. The answer
to any query regarding the whereabouts of the
importations of yester-year is mostly the same,
viz., “at the vet.’s.”
* * ♦ *
Died in England, last week, Earl Cowley,
aged 53. Twenty years ago he was one of the
best steeplechase riders in the United Kingdom.
Amongst other great jumpers owned and ridden
by him was Chair of Kildare. But his heart lay
in the Divorce Court. He put in more time there
in connection with his various matrimonial rows
and those of his friends than any other layman
in London.
Kennaquhair was tried over six furlongs at
Rosehill last Saturday', but that great stayer couldn’t
work up the requisite pace. Carrying 9st. 81b. he ran
nowhere in a race that was won by a neck by
Bimeter (Bst 51b.) from Sydney Damsel (Bst 71b.).
One of the outstanding idiocies of every
racecourse is the backer who is there to bet on
what he calls “information.” The bookies make
90 per cent, of their incomes out of the fools
who think they have exclusive knowledge. There
are no rich trainers. . And yet trainers should be
in a position to know, if anyone is. The likeliest
man to achieve the impossible feat of permanently
defeating the man with the bag is the jockey ;
and it is a fact that there are a few rich jockeys.
No one can be quite so sure of the complete!
deadness of a favorite as its rider. But he may
not know that another formidable animal in the
race is also dead. When both come out as triers
next day, as so often happens, their riders and
all those to whom their riders have given “in-
formation” are under a misapprehension,, and the
only certain profiteer from the episode is McNoses.
The wise jockey—a rare fowl admittedly—is he
who refrains altogether from betting. He is
liable to be laid fairly large sums to nothing by
owners about mounts which they are keen to see
win; and where he is on a good thing of the
sort it is practicable for him to get other sizeable
sums to nothing from the more or less professional
backers. More jockeys’ fortunes are accumulated
on these lines than via their stipendiary punters.
* ■ " * * *
About the most ruinous neddy in N. S.
Wales is the ex-M.L. performer Bimeter. In the
commonest suburban company he has been running
rottenly for seasons. Being unbacked at Rosehill
on Saturday he proceeded to get away in front of
many recognised good sprinters and also to hold
his own in the dash down the straight. Bimeter
has 31b. less in the Challenge Stakes on Saturday,
but no rational citizen will back him on that
account.
* * * *
In the Rosehill Handicap last Saturday
Phast Boy, with five furlongs to go, was 15 lengths
behind the ultimate winner, The Bounce. By the
time the judge was reached he had got to within
a head. Interesting to know u'hat Phast Boy ran
that final five furlongs in, seeing that the time
for the mile and a quarter was 2min. OJsec.
Fate, seemingly, has denied King Offa an
opportunity to prove that he ought to have won the
Melbourne Cup and given backers of the favorite a
joyful day. The leg that troubled him somewhat
after his win at Caulfield is troubling him some
more, and Sam Bloomfield has advised the owners in
England to make a happy father of their haughty
quadruped right away, in which case Offa will be the
second English horse (and “King”) who ran his
last race in the Melbourne Cup jostle, after winning
the big 1 Caulfield event. There was a vast differ-
ence, though, between the careers of Shepherd King
and the other monarch. The former had scored about 20
losers in England and Australia ere taking his one
and only trick. Offa ran but six times, all on this
side, and three successive wins stand to his credit.
At the stud he will, with good luck, be a very
valuable property, provided he transmits “sound-
ness” to his stock.
One fact which may be said to be established
about practically all these English horses is that
however good and game they may be and however
apparently right about the legs, they can’t stand
being raced more than, say, once in a week.
Magpie, who ran second to Gay Crusader in the
Guineas, and who is probably the best English
horse ever imported to the Commonwealth, won
well at Caulfield in a w.f.a. race against a big
field. On the first day of the Melbourne Cup
meeting he downed Desert Gold over her own
distance. One might fairly have argued that he
vvas unbeatable. Yet, later, Wallaroi beat him
(w.f.a.) over a mile, and Kennaquhair beat him
over a mile and a half. King Offa, sore as he obvi-
ously was at Caulfield, would still gallop when he
was asked to ; but not many horses, “imp.” or other-
wise, are like that.
The A.J.C. handed Prince Alfred Hospi-
tal £ll2O last week for special purposes in con-
nection with A.I.F. patients. The exact sum which
the A.J.C. has given to similar charities since the
war started is £83,944 9s. 9d.
In the recent Westralian racing carnival
visiting jockeys took' 14 of the 24 races. Of course
the visitors got the pick of the mounts ; they always
do. Orrell scored six firsts and four seconds, and
Herbert (the strenuous Englishman) four firsts, six
seconds and two thirds.
Before the issue of weights for the New-
market and Australian Cup there are lists out for
the “double,” the price against early fancies
(coupled) for either event being limited to 200 to 1.
The double-event layers lose no time in thrusting
favdrites under public notice. But as a rule the
actual starting prices of the winners of the two
Autumn handicaps at Flemington work out at more
than 200 to 1 for the combination.
* * * *
Tennis-champion Norman Brookes is
back in Australia from Mesopotamia and France.
As a Red Cross Commissioner for Australia he
went oversea in 1915 and returned at the end of
1916; thence to Mesopotamia via England in 1917.
There he was appointed deputy-assistant-direotor of
local resources, with headquarters at Bagdad and
the rank of major. In the ancient city he put
up some great tennis play when the chance offered.
Against a number of first-class English racquets
he won the Bagdad champior.iship, Major Leith-
Ross being runner-up. Brookes describes the courts,
made of a composition of chopped straw and mud,
as the best he ever played on.
* * * *
At Sydney Stadium on Saturday night
“Frosty” Darcy, a 19-3'ear-old brother of the late
Les, met one Cullen in a 10-round 2-minute con-
test. Young Darcy is a bandy-legged welter with
the relentless, not to say cruel, mouth and jaw
in action, and the glad smile out of it, that
characterised Les. He took exactly 40 secs, to
exterminate his unfortunate adversary. The deed
was done by a short hook to the jaw administered
in the family’s best manner.
The Kav-Uren ceremony followed. It w r as
a mournful affair. When Uren attempted to hit
Kay, which he occasionally did, he discovered that
the Westralian had removed himself elsewhere.
Kay rarely attempted to hit Uren, so far as the
writer could see; but, anyhow, there is no doubt
that if he had tried Uren would have been in
another part of the building when the blow fell.
After 20 rounds of ineffectual swiping, dodging and
scuffling the referee decided that Kay’s was the
less rotten performance, or words to that effect,
and the crowd agreed.
Bob Williams and Pat Gle-eson collided
at Sydney Stadium on Monday night, but after
20 fairly strenuous rounds the referee decided to
leave the lightweight championship of N. S. Wales
with Robert. It was a near thing.
“L.E.”: We liad pushed the Boche back
about 15 kilometres during the morning, and when I
went along the communication trench the game was
in full blast. The kip-tosser had headed them half
a dozen times, and the tail backers were thinking
about mortgaging their deferred pay. A clank of
ironmongery followed, and I turned off to investigate.
Against the spinner’s roll of franc notes the chief
tail supporter had wagered his morning’s souvenirs—•
•1 spiked helmet, 1 gas mask, 2 wrist watches, 7
badges and 1 pair of field-glasses, the lot reposing
on a silk cross cut from a Hun flier’s wing.
* * * *
C. Y. Grimmett, who will bowl for Vic.
v. N. S. Wales this week-end, is one of S. Mel-
bourne’s very best. Six for 21 v. University and
four for 17 v. Fitzroy are a couple of his efforts
this seaso.n with the ball, and he can also bat.
* * * *
“Q.P.”: The Vic. C.A. did well to refuse
to halve the umpire’s screw. Nobody earns his £1
harder than the umpire. Sometimes he earns a lot
more. Crockett’s notorious ordeal on Sydney Cricket
Ground, for instance, during the match v. Warner’s
team could hardly have been expressed in terms of
cash.
* * * *
Major A. G. Moyes, M.C., who returned
from France the other day, was one of S, Australia’s
best batsmen in 1914. He will never need a pad
on his left leg again.
* * * *
S. A. Middleton and J. B. Lane (both
captains in the A.1.F.) are among the many Aus-
tralian sportsmen to win D.S.O.’s. Sid Middleton
went to England with the Australian eight in 1912;
also with the N. S. Wales Rugby Union “Wallabies”
in 1908-9. “Paddy” Lane played cricket and foot-
ball for N. S. Wales before doing his bit in Rabaul,
Gallipoli and France.
* * * *
W. S. McCloy’s 236 (not out) for Pad-
dington against Central Cumberland at Parramatta
(N.S.W.) on Saturday, is the best individual effort
of the season, and ranks next to Victor Trumper’s
335 (1903) and 260 (1908), and J. R. Mackay’s
251 (1904). McCloy swings .the club adroitly in
Sydney baseball and is a great field.
* * * *
North Sydney swimmer-schoolboy Keith
Kirkland has just done the 100yds. in 59sec. Early
in the season he swirled through a similar distance
in 59 l-ssec. ; and, later, won 100yds. High Schools’
championship in 62sec. He and young Crackanthorp,
of Manly, are likely assailants of world’s records
over their distances.
The first woman to win a long-distance
swimming race in Adelaide is Eileen McKee, only
16, who arrived in front at the Grange jetty after
swimming from Henley Beach, in the annual con-
test. She had 14 minutes handicap, and in a face
of 1 mile 350 yards it proved too much. Still
she well deserved the win, finishing fresh after using
a vigorous double over-arm all the way. Greig,
with five minutes, finished about 100 yards behind.
Eileen McKee’s time in the water was 40min. 4sec. ;
Greig’s was 32min. 7sec. The best time was made by
Beaglehole, of Moonta, one of the two scratch
men—-29min. 31sec. He finished eighth.
* * * *
Strange that no girl swimmer arises to
challenge the supremacy of Fanny Durack and Mina
Wylie. Whenever Fanny stands down Mina scoops
the pool. Latest instance was on Saturday when
Mina, in the absence of her young friend, took the
50 yards N.S.W. championship for the second year
in succession. She equalled her record for the dis-
tance—3o 3-ssec.
* * * *
J. B. Wood, of Brundah (N.S.W.)—pro-
bably the oldest Australian native living till last
week— bred some champions in his time, and the
“3” and “J 3” brands passed anywhere for first-class
horseflesh. Wood went in for course performers when
young, and won three Bathurst Cups in the days
when the race was a three-mile stunt.
* * * *
The good sportsmen of Adelaide, who have
let sport of many kinds fall quite out of use during
the war, have started polo again in a scratch fashion
at Plympton. At the 1914 tournament there were
eight teams in the field, three from the city, the
rest from the country ; but a new lot of ponies will
need teaching. The veteran Downers, Law Smiths
and secretary Laughton were prominent at the re-
opening day.
* * * *
Now that the war is over the prizes for
the Hobart Regatta—alleged to be the oldest thing
of its kind in the world —have been bumped to
£360. This is below the pre-war limit of £5lO,
but a long way above the level of the last few
years. Very few of the Speck’s first-class rowers
have got home yet, though. The coming sports
(February 4) will be the 82nd.
Hunting is to re-open in Victoria next
season. As in the case of picnic-racing it has
been dead since very early in the war, and many
old-time supporters have either been killed, like
Geoff. Kiddle, or badly knocked about, like Reggie
Power.
* * * *
A feature of recent motor-cycle records
in Australia has been the success of Barnet Glass
tyres. In the Sydney-Melbourne reliability trial (680
miles), two of the three riders who gained full
points used them. Fred Berry travelled on them
from Brisbane to Sydney (725 miles in 31hr. 57min.),
and so did S. Ferguson in his recent streak over the
mi.e in 38sec. at Sellick’s Beach (S. Aus.). They
will resist the worst sort of bush tracks; they will
even defy, for many months, a Sydney suburban
road.
* * * *
R- Spears, a N. S. Wales bikist, had the
best all-round record for the just-concluded season
in America. He scored 23 firsts, 2 seconds, 10
thirds and 7 fourths, beating the classic Kramer
by 76 on the aggregate of points. Two Australians,
Grenda and McNamara, were second and third to
Kramer, Grenda being only a point behind. This
is the third year in succession that Australia has
produced a champion in a decadent sport. In
1917 Gullett led the field, and in the previous year
McNamara was best man.
One Odium, of Queensland, the other
day hurried a bike and side-car over a mile
in 54 seconds, apparently establishing a world's
record and chipping 1 2-ssec. Off Australia’s pre-
vious best. Of course, no Victorian or Ma State
crack who is worth his fee to the firm that
employs him will allow that to stand unchallenged.
Two or three earnest lunatics may now be expected
to fkiriously endeavor to make Odium look like a
funeral in Geelong.
“New South” : How many know that the
fresh-water perch of the eastern side of the Divid-
ing Range—and the eastern only—is a “game”
fish? Below the railway bridge at Menangle
(N.S.W.) there is a weir. Above it the Nepean
flows deep and clear for miles. With a boat and
a man to handle it, a 10ft. split-cane rod, light
salmon casts and an assortment of small-size Jock
Scotts and Durham Rangers, you will get as
good sport as is obtainable with grilse or sea-trout
in a Scottish or Norwegian “pool.” The scenery
is reminiscent, too, for the river passes through
precipitously-sided gorges, magnificently timbered,
and is edged in rhany places by the same wonderful
rock formations as one finds lower down when it
has broadened out and become the Hawkesburv.
In addition to being a heroic fighter, the percli
of the Eastern Divide streams is one of the best
table fish in the world.
* * * *
At a patriotic sports-gathering held re-
cently in the presence of some of the local Nicest
at one of Victoria’s wealthy rural villages, the
afternoon’s events included an item which wasn t
oil, the programme, yet caused more excitement than
all the rest of the show. It happened during a
“musical-chairs” competition for men on horseback.
One competitor conceived himself affronted by
another, and they pulled around side by side to
argue. The next moment, without dismounting, the
pair proceeded to “mix it,” while the crowd hummed
like a beehive. The pair banged at one another as
opportunity offered, and finally tied themselves into
a profane knot from which it took all the available
police and several officials to disengage them. It
- was a lively battle while it lasted, and each com-
batant received a decoration.
* * * *
“Duglio”: The 2nd Aussie Siege Battery
claims a football record. Since its first Rugbv
match at Vierstraate (Belgium) in July, 1917, it
not only remains unbeaten, but as yet lias not had
a point scored against it. A Battery team, in seven
matches against brigades and divisions, it has piled
79 points to nil. The last tight squeeze happened
at Turcoing lately, when the best it could do was 11
to nothing against the 44th Royal Irish Rifles.
Handcock (North Sydney) leads ’em, and is assisted
by Stewart (Balmain), Hartmann (South Sydney),
and Cliff Rankine (Geelong).
SHIP-BOARD IDYLL.
(Written after a visit to a Transport Inquiry.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An undulating tropic sea
Resembling fresh-made glue;
And slowly steaming over it
The transport Plunk C 2.
Abaft the forrard monkey-winch
Observe the poker school.
The padre offers up a prayer—■
Then opens up the pool.
“I’ll bet fi’ bob!” "Fifteen!!” A quid!!!”
“I’ll raise yer ’arf-a-jim!”
The colonel chucks a pair of knaves:
The padre sings a hymn.
“Up ten!” the P.M.O. remarks.
His leggings are awry ;
His bashed-in hat expresses loss;
Likewise his fevered eye.
In vain the purser boosts the pool
With gesture, stamp and shout;
Vain, too, are Private Brown’s attempts
To freeze the padre out.
“I’ll see yer!” howls the bos’n’s mate
(Who holds a king-high “straight”).
The padre places on the deck
Four aces and an eight.
From matins until evensong,
From dusk till day begins,
The service lasts —with one result—
The padre always wins.
They halt for food. Now mark their look
Of undiluted hate.
Lo! he who has absorbed their all
Is taking round the plate!
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Good Health is Within Your
Reach!
Good health waits on good digestion.
Good digestion is the result of sufficient and proper exercise,
therefore good health is within the reach of all.
IP you wish to become strong and healthy—to be always
physically fit —-you must have proper exercise. Lack of
exercise means poor digestion—poor muscular development—
insufficient strength to ward off the many complaints to
"hich mankind is susceptible. Get strong, and stay strong.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Exercises
will make you fit and keep you strong and healthy.
The surest and safest way to improve the seen, and unseen,
muscles is by means of health exercises—exercises that
drive a copious supply of rich, virile blood throughout the
system—-nourishing the whole system with oxygen, expelling
waste tissue, building up new tissue, benefiting every part
of your body.
/
The BAKER EXERCISES consist entirely of good exercises
based on these lines, and have been tested and proved by
experience.
lit™® '® e " d v ou a copy of my Booklet, “HEALTH AND
FROM' SELF‘CULTURE. ,, It tells all about my
health-giving exercises and methods, terms, etc. Send three
penny stamps for postage. Just write your name and add@* s
across this advertisement, i’ll know what you mean. .
REG, L. (‘Snowy’) BAKER,
“the All-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,”
845 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
Keep Your Dogs Healthy.
BEDDOME’S DOG
SOAP.
USED BY THE
leading breeders.
Absolutely pure, keeps
the coat healthy and
free from vermin.
Price, 9d.
alterative
MIXTURE.
Healthy, active dogs
always result when
this splendid tonic is
used. Prevents worms
and distemper.
Price, 2/6. 5/-';
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog-Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOJVIE & CO.,
THE DOG MEDICINE SPECIALISTS,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable from JOHN BRUSH LTD.,
George Street, Sydney. [3
SNELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS
USE IT AND PROVE IT.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAM ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPMCATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
c\y-
m
9
' .
r
Get Acquainted
with the greatest
motor cycle ever.
Send a postcard for the
omdim
Catalogue.
The latest Indians are wonders, refined,
improved, perfected—leaders absolute
in every sphere of the motor-cycle world.
There s a model for everybody—a machine for every rider—from
“Light Twin,” the lightweight masterpiece, to the big, record-making
Pon erplus. All are pictured and described in the Indian catalogue.
All their many exclusive features, their many refinements are fully
detailed. The book will convince you of Indian leadership and find for
you the Indian you need.
May we send you a copy?
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd.,
109-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
i
The “different” Food!
Benger’s Food differs from all otners because it contains
the means to partially digest the fresh new milk with
which it is prepared. This means much, as the inability to
digest milk is very common among children and adults.
Therefore always use
Food.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.-Benger s Food Ltd , regret to
announce a possible shortage in the supplies of Benger’s Food arising from
shipping difficulties and restrictions consequent upon the War.
If customers, therefore, experience a temporary difficulty in securing Benger’s
Food, will they please understand that this is the cause. Any communications
on this subject should be addressed to our Sydney Office.
BENGER'S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U.S.A.) 90 Beekman St. Depdts throughout Canada.
SHE
Marine Engines
VtFn.ol'L.
For All Boats
Callle 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started
Electric Lights
Callle 8 H.P. Dnit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
Caille Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies
one- to four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
Sole
Australasian
Agents—
Benson Brothers Limited
71-75
76-78 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, MELBOURNE.
12 8 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
<©tabe
labelling; Cases
Containing full complement of Travelling and Toilet
Requisites of Finest Quality and Workmanship in .
Ivory. Tortoiseshell, or Silver
THE FIRM
CARRIES
THE LARGEST
STOCK OF
FITTED AND
UNFITTED
CASES IN THI
COMMON-
WEALTH
TRAVELLING
BAGS MADE TO
CUSTOMERS'
OWN
SPECIFICATIONS
mi
MR
mm
k
LIGHT WEIGHT
UNFITTED
BAGS
WITH POCKETS
TO TAKE
CUSTOMERS'
own fitting:
22 IN. MOROCCO TRAVELLING CASE OF FINEST
QUALITY, WITH SOLID SILVER FITTINGS. £ 40
WM. Brummonb & Co,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


m
A SURE way to
ide n t ify a
good Collar
is to look for the
name PELA CO on
it. When you find
that mark of
quality your collar-
troubles are over.
The. shape illus-
trated is the
"Napier." It com-
bines comfort with
a snappiness of style that is
appreciated by men of taste.
Good Mercers everywhere sell Pelaco
Collars, Shirts and Pyjamas.
•701-LARS
Made in Australia
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, IBs. per day.
POWER BOOKS.
Business Power, £1 Is.
Power of Will, £1 Is.
Power for Success, £3 3s.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
HAMILTON 8 CO., 31 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils.VaricoseUlcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites,
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
passed merits. They know it to be a i-afe
and perfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments; and the number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grasshopper Oint-
ment positively draws the poi- ons which pro-
duce these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should be taken in conjunction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU, HOBART.
&
".Oh
//
TASMANIA
Australia’s Playground.
All information from Tasmania’s mainland
offices: —•
Sydney: 262 George Street.
Melbourne: 59 William Street.
Brisbane: 41 Queen Street.
Perth: 50 William Street.
Send 9d. for illustrated guidebook and
accommodation list. Other literature posted
free.
Tickets issued at Melbourne and Sydney
offices to any part of Tasmania. Special coupon
issued at Sydney for a Fortnight’s Holiday in
Tasmania, £13 10s., including fares, accom-
modation and local trips.
Accommodation arranged through mainland
offices. , . ,
The Hobart and Launceston bureaux book
for all local trips and to all parts of Tas-
mania. Have your correspondence addressed
to our care.
E. T. EMMETT, Director.
Dyr?arnt>
& RAINPROOF
Tulle
“ Dynamo ” is the one
Tulle that is positively
rainproof. It is fadeless.
It is colour fast.
When wet, you simply
shake it to and fro till it
is dry, when it immediately
regains its original crisp,
fresh effect.
Best for millinery because
of its durability.
Best for scarves because
of its freedom from sticki-
ness.
Best for every purpose
because it is the most
economical in use.
36 ins. wide. In Black, White,
and all fashionable shades.
AT ALL PRICES.
If any difficulty in obtaining,
send P. 0., stating quantity and
colour desired, to
“ DYNAMO ”
(Enquiry Dept.),
Carlton House.
York Street,
Hat by Mirette, 104,
Wardour Street,
London, W. 1.
Photo: Mile. Paulette
del Baye, by Bertram
Park.
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
about
tells
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
bv HAItIIY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
is
I
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
98 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurtei
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15‘.i6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
s. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road Londcn t England
Insist on 44 Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
Professional.
GREGORY NORTH RABBIT BOARD.
Applications for Superintendent of
Works.
APPLICATIONS are invited until Tues-
day, 18th March, 1919, for the posi-
tion of Superintendent of Works.
Applicants to state age and general experi-
ence in the construction and maintenance of
rabbit-proof fencing and rabbit destruction.
Salary four hundred pounds (£400) per
annum. Camel outfit provided in dry coun-
try, applicant to find necessary horses and
plant for the other portions of the district
Applications, together with copies of testi-
monials, to be addressed to the Chairman,
Gregory North Rabbit Board, Boulia,
Queensland, and endorsed “Application for
Superintendent of Works.”
For any other particulars apply to the
Clerk of the Gregory North Rabbit Board,
Boulia, Queensland.
E. S. SCHOLEFIELD,
Chairman.
Boulia, 3rd December, 1918.
SPECIAL OP PORT UN IT Y
FOR energetic- sales manager to secure exclusive
selling rights for wonderful new Adding Machine.
Retails £2—does work of £OO machine. Auto-
matically adds, subtracts, multiplies and divides.
Whirlwind in speed. Infallibly accurate. Written
Five-Year Guarantee. Extraordinary opportunity
to establish permanent business with unusual profits.
Write or cable for full particulars.
CALCULATOR CORPORATION,
Grant! Rapids (Midi.), U.S.A.
Public Notice. __
THE Patentees of Australian Patents
Nos. 528 and 529 of 13th March, 1916
(Universal Chemical Sprinkler Corporation),
for inventions entitled respectively “Im-
provements in fire extinguishing apparatus”
and “Improvements in automatic fire ex-
tinguishing apparatus” are prepared to enter
into negotiation for and to complete arrange-
ments by way of license or otherwise, on
reasonable terms, with any persons desiring
to exploit or to adopt and carry on such
inventions in Australia. TTT ., C ,
(Inquiries to be addressed to w llfred
Joseph Spruson, Patent Attorney, Daily
Telegraph Building, King Street, Sydney,
New South Wales.)
.MinnUik P rientlg.
HOKLEY WOOD, England. HAROLD,
shall I come out to you? I cannot bear
this. MOTHER. _ • i
CHORLEY WOOD. England. HAROLD,
do communicate with your poor mother
and end terrible suspense. Cable or write.
ELMS.
CLIVE LERESCHE.—Write or cable
your address to relatives in London.
All letters to you sent to address given, in-
cluding that regarding la,nd near Brisbane,
have been returned. Cable, via Eastern, to
“Librarian, London.”
Anyone knowing his whereabouts please
write “L.,” c/o Street’s, 30 Cornhill, Lon-
don, England.
The Best— Most Economical
Watch is a
OTHERHAMS
ENGLISH
LEVER
Gold Medal Watch.
Gent’s or
Lady’s
Sizes.
IT WILL LAST A LIFETIME.
Supplied by all Shippers A Retailers .
If a less expensive Watch is
required buy a
ROTHERHAMS SELECTED
SWISS WATCH.
Examined by Rotherhams’ Experts.
3
OIK
&
m
NOTE ! It will have this label on
the back.
SOLD BY JEWELLERS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
Keyless
or
Non-Keyless
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (.except of a hostile character ) mil be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Arsenic: Precisely. There is such a pre-
judice against the Australian article that uniesb
there is solid Protection only one or two weak
people will manufacture; and the quality of the
local stuff is then very liable to be uncertain.
By the way, The B. didn’t “with intention’ onut
the fact that war conditions protected the manu-
facturer. On the contrary, it remarked that with-
out Protection the industry would be pretty
sure to collapse at the end of the war
Gunner: Don’t agree with you. That a
man is “just back from the war” is something of
an excuse in many instances F.L.H.: Pleasant
lilt. But this isn’t quite the time to throw even
playful mud at the vote Bellerive: A little in
the Wordsworth manner, this one:—
RECOLLECTIONS OF EAST BRUNSWICK.
Poem of Early Boyhood.
I’ve experienced varied changes,
And wandered many ways
Since I left the East of Brunswick,
Where I spent my boyhood days.
Bridk drays in lines did wendeth,
And buses rattled to and fro.
In and outward from the city
In those peaceful years ago.
I can picture the old homestead
With pear and apple tree’s,
Which did gleameth in the sunlight
And ripple to the breeze.
The fragrant blushing roses
And the willow’s spreading shade,
Where with my brother Laurie
In the summer day’s I played;
Our rambles o’er the cow field —
Where the bending thistles grew—
There was a charm within the old years
More deeper than the new.
....Norah B.: You’ll see we’ve been doing it. But
thanks all the same G.E.A.R.: Can’t guarantee
to return pars, if unsuitable, even if stamps are
attached. Have attended to the other matter and
returned clipping, also stamps.... Robert A. J.
(Malay): Very old.... Spec: Quite right. The con-
tributor who said that Vegetable Creek had a market
value of £140,000 was wrong. He has been boiled in
oil Jack H.: Thanks. Very good of you. Luck!
.. . . D.G.: Thin little attempt W.E.8.: The
“Beast” doesn’t interest u5....M.M.: Nothing in
this batch 8.A.: It needs apology all right
D.W.G.: Not up. .. . A.S.: No thrill in the “Dryad.”
M.H.S.: “Mulligan” wanted crisper handling...
S.H.G.: Surely you don’t imagine anyone would
want to read that? H.S.M.: Nothing there
Green Eyes: No use at all S.G.W.: Too many
words... .L.L.: Not well enough done... .L.R.T.:
Prose in verse lengths. .. .L.J.S.: l:ou call it
“Reverie,” but it sounds more like the effect pro-
duced by an attack of bulldog-ants... .R.C.: All
far below standard... .W.A.G.: “Christmas Day in
the Bug House” is very bad verse... .A.R.G.: That
soul gets lost in an old, well-worn mechanical
fashion..W.M.: We don’t publish books; and the
yarns are not our style... .S.E.M.: Mild and sad....
C. 1.: It’s not a cheerful avenue... .O.B.: Yes,
brother, it’s all true: —
It’s well-nigh time to note.
How the cockies drift in the same boat;
From year to year he’s the same old bloke,
To hear one say he’s the silliest of goats.
For he has to take whatever he can get,
Year out year in, and yet
If he cannot pay they get him set,
End of the year, to pay his cheque.
It matters not, how or what,
The Fats are waiting both ends; Ah hot—
To skin the cocky of all he’s got,
To have him always in a knot.
....A.R.D.: You can’t mix your tenses that way...
Codex: Doesn’t convince... .V.W.: A bit crude and
sudden T.T.: Don’t like it J.R.: It moves
our pity... .Vandemonian: Shocking verse... .Beta :
A trifle rugged.... W.L.: Can’t find any joy in
“Yuletide Memories.” The writing is wooden
Epistrophe: Nice little thing:—
Was he right? No, he wasn’t right.
I hear you ask, “Why did he wrong?”
! It had to be to please the throng:
Fair women love and brave men fight;
“Her” eyes are filled with love’s own light;
And poets write by candlelight—
As poets do when writing a song—
To pay their rent and please the throng.
. ...R.S.: If you would only finish those things
sometimes they would get a better chance. .. .W.J.:
Oh, we couldn’t miss that: —
Dear Mister Sir, I’d like to learn
What socialism means.
Should rich men's things be put to burn
Or chopped up like French beans?
Is it?
Should I a rich man’s goods bespoil
Because I own not his?
I value well for what I toil
At work or business.
With grit.
True socialism, to my mind,
Can best be brought and seen
By each one striving, well inclined,
To lift and not to lean.
Can it?
Please tell me if I’m wrong or right
■To hold to such a view,
And if I’m right, with all my might
I’ll still that course pursue.
You bet.
....S.H.G.: Don’t believe it.... Real Mackay: It
isn’t... .Q.M.J.: Not up, and subject written to
death. .. ,T. le B.: Misses... .W. McG.: Why don’t
you send covering letters attached to copy, if you
must send them at a 11.... Amateur Scribe: Very
much amateur... .G. 8.: Already returned... .H.G.:
Returned for revision and repairs.... N.T.: Quite
willing to accept your statement. It was the
“birch” canoe. and the decidedly American speech
that didn’t fit an Australian atmosphere... .N.H.:
“Eyes” not up ; but it’s a good shot for a twelve-
year-old. .. ,S:G.W.: Hopeless... .C.U.T.8.: Dull and
pointless... .Sylvia West: Do the nightingales sing
much in Queensland? Verses miss.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.A.G.: Sounds English. Anyhow, it’s a bit out
of date, and the drawing is rough... .N.Y.: The
application isn’t clear. But it doesn’t matter. Did
you ever see a lorry-driver urging, on his snorting
steeds from a cane chair ?.... J.W.: Little album
jest accompanied by a shaky little album drawing.
G.A.S.: Afraid we’ve got no use for your inar-
tistic atrocities.
There is a very small but very ancient
sect called the Universalists, which holds
that everybody goes to Heaven. A lot of
people feel that way without knowing that
they are Universalists. That is one reason
why the Kaiser may not be hanged. People
hate the idea of hurrying him to Heaven.


Stop Torturing
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
Mr
u
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
3topain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
S2O-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns Quickly.
At last a real 1 does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just *s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
©
J B a 1 Corn will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfoit,
•Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
V- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
/ffC?
II?
:::
a
3
r&
&
%
m
ISI
US!
Some people are careless enough to do nothing for constipation and
allow themselves to be costive for days at a time. A more foolhardy thing
cannot be done as a constipated person is liable to all sorts of diseases*
To be indifferent to constipation is as unhealthy and uncleanly as not
to wash or bathe, for a bowel movement is to the inside of the body what
bathing is to the outside.
Instead of leaving constipation to cure itself or trying some make-shift
that gives but temporary relief, you should take Chamberlain’s Tablets for the
stomach and liver. Chamberlain’s Tablets regulate the bowels gently and
scientifically and perfect relief is brought about in the most obstinate cases.
Thousands of costive people are now enjoying the best of health
after trying
CHAMBERLAINSTABLETS
Jfe'- THE STOMACn & LIVEP.
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
ratal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges tie stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
ana when ±is remedy is at hand all danger
ip. ay be avoided.
fse Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
CAPILLARINE
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, 3YDNEY.
Established over SO years.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
( N on-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ORLICK'S
MALTED
MILK
Baby knows the difference.
He knows what makes him feel good,
happy, and contented.
You know that he thrives upon this
easily assimilated, nourishing food,
therefo.e insist on always having
Horhck's Malted Milk for him.
Write for sample, sending 2d, in
stamps to HUTCHINSON & Co., Ltd.
26. Jamieson Street. Sydney. N.s.wi
- \
*
m
es
35
sss
SH.
No Shortage of Supplies. Ample Stocks throughout Australia.
SEASICK
FOR SEA SICKNESS
& TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILL’S has received the
finest testimonials from the world’s
greatest travellers, men, women,
and institutions.
MOTHERSILL’S is guaranteed
not to co l tainCocaine.Morphine,
Opium, Chloral, or any other of
the coal tar products.
Used by Royalty, Nobility, Doctors,
Clergymen, &c., &C., on Atlantic,
Pacific and other liners, by Polytechnic
Norway Tours, &c , Ac.
AO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
Of Chemists, 213 & 416 per box.
Guaranteed to Cure or Money Returned.
MOTHERSILL’S REMEDY CO. LTD.,
Or. Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
G
EORGE
St. Hilda,
HOTEL,
Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High-class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 15/- per day inclusive.
8/= per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
For Sale.
MANLY. —Gentleman’s Residence (nearly
new), Addison Road. Surf; 7 rooms,
kitchen, etc., wide balconies back and front
overlooking ocean and harbor. Brick on
stone foundations, tiled roof, perfect ordeir,
electric light, all conveniences. No agents.
'£2500, terms : ' furniture " at ' ■purchaser's
option. ZENDA, Box 241 G.P.0., Sydney.


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
•yiVOTil THE A T K IS, SYDNEI
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
SECOND EDITION OF
EVERYBODY’S DOING IT.
Plan at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
■i vour
TI. .'ATKE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH PRESENTS THE LATEST
AND GREATEST LONDON REVUE SUCCESS,
BUBBLY.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
CU 1 T E R IO N T II EA T It E. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF liATINKA.
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 25.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in
THE PINK LADY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
He r maj es ty’ s, sydn e y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON L’ID.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
THE LIMIT IN REVUE SPECTACLES.
HELLO, EVERYBODY!
A revelation in the art of stage-production.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
PALACE THE A T RE. SYI)N E Y.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
EMILIE POLINIE,
The Foremost Dramatic Favorite, in
DE LUXE ANNIE.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
UNI O N PICTURE XIII2AT It E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
TREMENDOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
GOODY TWO SHOES.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Theatre royal, melbourn is.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Famous
American Comedian,
M. B. FIGMAN, in
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. & N. TAIT and BAILEY & GRANT present
THE MERRY CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BEN & JOHN FULLER.
Direction FRANK RIGO.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JANUARY 25.
RIGO GRAND OPERA CO. in
RIGOLETTO.
Popular Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- (plus tax).
G. D. PORTUS, General Manager.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ALICE BRADY
in
THE BETTER HALF.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
| OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
* Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE. BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening; Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
SESSUE HAYAKAWA in
THE BRAVEST WAY.
WALLACE REID in
FIREFLY OF FRANCE.
LYCEUM (Over Princes Bridge).
Every Evening. Matinfes Saturday 2.30.
THIS WEEK'S FEATURE:
ELSIE FERCUSON in
THE LIE.
Prices as usual.
Follies theatre, st kilda.
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
JOHN N. McCALLUM’S
INCOMPARABLE COURTIERS.
THE ENTERTAINMENT OF THE MOMENT.
THE ACME OF REFINEMENT.
HERBERT
JOHNSON’S
/ /
Making something'different,
and at the same time smart
and within the limit of good
form, has always been the
work of HUNTS’—setting
the pace in Hat styles.
R. Hunt 8 Co.
514 George Street,
Sydney.
DIAMONDS as NEW YEAR GIFTS.
No other Gift in the whole list of Valuable Things has such
Personal Appeal as a Diamond King.
K23.—£ 13/10/-
K79.—£11/10/-
KlOl3. —Diamond
and 3 Emeralds,
£lO/10/-
ALL OCR DIAMONDS
ARE SET IN
fCRE PLATINUM
AND 18et. GOLD.
K 923.
£35.
:*r, .i>
K 731. —Diamond
and Emerald
Cluster £55.
Wm§
m
Jlolo.—£l7/10/
£lO/10/-
G 93. —£10.
TATT AND INSPECT, or WRITE FOR OITR NEW CATALOGUE
OF USEFUL PRESENTS.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
LARGEST JEAVELLERS OF THE EMPIRE,
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
SMOKE-CLOUDS
that set you dreaming.
You watch them, airily wafted about
you, until, contented, you see your
air-castles rising through the drift!
Pipe-contentment comes always to
the man who smokes a
The G.B.D. is a perfectly-matured
Old French Bria,r that always
smokes sweet and cool. Many
popular shapes. Sold by leading
tobacconists.
/>
■ \
f/
,>5.11 gagy«-<V5s
V
7
X &SL.I
rUi
f. h
■
in
•‘JBSS
i - i
COVE
N
TH
sfct
RTH
E
A
Sherwin-Williams
Paint
f=>F? EZ f=>/\F?EID
The paint that gives a tough, durable,
PROTECTIVE coating, so remarkably
elastic that it withstands the most sudden
and most severe changes and extremes
of temperature.
Being a Sherwin=Williams product it is the finest
quality that can be manufactured.
There is a Sherwin-Williams finish for every surface.
The Sherwin-Williams Co (Australia) Ltd.
Paint, Color and Varnish Makers,
63 PITT STREET— SYDNEY .
A postcard enquiry will bring to you the name of nearest agent.


Let Cntfcara Save Yonr Hair
Onretiring, comb the hair out straight,
then make a parting, gently rubbing in
Cuticura Ointment with the end of the
finger. Anoint additional partings until
the whole scalp has been treated.
Place a light covering over the hair to
protect the pillow from possible stain.
The next morning shampoo with Cuti-
cura Soap and hot water.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal. *‘R. Towns
A Co., Sydney, N. S. W." Sold by dealers through-
out the world.
CHRISTIE,' 4 )
SPECIALISE
TWO
C/AJES
# TS
$
0
WQiTE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
/iOTMTER S T NEWCASTLE
ELEY
CARTRIDGES'!
Always Reliable
ELEY ‘UNIVERSAL*
A Light-Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 drs. T.S. Black
Powder and ij oz. of shot.
•380
Automatic
Hammerless
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY -38
S&W Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L? LONDON
JU.
rrrrrrrr
■How to secure early
delivery of your post-war
SUNBEAM
The demand for Sunbeam cars for
delivery when we are again able
to attend to private requirements
is, already such that early ship-
ment cannot be promised except
to motorists who order now.
Naturally it is our intention to
hasten production in every way
conducive with the maintenance
of Sunbeam quality. This
qualification, in itself, how-
ever, is sufficient to limit output
and to render impossible delivery
in vast numbers. Therefore order
your post-war Sunbeam to-day.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co. Ltd.,
Export Department: 54-62 Oxford Street,
LONDON, W.l. - - - ENGLAND
Head Office - Wolverhampton, England
BOSTOCK’S PRY CLEANER
FOR
Wbite & Colored SfrocS-
OSSSSS
JflE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
easily applied, does not
It never fails to give entire satisfaction, being
rub off, and is unequalled in every way.
COLORS:—White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne.
Bostock’S Violo Poli&bes, Ltd.,
SYPNCY.
A SEASONED SHAVER.
“Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE- “PLUM ” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM
Razor.
»
1 to 5 Tons
Capacities
REDUCE YOUR DELIVERY COSTS
It will pay you to learn how Federal lorries will reduce
the cost of delivering your product.
Whether your goods are heavy or light—whether roads
are good or poor—whether labor is plentiful or scarce—
a Federal is a money saver.
Its mechanical construction is perfect.
1 Ton, $l9OO
\y 2 Ton, $2350
5 Ton, $4400
2 Ton, $2600
3y 2 Ton, $3350
Write for our magazine, “Traffic News.'
Also full prices and discounts.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
Factory—Detroit, Mich., U.S.A. Foreign Department—lB Broadway, New York.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“0.L.” : Furious protests have, lately been
made by cheese-manufacturers and others in
Victoria because the rennet they have bought
is poor stuff, forming acid curd without any
whey worth mentioning. It’s just another
case of the manufacturer not being satisfied
with the local product. The other morning
Araminta uttered a loud wail from the kit-
chen and called me in from the potato-patch
to look at the wreck of a “junket.” Aramin-
ta had tried to make the dish with the aid
of a new sort of rennet-tablet, with dis-
gusting results. I found that the tube was
marked ‘Made in Sweden,” and suggested
that she should try to get a local make of
tablet. Next day Araminta brought home a
tube of Melbourne-made rennet-tablets,
which turned out as gotid a “junket” as I
ever tasted —not that “junket” at its best is
much of a food to chew on, of course. Still,
the Australian goods came right up to the
scratch, whereas the Swedish rennet had
simply turned the milk into slimy pig’s-feed.
Being patriotic and saving money at the
same time looks easy and sensible, yet there
are lots of people who don’t seem able to
see things that way.
* * * *
“0.K.”: From a sick bed in Victoria I
arise to point the finger of scorn and com-
plaint at the unsatisfactory brewers of this
thirsty country as regards beer. I’m one
of the devils who are sinners only when
they are sick, and prefer to be saints when
they are well. We want light lager-beer
for appetising purposes when pain and
suffering wring the brow —light lager of the
sort that used to be imported before the
war. And we can’t get it. The local
brewers had four years in which to discover
the right place, with the right climate and
water supply, for the manufacture of the
mildest possible brand of beer. Does the
blessed brewers’ combine give the public a
chance to get the want of its invalids sup-
plied locally? Why, a country brewery is
required to limit its output to a small
neighboring district! There is no en-
couragement for brewers in the most likely
places to strive at converting a local water
into pure and innocent beer suitable for
the sickest sinners. Australia may soon
arrive at the secret of glorious develop-
ments in sparkling wine-making, but the
day when a certain district shall be identi-
fied with the palest of sparkling beer seems
still far off.
* * * *
“Quidam”: Our local stores sell candles
weighing 12oz. to the package for Is., while
candles of similar or better quality weighing
16oz. are priced at Is. Id. A large section
of the public, considering only price, buys
the Is. variety, which is also served, as a
rule, to anyone who simply asks for a
packet of candles. Yet there is no question
as to which is the cheaper; 12oz. of candle
at Is. = Id. per oz., while 16oz. for Is. Id.
means that the purchaser is getting the
extra 4oz. for Id. If 16oz. were pre-
scribed as the weight of a packet of candles,
anyone would see at a glance which of the
two brands was the cheaper, and any genius
who found a way of producing a slightly
cheaper packet would gain a proper reward.
At present the person who cuts weight
without equivalently cutting price gets in
ahead every time.
* * * *
“Leo Lear” : I lately received notice from
the Bolsheviks who hold a mortgage over
the family clover that the said loan would
not be renewed if stinkwort were found on the
premises at re-valuation time. This suggests
a way to keep at-present clean land .free
from worts, briars, pear, burrs and other
pests. If no mortgage were renewed on land
that had become infested during the term
of the deed, owners would scurry a bit to
keep clean land clean. Any area of reason-
able size can only become a pest nursery
through the carelessness or laziness of the
owner. That, of course, does not apply to
the huge outback lease areas, half of which
a man never sees for years on end.
* * * *
The big co-operative butter factories of
Victoria’s Western District are threatened
with extinction. Strawberry still yields the
usual quantity of juice, but when the authori-
ties fixed the price of butter—and conse-
quently the price the factories could afford
to pay for milk —they omitted to fix the
price of condensed milk. So the Nestle
firm, which bought out the Farnham factory,
offers 2d. per lb. of butterfat more than the
factories, and the fool farmer, forgetting that
he is simultaneously ruining the factory in
which he is a shareholder, rushes his cow-
juice to one of the myriad Nestle receiving
stations. Any co-operator who can’t see
further ahead than that deserves to hit a
snag.
* * * *
“F.J.”: Sometimes it is the Australian
timber man’s own fault that business goes
by. While enlarging his plant a Melbourne
woolscourer lately stipulated for Australian
hardwood. A Victorian lumber crowd pro-
mised to deliver the material within six days.
The contractor gave them 15 days, to make
sure. The firm’s patience lasted for five weeks ;
then the boss cancelled the order and sent
for American stuff. This was delivered at
the works next morniilg. The American
wood was grown eight or nine thousand
miles away: the Australian had to come
only about 30 miles.
INDIRECT ACTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In my diocese there are 20,000,000 people. Our
operation's are in the hands of British, American and
Canadian ministers chiefly. I should like to see Aus-
tralia represented to a greater degree. I am not
making any appeal here, but if God sends me any
money I shall be very glad.’’
—Bishop Banister, of Kwangsi and Hunan.
“I am not here to cadge for coin,”
The Bishop told the press.
“But, all the same, if some should try
To force their lucre on me, I
Will take it, none the less.
“I will receive whatever God
May send me without stint.
Please give this fact publicity;
It won’t be my fault then if He
Should fail to take the hint!”
VICTORIA.
H. O.


The Edison “Amberola”
provides perfect entertainment.
Make your home cheerful and bright, attractive
to your family and friends, by getting an
Edison “Amberola.”
The “Amberola” 30, like all other Edison instru-
ments, has a Diamond Stylus Reproducer
which necessitates no changing of needles.
Plays the celebrated Blue Amberol Records.
In a cabinet of Golden Oak, price 4LIO/10|-
The nearest Edison dealer will gladly give you
a demonstration. Illustrated Catalog post free
on request from
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
IfSAPATRIOTISM
a Your
Aim? c
Then have a 3HOT
at smoking
Referee
A*>:
The Australian Tobacco.
LOCAL
1
X
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
IfLES
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia.
22/6
ggprasaai
“Splendid for all small game."
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model,
24in. octagon or round barrel, 22 calibre rim fire,
magazine takes 25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-
hardened receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights;
weight s£lb. takedown Freight paid,
£.515/-
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
‘ Simple and extra strong in construction.'’
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model for 2^
short or long rim lire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel**
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle*
b f a > d foo ?‘ ! MBht, with patent flioyed tip
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b. p ’
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
41/-
Suitable for small game and target shooting
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round barrel;
cngth over all, 35in.; weight 411 b.; slide action, blade
front and serewrear sights Freight paid,
65/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
BA. —Browning Patent Automatic Rifle,
handles eleven 22 short smokeless cartridges ; walnut stock,
dstol grip, 19jHnch barrel; length over all, 3 6in.; weight, 411 b.; bead front and screw rear sight,
itted with safety bolt; barrel may be dismounted by unscrewing quarter turn.
Freight paid,
80 /•
“A perfect rabbiter’s rifle.”
837. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
Model 12A, 22 calibre, solid breech, side ejector, straight
grip, 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short, 12 long or 11 long rifle cartridges;
adjustable rear and open front sights; weight 4slb
Freight paid,
90/-
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.'”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 16-shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about s|lb.
90/-
“EVER READY” PA ™
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one. ppj££ POST FREE
“A suitable weapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel, 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight,
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
35/-
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
839. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight oilb.
Freight paid,
£7
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about <lb.
1892
With Round Barrel ■• • Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 88- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about s|lb Freight paid,
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
£5/10/-
£5/1 51-
£5 5 -
LfC
• •
flusnviLm's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
am TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
99 King St also at
Newcastle d Brisbanej


El
M
Backache! Why?
Do you rise in the morning with a groan? Do you feel that you are
getting old? Having made up your mind that you are a martyr, do you
vent your ill-humor on the family ! After a wfple, the pain and stifl ness
leave you, and you forget your troubles until the next morning, i rhen
the same dull pain in the small of your back, the difficulty of brewing
your nerves, brings back all the dire forebodings of the day betoie.
"This is the way Kidney Trouble creeps on its victim, and you, are
starting on a long journey towards ill-health and infirmity. The
Kidnevs are overtaxed with the work of cleansing. ou t the impu nties
from your blood Each day there is an accumulation of waste which
must upset the body. It forms Uric Acid, and Uric Acid is the most
insidious form of poisoning that can take place m your body. _J-h e
number of ills to which it leads is almost limitless, and though middle
age is the most favorable season for their activity, even the youmgest
child often suffers, and sometimes dies from the different manifestations
of Kidney Trouble. . .. ...
A change of diet is an advisable precaution, but a reliable, specially-
prepared remedy for Kidney Trouble, such as Dr. Sheldon s Grin 1 ills, is
the safeguard for your health. Dr. Sheldon s Gin Pills stimulate youi
sluggish kidneys to reaction, and assist the work of removing impurities
from your blood, which the kidneys have been unable to accomplish
unassisted. Then their tonic action so revives the kidneys that are
filtering the blood that the work is done automatically as by a perfect
machine. Your back straightens up, the pulling, dragging feeling
gradually leaves you; in the morning you can leap from bed, feeling a
plow of health and vigor, and meet life with a smiling face, it is the
duty of every man, not only to himself, but to the world at large, to keep
his health in the proper condition for his daily task; and for the victim
of Kidney Trouble Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills give just the little boost
his organs need to make them his slave, instead of his being a slave to
ill-health.
Gin Pills Will Help You.
If you suffer with Pains in your Back or Sides, or have any signs
of Kidney Trouble or Rheumatism, such as puffy swellings under the
eyes or in the feet or ankles; if you are Nervous, Tired and Run Down,
or bothered with Urinary Disorders, Dr. Sheldon s Gin Pills for Backache
and Kidney Trouble are the Remedy which will quickly relieve you of
vour misery. You can secure an original bottle of Dr. Sheldon s Din
Pills for Backache and Kidney Troubles from all Chemists and Store-
keepers for 1/6; or, in larger bottles, holding more than twice the
quantity, for 2/6; or, if not obtainable locally, will be sent post free on
receipt of price in postal notes or stamps by the
SHELDON DRUG CO. LTD, 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Ipilisl
ft" 1
pi
jpiuy
m
wßSJrrm
BANISHES
BACK ACHE, KIDNEY. BLADDER,
AND UR I NARY TROUB LES
C.BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works: Birmingham, England.
These series' of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
NEURALGIA!
It is so easy to catch those debilitat-
ing Colds, Influenza, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, etc. Help yourself to
avoid these by taking
Dhosfcri
1 THE ROYAL TONIC
rino
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/. . 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton SC Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
A Ballad of Judgment.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was the judgment horn of God;
The green world heard it blow.
An angel with a flaming rod
Strode on the clouds of woe
To shake the graves and try the souls
That there had lived and died ;
And great winds bore the judgment scrolls
At that tall angel’s side.
Oh, they should be as standing corn,
And they should rise as reeds,
For every man of woman born
Should" answer for his deeds.
>*«■ Break loose, the mould that holds the
germ,
For bone with bone must wed !
Let go, let go, the creeping worm!
Let up the living dead!
It was the judgment horn of God;
Yet none thereat awoke,
No moving dust below the sod
Its shroud of silence broke.
Rise up, rise up, ye sleeping souls,
And answer high and fair;
For wide are set the judgment scrolls
And every name is there.
The grass was simpering to the wind
That tossed a seedy spray,
But never soul of man would mind
The calling of that day ;
For once it blew and thrice it blew
Above the green wind waves,
And still the creeping grass-roots grew
Damp-down into the graves.
It was the judgment horn of God
That pealed the seventh blast;
The four winds bore the sound abroad — •
And will they rise at last?
Uprose the storm that shakes the south
Up spake the east and west;
The north, with thunder in its mouth,
Tossed high a spumy crest.
But never grave gave up its dead.
Oh, strange it was to hear
God’s pealing voice roll overhead
. That could not make them fear.
But up from east and south and west
There came a rustling sound,
Strange paper moving from its rest
The wide dead earth around.
Up sprang the books of all the world,
Mind-written with a pen ;
Like leaves before a tempest hurled
Grew thick the thoughts of men.
They stood for judgment page on page
Below the wild red sky,
Age pressing hard on toiling age—
The things that could not die.
Afid some there were with trembling
leaves,
But all were open wide—
The earth’s last garnered harvest sheaves
That judgment must divide.
The deep sky looked upon them all,
The graves were very still;
And through the hush a music small
And faint began to spill.
A music small, a growing sound,
A melody of tears,
That rose to harmony around
The place of all dead years.
It swelled, it grew, it filled the world,
t And through the doom-lights strong
Vast flags of glory were unfurled
To match that ageless song.
The little tilings that God had made
To keep man’s soul from death
Flamed into light that could not fade,
Fanned by that holy breath.
~ And up the way of star and sun
'- 1 It swept in triumph high.
The man-song God had made and won
Lest God Himself should die.
The angels prayed, the great winds fell;
The creeping worm let go.
The slow earth stirred; and rapture fell
On those who dreamed below.
Oh, up they rose as standing corn,
And up they stood as reeds;
For every man of woman born
Had answered for his deeds!
Of wrongs and shames and sins and woe
The large account was dead,
Burned in the sky’s vast furnace-glow
Of glory overhead ;
And God among His angels wrote,
In white fire sweet and strong,
That all the stars of Heaven might note
The pardon of the song.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Affair.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. GREGORY WICKS, R.N., of
H.M.S. Emu, having spent a busy
week incidental to the proper
charge of the functions appertaining to the
““position of first lieutenant of the vessel of
war acting as guard-ship, for the time be-
ing, at Port Jackson, came ashore on a
Saturday afternoon in May, 1816, with
every intention of seeking diversion. He
felt that onerous duties faithfully carried
out entitled him to an expectation of those
measures of relaxation and recreation which,
even if there might be some persons
in the Settlement sour-minded enough to re-
gard them as dissipation, he had unques-
tionably earned.
Accordingly, in this holiday frame of
mind, he bent his steps—“shaped a course,”
he would have put it —towards the Bar-
racks. There, he would seek out the friend
of. his bosom. Ensign Patrick Calder, of the
46th, and afford him an opportunity of shar-
ing in those diversions, innocent or other-
-4 wise, which he contemplated with a certain
vague enjoyment of anticipation.
Passing up George-street from the Cove
he encountered the smiling and genial per-
sonality of Captain William Blake, the
acjutant of his friend’s regiment. Captain
Blake was on his way to the North Shore
to shoot gillbirds. He hailed the young
naval officer with delight.
“Bless my soul, Pansy, my boy” (he used
Mr. Wicks’s well-known nickname), tis
ages since we’ve seen ye at the mess. What
have ye been doing w r ith yourself t ’
“Oh, nothing much, Mr. Blake. The Cap-
tain’s been ill ashore, and I’ve been tied to
the ship. That’s all. Is Patrick in bar-
rßcks
The adjutant’s face fell immediately and
became grave and serious in a fashion that
was comic because it was so obviously the
unreal aspect of his countenance. He affected
to heave a sigh.
“Pansy, my lad, ’tis very distressing. Poor
Pat Calder! I fear he’s done for. Poor
Patrick
“Why, what’s the matter with him, sir?
He was all right a night or so ago, wdien I
saw him last.”
Mr. Wicks was a little mystified by the
adjutant’s seriousness and a little dubious
of the twinkle in his blue eyes.
“Come into Tim Naylan’s with me, Pansy,
and I’ll tell ye,” said Blake. “We’re almost
at the door of the Spotted Dog. We’ll
crack a bottle and I’ll tell ye all about the
>Mr U Wicks retraced his steps a few yards
and the two of them entered the low door
of the dingy tavern of which the red-headed
Timothy Naylan was the licensee about
those years. It was a favorite resort of
himself and Mr. Calder, and of other char-
acters even less reputable than those two
bright young officers. They passed through
the dark and empty tap-room and entered
an apartment at the back, whose little win-
dow opened on to an untidy yard. Captain
Blake banged the butt of his gun on the
table and presently the shock head of Mr.
Naylan thi-ust itself into the space between
the half-open door and its jamb.
“Good afternoon, y’r honors both,” it
said; “an’ what might I be after doin’ for
yez?”
“A bottle of Madeira, Tim,” said Blake,
“and see ’tis not corked.”
“I’ll look to it mesilf, Captain,” said their
host, hurrying away. 1
The two officers sat down at the greasy
table, and when Mr. Naylan had provided
bottle and glasses and they had solemnly
toasted one another, the adjutant enlight-
ened Mr. Wicks concerning his friend.
“Well, Pansy, my boy, the trouble with
our friend Patrick is that he’s bewitched.”
“Bewitched !”
“Yes; lie’s taken leave of his senses.
When I tell you that not for more than a
week past has he been late on parade, ye’ll
understand that there’s something the mat-
ter with him. But when I tell you also that
not for quite as long a time have I had to
exhort him to mend his ways in any respect
whatsoever, simply because they are all that
the ways of a young officer should be, ye’ll
come to the same conclusion that I’ve come
to —that there’s something seriously the
matter with him. He’s not himself. But,
my dear Wicks, when I tell you, further,
that Colonel Molle has himself commented
to me on his extraordinarily good behaviour
ye’ll feel as alarmed as we all feel for the
welfare of Mr. Patrick Calder. Don’t laugh.
I’m really serious about it. All these symp-
toms point to something very much amiss—
and-—l—know—what—it—is,” he concluded
impressively.
Mr. Wicks’s sunburnt face took on an
anxious expression as he stared in bewilder-
ment across the table at the other. He did
not speak for a moment or two. The pro-
blem of his friend’s changed behaviour was
inexplicable to him. When he did speak
there was grave anxiety in his tone, as well
as in his face.
“ ’Tis not like Patrick,” he said at last,
slowly, and shaking his head. “Damme if
it is. He must be ill—or he’s got religion.
What d’ye know of it, sir?”
Captain Blake emptied his glass, replen-
ished it—as well as that of Mr. Wicks —
winked solemnly three times, and said, seri-
ously, “Pat Calder is involved in an Affair!”
Mr. Wicks smiled with relief, as if this
information Avere not so bad as some he had
been expecting.
“Oh, that’s all, is it?” he said. “Wejl, a
fellow’s got to expect something of that
sort if he mixes in shindies like Pat does.
Who’s he fightin’?” He seemed immensely
relieved.
But Captain Blake shook his head.
“No, no,” he said, with some mournful-
ness. “It’s not nearly so simple as that,
Pansy, my buck. “ ’Tis not a duel —an
affair of honor. ’Tis an affair of the heart.”
“The devil it is!” said Mr. Wicks. “Well,
but he’s had ’em before, hasn’t he? Several
I know of. What’s there in a bit of an
adventure with a petticoat to make him act
sc; strangely? Surely it must be more than
that.”
“Oh. but this is the very devil of an
affair,” said Captain Blake. “ ’Tis with Mrs.
Moisey. Now, what do you say to that?”
Mr. Wicks whistled, tilting his chair
back, and regarding his companion with a
look that w*as blended of astonishment,
apprehension and exasperation.
“By God!” he cried. “With her —at
Government House. O Lord! Lord save
the cat!” he exclaimed piously.
“Now listen to me, Pansy.” said Captain
Blake earnestly, after tossing off the last
of his wine. “You’re bis closest friend. ’Tis
your part to think of some means of rescue.
I leave it to you. Go see him in his quar-
ters and laugh him out of it. Do anything.
Promise me ye’ll do your best, won’t ye?”
“Indeed I will, sir. But ye know Pat
Calder!”
“I do —and I know you. Make him ridicu-
lous with the lady. ’Tis the only way of
saving him. I trust in you. Now, I must
be going—the boatman’s waiting for me.
Get you along to the barracks and see what
he’s about. Spy out the lay of the land.
Bring things about so that she’ll laugh at
him. ’Tis what he can’t stand, the young
rip! The regiment depends on you, Pansy.”
“I’ll do my best, sir.” said Mr. Wicks,
with some misgiving. “I’ll do what I can.”
In the verandah of Mr. Calder’s quarters
Mr. Wicks found that gentleman’s servant,
Private Michael Muldoon, busily engaged in
polishing a pair of riding-boots with yellow
tops. He was doing this with such extreme
care—extending his boot-clad arm from time
to time to survey the. shininess he was in-
(Continued on next page.)


W,i\
|l#Y
m.
4i .A®
m
i
;W/
Little
Madge
and
Ruby
Kelly.
ZAM-BUK IS THE MOTHER’S FRIEND.
MRS. H. KELLY, of 67 Thompson-Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, expressing gratitude
of what Zam=Buk did for her little girls, says:—
“ Whilst playing in the street my little girl Maggie fell and cut her knee,
opening it to the bone. Dirt got into this wound, and it turned into a terrible running
sore. Inflammation came all round the festering place, and despite all we did it would
not heal; to make matters worse, she knocked it again, opening it up a second time
and making a very bad place of it indeed.
“ Zam-Buk was recommended to us, so we gave it a trial. The effects of Zam-Buk
were very different from other ointments; it was soothing and mild, and the inflammation
painlessly disappeared and the wound healed up. Before we had used two pots Maggie’s
leg was completely cured.
“My little girl Ruby had occasion to use Zam-Buk when chicken-pox broke out on
her face, making it an awful sight. My faith in Zam=Buk, however, induced me to use it on
Ruby’s face. The crusts of the sores came of, matter was discharged, and Zam-Buk quickly
healed the bad places.”
I Where a pot of Zam-Buk is kept handy no member
of the family is at a loss in emergency. The bread-
winner dresses his injuries with Zam-Buk, and
knows that its powerful antiseptic action will dean
out the wound, preventing suppuration or poison-
ing. The housewife flies to the useful little pot
for her bruises, cuts and burns, and the little
ones cry out for Zam-Buk when they fall,
because they know it will soothe smarting
pain and heal quickly,
Zam-Buk is a pure healing bairn. Many
modern preparations contain quantities
of animal fats and mineral poisons, and
are not only coarse, irritating and un-
reliable, but tend to create the very
complications which should be guard-
ed against. The Zam-Buk way is
both different and superior.
Be on Your Guard
Against Worthless
SUBSTITUTES .
When you ask for Zam-Buk
Healing Balm see that you get
it. Do not be put off with
something which is claimed hy
your trader as “just as good,”
because it returns him more
profit. There is NOTHING
“just as good” as the proved,
reliable, ever-ready and effec-
tive Zam-Buk.
Zam-Buk is proved unexcelled
for cuts, bruises, scalds,
burns, sores, bad leg's, ulcers,
mosquito bites, peeling skin,
summer rash, pimples, blis-
ters, children ’s sores,
abscesses, ringworm, barber’s
rasb, scalp troubles, sore feet,
beat rashes, boils, sunburn,
festering sores, piles, sprains,
scabs, barcoo rot, insect
stings, sore heels, eczema,
poisoned wounds, stiffness,
and injured and diseased
conditions of the skin gener-
ally. From all Chemists and
Stores at 1/C and 3/6 per pot,
or post free from C. E. Ful-
ford (Australasia) .Ltd., 39
Pitt Street. Sydney.
m
oKtw NS
H 0&
v«
0°
Sr.
o»
&
ift
f
tw*a
fft
PfO*
M 2
dBBf 9 t'-'*
*^CUTS
l»*
m
ffiiW
'* ,ntCHfJ/A S 'jm
sontay®
cm
Vf/?J
jrt
Guard
Against
Substitution ,
ducing in the leather, spitting upon the
brush in his other hand, and delicately add-
ing to the lustre in unsatisfactory places—
that he did not observe Mr. Wicks until the
latter spoke. When he heard his voice he
sprang to quick attention, boot and brush
beside each leg.
“Good afternoon, Michael. Mr. Calder
in?”
Private Muldoon replied in a confidential
whisper—seriously, solemnly, and a little
mournfully. _ ,
He is, thin, yr honor; but ann yr
honoi s paidon, X m not thinkin ho II bo
wishful for to see ye.
“See me? Of course he will. Tell me,
Michael, is this business as serious as Cap-
tain Blake’s jusrt been tellin me?” He
spoke in a low tone, confidentially also.
“ ’Tis so, thin, y’r honor. lie’s a-dressin’
for to go ridin’ wid th’ lady now. .’Tis
worse, much worse. I dunno what’s come
over him. He’ll bite y’r head off if ye go
nigh him. ’Tis but jist now he t’reatens me
wid Ord’ly-room for not havin’ enough shine
on these boots, an’ I swear ye cud. see y’r
face in ’em.”
“Good Lord! Well, Mike, I’ll see what I
can do with him.”
“Good luck go wid ye, sorr,” whispered
Private Muldoon, as Mr. Wicks stepped
across the verandah.
Mr. Wicks did not remain long inside.
Presently Private Muldoon heard the voice
of his master raised in peevish and angry
tones.
“Oh, go to Hell, Pansy. I tell you I
can’t go with you. I’ve an engagement.
Never you mind who with. ’Tis not your
affair. I’ll do as I d—d well please.”
And Mr. Wicks came forth with a flushed
face and the light of battle in his eye, obvi-
on sly a little angry. But by the grin that
came over his countenance he was also a
little amused, and bent on some scheme of
bis own, thought Private Muldoon.
Mr. Wicks walked down to the barrack
gates and passed out into George-street.
Here lie paused for a few moments as if in
deep thought, slapped himself on the thigh,
threw up Ins head with a laugh and strode
o to w "* r d s the Brickfields. .... ...
By George, yes,” he muttered to himself.
I 11 do it. She 11 _ fix me up. _ 111 cook
Patsy’s goose for him—the villain!”
Presentlv Ensign Patrick Calder returned
the sentry’s salute, as he, too, passed the
guard-room by the gates. He was resplen-
dent in his very best fawn-colored riding-
suit, a beaver hat, a black silk stock and
the highly polished boots which Muldoon had
been operating upon.
“Th’ young devil must be a-goin’ to get
married,” remarked the sergeant of the
guard to his corporal, when they beheld him
through the open doorway of the guard-
room, as the resplendent youth passed by.
He went along the main thoroughfare of
Sydney towards the Cove, and turned into
Hunter-street. A little way down the hill
he came to the open gateway of a stable-
yard and went in. When he emerged he was
mounted upon the best bay hackney that
Mr. Thaddeus Driscoll, the well-known
livery-man, could provide. From here, a
magnificent figure, he rode at a dignified
walk towards Government House, over on
the further hillside, across the bridge that
spanned the Tank Stream. A groom was
leading a horse from the vice-regal stables
up and down the gravelled drive before the
verandah, and on the latter, in conversation
with his Excellency, was the lady who was
the cause of so much perturbation to Mr.
Calder’s more intimate friends.
Mrs. Moisey was a lady of that ambigu-
ous age that is just over or just under thirty.
She was a schoolgirl friend of Mrs. Mac-
quarie’s, and a widow, and sometimes —to-
day, for instance —she did not look any more
than twenty-four. She was dark, and pretty,
and vivacious, and had red lips that were
never meant to be long without kisses. After
the late Colonel .Moisey’s death she had had
an illness, and the doctors had recommended
a long sea voyage. So she had taken the
longest one that it was possible to take —
from Gravesend to Sydney —and had now
been a guest at Government House for close
upon three months.
“Ah, here you are!” she laughed to Mr.
Calder, as he handed his reins to the groom,
and bowed to his Excellency and the lady.
“Never tell me, dear Mr. Calder, ’tis we
women who have to be waited for. La, Mr.
Macquarie, have I not been waiting for Mr.
Calder this ten minutes past?”
She had a jolly voice, and a twinkling,
laughing eye, and his Excellency was moved
to gallantry by them.
“My dear Teresa,” he said, “I believe it
is the first time I have ever congratulated
Mr. Calder upon his remissness. His delay
has been my good fortune. I surrender you
to him grudgingly—most grudgingly, I assure
you.”
It seemed to Mr. Calder that the great
man regarded him with a more favorable eye
than usual. That might easily have been
the case. Before they rode off, to his
astonishment, his Excellency drew him aside
and remarked—a little drily :
“Mr. Calder, I am delighted at last to hear
a good report of you from Colonel Molle. I
trust that you will retain his favorable
opinion. There was room for improvement,
sir, as I think I have mentioned to you once
or twice.”
“Thank you, your Excellency. I hope to
be able to retain the respect of my superiors.
It will not be for want of effort on my part,
I assure you, sir.”
The Governor assisted Mrs. Moisey into
the saddle.
“Take great care of her, Calder,” he called
after them, as they rode away. “Mrs. Mac-
quarie and I hold you responsible for her
safety, in every way.”
“Oh, shut up!” murmured Mr. Calder, so’
that only the lady heard him. She was con-
vulsed with stifled merriment.
They rode out into Macquarie-street, and
southward by the new Rum Hospital, towards
the racecourse —where Hyde Park is to-day.
Then they skirted the back of Mr. Palmer’s
farm of Wulamulla, crossed the South Head-
road, and so into the sandhills which some
queer stretch of imagination had likened to
the hills of Surrey. It was a wild kind of
No Man’s Land in those days, covered with
scrubby growths, and fragrant with the aro-
matic smell of evergreen shrubs and eucalyp-
tus. When they came to an eminence
whence they could' see the far-off blue gleam
of Botany Bay and the distant mountains
of Illawarra, Mrs. Moisey proposed that
they should dismount and rest, whilst they
enjoyed the wide and beautiful view that lay
to the southward.
This Patrick Calder considered to be. a
most commendable scheme. It would give
him an opportunity of declaring his passion,
which was the usual very fervent passion of
a youth of twenty-one.
He began immediately. With great bold-
ness he seized the charming widow’s hand,
raised it to his lips, and kissed it with fer-
vor. The charming widow made but a half-
hearted objection.
“Oh. Mv Calder,” she murmured, “you
mustn’t. ’Tis —’tis dereglcment. I cannot
permit—oh, oh”
He had kissed her lips. She tore herself
from him, and retreated a pace or two.
“How dare you, sir! I shall inform Mr.
Macquarie. Oh, the idea! You are a bold
young man, sir.”
But a little smile dimpled her pretty face,
and the rosy blushes of a confusion that
was half gratification made her, in Mr.
Calder’s view, sweetly lovely and altogether
charming. The infatuated boy fell upon his
knees —that sort of thing was done in those
days—and poured forth his soul.
“Teresa, Teresa,” he raved. “Teresa, how
I adore you ! With all my soul, with
all my being, with my whole heart. Say
that you return my affection —oh, give me
some hope, Teresa. Stay—let me clasp you
to this bosom” —: —-
He scrambled to his feet, and she retreated,
a little hand outstretched, as though to fend
off his impetuous advances. Mrs. Moisey
was perhaps a little alarmed —though
enjoying herself immensely—for she was
not altogether sure that she could
trust herself. This handsome and ardent
youth, she felt, might try even the
most decoi’ous of young widows. She
reflected that, although she was propriety
itself, she was also young, and she could feel
the hot blood racing through her veins. It
would never do. So she assumed an iciness
of demeanor that did not nearly so well
become her as her blushes and her dimples.
“Mr. Calder, I must beg of you to recol-
lect yourself and to treat me with respect.
I am too lately bereaved” —there were tears
in her eyes, but the sentiment in her heart
did not concern itself with the late Colonel
Moisey—“to consider such advances. Pray
restrain yourself and assist me into the
saddle. Look, the sun is setting. It will
be dark before we reach the town. I beg
you to remember, sir, that I am an unpro-
tected female, and to desist from such be-
havior!”
This chilling little speech cooled the hot
recklessness of Mr. Calder’s passion. Very
respectfully, and with many sighs, he assisted
her to mount, and they rode homeward in
silence.
Just at dusk they came to the outskirts of
the town, behind the Racecourse. Mrs.
Moisey had gallantly striven to make conver-
sation, but the unhappy subaltern was glum
and morose —heartbroken, he expressed it to
himself —and the latter portion of their ride
was made in a silence that was only broken
by the clatter of the horses’ hooves against
loose stones, and the cries of homing birds.
But as they drew near to the infrequent
twinkling lights of the suburbs of little Syd-
ney, she edged her horse close to his and
half whispered:
“Do you really love me, Patrick? How
can I tell that you are not playing with me?
You have such a sad reputation, you know!
Mr. Macquarie did not half like my riding
with you, alone, to-day. Now, do you really
think you care a lit”
“Oh, Patrick —is it so you treat your
loving Emma ! Oh, darling, baby’s so sick!
Won’t you come to him? Oh, I beg you,
Patrick, if you ever loved me”
“Great God !” exclaimed Mr Calder.
Mrs. Moisey sat up stiffly on her side-
saddle and stared at the woman, who was
tall and heavily veiled. There was a silence,
interrupted only by the woman’s hysterical
sobbing. Presently she turned to Calder.
“Mr. Calder, I demand to know instantly
who this woman is. What is she to you?”
Mr. Calder was smitten with the dumb-
ness of overwhelming astonishment.
“Woman, indeed !” said the figure on the
ground. “I’d have you to know, ma’am, that
I’m Mr. Patrick Calder’s wedded wife, and
I’d like to know what you are doing with
him, a-riding out into the country alone
together ?”
The late Colonel Moisey was a forbearing
creature, but his ghost could have testified
that his relict was a lady with a temper of
a proper spirit. So could Mr. Calder, from
that moment onward.
“Oh, infamous!” she cried. “Oh, you
wretched cad !”
She slashed her escort across his face once
and the next cut of her whip was on her
horse’s flank. She sped off into the darkness
towards Macquarie-street, leaving the petri-
fied Mi\ Calder staring at the sobbing
woman.
“Who are. .. . ” he began angrily, but was
interrupted by a shout of laughter, and
astounded to see the veiled lady gather up
her skirts and run.
“Pansy I’ 1 he roared and galloped in pur-
suit.
The skirts hindered his quarry, and, before
long, any who passed that way might have
been edified by the sight of an infuriated
subaltern of the 46th tearing the clothing
from a woman who yelled in manly tones
for mercy from the blows she was receiving.
A week later, Lieutenant Gregory Wicks.
R.N. —with a black eye—met by appoint-
ment, at Timothy Naylan’s Spotted Dog,
Ensign Patrick Calder, of the 46th —also
with a black eye. They drank and vowed
eternal friendship. But there was no allu-
sion to what Mr. Wicks always referred to.
in conversation with Captain Blake, as
“The Affair.”
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


I $
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO ( OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 FeatherBton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
~ ■■■■■■■■
■to ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? _ Ho you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WIN SLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne. Vie.
Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver—healthy or clogged, active or
sluggish—makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
>K
Carters
ITTLS
wm
PILLS.
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Prlot.
GENUINE must bear signature
BARS
<r
/ten
IN :
PACKE
of
This delicious, long - lasting
sweetmeat has always been
a BIG bargain in benefit.
NOW you get 6 bars in each
packet for 3d. It is econom-
m
E
&
&
&
m
ical and* best of all* it’s
good for you.
Helps teeth* appetite*
digestion* allays thirst*
soothes throat and
Get it wherever confec-
tions are sold.
J. C. Gambles & Coy
Sole Australasian Agents
Rosebery, Sydney.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
SEALED TIGHT KEPT RIGHT
The Flavour Lasts
LET ME EXPLAIN!
m
BEECHAM'S PILLS
WILL KEEP YOU IH THE PIHK.
0
• •
MSf
oeaefi««Bßasaffl
Remjntmn
Arms and Ammunition
Used throughout the
world by leading sports-
men. Sold by ironmongers
and sporting goods dealers
everywhere.
& Cjfly
m
&
Hhq
The more you ride it
the longer you have it, the better it “fits”
you, for a _ __
BROOKS
saddle positively improves with age. It
becomes more pliable, even wore comfort-
able than when new and, if possible,
more responsive to the movements
of its rider.
Ask your Agent.


INGROYITE _ j
LEATHER fCU
IELTIWdM^
MAXIMUM DRIVING POWER
for your machinery and Power Plant is
yours if you use
MANGROVITE RAWHIDE BELTING
It cuts out waste from your power plant,
and thereby ensures efficiency and economy.
Tanned and manufactured by" the Mangrovite
process.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square (nearC.P. o.),Sydney,N.S.W
Western Australia: Clbbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street,
Syd ney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne; Kalgoorlie and I'remantle, W.A.
Charles Atkins & Co.j Adelaide. Paul & Gray Ltd., Newcastle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
jf||P
, Wm.
°C%
K STEEL Ct.-Di*'
mam- A
HIGH-QUALIIY STEEL-Cl TTING EDGES, with Iron Backs, made to your order
from our own material.
When ordering- state size on cut, depth, thickness, length and width of slots-
whether for Fixed Heads or Movable Bolts. If Fixed Heads Template absolutely
necessary •
Hard Drives.
Jt is hard drives which have paused the
greatest demand in Australia for Dick Belt.
Heavy loads, high speeds, twisting turns,
moisture and fumes, sudden changes of atmo-
sphere—these difficult tests have proved the
quality of
Dick’s Balata Belting
(Original & Genuine).
Power waste is unknown where this highly-
efficient and durable belt is used. Write for
booklet and get full facts before buying your
new belt.
Sole importers—•
JAMES HARD lE, & CO. LTD,,
“Asbestos House,’’
Cor. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
Phone 8-156 (1 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
Also at Brisbane and Adelaide,
Newcastle Agents - Paul & Cray Ltd.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the'" reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving lhe same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of vour
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N„Z.
i
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2}<j inches;
Weight G2lb.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles pec hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Kails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
t
c
Vs
-kaOC
"Aft*
o
n
v.
*
ftetsftota
M rt M .
<?ON
e
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to wehl, destroys east-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50 ?<lb., 25/-; 20z., 7/6.
lib. Flax will braze broken casting: 15 feet long by
1 inch thick—instructions round each tin,
Employed by Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street; St, Hilda, Vitoria,
PUMPS -Good Pumps Only
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side BoU or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12in. to Sin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:— ,
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUF.r' CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CON TRA CT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
DELCO-LICHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc-
r-
» I ii
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4% hours.
’ILL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AOEXTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBI ETON, FRANKI LTD.,
809 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD.. Brisbane.
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
»
WHAT
tt
isfen
MEANS
IN THE WOOLSHED
SMOOTH WORK
SATISFIED SHEARERS
ABSENCE OF DELAY
GOOD TALLIES
VERY FEW RENEWALS
WELL SHORN SHEEP
GENERAL ALL-ROUND ECONOMY.
VsfieE
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINE
DANGAR GEDYE & C?
SYDNEY.
A Valve that Stays Tight—The “EVERLASTING” VALVE.
A Sliding Gate, Full Bore, Se/f-regrinding, High-pressure Valve of Particular Merit and Faultless Workmanship .
Made In the following types:—
Heavy Gunmetal Marine, flanged.
Locomotive, flanged and screwed.
Cast-iron Bodies, bronze-fitted.
Quick opening, Slow opening.
Hack and Pinion Geared, Worm Geared.
Guaranteed to remain “Leak-proof” for TWO YEARS
without attention.
Suitable for all Pressures, Steam. Gas, Oil Tar. Water,
Ammonia, etc.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
OF AUSTRALIAN METAL.
Used and endorsed by:
Commonwealth and State Dockyards.
N.S.W. Locomotive Department.
All the large Collieries and Mines.
Leading Boilermakers.
tins Works, Ferries, Shipping Companies. Meat
Works.
Write us for complete reference lists, booklets, data and
prices.
We are valve specialists. Bring us your problems.
AGENTS: Victoria -Ramsay & Treganowan, Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
W.A. -Denny Bros., Perth.
Tasmania—das. H. Edwards, Newtown.
S. Aus. Chas. Atkins Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
South Queensland—T. B. Wallis & Co., Brisbane.
N.Z.—Paterson & Robertson, Auckland.
Sole Manufacturers
>in Australasia—
N, GUTHRIPGE LTD., Mining and Electrical Engineers, 350 George Street, Sydney.
