

S —The Spirit of
R. G. WATKXNS CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 K.eTlt Street, Sydney,
—FOB— , .
Minings and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Exquisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants a.hvays available.
WE ADVANCE
OH
TERMS
OH ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
SMMONT de PIETE
Em? I C?r LIMITED.
74 Casllereagh 51.71; Sydney.
CAPITAL &200.000 ‘Phone City 9325
ArancAes jf- 29 King st.,Newcastll.NsW-715 I 7 swanstoii3t.lleid.Vi<
40 Adelaide st.,Bnsbane.Q. 186 Castlerea9hst.fS9 George St. West, Sydney.
JTus6ac& -ff&T2T2e£&, Ge > j2er , £rJ J¥<3r23C?ej~.
• i
SI
CHROMOL
5 5
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J. C.LudowiciSSonLtd.
Pioneer Leather Berting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
n
m
0 }
n
2S
u
U
_ *neappl&
m
I:-.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
TIME proves that:
" though other roofings
may “look” like it
and “feel” like it—
m
■
is “not the same as others
Equal quality
roofing is not
procurable under
any other name.
The Paraffine
Actual samples and
panies Inc. (F. M. Prince,
booklet post free from
Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of the
“Referee ” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
LYSAGHTS LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
$Vv^ S
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
WHITE HORSE Whisky
Herbert Morris “2240” Chain Pulley-blocks
The Morris All-British Pulley-block is the finest and most reliable
pulley-block on the market. It is a full British Ton Capacity Block
(22401 b.), tested to 50 per cent, above that load. Mechanically perfect,
all parts absolutely interchangeable, and chain hand-made from trebly-
refined iron. Ask for particulars and prices of Morris Blocks before
you buy any pulley-block. Large stocks of Morris British Chain Pulley-
blocks and Wedge Lock Hoists.
Estimates submitted for Overhead Travelling Cranes and Kunways for
every class of business.
NOYES BROS.
(•SYDNEY) LTD,, 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling Building, Adelaide.
SELLING AGENTS: J. R. W. CARD AM, Perth; and CHAS. E. BERNAYS, Brisbane.
PLEASANT AND
A TRUE ANTISEPTIC-
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA'S BEST.
The Bulletin
Vo]. 4% —No. 2043.]
[Thursday, April 10, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few —the more
stoical among us —can avoid worrying over past or prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the result
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real net d of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their octi- e some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of ' ee and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of he ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Freckles and How to Cure Them.-
a ways
those with the finest and fairies si in who
freckle most easily, but this know udge i poor
comfort when the face is disfigure 1 with these
ugly little blemishes. To preven the forma-
tion of freckles a wash should 1 > applied to
the face which will form a shi id frot.
rays of the sun. A simple and in \'ponsi\ one
can he made up at home by dissolving an
ounce of cleminite in four tab] ispoonf; s of
hot water. Sliake the bottle, aid vvhei cold
apply to the face and allow to dry on tP3
skin. If this is done every day renewing the
application whenever the face i 1 washed, and
a little mercolised wax rubbed into ti i n
every night, freckles will ncmak in ir
appearance, no matter how ho the 'o
remove freckles which have a trend \ d,
apply the wax every night, rib it ' u i t 0
the skin of the face and neck nd - 1 ■ u on
till the morning. Then wash ofC, usinjf i i.cufa
soap and warm water.
To Reduce a Double Chin.—To educe double
chin, give hard, firm massage-e• cry ns dit with
mercolised wax, stroking the fli sli firmly luick-
wards from the chin towards ’die, lower t op-
tion of the neck. Do this evei ' might, amt -: n
the morning bathe with cold w: i V am Inb
into the skin a little parsidi : ins
treatment will strengthen the es
and -resthre the contour■ ©£■ Un- face. OeCasu»a-
ally a chfa is d: to stooping- over
.bciiks'Vtr work, bu‘ generally it is i lie result
of putting on weight. When the latter is the
case a few clynol berries, eaten regularly every
day, will greatly assist in reducing the super-
fluous flesh. A glass of hot water should he
sipped after each meal- }
The Hair—To Increase the Growth.—To arresl
an undue falling of the hair and increase the
growth, scalp-massage and the application of
a good tonic is absolutely necessary. Part the
hair in the centre, and, starting at the fore-
head, massage for at least ten minutes. Then
apply a tonic. A simple arid inexpensive one
can he made up at home by mixing one ounce
of bornniuiu (which can be bought at the
chemist’s) with a quarter of a pint of bay
rum. Add the boranium to the bay rum, allow
to stand for half an hour, then strain and add
suiflcient water to make half a pint. Dab
amongst the roots of the hair with a soft
sponge.
Superfluous Hair.—Dark-complexioned women
are far more frequently troubled with a
growth of superfluous hair than those with
fair skins, and at the first sign of these objec-
tionable hairs steps should be taken to remove
them, or they will develop into a strong growth
which will take a very long time to destroy.
A little powdered pheminol applied to this
growth will remove the unsightly blemish.
'U.stfcying it permanently if the hairs be bui
few. Two or /-lore applit a- ">ns may be necc-
saw if the growth he no strong, but
unout Dm >vtii.ct of pfu-oiuioi louid he sumel-
erri for the most stubborn case. Pheminol can
be obtained . f! a chemist’s, and a little
P<c d. i 1 ■ ■ m hould be obtained at th-»
same time for ousting the skin before applying
the pheminol.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
TO DARKEN THE EYEBROWS (L.M.).—
There is no dye which I could recommend as
“safe,” but if you rub a little mennaline into
the eyebrows and at the roots of the eyelashes
regularly every night it will darken them,
naturally, and will also increase the growth
of the eyelashes.
TO REDUCE WEIGHT (SADIE).—Yes, your
weight and measurements are certainly more
than they should be for your height, and I
quite agree that being so stout makes you look
old. I am pleased to be able to tell you of a
quick, easy and pleasant way to reduce both.
Get a small quantity of clynol berries from
the chemist’s and take one after each meal,
three times a day. Weigh yourself after one
month’s treatment, and you will be delighted
with the result.
TO KEEP THE HAIR FAIR (DORIS).—If
you shampoo your lmir regularly with stallax
granules it will prevent it from turning dark.
One teaspoon of stallax is sufficient for a
shampoo, and an original packet will make
from 25 to 30 shampoos. Stallax keeps
indefinitely. [4
TO IMPROVE A DULL. MUDDY COM-
PLEXION (D.B ). —Your complexion is dull
and muddy-looking because it needs thorough
cleansing and renewing of the outer cuticle..
To do this get a tin of mercolised wax, and
with the tips of the fingers rub a little gently
into the skin, going over the entire face and
neck. Leave the wax on all night and in the
morning wash it off with a good soap (you
will find Pilenta excellent). In a month’s time
you will notice a most surprising improve-
ment. (2) Liquid pergol will prevent the
excessive perspiration of which you complain.
(3) Nothing can be done.
TO ARREST GREYNESS (FLO).—You are
indeed far too young to go grey yet. Get
about two ounces of concentrate of tamma-
lite and mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
Dab this on the hair and amongst the roots.
It will soon make matters all right.
TO WHITEN A BROWN NECK (W.K.).—To
whiten your neck use jettaline. Get a tube of
this from the chemist’s and rub a little well
into the skin of the neck; leave it on till next
morning. Do this regularly every night for
three or four weeks and vou will find that the
skin will become beautifully clear and white.
/A
"jPKj^io'h i
✓ ° ~ *'o. # /7/l\\\
J?* Soft as afeacn o.^'ipw
•* and fragrant at a ftowtr, // O w-
C imparts a delicate bloom to the Complexion %
TETLQW’S
0 1
»
m
FACE POWDER
„ Sold in Five Tints:
• White. Cream. Pink. Flesh and enmeue.
j by ail Stores, Chemists and Perfumers.
o v per yfS
tneusi pßicp
O i
«
*«*
JJox
a *<>o«i<o
i
Z?
*
Wholesale DisfriDuling Agente;?-.
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS!
HENRY C. QUELCH & CO,
4 &. 5. Ludgate Sq-London-Eng.
t
H
Hit
|S
1
For Bad Breath
Those who find their
breath bad in the morning; a
bad taste in the mouth and a
furred tongue, will find Pink-
ettes—the new laxative—
an excellent remedy. They
correct the stomach condi-
tions which cause symptoms;
regulate the liver and remove
constipation. Pinkettes act
without causing sickness or
griping, or after effects of
strong purgatives,
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.'
Tlie Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co..
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austkal-
asiaN, Ud. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High Hol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tha
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and
the Prevention of Consumption.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a Dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
CAUTION.—The large sale for “Eumenthol
JUJUBES” has led to a number of imita-
tions being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to he sure and get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumea-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudsons
Eumenthol Jujubes.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS. TINS 1/6.
[2
The Red Page
Ink Song.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Little black ink
In the dip of my pen,
Sing what I think—
Say it to men!
The white stars set
And the moon with a wink
Goes under the cloud ;
But the page is wet,
And the hot words crowd
With curl and caper
Thick on the paper
To say what I think
Aloud i
Little black ink,
Shall you and I
One day run dry?
Shall we falter and sink
While the great cry
From the world-heart drawn
Rings out in the dawn
Of a new r great day?
Shall the new men say,
“Let the damp earth cover
A poet and lover
Under its clay ?”
Little black, ink,
Did I see .yoll wink?
Nay, it shall not be.
They shall cover jp.e
From the stars and God
With a warm, wet sod;.
But they shall not cover 1
A poet and lover ;
For the thoughts I think
You, little black ink,
Carry on and on
Till the world is gone
On a road of grace,
And so hot a chase,
From glory to glory.
That my words shall burn^
As the pages turn.
Men shall read the story,
And, reading, recall
Tire ink and the nes
And tne Irrtie men
Who sang up God
*>oin the dust and the sod
To be all in all.
Little black ink,
I shall sing and give,
I shall love and live
While a man may think,
With a longing and fear,
At the turn of the year,
When the ripe fruit falls
And the old death calls
To the woods and the fields.
With the point of a pen
That can dip and drink
In the blackness of ink
A thought for men,
I shall say out of the heart of a' man
That which was since the world began.
And how shall they cover
A poet and lover,
To trample on me,
Til] the world shall see
All that I saw of the heart of love,
Beating and beating?
Little black ink,
The stars above
Wink and wink,
Like the bubbles on wine,
At the worm that is eating
A man’s heart through
It cannot eat mine,
For it cannot eat you!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
A League of Languages
There may be a League of Nations with
a common Government of a sort, and a
.common army of a kind, and common ideals
up to a certain point—in fact, the League
may be so dashed common that it couldn’t
be commoner to save its life—yet unless it
finds a common white-man language there
won’t be a shred of immortality about it.
It will be a collection of strangers sitting in
ignorance on its own chest. The perma-
, nency of a combine of peoples—not of poly-
glot rulers —depends on its members being
able to meet and know and understand each
other. If travelling is made swift and
cheap, which is being done more and more
every day, the meeting of races is easy. In
fact, there are places in Europe where a man
may be in two monarchies and a republic
inside 15 minutes, and in Asia it is possible
to be in three empires in five minutes. But
that is of no value without the understand-
ing mind. One may meet Chinamen every
day for a lifetime and still not comprehend.
And when people don’t understand they
seldom take much trouble to meet, though
they may see each other and pass by; which
is why the folk of East Kent don’t drop in
on France twice a week, though it is so much
nearer than London.
The League of Nations will probably start
with these European languages among others
—English, French, Spanish, Portuguese,
Italian, Greek, Roumanian, Basque, Serb,
Polish, Danish, Swedish, Czech, Hebrew
(acclimatised from Asia), Finnish, Flemish,
Dutch and sundries. Russian, German,
Magyar and many more sundries may come
in later on. Nobody will take the trouble
to learn the lot even if it was a question of
preserving 20 Leagues instead of one. Most
of the people won’t take the trouble to know
two languages—in fact, most of them don’t
know one properly. And two languages,
their own local one and another equally
local, wouldn’t go far. In fact, a man might
speak seven League languages—Finnish,
Romansch, Basque, Serb, Welsh, Gaelic and
Ladin—yet really go nowhere. So there
will be the same old tendency for men to
keep apart—not visiting, not .reading each
other’s views, not talking to each other,
vaguely suspecting each other of cannibalism '
or heterodoxy, not knowing that they are
suspected themselves and not able to explain.
The League promises to be a large happy
family which doesn’t speak.
The choice of a common language for the
League apparently lies among French, Span-
ish, Italian and English. Spanish and Ita-
lian are by far the easiest to learn, but they
are not so copious as they might be. Span-
ish, which may be taken to include Portu-
guese, is used by a ruling white race in 20
States. It covers a whole continent (South
America) and bits of two others. French
and Italian are merely local, even though
French has a wide cosmopolitan range among
the better-educated classes, many of whom
pronounce it badly. French is an unsatis-
factory speech, of slurs, dodges, lisps and eli-
sions. English, in addition to having the
widest range, has the biggest literature and
the finest stock of technical and scientific
expressions. It ought to be made the
language of the League without one dissent-
ing voice, provided it acquired a new alpha-
bet, or rather adopted its own phonetic
shorthand alphabet to ordinary purposes and
spelled accordingly.
In its present condition it is such a sheolic
ass of a language that its own people don’t
expect to speak it properly. Sober, respect-
able dictionaries quarrel with grey-headed
lexicons about the pronunciation of all man
ner of words to which the orthography gives
no clue and doesn’t want to. An assemblage
of learned men pronounce all sorts of words
differently and the orthography suggest*- no
reason why they shouldn’t. In i t'-;, it js
hard to imagine why some words are spelled
at alb A primitive symbol like a notch cut
wn li ".v) m <ce on a t' - ' - '. or the imprint of a
nuue -verson sitting on a quantity of flour
woucj I-.!* equally relevant. Almost every
woni !, », ro be learned separately. Verbs are
aini-. t all irregular—some of them as irregu-
* r as an absconder’s accounts or a brigade
of Bashi-bazouks. The brief expression “A
League of Languages” is made up of 18
letters, of which three are not sounded at all.
two are sounded like quite different letters,
and seven represent sounds that tin- English
alphabet, sober or drunk, never hoard of.
Twelve premeditated deceptions out of IS
possibilities is only the average percent Age
of perjury in this amazing and cipher-
able speech. It ~<ui i. even publish the
ordinary frame of Smith without devoting
three out of the five letters to making two
sounds that the alphabet is ignorant of. Yet
what could be more ordinary than Smith?
Almost as much blood has been spent in
trying to make a small nation use a big
nation’s local language as in trying to make
it go to heaven according to a big nation’s
religion. The result has been more or less of
a failure. I don’t propose that anything of
the sort should be attempted again. If a
reformed and phonetic English speech, which
its own people could learn in a yea' - , instead
of leaving the job unfinished after 50 years,
was adopted by the League, each race could
wear its own vocabulary underneath as long
as it liked, just as a man wears his singlet
underneath his shirt for varying periods.
The fact that some men wear the same
singlet a great deal longer than others is
well known. It might be put in the Consti-
tution of the League that every scholar in
every school or college should be taught
the language of the League as well as
his owu. Then everybody would have to
learn two languages—at least for a while,
until the singlet was abandoned—which
would mean more work for a considerable
number. But to a certain number the fact
of having to learn only two languages would
mean much less work. At a place where
three peoples meet, eyerybody of any value
has to speak all three speeches, and even
some common clods speak two. Often it is
necessary to know more than three. Bel-
gium. less than half the size of Tasmania,
speaks three different speeches within its
own bounds and can hardly make itself heard
a yard away without knowing a fourth.
Switzerland, about half the size of Tasmania,
goes one better with four. The late Kaiser
. Austria is said to have died miserably
in 18 languages, all belonging to his domin-
mns and all dead on many battlefields. It
might be necessary for the British Empire,
as the one put to least toil and expanse
subsidise a few of the poorer States in mak-
ing the change.. But the increased pr uts
off shipping companies, as the hitherto iso-
lated peoples began to get around and talk
to each other and sample each other’s drinks
would make up. England as the head-
quarters of the League language would
attract the students of many nations and
sell beer to them.
Nobody would be insulted by having his
language suppressed. But it would prob-
abl.v be enacted that after 20 years nobody
could hold any kind of League billet unless
he knew the League language. And if the
League Parliament is anything like an Aus-
tralian one it will have a lot of billets to
give away by 1939.
JAMES EDMOND.
War Pensions
This, book ought to make our grandfathers
*L ] ush m their graves. It is by Judge
w ard Abbott Parry and General Sir
APred Codrmgton, members of the Tribunal
appointed by the Lloyd George Government
to hear and determine certain specified
appeals from decisions made by the Ministry
of Pensions.” “We found,” they say, “that
the modern statutes did not' define the
powers and duties of the Ministry or the
rights of the applicants” ; so they set off on
a tour of exploration in order to find the
principles on which they ought to work, and
War Tensions (Nisbet and C 0.,, London) js
e result. It is a shameful record, as the
authors themselves admit:
History discloses that there is in all communities
engaged m war a tendency to utter generous state-
ments of promised relief to soldiers fighting for their
country. This is often followed by an Administration
hampered by. want, of funds, which affords the
economist a chance of making his deliberate effort
to reduce the charge on the State.”
Whether the writers had authority for the
statement that it is true of “all communi-
ties is doubtful. No doubt it is true.of.
communities which have to depend upon
• voluntary enlistment in time of national
pern. We heard the most extravagant pro-
mises made, often by unauthorised persons,
during the struggle to get reinforcements in
<Continued on page 26.)


(Zatjpiy/jtotderasjiye
TRUE ECONOMY IN PLOUGHS
Canton Disc Ploughs have discs 2Gin. in diameter, each of which will turn a
furrow from .‘5 to 12 inches deep, and from 10 to 12 inches wide. The discs
are all ball-bearing, have dust-proof boxes, and are set at the proper angle
to revolve freely when in contact with the soil. The soil is turned completely
over and is thoroughly pulverised.
Prices—Single Furrow, weight 6301 b £l9/ 107-
Double Furrow, weight 7801 b £24/107-
Treble Furrow (as illustrated), weight 9001 b £2B/10/-
The Wiard No. 68 Road or Contractor’s Plough, as shown, is intended for
heavy work where great strength is necessary, and four or more horses are
used. The forged crucible steel points and mouldboard are specially designed
for digging and loosening the hardest clay, gravel arid rocky ground.
No. 68 Road Plough, weight 3251 b £l7
Wiard’s Patented Steel Beam 2-horse Plough, No. 100 (as illus-
trated), weighs 1061 b. It cuts from 6 to 9 in. deep and 10 to
14 in. wide, and is the easiest of draught of the Wiard Series.
No. 100 2-horse Plough £5/10/-
Anthony
Horderns’
Farming
Implements
Economise
Time and
Increase
Efficiency.
in
The .Hard Hillside Plough, No. 120 (as illustrated), has a steel
beam and ploughs from 5 to 8 in. deep and from S to 12 in. wide.
The beam is so adjusted that the plough works perfectly when
reversed either way. Tim coulter is of the ordinary Colonial
pattern, not as shown.
No. 120 Hillside Plough, weight 1181 b.
No. 21 1-horse Hillside Plough, 781 b. .
£B
£3/10/-
•j'KS-rV
The Wiard 1-horse Steel Beam Plough, No. 74 (as illustrated), has a forged
steel beam and cuts from 4 to 7 in. deep and from 6 to 11 in. wide. It is
strong and simply adjusted.
No. 74 Steel Beam Plough, weight 841 b £4/10/-
The Wiard 1-horse Garden Plough, No. 62 (as illustrated), has a wooden
beam and handles, with steel mouldboard. It turns a furrow from 3 to 5 in.
deep and from 6 to S in. wide. A handy garden plough.
Wiard 1-horse Garden Plough, No. 62, weight 401 b 37/6
The Wiard Sub-soil Plough (as illustrated) is strong and serviceable, and will
loosen the soil m the bottom of a furrow from 3 to 6 in. deep. For ditching
purposes it is unequalled.
Wiard Sub-soil Plough, weight 1061 b.
60/-
The YViard Road Plough, No. 65, has charcoal cast beam and forged steel
share, and is thoroughly dependable.
No. 65 Road Plough, weight 2001 b. £lO
No. 66 Road Plough, weight 2501 b £ll/10/-
No. 66 Road Plough (all steel), weight 2501 b £l5
No. 69 Road Plough, weight 3251 b £l5
■
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Em porium,
.
*£'UVE'te
B rickfield
Hill,


Get out in the open
with your KODAK
You get so much more out of your holi-
days if you take a Kodak with you.
Wherever you go there are pictures to
be made—and when at last your holi-
days are over you have the whole story
of your outings safely preserved in rolls
of Kodak film.
Anyone can learn to use a Kodak in
half an hour, and the daylight-all-the-
way method of finishing the * pictures is
simplicity itself.
The No. 1a Autographic Kodak Junior makes
pictures 2-| x 4J- inches. Price 67/6. Other Kodaks
from 40/= to £l5/2/-
Box-form Brownies for the youngsters- —with which
they can straigdit away make really good pictures—
from 10/= to 23/-
Of all Kodak dealers and
§i§
si®
m
5f v 5?
fcflE
a*..
1 ■
«— ■'
jjMr 3fc
afk Jgff'
fe#
<BS«k4fo ■: v
kwwrn
&mw- 1 ■ *
;, •J&BffiWjSigfrJ \ A
mm
'mm.*
■
aasr y.f
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block," 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
250-253 Queen St., Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St.,
Hobart; Ruthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rock-
hampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; 109-111 Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z.
(Wholesale) ; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Eambton Quay and Willis St., Welling-
ton, N.Z. (Retail); 3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale); 76 Stuart St., Dunedin,
N.Z. (Wholesale); 148 Lichfield St., Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
Has CARUSO ever sung
in your home?
Not Caruso himself—but his living voice ? Have you ever heard
it in all its exquisite purity—the wonder-voice of the operas—
singing to you, and for you, whenever and wherever you will?
"His Master's Voice
Celebrity Records
and these alone bring Caruso’s voice to you; just as they
bring the voices of Chaliapine, Ruffo, Amato, McCormack,
Melba and scores of other celebrities; the rapturous music of
Hluian and his violin; the perfect piano-playing of Paderewski.
“Ilis Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.
The point to remember is that to
get records by the best artists you
MUST get “His Master’s Voice.”
Your safeguard is this Dog Trade-
mark. Be sure to look for it.
Complete record lists, instrument catalogue and
name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE GO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Msins w
you.
Every Caruso record IS Caruso, true to
life, The celebrated artist, writing to
the company, expressed his satis-
faction with the reproduction thus ’
“I am indeed pleased with
my new records —they are
magnificent.”
.
“Gramophone
Regd. Trade-mark.


CIDER
m
J KITrSS:
*****
'M
PURE SPARKLING APPLE JUICE
“BOTTLES OF JOY.’
Every glassful of “Kitz’s” is a positive
thirst quencher; every bottle is a bottle
of .joy and health. Have you ever had
a longing for a drink that would
definitely quench your thirst? Just try
“Kitz’s” Cider. It quenches and revives,
puts “pep” in you, and is healthful
and nutritious, too.
Get the Kitz Cider Habit—
It’s a Habit that won’t get you
In Baby Bottles at Hotels and Cafes—
Quarts and Pints at Stores.
AGENTi
SYDNEY: Tucker & Co. Ltd., Caldwell’s
Wines Ltd.
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co.
CAIRNS: Burns, Philp & Co.
GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co.
ROCKHAMPTON: J. M. Headrick & Co.
ADELAIDE: W. P. Auld & Sons Ltd.
PERTH: Philp Coyle.
HOBART: Ferguson & Co.
LAUNCESTON: John McKenzie & Co.
a&Msaes
r
(The New Sauce )
The unique Flavour
of H.P. makes such
a difference to the
enjoyment of the
meal.
Made in England,
but sold here.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
~CrOUT 41
and RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery of the Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 31-
Prout & Co., 229, Strand, London.
mm
■
m
Allots «j-S-A)
TMi Sf<: V
mr
SR£Y
ftAiR
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 FITT STREET, SIDNEY.
Directors : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; lion. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas.. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G.: Sir Samuel
Hordern; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.. Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000.
H. AY. APPERLY. General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly .-E1.000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for tha
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £23,138,000.
Ihe Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
w.
m
m
mM
m
m
S\\NS\SVS\
m
&
r
l
r.
Clydesdale Lorries are Built from the User’s Standpoint
The terrible gruelling given motor
lorries in the War Zone demonstrated
weaknesses in the construction of all
motor-vehicles which were never brought
out before from the user’s standpoint.
The Clydesdale was especially con-
structed to remedy these weaknesses.
Such inbuilt Stamina, combined with
exclusive features for accessibility, result
in the finished Clydesdale product.
These benefits are cumulative to Clydes-
dale users.
Clydesdale Motor Lorries are made in
capacities of 14 to G tons.
Special Clydesdale Features.
Krebs Automatic Controller maintains
constant engine speeds.
Separate unit four-speed gear-box.
Worm-drive axle.
Straight Copper Tube Radiator.
Massive frame with deep centre section.
Ctydesbale
MOTOR [iilinj LORRIES
H. D. VAN BRUNT, Factory Representative,
P.O. Box 2093, Sydney, AUSTRALIA.
New South Wales Distributor:
E. HAKDY-JOHNSTON,
350 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
New Zealand Distributors:
INGLIS BROS. & CO. DTD.,
Harris Street, WELLINGTON.
T. E. SHIEL & CO.,
Stafford Street, DUNEDIN.
THE CLYDE CARS CO., Clyde, Ohio, U.S.A.
“I’D Belh
use Plume
5; M} i iii;' {j ®''' w w
<\/w
|cx-?
Vov, can kecpan
appointment on time
with this Reliable Spirit
in *y our Tank.
PLUME BENZINE’
'THOUSANDS of Motorists
appreciate its reliability and its
honest uniform service—day in,
and daij out. They say Plume
doesn’t jib on the hills. It doesn't
let them down when they are in a
hurry. They are sure of getting
there with Plume in the tank.
When next ijou are going to fill
up, turn in at the dealer with the
Plume Sign.
Don’t ask for Benzine—saij
P 5
Plume.
VACUUM OIL COY.PTY. LTD.—
VARIOVS VERSE
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
This Would I Ask.
This would I ask the gods: to bind my form
Under the sculptured prow' of some fine ship,
That I might share the merry lift and dip
Of sapphire seas, and revel with the storm.
Thus firmly held, how I should love to
dream
Over the thousand-tinted, swirling deep,
To see the weird fish creatures ’neath me
creep,
To hear lone seabirds cry, and typhoons
scream;
To sweep through dusk at even on till light
Should tip witn red at dawm the gracile
spars;
To trail the noon-track down a track of
stars,
And chase the leaping spume-drops through
the night.
Ho! many lovers then would come to me.
The Four Great Winds ivould surge in wild
desire
About my sunbronzed limbs, the thirst-swift
fire
Of star caresses flow across the sea
To touch ■my mouth; and oftentimes the
shrouds
Aloft would tremble in the mighty hold
Of some fond sky-god bending to enfold
My speeding body in his hungry clouds.
And for no warmer love-kiss would I pine
Than tropic nights could give, nor arms to
crush
Other than those outstretched w'ithin the
rush
Of unquiet umters, nor a richer wine
Than sunlight from the goblet of the south
O’erflown ; just these, and blue, down-swoon-
ing skies
Spending their ardor on my lips and eyes
Would wholly satiate my lone soul’s drouth.
N.B.W.
NIYA BECKE.
A Ballade of the End of the World.
Rain, choking rain whose beat would never
stay
Till there was no more sky above to weep,
Dissolved the yielding envelope of clay
Till the thin tombs no further guard could
keep,
But burst like bubbles in the wash and
sweep .
Of turgid tides, and, as each refuge fled,
Bewildered still with too oppressive sleep,
Rose from their graves the poor, unhappy
dead.
Sick, sated rivers gushed to every bay,
And yet the sea ebbed lower than the neap,
Ebbed far and farther with forlorn affray,
The hollow cry of deep forsaking deep ;
Fast crumbling heights flowed thick a-down
the steep
Of w r aning hills, great chasms caving spread,
And ’mid the universal suck and seep
Rose from their graves the poor, unhappy
dead.
A ruined world that wept itself away!
And still the ceaseless torrent’s burrowing
leap
Pried far into the caverns of decay
Where the pale corpse-lights, fluttering, flit
and peep,
No crack forgotten where a bone could creep.
And up, with loam still thick on limbs and
head,
Sorting themselves from many a mouldering
heap,
Rose from their graves the poor, unhappy
dead.
Envoy.
Herding amazed like tempest-harried sheep
While passed in flux the world where they
were bred,
Wan harvest for eternity to reap,
Rose from their graves the poor, unhappy
dead.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.
The Windows.
With grace beyond all charm
And skill of artistry,
The day’s lights are blending
And ending rosily;
High splendors on the skyline.
And clouds in glory dressed—
Oh. blesshd are the house-folk
Whose windows face the west!
When ’neath the spell of sunset
The rose, grown drowsy, nods,
Give me a western window
And I shall thank the gods!
With little, silver feet
Upon the midnight sea,
The moon-sprites are dancing
And glancing merrily;
With foam upon the foreland
And piping blithe and brave,
Oh, blessed are the house-folk
Who face the eastern wave!
With moonlight on the waters
And ripples on the shore.
Give me an eastern window,
And I’ll not ask for more!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
A Nocturne.
The little mosque across the ink-blue bay
Gleams to the moon, an alabaster toy.
Like golden fireflies the Morse lamps play
And line on line the pallid tents deploy.
The moonlight’s fingers linger on the sheen
Of silent ’planes, like giant gnats asleep.
A cross of blood above a bar of green,
The Ship of Pain steals out across the
night.
WESTERN EGYPT.
JACK' SOMMERS.


PERDRIAU TYRES
“Australian-made no better to be had, or I’d get them.”
Mr. SYD. H. WILSON writes :
Perdriau Rubber Co., Sydney.
Duncan Street, Arncliffe,
Ist February, 1919.
Dear Sirs,—Just a word of praise to you for your excellent Motor Tyres. I find that
“ Perdriau l yres ” and “ Satisfaction ” are synonymous terms. I have used your make of
tyres for over 5 years, and I always get over 9000 miles off them, and indeed I have
got over 16,000 from one pair I had.
I tried them because they were Australian made, and I stick to them because I
know of no better to be had, or I’d get them.
I keep a careful speedometer record, and check my distances with every change of
tyre. The person who gets me to use another make will get up early indeed, as 1 know
when I’m on a good thing and I stick to it.
I am, yours truly,
(Signed) SYD. H. WILSON.
PERDRIAU TYRES are obtainable from your local garage or from the manufacturers
&
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
a/so jr/inders Street, Melbourne
Adelaide Street , Brisbane
Gawler Place, Adelaide
Murray Street . Perth
FLIES
CftRKY:
; DISEPiSE
to The sickroom
KWftU AC C- -C SB 8 C/,o
fstSftSßSSSS&^iß. fsftfcS
• > .. v; ■' f :■
RMDTHE KITCHEN--
>' rj |
■• i >
u
IFROMTHE.
STBBLES
. and ' ■ >
DRAINS/'..
Nothing Better
for the Workers’
Lunches
When vou’re stumped
for something new to
pack in his lunch box-
get a tin of
j* ll
m
“REX" CAMP PIE
Slice it thin for sandwiches — it's the most appetising
and satisfying spread yon ever tasted. Add a lettuce leaf
or other salad and yon make it twice as good.
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE.
Another favorite sandwich spread is—
“REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
10 GROCERS. — Your customers
read these announcements—
they use “ Rex ” goods—so do
their friends. Do YOU supply
them ?
FOGGITT, JONES
& CO. LTD.
Packers of “ Rex ”
Pure Food Products
Carers of “ Rex ”
Hams and Bacon
1.702
1
\\\m
mm
%
pMp|
1
V e «
I.:
Don’t buy a Screwing Machine until you
m
see the Landis.
Beware of the old-type screwing machine
that means big expense in the stocking
and upkeep of hobbed dies. The Landis
Screwing Machine not only produces
better, but it also eliminates the hobbed
die. The Landis All-steel Die Head
embodies all the features for making
screwing pay. It means clean, accurate
threads, low cost of production and ex-
treme low cost of upkeep.
To buy a Screwing Machine without letting us
demonstrate the enormous Landis advantages
is foolish. Write for catalogue, which gives
interesting information on all kinds of screwing
problems.
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.,
“ For Better Machine Tools,”
76-78 Liverpool St., Sydney. 71-75 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne. 138 Currie St., Adelaide.
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
■ ■ ■
Evidence of Economy:
SAVING THE SOVEREIGNS.
“I have travelled 14,000 miles. My average petrol consumption is
28 miles ner gallon, and tyre mileage is splendid, getting 4100
to 6000 out of oversize.
“I get 20 miles to the gallon on benzine, and my tyres have
given extra good mileage. One 6600, one 6000, one 5900, one
5200; and others 4000, but not one less than 3000. I have done
14,000 miles with the Car.”
“The Car has done 15,000 miles and I am perfectly satisfied in
every way. I average about 23 miles to the gallon, and 1000
miles to the gallon of lubricating oil. I have always had good
mileage from my tyres, from 4000 up to 7500 miles.”
$
“I now average about 90 miles to the tin of petrol, and have got
as much as 105 miles under favorable conditions.”
“We have had the Car nearly 18 months, and have done close
on 20,000 miles. We keep an accurate account of all expendi-
ture, and the last 12 months it averaged 20.6 miles to the
gallon, and the running expenses were, including tyres, repairs
and everything, 4y 2 d. per mile, which we consider very good.”
DALGETY & CO. LTD 136 Phillip St., Sydney.
The above are extracts from actual letters recently
received from owners of DODGE BROTHERS Cars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 40.—N0. 2043."
THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 1919,
Price 6d.
DAVID AND GOLIATH.
"America had passed the Webb Act, which allowed trusts and combines to be formed for trading outside the United States. These organisations were already at
work, parcelling out among them the trade of the world. Australia must wake up, for the American combines deliberately planned to crush manufacturers in other countries.”
A. D. Walker, President N.S.W. Chamber of Manufactures.
DAVID: “Here, how can I out him if you won’t hand over my sling?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos'man, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd,, at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. lid. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The'contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no M.S. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to . The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction—i.e,, any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich such
artistic contributions will be received , are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 4)1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu.- —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua.— Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; Boz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 2-id.; elsewhere, 40z., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 1919.
STILL CLOSING UP.
State and Governments have
announced that they see no way to do any-
thing for the copper industry, and this paper
doesn’t know how they could see otherwise.
The late-lamented business represented
about one-fourth of the metal output of Aus-
tralia, or one-fifth of the mineral output,
which includes coal. Copper prices to-day
are much higher than they were in 1913,
1912 and many previous years, when the in-
dustry lived fairly well. But owing in great
part to the vast increase in the price of the
miner’s wife’s imported clothes and the price
of hundreds of other imported things, the
industry can’t live now, except in odd places.
It is estimated, on the evidence of the im-
ports, that if Australia made its own copper-
wire, pans, etc., instead of importing them, a
fair proportion of the miners might still be
employed supplying the local market with
copper and the rest in making wire, pans,
etc. But as this view of the case isn’t con-
sidered, it seems that copper-miners must be
out of work while the country pays exorbi-
tant rates for imported wire, pans, etc., or
does without. Simultaneously it is an-
nounced that the silver-lead-zinc industry,
which created Broken Hill, doesn’t feel so
good as it did. There is no dramatic col-
lapse as with copper, but the world’s demand
for lead and spelter has diminished, prices
have fallen, unsaleable stocks are accumulat-
ing, and there is a demand for much larger
wages, including a minimum of fl per day
for boys, and a 30-hour week. The demand
is partly based on the increased cost of
living, which arises in part from the in-
creased cost of the miner’s wife’s imported
clothes and other imported articles, the
price of which is, of course, beyond our
jurisdiction. And simultaneously, also, Aus-
tralia imports a good deal of leadware and
zinc goods, also at prices beyond our juris-
diction. The Anzac tweed industry in Vic-
toria has been frozen in its infancy; and
there are gloomy prognostications that the
fellmongering and wool-scouring trade may
have to shut for want of sheepskins and
other raw materials in this great sheep coun-
try, The Central Wool Committee is
charged with using the powers given it by a
Foreign-trade Government to shove the trade
Into a corner, it being an affair that uses up
material which interferes with the raw ex-
port business and makes things that might
otherwise be imported. The coal trade isn’t
advancing with giant strides. The export
trade dropped to less than one-third for
want of the ships that weren’t built in time,
whereby a great deal of shipbuilding em-
ployment was lost as well as much coal
i export. And the closing-up habit which in-
' dustries are developing looks none too good
for the local demand for steam-raising and
, coke-making fuel.
! It is always assumed that, when other
supports fail, there is corn in Egypt and
balm in Gilead by reason of the country’s
“wonderful natural resources.” Though the
slump in gold-production and the copper and
lead and tin and zinc troubles may be
disheartening, the general belief in the out-
put of raw material endures. In this con-
nection it is interesting to learn that there
, may be a sugar scarcity in Australia unless
more of the article can l>e imported. Aus-
tralia is mostly within the cane-sugar
and cotton belt. The non-tropical parts are
within the beet-sugar belt. After 57 years
of cane-cultivation this branch of agricul-
ture is so feeble that of late the country lias
been importing sugar at war prices to the
extent of about £1,700,000 a year. Now if
it can’t import enough even at war prices
from old crowded countries it proposes to go
short. But if sugar is a tragedy cotton is
worse. In the United States, which almost
controls the market, the price of cotton has
been pushed up higher than that of wool,
but there is no sign of this country seizing
the opportunity. It even imports cotton-
waste for the engineer to wipe his oily and
perspiring brow with. Australia early
acquired the cotton-buying rather than the
cotton-growing habit, and it .is a place which
doesn’t get rid of old habits. Tobacco pro-
duction is in the same category with sugar
production, though not absolutely on the
dead list like cotton. And as regards wheat,
the vegetable which is the immovable agri-
cultural custom of the country, £20,000.000
of public loan-money has been advanced to
keep the industry afloat; and about 2.500.000
tons of the stuff is decaying on hand. The
Government thinks of buying the new crop
with loan-money at 4s. 4d. per bushel, which
hardly amounts to a living wage as things
are now, and storing the surplus. The habit
of growing surplus wheat has become fixed,
just like the habit of growing insufficient
cotton, tobacco and sugar.
This country has had many crises which
moved it to borrow money for public works
to tide things over. It has now gone fur-
ther and kept the wheat industry and one
or two others alive with borrowed money,
but being asked to similarly carry the copper
industry it has had to refuse. There isn’t
enough borrowable money on earth. Yet
somehow Australia has never had the kind
of crisis which makes a nation go furiously
into new industries when the old ones failed.
Cannibal countries have, within a handful of
years, become cotton countries. Countries
that were nothing in particular have rushed
into tea or rubber. Countries that were
mere agricultural drudges and suppliers of
raw material have become exporters of man-
ufactured goods. Indebted countries have
even become money-lenders. But Australia
grows_nothing of importance that it didn’t
grow 50 years ago. It has become a world-
supplier of neither machinery nor ships,
loans nor anything else remarkable. It is
the same old infant, only bigger and more
embarrassed. Characteristically enough, the
Government which doesn’t know how to re-
patriate its own soldiers is nibbling at an
offer to find land for a lot of British soldiers,
the bait being the offer of a big loan at a
rather cheap rate to help “development.” The
present crowd in office would probably accept
a cargo of gorillas if accompanied by a big
loan. And it is still more characteristic
that the new tariff which is to supply Aus-
tralia with some live, permanent, self-sup-
porting industries still hangs fire, and W. M.
Hughes, in England, is alarmed lest there
should be trouble over it because one of
President Wilson’s “14 points” contains
something about “the removal, as far as
possible, of all economic barriers.” Why
anybody should consider Wilson in the
matter, even if he had all the points of the
porcupine, passes understanding.
A WAY THEY HAVE IN THE ARMY
LIKEWISE THE NAVY.
At a public banquet in London last week
Major Evelyn Wrench remarked that “one
of the reasons of the success of the Aus-
tralian troops w r as the prevalence among
them of promotion by merit. He hoped that
example would be followed throughout the
Empire.” It was not one of those occasions
on which heaven-defiant truths are spoken,
and that possibly was why the Major did
not mention (1) that Army promotion which
has been won by merit in battle does not run
in Australia, and (2) that in the Australian
Navy the principle of promotion by merit is
practically non-existent. Three things are
liable to happen to the home-coming soldier
who has made good in the war. Assume that
when he enlisted he was a civilian, like
Colonel Murray, V.C. All officers in the
Murray category are given a few weeks’
leave and their discharge. This was the pro-
cedure followed the other day in the case of
Colonel Marks, D. 5.0., who commanded the
13th Battalion when Murray was in it.
There are several hundred C.M.F. officers in
the A.I.F. Many have risen to Field rank.
Some have become world-famous Generals—
for example, Mon ash and Rosenthal. On
their return they will revert to the rank
they held when they left Australia. General
Rosenthal. C. 8., may thus, if he elects to
remain in the C.M.F., find himself with a
battery in the artillery brigade of a C.O.
who has been attending to a hardware busi-
ness while the fighting was in progress.
Under this arrangement scores of distin-
guished majors and even colonels will take
up citizen soldiering again as lieutenants—
if, that is to say, they consider the pay worth
the indignity. A third category consists
of N.C.O.’s and men who enlisted from the
permanent forces. Practically all the mem-
bers of this class who survived hold com-
missions. Many of them are profusely deco-
rated captains and majors. They have two
alternatives. They can get out of the Army
altogether, which is what they are being
encouraged to do, or they can revert, with
their D.S.O.’s and M.C.’s, to the ranks.
In the Navy there are 1141 men whose
engagements have either expired already or
are due to expire on June 30 next. In a
recent canvass of the fleet only 97 of them
stated their intention of re-engaging. It is
not altogether a question of pay, and it is
uot altogether a question of the men being
weary of a sea-life. The pay can always be
improved—in fact, it has been since the men
were circularised —and most of the men
vent to sea in the first instance for the love
of it. The thing that breaks the ambitious
youngster's heart is the realisation that he
has got into a dead-end profession so far as
advancement is concerned. As in the Army,
so in the Navy, promotion is reserved to a
class. And, as in the Army, the pick of the
jobs are retained by those who have the ears
of the politicians.
* * * *
As regards the class question, take a typi-
cal case in the Account Branch of the ser-
vice. Biol Smith is a First Writer, R.A.N.
lie works in the paymaster’s office. The
paymaster, an officer of senior rank, merely
supervises; and he has, anyhow, the help of
an assistant-paymaster, who is a W.O. The
First Writer is the spade-worker of the
Department: he does the whole' of the
accountancy work of a capital ship, which
includes 'all matters in connection with mar-
riage-certificates, separation-allowances, pay,
crimes records, and so on. Smith joined up
originally as an expert; he had been clerking
for years—perhaps as purser on a coastal
steamer. Four, five, six years pass. He is
still in the lower deck. Meanwhile boys of
15 or thereabouts are periodically drafted
into the service as clerks. Their status is
that of midshipmen, and their qualifications
are a “pull” and the fact that they have
passed an examination on shore which would
be child’s play to men of the Smith type.
As each set of clerks arrives, Smith finds
himself with two jobs: his own and that
of teaching the clerks theirs. A First Writer
holds a position analogous to that of ser-
geant in the Army. There are men of this
rating in the service at the present moment
who have upwards of seven years’ sea-going
experience, close on five of the latter being
under active-service conditions. At the
depot are youths who have joined up during
the last few months as paymaster-midship-
men. They haven’t even the recommenda-
tion of a Jervis Bay training. Yet they will
shortly go to sea, mess in the gun-room and
learn their work from Writers such as
Smith, or from W.O.’s in the paymaster’s
office. The advantage of'influence in the
service is exemplified in the Writer branch,
as in others. About seven years ago five
Chief Writers (equivalent to sergeant-majors
in the army) were imported from England.
They were all either R.N. pensioners or
verging on that at the time. Only one of
them had served outside Australian waters
during the war. Three have never been
away from Melbourne. To-day three of them
are lieutenants and the other two are com-
missioned Writers. There are plenty of Aus-
tralians who have done throughout the war
all the work these officers are now doing. Not
one of them has, so far, been confirmed in
so much as warrant rank.
* * * *
One of the few reproductive works of
the war has been the creation of a wonderful
collection of highly-skilled soldiers and
sailors. Which is the better policy—to
drive them into civil life and retain the ser-
vices of men who were too old or too debili-
tated to play a fighting man’s part when the
call came, or to encourage them, by every
means possible, to place their knowledge and
prestige at the disposal of the Common-
wealth? If the latter, a move cannot be
made too quickly. Under the system in
operation at present men are taking or
arranging to take their discharges every day.
Once lost to the service most of them will
never return. As regards the Army, every
staff-officer in the A.I.F. should be given
the refusal of responsible military work at
home; while every capable N.C.O. or man
with a fighting record should be preferred to
home-service soldiers without those assets.
It is not merely justice; it is business.
No C.M.F. officer or N.C.O. should lose so
much as one step that he has gained by his
woi’k overseas. And permanent men who
have won promotion in the line should keep
that promotion under peace conditions. No
idea, could be more grotesque than that
organisers like General Monasii and prac-
tical soldiers of the magnetic type of Colonel
Murray, V.C., should be lost to the State,
if they are willing to serve it. Naval re-
form offers a more difficult problem. Before
anything of value can materialise the whole
point of view of the personnel at the head of
affairs requires to be altered. The Hyde-
Parker Commission recently recommended
that 8 per cent, instead of 4 per cent, of
n .O.’s should be given the opportunity to
acquire commissioned rank. It was revo-
lutionary in the opinion of the people who
are running the R.A.N. The proper ideal
is that every boy who enters the Tingira
should have a chance to rise to the highest
position in the service. And, furthermore,
that those lower-deck ratings who have done
well on service, in the North Sea and else-
where should everywhere get preferment
oi er the men on the beach who are blocking
the road to promotion at present. There is
nothing between that and a frank accept-
ance of the R.A.N. as a home for old men
and politicians’ friends.
BACK O’ BOURKE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Two of us, .aboard a motor-car, had left the
main Tibooburra-Broken Hill road in the
early morning near where the Tiltagoona
bore, invisible in a perpetual cloud of scald-
ing mist, vomits forth a never-ending stream
of boiling water from some mighty caldron
far below. We were making for Louth via
Wanaaring, and, noticing the tracks of two
“Tin Lizzies” (sometimes known as Ford’s)
heading the same way, puzzled greatly as to
the why and wherefore, seeing that, since the
advent of White Cliffs and Broken Hill, the
old explorers’ track from Bourke to middle
Australia has almost ceased to exist.
Towards midday w T e overtook one car, with a
broken axle, and aboard of it a tired, baked-
up man and three frightened-looking kiddies.
The man told us he was the overseer of a
station north of Lake Moonba, in South Aus.
Seven years ago lie had taken his wife, then
a bride, to the station homestead, where life
was bearable for a while, but she began to
fail after the first child came, and at last
went down to sickness. In desperation he
commandeered the tw r o station “Lizzies” and
started for Bourke—4oo miles away—there
to take rail to Sydney, where they hoped to
again find happiness in another gamble with
life. The other car, which had been con-
verted into a “flying bedstead” for the sick
wife, was sent on without delay, as it was
necessary that sin? should have medical
attention at Bourke. We took the young-
sters on with us, after a lot of persuasion,
leaving behind a very weary and despondent
man to await the coming of help.
About midnight we overtook the “bed-
stead,” bogged in a bore drain. The driver
was a youth of about IS, born and bred on
the station, and this was his first trip away
from if. He had been bogged about three
hours, he said, and was not strong enough to
lever the car out of the drain. Noticing that
the woman, lying along the back seat, had
said nothing, the driver was asked if she
was asleep. “Dunno,” he replied in the
casual manner of the bush. “Some time back
she was complaining that the bumps on the
track was ’urtin’ ’er, but she ain’t said
nothin’ this good while.” It needed but a
brief glance to explain the poor soul’s
silence. The bumps on that or any other
track would trouble her no more.
The hour before (lawn brought us to an
out-station about 00 miles from Wanaaring.
Here we left the children in kind hands, and
the “bedstead,” with its tragic freight,
plugged wearily on its way through sand,
and still more sand, towards Wanaaring.
In the morning a car was sent back to pick
up the husband and take him on to that little
outpost to see the last of her who for seven
years had shared with him the few joys and
many hardships that come to those who
wrestle with life in the place of sun and sand
and silence.
* * * *
And the big-city man went on fuming
because the Government hasn’t provided a
tram to take him to within three minutes of
his golf-links; and the city woman met her
friends and fretted about the simply appalling
scarcity of “maids” and the tragedy of
having to. do her ow r n washing-up.
GIDGEE.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Middle Passage—Modern Version.
Foe cold comfort Job’s comforters were
heated and perspiring men compared with
the Freetrade press. On a recent day both
the Sydney morning organs got on to the
shipping situation. Between them they
proved that the handful of little, aged, eight-
or-nine-knot cargo tramps that Hughes
bought and the handful of hurried shoddy
vessels slung together in the U.S. aren’t a
splinter in the bucket of this country’s neces-
sities. Also that the great Shipping Com-
bine now owns the seas, and the rates it may
fix are an unknown quantity. Likewise that
even if the Combine means well, which it
doesn’t, it will be two years or more before
the world will have enough ships to put
things back on the pre-war basis, which
basis, in any case, has been made impossible
by increased wages and increased cost of
living. And, furthermore (this was the
Hekai.d)
We rely for our existence on the sale of our
primary products. These cannot be profitably
absorbed locally. They must be sold overseas.
So it seems that this nation is at the bottom
of a pit with sides of nice, slippery ice and
the great new, almighty Combine is at the
top asking how much we will pay it not to
drop a boulder on us. If Australia is to go
on importing at anything like the old rate
it must export whatever it can dig out to
pay for the goods. Also, it must dig hard to
pay interest on that foreign debt which is at
least £150,000.000 more than in the early
Federation days. The supply of expensive
and fairly portable things like gold and
copper, which cost hardly anything per cent,
of their value to export, having fallen off, it
becomes necessary to rely more and more on
the sale of cheap bulky articles like wheat
and meat. In the good peace days, which
in some respects will never be so good again,
the shipowner and the middleman at the
other end only took about a quarter of the
wheat to pay them for carrying the other
three-quarters. In the worst of the war-
time they wanted half the wheat to pay them
for carrying the other half, and the break-
down leaves the Government with about
£20,000,000 worth of wheat on hand which
it hardly knows what to do with. Now the
Job’s comforter press says it doesn’t know
how much of the wheat the shipowners will
want in future to carry the rest, but it is
going to be a mighty lot. Under the condi-
tions, the need to have our manufacturing
industries here —in other words, to have the
men who make our clothes and things and
take wheat and such-like in return right on
the spot—seems urgent. If the Shipping
Combine is liable to take, say, a third or per-
haps half of the wheat to carry the rest to
the other end of the world that it may be
swapped for women’s fluff and other things,
and then take perhaps a tenth of the fluff
for carrying the rest back, a fearful amount
of wheat -roes for very little fluff. The
middleman is a much-objurgated person, and
the kind who charges what he likes on over
£174.000.000 worth of goods going or coming
(1017 fin-ures) is a tax on a country which
only produces about £270,000.000 worth
altogether in a year. In the slave-dealing
days the run across was called the Middle
Passage, perhaps after the middleman or
possibly' because things were only middling
for the" producer who was sold at the end of
the trip. Things a’-e still only middling, and
the producer is sold at boua ends of the trip.


Hungry Mouths and Rotting Food.
Judging by city prices of country products
country producers should be making for-
tunes ; but most of them are not. Even in
country towns the disparity between what
consumers have to pay and what producers
get is enormous. For the man in a big way
it is not so bad. He can truck stuff to the
big town, and has a fighting chance of get-
ting somewhere near the mark; but for the
little man who hasn’t enough to truck there
are only starvation prices. Stock, fruit,
vegetables—it is all the same. Pigs at high
prices in the big centres are being almost
given away in the country. With potatoes
at 4d. and sd. per lb. retail, the little coun-
try grower is told that 3s. a quarter is “im-
possible.” The matter of distribution is a
vital one, if the little man is to make a start
on the land and be kept there. The public
is forced to pay famine, prices, while thou-
sands of struggling, hard-working country
producers have commodities for sale and
cannot reach a market. A system should
be evolved whereby the supply and demand
could come together without somebody in
between getting 100 or 150 p.c. out of the
bargain. Co-operation is the point on which
the Australian producer is weakest, and,
judging by American results, it is the one in
which it would pay him to be strongest.
This is a line to which Departments of
Agriculture ought to give most of their
attention. But either because the agents
have too strong a pull or for some other
reason they practically disregard it. No
other Department of State Government
could do more to reduce the cost of living,
both present and future; as a matter of
fact, none does less.
Our Cowardice or Our Indifference.
A noble lord (all lords are noble by Act
of Parliament) stated last week that the
taxation in Great Britain is now £l7 per
inhabitant per annum. This is an average
of 6s. per week on men, women and
children,' or £1 12s. per week for a
family of five. The official figures show
about £l5 per inhabitant as the taxation of
the central Government. Presumably the
very heavy local taxation, which has to
cover items such as education, charities and
police that are not local here, makes up the
difference, in which case the noble lord is
correct. In Australia last year taxation,
State and Federal, was exactly £7 per bead,
which is the highest to date. The United
Kingdom raised its taxation from £3 10s.
to £l7 (an increase of £l4 10s.) during the
war-time so as to pay the biggest possible
proportion of its battle-and-sudden-death
bill without recourse to loans. Australia
raised its taxation from £4 14s. to £7 (an
increase of £2 ss. 6d.), and charged every
penny of its battle expenses to loans. There
wasn’t even a shadow of an attempt to pay
them out of revenue. Also it charged its
peaceful public works expenditure to loans.
The actual war expenses being apparently
about ended now, there are only peace
charg'es to be considered. Suppose Aus-
tralia, not being bled white as Britain is
by 4f years of enormous taxation, but feel-
ing comparatively fresh and good—at least,
it ought to feel that way-—were to put up
its taxes to £l2 per inhabitant per annum
(not £l7), strange things might happen.
It would be able to pay out of revenue for
a bigger public 'works jag than it ever had in
its most jagged years—the ones when the
loan scatterings went to £20,000,000 —and
still have about £5,000,000 a year to pay off
old debts with. If its new works brought in
only 2i per cent, profit it would be able,
whenever the returns began to be collected,
to take £500,000 off its new taxes. In the
fifth year it could take off £2,500,000. In
the tenth year it could take off £5,000,000.
By that time it would have built
£200,000,000 worth of works out of revenue,
and would probably have to ease off for
want of places to plant more works—in fact,
having £5 000,000 a year coming in, with no
interest to pav out of it, there might be no
reason why the taxes shouldn’t be knocked
down to nearly their present level, or say
to £B, and future works built out of the
profits of existing works. At the end of
the same 10 years the £5,000,000 set aside
annually in reduction of debt would have
taken at least £2,000,000 a year off the
interest bill —probably a good deal more.
Just 10 years’ effort by this bright, fresh
country, . with its illimitable possibilities of
new population coming in to assist —10
years’ effort on a far smaller scale than that
which old, crowded, exhausted Britain is
making—would stop the sinkage into the
bog of debt, pull the country a good way
out of the bog, and give it, with any sort
of good management, £7.000,000 a year to
reduce its taxes with. It may be that it is
too much afraid of itself to make the effort.
It may be that it is too indifferent to see the
use of the effort and isn’t the kind of coun-
try which finds joy in a good fight. It may
be that the apparent prosperity of a country
which has never taken the trouble to learn
real industry, and which even imports salt
and putty and bricks and beeswax, is a mere
glaze on a rotten surface, and the community
couldn’t stand the effort.
Yanko.
“A Deetonite op Seven Years’ Standing”
sends another picture : —■
In regard to a writer’s glowing account of
Yanko (B. 27/3/T9), there is another tale to be
told. The palms that so took that visitor’s eye are
Involving the settlement in that load of debt which
must sooner or later bring the industrial under-
takings to a state of collapse. What cabbages and
potatoes are grown are for home consumption only;
at any rate, the local storekeepers and greengrocers
have to send to far-off fields for supplies of all
kinds of vegetables. As far as tobacco is concerned,
the bottom was clean blown out of that industry
some years ago. Everyone that went in for grow-
ing it felt sorry afterwards —as most of our settlers
have who have acted on the highly-paid expert advice
available on the area.
The number of settlers who are independent and
owe nothing were independent and owed nothing
when they came, or else have fat Government bil-
lets. Expert advice on the area is a standing joke;
it has already cost the country a lot by way of com-
pensation claims, and a lot of claims are being
made now.
All this may not be a reflection on Yanko as an
irrigation area, but is a reflection on the manner
in which the Commission has carried out its work.
The settlers are overburdened with debt, and I am
well within the mark in saying that 90 per cent,
are mortgaged up to the eyes. Each year the screw
appears to be put on tighter, and woe betide the
settler involved if he criticises the powers that be!
The settlement has stagnated since about the
middle of 1916, and the settlers are a lot fewer
now than they were then, as the number of aban-
doned farms will show'. Under proper management
there would have been an influx, not an exodus.
Prospective settlers have come along, but through
lack of promptitude and definiteness in the giving
of information regarding availability of farms, they
have gone away disgusted.
No doubt the place offers a reasonable chance of
making a comfortable home; but two things are
necessary. A man must have a reasonable amount
of money to start with and a knowledge of the work
he is going to undertake. In the light of past
experience dependence on the advice of so-called
experts leads to a person getting about 20s. worth
of produce for the expenditure of £2O. A change
must come over the administrrtion very soon or a
lot more settlers will be off, as the measures to
make settlers pay up for past assistance are becom-
ing more drastic. Meantime the animus between
the administration and settler grows, and will con-
tinue until the management is better.
«.
The Drink Swindle.
The most dangerous enemies of the liquor
trade are the men who are living on it.
More particularly those who intend presently
to get out, and who are bent on making the
rest of the money quickly. In no business is
profiteering so rife and so impudent. Syd-
ney, for example, has a cheap dinner ale
cheap, that is, at the brewery, At Brown’s
Hotel it can be bought for lUd.; at Smith’s,
round the corner, it is a shilling; at Robin-
son’s it is 2d. more. Pierre’s Restaurant
(unlicensed) “sends out” and supplies it to
customers at a shilling; Jacques (also un-
licensed) charges Is. 6d. The liquor-pro-
fiteers don’t even pay the public intelligence
the compliment of meeting occasionally and
fixing a price. At Murphy’s pub in
Delirium-street a small lager (value lid.)
costs 6d.; dt McPiieel’s, the no more in-
sanitary and comfortless institution on the
opposite corner, the same refreshment is 3d.
A similar gamble enters into the purchase of
spirits. The citizen in search of whisky may
get firewater in a palace and the real article
in a shanty. Worst of all are the wine-dives
and the fruit-shops which sell wine as a side-
line. A sound bottle of sparkling hock, of
any of the well-known brands, .can be got
from a few honest middlemen for five or six
shillings. Diomides Clystros asks 10 or 15.
He makes a proportionate profit out of the
rest of his stuff, and most of it is abomi-
nably doctored. The beer and spirits trade
might be a respectable one. As things are,
it is the Rai-iab of the business world. The
wine industry should have an unequalled
future in Australia. Within half a century
the Commonwealth might make even France
look a back-number as a wine-producer. But
the trade has been smeared with the pollu-
tion of dishonesty by a gang of mostly-
villainous foreigners. A good deal of Pro-
hibition talk is blather, but some of it is
sense, and practically all the material for the
latter is supplied by certain pubs and wine-
dens. Here is a matter that the brewers
and wine-growers might attend to without
waiting for legislative action. The brewers
could say to the publicans, tied and other-
wise: “You shall sell the beer which we
supply at a fair price, and it shall be of
decent quality, or you can take. the conse-
quences.” Nothing w'ould be simpler than
for the association’s officers to privately
police the pubs and restaurants, and them-
selves test the goods for quality and
price. And work on similar lines might be
done by expert agents of the wune-growers.
Failing some move of the sort, there will be
a heavy prohibition vote registered by mod-
erate drinkers on punitive lines. The public
is growing weary of being at the same time
poisoned and robbed for the enrichment of
the most undesirable representatives of the
liquor interest. The reputable section of the
trade should drop talking and get to work
to clean up.
Anzac Tweeds.
The Anzac tweed industry in Victoria
appears to have met with a peck of troubles,
including the importer. Hand-woven tweed,
by reason of its quality, has never been quite
superseded, and it struck some people as be-
ing an industry which could pay returned
soldiers at the rate of £4 to £G a week and
do good to the country. It started well, and
then struck difficulties. The first necessity
was a supply of first-class yarn, and the stoty
is told that the manager of the Cornmon-
wealth mills was willing to supply it if the
Minister for Repatriation approved. So the
Freetrade Minister, Senator Millen, v. T ho has
never quite lived down his press-reported
statement that Australia doesn’t require new
industries, is said to have been written to
four times before an answer was secured, and
the answer was that the business wasn’t
in his department. It belonged to the
Defence man. and the Defence man reckoned
he couldn’t supply the yarn, despite what the
manager said. All this business is alleged
to have taken a year. There appears to
have been a lack of enthusiasm about a
scheme which wmsn’t official and had, nothing
to do with “the land.” It is also alleged that
the warehousemen, which is the same as
saying the importers, issued their ukase that
the Anzac tweed must be sold through them,
thus introducing another middleman into the
business, and practically limiting the busi-
ness according to how they did or didn’t
choose to push sales. They have the power
to do this sort of thing, and it is only com-
mercial instinct to use the power. In
countries like England and France, w T here
imports consist chiefly of raw materials and
so much of the finished goods are made
locally, the importing deity as we know him
hardly exists. It is quite common for the
manufacturer to sell direct to the retailer,
sometimes even to the user. But if there
is a fool country where 95 per cent, of the
articles which make up the great volume of
fluff is imported, the combined importers can
decree that the 5 per cent, of local fluff must
also go through them. Any shopkeeper who
buys direct can have his supply of all im-
ported articles cut off and be left with
only a few local lines to deal in, which would
mean blank ruin. Even if these middlemen
make as much “commish” by selling local
as foreign goods, they aren't likely to take
real interest in the former, for if local manu-
facturer’s became numerous and covered
many industries they might do a successful
revolt and stop the “commish.” The im-
porting people and the Freetraders, such as
Hughes and Millen, naturally say nothing
about matters of this sort. And most of
the Labor leaders, who seem to have a re-
markably good understanding with the
importers, say nothing either. They con-
centrate all their wrath against the local
manufacturer whose industries the 0.8. U.
proposes to “take over” or confiscate. No-
body ever hears of any imported line or any
special importer’s goods being declared
“black” or even pale grey, though many of
them are produced under dreadful con-
ditions.
+
Experts for Experts’ Jobs.
The military authorities are calling for applications
from returned soldiers for the Garrison Military
Police. The rates of pay are ss. per day, with 2s.
per day separation allowance for wife and 6d. per
day for each child under 16.
It is a, belated recognition by the Defence
Department of the fact that one of the best
ways to repatriate members of the A.I.F. is
to find them jobs at which they are experts.
The change is desirable from other aspects.
Any policeman’s effectiveness, as a preserver
of law and order, depends largely on pres-
tige. This applies more particularly to mili-
tary police. Other things equal, the returned
soldier is bound to show better results as
a military policeman than the Home Service
man. But it is useless to look for a fit and
otherwise satisfactory type at the rate
offered. The military police in England
were underpaid to start with. The result
was that undesirables pushed in—men who
relied on making up the difference between
what they earned and a living wage by de-
vices which are at the disposal of dishonest
policemen everywhere. Two things made
the Expeditionary M.P. a corps d’elite in
the closing stages of the fighting: (1) the
lowest rate of pay was 9s. a day, and (2)
every man was required to have seen service
in the front line. The most encouraging fea-
ture of the new move is, the implication
which it carries that, in future, the Defence
Department intends to give preference to
returned men as regards those jobs which
they are competent to perform. A logical
outcome of the substitution of expedition-
aries for home service men in the G.M.P.
should be a similar reform in the pay-offices.
There was no pay trouble worth mentioning
in Cairo, at Horseferry-road, or even in
France during the worst days of the re-
treat. Pay was available punctually and in
the correct amount for brigades and bat-
talions, for example, at La Fl&tre, when the
Germans were bombarding Bailleul half a
dozen miles down the road. The explanation
is that in the A.I.F. the* pay-officers and
n.c.o.’s were skilled men. Up to the present
as fast as these experts have returned they
have been demobilised lest they should inter-
fere with the jobs of the incompetents who
have been mishandling pay matters at this
end for years past. If men who have proved
their capacity in pay-offices in England and
in the field begin presently to be employed,
it is reasonable that a similar policy should
be followed as regards court-martial officials.
Scores of senior officers are available in
every State who are either lawyers or have
had several years of intensive court-martial
experience. In Sydney the other day an
n.c.o. was suspected of having taken a com-
mission on goods purchased from his camp.
He was charged under Sec. 40 with “con-
duct to the prejudice of good order and mili-
tary discipline.” The Bench consisted of a
school-teacher (president), an exporter, a
dentist, and two other gentlemen who,
though soldiers, were not lawyers. There is
nothing more technical than proof of secret
commission-taking. And whatever its effect,
it is, anyhow, the last thing to interfere with
“order” or “discipline.” The Court threw
up the sponge and fired the problem back
at the Headquarters official who had put it
to them. Bungling of the sort is indefensible
from every aspect: it costs the country
money; it renders innocent men liable to
arrest and punishment; and it gives guilty
ones a chance to get off. And it will con-
tinue everywhere for just as long as the
Defence Department allows itself to be ex-
ploited by job-holders and job-seekers with
social and political null.
The Shipping Combine.
Even the rampant shipping combine can
find not apologists but admirers, who say
there is nothing to apologise about, in the
Freetrade press. It is a world-wide affair,
quite unlike the scrappy little local things
catering for local trade which are denounced
as monopolies in Australia. And unlike
them it doesn’t spend the fruits of its
profiteering here so that they may provide
wages for those who want them, but takes
the money away to provide wages elsewhere.
This, however, was the S.M. Herald’s view
in a recent leader:
It [the Federal Government] may if it chooses
exercise its navigation and other laws in such a way
as to place unbearable restrictions upon privately-
owned vessels.... Such discrimination would be
most unjust to the companies which have built up
Australian trade in the past, and in this respect it
must bo recognised that we owe much to the’ enter-
prise and energy of owners whose faith in the
future of Australia is revealed by the frequent
arrival here of vessels of between 12.000 and 18,000
tona gross. The fact that cargoes have to be found
for such huge carriers has had the effect of expand-
ing the volume of Australian trade.
It is a choice example of the reasoning
which can only see the non-Australian side
of the case. Here is a bit of the other side:
(1) The big shipping companies didn’t “build up
the trade” of Australia any more than the porters
who carry bundles of Heralds built up the Herald.
This country supplied the trade and employed these
shipping creatures at high wages to hump it around.
Like some other bumpers and lumpers, they have got
swelled head and formed One Big Union.
(2) The ocean steamship companies didn’t take
risks on the strength of their “faith in the future of
Australia.” That sort of thing is done by the man
who starts a factory or a shop, or buys a farm or a
suburban cottage, or puts his little savings into a
building society, or invests in some time-payment
furniture or a war-bond. His assets can’t steam
away never to return when things look bad. The
steamship companies staked practically nothing on
their faith except their local office-fittings and
stationery; and some of them haven’t got even that
much.
(3) They never gambled by sending big liners
here till the business was assured. Even in their
touch-and-go, nomadic, tent-dwelling kind of way
they did no pioneering. It is simply that big ships
are more economical than small ones, and are a
better advertisement.
(4) And the Herald’s lamentable way of putting
it is that cargoes “have to be found” for these mon-
sters. In other words, we have become slaves to the
carrying trust, and if we don’t furnish dividends for
it, then it may depart and leave us desolate.
What Australia wants is a score more big
trusts or monopolies or something—local
ones that will do things and which can
be regulated by our own laws—in place of
the outside combines that are beyond our
reach. Frankenstein at least owned his
monster and had any pomp and profit that
could be got out of it. It is a poor business
to be haunted by , other people’s monsters
and have to pay them not to go away.
The Saivbones Trade.
From a city consulting-room once more: —
I really ought to decline to enter into any argu-
ment with the hot-headed, cheekily-ignorant person
who manufactures abuse under the name of “Cam”
(B. 27/3/’l9). But he has made such a mess of
things in his blind stumblings that I feel compelled
to endeavor to enlighten him on a few points of
medical practice which are becoming of great import-
ance in these days, when there is a project for setting
the medical house in order.
I referred in my article more especially to the
practitioner about whom Sir Wilijam Osler, well
known to “Cam,” lias a few remarks to make. Sir
William says: “In five years the isolated practi-
tioner requires a month of hospital work to bring his'
knowledge ui>to-date, in 10 years he requires a
year of study, and at the end of 20 years he is in
such depths of ignorance as to be hopeless.” That is
plain enough English, hut the language, in my
opinion, is too temperate. A well-known Melbourne
doctor remarks that post-graduate study is a neces-
sity to-day, and until such a course is at the dis-
posal of those who have neither the ambition nor
the opportunity to arrange for such a course else-
where, the general practitioner must be content to
further degenerate. Being perfectly aware of these
truths, which have appeared in the Medical Journal
of Australia, it is extraordinary to me how “Cam”
can write in the columns of a widely-known journal
such idiotic and clumsily-abusive rot. If he will
glance over the end of my article (B. 20/3/’l9) he
will notice this sentence: “A few words about the
stagnant established practitioner,” which referred to
the Macquarie-street consultant, and not to the
general practitioner at all. I wrote in reply to some
rather peculiar phrases which emanated from a coun-
try surgery (B. 6/3/T9), and which w T ere to the
effect that the B.M.A. existed for .the purpose of hob-
bling men setting up in practice and preventing
their too-rapid rise at the expense of the stagnant
established practitioner. I endeavored to show that
B.M.A. influence might prevent men from obtaining
hospital appointments, and might favor plutocrats,
and those who belonged to “the inner circle of hot
potatoes,” yet, in the end, the man. of ability was
bound to take his proper place in the medical world.
I said that if the general practitioner would take the
trouble to visit British or foreign clinics every five
years or so, there would be fewer specialists and a
less number of new specialties knocking about Mac-
quarie-street. I did not say that it was just as easy
to become up-to-date by hard work in the consulting-
room or in the laboratory in N. S. Wales; but I say
so now.
The fact is, and “Cam” well knows it, that the
hard-working suburban medico spends far too much
of his time “on the road” amassing coin and putting
in unnecessary visits, and far too little time in the
consulting-room wrestling with the intricacies of
precise diagnostic instruments, such as the laryngo-
scope and electric ophthalmoscope. From my own
observation, I can say that very few suburban sur-
geries are fitted up with a decent electric examina-
tion-lamp, nor will you find in many of them a
“controller” for use with the electric ophthalmo-
scope. The modern general practitioner should also-
have enough knowledge of ordinary refraction work
to prevent his clients being exploited by the ignorant
travelling optical salesman, who, flying around in a
motor-car, skims the district of all its spare cash by
prescribing unsuitable glasses. The practitioner
should know that 90 p.c. of the spectacle-prescribing
of this city of 750,000 inhabitants is done by persons-
who can learn all there is to know about it in a
couple of months. Refraction work can’t very well'
be called medical hack-work, and the medico who did'
his own would be adding to his income, keeping up-
his knowledge and helping to suppress the itinerant
optician, who is an unmitigated nuisance. That’s
wffiat I meant by keeping up-to-date.
The incident of the surgery-safe with its sheaf of
mortgages is drawn from suburban medical life, and
has not been exaggerated iu any way. The safe is.
still as largo as ever, and twice as full; the only
difference being that it has moved up the road to a;
more fashionable part. I mentioned to the sawbones-
owner one day that this huge concern looked out of
place -amidst the rest-tubes and other implements of”
medical trade, and asked him what on earth he kept:
in it. Ho appeared astonished at the query, and!
replied simply: “That’s where I keep my mort-
gages.”
The Plain Tale of Two Captains and
Three Lieutenants.
The Bulletin gets this earnest story from
London:—■
I know there is still a feeling of resentment
against Australians who served in the Britsh armv
instead of with the Diggers; and though some of
them did it because they were detestable young
prigs, I will try to explain how Australian red-tape
forced into the Imperial Army two captains and
three lieutenants (of whom I am one), all Aus-
tralian born, and men who had done upwards of two
.years’ mobilised duty in A.I.F. camps in Australia.
Early in 1915 I became an officer in the militia,
thinking that that would help me to secure a com-
mission A.I.F. I was sent into an officers’ school
on volunteering and passed with an average of 70
per cent. Then the age limit was raised, and I was
not granted a commission because I was only 20 years
old. On learning this I sent in an application for
permission to enlist as a private, but this was
refused, as was also a later one asking the same


r O»e yiusfrahcL ”
r THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE AVINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices. Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
IN THE DINING HALL, A LA
CARTE ROOMS or PRIVATE
ROOMS at Luncheon, Dinner or
Supper. Latest Music.
JS
permission. Shortly after I was mobilised for Home
Service duty, viz., training recruits in A.I.F. camps,
and was personally assured by the District Comman-
dant that my work there was more beneficial than it
would be elsewhere. This work continued until after
the Referendum was held and all the country camps
were closed and their officers demobilised.
Immediately the country camps were closed a
number of us applied personally for permission to
enlist as privates, and this was refused in about the
first week of December, 1916. Our previous positions
rendered it impossible for us to remain civilians, so
we decided to pay our passage to England and get
a commission in the Imperial Army. Arrived in
London, we reported to Australian Headquarters, and
obtained an interview with a colonel on the staff.
He could not understand the whole business —said,
that the A.I.F. very badly needed - officers for the
new Sixth Division, and yet Melbourne sanctioned
the transfer of its militia officers to the Imperial
Army! Further, any man is eligible for a com-
mission here who is over 18 years, and we are 22.
Next day two senior-cadet captains arrived on the
same errand, so our number now became five instead
of three.
After consultation with the General in command
the authorities decided to help us if they possibly
could. Our papers were collected and sent to
General Bikdwood in France, with a full account
of our action and a very strong recommendation as
to our suitability. General Bikdwood, knowing the
position with regard to officers, immediately cabled
Melbourne for permission to appoint us to the
A.I.F. and recommended us as thoroughly suitable.
Much to everybody’s surprise General Birdwood’s
application was refused! That was now our posi-
tion. Officers were badly needed here ; Headquarters
wished to regain their own officers, who should never
have been allowed to leave Australia; yet through
red tape or obstinacy (or both) the request of the
General was refused! Our trip over, board while
waiting for a reply and other incidental expenses
since leaving Sydney in January has exceeded a
hundred pounds each. (I add here that subsequently
permission was given to militia officers to enlist in
the ranks.)
Now comes the contrast. Before our papers
returned from General Butmvoon I reported to the
Royal Engineers Department, and the others to the
Infantry Department at the War Office. I told my
story, and said I wished to apply for the Special
Brigade, R.E., because of some scientific knowledge.
The colonel in charge took it all down, and sent the
report and recommendations to the General com-
manding the Special Brigade in France. The latter
accepted me, and within seven days I was a lieuten-
ant in the Special Brigade, and they had not seen my
papers. My friends were treated with equal despatch,
being accepted as Infantry officers.
Hundreds of Australians hold commissions in the
Imperial Army, who would prefer to be corporals or
privates A.1.F., but through similar treatment have
been forced elsewhere. And all the time we were
badly needed by our own army I
Poland.
“Marshal Foch .... formally upheld the Allies’
right under the armistice to land Polish troops at
Danzig.”— Cablegram.
This is the other poor distressful country
which has engaged the sympathies of all
foreigners who hate oppression. At the
beginning of the war the ßomanoffs promised
it independence—under the Crown. They had
promised the same thing before and conveni-
ently forgotten about it. This time France
and England were concerned in the promise.
When Germany over-ran Poland the Hun
proceeded to give it a similar independence.
Now that Germany is outed and Russia has
devoted itself to the job of forcibly procuring
a peace at home that passetli understanding,
Poland may shake itself together again and
stand upright among the nations. France
will see to that if it can, for it is bound to
Poland by many old ties as well as senti-
ment, and it was Clemenceau, the present
Premier, who said in August, 1914, that
“Poland will live again.” At one time,
the other side of the tyliddle Ages, the
present wreck was a great European
State, stretching from the Baltic to
the Black Sea, with Danzig as its
principal port. It had in 1410 defeated the
Teutons badly near Tannenburg, the scene
of Hindenbubg’s first big victory in 1914,
and gained Danzig, Thorn and Marienburg.
Its troubles began with the extinction of the
royal line and the substitution of an elective
monarchy. The government passed by
degrees into the hands of a gang of nobles.
There was a herd of ignorant peasantry and
no middle class. At one time there were
150,000 noble families with an ingrained
horror of work, each doing what it liked and
each jealous of the other. Whatever trade
was done was controlled by Germans and
Jews. Occasionally a capable king was
elected —like .John Sobieski, who formed an
army that wasn’t more than half generals
and won some brilliant victories. Amongst
other things Sobieski saved Vienna from
the Turks when it would have served Poland
better to have let the Turks have the old
place. Nothing, however, could stop the
rot caused by the proud and lazy oligarchy.
Russia, Sweden, Prussia, Austria, all had a
swipe at the country, which lay helpless
when the first big cutting-up began in 1772.
Its neighbors had been loud in protestations
of friendship, and a band of patriots under
Czaktoryski made a hard try to straighten
up their benighted country; but it had no
real friends when Frederick (called the
Great), Catherine (likewise Great) and
Maria Theresa (who pretended to be
Great) cut large slices oft' its body. The
operation was so easy and the taste was so
good that they were sorry they hadn’t taken
the lot. France would like to have inter-
fered ; England made a protest —no more.
Russia over-ran what was left in 1792 and
took another large slice, allowing Prussia to
have a bit but Austria nothing—Austria
being just then too busy with France to
count. Prussia’s bit included Danzig and
Thorn, and these two important districts
were confirmed to the Hun by the. Treaty of
Vienna in 1815. Meanwhile, the three
Powers had carved up the balance, after
Russia bad suppressed Kosciusko’s rebel-
lion in 1194, and Poland disappeared as even
the x shadow of an independent State. If
now it is to become one, it must have
access to the sea. Without Danzig,
it would be an island entirely sur-
rounded by greedy neighbors. And the
Poles deserve to have their indepen-
dence if any people do. Through the cen-
turies of oppression and internal anarchy,
they have preserved their national, spirit and
ideals. Neither the Russians nor the Ger-
mans could quench their pride of race or
convert them into Slavs or Teutons. They
have produced many brilliant figures in the
world of art, and it is characteristic that
when they shook themselves free, on the
downfall of Germany, they should have
elected Paderewski the pianist to be their
first President.
«
The Great Plague.
“William Wardroom” : Dr. Arthur not-
withstanding, I can vouch for the efficacy of
calomel ointment—properly applied—as a
prophylactic against syphilis. The ointment,
of 30 p.c. strength, carefully rubbed in—not
merely smeared on—has in my experience
proved almost infallible. The spirochaete of
syphilis can only enter the system through
an abrasion, and where this organism can
penetrate the fine particles of metallic mer-
cury can penetrate also. The microscope
affords ocular demonstration of what hap-
pens a spirochaete when brought into con-
tact with mercury: he literally drops dead.
The West Indian islands and the various
States in Central America were reeking with
venereal disease of both types, and in the
Australian ship in which I was serving we
had as many as 60 cases at a time out of a
ship’s company of 400. The incidence of
syphilis ashore was admittedly high, and a
visit to the local hospitals soon convinced
the doubter. Yet we rarely had more than
one or two cases on board at any one time*
This I attribute to the issue of calomel oint-
ment as supplied by the Admiralty and per-
sonal supervision of its application. The
efforts to abort the development of gonor-
rhoea were not so successful, chiefly because
there is no known specific for the gono-
coccus. The men were lectured before going
ashore and encouraged to report at once if
they exposed themselves to infection. This
encouragement was backed by the knowledge
that all men contracting venereal disease
had shore-leave stopped while under treat-
ment and for six weeks afterwards. In the
West Indies no steps are taken to root out
the plague ; in fact, in some places treatment
ac the hospitals is refused to venereal
patients, and one sees all sorts of horrors
stalking the streets in the various stages of
disease. The native bars were frequented
by our men for want of a better place to go
—the officers had the clubs—and these bars
were in most cases just the ante-rooms of
brothels. A few drinks of the local firewater,
and the rest followed. A system of inspec-
tion would do something towards cutting out
the pestilence, but not all that its advocates
hope. Primary syphilis in the female is not
always easy to discover, and the woman is
presumably infections during the two to
eight weeks’ incubation period which elapses
between exposure to the disease and the
development of signs. In the case of
gonorrhoea the signs might readily be
cloaked by douching before the examination,
and in many instances a bacteriological test
would have to be done before making a
definite diagnosis. It is a perplexing pro-
blem, and, as The Bulletin justly remarks,
one that must be stripped of wowserism and
attacked from all angles.
The following is from a report of the Sydney
case of Corporal Williams, M.M., v. the
G.M.P. who, he claims, assaulted him:—
M.\ Martin (counsel for Williams), cross-examin-
ing: Did you hear that Williams was going to take
action against Ryan and Kennedy?
Major Bowie-Wilson (Provost-Marshal): After
Williams had been placed under open arrest I got
to hear that he had issued a summons against them
Did you try to prevent him from going on with it?
—Well, no. I told him that as the instance had
occurred while on military duty he had all his rights
of complaint under Section 43, and that -I thought
that under such circumstances he had no rights in a
civil court. I quoted to him the case of Bray v.
Morton in an appeal in a District Court at New-
castle and said that Judge Fitzhaiidinge had ruled he
had no jurisdiction in the matter.
Then you took it upon yourself to dissuade him
from going on with the case in a civil court and told
him the military would beat him every time?—-
Well, yes. But 1 did not say the military would
beat him every time. I did tell him that if he got
a verdict in a lower court it would go up the scale of
courts and be very expensive.
If the above is correct Major Wilson should
be relieved of his position in the interests of
Justice and of the Service. Here is a
soldier, ignorant pf law, who is advised by
the “legal representative of Victoria Bar-
racks” that he possesses no civil rights in a
matter in which it appears that he has civil
rights. Williams said that he had been
brutally assaulted without justification. He
got, in reply, what was, in effect, a military
order not to proceed against his alleged
assailants in the only jurisdiction in which
he, being a soldier, knew r he had any hope
of getting them convicted. And in case
Williams was disposed to be recalcitrant,
the Provost-Marshal, with all the moral
support of his office, warned him that the
Department would take him from court to
court till he was ruined. That is the plain
English of it. The sabre was never rattled
more insolently in Berlin.
The Commonwealth Government is de-
porting a handful of Bolsheviks, mostly
Russian, but apparently it isn’t sending
even the Russians back to their own coun-
try. This isn’t amiable. These strangers
within our gates want Bolshevism, and it
would be a kindness to send them where
they can get it.
Carmichael, who at present leads a party
of one in the N. S. Wales Parliament but
will count a larger army presently, has a
scheme for improving cocky’s position. He
proposes State-backed co-operation “in every
matter where the local produce could be
turned into a more finished marketable pro-
duct.” But cocky’s greatest trouble is, not
that he can’t turn his produce into some-
thing else, but that he doesn’t get anything
like full value for his marketable^stuff, while
he pays outrageously for all that he needs.
If Carmichael can get cocky close up to his
markets, for both selling and buying, he will
be the biggest Australian reformer of the
day.
The Melbourne engineering firm of Ruwolt
is supplying the boilers for the new ships
under construction for the Commonwealth
Government. Last week Assistant-Minister
Poynton headed a party of inspection round
the kettles for the first ship, the Dromana,
which is now waiting to be shoved off the
slips at Williamstown. Excepting a few
parts furnished by Babcock and Wilcox, all
of them were built of Australian steel and
they reach the highest British standard.
Charles Ruwolt has to furnish six sets of
boilers in a specified time, and as each set
comprises three boilers producing 2300 h.p.,
the doctrine of O.B.Useful has become
popular in the Ruwolt shops.
“B.B.”: John Fitzgerald, Minister for
Health in N. S. Wales, is certainly going to
beat the ’flu. This is his latest mandate :
Depot masters are asked to note that the proce-
dure with regard to the notification of cases is as
follows: The local medical practitioner who finds a
case to which he is called in to be one of pneumonic
influenza, forwards an intimation of that fact to the
local town hall. The town hall immediately in-
forms the Health Department in Sydney, and at
the same time instructs the sanitary inspector with
regard to the case. The depot master should arrange
with the town clerk or the sanitary inspector to be
allowed to get information of each case as soon as
possible after those officers receive the intimation.
It reminds me of a hotel I stayed in one
night at Nelson (M.L.). There was a
notice on the wall of the bedroom explaining
what to do in case of fire. The instructions
were longer than the track to Rio; and some
puzzled soul, ahead of my visit, had
scrawled across the card: “In case of fire",
toss yourself out of the window and
turn to the left!”
“Lithgow” : N. S. Wales Health Depart-
ment is building up for the Government a
solid reputation for disregarding the public
convenience. Last Saturday morning it
announced that on and after Monday nobody
would be allowed to travel by train from
Sydney further than Mount Victoria or Pic-
ton without (1) producing a medical cer-
tificate of health, (2) proof of inoculation
within the past three months. (3) going
through an inhalation chamber. As a
rule there is a far greater exodus from the
city on Mondays than on any other single
day of the week, and there was a rush on
Saturday for inoculation. The Health De-
partment, appealed to, said an inoculation
would be open at the Water Police
Court in the afternoon. A crowd, mostly
country people, turned up. They were told
that the depot wasn’t there—it was at the
Town Hall. At the Town Hall something
like 200 people gathered, only to find that
inoculations were not done there on Satur-
days. They went home to read a few more
columns of guff about the tremendous efforts
the Health Department were making to
stamp out tlie r disease, and the great value it
attached to inoculation.
The regulation allowing the Military Com-
mandant in S. Aus. to shut at his pleasure
any or all pubs within a dozen miles of the
city has been badly rattled by a civil court.
February 4 was a closed day, owing to
the arrival of a shipload of returned soldiers.
The police made a round of the more remote
places where the regulation is supposed to be
most broken, and they arrived at Dry Creek,
a quiet roadside place a few miles out, about
b p.m., which is the state’s regular closing
time. They found the hotel bar open.
The landlord, on being challenged, said
“Hardly gone six, has it?” He ex-
plained that he had heard nothing of the
closing order, and had been selling as usual
all day. He told the same simple story in
court. The Bench believed him, and made
it Is. without costs. In proof of his good
faith he mentioned that on a previous occa-
sion he had closed up in obedience to an
order which was rescinded at the last
moment. That time it was the rescinding
order which did not reach him; so that every-
thing else was open while he was shut.
“Dial Sight” : The “revolution” in Egypt
will turn out toi be a dud, because the
Gyppo in the lump is a rank coward. When
our transport hitched up at Port Tewfik the
only distraction we had for three days was
to watch the Gyppo Hops deal out biff to
the coolies for trivial offences. The force
carries a cane and uses it liberally. Among
most races the tendency would be sometimes
to chance the consequences and give a bit-
back ; but Cairo takes if. always like a
lamb. The Aussie adopted the cane-cpi’ry-
ing habit to scare off the mob of baksheesh-
hunters and other pests that trailed after
him; and a Billjim with an uplifted cane
could generally make the Si-eeda do 100 yards
in even time. The desert dwellers may be
tougher and more courageous; but Cairo
holds more than half the population of
Pharaoh’s land. If the Cairenes come to
open scrapping they will need a corps of
flagellators for the second line of defence—
to stop the front line decamping to the Red
Sea.
“Digger”: Before the Ascanius left
London one of the senior-sergeants received
from Prime Minister Hughes a letter ap-
pointing him a sort of complaints officer, to
report to the Acting Prime Minister on hrs
arrival. There were so many things to com-
plain about that, in order to strengthen the
hand of the n.c.0., the other sergeants have
written a memorandum which has also been
addressed to the Acting Prime Minister.
Among a multitude of things Watt is told
that, there being a few civilians on board,
on one occasion the officer making his round
of inspection of the troop decks was accom-
panied by five lady passengers, “to the dis-
comfiture of the troops, particularly those
who were confined to the V.D. ward.” An
inquiry can, of course, be presumed: the
only question, really, for Watt to determine
is whether it shall be military or civil.
The Prime Minister has told the troops in
Europe that they are citizens of Australia
and on the way home are to be treated as
such. That may have been an unwise thing
to undertake; but, at any rate, the under-
taking was given, and obviously a purely
military body isn’t the right one to decide
whether it is being honored.
The position of the raving Russian who
wants to tear down our system of Govern-
ment by All the People was explained at
Brisbane by Herman Bykoff, who was then
sent to gao.l for six months. Bykoff was one
of the recent rioters and red-flaggers, and
he gloried in the fact. If permitted he in-
tends to riot and red-flag till chaos super-
venes. He said he had spent seven years in
the Czar’s dungeons (nossibly for shortage
in his cash) and in Siberia (it may hive
been for bigamy). In his haste Bykoff
didn’t state why he had been jugged, but
assumed that the mere fact was sufficient
recommendation. Even in countries where
oppression is most rampant the number of
political prisoners isn’t large in oi’dinary
times as compared with the number of con-
finees who arc in for ordinary offences like
theft, arson, assault, rape and the like, so
the boastful convict requires corroboration.
Anyhow, Australia can’t see the philosophy
of having its right of mire self-government
torn from it because Bykoff was once in
quod somewhere else. And as he says he
will never allow himself to comprehend a
simple thing like that, but insists on wreck-
ing things here to get level with the late
Czar’s ghost, he has to be got rid of. Tie
says dramatically that he will go on hunger-
strike. Evidently he didn’t hunger-strike
in Russia, or he would never have lasted
seven years in 'anybody’s dungeon. But
perhaps he was never in a dungeon. He
may be a grocer’s assistant unhinged by
reading penny-dreadfuls.


WHY NOT CONSULT
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE), WHO ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
Write or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
6**
v
YG
BOORD&SOfj
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agrents, 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office : Comer Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE. General Manager.
Dress-Clothes Revival
SOCIAL SEASON NOW ENTERING.
Easter brings the commencement of dance and
social functions. The coming Peace celebrations
will be the occasion of many entertainments for
which dress clothes will be essential. Peapes’
Ready-to-Wear Dress Clothing meets every require-
ment in style and quality, and is considerably more
economical than ordered styles, materials for which
are still very scarce.
DINNER JACKET SUITS (Ready to wear).
Diamond-dyed Black Dress Coating, silk fa'cings,
£6/6/- Dinner Jacket only, 75/-
FI Lij DRESS SUITS (Ready to wear).
Diamond-dyed Black Pinhead Dress Coating, silk
facings, £7/7/- Coat only, 96/6.
Peapes’ pay postage. Please state height, chest,
waist and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO. LTD,,
Men's Outfitters,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
i
(a
SUNDRY SHOWS.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Goody Two Shoes”
Royal “Madame X”
Kixg’s “The Eyes of Youth”
Princess’s “II Trovatore”
Tivoli “The Better ’Ole”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pirrm-ei
Paramount Metro Films
BLOOD.
[For The Bulletin.]
It was a saint’s birthday or deathday, or
something; and the sports of Spent had
seized the excuse to force the heads to give
permission for a bullfight—never a really
difficult thing to do.
We had come up from Monte Video through
a heaving mass of sea and rain and sky, all
grey and wretched, relieved by one day of
sunlight at Funchal; and we had been run-
ning for flu l past 24 hours on but one of the
four boilers. So the skipper put in at Spent
for repairs. They would take a day, he said,
allowing us to go ashore.
The rain had ceased, and the sun put a
kindly finger on the street, brightening the
squalor and dirt he disclosed, making it look
warm and almost natural. If it had been
twice as dirty as it was (which nothing
under Heaven could be) it would have
looked pretty good to us after the grey
monotone. Personally, I felt as if I had died
of old age years ago, and had transmigrated
not too badly.
Through the street the inhabitants were
hurrying, all eyes and mouths and talk.
Inquiry elicited the advice to hurry if we
wanted seats. We took the advice, but we
didn’t get the seats —we stood.
Round the arena the population, male and
female, old and very young, was packed
vociferously. A decadent air of license hung
over the shabby place. The women, out of
all semblance of sex, sat waiting in a rare
silence, punctuated by torrents of loud and
apparently unconscious speech. The men
stared avidly at the gate of the toril. Dixon,
said they behaved better in Madrid. I hope
so.
Presently the boss gave a signal from his
box ; and a procession of picadors and ban-
darilleros, funeral mutes and espadas, men
in fancy-dress leading horses and oddments,
straggled uncertainly round the arena, to the
accompaniment of wild and unearned
applause. Dixon started a long stofy of the
Madrilefio fights and the famous espadas,
mounted picadors and sundry metropolitan
superiorities. We listened long enough to
find out what each tawdry actor was called ;
then let him go on talking.
The funeral mutes —black-clad men very
bored with their job—saliited the boss, who
threw them a key; the espadas (also very
bored) went “off,” smoking cigarettes. With
the key the mutes opened the toril, and 'a
bull stumbled out of his dark captivity into
the glare. He stood and looked at us for a
moment, lifted his fine head and snorted. I
agreed with him, in toto and in detail.
Picadors got busy with short swords and
loud voices, and the bull’s heart surged
slowly and heavily up to wild despair. He
plunged about the sand, red-eyed and blood-
stained ; killed a couple of horses, but
coijjjdn’t get any of the cat-like men. He
shook his head to get the blood out of his
eyes, and tried hard, but they were too quick
for him. As each horse was killed and
dragged out of the arena, the crowd stood
up and screamed with delight; all through
the show a muttering, menacing and
obscene, rose and fell, not unlike th,e voice of
a_ dog growling in his sleep. When the
picadors had pricked the bull half-way to
ultimate despair, their places were taken by
men with gay darts which looked about two-
feet long with a six-inch point. Their job
was to stick as many of these as they could
into the bull’s flank and sides, so that he
made a good show for the boys and girls as
he ran round in the sand with his ribbons
streaming in the breeze and his blood pour-
ing down. The men worked hard and plenty
of the bandarillos soo'n ornamented the tired
bull; he made a very satisfactory show.
Dixon was murmuring interminable informa-
tion of the fuego darts in Madrid, which had
fireworks in the shaft; but I am sorry to say
that I was busy. I had been thrown back
2000 years, and every particle of me was
watching, with an insensate absorption, the
slow and painful death of that bull. I
applauded the artistic efforts of the dart-
men, their assumed indifference to danger
and their flashing agility. The colossus
thundered like an earthquake round the
arena, and the little men flew in like birds,
left the bright swords fluttering in his flank,
and flew out again. His blood flowed down
and was spilt; the mouths of the population
worked and their eyes gleamed, hard and
implacable and hungry; and I suppose I
looked the same. I am sorry.
Tired out with the colors, the blood and
the infuriation of his last and most strenu-
ous day, the hull watched the little dart-men
fade out of the arena. He lifted his ex-
hausted head at a yell from the spectators,
which sounded like his own voice or the voice
of any of his brothers of the field who
smelled death. One little man stood in the
place of the half-dozen that had gone, the
chief espada, the provincial prima donna,
curled and anointed for the climax. In his
right hand was a short Toledo sword, round
his left arm a scarlet cloth that waved
gently and mockingly—the ultimate insult
of the toro’s day. Silence fell on the bull’s
watching brothers; and even on Dixon. The
little man, waving his horrible rippling red
rag, crept softly and rhythmically towards
the bull, whose tired, aching eyes watched
him in fascination. When there were only
two feet between them, the espada, a supple
figure of steel and quicksilver, whose eyes
burned steadily into the bull’s spent heart,
stood still for a second. A sigh swept round
the crowd, and lost itself in the silence.
Suddenly the espada leaned forward a little;
there was a flash, and the hilt of the short
sword twinkled between the shoulders of the
bull. The espada looked at him indifferently
as he fell to his knees, his great head fum-
bling uncertainly into the reddening sand.
Then, in the thunderclap of applause that
wrenched the firmament apart, the espada
walked —still bored —to the boss’s box for his
prima donna’s reward of a bunch of flowers.
The rain began again as we made our
difficult way out. and Dixon started another
long yarn of the Madrid shambles where
this obscenity was carried out in such per-
fection. I told him to shut up.
Francis Brien.
•
The Rigo management at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s has had a whole week of “Bohfeme”
decorated with three Mimis and two Rodol-
fos and Collines. Patti Russell and Leah
Myers, who undertook to make Gertrude
Johnson’s Mimi look a trifle prehistoric,
were never as dramatically confident as
Gertrude, whilst Leah, who had been pre-
viously warbling in Italian, voiced her woes
unsteadily in English. Lois, the only pos-
sible alternative to Balboni as the poet,
makes Rudolfo an unblushing plea for per-
sonal adulation. He rarely attempts to
“LA BOHEME,” at
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
A. C. Bartleman as Marcello and Augusto
Balboni as Rudolfo.
impersonate the character. On Saturday
he sang at the audience, with the arm-play
of a tarnished concert tenor. Filippini, who
is the management’s refusre when Cacialli is
off duty, is the other Colline, and compared
with his heavy colleague he has the per-
sonality of an elderly Tierrot. “La Bohfeme”
will be repeated some more to-morrow, but
for to-night and Saturday “II Trovatore”
is promised.
* * * *
As Madame X at Melbourne Royal Muriel
Starr is the same old hoarse example of
the maternal instinct surviving 20 years of
cheap amours and dope. She has probably
raked all her raffish impersonations to
obtain the necessary melodrama for the part,
but somehow she hasn’t the artistic sense to
make the best use of the borrowed fire. Her
last scene, which will usually wring tears
from a hardened orchestra, is fat with
fraudulent pathos and second-rate emotion.
Frank Harvey, as “her virtuous hubby.
Floriot. is approaching a phase of mannered
behaviour where nervous,irritation and mere
gibbering are o ne and the same thing. All
his work is becoming hopelessly stagey.' lan
Maclaren makes Noel, Floriot’s pal, ex-
ceedingly deferential to the reputation of
lan Maclaren. His first scene, where he
talks of a lifelong heartache as if it were
a cut finger, shows how a role can be
swamped by the egoism of the actor. Also
his appearance in the same perfect garments
he wore 20 years before demonstrates that
a crease lives longer than has been hitherto
suspected. E. W. Morrison repeats has
villainous Laroque with almost ostentatious
quiet; StyaU is so far away from the idea
of Perissard that he could easily get a
divorce for desertion; and Atholwood’s view
of Merivel is the frankest caricature. Among
the minor characters, which include Louis
Kimball’s flaxen-haired impression of a
muvver's darling, no one is more interesting
than Harold Moran as Victor, the soft-
headed porter. The rOle is distinctly well-
handled, and in the final scene there is an
exhibition of untheatrical simplicity which
the Big Salaries could copy with profit.
Emelie Polini is still “gambling in
futures” in “The Eyes of Youth” at Mel-
bourne King’s. Since this journal last con-
sidered the heroine, a new Dago impresario
(Harmon Lee) has endeavored to reserve
the tasty titbit for his own recreation. In
comparison with the rather hectic Latin
previously given by Cyril Ma’ckay, Lee has
the greasiness of a steak-an-de-oyst’ special-
ist. His former job as a haughty million-
aire has been turned over to young Victor
Fitzherbert. a sleek enthusiast in stage vil-
lainy, whose tailor has robbed him of his
usual Machiavellian air. Also Maurice
Dudley, falling sick, has left the part of
Picquard to somebody else’s untender mercy.
However, none of the changes affect the in-
terest of the central figure. Emelie Polini
is the whole show and goes through her
varied performance without a false move.
“The Better ’Ole” at Melbourne Tivoli
is still professing to be “a fragment from
France in two explosions, seven splinters
and a gas attack.” The explosions and the
splinters are not very conspicuous, but the
gas is liberally distributed by Bill, who is
practically compelled to keep his mouth in
action, since his cobbers are too obsessed by
other distractions to bother about Bairns-'
father’s chestnuts. Alf is heavily concen-
trated on his patent lighter and Bert’s dial
is soiling the foreground in his pursuit of
the inevitable Girl. Throughout the per-
formance Bert is merely changing one arm-
ful for another.
* * * *
“Goody Two Shoes” has received notice to
quit Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, by next
Monday (14th). Owing to the ’flu trouble,
the Firm has postponed its intention of
sending the panto to Sydney. The extrava-
ganza will be headed westward with the
definite intention of making Adelaide stay
up late.
* * *
Taits’ Repertory venture makes its initial
plunge in Melbourne at the King’s next
Saturday afternoon. The first production
will be Pshaw’s “The Doctor’s Dilemma,”
which is to be accepted as a glad offering to
popular scepticism regarding the omniscience
of the medical profession.
The horde round Hoyt’s, Melbourne, where
“Stella Maris” is showing, means that Mary
Pickford is the same old Mary and the pub-
lic is her little lamb. Hoyt’s also have Fair-
banks in “Bound in Morocco”—“bounding”
would be better —and, in addition, they un-
fold some rapt visions of Pauline Frederick
as the impulsive heroine of Sardou’s
“Fedora.” In the stream of incident flood-
ing the Melba screen the countenance of
Frank Keenan can be seen in “The Long
Chance.” Further, the globular visage of
Fatty Arbuekle floats intermittently into
view attached to an obese and agitated body
hurling itself in pursuit of an heiress. The
Britannia is the current historian of Mary
Boland in “A Woman’s Experience,” and
promises to finish the week with Barbara
Castleton in “Heredity.” At the Paramount
the Metro, people keep pretty Olive Tell
busy in “Secret Strings.” The moral of this
sensational yarn is that any pretty girl who
marries a crook will have Deadwood Dick
controlling her destiny until the film or the
scenario writer is exhausted.
The cultivated Harold Elvins given a
piano recital at Melbourne Auditorium to-
night. The programme will be devoted to
works by Debussy, Cesar Franck and Fritz
Hart.
Of a Melbourne art show : —•
Norman Lindsay is still depicting the World and
the Flesh with all the necessarj' devil. Sixteen draw-
ings in color and line at the gallery of the Fine Art
Society reveal the plump secrets of numerous
maidens who have been caught by the artist during
a dressmakers’ strike. Several of them appear in a
carefully-calculated scheme of deliciousness called
“Love,” and the eve gets dizzy travelling round the
curves. There are several more in the color section,
all of them accomplices in a chromatic conspiracy
to rattle the Nonconformist conscience and banish
gloom. Any one will bring the prudes clustering
round, and the painter will enjoy several efforts for
their racy effects in purple and pearl. Thea Proctor
sends some capital lithographs and fan designs, two
of which, “The Bathers” and “The Tame Bird,” are
distinguished by an opulence of gesture, suggesting
marble figures in an heroic group. Hans Heysen
gives a symposium of his most popular styles, pro-
viding glad summers, suave moonlights and the eter-
nal gum with a' palette reinforced by cobalt blue..
His “Flinders Stteet, Early Morning,” is beautifully
painted, but it is a rich and glamorous libel, bring-
ing Heaven on earth. In Lionel Lindsay’s panel of
seven water-colors there is a hint of a guarded utter-
ance, as if the artist were not saying all he felt.,
W. B. Mclnnes, who has been much praised for
previous landscapes, supplies four obvious encores.
Mclnnes is becoming the victim of his own metier.
Harold Herbert has muffled the method which used to
strike one like the clang of a gong. His half-dozen
water-colors, particularly “The Old Farm House,
are neater and slicker than before, but probably
none of them has realised the whole of his ambition.
W. J. McNally’s eight performances stumble towards
a limited objective. Penleigh Boyd scores by the
high imaginative achievement of his smoke-haze
studies. GrUner’s one grey tree, spreading like a fan
across the face of an autumn morning, is also a
decorative object. Viola Quaife stirs a memory of
the late Uilder in a couple of pleasant impressions,
whilst Sydney Ure Smith, in some views of the
cruiser Adelaide under construction, is pursuing a
line of etching that threatens the monopoly of Joseph
Pennell The appearance of the Englishman, Fred-
erick Marriott, in the exhibition is unnecessary.
Compared with the Australians he paints like an
architect, resolviilfe scenery into washes with a solid
Puritan content.
Things theatrical remain quiet at Adel-
aide. though the Royal promises to get (with
luck) a pantomime for Easter. At present
it is showing Mabel Normand in a new-to-
Australia picture as a knoek-about woman-
journalist. West’s have tv pleasant story,
“The World Forgot,” showing how a nice
girl whose unwelcome suitor had been safely
landed on a far-off isle took a relief expedi-
tion along, only to find that he, like herself,
had already found consolation. Wonder-
graph has the soulful “Woman’s Weapons”
and a jolly comedy in which Barrymore
marries “On the Quiet.” Roy Redgrave
does most to make a success of the old “After
Dark” at the Tivoli, and Sydney James still
has his Pierrots at the Majestic; hut this
light stuff goes best out of doors.
“Orca” : I suppose it is because it is a
soft of hermit kingdom, which the heads
never enter, that Sydney quarantine station
continues to be a disgrace. When we were
shot off there the other day from our trans-
port, we found our tents bedded with straw,
which had obviously been trampled on by
many feet. I wonder how long it has been
there collecting things and passing them on.
This paper doesn't know what she cost,
but if the Biloela cost a great deal less she
would still cost the country a great deal
more if she hadn’t been built iu Australia.
She is a vessel of 10,000 tons displacement,
roughly described as a collier for Navy use,
and, with the single exception of boiler tubes,
from nose to the other end she has been
made of material produced in this country,
mostly at the Broken Hill Prop, works. The
launching is due this month.
John Kidd, the ancient N. S. AVales poli-
tician who died on Monday, was in the
Dibbs-Barto.n Ministry at the time of the
great Broken Hill strike; and he was the
member of the Government who fought hard-
est for the men. But that didn’t prevent
Ferguson (one of the miners’ leaders who
were gaoled J" from afterwards saying of his
fellow-member: “Nobody was ever quite so
wise as John Kidd looks.” The old gentle-
man, who had made himself comfortable out
of the profits of country stores, was a can-
didate for the Federal Convention; but he
didn’t win a place. He faded out of politics
14 years ago.
“Greater Rockhampton” (Q.) has had its
first election. Eleven sets of whiskers were
required to grace the aldermanic table, and
there were 32 aspirants for the job and
all went to the poll. The informal
voting was a bit over 2 p.c. in a GO
p.c. poll. One voter, anxious to uo
the job justice, put a cross opposite
the whole 32 names. Iredale, the man of
some local fame who lust year reached the
dizzy height of an alderman after unsuccess-
fully facing the electors 15 times previously,
came twelfth.
Next month Tasmania will elect a new
Assembly and three members for the House
of Dodery, in place of Dean. McKenzie and
Collins. Dean and McKenzie will probably
get back without much trouble. Collins,
after keeping his seat warm for 24 years and
being Chief Secretary in the Lewis Ministry
from 1899 till 1903, will not ho a candidate.
In the Assembly fight Labor is split up into
0.8.U.-ites, anti-O. 8.U.-ites and cocktails
sitting on the fence. A couple of the
Nationalist candidates—Pollard and Payile
—are inviting voter? to give them their first
and second votes as safe temperance advo-
cates and then to fill up the card from the
Labor candidates. Consequently the National
party machine is spluttering. The Stock-
owners and Orchardists’ Assoc, is going to
run its own candidates, and the R.S.A. is
also rounding up its own little lot.


A PRESENT FOR MR. WILSON.
“America has so far not accepted any mandates under the League of nations system.”-Cable
OLEMENCEAU: “Dear Woo dr o w, we canno t allow yo u to deprive yourself of the pleasure of uplifting some of these of these savage races. In recognition of your great efforts on behalf of your own inestimable principies,
we have pleasure in handing you this little gift.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty, Ltd.
Registered Brand '
Producers of Lead in the following formsr— ~
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products—
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags., etc..,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses. Zinc_JProsses^^^^^^^
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .T. SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY' — __
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS, PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI, N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridge*
STEEL CASTINGS.
We make the FINEST STEEL CASTINGS obtainable
ranging in weight from a Pound or so up to
SIX or EIGHT TONS; also MANGANESE STEEL
CASTINGS of best quality.
It will be to your interest to let us have your enquiries.
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.,
Victoria Street, Richmond,
Victoria.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
lluodakl% Pariceb, Ltd. (Melbourne),
from the time when, as the prospectus put
it, the co. had “reached dimensions too large
for it to be continued as a proprietary” !
, Dividends. , To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits, <5 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1912.. 93,010 28,125 7 p.c.- 33,125 31,766 28.201
1913.. 63,058 30,00(1 5* „ „ 27.500 5,558 33,709
1914.. 60,460 30,000 5 „ „ 25,000 5,460 39,219
Profit on sale of assets, plus trans-
ferred from contingency account, 14,136 53,355
1915.. 90,634 30,000 7 p.c".= 35,000 25,634 78,989
1916. 30,000 10 „ „ 50,000 37,140 116,129
1917. 30,000 10 „ ~ 50,000 60,645 176,774
1918. .220,747 30,000 11 „ „ 55,000135,747 312,521
The true net profit for the year even those
inside do not know for certain. To begin
with, the net earnings (after providing un-
specified amounts for depreciation and re-
newals) for recent years are stated to have
been: 1914, £58,229; 1915, £77,970; 1916,
£90,120; 1917, £88,262; 1918, £98,944. But
last year’s profits have been augmented by
surpluses on realisation of assets and a
bonus-share distribution in another concern.
The directors say in their report:—
There has been added to the. reserve fund the sur-
plus on the sale of s.s. Victoria, and the balance
remaining after adjustment of our insurance fund in
connection with s.s. Wimmera, together with the
value of bonus shares issued by cos. in which an
interest is held.
That explains the difference between the
£220,747 in the table and the £98,429 net
earnings shown after paying directors’ fees,
etc. But even that probably does not show
the full extent of the year’s profits. Like all
shipping cos., Huddart-Parker’s has a bandy
hole in which it can hide some profit if it
cares to. Besides the ordinary reserves and
insurance funds included in the reserves in
the table, there is a reserve for “contingen-
cies, taxation, depreciation of property and
shares in other cos., repairs and mainten-
ance, boilers and renewals, superannuation
fund, etc.” The amounts to the credit of this
conglomerate have moved as follows: —
1914 . . . . £36,185 Increase £5,678
1915 . . . . 63,812 „ 27,627
1916 . . . . 123,117 „ 59,305
1917 .. .. 131,239 „ 8,122
1918 .. .. 262,089 130,850
Later on, no doubt, the co. will find it neces-
sary to replace the vessels which have been
sold or lost, and it is certain that the addi-
tions will cost much more than the steam-
ships now on the register. So while the
sales of several vessels have realised big sur-
pluses in excess of book values, the manage-
ment has put a thick slice of these “profits”
into the contingency reserves. How much
could be shaken out as true profit only the
future can tell.
Another view of how well this shipping
co. has weathered the war is shown by this
comparison :— *
1914. T 916 1917. 1918.
& £ £ £
Ships, etc. . . 857,376 867,300 840,530 788,618
Cash .. .. 46,875 56,191 43,451 25,653
Debts due to co. 69,306 85,418 151,855 177,405
Investments . . 191,598 360,348 427,585 798,948
Stores . . . . 34,926 42,895 48,639 55,763
Total assets 1,200,081 1,412.152 1,512.060 1,846.387
Less liabilities 97,177 132,906 159,047 226,778
Net assets 1,102,904 1,279,246 1,353,013 1,619,609
Since 1914 the book value of the fleet has
been reduced by only £68,758. After paying
6 p.c. on the pref. capital and an average
of 91 p.c. to the ordinaries, the surplus of
more or less liquid assets (including hold-
ings in other cos.) has grown by £585.463.
Paid capital is a million; so the operations
of the past four years—trading, sales of
assets and appreciation of holdings in other
cos.—have improved the position by an
amount in excess of half of the paid capital.
At the moment, after meeting all liabilities,
there are more or less liquid assets (includ-
ing interests in other cos.) representing 83
p.c. of the paid capital. Of course, this posi-
tion will change if the co. adds to its fleet
within the next year or two.
The public was invited into the old pro-
prietary in 1911. For tße previous five years,
according to the prospectus, Huddart-
Parker’s had made an average net profit of
£71,714. The 1913 and 1914 figures in the
first table, which include additions to the in-
surance fund, show how disappointing were
the results. But the war gave the co. a
wonderful lift. In 1914 the disclosed earn-
ings represented 6.8 p.c. of the book value of
the fleet; for the past year the disclosed
figures showed a return of 11.3 p.c. on the
present book value*
*'**#
The Mutual Fire Insurance Co. of
TasmAAiA (Launceston, Tasmania) ;
Net Dividends and Added to lie-
Profits, Dividend lax. Reserves, sr ves.
1904.. £5474 8 p.c. = £3150 £2324 £20,176
1905.. 3876 8 „„ 3150 726 29,002
1906.. 3781 8 „„ 3150 631 30,533
1907.. 5697 8 „„ 3150 2547 33,080
1908.. 4968 9 „ „ 3544 1424 84,504
1909.. 5520 10 „ „ 3937 1583 36,087
1910.. 4531 10 „ ~ 3984 547 36,634
1611.. 4423 10 „„ 3937 486 37.120
1012.. 4695 10 „„ 3937 758 37,878
1913.. 4003 10 „ ~ 3937 66 87,944
1914. 1473 10 „ „ 3937 539 38,480
1915. 8853 10 „„ 3937 37,890
1910.- 3504 10 „„ 393? 37,463
1917.. 5508 10 „ „ 3975 1593 39,056
1918.. 4972 10 „ „ §975 097 40,053
Since 1915 the Speck has been feeling un-
usually comfortable. The spending of War
Loans and high prices realised for Jones’s
jam and Kelly's copper have brought great
prosperity to a lot of people with insurance
business to place. So the moral hazard —
that spectre which haunts insurance men in
dull times—has lately been very good. Dur-
ing the past two years the Tas. Mutual has,
however, experienced exceptional luck in the
matter of losses. Look at these figures:—
Pre- Loss Expense
miums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1900 .. £4785 £1774 £2143 37.1 p.c. 44.8 p.p.
1905 . . 5844 2959 2248 50.6 „ 38.4 „
1910 .. 6220 2206 2576 35.4 „ 41.4 „
1913 .. 7008 1461 4930 -20.8 „ 70.5 „
1914 .. 6773 1491 4098 22.0 „ 60.5 „
1915 .. 6536 3292 3688 50.4 ~ 54.9 „
1916 .. 6183 2430 3470 39.3 „ 56.1„
1917 .. 6104 521 3287 8.5 „ 53.9 „
1918 . . 6308 797 3640 12.7 „ 57.8 „
A loss rate of 30. G p.c. over two years is
probably a record in Australian insurance.
Still, a co. like this, with its operations con-
fined to a small area, is liable to show excep-
tional figures —large as well as small. The
law of averages does not apply in the same
way as with a concern doing business over
a wide area. Over a number of years, how-
ever, this co. has not done badly, though
after paying 10 p.c. on a paid capital of
£37,500 during the past 10 years only £5549
has gone to reserves. But the reserves are
exceptionally large for the amount of busi-
ness written. At December 31 last total
funds amounted to £77,553, over 44 times
the aggregate losses for the past 10 years:
Despite its strength the co. is not attract-
ing the business it should. For many years
it has been in still water, while the big push-
ful mainland cos. have been taking dainty
morsels from underneath the management’s
nose. The current year’s premium figures
should, however, show some expansion as a
result of the amended Workmen’s Compen-
sation Act, which came into force on
March 1, though there is usually not
much profit in this business now. Dur-
ing the past five years, and despite
the abnormally good couple of terms just
experienced, the underwriting surpluses
have provided only about £5290 of the pro-
fits, the other £16,580 coming from interest
on investments. For a co. now in its 47th
year the position is unsatisfactory; and
The Bulletin suggests that shareholders
consider whether it is not worth while estab-
lishing a branch or two on the mainland.
Besides getting the new business the co.
badly wants, such a move would also mean
a wider distribution of risks.
* * * *
Amalgamated Pictures, Ltd., from the
time the Combine cos. were formed and
assets of this co. were written up (appa-
rently by £67,228 net) and transferred (there
wa£ previously a small deficit) :
, Dividends. ~ Nominal
Profits. Pref. Ord. Reserves.
£ £ L £
Feb.,’l4.. 11,120 10 p.c.= 1600 5 p.c.= 6070 62,853
Assets further written up, £3BB .. 63,241
Feb.,’ls.. 11,219 10 p.c.= 1200 10 p.c.= 6070 67,190
Assets further written up, £46 .. 67,236
Feb.,’l6.. 7.473 10 p.c.= 1200 10 p.c.= 6071 67,438
Feb.,’l7.. 4.267 10 „ ~1200 5 „ ~3035 67,470
Feb.,’lB.. 8,224 10 ~,,1200 10 ~,,6071 68.423
Feb.,’l9.. 6,022 10 „ ~1200 5 „ ~3035 70,210
’Flu and the closing of theatres have cut
into profits. Also the “parent”
Australasian Films, Ltd., and Union
Theatres, Ltd. —it is stated, “deemed it un-
wise” to carve the helping this co. _ had
expected. The result is that the ordinary
dividend for the year has suffered. From a
profit-earning point of view Amalgamated
Pictures is experiencing bad weather. Still,
under normal conditions it should be able to
do fairly well for shareholders. In freehold
and leasehold movie theatres the co. has
sunk £39,929, while £87,616 is represented
by shares (at face value) equally divided
between the two parent concerns mentioned
above. Further, £11,700 of debentures are
held in the General Film Co. of Austral-
asia, Ltd., which was the beginning of the
big movie combine. The Amalgamated thus
has four sources of revenue: (1) divs. from
parent cos.; (2) divs. from subsidiary cos.
and holdings in other show concerns; (3)
rents; and (4) interest on debenture loans.
There are revenue-earning assets with a
book value of £139,245. To pay 10 p.c. to
both prefs. and ordinaries takes £7271, and
to yield that the assets have to earn only
slightly over 5-2 p.c. There is, however, a
good deal of goodwill froth in the Union
Theatre and Australasian Film interests.
But when these concerns were launched this
co. did not water .its capital to correspond
with the writing up of assets. Instead,
after making certain deductions, it wisely
put the balance into an investment fluctua-
tion reserve. This reserve now stands at
£59,664. Paid capital is £72,710—12,000 £1
prefs. and 60,710 £1 ords., all fully _ paid.
The co. is in a very comfortable position so
far as its creditors are concerned. Includ-
ing provision for taxes it owes only £lO7O.
Apart from the General Film debentures
there is £5356 more or less liquid.
* * * *
The Victoria Coffee Palace Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. £1605 4 p.c. ■— £BOO £865 £5,027
1907.. 2792 5 „ „ 1000 1792 0,819
1908.. 1895 5 „ „ 1000 895 7,714
1909.. 3568 81 ~ „ 1700 1808 9,582
1910.. 4114 104 ~ „ 2100 £53 1961 11,543
1911.. 4853 124 ~ „ 2893 1960 13,503
1912.. 5846 10 ~,,2600 2746 16,249
1913.. 6653 124 „ „ 3250 1000 2408 18,652
1914.. 6933 124 „„ 3250 746 2937 21,589
1915.. 7022 15 ~,, 3900 500 2622 24,211
1916.. 0301 15 „ „ 3900 500 1901 26,112
1917.. 5307 15 ~ ~ 3900 1407 27,519
Reserves capitalised, £13,000 .. 14,519
1918.. l3f p.c.- 6825 1309 15,828
The records of this co. for the past few years
have been somewhat surprising. While
others in the same line have been complain-
ing if not of loss of custom at any rate
of higher costs, the Victoria Coffee Palace
has shown larger receipt's, while the propor-
tion of expenses has remained steady:—
Revenue. Expenses.
1914 .. £35,308 £28,376
1915 .. 37,570 31,048
1916 .. 41,502 35,701
1917 . . 40,339 35,032
1918 . . 43,688 35,554
That the co. could squeeze two to three
thousand more profit out of such a difficult
period as last year compared with the pre-war
years looks uncommonly like good manage-
ment, and some of the credit is due to a lady.
Mrs. David Dobie was appointed manageress
in 1908, and it was after that year that
things began to look up. Prior to that share-
holders had been receiving a poor 4 or 5 p.c.
Lately they have been getting 15, and during
the past year, from reserves, were handed one
bonus share for every two previously held,
while the amount distributed by way of divi-
dend has been considerably increased. This
shows the rapid progress made since 10 years
ago, when the management was busy effect-
ing improvements to attract custom
1908. 1918.
Mortgages, etc £20,309 £20,162
Freeholds 42,530 63,735
Plant, furniture, . . . 4,945 7,690
Liquid assets .. .. 548 5,441
Liabilities are thus practically the s,ame now
as they were in 1908. Meantime the only
new capital got in has been £6OOO. But in
the 10 years fixed assets (less reserve for
depreciation) have grown by £23,950, while
£4900 more is now in stores, cash and invest-
ments (War Loan). So the position has
been improved out of surplus profits by
about. £22.850 since 1908. Stated in another
way, in 10 years the co. has put into revenue-
earning assets surplus profits almost equal
to total of shareholders’ funds at the be-
ginning of that period—an exceptionally fine
performance in a business in which there
are more failures than successes.
Wallaroo and Moonta Co. (S.A.)
Written Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1905. . £51,354 24 p.c. = £B.OOO £20,646 £38,648
1906.. 160,122 25 ~ „ 80,000 27,972 90,798
1907.. 49,835 43J „ ~140,000 Nil 633
1908.. 46,351 5 „ ~16,000 22,517 8 467
1909.. 42,908 74 „ ~24,000 7,374 (
Income-tax arrears.. .. 16,332)
Deficit.
1910.. 3,910 5 p.c. = 16,000 8,421
Reserves.
1911.. 37,056 24 „ „ 8,000 20,635
1912.. 88,438 ISf „ ~ 60,000 8,000 41,073
1913.. 54,166 174 „ „ 56,000 39,239
1914.. 39,997 74 „ „ 24,000 55,236
1915.. 168,085 18§ „ „ 60,000 - 163,321
Reserved for taxation. £136,000
1916.. 231,505 374 p.c. = 120,000 f
Taxation reserves, £136,000, restored
to accumulated profits . . 274,826
1917.. 133,292 31i p.c. = 100,000 308,118
. 1916 war-tfmg profits tax ( £38,786) and
provision for taxes (£7858) written off 261,474
1918.. 75,775 25 p.c. - 80,000 257,249
Last year’s profit was made with copper
fetching £lO7 ss. 9d. per ton net at Wal-
laroo, compared with £ll6 14s. 2d. for the
previous year. Costs per ton f.o.b. steamer
during 1918 amounted to £92 15s. lid. per
ton, but this does not include the special
expenditure of £24;404 on plant, etc. Thus
last year’s results were obtained on the
basis of a net profit of about £l4 10s.
per ton of copper. The closing of the
accounts coincided with the expiry of the
contract with the British Munitions Depart-
meat. Burnt the beginning of the year every
effort to find new profitable markets has
failed. The best price offering has been
about £7O f.o.b. Sydney, and with costs in
the vicinity of the nineties the immediate
future looks black. Compared with pre-
war prices £7O per ton for copper isi well
above the average. Look at these W allaroo
and Moonta figures: —
Net price Costs per ton Net
realised per ton. f.o.b. steamer. Profits.
1909 .. £5B 17 2 £53 311 £36,534
1911 .. 66 1 9 51 12 5 37,056
1912 .. 74 9 10 56 18 9 80,438
1913 .. 69 15 9 56 15 10 54,166
1914 .. 61 6 9 51 18 3 39,99*
1915 .. 72 12 9 55 9 1 168,085
1917 . . 116 14 2 97 17 0 133,299
1918 .. 107 5 9 92 15 11 76,7*,.)
It is impossible to get costs down to the old
figures. Higher wages have come to stay,
and supplies are not likely to be soon cheap-
ened to any great extent, while nowadays the
old co. is handling lower-grade ore. Co
back to 1911, when the price obtained was
lower than it had been for some years:—
Wallaroo Minks.
Copper Contents.
Total Tonnage / A
Handled p.c. tons.
1911 .. 114,438 4.30 4924
1915 .. 211,665 3.03 6403
1918 .. 163,412 3.40 5558
Moonta Mines.
1911 .. 30,783 4.26 1649
1915 .. 38,798 3.51 1468
1918 .. 56,461 2.61 1472
Seven years ago 151,221 tons of ore from
both shows contained 6573 tons copper; last
year 219,873 tons contained 7030 tons
copper. So during 1918 it took approxi-
mately 205,500 tons to give as much copper
as there was in 151,221 tons in 1911. That
is not so bad ,as it looks, however. When
prices soared the Wallaroo and Moonta
people very wisely went after a lot of ore
that could not be worked profitably with
normal prices. But there has been a steady
decline in values, which has meant a gradual
increase in costs, apart from labor demands
and the price of stores and so on.
But the management is not altogether
down-hearted. Chairman Lancelot Stirling
told shareholders:
The position illustrated once again the inexorable
working of the law of supply and demand. Until
the supplies of copper more closely approximated
the quantity required, the market could not be
expected to" steady, and they must await with
patience the advent of this state of affairs. They
realised that their national obligations were to retain
their works in operation so long as they could, and,
actuated by such a motive, this had been done since
the beginning of the year. The point was rapidly
drawing near, however, when even with their hus-
banded resources this load could no longer be shoul-
dered, and, so far as could be seen, what alone
could prevent a complete cessation of operations in
the near future was that the British Government
would once again come to the assistance of the in-
dustry hv providing some means whereby the copper
could be shipped, and the costs and market price be
brought closer together. Even if anything did mature
it could not be of such a nature as to mean profits
to the company, but by preventing heavy losses it
would enable them, at any rate, to keep a portion of
their men in work.
Wealthy as the co. is, it could not go on
producing and smelting for long without
support. Working exes, last year ran into
well over £50,000 a month. At Dec. 31
the co. had in cash and owing by sundry
debtors £158,810. On the other side liabili-
ties amounted to £140,000-odd. So even if
it unloaded the £151,822 of public securities
and found a. market for the £61,510 of unsold
products at that date, the management could
not go more than a few months piling up
metal of an unknown value without leaning
heavily on somebody, and even the most
friendly-disposed bank has its limit when
the bill soars at the rate of anything like
£50.000 a month. Obviously some relief
must be provided if Wallaroo and Moonta
is to keep going. Should the show have to
close down temporarily it is estimated that
at least £6OOO per month would have to be
spent to keep the mines dry and in good
order; and that is apart altogether from
the loss incurred by the dislocation of the
labor team. Already there are some signs of
market prices recovering. How long it will
be before they get back to pay-level nobody
knows. If the world settles down to work
after peace is concluded, the recovery should
be a matter of a few months only. But
Bolshevism is the doubtful factor.
No mention whatever is made of ore
reserves; and nowadays not even a plan
accompanies the annual reports. Probably
a lot of people would receive a shock if the
directors did disclose the volume of visible
ore reserves. However, the 'management is
in constant pursuit of further payable
shoots. So far as last year’s developmental
work is concerned there was nothing sensa-
tional. In the Wallaroo at 2430 ft. down
Taylor’s shaft driving disclosed some 3 p.c.
vein stuff, but in the lower levels “average
quality” lode material was the best showing
up. In the Moonta, the lower levels having
proved disappointing, attention is mostly
concentrated on the higher levels, and the
results obtained “have proved that some of


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MoS2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
and CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
HAS AN
EMPLOYERS’
INDEMNITY POLICY
that meets exactly your requirements.
Under Employers’ Liability and Workmen’s
Compensation Acts.
Now that winter is approaching, it is time to
think, about some method of keeping warm during tie
cold season. Those - who have an electric service in
their homes could not do better than install, a G-E.
Radiator to drive away the chill. These convenient
and ornamental radiators are made with two, three
or four lamps, or with heater coils, in a variety cl
attractive designs. You should call in and see them.
Australian General Electric Company, Wentworth
Avenue, Sydney; and corner of Queen and Little
Collins streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Make the water supply for your stock safe. Use
Aluminoferrie in the proportion of lib. to 2000
to 3000 gallons of the most turbid water. ' In about
3 houm all the sediment, mud or fine vegetable mat-
ter will be precipitated to the bottom, leaving the
water crystal clear and pure. Aluminoferrie is
quite harmless, and has no deleterious effect on the
water whatever. William Adams & Co. Ltd., 175
Clarence Street, Sydney. Melbourne: 521-3 Collins
Street. Adelaide: 96 Currie Street. Brisbane: Corner
Edward and Mary Streets. Perth: 33 King Street.
2] —Advt.
* * * *
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America.— Advt. [1
* * * *
Corroded pipes a thing of the past. Pioneer
Wood Pipe has made all the difference to the
engineer. He can now plan a permanent system by
specifying Pioneer Wood Pipe, which remains un-
changinelv efficient throughout an unlimited length
of service. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited (Head
Office, Burns Bay, La,ne Cove). P.O. address: Box
1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Contractors to all State
Governments.'— Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Kassel, registered Patent Attorney,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
Mining, and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grinnvade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern _ scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Minders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
Road-graders for building good roads, for making
and grading earth roads, cleaning out water tables,
making fire-breaks, etc. We carry large stocks of the
best procurable and most 'up-to-date machines,
fevers* different sizes stocked to bo worked by two,
four or eight horses or traction-engine power. Cata-
logues and full particulars upon application. Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydnev
Queensland inquiries: The Australian Machinery Co.
Mary Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patent'
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Writi
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assa\
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’:
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’:
Sampie Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowesi
I a A eS- Jf 11 ,, 01 ’ write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv k Co.
? St , reet ( between Hunter and Bom
Stieets), Sydney; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt
, *• H. Palmer, BIE., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc.,’consult-
mfnin^" 1 l 1 1 e T’ii ValUln |’ org amsing, technical advice,
nw™ c a UrB: - V ’ii flotatlon and selective flotation
pi ocesses,. Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
” d
* * * *
nl a T n b t o fn/ d + f y + Ex F ort * Ca has a
nf Flu® the treatment of complex ores.’ Separation
snernFltF ’w- ln r c . opp< ’. r - molybdenite and bismuth a
ments Xn Hl ” ICSt pnce given > P r °mpt cash settle-
'■'lAQt Bqunto
Uttp Bcwtiirs.
Insure in
Thc 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
£250,000
194,235
96,497
457,852
Authorised Capital
Fire, Marine, Subscribed Capital
Accident, E£L“ ,, ,?? pita ' ••
Income (Cross) 1918
Loss of Profits Established into.
ACENTS WANTED. j Slf
CAVLj General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
When making a Will or Settlement
appoint The
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Your EXECUTOR or TRUSTEE.
The only Trustee Company with branches
in more than one State.
NEW SOUTH WALES. VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Office, 48 Young Street.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C.; Hon. 11. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C.; F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd ; W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, and
Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. Watson,
Assistant Manager.
J. Mair,
Manager.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON —3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
this ground should be payable at satisfactory
copper prices.” Work at the 600 ft. level
showed some 2} p.c. stuff, but at 720 ft. dis-
appointments continue.
Incidentally, the directors recently sought,
and were granted, power ‘‘to carry on any
other business (whether manufacturing or
otherwise).” Nothing is revealed as to the
directors’ intentions, but if the move means
that the old Wallaroo and Moonta concern
is going to hit out and manufacture copper
products, The Bulletin bestows its bless-
ings on the enterprise in advance. It is
a scandal that while at present the copper-
producer cannot find a market for his pro-
duct and stocks are piling high, electric-
lighting undertakings and industries gener-
ally are held up because manufactured
copper articles cannot be got.
The Ipswich Gas and Coke Co. (Queens-
land ) :—•
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit* Dividend. serves. serves.
1910.. £1869 10 p.C. =£l2oo £669 £5537
1911.. 2181 10 „ „ 1200 981 0518
1912.. 2417 10 „ „ 1700 717 7235
1913.. 202(1 10 ~ 2000 20 7255
1914. 2102 10 ~ „ 2000 102 7357
Written oli. £BOO . . 0557
1915.. 2300 10 p.c. = 24G6 6457
Transferred to capital, £6OOO 457
1910.. 3423 10 p.c. - 3150 273 730
1917.. 304.2 81 „ „ 2934 108 838
Dec.,
1917.. 3425 91 „ „ 2848 577 1415
1918.. 3077 5 „ „ 1845 ) I(U7
Written off, £lOOO ]
Note, for a start, that the larger profits in
the last line but one were for 10 months
only. Exes, (including depreciation) last
year swallowed 79 p.c. of the gas revenue;
during the previous term the bite was 71.4
p.c. This curtailed profit, if arrived at on
the plan laid down by the Queensland Gas
Act, will apparently give the co. the right to
ask for an increase in prices. The northern
Act is much more business-like than the one
operating in N. S. Wales. The gas referee
fixes prices on the basis of the cost of pro-
duction, plus fixed depreciation allowances,
plus 84 p.c. on the “actual amount of money-
invested in the gas undertaking.” If, after
the prices have been fixed, the co. can give
shareholders a greater return than 84 p.c.,
presumably the directors would be at liberty
to pay an increased rate. Also, if to make
any further extensions, etc., the co. could
coax in some cheap pref. capital, or even
debentures, there seems to be no reason why
present shareholders could not get the full
84 per cent, benefit on the whole of the new
and old capital and thus build up their divi-
dends beyond the Si p.c. Last year, how-
ever’, the co. had £40,065 invested in the
undertaking, and since the statutory interest
rate on that equals £3405, the net profit falls
short by several hundreds. It will also be
seen from the table that £lOOO has been writ-
ten off plant and machinery from the past
year’s profits. Apparently ordinary depre-
ciation has been otherwise allowed for; but
if, on the other hand, this £lOOO is a cut
which the Gas Act countenances, then the
past year’s profits are considerably poorer
than already indicated. However, the fat-
ness has ouite disappeared from Queensland
gas interests. Instead, the Government has
created machinery which gives the cos. the
right to go out after 8| p.c. on capital and
reserves actually invested in gas-making and
-distributing, at the same time requiring that
good quality gas shall be supplied. From
shareholders’ and consumers’ points, of view
the arrangement looks like a square deal.
Ipswich Gas is in a comfortable position ; it
owes £lOl2 and has £3431 in more or less
liquid assets.
* * # #
_ The unsatisfactory position of the Austra-
lian copper-mining cos. remains unaltered.
No word is out yet concerning the negotia-
tions by the Federal Government announced
by Acting Prime Minister Watt. Besides
Wallaroo and Moonta, Mount Lyell and
Mount Morgan are the only producers
of note that have been able to keep-going.
Meanwhile the Freetrade press announces its
fear of a deep conspiracy in Melbourne to
protect industries already “sufficiently” pro-
tected. By the time the tariff is considered,
probably even the Australian market for
copper articles will have been secured by
outside producers. It is about time Mr.
Watt told us what is happening. There is
no necessity to conduct negotiations in Eng-
land for the purpose of preserving the Aus-
tralian market.
As a result of the war America carried its
copper production from 700,000 tons to
slightly. over 1,000.000 tons per annum.
Australia’s production, despite the high
prices, fell from approximately 43,000 tons
to about 32,000 tons. Peace will certainly
reduce America’s production—for a time.
Unless some intelligence is brought to bear
on the Australian situation, Peace will re-
duce our production for all time.
The American producers have temporarily
curtailed their production and are awaiting
events. They wait quite philosophically,
although their stocks approximate 450,000
long tons. Meantime, they point out that,
although they sold their copper at £l2l 6s
Sd. to foreign Governments, the British Gov-
ernment also bought copper at £lOB (poor
old Australia!), and the stocks of this £lOB
stuff have to be sold before America can get
moving again. America to-day thus has t!3
6s. Bd. per ton. of copper to sit tight with,
while Australia has not sold any of its pro-
duction since last October. It starts off on
its Peace programme with a lot of cold pig
which will have to be sold at a figure far
below cost, unless the unexpected happens.
* * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta has an agreement
with its employees whereby wages are regu-
lated by the market price of copper. So
far as The Bulletin knows it is the only
copper co. in the Commonwealth working on
these lines, and the result has been that, with
the assistance of the co.’s “welfare work,”
the field has been the most contented in the
continent during the past few years. When
the bottom dropped out of the market, how-
ever, some of the employees objected to the
reduced rates of wages, and the co. now
finds itself embroiled in an argument before
the Arbitration Court, and the directors
have hinted that if the demands are pressed
they may abolish the bonus-allowances sys-
tem altogether; which would be unfortunate
for both parties. A number of U.S.A. fields
are working on the plan, and American pro-
ducers have not wasted any time adjusting
labor to the new conditions. Two months
ago they had their position ready for discus-
sion with the miners’ unions. The datum
selling price for copper during the war was
fixed at £l2l 6s. Bd., and on the present
nominal price of copper (£B2 10s.) wages
would fall by approximately 4s. 3d per day.
As the poorest class of labor found no diffi-
culty in knocking out 255. per day, the rela-
tive drop in wages does not look unfair to
either party. It is a certainty that the
American copper-producers and the miners
will come to a working agreement, and, what
is of more importance, they will work the
agreement for all it is worth for the benefit
of the United States. The Bolshie will be
booted out, for American producers (mow
that local politicians stand firmly behind
their industry. In anticipation of Peace,
so far as copper production is con-
cerned America already has her domestic
programme arranged. In Australia no
programme.has apparently been thought of,
beyond some negotiations with the British
Government.
What is on foot at Tongkah Compound
that has set the clever crowd out on the
war-path? Is it that word is through about
the way in which the new option is shaping,
or is the mere prospect of the advent of
Bethune at the claim the reason for the buy-
ing? Compound has been a child of fortune
ever since Palfreyman took it in hand, and
it still has many divs. in sight, even with
tin below present prices. But the cash in
the ground is a deal below the market price
of the stock. The new block is of 230 acres,
and it is whispered that it contains a sweet
little patch of 80 or 90 acres on which to
make a start immediately if the word “go”
is given by Bethune. The rest of the block
isn’t all tin-bearing, but a big slab is said to
average fib. dirt, which under present dredg-
ing Conditions is good. But everything
depends on what Bethune will say when, he
has done his check work. Vendors ask one-
third interest, so it is obvious that a new co.
will have to be put on the stocks to carry the
stiff working capital needed to pay for plant
in these days. Is the compound to furnish
the cash or will Palfreyman appear as the
fairy godmother and underwrite the lot?
* * * *
At the annual roll-up of Westralian Cham-
ber of Mines the other day Boulder Dick
Hamilton, who has been president for 20-odd
years and still holds the job, dolefully refer-
red to the present condition of the State’s
gold-mining industry. Fifteen years ago, he
said, 16,000 men were in employment; now
only half that number. Since 1903 there
had been a steady decline, and as the output
slumped working costs went up, until now
they were 55., and in some cases Bs., per ton
more than for the year prior to the war.
Two facts were perfectly obvious. One was
that the decrease in the yield could not go
on for many years longer without bringing
the industry to an end or leaving only a few
mines at work ; the other was that working
costs could not soar much higher without
shutting out all but the richest ore-bodies.
Already, in order to earn profits, a number of
the principal producers were being worked
above their capacity, and the average value
of the ore now treated in the State was as
high as in any other country in the world, or
higher. That was not a healthy sign.
Hamilton doubted if the cost of stores and
supplies would ever get back to anything
like the pre-war level. As for labor, he
grieved that the younger generation was not
as competent or efficient as the old hands,
while the diminution in the hours under-
ground from 4< to 44 meant a reduction of
7 per cent, in the output of some mines, and
a great deal more in others. The Chamber
would, he added, heartily co-operate with the
workers in formulating any scheme to im-
prove matters, which could not be much
worse than they were at present.
■*•***
Some reckless people are trying to form a
co. in Adelaide to acquire the defunct Green-
finch (W.A.). The possibilities of the show
are declared in the prospectus to be consider-
able, but no facts or figures are given to back
up the assertion. Plenty could be given to
suggest something else.
Here is something for shareholders in
Kalgoorlie gold-mining cos. to ponder over.
During the past nine months tributors on
the Associated Northern lease have treated
nearly 20,000 tons for bullion worth
£87,250, and have paid in royalty £17,091.
During the same period tribute parties work-
ing on the Boulder Perseverance, further
south along the Golden Mile, have crushed
10,080 tons for £44,553, but what the co. has
received in royalty is not stated. Near by,
on the Lake View and Star, tributors ha\*e
been bogging in for some time past, but their
earnings have not been announced. How-
ever, they have handed over nearly £3OOO to
the co. since June last, so they must be mak-
ing a fair living. Another co. on the field —
the Associated—has collected about £2OOO
from tribute parties since August; and there
are others.
* * *
Cock's Pioneer, Eldorado, is the only Vic-
torian alluvial mine to give divs. nowadays,
and it does itself decently with shilling dis-
tributions every quarter. This shows the
way the gold has been toothcombed out by
Hughie Falconer during the past 18 months:
Drift. Gold. Tin. Profits,
c. yds. 07.. tons. £
Nov., 1917 . . 364,000 4064* 611 12,017
May, 1918 .. 371,000 4056* 56* 13,818
Nov., 1918 .. 389,000 3981* 03* 10,910
So although work has been going up the
lead, the last six months’ run is poorer
than those for the two previous terms,
but not by much. The bottom ground
was O.K. where it had not been got
at by the old miners, but with 32 p.c.
of it handled by them, Falconer was lucky
to come out as well as he did. Appa-
rently costs are not to get below 9d. per cub.
yard, as the last three runs all figure close
on the 9*d. mark. This about cuts out all
the gold, leaving the tin to furnish the pro-
fits. So the price of that metal is a factor
of the utmost importance. Last half-year
gold averaged 9.825 d. per yard, and tin
6.932 d. Falconer is confident that he can
maintain that average for some time to come
while dodging up-stream. Arthur Moline
was sighted at his old mine the other day,
and the Paul Prys in Collins-street are agog
to know what is on. Has there been a new
find ?
* * * *
Ajax North, Daylesford (Vic.), is still in
the doldrums. For one thing the mine has
been blackballed because of the strike of last
year over the one-man-one-drill issue. With
the staff undermanned, manager Hansen has
had all he could do to keep the workings
safe. _An era of calls is here again. As soon
as things smooth out Hansen will go on with
the intermediate below No. 8 level, to see if
the cap of. a reef struck at No. 7 carries
down. This is a bit of a will-o’-the-wisp
chase, as with the broken country over-
head anything may happen underfoot. He
will also try the reef at a spot 500 ft. north
of the shaft by carrying out an east cross-
cut off the old No. 8 level north. To show
also that he intends to die hard, he is coming
close to the surface, as in the hunt after the
shoots pitching into the mine at depth from
next door very little heed was taken of that
part of the property. Daylesford has always
been best in the shallow ground, so the
change in policy is welcomed.
* * * *
W. Cundy, back at the game of reporting
on Bendigo mines, is switching the limelight
01 * to the Golden One. Lie shows that if the
co. s object in crosscutting east has been to
find the Derby line, then it has missed the
bu t' & i<: is to the west of the shaft. Out
east Miller’s reef may be picked up with
further driving, but even so the work is
pure hazard. Still, as Cundy urges that it
should be hunted for, and as most of the
other reefs are duffers at present, it may be
wise to listen to the advice. But with the
Derby line hidden a little to the west of the
Golden One shaft, why not hustle out after
it? x
* * » •
There is just a chance that Mt. CuthbertV
mines, the. Kalkadoon, Little Wonder and
Orphan, will respond to development and
pull this over-loaded concern out of trouble.
Kalkadoon the north drive is in
84ft. and the south drive 83ft., and face-
values are officially reported to be 18 pc
copper over a width of 7ft. At the Little
\\ onder lease the lode is being driven on
north and south,. and both ends show pay-
able ore over a width of from 36in. to 42in.
* * * *
The announcement that a small quantity
ot electrolytic copper has been produced at
.Mt. Lyell s. laboratory, Queenstown (Tas.),
\\ interest. If leaching of copper
i'om low-grade crudes becomes a success, the
subsequent recovery 0 f the metal by the elec-
u oly tm process should prove economical,
itoastmg of zinc concentrates will provide
cheap sulphuric acid, and cheap electricity,
combined with cheap acid, will give the
leaching process a lift.
(Continued on pope 32.)


MEANWHILE?
THE BOSS FIREMAN: “Now, brethren, before putting out this destructive fire, let us draw up a few plans for erecting an indestructible building.”


ABBOTS
LAGER
STfie'Boer without
~ a 'ftival ---mi
Aadefro/n
yfe/f#/fops
QAfLY
m
%
Jhc
THE DEAF HEAR! I
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Wears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness
The MEARS EARPHONE caches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE ™
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL!
Can and test it, or write for booklet post free,
iff oS?-? Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
THE
Hotel Sydney
(SYDNEY)
Is one of the largest, most modern
and best equipped in Australia.
It is situated opposite the Railway Station
and is central to everywhere.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 400 GUESTS.
Quiet, Cool and Comfortable.
Hot and Cold Water, Day and Night, in every
Bedroom.
Half an acre of Glorious Roof
Garden.
Tariff from 12/0 per day.
Have you Lunched or Dined at the “Sydney'’?
Management E. 7. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Of S. Australia’s 26 Premiers under re-
spqnsible government six were Australian-
born—Bray. John Downer, Holder, Kingston,
Solomon and Crawford Vaughan. Three of
the present Ministers were born in the State
—Harwell, Anstey and Harvey. Like Hol-
man, Premier Peake is la Londoner.
Of the delegates who attended the Dia-
mond Jubilee Premiers’, Conference of 1897
in London the last three survivors were Wil-
fred Laurier, John Forrest and George Reid.
They went out finally within a few months
of one another.
Richard Smith, dead in Adelaide at S 3,
was a born business-man and tremendous
worker. He came to Australia at 26, and,
being soon admitted, with George Scarfe, to
partnership in the hardware business of G.
P. Harris, helped to build up the great firm
of Harris Scarfe, which manufactures nails,
barbed-wire and such things as a side-line.
He saw the staff grow from 12 to 1200. and
always set the example of being early to
arrive and late to leave He had no time
for public life, but was a director of a few
carefully-selected cos., and did much useful
sheep-breeding. His numerous sons continue
most of his work.
A couple of weeks ago a fine, full-rigged
ship, the Dunsvre. poked her nose into
Wellington CM.L.)
having done the run
from ’Frisco in 38
days, which is a uew
sailing record for the
trip; and when sailor-
men at the windy port
climbed over the side
to blow a few congrat-
ulations the skipper’s
way they were stag-
gered to find that he
was a youth of 23,
Captain Theodore W.
Peters, who, in spite of
that naked letter in
the centre of his name,
did not; possess the
semblance of a twang.
In fact, he pleaded
guilty to having been
born and bred in Syd-
ney.
JOE HANAN.
Maoriland M inister
for Education.
Of the original 50 members of the Adelaide
Stock Exchange established in 1887 only
four are left—S. 13. Beach, D. Fothering-
ham, A. F. Weaver and S. Will 3.
The staff of Melbourne Age dined editor
Schuler the other day on the completion of
his 40th year with the paper. He wa3 on
the Bendigo Advertiser before that.
Norman’s term as Chief Vic. Railway
Commissioner has been extended from April
5 till June 30 next to give the Lawson-
Bowser Coalition time to fix up railway con-
trol for four, five or seven years. Before
June 30 Norman will be given a lump sum,
it is said, instead of leave of absence. Those
in the inner circle predict that Jones (now
second Commissioner), Minogue (State
Under Treasurer, as financial expert) and
Shannon (Chief Mechanical Engineer) will
be the triumvirate ultimately decided upon.
Smith, who manages the Speck lines, may
have the consolation of being runner-up to
Shannon, and thus obtain status when seek-
ing a bigger job than Tassy provides.
Sam Mauger, ex-M.H.R., ex-P.M.G., now-
adays a sort of Liberal-Socialist with a lean-
mg towards mad-hatterism, has
developed a new tendency since his
recent return from the U.S.A. On
the smallest provocation he will
drag a bluebook out of his hip-
pocket, produce from his coat-tails
a half-bushel of U.S. Congress re-
ports and a Hansard or two, and
show the stranger either (1) that
the Yankee brand of Prohibition
must uplift the masses, or (2) that
Bolshevism cannot involve the
moral destruction of the missus.
Yet there was a time when any-
body wishing to see Samuel had to
.2:0 through four doors, a quarter-
dozen office-boys and a
confidential secretary be-
fore he could get a word
in bis ear, let alone have
an argument with him.
Died a week or so back
George Gath cart Craig,
who had padded the
Inky Way in most parts
of Australia, from Gym-
pie to Broken Sill, and
spent the last few years
of his long life on Sydney
trade papers, fie was a cheer-
ful old Scotch soul for whom fame
was always waiting just over the
next hill; but there was oftener
dust and ashes in the valley.
An employee of the N. S. Wales Public
Works Department, who lately petitioned for
a small rise, excused his presumption with the
plea that he is the father of 28 children, of
whom nine sons had gone to the war. Min-
ister Ball granted the rise; but that extrava-
gance oughtn’t to count against him.
William Pearson, of Kilmany Park (Vic.),
died last week, Ilis chief claim to public
notice was that, some 20 years ago, he
had King George to afternoon-tea at the
Park. The family estate was pioneered 70
years ago b.v Bill Pearson the elder. The
just-deceased William, at the time of his
father’s death, owned Bouegilla. near
Wodonga (N.S.W.). He had two brothers,
Jack and Alec. William was the third son
and by a friendly arrangement he took over
Kilmany Park, the others settling at Ber-
wick, where they still live. The Pearsons
and_ Gooches, another pioneering Ginpsland
family, are closely connected. The late
Gooch had Benacre, Sale, and his son nowa-
days manages Kilmany Park. William Pear-
son married a Gooch daughter, and Jack
rearson chose another of them. Apart from
his land-interests Pearson did well in mining.
He made a fortune out of Long Tunnel; and
his recent _ return to Australia was for the
purpose of tidying up any loose ends here
and going back to England to settle for good.
Died last week in London Col, Spencer
Childers, 0.8., son of the Gladstonian poli-
tician, and a native of Melbourne. As one
of Wolseley’s young men he saw much ser-
vice in Afghanistan and Egypt, and during
the big war was in command of R.E. trainees
at Salisbury. He married a niece of pioneer
Pat Leslie, of the Darling Downs (Q.), and
his two sons fought, one in France, the
other in Mesopotamia. He was an author in
a. small way, and wrote, inter alia:, his
father’s “Life” and “A Mariner of England,”
the latter an interesting storjfcfrom the jour-
nal of an old salt of the Nelson period. A
brother lives in Queensland; his son, one of
this year’s draft of R.A.N. midshipmen,
reached England on the Marathon just in time
to make his uncle’s acquaintance.
Mrs. Diana Margaret Bailey, who has just
died at Young (N.S.W.), aged 90, came to
Australia 65 years ago, and was at the
Lambing Flat diggings during the historic
riots, when the miners “hooshed” the Chinese
off and the military had to take a hand.
Most of Mrs. Bailey’s useful Australian life
was passed at Young, where her husband died
23 years ago, aged 77. Her living descend-
ants include 85 grandchildren, 180 great-
grandchildren, and about 30 great-great-
grandchildren. A grandson is champion
motor-cyclist Leslie Bailey, who hit up some
dust as a despatch-rider in France.
They don’t get old easily in South Aus.
Henry Hele, accountant of Adelaide Regis-
ter, has just finished his 63rd year of service
in the office.
Trinity College Council, in parsing a
resolution expressing appreciation of Dr.
Leeper’s services as warden for 42 years,
judiciously made no mention of the revolt
of students in 1890 and the notable inquiry
into fhe cause—an affair which carried the
Melbourne papers through a dull season.
Leeper’s plumage was a trifle ruffled, but he
kept on training young fellows to scoop up
bishoprics, doctors’ practices and engineer-
ing jobs. Some of the college “rebels” of
1890 have won fame since. A student of
more recent times was Ryan, the Banana-
land Premier. Politically Deeper and Ryan
have nothing in common; but Ryan gives up
an hour when on even a flying visit to Mel-
bourne to go and see the man who helped to
make his Melbourne University career
successful,
THE PATRIOTS.
BLANK. M.P.: “Glad to meet you! It's
patriots like you who make it possible
for patriots like me to tour the world.”
Tom Brown, of Nullarbor station, on the
Bight, recently died at the age of 83. Many
years ago he was a surveyor in the north-
eastern district of Victoria, and gave Burke
and Wills a hand; and in the early days of
the Westralian mining boom he travelled
overland with sheep to Iyalgoorlie on the
track taken bv Eyre.
A connecting link with the scientific side
of old Sydney died at his home, Brisbane, on
March 12, aged 75. George Frederick Ben-
nett was the eldest son of the late George
Bennett, M.D., F.L.S., etc., a distinguished
scientist who paid a visit to Sydney away
in the ’twenties. He returned‘and settled
there in 1832, and was first secretary to the
Australian Museum. The son was born in
Elizabeth-street.
Dr. Reakes,. who, when Dr. Gilruth, of
Darwin, was in M.L., was his right-hand
man as Assistant Government Vet., has be-
come Director-General of Agriculture in
M.L., with the duty of reorganising the
Department. A very good man for the billet.
Reakes, who hails from Kent, graduated at
the Royal Veterinary College, London, 29
.years ago. He entered the M.L. service in
1897.
The first blind girl to matriculate in
Maoriland did it the other day, and she
passed the solicitor’s general-knowledge exam,
at the same time. She is a slip of a girl,
Queeme Roussel, of Auckland, not yet 17,
and she has dwelt in darkness since she was
a tot of four. Another pupil)of Maoriland’s
Jubilee Institute for the Blind at Auckland,
J. D. McGuire, a youth of 18. who has been
blind since he was a small boy, also secured
a pass. Both were coached by two sightless
teachers, D. Algie, M.A., and D. Outrim,
B.A.
Sunbury gave Lieut. Russell Clarke a big
welcome-home when he motored up to
Rupcrtswood, after landing from the Lan-
cashire. Clarke, who was not much under
the maximum enlistment age, turned his
back on the crimson benches of the House of
j-^ ears ago, joined up as a private,
aid his share of the spud-peeling, and won
his commission in the field. Clarke, Baird,
S?’ Plater an d W ebber, present members
of the Vic. Parliament, and Kennedy Smith,
ousted from Dundas by Slater, were all the
soldiers the two State Houses sent to the
war.
„ losing its secretary, George
Brickhill, who is to run the Port Pirie Re-
cokdeb purchased by Jack Davidson, for-
merly editor-in-chief of Melbourne Herald.
Brickhill in his time has had many jobs.
Once, when press-agent for a circus, he was
sent to India to buy elephants, and suc-
ceeded in carrying out the commission,
although he had not specialised in elephants
previously. He succeeded Taylor Darby-
shire (now general manager for J.C-.W) as
editor of Every Saturday, which was run
for a time by the Symeses to supply a hypo-
thetical demand for hard-boiled statistics and
informative items concerning women who had
had 27 husbands, and cows that gave birth to
seven calves at one sitting. He was doing
good work on the Age when he received the
call from the A.J.A., and in company with
Cook and Letcher he prepared the journalists'
case for the Arbitration Court.
Whitmore Carr has been elected chairman
of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide for 15
consecutive years. lie was long ago sport-
ing editor of Adelaide Register, and is now
chairman of the A.R.C. committee. Harry
Taylor, who had been vice-president of the
Exchange for live years, lias resigned, and
Walter Gurner has been elected in his place.
Chester Manifold, of Talindert, who was
M. for Corangainite (Vic.) when he died
last year on his way home from England,
left an estate valued for probate at over a
quarter-million. Most of the property stays
in the family, but before ho left Australia the
late sheepman set apart for repatriation pur-
poses a considerable area owned by him in
N. S. Wales. This sort of thing has been
done in a few instances by Australian land-
owners, but mostly the large holder has pre-
ferred to put 3d. in the collection-plate and
leave the rest to the State. Even now the
Repatriation Department might do a lot for
soldier-settlement, by preparing; a list of those
who have offered free land, and circulating the
same among the right people and newspapers.
Australia doesn’t yet know nearly enough
about this aspect of the repatriation business.
“Silas” sees a friend off}—
“Big” Lyons (the Lyons who roared along the
shore at St. Kilda for years}, whose demise was
lately reported, was a tremendous boy 10 years
ago, when he was only about 70. tall, broad' and
solid, a proposition few men 30 years younger
would have eared to tackle. . Fifteen years back
there was an authentic ghost at a large house sur-
rounded bv doleful firs near the Red Bluff, then
a lonesome locality. Lyons undertook to go to
the deserted dwelling (you could not have hired a
tenant for the place) and sit out a night in it. At
about half-past one on a dismal morning the
owner, who lived about a quarter of a mile from
his . spook-infested mansion, was awakened by a
roaring at his door. When he opened, the body of
a small man slid five yards along the polished floor.
There s your ghost, Dwyer,” boomed . a voice in
the darkness. “And there’s another, and another 1"
and two morn young men were shot into the hall.
“I cot them fellers hauntin’ your house,” said
Lyons. But, after all, the big Hibernian had only
captured three harmless mortals who had stolen
into the haunted house on a ghost-hunting mission
like his own, but who had been so man-Handled by
a spook the size of Goliath that terror had kept
them dumb. They were Dwyer's own sons.
Richardson, the second engineer of the
which rolled over on the way
from Newcastle
to Sydney the
other night and
never righted
herself, was on
the transport
Morinda when
she was sunk in
the Mediter-
ranean. That
time Richardson
landed in Africa
and was cap-
tured by the
Senussis, who
held him and,
in all. 01 others
in half-starved
captivity until
the Duke of
West minster’s
armored motor
section swooped
down and dra-
matically res-
cued the lot.
GEORGE W.
SMITH, Tas.
Railway
Commisioner,
and his dog.
Elton Mayo, now appointed Professor of
Philosophy by Queensland Uni., has been
lecturing on that subject there ever
since the Brisbane “shop” opened. He
is a member of an old Adelaide family,
and took a first-class degree in his pet
subject at the university there. His father
was a well-known surgeon of the last genera-
tion, and his sister, Dr. Helen, is the first
and so far the only woman holding a seat on
Adelaide ’Varsity Council. '
THE VANGUARD,
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Here is a ballad of men, of the heroes who dwell in
our borders,
Braving the perils we shun, wasting their lives in
our stead ;
Bare of the trappings of rank -or the tinsel of
medals and orders,
Careless, unnoted of Fame, urging' the battle for
bread.
High on the girders that swing through the dizzy,
aerial spaces,
Trusting the fate of a cord, steady of sinew and
eye;
Heaving- the masses of stone and the ponderous
beams to their places,
Spinning, with cables of steel, webs in the touch
of the sky.
Deafened with roar of the mills and the clangorous
heat of the forges,
Dragons inspired of steam, demons of fiery breath ;
Deep at the roots of the hills in the underworld
caverns and gorges—■ \
These that make mock of the grave play with flic
fingers of Death.
-Whether on land or on sea, in the hurricane’s fury
and smother,
Whether in forest or town, quarry or building er
mine,
These bear the bruht of the war that we wage for
ourselves and each other—
Van of the army of toil; first in the firing-line.
VICTORIA.
W. C. KELLY.


fSCS
o
r 5
n
*■»
N
IP
®p
m
1 m
1
l
ip
■a
9
■• i
'
■
mm
m
l
s
%
'
.
...
mu
HH
" • .^jH
iW
Sam
- . IMP
mi m
..... * ;
ft
' £ .afl
WKmmm
:-„Vn>
... ■
r ■ . ..,■. ..-
■■MMM
m
: .
.
■Bp I •. •■ y E • BB»
»Jlt .ASi**- 1,/1;
. ’ *
■ ■" •
w
. • • ■ -■■■••
Ktt, -) -; , 1 f '- i
'
• *i 1 . '
. .
e 49
■raMKHHI
isS«
,: -d
■ BH
.
K* PH 1 >’
/ ‘,A* • " U* I
m
H
>
■-■
m
J7T
.v.;-■■.-■
fee
-.i <'
aO
measure
“Virtue is its own reward.”
So runs the adage, and how aptly it applies.
Men who have worn an “Austral ” Sac Suit to
invariably come to us again when thev are in need of
new clothes —not necessarily because we remind them
through our advertising, but because the satisfaction and
C? O 7 I
service experienced in wearing the first suit merits their
succeeding orders.
Austral Sac Suits to Measure:
851-, 951-, 1051-. 115/-. 1261-. 147)-. 168|-
To any address throughout Australia we send patterns
and self-measurement forms post free on request.
THE CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALE ORDERS.
GoWING Bros Ltd
Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear,
484=490 George Street; 3=17 Royal Arcade ; New Branch Store at 304=306 George Street (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.


The medicine that goes hand in hand with good health—a kind of twin brother —that
brings physical confidence, strength, mental energy and clearness, is Clements Tonic,
because it possesses those specific properties that rebuild the human constitution. It
strengthens the working parts, cleanses the stomach, purifies the blood, thus creating new
conditions with good health results to the user. If any greater proof is required of the
powers of this splendid medicine, the testimonies given afford it, written by those
who can well afford by experience to judge of its merits. For the general good of
the public they are published throughout Australia, and are well worth reading.
Over 300 voluntary letters in praise of this nerve remedy have been received in the last few months, which may be seen and verified at the
offices of the Company, Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle. Get it from your chemist or store to-day, and get well. Do not wait until to-morrow.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.tV.
Society
“2669” : The Diggers who are garrisoning
Belgian towns pending demobilisation are
finding themselves up against some new
social distinctions. The women who would
not associate with the Bodies during the
invasion will now have nothing to do with
those who did. One Digger discovered a
peach, and forthwith invited her to the bat-
talion dance. When Grizette arrived all
the other girls departed, and the function
came to grief. Now, before a Digger in-
PROVIDING THE
BEST DRAPERY.
ARTIST : “And now tell me what kind of a
background you would prefer.”
SITTER: “Well, if it’s all the seme to you.
I’d like a wealthy husband!”
vites a girl to a dance, he has to find a gen-
darme and ask which way the lady’s sym-
pathies lie. And nothing makes Billjim
curse the Hun more than to find Fritz has
been a rival for the hand of the town’s
prettiest ma’m’selle, who is in consequence
now debarred from participating in the fes-
tivities. The saddest feature, however, is
the number of girls who, for their own pro-
tection, married German officers and men
from among the invading troops, and are
now left with one, two and in a few cases
three youngsters to look after, while vater
is back in Germany without any apparent
intention of returning.
* * * *
“Gouger”: “Centurion” (B. 27/2/’l9)
says that septic sores were painlessly cured
in Egypt. His M.O. must have been a
genius. Too well I remember the long line
of poor devils in my regiment standing out-
side the M.O.’s bivvy each morning. At
times 5 p.c. of the brigade had these fester-
ing, painful outbreaks. Each man in the
line would have taken his own bandage off
waiting for the M.O. to pass along. Those
with sores just coming would have a wet
bandage slipped on lively, but for those
whose afflictions were ripe out came the
dreaded scissors, a point was jabbed in and
a long cut made. The scissors were then
run in again and a cross-cut made. Then
the M.O.’s steel-like fingers squeezed the
sore until a man’s belly felt as if it had gone
up out of his mouth. A Red Cross orderly
slapped a bandage on the half-paralysed leg
or arm, and hurried off to the next victim.
Our M.O. seldom used a lance; the scissors
were quicker, and through much use the
damned things got blunt. It was on the
long marches that the experience was the
worst. Often when fighting all day, riding
all night, food nothing but bully beef and bis-
cuits, insufficient and brackish water, these
sores could not be attended to for weeks at a
time. Then perhaps the column would pull
up for a couple of hours, the doctor and
his orderlies would hurriedly unpack their
medical stores, and the hurry-up surgery
would commence all over again. These sep-
tic sores want constant care. When they
got all over a man’s body, especially between
his legs, the constant riding in quick pur-
suit of the enemy was hell.
“W.A.N.”: The 4th Aussie divvy was
billeted at Cardonette. Not far from the
Diggers there was a farmhouse, so Bill sug-
gested to his cobber that they go over and
get some eggs. “You’re set,” replied the
cobber, and over they went. When
Ma’m’selle came to greet them both truants
lost their speech, neither being able to ex-
press “eggs” in French. Then one says:
“Here’s a go,” at the same time cackling
like a fowl and performing other stunts.
Ma’m’selle started to run; then suddenly she
thought of something else and compreed.
When the old plague of the Middle Ages
(now called ’flu) becomes an epidemic
(described as pandemic for a change), the
authorities are apt to become excited. The
first idea, after many years spent in a
struggle to crowd all the population into one
city, is to keep the crowd apart. There is
a hasty tendency to close play-houses, school-
houses, picture-houses, boarding-houses, tene-
ment-houses and fowl-houses. ‘ Horse-races
are prohibited, but the mad excitement of
the egg-laying competition continues. People
are encouraged to seek the free atmosphere,
yet the caucus meets in a closed room and its
members breathe heavily at each other. It
is a flurried, worried world. In the days
before Adam, when even small animals were
higher than the Post Office tower and had
eyes like the Post Office clock, there were
germs just as there are now, and they were
the size of cats. But the big animals took
things calmly even when the cats were more
numerous than ordinary, and pursued their
politics as usual. If they had worn masks
and taken proper precautions they might be
around now eating up whole streets at a
time.
* * * *
The Lloyd survey expedition, which is
spying out landing-places for the proposed
trans-Australian aerial service, is learning
a thing or two about this great continent. In
the recent push from Longreach to Cloncurry
(Q.) it took the party—piloted by a guide—
three days to navigate the section
across Dalgonally and Fort Con-
stantine. The distance is only
90 miles as the ’plane travels; but,
then, a ’plane wouldn’t have
to flounder through washaways,
search for a track that wasn’t
there, goose-step bogs, battle
through breast-high grass, and get
bushed in wildernesses of 10ft.
sesbania-pea. The foot-slogging
party—t h e motor-cycles were
necessarily out of action —per-
formed all these gymnastics, and reckoned
the experience was well worth it.
“0.L.”: Melbourne University lives in a
bygone age. Twenty years ago, when 30
bob a week was considered a proper wage for
a capable worker over 21, cheap youths were
available in large numbers as soon as the
employer put a “Boy Wanted” sign in the
window. The Uni. authorities, intent on
their job of teaching Brains how to rise
superior to Brawn ip the struggle for a
crust, have quite overlooked Brawn’s own
efforts towards the Higher -Life and the
abolition of bread-and-treacle for breakfast
and a couple of days’ “working-out” for
Mother each week. For some time the Uni.
has been advertising thus in the daily
papers
Strong Lad wanted in the Physiology Department
of the University. Salary, 15s.
Even if any strong lad can be found to take
the job for a week or two until he gets
something better, it’s a draught-horse to a
diplococcus that the 15 bob won’t keep
him. Mother, who does washing by the day,
will do that, thus subsidising the Uni. in
order to help some better-financed youth
towards success in life.
DOMESTIC WORRIES.
LITTLE BILL: “ Dad, what’s a Mormon ?”
DAD: “A blanlcy fool.”
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The Common-
wealth Government is shipping off Aus-
tralia’s surplus Bolsheviks to.“a place which
has been used by Great Britain during the
war for the reception of persons whose con-
tinuance in the country was undesirable.”
There was a time when Australia would cer-
tainly have been the chosen “place.” The
Thomas Arbuthnot, convict ship, Captain
Thomson, sailed from Spithead for Port
Phillip on Sunday, January, 1847, with “a
superior class of delinquents, offici-
ally called ‘exiles.’ ” A MS. news-
paper was published every Satur-
day, having its foreign and domes-
tic correspondence, advertisements,
etc. The name of the paper was
the Citadel. The editor was a
man of considerable note in the
literary world; but all names and
circumstances in connection with
their positions were a strictly-
preserved secret.
The M.P. who makes sensational
charges should be obliged to accom-
pany them with a deposit, the same
to disappear if the bottom drops
out of his allegations. If he
hasn’t the money for the deposit
he should find bail. Lately Blake-
ley, M.H.R., got some limelight
with a story of how Graham,
formerly a British Consul, was
gaoled at Rabaul for not lifting
his hat to an Australian officer.
It transpired that Graham wasn’t
a consul, but a clerk, and his
offence was embezzlement, not dis-
respect to a brasshat. He wasn’t
gaoled for want of gaol space, but
was deported. It was added that
only male Huns are required to
salute officers, this being necessary
to keep them from getting swelled
head. As regards Blakeley’s tales
about flogging, it is officially stated
by the man on the spot that there is only
one mistake —flogging has been abolished.
Of course, sensational fiction of any sort
has its uses in the way of advertisement, but
when it is mere advertisement the advertiser
should pay for it at current rates.
* * * *
The Port Pirie Recorder put it this way:
BIRTH.
SANDERSON (nee Clyde).—On the 28th March, tc
Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Sanderson-—a son (Charles
Thomas). Both doing well.
FOR SALE. CHEAP.
That’s what comes of paying a maternity
bonus.
* * * *
Another N. S. Wales collier put to sea
last week and never returned. The crew
had great luck: the South Bulli was just
behind the Myola and was able to pick up all
but four of her men. There is the usual
talk of “mountainous seas” ; but it is clear
that conditions were not extraordinary. At
any rate, the South Bulli was able to cruise
around where the Myola went down, and a
battered lifeboat was able to push out and
’pick up four men from the wreckage. One
of the crew says the collier left with a list;
another says that later on she lurched to
port, then to starboard, then to port again
NO BAIT PROVIDED.
“Thirty shillings per week is the minimum wage
for single women. In view of their possible marriage.
etc,”—N. S. Wales Judge’s remark.
FIRST BUSINESS GIRL: “ Thirty bob a week
and, find a husband !”
SECOND DITTO: “ Impossible! Why, it only
provides tucker and a room and no
powder or hats or pretties.”
and finally just rolled over and sank. Only
a few weeks ago a collier beating un from
the South Coast left with her hatches open
and never reached port. We’ll have to rule
out the easy explanation of bad weather and
look for some other cause—and look hard.
(Continued on page 18.)
AND SO IT GOES ON.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
When dainty little plat ets pout
’Mid spaces dark as sin,
And hungry breezes prowl about
And sniff with noses thin
Upon the track of lass and lout
With wowseristic din,
’Tis time to put the billy out
And bring the doormat in.
And when the dawn’s cosmetics flout
Night’s, wanly fading grin,
And all the reawakened rout
Of little birds begin
To plume themselves and skyward spout
Thanks for the grubs they win,
’Tis time to put the doormat out
And bring the billy in.
The world goes round, I have no doubt,
Spinning on custom’s pin,
So turn about we put them out,
And then we bring them in.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


THE CRITERION OF VALUE IS
QUALITY SERVICE COMFORT.
Because Studebalcer has been manufacturing vehicles for 66 years. . .
Because there are half a million Studebaker Cars in service now. . .
Because Studebaker has created a quality tradition. . .
Studebaker Cars are the Recog'nised Standard
of Value in Automobile Construction To-day.
All that can be built into a complete line of cars to give
GREATER VALUE FOR LESS MONEY
and a
LONGER LIFE AT LESS EXPENSE
is found in
The New Series 19 Models.
A LIGHT FOUR
A LIGHT SIX
A BIG SIX
IN the “ Light Four” Power and Constructional Strength have been combined with
Flexibility and Light Weight in an ideal manner. It is the most economical quality
proposition on the market to-day.
In the “Light Six” has been evolved a capacity car with a masterly and elegant
appearance, a remarkable “Get Away,” and giving economy in tyres and petrol never
previously extended to cars of like ability.
The “ Big Six” is a magnificent luxury car with the most powerful engine in the world
in ratio to fuel consumption. All that any car should be, or can be, is built into this car.
All these new models have certain special features: The gear-box is now swung on a
strong sub-chassis amidships, which sub-chassis, riveted forward to the frame, also carries
the rear of the world famous L Head Engine, the Double Thermoid Coupling and the
Clutch. The D rive is Hotchkiss (incorporating the Spicer Universals) through a newly
designed Spiral Bevel Differential, and Torque through the long underslung springs.
Specially to the Australian demand Magneto Ignition in addition to the separate lighting
and starting units, Zenith or Ball and Ball Carburetters, Leather Trimmed Khaki Hoods,
and all Goodyear Tyres are supplied with each model.
Let us demonstrate these superlative value cars to you, or at your request we will
forward illustrated literature.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch: 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M, A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
Wanganui,


m m
v*k kI'J
O
sil a
m m
ill
MS;
m*
II:
TWL‘
WARRANT*.* [n
POT STILL Vr
oflMßPimiUJi@
■
v-X^V
Stands Out from the
Ruck of Whiskies
BffINDS
WHISKY
A Pure Pot Still Spirit made
from finest Barley • Malt and
Sparkling Highland Water.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts ot a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel m England,
America or the Continent. Hath
De luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Australia Jane”: Queensland has about
25 bed-ridden soldiers with spinal and similar
trouble. It is absolutely necessary to estab-
lish a suitable hostel for these men. The
Repatriation Department decided that New-
stead House, on the river bank and adjacent
to two tram-lines (Ascot and Chiyfield), was
just the thing. It was once Government House,
and when the present King and his brother
came to Bananaland as boys, that is where
they stayed. The City Council owns the
property, arid recently a park has been
started in the grounds at the rear of the
house. When the Repatriation Department
asked to be allowed to rent it for 25 years,
some of the aldermen objected to the park
Ifeing taken over, arid it was agreed to accept
the house and immediately-surrounding
grounds only. Now the Council says that
“for legal and other reasons” it cannot see its
way clear to entertain the proposal. At pre-
sent Newstead House is occupied (partly)
by an officer of the Council, and the Repat-
riation Board offered to pay reasonable
compensation to him to move to another
residence; but apparently there is no other
spot in the whole of Brisbane where he could
find a resting-place !• It was the same City
Council which, when approached for a por-
tion of land in the Valley, once leased to a
contractor for £5 a year, and eminently suit-
able for a children’s playground, told the
Playgrounds Association that the land was
tqo valuable to be used for that purpose, and
immediately converted it into an asphalt
dump.
* * * *
“Copy Boy”: The shocked surprise of the
sentimental Wilson at the mere suggestion
that the Hun should pay indemnities seems
out of place in a Professor of History, for
it is on record that when Germany got the
VERY DIFFERENT.
“And have you never been out with a soldier
before ?”
"Never; but I know a lieutenant."
chance she made Bull pay through the nose.
Returning from one of the Crusades in 1192,
Richard I. was captured by Leopold of Aus-
tria, being discovered in an inn, “because,”
as Bishop Fuller puts it, “he disguised his
person, not his expenses.” Leopold sold
Dick to Henry VI., Emperor of Shermany,
who demanded a ransom of 140,000 marks,
which in those days was a sum so vast that
church-plate had to be sold throughout Eng-
land to raise the wind. For a hundred
years afterwards tinplate was used in cele-
brating the Sacrament. Fuller quotes with
ECONOMICS-LESSON I.
THE MAN: ‘You know money isn’t every-
thing, dear."
THE PEACH : "Oh, no — it’s just the price
of it"
approval an apostrophe to the Emperor, in
which Peter of Blois makes a few well-chosen
remarks
And now, thou basest Avarice,
Drink till thy belly burst,
Whilst England pours large silver showers
To satiate thy thirst.
And this we pray thy money may
And thou belike be cursed.
* * * *
“H.V.E.”: Prior to 1850 in N. S. Wales
floods were practically unknown,
nor did the rivers ri,se so quickly
and spread to the extent that they
now do. The pioneers evidently
had no record of previous floods
even from aboriginal sources to put
them on their guard ; hence many
of the old homesteads were built
on the banks of rivers. The rivers
and creeks are now furnished with
an immense number of feeders
which were non-existent before the
country was stocked with sheep
and cattle. As the jumbuek and
the beef increased so did the
tracks and paths which they made
and consistently followed, and
along these the surface water
naturally flowed in heavy rains
and w’ore them into fresh water-
courses. Thus the surface water
is carried much more quickly into
the rivers, along with vast quanti-
ties of sand and silt, which have
raised the level of their beds.
Hence rivers now easily overflow
their banks. Former great wTater-
holes, some 20ft. deep, are mostly
filled up with sand. I have ex-
plored the Bombala River from its
source at tiie back of Nimitybelle
to. its junction with the Delegate
River, and there is hardly a wrater-
liole of any considerable depth left
in its bed. The same is true of
the beds of South Coastal rivers,
W’hich are also levelled up with
sand. The floods, too, are a pro-
test of mother earth at undue in-
terference with her whiskers, the
clearing away of scrub and trees
and close cropping of grass and
herbage allowing storm waters a
much 1 swifter and more unimpeded flow
towards the rivers.
* * » »
“5.0.5.” : Talking about spies. We were
getting a lot of sickness on the Peninsula,
so we arranged an eight-hour armistice to
bury the dead. Jones, one of our junior
officers, had just been promoted, and we put
him in charge of the burying party. Our
officers and the Jaekos thatted together,
and exchanged cigarettes. “Hullo, Jones,”
said a Turkish staff-officer, who strolled up.
“congratulate you on your promotion.”
Jones seemed a bit surprised. "Don’t you
remember me?” said the staff. “I was the
Gyppy waiter in your mess at Mena.”
* •* * j *
“Wart”: The Beaeonsfield (Tas.) Coun-
cil had a vacancy for an assistant council
clerk. Several re-
turned soldiers ap-
plied, and the secre-
tary of the local Re-
patriation Committee
wrote asking that one
of them be given pre-
ference. Bumble nar-
rowed the applicants
dovvn to two —a re-
turned Aussie and a
civilian—and then put
the names in a hat.
The civvy’s name
came out first, and
the Digger went to
try his luck some-
where else. A few
w T eeks ago the same
council, in spite of a
protest at a public
meeting, needlessly
put off an overseer
who was a returned
soldier, A few months
ago the _ Lily d a 1 e
Council wanted a
clerk. It narrowed
the applicants down
to a returned soldier
and a civilian, put the
names in a hat and
drew out that of the
civilian. Bumble of
the Speck seems to
have risen to the occa-
sion by making the
soldier’s chance one of
luck. It is a pity
the soldier couldn’t
have let Bumble take his chances with the
Hun.
* » * *
“Condenser”: Recent cables have referred
to the progress that wireless telephony has
made during the years of war, and to anv
student of wireless telegraphy it is beyond
doubt that conversations over a distance of,
say, 10,000 miles will be possible by 1920 or
1921. This means of communication will,
however, always be more expensive than
wireless telegrams over the same distance.
The reason is that in wireless telephony the
conveyance of the human voice through the
ether can be done by the employment of
“undamped” waves only. In wireless tele-
graphy “damped” waves, which are compara-
tively inexpensive to radiate, are used.
The variations of the human voice compel
the utilisation of these “undamped” waves,
which are much more rapid than the succes-
sion of wave-trains to be obtained with the
“damped” sparking system. The generating
machinery for “undamped” waves is very
costly, and the users of the system will of
course have to nay accordingly.
* * * #
“D.”: Few artists have lived to see the
conversion of their public as complete as in
the case of Norman Lindsay. I
sftw a good deal of Lindsay’s first
exhibition in Melbourne in June,
1909—a display of the artist’s
black-and-white only, held in a
small, out-of-the-way hall up a set
of narrow stairs off the Royal
Arcade, and remember the sensa-
tion it created. People attended
in large numbers, but the visit was
something in the nature of an
adventure. They stole np those
stairs in fear and trembling, like
children threatened with a glimpse
of the Devil. In many instances,
after scattering a glance round,
they scampered downstairs again,
only to return even more fearfully
than before. I was at the open-
ing of a Melbourne exhibition the
other day of which Lindsay stuff
was the chief feature. He is as
devoted to the nude as ever, as
daring as ever, and there was a
large attendance, and every man
and woman present looked upon
his pictures with frank interest.
There were no shudders, no gasp-
ings; no one fled, and “Love,” a
glorious great pen-drawing, quite
as. audacious as the Casanova
originals shown 10 years ago, had
a group about it all day, admiring
and unashamed. If it had been an
exceptionally fine flower-subject the
observers could not have been less
apologetic for tlieir clean but avid regard.
* * * «
. “Biologist”.: During the war the ’flu, hav-
mg. opportunity to attack in succession a
series, of weakly persons, developed surpris-
ing virility. So stimulated, it became a
plague to weak, and strong alike; yet it can
only maintain its virility by a frequency of
W’eak hosts. Passing through a succession of
healthy persons, many of whom may die,
they will put up such a big fight that the ’flu
is weakened and reduced to nearly normal
powers. Apply this theory. Malignant ’flu,
arriving in Maoriland, did great damage.
The struggle with the healthy islanders
weakened it; so arriving in Australia it was
nearly normal, and while guarded had little
chance of restoring itself with a quick suc-
cession of weak hosts. But let it get its
second wind in some of our crowded quarters,
and Sydney, like Baltimore, may have its
thousand victims a day. The question is
still in doubt; but on the facts known, it
seems .madness to allow the formation of
“human hot-beds” by permitting unmasked
assemblages.
It was through overdoing things that
Robert Hunter, a home-service “warrior,”
ran up against trouble in Melbourne. He
enlisted for home service in Sydney a mouth
after the armistice was signed, and worked
as a hospital-orderly for three months. Then
he got his discharge and went to Melbourne.
When arrested there for masquerading as a
returned soldier and forging a military dis-
charge, he was wearing a military uniform
with sergeant-major’s rank badges, V.C. and
D.C.M. ribbons, service chevrons, 3rd Bat-
talion colors with metal “A” and an identi-
fication disc. He had also a returned soldier’s
league badge from a N. S. Wales branch,
and a mouse-eaten pocket diary which had
ostensibly been torn by bullets. Photos in
his possession showed him with his honors
thick upon him. A copy of “Digger Smith”
purported to have been presented to him by
a cobber who was lost in admiration of his
heroism. He had also a military discharge
in the name of “Robert Hunt.” This he
admitted having bought “for .10 bob” from
a dinkum soldier when he was a hospital-
orderly. The uniform had been obtained in
the same way, and the decorations came
i'rgin a Sydney tailor. When the inscrip-
tion in “Digger Smith” was steamed off
the name of Lieut.-Col. Robertson was
found oh the flyleaf. Hunter, who was born
in England 23 years ago, got three months
on each of two charges. Now the question
arises how in the name of all that’s righteous
did a man like that get a Defence Depart-
ment job on home service a month after the
armistice was signed? At that time there
were at least 50,000 returned men in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“Unley”; Here’s one place in England
where we can get a sniff of home. A num-
ber of eucalypts are growing in the grounds
at Brightlingsea Hall, in Essex. Some, 30ft.
high, are within a few hundred yards of the
sea. _ Others further in are 60ft. high—these
are in a mixed wood of beech, elm and pine,
and their grey-green tops make a fine contrast
to the dark green of the indigenous foliage.
The best-country trees were raised from seed
sown in 1886, and sent from Tasmania to
John Bateman, who reared them in a shel-
tered garden-bed. The plants themselves
seeded, and the seeds have been .pretty
widely distributed.
WE DID IT.
THE CONFIRMED CIVVY: “ Well, we pushed
Frits book all right at last, didn't we?"
THE DIGGER: "Ah, did we really!"
RONDEAU.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A little flat there used to be
To' which I’d long- wont to flee,
To win surcease /from gloom and care,
And lounge, wlrnt time its mistress fair
Sparkled and made delicious tea.
Beside her friendly fire would she
Smoke cigarettes upon my knee,
Or sing in French a lilting air—
A little flat.
I loved her figure’s lissome glee ;
Her books and prints were good to see.
Vlas ! no more 1 11 mount her stair—
Last week she wed (/ was not there),
And life at present seems to me
A little flat!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


V*-"
mss
m
3*&
1
*?)
$
5
is
r
»
SB I S»«
m
'"v'C
ii
S
f
>
s
N
■
om
Kfir.-a
YiE
J :--
m
' ■''.l
. >
S&?*:
*£2
gfefA'f
'i£34£3i
-
v. r> j. .
M : t,=.
.
BESi
Si
. .
v* * '
.
m
■
> .
ass
ff
i,ss*v
%
m
■
»»
,
■ n
*&
■*<: '*■
.
-V:*
M 5
•■ ■ ■
-V
M?
iJ
>»
«w
;-7©?
*«. &
)&*<
.
■':
'
i
* «U
§1
.diw
Adamax Roofing Costs Less in the End
The good tilings you are hearing in your own community about “Adamax” Roofing
are being repeated throughout the entire country.
It seems as if the national tendency toward greater economy were adding new emphasis
to its unusual value.
Certainly its capacity for serving well and wearing long is winning great numbers of
new friends every day.
What “Adamax” is doing for thousands of thrifty builders it will undoubtedly do for
you. In other words, it will return you a better service for your investment than you
can commonly expect.
The great popularity it now enjoys is the natural result of the pains and fine
material we put into it, and the results it delivers.
Because it lasts longer and gives less trouble than ordinary roofing “Adamax” costs
less in the end.
Quality Makes "Adamax” the Time-proof Roofing.
“Adamax” Roofing is made with one end in view—to make a Quality Roofing that fully
meets the requirements of the town and country builders alike.
It is a roof that is impervious to the ravages of heat, cold, wind, rain, gases, acids,
chemical fumes, etc.
The perfected process of finishing “Adamax” gives it a hard, fire-retardant surface —
making “Adamax” the roof that will not rust, rot or pinhole, because “Adamax”
contains no tar, resin or fisli-oil or any substance that will dry out, leaving the long-
fibred felt basis lifeless.
Send to-day for free samples and descriptive pamphlet.
LOTTO ID Plaster Sheeting' —
Ideal for Interior Walls & Roofing'
With it you can secure pleasing panel effects, for the sheets lend them-
selves to artistic treatment.
Their first cost is their last cost; there is no further expense for renovation
or replacement.
The sheets are not affected by climatic changes. They make comfortable,
cool rooms in summer and warm rooms in winter—are fire-retarding, pliable
and elastic, will not warp, twist or buckle.
Write us for further particulars to-day.
We are selling agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
William Adams & Co. Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
521-3 Collins Street, flelbourne.
96 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Cr. Edward & Mary Streets, Brisbane.
33 King Street, Perth,


Hotel c/e Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as. the South
of Prance.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/6 per day, or
£3/10/- per week.
Apply Manager.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002.
WHEN “OUT OF SORTS” TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
fruit laxative at once.
The vague, general discomfort of being
“out of sorts,” when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dull and the tongue
coated and heavy, can be banished in a few
hours by a dose of California Syrup of Figs
—“Califig.” There is no need to put up
with these things until to-morrow, waiting
for bedtime to take medicine. California
Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—will begin to do
you good the moment you take it —at any
hour —and cause no discomfort. This plea-
sant-tasting, refreshing fruit laxative
cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps away all
accumulations of undigested food, and stimu-
lates the liver to assist in relieving the
bowels. By evening the tongue will be clear
again and the overflow of bile swept away ;
you will be yodrself again, with a good appe-
tite and digestion. This is the medicine
which does such wonders for children of all
ages; but it is every bit as good for grown-
up people, and there are full, directions for
every age with the bottle. Take care to buy
the genuine, as there are imitations on the
market. Ask for “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—in two sizes, 1/6 and 2/4. [2
BITRATE OF TAR STOPS COUGHS
AND COLDS.
HELPFUL HINT BY A SPECIALIST.
Coughs, colds, catarrh and throat and
bronchial troubles are nearly always indica-
tions of an inflamed or abnormal condition
of the mucous lining of the throat and nasal
and bronchial passages; and this inflamma-
tion or abnormal condition must be remedied
before the trouble will disappear. Recent
tests show that titrate of tar exercises a
peculiarly soothing and healing effect on
these tissues, and it is doubtless because of
this action that coughs, colds, catarrh and
bronchial troubles so quickly benefit by its
use. The best way to use titrate of tar is
to add two ounces of it to a plain syrup made
by dissolving half a pound of sugar in half
a pint of hot water. Mix thoroughly and
take one or two tablespoonsful every hour
until the trouble disappears. Because of its
tonic properties this syrup will be found par-
ticularly strengthening and beneficial to
those who have been weakened and run down
by chronic coughs. Care should be taken
to ask your chemist for the titrate of tar as,
in addition to being pleasant to the taste,
this is practically the only form suitable for
use in cases of coughs and colds.— Advt.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Sydney Labor Council, which Labor
leader Storey declares not to be Bolshevik or
anything like’ it, has voted a message of
friendship and congratulation to the Hun-
garian revolutionary Government which has
just declared war against us. It isn’t at
all likely that the law will be enforced, but
there is a law, which no Labor Government
has attempted to alter, for the execution of
members who voted for that resolution.
Preferential voting is being discussed by
all the numerous S. Australian parties, and
will certainly be brought forward in the next
session.
Westralian “Nationalists” will probably
push Premier Lefroy out before long. To
cover their own sins—of omission mostly—
the party wants to start a row with the
Commonwealth Government, and Lefroy is
considered much too amiable and softspoken
a gentleman to stand up against Watt and
Hughes. They require a man with a
punch, and cry for Colebatch.
Like every other Australian business-man
who has made inquiries at the other end,
O. C. Beale, who has spent most of the last
three years in England on war work, comes
back to tell us that we made a shocking
mess of the handling of our staple products.
Looking back now Australia will probably
realise what a trustful fool it was. Practi-
cally it passed itself over bound hand and
foot to one man, W. M. Hughes. And
Hughes wasn’t a business-man —had never
run anything larger than an umbrella-repair
shop. Some men know their limitations.
Hughes doesn’t. So he insisted on person-
ally handling these vast transactions, and,
as O. C. Beale shows, landed Australia with
bargains which American producers wouldn’t
have taken off our hands for millions.
Treasurer Butler says the best thing that
can be hoped for S. Australian finances this
current year is a disgraceful deficit of
£150,000. Dismal as ever, Butler thinks
nothing can be done except to put up rail-
ways rates and charge a ha’penny or two
more for water and such like. As for taxa-
tion, it is already so heavy that etc., etc.
This fiction that Australia is heavily taxed
dies hard. On the basis of average wages
earned it is one of the most lightly taxed
countries in the world —probably at the pre-
sent time the most lightly taxed. And for
years past S. Aus. has been much more
lightly taxed than N. S. Wales, Queensland
and Tasmania. Down to the war period
S. Aus. had increased its taxes by less than
6 per cent, in seven, years, whereas the
average State increase had been over 60 per
cent. /
The father of all rows has been raised in
Maoriland because of the discovery that Bill-
jim, just back from the war, will not be
allowed to vote at the special licensing poll,
to be taken on April 10, because he is not
on the rolls. Why he wanted to hustle off
to war when there were hundreds of applica-
tion forms that he could have filled in if
he’d stayed at home isn’t clear. A careless
dog!
No Australian industry is too small to be
worth starting. One day a boundary-rider
took some lumps of ore to Mount Gipps
homestead. The station-hands threw in a
couple of hundred to “give it a go.” That
started Broken Hill. To smelt the ore the
co. took up the Iron Knob in S. Aus. Hav-
ing more than it wanted for flux, the co.
started the Newcastle ironworks, around
which a dozen industries have nestled. And
this month Cockatoo Island, in Sydney Har-
bor, will launch a 10,000 ton ship built
throughout of Newcastle metal. The lump
or two of ore, carried in on a boundary-
rider’s horse, led up to the regular employ-
ment of at least 50,000 Australians at high
wages during the past year.
Nine months of the financial year are
finished and the N. S. Wales State revenue
is £2,018,864 ahead of the record for the
corresponding nine months last year. So
the signs are that the revenue for the year
will be £2,691,819 more than it was last
year, and last year Holman professed to have
a surplus. Therefore it should be easy to
cut down the borrowings by at least
£2,000,000 and build public works with the
surplus, and thus save the State £llO,OOO a
year in interest. And having proved that
it is possible to raise £2,000,000 out of rev-
enue for public works, an effort might be
made to raise a little more and do without
loans altogether.
THE NEW CONFIDENCE MAN.
In the U.S.A. manufacturers may not
form trusts to squeeze the home market; but
they have been expressly authorised by the
Webb law to combine as much as they like
for the exploitation of the Australian and
other foreign markets, and agents are at
this moment collecting information that will
help them in their attack.
For at least two years a Protective tariff
has been held off with the story that some
foreign nation or other (always unspecified)
might object to it, and that a tariff might
thus prejudice the Empire. When the
armistice was signed the story was slightly
altered: a Customs tariff, it was then said,
might run against one of Wilson's precious
14 points. Now a British Minister, with
as much authority as anybody to speak for
the Empire, throws scorn on the flimsy
excuse, and declares that the suggested in-
vasion of any “overseas Dominion's” sover-
eign rights is unthinkable.
There has been some more whispering
into somebody’s ear, and sheep-dip has been
put on the prohibited list of imports. It
ought not to be possible to import sheep-dip ;
but that result should be brought about by
open and above-board high Protection —not
by the secret whisperings of somebody who
has influence enough to reach a Minister’s
ear. It is much too uncertain a process,
for one thing. Somebody else with a
louder voice may whisper something else
presently, and then foreign sheep-dip may
come in like a flood.
Apparently Treasurer Gardiner of West-
ralia finds liis colleagues of the Lefroy Min-
istry quite hopeless. Last year he wanted
to resign because, in spite of the deficit,
Ministers proposed to spend more than ever.
He withdrew his resignation then on Minis-
ters undertaking to carve off £lOO,OOO. But
the Estimates, like many other Australian
Estimates, were a fake; and now in despair
of checking the madness Gardiner has re-
signed and left the herd to rush down the
steep place into the sea.
Japan has decided to get into a state of
suspended animation over the question of
the free admittance of all League-of-Nations
peoples into all League countries. It says
nothing now, but reserves the right to say
everything at a more fitting time. Japan
was until recently one of the hermit king-
doms, like Korea and Thibet; and even when
it gave up hermiting it put so many restric-
tions on foreigners that they never got any
hold. In 1916 the- resident white popula-
tion of Japan proper was 6441, which wasn’t
much among 56,860,735. Having about
400 people to the square mile in Japan
proper and nearly 300 to the square mile
in the empire, the place is about as proof
against the industrial penetration of for-
eigners as an ironclad is against a mosquito.
Any proposal for a free interchange of in-
habitants would be very like giving the run
of an empty continent in return for the
spare space in a tramcar with 12 people
standing already. If all Australia went to
Japan and was naturalised it would have
about one-fourteenth of the voting power.
On the other hand, if one-fourteenth of
Japan became naturalised here it could vote
the annexation of this country to its brown
fatherland and set up an Established Shinto
Church. We may feel sorry for our brother
in his crowded state, but we don’t see what
we can do about it.
Kings and queens have to struggle hard for
their jobs these days and nights. It is cabled
at great length and expense that Jimmy of
England and Joe of the United States shed
each other’s nose-blood at the National
Sporting Club, London. When the damage
was over the Prince of Wales “vaulted” into
the ring amid great cheering, shook hands
with the battered Jimmy and the ruins of
Joe, and said that shindies of this sort would
“cement Anglo-American friendship.” If the
desperate youth had been brought up in Aus-
tralia he would have said that they tended
to “develop the great natural resources of
the country,” but that gag doesn’t pass in
England.
Barrackers for the One Big Union and
similar enthusiasts have an idea that the
high cost of living is mostly due to the fat
profiteer. A lot of it is, though the fat
profiteer in 19 cases out of 20 is a
foreigner. The Australian person who is
chiefly responsible isn’t very fat, but he is
absurdly numerous. Sometimes he drives
a milk-cart in a street to which half a dozen
other milk-carts come. Sometimes he drives
a baker’s cart in a street to which a dozen
other bakers’ carts come. Or he may keep
a superfluous shop, or be an even more
superfluous agent with or without an office;
or a small boy who does the superfluous
agent’s odd jobs. All these people produce
nothing and have to be carried on the backs
of the producer. The profiteer wants attend-
ing to; but if all profiteering in Australia
was suppressed and the vast horde of little
parasites was left unattended to, the cost of
living would still be outrageously high.
From this paper’s Gallery hand : —■
Federal elections will occur early next year, and
the Nationalist organisations are considering the
ease of the Rep.’s Labor wing. This section num-
bers 14 and may be 14 points in the side of
Nationalism on many threatening industrial ques-
tions. The feature occasioning uneasiness is that
the finish of the war has abolished the reason for
their separation from their former brethren, and
they still regard themselves “as good as Labor men.”
The Argus, scenting the growing Nationalist sus-
picion that Liberalism may have been nourishing a
viper in its bosom, insists that the reptile ought to
be cuddled as before to help in the fight against
the Bolsheviks. That is to say, the 14 Laborites
ought to be promised Official support. This is
guileful generosity, considering that the Preferential
Vote promises strong likelihood of some “un-
official’’ Nationalist defeating the selected Labor-
ite, thus nullifying the Argus’s ostensibly good in-
tention. Personally I think that Hughes’s squad, while
unwelcome to official Labor, will be unacceptable to
the great body of Nationalist voters, and if the latter
in the rural constituencies defy the Liberal Leagues
as the cookies did at Oorangamite a while ago, it
will only be necessary to purchase suitable flowers.
“Fred D.” suggests something :
To encourage the establishment of new industries
the Commonwealth Government should issue patents
for the manufacture of articles not now made in Aus-
tralia, just as patents are granted covering the
making and selling of new ideas. Australia needs
new industries, but manufacturers want something
more than a Protective tariff to induce them to make
the outlay necessary to pioneer these lines for Aus-
tralia is a small market-place. I travelled over all the
worth-while part of it selling goods, and was dis-
agreeably surprised to find how soon I came to the
end of my possible customers. An enterprising maker
of a new line would not be in possession of even this
small market for long enough to repay him his
expenditure. Another manufacturer, having been
shown the way, would enter the field, and what was
not quite big enough for one would soon be much too
small for two. All Australian manufacturers know
this —hence their inactivity in sacrificing themselves.
If patents were granted, giving the pioneer the
market for, say, 10 years, during which time the
importation of the article manufactured was pro-
hibited, some activity along new lines could be
looked for in the Commonwealth. The public could
be protected in the matter of price by fixing the
limit of profits, and a sufficient supply of the goods
ensured by the patent having conditions to that
effect under a forfeiture clause. But the Great Aus-
tralian Motto seems to be: “When in doubt, do
nothing.”
It would be interesting to compare
Sydney’s land-boom with that of Moscow if
figures for the latter were procurable. Prob-
ably Moscow wins in a canter. The Aus-
tralian Government having issued some
£60,000,000 of partly-secured paper, the
money supply is bigger than ever before, and
abundant money makes high prices. Land
in a bushy region some miles from the G.P.O.
and cut off from the city by two unbridged
arms of the sea, recently fetched as much as
£lB 10s. per foot in partly-unsecured paper.
The Russian Government having issued some
£6,000,000,000 of wholly-unsecured paper
money, worse land 10 miles from Moscow
should be easily worth £5O a foot. A foot
of bread is said to be worth almost as much
in some parts of the country.
Assistant-Minister Poynton stated last
week that some local bodies were not
playing the game and giving preference
to returned soldiers. This squeak arose
from the appointment of a rabbit in-
spector at Balranald (N.S.W.). Accord-
ing to Poynton there were two appli-
cants for the job—-one 65 years of age, the
other a Digger from the war, where he had
lost the use of an arm. The pay was £3OO
a year. The soldier “was thoroughly com-
petent for the job, knew the country, and
had been pulling rabbits out of burrows
since he was first in trousers. He had a
fine military record, and there was every-
thing to recommend his claim for the
position, but he was turned down.” There
is nothing in law, of course, to compel such
bodies to give the returned soldier a new
job. But there isn’t anything to prevent
Federal and State Departments making a
black list. And it’s a remarkable body that
doesn’t want something from either the
Commonwealth or the State at some time
or other.
THE STRENGTH OP IT.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Bolsher is a Criminal who smashes marriage-ties,
And murders harmless people in their beds;
The wildest forms of violence are seemly in the eyes
Of folks like this —mad Russia’s gore-stained
“Reds.”
This country is a mass of them ; they teem in ev’ry
street —•
Or so says ev’ry Tory politician that you meet.
The Tory is a Hound who grinds the faces of the
poor,
A bowel-less exploiter of the weak ;
He leads the Wolf of Hunger to the devastated door
Of helpless Age and laughs to hear it shriek.
There is no human feeling in his soul or bowels or
brain—■
Or so says ev’ry Bolsher who orates in the Domain.
The Bolsher, as we know him here, is very much
the same
As Cook and Hughes and Holman used to be;
And he will change in time, like them, and, growing
smug and tame,
Will howl of anarchistic infamy;
For politics are mostly loud exaggerative lies—
Or so say those who look on them with calm, impar-
tial eyes.
x.s.w.
FED UP.


Now is the Time to get a
Murdoch Sweater.
Autumn days are here —there’s a coolness in
the air at night and early morn that suggests
U warm garment;
xi Murdoch Coat-Sweater is an ideal garment
to protect you from colds and chills. Easy
to slip on or off at any time and as comfort-
able as you wish.
MADE IN OUR OWN WORKROOMS
from Australian yarns, these sweaters are
absolutely unequalled for value. Come in
and be convinced, or write to Desk E.
TWO SPLENDID VALUES
As Illustration No. I.
Men’s Coat Sweaters, made with Polo
Collar, in navy and medium-grey. S.M.
and M.’s, 17/6. 0.5., 17/11.
As Illustration No. 2.
Men’s Coat Sweaters, good wearers. Made
with V-fronts ih grey, navy §hadeS. S.M<
and M.’s, 16/11. O.S M/s, 17/6.
A SPECIAL LINE
Men’s Coat Sweaters, as illustration No.
2, in wool and cdttOn. V-FrOntS. Greys
only. S.M. and M.’s, 12/6. O.S.M.’s,
13/6.
p
V-
•jW
%
v,
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.”
Dainty Lace Brooches
PLATINUM, OEM-SET.
In response to the demand for an inexpensive Platinum Lace
llrooch, the Firm have manufactured a choice selection of
these in several exquisitely dainty designs. All are of choicest
quality and make, and are of distinctly refined appearance.
Orders by
mail receive
prompt and
careful
attention.
£l6*lo
5J 2.
£9
3:0)3
£8
.1 f f»
£gto
$0
£7*lo
The Platinum
Brooches
illustrated
are set with
Diamonds,
and Pearls
and
Diamonds.
Selections of Bings and Jewellery will be forwarded on approval to
any address in the Commonwealth at the Firm’s own risk and expense.
W\n. ©rummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
oESß^^aagggMSgaM
Westinghouse
Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
Simplicity of detail.
Even turning moment.
Accessibility of all moving parts.
Minimum fuel consumption.
Low maintenance costs.
Absolute reliability.
Westin chouse oil Engines are particularly suited for irrigation and
farm work requiring no attention after starting up Being fitted
wkh oi? feed pump (of special construction) and fuel atomiser,
ensures complete combustion of fuel and high economy.
Westinghouse Gas Engines give highly satisfactory and economiral
service in driving generators for small electric lighting installations,
industrial and a|ricultural machinery etc., as proved by the large
number now operating m all parts of the world.
Send your enquiries to nearest office.
E
m
Manchester
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES:
84 William Street, Melbourne. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
AGENTS:
ELDER, SMITH Sk CO., LIMITED,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane. Perth.
waasHSag
■TARANTULAE
The Quality Cotton Fabric for Lingerie and Baby- Wear
Tarantulle lingerie returns time
after time from the laundry as
fresh and shimmering as sun-
shine. Its spotless whiteness
and lasting softness are a boon
to dainty and particular ladies.
Tarantulle is absolutely pure,
and perfectly woven —a delight
equally to the home-needle-
worker and the wearer.
In three weights, 40 inches wide :
providing for every lingerie need.
Standard, Fine, and Superfine.
Always see name on selvedge.
e®mers(
These goods assure satisfaction
in color, wash, and wear. Their
guaranteed quality has made
their popularity world-wide.
Sold by Drapers and Stores.
TOOTAL CLOTH : The Guaranteed
Velvet Fabric, equal to silk velvet for
graceful draping. Rich colors that will not
rub off. In plain and cord, 27 inches w.de.
TARANTULLE (Regd.): The quality
Cotton Fabric for Lingerie and Baby-wear.
In three weights—4o inches wide.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.)
for ladies. Dainty exquisite self-white and
indelible color border designs.
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.)
for men. Correct self-white and exclusive
indelible color border designs.
TOBRALCO (Regd.): T,he Cotton Wash-
dress Fabric in world-wide use. Self-white
and indelible colors. 27/28 inches wide.
TOOTAL PIQUE: White and indelible
colors. 43/44 inches wide.
N AMR IT: The Indelible Voile. In
printed designs and self-colors. 40 inches
wide.
TOOTAL SHIRTINGS for men and
women. Indelible colors. 32 inches wide.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO:-
G.P.0., BOX 1035, MELBOURNE.
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE CO. LTD.. MANCHESTER, ENGLAND


SPECIALIST EXPLAINS CAUSE OF
STOMACH TROUBLE.
VALUABLE ADVICE TO SUFFERERS.
“There are many different forms of
stomach trouble,” said a well-known special-
ist recently, “but practically all are trace-
able to excessive acidity and food fermenta-
tion. That is why the results obtained from
the use of drugs are usually so disappoint-
mg Admitting fermentation and consequent
acidity of the food contents to be the
underlying cause of most forms of indiges-
tion. it naturally follows that the use of a
leliable antacid, such as bisuruted magnesia
which is so frequently prescribed by
physicians, will produce better results than
drugs or combinations of drugs. Accordingly
I almost invariably advise those who com-
plain of digestive trouble to get some
bisurated magnesia (note the name care-
fully, as other forms are not so suitable for
this purpose) from their chemist, and take
half a teaspoonful of the powder, or two
o-grain compressed tablets, with a little
water after meals. This, by immediately
neutralising the acid and stopping the fer-
mentation, removes the cause of the trouble
and insures normal and healthy digestion.”
—Aovr.
SPORTING
CARTRIDGES
Our Special Offer.
The Celebrated
SOVEREIGN, 21/-per 100
SMOKELESS, 2,0/6 p.er 100— in 500 lots
CARTRIDGE, 20/- pgr 100—inioooiots.
Thu, is the finest smokeless cartridge made,
v l 2;? a, T? e ’ loaded > double-chilled shot, and
rsobel s Empire Smokeless Powder
Shot Nos. 2,3, 4,5, 6, 8 and 10.
AVe have the largest stocks in Victoria
of Winchester, Remington and Dominion
Cartridges. Send for special list.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne's Busiest Hardware Store.
119-125 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
A Signal
Success
W»e TOP-NOTCH Scotch.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
THE BEST HE COULD THINK OF.
JUDGE: “So you admit making these spurious pound-notes?"
PRISONER; " Well, your Honor, it struck me there teas a shortage of the genuine articled.”
“Rexicorn”: “Melos” (B. 20/2/ ! 19) lias
got a little bit mixed in reading my answer to
“Lantana” re his legless lizard. 1 admit that
“Melos” is partly right in saying that the tongue of
the lizard is extensible, and not fixed as I stated; at
the same time it is an ordinary tongue, and, being
bread, thick, fleshy, papillose and more or less
feebly nicked at the tip, could never be mistaken for
that of a snake, which is long, rod-like, deeply bifid
or forked, and is withdrawn into a sheath in the
centre of the lower jaw. Among the lizards such a
longue is exemplified in gohannas. All other points
perhaps go to me. I did not state that all legless
lizards have ears exposed; I said that if “Lantana”
examined his specimen he would find that this was
the case. In doing so I was answering “Lantana”
as to his special find, knowing that in N. S. Wales
the common legless lizards abound and have ears
exposed. The one mentioned by “Melos” and a
couple of other species are rare, and are recorded
only from the following localities: West, South-
Mast, Central Australia and Victoria, If “Melos”
thinks that Burton's legless lizard is the most snake-
like, it is evident that he has not seen many of the
other species. It is the least snake-like of the whole
group. lam sure that the authorities at the Sydney
Museum would be delighted to let him see some of
the others, and if he cares to look at Delma or
Ciyptodelma he will see snake-like lizards. Their
heads are covered with large, symmetrical shields
like those of a snake, instead of the small, numerous,
irregular plates of Burton’s ( Lialis ), which, further,
has a long, narrow, pointed head.
“Baerami”: Some time ago J. H. M.
Abbott, describing a steamer trip from Sydney to
Newcastle, speculated. as to the origin of the name
Norah Head, and suggested that possibly the dis-
coverer named it after some friend or relative. The
fact is that the headland was called Bungaree Nora
on the old maps. Nora meant noise. Anyone stand-
ing on the outer edge of the headland in even moder-
ate weather can easily understand why the name
was applied. Take the abo. word woronora s, accord-
ing lo Archie Meston, probably our best authority
on the abo. lingo of the Eastern Coast, woro means
a cave and nora a. noise—the noise occasioned by
either wind or water rushing into a cave.
“tt.li.Mc( : “< longer” (B. 13/3/19) is
the only person whom 1 have heard state that he has
seen a man collared by a clam. I have been in the
neighborhood of the Barrier Reef for over 20 years,
and know it well from Endeavor Reef south of Cook-
town to Bramble Cay in Torres Strait, say, 500
miles. I knew most of the white bOche-de-mer men,
including Carl Satini, Barney Andreason. Philip'
Johnson, Robinson and Soren Christensen (alias
“German Harry”), Underwood, Frank Lee Peter
Poulsen and Douglas Pitt. None of them knew from
then- own experience of any case of a clam closing
on a man. 1 have seen clams on the reefs at all
stages of the tide, and I have watched some of the
largest when under neater open -their valves about
om. At that the fish protrudes, covering the open-
ing and overlapping the lips of the shell some inches.
I have often poked them with a paddle and never
knew one to close in less than a minute (often
longer). I have known of one of Underwood’s bo vs
when diving for black-lip shell to get badly mauled
yv what we supposed to be a “groper.” The bov
bad evidently got clean into his maws, as he was
badly marked round the chest and back of the shoul-
ers, ut he got out again. The gropers up that
vay often go to 4cwt., even sc\vt.
* *
.Tim Carew ’: Before the boomerang argji-
n/®nt. ® d * | n a dogfight, let me ask if any
othei Abo. has met a Binghi who threw left-handed
and va.s any clajs as a thrower? My exhibit I dis-
covereo near Nyn'gan (N.S.W.), and he rejoiced in
the name of Mauldy. For long-distance throws, come
bR "’ as the best 1 hav e ever seen
with the boomerang. At first glance his implement
appeared to be no different from the usual run but
on close 1 found that it was slightly
deeper a, the curves. Also, the weight was dis
Inbuted in a peculiar fashion. 1 go t Mauldv in
make me one, but it was a complete failure, r threw
Pki a (P S J® day l U a!ld smashed to
pieces. (US. —1 mean the boomerang.)
*FY7” : “A.K.,” who failed to make a pet
of his captured bandicoot (B. 13/3/M9), can’t have
much of & flair for pets. The ’coot is one of the
chummiest and quaintest little beasts going. Inci-
dentally, he is prime eating. On my New Guinea
estate years ago lie was a prominent item on the
menu. He should be scalded and roasted in his
bare hide, like a sucking-pig, with savory stuffing.
W ith that on the table I wouldn’t give the house a
chance.
“Gecko” : Not correct, as stated by “FY7”
(B. 20/3/’l9), that a snake,’s teeth do not allow it
„° r, ° nCe St has takeri hol<L At Taronga
■’ ~ y ney > 1 ecently, a tiger-snake measuring
4ft. 6in. swallowed three parts of a brown-snake
on y six inches short of his own measurement. A
keeper caught hold of Brownie’s tail, and flicked the
tiger on the snout, whereupon the gobbler back-
wriggled and disgorged his bosom companion. A
7“ ' ref; iculated python that belonged to Sells’s
Circus, and was boarded out at the old Zoo at
Moore Park, Sydney, swallowed a double blanket,
and after keeping it in his bingv for three days
s*tt/Y^ h . l V 6,1 '7 Miotlhow’S
not the slightest discomfort.
THE DECORATIVE SEX.
SARAH: “Why don't you think women police can he successful?"
EBENEZER: “Well) fancy a, woman ever admitting she teas in plain clothes .”
“Kunasarta”: Some Abo.-writers have
been discussing the carpet-snake as a foster-baby.
They are behind the times. Not far from here
(Forbes) a farmer has been using, a colony of carpet-
snakes in lieu of milking-machines. His method is
simple, cheap and so far effective. The emntv snake
attaches itself to the nearest dozing cow, lulls her
to sleep by its tender method of milk extraction,
and sucks on to repletion and comatosity. The
farmer then takes the serpent by the tail, gives it a
shake, and it disgorges. The feeling of vacancy
uiges it on to another cow, and the dairy herd is
thus scientifically and thoroughly dealt with. Cus-
tomers might be prejudiced, but a wise man will
keep his own secrets. So far, I have heard of only
one striker. He was a big old fellow, and soon got
bored by the milking job and the diet. The farmer
had an aviary with some galahs ( and shell-parrots, and
on these the ancient snake cast longing eyes. He had
caught a young rabbit earlier, and, his appetite fail-
ing, he turned down his cow on the sly, made for the
aviary, pushed himself half-way in , and reached
down a lovely young galah, which he swallowed. The
rabbit still bulged in the rear end, and the parrot
swelled out his chest, making his withdrawal im-
possible. The other birds shrieked at the common
enemy. The farmer noticed the deserted cow, and,
making for the aviary, divided the reptile with a
spade. Parrot and rabbit were soon exhumed for
post-mortem; and the snake’s scalp is my trophy.
All thin op my honor.
* * *
I ine Scrub : There’s something to make
eockies envious in the record of a shorthorn cow
owned by A. J, Little, of Griffith (N.S.W.). I n four
years the lady has had seven calves, the last two lots
beipg twin heifers. Some of the descendants have
also already bred, making altogether 12 since the
first calf was dropped in February, 1915.
“Melos”: I can calm “A.W.0.” (B.
13/3/’l9) by assuring him that the young scorpion
arrives per egg, hatched within the parent’s body—.
ovoviviparous. Baby remains in the oviduct till it
acquires strength, when it comes forth. In the case
of cousin spider, ma puts her eggs in a dainty silk
bag, which is usually colored to harmonise with the
immediate surroundings, and allows the sun to do
the rest. And that reminds me. jDoes any Abo.-
unnaturalist know a more economical way of increasing
the birth-rate than that practised by an Alpine sala-
mander? Of 50 eggs which the oviducts of this
species may contain, only two are fertile; the balance
constitute the food-supply of the two young ’uns,
3’ “urging from the egg, remain in the
body of the parent until they have passed through
then metamorphosis.
* * *
Fanuela : Any new Abo.-writer met with
the am il-bird ? It is rather small, but very strong.
It whistles “The Village Blacksmith,” and at the
end of every line the sparks fly from its mouth.
Of eouise, all the old hands know its habits, but
loung uns should study them. They’re incompar-
able in a drought.
"•EG.” : Re echidnas or anteaters (B.
13/3/’l9). I caught a porky with a rabbit-trap that
was set on a white-ant, nest. When I arrived he had
dug a hole in the nest about a couple of feet deep,
and not a single ant was in sight, though they should
have been visible in millions. I won't swear that
they had all gone into my friend’s meat-case; maybe
some. of them went for their misspent lives, like
Premier Holman from the Melbourne influenza germ.
* * # *
“W.H.H.”: “Barcoo” (B. 13/8/19) dis-
plays a little of what he doesn’t know when he
states that a red snake is not to be found in N. S.
TV ales, but only in Queensland. I have found one
of that color at Tyalgum, 15 miles from Murwjl-
lumbah, North Coast.
LOVE’S VICISSITUDES.
“Didger ’ear Bill Jenkins’s missus 'as 'ad
triplets?"
“Yairs; I bin down to ’avc a look at 'em."
“Didger see 'em?”
“Nah! But I seen Bill."
“Garn! ’Ow wozzy?”
“Oh, just as drunk as could be expected!”
“Tidal Waters”: I was speaking to an old
gin about the rarity of twins amongst the blacks.
“Baal,” Said Mary; “that way no good—all same
Pig!”
(Continued on page 24.)
THIS DIVINE RIGHT.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Dio Crimes Committee of the Peace Conference
has adopted the report of the sub-committee, which
is to the effect that no criminal charges can be laid
against those responsible for the violation of TJcl-
g'lum and Luxemburg. The sub-committee also
recommends Unit the conference Should express its
condemnation of the Kaiser and his advisers.”
Struth I Strike me "an’somc, likewise pink an’
blue 1
i i this ain’t tii’ dead limit, lili be ’ung!
'11) Kaiser, bloody William, ’im we knew
Il.y cv’ry rotten name on ev’ry tongue,
1. can’t be punished,' so the paper says ;
They’re “recommendin' ” somethin’! Snare me days l
if I was slid, an’ pinched a loaf o’ bread,
l''i ffet a sixer, or at least a drag;
Tbit ’im, with crimes ’air of ’is ’ead,
'K’s scolded like a kid ’oo’s played th’ wag!
N't’ St- Helena, an’ no Devil's Isle,
No blanky boob at all—that ain’t ’is style.
I think of all the dinkum blokes I
tiood cobbers in th’ scrap, ’oo played*th’’game,
An some is smashed, an’ some gone west, a few
’ls ’ome. again, but none is quite th’ same.
An Kaisei Wilhelm in 'is palace grins,
W’ile sub-committees bleat about ’is sms:’
1 see a pitcher in a comic rag.
Made of a dear ole lady ’oo went crook
About th’ Kaiser, an’ I read th’ gag:
‘‘lf I’d my way, th’ wretch’d be well shook!”
That was jus’ kid-stakes t’ amuse a bloke,
But. this ’ere “reeommend’s” beyond a joke.
I read of ’ow ’is ’air is turnin’ w’ite,
An’ ’ow ’is mo is gettin’ outer twirl,
An' ’ow e chews th’ rag, or prays all night,
Or cries ’is eyes out like a little girl.
AH this sick twaddle gives, a bloke th’ ’ump,
An’ makes ’im jerry that ’e’s been a chump.’
An’ wot price me, wot sort of mug am I?
ibree years I faced th’ music over there,
M ith gas, an’ shells, an’ flamin’ death on ’igh,
An’ muck an’ torment round yer ev’ryw’ere.
1 ve done me dash, an’ done me job as well,
An’ lost a leg. They “recommends”—oh, Hell!
tf.s.w.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


SHILLING NOVELS.
Australian Novels by the Commonwealth’s Best Authors
Some years ago tlie N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., decided on the experi-
ment of publishing novels by Australian authors at popular prices.
The venture proved a success far beyond what the publishers had hoped.
The result has been that the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels
has surpassed all Australian publishing records —over 2,000,000 volumes
having been already sold.
Besides proving a profitable outlet for the Australian author, the Series
has provided the Australian reader with first-class Australian fiction.
During the past few years the Series has been considerably expanded
from a selection of many hundreds of new novels offered, while only
the best of the old novels have been kept in print.
So the “Bookstall” Series to-day comprises
One Hundred First-class Australian Novels.
All One Price: 1/- each; 1/U posted.
The cheapest anil best fiction obtainable on the bookstalls.
Ask to be shown “Bookstall” Novels, anil write the publishers for complete
free Catalogue.
JUST ADDED TD THE SERIES:
Novels by Two Very Popular Australian Authors
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
“SALLY.”
The tale of a “currency lass.” A great
story of the Macquarie days, giving an
accurate picture of those stirring days.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
“The Squatter’s Ward.”
An absorbing novel of adventure and
mystery in the Outback. Holds the
reader’s interest from the first page.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY
Do not faiJ to secure a copy of
The “Bookstall” Guide to Sydney
Revised, enlarged and brought right up to date. Contains everything a visitor wants
to know. All bookstalls.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
9
Made entirely
in Australia.
Packed always in
Red Boxes.
Prices —3/-. 5/-, 66,
10 6. 15/- and 25/-
Post Free to any
address in Australia.
162 Pitt Street, ,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. //
can
tadtff
the
V
JUST WHAT YOU REQUIRE!
2 inch inlay
of materia!
Sleeve
1
lifts
Split sleeve
Notice the
Set of cuff
m
Oxford Shirts
Absolutely the Best Shirt Value
in Australia to-day. You can
pay higher prices,,but you can-
not buy better Oxford Shirts.
Made in the Leviathan
Workrooms from the best
Egyptian - cotton —splendid
hard-wearing material. The
patterns embrace striped
effects of unusual attract-
iveness, woven into the clot'll
during manufacture. These
popular shirts are fitted
with stiff or‘gauntlet cuffs:
split sleeves which give cor-
rect set to cuffs always;
sleeve lifts that give “just
right length”; reinforced
inlay fronts, double the
wear. Sizes, 14in. to 18in.
neckbands.
Please state size of Collar worn
when ordering Oxford Shirts.
9/6 each (5 for 27/9)
j RETURNED SOLDIERS ALLOWED 10 PER CENT. OFF ALL MARKED PRICES, j
Men’s Winter Underwear.
Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets or Underpants; Winter weight, very soft
and warm, only small percentage of cotton, which increases the wearing' strength and stops
shrinkage, giving excellent service.
34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
11/6 12/6 13/6 14/6 15/6
All Pure Wool Singlets or Underpants, medium Winter weight, Australian wool,
non-irritating, comfortable in all weathers.
34in. BCin. 40in. 42in. 44in.
13/6 15/6 16/6 17/6
All Pure Wool Singlets or Underpants,, Winter weight, Australian wool of very
soft texture, warm and comfortable, gives splendid Service.
34in. 86in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
16/6 17/6 18/6 19/6 20/6
-
i
IMHytW
When ordering 1 please give Chest and Waist
Measurements, state Long- or Half-sleeve
Singlets.
SHOP BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE .
Lt**
EVIATNAN
Cor. Swanston & Bourke Streets. MELBOURNE
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
0
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
Some Splendid Double-sided
REGAL Records at 2/6 each.
6867
6885
7182
7224
6874
6883
6920
7218
7269
7217
6939
6925
6888
6847
6817
6809
6940
6745
\ Here We Are Again
(March: “Now, Are We AIL Here?”
j To .Arms, March
( Johnny O’Morgan, March
( 1916 Pantomime Hits, Part 1
( 1916*Pantomime Hits, Part 2
( 1916 Pantomime Hits, Part 3
( 1916 Pantomime Hits, Part 4
( Jerry Jinks, Scallywag, Part 1
( Jerry Jinks, Scallywag, Part 2
s Departure of Australian Troops for Front
(Arrival of Australian Troops in Egypt ...
( “Rosy Rapture” Selections, Part i
( “Rosy Rapture” Selections, Part 2
( The Village Wedding
( Waiting for the Early Doors
5 What You’ve Never Had
( Great Big Wonderful Baby
( Private Michael Cassidy, Part 1
( Private Michael Cassidy, Part 2
( The Modest Curate •
( Wondering Willie
( The Four-foot-ten Brigade
( The Constant Dover
( Patriotic Patrick Muldoon
( Sing a Song About a Sailor
\ I Want to Go to Michigan
( Beautiful Baby Doll
(Are We Downhearted? No!
(Bravo Territorials
f The Eads in Navy Blue
( We Didn’t Want to Eight
( Somewhere a Voice is Calling
( Sleep and the Roses
f The Sunshine of Your Smile
( The Woman Thou Gavest Me
King’s Military Band
King’s Military Band
King’s Military Band
King’s Military Band
Silver Stars Band
Silver Stars Band
Band of 11.M. Scots Guards-
Band of H.M. Scots Guards
Descri ptive
! Descriptive
Descriptive
Descriptive
Regal Orchestra
Regal Orchestra
Descriptive 1
Descriptive
... ]•’. \Y. Ramsey, baritone
.. F. W. Ramsey, baritone
Jack Norworth
.Jack Norworth
Walter Walters
Walter Walters
Harrison Da timer, baritone
William Thomas, tenor
.. Stanley Kirkby, baritone
... I’? W. Ramsey, baritone
... F. W. Ramsey, baritone
.. F. W. Ramsey, baritone
Harrison Latimer, baritone
Harrison Latimer, baritone
Harrison Latimer, baritone
.. Stanley Kirkby, baritone
Robert Adams, tenor
Robert Adams, tenor
• •• William Thomas, tenor
Robert Adanfs, tenor
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR “REGAL” RECORDS— *
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonoja, Etc!.. Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., anti TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertlieim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street. Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King anti King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd.. Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Banhatyne & Hunter, Ltd.. Wakefield & Allen Sts.’
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 343 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


THE DUPABLE
TMO£ rVAP K
DURABESTOS
The great difficulty in procuring the many kinds of Building Materials
m the various trades and the skilled labor required is a serious
problem for the Home Builder.
DURABESTOS, the ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEETS and SLATES,
lias solved this problem for building the home with the very least of expert attention.
t . rades “ an can are< ?t a DURABESTOS Building. So sturdy, so simple, that it gives the utmost good wear—
jear in and year out that it is indeed “The Durable,” because of its satisfying Reliability and Permanence.
Booklets describing the method of walling and roofing with Durabestos, together with samples, post free.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Manufacturers,
Head Offices Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W. Postal Address: Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
56 Pitt St..
SYDNEY.
243 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
Currie St.,
ADELAIDE.
Lord St.,
PERTH.
Amelia St.,
BRISBANE.
Macquarie St
HOBART.
St. John St.,
LAUNCESTON.
“Gleniris”: Oh, but “J.G.” (B. 13/3/T9)
is quite wrong. He must be. Birds are not killed,
in Victoria, at least, by poisoned bait laid for rab-
bits. The Vermin Destruction branch says so.
“J.G.” saw “hundreds of birds” killed by bait laid
in accordance with the instructions of his district
vermin-inspector. No, no! The whole thing was
long ago threshed out, the rabbit authorities proving
conclusively that a magpie or jackass or other insect-
killer wouldn’t touch a rabhit-bait, no matter how
juicy a morsel it appeared. The birds seen by
“J.G.” and hundreds of other poison-layers are hard
to explain, of course, and the Vermin people are
quite satisfied not to try.
* * * *
“Salt Bush”: Nobody in these parts (Mur-
chison, W.A.) will agree with “Paul Cupid” that
rabbits have a thirst-resistance worth mentioning.
Last summer we had unusual rains, and a big in-
crease in the cotton-tails quickly followed. The
past nine months, however, have been practically
rainless, and all the natural water-basins have
become as dry as a mine-worker waiting on Sunday
morning for the policeman and the publican to
agree about the division of the profit. As a con-
WARNED IN
TIME.
GEANDAD : “Tommy,
your mother tells
me you refused
to kiss nurse
good-night. Why
was that?"
TOMMY: “I saw
father try to kiss
her the other day, and he got his ears
boxed."
sequence the bush is “alive wid dead rabbits.” On
the other hand the emu, the ’roo and the birds of
the air are, so far, looking well and cheerful. I
know one station-owner, at least, with good wells
and an abundance of dry feed, who would not at all
mind the dry spell lasting a bit longer, as he finds
it the best rabbit exterminator.
“Me”: The insect that committed a feloni-
ous attack on a spider, as described by “Cecil D.”
(E. 13/3/’l9), is the robber fly, a particularly
aggressive bandit, somewhat like the common pest,
but much larger and decorated with a red spot on
the abdomen. It preys on bees, chiefly those home-
ward bound with a full cargo, and other insects, first
bayoneting them into submission and then absorbing
their contents. The redeeming feature about the
robber is his enthusiasm in strafing the cockchafer-
beetle.
“Kirton”: About that 3Gin. netting as a
rabbit barrier. I’ve never seen the pussies jump it,
but I’ve watched them climbing over it. Also, I’ve
seen them ascending trees. While on a tour in
the Western Darling country during the recent
dry spell I discovered hundreds in shrubs, seven or
eight feet from the ground.. All round were bushes
trimmed clean of every vestige of bark and foliage.
“U.P.”: Has this little lady put up a
record ? Tiny, a mare owned and bred by H. J.
Mortimer, of Waikerie, on the Murray (S.A.), has
her 15th foal at foot. Mamma is 19 years old;
she first assumed the responsibility of a family at
three years, and has missed adding to it in only one
year since. She stands 12 hands high on her shoes.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: What Australian tree pro-
duces the coolest shade ? The Moreton Bay fig and
the Moreton Bay chestnut are pretty good, but I
plunge heavily for the beautiful weeping-fig of tropi-
cal Bananaland. Under it the fiercest argument
would solidify in about two minutes. For the native
tree which gives the least shade, my tickets are on
the muzzlewood. Anyone seeking shade under a
muzzlewood-tree would use wire-netting as a mos-
quito-net.
* * * *
“Gouger”: An old Brazilian explained to
me that in his country men plant their new knives
up to the haft in a banana-tree. When withdrawn
a week later the blade is covered with a black acid,
which in some way is absorbed into the steel.
Should this knife eventually perform the work God
made it for, i.e., to stick in the ribs of an enemy,
that enemy’s time has come. Should a thrust make
only a scratch, the banana juice will cause the cut
to form a spreading, festering sore. The old
Brazilian derived much pleasure from the fact that
there are banana-trees iri the world.
“Machete”: If “D.F.,” who has never
caught the echidnas eating ants and has never
found traces of ants in their stomachs, had lived
in country dotted with the ordinary red-ant hill he
would have noticed that 20 per cent, of the eleva-
tions had been burrowed into by some powerful-
clawed animal. The porcupine is the responsible
party. If “D.F.” wishes to be certain about it
let him try a steak from the first “porky” he comes
across. If he doesn’t get the concentrated essence
of a million ants on hjs palate I am willing to
eat the rest of the beast raw.
“G.0.D.”: “Doxite” (B. 20/2/T9) wants
to know a sure remedy for “shearer’s backache.”
Here’s the best I can do. “The
Rover” and I had palled it in
the tJ.S.A. for about three years.
He had been a shearer in the
Riverina (N.S.W.) prior to
1900, and then retired because
the backache toppled him over
notwithstanding liis 200 pounds
of hard solid Irish-Australian
flesh. In U.S. Henry Ford gave
him a job, and he got mixed up
with a lot of cranky vege-
tarians, and I was one of ’em.
We decided to travel by the
hobo route when we next heard
the call of the kookaburra, but
we got hauled off the rods at a
miserable little village in
Nevada. Happening to hear
that shearing was in full swing
five mile 3 away we investigated.
There was one spare pen. “The
Rover” took it with some mis-
givings, and the first day, with
hand-shears, he peeled 149
tough-looking brutes, which was
close up to a shed-record for
those parts. Next day he did
half a dozen more than his pre-
vious effort, again ringing the
shed, and when they trotted out
the easy ones he tang the bell
with 15 dozen, and went to a
dance which lasted until 4 a.m.
I left him still going strong
shearing the whiskers off the
old he-rams at top speed. For
three years prior to our hobo
stunt that bloque never touched
meat or white bread or his for-
merly beloved tea, existing
chiefly on milk, eggs, fruit, cheese and brown bread
as coarse as gravel.
* » * *
“Boko” :Re abo. twins. I know of only
one lot actually reared—Rosie and Elsie, daugh-
ters of Tim King, of Sandilands, and his wife Sally.
Both girls were married to Towyan, a Wooroowoolgen
stockman, who also held a record as being the only
abo. known with certainty to have committed sui-
cide. He cut his throat on the morning of one of
the big sales which disposed of the station herd
prior to the cutting up of the estate.
BUSINESS.
HE ( rapturously ): “ Darling, I'd die for you!”
SHE (a life-insurance agent’s daughter): “Would you, dear?”
HE (madly) : “Yes, I’d die for you gladly.”
SHE (briskly): “Wait a minute till I call father in.”
“A. E. Yarra” pronounces a benediction :
A donk is a quadruped with the head of an ass,
the legs of a cow, the tail of a zebra, the bodv'of a
wether, the temperament of a bookmaker. These
are the gifts of nature. Bestowed on him by the
army are the kicks, curses and whacjdngs of the
recruit and tho fervid blessings of the seasoned
drivers. He is the most cantankerous, the most
patient, the hardest-kicking' and the most dependable
of all long-eared creatures. You may depend on
him to lame you or your horse, eat -.your rations,
wade through a bog with a pack-load, pull your
limber (with or without the gun) out of a quagmire,
or roll in the mud the moment you cease your two
hours’ grooming - . And if you don’t like the sergeant-
major all you have to do is to engage him in
conversation within reach of a donlc, and the donk
will send him to hospital first try.
He’s a most accomplished animal: he can kick you
on the shins with his hind feet while you are stand-
ordinary day he can stretch an ordinary neck two
inches beyond the utmost you can stretch with the
bridle, whether you be four feet six or six feet four,
After you have carried a couple of ammunition-cases
from the dump through the mud_ and have climbed
on to them in triumph, he can judge the psycholo-
gical moment when you are saying “Got you this
time,” and with exactly the necessary amount of
pull on the wire picquet-rope he can tip over the
boxes and drop you in the mud. His whole expres-
sion then says: “Life without a joke would be in-
sufferable.”
You see him eating hay in long lines by the road-
side in France, where the columns are camped in the
mud, and the only time you can tell him from the
mud is when there is a heap of hay or a new nose-
ba £ unde r his long head.
Conclude your remarks to a donk with an angry
punch on his most reachable part, and the bony
corner knocks the skin off your knuckles. Make a
frenzied kick at the beast and he neatly side-
steps the issue, ancf you find yourself on your
back in the same mudbank from which you have
just fished the beast. While you withdraw vourself
from the mud with a squeege and a plonk, as a
cork comes from a bottle, he wanders to the
entrance of your dugout, upsets the steel helmet con-
taining your issue of water, eats your only tube of
tooth-paste, pulls the clean shirt from the line into
the mud, and, as you charge down upon him, he is
calmly engaged in scattering your scanty allowance
ol coal-dust to the four winds of Heaven.
Then you lead him back to his mates an,d put
oats, 'and fig? because' itta not pmssTc® acfd. ° f
jj u t ; r
Take two donks and a set of harness and hook them
into the lead of a team with a load for the line
when the road is busy and you’re used to the more
highly-strung servant of war—the horse. The
t cil ' C "™ St ‘T eS
distressing to a horse. The donk, on the other
hand, thinks of nothing but the nosebag, filled with
oats, that will be waiting at the end of the trip.
Pull up at the ammunition-dump, where the noise
and the crush would mean that you must stand at
the head of a horse to prevent a bolt. The donks
' lr °p their hins, lop their ears, utter a weird, ghoul-
“ke “hee-haw—hawnk!” and fall into a profound
slumber while the load is being arranged,
Climb into your saddle and prod tho offisider vigor-
oudy with the toe of your boot and head them in
direction of the guns and you can hardly stop
them without a winch. Cannons may roar; lights
may flash; bombs explode; shells burst; souls go
VV meet thpir Maker. On plods the donk and
* IIS never a look to the right or left,
P Pv er a flick of the long ear or a lift of the great,
head. Nothing short of a direct hit will
interfere with his determination to make the fastest
possd-’lc pace to the guns and back to the nose-bag.
Good old donk .
* * * *
“Oven”: The “blackfellows’ ovens” which
are pretty common about the edges of the swamp
JT. »!” e ■», No Tr
* iave 31101 e than an antiquarian value. It has been
found that these ashes of cooking fires and the burnt
earth are better stuff for roads than almost any-
thing in this stoneless country. Spread out on top
0 f the mud when it is wet they set hard, and give
a ? , e^ c 1 e . Uen * au . tace f °r b ght traffic - A fe ' v s *ray
hlackfellows knives and axes are about the only
stones to be found over hundreds of miles,
* * * *
< <T r- * , • , t> m ■> m \
‘Kobbi”: A dairy cow at Baffle Creek (Q.)
recently gave birth to a bull-calf distinctly ear-
marked on both listeners. The mark is a half-
circle nick on the ear-tips, the nick being haired
similar to the outer edge of the ear. Cattlemen
say that it isn’t exactly a rare thing for calves
, , , ... .. ; , .. s , , ,
. )e h° rn W]tb kbe earmark of sire or dam; but
“ lls one upsets all their calculations by bearing
the mark of a stock-breeder between whose beasts
and the dairy-cow there is no traceable connection,
# * »
“Wandi” : Of all travelling tradesmen, with
the possible exceptions of carpenter and tinker, the
blacksmith most to do on thp f „ r nllf
Wac^ mlttl hnda ™ dst . tO . d 0 the far_out tracks ’
a . 1S most likely to strike a permanent job
either at a squattage or in a township. He has
been the foundation of more than one town. Some-
times he sets up for himself in a small township,
perhaps with the assistance of the storekeeper and
thd p , ublican ’ both ° f "hom recognise the trade
advantages of having a smithy in such a place. He
ma Y st art in an old shed, or rig up a forge under a
few sheets of iron. If sufficient work doesn’t come
to him after a fair trial he will pack up again,
but if he can knock out a living wage he will con-
tinue to bang the anvil into prosperous times, and
~ , ~ ° ’. ,
the humble establishment will gradually grow into
the usual ramshackle blacksmiths shop. Many a
flourishing business commenced like this.
“I LAY, I LAY!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sport can’t be stopped. As well essay
To stop the growth of taxes,
Or this distracted globe delay
In turning on its axis.
Though ’flu may close the playhouse and
The movie exhibition,
For sport we stand—on with the grand
Egg-laying competition!
Racecourses, pubs, department-stores—•
Though these may be shut down on,
With everything that sundry bores
And whiskered wowsers frown on,
Are we downhearted? No! we wait
Our joy of joys’ fruition,
Serenely and elate, the great
Egg-laying competition!
VICTOIMA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


iiiiliiiiiilllH
i;»imn?ni<
liiiiiiii!
11l
Hiiiii
■
ilii
11l
;rf.
.
■s
WSBBBBH
m
llliiiiliiiiiililllilHili!!!!
I
jr
J
f
;
m
Illustration shows actual
section of a 135 m/m. Cover
i
Motorists like this Cover.
We said they would —when after exhaustive
and satisfactory tests it was first listed. It
has made good in a remarkable manner, its
great wearing qualities being quickly appre-
ciated by motorists. The great demand for
these dependable Australian-made :: :: ::
affords proof that they are giving splendid
service and value. These distinctive and fine
looking Covers are now seen everywhere,
doing great work, economically and with
certainty. The continual call by our agents for
more “ Railroads” is the best evidence that they
jare pleasing users. Have you tried them?
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
(Founders : of. the Pneumatic (Tyre Industry).
ALL STATES
AND N.Z.


BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
IS THE FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
COUGHS, GROUP AND GOLDS.
iHOSE who have had occasion to take Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure are
a'stonished at its Wonderful Healing Power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Pain or Soreness in the
Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness,
Asthma, experience delightful and rapid relief. This
medicine is particularly valuable to those who are sub-
ject to Colds on the Chest, as it Strengthens the Lungs,
and renders them less susceptible. It is most comfort-
ing in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice, and for this reason is thoroughly
appreciated by Clergymen, Public Speakers and
Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become
Chronic, and in this respect is absolutely indis-
pensable in preventing a cold from developing
into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy,
or Consumption. No house should be with-
out a bottle of this Wonderful Remedy, as
taken at the first indication of a Cold, a
dose or two is generally sufficient. A
Cold should always be “nipped in the
hurt " nr sprinns illnc>£<; mav fnllnvu
■xtm
/’WS*
--
l
“ An Excellent
Preparation.”
/A
Delightfully
Soothing.”
\
I L
Ki
m
as
c KWMI.tr.- -SMITW-
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size).
Sold by all RELIABLE
CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable locally, send
direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Branch Offices at |
Sydney, n.s.w.; Wellington, x.z.
Australia. And it has certainly been true
of Britain in the past:
When troubles rise and War is nigh,
God and the Soldier is the cry;
When War is o’er and trouble righted,
God is forgotten and the Soldier slighted.
In Elizabeth’s day the maimed or sick Sol-
dier had a statutory right to a pension,
though that word was not then employed.
Centralised government had not been de-
veloped, so the relief was in the hands of
the ‘parishes, “The parishioners agreed
among themselves as to the amount of the
taxation they should bear” —within certain
prescribed limits either way—“or it was
settled by the churchwardens and constables,
or in default by the Justices of the Peace.
On refusal to pay there was a right to dis-
train. The money was paid to the High
Constable and by him to two Justices of the.
Peace who were elected treasurers.” And
the treasurers, "according to the nature of
his hurt and the commendation of his ser-
vices,” made the soldier or sailor a tem-
porary grant until the next Quarter Ses-
sions, when his pension right was de-
clared once for all. Then came the
Civil War, and the whole system went
into the pot. Cromwell’s Parliament found
that private charity was inadequate, and
took into “pious and charitable con-
sideration” the necessities not only of
maimed and sick soldiers but, for the first
time, of widows and orphans also. Here
was employed, for the first time also, appa-
rently, the word “pension” in connection
with this form of compensation or relief.
But Cromwellian finance was lamentably
weak ; and soon it was reported that pen-
sions were unpaid “insomuch that some have
been starved ; others have attempted to de-
stroy themselves; and many are daily likely
to perish, through imprisonment, hunger,
cold and nakedness.” Yet nothing was done
to put relief on a proper footing; and from
that time down to the present the soldier
has not had his pension as of right, but has
been dependent upon “the Royal bounty.”
Naturally enough, seeing that the founda-
tion for the pension was thus all wrong, the
administration was all wrong also. The
man could uot come into a court to assert
his rights, because lie had none. “His uot
to reason why. his but to do and die” —the
military mind insisted upon this off the field
as well as on it. Even in Australia, where
the soldier has fairly well defined legal
rights, this paper was at one time actually
stopped by the military censorship from urg-
ing that lawyers who were eager to do their
bit should be permitted to appear before
Pension Courts and there represent the in-
terests of sick or wounded men. In Eng-
land, oven during a great part of the recent
war, men’s pension claims were determined
on the papers of the Medical Board ; and the
same practice seems to be largely followed
in Australia. Yet if the cases heard by the
English Appeal Tribunal showed one thing
more than another it was this: that the
papers were frequently utterly misleading.
“Although,” these members of the tribunal
say, “a man may make a statement before a
■Medical Board, there is nothing to direct
that this statement shall he recorded.”
The medical side of the Australian Defence
Department has throughout been almost
entirely unsatisfactory; and it is so still.
Other activities of the Department have been
into; this one has been neglected,
apparently because it was not directly con-
cerned with the handling of money, But it
has wasted vast sums; and, what is even
worse, there is still a wicked disregard for
the well-being of wounded and sick men.
There ought to be an investigation ; and it
ought to be wide enough to take in the
administration of pensions. The history of
these things shows how thoroughly military
traditions are in conflict with modern
thought; and that alone is sufficient reason
why this branch of our Defence business
should have the light of frequent independent
inquiry thrown upon it.
The Inky Way
Staff-sergeant Chamberlain, a well-known
Adelaide pressman and tenor singer, is in
charge of the A.I.F. Education Service
Journal, the first issue of which was lately
published in London.
W. A. W. Wathen. recently dead, was
born in Launceston (Tas.) 69 years ago,
and fpF most of his life followed the Inky
Way in Maoriland. A few years ago he
returned and settled down in his home town,
and became the Speck’s most consistent
writer of letters “To the Editor.” No matter
what subject was uppermost he always
weighed in with a philippic which mentioned
(he Pope of Rome and the wicked Social-
ists, They were his winning “double” in an
argument. But he so consistently got hold
of the wrong end of the point at issue that
one opponent told him his initials,
W.A.W,W.. stood for “Wrong, Always
Wrong, Wathen.”
“Effem”’; As “N” has pleaded, we need
some authority, even if only in the interests
of common decency, to control the erection
of soldiers’ memorials. In front of the
public school at Miranda (N.S.W.) is a
statue of a Digger caught, one gathers, in a
moment of acute intestinal trouble—the
work, I believe, of a kindly amateur. The
memorial is equally unworthy of the names
inscribed, the country and the school-kiddies
whose pennies paid to have the thing set up.
In this matter, at least, we must protect pos-
terity from kindly amateurs.
To show what a literary nation we are
a whole £6 has been blewed on home-made
books for Australia House library, although
£lOOO for a carpet is a trifle. Amongst the
25 volumes purchased is one each from the
pens of Victor Daley, Henry Lawson, Will
Ogilvie, C. J. Dennis, A. L. Gordon,
“Banjo” Paterson, Will Lawson, Barcroft
Boake. Bernard O’Dowd, Brunton Stephens,
E. J. Brady, Barbara Baynton and George
Essex Evans. William Webster’s poems
are not included, but perhaps he’s going to
England to attend to the matter personally.
Within 400 yards or so of Australia House
there is a collection of which all Concerned
may very well be proud. The British Aus-
tralasian runs a book-store in High Holborn
—with that good Australian and good Aus-
tralian writer, Agnes Grant Rosmarn in
charge—and you’ll not find a fuller cata-
logue of Australian literature in any ware-
house in the Commonwealth.
John Fairfax made the S. M. Herald.
He laid down the lines on which it was to
run, and it never got off them. In his day
Dr. Lang was its aeutest critic. “The pre-
sent proprietors of this paper,” he wrote,
“are Messrs. Kemp and Fairfax, the former
a High Church Puseyite, the latter a deacon
among the Independents, but both unedu-
cated and mercenary men, who have no idea
beyond that of gain and who have uniformly
been opposed to everything like popular free-
dom and the rights of men. Their principal
writer for many years past has been the
Rev. Ralph Mansfield, a Wesleyan preacher.”
Before the Kemp-Fairfa-x regime (which,
soon changed to the Fairfax regime) the
paper had been more skittish. It reported
the police court like this:—
William Yellow, as blael: as charcoal, tipped up
five lilly vites to save himself from being raised in
the world.
Charlotte Swivel, for being in an elegant resort,
discussing a divided kidney and a glass of gin twist,
was consigned to “the mother of maids” for one
month.
The goldfields quickly put the paper on its
feet and sent John Fairfax off to England
in the early ’fifties to pay the debts he had
left behind him after he and his paper had
come to grief at Leamington, in Warwick-
shire.
Bernard Cronin in his defence :—•
“S.T.S.” (B. 20/3/’l9) asks a question and then
proceeds to take me to task for making use of what he
calls American dialect ih the writing of “The Coast-
landers.” By “dialect” I presume “S.T.S.” means
slang: there is not an ounce of dialect in the whole
book. “S.T.S.” might ask himself if it is not true
that such expressions as he quotes are in evidence
all around him. The conversation of Young Aus-
tralia is interlarded with the Americanisms of whicli
he complains. I confess to the use of American slang
myself; the men with whom I work make use of it;
the man in the street uses it. Even our mpssenger-
boy swears through his young nose; and when the
office cat sneezes it sounds like an American verb
cotnmifting suicide. For good or ill (decidedly for
ill) our vernacular is under the influence of Yankee
slang. And that being so, I hold I am justified in
that much fact into what is confessedly
fiction. As regards “S.T.S.’s” closing inquiry, I beg
leave to state that I did not “select Tasmania for
that kind of talk.” Tasmania selected itself. The
lingo was there when I “hit” the Island 17 years ago.
“Jean Sibi”: Reg S. Ellery (B. 27/3/’l9)
quite incorrectly, I think, labels Gautier as
“decadent.” Gautier was essentially a
romantic, whose headlong and hearty in-
terest in romantic adventure flamed into
grandiose visions revealed in scented and
sonorous words. Probably the ineffable
eroticism of his fancy and the felicity and
daring of his inventive faculty are respon-
sible for the quaint suburban superstition
ment his decadent nature. Yet the most
..udacious book he wrote, “Mademoiselle de
Vfaupin,” is merely a study in ornate sexu-
ality that is just as agreeable a moral stim-
ulant as Flaubert’s “Madame Bovary,”
Serao’s “Fantasy,” or many another amor-
ous novel that is saved by its realism from
a decadent intention. As for the picaresque
yarn, “Captaine Fragasse” and the beautiful
“Roman de la Momie,” not to mention that
exquisite piece of writing, “La Morte
Amoureuse,” they are mostly innocent of the
"sordid, morbid, artificial and grotesque”
effects which Reg S. Ellery loosely regards
as the stigmata of literary decadence. But,
after all, what is a “decadent”? In France
the word is applied to a school of literature
without any implication of moral oppro-
brium. Briefly, the term is a definition, not
a defamation, of character. In England the
word has a mostly Wesleyan significance. It
is a mid-Victorian sound applied to anybody
who does not write like Dickens or ‘think
like the Archbishop of Canterbury. With
the chaste sneer of “Decadent!” the average
English person quarantines his mind against
the influence of any writer who threatens
to make him shudder or weaken his moral
fibre. It is for that reason that such a con-
summate artist as Edgar Allan Poe is away
behind Felicia Hemans and Miss Braddon
in English estimation.
MR. DENNIS.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
There’s a certain Mr. Dennis
Who is raking in the pennies
By the simple art of writing what the public knows
as “pomes.”
You will find him in the trenches,
On the workers’ bunks and benches,
And up and down the country in a million happy
homes.
The betting twelve to ten is
We shall hear of Mr. Dennis
When the other writers round him to oblivion are
hurled,
For —I say it to his glory—
When he tells the old, old story
He can tell it like a Master in a way that wins
the world.
Hats off to Mr. Dennis!
Though his progress be a menace
To the premier position of the poets of the past,
We can hardly fail to greet hiir.
In whatever book we meet him,
For he builds on sure foundations with materials
that last.
SCOTLAND.
W. H. O.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Sydney Telegraph advt.: —■
Girls for peeling and bottling. Crown Condiments,
Annandale.
Pickled maid for breakfast. So this is what
the surplusage of marriageable girls has
brought us to, is it?
* * * *
An Australian record was established by
Dalgety’s at Geelong (Vic.), when a line of
comeback wool from Goodwood station, in
the Warrnambool district, brought 30Jd. per
lb.
** . *
“Two Star" ; The Boche may hate us, but
lie c-an't see dirt on our money. As soon as
the armistice was signed he rushed to Bel-
gium large-quantities of Allied flags, includ-
ing Australian and American, and sold them
at fabulous protit. That’s how tfib people of
Mons and Brussels were able to welcome the
Allies' with such a brave show of joyous
bunting.
The Vic. railways have decided to take a
tip from Private Enterprise. In Canada the
C.P.R. runs not only its own refreshment-
rooms but also its own pubs in most big
towns; and in England and Scotland nearly
every big city outside the capital has its
railway-station hotel. A few years ago the
N. S. Wales Railway Department decided
to go this far—it would take over and run
its own refreshment-rooms; and now Vic.,
having watched the results, is following
suit.
“Olnio”: It was a bearded stranger who
pushed himself into the ve;:Aul<» of Bris-
bane Stock Exchange on morning.
One of the stewards went forward K interview
the_visitor. “I’ve lost a bay horse branded
DPS,” he said, “and I’m looking for him.”
The steward said he didn’t know anything
about it. One of the members stepped up to
help. “I’m from Beerburrum,” the bushman
explained, “and I’ve lost a horse branded”
“But,” said the member, “what do you
want?” “Well,” said the man from Beer-
burrum, “a bloke tol’ me about the Stock
Exchange and reckoned you’d likely know
somethin’ about my horse. He was a bay,
branded DPS. If you could”
* * * *
“Senex”: The poem (B. 13/2/’l9) on
Chinese beef reminds me. I was mate of a
tramp that took case-oil to Taku Bar
(Tientsin) hack in 1908. Wo found at
the Bar the cheapest food in the world.
Our ship lay 11 miles off the land, in 3£
fathoms, and the compradore’s boat had to
come from 12 miles up-river, or 23 miles in
all. Yet the stuff was delivered aboard at
the following rates: Beef lfd. per lb.,
ducks and fowls 31d. a pair, geese 3d. each
and eggs (hold your breath, housewives!)
9d. psr hutndred, and never a bad one
among ’em. The place was no pleasure
resort, though. Every time the wind blew
off the land it brought along the most varied
assortment of horrible vermin to be seen
anywhere; small scorpions, winged atroci-
ties of about 50 different species and
swarms of that dreadful insect the flying
bug. All this in addition to the selection
carried by the Chinese stevedores.
* * * *
“Copabella”: The chemists’ wages deter-
mination promulgated in Victoria has hit the
grocers in a tender spot. The patdnt-medi-
cine business is a very big thing nowadays,
and it has been a debatable point between
chemists and grocers whether in selling such
goods the grocer was encroaching on the
chemist’s preserves or vice versa. Time was
when all "patents” were regarded by chem-
ists in England as “quack remedies” and
anathema. But their sale is at any rate re-
munerative, and the pharmacist is now glad
to handle the profits, even though dubious
about the recipes. The grocer says: “No.
we launched them on the tide of success —you
keep off!” and cuts prices. Thus it comes
about that Mother Sneezer’s Nostrum,
branded Is. 9d. a bottle —a fair thing in
chemist calculations for a ninepenny product
—is retailed at lOfd. or three for Is. Bid.,
the grocers pooling orders in order to secure
a 10 p.c. discount for taking a hogshead.
Now the Wages Board has fixed the chemist’s
basic wage at 7s. 6d. a week over the grocer’s,
and the pillmen hope to get back some of
their own. The handing out of a bottle of
eucalyptus, a box of Twistem's Pills or a
pound of soda bicarb, will constitute the
seller a chemist under the award, and en-
titled, if a grocer’s assistant, to an extra Is.
3d. per day. Fancy-goods shops, fun by
flapper assistants at pocket-money wages,
also handle “patents” at cut-rates. They,
too, will be affected. Such stores generally
overcome the'diffieulty of selling their wages-
awarded goods—those classed as ironmongery
and jewellery-—by entrusting this duty solely
to the manager, who gets a decent salary.
But as “awarded” lines increase mixe’d-shop
managers are likely to be overworked.
THE WET'S SON.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The day on which the boy was born
The poet whispered ■: “See,
This is my son! Here is the mom!
A new day breaks for me!
“He shall be one to boldly cry
A message to all men;
He shall succeed for ruth where I
Drove but a halting pen.
“My boy shall speak with such a voice
Of mastery that they
Who hear at noon shall have no choice
But swiftly to obey.
“The careless men shall hear his call
Above the clangor made
By whirring loom, and mill, and all
The tumult that is trade.”
It was a prophet spake. To-day
One in the street 1 heard,
And old and young from work and play
Were heedful of his word.
His tongue was forceful as the gale ;
His bell moved every one.
He called the people to a sale.
He was the poet’s son!
VICTORIA.
E. D.


llllllllllltHllllllllllllllllUllllCfllllllHlillllim
•■la
SlfiSsi
.' v
am
tt*.
co
mm,
//l/i/m/nnnin)
mnrrmmn,Jj
{/jam
k
dpi*'- tki*
t«yw*», -•
‘' !*<•**
•#y*SPsss
as
v
2
f:
■-M
s: a
: ~
'
Kf//
I -
v?If»
4 J V*V J
'' i-|\y iii u u >uv^ f^p 1
i
‘M
TJllrhiimiiiilllliiiU
IfWirmiwutlffl!,
'
J
\
»<• »«* iiiiyif *ai« mmtitiiiiiiiiiitti
rrrr
m
Some of
ihelypes of
3
iydfoe
General Electric
iii|«saa»w
SEND US YOUR ENQUIRIES EOR ALL TYPES
OF WIRES CABLES AND WINDING WIRES.
jiaiaiiVi
Wentworth Avenue
SVD/SJEY
Cr. of Queen © Little Collins Sts.
MELBOURNE


Saunders’ Writing Attache Case, cortiplete with Writing
Requisites and large-size Blotter, £2.
Others,* 30/-, 35/“, 45/-, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Xylonite Hair Brush, finest-
quality bristles, 2©/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
\
A. Saunders* 1 teal Morocco Leather Motor Bag,
double b mdles, leather-lined, 21 /-
Others, 8/«j, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Canteen, containing 6 Table Knives,
6 Dessert Knives, 6 Table Forks, 6 Dessert Forks, S-piece
Carving Set, finest-quality Sheffield Steel, £5/5/-
%
/
a
w
13
A. Saunders’ Enamelled Iron Clock, 8-day movement, porcelain dial, richly decorated,
bronze fittings, strikes hours and half-hours on deep-tone gong, £3/5/-
With visible escapement, £3/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805=815 George Street
(Opp. Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Dressing Case, fitted with every convenience, in
Leather Case, £4/4/- Others, £2, £2/5/-, £2/10/-, £3.
A. Saunders’ Kit Bag, Steel Fittings, Cloth-.
lined. 12in., 21/»; 14in., 24/*} 16in.,
27/6} ISin., 31/-
m
Ml
«i *
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Ebony Brush Set, Sterling
Silver Shields, finest-quality bristles, in solid
Leather Case, 30 /-
Mills rs’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We g upply—
J ARK AH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards* etc.
PINNE US’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEER’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PSDTT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
SAVOY HOTEL,
Hay Street, Perth, West Australia.
PERTH’S LEADING HOTEL.
Recommended to Visitors from Eastern States.
Tariff: £4/4/- per week, 12/0 per da/.
J. M. QUIGLEY, Manager.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to-day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
the married, or those in-
tending TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the woi'ld.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
11917’ ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola's including Nana, 2/- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1,'6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Klocutionist,
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Ilepnnts
(send for list). Joys op Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career op Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science op Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How-
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/’2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
tcS Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Rf.ady Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/'-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PAYING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads, (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- lOO New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its CURE, 1/2 posted Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus.,
leather bound, mv price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing 2/3 Dynamos and Electric Motors, 2/3.
Moore’S Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
rp W T, Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Lf of Reason, by Paine, 1/8 posted. Rasputin,
fc MonK Evil V o*,>■>«•«»•!»££ T»;
ss"?/- toft & “>n
S., s- pSed. The W Nek, 2/.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 §69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
m-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH ,-®<l


REXONA SOAP
For SKIN 8 SCALP TROUBLES
MISS RENE MURPHY
{from a photo by Monte Luke.)
I suppose you are quite tired of hearing
how much appreciated your beautiful Rexona
Soap is, biit I must make another of the
many who write Rexona claiming the right
of club membership. There is nothing like
Rexona Soap—it reigns alone. For hair, com-
plexion, hands and teeth it is unequalled.
Shall I be asking too much if I ask a Rex-
ona badge? Several of my girl friends wear
them, and I would like one.
I remain, yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) RENE MURPHY.
if
m
LITTLE ALMA MATCHETT
(from a photo).
EXONA SOAP makes you proud of your complexion.
There can be no luxury to a woman equal to the
consciousness that her complexion is clear, fresh
and delicately radiant. To keep it so no amount
of cosmetics can equal the regular use of such a
soap as Eexona Soap, which thoroughly cleanses,
and at the same time has just the right soothing, healing action
to maintain the natural health and beauty of the skin. Eexona
Soap cleanses the pores, removes excess oils, cools and clarifies an
angry skin.
HAIR WISDOM.
There is nothing that you can do to preserve the hair more than
to use the greatest care with the soap which you use as a shampoo.
Eexona Soap cleanses the hair and scalp thoroughly, its copious,
lasting lather absorbs the dirt, and then rinses out easily and com-
pletely. As it contains no uncombined alkali, it does not injure
the hair, as so many other soaps do, nor make it brittle, and it does
not destroy the scalp’s natural secretions; instead, after a shampoo
with Eexona Soap, the hair dries soft, fluffy and silky, for a
Eexona Soap shampoo puts it in the condition which makes for
continued health and beauty. Price 1/- per tablet.
REXONA—the Aristocrat of Soaps.
SB
&<. FACXAV.
BtfRfcSHING SOOTHING
' HtAUHC ANTIStPfIC SOAP
®§feC.; MEDICATED OH THE SAME PRINCIPLE
-AS tHE FAMOUS REXONA OINTMENT
>itt?irmrii»isa
REXONA-the King of Ointments
I feel very grateful to Rexona for the way
it cured my daughter Alma of a troublesome
rash, that I feel I must write you. The rash
she suffered with was very bad indeed, and
I tried everything I could think of to belli
her, but nothing seemed to do her any
good until a friend of mine recom-
mended me to try Rexona Soap and
Rexona Ointment. I did so and am very
thankful that I did, for the result was magi-
cal. She was better immediately after I com-
menced the treatment, and was completely
rid of the rash within one week’s time. As
a result we all think Rexona a wonderful
healer, and shall always have a pot of it in
our house in the future.
Sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) Mrs. E. HATCHETT,
148 Grafton Street, Woollahra, Sydney.
I feel that I must write and tell you how I
cured my little girl’s sore legs with your
valuable ointment, Rexona. It is certainly
a Wonderful remedy, and from my experience
of it I am in a position to know.
My little girl, Hilda, was burnt severely on
the legs, which resulted in sore legs, and
which were most difficult to cure, but when
I tried your Rexona Ointment on them, the
result was marvellous, for they rapidly im-
proved, and were soon well again.
I have always kept a pot of your Rexona
Ointment handy in the house since a friend
of mine told me the good it had done her
little boy.
I think your Rexona Soap is delightful too.
I find it so good for my little girl’s bath, for
it keeps her skin in such perfect condition
and gives such a beautiful gloss to the hair,
besides making it soft and fluffy. I firmly
believe that Rexona Soap and Ointment have
no equal, and I recommend them to every
mother, both for herself and her children.
Yours faithfully,
(Mrs.) FLORENCE AMOS,
Fernlea, 69 Brisbane Street, Waverley, Sydney.
MISS TRILBY CLARK
(from a photo).
Please put me amongst the Rexona Girls.
I’m so delighted with your Soap that I’m
never without a cake at home and at the
theatre, and hereby give you permission to
use my photo if you want to. The best of
success.
lours truly,
(Sgd.) TRILBY CLARK.
MRS. AMOS’S LITTLE GIRL.
(from a photo.)
Mother is the home doctor; every day she is confronted with some kind of little hospital work, either a cut finger, a bruise or burn. She must
be prepared by having something handy that she knows she can rely on, and for that reason she should always have Rexona the Rapid Healer.
Rexona is a complete First-aid Cabinet in itself. It cleanses and heals cuts, bruises, sores and wounds. It kills germs, heals and quickly gives
relief from aches and pains. See to it that you get the genuine Rexona, the Rapid Healer. Soul only in
triangular pots at 1/6, or in larger pots, holding nearly four times the quantity, at 3/-. Rexona Soap, l/~
per tablet.
o
o
THE RAPID
0
HEALER


GIVE HYGIENIC ARTISTIC FLOORS
IN THE HOME, WAREHOUSE and OFFICE.
/ . . ' . ' ./ • ' ' • ... ’
©
:
DISTINGUISHED for BEAUTY of FINISH
EASE OP APPLICATION ANID ENDURING WEAR.
SUPER
m
FINE
rA
If not obtainable at local hardware store
write to
TAUBMANS Limited
Tarnish Malccrs,
232 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
482 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
cs
twh'
'•
Sfcsoj
•SS&S
..-> >*Ss£s
• • •:••••■
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
Disorders
of Digestion.
Catarrhal, Fermentative, Ulcerative.
Angier’s Emulsion exercises soothing, lubricating,
antifermentative effects throughout the entire digestive
tract. That is why it is so valuable in affections of the
stomach and intestines. It soothes and cleanses the
mucous membrane, allays irritation, fermentation,
catarrh, ulceration. It restores tone to all the digestive
functions and it promotes normal healthy action of the
bowels. Prescribed by the medical profession for
twenty-four years, it has proved its value in. many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
MOET &
CHAN D ON
DR Y IMPERIA L
CHAMPAGNE
POVERTY
POINT
“The Gruff Bass”: Though they all call
the late Lew de Groen “the Sousa of Aus-
tralia,” he had neither the breadth of vision
of the famous American, nor his marvellous
facility as a composer. Much of what Sousa
has written is poor stuff, it is true; but it is
in great demand all over the United States.
Sousa, in private life, is a low-voiced, un-
assuming man, with none of the frill he
assumes when he gets the baton in his hand,
and I found him a remarkably interesting
conversationalist, who steadily resisted the
temptation to talk about himself. But I
join in the tribute to the memorv of poor
Lew, who was a thoroughly good man, and
had so sound _ a knowledge of his business
that band music in Sydney owes him a lot.
“Futsac”: Lew de Groen, who has waved
his last baton, was the victim of more foolish
practical jokes than any other member of
the profession. His dignity presented an
irresistible target. At a theatrical dinner
in Sydney one night, while Lew was propos-
ing the toast of the guest of honor with the
pomp and ceremony that fitted the occasion,
some befuddled wit slipped behind him and
deftly cut the seat out of his trousers. The
tableau was painful, but not more so than
the sepuel on the next afternoon when Lew
was to conduct a vice-regal matinee at
the Palace Theatre. The overture was
timed for 3 o’clock, when the vice-regal
party arrived. The orchestra filed in, and
CASH PREFERRED.
“ I'm simply mad on motoring. I believe I
could even marry a man if he had a lot
of cars.”
"Oh. I don’t know. A man with one would
do me so long as he could afford a lot.”
waited for Lew to make his dignified en-
trance a minute or so behind them. Five
minutes passed without any sign of the con-
ductor. The house became restless; so to
fill the breach the pianist slipped into Lew’s
seat and swung the orchestra on to “Zampa,”'
its best-known piece. An infuriated con-
ductor turned up later. lie had spent the’
interval in his dressing-room arguing with
representatives of 15. snide tailors’ establish-
ments, who had been notified by telephony
that he wished to be measured for a pair of
trousers at the theatre at 3 o’clock. To
cap it all the Governor’s wife sent a message-
of congratulation on the performance and
especially on the spirited “Zampa.”
George Selth Coppin, “father of the Aus-
tralian stage,” was the son of an English
surgeon and was born at Steyning, Sussex,
April 7, 1819 —just one hundred years ago.
lie arrived in Sydney on March 10, 1843, and
, was the first actor of any standing in the
Cold Country to appear upon starring terms
in Australia. Showing at the Victoria
Theatre, Sydney, he frequently received more
than £50 a night as his proportion of the
takings. Coppin’s company gave the first
grand-opera season in Australia in 1856.
“Peg-Leg” : No one was more relieved than
the Sydney picture showmen when Holman
told them to put the shutters up again. Ever
since the last lot of restrictions were lifted
most of the shows have been losing more
money by being open than if they were closed ;
but the proprietors would not shut down
voluntarily for fear of missing the benefits of
the expected moratorium. As a matter of
fact, they were quietly agitating for a com-
pulsory close-down when the action was
taken. When the order -was communicated
to a North Shore line show at five
minutes to eight, the management returned
the money to the audience, which walked off
on one pair of legs.
“75” : Died in England after an operation,
Edward Lauri, cousin of George. A member
of an Italian family which became Angli-
cised, Edward as a kid of 12 appeared in a
fairy extravaganza in Paris, and from then
on wore greasepaint till the end, except
when he was acting as producer. He came
to Australia under engagement to Musgrove
in 1902, playing in “A Chinese Honey-
moon,” in which Maorilander May Beatty,
who later became Mrs. Lauri, got her chance,
as Fifi. After scoring hits in “The Fortune
Teller” and “The Serenade,” Lauri returned
to London, but made a second visit to this
country in 1904 with his own company,
which did “The Rose of the Riviera,” “The
Skirt Dancer” and “Bill Adams.” Lauri and
May Beatty for long enjoyed popularity in
England, where of late years Teddy had
mostly been producing revues. Last year,
though, while Seymour Hicks was ill, he took
the chief part in “Blue Bell in Fairyland,”
in which he had played 14 years earlier. Mrs.
Lauri at latest was appearing in London in
“Jolly Jack Tar,” at the Prince’s.
“75”: Musician Henry Bobsein, who
rolled up his score in Melbourne the other
day, was one of the first in Australia to
supply appropriate musical accompaniments
for moving pictures. For a long time the
orchestra used to play any old thing that
came into its head. Later, musical pro-
grammes were arranged on the wholly in-
adequate evidence supplied by the title of a
film. When appointed musical director at
West’s, Bobsein had every film screened, and
having got the hang of the story proceeded to
evolve an accompaniment which would help
it along, instead of turning it into “an un-
intentional joke.
Dot Brunton has stepped out of “Shang-
hai” and is appearing in London in a new
musical confection, “Soldier Boy.” Ivy
Shilling was also absent from “Shanghai”
for a while, owing to an injury to her hand-
some back, which it was feared would neces-
sitate an operation. However, she managed
to sidestep the knife and resume dancing—if
it is dancing. Fred Leslie has been doing
sketch work in the ’alls, with Jessie Benson,
while waiting for a new production, “Laugh-
ing Eyes,” for which he had been booked.
In one week at the Lexington, N’Yark.
when Harry Lauder was on the bill, £7200
reached the box-office, representing the tak-
ings for six night shows and a matinee.
N’Yark Clipper claims this as a vaudeville
record.
Robert Courtneidge, remembered as “pro-
ducer” of the wonderfully-staged series of
Shakspearean plays put on by George Mus-
grove, is responsible for the book of “Petti-
coat Fair.” a new musical play staged under
his direction. In the cast are three perform-
ers known in Australia —William Cromwell,
Edwin Brett and Emmaline Orford, all in
the original Australian cast of “Miss Hook
of Holland.”
“First Old Man” : Lucky “Row A” to be
able to publish the fact (B. 27/3/T9) that
he has never yet seen an actor who did not
look like one ! Most of us have, alas! seen
scores of actors who looked like actors —and
weren’t.
“Fan”; The much-cursed picture, “The
Man They Could Not Hang,” was made in
Sydney years and years ago. Herb Finlay
did the photo-work. It was a scream. Lately
some showman bought the old negative, set
to work and re-took a lot oji the story, join-
ing it on to the old film. The original heavy
lady being dead, a “double” was procured.
She was only a couple of stone lighter.
Theatres were packed by the atrocity and
over £100 a week was often cleared on a
percentage basis.
“Guild Hall”: Saw the tattooed Venus in
Melbourne lately. She was 40 and lightly
garbed—wore hardly anything except a
couple of ships, a few snakes, a flock of
dancing girls, some Cupid’s darts, etc. Two
soldiers upon departing were greeted by the
spruiker with, “Say, you didn’t see anything
like that in the trenches.” “No,” drawled
a Digger, “but we’ve been bitten by rats!'
“The Parson” : I went to a picture-show
in Melbourne lately featuring Enid Bennett
in a circus scene. Enid (incidentally billed
as an Australian) was shown belting a mob
of lions about with as much unconcern as a
person would handle pet sheep. Is it a
fake? If it is, it’s got me beaten, and I
know something about picture-faking.
“Pollio”: One more illusion gone. For
years now imported American vaudevillains
(by-the-by, what is the U.S. for Pommy?)
have informed us—even us Sydney folk, with
Manly and Bondi, and half a dozen more
great surfing beaches in our front garden—
that the beach at Waikiki, the alleged surf-
ing centre of Hawaii, is the paradise of
suffers. Not a pantomime, not a musical
CONSISTENT REALISM.
FIRST ACTOR: “What did the manager say
when yon insisted on haring real
whisky in the first act?”
SECOND DITTI : “Said he was willing, pro-
vided I allowed him to supply real
poison in the third act.”
show of sorts, has been complete without
barelegged dancers Waikiking somewhere in
it. Now the Honolulu Star-Bulletin has
been driven to tell the horrible truth.
“Something should be done.” it groans, “to
give Honolulu a beach We are all tired of
climbing board fences and cutting ourselves
on barbed-wire entanglements in order to
find a decent place in which to swim. Where
there is sand, we have such an undertow
that few swimmers dare try the water. At
Waikiki there is no undertow, but we have
no beach.” Another candid critic describes
the approach to Waikiki as being through
swarms of mosquitoes. After many days,
each bringing its load of vicious criticism,
one faint voice protested. “There is a beach
at Waikiki,” he said: “I have seen it. It is
under the piles on which the hotel is built.”
Will Australian “producers” kindly take
notice? Next time a surfing chorus is
wanted, for Heaven’s sake let the local pro-
duct be boosted; or, if Hawaii must be
dragged in, give us a chorus of mud-bespat-
tered damsels trying to kill enough mos-
quitoes to get through to the barbed-wire
entanglements.
“Effem”; The visiting American stars
grow dimmer. The big firm’s policy (which
seems to be to assure local playgoers that
the English language and drama are dead)
brings to Sydney Criterion a head-liner more
than usually untrue to type. Why, while
suburban dramatic societies live, must we
import this quality of talent? It is no
extravagance to say that the average critical
first-nighter was shocked at the new offering.
“Futsac”: Isn’t it about time someone
stopped alleged photoplay schools from vic-
timising Australian girls who reckon they
could make Mary Pickford jealous if they
only had the chance? The person who
poses as “producer” guarantees to teach the
girls the whole art of photoplay-acting and
also give them a public appearance at the
end of the course. The tuition fee is
generally from five to 10 guineas. The
guarantee of an engagement is a pretty sure
bait. I know one girl who has been wait-
ing for two years for the school to live up
to its promise. For a time some rather dis-
agreeable stories were in circulation con-
cerning nude parades at one school, allegedly
for the selection of a girl with the propor-
tions of V'enus de Milo tor some water-
pageant picture; but the perpetrators ot
that little joke have long since accepted the
invitation of a dozen infuriated brothers and
husbands to get out of town. _ Girls seem to
accept the assurances of the impostors that,
after completing the course, all they need to do
is to go straight to Los Angeles and accept
a starring engagement. Scores of girls have
spent their last penny to get to America in
pursuit of the phantom fortune. _ Ihe
pursers on the trans-Pacific boats will tell
you what happened to most of them. Why,
there’s a special institution in Los Angeles
for sending these misguided girls home, and
it deals with thousands from all parts of the
world every year.
“L.11.P.”: April 23 is Shakspeare’s birth-
day, and an appro-
priate date to revive
Cha s. Somerset’s
two-act dram a,
“Shakspeare’s Early
Day s,” originally
produced at London
Covent Garden in
October, 182 9.
Charles Kemble
played the Bar d,
Keeley Gilbert Shak-
speare, and Bartley
(the original Dumas
in “The Lady of
Lyons”) Sir Thomas
Lucy. The Earl of
Leicester, Burbage
and Tarleton were
other historical
parts. At the open-
ing the bard is
asleep on the banks
of the Avon, and in
a dream he reviews
all the principal
scenes in his plays.
Later on comes the
familiar deer-poach-
ing incident, and he
goes to London. The
Falcon Inn and the
Globe Theatre fol-
low ; finally Queen
Elizabeth gives Bill
her portrait, and the
rag comes down on general happiness.
London thinks it lias made that rarest of
catches, a really good boy-actor. He is
John Williams. In Esmond's new play.
“The Law Divine,” he plays a nice boy of
17, who imagines he has caught his father
out in a moral delinquency, and doesn’t knnw
what to do about it. Williams isn’t —or at
any rate doesn’t look—older than the boy he
represents.
The actors trained in old Wilson Barrett’s
school turn up in all sorts of places.
Ambrose Manning is practically the hero of
a new nautical drama, “Jolly Jack Tar,” by
Shirley and Seymour Hicks. He has most
of the fat, from blowing up the mole at Zee-
brugge or suffering in a German prison to
making love to a hotelkeeper’s widow —
played by May Beatty. And Caleb Porter
unexpectedly brings his sound acting to sup-
port Nelson Keys in the latest London
absurdity, “Buzz Buzz,” rather a long step
from the decadent Nero in “The Sign of the
Cross.”
“De Oriel” : Is it not time the public was
protected against those alleged showmen who
advertise electric-light pictures, etc., and
then produce a miniature 24 inches square,
per.medium of the Pathe “Home” machine?
It may be the fault of the Path 6 people who
advertise these things as “suitable for halls,
schools, etc.” A hall 30ft. long is a mite;
yet at 30 feet you need glasses to see the
sheet, let alone the subject. I know half
a dozen townships where the pitch has been
thus queered for decent shows.
OVER-EXPOSURE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
My Miriam is on tl - stage.
She'll be a shining star in time.
At present, though, they but engage
Her noble shape in pantomime.
But Miriam is very ill;
She caught a cold two evenings gone
By sitting where the draughts were chill
With only half her make-up on.
VICTORIA.
S.
DE PROFUXDIS.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I heard two voices blending
Through the empty, ’fin-closed show,
In agony descending
To the darkened stage below.
And the pain not any mortal
But a damned soul on the verge
Of Inferno’s awful portal
Could express, was in their dirge;
We starve ! We starve !
Not a meal in sight,
Not a friend to bite!
Oh, it’s awful when you starve f
I listened to their ditty,
While my heart at ev’rv beat
Pumped up a fount of pity
For the chaps with nought to eat.
But a reassuring factor
Was my next discovery
That the singers were an actor
And a common d.c. flea.
N.S.W.
BOB DEXTER.


Good Tyres and
Good Business
\
o'
m
s
FF
Pit
RP
\
W
Fl <yi
yii
1
m
\NSnwito
sbsmeSSH-
aSSayi
v*&aSn*s-**
ste&ZV-
:
//
United States Tyres have demonstrated
not only unusual long-mileage but far
greater reliability. They give a bigger
return on your investment—more
j
continuous use of your car.
Nobby Tread Tyres have proved to
Motorists that mileage is built into
them. No other tvre enjoys the world-
wide renown of the Nobby Tread.
Secure them for your Easter tour from
j
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
Australasia (Limited),
Head Offices 53 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches: 130-2 William Street, Melbourne; &. 6 Mercer Street, Wellington, N.Z.
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.—JOHN McGRATH LTD., 198 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Q’land—HOWARD MOTOR & CYCLE CO. LTD., Brisbane.
Hobart—lßVlNE & McEACHERX.
Launceston—BUCHANAN, DAVIDSON & CO. LTD.
South Aus.—-BAGOT, SHAKES & LEWIS LTD., Adelaide.
W. Aus.—CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.) LTD., Perth.


WINCHCOMBE,
CARSON!
said the angry bull. “They’re the people
who shorten one’s life.”
High prices tempt owners.
Wineheombe, Carson never fail to secure top
market values for Fat Cattle and Sheep at
Homebush.
Consign Stock:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD.,
Flemington Siding.
Watchword
From the points of view of per-
sonal saving and national neces-
sity every motorist seeks the road
to real economy. To use
mm
MOTOR OILS
fs the logical first step towards
economy, tor National Motor Oils
wonderfully reduce both “wear
and tear” and running costs.
Obtainable all Garages
and Storekeepers
in 1-gallon tins, 4-
gallon tins and
barrels.
Ask also for National
Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.
4 Bridge St, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.
Adelaide.
Pocket Stock-knife —made by Harrison Bros. &
Howson, Sheffield, Eng. Three strong blades(skinning,
castrating and foot-rot). Best quality steel.. If|/
A 1 way's gives satisfaction. POST FREE....***/
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency, 8 Spring St., Sydney.
• •
• •
'O
THE QUEEN’S ARMS
truly ij a “home,
from home” for the
commercial traveller.
In the heart of the
city ; excellent cuisine ;
luxurious accommoda-
tion ;modern equip-
ment. By the day, 10/6
QUEEN'S ARMS
HOTEL
Cr. Flinders Lane and
Swanston St., Melbourne
Claude R. Kerr, Prop’tor.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The City of Sydney a.d. 1971
The North Shore Tunnel is built;
The Circular Quay filled in, and now a public
pleasure park;
The Sydney Observatory a central aerodrome;
New forms of travel, new thoroughfares, new
styles of architecture;
New coinage and currency;
Bank-notes as small as visiting-cards;
New styles of dress;
New social customs, new laws and Acts;
Wireless newspapers; wireless telephones;
A six-hour day;
The Metric System adopted.
These arc but a few of the wonderful changes
seen by Mr. Alfred Chatterton, a Sydney
engineer.
If Falling, in June, 1918, into a prolonged cata-
leptic sleep, he awoke in 1971, after 53 years
and 204 days, to resume his normal activities.
If Mi*. Chatterton’s experiences form one of
the most amusing and instructive stories ever
penned.
Tiie title of his story is
The City of Sydney -a.d. 1971’
and the first instalment of it appears
in the April Issue of “Sea, Land and Air.”
Published Monthly. Priee 9d.
THE BEST-PRINTED MONTHLY JOURNAL IN AUSTRALASIA.
If yonr Newsagent cannot supply, send 9d. for Specimen Copy, or 9s. for Annual
Subscription (Post Free), to
THE CIRCULATION MANAGER, THE WIRELESS PRESS,
97-99 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
INC
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC (a-Z
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER <BHAS> BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent: Adelaide Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. A. W. jLEWIS, 62 Brookman Buildings.
D
□
»
You Take it on
Approval
when you buy Ireland’s Baking Powder. You need
not keep it when it falls short of expectation even
to the slightest degree.
We insist—in fact, we demand—that you get your money back.
And the grocer from whom you buy will not hesitate an instant in making the refund.
Order one tin of IRELAND’S BAKING POWDER at our risk.
If you do not find it perfectly satisfactory ours will be the loss.
IRELAND’S Baking Powder
is an unusual quality that never varies. /
It is your safeguard to better baking.
Your Grocer has Ireland’s Baking Powder to sell
you on Approval—Try it!
J. IRELAND LTD,, Newcastle
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
All
Chemists,
two sizes.
S E ASIC I
O
K
Testified by Royalty. Nobility, Army, Navy, and
C. 15 Airmen all over the world.
All Travelling should
Guard against
SEA SICKNESS
V
Mothersill’s Seasick Remedy
is invaluable. It positively
prevents and cures Sea, Air
and Train Sickness.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
GUARANTEED OR MONEY REFUNDED.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO. Ltd., Corner
Clarence and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
HOTEL ESPLANADE,
PERTH’S PREMIER HOTEL.
Facing the Swan River and Indian Ocean. An ideal situation.
Close to Post Office, Banks, etc. ALL MODERN CONVENIENCES.
M. A. BEAVOR, Proprietress.
Roth well’s Ltd., outfitters (Brisbane) :
Ne; To
Jun., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1911. .£4386 8 p.c. = £2400 £1986 £7,507
Premiums on new shares.. 142 7,649
1912.. 4808 8 p.c. = 2800 2008 9,657
1918.. 5297 8 „ „ 3200 2097 11,754
1914.. 4535 8 ~ „ 3200 1335 13,089
1915. . 4624 8 ~ ~ 3200 ( , •.<> q,o
Written off, £l5OO 1
1916.. 4359 8 p.c. -- 3200 ( 13172
Written off, £lOOO j ’
Loss.
1917.. . 344 Prefs. =t 350 12,478
Profit.
1918.. 4415 8 p.c. a 3200 1215 13,693
19)9. . 4682 8 „„ 3200 1482 15,175
Until last year Rothwell’s confined itself
to men’s wear, but it is now chasing the
profit in blouses. While the dealers in
women’s flimsies have been having a fat
time during the war, cos. like this have
lost thousands of their best customers and
profits have shrunk. However, the lost
ground is gradually being regained, and
this management admits that what improve-
ment is now being shown is chiefly due to
the returned Digger. Lately the co. lias
been putting every available penny into
stocks to prepare for the rush of business
which should come along. Consequently
there has been considerable movement in
the balance-sheet figures during the year:—
1910. 1915. 1918. 1919.
Capital . . £30,000 £40,000 £40,000 £40,000
Mortgage .. 11,825 12,041 10,550 10,250
Sundry creditors 4,962 4,236 3,374 9,073
Freeholds .. 16,932 20,616 21,212 21,212
Plant, etc. . . 1,418 2,247 1,829 2.127
Stock . . 14,529 22,083 27,449 37,675
Sundry debtors 20,284 25,259 13,287 16,029
Cash, etc. .. 1,568 3,784 7,040 654
To finance the increased stocks the co. is
leaning on the bank to the extent of £3755.
But while the value of the stocks is greater,
owiug to heavier prices there is probably now
not much more on the shelves than, say, iu
1914. A heavy stock purchased at war-in-
fiated prices is not without its risks; though
at present there are no indications of any
slump in the markets. In fact, in some lines
the tendency is in the other direction. In
some cases Flinders-lane and York-street are
actually booking up 1920 orders at figures in
excess ..of present local retail prices. During
the past nine years RothweU’s has got
in £10,142 in new capital and pre-
miums, and liabilities have grown by
£2536. Meantime about £5OOO lias been
put into freeholds and plant, and about
£lB,OOO has been added to more or
less liquid assets (including stocks). So
while shareholders, except in one cold year,
when no div. was paid, have had 8 p.c. p.a.,
the co.’s position has been improved by over
£lO,OOO in the nine years. That is to say,
2r| p.c. p.a. on the present paid capital has
been left in the business.
* # # *
From an old Queensland digger, now in
the land of the Bolshevik:—
I am on platinum. It if, funny stuff to win, as it
lieg principally in among the gravel, and we often
find gold with it. This field is very old, but if
labor was procurable there would still be a lot of
stuff to get. Since the war there is practically no
labor —the natives mostly work on their own, pan-
ning the gravel off in shallow tins and basins and
living on the prospect. The whole Ural country is
rich in the metal still, though many of the fields are
becoming exhausted. In 1911 the Urals produced
320,0000 z. ; in 1915, through the war, the output fell
to 100,7740 z.; and in 1916 to 72,6700 z. High
prices have made the low-grade stuff of value. It
reminds me a good deal of the old days of cyanide
treatment in Queensland, when we used to pitch out
all but the richest sands, and then go back to them
years after and treat and re-treat the tailings. We
are doing the same here to-day. My mate and I are
on a patch that was treated four years ago. Ameri-
cans have prospected over vast tracts in this pro-
vince, and they reckon there is still both gold and
platinum in payable quantities, but the stuff has
gravitated to the bedrock, and only the most modern
plant will make work profitable. We hear that the
Colombian fields, which are practically in their
infancy, are extremely rich. A few American
mining men are turning their attention that way, and
I, too, shall probably gravitate there before long.
* * * *
“N.Q.”: The par. concerning Cliillagoe-
Einasleigh-Mungana (B. 27/2/Y9) gives a
somewhat cheerful view of the proposition;
but what about the difference in costs since
the old cos. were working? Machine
miners then got 12s. Bd. a shift, now 175.;
hand miners 11s. Bd., now 165.; mullockers.
truckers and laborers 10s., now 155.; and
the autocrats of the lot, engine-drivers, then
13s. 4d. a shift, now 21s. Also don’t over-
look many other wage increases: double
rates for all overtime if working more than
one shift; Is. 6d. a shift extra for shaft-sink-
ing, winzing or rising or for working in wet
ground; contracting only allowed on the
condition that the contractor makes at least
Is. a shift more than he would be paid for
similar work on wages ; finally, what is prob-
ably the most difficult problem of the lot in
the case of the reputedly-warm Mungana
mines, six-hour (or less) shifts if the tem-
perature is over 83deg. wet-bulb. This
means actually about five hours’ work for
eight hours’ pay. The cost of labor at the
smelters has proportionally increased, and
every mining man knows how the prices of
supplies have soared.
* * * *
The West Australian Portland Cement
Co. (capital £125,000) is getting to work
almost immediately. Its business will be
to manufacture Portland cement, agricul-
tural lime and other allied products “at
prices that will defy competition from im-
porters.” The co. has extensive deposits of
carbonate of lime at Lake Clifton, about 14
miles from Waroona, in the south-west of
the State. The works will be at Burswood,
* * * *
Scarcity of water is holding up activities
around Trunkey (N.S.W.). Something fur-
ther has gone wrong with Mt. Dudley’s bat-
tery, and crushing will not be resumed for
a while. A Sydney party has got busy on
one of the old Trunkey reefs, known as
Turner’s. The No. 7 mine lias been ac-
quired, and the main shaft will be unwatered
shortly.


EXPfI AISIO/S
NOW ON
With the exception of Pianos and Proprietary
Gramophone Records—all our stocks are now being
sold at 33| per cent, discount off the usual prices.
This means that you may buy a £ s worth of Sheet Music,
Violins, Guitars, Banjos, etc., for 13/4. Some special lines will
be sold at a 50 per cent, discount.
These latter will include some special Sheet Music and Horn-
type Kalophones. Ten shillings will buy a£ s worth of
We have decided on this step so that we may concentrate our
every effort in the development of our Piano and Player Piano
business.
DISCOUNT
35
ir
3
PER CENT
353 George St,
<3 die
LTV
09
Gr>
Factorv*- 41"-47 Trafalgar
Annaadale.
_ . n i . i- VICTORIA- Maoles. in all Melbourne suburb*. TASMANIA: Williams Bros . Hobart
’ °SOUTH'aUSTRAL! A 'john Evan. Ltd Adelaide. QUEENSLAND: 9Q.Q2 Queen Street. Brisbane | Kent Street. Maryborough;
FUndera Street, Townsville ; RockK»mpion ; Sydney Street. Mackay; Cairna.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Thomson* Ltd , at Perth, Kalgoorhc and Freemantle.
GO


jf(ose ofjuxite
"Unalloyed” Dyes
The dyes used in Hose
of Luxite are “unalloyed”—not
loaded with heavy metallic com-
pounds to give the hose a glossy,
heavy appearance.
The soft, full-bodied shimmer of
Hose of Luxite is gained by the
use of rich, fine-stitched materials,
pure-dyed.
That is why its elegance and
beauty last through repeated wash-
ings.
The wide range of styles and
prices will suit every purse and
purpose.
■Donft accept substitutes, and
think you have “Luxite.”
Insist upon the genuine.
If your dealer is unable u>
supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.,
York Street : : Sydney
Tilt SEIF VULCANIZING
PATCH
Wilt. REPAIR
'ANY SIZE PUNCTURE'.
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE*
obtainable at all garages
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
J njowru
This Will Save Your
Linen Against Loss.
Uo article shftuld leave vour possession
without being MARKED WITH
Beats marking-ink. Any name woven
on Fine Cambric in fast colors.
Easily sewn on. Looks and wears well.
PRICES:
7/6 for 12 doz., 5/- for 6 doz.,
3/- for 3 doz.
SOLD BY ALL, BEST DRAPERS.
Made in Australia by
J. &. J. Cash Pty., Ltd.,
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Victoria.
Write for Style Hook. [1
m
mm-
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils. Varicose Ulcers. Bunions.
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites,
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
passed merits. They know it to be a - afe
and perfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments ; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grasshopper Oint-
ment positivelydraws the poi- ons which pro-
duce these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should be taken in conjunction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
j=- MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY#p||J
= p BROOKE’S,, ""
r &mcfr
1 TKe Besl Lemon .Squask
We Guarantee
that only the
Prime of the Hide
(as shown here)
enters into the
making of
“Maxi” Belting.
L
Any man with a knowledge of leather will
that good belting can only be made from the butt,
of a hide, and that the neck, shoulders and belly
are of no use where good belting is concerned.
And so to give our clients the first-quality leather
in
Maxi Leather Belting
we cut only from the part of the hide enclosed in
the square in the illustration above.
This ensures Leather Belting of maximum tensile
strength. “Maxi” Leather Belting is made from
carefully selected hides —tanned by a special pro-
cess by which the great natural strength of the
hide is retained.
It is very flexible and can be used in the smallest
pulley. It is eminently successful in high-speed
work, and its unusual strength is suitable for
every kind of drive.
All belts are thoroughly tested before despatch,
and all purchasers of “Maxi” Belting get quality,
plus maximum strength.
Every belt is guaranteed to give YOU satisfaction.
We shall be glad to forward you full particulars
if you drop us a postcard to-day.
James Hardie & Go., Ltd.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cr. Wynyard and York Streets, SYDNEY,
’Phone 8456 (4 lines),
Also 581-3 Little Gollins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
THE MARS OF THE
PERFECT PIPE.
When you ask for a GBD see that the
above trade=mark is stamped on stem and
mouthpiece. During more than 50 years
in Australia these London=made Briar Pipes
have maintained an unrivalled reputation
for “ Good quality at moderate price.”
There are many
popular shapes.
Obtainable
everywhere.
*
Benno Seppelt, who has done as much as
anybody for the now great wine industry of
S. Aus., was 73 the other day. Famous
Seppeltsfield was planted in 1851, by J- E-
Seppelt. Benno’s father, shortly after his
arrival in the State.
“F.N.T.”: One of the mechanical develop-
ments of the war was a “travelling work-
shop,” first introduced to the Australian
Army by Colonel Harley Tarrant. The idea
is now being applied to civil life. Any Mel-
bourne motorist wanting his car repaired
needn’t have it towed to hospital. He has
only to ’phono for the car-doctor, who will
attend the patient at its own garage with
a full repair-outfit.
“Tim B.”: On February 20 Maggie pre-
sented Bill with a daughter at Prahran
(Yip.), and Bill assures me that he
promptly lodged a telegram addressed to me
at Winton (Q.), which read “Duke and
earl,” that being Prahnese for “girl.”
Twenty-eight days have elapsed and T
haven’t got it yet. Perhaps the Poet-
master thinks he smells a plot against the
Throne and Person.
In death Dick Seddon has become a deity
to the folk of South Westland (M.L.), and
in life he was almost that to many. Some
cattle-punchers from “South West” travelled
to Christchurch, and there a sophisticated
friend took them to see Holman Hunt’s
picture, "The Light of the World.” They
gazed intently at the picture and at the
title; and at last the man from Okarito
said : “She’s a dam’ fine picter; but it’s a
rotten likeness of Dick.”
The young shoots of the Eucalyptus
niacarthuri, popularly known as the Camden
gum, because it flourishes round about Aus-
tralia’s first sheep-run. yield a valuable oil
known as gerauiol, and Russell Grimwade, of
the Felton-Grim wade druggists and president
of the Vic. Forest League, has planted
several acres of the tree at Gembrook,
and has already got busy with the crushing.
Another gum worth attention is the Euc.
Ht rod ora, or lemon-scented gum, which
yields- an essence that is first-rate for use in
the manufacture of fine soaps and perfumery.
Father Wilfrid Ryan, of Newman College.
Melbourne Uni., talked to a crowd at his
birthplace, Hawthorn (Vic.), the other day,
and told a yarn which suggests that, bluff
was a product developed in Ireland shortly
after St. Patrick passed on to glory. The
students of one university, fearing defeat
in a “disputation” which they were to have
with a team from another university, dressed
up as washerwomen and met the visitors as
they crossed a stream. When the visitors
put a question in Irish they were answered
in Latin by the supposed washerwomen. An-
other query was replied to in Greek, and an
apparently innocent hint was dropped, re-
garding the intellectual giants at the adjoin-
ing university. The visitors fled.
“K.Q.”: Rc “O. Pip’s” appreciation (B.
20/3/T9) of the Vic. Education Depart-
ment’s generous treatment of returned men.
The unfortunates (myself included) who
were unable to go to the Front do not in the
least begrudge the homecomers from war
their promotion from class VI. to class V.,
nor their increased pay ; but there is another
side to the question. Transfer from one
school to another is governed primarily by
position on the classified roll. Say, then,
that No. 900 is appointed to a convenient
school near Melbourne, which No. 600, who
has served for years in a remote country
town, has also applied for. The Depart-
ment’s explanation to No. 600, who is well
over the fighting age and has two sons at the
Front, is that No. 900 has had 12 months’
active service. If this is to be the general
practice the lookout for* rejects and over-age
men is anything but bright.
“Murkah” on long-distance talks: —
About the most powerful station on earth is the
ona at Nauen, which sits at the foot of a 900 ft, tower
13 miles from Berlin. It was through this station
that the Germans fired most of their overseas war
propaganda, putting 300 k.w. (about 400 h.p.) behind
every word. Sitting in Sydney Radio (Pennant
Hills) I have listened to the beautiful gong-like note
of the mighty alternator by the hour. But though
the signals were of fair strength, only under very
favorable conditions could they be read. From an
English-speaking operator's point of view the “stuff"
was the best possible for reception—plain English,
and each word sent twice. When he cut off and
sent in figure-code to submarines I was always
euchred, oven under the most favorable conditions.
On account of its high rate of efficiency, most of
the large naval stations being erected in U.S.A. are
installing the system used at Nauen, known as the
Goldschmidt Alternator. Failing that system, one
of the “arc” (as distinct from “spark”) systems is
being put in. The arc efficiency is also very high,
and in both systems there appears to be no limit
to the power that can be applied. Also, the ranges
of both are unaffected by daylight. On the other
hand, the spark system (the Marconi system
employs sparks) appears to have reached a limit
years ago in the matter of power. Funibashi station,
.Japan, works trans-ocean with Honolulu. Both are
300-k.w. spark stations. Sitting in Sydney Radio I
have frequently heard them asking for repetitions and
complaining of conditions. Yarning recently to a
man of much experience in wireless who spent some
time in Marconi's Honolulu-station, he told me that,
although the station was rated 300 k.w., and actually
had that power, it was impossible in practice to use
more than 125 k.w. Some 4000 miles of the best
transmitting medium of all—saltwater—roll between
Japan and Honolulu. From Nauen to Sydney is
about 10,300 miles, while from London it would pro-
bably be 100 miles or so further.
With regard to the trans-Atlantic wireless service,
it. is well known among operators that the service is
frequently suspended. Even the great station at
Nauen was occasionally “out of touch” with its
brothers at Tuekerton and Sayville, U.S.A.—a mere
3000 miles or so.
Therefore I haven’t much faith in the success of
an English-Australian direct radio service. For the
stuff would mostly be code —jumble code at’ that.
•And as previously stated, from London to Sydney
is about 10,000 miles.
Employing arc stations, of the very highest
power used to-day, and with a half-way house to
relay the traffic, the project would look more feasible.
Comparing wireless with the cable for speed, even
with two or three “relays” wireless would win
easily. And for cheapness and continuity of opera-
tion and reliability, wireless Simply loses the cable.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE,
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
till'. Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
Soutli Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MAY 7,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Bunking, Public Companies. Ac.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY', M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Oliice: Brisbane.
Sydney Oliice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edwd. Banning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. AY. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAI) OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £145,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH. M.L.C.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager : E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
4 Manager: M. B. Finnev.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fundand Undivided Profits 2.345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. N'ew Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian'United Steam Navigation Cu d .
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canad ian- Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “Alili-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES. GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Throngh Hookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU/
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay i« Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Directors
£3,904,860
£3,025,000
£3,904,860
£10,834,720
The Hon. Sir (.navies K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner. Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald .1. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors ; S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Biiinie, Esq.
Robert L. Eaithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. .James T. Walker.
General Manager ;• Sir John Russell French, K.B.E
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
336 Blanches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
flommonwealtbiife Bank ot Australia
HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australiaand Rabaul (Newßritain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
, Deputy Governor 1919 Governor Jjj
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING : COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
- £2,000,000
- £2,080,000'
- £2 ,000,000
£6.080,000
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. 'li. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow,
Esq. M.L.A.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET. '*-•
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers —The Bank of England; The London County and Westminster aiid
Parr's Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
intending passengers for other States
are requested to inqu... t Quarantine
Department, Customs House, Sydney,
regarding necessary permits required
before sailing.
Permission to break journey at inter-
mediate Ports is suspended.
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY AND
FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE. MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE
AND CAIRNS.
STEAMER I EARLY
Adelaide Steamship
Co.,
1 15 O’Connell St.
Huddart Parker L|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to Now Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA. —From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
. Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
AaU.S.SM. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks front Melbourne
and Sydney.
The "Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from' Sydney ,18 days. Passengers desiring
t more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd,,
!) Bridge Street, Sydney,
George hotel,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
GAPILLARINE
Grows
moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds - who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it wel! into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR— POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
Kin 6
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsierk
CHampaCNC
o»arlesHeidsie(^
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
{oflov.’ioS ]
ate obta^ c f SboP*-
, tsB gj dt' eJ
*o®l Ge°**|£ Sydney
Alvins ® avdttey ■
ate
a 9 \ Geo*S|^ Sydney
' 6 p« i,,t
*5-?S#£* ,w
- shop 1
d f a tA«e««V
®' l °o?.wurV>>
,ps »*
Butou rto *
THE
BRAND of QUALITY.
and
gI|JpRESERVIN
TRADE I^RkI^^REC
REGISTERED
OZS
NET
MSTOV<S
open
kc
POLISH
FOR
LINOS, WOOD FLOORS, etc.
There is ONLY ONE “ NUGGET.”
Refuse Just as Good.
PHYSICIANS PRESCRIBE
PHOSPHATE FOR WEAK NERVES.
AN INVALUABLE REMEDY WHICH
CAN BE OBTAINED FROM
CHEMISTS AT SMALL COST.
Excessive nerve strain is probably respon-
sible for the fact that all round us we see
men and women who have no physical ail-
ment or infirmity, yet are weak, listless,
depressed and nervous. They lack energy;
have no vim, vigor or vitality, and conse-
quently cannot apply themselves with zest
to either work or recreation. Such a con-
dition is pitiable, yet, fortunately, it is easily
remedied, for it has been found that a pro-
duct known as bitro-phospliate will restore
lost nervous energy and make the weak and
listless strong and vigorous again. Readers
will find that high-class chemists everywhere
are able to supply this restorative bitro-
phosphate in the form of small compressed
tablets, and as sufficient tablets for two
weeks’ treatment can be obtained at small
cost, the remedy is within the easy reach of
every sufferer. Take one tablet after every
meal, and very soon you will note a marked
improvement in your condition. You will
sleep better and awaken bright and refreshed.
Sudden, unexpected sounds will no longer
alarm you, and nervous Headaches will be
banished. — Advt.
A WOMANS
LETTER
“On with the mask, let joy be all con-
fined !” The edict went forth again last
week, and theatres, concerts, Show and
(perhaps) races and Peace Ball give the
Terror right-of-way.
In June, ’flu permitting, his Ex. and Lady
Davidson will kill three birds with one stone.
They will celebrate peace, the arrival of
Jellicoe and the return of the Australian
Fleet by giving an evening reception and a
dinner-party or two at Government House.
As a contribution to the general gaiety the
Mayor will give a ball in the Town Hall.
Tiie Bulletin’s “Vandorian” (Miss Cox
Taylor) slipped off in the Sonoma with a
complimentary wallet of bank-notes thrust
upon, her by her sisters and brethren of the
press and citizens of Sydney. In addition
she bore off a wonderful book of sketches
from the pens and pencils of Australia’s
leading artists. At the Town Hall last
week Mayoress Richards, in an aura of
pink cactus-dahlias, handed over the booty
after her lord had given the soft word to the
departing scribe. Mrs. Fotheringhame and
Lane Mullins smiled a benediction on the
result of their organisation. Town Clerk
Layton hovered like an eagle in the fore-
ground, Miss Rose Scott and May Moore
sat side by side, Mrs. William Macleod
dropped in for a parting word, Mrs. George
Earp’s Oriental frock had a front seat,
sculptress Theo Cowan murmured sugges-
tions for a scheme of decorations, and Con-
sul Shimizu’s little lady, flashed a vivid
smile all round. Miss .Cox Taylor will
spend a busy year in America; then on to
Europe.
The _ death of Lew de Groen will stir
memories in those who were young before
the days of rags and tangoes. He was the
F»by of 10 or 15 years ago. But far more
distant and aloof. Everyone who dances in
Sydney has a friendly word with Paby, but
tew dared to speak to the man at the musical
wheel when a Union Club ball was in pro-
gress and De Groen was swinging the baton.
The idea of addressing him colloquially on
the lawn at Randwick would have daunted
the bravest. No band ever played waltz
music better in Sydney than De Groen’s, but
the new syncopated stuff did not suit his
style. Latterly he had been ailing and had
not appeared in public at all.
The San Francisco Bulletin brought
details of the “divorce” of the J. M. Alli-
sons. The story had the mark of the scoop-
hungry reporter all over it. The alleged
proceedings took place before “a Judge.”
But then, any lawyer who has ever served
a term on the elective bench retains the title
of Judge for life in America. The proceed-
ings appear to have occupied part of one
and the defendant found time to settle
io,ooo dol. on the lady. Later he
saw her off at the ferry and spoke
proudly on the subject of her charac-
ter—presumably to the reporter, which
is unlike Mr. James Allison, to put it mildly.
The fact that emerges from the Yankee
paper’s idiocies is that there has been an
amicable separation. Even if California
were one of the “divorce States” (which it
isn’t) the suit could not have been brought
in the time. And, anyhow, divorce in a
“divorce State” is not recognised as valid
outside America. Earl Russell, England’s
most eminent agnostic, divorced his highlv-
unsatisfactory first wife after a six months’
stay, for domiciliary purposes, at Reno.
Thinking all was well he re-married and was
promptly arrested and tried for bisramv He
did his bit in Holloway Gaol.
The Riverview Regatta last Saturday was
a wearisome affair for the fathers and
mothers and big sisters who ferried and
launched up the Parramatta River to see
their boys pull in the races. The ’flu germ
isn t allowed a chance to coquette with the
boys at St. Ignatius’. No visitors were
allowed to land; and the closest a proud
parent got to his offspring was when the
youngsters would pull a row-boat across and
throw a healthy sun-burned grin up to the
ferries.
Captain Saltmarsh, formerly A.D.C. to Sir
Walter, has just arrived in Melbourne where
he is the guest of the Otway Falkiners at
Macedon. He recently spent some time at
their Widgewa station. Quarantine or no
quarantine, he will be in Sydney next month.
Some changes are pending at the Naval
College, Jervis Bay. Under the present
rule social life languishes. Both Capt.
Grant and Commander Seton (second in
command) are bacheldores, like Dan'l Peg-
gotty. Mrs. Rolls and Mrs. Wheatley
divide the honors as hostesses when celebri-
ties visit our Osborne. But the former will
soon be away with her husband. Another
chief and another second will arrive and
take over the work of training our future
Beattys. A new regulation about uniforms
allows dinkum wardroom officers to wear
civvy clothes when off duty. Also, the very
numerous instructors who are not service
men must in future clothe themselves like
other ordinary citizens. No more blue serge
and brass buttons for them ! They don't
like it.
Major Wilfrid Snow, who won a bar to
his D.S.O. in the R.F.C., set off for England
again by the Sonoma. He may take his
discharge or, if he is wanted, he may stay—•
he can’t see his future yet.
Captain Gilbert Nobbs comes to Aus-
tralia to help, if he can, in an organised
effort on behalf of blind Diggers. Many of
our men have been trained at St. Dunstan’s,
and Captain Nobbs, blind and trained there
himself, has been asked by Arthur Pearson
to get into touch with them and find out
how they are faring: for St. Dunstan’s never
loses interest in the boys it has equipped for
their battle in a suddenly dark world. So
the slim enthusiast is in consultation with
the Red Cross here and in Melbourne, and
a scheme similar to the Canadian is being
evolved. He will have none of your “home”
or your “asylum”; he wants a training-
school where a man can hold his head up
and be equipped for a job and get at it with
ambition. “That,” says Captain Nobbs, “is
the best part of a man’s life—pride in his
job.”
A tea and presentation will be given and
made to Mrs. War Chest Antill on April 22.
Does any one war-worker better deserve tea
and a precious stone or an album or what-
ever form the token may take? The cere-
mony will occur at Buyuna, the Meares
home, Bellevue Hill.
Something over £3OO sterling was realised
at the War Chest auction last Saturday. All
the left-overs went under the hammer. Mostly
wool and woodwork-fittings and lockers and
pictures. Mrs. Antill made her last appear-
ance, this time as tally-clerk, her big brown
eyes only making her recognisable above her
mask. The rambling barn of a place has seen
more of the lady for nearly five years than
has Tudor. And working with her one would
always find Mrs. R. H. Meares, Mrs. Strat-
ford Sheldon, Mrs. Lethbridge, Margaret
Tooth, a Bundock and Kitty Partridge. They
were there all day and every day. Well,
they’ve lived to see the Kaiser fly for cover.
Connie Macfarlane and her young man
went round to the Registrar’s one day last
week and slipped a plain gold band upon a
finger still blushing over its new diamond
cluster. So the lady is now Mrs. George
Downer, and a Potts Point guestery is busy
explaining to its neighbors that of course it
was in the secret. Wentworth Falls are
crooning to the pair.
Margot Cowan (sister to Theo of the
artistic chisel), who, with her cropped black
hair and bright eyes, might be a page straight
out of the Italian Renaissance, has been
appointed by her Parke-Davis firm to travel
through the big cities. Her new job begins
in Melbourne, and consists of interviewing
doctors and scientists about the firm’s pre-
parations. The job has never been held by a
woman before.
The Craig girls are making their punch
felt in England as they did in Australia.
Dorothy is now nursing in France, after 12
months’ service in a London General Hospi-
tal. She is best remembered here by her work
in connection with Pontey’s fruit and vege-
table fund. Ailsa was known at the Army
Service Corps Comforts Depot as the girl
with a sense of fun and a head for evolving
schemes for raising money. After a year’s
work at the Australian War Chest Head-
quarters in London she has taken up stage
work again, and is now playing lead in the
provinces. She first “came on” in Sydney
with Muriel Starr’s original “Within the
Law” company.
Captain and Mrs. Lyons (she was Eileen
Toohey, of the hop-and-malt family) said
farewell last week to a number of friends
assembled by Mrs. Toohey, of Greenknowe
Avenue. The young couple are off to Jericho,
in Queensland. Everybody knows how they
first met in a war hospital in Boulogne,
where Captain Lyons was lying wounded.
Mrs. Watkin Wynne passed on last week,
in the fulness of her years, leaving as heirs
to her fine spirit and kind heart, a large circle
of children and grandchildren. Wife of
Watkin Wynne, the general manager of the
Daily Telegraph, she has watched with her
husband the growth of the paper since its
infancy.
Brisbane’s packet:—
All the town has been welcoming V.C.’s. Two
were given a great reception last week, and now
John Leake, a Clermont boy of the 9th Battalion,
drops in with his little red ribbon. John won his
V.C. for gallantry on the Somme on July 23, 1916.
It isn’t always safe to judge a man by his name.
Take the case of F. T. Schoeck, who was turned
down when first he tried to enlist because of German
parentage. Later on he was admitted to the A.1.F.,
and on his first night in the trenches —Sept. 29,
1918—he did such good work that the French handed
him a Croix de Guerre. His parents live at Mount
Cotton.,
“Blighty,’’ the soldiers’ “City” at the corner of
Market-square, was opened on Tuesday night by the
Mayoress, Mrs. C. P. Buchanan. The fair is well-
designed, and has plenty of attractions, and the
proceeds will go to the Anzac Memorial Fund.
At the Tivoli the other night a theatre party had
as guest of honor a pleasant-faced soldier with one
or two ribbons on his tunic. Suddenly Home Sec.
Iluxham rose up and asked for cheers for Private
Dalzeil, a 16th Battalion man who had won .he
cherished Cross of bronze. The response unnerved
the soldier-boy, who was unable even to say “Thank,
you.” He looked as though he would gladly have
swapped his V.C. for a quiet corner.
Our new Mayor and the missus, Alderman and Mrs.
C. P. Buehanan, will hold a Victory hop—the first
mayoral ball for many a long day.
Lome, Sandgate, the War Nurses’ Home, was offici-
ally uncorked on Saturday afternoon. Mr. and Mrs.
John Gibson, who lent their home for a year, and
other kind souls, made the scheme possible.
This is Dagmar
Thomson, graceful
and tall, and, as the
poet puts it, ' “most
divinely fair.” The
Sydney girl’s violin
throbs with a
w a'rmt h acquired
under her native
sky alone, and her
mastery over
the bow has won
a professorship at
the Conservatorium.
Her admirers were
looking forward to
hearing her solo
work with the Ver-
brugghen Orchestra
in the Mendelssohn
Concerto on Satur-
day last, but the concert will be no more
in the land till ’flu restrictions give way to
clean health.
lima Elliot, who left her North Shore
home before the war to study singing in
London, and since the outburst has been
war-working in the land of fogs, has promised
to link up for life with Major John Cald-
well of Lancashire, as soon as her brother,
Captain Lindsay Elliot, recrosses to the Eng-
lish-speaking side of the Channel.
Within a mile of Edinboro’ town, Douglas
Mac Master, son of the Glendon Mac Master
clan, was married to a Scotch lassie the other
day. He sports a crown in the Royal Siege
Artillery and an M.C. as well, and she is
Catherine, daughter of Graham Munro, of
Edinburgh.
At their Sargents’ strorfghold in Market-
street the Millions Club poured the oil over
Captain Frank Hurley, whose photographs
of the A.I.F. in France added a dignity to
the room which even the presence of masked
waitresses could not diminish. Still it is
a queer business having the festive potato
handed to you by one who has guarded her-
self from the germ of disaster that might
lurk in your murmured “Mashed, thank
you!” Keith Harris, who was on the cap-
tured Matunga, had an allotment at the
head table. He is just 21, and has
spent over 12 months of his life with the
Hun. Hurley pays a glowing tribute to
the Australians on the earth and in the
heavens above and the tunnels beneath.
But Charley Bean is the one whom he toasts
with the wannest admiration. Mrs. Plog-
sted (of the Australian-American War
Workers), who murmurs of five weeks in
a rest-home during her six months’ absence
in America, brought a message from Yankee
and Canuck in a voice vibrant as a violin
string. Mrs. Plogsted was the first of us
to address the Millions. This she did
nearly 12 months ago, having a long start
of sister Alma Whitaker.
The Red Cross takes a handy £2OO out of
Captain Frank Hurley’s exhibition of war
photographs at the Kodak Salon. The show
didn’t brine - in quite the two hundred ; but
the Kodak people rounded off the figures.
Joan Twynam, a Goulburn girl, daughter
of a former Surveyor-General, is on her way
back home after seeing the war through. She
was. nursing from the time the first Aus-
tralians went into the turmoil and was in
Mesopotamia, and after that in England and
1 ranee. Before that she was bush-nursing,
and that’s no eiderdown job. Miss Twynam
is a sister of Mrs. Gordon Weschfe.
If she were that kind of girl, Enid
Muggridge could tell as tough a hard-luck
story as any girl in Sydney. She was an
only girl with an only brother. Her father-
managing director of Pitt, Son and Badgery s
—died towards the end of last year. Two
days later she got word that her fiance, a
Queensland Light Horseman, had been killed
in Palestine. Last week her brother was in
the Maitland district on the firm’s business.
He met the plague there and died on Sunday
night. Enid and her mother are left now
with one another and a host of deeply-sym-
pathising friends.
Duntryleague, the Dalton hiomestead at
Orange, goes, by the will of the late James
Dalton, to liis youngest son, Paddy, who
wears the black robes of the Jesuit order.
Artist Will Ashton, from South Aus., after
many quarantine delays, arrived last week
with his wife, two offspring and a pet color-
box. The party travelled per motor all the
way.
Last week the Cheer-oh girls raised a
sweet voice and a graceful leg to inflate the
funds of the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Other Animals. The pro-
■ grammes were adorned by a Souter small-
child with a mop-head soothing the slumbers
of the house ,dog and a Souter cat. St.
James’s Hall was crowded —the Cheer-ohs
are popular, not only for their good work in
patriotic causes, but also for their entertain-
ments that hold many laughs and pretty
figures.
Note from a Bulletin boy in France: —
Jacques Playoust, the “terps,” was here for dinner
to-night. He didn’t know what a great fellow we
thought him. For 26 years he lived in Australia;
then as soon as France was in trouble he shot over
here as a poilu, which is Italian for Digger, stuck
it for three years, was discharge*!, set off back to
Australia, was on the Mongolia when she was mined,
couldn’t rest in civvies, pushed back, and got a job
as interpreter. In peace-time he was a wool-buyer.
In war-time he was just magnificent.
Latest London Sketch has a full-page
picture of the Countess de Yismes, formerly
Eileen Bede Dailey, daughter of William
Bede Dailey, of hereabouts, who came back
from the Front a year or so ago. Husband
of the countess (the wedding happened in
1917) is Alexander William Theobald de
Vismes et de Ponthieu, Count de Vismes,
Colonel of the Grenadier Guards, who owns
a house in London and another in Chile.
The Ernest Watts have a daughter. Mrs.
Watt was Bertha Brady before she married
Captain Prowse, R.N. Captain Prowse was
drowned in action in 1915, and about a year
later his widow married Mr. Watt, whom she
had known since babyhood. Her only
brother is Major Brady, D. 5.0., M.C., who
was a youngster with a station in the back-
blocks of Queensland when the war started.
He enlisted in England, was wounded badly
almost at once, went back and is now with
his regiment on the Rhine. Their father is
A. J. Brady, the throat-specialist.
On Wednesday the Australia heard the
parting cheer to yet another Sydney woman
who is taking her talent away. The party
was instigated by a number of the friends
and students of Mrs. Ilaffenden-Smith, who
takes a voice of great volume and wide re-
gister to charm English and S’African audi-
ences. The guest, who has constantly raised
her - voice for her country, carried away a
swag of flowers and cheques and jewellery.
The Australian-American War Workers
had a disbanding party last week, having
sold their cafe for £530. For a long time
past their cash register has been putting out
a weekly £4B receipt card, and from July to
influenza January they had collected £i364
from Sydney’s lunch consumers.
The committee of the Grand Rose Balls is
sending out a rally for donations towards the'
art union; and for prizes for the most strik-
ing juvenile dressers. The balls are to be
held on May 13 and 14, ’flu permitting.
An Australian girl admires the First Lady
of America:—
Mrs. Woodrow Wilson, who is a noted dresser,
relies on beautiful material and perfection in cut
rather than on daring color-effects. She took some
charming frocks to Buckingham and Paris. One is
a soft, lustrous satin brocaded with a powdering of
large silver flowers, much silver lace about the cor-
sage, with folds of outlining white inside the
square decolletage, and floating tulle draperies fall-
ing from the armholes. Silver slippers and an
enormous natural-ostrich feather fan went with this.
Mrs. Wilson favors these enormous fans, and the
corsage bouquet of orchids. (This corsage bouquet,
by the way, is the latest , cry. The more stylish o—
is, the larger the garden-plot on one’s chest.
Another frock is of grey chiffon velvet, long as ,
train, the slightly-draped skirt touched with dar r
fur and beautiful point lace. The allure of net hr
not been overlooked. One model of this materia -
has trimmings of net picked out in turqouise; the
fan to go with this, is blue. But the most" striking
is clinging black, of which half the bodice is off
flame-colored tulle, with a tulle scarf effect forminr
a flaming cloud around the shoulders.. A fan or
flame-colored feathers is carried with this.


The Farmer's Car:
&
zllfetfia®
Ms
m
m
9
si
/-
—~—■— l —xCW;
■ "r-< \j,VA v
n D tNv-Sr*A'l vr - />'>
k. h>> >
SKCTI
IwSietTamtaE
8?
V:
fr pChj^cy, v • r r S< '-%.• ~r.
os
Motor Cam
9
r
May we demonstrate this completely equipped motor car?
Economical to purchase and maintain —
light in weight electric lights and
electric starter —completely equip-
ped — powerful, flexible, en bloc en-
gine — easy-riding cantilever rear d
springs — deep, soft upholstery. i§
Complete Catalogue
on request.
HPHE Overland
is popular the
world over among
farmers. It meet 6
every demand of rural
travel
With it you save time in transporting
produce and supplies. You make neigh-
bours of your distant friends. And you
A multiply your conveniences and the pleas-
ures of your family.
This Overland minds not swamp nor brush, muddy
roads nor steep hills.
Large wheels insure ample clearance. Cantilever rear
springs and strong axles insure easy riding. Electric
control buttons on the steering column insure ease of opera-
tion. Power, comfort, durability—all of these identify the
“Light Four”.
You will find that this Overland gives you more for the
money than any other car of its class.
Australian Distributors —
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. LTD., Hobari
A. HAT RICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION , Christchurch, N.Z.
The Wileys Overland Company, Toledo, Ohio


'&he-
Jfat cfODistineticnv
“fLENSTER " Hats, for which Farmer's are
sole agents in Australia, embrace ail that
is new and original in Stylish Millinery, Their
graceful charm, their exquisite nnd distinctive
designs and clever color schemes—each hat is
different —ranks them as artistic millinery
masterpieces. Inspection should be made to-day.
STapmep's
St/dn-ey.
Gr
\
ll
Your
Figure
Re-createt
By the SHAVE *
system of model fit-
ting it is possible
to have your figure
re-created in the
Shave Workrooms
and upon the re-
creation per f eci
gowns built without any fittings.
The name ' 'Shave' ’ is an assurance
of vogue.
Visits to Sydney and Adelaide twice
and to Brisbane once yearly
Ladies' Tailors
Dressmakers
Centreway
Melbourne
May we invite you to our next
Me It Oman
I y 1 HIGH-CLASS
Creams
u&
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agrents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E BROWN © SONS LONDON
I • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust proof
Corsets
The Munro Fergusons, with military-sec-
retary Finch-Knightley in attendance, turned
up on the opening day of the exhibition of
Norman Lindsay, Ileysen and others at the
Fine Arts Society’s galleries. They were
shown around by manager Gill, but the
G.-G. mercifully, refrained from making a
speech in the Scawtch language, which is
sometimes so difficult to understand. The
exhibition somehow managed to open itself
without any oratory at all.
A luncheon of the kind that lias not often
happened in Melbourne in the last four
years was accorded Walter Leitch (who
during the war was director of munitions)
at Menzies’ last week. Champagne and
oratory were poured out in large quantities,
and Willy Watt presented the guest with a
cabinet of cigars—waggishly remarking that
the man who did not smoke in this world
would probably do so in the next —and a
boomerang. Leitch had a hard row to hoe
here, as it was his job to forbid shipnlents
of unnecessary materials; but the genial
Scotsman made himself equally popular in
his office, in club card-rooms and on the golf
course. He will be remembered for his
unique accomplishment of being able to sing
grand-opera arias while playing a no-trump
hand.
A romance is developing in one of Mel-
bourne’s more prosperous outer suburbs. In
the early days of the war, when there was a
lot of talk about ‘-‘lonely soldiers” and many
enthusiastic, kindly citizens spent their spare
time in writing letters to unknown Billjims,
one of two elderly, wealthy spinsters, inti-
mately connected with the Best People,
started a correspondence with a remote sol-
dier. Lately this Billjim came back and
looked in on his friend. He turned out to
be a husky, affable soul with a liking for
good living. After staying awhile with
the spinsters he declared his affection
for the letter-writer. Thg other spinster,
greatly agitated by the turn of affairs, did
her best to sidetrack the willing parties; but
.even tlae calling-in of the family parson as
an intermediary was of no avail. The wor-
ried sister presently had a paralytic stroke
and died; and now the • survivor, who is
about GO, is helping her Returned Boy to
choose a desirable villa, and the wedding is
booked for an early date.
Lady Dudley took a tremendous interest in
the Bush Nurses Scheme, and amongst
other things presented beautiful enamelled
brooches to the first batch of the angels.
Then she went away—and forgot about the
bill! The Vic. Arts and Crafts, who got
the order, settled up for the baubles them-
selves. They are now wondering whether
they should mention the matter to the
Countess, in view of the fact that her little
affairs have been settled satisfactorily.
Mrs. Leslie Stuart was bundled uncere-
moniously up from Sorrento to a Melbourne
hospital, where the doctors put up a despe-
rate contest—themselves v. peritonitis. The
faculty got the decision, and she is now back
at Logan House, Toorak, and in a position
to receive visitors for a few nurse-guarded
minutes. She does it on a huge couch,
with hydrangea-colored cushions. Imagine
the extremely fair lady wrapped in a lilac
silk gown against that background ! It is
almost worth getting ill to" be able to present
such a picture.
The Stanley children had a small dog
named Laddy to which they were passion-
ately devoted. It died. Their mother sent
for them to break the tidings gently.
“Darlings,” she said, “I have sad news
for you. Poor Laddy is dead!” To
her surprise there was no wild out-
burst., They just crept gently from the
room. A few minutes passed and they
surged back in floods of tears, shrieking
wildly. “Laddy’s dead!” “But,” replied
the bewildered mother, “I told you that just
now.” “We thought you said Daddy /” they
howled inconsolably.
Professor Wallace, who laid down his cap
and gown two years ago to get into khaki,
will resume his professorial garments
shortly. He is on his way home, and so
are Mrs. Wallace and the two babies. The
Professor started as a gunner and rose to
be a loot.
The Tasmanian vice-regal Newdegates’
niece, Miss Newdigate (for Heaven’s sake
note the difference in spelling!), who stayed
with them for a while and then went back
to England to be married, has a new son.
He will be affluent, with any luck. His
mother found, on reaching her 21st birthday,
that she was worth a million sterling.
Miss Nancy Fitzroy is accompanying her
naval-lieutenant brother to the Speck.
She is to be a bridesmaid at the wedding
of Lieut. Fitzroy and Miss Lucia Newde-
gate.
The Sargoods, of Narada, are to arrive
next month. The pair made an early start
with war-work. Mrs. Sargood has been
Red Crossing, here and in England, prac-
tically throughout the war, and her William
has spent most of his time with the
Y.M.C.A. He put in a year or so at this
work in France, and after that took on a
Red Cross job at Salisbury Plain, where he
was an earnest battler for Billjim’s well-
being.
Another Western District sheepman,
Lieut.-Col. Albert Austin, of Eilyer, who
recently made a trip along the line of
Y.M.C.A. huts from Paris to Mesopotamia,
came home last month.
Gertrude Johnson,
the you n g Mel-
bourne amateur, was
annexed by the Rigo
company on the
strength of some
capital work in
Bananaland, where
she made her first
operatic appearance
in “Traviata,” “Pag-
liacci” and other
works, in a party
headed by Augusto
Balboni. Her early
successes as a song-
bird in 1914 set her
thinking of England,
Rome and booty, but
when war broke out
she was compelled to
adopt a humbler ambition and get a polish
nearer home. This was acquired under
Melba at the East Melbourne Conserva-
torium, and she is now moving up rapidly
into the prima-donna class. The young
songstress, who is here photoed by Talma,
represents the third Johnson generation in
which a Voice has been found. Father and
grandfather both tenored very charmingly
in days gone by.
Hamilton thronged its main street on
Friday when Premier Lawson unveiled a
memorial to the late Jack Thomson, who
was as great a favorite with members when
he was in the Vic. Assembly as George
Bennett of Richmond was in the long years
he was there. Late in life Jack married
Miss Robertson, a member of a well-known
Western District squatting family.
Old friends of Mrs. Jessie Williamson
learned with sorrow that she had passed
out suddenly and unexpectedly on March 31.
She was the widow of Sam Williamson, who
w r as a member of the Vic. House of Land-
lords for ten years ( 1891-1901), and was one
of the honorai’ies in Turner’s first State
Ministry (1895-99). Until its amalgama-
tion with the Herald, Williamson was a
director of the Evening Standard Com-
pany. Mrs. Williamson had a comfortable
nest at Toorakia.
The Byron Moores and Mfs. Sam Staugh-
ton are grief-stricken at the loss of their
six-year-old grand-daughter, Dorothy Mary.
She had only just got back with her parents,
the Eric Byron Moores, to Siam, where they
live, after a six months’ trip to Melbourne.
John Hindson, of Sorrento, who died last
week at 79, married a daughter of the late
pioneering Francis Henty, of Merino Downs.
Henty had three girls. Caroline, who died
lately, married Alec McLeod, of Talisker.
He pre-deceased her. The others, Alice
Hindson and Louisa Henty, still survive.
The Merino Downs squattage was run for
a long time in the interests of the three
daughters, but of late years part of it (Hind-
son’s) was cut up into handy-sized farms
and let to tenants. When McLeod came in
he built the Talisker homestead on his wife’s
section, which was then separated from the
others. The third portion, held by the
spinster Louisa, contains the original Merino
Downs homestead and the site of the first
dwelling built in the Western District pu.t-
side Portland. That was done by the late
John Henty, an elder brother of Francis.
John steered the first bullock-waggon out of
the early settlement on Portland Bay.
The gospel from Adelaide :—-
The late Ebenezer Ward’s youngest came on the
Ascanius, after a varied experience, including
despatch-riding, machine-gunning and a term of ser-
vice with the A.F:C. that terminated in a crashed
machine, a broken leg and a year’s imprisonment in
Germany. The Teesdale Smiths’ son Paul came on
the Lancashire with a D.C.M. and a wife. He was
married in Egypt—to the second daughter of the
Arthur Waterhouses.
There are a few significant items in an education
inspector’s report on the ex-Lutheran schools. “Ger-
man is the language of the home,” he says, and
“every year children coming to school for the first
time know little or no English,” and have to be
duly instructed in the language of their country
before any other information can be driven into them.
Further light has been thrown on the engaging
ways of the Hun by Allan Strawbridge, a son of the
late Surveyor-General. He had ,the bad luck to be
in Luxembourg when war broke out, and was
promptly arrested as a French spy while sketching.
He was court-martialled, but the evidence was too
flimsy even for German “justice,” so he was “chucked
into a stable, in company with a horse, to await
developments.” Then came a year’s work with
French soldiers as a military prisoner, followed by
three months’ .solitary ' confinement in Berlin, with
bread and water as his sole diet, and eight court-
martials by way of diversion. He had one visitor
during the whole time —a priest who came once. In
September, 1916, he was sentenced to death, but at
the last moment was informed that owing to lack of
evidence against him the execution was postponed.
He got back to London at the end of 191 S.
Dr. G. R. West is to be lecturer in physiology at
the Adelaide University for this term, so filling part
of the huge gap left by the death of Professor
Stirling.
Amongst other homing soldiers are Lieut. L. M.
S. Hargrave, M.C., and Lieut. Keith Duncan-—the
former a Light Horseman of the A.1.F., and the
latter an artilleryman. /The Duncan dame and
her two daughters, who have been doing war work
in London, are returning via America, and the
Ronald Angases and Eric Hurrays (she, you will
remember, was Miss Jean Knox, of Melbourne) are
also on their way. Lieut. Angas was with the
R.F.A., and Lieut. Murray with King Edward’s
Horse.
The Premier has definitely announced that the
erection of a national memorial is to be a Govern-
ment job, and when Parliament meets it will be
asked to grant sufficient money for the purpose.
The projected Women’s Memorial will not, however,
be abandoned.
After spending five or six years in Smith AuS.,
English artist Follen Bishop and his wife have
booked passages to England.
The Davies family has brought off a good musical
double. At the beginning of the year Harold Davies
was made Professor of Music at the University here
and Director of the Conservatorium. Just at the
same time his brother, Walford Davies, was made
Professor of Music at Aberystwyth and Musical
Director of the University of Wales.
Back in Adelaide from Egypt, popular Peter
Bright, Son of Tom Bright, S.M., and himself a great
man in the hunting field. He was one of the first
volunteers of the war, but had a bad accident in
camp at Morphettville, which stopped his Light
Horse work. After a long convalescence he got
into the remount department at Heliopolis, where he
has been working with “Banjo” Paterson, among
other*.
Canon Snodgrass,. youngest brother of the
late Dowager of Cliveden, will say good-bye
to his Geelong congregation this month. He
is booked to shepherd the flock at St.
James’s, East St. Kilda.
Major Herbert Russell, R.A. (Military
Cross with bar and Croix de Guerre), is to
marry Marjorie Griffiths of the Western
District. She is a daughter of Chaplain
Griffiths, some time of the Anglican Church
in Ballarat.
A recent wedding
on the other side
was that of Com-
man d e r Eustace
Marsden, of the
R.I.M.S.—■ pictured
herewith whose
father was Govern-
ment Architect in
Victoria, to Nancy
Lees, of Wytchett,
oear Poole. The
new Mrs. Marsden
is a sister to the
long baronet Thomas
Lees, who gent-
helped on Governor
Chelmsford’s staff in
Sydney for a bit,
and died of wounds
in France in 1915.
A sister and an uncle were lost on the
Waratah. Eustace was on the Suez Canal
defence at the start of the war and com-
manded the Swiftsure afterwards. His
sister, Mrs. Connell, has been one of our
hardest war-workers.
Flight-Captain Stanley Winter-Irving,
M.C., has been presented by his youthful
missus with a son. The ceremony took
place last week.
Bob Godby, married the other day to
Lorna Graham at Christ Church, South
Yarra, is the youngest of the Dean of Mel-
bourne's three sons. Brother Billy was
best man.
Struan, between Coleraine and Merino,
has been bought for soldier-settlement —a
block of 4500 fat acres. Struan belonged to
the late John Huxley, who during the West-
ralian gold-boom left Portland for the Land
of Promise with about 2d. in his pocket,
returning to his home district with enough
cash to become a landed proprietor and re-
tain a nice balance for incidentals. _ Huxlej.
with prospectors Bigelow and Mills (the
latter now the owner of Powerscourt, Gipps-
land), discovered the Londonderry mine,
which enriched the vendors but left the sub-
sequent shareholders with a pain in their
pocket-books. The late Ewen ( ameron,
who preceded Hugh Campbell as M.L.A. for
Glenelg, squatted on Struan for many years.
Mrs. Jimmy Dyer gave a packed party on
Saturday afternoon at the Lyceum Club to
the Rigo Opera Company, and for some
hours the lifts were working overtime, while
the genteel uproar was terrific. It is one
reason, possibly, why city landlords put up
the House Full placard so cruelly whenever
a Woman’s Club wants new grazing-ground.
Mrs. Delprat and her daughter, who have
just returned from America, gave a good-bye
party at their, Mallock flat to Dutch Consul
Teppema and his wife. Another married
Delprat girl—the Mawson lady—is expected
shortly with her explorer husband.
Wearing the uniform of a private, Gordon
Webber, Labor member for Abbotsford and
ex-Mayor of Richmond, lias returned to
Melbourne after two years’ service abroad.
The State Parliamentary Labor party gave
him a lunch and a welcome.
Poet-artist Hugh McCrae looms up like
an Eiffel Tower in the court scene of “Eyes
of Youth” at the King’s, neither greasepaint
nor the stage name of ‘‘Charles Worrall
being able to extinguish his personality.
Etcher John Shirlow has struck up an
acquaintance with ’flu streptococci and is an
inmate of the Exhibition Hospital. After
making a beginning toward recovery he had
a collapse and for a few clays his numerous
friends experienced grave anxiety, but it is
now floped that the worst is over.
Walter Kirby, who has been absent from
his afternoon-tea haunts for some time, has
emerged from St. Evin’s Hospital, it is
hoped, finally cured, and is preparing for
fresh assaults on crumpets and cake and an
early outburst of song.
Margaret Baskerville is working on a
relief panel in bronze of Edith Cavell which
is to be given to the Austral Salon. On
Friday she invited a party to her studio to
see the clay model. The finished work is
to be mounted on a stone pedestal with four
brass tablets, which will tell the story of the
martyred nurse.
The entry of old King Cole’s grandson i”" >
this Bolshevik-bitten world is celebi I
thus:—•
TURNLEY (n6e Linda Cole). —On 20th March, at
Sister Annear’s Private Hospital, Sutherland Road,
Armadale, the wife of Angus Francis Turnley—a
son.
The sleep that flits on baby’s eyes—does anybody
know from where it comes? Yes, it has its dwell-
ing in the fairy village among shadows of the forest,
dimly lit with glow-worms, where hang buds of
enchantment. From there it comes to kiss baby’s
eyes.
The smile that flickers on baby’s lips when he
sleeps—does anybody know where it was born? Yes,
a young pale beam of a crescent moon touched the
edge of a vanishing autumn cloud, and there the
smile was first born in the dream of a dew-washed
morning—the smile that flickers on baby’s lips when
he sleeps.
The sweet, soft freshness that blooms on baby’s
limbs —does anybody know where it was hidden so
long? Yes, it lay pervading the mother’s heart in
tender and silent mystery of love—the sweet, soft
freshness’ that has bloomed on baby’s limbs.
—-(lnserted by Linda Turnley, eldest daughter of the
late E. W. Cole, founder of Cole’s Book Arcade, in
the -radiant joy of motherhood.)
Tenor Cappelli had wliat he considered
“ze triomf” at the Bijou on Saturday after-
noon. Manager Muller posed the young
man against a huge pink curtain, and what
with this and his black-and-white dress-
clothes and butterfly moustache and coal-
black hair and white face, the general effect
was that of a Jan van Beer sketch. Cap-
pelli was in splendid voice, so much so that
the large Mrs. Cappelli wept publicly and
uncontrollably.
The war record of Scotch College will take
some beating. The roll of lionoL which is
still incomplete, contains 1200 names, and
the war distinctions gained by “oiu boys”
include a G.C.M.G. (annexed by Monash),
a Iv.C.M.G. (belonging to J. W. McCay), and
1 K.C.8., 2 C. 8., 4 G.M.G. (one owned by
Brigadier-General R. Smith), 2 0.8. E., 22
D. 5.0., 2 D.S.C., 2 D.F.C., 59 M.&, 3
D.C.M., 24 M.M., 2 Legion of Honor, 1
Medaille d’Honneur, 1 Belgian Order of the
Crown, and 7 Belgian Croix de Guerre.
Gwen Richardson, who went to seek her
stage-fortune in London after doing a con-
siderable dash with the Repertory people
here, is beginning to fill her album with
amiable press-cuttings, garnered as a result
of her recent work in Shakspearean parts
at the “Old Vic.” Gwendolyn is the elder
daughter of the Laurence Richardsons, now-
adays settled at Ballarat. Dad is a “pro-
fessor of music” at the ancient mining vil-
lage and has a steady organ job at Christ
Church Cathedral. Previously he spent a
long term in the same sort of billet at St.
Peter’s, Warrnambool.


■ / ■
i vvc-' ;':"
5 vM
saa,
>, .
%
%
Hi
M
CIR
.
wis i mm
tm 5 sfrlllL# ?
sits*
n m
■4 #‘, f
I
4
s.
*
:|'flS|P
. Vv
■.? V- ' ,
Li> . .■ -•
1
sica
wmm
«sr mm
sim
m
/s
mm
m
\k
sm
a
.
.I? ms
mmM
iX
SSCS
W. Is 61 !
• ; • /i --’’V' v a V: '->’ r ''
■ . ‘' • ' - ; : ’■ " ; ~ '•< ,
*
oen.sirW.sirdwood
a si 'Mi
I
. K ,„ ,a'", 7‘ps
■
Copyright Watson’s No. 1G Whisl-y.
Wo-t%><jri/>
3cotrJi 7v'fu
cote// 7vhab'
OiLruiPQ
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of General Sir W. Birdwood is one of a new series of drawing's specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir
Douglas Haig', General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W.
Robertson, General Foch, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D.
Sturdee, will be sent to any address on receipt of six penny (Commonwealth)
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO, LTD., 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


President Wilson has been absent from the Big
Four meetings during the last few days owing to a
chill, and the Peace Conference has been delayed in
consequence. The best safeguard against chills and
’flu is a judicious use of King George IV., the top-
notch Scotch whisky.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS &WNITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
SPANISH INFLUENZA.
AH medical men recommend a searching antiseptic, and
NAZETHA
flls , th * s requirement. Obtainable from all chemists for 1/6, and no
ne snould fail to protect themselves at this time of epidemic.
NAZETHA
The Great Cold Cure in the Little Bottle.
A* P , Miller & Son. chemists, Hob&rt.
7 [i
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPELY
The occasional Kunegetis was due for a.
win at Caulfield last Saturday, and the event duly
transpired. In consideration of a long succession of
losers the liandicapper had let Kunegetis into the St.
Hilda Cup at 7st. 21b., and seeing that he started at
11 to 2 his party presumably had a nice win. Last
year he carried 81b. more in the same race, and
would have won but for striking a snag in Shadow-
land (Bst. 31b.), who, with 7st. 131 b. up, split Rebus
and Lanius in the Sydney Cup soon afterwards. All
things considered, Kunegetis last Saturday looked a
pretty good thing.
* * * *
Old Booligal, who had been an unlucky
steeplechaser in his time, knocked himself out forever
at Caulfield on Saturday. The son of Carbinier was
not in good condition, , and towards the end of the
two-mile journey he hit a fence in a way that smashed
him up and led to his execution on the course. The
bad luck of Booligal lay in the fact that for years
he was doomed to carry the biggest weights without
having captured one of the biggest prizes.
* * * *
Wolaroi had a great win in. the w.f.a. race
at Rosehill on Saturday. The black horse, ridden
by MeLachlap, made a hack of Rebus, whom Bursar
beat by a head for second place.
Several of the champions, including Lingle and
Kennaquhair, started in the Club Handicap (li
mile), but they failed to make good. The Bronzino
gilding, Golden Bronze, won with 7st. 61b. up,
after an interesting race with West Molong. Biga-
roon (Bst. 10lb.) won the Juvenile Stakes (First
Division) in attractive style. This fine colt did the
furlongs in lmin. 7fsec., Which is a record for
the course.
Tlie Hurdle Race was taken by Goonangledene, the
country performer on which Cragg met his bit of
trouble during the last Randwick meeting. Goon-
angledene was evidently nowhere near his top when
Cragg was riding him. On Saturday he fairly
spreadeagled such good ones as Zarabine, Scoutmaster
and Coominya. A. Pearce had the mount.
* * * *
There are so many good jumpers in S.
Aus. that the Steeplechase at Gawler last-Saturdav
had to be run in two divisions. In N. S. Wales
it has been difficult, for years past, to get a field
of four or five decent performers.
* * * *
“E.T.”: There was quite a theatrical
flavor about this year’s Lincolnshire Handicap. The
owner of the winner, Australia’s old acquaintance
“Bob Sutton” Sievier, was in his early days a small-
part mummer in a crowd that toured India and the
“tar East,” with the late Charles Cartwright in the
lead. Solly Joel, who took second money, is behind
Alfred Butt in his multifarious amusement enter-
prises in London, Paris and elsewhere. Frank
Curzon, ex-actor, whose horse was placed third, has
long been a West End manager. He runs Wyndham’s
and the Prinee of Wales’.
* * * *
Broken Hill had a racing strike for its
autumn meeting. The taxis and cabs joined in, but
the railway employees didn’t. The fixture was a
frost and cost the club money. The Darwin beer
strike is a matter of history. There are but two
demonstrations in this line left unexploited, so far
by local unionists—the hunger-strike and the self-
denying domestic ordinance which was dealt with
so poignantly by Aristophanes.
* * * *
Adelaide Hunt Club, which went into
recess soon after the war started, intends to get
busy again, and is erecting kennels close to the polo-
ground at suburban Plympton. All the eligible
riding members enlisted, or offered themselves and
were rejected; eight have been killed. Old William
Pope continues as president, and Arthur Laughton as
secretary. E. M. Luxmoore is the master.
* * * *
Two steeplechases and a hurdle race in
two days was the record put up by Tenacious at
the Ohinemuri (M.L.) meeting tlie other day.
Tenacious was in Melbourne for the big jumping last
year, but was below his true form.
Melbourne is suffering from a plague of
cadgers who represent themselves to be the riders of
great horses, such as Carbine and even Grand
Flaneur. One impostor was asked if he wasn’t the
man who rode the original Barb. He readily ad-
mitted it, just as the 40-year-old drunk, with the
V.C. and Crimean ribbon, admits, on the suggestion
being made to him, that he went over the top at
Quatre Bras.
* * * *
Things are going to be awkward for a
number of Australia’s crack athletes when the ques-
tion of performing abroad comes up. Ireland is
the home of the cross-country rider. A number of
Irish horsemen did not serve in the war, and in
applying the other day to be allowed to ride in
England, they were turned down. Apropos, the
Special Commissioner of the London Sportsman,
who is the press spokesman of the Jockey Club,
wrote in his paper:—•
“All who served in the war, or were willing to
serve, and from sufficient cause were prevented, are
equally eligible for Jockey Club or N.II. licenses,
but none who shirked that duty... .Anyhow, let no
one in Ireland think that there is the slightest chance
of the Jockey Club or the National Hunt Committee
granting licenses to jockeys who could have done
their duty to the Entente cause, but refrained.”
France is barring all embusques, in both profes-
sional and amateur sport, and a movement on similar
lines is threatened in America.
* * * *
South Aus. is wondering whether it has
produced another George Giffen in Arthur Richardson.
He came into city cricket with a big reputation
from the Clare district just as war was stopping
play, and thus has had only two seasons. In each
of them he has made more runs in club matches than
anybody ever made before in Adelaide history. (In
the days of Giffen and Lyons the turf was not so
good as to-day; Clem Hill and Darling mostly kept
their big efforts for big occasions.) Richardson’s
club batting-average this season is a fraction under
99, and his bowling-average a fraction over 11. He
is one of the few prominent cricketers anywhere play-
ing in spectacles. In his one big match, in Mel-
bourne, he did little; the S.A. hero of that occasion
was Victor Richardson —no relation.
, Jim Bogle, ’Var-
sity’s wiry left-hander,
is this year’s Sydney
grade cricket find. It
is his fourth year with
’Varsity, and he played
for Glebe for years
before that. Yet he
did little in all that
time to justify the idea
that he was capable of
making 1049 runs in 4
season —a record to
which Jim Mackay’a
1041 in 1905-6 and
Victor Trumper’s 1021
in 1897-8 are the near-
est approaches. Bogle’s
strong points are dog-
a-edness, coolness and a
keen eye. He hiber-
nates in a baseball
field.
* * * -■
When sturdy Jack
Scott (Middle Harbor)
went in against Pad-
dington (Sydney grade
premiers for the season)
on Saturday nine wickets
were down for 137.
He got going at once,
and made 52 in 34min.,
the effort' including
five sixers and two
fourers. It looks as if
his synovitis was a
myth. Goldie Thomas (Balmain) also used the
long handle with 108 v. Western Suburbs; in his
score there were two sixers and 12 tourers. Thomas
knocked up 101 for once out against North Sydney
earlier in the season. Thomas, by the way, is one
of the greatest footballers under Australian rules in
Sydney.
* # » *
Joe Travers, captain of the Adelaides, has
been playing Oval cricket for the last 26 years, and
he can still represent his State any time he cares to
accept the offer. In a match against Victoria, when
Jack Worrall was captain, he secured nine wickets
for 30 runs. He finished this season by taking seven
for 97 against Port Adelaide.
* * * *
S. Aus. cricketers are concerned about the
eight-ball over, which, it is said, takes too much out
of young or fast trundlers. The latest idea is to let two
bowlers deliver six balls each from the same end;
which, in addition to easing the path for the man
behind the ball, would cut out half the time that is
at present wasted changing the field.
* * * *
East Torrens won the S. Aus. cricket
premiership; it is a habit dating from 1908. A.
Richardson was largely responsible.
* * * *
Melbourne District Cricket on Saturday
was ruined, for the most part, by rain. J. Ryder
(Collingwood) helped himself to 72 n.o. v. South.
The bowlers had the best of the'deal, though, War-
wick Armstrong taking seven for 32 v. Richmond
(the whole side was outed for 68), and Shugg (Uni.)
five for 48 v. North.
* * * *
A cricket record went on the slate at
Wellington (M.L.) when a junior batsman named M.
Murphy accomplished the feat of smiting four cen-
turies in as many consecutive matches. He collected
127 (not out), 135, 177 and 112—a total of 551 runs
and an average of 184. His team is Hill’s Pipe
Works.
* * * ,
Jules Vedrines, the French flier, aspires
to be the Magellan of the air. He proposes to fly
around the world shortly, and hopes to be the first
to do it. His idea is to take Australia by the wav ;
he will fly to Africa, then by way of India to
Australia, then to China across Behring Straits to
North America, and so back to Europe via Iceland.
E. Ferguson, the S. Australian motorist,
lias been proving the hill-climbing capacity of the
Red Indian bike fitted with Barnet Glass tyres. The
other day he took his machine up Sellick’s Hill,
which rises 950 ft. in 34 miles and is full of hair-
pins and scissors, and covered the distance in the
record time of smin. 3sec. Fastened to a side-car he
was not much slower, reaching the apex in amin.
47 2-ssee.—a wonderful performance.
* * » *
S.A. Coursing Club has arranged to hold
its Waterloo Cup early in July. The scene will be
Angas Plains, which gave satisfaction on the last
eight occasions. Lancelot Stirling, President of the
Leg. Council, got a special vote of thanks at the
annual meeting for general assistance, including first-
class mounts for the judge.
* * * *
“U.P.”: Molla Bjurstedt, the Yanko-Nor-
wegian tennis crack (B. 3/4/’l9), will probably
play at Wimbledon next June. Her antics on the
court are surprising—and so are her remarks when
she wins or loses a stroke. She is only 20, and has
won both the indoor and outdoor (ladies’) cham-
pionship of America. ■
Lone Star’s record high jump off the grass
(7ft. 7in.) did not stand long. At Quirindi
(N.S.W.) last week Sundown beat it with 7ft. Sin.
Sundown is one of a string of circus performers
belonging to A. Judd which visits most of the N. S.‘
Walts shows. Judd got the nucleus of his stable
front 11. D. Morton, M.L.A., the original owner of
Desmond.
* # * »
N. S. Wales Rugby League made a profit
of £l2lO last year. The assets now stand at
£5520; and its recent gift of £747 to charitable
and patriotic funds made a total of £5286 dis-
bursed in this way since the war began.
* * * *
Under N. S. Wales Rugby League’s three
years’ agreement with Queensland, two representa-
tive matches —one at Sydney and the other at Bris-
bane—will be played each year; and the contestants
fill .whack the gate. N. S, Wales stands to lose
heavily under this scheme. At present, however,
the Ma State League is financially in clover; and
the agreement will deal a severe blow at football
faction. It has also been decided to form an Aus-
tralasian Council from among N. S. Wales, Queens-
land and M.L. Leagues, with equal voting on all
matters pertaining to Australasian and English tours.
* * # *
Bob Williams, the N. S. Wales light-
weight, got a match at Brisbane Stadium last week
with the French lad Volaire. It was a willing go
and a level one. At the end of the 20 rounds the
referee indicated Williams as the winner, where-
upon those who had backed Volaire howled vocifer-
Ously, and then, feeling much relieved, went peace-
fully home. The sport, so far as Sydney and Mel-
bourne are concerned, is temporarily chloroformed
by the ’flu.
Chief-Uunner Parsons, a useful English
heavyweight, is on board the trooper Ascanius. He
held the British Army and Navy championship (1908,
1909 and 1910). There is talk of matching him
with the S.A. champion, Ern Waddy.
* * * »
Unless someone is lying with more
vehemence than usual, Willard really is going to
fight again for his title. Jack Dempsey is the
challenger and Tex Rickard the promoter. Rickard
claims to be ready to put up £25,000, the cham-
pions share of which is to be £20,000. This will
be a considerably bigger purse than the same pro-
moter found for the Johnson-Jeffries affair, and it will
need a gate of at least £60,000 to make it worth
while. _ Hugh D. Mclntosh was glad of £20,000
tor the incomparably more attractive Burns-Johnson
row.
Willard, on his showing against Johnson, is no
champion as a boxer. He has not entered a ring for
five years, and he is fat. Dempsey is younger, has
been fighting hard of late, and is a mighty two-
handed puncher. But on the weights, unless Willard
has faded right out as regards strength and vigor,
he should keep his title. Such a match—one in
which an aggressive little man is liable to be
slaughtered by a cautious giant—-has little allurement
for the better class of sportsman.
London cable says that one Tom Pritchard offers
Willard and Dempsey £20,000 “to be divided' as
they desire for a match in London in July. In
this page’s opinion Mr. Pritchard as a promoter is
the equivalent of Mrs. Betsy Gamp’s old friend,
though as a press-agent he is, doubtless, genuine
enough. The whole spirit of the London sporting
world is against paying exorbitant prices to pugs—-
more particularly imported ones. The National
Sporting Club has always fought against the tendency
and it is still a big factor.
* * * *
A cable states that Jimmy Wilde is ready
to fight Pal Moore for £5OOO. Moore got a de-
cision against him the other day, which he bitterly
resented. The great flyweight is not one to boost
himself unduly, either. lie was the readiest man
m the house to admit that Digger Evans gave him
a sultry time when they met in London. About the
best drawing match Wilde could engage in would be
with Joe Lynch, the Yankee bantam-weight.
Major M. C. C. Seton, the Australian
doctor who was shot on a domestic issue by Lieut -
Col. Rutherford the other day, should have had every
cnance to escape. At Edinburgh University he won
the 50-miles race, and as a half-miler he once
defeated the great American O. H. Kilpatrick. He
had been a great boxer, too—was his ’Varsity’s
middleweight champion. J
* * * *
Oa Saturday Manly took the Solomon
Shieid 500-yards junior relay championship from
Spu (last year s champions) and East Sydney in
smin. 22 I.ssec.-~an average of 64*sec. Norman
Longworth won Rose Bay’s 100 yards in 60 3-ssec.
There is a record number of youths capable of
breaking the in Sydney swimming just new.
'l' (South Brisbane) won
the 220-yards local swimming championship from
F Springfield m 2min. 42 l-ssec. He also holds the
State 100-yards title (62sec.). Another speedy
Northern lad is Cooper, who last week took Brisbane
secondary school championships for 50 yards
(27 l-ssec.), 100 yards (72sec.) and 440 yards
(6mm. I9sec. -which is 22sec. better than the
schoolj record).
* * *
At Manly (N.S.W.) on Sunday, in the
R.L.S. Silver Medallion Test, Richmond Cavill Eve,
iuily clothed barring his boots and coat, traversed
the 600 yards (200 yards breast stroke, 200 yards
back stroke and 200 yards trudgeon) in 12min. 36sec.
He is only 16.
Fort-street won the Sydney High Schools
first-grade cricket competition this year, beating
North Sydney last week by 55 runs. Waddington,
the captain, is about the best all-round, schoolboy
athlete in Australia—if not in the world. There are
tew schoolboys outside the Commonwealth who add so
many swimming stunts to the conventional games
and sports.
“Bill R.": Since the February floods on
the South Coast (N.S.W.) gunmen have had mighty
shooting among the migratory Siberian snipe* and
,sea-curlews. The floods rushed the long bar-locked
lake-waters out to sea, and the mud-flats left
behind, on which were stranded myriads of marine
insects and shellfish, became 'the banqueting
grounds for the feathered : globe-trotters. They are
wary and difficult to approach, hut when one haa
been wounded the flo ks hover above him with wail-
ing cries, and the murderer may continue slaughtering
while his ammunition lasts.
* * * * ».
“Pick” : In the cod- and perch-inhabited
pools along the Murrumbidgee this summer the
Obstacle-Shifters’ Union has had to work double shifts
to prevent water-lilies and other plants from taking
complete possession of the stream. For weary
months no freshes have occurred to scour the channel,
and weeds have clogged them with such a matted
thickness that ihe fish had to cut passages to the
light above. They did it by numbers circling
within a radius of about three feet, and tearing
#way the stems of the plants. Anglers name these
circular weedless spots, “breathing holes.” But
the fish, apparently, construct them for feeding
grounds. When any venturesome beetle or moth
attempts a bath in the cleared space, there is an
unseemly rush from below, and one insect less for
the world to get on with. Fishers find it good
business to drop their worms in thereabouts.
Adelaide Golf Club has celebrated the end
of its 26th year by raising its membership limit from
200 to 250, and its annual subscription to seven
guineas. Dr. Swift continues president, and H. L.
ttymill captain.
* * * *
Germany's chance of making an early
entry tor the Davis Gup seems to be an outside one.
The All-England Tennis Club has ruled out all enemy
competitors from the Wimbledon matches. The Lawn
Tennis Association of England has forbidden British
players to participate in enemy or neutral tourna-
ments in which enemy players take part. France,
through its Coniite National des Sports, decided to
bar all competitors of enemy nationality from taking
part in any event held under its rules, and to forbid
the participation of all its members taking part in
any meeting held in France br in any other coun-
try in which competitors of German, Austrian,
Hungarian, Bulgarian or Turkish nationality, are
admitted. So if a Swiss or Dutch tourney accepts
entries from a German it will be boycotted by
French players.
* * * *
“Cobber”: Tatt.’s have just completed a
big job. A piece of one of the marbles, bearing
but portion of a number, was drawn as a prize-
winner in a recent consultation. This was laid
aside until the drawing was completed. The Tas-
manian Government supervisor (,T. R. Quinn) then
opened the barrel and, after a long search, found
the balance of the alley which the clutch of the
prize-drawing- wand had broken. The management
subsequently decided to check the 100,000 numbers
before they were returned to the cask. This was
done by placing them in numerical order in 100
trays each containing a thousand. Five employees
took a fortnight to do this, while the job of check-
ing and dropping them into the barrel kept five
Treasury officials awake for eight hours. It is, by
the way, possible for one ticket to draw two or
more prizes in one consultation, as the lucky marbles
are returned to the barrel so soon as the stipulated
prizes of each value are drawn. The piece men-
tioned above was not returned, because the half
remaining in had the chance.
* * * *
What is “a common gaming-house” in
law? The answer seems to be: “Any place where
games of chance are played that the police take it
into their heads to raid.” At Lithgow (N.S.W.) the
other morning the magistrates had before them a
case in which the proprietors of an establishment
where “Murrumbidgee pool” had been played were
charged with running a gaming-place. If they were
guilty there is not a club, social or sporting, in the
State which is innocent, nor a hotel of standing: and
many owners of private houses might be liable in
certain eventualities—-where a roulette party was
given, for example. The administration of the law-
in regard to gambling is one of the most puzzling
things extant. Poker, which has been declared
judicially “an illegal game,” is condoned, possibly
because it is played in the best clubs. Fantan is
barred, possibly because it is played by Chinese.
Petty raids are frequent on places where trifling
stakes are involved. No raids occur where tremen-
dous sums are known to be won and lost.
* * * *
In the big yachting event last week over
the Brighton (Vic.-) Yacht Club’s course, a visitor,
The Rip, won. The scratch boat, Valhalla, was
prejudiced owing to the nominally 10-mile course
being reduced to eight. The Rip won on her lOsec.
handicap, doing the journey in 5.14.26.
* * * *
The South Park (Adelaide) Bowling
Club concluded a big pairs tourney on the 25th.
Thbre were 114 pairs—a State record —and the cere-
mony was solemnised by electric light. Hinton and
Bridgeland won from Miller and May.
TIMES CHANGE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“Fuller’s rejuvenated Sydney ‘Nash’ has been
attracting good houses.”— The Bulletin, 3/4/’l9.
Here yesteryear the sportsman took his ease
’Mid nigger boxers and their A.D.C.’s;
Here Johnson battered Felix to the ground—
Clean “out” within the fraction of a round.
Here, dog-like, the astounded Felix howled
AVhat time he was most villainously fouled;
Yea, here, with Peter in the lead, alack!
His white opponent bit him in the back.
No longer do the boxers stamp and swear,
The reason being that they are not there!
Time passes and the crowd puts down its cash
To view the place as Ben J. Fuller’s “Nash.”
The loathly grub becomes a butterfly,
Nor do we, carping, ask each other why ;
Remember this when people query how
The “Nash” should change, and be what it is now.
Enough that it is so. Where fighters strove
Fair girls now prance and softly sing of love,
While for the Bookies’ Seats of other days
The purest brand of wowser gladly pays.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Every Han and Woman can
have PERFECT HEALTH!
“No matter how much learning- you may acquire, no matter
how you may develop your talents, no matter how much
money you may earn, if through ignorance of your own
body you suffer ill-health, and die years before your time,
your education will have been a failure.”
Why be handicapped in life’s battle through ill-health?
Why suffer needless aches and pains?
Why allow yourself to become run-down, nervy, out-of-sorts,
and liable to contract the various complaints to which
mankind is subject?
Why not become a strong, vigorous and perfectly-healthy
being, as Nature intended you to be?
Regular and proper exercise, such as I prescribe in my
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture
will make you fit and keep you strong and healthy. Don’t
think that your case is the exception—it’s not. You will
find inv exercises both beneficial and enjoyable pastime.
You will look forward to the time when you Will have to do
them, and find the benefits very rapid.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my Course will
build up your chest, broaden your shoulders, strengthen your
lungs and make you breathe in a natural way.
My booklet, entitled “Health and Strength from Self-
Culture,” tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I should
like to send you a copy. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement, and post it to me. 1 will know j
what you mean. Send three penny stamps for postage. M
REG. L. BAKER,
Specialist in
Physical Culture,
7 MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS, 82 OXFORD SfREET, SYDNEY.
m
k
m
"Worid/Best*
n^OTOR^PIRir
C&s&c/
ir\ C?uj'tr*9jO&.
BRITISH IMPERIAL OILCOY.ITD.. ALL MATES UN Z
mm
m
NO 2
The Racing Man
Rides
because in mighty “Powerplus"
he gets more in pace, power
and dependability than is his
in any other make
Catalogue from
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd.
Rutsell Street Melbourne
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAD ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 Q.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
If
Write for
Catalogue ,
Splendid Forges and Drills
for Farmer and Blacksmith
There are hundreds of uses on a farm for a forge and drill —repair jobs can be
done on the spot, saving time and money and quickly paying the cost of the outfit.
These forges and drills are well suited to the needs of blacksmiths. They enlarge
the scope of the smithy, enabling you to handle bigger work. All types and sizes
of Portable Forges and Drills for the blacksmith in stock. Write for illustrated
leaflets and prices.
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.,
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
138 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
for Indigestion.
ftfcAuSTRAUAT*
JUj\i
Wit
LftowtSStS
SE MUAKAT J 1
c
Q
\V
<s>
<**» UlUfct*
M^JU
King °f Tabk
Corvhains> (
Line Soda! (
LiTmAtMondiA
r ,
There's a Holiday in Every
*55-
i
i--' •vV
aw
%
MOST Horseman experience difficulty iii
obtaining breeches that are absolutely
faultless as to fit. There is so often some minor incor-
rectness in the cutting that renders the garments uncom-
■ forfable in wear and possibly shortens the period of
their serviceability. For instance, have not YOU had
breeches that were just a little too tight at the knee with
the consequence that difficulty was. experienced when
mounting or the stitching gave way just as the strain was
put on the left knee ? r .
M L.S. H Breeches are cut by men experienced in the production
of Riding Garments—men who know exactly how Breeches
must be cut to be completely satisfactory. We quote our special
MILITARY DRILLS
(Tailor-made to Order)
I 30/-J
for the man who wants 1 something serviceable at a low
price. Other textures up to £4. PATTERNS ARE
, POST FREE. We will gladly make you a trial pair, A
and if they prove unsatisfactory you need not keep A£=.
them. Why not drop us a line to-day ?
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Lid.
244?254 Flinders St. —Melbourne


COLLARS
Made in '
Australia
THE first func-
tion of a
PELA CO
Collar is to wear
longer.
AND IT DOES!
PEL ACO Collars
reveal superior qual-
ity and stamina.
Buying them means
economy of the right
sort.
PEL ACO Shirts,
Collars & Pyjamas
are sold by reliable
Mercers everywhere
It isn’t
much
trouble
to look
for the
name
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
IK
CSSSJBB
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities!™,,,,,
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
The HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
1U Waltham Buildings, 21 Bond St., SYDNEY.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE
. /
Botanical Gardens.
Tariff, 15s. par day.
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High=class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 13/- per day inclusive.
8/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
The
“LONGREACH."
Buyers in Queensland and
other States/write for Lib-
eral Freight Concessions.
A Thoroughbred
Saddle.
The “LONCREACH”
for Comfort.
All our ideas of a comfortable saddle, giv-
ing at the same time long wear and security
to the rider, are embodied in this latest
saddle of ours. It is made on our high-class
“Fouright” tree with steel stirrup bars. The
flaps and skirts are combined in one piece and
seamed direct on to the seat, giving a very
narrow and non-chafing grip. The pads are
set very high up and give a grip along the
rider's thighs. It has wide leather points to
the panel extending beyond the Haps—a little
point that will appeal to the bushman. The
leather used throughout is nice flexible kip
leather, and the color is a nearly-old color
that only needs a few rides to bring it to the
color most men like. The fittings are bevelled
stirrup-leathers, folded girth and solid nickel
stirrups.
*Olll5
Freight Free for Cash to any
Port or Railway Station In
N. S. Wales.
Send Height and Weight with order. Our fine illustrated catalogue shows 70 styles in
saddles; 40 in harness, Hodgson stockwhips, etc.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.,
SADDLERS,
393 George Street,
Sydney.
THRIFT”— the National Watchword
In these present days of economy, when apparel is required to give the utmost
service,
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
provide an excellent polish, which will increase the wear, preserve the leather and
give a bright and lasting shine. Bostock’s Violo Cream, for Patent Leather and
Glac6 Kid, is a scientific emulsion of high-grade waxes, which keeps the leather
soft and pliable, thus preventing cracks and insuring added service.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Bottles and Tubes.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
£l5/10/-
£l2/10/-
JM
£22/10/
f;.p.
£25.
Insist on Quality
when purchasing
Diamond Rings.
Do you pay due attention to the
Quality of the Gems when buying a
Diamond Ring?
The purity and brilliance of the stones
in Stewart Dawson’s Diamond Rings
proclaim their intrinsic character, dif-
fusing that light and lustre known only
to Diamonds of First Quality.
Inferior Diamonds neither give dis-
tinction nor pleasure; to buy them is
money wasted. *
STEWART DAWSON’S DIAMONDS
stand supreme. The Quality and Selec-
tion are the Finest in Australia.
All Diamonds Set in Keal Platinum.
Call and Inspect, or Write for Catalogue
containing Ring-size Card.
Stewart Dawson’s,
LARGEST JEWELLERS OP THE EMPIRE,
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
£l6/10/
§2se/}3
£l6/10/
£l5/10/
£l7/10/
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
safeguard your health
bTJXoIIis Brownes
CWorody/,c
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE
Coughs .
and in the
BEST MEDICINE FOB
, Colds, Asthma,
Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains oi GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, rheumatism.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of ail Chemists. Prices in England. IH. H'. 3 l'-
ll ade in England.
w Overseas Buying Agency
—"" MANAGER — M ® rr
(Late" Daily Mail" Over-seas
« ft Hart
Buying Agency*
NOTE ADDRESS
64. HAYMARKET, LONDON
Will buy anything for you, save time
and money, and make no charge for
its service and 20 years’ expert know-
ledge of London markets.
Personal, Home or Business
chases —no order is too small. y u ° .
tions and Catalogues (when obtaina
furnished free. Write for free 03
. j..*’
The 0.8. A. (W. H. GORE & CO.) f 64, Haymarket, London, S.W. Cables 4 ‘Osbuyacyt Lon on.
'
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Benalla: Didn’t say that ships on the
intervening ocean could not hear the big trans-
Atlantic stations. What was said was that they did
not hear them. Of course they can hear them if
they put in the right apparatus. That was surely
obvious... .0.D.: Already looked at from the same
point of view... .Every Week: Thanks. Just the
sort of note we like to get... .G.E.L.W.: Your letter
arrived with the bowels torn from it. A censor is
still busy somewhere... .Don B.: Sorry, no luck....
Hair Cut: Try to be simple and direct. You don’t
have to be obscure to be a poet.... Jack A.: Very
green; but you may ripen... .Mervyn J. L.: Where
did you find that sort of winter in Australia?....
Eva D.: Sorry to disappoint you; but it is only
poor rhyming—and not always that... .N.M.W.:
Bright idea ; but such a poverty of rhymes !. .. .
Algernon: You don’t lean hard enough to break
through... .F.G.E.: “Grey Days” the better of the
two; the other is unmusical. Let’s hear again....
E.A.C.: Not quite. .. .Mayflower: The work, though
not bad, isn’t good enough to carry such a hackneyed
theme..... .J.H. (Wangaratta): Sorry, but it won’t
pull through. .. .Elizabeth C.: Commonplace....
A.W.8.: Everybody who couldn’t write has been
trying to say something like that for four months.
. ...R.S.E.: Moderately correct, except for a few
false accents, but utterly void of interset.... E.
Flax Stick: Don’t like it....W.J.: A drunk yarn
must be drunker than that... .G.P.A.: Falls down
in many places... .J. A.: The “Grey Mare” won’t
d 0... .C.F.P.: It’s almost impossible to make a stanza
of that shape sing... .11.8. W.: “Swallow” and the
others haven’t enough meat... .L.S.M.: Verse very
poor. .. .F.S.M.: It is lumpy stuff... .George Ginger:
No thrill there... .K.C.M.: Nothing in it... .C.C.R.:
Miles below standard A.R.T.: Fails... .N.K.: It’s
a hopeless yarn.... Kio: What on earth did you
think we could find in that?. .. . J. 8.: You haven’t
the knack... .L.P.J.: Goes wobbly from the start....
E.C.L.: Moves too heavily.... Self: But it doesn’t
make its point. . . .M.A.R.K.: Rather ancient. .. .
E.G.8.: That’s got us licked.. . .J.R.: There’s only
one way—write better. .. .Oliver B.: We know
nothing in classical literature like it: —
IN MEMORY OF OUR FLEET.
Oh ! may the history of the British race
For ever and ever live to make the pace;
To remember her navy the best of fleet,
That settled the lluns so nice and neat.
Oh! may we forever see England’s mighty fleet,
That we will never fear or to shed a tear ;
That she’ll hold her own and looks so neat,
Her people she loves, far and near to hold so dear.
Oh! may this surrender be the greatest of history,
That built up all hopes to destroy;
Dear Old England’s Shores her name and glory,
Who thougnt co destroy as an infant’s toy.
Oh! may this greatest scene be ever known,
Of the deadly destroyers so silent and sullen;
To think that no one else would ever own,
That our navy forever be known and never be beaten.
....P.J.G.: Nc; let it go at that... .P.R.8.: Can’t
remember pars. If they were not printed that ends
them.... Hermise: Now, you could do all that in
five lines. Try it.... Mon C.: One old as kelp; the
other sentenced to death on suspicion.... Mapsu:
Quite so, of course; but it’s not our job to teach
’em. . . .C.M.E.: Much obliged for clip, but that sort
of Daily Mail sludge has no interest... .P.S.S.:
Thanks for photos from Bombay. Sorry can’t use.
. ...M.E.D.: “While Waiting at the Lift” might find
room elsewhere. Try us again.... Hugh V.: Of no
use to us. Returning... .En Zed: The Museum
hasn’t seen it... .E.M.8.: Not much in that yarn.
....E.A.T. (Eng.): Might be a paragraph in it.
Go ahead; you ought to have good stuff... .L.C.:
“Vision Fugitive” doesn’t find a place. “After the
Funeral” needs more care than you’ve given it'.
Same applies to “Flower of Passion,” “Cigar Ash”
'and “A Spoilt Game.”. .. .R.J.J.A.: Not enough in
the yarn. .. .Clara P.: Clara, you have Buckley’s
chance of passing us with that style of spelling. .. .
Olive Hope: Very poor samples.... Johnno : “Electric
Light” isn’t one-candle power. .. .Elfreda: Just
misses. Send something else. .. .Freba: Must give
“Bushman, V.C.,” a look-in:—
Then w’en the war was over,
Ar,’ thing) ’ad quietened down,
Ole Jimmy landed back again,
But he never stopped in town.
No fear !' ’E packed his bloomin’ bluey up,
An’ wiv quart-pot, sugar and tea
’E tramped it back to MeDougall’s ole hut—
That’s Jimmy Green, V.C.
... .P.D.C.A.: What ails you?... .C.R.B. : “His
Welcome” raised no cheer here.... Jack Hogan:
Sending “His English Bride” back. Didn't fancy
her. . . .Ellensville: Too weak. . . .S.D.: Let every
man deliver his message, so here you go:—•
Life depends on the sweat of brows;
Toil is the way to earn your bread;
Living on the cream of cows
Is a familiar job, it’s said.
. ...Yarrum: “Poets” thrown downstairs bodily....
L.L.: No use—and don’t write on both sides of the
paper. .. .David P.: Racing yarns need to be good.
Not enough in yours The Yard Boy: It’s not your
line... .E.R.M. (M.L.): Verses to George V. re-
ceived. Have wrapped them in his weekly copies of
Thu Bulletin and The Watchman and posted
them... . Ballendella Bandit: Old gag....E. Cooper:
Too slight.... Rawhite: No place for it... .C.H.C.:
Might use one. Both good subjects, but you should
have built them up with more care... .Lionel Welsh:
“Take Up the Harp” is a fine thought. Polish it
up and send it back.
—— %
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.G.: Is it supposed to be a map of Australia, or
have you discovered a new continent ?.... J.H.C.: A
very old one... .V. 11.: Only one place for it, and it
has gone there....G.C.W.: No need to W'orry the
accountant about rates of payment if you cannot do
better than that... .P.W.: (1) Why illustrate a
joke that appeared in this paper only a couple of
weeks ago? (2) Why illustrate anything?....
E.A.P.: Your flappers don’t flap.... Cam: Send the
nag to a vet.; also 1 the joke... .M.M.: Not up....
H.J.: You are a furlong from the printing-machine
and running lame... .E.M.K.: Promising, but sub- j
ject unsuitable. Try us with something else....
K. 8.: Where did you find those niggers? Give up
art and tour a party of them.
While making a mouthful of the refusal
of Theodore to find the whole of the money
for peace celebrations in Queensland, the
Argus glosses over the fact that the Mel-
bourne City Council, as an act of economy,
cut out of its estimates the £5OO which had
been set down for similar celebrations.


"
'^l
ft
mm
£s4'
wsr>'
» J;
s-:
r
r
-, :• ■.
■
o
CJI
o
o
ro
Ol
CO
o
©
CO
V>
o
4^
o
VI
4^
V?
Vi
o
Ton Thousand
Throe Hundred
& Forty Two
Milos °•"
The life of ANY tire must be
measured in miles. The tires
that will pay YOU best —what-
ever make your car may be are
FISK TIRES, for not only do Fisks
“live” for MORE miles, but they
retain their unequalled resiliency,
strength and comfortable riding qualities
THROUGHOUT.
*More than Ten Thousand Miles is not unusual
in “roadworthy-service” yielded by Fisk” Tiies.
No other tire can match “Fisk” for durability and
consistency, for the reason that “Fisks” are produced
by a special secret process —a process that welds purest
Para rubber and finest sea-island cotton together, with an
inbuilt strength and toughness unsurpassed.
When
it's
Tim e to
Re-tire
BUY
“FISK.
NONSKIDS
Read this Motorist’s Experience with “Fisks.”
This is to certify that this Fisk Non-Skid FED TOP Tire
No. 188-197, 31 x 4, has done 10,342 miles, with heavy toads
over rough roads ; went over 7,000 miles without using a pump.
Can highly recommend same as one of the finest Tires on the market.
(Signed) B. HANNAFORD, Millicent, S. A.
Fit “Fisks” for Economical
Free-from-trouble Motoring
The ideal combination is :
“Fisk” PLAIN TREADS for your, front wheels,
and for your rear wheels Fisk N pn-Skids The
“GRIP OF SAFETY” Tires. Produced in all sizes.
ASK YOUR GARAGE.
AGENTS—
New South WaIes—JAMES WARDLE 8 CO., 4 Brid, ;e Street, Sydney.
South Australia —JAMES WARDLE 8 CO., West Victoria Square, Adelaide,
Victoria and Riverina —JOHN F. GOULDING, 515 Colli as Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents lor Australia —JAMES WARDLE 8 CO. „ Adelaide.


Legal Notices.
IN THE MATTER of the estate of James
Anderson late of Napier in the Provincial
District of Hawkes Bay and Dominion of
New Zealand Gentleman deceased.
TO ROBERT MARSHALL DONALDSON
sometimes called or known as ROBERT
MARSHALL and sometimes ROBERT
MARSH at one time of Adelaide and
Broken Hill in South Australia and Perth
in Western Australia and all others
whom it may concern.
NOTICE.
WHEREAS the above-named James
Anderson by his last. Will and
Testament duly proved iii the Supreme
Court of New Zealand Wellington District
Napier Registry bequeathed the sum of
Two thousand five hundred pounds (£2500)
to his Trustees to pay the income thereof to
Mrs. Eliza Donaldson the wife of Robert
Donaldson of Te Teko Bay of Plenty New
Zealand during her life and after her death
to pay the said sum of Two thousand five
hundred pounds to all her children who
being sons should attain the age of twenty-
one years or being daughters should attain
the age of twenty-one years or marry under
that age in equal shares.
AND WHEREAS the said Robert Mar-
shall Donaldson formerly of Adelaide and
Broken Hill in South Australia and Perth
in Western Australia is one of the children
of the said Mrs. Eliza Donaldson—AND
WHEREAS the said Mrs. Eliza Donaldson
BUS 0n ° r ab ° Ut tlle tltiy olt February
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the
said Robert Marshall Donaldson and all
persons claiming under him are required to
communicate with the undersigned solicitors
on or before the 31st day of July 1919 and
in default thereof application will be made
to the said Supreme Court of New Zealand
W ellington District Napier Registry for an
Order presuming the death of the said
Robert Marshall Donaldson in the lifetime
of the abovenamed testator and thereupon
the said sum of Two thousand five hundred
pounds will be divided amongst the surviving
children of the said Mrs. Eliza Donaldson in
terms of the said Will of the said James
Anderson deceased.
COTTERILL & HUMPHRIES,
Solicitors,’
Napier, New Zealand.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
IN THE MATTER of an Action wherein The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited'is Plaintiff
and James Richard Hanly is Defendant and numbered
109 of 1919.
To JAMES RICHARD HANLY the abovenamed
defendant.
TAKE NOTICE that on the eighteenth day of March
One thousand nine hundred and nineteen a Writ of
Summons Was issued in the above action which
claimed the sum of £5Oll 4s. Id. for -principal
and interest due under the covenants in a Bill of
Mortgage dated the fifth day of August One
thousand nine hundred arid eleven and made
between yoijrself and Thomas Martin Hanly,
John Matthew Hanly, Morris Patrick Hanly and
Paul Joseph Hanly of the one part and the Plaintiff
of the other part. AND TAKE NOTICE that by
an Order dated the twenty-eighth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and nineteen it was ordered
that service of a copy of the order and of the writ
of summons by sending copies thereof by prepaid
post letter addressed to you at Kaimkillenbun via
Dalby and by advertising Notice of the writ and of
this order in two consecutive issues of the Queens-
lander a newspaper published at Brisbane in the
State of Quensland and The Bulletin' a newspaper
published at Sydney in the State of New South
Wales should be deemed good service of the said
writ of summons on you. AND TAKE NOTICE that
in default of you causing an appearance to be entered
for you at the Registry of the Supreme Court at
Brisbane within eight days after the last of such
advertisements the plaintiff may proceed in the
said action and judgment may be given against
you in your absence.
Dated this thirty-first day of March. 1919.
(L.s.) CHAS. S. NORRIS,
Registrar.
J. F. Fitz Gerald & Walsh, Solicitors for plaintiff,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
I'or Sale.
IN THE MATTER OF
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH LIMITED
(In Liquidation).
TENDERS.
For Sale as a Going Concern.
'T'ENDERS are invited and will be received by the
undersigned at the Office of Inglis, Cruikshank
and Creasey, Commercial Bank Chambers, Patterson-
street, Launceston, up to 3 p.m. on Monday, 28th
April, 1919, for the purchase of the Daily Tele-
graph Newspaper and the Job Printing Business and
Premises.
Newspaper and Printing Machinery .. £4,813
Newspaper and Printing Plant .. 1,449
Stock, News and Printing Paper, etc. .. 1,335
Office Furniture, Fittings, etc. .. .. 300
Freehold Premises .. .. .. .. 3,0C0
£10,897
The aboye well-known Newspaper has been estab-
lished for over 38 years. It circulates all. over
Tasmania and has a very large and valuable advertis-
ing connection, which is steadily improving.
The Jobbing Business has been steadily increasing
for several years and sis capable of further extension.
_ The Premises are situated in the centre of the
city and are well adapted for carrying on the busi-
ness, and there is ample room for any extension.
Tenders sealed and marked “Tender” addressed to
the undersigned must be accompanied by cheque
covering deposit of 10 per cent. No Tender neces-
sarily accepted.
Stock Sheets may be inspected on the Premises.
Any further particulars may be obtained from
ALEX. T, CRUIKSHANK,
Liquidator.
Inglis, Cruikshank and Creasey, Accountants,
Launceston.
SECOND-HAND
FARM MACHINERY
For Sale.
One Four-wheeled “BIG-FOUR” Oil
Tractor, powered with GO brake-horsepower 4-
cylinder Oil Engine, complete, and in first-class
condition.
One “HOLT” CaterpiUar Oil Tractor,
powered with 60 h.p. 4-cvlinder Oil Engine. Prac-
tically new.
One 20 brake-horsepower “BLACK-
STONE” Kerosene Engine, complete, in
good order.
Inspection can be arranged.
For full particulars and prices, apply
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
Adelaide, Melbourne or Sydney.
Missing: Friends.
KE ANNE WILLIAMS (Widow*,
Deceased. If WILLIAM JONES,
son of Griffith and Ann Jones and brother
of the late Anne Williams of Min-Y-Don,
Llysdulas. Amlwch, Anglesey, North Wales,
Great Britain, who was last heard of at
Kangaroo, will communicate with the under-
signed. he will hear to his advantage.
HOWARD, LAYGOGK & CO.,
Solicitors,
33 Princess Street, Manchester,
England.
ANY information from or concerning
WILLIAM CHARLES MOIR, last
heard of in Sydney about 18 years ago, will
be very gratefully acknowledged by his sister,
Miss Moir, 35 Dunnottar Avenue, Stone-
haven, Scotland.
Situations Vacant.
JAM MANUFACTURER.
APPLICATIONS are invited for a first-
class > foreman with practical experi-
ence of fruit-preserving, jam-making, candied
peel, tomato sauce, etc.
Applications stating salary required will
be received by the Works Manager, Queens-
land State Canning Works, Bulimba, Bris-
bane, on or before the 21st April, 1919.
Pneumonic Influenza
To guard against Influenza install a
“BRANDTS” 8.8. Atomiser Steam Sprayer
Height, llin.
Made of Polished Copper.
PRICE: Complete, as illus-
trated, without Primus Stove,
£3/10/-. Postage 3/- extra.
With Stove, £4/15/-
Postage 4/6 extra.
Will also fit on any Gas-boiling
Stand.
Demonstration Daily.
Inhaler Dept City 7424
Carbide Dept City 3209
BRANDT BROS. Ltd.
Manufacturers of Steam Sprayers, Atomisers,
Inhalers, Fumigating Lamps, etc.
236 Pitt St., Sydney; & 338 Elizabeth St, Melbourne.
The Standard Remedy which has the Centimes.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
pMnT!w? c ?i! s 2P.'i„..i. CURES Write for Root
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
& GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London. England
Insist on “Singleton’s"—refuse all substrates.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
Of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
Amusements.
■IVOLI
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
hugh d. mcintosh presents the reigning
SUCCESS OF LONDON,
THE BETTER ’OLE.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. 0. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
TREMENDOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
GOODY TWO SHOES.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
' II 15 A T R E ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Everybody’s
Favorite,
MURIEL STARR, in
MADAME X.
K
ING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT Present the Brilliant American
Success,
THE EYES OF YOUTH.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S
Lessees
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
. . BEN AND JOHN FULLER.
Sole Direction FRANK RIGO.
RIGO GRAND OPERA CO.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY 1 ) AND FOLLOWING
SATURDAY, MONDAY, TUESDAY AND
WEDNESDAY:
IL TROVATORE.
FRIDAY, APRIL LI:
LA BOHEME.
Popular Prices. G. D. PORTUS, General Manager.
|y|.YJKSTIC THEATRE, .MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CARMEN OF THE KLONDYKE.
The peer of “The Flame of the Yukon.”
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
T
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
MARY PICKFORD in
STELLA MARIS.
PAULINE FREDERICK in
FEDORA.
Prices as usual.
'VERY REEL A REAL ATTRACTION.
METRO FILMS.
SHOWING THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
M
ELBA
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHK,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
B
RITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m, to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and Bd,
There are WATCHES
and WATCHES.
There are Cup winners and ordinary hacks as
there are Cheap Motor Cars and First-class Cars.
The Super “Fx .and R” Watch is THE Watch.
We unhesitatingly say so, knowing that there is no
watch made the world over that for Australian hard-
wear requirements is so profoundly accurate —so
constituted to stand up against rough usage, and so
absolutely dependable as our registered Super “Fx
and R” Watch.
We have been selling Watches,for 80 years, and
have seen the best made in every country, and we
KNOW of what we write.
The price is 63/-, but a buyer’s watch troubles
for life end with the payment—except cleaning.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
23 and 25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Plain Figures. Cash Only.
%
£ m %
Gent. ’3 Open Face
Oxidised Steel
Super Fx and R
V Watch, 63/-
The Indispensable!
In ten years’ time you will wonder
how you ever managed to do
without a
Year after year, with undiminishing
efficiency and zeal, Waterman’s Ideal
speeds and makes pleasant the task of
the writer. Thus it proves the greatest
economy and a permanent source of
satisfaction. Whatever else goes
wrong, you can rely on your Water-
man’s Ideal-the pen with the smooth
nib and the steady, even flow.
Three Types : “ Pocket Self-Filling-,”
“Safety,” and “Regular.’’ Of Sta-
tioners and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN , Ltd.,
(Sottter London, Eng.
Australia: H. D. Dixon, 106, Clarence St,
9
h-m
n!
BUY
SHOES
WISELY
—economically—buy Abbey Shoes
and get more value for your money,
and the utmost in comfort, service
and satisfaction.
We illustrate a special Golf Shoe
in choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 42/=
Light Soles, 40/-
Made in half and full sizes, and
in three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A B B E Y,
313 George Street,
Between U.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
ft
CK£/>
£
&
<
%
ft
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
318 Lit!He Collins St., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:'
THE KEY TO
PROSPERITY.!
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land .
Particulars ot the
millions ot acres of
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State’s resources—
FREE
Name
Address -
Queensland Government
lattUiijeace &nd Tourist Burtiu^
BRISBANE
S.B.


CHILBLAINS SO BAD
COULD NOT WALK
OrWearStockingsorShoes.
Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment Healed.
“I suffered much from chilblains
which finally burst on my toes. My
feet were much inflamed
and they were always itchy
and this caused me to
scratch them, especially in
my sleep. I was unable to
wear either stockings or
shoes and was unable to
walk about.
“I was advised to try Cuticura. My
feet were bad for a few weeks when I
got a sample of Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. I tried these and then got
supplies and my feet were healed.”
(Signed) Miss M. H. Morris, Burnett
St:, Redfern, N. S. W., March 1, 1917.
, Use Cuticura Soap exclusively for
all toilet purposes.
At Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
i ‘E. lowns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
m.)
Brandt’s Instantaneous
Bath Water Heater
It ,
f JeeV^ri
v v SIW. iu-.f£K
\T
Hi/
S 3
. ‘ V
To Keep Out
the Influenza.
Put a little Disin-
fectant into the
water; it will
guard you against
an attack of the
“ ’FLU.”
“Chips”
Bath
Heater
(as illus-
trated),
PRICE
55/-
We manufacture all kinds of Fumigating
Lamps, Steam Sprayers, Inhalers, etc.
Sales Dept City 7424.
Carbide Dept City 3209.
Brandt Bros. Ltd.
Lamp Manufacturers,
236 Pitt Street, Sydney; and
338 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ELEY
amnDCEi
Always Reliable
m
m
m
%
m
m
iS
m
m
m
'ELEY Smokeless’
A Cerise Cartridge
\ loaded with Eley
42-grain Smoke-
less Powder and
oz. shot.
Millions sold
annually.
ELEY
E.B. ‘Nitro*
Cartridge Case
loaded with
Schultze or any
other Standard
Smokeless Powder.
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS. L? LONDON
THE TOUCH
Glide smoothly, never grate.
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men —these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
CH
IS
s>
Made in 17 degrees, OB to
9H, and 3 styles of Copying.
OP ALL STATIONERS AND ARTISTS’-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
mm
m ji
Ml
i wm
W
A
uan
l
Am
F'
\
i
/N'M
Vl
m
iMta<aWby>i.? jm i >oo
m
m
fjffljr
<r>.
m
m
m
m
m
m
W*
mm
m
m&s*
W
ss»
m
>1
®
6\
-MW
M
l nvvvww
1
j u u~i i'i m i'i I'n'n iTrn'r h>»q»m
fe
jr,
;\u
mi
)j >
\S\\
Your
Furniture
Is it smoky, finger
stained and dust-
catching? Has your
gramophone, piano
and mahogany furniture a bluish, cloudy appearance?
It can be easily restored to its original charm and
beauty with
ft cleans and polishes in one operation —protects and
preserves the varnish—covers up mars and small surface
scratches—prevents checking.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is a DUST PROOF POLISH.
It contains absolutely no oil and imparts a hard glass-like
surface which does not collect or hold the dust. It never
becomes soft or sticky in the hottest weather. Apart from
polishing furniture, it keeps like new:
Floors
Pianos
Woodwork
Motor Cars
Linoleum
Leather Goods
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is sold by all
good dealers. Go to your dealer today.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, Manufacturers, JJ9 KdVt Stmt, Sydney, N.S.W.
If someone had invented armored goggles
for use on the battlefield many a good man
would have been saved for the A.I.F. bp to
tli6 end of last; year two ofiiceis and —*
others were discharged having lost both eyes
and 10 were suffering from the effects or
omnshot wounds in both -eyes. Seven officers
and 388 others lost the left, and eight
officers and 391 the right eye. With the
defectives due to similar causes the dis-
charges on account of the lack of the
armored glasses show a total of 34 officers
and 2778 others.
“Dial Sight”: The farrier-sergeant’s off-
sider, “Charcoal,” who was reckoned no mug
in the battery, went down I etticoat-lane
(London) to do some shopping. A pair of
natty riding-breeks on one of the Co (lieu) ck-
ney’s stalls caught his eye. Negotiations were
brief, and they came to terms at five and a
zack. The king behind the barrow takes the
pants, wraps them up, leans down and
gropes for his scissors to clip off a piece ot
string, and hands up a neatly-bound parcel.
Reaching Trafalgar-square, “Charcoal" meets
a cobber in one of the dugouts there, and
opens up the parcel to show the breeks -
when out roll a Is; 31d. pair of magenta-
colored unmentionables!
“F.C.”: A man doesn't need to take a
ticket in Tatt.’s as long as he can go on
the land. I know a man who planted 30
acres of Reaches a few years ago on a rich
flat right down on the Yarra. Fellow
orchardists laughed—“W hat about the
frost? He’ll never get a peach” —and laid
out their gardens several chains further up.
But he calculated that the big body of
moving water would equalise the tempera-
ture, and he was right. He has had three
years’ good crops, and this season got over
£lOOO for his fruit —from Bs. to 225. a case
—while not one of those around took £5O.
The frost killed their blossom. Another
case. French beans have sold well, in the
absence of other vegetables, and at one
February market 30s. per 1001 b. was the
ruling price. Next market a gardener with
a small load lined up and a buyer asked,
“How much?” “Oh! Seveu-and-six a
quarter.” “How many ’ave y’ got?” “Ten
bags.” “All right. Tip ’em out.” The
£l5 was passed over and the buyer pro-
ceeded to dispose of them to smaller buyers
at 15s. a quarter.
“Sol M.” : What exactly is the inwardness
of this practice of two people who are al-
ready married doing the ceremony over again
and registering it a second time? It seems
to have become such a glaring evil in the
Ma State that it had to be stopped. Why
did it glare? I presume that if the married
parties took a bitter objection to the eldest
son they might marry again in the hope that
by flaunting the new certificate and saying
nothing about the old one the second child
might be passed off as the legitimate first-
born and the first be regarded as the product
of “sin.” Yet why should so many people
—enough to make a scandal —feel so mad
at the first-born and want to have a product
of “sin” about the premises? Or do they
marry again as a sign that they have become
reconciled and will throw the crockery at
each other no more? Or is it that they
want a second lot of wedding presents, or
,'or the fun of the thing, or have they joined
a new sect and want to shake the dust of
the previous one off the feet of their mar-
riage certificate and put the boot into the
old superstition? Plain bigamy I can
understand, though I never practised it
openly; but public bigamy with the same
woman is a mystery.
An engineer who was well known in
Sydney before the war was sent by a British
co. to Russia early in 1915. He escaped
from that country into Sweden in October,
1918, and here are some of his experiences:
Owing to pressing business it was essential that
I remained in Central Russia after most foreigners
had found it rather too hot for them, and it was
only when conditions under Bolshevik rule nulli-
fied everything 1 did or could do that I decided to
get out. Then it was almost too late. Although
I was doing nothing active against the Bolsheviks
I was certainly preventing them from doing harm
to many Britishers, so they were always out for
my blood and I had a lively time dodging their
midnight searches and throwing dust in their eyes
when I was cornered.
The conditions in which we lived in Petrograd
and Moscow are impossible of imagination by those
who have not experienced them. When the Bol-
sheviks took over the reins by force of arms in the
closing months of 1917, their platform certainly
appealed to the masses of the Russian people; and
although their ideals were in many respects im-
possible of practical application, yet most of them
were already familiar —the sort of thing we termed
“advanced Socialism.” From the moment of the
victory of the Bolsheviks, class warfare opened by
the Government repressing the educated people, con-
fiscating their property, cutting down their rations
and doing everything possible to make their lot
an unhappy one. Gradually things went from worse
to worse, Germany forcing upon the Bolsheviks the
Brest-Litovsk Treaty, and, whilst she was suffici-
ently powerful to do so, removing to Germany all
the food stuffs and manufactured goods she could
get hold of.
As time went on the Bolsheviks began whole-
sale slaughter of all those presumed to be guilty
of treason to them; and then they conscripted an
army which, whatever its strength, is the most
strictly disciplined the world has ever seen and
probably the most lacking in morale.
Meanwhile, owing to anti-Bolshevik States gradu-
ally hemming in Central Russia, food became mark-
edly scarce, and many is the week I have spent
without bread and meat. We were later able to
organise supplies for our own households, but only
with enormous difficulty and by wholesale bribery.
During the month of October it cost four of us
15,000 roubles for food alone, or, at pre-war exchange
rate, £l5OO.
The ideals the Bolsheviks once had, or rather
proclaimed, have been to all intents and purposes
relegated to the scrap-heap ; and, although in some
directions there are attempts at re-organisation, the
present policy of the leaders seems to be either
private gain or deliberate destruction. And when
one learns that at home there are outspoken sym-
pathisers with the Bolsheviks —well, you can guess the
rest! If some of the Australian Bolsheviks could
be transplanted to Russia and see what is going
on, they would soon talk in a different way. Many
Russians were taken in by the cheap claptrap talked
by the reformers when they first went into power;
and those same people, be they workmen, peasants
or educated men, are now on their knees imploring
someone to come and wipe up the mesa.


Madame Stella Power
Australia’s Own Songstress
makes records exclusively for
The NEW EDISON.
Three records so far, comprising
seven songs—but they are a magni-
ficent series and disclose a colora-
tura soprano of rare merit.
Such brilliance is here that one
readily endorses Dame Melba’s pre-
diction of future greatness for the
artiste.
The NEW EDISON “re-creations” of
Madame Power’s selections are per-
fection insomuch that the voice is so
wonderfully re-created that not even
the slightest overtones are lost—you
can imagine the singer actually pre-
sent.
Here is the list —order early.
80400.
(a) BLACKBIRD’S SONG (Scott).
(b) SONGS MY MOTHER TAUGHT ME
(Dvorak).
UNA VOCE POCO PA (A Little Voice I
Hear)-. II Barbiere Di Siviglia (Ros-
sini). In Italian.
80401.
CHARMANT OISEAU (Thou Brilliant
Bird). La Perle Du Bresil (David).
In French.
SPRING (George Henschel).
80402.
BEL RAGGIO LUSINGHEIR (Bright
Gleam of Hope). Semiramide (Ros-
sini). In Italian.
NYMPHES ET 'SYLVAINS (H. Bemberg).
In French.
On sale NOW at all Edison dealers.
Pull details from
Madame Stella Power,
whose voice has charmed the musical
critics of Australia and America.
Madame Power is giving a series of
concerts in Australia, where she is so
well known and admired.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 304-372 Kent Street,
F ACING extreme drought and torrential rains, the motorist in
bydney learns to depend more and more on Spencer-Moulton
I hree-Ribbed Tyres. Ihe Spencer-Moulton toughness, grip, and
resiliency give an unprecedented degree of comfort, speed, and
safety over the ever-changing road - surfaces of the country.
Ask any motorist who has tried Spencer-Moultons
in ‘a difficult climate or country—that s aIL
a. '/V
( /" " /'^'
» v" .s' /'"O -1
■B ll( /' "jf '■d
1 /'#.**>' * rk
„ 1 $ • { mm > )Wt- # ?i
R * BBEJO tyj>™ I
Mwkik-. ■ / T« I l 'i|SiSiMtiV?-r ,it'';«'V %‘fo/ j|
RENGER
OULTON
SPENCER - MOULTON ALL - BRITISH
SOLID RUBBER TYRES ARE WINNING
THE SAME UNIVERSAL APPROVAL
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., LIMITED,
Head Offices * 77-79* Cannon Street* London* E.C. 4#
Works : Kingston Mills, Bradford-on-Avon, Wilts.
STOCKISTS : Cape Tozvn, Johannesburg , Melbourne, Sydney, Christchurch,
Wellington, Cairo, Colombo, Madras, Singapore,Klang, Kuala~ Lump?‘~,
Saigon,
p.c.b.—164
i-i
M 3.
Hi
H«Uy
Ik
Hill
ii
LI J
ESi
I I J .JL J
'i
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manages.
Eor our sick and wounded
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Dependable Guns
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong:.
Price 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Pri2/- each, post free.
Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 20-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 2Gin. barrels, both choke; weight
about s£lb. Freight paid,
£.51101-
*s*! Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2o z. Sample 1/2, Post Free.
823. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
1 2-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about VJlb; Freight paid,
£lO/10/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 7d. each, post free.
Owing; to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
£a
833.
1911
barrel, 28in., full
Magazine holds 5
Weight 7Jlb ... .
Tu"i*7 lic J 1 «? s * er Automatic Repeating; Shot-Gun,
Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
choke, take-down system, chambered for 2}in. shells,
cartridges, rubber butt-plate. .
Freight paid, £/ll flljm
POWDER
Just arrived large shipment of Gunpowder.
You are advised to make an early purchase.
austral
F.F.F
DIAMOND GRAIN
DUPONT’S Smoßeless for Guns
DUPONT’S Smoßeless for Rifles
E. C. SMOKELESS
3/9 lb.
3/9 lb.
5- lb.
10/0 lb.
11/9 lb.
11/9 lb.
PLEASE NOTE—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity
packed up to 281 b. is 10/= in N.S.W.
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
, ~ Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 32in. steel barrels,
both choke, D. & E. fore-end, side clips, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, beauti- A it A I
fully engraved, weight about 7|lb Freight paid,
&
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; £ll/111-
weight about 71b Freight paid, • I
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-gauge,
top action, solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol
grip, walnut stock; weight about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an
ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
B 2 Auto-Ejector, 45/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.:
4/8 Inter-State.
fIUSTRALIJIS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
am TOBHccamsrs
City Sports Depot
99 King St also at
rkwcastk d Brisbane j


The Real Remedy for
Backache 8 Kidney Trouble
m
Hi'
Mrs. 11.
MORAN
(from a
I feel I must write and tell you how
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills have cured me.
I was a great sufferer with my kidneys,
and tried a great many things. At last
I thought I would try Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills, as my mother swears by
them. After taking one bottle I felt
much improved. I have since taken six
bottles, and I can only say I am cured,
and very grateful for it. You may use
this in the paper if you wish, for I am
more than grateful for the result of
taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) MRS. B. MORAN,
“Arcadia,”
Grosvenor Street, Woollahra.
YOUR OWN VALUE.
Every woman ought to know her own value, and how much her health, happiness and
ireneral fitness for work or enjoyment, matter to those about her. Mothers are the
frame upon which the work of the world is built up yet how can a woman prove a
cheery helpful wife, a wise, kind mother or a sympathetic companion if she is out
of health, over-weary or dispirited? Headaches, backaches, depressed nerves,
sleeplessness and kindred troubles invade and break up more homes than any
human foe. You drag through your work too tired to enjoy life and even too tired
to sleep when night comes.
It is not the outside things, such as money or success, that make life happy, but
good health and abundant spirits. You may have drifted no hr ' down that you
think you will never he strong again. Rut good, sound health is tor all. YVith
healthy kidneys once more acting freely, these distressing symptoms you have
endured so long will vanish. Hr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are now doing for others what
they can as easily do for you—make Ife worth while, 'turn over a new leaf for
health and start with l)r. Sheldon's G-n Pills to-day. lhey are sold in air-tight,
sealed glass containers, price 1/C and 2/6.
•DrSheldons
I i jneiuun o —_
GINPILLS
for BACKACH
and Kidney troubles
nr
British.
The All
■k
LIGHT CAR
Specially designed for the Owner Driver.
Send jrour enquiry for early delivery of post-war model to —
-1 PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth St., Sydney
standard Motor Company, Ltd., Coventry.
The-
With
PRICE’S
EM
JML=£
C
.• .vV: : V>. :i :Vr V*« i ? ■; ?i--
PRICES London,;
IZfJfL
kecvimi
ck^y/
'•'"*T&i* *• I ••I*.ill ••’••« !!?!«*• • ■ ' '' 1 I ■■
Liverpool, Manchester, Glasgow
>\y
<>>v
k 1 J
✓ v
A
‘Vou secure Lather
> rhats fragrant
Lather that lasts.
Autumn Elves.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
WIST ye there are tiny folks climb-
ing in the trees;
Muffled up in russet cloaks,
reaching to their knees ;
Busy, quizzy little elves balanced on the
spray 1 ,
Whispering among themselves, plucking all
the day!
Plucking, plucking at the leaves, how the
fingers grip!
How the dry and wrinkled leaves rustle as
they rip !
Chuckly, knuckly little men high above the
street
Bundle up their leaves and then fling them at
my feet.
Through the days and through the hours, I
am watching them
Flinging out the shrivelled flowers, tugging
at the stem ;
While anon a gipsy breeze wanders in and
sweeps
All the tossings from the trees into wizened
heaps!
Here within this lighted place all is very still,
Darkness has her sorrowed face at my
window-sill.
Yet I hear the elfin band even as I write,
Rustling arm and brushing hand, plucking in
the night.
ENGLAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Revolt.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
** AMMY” Franks was a taciturn man.
i “jr He had quite a lengthy code of
signals for the command and control
of Mrs. Gammy Franks. If he wanted her
to replenish the fire, for instance, he gave
her a bat with the side of his deformed
limb, a toeless foot like a frost-blasted
cucumber, and a fling of the hand towards
the chimney conveyed the rest. Mrs.
Gammy Franks always understood. One
develops extraordinary powers of divination
Under a long course of such schooling.
If Charley Franks wanted more tea, and
Nannie Franks did not happen to be looking,
Charley would flirt a spoon at her head.
He had remarkable adroitness in flirting a
spoon. It was surprising how rarely he
missed a spot at the hack of the missus’s
ear where the head was least protected by
hair.
Gammy was famous in all Yam for his
manual dexterity. He could throw a pen
so that it would stick, nib in, just where he
wanted it to. He could project a pellet
of bread or a pea right into the eye of the
person opposite at table. It was Mrs.
Franks’s bad luck to be invariably the per-
son opposite. She had been opposite for
close on 30 years.
When Charley was really angry with his
wife, which happened whenever he had real
cause to be angry with anyone else, he took
her up by the hair and shook her. He occa-
sionally threatened her with an axe, but
that was only on Sundays, when McMahon’s
beer had been more than usually effective on
the Saturday.
Mrs. Franks was fat, with a soft, un-
healthy, middle-aged obesity. She had a
thick-lipped, frightened sort of mouth, and
moist, startled eyes showing red round the
lids. She recalled to you vague recollec-
tions of- an animal in pain, a goat under the
knife, a cow dying mutely after a surfeit of
wheat. At 54 she was an old woman.
Gammy Franks was a tinsmith, a car-
penter, a blacksmith, a shoemaker, a doer of
odd jobs, and, when nothing else offered, a
fossicker of the New Moon tips or the
worked and re-worked Cradle Creek flats,
delving ferret-like into the old holes, scrap-
ing a few ’weights from all sorts of cracks
and crannies. In addition to all of which
he farmed the four or five acres about his
house very effectively, producing a large pro-
portion of Yam’s marrows, potatoes, peas
and beans, and growing fodder for a pro-
ductive Alderney cow. It was common
belief in Yam that, despite Franks’s habitual
indulgence in beer, he had a tidy pile banked
away under the parlor hobs, or sunk securely
in some part of his apple garden.
No effort was made by Franks to hide his
treatment of his wife from the world; he
was precisely the same kind of malignant
monkey to her in the open as in the home.
“What’s a woman for, I’d like to know?”
was his only excuse, his one explanation.
And the woman accepted all with a dumb,
hopeless submission. She, too, seemed to
be thinking: “What’s a woman for, I’d like
to know?” Franks sometimes detected this
in the dull, wondering eyes he caught
bent upon him with a strange, stupid fasci-
nation in the long evenings, when he mended
boots by lamplight, and she sat and sewed
or darned.
He threw an awl at her if he trapped her
in the act, if an awl were handiest, other-
wise it might be a boot. It was not so
much that Gammy hated to be looked at, but
he felt it his duty to do Nannie Franks
some kind of hurt every time his attention
was specially drawn to her.
“Whoinell’re ye"h lookin’ at like an ole
goat?” said he. “Tha’s how an old goat
would look at a man if it could eat him.”
Gammy’s hatred for his wife was the
morbid passion propinquity often breeds in
mean souls. She was the wife of his need,
silent, solidly industrious, clean, minutely
frugal, and obedient with the abandon of
a cowed dog; yet there was yenom in all his
dealings with her, an insistent impulse in
him to torture her with pain and abuse.
For all these long years it had been so,
and never had there been a hint of revolt,
a movement indicative of flight; only the
endurance of a condemned, caged, innocuous
thing.
For three days Gammy Franks had been
working in an old hole on Twicfcr Rise down
the creek. Originally the diggers had taken
a foot or so off the bottom of the wash along
a face as wide as their small claim, packing
in behind them with the loose reef. This
stowing Franks was shifting to knock down
another six'inches of the alluvial, and was
working with such assiduity it was reason-
able to assume that the stuff Was panning
out well.
His wife took him his crib, but he Would
not even spare the time to come up and eat
it. There was a cord with which the old
woman lowered her basket into the shaft,
a depth of perhaps 30ft. Gammy ate his
meal by candle-light in the muggy workings.
Nannie approached the mouth of the shaft
carefully. There was a risk. The logs
with which the original windlass-stand had
been built up had recently been ignited in a
grass-fire and had burnt out, leaving their
hollows and a few ashes in the piled dirt.
At one side of the shaft Franks had made a
rough clearing. He descended and ascended
by the bush-cut timber frames, still intact in
the shaft, and drew up his buckets of wash
by hand.
On this Thursday, having lowered the
basket, the woman lingered a moment, look-
ing at the old reef practically hanging above
the shaft mouth, wondering dully at the
folly of men who take such risks. It was
stupid to go repeatedly into the mine, with
execution hanging over one’s head, when a
few hours’ work might make all secure.
But Charley Franks did those things. He
was blindly careless of his life. He had
always been so. Yet he did not die. Why
Was it that he did not die? So many good
men had died in the mines, sunny-faced,
sound men with little children who needed
them, and he, the cripple, lived on!
Suddenly a wonderful feeling took hold of
her, a sort of exultation. The spirit of re-
volt surged within her heart. Her eyes were
fixed on a strip of hoop-iron hanging out of
the loose spoil standing piled only because no
force had disturbed it in the shape it had
taken about the logs that were no longer
there.
Suppose she were to give a tug at that
iron, what would happen? Freedom might
happen, immense freedom, peace, release
from gibes and kicks and blows, the end of
this awful, insistent tweaking at her spirit
and her flesh!
She leaned forward, her grey face hung
over the mouth of the small shaft. Her
hand was on the hoop-iron. She gave it a
sharp tug; she swayed it right and left. In
that moment the woman’s head was that of
a harpie, eldrich, with snake-like locks, and
eyes hot with hatred and stern with resolu-
tion.
The dirt had started to run ! It poured
like liberated water, in increasing volume.
Covering her eyes with the sleeve of her
jacket, the women ran, stumbling on the
broken ground. At a little distance she
stopped and turned back. Quivering in
every limb, she. watched the running reef
tumbling into the shaft as from a tipping
dray. In a very little time at this rate
the hole Would be filled.
And he was trapped, buried away from
light and life; done with! Never again
would she feel the blow of his misshapen
foot, or see the pig-like contempt in his
eyes.
With a gasp Nannie realised that the
shaft had filled in. Throwing her apron
over her head, with a childlike instinct,
feeling that in thus darkening her own eyes
she was screening herself from the world,
she ran into the sapling scrub. She walked
a long way among the richly-colored young
gums, sitting a while on occasional logs to
think, and never thinking quite directly of
the matter that most concerned her, but
along curious currents of thought branching
foolishly from the main idea.
It was after four o’clock when she stole
to her own home. There was the evening
meal to prepare. Franks always expected a
heavy feed in the evening. She must pre-
pare it just as if he were coming. She must
do everything as usual, as though she were
expecting him. If anyone looked in things
must be just as usual.
She would cook the meal, she would set
it out. Then at seven she would put his
meat and vegetables and the pudding in the
oven, as she had always done when he did
not come home.
Later she would go to bed. It was not
unusual for Gammy to stay late at the hotel.
He had stayed all night on occasions. It
would be soon enough at midday on Friday
to go and make inquiries at McMahon’s.
Nannie busied herself preparing the meal.
She seemed a creature stupefied by some
drug. A sense of unreality had come over
her. It was impossible that she could have
killed him. she -who had obeyed his every
gesture and yielded to him always.
But out and beyond everything was a
buzzing sound as of midsummer locusts
whirring, and this was the refrain:
“He is dead! He is dead! He is dead,
dead, dead —dead, dead, dead, dead !”
The word by repetition lost its signifi-
cance. She felt like a girl again, and wanted
to dance to the throbbing song.
“He is dead, dead, dead!”
She set the table carefully, a place for
him as it had been set for 30 years, a place
for herself opposite where he could reach
her most certainly with a spoonful of hot
tea.
“No more of that!”
She cried the words aloud sternly. In-
stantly her hand clapped to her mouth;
terror stiffened her limbs. After a moment
she went to the door, peering cautiously.
Yam lay undisturbed in its smoke. Not a
soul was near.
He would have come by this had he been
living. She sat and waited for her dead
man, while the shadows gathered and night
was coming slowly down. The world was
very still now. With a bent ear she list-
ened for some movement, some faint hint
of life, down in that old shaft on Twicer
Rise.
Then it came to her where she crouched
behind the table on the old bush sofa—the
(Continued on next page.)


REPORT FROM
Mr. CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.G.S.
Mr. CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.G.S., Met Soc., F.R.C.1., late Government
Meteoiologist of Queensland, and of Mount Kosciusko Observatory, also late lecturer to
the Government of India and founder of the Wragge Museum at Stafford, Eng., writes the
following unsolicited letter, the original of which may be seen at our office:—
Messrs. Foster-McClellan Co.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
Port Pirie,
April 19.
, , , A So “ e y eek s a g o I must have caught a chill, and thereafter I suffered agonies from
backache. A friend suggested that I should try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and this I did.
am now a out to state a simple fact, and that is that one bottle of these pills completely cured
me This testimonial is entirely unsolicited, and I send it in the hope that it may benefit humanitv,
and for no other reason whatever. The proof of the pudding is in the eating,” and you may
. e >jUre ia grateful, inasmuch that lam now able to continue my nightly scientific lectures
in ease and comfort.
You can publish this as you think fit.
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.G.S.,
Scientific Lecturer.
VtVlnf i th i s # I s the .J cl^ e 7 s S] gnal of distress. If this timely warning is ignored, kidney disease silently fastens its deadly grip—for
Sh sl l ckness , filst skows f I . n . P ams and disorders m other parts, and the real cause is too often hidden until fatal kidney disease or
“ lias Set n m i S / s P ect kidneys if you are rheumatic and nervous, or have lame back, painful, too frequent or scanty urination, weak
W • Spe n he f dach f’ kloa T t m 1 g or neiiralgia. What you want is a special kidney medicine—not an experiment, but one that has stood the
PUU wLT S ' • anS l Bac i ac ' e Klc } ne y ] dls relieve, weak, congested kidneys—cure backache—regulate the urine. Doan’s Backache Kidney
rni ee , n curlll S_ ame backs and sick kidneys tor years. Doan s Pills are made from only the purest drugs and are absolutely non-poisonous.
Ihey are used and praised all over the civilised world. J
McCkhan
Backache
Kidney
crunch of footsteps on the narrow gravel
path from the back gate.
“One, two, three, four!” she counted
them. There were fourteen from the gate
to the kitchen door. .She had counted them
many times.
“Five, six, seven, eight!”
She knew the footsteps, one firm, one soft,
and a horror that filled her with nausea
drove her against the wall.
The dark figure loomed in the open door-
way. He twirled his hat into a corner with
a familiar gesture.
“Whereinell’s the light'?” he said.
Her dead man had come home!
It was he lit the lamp. He scarcely saw
her cowering upon the sofa, her face the
color of wood-ash, her eyes unblinking, her
mouth a dark aperture in the greyness,, set
to inexpressible horror.
lie sat himself at the table without wash-
ing, as often happened when he wags hungry.
He ate greedily, waiting on himself. Pre-
sently he started talking.
“Had a damned narrer escape,”; bp said.
sle jerked a hand back. "Was near done
for down there. The ground ran in on me
from the surface. But. I knew where an-
other hole was sunk and I dug through. It
was a narrer squeak, though—a Jbeil of a
narrer squeak. The air went bad. Another
three minutes V I’d have been dlead meat
—dead meat, do you hear? God!! I suf-
fered!” He wiped his brow with his sleeve.
He lit his pipe, and sat silently smoking,
and she did not move, because she could not.
Hopelessness bad come upon her like an
arctic night. She was palsied in all her
limbs.
For an hour he remained silentt. smoking
nil the time. Then he moved to the side of
the sofa. Half sitting on the table, he
looked down at her. lie twined his fingers
in her hair, and raised her face. With the
other hand he struck her cheeks; right and
left heavy blows with his open calloused
palm that loosened her teeth and caused the
blood to drip from her lips.
“So.” he said—“so the old Nannie-goat
thought it could eat a man !”
EDWARD DYSON.
Other Worlds than Ours.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
ONE of the legacies left behind by the
war—if it can be said to be left be-
hind, seeing that the tail-end of the
war is still in front—is the Big Hun Gun,
with which Paris was bombcirded. It isn’t
much of a bequest so far as mere size is
concerned, for something equally long and
thick and empty could ha ye been made any
time in the last hundred, years. In fact,
the men who made the big Pyramids could
have done it if they had possessed anything
to blow out .of it. Butt there being no
sense in constructing a mere iron or brass
tunnel for the wind to whistle through,
the building of monster guns was postponed,
pending the advent of the monster explosive.
It has come, and it is coming faster every
day. So now a lot of things are possible
which were previously mere romance.
The liig Hun Gun was built in haste
so as to be finished before the war ended.
It had to be small enough to be moved to
the point of attack, and portable enough
to have a chance of getting away in case
of failure. If it could have been built on
the spot and built to stay all its life, it
might have been eight times or eighty times
the size it was, and such a weapon could
carry a huge shell to the moon, and per-
haps to the nearer of the planets. Inside
such a shell might be literature, in various
languages, on the offchance that one of
them would strike oil or a responsive
chord; many specimens of food and liquor
as a sign of friendship, liquor being
especially a symbol of friendship; instru-
ments which might be used in signalling a
reply; stuffed animals for purposes of com-
parison ; a few live animals such as rabbits
and bees: seeds and other tokens of amity.
The seeds would have to be carefully
selected, for Bathurst-burr and stinkwort
are not tokens of amity.
And in course of time men might go, if
they were willing to take the chance of
never coming back. Or men might be sent'
who were not wanted back —criminals,
chronic disturbers of the peace and such
like. These people might in time explain
to the people at the other end how to reply,
supposing the people at the other end were
a reasonable crowd. Anyhow, our people,
with an improved wireless apparatus, could
report progress in their own language pro-
vided they had time and provided the
springs attached to their machine suffi-
ciently broke the fall when they got there.
Marconi reckons that many of his messages
have either arrived or are still on the way,
and thinks he has received unintelligible
return signals. And Marconi is a practical
man, as all who have done business with
him will testify. He comes of the gifted
race which invented bankruptcy and book-
keeping by double entry.
There are a number of reasons why some-
thing will almost certainly be done in the
way of shooting the moon and arousing the
sleeping planets.
The world, for the first time so far as we
know, has the apparatus or knows how to
make it. The big gun is easy. The war
has made surplus explosives a drug in the
market. The wireless apparatus can be
fixed. The voyagers can take their own
aeroplane with them folded up small, though
the petrol will probably blow up on the
way. Signalling has been carried to a high
pitch of perfection. And the chance of
coming back is as good as the chance of
drawing first prize in a Tattersall’s sweep.
The spirit of inquiry was never so strong,
partly because there are more people to in-
quire and fewer things left on this much-
trodden earth to inquire about. Man has
been up more than 30,000 feet in a vessel
that is heavier than air, and the spirit of
progress demands that he shall keep going
up, and do it faster. And there is the inter-
minable question of the Hereafter still wait-
ing settlement. This globe has been tramped
from end to end in quest of Heaven and Hell.
They are not here. If they exist they must
be above or below. As the planets are
.above part of the time and belbw part of
the time and sideways the rest of the time,
any one who gets there must get closer to
both places mentioned.
Furthermore this world is—or was in
1014 —closer up against the problem of
starvation by overcrowding than ever before.
The Great War started through a too-fertile
race demanding “a place in the sun.” The
nations it attacked fought the question to a
iinish because there is no longer enough place
to go round. It would have been cheaper for
the Belgians to move on, as the Goths did
under pressure in the long ago, but there
was no spot that a movable nation could
move to. So the next idea is to look for a
place in the stars. If Kaiser William had
been a man of imagination instead of an
armed clod he would have tried that first.
It is essential to head the Huns off now.
If they got to the new world first, and told
their ex parte tale with frills and lies, they
might bring back a hot-headed and biased
reinforcement which would listen to no
explanations from the Allies.
Certainly there are risks involved.
No one can say how the people of a small
adjacent planet would like being shot at,
even in a friendly spirit. They might
shoot back in a hostile spirit, and then,
other things being equal, the odds would
be all against this world. The first essen-
tial in bombarding a near-by heavenly body
is to get the projectile just past the liue
where the two forces of gravitation meet.
It falls the rest of the way. The place of
meeting isn't half-way—it depends on, the
size of the pair. Therefore the big well-
intentioned star may have to shoot a very
long distance with great expenditure of
ammunition and great wear and tear of
apparatus, while the small one, filled with
misunderstanding, and having only a short
distance to shoot, may reply with a mere
spoonful of ammunition and hardly any
depreciation of plant. If it is very angry
the small defender may still be shooting
after the big aggressor’s cannon are all
worn out. In a limited sense the difference
is that between falling down a precipice
and falling up. The balance of gravitation
being in his favor, the man who falls down
is more successful.
Again, however bad some of our own
people may be, we might lose by an inter-
change of inhabitants. The bite of the
other people might be fatal, and they might
give off a smell which would make life
not worth having. Also the process of
breaking into the unknown might do some-
thing undreamed of to the climate.
Yet the subject is such a fascinating one
that somebody will assuredly try it and dash
the consequences. That is what conse-
quences are for. If they weren’t dashed
occasionally it would be no use having
them.
SOLOMON MALAPKOP.
Revolution,
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
GOD gazed long down the heavens’
starry drift,
And marked how men misused each
perfect gift
Ilia love had shaped; fouling the splendid
wine
Of love and brotherhood, the holy shrine
Of mercy spoiling, and ihe virgin grace
Of Freedom trading in the market-place.
God stood in highest heav’n; in Ilis right
hand,
Burning with quenchless tire, the quiv’ring
brand
Wherewith He purposed vengeance; when
there flamed
Out from the Sullen lands His wrath had
named
One mortal with tense face and dream-hot
eyes,
Who clove his way from earth and climbed
the skies.
That many sought to stay his flight, God
Saw',
With cries of love and hate and God and law;
But on his meteor way he burned above
Their puny cries, nor stayed for hate nor
love;
Until, above the heavens’ utmost bars,
He came, and saw God framed in hot, white
stars.
Within God’s hand the holy censer swung
Wherein the flame of vengeance flared among
The awful vapors of His wrath. No heed
The mortal knew, but, fired with poignant
need,
Into tiie vessel thrust his eager hands,
And headlong hurled the flame o’er all the
lands.
Down through the crooning constellations
burst
The banners of that vivid lightning; first
O’erwhelmed the tyrant in his potent lust.
Then e’en the trampled smote into the dust;
Alike through murk and beauty seared its
way
Into the dawning of a newer day.
But God above the tumult sate and smiled.
“What though My hand had wrought the
undefiled
Pure vengeance, spared these thousand sins
and shames,
Nor fouled the honor of the holy names
Of Liberty and Justice, verily,
As came the flame, its course shall be —-of
Me.”
N.S.W.
HELEN BURKE.


M'Mi
m-m
mpi : ft c®
■
-ztz- ? "'
i2v'
Wk
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIHGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N,Z, Office—B3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington,
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
™ - ■ ”
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
REMOI
YOU could not make a better invest-
ment than in a bottle of Rem Oil. One
drop judiciously applied to the wearing
surfaces cf light machines will prolong
their usefulness and render them capable
of better service. Every household should
have a bottle of Rem Oil. For firearms it is
unexcelled, being at one and the same time a
lubricant, powder solvent and rust preventive.
Ask your dealer for further particulars or
send for special descriptive circular, also
complete catalogue of Remington UMC
Firearms and
Cartridges.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
B. B. BRYANT, Aasferalian Representative, Box 686, G. P. 0., Melbourne
B-4
“I’ve Struck St—
The Real Thing in Razors. Gets through the job
in a quarter the time, and makes the business a
pleasure. The ‘PLUM’S’ the Razor for me."
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
\
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor. j
For Easier Tube-Sore wing
OSTER
W TACKLE
Oster Screwing
Tackle is a family
of sturdy, clear
cutting tool
which take the
unnecessary work
out of tube-
screwing.
Oster Screwing
Tackle has every
feature that
makes for easier
and better tuba-
screwing. Get in
touch with an
Oster dealer and
examine a Match-
less.
\wmm
MATCHLESS DIE-STOCKS
pre a ven r ts SC clogg?^ eCted by patcn,e(l < hi|> slliolll which absolatefy
Carried in stock, with parts, by ironmongers, machinery and
hardware and plumbing supply houses.
Australasian Representative—
CHARLES WRIGHT, Turner Chambers, 16 Hunter St., Sydney
The Oster Manufacturing Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
kose N© Tims
in dealing with disorders of the digestive system. Decision in procuring
the proper remedy and taking it in good time will well repay you. The
probability is that you will be saved no end of trouble as the result of
prompt action. There is no better medicine for disorders of the stomach,
liver and bowels than Beecham’s Pills.
In Taking
this medicine your confidence in the result will be confirmed by the
fact that Beecham’s Pills have been affording the greatest assistance to
dyspeptic sufferers for many years. Beecham’s Pills are one of the
oldest and best medicines. They are highly recommended by multitudes
of people who are proving their value at the present time. At the first
warning of stomach trouble—lose no time—act promptly—take
Pius
Sold in boxes. labelled once 10Jd (36 Dills), 1/1 £ (56 Dills 1 & 2/9 (168 oillsT.
Rare you n
UPTU reD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FTRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion rlwr
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Safe for
children.
Small Pill—Small Dots—Small Prion,
GENUINE must bear signature
CARTERS
»ITTLt-
mwmm
mm*
A Brooks will
make a “ bounce ’ ’
impossible, the
Brooks compensating
springs will see to that
and only a
BROOKS
has these. Therefore whate’er may be
your choice of mount, never be influenced
to accept any other make of saddle than
this —the world's acknowledged best.
Ask your A,tent.
rtAlt.tp.HliK
mfk
of 'a£ Chemists
Horlick's is absolutely pure
because it comes to you
pasteurised..!
Horlick’s will refresh you more than anything
else you can take, and will assist nature to
build bone, nerve and muscle.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
Sample will be sent on receipt
of 2d. in stamps.—Hutchinson
and Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
No Shortage of Supplies. Ample Stocks throughout Australia.
««
Wire
10/
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
(Patented-
r>« >
/-
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
f.« 6.
simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


MANGRQvrrr’
LEATHER
BEITINg
THe Plant-Owner
Profit-ma Ker
is RAW-HIDE LEATHER BELTING. It cuts
out leakage of power and places your power-
plant on the most satisfactory basis. Let our
long experience in transmission problems be
your benefit. Call and consult us.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square (near C.P. o.),Sydney,N.S.W.
Western Australia: Cibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd. .Adelaide
379 Kent Street,
Sydney,
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
82g*jK.£ ,^iHk
John Keid & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
wmmm.
I
Hi
HIGH-QUAI.ITY STEEJL-CCTTING EDGES, with Iron Backs, made to your order
from our own material.
When ordering state size on cut, depth, thickness, length and width of slots;
whether for Fixed Heads or Movable Bolts. If Fixed Heads Template absolutely
No Waste Power
when you use Dick’s Balata Belting on your
plant.' The flexibility of
1 Dick’s Balata Belting]
' (The original and genuine.)
is greater than any other belts—leather or
composition. .
Slipping is almost impossible owing to the
unique nature of its surface.
Before placing that belting order
SEND FOR OUR FREE BOOKLET »
Write to-day. Sole Importers:—
JAMES MARI)IE & CO. LTD,,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
Phone 8456 (4 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at Brisbane and Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
Here are Two Very Important
-
r
. v
I
“Advance” Cork Insert Transmission
Bands for FORDS.
A new adaptation of an old principle.
They prevent all Ford “stagger/*
“chatter” or “dither.” It is the cork
that does it. Nothing sweeter., yet at
the same time more positive. No
GRIPPING, BURNING or GBAZING
with these bands. Records of 40,000
and 50,000 miles have been made, and
you have a get-away and a reverse like
a Rolls Royce. Price 16/6 per set of 3.
The FORD Repairer and the FORD Owner.
ADVANCE
,Tr<mmr
FAN BELT/^FOROS
■V Patented Jan iS’rcjffl Cf.fMf.qhcd <9O
ADVAHCF. CORK' /WSEffT
‘Advance” Cork Insert Fan Belt for FORDS.
Keeps the Ford Fan Fanning.
Water, oil, dust or dirt won’t make this belt slip.
Abuse it as you like it keeps fanning. It’s the cork
that does it. Price 4/3 each.
It will pay the former to recommend the fitting of eithei or
these lines, as he will earn the goodwill of his custom _
having performed work well done, and to have them so t
give the owner that satisfaction, convincing in itseli tnat ti y
are eminently dependable and “a real good job.”
Robert C. SwaaS Go. Ltd.
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
THE HOUSE for MOTOR ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES.
m
mm
“Clayton” Portable Steam Engine.
“Tangye" Portable Lampless
Oil Engine.
Star” Portable Oil Engine
Dal&ety’s Machinery Agencies
pane Milkkie Machines. E.R.B. Separator Engines, Pumping Engines, Crutching Plants.
?RWMPH OH and Benzine Engines, Vertical Type. “STAR” Portable Oil Engines, etc.
MACHINERY DEPARTMENT-MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
comprise
m
Triumph Oil or Benzine
Engine.
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
jaunatfeiio Sumsaku. eioung
SHEEP
Shearing Machines
Sen d ns your handpieces to repair and adjust, NOW TO-DAY. They
will then be attended to before our machinery gets busy on the hsual
shearing programme. . . ...
Handpieces arriving now aa-e assured of the utmost attention and will
bo returned to you in good time and perfect order.
Satisfaction guaranteed.
DALGETY 3c CO. LTD. Australasian Agents : All Branches.
t.* n6e 4*^**'“
pIunccrUOCKINO NU»
DOUBLE PLATE TYPE
oivino BACKew p,, e RT
CONSIDER THE ADVANTAGES
of being able to obtain instantly without the removal of a
gear, the ENTIRE RANGE of THREADS and corresponding FEED
CHANGES on your Lathe. We invite inspe«ion of our StocK oi
MODERN HIGH-SPEED LATHES
embodying tHis feature. It is essential in these days of
SPEEDING-UP, or where COST OF PRODUCTION MUST
BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT.
Milling, Shaoina. Drilling, Grinding and Screwing Machines.
In Stock
also —
CO
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
The Design of Large or Small CONCENTRATION PLANTS
requires extensive experience in practical operation and adjustment of modern machinery, including
Power, Hydraulic and Crushing Machinery. This experience we have, and are prepared to place at
the disposal of clients. Preliminary flow sheets and estimates of cost supplied free on receipt of
necessary data. We design and manufacture accessories, as well as large machinery. The illustra-
tion shows the latest development in concentrating tables, namely the "Curvilinear.” This table,
designed in our works, has given remarkable results. Ploor space occupied, 14ft. x 4ft., horse-
power, 1-10 h.p.; water required, 5-12 gallons per min. Capacity up to 2 tons per hour.
Price £75 f.o.b. Sydney
N. QUTHRIDQE LTD,, Mining, Metallurgical and Electrical Engineers,
350 George Street, Sydney.
im
