

CO
n
rs
4
H
Q
R. G. WATKINS & GO-,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty: AUC lIONEERS FOR MACHINERY,*, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
We Advance
A\oi?ey “itr 01
Trade Bills Discounted
TELEPHONE: CITY 9325
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, 74
NEXT TO “ DAILY TELEGRAPH ” NEW BUILDING
And at
186 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
159 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY
29 KING STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
215-217 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
40 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager
A City Sewage System
for Modern Homes.
oil simply cannot afford to take chances
with the disposal of your sewage. For
the sake of your own and your children’s
health, study the merits of the
Montgomerie-Neilson
Sewage Disposal System
This modern system does away with the
old-fashioned cesspool or tin-pan style of
W.O. —the greatest sources of disease the
country knows.
The sewage is treated so perfectly that
absolutely no odor arises even on the
hottest days.
Over 600 are in use in N. S. Wales
alone, and the system has the O.K. of
experts the world over.
Send for free .booklet, which gives facts
in detail.
MONTGOMERIE - NEILS ON
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 8976.
t)orit
9
PPLE
tj
/J
Noth iNo
to Arcuc
About!
6 B^ c °
Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
J
L
U
For INDIGESTION -
anil DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acta
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
AVON
A TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
9
UR ABILITY—the first essential for a roof
covering'—is absolutely assured by using'
Actual samples and illustrated booklet,
post free on request.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M.
Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis
House, Sydney.
M
“Not the same
as others
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L“
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Wat gons. Portable Steam Engines
Sugar Mid Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths,Sinks, etc.
Arthur
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
<5(3
MACHINERY
Road-Graders for Building Good Roads.
£ N . D GRAWING EARTH ROADS, CLEANING OUT WATER TABT P«
MAKING FIRE-BREAKS, Etc. -TABLES,
Ho carry large stocks of the best procurable and most up-to-date Machines
SEVERAL DIFFERENT SIZES STOCKED TO BE WORKED BY 2 4
HORSES OR TRACTION-ENGINE POWER. m 2, 4 or 8
CATALOGUES AND FULL PARTICULARS UPON APPLICATION
Queensland Enquiries: The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
We now have large stocKs of the famous
A.W. BRAND OF HIGH-SPEED TOOL STEEL
covering all sizes in rounds, squares and flats.
Manufactured by Sir W. G. Armstrong, Whitworth & Co. Ltd.
Sole Australian Representatives—
GILBERT LODGE & GO.,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney,
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
give your own
COUNTRY A SHOW!
TRY OPALOID
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
The Bulletin
Vo]. 40.— N0. 2030. ]
[Thursday, January 9, 1919.
WAR-TIME PRICE. Bd.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia* for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Hat by Mirette,
ro4, Wardour Street, London, \V i
Photo: MHe Paulette del Baye,
by Bertram Park.
v RAINPROOF
Tcjllc>
The best milliners always use
“ Dynamo ” Rainproof Tulle. The
best Stores sell it by the yard.
And ladies insist upon having it
because it is the best.
Because “Dynamo” Rainproof
Tulle is the best whether for
millinery, scarves, neckwear, or
other purposes—naturally enough
in some shops endeavours are
made to foist upon the unsus-
pecting customer inferior imita-
tions which show a larger profit
than “ Dynamo.” The only way to
protect yourself against these so-
called “ just-as-good ” Tulles is to
ask for “Dynamo” and see the
name on the card on which the
Tulle is wound.
“ Dynamo” Rainproof Tulle is not
merely rainproof, but sun-proof.
It is colour-fast. It is fadeless.
It is by far the most durable and
economical Tulle in the world,
36 ins. wide. In Black, White,
and all fashionable shades.
AT ALL PRICES.
If any difficulty in obtaining, send
P. 0.. stating quantity and colour
desired, to
(Enquiry Dept),
Carlton House,
York Street,
SYDNEY.
the pleasing
'assurance that
your Complexion
IS what It shouh,
be if you use ,
TETLOW’S
IK!
3
FACE POWDER
It imparts a delicate bloom to the
Complexion, so pure that it will
not harm the most sensitive skin.
Sold In Five Tints
White. Cream. Pink, Flesh and Pmnette.
by oil Stores . Chemists, Perfumers und
first Class Drapery Houses
■Per
Tio
JT PRICE
t>ox
Wholesale Distributing f\ser\ts:-
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS.. LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS !-
HENRY C. QUELCH fe CO..
4 & S. Ludgate Sq., London. Eng.
/ v%.
■?%>s •
'4~
w:
l i
‘-2TN !
3*—
Used the
World Over
m
C 3
MOTOR
...CARS
E
By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few—the more
sioical among us —can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have-a small quantity in stock.
A Beautiful Complexion by Natural Means.—
The secret of a perfect complexion lies in the
continual renewing of the outer cuticle of the
skin. This is Nature’s own method. The
outer skin as it becomes coarse or shrivelled
must be removed, and an opportunity given
to the finer one beneath to show itself. It is
because the old, dead skin is allowed to re-
main on the face that so many women, and
even young girls, suffer from pimples,
blotches and sallow dull gkins. To remove, by
absorption, the dead outer skin, and with it
all blemishes, the use of mercolized wax is
universally recommended, ordinary face
creams being powerless for this purpose.
Smear the wax over the face and neck, rub it
gently into the skin, and leave it on all night.
In the morning wash it off, using Pilenta
soap and warm water, when all the dead skin
will be removed with the wax. Then apply a
lotion to prevent any trace of greasiness
being noticeable and to give a peach-like
bloom to the skin. A lotion to do this can be
made up quite cheaply from the following
recipe: Take one ounce of cleminite and dis-
solve it in four tablespoonfuls of hot water.
Place in a bottle, and when cool apply to the
face with the fingertips, allowing it to dry on
the skin.
To Remove Blackheads.—Dissolve one effer-
vescing stymol tablet In a glass of hot water,
allow the effervescence to subside, then dip a
small sponge into the liquid and mop over the
face. Allow it to remain on for a few min-
utes then wipe off with a towel, and the
blackheads will be entirely removed. To pre-
vent them from re-appearing, use a stymol
blet in the manner described twice a week.
ow to Shampoo.—Before shampooing the
air dip the lingers into a little pure olive or
lmond oil, and thoroughly massage the scalp,
'lien dissolve a teaspoonful of stallax granules
n a cup of hot water. Fill a basin with warm
water into which the ends of the hair can
fall, and shampoo the stallax mixture into tho
roots in the usual way. Then rinse and dry
by fanning with a palm fan.
Grey Hair.—To restore the color of grey or
fading hair, take two ounces of concentrated
tammalite, and mix it with three ounces of
bay rum; apply to the hair for several nights,
using a small sponge, and the hair will grad-
ually resume its original color. When the
desired shade has been obtained, the tamma-
lite lotion should be used about twice a week.
Apply it to the roots with an old toothbrush
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
TO WHITEN A BROWN NECK (W.K.).—To
whiten your neck, use jettaline. Get a tube
of this from the chemist and rub a little well
into the skin of the neck; leave it on till next
morning-. Do this regularly every night for
three or four weeks, and you will find that
the skin will become beautifully clear and
white.
BABY.—You need not lose your pretty com-
plexion. Get a tin of mercolized wax, and
rub a little well into the face every night.
This well remove the dead outer skin and
reveal the pretty fresh new skin underneath.
Be careful what soap you use, as this is very
important. I should suggest Pilenta.
MATER.—To reduce yourself to your original
weight, get a packet of clynol berries and eat
four daily, one after each meal and one at
bedtime. When once you have returned to
your normal weight you can discontinue
them, as the cure is permanent and not merely
temporary, as so many others are. There is
no need to make any alteration in your diet.
DISAPPOINTED.—I am not surprised that
you have been disappointed in your hair: you
are not using a suitable shampoo. Get a
packet of stallax anil shampoo the hair every
fortnight with this. It will make it soft and
keep it fair.
NELLIE.—There is nothing more disastrous
to beauty than superfluous hair. In that you
are right, but you are wrong in thinking that
there is no permanent cure. Get an ounce of
powdered pheminol and a tube of teklco paste.
These two, used in conjunction, will perma-
nently remove the growth.
GERTIE.—The lotion to which you refer is
made as follows: Get an ounce of cleminite
and mix it With four ounces of warm water.
Allow it to cool, bottle, and dab over the face,
allowing it to dry on the sldn. This is far
superior to powder, and gives a fresh bloom
to the face without the' appearance of make up.
MAISIE.—Yes, the longer your eyelashes the
larger and brighter your eyes will look. To
increase the growth of the lashes rub a little
mennaline info the roots evei\v night. Do this
very gently, but thoroughly, and you will be
delighted with the result. [2
in-teed
—for factories, roundhouses, warehouses, elevators, ga-
rages, hotels, stores, farm buildings—
Divide the original cost by the number of years of service
and you will realize the truth of the Certain-teed claim —
‘The best type of roof for most buildings—the best quality
roofing of its type.”
Its efficiency embraces every
important roofing quality—
weatherproof, sparkproof; does
not rust or rot; is clean and
sanitary; is not affected by
acids, fumes or smoke; does
not melt under the hottest sun
or affect the taste or odour of
water, is light in weight and
long lasting.
Australian Representative —C. C. McCANN,
Perpetual Trustee Building, Sydney, N.S.VV.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd. Wunderlich, £,td
James Hardie & Cn. Etd. Janies Sandy & Co., lAd
Manufactured by
Certain-teed Products Corporation
World’* Largest Manufacturer of Roll Roofing
c~: -•
fe-'/ *>->
r<
:
r.
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
FREE TRIAL..
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H, Box 1520
G.P.0., Sydney, and a sample tin of “Must-
die” Powder will be sent post free, or
forward 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
“MUSTDIE”
IS NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
*
The Red Page
Villon
Robin Turgis, the landlord of the “Pomme
de Pin,” told Rabelais the story of Villon’s
disappearance again; the Pantaguelist lis-
tened with only a perfunctory show of inter-
est ; he knew the story of Villon and France
very well —better than Robin did. Robin
only knew that he had often carried Villon
very drunk to bed —that Villon was a robber,
and a scandal-gossip said a murderer —that
he had been condemned to death, reprieved
on the scaffold and imprisoned for a year
instead—that he had walked out of the
gates of Paris and was no more seen. Cer-
tainly, he had written some verses, which
the people seemed to read —those who could
read, that is. Of that Robin knew nothing.
But Rabelais knew.
Anno Domini 1431 is quite an important
year for Paris and France. A few months
ago Jeanne d’Arc was burned in Rouen.
Charles VII. is nominal king of France —in
reality the uncrowned head of scattered
jealous duchies. The Maid was burned in
the Norman capital for her resistance of
that malignant jealousy; the wide duchies
are closing in to one wide Kingdom—the
Armagnacs, the Poitevins, the Bretons and
the Burgundians walk slowly to one house-
hold of France in the dead Maid’s mighty
hand. Henry VI. of England advances slowly
from the west towards the Paris that he will
not reach ; the fear of Albion in the Frank
heart dies at last. Those events are import-
ant for France. And Francois was born in
Montcorbier in that year; of what father
none knows (it is unimportant) ; Canop
Gillaume Villon adopted him and gave him
his name; and Francois Villon later in-
vented French literature. That is very import-
ant. The literature of the written word, that
is. Up to that time, carved stone had supplied
imaginative activity for the people. Sar-
donic. threatening gargoyles, sneering
facades, porches and windows that leered,
bas-reliefs of pointed stdries —grim humor,
gross humor, a fantastic vague gloom, rising
from the skull which is the basis of Gothic
art. Even the houses had witches’ evil hats
for roofs. It was not good food for the mind,
but it was all they had, save some monkish
dog-Latin chap-books and some old songs (of
dead Italian troubadours) that went from
mouth to mouth.
Villon, drunkard and thief, took nothing
of the duchies’ patois songs, and nothing of
the monks’ dog-Latin texts: he wrote the
speech of the Paris people on his paper. The
3000 prostitutes and 4000 taverns in the
small Paris of that day crooked their
fingers to the University across the Seine
waters —beckoning the wise and good. These,
nothing loth, got into their boats and came
over to the gutters and shambles; went back
to the island in the Seine, and wrote more
nursery texts —the immemorial camouflage.
Villon took the 7000 and wrote of them, to
them and for them, in their own tongue.
In the stifling crush of beetle-browed
houses that was Paris then (you can see it
in Lindsay’s drawings) Villon, pathfinder
and criminal, pressed his sad way over the
cobble-stones to Olympus. Sundry crossed
his path between the writing of the Little
Testament and the Great. The Church, the
law, his pothouse pals and their mistresses;
the hangman; Dogis, who stabbed old Ferre-
banc, the lawyer, and fastened the drunken,
useless crime on Villon (who was condemned
to death, but wrote the Ballade des Peudui
on the scaffold); Jehanneton de Millibres;
l’Abbesse de Port Royal des Champs, who
dressed and drank like a man; Tristan
l’Hermite, whom Hugo has in 'Notre
Dame de Paris; old Robin Turgis, who
put the . great man to bed when he
was too drunk to stay afoot. And
400 years after his death Swinburne crossed
his path, with a stained-glass translation of
a simple song, the Ballade des Dames du
Temps Jadis. “Where are snows of yester-
year?” does not translate the easy simplicity
of “Mais oil sont les neiges d’antan?” The
atmospherically true transposition of that
line is “But where are last year’s snows?”
After Villon’s year with the rats in the
Meung dungeon he came back to Paris, rather
beaten and haunted, wrote the Great Testa-
ment, in which he musically left vast imagi-
nary possessions to all his friends and enemies
(except Swinburne) ; endured as long as he
could the physical effect of the Meung rats
and privation on a hitherto self-indulgent
body; and finally got fed up. On January
8 of 1463 he walked out of the gates of
Paris, and was no more seen or heard of.
Thirty-two years is a small time allow-
ance for the job of making a literature.
HILARY LOFTING.
The Scribble Itch
The itch for writing has a strong grip on
Australians, especially on those who enjoy
the grand spaciousness of Outback. Some
ascribe it to the buoyant climate, some to
the influence of the bush and the sublime
beauty of the starry nights. Marcus Clarke
(’escribed our bushland as funereal, but the
loneliest dwellers therein find it inspiring.
It uplifts them. The men who write verse
in the bush are legion. Many of them have
no idea of grammar, and are shaky in their
spelling of the simplest words. Still, they
try their ’prentice hand at rhyming. Boun-
dary-riders, shepherds, prospectors and
others who live much alone are the most
numerous on the tracks of Pegasus. Lack
of. companionship and want of amusement
may be ascribed as reason. With nobody to
talk to and seldom anything to read, the soli-
tary bloke either yarns to himself or turns
to writing. Very often he does both. He
also has solo entertainments by reciting his
“poems” to himself. He has plenty of time
to think —he is nearly all his time thinking—
and spurred, perhaps, by some example, there
comes a desire to shape his thoughts into a
more imperishable form and to record his
impressions. Or is it just mental recreation
a sort of tonic that keeps him from sour-
ing on himself?
You will find the bush bard and the yarn-
writer in the shearers’ hut, busily engaged
with pen or pencil on his bunk, with a score
of men talking and card-playing about him;
(Continued on page 26.)


a we
ANTHONY HORDERNS’for Farmers' Wants
Treble-furrow, £2B/10/.
Rapid Root Pulper, £9/10/-
mm
Pony Feed Cutter, 77/6.
ALL THE GOOD POINTS which the MAN ON
THE LAND DESIRES in AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS are CONTAINED in THOSE
ILLUSTRATED on this page.
The RENOWNED CANTON DISC PLOUGH, in
treble-, double- and single-furrow patterns, has 2Gin.
discs and is a most reliable implement. Treble Furrow
(weight 9001 b.), £2B 10 - ; Double Furrow (weight
7801b.), £24/10/-; Single Furrow (weight 6301b.), £19/10/-
THE CANTON GUARD LEVER HARROW is
invaluable in trashy ground. Bft. (weight 2031 b.),
£8 pair; 10ft. (2311 b.) £9/5/-
RAPID ROOT PULPER, 4 double-edged knives, will
cut and pulp 30 bushels per hour by hand, and 125
bushels by power. Price £9/10/-
RAPID ROOT AND VEGETABLE CUTTER; 3
cutting knives, fitted also with slicing knives; will deal
with about 50 bushels hourly. For hand or power.
Price £B/15/-
The PONY FEED CUTTER, at 77 6, will cut
Hay, Cornstalks and all kinds of rough feed. One man
can cut one bushel of hay in 35 seconds. Cuts from
3-16 to 2 in. Weight, 1651 b.
The No. 8 CORN SHELLER is a dependable machine
which will deal with 20 bushels hourly. Price £6/10/-
The WIARD HILLSIDE PLOUGH (No. 120) will
turn a furrow from 8 ..to 12 in. wide, and from 5 to 8 in.
deep, has steel beam, colonial pattern coulter. Weight.
1181 b. Price £5/17/6
The OHIO STANDARD FEED AND ENSILAGE
GUTTER is invaluable where fodder is siloed. It is
equipped with blower elevator and requires but slight
power to run. With Plain Table £2B
llJf/S
«r j
J
Canton Guard Lever Harrow, £B.
Rapid Root Cutter, £B/157-
No. 8 Corn Shelter, £6/10/-
Wiard Hillside Plough, £5/17/6
mmmi
PA "NTE.O Jb
w
Ohio Standard Feed and Ensilage Cutter, £2B.
ANTHONY HORDERN &SONS,L T -
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
&/uve<ss
B i~ i ok f i e 1 d
Sydney.
Hm,


Manufacturers !
Use
Reinforced CONCRETE,
The Building' Material of the Age.
4fl ' KtxMm&EP' '■^aJ%^WSm£&- *. ?m
Reinforced Concrete Chimneys at Ryde, N.S.W., for the Metropolitan Board of Water Supply and Sewerage.
The first Reinforced Concrete Chimneys in Australia. Cheaper and far stronger than brick. Less than half the price of Steel.
Our Indented Steel Reinforcing Bars, rolled in Australia,
are used in all the Government Wheat Silos in N.S.W.
We will give you Designs and Estimates for all Reinforced Concrete Work, free of charge.
BUILDINGS, TANKS, SILOS, CHUTNEYS, RESERVOIRS, RETAINING WALLS, FLOORS, etc.
Write for our Book, “Reinforced Concrete in Australasia.”
So/e Agents for Indented Steel Bars —
William Adams 8 Co. Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE—S2I-3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE —Cor. Edward 8 Mary Streets.
PERTH —53 Ring Street.


Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his little way. He likes,
and must have, the best.
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother's Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the
battle. Then, what a boon to the
mother to use a food which requires
no tiresome cooking or preparation.
Meliins
Food
Is made in a flash—needs no cooking
Send for sample of Mcllin's Food and Hand*
look for Mothers ‘The Care of Infants’—Free
Messrs. Gollin & Co. Proprietary
Ltd., Sydney
~4
' feUti
The New Sauce
Gives a new enjoy-
ment to the daily
fare.
Even the plainest food be-
comes tasty —appetising and
digestible with H.P. Sauce.
Not like any other sauce —
different —quite different
Rich Thick Fruity
m hi
|l
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY
BROOKE'S
LEKON SQUASH
LARGEST SALE IN THE WORLD
Aquaperia
(HARRCCATE, ENCLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents: —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
s*
ii
II
$
*53
*-r t
1
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEJ D OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. oir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.0.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K. 0., C.M.G.; Samuel
Hordern, Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly £1,000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for tha
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,897. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Sold by
Stationers a?id
Jewellers
Everywhere.
Australian Prices!
Safety Pattern
with slip • on
cap from ISA-
Standard Pat-
ternwith siip-on
cap from 12/6
Illustrated
Catalogue sent
Post Free on
request.
You can have a “Swan” that
will suit you better than any
other pen you are using.
Every person’s handwriting is peculiar. Every-
one feels that only one type of pen point will
suit his own style of writing. After obtaining
the point he likes, he becomes so attached to
his pen that he cannot write without it. No
other pen will serve his purpose.
I®
Get one to-day and it becomes in a few days
not A fountain pen but YOUR pen —a writing
instrument peculiarly your own.
MABIE. TODD & CO.. LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester; Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney— (Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory—3l9-329, Weston
Street. S.E. Associate House—Mabie.Todd & Co., *■“
Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch:
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney. *
For Fine Shafting*
Machine Tool s,
Mining Machinery,
Saw Milling, and
Factory Equip-
ment, etc., etc.
SICS 3 *
Ball-Bearings
are the very last word in
; -T ; J/j
i
Bearings.
Ball-Bearings
of all Sizes
for
Automobiles.
'
Steel Balls
of all
Sizes.
The SKF Self-aligning: Ball-bearing Plummer Block saves 50 to 90 per cent, of
frictional resistance over the ordinary Journal bearing, anti practically eliminates
lubricating anti maintenance costs.
Thousands of factories throughout the Commonwealth are now wholly equipped with
this bearing, saving our producers many thousands in hard cash per annum.
HEAVY STOCKS NOW LANDING.
GARDNER, W/ERN & CO.,
Chief Agents and Ball-Bearing Specialists,
MELBOURNE —
Office, 384 City Road, S. Melbourne.
Showroom, 369 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY . .
BRISBANE
225 Clarence Street.
. . 367 Queen Street.
Mixing and Sifting Machines.
Complete Self-Raising-
Flour Plants.
Feeding, Mixing and
Conveying Plants for
Manures and Chemi-
cals.
Package Packers.
Concrete Mixers.
Rolled Oats Cookers
and Steamers.
Bag Hoists.
Combined Grinding,
Collecting & Sifting
Plants.
Baking Flour Mills.
Roller Mills.
Pulverisers.
Disintegrators.
Centrifugal Dressing
Machines.
m
P
High-speed Sifters for
Hand and Power.
Dustless Sack Cleaners.
Dust Collectors.
Bottle-filling Machines.
Rough Breakers.
Chilian Grinding Mills.
Beef Hoists.
Boiler-feed Power
Pumps.
Steel Conveyors.
Cast-iron Spiral Con-
veyors.
Belt Trippers.
Belt Carriers and Re-
turn Idlers.
Barrel Elevators.
No. 14 Size Heavy-duty Mixing Machine, with Rough Crusher & Removable Sieve.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, POST FREE.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [2
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
History.
On a tower of France there were bugles
blowing: .
This shall be! This shall be!
On wide, sweet airs came the dream-winds
sowing
Dust of wonder and light for me.
Oh, well I sleep through the moon-sweet
throwing
A smoky shade from the cypress-tree.
But there falls a red leaf
And the year dies in sorrow
Where Time, the grey thief,
Steals to-dify for to-morrow.
Glamor of flags and gleams of glory—
This shall be ! This shall be !
Out of the night-mists swimming and hoary
The tall white riders come to me;
And a long song moans through the tear-
dimmed story:
“These sleep under the cypress-tree.”
But the morning is gay;
And whatever comes after,
The light of to day
Is for loving and laughter.
Under the shade of the forests oaken
This shall be! This shall be!
A knight with his lady’s glove for token
And a lance to splinter for courtesy—
God, when the voice of the years has spoken,
What is there left to come back to me?
But the child is asleep
On a little white pillow;
And the Springtime loill keep
A green tryst with the willow.
Far have I gone with the red invaders —
This must be! This must be!
Bow-shafts drawn with the English raiders
Whistle and whine in Picardy.
Shall I shrive my soul with the hot crusa-
ders,
Crying "Christ!” to a paynim sea?
And the old men come home
Longing and sighing;
All roads lead to Rome,
All deeds lead to dying.
On a tower of France there are bugles
blowing;
This shall be! This shall be!
Out and out and beyond my knowing
Great, far voices are calling to me.
Ah, well, I sleep with mpon-sweet throwing
A false, fair light from the cypress-tree.
But the young men go out
With the lift of the morning —
I will join in their shout;
I will joy in their scorning!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
That Moment.
To each and all some moment
Brings sweetness or regret;
That moment came to me, dear heart,
The wondrous night we met
Beneath the pines, whose droopy plumes
With dropping dews were wet.
To meet we sure were fated —
To draw by paths unguessed
To that one spot beneath the pines,
When, trembling to its rest
The star that lovers call their own
Moved down the lucent west.
Ah, had that moment happened
A score of years ago,
I should have talked of dear delights,
What time I watched the glow
Of roses deepen on your cheeks
And dye your throat of snow.
But I was born too early,
Or you were born too late,
And years and years betwixt us twain
Stretched grey and desolate;
To meet was Fate, and Fate is blind—
To part w T as also Fate.
If grown-up folk were children,
And life were bright and gay,
And Time his hour-glass put aside
To whistle, jig and play,
Then you and I and all the world
Had kept high holiday!
n.s.w.
NOMEN.
Garden Sunset.
N.S.W.
Gold apricots she plucked for me
And two deep bowls of milk have we—
Sweet apricots and milk for tea.
The cannas drowse in russet red,
Dark-leaved along the big front bed
Where once the tall weeds waved instead.
The apples full and rich hang low;
The bean stakes walk a stately row ;
And water-cans that come and go
Wash young tomatoes day-long dry,
And lettuces that parching sigh
Lest waterless they droop and die.
A climbing rose has ropes of pink
And water from’ the well to drink —
A happy climbing-rose, I think.
The passion-fruit hangs thick and green
In clusters on a sunny screen.
No nectarines have ever been
So brown and comely in the hand.
Three peach-trees heavy laden stand
Too near the bushtrack past the land.
And sunset comes too soon, and tea.
But bowls of sweet white milk have we
With apricots she plucked for me.
HILARY LOFTING.


Wi
&
G
ft
9
Hit'
The Perdriau Super Tread
is a New Note in Tyre Efficiency.
When we discovered the Super Tread Compound we tested
it by making a tyre shod partly with the usual tread
rubber and partly with Super Tread.
After running 3000 miles the three ribs of the former were
considerably worn, but those of the Super Tread were
still clear and sharp and the grooves as deep as ever.
That is how we first proved the great wear=resisting qualities of the Perdriau Super Tread,
We are supplying Perdriau Super Tread Tyres in all sizes.
Obtainable from your Local Garage or from the Manufacturers—
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd. All States.
Don’t Trifle with Rupture!
m
It is dangerous to trifle with rupture. A make-
shift appliance often does more harm than good,
and an efficient safeguard has to be obtained in
the end,
If you are ruptured get DENYER’S ELASTIC
TRUSS without delay. It is a comfortable,
efficient, trustworthy Truss, and is worn with
keen appreciation by thousands of ruptured per-
sons to-day.
The splendid advantages of DENVER'S ELASTIC
TRUSS lie in its scientific construction, which
means efficiency, reliability and safety.
Single 20/-, Double 27/6
Get our Private Truss Pamphlet, posted in plain
sealed envelope free.
Makers of Trusses t Abdom-
inal Belts & Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROS.,
281 George Street, SYDNEY.
For all Outdoor Spreads
take along a tin of this appetising meat —
CAMP PIE
Cooked to a nicety—seasoned ever so lightly—
every smack of the appetizing, meaty fhvor
brought out to the fullest extent. Prepared with
consummate skill in the famous “Rex" kitchens.
It saves all cooking worries, sustaining and
wholesome.
SOLD EVERYWHERE. BUY A TIN TO-DAYI
„ • . v... : : *.. .. .. . •. • , ■*.. -
And do not forget
“ REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
—the piquantlg flavored delicacy.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
uoovg puD stuff fj ~xdg„ Jo suzutig
J. 465
m
/j,
m
■a
m
nmmnnniMnm
" r?. w ■ .:>
I
jgtf*
SR
IN
STS
ham, bacon,veai.
L TONGUE.
RS!
mnnmimiumjffl
/
a
CONSIDER
THIS TREAD
DESIGN
Mr.
Motorist:
You will see it only on
GOODRICH
Black t£S Tires
SEVEN NON-SKID BARS.”
It is no meaningless pattern or design.
It is built and designed for a definite purpose.
It prevents skidding and side slip.
The SEVEN BAR Tread extends well down to
the walls of the tyre,
Protecting the tyre from cutting, and bursting
at the sides.
You need only to see this tyre to appreciate
its worth.
“ BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
300 Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 40.—N0. 2030.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 1919.
Wab-time Pbice, Sd.
THAT AMERICAN SHIPBUILDING PROGRAMME.
THE MAN WITH THE HAMMER: “This is no sort of Peace for me!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 10s. per annum you can have Tiie Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the content of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be. regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Oordbn
and Gotch, Ludgale Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco ; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
lloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder StV3Si,
Hong Kong. .
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, For;
Colombo.
Papua.- —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lfd. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
10oz. to IZoz., Sid.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 1919.
THE OLD REPATRIATION BRIGADE.
It is hereby proposed that everybody con-
nected with the agricultural and pastoral
industries should be sacked from the repatri-
ation business in all its aspects. Their places
should be taken by manufacturers, engineers
and financiers, and not all of them city men.
They should be supplied with money, not so
lavishly as it is supplied to the old-rut land-
dealers and corn-cranks and egg-fanatics now
oh the job, but lavishly, all the same. And,
this being a time when Law is accustomed to
take a back seat while the country is run by
War Precautions, the repatriation committee
should have large authority. It should have
power to increase, but not reduce, the tariff
at its discretion; to alter railway rates at
its discretion provided it didn’t sacrifice
revenue or discriminate in favor of one part
of a State as against another; to order the
building of railways up to a certain mileage;
to build factories, wharves, etc.; to grant in-
dustrial bonuses; to resume land for indus-
trial and shipping purposes, to finance
industries, and to do other things. Its
authority should be limited, yet not too
limited, as to time; but it should be mighty
large while the time lasted. The idea in-
volves great possibilities in the waiy of
expense, but these possibilities can’t be so
awful as the ones that the country is facing
under the present system.
* * * *
It is not proposed that the regular jog-trot
policy of land settlement should be interfered
with. The dull old Ministers for Agriculture
would keep their billets, and do their old
work, and find room for returned soldiers
who wanted land by the old land-finding
methods. Some of them are men who know
a little about wheat and sheep and the old
stock-lines. Some of them know nothing
beyond the narrow limits of a flower-pot or a
lawn. Victoria possesses a dreadful Minister
who solemnly warned new agriculturists off
sugar-beet as a rash, strange, experimental
vegetable, being apparently unaware, in his
schoolboy knowledge, that beet supplies more
than half the world’s sugar, and is a valu-
able fodder in addition, which the stereo-
typed cane isn’t. But the point. is that a
special effort is wanted to provide work, and
the effort should be made in those directions
where there is abundance of work to do.
Agriculture of the old sort isn’t one of these
directions. It is reckoned that this year the
N. S. Wales wheat-grower who toils for a
poor wage “from jackass to jackass" will fail
to earn his working expenses by £2,250,000,
despite the fact that his product is carried
on the railways at low rates, whereby the
community is taxed for his support. Aus-
tralia can’t afford to subsidise an increased
stock of agriculturists at this rate.. But the
present land-jobbing, stock-and-station agency
variety of repatriators apparently know
nothing beyond the old vegetables, save when
they have a fleeting glimpse of hens.
* * * *
The obvious way to provide work is to give
men a chance to make the things that the
local market requires, not those that have to
be sent at great expense to some unreliable
foreign market. The local market can be
reserved for our own workers if we care to
reserve it. The foreign market can’t; it may
even be shut against us when we least expect
it. Going by the latest Federal statistics,
here are some of the things for which Aus-
tralia has a market that can be assured and
the size of the local demand—-also some of
the other things
Unfilled Local Demand.
Wheat, wool, butter, cheese, beef, mut-
ton, rabbits, oats, barley, hides, eggs,
potatoes, onions, honey . . . . None
Tinned fish .. '. . .. .. £750,000
Crockery . . .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
Yarn 1,050,000
Hard drinks . . .. .. .. 1,500,000
Sugar t,beet and cane) .. .. .. 1,600,000
Soft drinks.. ~ .. .. .. 1,900,000
Drugs and chemicals .. .. .. 2,600,000
Paper and stationery . . . . . . 4,350,000
Machinery .. .. . . . . .. 10,500,000
Clothes, textiles, ' fibres . . . . . . 23,500,000
These represent, of course, only the bigger
items of the unfilled local demand. This
page would barely hold all the items. The
first collection, ranging from wheat to honey,
represents the article for which there is no
further local market at present, and for
which, in some cases—wheat, for instance —
the foreign market has proved of late miser-
ably poor and precarious owing to the high
cost of production and the poorness of the
yield. The second category represents a
few of the articles for which the Australian
market can be assured, and as regards which
this country, when it gets a surplus for ex-
port, will have as much claim on the foreign
trade as anybody else. But the bush agents
and land-dealers and potato-grubbers and
rabbit authorities know nothing about the
big industries, and the Victorian man who
regarded beet as a strange new vegetable
didn’t seem to know much even about his
own old-fashioned job. Therefore, as already
mentioned, it would be wise to entrust the
repatriation contract to new men. And if
the eminent engineer at the head of the new
Board tried liis hand at a little land settle-
ment in the intervals of creating manufac-
tures, he would probably do no worse than
his predecessors.
LABOR AT £936 A YEAR.
Columbus Beeby, exploring in the Uncle
Sam country, reports that highly-skilled
artisans on piecework there get as much as
£3 for a day of seven hours. The informa-
tion isn’t quite new, but it is pleasing to
learn that Beeby noticed it. The fact raises
hope.
There is nothing impossible about really
skilled men ' making £3 per day of seven,
hours. It can be done in a highly-educated
and highly-Protected country which keeps its
best-paid and most intricate jobs for its own
people, instead of importing all its best
goods and reserving to itself the animal
work of tearing raw material out of the
ground, like a horse tearing up grass with
its mouth or a monkey reaping cocoanuts.
An essential is the possession of the very best
machinery. This is only possible where
manufacturing is done on a large scale with
an assured local market. The small, hand-
to-mouth man such as we have in Australia
can’t afford it. It is only possible in a
country which manufactures, and conse-
quently to some extent invents, its own
machinery. Australia only hears after a
time of a new invention in some distant
country where it pays to invent. A manu-
facturer, if he is rich enough, probably sends
a man to inspect and report on it. The
thing is ordered. The order is filled after the
orders of the manufacturers close at hand
have been attended to because they got in
early. When the machine arrives it gets
to work after foreign competitors have had
a long start, and possibly when an improved
appliance is about due. Finally the £3 a
day wage can only be earned by piecework
and by good workers. Australia doesn’t cul-
tivate good workers, for the day-labor sys-
tem enacts that the good man shall get no
more than the bad one, and that the bad
or mediocre one shall set the standard. Be-
cause it is impossible to pay all the men in
the very best trade Bs. 7d. per hour no
one is allowed to earn that much or any-
thing like it. Therefore the very best man natu-
rally prefers a country where he has more
liberty. If he got a footing here his ambiti-
ous habits might prove infectious and a
crowd of workers with £936-a-year ideas
would have a profound contempt for the
40-bob-a-week political Labor boss who is so
frequent. That kind of worker is in the
same category with the solicitor, branch
bank manager, shopkeeper in a good way of
business, barrister or editor, and he is im-
measurably above the small employer. He is
a combination of worker and capitalist, and
when some shabby-genteel man of jaw
wants to be paid for rescuing him from
w r age-slavery the position would be ridicu-
lous.
* * * *
A leader, however small and poor, must
be, or contrive to look, bigger and greater
than his followers, else they won’t follow.
Therefore it is his business to keep his fol-
lowers below his own level. And the new
generation of Labor-leader^—the I.W.W.
kind—are a poor lot They consist largely
of journalists, so-called because they got
occasional paragraphs into party papers;
artisans wdio were in the second or third
grade, and men of no very definite occupa-
tion. They were always in the 40-bob-a-
-week category. Being to a great extent
unemployable, they were soured, just as
dwarfs and , hunchbacks are often soured,
by their disabilities, and acquired a griev-
ance against the world in general. Having
much time on their hands, because they were
so little wanted, they could spend some of it
on gratis public oratory, which is a relief
to the feelings, a source of advertisement,
and a lottery in which the occasional prize
is a seat in Parliament and the perquisites
thereof. The asset of these leaders is the
day-worker, otherwise the “wage-slave.”
He is soured by a system—his own or rather
his leaders’ system—which offers him no
prizes in his blank, dull life, for however
capable or. ambitious he may be his wage is
the wage of the ruck. Having no prizes
in view he gradually gives up being specially
capable and ceases to be ambitious. He is
only allowed to be dissatisfied. A policy
which, as Beeby, the explorer, found in the
United States, allows the very best kind of
worker to make £936 a year, and still be a
“mere worker” and rather a proud one,
affords no opening for the present type of
Australian leader. He would have to find
his proper place as a window-cleaner or
night-watchman. Therefore the U.S. leaders
aren’t Bolsheviks like so many on this side
of the Pacific. The prospect of “taking
over the workshops” and putting the man-
agement in the hands of men with a 40-
bob-a-week capacity, would only affright a
large class of their followers. When they
have got machinery to a point at which it
does nearly all the work, while man super-
vises, the idea of a mob smashing the ap-
paratus, or well-meaning amateurs starting
to paw with it, has no attractions. There
are in plenty poor, unskilled, revolutionary
workers, mostly of the immigrant class, hut
the other class —the one that culminates at
present in the wage-slave at £936 a. year—
is a steadying influence. It shows that
there are ways out of the rut besides that
of buying a gun and following some soured
impossible or improbable person on a career
ot huge borrowing, irredeemable paper
money, repudiation, strikes and revolution.
THE PADRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He is an anachronism; also an anomaly.
The man is not entirely at fault —some of
the bravest and best in all the armies have
been padres. Neither, on the other hand,
is the institution ; no one but a fool would
aigue that an army should be deprived alto-
gether of spiritual consolation. But the
existing system is absurd ; and unless the
man is a superman the two act and re-act
disastrously on one another.
The pacfre’s position is false, first, on the
social side. He is a captain without a com-
pany ; a colonel without a brigade ; a gen-
eral without a division. He has all the
privileges of his rank—except authority.
He can choose as to whether he goes into the
line with the fighting men or stays behind
at brigade or divisional h.q. The one who
attended to my brigade had as much kit as
any two officers, and the most luxury-loving
worldling could not have looked after him-
self more carefully. He was a simple-minded
lad and I don’t think he felt that there was
anything odd about his way of life. The
Government paid him so many hundreds
per annum and supplied him with a uniform
and rations. In return he held a service
now and then, some seven miles behind the
line, and in the intervals chatted to the in-
frequent soldier who had a fancy to discuss
his soul. Who was lie to say that his pay
and perquisites were not well earned?
There is evidence that the original padre
really was what the name implies. He was
indeed a Father, and he ruled his children
with a strong hand—failing which he
speedily lost his job. He held his office by
right of might—mental might. The padres
of Babylon and of Egypt, of ancient Home
and of the Middle Ages in Europe, were the
nation’s, doctors and lawyers, historians and
chroniclers, painters, inventors and musicians,
They had so much to expound in the arts of
war, navigation, architecture, building and
a thousand other indispensable things that
their religious teachings amounted almost to
a side-line. But padres are of no cons§*
quence in the modern army scheme. They
are at the mercy of a hundred extraneous
circumstances. The brigade m. 0., for ex-
ample, is liable to veto their services for an
indefinite number of Sabbaths on account of
an outbreak of mumps. Imagine such a
state of affairs in the spacious days when
bishops were in the van in every battle;
when public prayer was as indispensable
a preliminary to every operation as the
artillery preparation is now; when the
Cross was considered a more potent arm
than cannon or broadsword. But the fact
that the modern padre dominates nothing
whatever is, in part, at least, his own fault.
In 95 per cent, of cases he is just a curate
in uniform; a mild, well-meaning man;
conservative-minded except for vague yearn-
ings after “social reform” somewhere; with
little experience of the world; indifferently
educated; poorly read. The R.C. padre,
where he is a strong man, gets nearest to
the subtle and virile type of ruler-priest. In
Cairo one of them was asked by the military
authorities to try to keep his flock out of
certain resorts in the Wazzir. He delivered
a rousing sermon in which he laid down that
not only was it morally infamous to fre-
quent houses of ill-fame, but that from then
onwards it would be a “mortal sin” to enter
the Wazzir at all. The effect is said to
have been excellent. Humbug, of course.
Yet it was by just such devices that Moses
—;the greatest p.;dre in all history—kept the
miserable children of Israel together in their
march to Sinai and enabled them, later, to
seize and hold Palestine.
And again the machine butts into the
argument. There is no place in it for fana-
tics. A whole-hog believer would be an
intolerable nuisance at the Front. A
Luther, an Augustine or a Mahomet
would ruin the discipline of a modern army
in less time than it would take the authori-
ties to cashier him. For whatever reason —•
whether because the military machine causes
strong convictions to be concealed, or be-
cause the spiritual advisers of the soldiers
had no aggressive convictions to start with
—it is difficult, not to say impossible, to find
the inspired prophet type among our padres.
They are no raging propagandists engaged
in a tireless struggle with the Devil. On
the contrary, the typical padre is markedly
genteel. He shrinks from the outlandish
in word or deed or dress. At mess he re-
frains from saying any but the expected
thing—mostly, perhaps, because he never
thinks of any but the expected thing. So
no one is embarrassed by a sudden erup-
tion of new ideas, and the normal level of
comfortable platitude is retained.
The best sort of padre was the type one
met “in the field” —meaning actually in or
near the firing-line, distinguished from base-
hospitals and places like Le Havre and
Rouen. He was a good ordinary citizen
who, in addition to praying and preaching,
did numberless services for the men—got
footballs and bats for them from the Red
Cross people, wrote to their relations when
they were killed or hit, and so on. Some-
times he was one of those who “love dan-
ger,” as the phrase goes. In that case his
brave deeds were more noticeable than other
men’s because he was a padre. And if he
was not brave his caution was excused be-
cause he was a non-combatant.
There is another sort of padre, and every-
one in the A.I.F. has met him. He is to be
found at base-camps, on transports, hospital-
ships and carriers-—in fact, in any place
where the work is light and the life is com-
fortable and safe. I was at a mess in Eng-
land which contained three padres of differ-
ent denominations. During six days of
every week there was not a thing for them
to do but sit in the ante-room and smoke.
At night two of them played cards until
the third, who was a non-card player, com-
plained to the G. 0.0. They were costing
the Government about £B5 a week between
them in pay alone. Few transports or hos-
pital-ships carry less than three padres
apiece. I travelled in one transport that
had five of them —including a colonel. All
day they sat about and yarned and smoked
and slept, living epitomes of boredom.
They did not consort with the men
at all. They were so transparently use-
less as to constitute a scandal reflecting
about equally on their churches and on the
system which was responsible for them, and
I am sure they felt it.
What padre did not know in his heart
that the most admirable thing he could have
done was to join a combatant unit? This,
and the haunting suspicion that there was
nc. demand for religion amongst most of the
men, tended not only to cause rather trivial
characters to become padres, but also to
knock such heart out of them as they ever
possessed. And finally their rank was a
standing barrier between them and most of
their flock. The French arrangement is far
preferable. In France the minister of
religion is mobilised with the other classes
as an ordinary private. His mobilisation
makes him a fighting soldier, but it does not.
of course, unmake him as a padre. And his
status as a soldier carries him automatically
to those places where his ministrations are
likely to be most acceptable. If we do not
adopt the French system in its entirety
in future wars, at least we should drop the
ridiculous business of labelling clergymen who
work amongst soldiers, “General,” “Colonel”
and the like, and paying them at extrava-
gant rates. It is as harmful to real religious
feeling as it is uneconomical.
ZILLIBER HUSS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The British Elections.
Lloyd George comes back from the British
general election with 470 followers in a
House. of just over 700, and before the
new Parliament runs out he will wish they
were fewer and more dependable. The
country on this occasion didn’t vote for
measures: it voted for a man—-a singularly
audacious politician who bought peace at
home in order to win a war abroad. The
war won. the home troubles, have to be
faced; and they will not be any the more
easily faced because of the means by
which they have been avoided for a time.
The Prime Minister’s striking personality,
his remarkable gifts of expression and his
tremendous mana will carry a large propor-
tion of the 470 almost anywhere; but it
is hopeless to expect the lot to stand solid
when they come to really deal with those
social problems which are going to. demand
so much of the attention of most Parlia-
ments during the next few years. The
retirement of Balfour, Milner, Bonar
Law and others from the Government is
sienificant. It means not only that
prominent men who are reckoned among
the 470 put themselves in a position to
disagree with the new Government from
the very beginning, but also that centres
are at once established for the regrouping
of members. The election no doubt
strengthens the hands of Lloyd George in
the peace negotiations, and for that reason
it was justified. But as a means of ascer-
taining the opinion of the people on post-
war problems it -was worthless—from that
point of view it could not have been held
at a worse time. This will be realised as
the months go by and members deal with
matters to which the electorates gave no
attention at all; and the result will be a
growing demand for an early dissolution.
The new Parliament will probably be as
short lived as its predecessor was otherwise.
—— «
Leading the High Moral Life.
President Wilson has defined his “eco-
nomic freedom” policy in a letter to the
chairman of the Finance Committee of the
TT.S. Senate, and done it in this wise:—
I did not mean to suggest any restriction on the
free determination by any nation of its own econo-
mic policies, but only that any, tariff any nation
might deem necessary should apply equally to all
foreign nations.... There should be no discrimination
against one nation that does not apply to others.
It is the sort of doctrine that a kindly, un-
practical gentleman who is much addicted
to the Sermon on the Mount would natu-
rally take in his baggage to the Peace Con-
fetence. But the nations that have earned
their crust for years at the cannon’s mouth
don’t feel like giving the same trade terms
to the enemy as to their friends. Germany’s
factories, for instance, are intact, while it


will take a lifetime to rebuild those of Bel-
gium, and if the two countries start level
now the Hun will have an immeasurable
advantage and Belgium may never make
good. Then there is a tendency among some
white folk to discriminate between white
and colored races—a matter which doesn’t
trouble the U.S., it being both white and
colored. Again, where small States are
brothers by race though politically separated
they sometimes strain a point in friendship
or they may do it in return for support in
time of trouble. The U.S., being big enough
to do without support and sufficiently seif-
contained to be its own sole brother, may
not appreciate this view. Also the U.S.,
with its vast area and its numerous climates,
can supply itself with practically everything
and avoid discrimination, if it feels so in-
clined. by shutting out everybody. But a
very small country like Serbia, whose chief
export is hogs sent away by land, may find
its hogs discriminated against, not by a
tariff, but by a specious plea concerning dis-
ease and the need for 255 days’ quarantine.
In cases like this, and especially if the
border railway runs short of csittle-trucks
and the freight is put up to £2O per animal
per mile, and the driving of certain stock
along the border roads is prohibited except
between 1 and 2 a.m., the small country
generally asks the big one if the free admis-
sion of its particular salt fish —not every-
body’s fish, which would be no special profit
—or a royal marriage or something will
heal the breach. Wilson’s idea is that a
little inland State like Switzerland or
Bohemia, which may have its whole trade
stopped by precautions against tick —a subtle
insect that can be found even in boots and
ironware if looked for hard enough—should
be as proud and uostanding and high-minded
as the U.S., with its outlet to two oceans,
and a weak colony on one side and a dis-
tracted half-breed on the other. But unless
Wilson’s people promise to fight every
country in the world, if necessary, to pre-
vent malicious railway rates, tick precau-
tions, etc., the weaker folk will go on doing
the best they can. If the President is in
earnest he had better come to Melbourne or
Adelaide —with a machine-gun and other
weapons for preference—and see how one
city can, without any tariff at all, depopulate
an area vastly bigger than Belgium and do
it more certainly than the Huns did. A
good many beautiful theories are likely to go
askew in the Peace Conference ; and Wilson,
as the one great ruler who has never seen
war and never known the shifty life of the
little inland State which is a Daniel in
the den of lions, is the chief purveyor of
them.
*
Sinn Fein.
Sinn Fein, which put its case before the
Australian editors who were lately in Dub-
lin, doesn’t seem to have made any new
friends thereby. True, most of the executive
are in gaol, and those who are left to do the
talking may or may not represent the brains
of the movement. Yet those who spoke repre-
sent the brains that are left to carry on the
movement; and as there was no confusion
among them as to what they were after, they
are probably true interpreters of the thing
as it stands to-day. They confess, freely and
frankly, that t’hey aim at a republic—that
and nothing else. Home Rule, no sort of
Home Rule that a British Parliament would
give them, would satisfy them. To get a
republic they must have arms; and they are
prepared to accept arms from anybody—
Germany included. Put it to them that Ger-
many has shown that it is no respecter of
the rights of small nations, and they are
satisfied with the reply that Britain has
shown itself no respecter of the rights of
their small nation either. They want inde-
pendence, complete independence. What will
happen after they get it they are content to
leave to the future. If they make alliances,
they must have the right to choose thejr
allies, though they will go this far —that,
Britain being their next-door neighbor, other
things being equal they would naturally
turn to Britain first. The men who speak
for Sinn Fein now are young men, poets and
dreamers, fired with an enthusiasm and a
spirit of self-sacrifice which compels admira-
tion ; and it would be good to be able to
believe that, smarting under a sense of what
they believe to be a wrong done to the
national cause in the execution of the leaders
of the rebellion of 1916, they overstate the
aims of the movement. But it is impossible
on the evidence to believe anything of that
sort. The manifesto of “the Provisional
Government of the Irish Republic to the
People of Ireland,” issued on the eve of the
rebellion of Easter, 1916, ran:—
We declare the right of the people of Ireland to
the ownership of Ireland and to the unfettered con-
trol of Irish destinies to be sovereign and indefeasible.
The long usurpation of that right by a foreign
people and Government has not extinguished the
right, nor can it ever be extinguished, except by
the destruction of the Irish people Standing on
that fundamental right, we hereby proclaim the
Irish Republic as a Sovereign Independent State,
and we pledge obr lives and the lives of our com-
rades-in-arms to the cause of its freedom, of its
welfare and of its exaltation among the nations.
Though the enterprise ended in disaster,
there is no reason whatever to believe that
that failure changed the spirit of the present
movement any more than many previous
failures had changed previous similar move-
ments. On the contrary, it is very sure that
certain actions of the British Government
and its servants —some of them dreadful
blunders without a doubt—rekindled the fire
which had died out or almost died out in
many an Irish home. Had the condition of
Ireland gone on improving as it certainly
had been improving for some years prior to
1913, and had the promise of Home Rule
been loyally honored, the old-standing Irish
Question would soon have ceased to be a
question of any consequence at all. The pro-
blem of land-settlement was being solved,
and agriculture was being vastly improved,
as well as the housing of the people. The
1916 rebellion has unhappily played into the
hands of the recalcitrant North; and what
that didn’t do the subsequent attitude of the
people of the South and West towards the
war has done. In modern times, at any rate,
the North never had so strong a case for
standing out of Home Rule; but the right of
Ulster to decide how it shall be governed
doesn’t impair the rights of the rest of Ire-
land—provided always that the safety of the
rest of the British islands is not imperilled.
On the other hand, a condition which can
produce, in the midst of a life-and-death war,
such a rebellion as that which Ireland wit-
nessed in 1916 is surely as great a peril
almost as any that can be conceived. If
Home Rule can remove such perils as that,
then even British safety calls for its prompt
introduction.
“Natural” and “Unnatural” Industries.
The joke about depending on and developing
“the natural resources of the country” in
preference to “hothouse industries” wears
very thin when there is a demand that gold
shall be permanently subsidised, not to
develop anything, but to keep what was once
this country’s most wonderful industry alive
a little longer, though nothing can keep it on
its feet permanently. Five shillings per
ounce is mentioned, which would mean a tax
of some £300,000 a year, or more if the
bonuses led, as is hoped, to more ounces being
dug up. But it is pointed out that the
mine which is beyond hope with gold at 85s.
per ounce wouldn’t be very hopeful at 90s.
It is said that £1 per ounce is the least in the
way of a pauper dole which will make the
business feel really good, and that would
represent a tax of about £1,200,000 per
annum if the device fails and perhaps
£2,000,000 if it succeeds. As the actual
getting of gold is now done at a loss, taking
Australia as a whole, the entire profit of the
business is expected to come out of the bonus
—in other, words, out of taxes. It will be
piecework. Daywork would be an allowance
of so much per week to each miner. To the
man who makes, say, iron goods, this sort of
thing is rather a poor sample of humor. Most
of the goods with which he has to compete
come in free of duty. He has to pay far
higher wages than the wheat-grower or the
mine-owner. If he makes a little extra these
days by hard work and inventiveness, he is
liable to have three-fourths of it confiscated
as w r ar-time profits, an imposition from which
the farmer and miner are exempt. He is taxed
to subsidise the “natural industry” of wheat,-
especially wheat for export, inasmuch as
he pays on his goods more as railway freight
than the carriage actually costs, so that
wheat and hay and chaff may be carried at
less than they cost. He has to subsidise the
“natural”, industry of fish-catching by sup-
porting State trawlers that don’t pay. Now
he is expected to pay a pension to the
“natural” industry of gold-digging. It seems
a rotten business; but strange things hap-
pen in an importing and raw-material coun-
try—especially one that has been demoral-
ised and corrupted by public loans.
Our 200,000 New Customers.
About 200,000 new customers, or as good as
new. are expected in Australia, a land which
is always said to be in want of customers
and population. (That is to say, they will
be customers unless they are expected to live
on imported goods.) They are mostly able-
bodied, for the bulk of the disabled soldiers
are here already. There are very few aged
women and children among pro-
portion of infants who went to the war is
negligible—therefore they won’t; add much to
the list of dependants or burdens or encum-
brances. In short, they represent such a
rush of desirable immigrants and sturdy pro-
ducers (assuming they are allowed to pro-
duce) as Australia hasn’t seen since the
early gold days. The end of the war—if it is
ended —hasn’t afflicted this country previous
to demobilisation with a vast unemployed
class as it has Britain, France, Canada and
the United States. There the closing of the
munition-factories threw out hundreds of
thousands of people, and work has to be
found for them as well as for the returned
soldiers. Room has to be made in peace
occupations for all these producers without
any additional consumers to provide a
market for them, for these folk have been
consuming all the time. Australia has no
such crowd thrown on its hands, for it made
no perceptible munitions. With its vast
empty spaces, its wonderful natural re-
sources, its lack of a local unemployed pro-
blem, and its need of population—the biggest
need on earth—it will be on the best wicket
in the Allied world when its troops come
back. They will amount to less than one
man per 15 square miles spread over 18
months. Yet the rulers of the land wear a
harried aspect, and some people who want to
be rulers have hopes that the one man spread
over 18 months and 15 square miles may be
so maddened by want of employment that
he may rise in insurrection. Is there some-
thing wrong with this country’s policy relat-
ing to industries? It is no use telling us
that it is all a question of cost —that wages
are too high in Australia. Beeby. the non-
Labor Minister of Labor in N. S. Wales, has
gone to the U.S.A to find out that wages
there average very nearly double the Aus-
tralian.
+.
Superseding the Surgeon’s Saw.
“Guinea Please” on a military side-line: —
A military hospital to-day isn’t what it was as
late even as 1914. There are very few in England
or France now that haven’t got their carpenter’s
shop, for instance. That the shop interests the
convalescing patient is of consequence, especially in
shell-shock cases; so is the fact that the shop pro-
duces furniture, splints and other trifles. But for
neither of these things was the carpenter’s shop put
into a military hospital’s back-yard. Its primary
job is to bring damaged muscles and limbs back to
do their job. In the trade they call this orthopaedics;
and if the war didn’t actually produce orthopaedic
surgery, it gave the business a thousand times
more attention than it ever had before.
There are, in fact, numbers of orthopaedic hospi-
tals pure and simple. They don’t, of course, rely
wholly on the carpenter’s tools—even carpenter’s
tools specially constructed to bring certain muscles
into use. There are gymnasiums as well; but
it has been found that almost anything that a gym-
nasium can do some workshop or other can do
better, and in the workshop process the. injured man
becomes a more useful citizen. Usually there is
a lot to do before the wounded man reaches the
workshop; and some of the things that have been
done are nothing less than uncanny. Here is a
case quoted by Major-General Bullock :
A soldier had lost his right thumb from his
wrist. He was willing to have a finger from the
other hand transplanted in order to form a new
thumb. The stump of the thumb was dissected and
the ends of the tendons found. The ring finger of
the left hand was half amputated and its tendons
attached to the thumb. The finger was attached to
the stump, so that half of it was supplied with
blood from the right arm and half from the left.
As the borrowed circulation began to feed the new
thumb it was, stage by stage, separated from its
original site. When I saw it the transplanted
finger was moving just in the same way as the
original thumb, and now it is completely detached
from the other hand to assume the more important
function of a thumb.
That wasn’t a special-command, show performance,
either. It was done by a young surgeon in the
ordinary course of his job.
Early in the war tons of limbs were lost that
would have been saved had their owners left it till
later in the trouble to get in the way of shrapnel
and bullet. But in those days almost every bad
wound became septic, mainly so, the trade thinks,
because of the heavy manuring of French soil during
centuries of intense farming. This and the previ-
ously unheard-of mess made of a man when he was
hi; by shrapnel led to wholesale amputations. Later
on the horror of septic poisoning was very largely
exorcised, and the surgeon got used to the shocking
mutilations; and the trade learned that the worst
use to which you could put an injured limb was to
saw it Off. Then, having saved the limb, the ortho-
paedic surgeon’s work is to turn the wreck into a
good, serviceable implement.
And that’s where the carpenter’s shop comes in;
and along with the carpenter’s shop the gymnasium,
the forge, the cobbler’s bench, the massage “parlor”
and a hundred other aids. Every exercise to which
the convalescing patient is set is prescribed by
the surgeon with the definite purpose of either re-
educating some damaged portion of the body or
accustoming the patient to the use of tools in a
new way, the surgeon not having been able to fix,
say, an elbow in quite the old way.
It is into aids of this sort that a considerable
amount of the money given to the Red Cross in
Australia has gone; and on very few things has the
money been better spent. For the further this re-
education of shattered limbs has gone the better
worth while has it been for surgeons to restrain
themselves frqm using the saw; and scores of
Diggers will bring back fairly and in some cases
completely useful limbs to Australia who without
orthopaedic surgery would certainly have returned
with only a stump.
In Dottyville.
Recent happenings at Yarra Bend (Vic.),
Parkside (S.A.) and Claremont (W.A.)
mental hospitals hint that, by failing to pro-
vide adequate staffs at these melancholy insti-
tutions, the State Governments continue to
dodge their duty to the sufferers, from this
dreadful sickness. Evidence as to “cuts and
bruises on the face and body,” broken ribs
and the suspicion of “extraordinarily brutal
violence,” suggests (1) that, the average asy-
lum attendant is a singularly ferocious citi-
zen, or (2) that it is quite a common thing
for patients to crack their own ribs, or else
(3) that the attendant isn’t plentiful enough
to control pugnacious patients without em-
ploying Bolshevik methods. As to (1), there
is no reason why the asylum attendant should
be a particularly ferocious person. He usu-
ally just happens into his job. He is an
average man who has filled the handiest
opening in the labor market as it became
available. Certainly he isn't selected for
ferocity. As for (2) it is a simple fact, long
recognised by alienists, that the mental
patient is far readier to damage somebody
else than to cause himself intentional harm.
While unwilling to damage himself, neither
is the patient openly and furiously rebellious
against asylum authority, as a rule. A visit
to the “violent” ward of a mental hospital
doesn’t usually disclose a riot, with the
patients trying to tear the attendants to
pieces. A ward of the kind is a quiet and
depressing spot, almost painfully orderly and
only subject to occasional excitements, such
as the “taming” of a new arrival. So we
are driven back to (3). Most asylum hor-
rors are., beyond doubt, caused by the in-
ability of inadequate staffs to manage thejr
patients except by terrorism and brute force.
One attendant, for instance, isn’t enough to
ease a fighting patient into a straight-jacket;
yet it is done constantly. Two attendants
can, by actual strength, without violence,
propel a crazed recalcitrant from one place
to another without doing him any particular
damage; but one attendant, doing the same
job, may have to apply more strenuous
measures, dangerous to both parties, but
particularly to the patient. The surprising
feature of asylum management in Australia
is the singular lack of illumination shed on
the position by medical officers in charge of
State establishments. The general policy of
such officers seems to be to see nothing and
say less.
♦— —
Faith, Faith, Faith!
The Office Deacon’s New Year sermon: —
Valerius Maximus, who trod the Inky Way in
Rome about the time St. Paul was busy preparing
his religious bombs for the bursting of the Empire,
noted that the Gauls would lend money on a pro-
missory-note payable in the next world. Christi-
anity never showed a faith like that. The purchase
of war bonds for payment when peace is well estab-
lished is about as far as the most orthodox of us
will go; though some great and vefy hefty criminal
persons of the Middle Ages certainly did erect
churches and endow religious houses with a view to
squaring things when the judgment of souls arrived.
Still, there is something in the Gaulish idea, if the
next world could be defined as the world which is to be
raised by the steady industry and effort of all the
people on the ruins of the thing which has been
blown into partial chaos by the recent war-explo-
sives. At bedrock cash and labor are much the same
thing; and there is nothing much surer than that the
promissory-note of a good day’s national labor will be
honored in a world to come —a world with the same
earth under it, but with a general improvement in
everything above ground.
The Gauls’ faith in the future is a thing worthy to
be revived; indeed it is the only basis on which the
world can move on. The future beyond the clouds of
imaginative devotion can look after itself pretty well
if the future here gets the support it needs. Work
and the Devil have always been in opposition camps.
Lack of faith in the future is at the bottom of all
go-slow policies; and the freedom of man is linked
up solidly with the determination to make
the time to come better than the time
that was by strenuous effort. A German
writer, with better insight than might have been
expected, told us that organisation merely meant
doing your job. Reconstruction means the same
thing. If Australia could take up that notion with a
religious fervor the cashing of her promissory-notes
would be the grand circumstance of the future and
no very distant future at that. Hope and Charity
are all right; but faith that runs to perspiration
has a good lead in the trinity of endeavor.
A Word for Militarism.
“Henry Horsecollar’s” view ;
“Militarism” is an ill-used and overworked term.
Our peace folk and pro-Huns and I.W.W.’s urge us to
beware of it, and rather have a crude militia, every
man keeping his gun and ammunition under his bed
ready to riot with. The weepful Hun protests that
he shouldn’t be judged wholly by his militarists. After
all, militarism in itself isn’t so bad a devil as it is
painted. It is expensive, but not nearly so as
it might be, always provided the wanton destruction
of property and non-combatants is left out. It kills
many people, but they would die in any case, and
some of them might die of cancer. It at least
supplies excitement, and it stimulates invention; for
instance, it has compressed an ordinary century of
progress in air navigation into four years.
Alexander the Great was a chronic militarist and
conqueror. When Babjdon and such-like places,,
which were attached to Persia by conquest rather
than by freewill, heard that the new master was
coming in his pomp and wrath, the school-kids had
a holiday to go out and see him, and the con-
queror gave a banquet to the notabilities, and small
Babylonian boys tried to play tig with the new
garrison and did it with impunity. Napoleon was
militarist of the deepest dye, and he would have been
more definitely remembered as a cleaner, washer up,
builder, educator and regenerator if the congress of
Vienna hadn’t spoiled his work. Botha, Smuts,
De la Rey and co. might be classed as militarists as
well as Kitchener and Methuen, but somehow it
wasn’t the new kind of militarism.
In fact, it isn’t the Hun military organisation that
is annoying, but the fact that the Hun has proved
himself, organised or not, a monster of ingrained
malignity—something of the Red Indian without the
red man’s courage in defeat —and a tenth-rate
Inquisition. Likewise he was a sort of armed Stig-
gins. His war machine didn’t make him
what he was; it merely gave him a means
of showing what he was. If he had possessed
only a half-trained militia he would have
been just the same, provided his oppo-
nents had nothing better than a quarter-trained
militia. In the Thirty Years AVar he had less than
a half-trained militia; in fact Wallenstein's great
force was 100,000 strong, without airships, big
guns submarines, gas, or anything better than pop-
guns and skewers. But one party had a bigger pop-
gun or a longer skewer than the other, and that
local and internal commotion made the smaller
German States a graveyard and left few virgins in
the country. It wasn’t militarism, unless the thing
that Switzerland and Australia possess to-day is
militarism. The Hun officer is an impossible brute
in his own country during peace time just because
he is himself. The almost equally numerous Frencti
officer, being also himself, is quite affable. In like
manner, the desolation that Lenin and Trotsky are
conducting in Russia has no relation to militarism ;
it is Bolshevik pure and simple.
I hold no brief for militarism, but I don’t see
why the poor old animal should be so much abused.
Half the objection to what is called “armaments”
arises from the fact that an “armament” is apt to
interfere with the crowd that wants to take “direct
action” and steal property and girls. In fact the
I W.ff. people might have burned down Sydney two
years ago but for the bloated armaments—bloated by
comparison with what they would have been if the
I.AV.AV. people had had their way. All bloat is com-
parative.
Possibly it was just the hatred of work —
especially new, swift work, which is undigni-
fied, unofficial and tends to perspiration—that
led the Watt-Webster-Mitxen Government
to object to the registration of this country’s
first air-navigation co. There is no possi-
bility of making air-navigation a Govern-
ment monopoly any more than bicycle-riding
or stupidity. It is going to be one of the
commonplaces of life. Nor is it possible to
make air communication with foreign coun-
tries a monopoly unless the Watt-Webster
combine is prepared also to sink any vessel
other than a publicly owned one found head-
ing towards distant parts. The airship xvhich
isn’t Federal property will come to Mel-
bourne and Sydney just as foreign steamers
do, and any attempt to confiscate it and
gaol the crew will lead to international
complications. If it is compelled to land at
the first beach and transfer its load to a
local ship, that will also lead to complica-*
tions. Further, it may lead to Australian
vessels—Federal, State or private—being
prohibited in every country of the world.
Seeing that the evil—everything new and
rapid is an evil with Watt and Webster
and Millen —is bound to come, the question
is whether Australia will snatch at the skirts
of chance and get in early as a venturesome
pioneer, or wnether it will lag behind and
leave others to peg out the claim and get
the hooray and the business.
“P. 8.1.”: If the Defence Department
thinks it is going to prevent discontent
among home-coming Diggers by making a
slight improvement in the menu, it will soon
find out its error. At the bottom of the dis-
content you’ll find on most troopships the
feeling that the accommodation for “other
ranks” is outrageously poor by comparison
with that reserved for officers. There have
been cases where a mere score of so of offi-
cers have had more deck space than nearly a
thousand men—privates and corporals—and
the longer the voyage has lasted the worse
this flaunting differentiation has rankled.
You couldn’t make men Contented under such
conditions even if you fed them like fighting
cocks.
V>
An official estimate made by the Ma State’s
Department of Agriculture as to the cost
of producing wheat sets out that the
operations necessary run to £2 2s Bd. per
acre. With the crop this season estimated
as averaging some 8f bushels per acre,
and a couple of bushels to be taken off
that to allow for the country that failed
and was fed off, it is easy to show definitely
that the advance of 4s. a bushel means an
actual loss of some 17s. per acre to the
grower. This would be awful if the figures


T 1!? Farmers’& Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustfalia
Limited
The S C ° mpensation Act im P oses heavy liabilities on Farmers and
ThC Accent' d Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
11 iS interests of the Ma " the Land to support this co-operative
Write
for particulars.
Head Office: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BLANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
would Stand the light. But the fact is
that the estimate as for a crop grown on
fallowed land. It allows for a six-inch
ploughing, harrowing three times, disc
cultivating, spring-tooth cultivating, graded
seed at (Js. per bushel, and, as one crop
is grown in two years, 12s. for rent. Only
ii f rac tion of the wheat-crop in
the Ma State is grown under such pro-
gressive conditions, and when it is even
this year, much of it is yielding two and
tluee times more than the State average.
Ihe vast majority of cockies grow a crop
on the same land every year. In the
autumn, when weather permits, the ground
is ripped up with the plough three or
tour inches deep, harrowed once and left
lo take its chance. Ungraded seed worth
os. bd. to os. per bushel is used. A fair
area is put in with the cultivator, the
ground not even being ploughed. This
accounts for the miserable average in a
diy year. On the Department’s figures the
cocky s actual operations cost about 275.
per acre, which includes his own labor.
—-♦ .
Cotton: Along Avith Some Remarks
abput a Fox.
Ihe utter collapse of the old Freetrade
party is an outstanding feature of the
Biitish elections. It was the “Manchester
school” and its own country has gone back
on it. Freetrade was a movement run by
cotton manufacturers, with Bkigiit, the
tremendous sweater, as its apostle. Cobden
was something of a harmless corn fanatic,
but the others were cotton sharks. A high
tariff, and a long war which blotted out most
competitors, had made Britain the world’s
workshop. Cotton came in free, of Course
even under a high tariff, because England
wanted it and didn’t produce it. A beautiful
world-wide gospel of Freetrade was wanted
to make sure that other nations would
continue to sell their raw cotton cheaply
to England just as Australia sells its wooi,
and buy baCk manufactured goods at high
prices, and never spoil the symmetry of
things by manufacturing for themselves,
bo the theory was set up that Britain let
cotton m free on high moral principles
which should he reciprocated. One convert
was secured—Louis Napoleon, the short-
legged ruffian who upset the French republic
by conspiracy and wiped out French Parlia-
mentary government in blood. Britain made
red-hot haste to recognise this scandalous
person he having paved the way by letting
it be known that the free admission of
British goods was dear to his heart. A
great Exhibition was held so that all the
worids great men might come to London
n |?A, be ass ured that Freetrade was the cause
of the nation’s greatness. (The story that
the Bible was the secret of Britain’s great-
ness took a back seat for the moment.)
And Exhibition year being the year when
nnd V tw I f flUX ?, f . go,d fl ' om Australia began,
and that boom being also set down to Free-
uraAe' t j ie i. s l u P er stition got a good start. It
flattened like a squashed frog as soon as
the world which was a low-tariff world
in those days, began to take to high Pro-
tection. When the US. came to be a bi-er
cotton manufacturer than Britain, and when
Russia Germany, India and Japan all cut
mto the trade, the fiscal creed Avhich was
cotton from first to last, sagged at the knees,
it exists now only because many people
don t know that the argument on which it
was based is proved a mockery. They fancy
that it was ordained in the Sermon‘on the
Mount, and that Cobden preached the sermon
on Hampstead Heath.
Roosevelt.
“Teddy” was the most typical Yankee of his
generation. Wilson is a cosmopolite—a
scholar, a preacher and an idealist who
might equally nave been evolved by Oxford,
London, Paris or Mainz. Roosevelt was
all-American. He did not need to watch
which way the.cat -as jumping. On anv
great national issue he icas the cat. When
he went to the wars he fought, talked,
skited and dressed like the incomparable
iauk he was. Yon cannot picture Wilson
raging about Cuba in the uniform of a Rough
lv.der When kcosevelt hunted big game
he did it ivith a whoop and a yell that was
American or nothing. His forceful talk on
the subject of German-Americans was the
national talk, as opposed to Wilson’s aloof
professorial Dronouncements. Always he
voiced the best that was in America—even
to the last, vrhen in characteristically vigor-
ous language he onposed a fleet-building com-
petition betwon the States and Britain. He
had his weaknesses—weaknesses, not of
mind or heart, but of temperament. But
he was still one of America’s biggest men:
one who by some instinctive genius inter-
preted that polyglot institution which we call
, American democracy, and made it under-
standable to itself and to the outside world.
Ax the New Year a small boy got lost
in the bush beyond Manangatang, which
is past Winnambool, which is at the far
side of Ultima, which is at the end of
civilisation in Victoria; and when search
parties had recovered him after tracking
him for 30 miles they found that the rest
of the family—father, mother and six
children—were bushed likewise, in a, manner
of speaking. Dad wag a returned soldier,
whom the Repatriation people had put on
to a Mallee block, and left put. A
railway and water channels have been
promised, but they aren’t there. A house
has been bought and arranged for through
the same Procrastination Department, but
it isn!t there either. Consequently tlie
returned soldier, his wife and seven kiddies,
with their furniture, are camped under
boughs and mallee roots, the Department
having apparently never heard of tents.
Billjim was just bogging in, which is like
BILLJjM ; but a lot of other people want
to know if Millen’s muddlers really want
our, returnees to “go Bolshevik.”
Ulsterman ’: With regard to the sugges-
tion that the Ulstermen are interlopers in
Ireland, it is fairly clear that the Scots were
early inhabitants of Ulster, whence they
over-ran the best part of Caledonia and gave
to it its present name. Many centuries after-
wards, when Ulster had become almost com-
pletely depopulated, partly through the wars
between different clans, but chiefly through
wars with the English, large areas of the
empty country were sold or leased to descend-
ants of the original inhabitants. At any
rate, the people of Ulster have quite as much
claim to the name of Irishmen as those of
mixed Irish and English descent in Leinster
and Munster, or those of mixed Irish, Nor-
man and Spanish descent in Connaught,
or those of mixed Danish and Irish descent
in Wexford and other seaport towns.
I here is nothing Irish in the names
of of those who have taken a
leading part in agitating about Ire-
land s wrongs and rights—for instance,
Butt and Parnell in the past generation
and Casement and De Valera recently.
J-iie typical Ulsterman has no time to spare
roi agitating about the wrongs of past cen-
tunes, while the typical resident of the other
provinces devotes so much time and thought
w agitation that he has not sufficient time
left for his ordinary occupation.
The Perth tramway men went on strike
the other day for increased wages. The
strike was illegal in more ways than one, but
on the other hand the wages weren't dazzling.
The Coyernment says that if it gave the in-
ciease the railway men must have a similar
rise, and the additional cost (flOO.OOO a
year) is impossible in a State with an annual
deficit of over £OOO,OOO already, and this
despite a Federal charitable aid which ex-
pires in 1020. Also, the grant to all the
States out of Customs revenue expires in
1920, and may not be renewed. S.A., which
has hitherto kept off the charity list,
but which has deficits enough and to
spare, was lately confronted with an all-
round minimum-wage award which it was
calculated (perhaps wildly) might add
£500,000 a year to the outgoings.' If the
Australian States had started to tax them-
selves 40 or 30 or even 25 years ago at the
rate per inhabitant that they do now—the
rate that proves so utterly insufficient now
instead of piling up measureless debts, the
increased wages would be easy, but when the
man of. say. 45 wants the extra Is. or Is. (id.
a day that is required to pay interest on the
debts which he voted for and helped to spend
ever since he was 21, the logical answer is
that he has had the money already. Inter-
esting things are going to happen. This is a
period of unprecedented happening's, like the
great war, the reconstruction of the
world’s boundaries, the new air navigation
and the submarine. And the filing of a con-
tinent’s schedule will be quite a remarkable
happening. Rusted continents are even more
rare than great wars.
The death of a well-known Melbourne citi-
zen through a mistake in the make-up of a
doctor’s prescription has drawn attention to
a striking defect in the local Pharmacy Act.
Responsibility for the fatal cachets lay
between two dispensing assistants, but when
one of them came to fye tried for man-
slaughter it appeared that both denied hav-
ing made up the prescription, and neither of
them could be convicted of carelessness. The
one thing certain was that a bottle of heroin
which should have been kept in the poisons
cupboard had been left in the dispensing-
room, and even the evidence on this point was
flatly contradictory. The jury suggested that
m future every chemist’s prescription should
be signed and dated. The law can’t protect
citizens against the risk of getting poison
inseited into their decoctions, because a
bottle of sudden death happens to have been
iett around in the dispensing-room, but it
can at least arrange to have responsibility
tor a chemist’s carelessness placed on the
right shoulders. When a patient’s decease
is shown to have been directly due to the
doctor who attended him, the medico lias to
stand a chance of conviction. It isn’t more
than a 100 to 1 chance, to be sure; but there
it is.
“Solomon Malaprof” asks for a defini-
tion :
What is the exact difference between Senator Long,
supposing for the sake of argument and in the absence
of any verdict in a court of law, that he did what
people think he shouldn't have done, and Senator
Pearce, who is doing what people think he shouldn’t
do? It isn’t supposed that Long got so much money
as Pearce is going to get. Long appointed himself
to receive the money. Pearce seems also to have
appointed himself—at least his colleagues were cither
remarkable shufflers or else they didn’t know of it
till the last moment, and most of the rank and file
of the House didn’t know, and the nation certainly
didn’t know. Long’s secret wasn’t as secretive as
Pearce’s seciet, for it comes to light first.
Long’s services in promoting the purchase of the
Shaw factory, which is putting the worst aspect
on the case, were no more problematical than
Pearce’s services in going to London to do the work
that Fisher is paid for and which General Monash
is already doing. Of course there is a feeling that
precedent should be observed. It is an old precedent
and cosmopolitan. Thus there was a French prince
just before the Revolution who got for his own use
56,000,000 livres out of a loan of a hundred millions,
■and he wasn’t a thief, for the King knew he was
getting it, though the people didn’t. And there
was a French bloke who was hanged as a thief in
the same year over a matter of one Jivre, because
neither the King nor the people knew he was getting
it. Consequently there is a wide gulf between the
man who invents a pretext for getting the com-
munity’s money and takes another man—his political
chief—-into his confidence, and the man who does
the same and takes no one into his confidence. But
the gulf is rather theoretical. There is this differ-
ence between Long and Pearce: Long says flatly
that the money he received wasn’t the people’s
money, and Pearce doesn’t profess for a moment that
his expense bill isn’t the people’s money. My posi-
tion is therefore that I didn’t know till it was too
late for protest that either Long or Pearce was get-
ting money. I don’t know now that Long got any
of my money. He may, as he says, simply have col-
lected an old debt. I do know that Pearce is get-
ting some of my money, and he riles me more than
Long, for he gets it for the work I help to pay
Fisher to do. This Ministerial holiday business looks
rather like log-rolling for Ministers, if they last
long enough, get their gilded spells by turns, save,
pel haps, those who are anchored here bv private
business. Whether the Minister who votes against
the other fellow’s jaunt has his own jaunt cut off
in consequence I can’t say, but I would like to
learn. Also, would I like to learn if any Minister
ever took the risk.
“Bribing”: The removal of the Banana-
land relief steamer John Douglas from Cook-
town to Cairns is, in my opinion, a bad
error. The coast from Cooktbwn to Thurs-
day Island is particularly dangerous. In
recent years the Moresby, Tasman and
Mataraai have grounded along that section,
while at time of wanting the Iloutman is
grounded south of Thirsty. It was to act as
relief ship in such cases that the Douglas
was placed at Cooktown. The 100 miles
from Cooktown to Cairns is safe, and there
is no record of accident to shipping there in
recent years. So the departure of the John
D. for Cairns means that she will be over
100 miles further from the most likely scene
of marine disaster. The presence of a
w ireless station at Cooktown is another good
reason why the Douglas should be left in
that port. It only requires tlia't the overland
line be “interrupted” and Cooktown radio
would be unable to advise Cairns in case of
Had the J.I). been in Cairns instead
o! ( ooktown when the Moresbv was lost the
chances of some of the passengers would
have been nil.
January birthdays: C. E. Owen Smyth
(S. Aus. Supt. of Public Buildings), 68, on
Ist; David Watterston (Akgus). 74 on
op d; Pr °£ Meredith Atkinson (Melb. Uni ),
on 3rd; Frederick Young (ex-Agent-
General for S. Aus.), 43, and Bishop New-
ton (Carpentaria), 53, on sth; Arthur
Searcy (S. Aus.), 67. on 6th; Prof. Id. G.
Chapman (Sydney Uni.), 40. on 13th-
Senator Pearce (Minister of Defencel. 49
on 14th; Premier Peake (S. Aus.), 00 and
Kev. Dr. Bromilow (retired missionary),
y~, 011 15th; Harry Wollaston (formerly
(xmiptroller-General of Customs), 73, oil
Hth; Justice Barton, 70, on 18th; D. I).
Graham (editor Sydney D.T.). 44 on 23rd-
®thel Turner, on 24th; Agent-General C. G.
Hade, 56, and Oscar Asehe (born a*- Ben-
digo). 47. on 26th ; F. W. Cumhrae-Stewart
(Registrar Bananaland Uni.). 54. on 27th-
Bishop Stretch (Now-castle). 64. and Bishop
(N.%) ; 46 on 28th ; Justice Bring
(N.S.W.) 66. on 29th; and B. S. Bird
(Speck) 1 9, on 30th.
The Bulletin’s “Oldest Inhabitant” was
a proud man last week. Word then came
hrough that one of his Billjim grandsons,
Major \\ ark, D.S.O.—a major at 24—had
added the V,C. to liis other decorations. It
\yas the business at which Billjim is easilv
hist-—dodging from cover to cover on to
machine-gun positions and capturing 50 or
100 men, with their tools of trade, almost or
quite single-handed.
His friends know the ninth W.A. Victoria
Cross winner as “Fat” McCarthy, but he
is officially Lieut. Lawrence Dominic, 10th
Battalion. After doing notable work on
the Peninsula —he enlisted as a private-
lie went to France, won the Croix de Guerre
at I'ozieres, and lias been doing amazing
things ever since. According to a sergeant
who lost an arm at Mouquet Farm, “some of
McCarthy’s platoons say the Heads ought
to turn one of the munition-factories on
to making Victoria Crosses for ‘Fat.’ ”
There is one less of the old-time deep-sea
sailing skippers now that Captain A. P C
Ross has gone aloft at Strahan (Tas.). lie
was the son of a captain in the London-
Austialia tiade and made the long voyages
himself for nearly half a century, beginning
as apprentice and putting in many years in
command. When he left the sea 'he took
on the job of Master \Y arden of the Strahan
Marine Board. He was 73 when his watch
ended.
Died in retirement at Hartley (N.S W )
Rev. James (“Bucky”) Sheridan, senior
priest of the R.C. Archdiocese of Sydney, lie
was the last clerical link with the Folding-
V a ugh an regime. A confirmed dyspeptic, he
was a gold-mine to every patent-medicine
quack, herbal exploiter and cold-water crank
in the Commonwealth, though hi s great, fetich
was castor-oil, with which he doped himself
by the gallon, inflicting it ruthlessly on his
flock also for every conceivable ailment.
The victory of Pemberton Billing, coming
after his suspension from the last House of
Commons amidst the cheers of the Best
Suburbs, looks like a generous recognition
of the fact that Billing was the man who
roused Britain to demand an adequate pro-
duction of aircraft and aviators, with a fair
run for their money. All the forces of Brit-
ish Toryism were combined to push Billing-
out of public life, on the ground that he was
‘ bad form,” and so forth ; yet he got back
to Parliament, like “John Bull” Bottomley.
There is a healthy, growing demand for
vehement disrespectfulness in British politics.
James Butler, an old blind man who
owned the best begging pitch in Sydney,
made a horribly messy end of himself last
week. Ife used to sit on a camp-stool at the
pavement’s edge in Moore-street rattling his
pannikin; and when the police interested
themselves in him early in 1918, it was
found that he had £lOOO in the bank and
owned a couple of houses. But the goodwill
of the “business" must' have dropped when
the Court ordered him to shift his stool from
the edge of the pavement to a recess in the
Commonwealth Bank wall.
Peake and Bar Well, of S.A. Government
on New Vear’s Day both assured Victor
Harbor —the old Encounter Bay of Flinders
and the Frenchmen—that its claims as a
port are to be recognised. The first step is a
survey for. lengthening the little breakwater,
at; present mainly esteemed for the fine s-glit
it makes as ocean rollers dash upon it. The
present “wasteful policy of hauling the pro-
duce of the South and of the Murray over the
lulls to Adelaide” was condemned by the
men with whom it rests to devise something
better. Simpson Newland (son ot the origi-
nal . Newland, farmer and preacher, who
dominated the district in early days) was
present on this occasion, to be congratulated
on his long efforts—fruitless so far —to get
a canal made from Goolwa. on the lakes in-
side the Murray mouth, to the harbor.
Dr. Frank Muecke, of Adelaide, just made
a C.8.E., has been in command of a field-
ambulance corps all through the war. Haig
gave him special mention in despatches last
year. He is the husband of Ada Crosslev.
and a son of veteran FI. C. E. Muecke, poli-
tician and mining-man of Adelaide, who in
the early days of the war had an official
guard set over him in his own home.
South Aus.. not having hanged a man
since Lilt), did not see its way to begin
again with John Grindel], convicted of hav-
ing murdered his son-in-law, George Snell.
I)iit it was a close thing, the death-sentence
being remitted only two days before the date
fixed. The widowed Mrs. Snell was chieflv
responsible, declaring bodlv that she does
not believe her father guilty, and in fact
thinks that her husband has gone awav
somewhere and is not dead at all. In face
of that it was hardly possible to send Grin-
dell beyond the reach of re-consideration if
fresh evidence ever turns up. That avail-
able so far is purely circumstantial; but it
is terribly strong against him.
“Cholumbah”: On the last day of the year
of victory a Sydney music-mongery had the
window decked out with a. fine collection of
“Popular Scottish Airs.” I don’t know
whether the legend at the bottom, “Printed
in Germany.” made any difference to Mary
of Argyle. Or perhaps she was Gretchen in
the Hun edition.


m
r 5
Cool & Refreshing as
a Summer Breeze
3he Beer
Without a RWal
ABBOTS
LAGER
-ss-'
h
Wear Sun-proof MALABAR
—the cool strong Indian Cloth.
Malabar is a hand-loomed cotton Tweed, even in texture,
light in weight, extra strong and absolutely sun-proof. It
is very popular in India, where it is manufactured for the
intensely hot conditions existent there. Colors: Two shades
of Buft and Brown.
S.B. Sac or Patrol Coat, Economic Tailoring, to measure,
37/6. Vest, 16/6. Trousers, 21/-
Patterns with self-measurement form and new
catalogue will be sent on request.
PEAPES & CO, LTD,,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hello, Everybody !’
Criterion “Friendly Enemies
Royal “Oh, Oh, Delphine!
Palace “De Luxe Annie”
Tivoli . “Everybody’s Doing It
Union Theatres V Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Goody Two Shoes”
Royal “Nothing but the Truth”
Tivoli “Bubbly”
King’s “Jack and Jill”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic . Moving Pictures
Melba 7 Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Follies, St. Kilda .. .John N. McCallum’s Courtiers
The latest pantomime, “Oh, P>. E.!” was
staged for the,first time in Australia at the
Admiralty (Sydney) oh Tuesday, before an
exclusive audience, admission by invitation
only. It was a notable cast, the principal
characters being :
King of the Castle Mr. MUNRO FERGUSON
Ditiiie Madame MELBA
Knight of the Party Mr. OWEN COX
General Sword-bearer • •
Pursuivant to the King Mr. GEO. SI EWARD
Usher of Ladies Mr. MACARTIIUR ONSLOW
The fantasy, which was under the patron-
age of George V., was in one act only a
modern drawing-room scene, with a seascape
for backcloth (a medieval fortress- the
famous Pinchgut—uprising from the water)
and a wool-keep and board-and-lodging pago-
da on the respective wings. Around the
dais of the King of the Castle were grouped
knights, ladies, villagers and sundries. The
plot was simple. Without the castle lives
Ogre Australia, whose incredible desire it is
to throw turnips and decrepit eggs at any
of his tribe who are seduced away, by the
bribery of titles from his caste. The merri-
ment of the kings and knights and sires lies
in holding out the baits and watching the
missiles flv. Albeit, ’tis not unprofitable to
be on the side of the kings and knights. The
King of the Castle (Mr. Ferguson), for in-
stance, according to his press-agent, one G.
11. Knibbs, receives £2OO a week and all
expenses.
* * * *
Naturally Melba, as the Dame, played her
part splendidly, although her make-up was
unlike that of any other “Dame” seen in a
revue in Sydney hitherto. The other mem-
bers of the cast were rather stiff, but a word
is due to Mr. Lee (who. in another humorous
play, produced by Mr. Pearce, entitled, “Oh,
Oh," Defence !” has the part of State Com-
mandant) for the jugglery of his cutlass as
he passed it to the King of the Castle for
the investiture of the Knight of the Party.
“Oh, Oh, Delphine!” is in its last nights
at the Royal (Sydney). This merry musical
show is never short of a tune and the plot
runs, walks or staggers the whole distance.
“Hello, Everybody !” continues to rage at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney), and the managerial
advt. spruiks that it contains 17 scenes and
is manned by 300 performers. Certainly the
big stage is so crowded by the “Gathering of
the Clans” finale that one comes away with
the impression that Scotland has burst and
strewn the earth with pipes and kilts.
“De Luxe Annie,” fresh from her skating
flight along the imaginary frozen river,
shivers and warms her hands at a stage fire
every evening at the Palace ( Sydney). Star
Emelie Polini nearly interrupted a successful
season with a week-end motor accident; but,
fortunately, the Car took all the hard knocks
after doing a roadside dive.
The second edition of “Everybody’s Doing
It,” at the Tivoli (Sydney), doesn’t differ
“De Luxe Annie,” at
Sydney Palace.
Maurice Dudley as
Cyrus Munroe.
much from the
first. Two sketches
that didn’t matter
have been dropped
and some of the
singers have had
fresh ballads thrust
upon them. Goodie
Reeve, the young
daughter of Ada,
takes up the job
of Fayette Perry,
retired to the do-
mestic hearth —or,
this weather, per-
haps it’s the elec-
tric fan. Goodie
has a quiet charm
of her own: but
she hasn’t all her
mother’s artistry
yet. The press an-
nouncement that
she will give “imi-
tations” of her
mother causes her,
by the way, to
preface a songs-at-the-piano turn with
a brief speech to the effect that she
will not give an imitation, but will merely
sing some of her mother’s songs and hopes
they will revive pleasant memories. That
point having been made clear, the original
performance proceeds and the critic notices
that the young artiste is apt to take mother’s
slow songs a trifle too slowly. Otherwise
she really is very like mother. She could
hardly have a better model.
Captain Cook is proud that he discovered
Australia, and if you want to know the
reason why, call in at the Opera House
(Sydney) and see your best boy’s colors
flashing in the final Battalion Tableau.
#* * c
At the Lyceum (Sydney) “The Green God”
is provoking a disturbance in the home of one
Major Temple by causing the messy death of
Ashton, who had rifled his Emerald Serenity
from an Eastern temple. But we feel no
sympathy for the Major, who wanted to
barter his upstanding young daughter Muriel
for the inscrutable curio. Ashton, who
coveted the maid, being disposed of by a
kindly Providence, there is only the mystery
of his death to be cleared up before Muriel
is united to her artist lover. “The Atom,”
featuring Pauline Starke, adds an appetising
snack to the same programme.
Alice Brady is acting in a two-faced man-
ner at the Crystal Palace and the Strand
(Sydney) where she is alternately the twin
sisters—Trixie, the flighty, selfish bit of fluff,
and Louise, steady' and sedate, who misses
the plums. “Michael Thwaite’s Wife” is the
title of the yarn, and Alice comes out of the
ordeal very well, though these dual-role pic-
tures are being carried to a tiresome
extreme.
** * *
The Piccadilly (Sydney) is showing that
alluring costume play, “The Scarlet Pimper-
nel,” while Hoyt’s and the Haymarket feel
secure behind the ramparts of Fatty
Arbuckle and Dorothy Dalton.
“BUBBLY,” AT MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Charles Albert, Rego and Hugh Steyne as
the three wowsers.
“Nothing but the Truth” will go on point-
ing its familiar moral from the stage of
Melbourne Royal until further notice. The
same moral was more keenly pointed in W.
S. Gilbert’s “Palace of Truth,” for in that
enchanted building everyone is condemned to
unmitigated veracity, whereas in old-man
Ralston’s summer residence only one opti-
mistic young stockbroker is under contract
to shame the Devil every time he opens his
mouth to speak. But Gilbert’s fairy comedy
is forgotton, so “Nothing but the Truth”
presents its central idea as though it were
a novelty, and seems to strike the under-
standing of quite a lot of people who over-
looked the utter discomfiture of Truthful-
ness in “The Arcadians.” The pace of the
performance has quickened since the first
night, and Figman is restraining his ten-
dency to dally with his silent funny busi-
ness. A lot of old farcical comedy situations
get an acceptable revival in the story of
Robert Bennett’s wager, whilst the average
infertile imagination of the public still fails
to conceive the possibility of even such a
stockbroker as Robert making such a wager
with his partners. The firm of Ralston and
Co. are an amazing trio. Especially the
senior partner. He appears to have amassed
vast wealth by ringing up his personal
friends and brother speculators and putting
them on to dead ’uns.
* *
“Goody Two Shoes,” the Williamson pan-
to. at Melb. Majesty’s, doesn’t take too much
out of itself in the first half-mile. The
opening scene, full of conversation between
two old gentlemen and a demon, suggests
the first act of “Faust,” with a very worldy-
looking fairy introduced instead of the vision
of Marguerite. It is after the arrival of the
Toy Soldier that the panto, starts its
appeal to the young and gets fairly going.
Perhaps the Marionette Circus is almost too
ingeniously absurd for the youngsters, and
appeals more to the baldheads. The eternal
elephant and lion-taming acts are about the
most humorous of the marionette items, but
the lad.v on the bare-backed steed is also a
capital burlesque. Toby Claude, who makes
her reappearance armed with a feather dus-
ter and a stutter, is a bright little comedi-
enne under the prevailing disadvantage of
being hardly loud enough, the orchestra be-
ing mainly responsible for the prevailing
disadvantage. The band at Her Majesty’s
needs to be very, very subdued when songs
are being served out.
Melba’s complaint that Australia is
“musically starved”
was hardly out of her
mouth when Frank
Rigo, stage director of
the Melba Opera Co.,
announced a forth-
coming season of
grand opera at Mel-
b o u r n e Princess’s.
Local talent will be
the distinguishing fea-
ture of the new ven-
ture, although the co.
includes Italians who
will sing in their
native tongue while
the others are telling
the story in choice
Australian. Rigo pro-
mises a chorus of 60
and an orchestra of
36, with Slapoffski in
command. The inter-
esting attempt to
found a permanent
Australian g r a n d
opera co. will start on
January 18 with
“C avalle r i a” and
“Pagliacci.”
“Friendly
Enemies," at Syd-
ney Criterion.
Gaston Mervale as
Walter Stuart, the
suave Han spy.
The agility wherewith Lupino conducts a
dame’s school lingers in one’s memories of
“Jack and Jill,” at Melb. King’s, together
with some striking effects in ballet and color
scheme that Espinosa has put into the Taits’
panto. Other matters to bear in mind are
the introduction to Bagdad, sung by Fred
Monument and chorus, and the charm of
Grade Dorran as Jill. If her singing voice
could double its volume without losing any
sweetness Grade would be an exceptionally
winsome heroine of this contorted nursery
tale. “J. and J.” is weakest in its girl warb-
lers, and the new principal boy from
America, feminine to a fault, doesn’t im-
prove the average. At latest dates King’s
audiences were worked up to an emphatic
endorsement of the allegation that “Kaiser
Bill’s a Bum.” Bill has lost a lot of stand-
ing since the days when he was denounced
merely as a dirty dog, and the crowd used
to count, him out.
The bill at Melbourne Tivoli is “Bubbly”
as before, and the demand for it is still brisk.
No thread of narrative connects one part of
“Bubbly” with another. The items just
come to pass, and to some of them the spec-
tator lifts his hat, or nods her head, whereas
a few of the others get the cut direct from
everybody save the management.
The Courtiers are struggling with various
noisy neighbors for the casual support of
the trippers at St. Ivilda (Yic.). The com-
pany numbers eight or nine of both sexes,
who, without revealing any remarkable tal-
ent, manage to supply an acceptable quan-
tity of light refreshment. The leading names
on the programme appear to be Percy Clif-
ton and Connie Milne, but they set a limit
to their gladness, whereas a lively col-
league, Charles Zoli, is quite unabashed in
the use of methods that would' earn an up-
roarious vote of confidence in ordinary
vaudeville circles. Zoli is generally in a
state of violent altercation with somebody,
and he loves the laugh that can be got by
the sudden revelation of red flannelette
underwear beneath the tartan of a famous
Highland clan.
The curious feet of Charles Chaplin are
filling the screen at Hoyt’s Lyceum (Melb.)
this week in a surprise release entitled
“Triple Trouble.” In addition to Chaplin
the adipose tissue of Fatty Arbuckle in
“The Cook” and the vivacious legs of George
Walsh in “Kid Was Clever” serve to keep
a smile firmly fastened on the face of the
populace. At Hoyt’s De Luxe more solemn
events are being recorded by Theodore Rob-
erts and Louise Huff (“Wild Youth”) and
Dorothy Dalton (“The Shadow”), but the
tragedy is never sufficiently portentous to
moisten the average feminine eve. Thera are,
however, gleams of brightness here and
there and some real summer sunshine when
Louise Huff smiles. At the Melba the movie of
Gerard’s “Four Years in Germany” is re-
viving a national drama that has lost its
interest. At the Britannia the week is
being divided between Alma Rubens in “The
Ghost Flower” and Carlyle Blackwell in
“The Blackmailer.” These two films will
have a steady vogue among connoisseurs of
sentimentality.
The Yic. Gallery students’ annual show
excites commiseration for the judges who
had the job of allotting the prizes. In most
of the chalk sections the achievements of
'three or four made a decision so difficult
that the judges possibly retired to arbitrate
the matter with a coin. This seems the
case in the drawing from the nude, where
the margin of quality in favor of the winner,
E. A. Perry, is not sufficiently wide to
disgrace the other contributors. In the
heads drawn from life the prize goes to
N. Lyle for a profile almost negative in
human interest, and less important pic-
torially than a couple of unplaced portraits
in which the translation of flesh tints into
monotone is more faithfully performed.
E. A. Perry scores again in the antique
with a well-drawn study of a damaged hero,
and Enid Phillips’s antique bust is a pains-
taking report of the salient features of the
model. C. 8. Lloyd (antique foot) and
8. Taylor (figure) are other prize-wunners.
and D. Grieve produces the best anatomical
figure, though the drawing in this section
is always largely in the nature of mapping.
The bulk of the painting school be
dismissed with a caution, but E. Webb
can be commended for his (or her) un-
flagging industry in preserving the usual
pumpkin, the frequent boiling-pan, and the
inevitable bottle. The originality of these
still-life designs makes the critic wide-eyed.
The painting from life shows some under-
nourished half-nudes and a vision of a ruby
gentleman with a flourishing elevation for
which M. P.ve has been heavily rewarded.
The majority of the heads near by suffer
from scarlet fever, with nothing to make
up for it.
; I* 'i' '»* '!•
Adelaide Tivoli has a triple bill. It
begins with the clever Australian “Tivoli
kiddies,” goes on with the Petram revival
of the old marionette show, and ends with
a brief “Old Woman” panto. Business is
big. Animals are prominent at the Majestic,
the elephant and monkeys of Felix doing
acrobatic work as well as the usual tricks.
Also at this house Sylvester does conjuring,
and Frank Sydney fancy jumping, and
Astras thought-reading. Of open-air shows,
the Scarlet Gaieties add dramatic scenes to
the usual programme of that kind of show ;
Harry Webster and Ada Bellfield take the
lead in laugh-producing. On the other side
of North Terrace are Sydney James’s
Pierrots, no less funny, and with strong
musical side in Laurie and Lance Kennedy
and Dorothy Mcßride. In pictures, Mae
Marsh and her real sister Marguerite are
acting sisters at the Royal. At West’s
there are twin sisters too, but Alice Brady
plays both of them, in an unreal but taking
story, “The Better Half.” Chaplin has a
“New Job” at the Pav.; but the brightest
thing of the moment is Fairbanks, casual
and athletic in “Say, Young Fellow!” at
; Wondergraph.
The golden legend is taking a rest in Aus-
tralia now. The N. S. Wales Railway De-
partment deposited five tons of money when
the banks re-opened after Christmas —notes,
£84,063; cheques, £57,368; silver, £39,755;
Conner, £106; gold, not enough to stop a hol-
low tooth.
Sowden, editor of Adelaide Register,
lunched in France with General Monash,
who recalled that the last time they mealed
together was at the opening, ten years ago,
of the present Register building. Monash,
as a reinforced-concrete expert, was consult-
ing-engineer for the job. The General
has been got into harder condition by war,
having taken off, Sowden judges, six stone
since that former meeting.
James Cockle, Bananaland’s first Chief
Justice, who was more distinguished as a
mathematician than as a Judge, was born
a hundred years ago the 14th of this month.
He reached his 76th birthday and was
buried at Paddington (London) the year
before Henry Parkes passed out.
Captain “Bill” Denny, M.C., ex-Attorney-
General for S. Aus., has broken out in a
fresh place, and is now an author. He has
been successively civil servant, journalist,
city councillor, politician, lawyer and sol-
dier. Between times he was a rowing club
(Mercantile) captain, and a good sportsman
generally. His journalistic experience came
in handy in TJ.S.A. recently, where he was
sent as a member of the British Military
Mission, comprising 50 officers, of whom
he was the only Australian. The N.Y. Times
regularly published his articles, in which he
put in a good word at every chance for his
native land. His book is entitled “Dig-
gers in the Fight,” and Hodder and Stough-
ton are the publishers. Denny represents
Adelaide in the Assembly.


THE RHINE WHINE.


LEAD
British Owned and Controlled.
SILVER
Ttie Bro Ken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L, SHACKELL, Secretary.
Smelting Works : Port Pirie, S.A. Coke Works : Bellambi, N.S.W.
Branch Offices:
LONDON : 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building. SYDNEY :25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig: Dead Corroding: Lead
Antimonial Lead Chemical Lead
Assay Lead (Dar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Linotype Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Sleta!
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY
FAVORABLE TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade;
Slags, etc... containing silver or lead
Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
Registered
JBHAS.
Brand.
LITHARGE
All Enquiries to
be addressed to
the Secretary.
ANTIFRICTION
LINOTYPE
METALS
PIONEER' Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLE . .
MAKERS,
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.,
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
EXANDRIA
SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
H. McKenzie, Ltd., timber merchants,
etc. (Sydney)
,—fc-Dividends. ■,
r>S>f. To Re- Re-
Profit. 10 p.e. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ .c £ £ £
Sept., 'll. .16,857 2000 10 p.c.= 2809 11,958 51,579
Mar., '12.. 12,910 2000 10 „ „ 2899 8,011 59,590
f Deferred Ordinary div. 7176 52,414
Sept., 'l2 ( , — All Shares. —,
( 14,409 Iop.c.= 4,899 9,510 61,924
Premiums on new shares . . 252 62,11 6
Mar., ’13.. 13,577 10 p.e.= 6,500 7,077 69,203
Sept., ’l3. .11,369 Nil 11,369 80.022
Mar., '14.. 6,594 Nil 6,594 8(,216
Sept. ,’l4. . 7,737 Nil 7,737 94,953
Mar., '15.. 9,026 Nil 9,026 103,979
Sept., ’15.. 4,744 Nil 4,744 108,(23
Mar., ’16.. 9,044 10 p.c.= 6,500 2,544 111,267
Written off, £543 110,724
Sept.,'l6.. 6,974 10 p.c.= 6,500 474 111,198
Mar., ’17.. 4,427 10 „ „ 6,500 109,125
Sept.,’l7.. 9,866 20 „ „ 13,000 105,991
Mar., ’18..10,398 20 ~ „ 13,000 103,389
Sept., ’18..14,188 20 ~ ~ 13,000 1188 104,577
The net profit for the past three terms, as
shown by the sheets, has aggregated £25,497 ;
but during the IS months no less than
£89,000 has been handed out to share-
holders. When the last building boom hit
Sydney the directors put every penny they
could lay hands on into stock or advances to
cutters to make certain of supplies. Not
only was the payment of divs. deferred to
accumulate further sticks, but, the co. also
leaned heavily on the bank. Here are some
figures which illustrate what happened: —
Mar.,'l2. Mar.,’ls. Mar.,’lB. Sept.,’lB.
Stocks & advances
to cutters . . £99,077 £208,124 £112,826 £125,846
Liabilities . . 46,796 103,787 9,543 34,559
So long as the value of the stocks could be
maintained the financial position was quite
healthy; and the co. struck no trouble in
this respect. As the heavy stocks were un-
loaded, the directors were able to reduce the
overdraft and build up cash assets again.
From this cash balance during the past IS
months three of the five divs. passed a few
.years ago have been paid..
The reserves of £104,577 shown above in-
clude £54,244 at the credit of a depreciation
fund. The Bulletin has always included
this fund with the general reserves because
it believed that the account contained some-
thing more than provision for the wastage
of assets. For these reasons: (1) repairs
and renewals were met out of current pro-
fits; (2) the provision for depreciation,
apart from the allowance for wear and tear,
has often seemed more than liberal; and (3)
six months ago buildings, plant and machin-
ery stood in the books at £69,852, while the
reserve for depreciation amounted to
£57,717. Even if the reserve were also in-
tended to protect stocks against a slump in
prices, there was sufficient to cover a loss
of over 30 p.c. on all assets apart from cash
and book debts. The directors now admit
there are true reserves hidden in this depre-
ciation account, for half of last term’s div.
was dug out of this fund instead of the
general reserves. Including this deprecia-
tion reserve, at Sept. 30 there were net
assets representing (book value) over 38s.
per £1 share: deducting the depreciation re-
serve, 295. 9d. per share.
This shows the extent of the collapse of
the building boom in Sydney and suburbs —
New New
Buildings. (lost. Buildings. Cost.
1913.. 9.284 £6,281,617 | 1916.. 6283 £4,479,118
1914.. 10,546 6,775,548 I 1917.. 5401 3,595.992
1915.. 7,632 5,124,464 | 1918.. 4998 3,726,896
The increase in the cost of materials and
labor has been very heavy; but the rise in
prices has meant a wider margin of profit for
the co. During the past half-year Ihe profit
(including depreciation) represented almost
9 p.c. of the total sales; four years ago the
percentage was 6.7. The immediate future
is quite uncertain. Prices show no tendency
to return to anything like their pre-war
level; and neither the spec, builder nor the
person who wants to get under his own roof
exhibits much inclination at present to risk
his money. McKenzie’s shareholders have
this consolation, however: the considerably
reduced turnover is producing even better
profits than formerly, while the housing pro-
blem is becoming so acute that some shacks
must be built no matter what they cost.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd., which
owns “shares and interests in jam-manufac-
turing and fruit cos. and timber mills” :
Nov. Profit. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
1909.. £3,118
Reserves.
1910. . £44,764 74 p.c. = £37,500 £7,264 3,846
1911.. 49,048 71 „ „ 37,500 11,548 15,394
Premiums on >hares . . 91 15,485
1912.. 49,645 7-J p.c. = 39,375 10,270 25,755
1913.. 55,071 74 „ „ 41,250 13,821 39,576
Pemiums on new shares. . 198 39,774
1914.. 59,989 74 p.c. = 45,375 14,614 54,388
1915.. 67,342 12| „ „ 75,625 46,105
1916.. 68,228 74 „ „ 45,375 22,853 68,908
1917 81 186 10 ~ 60.500 20,686 89,644
1918.. 90,571 124 ~ ~ 75,625 14,946 104,590
Everything in the orchard is so lovely that
in addition to a dividend of 7\ p.c.
two bonuses of p.c. each have been
handed lout—one as a special “Peace
bonus,” (lie other a titbit from the S Afri-
can branch of the business. There was
then left almost another p.c. to celebrate
the knighting of the co/a chairman, Henry
Jones, if shareholders felt that way. r ur •
ther. The Bulletin won’t guarantee that
the £90,000-odd shown in the table represents
the whole of the net profits earned by the
factories in which the co. is interested.
Henry Jones Co-operative is merely a
“holding” concern, owning or controlling a
number of cos. which still retain their in-
dividuality, but whose interests no longer
clash. These subsidiary shows —including
Henry Jones and Co. (Tas.), Australian
Jam Co. and Hoadley’s Pty. (Melb.) and
11. Jones and Co. and Peacock’s (Sydney)
do not publish balance-sheets, so not the
slightest idea of their individual financial
standing is obtainable. Just so much profit
as the directors consider advisable finds its
way into the holding co.’s accounts. If the
subsidiary shows are stuffing away profits or
writing-off more than necessary for deprecia-
tion, then this co.’s profits were more than
£90,000. And it is quite clear from the dis-
closed figures that the subsidiary cos. have
done well lately out of providing jam for the
Allied armies. The directors, however, are
not too certain about the future -
It is important to remember that the future of the
jam industry depends fundamentally upon the price of
sugar. The outstanding effect of high sugar prices
has been to reduce substantially the consumption of
jam throughout the Commonwealth. That manufac-
turers have been enabled to keep their factories fully
occupied, and to absorb the surplus production of
fruit, is wholly attributable to the large jam orders
received from the British and American Governments
for war purposes. Peace, therefore, must necessarily
compel manufacturers to seek for export markets of
a more permanent character and in competition with
the world.
But. unless manufacturers ai;e allowed
“either to import their own sugar or obtain
local sugar at the world’s parity,” the direc-
tors say that it “would be folly to pretend
that success is possible.” But why not?.
Do the directors know of any big jam-
making country where sugar is cheaper than
it is in Australia? It nevertheless is a cry-
ing shame that so many industries in the
Commonwealth should be practically at the
mercy of the C.S.R.; and the sooner the
beet-sugar business is put firmly , on its feet
the better for Australia.
As can be gathered from earlier remarks,
the balance-sheet figures do not tell very
much. Capital is £005.000 in £1 shares,
and, as the table shows. £104.590 of reserves
have been accumulated. Apart from the
£73.079 due from subsidiary cos. and the
£35,700 invested in War Loan, the assets
consist of “investments at cost —shares and
interests in jam-manufacturing and fruit
cos., and timber mills in the Commonwealth,
South Africa and England, £674,764.” How
much of that amount represents goodwill is
not stated, nor is there any indication of the
health of the subsidiary concerns —the extent
of their reserves, their liabilities, the condi-
tion of their plants, etc. The most we can
know on one point is that when the co.
Started goodwill represented £91,500; and
possibly something more has been added on
the acquisition of other interests.
* * * *
W. E. Smith, Ltd., formed to take over an
old-established printing and stationery busi-
ness in Sydney as from October, 1910 (the
deficit represented goodwill and preliminary
exes.): —
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Apr., 1912 ..£5122 4 p.c.=£lsoo £702 £14,340
Oct., 1912 .. 4382 7 „ „ 2625 717 13,300
Apr., 1913 .. 3867 3 „ „ 1125 747 11,305
Oct., 1913 .. 3182 3 „ 1125 1017 10,205
Apr., 1914 . . 2268 Nil 1236 9,233
Loss.
Oct., 1914 . . 98 Nil 1238 10,569
£30,000 of capital written off.
Assets written down, £19,431.
Profit. Reserves.
Apr., 1915 .. 1656 Nil 527 1,129
Oct., 1915 . . 2066 Nil 539 2,656
Apr 1916 .. 2222 5 p.c. = 1125 537 3,216
Oct., 1916 . . 3204 5 „ „ 1125 549 4,746
Apr., 1917 . . 2873 5 ~ „ 1125 455 6,039
Oct., 1917 . . 3161 74 ~ ~ 1687 459 7,054
Apr., 1918 .. 3781 8J ~ „ 1875 463 8,497
Oct., 1918 . . 4347 124 „ „ 2812 462 9,570
This co. had an unfortunate beginning.
Briefly, this is w T hat happened : (1) it was an
Earle Herman flotation, and had £18,020 of
its £75,000 paid-up capital represented by
goodwill items; (2) the old management
(whose capacity to earn profits for the co.
practically represented what was paid for
goodwill) got out early; and (3) the valua-
tions on which the co. had taken over the
old business were found to be inflated with
worthless “stock” and worn-out plant. The
directors struggled along for a while, and
then wisely decided to sweep out the rubbish.
Goodwill, £9OOO, was wiped off, £17,000-odd
was written off plant and stock, and further
amounts off leases, etc. To do all this
swallowed £30,000 of the capital, represent-
ing Bs. per £1 share. Since then the co. has
been doing better each year, and the net
profit for the past six months is equal to over
17 p.c. of the reduced capital. Mean-
time the dividend has been kept down, and
reserves have been built up. The result can
be seen in this comparison :
April,'ls. 00t.,’18.
Liquid assets (including stock) ..1154,624 £66,926
Liabilities (including dividend) . . 23,669 24,335
Surplus. . . £30,955 £42,591
That shows an improvement of £11,636 in
3| years, and meantime there have been
various minor replacements of plant, etc. Of
the liabilities £14,294 represents 6 p.c. deben-
tures. Though the co. is doing much better
now, the future is dependent very Targely on
a continuance of good management. The
early future will also be affected by the
co.’s ability to make a profit on its stock at
present values. The unexpected collapse of
the Germans finds the trade pretty heavily
stocked with paper; and already the man
with a surplus doesn’t have to sneak down
back-ways for fear of being mobbed.
Melbourne Ice Skating and Refriger-
ating Co.: —
Writ-
Sopt., Profits. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
1906. .£5732 5 p.c. = £1225 £1457 £2788
1907.. 702 Nil 1500 1990
1908.. 1245 Nil 1500 1735
On pref. shares,
1909.. 2067 71 p.c. = 232 1500 2070
1910.. 2366 7 i „ „ 375 1042 3019
1911.. 1963 7 i „ „ 375 4607
1912.. 1325 7% „ „ 375 1500 4Q57
1913.. 2768 7* „ „ 375 1101 5349
1914.. 2950 7\ „ „ 375 2359 5565
1915.. 3524 71 „ „ 375 2715 5999
1916.. 2070 7 1 „ ~ 431 1518 6120
Pref. Pref. Ord.
lOp.c. 71p.c. 21 p.c.
1917.. 2085 154 431 613 2425 4582
1918.. 2444 213 431 613 582 5187
The holders of ordinaries in this co. have had
an Arctic time. They hoped to do well out
of ice-skating; but the sport was a short-
lived boom. So the management had to
fall back on cold storage and ice sales to
build up a revenue, and this move called for
new capital, which was not easily got.
Ordinary capital is £24,500 in £1 shares,
while there are 5750 p.c. £1 cum. prefs.
and 4250 10 p.c. £1 cum. prefs. paid to 10s.
But whereas a similar co. in Sydney has
done well out of the refrigerating business,
this Melbourne concern has made very little
headway. And though, owing to the scarcity
of shipping, the cold store's have been taxed
to the limit of their accommodation during
the past couple of years, this co.’s net profits
for the past 12 months, after meeting the
pref. dividends, was equal to only 5 p.c. on
the ordinary capital. Fixed assets have a
book value of £44,907 (on which there is a
blister of £12,656) ; but the gross earnings
for the year were only £15,631, and exes,
took £13.292 of that, If the directors —
whose shipping connection should be of ad-
vantage to the co. —cannot do better than
this in favorable years, early prospects under
normal conditions are not bright. Naturally
the financial position is not very comfort-
able. Paid capital is £32,375, and there is
mortgage debt of £12,656. On the other
side freehold property (at cost) represents
£7359, and buildings, plant, etc., £37,548.
As the written-off column of the table shows,
depreciation takes a big bite out of profits.
At Sept. 30 cash assets amounted to £3206
and, including the divs., £1526 was owing
apart from the mortgage.
The Fourth Victoria Permanent
Building Society (Melbourne) :
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1907.. £9,496 7 p.c. = £5,289 £B3B £3,369 £34,000
1908.. 10,711 7 „ ~ 5,332 5095 284 34,284
1909.. 11,566 7 „ „ 5,392 3767 2,407 36,691
1910.. 11,988 8 „ „ 6,241 382 i 1,923 38,614
1911.. 11,026 8 „ „ 6.330 1724 2 972 41,586
1912.. 27,886 8 „ „ 6,705 1000 20.181 61,767
1913.. 20,206 8 „ „ 9.912 1757 8 53.7 70,304
1914.. 20,550 8 „ „ 10,006 2034 8 510 78,814
1915.. 21,034 8 „ „ 9.747 3248 8.039 86,853
1916.. 18,298 8 „ „ 9,359 1809 7.130 93,983
1917.. 17,953 8 „ „ 9,302 2336 6.315 100,298
1918.. 18,082 8 „ „ 9,318 2318 6,446 106,744
For many years this co.’s accounts have
shown a “special reserve,” the accumulated
profits from sales, into which the manage-
ment could dip to make good any losses on
future sales of the boom-time assets. Now,
however, the directors have taken £2318 of
this reserve to still further write down the
book value of the old properties, and. decid-
ing that no further provision is required,
have transferred the rest of the fund, £5878,
to general reserves. The Fourth Victoria,
besides nursing its own assets, collected the
wreckage of other busted Vic. building
societies—the Melb. Permanent, Lygon Per-
manent, South Melbourne, City of Prahran,
Premier, Planet and Economic. This ex-
plains several of the larger movements dur-
ing the past 18 years :
1900. 1914. 1917. 1918.
Permanent capital £72,741 £115,046 £115,046 £115,046
Investing capital 28,003 10,344 1,274 1,475
Deposits, etc. . . 74,334 435,809 331,644 335,491
Advances, etc. . . 89,345 542,427 440,137 452,665
Foreclosed pr o-
perties.. .. 49,935 1,358 15,426 13,282
Other freeholds. . 44,478 103,666 87,370 82,501
Cash, etc... ~ 2,479 12,367 15,024
The management regards the future more
confidently now. Just after the war started
there was £542.427 out in advances; in 1917
they had been reduced to £440,187. During
the past year £12,500, in' addition to all
that has been repaid during the period, has
been loaned. The new business put on the
books during the past couple of years has
been much more profitable than the old
advances. Though interest, rents, etc., pro-
duced only £39,607 last year compared with
£40,721 in 1914, the return on the average
assets increased from 6.7 p.c. to 7.1 p.c. Nor
is there likely to be an early drop in interest
rates.
So, barring accidents, the future should
be quite as profitable for shareholders as
the past has been. Even if the Society were
to strike serious trouble, shareholders’ capi-
tal should be quite safe. By keeping the div.
down reserves have been built up in good
style, and are now not far short of tffe paid-
up capital. So far as depositors are| con-
cerned, their security is quite satisfying—
there are assets with a book value of
£563,473 to protect £310,436 of deposits. The
position looks comfortable from all points of
view.
# * * *
“Ex-Banker” : Banking amalgamations be-
ing the order of the day, because they are a
necessity of the future, I herewith suggest a
scheme to amalgamate three banks which
enjoy much local popularity in the circum-
scribed area of the States in which they are
confined. Their future is limited, while their
rivals, being unfettered, may open out all
over the Commonwealth and take advantage
of the new financial era that is undoubtedly
approaching. The Australian Bank of Com-
merce, the Bank of Victoria and the Bank
of Adelaide are splendidly strong, with a
good connection in the three States of N. S.
Wales, Victoria and S. Aus. respectively. Un-
less they can extend their businesses they
will probably jog along, do fairly well, and
finally have to fight hard the older and bigger
banks, which are already preparing to contest
every pound of new profit. The Australian
Bank of Commerce is strongly established in
N. S. Wales and Queensland, the Bank of
Victoria has the largest all-round business
in Victoria, and the Bank of Adelaide has a
strong grip on the finance of the middle
State. The London office of the Bank of
Adelaide is favorably known in financial
circles there, and could easily multiply its
clientele and profits to a high degree after
this amalgamation. The total assets and
liabilities of the four leading banks —two
British and two Australian —are as, fol-
lows :
Bank of New South Wales. . . . £61,196,999
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney 32,581,623
Union Bank of Australia . . . . 31,679,956
Bank of Australasia . . . . 30,061,763
These are the latest figures available. If
the proposed amalgamation were carried
through the new bank would join these
giants, and rank fifth with total assets o"
£26,660,262. The details of the three
balance-sheets added together work out this
way:—
Paid-up capita] .. ..£3,176,700.
Not paid and uncalled . . 3,313,321
Reserve funds . . . . 1,135,000
Deposits .. .. . . 20,019,436
Coin and bills . . . . 6,442,934
Government securities . . 2,316,605.
Loans and discounts . . 16,103,712
There are the makings of a strong bank able
to do business in a big way. Its banking
risks (particularly the bankers’ terror,
drought) would be better spread over the
continent. There would be no economy in
closing branches; but there would be a great
benefit in strengthening the headquarters’
staff. And the new great bank could afford
to pay better salaries and attract better
men.
In post-morteming the Ordinary dept, of
the T. and G. for the year to Sept. 30 this
page (B. 26/12/18) stated that, “assuming
the renewal business cost 7 p.c., then the
new business cost 76 p.c. of the first-year
premiums.” Those figures were accidentally
transposed. They should read 67 p.c. Con-
sidering the fact that the average sum
assured by the 12,244 new policies was £l5O.
this cost was very satisfactory—equal to
£3 6s. 2d. per new policy.


The British Westinghouse Electric & Msg. Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse
Magnetic Brakes
With improved skid-proof attachment, absolutely
prevents skidding even at the highest speeds.
SPECIAL FEATURES:—
Immediate and powerful action.
The wheels cannot be skidded.
Prevents motor “ flashing over.”
Reduces destructive arcing in the controller, and
materially reduces the strain oft the car insu-
lation by preventing the voltage in the braking
circuit from reaching dangerously high values.
Head Office for Australia :
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works-Trafford Park, Manchester. England.
Particular attention is called to the comprehen-
siveness of the 1919 line of G.E. electric fans. The
features of construction, the operating efficiency,
the effectiveness of air delivery, the quietness of
operation, and the- attractive appearance combine
to make G.E. electric fans the choice of discriminat-
ing buyers. Come in and select your fan. We
stock all sizes. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, Wentworth Avenue, Sidney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Street, Melbourne, —Advt.
* * * ♦
Water is. a valuable asset in summer for drinking,
concentrating or boiler purposes. Why not usd
Aluminoferric, and have it clear and crystalline?
Almninoferrie is thrown into the water as a solid
or added as a liquid. One pound clarifies from two
to three thousand gallons of most turbid water with-
in three hours. Write for full facts to William
Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Melbourne: 521-3 Collins Street. Adelaide: 9(i Currie
Street. Brisbane: Corner Edward and Mary Streets.
Perth: 33 King Street.—Advt. [1
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.—Advt. [4
Above or below ground Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe
is the most satisfactory conduit. No fluid can harm
it, neither can it taint any fluid. As a pressure pipe
it is unexcelled. We also manufacture bore casing.
Send for illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd. (ILO.), Burns Bay, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
P.O. Add.: Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Factories:
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic ; and Pt. Adelaide,
S.A. Contractors to all State Governments.—Advt.
* * * *
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
„ —Advt.
* * * *
Patents.—Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb.--Advt.
Beauty unadorned may be adorned the most, but
when it comes to preserving exposed metal surfaces,
such as machinery, iron roofs, iron drinking troughs,
wind-mills, etc., if they are adorned with “Pabco”
anti-corrosive, hard-wearing paint, the beauty of
their utility is manifestly greater and indefinitely
prolonged. It is put up in 1-gullon tins, and 5-
gaiton drums. Price 12s. an American gallon Call
write for booklet to Spriggs' Asbestojite Company,
338 Pitt Street, Sydney.—Advt.
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, ancl their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
iasmama, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian -‘Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street Svdnev
Advt.
. Road-graders for building good roads, for mak-
ing and grading earth roads, cleaning out water-
tables, making fire-breaks, etc. We carry large
stocks of the best-procurable and most-up-to-date
machines. Several different sizes stocked, to be
worked by 2, 4 or 8 horses or traction-engine-power.
Catalogues and full particulars upon application.
Arthur Leplastner & Co., Circular Quay East,
Sydney. Queensland enquiries: The ' Australian
Machinery Co., Mary Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.—Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Ass.
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertlim
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Brain
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowe
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv & C
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Boi
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.—Adv
Rt ßorn to
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Thj 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established ISIO.
ACENTS WANTED.
Blanches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The solid little Bank of Adelaide has just
opened a branch in Sydney. There are thus
left now only two Australian banks—the
\ ictoria and the Western Australia—which
are still confined to the State in which they
were born.
* * * *
Although final figures are not yet avail-
able, Australia’s metal production'for 191,S
can be seen close enough for present pur-
poses. The newspapers of one or two
States have published figures showing the
value of the State production ; but as metal
prices during the past three years have in
most cases been abnormally high, value alone
gives quite a false view as to the progress
or otherwise of the base-metal industry. If
newspapers cannot be relied upon to give a
correct survey, then they can hardly blame
the workers for taking the cra.ckbrained
view that they can do half the quantity
of work and still get a shilling a day extra.
Value is one side of the ledger; costs are
the other. Cdsts usually get no mention.
Although our base metal production for
1918 in point of value exceeds materially
that of, say, 1918, there is nothing in the
figures to grow enthusiastic about. Our
tonnages of metal are falling!. Looking
squarely at the industry right throughout
the Common wealth, the prospects for, say,
the ensuing 10 years are anything but
bright. There are, of course, one or two
propositions undergoing development which
promise to replace some of the larger shows
which can see their end coming; but on the
whole, mining instead of being accepted as
an industry for which miners, surveyors,
geologists, engineers, chemists and metal-
lurgists should be continuously in process of
training, is regarded as something approach-
ing a Tatt.’s consultation. However, here
are some 1918 figures;—
Gold. —The Australian production for 1918 will
probably fall a little short of 1,300,0000 z., compared
with 1,480,000 in 1917, and 1,650,000 for 1916.
Roughly speaking, the value of our gold production
has fallen back £750,000. With falling production
the gold producer has encountered higher operating
costs. There has been no rise in price for him.
Silver. —Our normal pre-war production would be
16,000,0000 z. Last year’s working will barely exceed
11,000,000 z. Despite the shortage in production,
however, owing to the 100 p.c. rise from normal
(from 2s. to 45.) in the price of silver, we will show
a gain of about £600.000.
Lead. —Our normal lead production is 185,000 tons,
the 1918 performance will fall short of this bv about
IS,OOO tons; but as the price at which the lead
has been sold is about £9 per ton above the normal
average, the value taken by itself would indicate that
everything in the garden was lovely. British muni-
tions took the 1918 lead, and until late in November
the price was kept at £29 10s. per ton. Britain
then raised the selling figures to £4O 10s. per ton to
bring it on a parity with America. If W. M. Hughes
had got busy and built some ships to carry Aus-
tralian products to their markets, it is very clear
we would have received another £8 or £9 per
ton for our lead; and £8 per ton on one year’s
production is well over one million and a quarter
of sovereigns that have been lost to us. There’s a
pile of our lead in the same condition as the wheat
—unshipped.
Zinc. —The normal production of zinc is 188,000
tons, contained in ores and concentrates, chiefly
Broken Hill concentrates. The performance for 1918
will probably show a production of 165,000 tons.
Although the Tasmanian plant is producing electro-
lytic zinc of excellent quality, it is doubtful if we
will have turned into metal during the past year
more than 8000 or 9000 tons. But these figures will
before long be much improved. Nevertheless, the Federal
Government reports that it has sold to the Imperial
Government our exportable surplus of zinc concentrates
—roughly 300,000 tons per annum—for the period of
the war and 10 years afterwards. The Government
is therefore doing something to establish industry
outside Australia, even if it does nothing for local
industries. The quoted price for f.o.b. spelter has
been maintained by the British Munitions Committee
during the year at £54.
Copper. —-Given normal conditions Australia should
produce consistently about 400,000 tons of copper per
annum. The production for 1918 will fall short of
this by about 7500 tons, and that’s not the worst
aspect of the business. Owing to the uncertain
manner in which the prices have been fixed during
the year (for the last three months of the year they
have not been fixed at all yet) the small producer has
just been put out of business, or the few of him
who are able to hold their heads up are gasping for
breath. The production of the mines up to Septem-
ber 30 last has been purchased by the British Govern-
ment at £lOB for electrolytic and £lO6 for fire-
refined. Anything produced since September 30 (be-
cause it will not reach the refined state by December
31) is like Mahomet’s coffin. Because the copper
could not be shipped the British Munitions Depart-
ment was not at all keen on paying £IOS and £lO6
respectively; but the Americans during that period
were able to sell at £126. If the Federal Govern-
ment had got busy with its own shipbuilding pro-
gramme this country during 1918 might have earned
another £lB per ton on 32,500 tons of copper.
Probably during war-time a mere half a million does
not count, but later on there will be a few wild-eyed
enthusiasts chasing this and a few other half-millions
down the track into perdition. Meanwhile the
smaller producers of copper, and those not in the Cop-
per Producers’ Association joke, are squealing, not be-
cause W. M. Hughes cannot sell the copper, but
because the Federal authorities will not allow them
to sell it themselves. The matter is near breaking
point, and the Federal Government would be wise
to make one big effort to try to understand the
position it has created.
Tin. —-The squeals brought about by the recent for-
mation of a Tin Producers’ Association have not yet
quite subsided. If producers were taken into the
confidence of the Government and shown clearly what
the future of these various Producers’ Associations
was to be, perhaps there would be less squealing—-
perhaps more. Until the hush policy is shifted
there will be abundant dissatisfaction. For the pre-
sent it looks as if these Producers’ Associations are
going to be mostly for the benefit of people who are
not producers, and that sort of thing hurts. Aus-
tralia, under pre-war conditions, usually turned out
something over 5000 tons of metallic tin per annum.
The 1918 figures will probably fall short of that by
about 1000 tons, which at the average price of the
year—about ,€328 per ton —represents £328,000 in
cash. It is not any exaggeration to say that the
War-time Profits bungle of the Australian Govern-
ments has alienated from this country much of the
business brains, technical skill and cash resources
that were previously associated with our tin indus-
try. At the start of the war the tin producers saw
their price come back to approximately £llO, but
by December, 1914, it got into its stride again, and
from December, 1915, it began to steadily rise from
£167. In February, 1917, evidently under control
operations, it got a move on and, leaving £240
behind, by August, 1918, it had climbed to £398
10s. Cables from New York indicated that as high
as £4OO per ton had been paid for the metal. The
armistice settled this and many other jokes, and tin
to-day is quoted at £235 ss. spot, and £231 ?ss.
three months delivery.
* * * *
There is no glitter in the gold-mining in-
dustry anywhere nowadays. The war lifted
costs all round; and since there has been
no increase in the standard price, the margin
of profit has disappeared altogether in many
cases. Peace does not promise to bring
costs back to anything like the pre-war posi-
tion ; instead, it seems certain that the in-
dustry will have to carry its full share of the
war burden. The outlook is so unpromising
that producers throughout the Common-
wealth are being got together for a confer-
ence in Melbourne at the end of this month
to discuss their troubles, and ask Acting-
Prime Minister Watt to sweep away some
of the difficulties which at present hamper
the industry, particularly the continued re-
strictions on the flotation of new cos. The
tentative agenda-paper includes several pro-
posals which the industry should have
adopted long ago: the formation of
a producers’ association and the organi-
sation of co-operative buying and dis-
tribution of stores. The suggested “subsidy
on gold production proportionate to the in-
crease in working costs since 1914” and the
“demand” to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to remove the embargo on the export
of new gold are matters which affect not
only the gold-mining industry but the basis
of our currency. In view of the Inchcape
committee’s refusal to recommend a bounty
or subsidy, the former proposal is practically
certain to be turned down by the Common-
wealth Government. So, also, is the “de-
mand” for freedom to export gold, even
though, as suggested, a dool were created
under strict Government supervision. Never-
theless, though the conference will probably
fail so far as its main proposals are con-
cerned, the discussion should be helpful.
* * * w
The Electrolytic works at Port Kembla
(N.S.W.) are the largest of their kind
in the British Empire, and are capable
of treating the whole of the copper produc-
tion of the Commonwealth. They were built
up largely on German trade in pre-war days,
at a time when the Germans were prepared
to pay more than any other market for
metals wherewith to manufacture munitions
of war. This may not be a Dalatable reflec-
tion, but it is true. When war was de-
clared, of course the German markets were
cut out, and business opened up with Great
Britain absolutely and under an embargo.
The position, therefore, is that, with the
Imperial contract concluded and the embargo
lifted, nobody knows exactly where the in-
dustry stands, since the enormous operations
of the United States threaten to submerge
our efforts. We are apt to pride our-
selves on the strength of being the second-
greatest copper-producing country on earth,
but our 40,000 tons per annum are insignifi-
cant compared with the 700,000 tons pro-
duced in America.
* * * *
Chairman Denison, at the annual meeting
of Mount Hope (N.S.W.), gave a concise
statement of what had been (11 expected,
(2) realised. Mount Hope, Ltd., is an un-
pretentious co. (capital £27.520) owning
what looks like a big copper-mine. The mine
is well opened (down to 340 ft.). and the
spur railway is finished. But the drought
prevails. During the past year operations
had been suspended once because of a
general strike and twice because of drought.
The co. had always realised that, with a
steam plant, drought was liable to have a
win ; but as a steam plant was on the show
when it was purchased, the second-best thing
has been used for demonstrating the method
of treatment and opening up the mine. Now,
however, the co. will install a gas plant, and
erect an up-to-date concentrating mill,
capable of treating 100 tons a day for a
start. The necessity for gas power when
working on a larger scale had been expected
from the outset, but if they had been lucky
enough to dodge the drought the mine dur-
ing the past vear should have earned the
money to equip the pronerty with a modern
mill. As it is, the Board has asked (and
received) authority to raise a further
£42,500 by new shares.
* * * *
At last New Boddington (W.A.) has
thrown in the towel. Out of £10,190 sub-
scribed vendors got £OOOO, and the balance,
with proceeds from gold won, was spent in
trying to keep the show alive.; The co.
should never have been floated, and hau a
report been obtained from some engineer of
standing the losses which the public has
sustained would have been avoided. The
Childe Harold, about which more than one
warning has been given by The Buj.letin,
is another Westralian delusion that is likely
to go under at any time. The last crushing
was much below prospectus anticipations,
and the next—if there is one—will probably
be worse.
* * * *
Moore Filter Co., of Portland (U.S.A.),
has lost the first round in its legal bout
with the big Westralian gold-mining shows.
The co. claimed that the method of treating
slimes at Kalgoorlie and beyond was an
infringement of its patent, whereas the Gt.
Bouldei’, which was cited as nominal defend-
ant, vehemently declared that it was not.
The case will probably be taken to the High
Court, and possibly to the Privy Council.
Princess Royal, which formerly had the
best show on the Norseman field, has sold
the remnants of its Westralian interests,
and is now on the lookout for a spec else
where. The co. won gold worth half a
million, from which shareholders got £112.000.
But profitable as operations were, the
management was shocking, the eyes being
picked out of the mine and development
neglected. Then, as in the case of every
other show in the district, the reef became
impoverished at depth, and finally the
shutters had to be put up. Several' other
ventures were toyed with in various parts
of the State, and eventually the Happy Jack
mine at Comet Yale was acquired. It was
the last straw.
* * * *
Bowes Kelly’s disclosure that the Mt. Read
and Rosebery has been approached to have
the Rosebery concentrates treated at the Ris-
don works of the Electrolytic Zinc Co. ends
in a big fuss in Speck politics. To place
the job in the Risdon camp means killing the
hopes of the Zeehan smelters resuming. This
leaves the other mines and the gougers
entirely in the jaws of the Australian ore
buyer. Further, the £20,000 advanced by
the State to the Zeehan smelters won’t be
worth much. The State will, however, save
outlay if if shelves the big King River scheme
and concentrates its power scheme at the
Hobart suburb ; and that’s its principal con-
sideration at present.
* * * *
“Peter Pan” on the Treasury censorship :
An inspired communique from the Commonwealth
Treasury conveys the alarming news- that all appli-
cations for new capital must for an indefinite time
bi approved by the Treasury before the business can
proceed. The method of handling the applications
has all along been faulty and unbusinesslike. Instead
of being able to go before an official and explain
what you want, and be prepared for cross-examination,
the practice has been to write a letter and wait a
week or a month for the Treasury reply, which in-
variably asked a series of more or less pertinent
questions. Then has ensued a nearly interminable
correspondence of answer and question till the official
has been worn-out and bas given or refused assent.
I have had personal experience of two such epistolary
conflicts covering three months each, and in both
instances the business was massacred—in other words,
withdrawn from my hands. It would take an un-
usually able cyclopaedic man to judge the merits of
every proposed capital investment upon written evi-
dence, and it is utterly beyond the powers of civil
servants, however capable and willing, who are un-
trained in manufacturing and mining.
The unseen effect of this Government regulation,
perhaps justifiable during war, has been to stop the
formation of numerous mining cos. not alone for
gold and tin, but for silver, lead, wolfram, molyb-
denite, scheelite, pigments, and all those minerals
and metals the mining of which ought to be fostered
and encouraged, not by the Governments only, but
by the community.
* * * *
Blair Athol coal, Central Queensland,
handed out a sixpenny (£2500) last month
and prospects appear reasonably good, for
several nice contracts have been got in.
Net profit for the half-year to September
SO last was £5468, but this was with the
price of increased by 3s. per ton.
When the co.’s accounts were overhauled
under the War Precautions regulations a
refund of Is. (id. of this 3s. per ton was
ordered. So the directors have set aside
£4OOO out of reserves to meet all claims.
The New Caledonia Petroleum co. has
spent i_v,,ooo on five bores at Koumac (New
Caledonia). Three of the bores are said to
have given signs of oil, and the management
has reached the stage when it wants some
advice. So R. Hodge, M.L.A., and J. L.
Strevens, an English oil chemist and engi-
neer, have gone to have a look at the show.


’WARE BLUFF!
BOSS HUN: “Here, you mob, start some sort of a fight, or these Verdommed Allies will think you can pay an indemnity.”


fAUbSiNg?
LONOOR H*ra
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAU LDING’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lcwt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
Why
be
deaf?
Without good hearing you are greatly handi-
capped, and the fact is brought home to you
every day. Why be deaf? The
Acousticon
10 Days’
FREE TRIAL
will safely and surely enable you to hear.
Over 330,000 users, including the Prime Minis-
ter, Mr. Hughes. No matter what you have
tried before, write for 10 Days’ Free Trial of
an “Acousticon.” No deposit, no obligation.
Convince yourself at our expense, and DON’T
STAY DEAF!
Lamson
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Daklng House, SYDNEY.
Olderfleet, Collins St.,MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St. 3 Christc’h.
W.A.: 11. Little & Co., 861 Hay Street, Perth.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel,
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay. 140 Rooms,
comprising Private Suites, Open-Air
Sunny Lounges. Billiard Room,
Tennis Court, Electric Light and
Lifts, Bathing, Roof Garden.
Illustrated Prospectus and all particu-
lars forwarded on application.
Telephones: Y2llB and Y 1266.
B
m
The British Brand protects you
against foreign-made inferior goods
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
No German or other foreign make can compare with
this best British brand, for fineness of finish andsilky
comfort. Australasian pure wool is used in the
manufacture of Jason, by the world’s best
hosiery makers —the people of Leicester,
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the Jason
Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters everywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, Eni.
A a 6s ©
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
No member of the High Court of Aus-
tralia has ever accepted a title. Griffith
and Barton were splashed by the fountain
of honor before they joined up.
Ex-Agent-General Fred Young, elected
to the House of Commons for Swindon, is
the first South Australian to go to the Brit-
ish Parliament.
Lefroy, Premier of Westralia, has got the
desired K.C.M.G. Born at Perth in 1854,
he is a son of Anthony O’Grady Lefroy, for
36 years Treasurer of Westralia. The
family gave Ireland a Chief Justice who
held office till he was over 90 and blind.
’Obbs, General ’Obbs, for some unknown
reason mostly “Sloppy” ’Obbs among artil-
lery boys of the Ist Division, is Sir Joseph
now, if he doesn’t prefer to be Sir John or
LIEUT.-COL. D.
S. WANLISS, the
new Anzae Com-
mandant of
Tasmania.
Sir Talbot. Hobbs,
who always wears
his hats two sizes
too big for him,
began citizen-
soldiering in Eng-
land over quarter
of a century ago,
and was in com-
mand of the artil-
lery that went to
Gallipoli. Later
on he was trans-
ferred to the com-
mand of the sth
Division, and as
senior div. com-
mander took
Monash’ s place
when that big
General went to
the demobilisation
job. By trade he
is an architect, in
practice for many
years at Perth.
Only one woman scored a win at the
British General Election, and probably she
can’t sit in the Commons if she wants to —
and she says she doesn’t. This lady, born
Gore-Booth and christened Constance Geor-
gina, married Count Casimir Markievicz, a
Pole; and thus, technically, she is an alien.
The Countess, whose father was a wealthy
Sligo baronet, got into the Sinn Fein move-
ment before the name was invented, and 10
years or so ago did a clever thing for it—
commenced organising Boy Scouts to bring
the youngsters up as good rebels. While
she was commanding the “fort” at the Royal
College of Surgeons during The Dublin rebel-
lion in 1916, her husband was alleged to be
fighting with the Russian army. They are
not as young as they were, either of them.
Constance Georgina was oH enough to be
“presented” at Court away back in Queen
Victoria’s jubilee year.
Like Australia’s big man Kingston, De
Valera,,, the imprisoned Sinn Fein leader,
who has the choice of three or four seats
in the Commons, is of mixed Irish and
Spanish blood. His father was the Spani-
ard. The son was born in New York.
Counting a missionary bishop in Papua, a
coadjutor in Brisbane and a couple of re-
tired aprons, there are 27 pairs of Anglican
gaiters in the Commonwealth. Eight of
these were specially imported to bish. in this
country. Of the 19 others, 10 were born
and trained abroad, but served their time
as Australian pilots before their promotion
to gaiters; five were born outside Australia,
but came in as laymen (in some cases, as
infants) ; and four are Australian-born as
well as Australian-trained —Stretch, of New-
castle ; Long, of Bathurst; Stephen, of Tas-
mania ; and Newton, of Carpentaria. Even
Anglicanism moves —if not exactly with the
times, at all events not more than about a
quarter of a century behind them. Some
day it may even appoint an Australian
archbishop.
SPEAKING F ROM EXPERIENCE.
“I see they've returned a woman to Parlia-
ment in Ireland.”
“Well, that's the end of Home Rule. They'll
never have Home Rule with a woman
in the House.”
Lloyd George is a lawyer, Clemenceau a
doctor, Woodrow WilsoJi a schoolteacher.
Clemenceau, by the way, i did a bit of teach-
ing, too. He crossed to the U.S.A. as a very
young man —mainly to improve his English,
of which he is now a capital speaker—and
married there.
D. G. Marks, a youth who left Sydney for
Gallipoli and returned via France the other
day, was a lieut.-eolonel at 23.
Obituary advt. from Sydney papers:—
JONES.—Dec. 25, 1918, at his residence, Stewart-
street, Parramatta, James Donnithome, youngest
son of the late Judge Donnithorne, Governor of the
Mint and Judge in the Hon. East India Co.’s
Bengal Civil Service; also of Cambridge Hall,
Newtown, and late of H.M. Customs, in his 78th
year. Interred Rookwood Cemetery, Vault Sec-
tion.
This old warrior, who seems to have added
the plebeian name of Jones to the historic
one borne by his father, was brother of the
eccentric lady who lived and died at Cam-
bridge Hall, Newtown, and who is alleged
to be the original of Dickens’s Miss Haver-
sham. Miss Donnithorne, as the story runs,
was engaged to be married, but on the morn-
ing of the ceremony the bridegroom failed to
attend, and the lady shut herself up until
her death. Tim old Cajnperdown cemetery
contains the remains of the Jhdge and his
daughter. Cambridge House became an
academy ; then it was purchased by the late
Sam Hordern, who demolished it.
Lieut. C. A. Holswich was the first man
to enlist in N. S. Wales, and his regimental
number was 1. He trained in Egypt, and
after helping to give Johnny Turk the
hurry-up at Gallipoli returned home
badly broken in health. Prior to enlisting
he had been a teacher, but he sat for the
Shire Council clerks’ exam, on returning,
passed, and was appointed to a good job on
the North Coast. Then bad health knocked
him out, so he pushed on to the Blue Moun-
tains and started a dairy. Just when he had
turned the corner his herd of 14 milch 'Cows
were mysteriously poisoned, and N.S.W.’s
No. 1 volunteer lost property worth £3OO.
His hard luck has elicited much publifc sym-
pathy; but sympathy straight won’t fill the
empty bails.
This is the day of the clean-shaved man.
A Sydney paper on New Year’s day pub-
lished the photos of 19 prominent members
or ex-members of the British Parliament.
Thirteen of them, including one woman, were
clean-shaved. Alongside were the pictures
of two murderers, also clean-shaved.
Dead of flumonia, at Johannesburg, J. H.
J. MacNamara, eldest son of the late James
MacNamara, of MacNamara’s (now Cen-
tral) Wharf, Sydney, and grandson of John
MacNamara, M.L.C. When John Mitchel,
the Irish exile, escaped from V.D. Land in
1854, he found shelter with the Mac-
Namaras, who hid him until he left
in the Orkney Lass, under the assumed name
of Warren, for Honolulu. The Lass sailed
from MacNamara’s Wharf, August 2, 1854.
Some water-policemen came on board for the
usual “sight,” but “Mr. Warren” passed un-
noticed.
James Grant Liston Garthwaite, just
dead at Glenelg (S.A.) aged 86, was' for
many years in the Indian Civil Service
and was a great master of Indian languages.
Retiring in 1888 he worked to promote the
education of the Indian blind, and adapted
no fewer than thirteen of their languages
to the Braille, system. He visited South
Aus. in ’95 and ’93 and on his third trip
two years later liked the State so well
that he decided to settle there.
Died last week, Henry Dawson, one of the
oldest practising solicitors in N. S. Wales.
He was a sport of good repute, too, and he
represented Monaro in four Parliaments.
Edwards, one of the Maoriland Supreme
Court Judges, knighted last week, is 69 —a
tall, gaunt man who suffers horribly from
asthma and irascibility. A fearful row raged
around him long ago. Just before the Atkin-
son Government of ’9O was smashed at the
polls, by Ballance and Seddon he was
appointed to the Bench. The appointment
was challenged by Ballance as invalid, and
the new. Ministry, which refused to make an
appropriation for his salary, had its way
after prolonged litigation. For the next four
years Edwards was a continuous petitioner
to Parliament for monetary compensation.
At rock-bottom there was something shabby
about the Government’s performance, and in
’96 Seddon did the decent thing. He got the
Reps, to grant Edwards a thousand or two,
and the death of Pat Buckley having left a
vacancy on the Bench, he handed Edwards
the job. The old man is one of the soundest
lawyers in Maoriland. At one time he was
much addicted to dissenting on appeals from
the findings of Stout, C.J., particularly on
cases relating to Derrink. And, as a general
thing, .it was Stout who was not right.
’Sonor’s principal relaxations are smoking a
big pipe and riding a bike.
“Bill” Davies, one of the boys who came
out of Bendigo to the Argus, is H. Y. Brad-
don’s most valuable offsider in the U.S.A.
In fact, if Braddon regarded himself as
Davies’s offsider for a while he might do
best in the end and least badly at the start.
For a good many years past Davies has re-
presented the associated Australian dailies
in the TJ.S.A., with headquarters in New
York, and he has got the run of the big
city and the ear of its big papers as no other
half-dozen Australians put together have.
Unlike most southerners, Davies hugs N’York
cordially in return —puts .it first among all
cities, its public spirit above every other
public spirit, its press above every other
press, its Times even above every other
Times —and when a man has gone that far
he has clearly and unmistakably fallen into
the pit.
“Marylebone’s” recollections:—
Our old friend W. Camac Wilkinson, M.D.,
F.R.C.P. (Lond.), M.P. for the Glebe (JST.S.W.)
about 32 years ago, has been trying to re-enter
political life in the interests of medical science.
He is afraid that the profession is going to the dogs
in the Old Country. He used to wear a grey
belltopper in his young days, and was very girlish
in appearance, so he was always “Lucy” during his
Parliamentary career. This time he selected the
constituency of East Marylebone. He told the
burgesses that he represented the Glebe for three
years, and only retired from N. S. Wales politics
because he was entrusted with the task of building
up from nothing the Department of Pathology in
the Sydney University. He is quite right there, for
I was one of his first students in pathology, and I
remember the building-up as if it were yesterday.
It consisted of some rather dry lectures at the Uni.,
and a few post-mortem examinations at P.A.H., as
it .was then called. Pathology has made gigantic
strides of late years, but somehow Lucy failed to
press the buzz-button. But, whether holding forth on
his pet subject—tuberculosis—advising the British
Medical Journal on the behaviour of the bacillus
influenza! (Pfeiffer), or mounting the hustings in
East Marylebone on behalf of medical reform, he is
always interesting.
Literary men didn’t do well in the British
general election. Austin Harrison, editor of
the English Review, stood against Lloyd
George and lost his deposit; Australian Gil-
bert Murray was rejected by Oxford Univer-
sity; J. C. Squire, clever parodist, stood as a
Laborite for Cambridge University, and lost
his deposit * Sidney Webb, one of the few
writers who can make political economy as
interesting as a divorce report, and Cunning-
hame Graham, Socialist, essayist and dandy,
were cast into outer darkness. Two who
managed to dodge the w.p.b. were Henry
Norman and Spencer Leigh Hughes—the
latter the author of many readable Parlia-
mentary yarns.
EDMUND JOWETT, favoring
Parliament with his presence.
Dr. Power, who comes as rector to New-
man, the new R.C. college within Melbourne
University, was director of studies at River-
view College, Sydney, 20 years ago.
“Glen H.”: The Victorian Government
has a long list of “situations vacant,’’ which
it will probably fill during the recess. Jobs
are available for at least one (probably two)
Supreme Court Judges, two Railway Com-
missioners, an Auditor-General, three Forest
Commissioners, seven Tramway Commission-
ers, a Chief Commissioner of Police, an
Agent-General, a Crown Prosecutor, a Chair-
man of Melbourne Harbor Trust, and an In-
spector of Charities. The chances are that
Peter Mcßride will be re-appointed Agent-
General, and that G. F. Holden will con-
tinue at the Harbor Trust. There is a long
list of eligibles for the Auditor-General’s
job in place of F. 11. Bruford. 11. R.
Mackay, the present conservator, looks like
becoming the second Forest Commissioner;
and Tom Brennan (a brother and fierce poli-
tical opponent of Frank Brennan, M.H.R.)
and “Billy” Williams are running neck and
neck for the Crown Prosecutorship. Pro-
phecy is hot a guarantee concerning the
Railway Commissioners (one of whom may
be imported), the Tramway Board (which
has just been created under the new Metro-
politan Tramways Bill) and the Police Com-
missionership, i*egarding which the Govern-
ment is in doubt as to whether the job should
go to someone in or out of the Police De-
partment. Among the outsiders, Colonel D.
S. Wanliss (brother-in-law of Chief Justice
Irvine) and H. M. Murphy (Secretary for
Labor) are mentioned as possibilities, while
W. R. Davidson, Sainsbury’s understudy, is
the. most likely man should the Government
decide that it takes a Hop to govern Hops.
THE EMANCIPATION OF PRINCESS PAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
-‘Princess Patricia’s engagement is the result of a
romantic love match. Patricia, who is one of the
loveliest princesses in Europe, met Alexander Ramsay,
a stalwart naval officer, at Malta.”
The kings were toppling from their falling thrones
Or hiding in their cellars from the mob.
Tame revolution broke the glass with stones;
The wilder sort began to shoot and rob.
Only a prince or two still held his job,
Ready to abdicate, if need should be,
And, granting freedom, set his own soul free.
But still in England was the monarch safe,
His influence large, his power for mischief small.
Beneath his rule the people did not chafe
Because he never tried to rule at all.
On film the headman would not make a call,
Though all the wildest British lads got loose
And things went absolutely to the deuce.
There splendid quiet marks the kingly place.
Slight grovel on a very easy mat
Is all that’s hoped for in the subject’s case
Before the person with the golden hat.
Should it surprise us then that Princess Pat
Has picked a decent naval man instead
Of a bust foreign potentate to wed ?
Things are not what they seem or say they are.
The times are moving very fast indeed;
And swifter than a shot-split aerocar
Comes down to royal earth the kingly breed.
The foreign courts collapse ; and, in her need, ,
Seme tall king’s daughter in disguise may lurk
To catch a simple bloke who has to work.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’MOSES.


Capstan
NAYY
CUT
\
J
J
$
0 s
b
t(h
W
u w
g
c
j J
«i »
o> y
y
a J J Tl
j j
ffi BEST HAVT CUT INMIIRLD
W.D.&H.O.WILLS.
THE PIPE OF
QUALITY-
400
LMN
• ’
vA s svais
"W" [
LMN
ptf Pl > e ® uarar ite e( j


I A T||pC | EVERY PEARL HAS ITS CHARM.
Mfl AA/VJ ■ A Beautiful Woman is a Paradise to the Eyes.
THE PEARLS OF PRICELESS VALUE are to be found in
ohn strange
w
iater’s
TOILET PREPARATIONS—for the GODDESS OP BEAUTY.
ssea
mmm
They have won SIX GOLD MEDALS and are
USED BY ROYALTY.
Dental Cream, a delightful antiseptic, for pearl-white teeth, with a
delicate piquancy of tone and flavor, Lakshin! Cream and Lotion,
New Face Cream d colors), I’owder (3 tints), Soap, Carmine, Hair
Foods (Oily and Xon-Oily), etc.
All obtainable at the Civil Service, Horderns*, Washington H. Soul’s,
Farmer & Co.’s, Lassetter’s, David Jones’, W. T. Waters, etc., and
all leading Chemists.
Sent! 3d. stamp for sample of Soap, or Dental Cream, or Powder
(name the tint), or Cakshmi Cream, or New Pace Cream, and
Booklet, to John Strange Winter (Condon, Paris, Borne), 26-30
Jamieson Street, Sydney. (Name this paper.)
It Oman
R/T
Creams
2Hd
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Bussell St., Melbourne.
w
E. DROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES . ALL - OVER . THE • WORLD
USHERS
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
MORE NEW YEAR HONORS.
THE LADY : “Your gardening has been very
fair in 1918, and I’ve made up my
mind”
HUSBAND (wildly expectant): “Yes, my
love?”
HIS LOVE: “Not to reduce your tobacco
allowance for 1919.”.
From an Army nurse, after four years’
service:—
Of course our dear old kids are the pluckiest,
cheeriest things in the world.
In France, I suppose because We were an Aus-
tralian staff, we didn’t get many Aussies;
but, by accident, two or three of them
used to come in sometimes, and there was a differ-
ence in the place inside 24 hours. Till they came
you’d hear shrieks when bad dressings had to be
done, and moans,and groans afterwards; the Aussies
not only stood anything themselves, but made 90 per
cent, of the others stick it too.
They are the best patients in the world —and the
worst convalescents. They can pick jokes out of a
coffin. The other day three blind boys were sitting
at a table; two of them were writing. A visitor
who was filling in a form about something or other
cculdn’t make out one of the questions; so he
went across to the table, and putting it down among
the three, asked th£m to see if they could make it
out. There was a shriek of joy. The tragedy of
it never occurred to them: it was just a gorgeous
joke that this fellow Should have picked on them
to see what he couldn’t make out himself.
Any day of the week .you’ll see “stumpies”—most
of them with one leg missing, a few of them with
both feet gone—come in from Southall and take
the travelling staircase at the “tube.” A travelling
staircase takes some negotiating, even if you’ve got
two whole legs; and though many a dear old British
soul has to wipe a tear out of her eye, the bumps
these boys get in hobbling on and off —well, from
the chortling and the barracking among themselves,
you’d think that to have lost a foot or a leg or
two was the best joke in the world.
But it isn’t all jokes. This is a story of Pinky
and Curly. Pinky had lost his arms and Curly
had lost his legs; and they just naturally settled
down to look after one another. Pinky could push
Curly about in his chair, and Curly, among other
things, could give .Pinky his bath —which really was
the orderly’s job, but Pinky liked to “let his podr
old feobber feel he was doin’ somethin’ useful.” One
day; there was to he a motor drive ior a few
stumpies; and, Curly being a double-stumpy, the
p|adi(e asked him to go. But Curly turned it down —
ho, he didn’t want to go. And he didn’t go. “Look
here, Curly,” the sister said to him later on, “why
didn’t you want to go for a motor drive to-day?”
“Well, you see, sister,” he answered, as though he
was ashamed of having to mention it—“you see I told
poor old Pinky I’d give him a bath to-day.”
Australia can blame the I.W.W. for most
of the trouble it has been having with the
crews of ships that ordinarily run across the
Pacific—some to Maoriland; others on to
Vancouver. These men—some of them, at
any rate —had grievances. Their pay was
not large ; and the accommodation provided
for them in some ships was wretched. It is
an astounding fact that in certain large
passenger vessels the stewards never sit to
their meals; they must eat standing where
and when they can. And the provision for
their sleeping is not much better. Of course,
there has been discontent; and when ships in
this service have called at the West Coast of
America, the stronghold of the 1.W.W.,
equally of eburse the industrial Bolsheviks
have made the most of their opportunities!
* * *
“H.P.” (from France) : The Common-
wealth Bank is “napoo” with the A.I.F. We
write and enclose cheque. In three weeks’
time we have a reply, saying the cash is
being forwarded. Another two weeks go by
and we get a notice that the cash has arrived.
But the drawer can then get it only by having
it put into his paybook and waiting for pay-
day. Any other Australian bank operating
in London will send your cash
over within eight or 10 days
of writing either in a plain
envelope, as a registered let-
ter, or through a French
bank. The Comnldnwealth
Bank is such a military con-
cern now that even the
amount a man can get when
on leave is restricted. That’s
the military touch all over.
So I wasn’t surprised on my
last Blighty leave, when I
asked to see the manager,
to be at once turned down,
without even being asked
my business. You see, I
wasn’t a customer in civ-
vies. I was merely a cus-
tomer in khaki. On the
other hand, I’ve been amazed
at stories that Diggers have
told me about the things the
London offices of private
Australian banks have done
for them. The managers
have run right out of red
tape and forgotten to get in a new sup-
ply. I know one or two, at any rate, that
have seemed to be quite glad to be able to do
odd messenger jobs for us in London.
* * * *
“Soller”: A sample of how N. S. Wales
helps Billjim’s sorrowing dependants. On
making application to prove the will or ad-
minister the estate of a deceased soldier, the
N. S. Wales Probate Court requires proof of
his death. This is furnished without any
charge by the Federal authorities through
the Base Records, Melbourne, in the shape
of a certificate giving particulars of the
dead warrior and nature and date of his
death. In N. S. Wales, the State, scenting
some easy money with which to replenish
coffers emptied by extravagance, insists on a
certified copy of this certificate being sup-
NO HOPE.
MRS. JOHNSO ( irately ): “The way you're going on lately you’ll drive me to my grave”
MR. JOHNSON (sadly): “Afraid not, pet. You’re a horn jib.”
plied to the Stamp Commissioner;, the origi
nal being kept for record by the Registrar
of Probates. This certified cQpy must be
prepared by the Registrar of Probates; no-
body else will do. For this scrap of paper
with a few dozen words indifferently type-
written, the State demands 3s. 6d. 1 It’s
a miserable extortion, and for the credit
of the State should be abolished.
“P.X.”: The “Aussie hat,” to which the
Digger on the other side hangs so
pathetically—and magnificently—•
has won him many a glad eye; but
it has earned him one or two other
things as well. Practically every-
body in eastern Europe knows that
hat: .it is a thing worn by the
Australian and nobody ol>* -T-
-which, incidentally, is why the
Digger can get “three quid” almost
any day for a spare ohe in Loft-
don. But it is just beehUSe it
turns every eye its way,
being different from everybody
else’s lid, that every Australian
who is having a rollicking time is
known for an Australian. Put a
man in a pot-hat and" tangle his
legs and everybody will look at
him and most of them will frown.
Put him in the sort of hat that 99
men in a hundred wear, and the
same leg-tangle will get hardly a
frown. Old Billjim does n’t
rollick more than the rest; but,
figuratively speaking, he wears the got-hat
when he does go gay.
* * * *
Maoriland lost 12,000 victims by the war
in four years and about 5000 by the Black
Death in four weeks. The world’s recent
plague record is guessed at 6,000,000 deaths
spread over 12 weeks. The next thing the
globe is due for is a wave of religious in-
sanity, with a conviction that the Last Judg-
ment is just round the corner. War, plague
and prophecy generally go together.
* * * *
Odd remarks about clubs and societies :
The death through opium of “Billie” Carleton, a
handsome young London actress of some fame, has
presumably broken up the Undressed Drug Society to
which she belonged, but that isn’t the society’s fault
—only its misfortune. There was nothing very
novel, or wildly unknown to the police, about the
fact that a number of fashionable people were
accustomed to meet at the apartments of one of
tl.eir number, and get into the minimum of attire
and have a cocaine and poppy and free-love jag.
Probably a good' many more such clubs could be
found if they didn’t pay not to be found; also clubs
much more remarkable. Also “Billie” Carleton —the
actress habit of being called “Billie” seems incurable
—was, it would seem, thoughtful enough not to die
at the meeting place of the Undressed Drug Society,
and with ordinary luck she should have been buried
without calling attention to the institution. Possibly
her hired female insisted on talking; druggers are a
loose-mouthed lot and confide in their hired females.
Possibly the facts were given away by another
panic-stricken drugger, or by his stipendiary male or
her remunerated female. One person who surely
kept dead silence was the man who supplied the
drug, for he was Chinese; and his wife who cooked
it and served it out, for she was Scotch. Opium
used to be a working-woman’s habit in England (the
men were too busy with beer). At one time almost
every middle-aged woman in the cotton cities used
A TREAT IN STORE.
M ARY: “Mrs. Flighty is supposed to he
awfully well-preserved."
BETSY : “Well, you know what they say
when a preserve is put on the shelf!”
the poison, but though it was fairly cheap then
she couldn’t afford enough to make her a qualified
morphia fiend. The increase in the price of the for-
bidden article shifted the habit into more affluent
circles. Opium or cocaine doesn’t come in large
visible kegs like beer, so it will probably be always
procurable at a price, and if it isn’t the Undressed
Society may get on without it. There are other pro-
grammes to fall back on. At one time mutual flogging
clubs had a vogue—-“ Earl Lavender,” written by
someone who is now forgotten, was a popular novel
which dealt with the advantages of these institutions
as an uplift and a mental stimulant. Berlin was,
and probably is, lavishly supplied with similar con-
cerns ; also with four other kinds which are worse
apd a fifth that beats the band.
(Continued on page IS.)
THE NEW RACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
World-failure has backers
Who think he can win.
With five Chinese crackers
Our new horse camj in.
They splittered and spluttered
And banged with a leap,
While sleepy folk muttered
A curse in their sleep.
The horse of our dreaming
Is saddled and fine,
His satin coat gleaming
T ; ke starlight on wine;
1 nines through the tatters
of times that are dead
Ard a thousand wise matters
He bears in his head.
We backed Nineteen-eighteen
Through war and its din
And the chorus of hate e’en
To run and to win.
He broke their pretences
And bored his way through—
Oh, great were the fences
Of battle he flew!
But this race will be harder
Than any before.
With a half-empty larder,
The wolf at the door,
The sick world is shaking,
While facing in fear
The task of re-making
Itself in a year.
Nineteen-nineteen has started.
Throw hats in the air!
He prances light-hearted
His burden to bear.
We know his persistence;
We’ll wager our shirt
He’ll go the full distance
And win with a spurt!
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


“FIRST IN
r.':TS
11
• r / •»
f>.
Meggitt Limited’s Linseed Oil, Boiled and Raw
has established itself as “THE STANDARD OF QUALITY.”
“Architecture,” the official organ of the Institute of Architects, October 21, 1918, says: "There is no better Linseed
OH in the world than that produced at Parramatta.”
CATALOGUE No. 2 MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents:—Messrs. R. S. EXTON & CO., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. HARRISONS, RAMSAY LTD., Bourke
Street, Melbourne; Messrs. F. W. HERITAGE & CO., Launceston and Hobart; Messrs. W. ADAMS, Perth; Messrs. CLARKSON LTD.,
Rundle Street, Adelaide; or
MEGGITT LTD.
WORKS: PARRAMATTA.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal Manufacturers of Australia),
26 KING STREET, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
HEGGUTS
lINSEEOOU^
Wi
Tke Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. £1
A Letter to Clements Tonic from a Well-known Clergyman
showing the
great value
of Clements
Tonic to all
Professional
People.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
A Further Great Endorsement of a Really Fine Medicine.
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD. • “The Hearns,”
preMStgdiS 6
my vrelfarei) I laCed mmy hands > and out of courtes y to my friend, who had an interest in
improved 1 t Leasure Wf tte you that since taking Clements Tonic my system is braced up and my general health much
In such a calling as mine the nervous tension is always
assure you that it is good to find something that really benefits.
A good thing is always worth passing on.
high;, and I
I am, Sirs, yours sincerely, (Signed)
never A ? T® 8 * nerxes ’ brain ” fa §- or want of sleep.
Pastor,
Baptist Church.
Professional persons should
“Aussie”: The Hun’s U-boats produced all
sorts of floating belts and kindred devices.
The old cork jacket, which was just as likely
to drown you as to keep you afloat if it
wasn’t put on carefully, was soon super-
seded by a kapok contrivance of the same
shape though more easily fastened. But as
the Atlantic passenger had to keep his “belt”
constantly with him, other patterns were
soon produced—notably a waistcoat, khaki-
colored or blue, padded
with kapok. This could
be worn with reasonable
comfort at all times;
some people wore it even
to bed. The next alleged
improvement was a sort
of Elizabethan collar:
the idea of this was to
support your head if you
became unconscious
through shock or ex-
posure. An alternative
was an inflated collar
worn with any ordinary
cork or kapok “belt” or
jacket. The most elabo-
rate device of all was an
affair of rubberised
material, weighted at the
feet and fastened tight
round the neck and the
wrists; in this air bladder
you were supposed to be
quite saf e —provided
nothing happened to prick
the bladder. There was
even a pocket in front
to store eatables and
drinkables for the voyage.
You could hire these
suits in N’York or Liver-
pool, paying about £4 for
the crossing—the price
varied with the intensity
of the scare at the
moment. The salesman
always impressed on you
that more people who
found themselves in the
bitterly cold Atlantic
died of shock or exposure
than of drowning, and in
one of these cumbersome sui.s you could
keep dry and warm—with luck. A modifica-
tion of this diving gear was the inflated
waistcoat. But 19 out of every 20 who had
to make the crossing put their trust in the
Navy, and hauled around whatever kapok
pad was given them merely because they
were told to.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: The doctor-and-lodges trouble
still continues in Victoria, despite public
announcements that the dispute had at last
been settled. A tentative agreement was
drawn up and accepted by the B.M.A. and
the Friendlyi> Societies’ Assoc., subject to
ratification by the individual orders. The
thing was stillborn, however, for a consid-
erable minority of delegates at the F.S.A.
meeting refused to have anything to do with
JUDGING BY APPEARANCES.
MRS. MURPHY : “So you’ve got Mr. Fergu-
son’s trousers on the line, missus. An’
is Ferguson at home or at the Highland
gathering?”
it When it came to be considered by the
individual orders, nearly half of them dis-
sented from the F.S.A. majority decision.
Dr. Bill Boyd, chief negotiator for the 8.M.A.,
has expressed himself thus about the fiasco:
“We have spent much valuable time and
labor in drawing up an agreement which does
not seem to be worth the paper it is written
on.” This is an exact statement of the posi-
tion. The existence of several new medical
institutes, which came into being as a result
of the original strike of the doctors against
the lowness of their pay, is now the chief
stumbling block. The B.M.A. wants ulti-
mately to abolish these institutes; but, since
the friendly societies as a wdiole won’t agree
to this, the B.M.A. has thrown out another
life-line to itself. It is now .“prepared to
make arrangements on the terms of the Was-
ley report with any order which agrees to
withdraw all its members from the medical
LOCAL TIME.
“What’s that noise?”
“Nothin’, darlingsh. On’y night falling.”
“Sounds more like day breaking.”
institutes and to replace them on the lists of
their former medical officers” ; and in future
the B.M.A. will deal only with individual
orders. The district medical institutes, of
course, are kept going by the local branches
of the various orders, united for the time
to meet the expense entailed. The B.M.A.
(rather particular about being considered an
honorable body) now invites those orders
which are not too finicky on a point of honor
to turn dog on their mates and leave them in
the financial soup.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The notices in the bars and a
little inconvenience here and there are prac-
tically all that remains of Britain’s anti-
shouting legislation. In most places the law
is completely ignored; in the places where
the law is “strictly observed” the man who
wants to pay simply slips the necessary
coins on the bar in front of his friends, or
passes the drinks along as the barmaid
brings them_ to him. In the military can-
teens there is not even a pretence of observ-
ing the regulations. There the man with
money and thirst to dissipate can shout the
roof off without any interference.
The ominous old ad. of years ago bobs up
again in Launceston Examiner:—
Wanted—Adopt Baby Girl, gent.’s child pref.;
premium. Ex.
Quite possible, of course, that some kind,
motherly person is yearning for a baby and
a little money to outfit it nicely; but there
are. ugly possibilities about this sort of traffic
in infants. Children are so precious to the
Commonwealth that it pays a bonus of £5
to every mother; then it allows the new Aus-
tralian to be peddled like a cow or a bicycle
in the advertising column.
* * * *
“Furlo”: Many a Digger who was in-
valided in England in 1916 will remember
the inspection by the King of the Australians
camped on the “plain” at Bulford. Most of
them were surprised to see a kangaroo (since
presented to Birdwood’s daughter) tethered
near the saluting base and the Australian
flag stuck in the ground close by. This is
how the ’roo and the flag got there —and
stayed. A certain Aussie colonel was C.O.
of one of the A.I.F. command depots when he
got the order to send a representative body
of troops for the review. He decided to send
our pet kangaroo and the depot flag, too.
The C. 0., staff and ’roo went off early in a
motor transport, and the Australian chief
placed his exhibits right against the saluting
base. When the English red tabs arrived to
see that all was in order for H.M. the
strange animal caught the eye of the G.O C.
Southern Command, who sent an orderly-
officer with the following message
With the compliments of the G.0.C., Southern
Command, to the officer in command of the Aus-
tralians. Remove that animal and flag immediately.
Colonel Aussie fired back his reply:—
With the compliments of etc., etc. The flag and
kangaroo will not be removed.
The galloper returned in a few minutes with
more compliments and an ultimatum: —
If the C. 0., Australian troops, does not comply
with order steps \yill be taken to remove animal and
flag.
Then the Australian slammed the lid on—
still with compliments :
That flag and kangaroo are going to remain, and
you tell the G.O.C. I’d like to see the man who is
going to try to remove them.
They remained.
* * * *
“Underfedagogue” : I am not out to shy
inkwells at N. S. Wales Education Minister
James, for I am sure he is not antagonistic
to the public school-teachers; but I want him
to remember the city ped. who keeps a wife
and family when he is distributing that pro-
mised £lOO,OOO. I am one of the stragglers
who support a small wife and a large family.
War-price inflation has increased the price
of sheeting from 2s. 6d. to ss. per yard ; a
pair of Sunday boots for Esme, my nine-
year-old imp of perpetual requirement, have
jumped from 7s. to 13s. Gd.; and Walter’s
suit has hopped up 10s. A pair of shoes for
my wife once cost 12s. Gd. I paid 245. 9d.
yesterday. A reel of cotton was 4d. when
the last salary-adjustment took place; it is
now lOd. A bit of eatable steak costs Is.
Gd per lb., and as there are seven at our table
it pans out at about a penny a bite. My
tailor charges me £6 15s. for the suit I
attend the conference in; it was formerly
four guineas. My shirt is now 7s. 6d., instead
of 4s. Gd. And, while the extra cost of
living has turned my 200 sovereigns into 200
thirteen-and-fourpences, my insurance bonus
has dropped from £lO per year to £4 2s. 6d.
I wish they had numbered slaughtering
among the learned professions in my time.
* * * *
“Cleveland,” a naval officer, from Malta:
Had a commission the other clay to visit a
cemetery here, and arrange (among other things)
for a photo to be taken of a gravestone. I was
struck by the large number of A.I.F. graves, and it
occurred to me that perhaps many a home in Aus-
tralia would be glad to have a similar office per-
formed in regard to the grave of some soldier who
is buried on this island. So I made inquiries. I
found that the Maoriland Government has an arrange-
ment with the Red Cross here whereby any M.L.
grave is photographed and six copies sent to the
relatives for a standard price of 6s. per grave. I
understand this offer would be open to the Aus-
tralian Government also. Single requests from any-
where, made to “The British Red Cross and Order of
Si. John, Missing and Wounded Inquiry Department,
10 Strada Mereanti, Valetta, Malta,” are always
attended to free of charge; but I have no doubt
that if the 6s. were sent along with the request it
would be welcomed. There are two cemeteries, one
R.C. and the other Protestant, and it would pro-
bably assist the good Samaritans at this end if the
religion* were specified.
PEACE.
FIRST BOMB-PROOFER : “Well, now it’s all
over, I suppose we’ll go home.”
SECOND B.P.: “Yes, and get to work again.”
THIRD B.P. ( four-year man) : “Tough, isn’t
it?”
It has lopg been recognised in the U.S.A.
that the free-and-easy-administration of opiates
by medical men has spread the drug habit
in that country, a “shot” being a favorite
method for temporarily restoring the patient
suffering from a week-end among the whisky.
Now Dr. Jones, Vic. Inspector-General of
Insdne, declares that he has “the uncomfort-
able feeling that the medical profession [in
Australia] is responsible” for much of the
same thing. Nurses, too, have been found to
stock morphine, veronal, aspirin and other
sedatives in their working kit, with a hypo-
dermic syringe for use as required. Jones
proposes a joint conference between doctors
and pharmacists, with the idea of securing
an amendment of medical laws relating to
such matters. Backed by an adequate law,
a doctor could confine within pretty definite
HIS GUARDIAN ANGEL.
“Well, if you won’t give anything, will you
go in a raffle for the dog? It would he
a protection against burglars.”
“No, I’m married, and my wife’s as good as
any bulldog.”
limits the effects of issuing a narcotic-con-
taining prescription by stating the precise
number of doses to be supplied. As the law
stands it is possible for a prescription, once
issued, to be worn to rags before its use
ceases.
“Thb Other Woman” : The other day, while
some Vic. country people were shifting the
old weatherboard home to a new site, it
lingered a minute or so too long at the rail-
way crossing, and a string of 25 trucks
hit it between the kitchen and the parlor,
scattering the remains over five paddocks.
I’m sorry for the owners, but the accident
proves that I don’t smash up all the homes.
(Now I’ll powder my nose while you think it
over.)
* * * *
The “literary” awards for 1918, made in
connection with the annual South-street
(Ballarat) competitions, disclosed the usual
stodge. A dozen subjects were set and 33
prizes awarded. A trio of prizes were given
for “An Essay on the Prime Minister of
South Africa.” Another prize went for a
dissertation on “The Applica-
tion of the Humorous Aspect
to the Views of Political Life
and Polemical Extremists.”
There might have been some-
thing of the real thing in,
essays on “My Nursing Years
at the Front” or “Hopping
over in France/’ But neither
subject was set, and the only
provision for actual soldier-
stuff, in the whole dozen com-
petitions, was the inclusion of
an essay on “Incidents in an
Australian Soldier’s Life.”
Altogether, South-street shows
no signs of awakening. With
the setting of simple subjects,
and judgment of the work
by men and women having
claims to discretion in literary
matters, some real encourage-
ment might be given to Aus-
tralian writers. Even the
South-street authorities don’t
hire a practising blacksmith to judge the
work in the brass-band contests.
* * * *
“Trooper Bluegum”: Talk about Murray
River vineyards and Hunter River grapes!
Come to Damascus for the real juicy fruit,
bigger than bantam’s eggs and as sweet as
honey. After capturing the ancient city we
bivouacked by the side of the Barada, a limpid
stream which gurgles down from the moun-
tains. In a few days the hungry horsemen
mopped up the local supply and tlien waylaid
the peasants coming in to market with their
donkey-loads. The only grapes I ever tasted
which compared with these for size were
grown on the Swan River, but for rich
sugary qualities the Damascene fruit stands
alone.


' m£?•'; —> fir _ 'if
$%»
•\4 ■ ,
2*6
KSaa
c/iwr>
« .
■W-
i
y
i
In
rm
STANDARD
Priniin
AUSTRALIA!!
REACHED
Unlike most advertised goods, they are not of direct public interest.
:J« sjc Hs #
But Standard Printing Papers are of absorbing interest to all who have to do
with the production of advertising literature, and printed matter generally.
#* * *
Therefore to the Printer who prints, the Advertising man who designs, and the
Principal who pays for advertising literature of all kinds, we now address
ourselves.
** * *
One sheet of printing paper is much like another in general appear-
ance. It can have no selvedge to prove its source of manufacture,
nor striking trade-mark emblazoned on its face, to challenge com-
petition. It required a firm like the S. 1). Warren Company to
discover that paper, in common with other commodities, could be
standardised, to the benefit of manufacturer and user alike. A
standard printing paper is one that, year in and year out, has the
same shade, texture, finish, look-through, folding quality and
■printing surface. No two mills can make exactly similar papers.
Hence a paper merchant who buys from one mill to-day and another
to-morrow cannot guarantee to supply a Standard Printing Paper.
if: * $
The S. D. Warren Company, having produced such a paper, decided
some years ago that they would secure the distributing services of
one merchant only in each important American centre; and with
lightning-like rapidity the idea caught on. The trader with_ a
folder to issue, the draper with a catalogue to publish, the advertis-
ing man with a campaign to plan, all felt that here was an eminently
satisfactory “getaway” from the uncertainty which had heretofore
surrounded the production of advertising matter. Each user knew
that if he specified “Warren’s Standard” every printer would be
..quoting on exactly the same quality of paper, thus eliminating the
greatest element of uncertainty from the question; while each
printer knew that the other fellow was starting off from scratch
exactly as he himself was doing.
He * H*
And to assist all concerned, Warrens instituted the plan of inserting
a printed top sheet in every case of paper turned out from the
mill, so that the printer and advertiser could see at a glance exactly
what class of work could be produced under ordinary service condi-
tions on such-and-such a paper.
** * *
The glorious art effects of fine-screen half-tones on Warren’s Cameo,
or the strong line work from zinc plates on Warren’s Cumberland
Book were readily perceived when the actual printed sheet was
before the prospective purchaser’s eyes.
** * *
The especial interest of all this to Australian Printerdom at the
present moment is the appointment of B. J. Ball, Ltd., as Austra-
lian Agents for the S. D. Warren Co. Large orders were placed
some months ago by many printers all over the Commonwealth, and
some of these goods have now arrived, while other shipments are
on the water.
WARREN’S STANDARDS are:
Warrens'‘Cumberland” M.F. and Super.
Warren’s "Cumberland” Coated.
“Warrentown” and “Lustro” Art Papers.
Printone (high-grade Super-calendared).
Library Text (Special M.F.).
Warren’s Silkote (a dull Art in white
and tint).
Warren’s Olde Style (antique book paper).
Cameo Cover, Plate Coated, Postcard, etc.
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED
as a Printer,
Advertisement Writer or Designer, or
Purchaser of Printed Matter,
apply for printed samples. As specimens of
excellence and distinction, they are of general
interest; but as ILLUSTRATIONS OF WHAT
YOU YOURSELF MAY OBTAIN on your next
order for printing, they are insistently
desirable. Write to us NOW.
B. J. BALL LIMITED,
168 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
552 Collins Street, Melbourne. J
Australian Agents for
S. D. Warren Company
Boston, U.S.A.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
The BanK of Adelaide.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament t 865.
AUTHORISED C A VITAL, £1,000,000. SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL, £625,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL £500,000
RESERVE FUND 555,000
£1,055,000
UNCALLED CAPITAL 125,000
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS... 625,000
£1,805,000
HEAD OFFICE: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 LEADENRALL STREET, E.C.
84 Branches and Agencies in South Australia, and Agents and
Correspondents throughout the World.
A Branch of this Bank is now open at 105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
FOR THE TRANSACTION OF ALL ORDINARY BANKING BUSINESS, UNDER
THE MANAGEMENT OF MR. A. H. DALE.
Adelaide, South Australia,
January 2, 1919,
JOHN SHIELS,
Manager.
BITRATE OF TAR STOPS COUGHS
AND CORDS.
HELPFUL HINT BY A SPECIALIST.
Coughs, colds, catarrh and throat and bron-
chial troubles are nearly always indications
.of an inflamed or abnormal condition of the
mucous lining of the throat and nasal and
bronchial passages ; and this inflammation
or abnormal condition must be remedied be-
fore the trouble will disappear. Recent tests
show that bitrate of tar exercises a peculi-
arly soothing and healing effect on these
tissues, and it is doubtless because of this
action that coughs, colds, catarrh and bron-
chial troubles so quickly benefit by its use.
The best way_to use bitrate of tar is to add
two ounces of it to a plain syrup made by
dissolving half a pound of sugar in half a
pint of hot water. Mix thoroughly and take
one or two tablespoonfuls every hour until
the trouble disappears. Because of its tonic
properties this syrup will be found particu-
larly strengthening and beneficial to those
who have been weakened and run down by
chronic coughs. Gare should be taken to
ask .your chemist for the bitrate of tar as, in
addition to being pleasant to the taste, this
is practically the only form suitable for use
in cases of coughs and colds. — Advt.
the;
H
m.
m
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Authorised Capital .. .. £5,000,000 Directors ,--\SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve .liability of
Proprietors
£1,945,300
1.040.000
£2,985,300
790.608
£3,781,908
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hod. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M, STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St. Manager: R. 8. GREGSON. Accountant: E. J. OSBORNE.
George St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager: j. a. e. hadley.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE; 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Glad news comes from England that
Hughes has arranged to have thousands of
discharged Australian soldiers trained in
Europe—one great workshop in France is to
hold 2000 of them. These men are for the
new Australian industries which Hughes’s
colleague, Millen, says are quite unnecessary,
and which his colleague, Watt, kills system-
atically by annexing their earnings as “war
profits.”
It is stated that various Diggers are
applying for their discharge in England so
that they may pay their own passage money
and travel to Australia in comfort. If any
man has to get his discharge in Europe and
pay his own fare in order to travel home
in. comfort, then somebody ought to be shot.
It would clear up matters a lot if the
man at the other end of the cable would
interview Woodrow Wilson and ask him to
get down to the details of his League of
Nations scheme. If, as he suggests, the war
will have failed unless a resultant League of
Nations so fixes things that there shall be no
more wars, why is Wilson’s country plan-
ning to build the strongest navy on earth?
As a matter of fact there have been leagues
of nations all through history. Even the
ancient Greeks fixed up one—which went
to pieces as soon as the Spartans decided
that the time was ripe to improve the world
with its own particular brand of k'uitur.
THE ONLY TIME THAT BILLJIM
EVER RAN'
Another fine performance of the War Time
Profits Tax. In the three years prior to 1914
the Adelaide Rope, Nail and Barb Wire
Manufacturing Co. had a rotten time. There
was a bad strike in 1911; a fire followed in
1912, when most of the plant and the pre-
mises went up in smoke; and 1913 brought
drought. Yet it is upon a comparison with
the average profits of those years that the
war-time profit tax is levied on this co. Of
course, in the circumstances it can’t pay a
dividend; and, naturally enough, sharehold-
ers want to know whether it is worth while
working and wearing out the machinery.
It doesn’t suit this paper’s book alto-
gether ; but, at any rate, it shows a better
appreciation of the fitness of things when,
instead of rewarding the small party-hack
for his alleged political services with a title,
they pass the tag on to Henry Jones, the
man who has built up the biggest jam busi-
ness in Australia, and “Young Sam” Hor-
dern, who has added factory after factory
to the family’s vast retail shop-business.
Labor has dug up an excellent reason for
putting its own shoulder to the wheel in
connection with the housing problem.
Maurice Blackburn, writing in Melb. Labor
Call, says:—
In Port Melbourne, a workers’ suburb, one out of
every seven children died in 1915 under one year of
s> age. In Camberwell, a “middle-class” suburb, one
out of every 37 children died in 1915 under one
year of age.
It is probably the same to-day at Port Mel-
bourne, or worse ; but the remedy is right
at the toiler’s hand, or at the hand
of a lot of him who, though getting-
handsome wages, just can’t be both-
ered to be up and doing. So long as there
is no particular demand for outer suburban
“workmen’s homes,” financed by the State
on the easiest of terms, the toiler can’t shift
from his own shoulders the entire blame for
his overcrowding.
A repatriated soldier at Dapto (N.S.W.)
has received more notice in the papers than
his case called for, because the case is really
quite common. He happened to be in a
thickly populated cow district not many
miles from Sydney, where repatriated sol-
diers were scarce, so he attracted attention.
If he had been far out, where, instead of
there being 100 people to look at one failure,
there was one kangaroo to look at 100 fail-
ures, the situation would have been different.
All 'that was alleged in this instance was
that the land was poor and infested
with rabbits, blackberries and sundries,
which was the reason why it was available
for settlement. Also that it was sold at the
price that the man who knows charges the
man or the Department that doesn’t know.
Further, that the cows were the sort that
the man who wants to get rid of cows dis-
poses of to an official in a Sydney office act-
ing as agent for a man who hasn’t much
voice in the matter. It is said that as a
cow allotment the place is a bad debt, and
that three previous triers had found it a
bad debt as a hen allotment. But then
almost any place is a bad debt as a hen
allot :.ent. The repatriation business is
young'' -as yet, but if it has already put four
tenants on one small dead farm it is hust-
ling.
All along the fertile coastal region of
Western Vic. the settler is harvesting good
fodder crops and generally having the time
of his life. Purchases
under such conditions
are not likely to return
the best ultimate
value, yet the Closer
Settlement Board is
going cheerfully ahead
with. its buying, rely-
ing on the valuations
of its. paid advisers.
These are' naturally
quite up-to-date, to
say the least of it;
wherefore the Board is
busy tying a lot of
millstones around the
necks of a lot of men
who deserve much bet-
ter treatment. Both
Lands Minister Frank
Clarke and Dairy
Minister Dave Oman
know the Western
District quite well and
should talk this thing
over. Their present
optimistic view of land-settlement in this
expensive region will make room for the
Insolvency Court later.
The Commonwealth Government made a
profit of about £270,000 out of its price-
fixing : £17,000 came from cornsacks, £3OOO
from the winter butter pool and £250.000
from rabbit-skins. No wonder a Senator
said lately that he wasn’t enamored of the
price-fixing policy. Neither are the trap-
pers. A similar —er —acquisition scheme
applied to the sheep and the squatter would
have yielded something really handsome.
But how the Western District would have
dropped off from apoplexy!
Ball, N. S. Wales Minister for Unfinished
Works, is in high feather these days. He
says that many affairs have been suspended
during the war-time when the Ma State w T as
restricted to a measly average of about
£5,000,000 a year of borrowed money, and
paid off none of its old debts and forgot
the sinking fund. It was going slow on
£14.000 of lOU per day, or £1 every six
seconds. But now the usual loan works are
to resume at the old pace, and a city loan
railway, to cost £7,000,000, is to flourish,
and the Sydney Harbor loan bridge is really
in sight, and the perpendicular loan canal
over the Blue Mountains will begin as soon
as the money can be raised. There is even
fresh hope for the scheme to bore a
great loan hole through the globe so that
fresh water may fall through from Scotland,
bringing with it the seeds of deer and
heather and usquebaugh and tartan poetry.
Ball also proposes to float a loan for the
establishment of perpetual motion, and an-
other for an artificial State quicksand to put
the sinking-fund in, and a third for the build-
ing of a permanent rainbow by day labor
with a jack-o’-lantern or will-o’-the-w 7 isp
hanging from the top of the arch.
“One hundred and forty steamships, equal-
ling 800,000 tons, are booked for Australasia
within the next five months.” One hundred
and forty ships are to bring out, say, 140,000
men, and under their hatches
the manufactured goods these
men and their friends will
want. Thus the goods the men
might make, the profitable jobs
they might do, are to arrive
with them. From the camp
to the factory, from crowded
life to crowded life, will be a
strong prompting with many
of our boys; but after years
of close human intimacy and
wages assured, they are in-
vited as primary producers to
go out and fight desolation on
their own. The Aussie is put
in the front line, even made
the point of the wedge, to
scrap the Ilun ; but he is only
good enough for the least in-
telligent and the least profit-
able branch of the producing
business. He could not run a
cotton or a jute mill by him-
self, poor, helpless cripple—
that calls for a Tommy! He
taught the Sammy fine points
in scrapping the Hun; but he
could not learn from Sammy
how to make his own tools and machinery,
for are we not niggers or Angoras?
Prime Minister Hughes has stated “Aus-
tralia’s demands” in the New York Tribune.
They are: —
Australian control of the adjacent islands that
used to he German.
Power to make whatever laws, including tariffs,
we think fit.
Our war debt to be paid by the aggressor.
And he might have added
Our share of. the. indemnity to fie .paid to an inde-
pendent trustee, pich as the Bank of Prance or the
Bank of England' and applied strictly in the repay-
ment of as much of our debt as it will cover, our
present financiers being the sort of men (Hughes
especially) who might go on a jag with the money
and leave the war debt where it was.
The rising generation of Germans is the
generation that had a holiday from school, to
celebrate the sinking of the Lusitania; the
generation that was taught to jubilate over
each new development in war-making atroci-
ties and gloat over the sufferings of prison-
ers : a generation reared to reverence the
Kaiser, and babble of supermen, and think
of war as Germany’s greatest national busi-
ness. The twig is bent: the brutality of
Ivultur has vitiated the young idea. The
pacifists’ dream of a mbrally-sound Germany
within the next few years is therefore not
possible of realisation. But-we can do some-
thing to help on the good movement, and
that is to make Germany pay, and. go on
paying. A big indemnity is not ■ only a
matter of simple justice: it is one of pru-
dence, too.
Not only was it depied here that Minister
Pearce was going to England at the public
expense (which he is doing), but Hughes
denied it in London, and money was wasted
cabling the fact out. Peter’s famous deiiial
wasn’t a shred compared with the denial of
Pearce. As an instance of self-denial the
most attenuated hermit wasn’t in the same
cave with him.
One who falls casually into the N. S.
Wales Department of Agriculture looking
for the chief inspector will find him, if he
happens to be in town, jambed in a room
with 10 or 12 other officers. But if one
happens to seek the chief clerk one will find
him in a room of his own. Which apparently
trivial distinction may be seriously taken as
ah outward and visible sign of a rotten influ-
ence—the growing importance of the inside
clerical staff compared with the field staff.
The chief clerk (good man and capable offi-
cer) stands for that section of the service
which amasses awesome piles of documents'
and red tape, to the bewilderment and wrath
of the ordinary individual. The chief in-
spector typifies the farm and field experi-
mental and educational work which is, or
should be, a direct help to the toiling cocky
and a permanent benefit to the community
which foots the bill. There is a great moral
lurking about the. humble allegory of the
two spots occupied in the Department of
Agriculture by the chief inspector and the
chief clerk.
The job of turning kelp into potash has
been taken up at Southport (Tas.) by
Hobart people. They are all right for the
raw material, for about 100 miles of fore-
shore are well lined with the right kind of
weed. One of their troubles is that Aus-
tralian buyers are a bit suspicious of the
Tasmanian potash, because it is a mere local
product, though when English consumers got
a sample they sat up and asked for more. So
far, the kelp is cut by hand ; but if anyone
will bring along a floating kelp-harvester to
do it by machinery, he ought to find a job.
There are lots of other things in kelp, in-
cluding iodine; and if Australia will insist
on having its own potash, the side-industries
will follow; and that is the snowball process
of accumulating population and wealth.
Every man can give this snowball a shove;
and no ordinary man can do as much for his
country in any other way.
“ WHO NEVER WOULD LE MISSED .”
“The Minister for Defence intends leaving for
London about the middle of January.”
AUSTRALIA: “Here, cut out those return
tickets and hand out a few singles."
The Censorship can be credited with most
of the trouble which is occurring now on
home-coming troopships. Scurvy treatment
of returning men isn't a new thing; but
the gag has been applied to nearly every
mouth which opened to. speak of the griev-
ances'. So the scandal —for scurvy treatment
of wounded and sick Billjim is a
was hushed up, and grievances were not re-
dressed. . The public knows something about
Pearce’s ghastly failure as Minister for
Defence; but it hasn’t been permitted to
know half. The Censorship could always
find one- reason for clapping on the gag— L
publicity would be “prejudicial to recruit-
ing.”
Wireless messages will run between Aus-
tralia and Britain, and, of course, places of
less distance, as soon as. more powerful sta-
tions are established at this end. So it will
soon be good-bye to the, “permanent and re-
productive” cables which represent certain
good loans at the bottom of the sea. They
will be left for the fish babies to play leap-
frog on just as the land telegraph system will
be a gymnasium for the bear while he lasts.
Nothing is permanent save the debt —not
even the railways, or the Adelaide horse-
trams, or the old Sydney omnibuses, or
Cobb’s coach, or King Billy, or the muzzle-
loading gun. And the first thing which they
all yell for is a sinking fund attached to
every loan.
GOD’S PATIENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
God has been patient, hoping still
To bend to His that stubborn will;
But now Ilis vengeance is awake
That vast impiety to break.
Look up ! The writing on the wall!
Too late, too late on Him they call!
The pariahs of humankind
Hated of all, where will they find
In earth or heaven one to whom
They dare appeal against their doom ?
Vainly they sicken of their sins:
Their punishment begins, begins!
N.S.W.
CAIN SMITH.


E Vi
mm
M
'b </
(X
I
£
T •
..-r-i-; • •
t*
imil
o!
••
• •
“V;.
he
©•
£2
AEOLIAN
VOCALION
“The Xmas Gift for the Whole Family.”
J UST imagine tlie “Oh’s!” and “All’s!” of the youngsters
and the admiration of the elders when on Christmas
morning the Vocalion— your gift—is found near the
Christmas tree. As some fine, lilting melody pours forth
from this distinguished-looking instrument and you see the
pleasure the beautiful music gives, you feel' glad indeed that
you did get the one gift which all can enjoy.
And then what a satisfaction it is to know that, in the
Vocalion, you have given a unique gift —a greater phonograph.
For instance, the Graduola device —which no other instrument
possesses—-enables you, if you wish, to vary the tone of your
records so that you .may play as well as listen.
Priced from £9.
1918
Ri|3Sl
' I
SEND IN THIS COUPON W.T.
and you will be posted gratis an interesting
Catalog, giving full particulars and prices, and
explaining the easy terms of purchasing a
Vocalion.
Name
Address
THE PIANOLA COMPANY PTY. LTD
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
“On the Block,” 252 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
436 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Cor RUNDLE STREET and GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE
Also at AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, WELLINGTON.
5
jBSESasg
'J
il
e
ill


WARATAH
Fencing Wire
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
The Austral Nail
Co. Pty. Ltd.,
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
A WIRE SUPERIOR
TO ANY IMPORTED.
Support Home Industries
LficD
OUR FARM PUMP
ENGINE will do this as
well as cut chaff, saw
wood, work shearing-
machines, etc.. It can be
attached to a windmill of
almost any pump in three
minutes. Needs no mechanic
to fix or operate, and
works all day without
attention. Hundreds sold
and eivinsr satisfaction.
£lO DOWN, BALANCE VERY EASY.
If interested in water supply or irrigation
state your working conditions and we will
/"f. stock Steam, Kerosene, Petrol
and P entd fugal Pumps
rs »i., Gould’s ’ and “Deming's”
and P w f < or a n services - Mackie’s Rock
Plants for B ° rer ’i 1 W ° rkin S and
spedaltv de f P Wdl and bore a
specialty Immense stocks Challenge
We efect nlhnt 'r' ater ?”PPly accessoril!
terms f re< L ulred and S>ve easy
teims. . Catalogues and expert advice free.
Langwill Bros. 8 Davies Pty. Ltd
110-114 Sturt Street, SOOTH MELBOURNE*
Near Princes ’
Water Lifted 500 ft.,
Pumped a Mile,
at a cost of about id. per hour.
WHISKY
(r^v
the'TOPNOTCH "scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
: In B. 21/11/’lB “Drofsed” wrote
O; , “mistake” made by early observers who
alleged that the boomerang was used as a sword,
throughout the whole length of the coast, from
Si dney to the Tweed, the war boomerang was so
used, and a most formidable weapon it proved. It
was used as a sword at close quarters and as a
missile weapon at a distance. The war boomerang
was longer and heavier than the usual implement,
and had no “set” or “lift” on it. The “come-
back boomerang” was almost, if not quite, a sporting
THE BROKEN SIESTA.
“Here, you, what's all the row about?"
"Well, I'm trying to convince this Hanky
blowfly that I'm not a corpse yet."
or recreation instrument, and was of little value
to the blacks as a food-furnisher except in an in-
direct way. The competitions which the young men
were accustomed to have with boomerangs traivcd
their arms for throwing the “mudock” or fish spear
as well as the war spear. On the North Coast the
blacks made. their boomerangs from the rootspurs
of the myrtle, this being an ideal timber for the
purpose. Itj has a tendency to warp as it dries, and
thus furnished the two “intersecting planes” in its
length necessary to secure the comeback perform-
ance. The common idea is that the blacks used
the boomerang to knock game off the limbs of trees,
the obedient weapon, after effecting this purpose, *e-
tuining to the hand of the thrower. This is not
correct. At the best of times a comeback boomer-
ang is erratic in flight, but if it strikes twigs or
branches in its course it goes all adrift. No doubt
on rare occasions, when Binghi found a large flock
of birds not high above him, he could knock
down food, but not otherwise. The blacks of 40
years ago made boomerangs which were marvels of
skill in finish and scientific twist, but for many
>eais those constructed for sale to collectors have
been rubbish, not one in 20 being a fair specimen of
a comeback.
* * * *
“Jack”: The Torres Strait native likes
to dispose of the body of his deceased relative “all
the same white man fashion” nowadays, and will ran-
sack the island for any available planking or floor-
boards with which to construct a coffin. But 40 or
50 years back the process was more elaborate. After
death the internal arrangements were removed and
the body carefully cleaned out; then a “stuffing” of
certain vegetable substances was made and the body
hung outside in the sun to dry. Incisipns were made
near the ankles and in the arms, and the extraneous
liquid collected (which in some cases was consumed
by a man desirous of acquiring any of the particular
virtues of the deceased). After that, the late
lamented was smoked, thoroughly dried and kept on
the sideboard for perhaps three or four years. Then
the head was detached and the body buried. From
the head the lower jaw was taken, to be used by the
head medicine-man in certain, religious observances,
ffhe natives refer frequently to the visit of “big
St ®f!? e . r ® ll r , I same wtomlU two side”—probably the
paddleboat Fly, which called in at the islands on one
occasion and collected specimens of the local under-
taker s art.
* * * *
“Peanut”: In the interests of local talent
I Should like to arrange a meeting between the
Joidan Valley black scorpion and Australia’s own
icd-back spider. My money would be on the spider
He uses his block. Most bushinen would say that the
bullciog-ant can take care of himself, and for sheer
gameness and readiness to fight anything he
tThe 8 11 6 a f 110 equaL But he ought not
to be allowed out without his nurs e when the red-back
I-edTT \ T u S a°f nion iS the reSUlt 0f etching a
ed-back who had fixed himself a little bivvy under a
ledge of stone beside a track where the ants passed
all day long. Presently a big bulldog from an
snidTl formic ' establishment came up the trail. The
spider knew all about the tactics of ants, for he
popped out and stood
square in the way. Now,
the bulldog-ant relies a
good deal on frightening
his opponent, as you can
see if you accost him, so
he commenced to rear up
and show off his fighting'
strength. The spider
affected great consterna-
tion and commenced a
series of aimless-looking
little rushes backwards
and forwards across the
way. The ant redoubled
his “frightfulness” busi-
ness, but after a few
seconds it occurred to me
that the spider was gradu-
ally. making his to-and-fro
passes in a sort of crescent
shape. About that time
the bulldog felt the first
touch of the hobbles
(quite invisible to me)
that the spider was cast-
ing in each of those semi-
circular movements. Then
the ant came down on “all
sixes” and commenced to
fight in earnest, but by
that time he was tied up
neatly where he stood,
h’ven then the peculiar
flexibility of his body (for
he can bend completely
double), and the fact that
he can fight at both ends,
looked like making trouble
tor the spider; but Red-
back continued to draw
those little bonds he
had cast tighter and tighter. He pounced in
with a lightning leap and disengaged again like a
Hash. I think it was the head where he got his
momentary grip, and his poison worked instantane-
ously.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The stocking of the Kimberley
(W.A.) district with cattle from Queensland by the
Du racks and others in the ’eighties must be about a
world’s record in droving. About 8500 cattle started
off in 1883, in three mobs, in charge of John, Patrick
and Michael Durack and Kilfovle and Hays. Their
jumping off place was Mt. Marlow, on the Barcoo,
and it took them over two years to reach the Ord
Diver, which they struck in August, 1855. Five men
died on the way from fever and other accidents ami
floods and drought, pleuro, red water, the alligators
in the Lemon River (N.T.), and wild blackfellows
accounted for about half the cattle.
ANSWERING a fool according to ms FOLLY.
J ONES: "Hello, Brown — movin’?'”
BROWN ( bitterly) : “Oh, no; I’m just giving the furniture a ride.”
“Bad Australian”: When Bill the Bul-
locky gets down to the axle out on the Black Soil
Plains or one of the logging tracks of the coastal
scrubs, and starts in to persuade his team that it is
time they were hauling out his hem „ to-heart talk
witli Leopard, Capt’in and Strawberry is a mild
Sunday-school exhortation compared to the oration
of Juan Fiilano de Tal, the South American bull-
puncher (or, rather, prodder), as he conducts, his
oxen with a goad. Juan starts in with about
15 minutes’ disgustingly blasphemous remarks
addressed to the bulls and the universe at large,
every other word being emphasised by a savage prod
with the iron. If his preparatory work has no effect
he immediately invokes the aid of every saint in
the calendar, calling on such as he ban remember
familiarly by name. If this frantic appeal fails to
help him he turns dog on the holy ones at once and
yells: “Come down, Pedro, and I’ll fight you for it!
Come down, Jose, and I’ll blanky well take the pair
of you on!” When the challenge is ignored he bangs
his old sombrero on the ground and flourishing his
claws in the face of Heaven, making the motion of
dragging the saints^ from the skies and tossing them
into the hat, he howls: “Stay there, then, Pedro.
Stay there, Jose.” When his voice is exhausted he
bounds about 6ft. in the air and comes down splosh
with both feet on his cadv, and with foam on his
whiskers keeps the good work going until he drops
ii om exhaustion and sheer vindictiveness.
liagar : The Torres Strait clam is about
the toughest proposition I’ve sunk my teeth into.
Had 121 b. of him brought to the house recently
by an ancient black who wanted tobacco, while a
second followed carrying the shell. I didn’t weigh
that shell, the balance-scale only registering up to
501 b The clam was washed, jacketed and ‘then
boiled for seven solid hours. It was then taken out
and prodded viciously with a fork. The knife
wouldn’t cut it. It was then dropped—and it
bounced. Wasflod again next morning it was then
boiled for several hours longer, after which it was
thrown to the fowls. Most of it is there still, and
the fowls are looking the worse for wear.
* * * * *
“W errimee”: Sheep are quiet things on
the track; but they rush sometimes, and I’ve seen
them flatten out a wire-fence more than once. One
night a mob rushed over me. They’d been feeding
down a slope, and I was crowding them back when a
dingo made a stir among them at the top. I
stumbled over one jumbuclc just as the whole flock
started full rip down the hill. A sheep hasn’t got
very big feet and it isn’t very heavy ; all the same
it’s no matter for congratulation being under a lot
of them at once. However, after about a dozen had
stumbled over me there came a bit of a break, which
allowed the next flier to see the obstruction in
front of him. He jumped, and thereafter everv one
whether it saw me or not, made a bound at the same
place—with the exception of a couple at the tail
end, which jumped too soon and landed on top of
me. 1
;, “F.Y.7.”: I would admire to see that
brown snake which, according to “Lantana,” coiled
round a South Kempsey cow’s leg and sucked her
dry. In the first place, no snake, with its ineffec-
tual tongue and lack of cheeks, could get up the neces-
sary suction. In the second, the brown is a
highly poisonous serpent, and, even if he warned
to, couldn’t catch hold of a cow’s teat without punc-
turing her with his needle-like fangs. In the third
place, any snake which had sucked all the milk
from a modern dairy cow would "look like a gas
cylinder, with a head and tail attached. Even" if
he was a 30ft. anaconda he would be bulged beyond
all possibility of curling around anything. You can’t
pour two gallons of milk, say, into a two-quart
snake. Strikes me it was not the cow’s teat that
was pulled, but “Lantana’s” leg.
THE INSPIRATION.
FIRST DRUNK : “ There’s my wife coming.
What'll I do?”
SECOND DRUNK: “ Tell her you’re not here!”
“D.F.”: If anyone can swallow a yarn
sworn to by Mosman and Bannister, who published a
book about Australia in 1853, it makes the usual
perjuries about the homing instincts of horses, cats
and homing-pigeons look like lid. They say that
cattle sent by sea from Sydney to the Swan River
(,W.A.) had been known to make the overland trip
back, to turn up at the station on which they were
bred in N. S. Wales!
(Continued on page 24.1
IN FULL RETREAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I’m fed up with the city an’ its ways,
. Its 'eat and skirt an’ dirt an’ all-nights out;
J’m full up of the boozin’, loafin’ days—
I’m goin’ where there ain't no one to “shout.”
A green track’s better than electric-lights,
An’ better than a two-up school I know ;
The bush road darkens quiet; an’ the nights
Is lit with winkin’ stars that come an’ go.
’Struth ! Sydney, ain't no beano fer a bloke,
With rcd-’ead gum-trees noddin’ down the track
In mornin’s rollin’ misty round the smok e
That curls up from the leaves that snap an’ crack.
I’ll get me bloomin’ swag an’ ’oof it now ;
, This angin round the corners with the push
As got me beat at last; an’, any’ow,
there ain t no 1 pubs to loaf in in the bush.
Ter arms an’ back get ’ardened in a while;
Yer face gets thin an’ brown instead of fat;
Yei breath 11 last yer mile on dusty mile;
’Oo wouldn’t swap the skirt an’ beer fer that?
I m fed up with the city’s dirty ways,
An’ full up of the beery crawl we went.
I'm goin’ where it’s clean ; where nights an’ days
An me can all be nearer wot was meant.
N.S.W.
L. M.


THE BEHNING PLAYER PIANO
Makes Home-life Happier. America’s
most artistic Player. Exquisite tone
quality and touch.
S*BW nMRTj'IR . - =
THE ESTEY PIANO. Model B.
Specially recommended for hot climates.
Stands in tune for very long periods.
THE WONDERFUL VICTOR.
Academy Model.
Renowned throughout Australia for its
remarkable durability.
GRAMOPHONES
Buy one of
Paling’s Pianos
for 1919.
Are you looking for a thoroughly reliable Piano
or Player Piano? If so, then commence the New
Year well.
Place your confidence in PALING’S—the house of
Piano experts who give you an absolute guarantee.
These illustrations are but a few examples of the
beautiful Player Pianos and Pianos sold by us.
In tone-quality and durability, in finish and sound
construction each instrument can be thoroughly
relied upon.
We sell on Time Payment, and will take your
present Piano in exchange, allowing you full honest
value. Piano Catologue and printed price list are
free. Please write for them.
PALING’S
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, NEWCASTLE
and LISMORE.
THE BEHNING PLAYER PIANO.
SHUT —In position to be played by
band.
THE VICTOR PLAYER PIANO.
The banisher of lonely moments. A
most delightful instrument; which
everyone can play.
THE PLAYOTONE.
A very fine Tlayer indeed, at a most
moderate price. Ask for particulars.
ESTEY ORGANS
I
For Pumping Water
have been built into some very practical combinations. The various outfits are so
constructed that the engines can (when not needed for pumping-) be detached
instantly and put to other work, such as chaff cutting-, wood sawing, sheep shearing, etc.
COOPER ENGINES are known throughout the world for their strong, practical
construction and unusual economy in operation.
wm
The ipcopeft Little Giant Pumping Outfit
has been especially constructed for Australian conditions, and is acknowledged one
of the most satisfactory, economical and reliable pumping plants ever constructed.
Consists of a strong, high-grade, 2-b.h.p. engine and a substantial all-metal pump-
jack, with high-grade cut gears and white-metal bearings, all built into one compact
outfit ready to attach to bore or windmill instantly.'
Price of Complete Outfit, £^71101-
THE HORIZONTAL SET is most suitable for pumping from a stream or dam
when the water is to be forced a great distance.
/
If you require a pumping plant, send us particulars of water
supply and where it is desired to deliver the water. We
will immediately quote, giving full particulars of the most
suitable and economical plant for your requirements.
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.
129 Sussex Street, SYDNEY,
486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
a
SMSS
%>


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS' FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Trade Mark
quality.
66<v
0
:■
Trade esf Mark
quality,
Packed in a
/
Dainty Fancy Box.
s
Obtainable all leading Confectioners throughout
the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
Delicious
Chocolates
(VARIOUS FLAVORS).
only from McINTYRE BROS., Sole Proprietors, Melbourne, Victoria.
Agents: Mr. J. P. WILSON. Brisbane.
Mr. DAVID BLASHKI, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Messrs. MADDOX & LAWRENCE, PERTH.
Mr. W. R. LANGSrORD, ADELAIDE.
[1
“J.Q.”: How about sun-drying some of
your Murray cod when you catch more than you
can eat ? This is the way to do it: Clean the inside
of fish and remove backbone. Salt down with small
quantity of fine salt. Cover well with pepper as a
preventive against blow-flies, and hang up in sun
until the fish are as thin as chips and curled up
like a hose. About three or four days should do
this. In this state the flesh will keep for six months
easily. It should be soaked for 12 to 24 hours
before cooking.
* * * *
“11.V.E.”: In addition to the yellow-billed
spoonbill a still rarer fowl has appeared this summer
atout Bega (South Coast, N.S.W.) ponds and lagoons,
in the shape of the great (or Australian) white
egret. This immaculate individual is robed in
snowy white, stands about 2ft. bin. in height, and
many decades ago moved John Could, who was not
given to gush, into warm prose. He described it as
“this noble species.” The sharp-pointed bill is
bright orange, and the legs and feet are black. This
rare nomad is usually styled “white crane.” It
ranges from Japan and Southern China to Australia.
Its little cousin is the chaste-plumed egret, whose
head-dress masquerades (or masqueraded before the
law took a hand) as “osprey feathers.”
* * * *
“Johnnie Cake”: Re “Jim Carew’s” (B.
5/12/’18) aid to skinning, a beast by first pumping
in air between the flesh and the hide. It certainly
makes the job much easier, but the practice is not
THE CAMOUFLAGE CUT.
CUSTOMER: “Yer sure it fits all right be’ind?"
WARDROBE AGENT: “ Peautiful, ma tear friendt. It couldn’t look petter if it vos made
for you. All you got to do now is to get your hair cut, an’ you’ll pass yourself by
mitout knowin’ who it vos.”
to be recommended as a certain amount of the
atmosphere becomes locked in the cells of the
flesh, and experience has shown that this is a
very ready method of generating ptomaine poison.
At one time it used to be the general custom with
butchers to “blow up” the carcases of calves, in
order, as it was supposed, to make the meat look
more attractive—it certainly made it look larger.
For some years, however, the practice has been for-
bidden by law on account of the danger attending it.
"Ckev”: Struck a rarity in bees’-nests
while out after honey in the mangroves that line the
Brunswick River (N.S.W.) the other day. Spotted
the opening of a nest in the trunk of an old-man
mangrove which we felled and proceeded to split
open. As soon as the axe laid bare the hollow we
found we had struck a nest of native bees as well as
one of the Italian species. Both nests were together,
and the little native bee had evidently had a great
time robbing the honey from his big brother, for
there were hunks of the Italian comb eaten away.
Still, there was plenty of good honey left, and as my
mate soon found the queen we came away with the
swarm as well. Strange that the foreigners allowed
the natives to live in the same hollow. The Aus-
tralians, however, used their own entrance —a little
hole, well-gummed at the edges—on the opposite side
of the log to the larger entrance of the striped
variety.
“Beanstalk” • The aerial root of the para-
site fig is ho freak ; it is the natural way of growth
in the several varieties of Moreton Bay. Left to
Nature it never germinates on the ground. Birds
drop the seed where it falls by chance into some
fork, cleft or cavity in a standing tree of any sort at
any height from the ground. When a few inches
long it sends down its first earth-seeking root no
thicker than whipcord. Later, more of these come
till the trunk of the foster-parent, tree is surrounded ;
they all root firmly in the soil and in-
crease in size till thick as a man’s body,
sending out laterals crossing each other till
the w'hole becomes a strong network strangling
and killing the foster-mother. These great cables
grow together where they cross or touch, forming a
solid trunk. During 50 years’ work in the jungles
or' Bananaland 1 have seen thousands of them in all
stages, from the seedling with its first little whipcord
root up to the giant of the Mary River 100 ft. high,
with trunk 72ft. diameter at. base tapering off to
20ft. diameter where the great limbs branched out.
Don’t think it’s a true parasite, because it draws no
nutriment froin the tree it grows on, and grow's as
well on a dead tree as on a living one. Have never
seen it on one of its own species.
“Melos”: “H.V.E.” (B. 21./11/T8) asks
me to identify a “thin, silvery-grey snake, about
3§ft. long, found occasionally at Monaro.” The
particulars are rather vague for identification pur-
poses, so I shall merely suggest that he is referring
to the grey whip-snake. This species is slender,
from 2ft. to 4ft. in length, grey or olive above,
grey- or greenish below, yellow mark around eye,
a brand by which it can be always recognised. The
crawler is as elusive as Bill Hohenzollern, but not
half as venomous ; in fact Krefft says that its bite
causes no more irritation than the sting of a bee.
“Robert B.” : What’s the cause of puppies
taking fits? I have an infant fox-terrier about five
months old which has had two bad fits. In the first
attack he seemed to go mad, racing around in circles,
yelping and attempting to bite anybody who tried
to catch him. The second time he lay on his side,
kicking and foaming at the mouth, and seemed nearly
dead for an hour or so afterwards.
MAKING IT EASY. FOR HIM.
JACKY: “ Lend us five bob, boss?"
JACKEROO: “Sorry, Jacky only got a bob on me.”
JACKY: “Well, lend me that, an’ owe me four bob.”
“Pick”: The dog-birds are small, browiiish
denizens of the N. S. Wales south-eastern tablelands,
between Lake George, and the Snowy Mountains.’ They
derive their name from the manner of their language.
Tiny may easily bp mistaken for a family of young
terriers .having an early lesson in barking. A ragged
stick nest, with lateral entrance, not readily distin-
guishable from any old bundle of twigs suspended
in the fork of a tree, forms the kennel of the
feathered poodle, and there he rears broods of pup-
birds year after year if unmolested.
"H.W.F.”: “Mookingak’s” (B. 2S/11/T8)
account of a half-caste abo.’s tracking is good, but
not extraordinary for a native. A half-caste, called
Albert, whom I knew in 1885 with Mill’s tank-sinking
party between Warrego and' Paroo rivers (N.S.W ),
was the best I have come across. He was about 20
then, and knew the hoof-prints of every horse in the
party. One morning Albert w r as late in bringing
in the nags, and on Mills growling- at him, he replied:
“I been tracking Blossom.” Mills said: “Rot!
Blossom been gone 12 months.” (She had been
stolen.) Albert replied: “She been come back alonga
a foal; gone alonga Paroo.” This proved correct, and
Albert got her and foal later on. He had remem-
bered her tracks all that time.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: There were three Jay Pees
on the Bdhch; defendant Pite sat over against the
wall, with something that looked like a couple of
hoops from a covered cart forming a semi-circle in
front of him, and complainant was bunched in a
chair, with one bundled foot resting on a bush
stool, looking like a particularly unfortunate victim of
a serious blasting accident, His status was explained—
he was a trivial sundowner, with no local interests.
The tale of trouble strung out over three hours.
Defendant Pite had started out on the former Wednes-
day to cart in a 100-gal. “bar’l” of water from the
springs at Iron Hill. The poor man had to fill his
bar’l with one bucket, and, as ill luck would
have it, when he was watering Toby Tommy knocked
the bucket out of his hand and trod on it,
punching two fair-sized holes in the bottom. Pite
had to go down into the spring, fill his bucket,
climb out, mount the small platform he had rigged
for the purpose, and pour such trifling moisture
as remained in the dipper into the cask, and
repeat the process with dreadful persistence while
the sun register climbed steadily and maliciously
from 120 deg. to something right out of sight. On
the return trip about three miles down the track
home Pite encountered Williams, the w'retehed com-
plainant, who was sitting on a log, smoking a length
of lightvvood root. Williams stopped Pite’s horses
unceremoniously', and said: “Say,. you gimme a
drink!” Pite, inflamed with heat, soured by the
burden of the day, struck at the squalid tramp with
his whip, and told him to go to the Brimstone Pit
and haul his- own water. Just five minutes later
Pite made a discovery that added one more horror
to an intolerable day—he had forgotten his vest; it
was left lying on a rock at Iron Hill spring, and
his famous fore-aiul-aft watch was in a pocket of
the mislaid garment. Pite returned, on foot; he re-
covered his vest, toiled back to where he had
left Toby and Tommy in the shade ..of an abounding
gum, and there calamity awaited him. He came
suddenly upon a sight that at first. paralysed him
wifh, amazement, and then filled him with homicidal
fury. ' The detestable complainant, this corrupt
Vvilliams, had stripped himself of his rags, turned
on the big tap in the end of Pite’s-100-gallon bar’l,
and sittingunder the fall, while the'last few buckets
of precious water spouted out, he was revelling in a
bounteous shower-bath in the centre of a drought-
stricken wilderness. Pite arose in the court, tremu-
lous with emotion. “I went at him,” he said. “I
gored him. I kicked him. I fair chewed him. I
dunno what I didn’t do to hfr.ii” Pite fell back in
his place, oozing and exhausted. Piggot, J.P., was
on his feet, his red face was. portentous ; he spread a
great hand over the assemblage. “Silence in the
coort!” His Worship coughed a. dusty cough, and
vindicated the sanctity of aquarian rights at Waddy
in two solemn words. “Justifiable homyci.de!” said
he.
* * * »
“Te W.”: The white-eyebrowed wood-
swallow has, just arrived in this (the Bega, N.S.W.)
district. He is a useful fowl and never (so
far as I know') eats bees or wild cats.
I saw' one of him the other day with a
purple grape-moth in his beak, an insect which
is responsible for a hairy caterpillar which infests
grape-vines, creepers, etc. The wood-swallow usually
arrives on Monaro (N.S.W.) in great flocks about
mid-summer—sometimes accompanied by the silver-
grey masked wood-swallow, with cowl of velvety-black
about its cheeks. I’ve seen the cousins keeping pace
with an army of grasshoppers, in a way calculated
to make the suffering man on the land rejoice. Be-
fore leaving Monaro the wood-swallows fill up most
hollows (not already occupied by the sparrow’s or
starling’s lousy incubators) with their nests.
* * * #
“E.S.S.”: The carpet-snake is a good
climber, as any poultry-keeper in the bush knows.
I found one under the ridge-capping of a roof,
where there were only straight walls to get up. It
also got on to the roosts at night after choolcs even
when the ladder had been taken away, said roosts
being laid across from the top of one wall to another.
Climbing a tree, which a snake can encircle, is a
comparatively easy job to that. The carpet has two
fairly strong claws, attached to rudimentary
legs, and I can only surmise that it uses these in
getting up a straight slab wall.
THE SOVIET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Soviet cried—
“ The idle rich
We doom to die,
And fill the ditch.
“When times are hard,
The loafting crew
We drive them forth,
’Tis but their due;
“Clear out the town
Of ev’ry soul
That does not toil
For bread and bowl ;
“With corpses soft
Bestrew the street,
And give the toads
A morsel sweet;
‘lf there should ’scape
A score or two,
•Just let them die
In frost and dew;
“Then call around
The crowd that toil
And cry—-‘Rejoice,
For none shall spoil
“ ‘Our larders rich,
Who do not give
The honest sweat
Whereby we live.’ ”
Tl’e city hummed
With words like these,
The murmurs rose
Above the trees,
And forth were thrown
To exile grim,
Or torn asunder,
Limb from limb,
The hated crew,
The sons of ease—
It was the Soviet
Of the Bees !
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.


kJ4p
M
Ulics
ur?,
?0
'S/X
rs
12
vW Ja
•o.
Jr 4 >
IIM
M
PS
'J'Css
CICA
L
Cig'arettes of the Hig'hest Class
at Moderate Prices.
ST^«^PRESi
CIGARETTES
Stand apart from, all other Brands —fragrant
cylinders that concentrate all that is best, all
that is most desirable in the Ideal Cigarette.
The Famous Red Packet
No. 333 Per Packet 62^*
STANDARD WEIGHT.
Obtainable of all High-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout A ustralasia.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
[6
A
'J
:
C%7
Si
US'
?> k
SjCnx \ v^_.
(7?
m.


New Hupmobile car.
THE COMFORT CAR.
AT a time when conservation is paramount in individual and national. life comes the new
Hupmobile with its very unusual economy. The fact that it actually does save 15 to 18 per
cent, in tyres and 24 per cent.an fuel is one very welcome phase of its extraordinary comfort.
Specifications.
BODY TYPES —Five-passenger, two- or three-passenger single seater.
WHEELBASE —112 inches. „, , . ,
CYLINDERS —Four, oast en bloc. , removable head —82 mm. bore x 140 mm. stroke.
STARTING —Two unit system Automatic release.
IGNITION —Dixie high-tension magneto.
CARBURETTER —Special Strcmberg, with two adjustments. , . . „ „
PETROL SYSTEM —Stewart-Warner vacuum feed. 13 Imperial gal.an tank two gallon
reserve.
LUBRICATION —Pressure system. Gear pump driven from cam shaft.
COOLING —Thermo-syphon, extra radiator capacity.
CLUTCIIr-Dry-disc type. Seven .steel plates faced with asbestos fabric. Fully housed.
REAR AXLE —Floating type. Spiral bevel gears.
TYRES —815 x 105 mm. clincher type. Plain in front, all-weather tread on rear.
UPHOLSTERY —.Genuine leather, stuffed with reap curled hair.
TOP —Neverlcek, khaki.
Rain-vision windshield; head, tail and instrument-board lights; petrol gauge; motor-
driven horn; ammeter; foot and robe rails; tyre carrier; extra rim; side curtains;
tonneau carpet; hood cover ; pump, jack, full set of tools and tyre-repair outfit.
Write for complete illustrated manual and prices.
DEALERS.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.,
Brisbane.
DALGETY & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.,
Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO.,
LTD., Perth.
Hopcaot>fl>
The Comfort Car.
\
DEALERS.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE,
LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO., LTD., Wan-
ganui, New Zealand.
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’
CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
OF CANTERBURY, LTD.,
Cashel Street,, Christchurch,
New Zealand,
The Comfort Car.
you will see a drover scribbling in a pocket-
book as he rides slowly along with the cattjte
or while sitting under a tree during a halt;
you will see the shepherd, when he has a
mate, turn from the ratter and become
absorbed in his notebook; and you will
notice that the swagman who writes poems
dc esn’t so out of his way to seek company.
The writers are of all ages, from the young
man to the old greybeard. Some of them
v, rite in secret, and no one ever sees then-
masterpieces. Discovery would cover them
with confusion; they would blush to hud
themselves famous among their fellows.
Somehow the section who don’t write see
something to laugh about in the obscure per-
son who does. They shame him with their
chaff aud ridicule —unless he springs upon
them in the fashion of an Ogilvie or a
son. In that case they want to wear Ins
laurels. There are many in' the Backblocks
who pass themselves off in shed and camp
as authors whom everybody knows.
There are others who read their effusions
tc their mates, who buttonhole every chance
acquaintance for a candid opinion of then-
work. No matter where you meet them they
have several samples in their pockets which
they wish you to read or listen to. Others
again acquire some renown in little town-
ships and districts by writing jingles about
local identities and about every conceivable
thing that happens in their neighborhood.
Sometimes the writer is known to nobody,
and in that case he derives at least a lot of
fun from his compositions.
E. S. SORENSON.
Studies in Napoleonic Strategy
This publication, by Captain R. A. Hall, is
an interesting though, not wildly novel work,
tracing the influence of Napoleon on
Foch, or the similarity of Foch to
Napoleon. The author spreads himself on
Napoleon’s policy of making a small finny
superior in numbers for all practical pur-
poses to a large one, by swift concentration
and selection of the point of attack. Four
men were superior to five if three of them
struck two of the enemy at a time. Freder-
ick the Great did something of the sort, and
Epaminondas before him. _ The latter didn’t
smite a hide-bound pedantic State like Aus-
tria with his new idea. He butted the
proudest, toughest and most warlike Greek
community in the stomach and the midtlle of
its fame, and knocked it out. Under the old
order the armies formed in parallel lines
three deeo or thereabouts, and then gave a
yelp and rushed at each other. Epaminondas
devised the plan of making an obtuse angle
in his line, so that after the yelp one end
of it struck the enemy a while before the
other. The striking end was seven or ten
deep, and when the corresponding part of
the foe had been astonished out of existence
it busied itself with a flank movement and
finished things. That was Frederick the
Great and Napoleon in their beginnings.
Further, Bonaparte broke away from the old
German idea by which an army consisted of
a big hunk of infantry, a slab of artillery
and a blob of cavalry. He made up his
army of divisions, and later of army corps,
each with its infantry, cavalry, artillery,
transport and sundries, ready at any moment
to shift for itself and set out on separate
adventures. In other words, he revised the
Roman legion which the stodgy Austrian had
forgotten, just as the Prussians had lost
sight of it and of Frederick’s system also.
It was not a very remarkable device, but
against Austrian incapacity it looked won-
derful, and over 40 of the battles of that
time were devoted to banging that muddle-
headed enemy. Lie was in almost every
battle from the first to the last, save one- -
in fact he was invented to make Napoleon
possible. The resemblance between Bona-
parte and Foch isn’t very clear, and it
seems as if Foch would have struggled along
quite well without the great exemplar. He
and Joffre, likewise French, Haig and co.,
had to fight the world’s biggest war in a
space that resembled a boot-trunk for size,
while the Corsican always had elbow room —
in fact it was the superfluous elbow room
and abundant ventilation of Russia that
ruined him. So the new men devised new
ways, though of necessity their ways re-
sembled in spots those of Wellington, Bona-
parte, Marlborough, Spinola, Alva, Saladin,
Vnuban, Albuquerque. Don John, (lustavius
Adolphus, Charles XII.. Ciesar, Hannibal,
Matins. Tilly, Wallenstein, David, Sarsfield,
Judas Maccabams, Shan O’Neil, Abraham
and the Surry Hills push. It was impossible
to avoid resembling somebody. When they
buried a lot of Huns in a dugout they even
followed the masterly tactics of Deeming,
who buried two wives under hearth-stones.
(Published by George Allen and Unwin,
London.) _
The Inky Way
“Copy Boy”: Although they figured pro-
minently in the offensive which pushed him
out of office, Alexander Peacock has mislaid
none of his old geniality toward Melbourne
pressmen, and is always ready to say a
word in their defence when they are attacked
from the floor of the House, mostly by Labor
men, for whose party a majority of the inky
team votes. No . Victorian politician since
Tummus Bent has been more consistently
girded at by the press, and none is better
liked by those whose strict attention to
duty compels them to point out the error of
his political ways. At the time of his last
ejection from the tart-shop the gallery men
tempered the wind to the shorn soul by
arranging a farewell gathering, at which a
lot of things were said that makes life a
little easier ~ne way and another.
S. M. Herald in a hurry:—
An Amsterdam message from Kiel says that
Admiral Hercules, with the British Naval Delega-
tion, has entered the canal, and was expected in Kiel
yesterday evening.
After enduring the Censor as star boarder
for four years the old sheet doesn’t know an
admiral from a battleship.
“S.”: A. G. Stephens, in his new cheap
edition of Adam Lindsay Gordon, nails down
th<-. fallacy which from about 18S0 to 1894
included m the poems “A \ from the
Bush,” written by Mowbray Morris, private
secretary to Governor Fergusson, of S.A.. It
was published in Adelaide Register, on
April 2(3, IS7I, introduced by “Geoffrey
Crabthorn” (who was John Howard Clark)
as “deserving a place in the portfolio,
although not in your Geoffrey’s style, my
Public.” Its title at that time was "Under
the Trees.” That it vpis attributed to Gor-
don is not surprising, for it is plainly a copy
of his style, both in the loose metre and in
the moralising. It has two or three good
lines, still nearly always attributed to Gor-
don —of the pioneer “to whom, in the pride
ot his manhood strong. The hardest work is
never too hard, or the longest day too long,”
and the verse which quotes, and contradicts,
Tennyson’s idea of "a sorrow’s crown of
sorrow.” Mowbray Morris soon returned to
London. lie lived till 1912.
"Kanoozer”: The publication of “The
Art of J. J. Ililder,” and “Art in Australia,”
proves that this country has three-color en-
gravers and printers equal to the best any-
where. So far as the reproduction of water-
colors is concerned, I have seen some of the
best work done in England, U.S.A. and Ger-
many, and am confident that none of it is
superior in quality to the best prints in these
local productions. As specimens of book-
making, too, the publications take a high
place, and so do “The Selected Poems of
Henry Lawson” and Brennan’s “Chant of
Doom.” Australia has developed fine taste
and skilled craftsmanship in the arts of
peace during the recent blaze of war.
“Umntu” : 11. H. Champion, of Melbourne,
gets some ink spilt over him by a candid
friend in Ernest Belfort Bax’s new book,
“Reminiscences and Reflections of a Mid
and Late Victorian.” IT.II, was at first a
pure-merino Socialist, and, being a good
speaker, was welcomed with open arms ; but
he wanted to go a little too fast for the
Victorians. As Bax puts it, “he was pos-
sessed with an impatience to make 12 o’clock
at 11.” Bax sheds, some tears over the
impatient one and his methods, but acknow-
ledges that Champion was the life of the
Zurich International Socialist Congress of
1893.
“P.X.” : The North American has almost
abolished “Yes” from his spoken language.
Uncle Sam and Canadian alike are almost
universally satisfied with “yeah.” Every-
thing up there is on recurd —-in fact, on
lec’rd. Still, they don’t object to the Eng-
lish “record” ; but they won’t have the Eng-
lish “schedule” at any price. It’s plainly
and obviously “skedule” just as it is “skool.”
On the other hand, they will admit that
there’s much to be said for pronouncing in
the English fashion the thing that you g-' 4 *
when a Boche bayonet prods you ; and
though you occasionally hear it called a
“wownd,” that-way of speaking it is now
regarded as rather pedantic. But they won’t
have any compromise with “lootenant,” and
“valet” is val-et and not val-ay. I don’t
know why it isn’t also de-pot and not de-po,
the universal Yankee wa rd for what we call
a railway station.
A Satchel of Books
The Burgomaster of Stiemonde, b)i Maurice
Maeterlinck, translated by Alexander Teixeira de
Mattos (Methuen and Co., London). A war play of
intense interest. The Belgian burgomastei, in his
clash with the rough edge of Prussian-made wai,
shows himself a splendid fellow. The movement to
the last tragedy is very quiet, very convincing and
curiously fair to the enemy. Maeterlinck, fitter
his experiences in and about the fighting line, is
evidently still very much alive.
The Laughter Lady, bv Gertrude Hart, illustrated
by O. A. Garland (Melbourne Publishing Go.).
This book is called a story for children of different
ages : and some who are about 50 will enjoy it
better than those who are 12. The yarn doesn t
amount to much, but it is dainty enough to liave a
wide appeal. The publishers have turned it out in
good style.
The Title, by Arnold Bennett (Chatto and Windus,
London). This is a comedy in three acts, in which
the delicate satire is more evident than the humor.
An Englishman who has rendered big war service m
an official capacity is threatened with a title. His
democratic children violently object to his accept-
ance. His wife and lady secretary scheme to get
the sentence confirmed. Well worth reading, it
only to get a spotlight on the new British view ot
political honors.
Earthware, by Lindsay ltussell (Cassell and Co.,
London). The scene of this attractive yarn is laid
in Scotland and some rose-pink Bohemia of London.
A girl poet marries a Scotch person of solid prose
and much morality. She runs away and falls into
the arms of great luck. Afterwards she is dragged
back to the bosom of her previously-moral but now
booze-ruined husband.
The Veiled Woman, by Violet Tweedale (Herbert
Jenkins, London). A very superior, much-educated
girl is disappointed in discovering that her political
lover is a bounder. In revenge she masquerades as
a man and wins impossible honors. The proba-
bilities get strained pretty severely.
Diclc, by Mary Grant Bruce (Ward, Lock and Co.,
London), Any boy who wants to explore a great
cave with underground rivers will be attracted to
this hook. “Dick” is a good'fellow, and so is bin
mother. A capital yarn to- give the 10-year-old and
his next-oldest brother.
In The New Tariffism, published by Geo. Allen and
IJmvin, London, an English political writer, J. M.
Robertson.. M.P., deals with the tariff conference of
1916. He regards it as rather futile. Llis hook is
the same.
The Dead Have Never Died is a bold assertion in
red covers. The author, Edward C. Randall, tells
how he. assisted hv Emily S. French, became associ-
ated with Jennie S. Griffin and other dead people—
presumably all with a nude initial in the middle of
the name. From them they learned many things
more specific than might be expected, but not very
specific after all. No visitant supplied a diagram
of his spiritual residence. There is the same trouble
that attaches to the biblical statements of John P.
Revelation or David J. Psalms or the nameless writer
who alleges that Saul in disguise didn’t see Samuel’s
ghost after dark, hut fell down on learning from a
lady of criminal habits that it was there. A testifier
whom we hear of for the first time, aided by some-
one whom he. guarantees, says they, being believers,
met in private certain spirits not to be found in the
directory. The dead are far, far more numerous
than the living, yet they appear so rarely, except to
Hamlet, who never existed, that 99,999 people have
to accept them on the sav-so. of the 100,000 th. person
who was in a dark room at the time. Nobody meets
corpses in the street, though it is stated by a writer
who forgot to leave his name and' address and date
that they once walked in Jerusalem, and were scan
doing it by parties 'who happened to be about. The
present book is as convincing as most of its kind, and
more readable than the average. (George' Allen and
Unwin, Ltd,, London.)


V *
’> s .
%
J*T
lillSlS
:
It i
■
.
: «#£ ...
*r
w
...
K
* &
as
.'yyt-zM
; %
:
m
' j
A* „ 1 i
> * m r
*■:
«
v-'O-J ■ :
M 1
■
,•■ ' ~ .:
«g
; ■
■:b
■ :
it
BMHpaKra»ifo
B—
> - - •!
s
■«»
• :
m
s ■■>■'■
V
1
*8 ■ •*
I
%* *t
mm—m
U CANT KINK
BURST IT
BARNET GLASS
GARDEN HOSE
Obtainable all Reputable Storekeepers


A. Saunders’ pure double-
cut Diamond Pendant,
£25. Diamonds and Cut
Stones, £l2/ 10/-
DIAMOND
A. Saunders pure double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £20, £25, £30, £35, according to
size of diamonds.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25,
£3O, £35.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Oval Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£3O.
Diamonds and
Rubies or
Sapphires,
£l7/10/-
ii§f_
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia
mond Cluster
Necklet, Isct.
Gold, £3O.
JEWELLERY
Hi
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Cluster
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £12/10/■
Larger Diamonds, £15.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, ' 18c t.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring. 18ct.
Gold. £lOO.
A. Saundera’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Pendant, 15ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’ pure
doublc-cut Dia-
mond Cirele
Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £lO.
i 11 1 111 lllirr
A* Saunders’ pure <louble-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3/10/ -
Larger Diamonds,, £o* £7/10/-, £lO.
A. launders* pure
double-cut Diamond
Ear Rings, 15ct. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold, pure double-cut
Diamond-set Expanding Watch Wristlet, full
jewelled Lever movement, £l3/10/-
Larger Diamonds, £l5 to £5O.
m
iki*. yr
A. Saunders’ pure,
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ear Rings,
15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds.
£l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Circle
Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5.
A. S-unders’ purd
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £3O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bracelet, 15ct.
Gold, £65. Set Diamonds and Opals, Rubies or
Sapphires, £l5.
i Jeweller,
SOS-815 George Street, Sydney
A. SaUnaer;:.’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring. 18ct.
Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Scarf Pin,
15ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders pure
double-cut Dia-
monds and Pearls
Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £lO. All
Diamonds, £l5.
A. Saunders’ ■ pur?
double-cut Dia-
mond Cross-over
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£45.
A. Saunders’
Scarf Pin, Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire, £lO.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Boat-shape
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5. Larger Dia-
monds, £7 /m-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-'
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bracelet,
15ct. Gold, £JIS. Set Diamonds and Olivines,
£l2/10/-. Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires,
£lO.
A.
Opposite Railway Station.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
»
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ lIALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
JDepfit, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
safeguard your health
QtJ.Collis Browne's
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in tlie Cough of BKONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains ol GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea. & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemist's. Prices in England, lji, S/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices,: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
BOOKS! FOR
BOOKS!
BOOKS!
The Book of Nature
o\ -as
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
gi nR t °BYRN’S rId iLLUSTRATED EDITION
fl 917 ISSUE) is THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2 /-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6 Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
lnrefed edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
rnNCE 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
nns ted Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
7oi a's including Nana. 2/- each posted.
WnrrrATING THE HORSE, 1/3. VENTRILOQUISM
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
f,-6 posted. How to Strengthen
Memory, 1/3.
How to strengthen the
Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Jots op Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career op BeautT
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/6. por-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, Ulus., 1/b.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night op Temp-
tation, 1/9. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science op Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet's Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow's Book op Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle's Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
op Ismael, 2/6. History op the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art op Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/9. How to Train for
All Sports, 2/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How __ to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers' Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads.- 1/9. Soldering, • Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1 /-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing. 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/9. Man from Snowy River,
41-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, l/o.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/-
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner's Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan's Engine-
driver's Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. lleptameron, and many others, all at
4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
AH These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON'T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE .
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
say Gordon’s Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/9 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 1/9. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New’
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure. 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric' Motors, 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted.
Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Damaged
Goods, 1/6. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2 /-. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9. Three
Weeks. 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 61 569 Market Street, Sydney (only).
Si T~ BOOKSELLER TO THE COM MONWEALTH, Pm


“ CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME. —At the War.
FR. c
6
' N
ALSACE
a
V
Pmm
O')
«
(
ft
\
*
Im
1
■
40
I %
t~~
■j£r
; 5
x
; :'I
>N
; \
ssssg
SSOI
Jggil
fry# 9 ****: ■
£&5S3$
a
“ : ; -^c
[' - *'f>~ &%Kd»H? , ,«">- - **
>S£
«*3i
»«s
G5?Sf
X'
'-v
, s~> >’iiPSjSwft
V
/ \
'*>v
Xw»<«
3^
e
Lx->
:
£ is?w
«S?K,
<-/x*?£&'*>
v r'-;,.
!*»*! SS
Of
Cobra/’ Sfte Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
With his loyal
Helpers two
Plants the frontier
Guide-posts where
Prussian beasts once
Had their lair.
On these hills
For ever free
Chunder works for
Liberty.
All the glad
Alsatians say
“‘COBRA’ drove the
Dirt away!”


it
I Don’t Think”
Some people -will tell you that the
ordinary fountain pen never leaks,
and is always ready to write,
You’ve had one and you know, and can say in the Follies’ immortal words:
“ Yes, I don’t think.”
But there is one pen that
—Never leaks
—Pills itself in a flash
-Writes right and shuts tight
You havo heard of it—you know people who swear by it—but have you got one
yet yourself ?
It can be obtained, price 1 7/— and upwards ; also ONOTO Valveless for those who do not
want a Self-Filling: Safety Pen, 12/6 upwards from all stationers, jewellers and stores.
Manufacturers: Thos. De La Rue & Co. Ltd,, 167 Bunhill Row. London, E.C.
nolo
Pen
Sell-Filling • •
Safely Fountain
Managing Agents :
Norman Baker & Longhurst,
e
/T
2
Sydney.
Ask for ONOfO INK -Bast for all Pens
NOTICE.
Return of Insurance Premiums Re-
quired from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and
the Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910.
ALL Insurance Companies, as defined by
the above Acts, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales
returns showing the total amount of the pre-
miums received by or due to such companies
in respect of risks against fire during the
year ending 31st December, 1918, within the
Sydney Fire District and every other Fire
District in the State of New South Wales
to which the Fire Brigades Act 19.09 and the
Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910 apply,
less any part of such premiums actually paid
by way of reinsurance to any other insur-
ance companies contributing under the said
Acts.
The. time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 31st January, 1919 ;
subject to a penalty not exceeding five
pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By order of the Board of Fire Commission-
ers of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
30th November, 1918.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Re-
quired from Persons, etc., Insuring
with any Insurance Company not
Registered in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and
the Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associ-
ations being owners, trustees or agents
for any goods or property within the Sydney
Fire District and every other Fire District
in the State of New South Wales to which
the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and the Fire
Brigades Amendment Act 1910 have been
applied, in . respect of which premiums are
paid to an insurance company not registered
in the State, are hereby notified that they
are required to send to the Board of Fire
Commissioners of New South Wales returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the year
1918.
Tim time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 31st January, 1919;
subject to a penalty not exceeding' £1 per
day for every day of default.
Note.—-Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the
time such property was in any Fire District
under the said Acts.
By order of the Board of Fire Commission-
ers of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
30th November, 1918.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
EXTRA MATINEES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“On account of Thursday and Saturday being pub-
lic holidays, the management has decided to give
extra matinees on those days.”
Come, little dancing sisters, whose bright eyes
And joyous limbs are more than half the play!
This afternoon the curtain wide must rise
Because for others ’tis a holiday.
As working girls are free, you must do twice
The nightly job for all who care to pay,
And, hot as Hades, look as cool as ice
For this, the extra summer matinee.
Tense in the breathless wings, of what white surf
And sunlit beaches are you thinking now ?
The picnic meals are spread upon the turf
While the chief clown keeps up his foolish row.
He swears beneath his breath as poor jests miss;
The house is unresponsive, drowsy, slow.
No wonder on a blazing day like this!
But heat won’t keep the people from this show.
Why do they come? The principals can’t sing,
The “book” is dull, the jokes' the poorest stuff;
And yet about the show there is a swing"
That draws the crowd and backs the rankest “puff.”
No heed to ask! It’s Youth that pulls it through—
Sweet, dancing Youth, for ever cheap and gay,
That would be far this hour of gold and blue
But for this stupid extra matinee.
N.S.W.
K.
POBERTY
POINTS
CHARLIE
CHAPLIN'S
MILLION
DOLLAR
COMEDIES.
SUPER
FEATURES
“Cockaigne” : Frank Thornton’s real name
was Tubbs. Before coming to Australia he
stage managed at the Savoy, in the most
brilliant era of Gilbert, Sullivan, Carte —and
Mrs. Carte. Thornton understudied Gros-
smith in “lolanthe.” For 300 nights he
never got a show. One morning he said to
Grossmith: “George, my dear boy, you are
not looking at all well. Allow me to recom-
mend a little pill.” Grossmith: “No thank
ye, Frank, I don’t take any of your pills.”
Then he did his year in the English pro-
vinces with the Lord Chancellor, in which
he was not so good as Grossmith, Brough, or
Vernon. He excelled in “The Private Secre-
tary,” with its 200 nights in the little Madi-
son Square Theatre, New York. Then on
to Australia. He assured me that his Pri-
vate Secretary was original. Said he: “I
EASY TO PICK.
“Who is that ugly man over there?”
“Oh, that’s the celebrated beauty-actor and
matinee idol, Mr. Cue.”
took it from a curate with two young ladies
in a train, going from the Barnes suburb to
London. This curate kept on saying ‘Do
you know?’ and ‘Oh, fancay !’ ”
“S.S.”: The death of Frank Thornton re-
calls the little man’s queering of Terry’s Aus-
tralian pitch. Terry, who had been much the
better actor, came to this country, only to
find his cake dough, Thornton having done
practically all his successes just a little
better than Terry, at the age he had attained
on reaching Australia, was capable of doing
them himself. Thornton was a marvellous
mimic: he could reproduce an original wfith
extraordinary fidelity ; he could not contrive
a picture on his own worth a tinker’s dam.
Poor Terry, after making a living, breathing
thing of, say, Dick Phenyl in “Sweet
Lavender,” was exasperated to tears on find-
ing Australians scoffing at his effort as com-
pared with that of Thornton, who had copied
him to the lay of a hair. Hearing a hotel
employee confiding to a housemaid : “I went
to see ’im larst night. I like his cheek. The
way he imitates Frank Thornton is somethin’
shameful!” Terry took to his bed, and was
with greatest difficulty dragged out and in-
duced to put in a belated appearance on the
Princess stage that night.
“H.H.” : A venomous joke used to be told of
Toole, the more or less comedian. He allegedly
went into a drapery shop and demanded a
nound of nails from a flustered salesman.
He argued and harried the young man till
the youth fled to the boss and asked him to
attend to the lunatic. Then Toole calmly
and rationally explained that he wanted a
pair of socks. In the end he cackled forth
on his vicious way with his parcel, leaving
his victim to be presumably sacked in dis-
grace. It wasn’t exactly a jest, though it
was a good reason for kicking Toole if it was
true —which it probably wasn’t, for it had
been told of Sothern previously. Now
the old blither is revived with slight varia-
tions. This time it is charged to the late
Frank Thornton, who was above that sort
of thing.
“Old Heavy”: These editors should be
pinched. Frank Thornton has been gone
for years: he died when he disappeared from
the stage and was solemnly interred in pri-
vate life. Practically all actors exist as
stage adjuncts; when they cease to be ad-
juncts to the stage they automatically cease
to exist, and should confess the fact by
issuing memorial-cards. Look at Bland
Holt’s experience. He was walking in
Swanston-street the other day when a man
pulled another to a bar door, ejaculating:
“Gorstruth! Wouldn’t you swear that was
Bland Holt come to life again?” I have
had scores of similar experiences. Quite
lately I gave my name to a doorkeeper.
“No you don’t,” said he, handing back my
card. “I went to his funeral in 1911!”
“Monkbarns”: All the novels of Dickens
were dramatised on the London stage. For
“Nicholas Nickleby” and others the drama-
tisers could not wait till the monthly parts
ended. _ One Yale was an original Sam Weller,
and claimed that Dickens took the character
from him. The old version of “Pickwick”
was vamped up by Albery in 1871 for Irving
as Jingle. Charlotte Cushman acted Nancy
Sikes in “Oliver Twist.” Dickens saw Irving
as Sikes, about 1868, and said, “He will be
a great actor,” “The Cricket on the Hearth”
was enormously popular on the London
stage. Jefferson played Caleb Plummer in
Melbourne, where Fawcett Rowe drama-
tised “Barnaby Rudge” and “David Copper-
field.” The production of the original “Mar-
tin Chuzzlewit” in London was most re-
markable for the outrageous Sairey Gamp
and Betsy Prig (Keeley and Wright) at
the Adelphi. They ended with a fight, roll-
ing over and over.
Passed out at 50, Robert Baldwin Ross,
art critic and intimate friend of Oscar
Wilde, of whose estate he nominated
executor. Through his exertions
Wilde’s debts were paid, largely
by the performance of the dead
spendthrift’s plays in Germany.
Ross wrote well on literature,
painting and the drama, and
for some time helped Walter
Besant with the Author.
“J.F.H.”: Oscar Asche and
Lily Brayton lately reached the
thousandth performance of
“Chu Chin Chow” at His
Majesty’s, London; and the
show looks like going another
thousand. Asche is legally en-
titled to remain in possession of
the theatre as long as the piece
continues to draw; then he can
be called on to quit. But the
new proprietors, learning that
a successor to “Chu Chin
Chow” has been sketched on
somewhat similar lines, have
wisely decided to stand in with the Bosker
in its production.
“Eegeebee” : If the manners of the Presi-
dent-Elect of Poland have not improved
since be was in Sydney 12 years ago, some
unhappy Pole, pleading a humble cause in
a voice not keyed to full Philharmonic
pitch, is some day going to stir up trouble.
Like most nervous and musical souls Pad-
erewski has always been intensely sensitive
to sounds brazen or unharmonious. It -was
a sweltering night for his Sydney Town
Hall farewell, and the first half of the pro-
gramme was heard in gluey discomfort. A
southerly then turned up, and the council of
aldermen, moved by the wisdom of their
kind, suggested closing the roof windows.
Paderewski was, well into the Scherzo move-
ment of Chopin’s B flat Minor Sonata w T hen
a sound wavering between a subdued howl
and a defiant screech stole from the roof.
The pianist looked up, but proceeded. So did
the noises. When the third window was
wildly protesting, Paderewski, with the
noble rage and revolt of a future president,
hurled himself from the platform. A great
audience with honest sympathy applauded
for 20 minutes before he returned, but at
11 o’clock, with a crowd of devotees gath-
ered round his piano; he still played in the
gloom of an otherwise deserted hall.
“Andy”: At St. Kilda (Vic.) the
Pierrots’ pavilion remains a dark mass o’
nights amid the grass lawns back of the
beach. It is the first summer season that it
has remained unoccupied since Will and Rob
Thomas took up the pitch in 1905. The
brothers (Will was a retired lieutenant of
the Royal Navy) had come to Australia
the previous year and played at the cafe
chantant at Prince’s Court (Melb.). There
they got the idea of starting an al fresco
show on St. Kilda beach. Down on the
“HELLO, EVERYBODY!" AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
A stone-age coquette (Clyde Cook) and Mr.
Stone Hatchett (Jack Cannot).
sands, with merely a little platform, they
dug down, sang a bit' and cracked jokes
during the 1905-6 season, till they became a
vogue and set the pace for other entertainers.
The first company comprised Will and Rob
Thomas, W. P. Turner, Leslie Austin and
Nellie Holden. Only Turner and Austin
are in greasepaint now. The latter married
the pierrette who, two years later, was suc-
ceeded on the stage by Elsa Langley, the
bright diminutive star of later years.
The original wooden platform developed into
a pavilion; that was replaced by a bigger
structure, the Thomases accumulated pelf
and last season let the pav. for a couple of
years. The Pierrots are in Perth these
evenings.
“R. 8.”: When ’flu’ stopped theatrical
business in Gape Colony, the Steele-Payne
Bellringers were in a desolate little Dutch
village where the curse was raging. The co.
set to and earned the public thanks of the
townspeople by doing nursing and ambulance
work. Dorothy Gardner, whose clever kiddy
studies are so popular in S’Africa, as well as
in Australia and Maoriland, became an
assistant cook and kitchenmaid, while Doro-
thy Grace became a nurse. Dorothy Grace
and two of the Steeles took the sickness, but
in a mild form.
“H. 0.”: Owing to shipping difficulties, the
loudly-heralded Yankee lady who was cast
for the “boy” role in “Jack and Jill” did not
arrive in time for the opening night, and her
place was taken by Australian Dorothy
Leigh. In a lengthy notice the Age did not
accord the home-grown actress any praise. A
week later the American lady was adver-
tised to appear, and the papers were invited
to notice her performance. This time the
Age announced:—•
If Miss Virginia Roche were given the opportunities
that customarily fall to the lot of pantomime boy,
she would probably be numbered among the most
successful that have been brought from overseas. In
her absence the part of principal boy was reduced to
a minimum. When she made her debut on Saturday
night as Prince Fearnought she appeared thoroughly
at home in a strange atmosphere. Miss Roche has
an excellent voice. Given better opportunities, she
would prove an immense success.
The pathetically humorous fact is that the
lady who appeared on the Saturday night
and was accorded this eulogy was not Miss
Roche, the imported performer, but the same
Miss Leigh whom the Age had not consid-
ered deserving of even a word of encourage-
ment a week previously. The American lady
did not appear on the Saturday night or for
several succeeding performances. By' the
following Wednesday she was again in the
cast, but playing a minor role. The job of
principal “boy” was left in the hands of Miss
Leigh, who, if she will only take precautions
to conceal her nationality, should go far in
her profession.
“S.”: Composer Howard Carr has pro-
duced some “Sketches for the Orchestra,”
based on modern heroic deeds, warlike and
otherwise. The most striking is that of
Captain Oates, the “very gallant gentleman”
who walked out of shelter and froze to death
in the Antarctic rather than be a burden
to his comrades. The' music is said to
give a plain suggestion of “the eerie desola-
tion of the trackless wastes of ice.” Other
sketches deal with Warneford in an aero-
plane chasing a zeppelin, with an explosion
at the finish of the pursuit; and O’Leary
earning the Y.C., his music being made to
express the fact that he was a reckless
Irishman. Carr has been for years produc-
ing popular stuff for London Empire, and his
“sketches,” while pleasing the superior
critics, have taken the popular fancy already.
The passing of Mrs. Wagner recalls her
husband, who died in 1883. Richard Wag-
ner’s bang-crash operas weren’t his worst
offence; he was also a Prussian hired agent,
and one of the builders of the Hun empire.
When the brilliantly crazy Ludwig 111.
became King of Bavaria he sent for Wagner,
then dodging his creditors and his harem in
shabby obscurity, for music and palace-build-
ing were Ludwig’s two mental diseases. A
time came when people asked if the husband
of the defunct woman was really King of
Bavaria, and the ravenous musician evi-
dently had doubts on the subject himself, for
he asked that his signature should be re-
garded as good enough at the foot of any
order on the Treasury, just like that of the
Minister of Finance. Prussia hired Wagner
as a matter of course. It isn’t a musical
country, but when a music-mad king had to
be steered the way Bismarck wanted him to
go, his chief organ-blower was obviously the
person to hire, just as the Court publican or
the chief harlot would have been the person
in other circumstances.
Last Boat” : W r hy don’t revue managers
give their audiences second and third help-
ings of the turns they like? It could be done
by gradually shifting towards the end of
the bill the items that failed to hit hard,
and some of them would eventually be
crowded over the edge. Certainly, if I were
a showman it would nark me to see a good
turn hurried off and a dud turn pushed on
just to keep up with the theatre time-table.


/
'■■X
■
:-x.
B
Prize Winners —Big' Money Getters
None of these desirable essentials can be obtained unless your stock are in the pink of condition
Your sheep, cows and horses must have a rating of Salt Lick to keep their blood cool and vigorous!
BONDO Salt Licks
are the product of nature supported by the laboratory and the skilled artisan.
Manufactured in Australia, they have no superior in this or any other market.
They are Cheaper and Better than Imported Licks.
Are you one of the purchasers of the 700,000 cases used in Australia? If not, become a convert
at once by demanding from your storekeeper a case of BONDO SALT LICKS.
STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THIS UNIVERSAL LINE. IT IS A READY-SELLER AND GIVES QUICK PROFITS. WRITE OUR AGENTS AT ONCE.
>
h
Wholesale Distributing Agents—Victoria: DALGETY & CO.
New South Wales: BROWN & DUREAU, King Street, Sydney.
South Australia: SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMERS’ UNION
West Australia: FOTHERGILL & CO. LTD., Fremantle.
BOND MANUFACTURING CO
72 and 74 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.


a.'
Skmgetters
Rabbit, Fox and all
other classes of skins.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney OR Brisbane. LTD.
Top Prices—-Correct Counts —Full
Weights—Prompt Returns. Salesmen
only. Not buyers or dealers.
&
1
'I
t\
/. ■
31&3
NATIONAI
Motor Oils
It matters not what the
conditions of service, nor
the type; of engine con-
cerned, to lubricate with
National Motor Oils is to
assure the zenith of engine
efficiency.
National Motor Oils are
of unvarying, high-grade
quality—clean, even-flow-
ing, and possessing high
flash-point and remark-
able viscosity.
Obtainable all
Garages and
Storekeepers
in 1-gal. tins, 4-gal. tins,
and barrels. Ask aiso for
National Motor. Greases.
National Oil Co.
Ltd.,
1 Bridge Street.
Sydney.
Janies Wardie
and Co.,
Adelaide.
Columbia
Do Baftertef
Renowned for Faithful
Service
If you need quick power for the ignition
system of truck or tractor, lose no time in
ordering Columbia Batteries. They’ll
renew the spark of life like a flash. For
Columbias are eager with power. Their
energy flows hot—they make things go.
Suitable for heavy or light work. Columbias
have higher, voltage and amperage than wet
cells; no liquid tospill; no glass jars to break.
Special attention Is given to the all-important
detail of packing for export.
The Fahnestock Spring Clip Binding Post, shown
in the illustration, iB a Columbia feature that
sells batteries. With this Binding Post it is simply
ft matter of pressing down the
No. 6
flJJMBiti
..Ml®
f M^Ws^U«Wk.l9| o
DRY CELL
FOR t3.fvi.oft
GENERAL IGNITION
Manufactured by
riOJWLCABBONCa
amESSCSSBS cxt*
b
B
B
spring and
inserting
the wire
and the
connection
is made.
Dealers —Immediate de*
liveries can be made. Write
for catalogues and details.
National Carbon
Company, Inc.
Export Department
Cleveland, OMo,U.S.A«,
Cable Address:
“Carbon Cleveland’'
The JANUARY ISSUE of
“Sea, Land and Air”
IS NOW READY.
As the OFFICIAL JOURNAL of THE AUSTRALIAN AERO CLUB
it features many Exclusive Articles in AVIATION:
THE GENTLE ART OF FLYING
explained, in plain English, by a Flight Commander.
A CHAT WITH THE POSTMASTER-GENERAL.
Mr. Webster states his views on AERIAL MAIL SERVICES.
TEN THOUSAND FEET ABOVE MELBOURNE.
The Editor goes joy-riding in Cloud-land.
A VOCABULARY OF AERONAUTICAL TERMS.
SPECIAL ARTICLES CONCERNING THE SEA.
SHIPS THAT HAVE PASSED. By Captain J. H. Watson, J.P., F.R.A.H.S.
SHIPBUILDING IN AUSTRALIA 115 YEARS AGO.
AN INTERVIEW WITH THE NAVAL SECRETARY.
THE “AN-JACK.”
H.M.A.S. AUSTRALIA ON ACTIVE SERVICE. Exclusive Photographs.
AUSTRALIA’S GATEWAY TO THE EAST—COLOMBO.
THE SHAW WIRELESS PURCHASE.
REMOVAL OF WAR-TIME RESTRICTIONS ON WIRELESS FOR AMATEURS.
THE OUTLOOK FOR 1919.
AUSTRIA-HUNGARY AND ITS INNER HISTORY.
THE SUGAR INDUSTRY’. STEEL AND ITS MANUFACTURE.
THE WOMAN MENACE—A PROBLEM OF PEACE. By Miss Kae McDowell.
And a variety of other articles and photographs, describing and illustrating
the latest developments at SEA, on LAND and in the AIR.
Published Monthly. Price 9d.
If your Newsagent cannot supply, send 9d. for Specimen Copy, or 9s. for
Annual Subscription (Post Free), to
THE CIRCULATION MANAGER, THE WIRELESS PRESS,
97-99 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
2/6Box;
VALISSA
Superb Complexion Powder.
die Scent o/'O/c/dtme Gardens.
Soothes with its delicious fra-
grance and velvety fineness.
TRY IT TO-DAY—IT’S RE-ALLY
LOVELY. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing
about 99.95% Metallic
(99.9% guaranteed).
Zinc
SPELTER
<J3HAS>
BRAND
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Streep Melbourne.
•HUNTS
MOSQUITOES
A Marvellous
discovery.
Gives absolute
PROTECTION
FROM THE PEST.
Nothing else
LIKE IT.
I’d better
some
V6
Per bottle, all Chemists
and Stores or
2 /Posted to anu part
! of Australia
IIPI ii ■■
from H.C.PrICE. Ch&rswood.H.S.W. W.I.H
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
SPANISH INFLUENZA.
The best precautionary measure advised by Australia’s leading medical
men is an antiseptic condition of NOSE AND THROAT.
EVERYONE IS RECOMMENDED TO CARRY A BOX OF
NAZETHA PASTILLES
THE VERY BEST NOSE AND THROAT ANTISEPTIC.
By their use the. curative fumes are searchingly carried to all the breath
ing passages.
Yjfy OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM ALL CHEMISTS | j(y
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
“Ami”: Book-arcadian Cole, who died re-
cently, waS the son of a poor agricultuial
laborer in Kent. Shortly after reaching Mel-
bourne he was three days without food. A slice
of prosperity enabled him to devote two yeais
to study in the Melbourne and Sydney Public
Libraries. He ran a small refreshment-shop
in Melbourne’s Paddy’s Market. Then he
started to sell second-hand books, and pro-
gressed to Iris first little Book Arcade, in
Bourke-street. east of Russell-street, and
combined with this Dwight’s old bookshop
at the top of Bourke-street. After that he
never looked back.
“Werri” : There is a little dodge worked by
some “patriotic” employers which should be
watched by returned men who are reinstated
according to promise but are regarded as
not being as good as they were before they
went away. In factories where award rates
are supposed to prevail and an inspector sees
the receipts for wages, the amounts entered
are not always the amounts which the em-
ployees receive. A girl, say, whose pay
wage should be £1 a week receives only los.,
but signs for £l. If they object they are
not wanted. There are no witnesses to any
of the transactions, and the false documents
will hold good in law. In Bananaland when
the aborigine is employed in any work by a
private employer, the Government requires his
wages to be paid to special officers, so that lie
can’t be made to put his mark to a receipt
for a pound sterling when he receives only a
plug of tobacco. Some such method of pay-
ing wages to overawed white employees
would appear to be necessary in Sydney.
“Phil” analyses luck: —
I know two men who enlisted together, and who
have remained like twins through the piece. When
they struck France oiie of them, on the eve of going
into the line, contracted a sickness which sent him
into hospital and caused him to fortunately miss
the whole of the worst winter of the war. When
he did get back he was put on a cushy back-area
job. After a couple of months he was handed a
medal and sent home on extended leave. His mate
spent that rotten winter in the line, dodging shells
and absorbing liquid mud, and at the end of it
had a long spell at barb-wiring—a detestable *job.
In the meantime, No. 1 returned from Australia,
was promoted and transferred to the same company
as No. 2. They prepared for a job together a
regular nervy thunderblast —but at the last moment
No. 1 was ordered back to a safe job in the rear.
No. 2 was recommended for the M.M., but though
the recommendation got right through to Brigade, it
stuck —napoo! Later, these two pals were pushed
into another job. No. 1 did only about four days
of it, was recommended for a M.M., got it, and was
sent on Blighty leave. No 2 did two months on the
same job, lost 75 per cent, of his men, narrowly
missed “corpsing” a hundred times, asked for leave
(his first time of asking) to recuperate, and was cold
that all leave had been cut out indefinitely. No. 1
returned from London, was promoted again, and
took charge of No. 2 and his men. Now, is that
luck or the other thing?
When the French Labor Mission, which
came after General Pau’s more-or-less poli-
tical mission, reached Sydney, it was
dragged out, of course, to look at the
vaunted, protracted, uncompleted Garden
Suburb of Daceyville. Nobody of any im-
portance escapes that lonesome little ex-
ample of town-planning, which, commenced
seven years ago, attained at June last to a
population of 1170. It is said to be a great
success, but is stuck for want of more loan
money to go on with. Last year’s accounts
said : “Rent received, £10,649” ; and “Money
otherwise expended” (otherwise than in
putting up new houses, which is a separate
item) “including the fees of the Board,
salaries. wages and other expenses,
£10,550.” The Frenchmen were polite, but
remarked that they do these things in France
without Government aid. Something is ef-
fected by municipal authorities, and at least
one trades union is building off its own bat
a town nearly half as large as Daceyville
will be when the other three-quarters of it
are finished, and the rents of the trades-
union town are 121 per cent, less than the
Daceyville figure. Then the missioners re-
tired stunned with admiration, and some
more depreciation was debited to the roads
by reason of the feet of the affable callers.
“The Spender”: Next time the Common-
wealth or any State Government has a few
surplus millions to spend on a permanent
and non-reproductive work I’d like to see the
money poured into subterranean caverns for
band practice and the performance of Christ-
mas carols. Some bushrangers round our
suburb were preparing to go out carolling for
three weeks before Christmas. The group
of musical assassins consisted of .an immoral
cornet, a trombone subject to fits, and a
euphonium in the last stages of melancholia.
I think the blowers may have been fragments
of a competent brass band which had split
up into sections to cover as large a territory
as possible on the night of horror. They dug
themselves in somewhere in a deserted quarry
on the outskirts of civilisation, and, by the
light,of two smoky hurricane lanterns, blew
slowly and horribly for hours on end. A
struggling dairyman went out on the night
of the first rehearsal armed with cow medi-
cines, a rope and a gun; he thought one of
his herd had got (1) crushed in a landslide,
(2) sick, or (3) bogged, and he was pre-
pared for all eventualities. I am told that
when he found the band he emptied both
barrels at it, then climbed a tree, affixed one
end of the rope to a limb and the other to
his neck, drank all the cow medicine and
jumped clear. The milk didn’t arrive at my
place next morning, but the band did. It
moaned awhile and then battered on the door.
I had my contribution ready—the live Mills
bomb I had brought from the Front. I pulled
out the pin, dropped it into the hat and went
swiftly upstairs. The explosion happened in
the middle of the road. In the after
silence I heard the man next door say
angrily : “Somebody’s letting off fireworks in
the street. That’s dead against the Federal
regulations for the celebration of peace.” The
rattle of falling road-metal and band instru-
ments on the roof drowned the rest of his
remarks. He told me this morning over the
fence that he is composing a bitterly sar-
castic letter to the council about the state of
the road in front.


E=TO>
i
m
*3
wa
5?
m
S*
ISB
m
<»-.*
•5*5
1
v>
5S
KS
R
rtf
Mg
®S
ft*
&•
SS 1
INv.
py.
©a
»s.<v
z&m-zz
&
*s
sis*
v-JJ-
S 3
CSES
8
f*s
-o'
atss
g«§s
l: '>■
&
i®
S
'j£oL
\
fj
/
A
M
i£!^SSa
SRr.
SK*
//
43P^
£>.&?
a?
✓.* vi
*+**££*
5&
LiAlii
i
r
V'
*.4- :
3£
;fV- Xi
•^f<
/■ T^
TO#
&ss*Zt
c®?
6*c
y-y A fZ&G'
?m
SKB
a®
-F
■*/
pH
ffl!
?■ ,;W ,£*??.
- v'
iiv.
IS
f-TA
.V>?
rsi
*«
m
«■»
I
\
Obtaina b/e
only at
London Stores
opp. G.P.0.,
Melbourne .
Registered
Design,
Two SHirts in One—
Sports
The Collar Has
Two Styles.
A Summer Shirt for you men who play
tennis, go golfing, or indulge in any
outdoor sport. And could you think of
anything nicer for seaside use?
The Patent Convertible Collar gives
two smart styles:
1. A low, free-cut collar for the
activity of sport.
2. A soft, double collar for dressy
occasions.
Just adjust whatever style you want in
a “twinkle.” It’s the happiest shirt
idea yet.
Obtainable only opp. G.P.0., in soft,
pure white crepe, with a twill collar,
showing blue, black or red spots; also,
collar in black and white stripes. Any
size you say, that will fit as if the shirt
was made to order.
Half- or full-
length sleeves.
6111
Order by post —state size of collar.
THE IDEAL SUITS FOR SUMMER.
Pinch-Backs are a new and smart style in Men’s Ready-to-
Wear Tailoring. Cool and crisp Summer Suits with half
belt that “hues” the back. Thought out and brought out
bv London Stores Ltd. —the well-known Men’s Wear
J .
House, opp. G.P.0., Melbourne.
There’s a Pinch-Back for every man —tall, stout, short or
slim—and the ease with which you can be fitted ready to wear
would fill many an order-tailor’s heart with envy.
Tailored in all Pure Wool,
Plain Grey Suiting's
they are just right for city streets, office, holiday wear or a
game of golf.
Order your size by post. Just send your chest, waist
and inside-leg measurements. We guarantee to fit
you perfectly, otherwise to refund money on return
of the suit. Could anything be fairer than that ?
Special Mail Order Offer
S&t.
r*Zs/>
ONLY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
Opp. G.P.0., MELBOURNE.


jLZsji oster y
CPECIALIZED
methods in desi&n-
in£ and knitting pro-
duce in Luxite Hosiery
a closely woven tex-
ture of remarkable
durability and re-
splendent beauty un-
surpassed for the
money by any other
hosiery in the world.
Don’t accept substitutes and think
you have “Luxite.” Insist upon
the genuine. If your dealer is
unable to supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty.Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
PUBLIC SPEAKING is an art aspired
to by ladies and gentlemen alike—a
science capable of attainment by all if but
a few minutes daily will be given to Gren-
ville Kleiser’s Course. .In your own home
-—in your spare time—you can learn how to
convince and influence an audience. Write
to-day for Prospectus “S” to Glenville
Kleiser’s Australasian Representatives, Jas.
Rodger and Co., 159 E Manchester Street,
Christchurch, N.Z. [1
FOR
EVERY
there is an ABBEY Style, giving
comfort from first to last day’s
wear —correctly designed and care-
fully modelled to ensure distinction
of appearance.
ABBEY SHOES
are of the high quality which
ensures long service and makes
them most economical to wear.
We illustrate one of our latest
models —a choice Glace Kid Bal.,
with Patent-leather Toecaps.
Price - 32 6
In half and full sizes and three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
r other end of a large building
—through the wonderful “Dicto-
graph.” The “Dictograph” is not a
phonograph. No mouthpiece, earpieee :
Dictograph
(1/STE.R CO/iVCf?^i r ' ■S'*TE.M
or anything to hold. Talk to it up to 20 feet away
And the DICTOGRAPH answers with human intelligence!
Confer with any connected employee, and while conversing be free to
refer to letters, files, etc., in any part of your private office. Dictate
direct to your typist. Listen to a meeting in another room (and take
part in the discussion). Consult your associates without their leaving
their desks. Prevent eavesdropping or butting in. Signal for personal
attendance of employees by merely pressing a key. Save time, interrup-
tions and wasted footsteps.
Let us give you a demonstration of the “Dictograph”
in your office. Fix your own time.
Lamson
Service
(/Oa
Queen Street, SYDNEY
Olderfleet, MELBOURNE
DIAMONDS as NEW YEAR GIFTS.
No other Gift in the whole list of Valuable Things has such
Personal Appeal as a Diamond Ring.
K 23. —£12/10/-
K79.—£11/10/-
K9n
KlOl3. —Diamond
and 2 Emeralds,
£lO/10/-
AIX OUR DIAMONDS
ARE SET IN
PURE PLATINUM
AND 18ct. GOLD.
K9:i3.—£35.
K 734. —Diamond
and Emerald
Cluster. £55.
JlO4O. —£17/10/-
£lO/10/-
G93.—£10.
CAIX. AND INSPECT, or WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE
OE USEFUL PRESENTS.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
LARGEST JEWELLERS OF THE EMPIRE,
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
r
£
in
aass
•> i
Wi
r±h
hh
; f r7
COVE
R
I,
UL
TH
E
RTH
A.
Sherwin-Williams
Paints €- Varnishes
are now procurable throughout Australia from the following distributors.
NEW SOUTH WALES: G. E. Crane & Sons Ltd.,
Aft w sow / 33-35 P/tt Street, Sydney.
Watson & Crane, Ltd.,
375 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA : John Sharp & Sons Ltd.,
City Road, South Melbourne.
James McEwan & Co. | Propty.
McLean Bros^ 1 g_f ! Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Colton, Palmer A*™*™ “£/ At/ela lde.
WEST AUSTRALIA: J. & W. Bateman, Fremantle.
QUEENSLAND : R. S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA : Chas. Davis Ltd., Hobart.
There is a Sherwin- Williams finish for every surface •
The Sherwin- Williams Co.(Australia) Ltd.
Paint, Color and Varnish Manufacturers,
63 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
Agents Everywhere.
“D.F.” : The rough field-notes of the old-
est surveys made in Tasmania are preserved
in the Lands Department, Hobart. Towards
the end of 1803 James Meehan came down
from Sydney to Bowen’s settlement at Ris-
don and went over a lot of country to the
east of the Derwent, and about the Coal
River and Pittwater and the Jordan River.
All record of his explorations was lost for
about a century. Then, by good fortune,
his notebook was dug (rot in Sydney. It
contains the records of the surveys of many
of the first grants made in various districts
of the Speck when Collins had superseded
Bowen.
Westralia, the State whose pants have
begun to go, has still a big asset in its tim-
ber resources. Comparing the principal pri-
mary products for 1913, forest products
amounting to £1,183,447 rank second on the
list of exports, gold, of course, being on top
with a production of 54 million pounds
sterling. According to early records one of
the reasons which prompted the British
Government to establish a settlement on the
Swan River was that reports had been re-
ceived by the Admiralty regarding the exist-
•ence in that territory of immense forests of
valuable hardwoods. A short time ago the
French issued plans and specifications for tem-
porary wooden houses for use in the devas-
tated areas of France. The Westralian Saw-
millers’Association erected two cottages, one in
accordance with these specifications and one
in which some improvements were included,
made possible by the superior toughness and
tensile strength of the local timbers. These
cottages the French Mission had an oppor-
tunity of inspecting, and it is probable that
the West will secure a portion of the recon-
struction work. M. Mathey, Chief Conserva-
tor of Forests in Dijon, France, who visited
Perth last November, stated that French
builders and French citizens prefer hard-
woods to softwoods in their buildings, and
this would influence preference being given
to W.A. timbers.
“0.L.”: Bill Cabena, Melbourne’s new
Gaud Mayor, may have been elected to his
job because he was a good fellow, or because
he wasn’t a bad fellow, but so far there have
been few signs of the new broom’s arrival,
though Melbourne’s streets have been howl-
ing for reform for years past. The most
pestiferous job the municipality does is to
empty the “orderly bins” of their manure
during the daytime, when thousands of
people are passing up and down. The bin
is either a pillar-box arrangement or a lidded
iron box let into the footpath. In both
cases the manure, retrieved by orderly-boys
and put into the boxes, has presently to be
dug out and flung into the municipal dust-
carts. On a blazing morning, with a hot
wind blowing, Melbourne has to submit to
being bathed at intervals in floods of desic-
cated filth without any protest from the
Board of Health. Larger bins, automati-
cally disinfected during the daytime and
emptied in the small hours of the morning,
would do away with the offence and un-
doubtedly reduce the infantile death-rate
from such diseases as colitis, the germ of
which finds no more congenial sphere of
development than in animal manure.
“F.R.”: In the way of theatrical enter-
tainments I reckon that Egypt is miles be-
hind any other country on this planet. Bill-
jim used to derive a certain amount of
amusement from visiting movie shows or
watching the Dancing Dervishes with their
weird musical instruments and wailing
voices. In Cairo there is also an animal
circus, with one performer who presents a
unique entertainment with the aid of a
large scorpion, which he allows to sting him
several times without suffering any ill effects.
There is also a donkey, monkey and small
black goat on show. Shaking hands with
the goat cost Billjim a piastre and it was
worth it. In the picture-shows the films
were hoary with age ; but this did not trouble
Bill. He always managed to make the
acquaintance of one of the many French or
Italian girls who visit these places. The
Casino de Paris was perhaps the Aussies’
favorite pleasure-house. Here you could sit
at a table, drink beer and watch about 20
girls dancing or singing on the stage. When
the show was over one or other of the sym-
pathetic ladies was not averse to joining
Billjim at his table and discussing with him
the proposed railway from Darwin to Adel-
aide or something like that.
“Quidam”: In N. S. Wales a large
loophole is left for the shark in the
Mining on Private Property Act which
that gentleman takes full advantage of.
The applicant for an authority-to-enter is
expected to start work in 14 days, and
the legitimate prospector, possessed of small
means, is obliged to do so ; but the city pro-
moter, mining adventurer or shark applies
at the expiry of the 14 days for a lease on
private lands. The extreme deliberateness
of the Department in issuing such leases
gives him many months’ exemption from
labor conditions, and he simply sits tight
and allows the original prospector or party
to prove the ground. If it turns out a
valuable discovery, he is on the boundary,
and can easily get hold of other people’s
capital to finance operations and have a
substantial cut himself. If the proposition
duffers out, he swims out at the trifling loss
of application and survey fees. The genuine
prospector generally wants all his small
capital for developmental work, and has no
money to spare for taking up leases, and his
work may run to hundreds of pounds in
value as against a few pounds spent by the
shark. This is a sore point among the
prospecting fraternity, but they are a scat-
tered, disorganised body with little political
influence. If every authority-to-enter held
good in its labor provisions until a lease
was issued, every holder would be equally
obliged to work his area, and, incidentally,
a good many more sites might be proved of
value. Even a city mining shark might
fluke on something if he had to work his
ground. There is always some possibility of
the original prospector’s claim being a
blank, even when good deposits are close at
hand.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246.
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
:
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JANUARY 22,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Banking:, Public Companies. &c.
the;
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Itt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: 3. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
JI15A1) OFFICE - - . BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £130.000
Directors : MARK. SIIELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kin<*
Streets). Manager : E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Now Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON U CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian'United Steam Navigation C°m.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping:, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
NEXT SAILING:
R.M.S. NIAGARA, JANUARY.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,"o T f h t ha Pa eactc,-
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
£3,904,860
£3,025,000
£3,904,860
£10,834,720
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors ; S. E. Eaidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager : Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedie Street, E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commoiweiitb.
Jaitfc Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
for pe a n .. General Banking: Business p ;r„^pa»
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
4xed deposits. Advances /made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
1/“
nTrn
Branches, and over 27 OU Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific,
Interest at o°/
per annum * i */o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor
HAVE YOU A SAVINGS ACCOUNT?
This Bank offers you every facility for Banking your Savings.
Deposits received
from 1/- upwards.
132 Branches and
500 Agencies
throughout the
State.
mMm
&
Vi
5$
3
5
7
/o
&
4
LU
INTEREST
C 2
ors
C?
DEPOSITS
<?A
Interest paid at 3%
per cent, per annum
on every £ up to
£5OO.
No Agencies at Post
Offices.
The STATE Savings Institution.
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
FOR NORMAN BAR, ALBERT BAR AND
THURSDAY ISLAND.
Huddart Parker
LjM'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACIIARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
* Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, IUCHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are iOued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
ON A LINER, A YACHT,
MOTOR BOAT, A CHANNEL
STEAMER, A COASTER or
A TRADER
MOTHERSILL’S SEASICK REMEDY
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea Sick-
ness, or money refunded. Equally effective
for Train Sickness.
o
s
E
A
IG
K
A?
has been tested on the English Channel, Irish
and Baltic Seas by representatives of leading
London and Continental newspapers, who
unreservedly endorse its unfailing power to
prevent and cure mal-de-mer.
“The London Yachting World” says: A posi-
tive curefor sea-sickness. Be sure it's “Mothersill’s.
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO., LTD,
Corner Clarence and Market Streets, Sydney.


WHAT DYSPEPTICS SHOULD KNOW.
HELPFUL ADVICE TO SUFFERERS.
The fact that few dyspeptics really under-
stand the cause of their trouble is probably
the reason why harmful drugs are still used
to such an alarming extent'. The practice is
wrong, however, and is strongly condemned
by many physicians.
The presence of excess acid in the stomach
is the cause of many forms of digestive
trouble, and this acid can be neutralised and
rendered harmless by the occasional use of
bisurated magnesia—a _ product which can be
obtained of any chemist. Many physicians
now use bisurated magnesia and also recom-
mend it because they recognise that it not
only overcomes dangerous stomach acids and
thus ensures easy digestion, but by its use no
harmful drug is introduced into the system
and therefore there can he no unpleasant
after-effects. Half a teaspoonful of bisurated
magnesia taken in a little water after meals
is usually quite sufficient to keep the food
contents of the stomach free from fermenta-
tion and acid, thus ensuring normal diges-
tion. — Advt.
9061
mm
CMfIME
HE PLUS ULTRA
T
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
i\%m:
»*, 3Mt *‘
,-c S gydtiey
*S£f©eot8« St Sydney
Betty junctioi
- •- Shop 5
1IICJ
• dn f
And a*
PAULINE et CIE
announce
GREAT REDUCTIONS
in their exclusive stock of Model Millinery.
3rd Floor,Denison House Chambers
George Street, SYDNEY.
14*
m
Tourists
For the Melbourne section of
your tour arrange accommodation
at the Queen’s Arms Hotel.
Centrally situated, modern, with
comfortable airy rooms nd excel-
lent cuisine, it will meet the tourist’s
every ideal.
Tariff by the day .. 10/6.
QUEEN’S ARMS
HOTEL
C? SWANSTON ST
* FLINDERS LANE
FI°.
/
Pm
The
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
scaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILLINERY
Scots had a great outing on New Year’s
Day. Peace—which sounded like an old
myth a year ago—gave every decent Caledo-
nian the best excuse he ever had to sample
soda and milk. Across the ring at-the Agri-
cultural Ground’s sports meeting fluttered
a wonderful line of bunting. All the Allies’
flags were in the breeze, and besides the
usual washing there waved the flag-signal
that spelt “Welcome!” to the bluejackets and
sailors present. (Profits from this year’s
rally go to Jack’s Day Fund.) For-
tunately the wind was cool enough to fan
the cheeks of Scots who did tremendous
tilings in blanket tartans. Gaelic flowed
fike whisky: William Urquhart, formerly
Governor of Goulburn gaol, now in charge
of the Parramatta retreat, and one of the
best Gaelic scholars in the State, gave his
customary address to the whiskers that hailed
from the bleak north of Britairf. The Fair-
guson, a popular figure at these gatherings,
shook hands with uncounted Scawtch fists
as the day wore on. President James Burns
moved round with his Ex. Lady Helen, in
chiffony black, wore a glad blue feather in
her hat. Currie Elies, one of the pillars of
the tartan community, was in the official
stand. Consul-General Brittain, .the Alex.
MacCormicks, Dr. Jarvie Hood, and a hefty
herd of Macs were also in the fold.
The skirl of them! The bagpipes that
laid in wait for the G.-G. on New Year’s
night were tuning up on the pavement out-
side the Town Hall for some time before the
chiel arrived. As the clock struck eight
the row began. The vice-regal party marched
up the steps to the most piercing blast that ,
ever blew this side of a Highland funeral.
When the pipe band got his Ex. fairly down
on the official mat in front of the platform
it set to work again, while “hechs” and
“hoots” of appreciation rolled out of every
corner of a packed hall. Her Ex., in the
gladsome finery of the new peace-days, was
exquisitely gowned in filmy black, with a
tiara like big bubbles of moonlight (it was
really built of diamonds and pearls like
silver peas). Hon. Sec. John Stewart, of
the Highland Society, sat next the v.-r. lady,
and secretary J. D. Robertson hovered near.
President James Burns was at his Ex.’s
elbow, and General Finn and his lady a
chair or two away. The concert? Mostly
Scawtch, with a fine healthy encore brew-
ing for each encore, and John Lemmone’s
in the middle.
Some of the people who reached us last
week from Uncle Sam’s Pacific slope brought
their ’flu’ masks with them —white swathes
of very thin cheesecloth, covering mouth and
nose, looped round the ears or tied at the
back of the head. Uncle Sam and his cousin
the Canadian make a present of health con-
trol to local bodies, and a rail-traveller was
kept busy slipping her unsightly ’flu’ veil on
and off—this town commanded that the
things be worn under heavy penalties; the
next one scorned them as insanitary, which
they probably are. It ivcts a serious business
that outbreak of pneumonic ’flu’. An appall-
ing death-rate was bad enough, but, harder
almost to bear than death, the whole movie
business of a continent was suspended,
churches and all other indoor congregations
of more than (as a rule) seven being out of
bounds. However, there were people who
went on taking risks: if big wedding parties
were forbidden, brides and bridegrooms still
turned up behind masks in front of a masked
registrar and chanced everything in the old
way.
Some of the banks and railway offices over
on Uncle Sam’s side introduced a sort of
wholesale ’flu veil; they hung a strip of
medicated cheesecloth between the clerks and
their customers, and the microbe (if any)
was expected to be reasonable and hang him-
self on the barrage.
Flumonia claimed a very white man at
Barr River, Fiji, in Fitz Brenan, who died in
the house with Gremmel Smith and the two
Lambs—with, scarcely anyone to aid them !
Capt. Brenan, the youngest brother of the
Brisbane family, arrived home after nearly
five years of Avar to be greeted by the sad
news. Both are nephews of Miss Jane
Brenan, a northern woman whose war-work
has been splendid.
The. Daltons, of Orange, are again in
mourning. Not long since it was for J.E.
and Willie Redmond. Recently it was for
Mrs. Dalton, otf Wheatleigh, Willoughby.
Now it is for Lieut. James Dalton, grand-
son of the head of the family, James Dalton,
of Orange. The lad, who died in Palestine,
of pneumonia, was 29, and an Anzac.
One of the men who took the Twelve
Apostles of the Australian press in hand in
Glasgow was Gideon Murray, who went to
New Guinea as one of the Lieut.-Governor’s
young men in 1898, and afterwards became
magistrate in the Western Division, up
against the Dutch boundary. After doing all
sorts of odd jobs for the Colonial Office: —for
some years he was Administrator of the
island of St. Vincent—-he was put on to the
big job of Food Controller in Glasgow and
the West o’ Scotland. He will probably be
Lord Elibank some day.
Now we know why there was a shower
of silver on Saturday. Twenty-five years
ago W. S. Mowle, Clerk of the Leg.
Assembly, married Annie, daughter of A. K.
Mackenzie, of Bondi, and , there was a
souvenir party at this week-end. Just as the
fatted jam-roll and other delicacies were
spread the storm burst, and with great
promptitude the company picked up its
plates and hurriedly moved indoors.
cent roofs turned white while Speaker
Cohen (who will soon get fitted for a
Judge’s wig) addressed those present. The
silver-bridegroom responded suitably while
thunder boomed round the chimney-pots.
Though the pneumonic scourge was the
immediate cause, the death of poor Laur-
ance Phillip was not a surprise. Sydney
friends of this brilliant pianist, who had
made his home here for so many years,
often wondered that anything so wraith-like
had lasted so long. Chest troubles and an
aesthetic soul which was deaf to the music
of the dinner-bell didn’t give the frail body
a. chance. Ordered ,to try the light dry air
of California, presumably because the doc-
tors had no nearer remedy for the swiftly-
advancing enemy, poor Phillip got no far-
ther than ’Frisco.
Christmas holidays turned poet Leon Gel-
lert into a benedict. He hurried over to
S’Australia to claim his fair-haired sweet-'
heart, Saunders, and brought her
over to N. S. Wales. They’re honeymooning
at Palm Beach. There’s to be a little flat
a: Mosman when Leon goes back to his job
as English master in Cleveland-street school.
Even poets, alas! must have bread and
butter.
Off to America in the early ’l9 rush goes
Mrs. Edmund Playfair, probably the young-
est looking grandma in this town. She’ll
meet a married daughter and her youthful
brood in the States.
W. E. Bottomley, D.C.M. from Leeds, put
a gold circlet round the finger of Nancy
Keep in the midst of Saturday’s hailstone
demonstration. The Burwood girl is a
daughter of the W. J. Keeps.
In the private hospital and just rounding
the corner after a serious operation, Mrs.
Lemmone’s Christmas kept John a very
anxious man.
As the Niagara swings off Quarantine
Station, doing her seven days without the
option, there are longing looks towards the
city. Young Mrs. Sturdee—wife of the
colonel who recently got another tag to his
name—left an only treasure with grandma
in Melbourne when she dared the subma-
rines to get near hub’by on the other side.
Dad hasn’t seen his youngster since he was
a little nipper in arms. Now he’s a strap-
ping son of five.
As mentioned some time ago, Lady Gal-
way is due in Sydney this week. She goes
on to England by the Niagara—whenever
that may be. There’s to be a re-shuffle
amongst State Governors presently, and
Galway is in the list for “Home.”
From Brisbane:—
The Morgan dame and Mrs. J. Stodart are appeal-
ing for funds for a War Nurses’ Home. The appeal
is very modest: just for a hostel where a dozen
nurses may stay for rest and treatment at a time.
Anyone with a spare house can mention the fact to
Mrs. Stodart, and cash donations may be sent the
same- way.
Lieut. Len Boase, M.C., who has been a prisoner
in Germany since April, has reached England. He
is engaged to Nurse May Hockings, who is in a
military hospital in India.
Most of Brisbane began the New Year by attend-
ing the Q.T.C. races. Mrs. Irving, wife of the State
Commandant, wore a white lingerie frock and car-
ried a champagne-colored parasol. Mrs. Curtis, wife
of our naval chief, also wore white. Brig.-General
and Mrs. Irving provided tea for a party of guests,
and Mrs. Whittingham entertained another group.
The Hetheringtons gave a jolly New Year, party on
Tuesday night. Daughter Ena helped to entertain.
Captain 11. Iv. Ward,' younger son of Dr. Whis-
kers, editor of Brisbane Telegraph, has a bar to his
M.C. Captain Ward went to France in 1914 and
was gassed a few months ago.
A brilliant Tasmanian army nurse,
Matron Miles Walker, R.R.C., caught the
’flu in England a few weeks ago, and suc-
cumbed. For some time she was matron of
the 3rd Australian Auxiliary Hospital at
Dartford. Late in 1917 she went to France
to take charge of a big casualty clearing
station; and she was only just back in Eng-
land, where she was to have the new General
Hospital at Sutton Yeny, when she fell a
victim to the unseen foe.
Did you notice that Dr. Phoebe Chappie
recently got the Military Medal for “gal-
lantry and devotion to duty during an air
raid”? She’s a South Australian heroine,
and the first woman doctor to wear the
medal.
Said that the new wife of Australia’s ex-
Governor-General Tennyson is the youngest
sister of H. C. Prinsep, of Busselton( W.A.).
He used to be Under-Sec. for Mines over
there.
Like a good many other war stories about
prisoners in Germany, the one regarding
young Hanson (father is A. J. Hanson, of
the Lawrence and Hanson electrical firm)
gathered color in the telling. There hasn’t
been any deep, dark mystery about the
young student: his people have been able to
hold at least some sort of communication
with him ever since he was rounded up in
Ruhleben in November, 1914. He was there
just four years, and on his release reached
London via Copenhagen on November 29.
J. Herbert Curie, the mining-engineer who
wrote that remarkable “Shadow Show”
book, ended up his late visit to Australia
with a trip across the Transcontinental and
a look-in at Ivalgoorlie. Thence he went on
to Singapore and Ivwala Lumpur. From
that distance the keen observer and. world-
wide traveller summed up:—
Australia, in a sense, is the finest country on
earth. But its people are dragging it in the mire.
All are to blame. And selfishness is the root-evil.
Is it? Our boys—wasn’t there more com-
radeship among them than among any other
troops in the world? Do you know the
story of the tired-out artillery brigade? They
had been at it week after week, month after
month, and at last were coming out for a
rest. On the way they met an infantry lot,
growling like fury because they had to go in
with Tommy artillery support. Do you
know what the utterly weary Australian
artillery, whose root evil is selfishness, did?
Appealed to the Divisional command to be
allowed to go back to support their cobbers,
the Australian footsloggers, and did go back !
No, we’re only selfish in streaks. We’ve got
to look somewhere else to find the “root
evil.”
Here is a girl who
gave up all her spare
time for over three
years to teach the
wounded Kangaroo
handicrafts at Rand-
wick and other hospi-
tals. _ “They’re apt
pupil s,” enthuses
Mary Makinson, “and
most eager to learn.
It was a great joy to
do the little I could
for men who had
fought in the war,
and in some cases
had been comrades of
my eldest brother.
He was an Anzac of
the old 13th Bat-
talion who was killed
at Mouquet Farm.’’ Mary is a skilled crafts-
woman, whose exhibits of carved wood were
features of pre-war shows. Her practical
mind saw that the honor board was rapidly
becoming a necessary addition to the small-
est hamlet. Some of these Australian scrolls
have been elaborately carved and have
realised up to £2O for the soldier who did
the work. “Many of the discharged men are
now so clever that they scarcely need any
supervision. The largest honor board we
have done so far was for the Wagga Experi-
mental Farm,” adds this busy girl. Photo
by Judith Fletcher. Mary is wearing the
new Red Cross worker’s uniform in the little
picture.
A “Victory at-home” is keeping St. Vin-
cent’s nurses hard at it in their off-duty time.
A big marquee in the grounds will be
entirely surrounded, by attractions. The
committee hoped to have Surgeon-General
Howse, V.C., as their guest of honor. But
back to London to see the Australian
A.M.C. fold up its scattered stretchers and
prepare for home. Funds from the party go
to pay interest on the building loan of' the
Nurses’ Home. Harley McLaughlin is hon.
sec. as usual.
One good Australian war-worker. Winifred
Starling, who went down in the torpedoed
Leinster just as the end was in sight, was a
daughter of the late J. P. and Mrs. Starling,
of Burwood. She linked up with hospital
work in England in 1915. and meant to
have returned home in April. 1918. But
the call for help was then still insistent, so
she stayed on.
One of the original Anzaes to see Sydney
again was Frederick Young Fox, of the
Ninth. The Queenslander —a son of F. \Y.
Fox, of Bombandy station, Clermont—en-
listed at 19, was wounded at Gallipoli, made
a good recovery and carried on as a youthful
captain in France. The Bananalander’s
father is a cousin of that Sir Frederick
Young, one of the founders of the Colonial
Institute, who died a few years ago, aged 96,
after toddling about Europe and writing of
Australia almost to the end.
A tragic end to a charming young woman
threw a large circle of relatives in Sydney
into mourning at Christmas time. Lucy,
eldest daughter of late pastoralist D. G.
Peele, of Dahara, beyond Longreach (Q.),
made a gallant effort to save some horses
which had been caught in a grass fire on
her late father’s run. But the enemy was
too swift. In a desperate effort to avoid
the, racing, flames the girl climbed a tree;
but it was caught in the holocaust. Her
only brother had just reached Fremantle on
his return from the war. Father died in
November last at Dahara homestead.
Mrs. Cecil Bennett, a daughter of squatter
Bucknell, of Quambone, Coonamble, is due
home in a few weeks, after three years’ ab-
sence from the gum-trees. A husband in
khaki follows in a transport.
Have you noticed that Princess Pat is at
last about to be taken off the shelf? For a
royalty she is marrying la\e—born on St.
Patrick’s Day, 1880, she’s 33. Her con-
tinued spinsterhood was due to her being in
love with an English officer. The fence that
separated royalty from other castes was too
high before the war. Apparently it has been
lowered of abolished like the railings once
round Hyde Park, for Princess Pat’s fiance
is a naval man named Ramsay, brother of
the Earl of Dalhousie. To the romanticists’
joy he is the same for whom she’s been
waiting.
The swing of the pendulum. At St,
Clement’s, Mosman, a window has been
erected to the memory of Lieut. Frank H.
Semple, of the 18th Battalion, killed in
France on May 19. Just prior to the war
this very bright young Australian quitted
PitCStreet to prepare himself for the church
at Sydney Uni. The family has been long in
these parts. Eighty years or more ago, Lieut.
Semple’s grandfather arrived at Port Arthur
as one of the officers of the 11th Regiment.
He quitted the military in favor of civil life
in Adelaide, but survived the change only a
short while.
Arrived in England via Copenhagen.
Lieut. Harry Talbot Hammond, only child
of Mr. and Mrs. H. Hammond, of Strath-
field. Engine trouble landed this airman
on the wrong side of the Western Front
in September, 1917, and for 15 months
he was with the Hun at Clausthal.
Kevin Goldnck, of the Pacific Cable Co.,
wounded and captured by Jerry at Lagni-
• court in 1917, was. among the Aussie prison-
ers repatriated lately. He-first .met Jerry
on Fanning Island in the early days
of the war, and a later and closer acquaint-
ance has not helped to an improved opinion
of him.
Sheila Chisholm (that was) has presented
her Loughbrough lord with a secbnd son.
so the succession to the Bosslyn earldom is
pretty well assured. You’ll remember the
wedding happened in Cairo about t&e time
Australia owned that part of Egypt.


Xadies Walcli Dracelets
The (bmpany cal) special attention to
their ranse of Bracelet Watches including
the latest models, and will forward sel-
ections on approval at their own risk, j
r
judj
9-c< Gold Watch with high eraefo
Swiss Lever Movement.fitted on
9-ct Gold Expanding Bracelet in case!
£152 - IO - O.
9-ct. Gold Swiss Levet*
Watch.on Suede Strap with Buckle.
Uhe (bmpany's special strap watcli;
£o - 15 - o.
A copy of the (bmjoa/iys Catalogue will be
forwarded on repuest. 5% discount allowed
on all cash purchases.
Hardy Brothers Id
jEWEIIe rs
13 HUNTER ST
SYDNEY.
290 COLLINS ST
MELBOURNE
116 116 QUEEN St
BRISBANE
LO N D O N
3
n
I:
We Teach Photography
Free to Camera Purchasers
To anyone who purchases or has recently purchased a camera from us,
we will teach photography free —the taking of the photo, developing the
negative, and making the print. Those who have had cameras presented to
them are also included in this offer, which is made without any condition
other than that the camera must have been purchased from us. We invite
you to call and make an appointment for the first demonstration.
To those who are thinking of taking up photography—the most pleasant
and most instructive of all hobbies, we extend an invitation to inspect our
stock of
THE WORLD’S BEST MAKES OF CAMERAS
—ENSIGNS, BROWNIES, KODAKS-
And Other World-Famous Brands
at Prices to Suit Every Requirement.
If you would like a small Vest Pocket Camera, that you can carry
anywhere and at any time, we recommend the
ENSIGNETTE NO. 1, takes photos x 11 inches 85/-
ENSIGNETTE NO. 2, takes photos 3x2 inches 42/6
V.P.K., takes photos 2 x If inches 40/-
If you live out of town, send for illustrated catalogue—post free to any
address.
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers, have your
Residues Treated at HARRINGTONS’.
We have the latest Scientific Appliances for the Economical Treatment of Ores,
Residues, Sweepings and other Waste Products, every grain of precious metal that is of
value being extracted and paid for at market rates, iess a small charge for refinement.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver, Platinum and other Precious Metals, and
can supply those metals and their alloys in plate, granulated or wire. IVe specialise in
Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis. A note or ’phone message to any of
our branches will receive prompt attention.
CP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
388 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney.
Take every repair trouble to
an Oxy-Acetylene Welder.
WORN AXLE (
BUILT UP,*
AT BEARING
m
IN'
FRAME REPAIRED
Lawn-mowers are scarce and costly. Without the
Oxy-Acetjlene U elder the owner of this lawn-mower
would have baa to buy a new machine.
,Clamp arrn
broken off
repaired irv a
few minutes
A simple break which made this east-
iron mincer useless. A couple of shil-
lings made it as strong as new.
This boiler from a ferry in Sydney cost
about £4OO and was badly corroded ow-
ing to wet ashes. The Oxy-Acetylene
Welder cut the front out and re-welded it,
also built the back up to normal strength.
Then the boiler was tested to 3501 b.
steam pressure. Cost of repair, £3O.
The oxy-acetylene welding process is
of interest to everyone, from the greatest
engineering workshop to the householder
possessing only a few garden tools. The Oxy-
Acetylene Process is at the service of everyone who
desires to save money, and the illustrations shown
here are hut a few of hundreds of money-saving
possibilities for Engineers, Motorists, Farmers and
Householders.
Whenever parts break in machinery, tools or metal
utensils, go to the OXY-ACETYLENE WELDER. He
will save you the cost of new parts or new implements,
and for very little make the broken articles strong as
new in the smallest amount of time.
The larger the Metal-working Business, Workshop, Steel and Iron Works,
Foundry or Mine, there you wPI find the Oxy-Acetylene Process in use
for saving time and money, in the cutting and joining of all metals.
Hundreds of farmers know what the OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING PRO-
CESS means in repairing broken implements in quick time in busy seasons,
and householders everywhere in Australia are realising that to throw
broken metal utensils on the rubbish heap is throwing money away.
There is an OXY-ACETYLENE W'ELDER somewhere near you, always
ready for service in saving time and money. Go to him with all your
metal repairs! If your problem is a big one, involving the establishment
of a repair shop, garage, foundry or sheet-metal manufacturing business,
the demolition of steel bridges, mining plants, old boilers, etc., write to
hs—our advice and experience are at your disposal always.
The Common wealth
Oxygen C° LW
Pioneers of "the Oxygen Industry in Australia
v Fou St. Balmain N-S W
AGENTS—
MELBOURNE—Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins Street. BRISBANE—Evans,
Deakin & Co., 121 Eagle Street. ADELAIDE—AIex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH-Reorge Wills & Co. Ltd., Murray Street. TASMANIA—Harrison
Bros. & Cu.Ltd.,2o Patterson Street, Launceston. FlJl—Brown & Joske, Suva.
TEETH BUILT UP
r | Hi
Tf“™t«sa34g
« TEFTH
BUILT UP
Pumps and agricultural implements of all kinds can be repaired,
and in many cases the Oxy-Acetvlene Welding process has
saved the cost of a new implement.
The price of shovels to-day is terrific!
Mines, gas-works, railways and those, who
nse large quantities of shovels should emu-
late a leading Government Railway workshop.
They repair all their firemen’s shovels as
shown above at a cost of about 4d. each.
The broken half is cut away and a .new
front piece welded on.


GIVE YOUR NERVES THREE GOOD
MEALS A DAY.
PHYSICIANS SAY PHOSPHATE
MAKES THE NERVES STEADY AND
STRONG.
Phosphate is the natural food of the
nerves, and the form they most readily
absorb and transform into vital nervous
energy is known as biiro-phosphate. You
ean get bitro-phosphate from your chemist
in the form of 5-grain compressed tablets,
and if you take one of these tablets immedi-
ately after each meal you will provide your
nerves with the nourishment they need so
badly. Feed your nerves and they will be-
come steady and strong, and as your nervous
strength increases so your general health
will improve. Your brain will act quickly
and clearly, your eyes will grow brighter,
your step will become firmer and your cheeks
will glow with health. Languor, lassitude,
weakness and depression will be overcome
and a decided increase in vigor and vitality
will be quickly noticeable.— Advt.
The Chateau Napier,
■
Leura,
Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
THIS modern Residential Hotel is unique
in its situation on the highest point in
Leura, commanding extensive views for over
60 miles.
A new wing has just been added, furnished
in the most modern and luxurious manner.
House heated with American ideal heating
system.
A new smoke-room with sunny open bal-
cony has been added.
Electric light throughout.
Tennis-court. Billiard-room. Motor-garage.
Golf Links and Bowling Green right handy.
Private Sitting-rooms.
Tel. 121 Katoomba
Men’s Smart Felt Hats
The great savings to be made on
Men’s Apparel at Farmer’s Cash
Bonus Sale are exemplified by
the lines of Hats quoted. Not
only are prices reduced con-
siderably in these instances, but
cash purchases carry an extra
bonus of 2/- in every f spent.
Sale ceases on Saturday, the
18th. Send now for Sale Cata-
logue, post free on request.
CASH BONUS SAVINGS.
r^n
\JU
rmerr
SRI. —-Smart Soft Felt Hats, cut edges, brims 2£in.
wide, silk lined, light, medium and dark grey,
fawn. Usually 19/8. SALE PRICE 15/6
SR‘2. —Similar Shapes, turn-over edges, 2sin. brims;
light slate and light grev; back or side bow.
Usually 17/6. SALE PRICE 14/6
M
025
retell
HEf
Making the Scones Light.
“When I first tried Ireland’s Baking Powder in scones
I found it seemed for me the best results I ever
obtained. They were light and thoroughly cooked,
the crust was crisp and brown and the scones
throughout even-textured and wholesome.”
IRELAND’S
Baking Powder
cannot fail to secure uniformly good scones, because
it is more carefully and scientifically mixed —the
ingredients are specially selected and are the purest
and best we can possibly obtain.
Try it also for better results in Pastry and Cakes.
The guarantee in ever}’ tin is your assurance of
quality.
Ask for Ireland’s and be sure you get it.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
J. IRELAND LTD.,
Newcastle
MELBOURNE
CAHTTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
For the New Year’s Day racing at Flem-
ington all the butterflies came out in cool
muslins and georgettes. The very young
insects are now wearing sashes again—big
silk things about a yard wide. Some ven-
turesome women carried flat paper parasols;
but there was no sudden rainstorm this
time. Captain Finch-Knightly, military sec-
retary to the G.-G., accompanied his wife, who
wore a dress of the fashionable deep purple-
pink shade. The pink flimsies were edged
with dark fur. A pink and purple hat with
a flowing purple veil finished the effect —
and the passing dress critic, too. Mrs.
Byron Moore wore black with, a bird of
paradise in her hat. Mrs. Winter-Irving, in
pale grey muslin, brought her brood of school-
girls and boys. Mrs. Sep Miller had a hat
loaded like a fruiterer’s basket. Mrs Clive
Leonard walked modestly in primrose-yellow
muslin topped by a hat of gold straw. Mrs.
Rupert Downes chaperoned the flapper
daughter of General Hughes. Sister Hilda
Samsing, just back from the war, was in
blue and green mufti. Mrs. Hayes walked
with her in a quiet champagne-colored out-
fit. Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Mackinnon, from
South Africa, seemed to be enjoying Flem-
ington. He is a brother of L. K. 8. Mac-
kinnon, and the two partied together in
great splendor. Mrs. C. J. wore a rose hat
above her mouse-colored georgette frock, and
Mrs. L. K. S. wore black with a tuscan and
blue hat.
Because the crowd at Flemington on New
Year’s Day was pretty thick the utter empti-
ness of the two reserved enclosures in the
Stand —one for Governors and Personages
and the other for V.R.C. Rewards and their
guests—was the more conspicuous. It has
been like that with the vice-regal pen for
four and a half years. The rule of the rac-
ing-club seems to be that when a private box
has been made holy by the patronage of
deputy-Lord’s-anointeds it must be kept un-
contaminated by mere commoners for ever-
more. If theatrical managements followed
the, same rule the d.c. boxes would nearly
always remain blanks, even when money was
being turned away. The races are a show
and the grand-stand is a theatre, differing
from the other sort of playhouses in having
its boxes in the very best positions. The
vice-regal pen is in a line with the winning-
post, and the crowd is always thickest in its
vicinity. Yet the reserve mostly is a yawn-
ing space, sacred to Excellencies who are not
there.
Victorian weather during Christmas week
was most unkind to the Prophet Hunt, who
foretold “fine weather until the end of the
week.” Christmas Day opened dull but fine
and kept thus until about the time the goose
was carved; Then the rain started and con-
tinued for most of the afternoon. Hunt’s
forecast for Boxing Day was: “Victoria—At
first isolated showers on the coast, but be-
coming gradually fine, with temperatures
gradually rising.” It turned out to be a
day of drenching downpours, which caused
much back-talk from those who had trusted
to the published prophecy. It was poor luck
for Hunt, who is pretty good at foretelling
the breaking-up of a dry spell or the approach
of thundery weather at periods when almost
the only interested parties are farmers. But
when a wrong prophecy is made at holiday-
time there are hundreds of thousands of out-
raged city dwellers to rise up and give him
the loud hee-haw.
Major “Toby” Watt has been inflicted
with an 0.8. E. It is rough luck on one who
joined the French air service as a pilot 24
hours after the Germans entered Luxembourg
and was at the Front and flying before Eng-
land declared war. He was heavily decorated
by the French Government before he took over
an Australian squadron in Egypt in 1910.
Latterly he has been in charge of a flying
depot in England. The 0.8. E
a lead-swinger’s decoration —derives such
slight value as it has from soldiers of the
Watt stamp. He deserved something better.
In the same list appears General Charley
Ryan, who gets a C.M.G. Ryan is one of
the most gaily-decorated men in London, the
variegated ribbons which he displays (a
number of them Turkish) being the pride
and delight of the Oriental Club, where
he puts in most of his spare time. He is
not popular among the rank and file of the
A.I.F. His manner is too terse and his
methods too sudden.
A gentle lad who used to post this Chat-
terer’s letters has grown into a Military Medal-
list. Eric Keage, son of a scholastic major,
came for business experience to The Bul-
letin’s Collins-street office when he was a
small boy, and stayed until he was old
enough to run off to the enlisting depot. As
a maypole cadet young Eric had been a sig-
naller, in which capacity he went to do his
bit. He was just the politest lad in the
world, and, seemingly, one of the bravest. He
got his M.M. for gallantry and devotion to
duty under fire last August; his command-
ing" officer wrote of him that he had done
“yeoman service all through the advance.”
Mrs. Jimmy Macdonald is hurrying home
to join her Anzac artist husband, just re-
turned. She nursed in England while the
bloodshed was in progress.
The Fairbairns have been earning a lot of
overtime lately welcoming home members of
the clan. George’s son, Lieut. Clive, got
back first. Then the Fred Fairbairn pair
killed the fatted fowl for daughter Jean and
son Beau’s young English wife. The
Charles Fairbairns an now rejoicing in the
return of dying son Jim, who had a doleful
year or so as a wounded prisoner.
Goldsbrough’s manager Nihill wears a smile
since he got cable news that youngest son
Arthur had just been set free from a Hun
prison camp. Amongst other rejoicing-
parents of war prisoners are the Western
District Ritchies, whose son had over three
years of prison life; and Dr. Gutteridge,
whose boy Gordon has left Germany for
England.
Margaret Baskerville, Melbourne’s most
industrious sculptress, usually lends her
chisel to perpetuate
the memory of any
deceased celebrity
whose worth has to
be established i n
marble or bronze.
The other week her
memorial medallion
to Ernest Wood, late
organist at St.
Paul’s, Melbourne,
was qnveiled i n
the cathedral, and
shortly there will be
an ornate representa-
tion of the Edith
Cavell affair to show
Miss' Baskerville’s
merits as a tragic
historian. Her huge
figure of the late
Tommy Bent now confronts the casual
visitor in Bay-street, Brighton. The bust
of James Cumming, late of Cumming, Smith
and'Co., erected near the Footscray bowling-
green, is another of her memorials, and she
is also responsible for the three dainty figures
which are part of the internal decoration
of the Cafe Australia. The trio are some-
times taken to represent various aspects of
the Goddess of Appetite, but they are really
distinct identities called Persephone, Daphne
and Echo.
A few old Melbourne Block promenaders
are drifting back from the war. The latest
arrival is Bob Cain of the Grenadier Guards.
Robert, always a spotlight in the ballroom
of the Naicest, now makes a trim-looking
soldier-man. He is only here on furlough,
so the flappers are making the most of their
time.
Toorak’s Mrs. Bob Power has just
received the news of the death of nephew
Captain Evelyn Ffrench, who has been killed
whilst flying. “Evie” Ffrench was rather a
soldier of fortune and tried his hand at
many crafts, including a music-hall stunt
as an Australian stockwhip manipulator.
His wife was Blanche Watson, daughter of
George Watson, father of the original Mel-
bourne Hunt Club.
Lieut. Lionel Short, son of the late
Charles and nephew of Henry, editor of
the Leader, has been “mentioned” and
awarded the Military Medal.
It seems so long since old Mars Buckley
died (and Philip Nunn in England went the
way of all flesh) that Melbourne was aston-
ished to hear of the death, at St. Ivilda, of
one of the early members of the Buckley and
Nunn firm. James Lillie, who passed out
the other day at 85, is stated to have been
one of the “original proprietors”; but this
doesn’t fit in with the old story of the genesis
of the house. The yarn was that the original
Farmer, of Sydney, looking around Mel-
bourne in the roaring days of gold-discovery,
spotted the Bourke-street site as a likely
place for a branch business, and singled out
Mars Buckley and Phil Nunn as a pushing
pair to run it. In their agreement they
: stipulated for the option of buying the busi-
ness within a year if they could make it
gee. Farmer didn’t foresee the coming rush
to Melbourne, or expect that his branch man-
■ agers would be able to buy him out, shop,
i stock and barrel, in less than no time. They
■ did it however. Perhaps James Lillie put
; some money into their venture. Not that
there was anything venturous about it. A
fortune was a certainty for anybody who
had got a shop 'near the G.P.O. The dig-
gers scattered all their money thereabouts in
those days. And then the theatres came to
help keep the women staring in the drapers’
windows.
Mrs. George Chirnside is returning to
Australia, and hopes to bring with her
daughter Audrey and her husband, Colonel
Harold Pape, of the Tanks. Pape is a fine
amateur rider and has a great opinion of
Billjim’s fighting qualities. He was linked
up for a while with the A.I.F.
Mrs. Tom Murdoch, of Hobart, swung
a bottle by the neck and christened a ship
the other day. It is said to be the largest
wooden vessel built in Australasia. The
Sydney firm of Rosenfeldt bought the craft,
which is called Valmarie —Val after the
youngest Rosenfeldt daughter, and Marie
after the eldest.
From Adelaide :
Lieut.-Colonel Logan, who is to be our D.A.A.G.,
arrived on Thursday. His predecessor, Major Pendle-
bury, left the same afternoon for his new billet in
Sydney.
Captain Maxwell Gore, M.C., has arrived in London
after being a prisoner since April, 1917.
A bad bout of heat at the end of the year brought
with it the usual bush-fires, which swept from the
hills right down into the suburban area and made
things unpleasant at Mitcham and Glen Osmond. The
Netherby estate, the Tom Barr Smiths’ and the
Waites’ homes, and the Cudmores’ old place—
Claremont, higher up on the hills—were all threat-
ened.
John Lewis’s trip to Europe and America has been
interrupted in Bananaland, where eye trouble and
a specialist’s orders compelled him to stay awhile.
Capt. Harry Thomson, M.C., has been appointed
Deputy-Director of Education in the A.I.F. A bril-
liant career at the University here was capped by
winning a Rhodes scholarship. Other S. Australians
sent out as education officers to various units in Eng-
land or France are Lieut. W. S. Kelly, Lieut. Gar-
trell and Lieut. Birks.
Credit for the first electric telegraph between
Adelaide and Port Adelaide is due to James Mae-
George, who died in Kent, England, a few days ago.
His line (private) was opened on December 3,
1855; his charges were Is. for every 30 words,
with names and addresses free. We haven’t improved
on that much, have we?
At Port Adelaide Police Court the other day the
Government House chauffeur was. called up for driv-
ing at 30 miles an hour on the Port-road. His
excuse was that the Galway lady had two patriotic
engagements for that afternoon, and he raced so that
her Ex. could keep her appointments on time. The
Bench listened and fined him £3, with £1 costs.
Leslie, son of the late artist John Maher,
and a lieut.-colonel in his own right, has
acquired a French fiancee, Marcelle Arnul-
phie, daughter of a Paris doctor. The two
met in France. Leslie, while on service,
gained wounds and a D.S.O.
Mrs. Harry S. Levy, of Sydney, who was
widowed a little time ago, has happy news.
Eldest daughter Mollie has announced her
engagement to Captain Harold Nathan, of
Wellington (M.L.), and late of King
Edward’s Horse. Mollie inherits her
mother’s good looks and some of her charm
and affability. The Nathans have varied and
solid business interests.
C. J. Boyce, director of the Vic. Tourist
Bureau, is here seen resting his colossal
memory on his
plump white hand.
There are very few
questions about Vic-
toria’s tourist re-
sources that Boyce
cannot answer. The
intending holiday-
maker need only ap-
proach him and he
will tick off twenty
suitable places with
a multitude of par-
ticulars that leave
the inquirer calling
faintly for water.
Boyce has spent a
good part of his life
in becoming the
savant of the rail-
way service. He has
closely inspected most of the places he
mentions, and his enthusiasm for their
beauties has led him to orate about them
on the lecture platform, while a movie
camera has corroborated his eulogies.
Mendelssohn pictured him in a quiet hour.
Millie Jones, daughter of rich Jam Jones
of the Annie Island, is to be married to a
brother of Dr. Janet Greig. Millie is a fine-
looking heiress. The two will go into a
flat at Brighton and watch their own home
grow near by. Papa Jones built a terrace
of three houses in Hobart —one each for
his three daughters. Only one of the trio
has established herself in the nest that was
made for her.
Black-and-white artist Charlie Nutall left
single-cussedness behind him with the old
year. The good and sufficient cause of his
apostasy was Leila Blackbourn, of St. Kilda,
whose late father was well known as an
engineer. The ceremony happened at St.
John’s Toorak, with David Dow as best
man. Tasmania is the honeymoon venue.
Major George Richmond and Grizel
Wilson, the only daughter of a Scottish
Colonel, were wed in November. The
Major is the only surviving son of squatter
James Richmond, who left Toorak with his
family over 20 years ago to settle in
Scotland.
Colonel Luxton was married to Dorothy,
only daughter of the Osbornes, of Kilmore,
the other Monday evening. The little bride
looked like a Dresden china figure in white
chiffon with pale blue and pink color effects
at the waist-line, a white tulle veil, a circlet
of orange-blossoms and a bouquet of
water-lilies. A Luxton sister bridesmaided
picturesquely in pink georgette.
Bride Mrs, Gill (once Dot llidgcock)
gave a big farewell party at the Oriental on
Thursday. She and her bridegroom are en-
deavoring to get away to America on their
way to their English home, but cannot hire
a boat at present. Bride Dorothy wore a
trousseau frock of pink ninon and blue vel-
vet ribbon and a hat made of forget-me-nots.
Each guest received a farewell slipper
packed with roses and lavender.
Melbourne was cheered during the holi-
days by the appearance of Rupert Clarke
with his new missus. She is slim and
pretty, and showed a quiet dress sense by
garbing herself in blue serge suiting and a
straw hat with a garland of flowers. The
pair are at Kismet, the Sunbury house which
nestles like a mushroom at the gates of big
Rupertswood.
Interest is added to the new grand-opera
venture by the fact that several Melbourne
girls are to be given a chance outside the
home-grown chorus. Gertrude Johnson is
to sing some of the leading soprano roles.
Organist Frederick Nott, who was study-
ing at the Royal Academy, London, when
war broke out, has been giving recitals in
Wales and enjoying the part-ringing of
David and his brethren. Fred is at present
a bandmaster —a melodious change from the
artillery job with which he left Australia.
He is one of the younger generation of the
confectionery Notts.
Mrs. Ellis Rowan’s striking collection of
pictures of Papuan birds and flowers, in
painting which she acquired malaria, is
shortly to go to the U.S., where the material
collected by John Gould for his great work
on the birds of Australia is in the possession
of the Philadelphia Museum.


INFLUENZA.
Send for the doctor and go to bed.
The Public are warned to take no
chances with the Influenza epidemic
should it make its appearance in Aus-
tralia, but to send for the family doctor
and go to bed. This Influenza plague
has already proved itself deadly in New
Zealand, and it may make its appearance in Australia any
day in spite of the rigid quarantine regulations. If you have
an attack of the real Influenza your digestion will be a wreck,
your head, legs and back will ache, your heart action may
be affected, and you will have a temperature. These con-
ditions need the attention of a skilled medical attendant.
It stands every member of the community in hand to so look after their
general health to prevent if possible becoming infected with this deadly
germ, and to accomplish this no better remedy could be taken than Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. They are a searching, cleansing remedy.
They are mild in their action, but highly effective in cleansing the system
of all impurities and preventing germs getting a chance to incubate.
Petroleum Oils, Salts, Tonics and other so-called remedies are of little
yse to cleanse the system and keep these germs in check; in fact they will
have a tendency to aggravate an already deranged gastric condition. It
would also be advisable to take from 5 to 10 grains of ASPIRIN two or
three times daily if feeling out of sorts, or 10 grains of QUININE on
retiring at night the same time as the pi-lls are taken. A common cold can
usually be broken up if either ASPIRIN or QUININE is taken with Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills on the first indication of a cold.
Following these simple precautions may prevent an attack of serious
illness. If you get the real Influenza do as already stated: send for the
doctor and go to bed. Don’t try and doctor yourself. The complaint is
too dangerous to take chances with. The doctor may or may not allow
you to continue taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. In any case, follow
his directions both with medicine and food, and you will be on the safe side.


The chaotic condition of Germany to-day
js directly attributable to the insufferable
ignorance of the Hun. Had he been wise
he would have sworn off lager, and drank
from the fount of wisdom —D.C.L. Whisky
—the whisky of the wise.— Advt.
For Sale.
Tasmania. Tasmania.
FOR PRIVATE SALE.
A SPLENDID GRAZING AND
AGRICULTURAL PROPERTY.
In one of Tasmania’s Best Districts, Glorious
Climate, Droughts Unknown.
On the 15th March Next a Lease of Many Years
will Terminate, and Throw Open For Sale One of
Tasmania’s Grand Old Properties.
3000 ACRES in the heart of the Champion Merino
Country, about one mile from Campbelltown Station
and sale yards. Big frontage on main road and
main line railway. Fine old homestead, surrounded
by old English trees. Water laid on everywhere.
Homestead and other paddocks very, conveniently
subdivided.
WATERED. —Bounded by Elizabeth River, never-
failing creeks, and springs, etc.
RAINFALL.—22.42in. average. Nicely spread;
droughts unknown.
CARRYING CAPACITY.—Present carrying capa-
city, 2000 sheep and cattle and horses.
SOIL. —Principally rich red loam, black soil fiats.
PRICE, £9500; terms. CHEAP. CHEAP.
REMARKS.—A property well worth double the
money, but being leased for years has not been care-
fully handled. House wants some renovating, but is
a fine old English home in \a lovely position.
Homestead paddock wants attention.
An adjoining owner has had, for the last three
years, 50 bushels of wheat per acre from a large
area.
Splendid soil. Recommended as one of the finest
opportunities available for many years. Inspect or
write for fuller particulars early.
Look up and read about Campbelltown, Tasmania.
GEOFFREY V. CHAPMAN,
Auctioneer, Property Agent,
HOBART, TASMANIA. •
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
foie Agents : RESCH3, LlfllTED. Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WHITTY
MAKERS
r J 'I :V^v
1m
mi
■y->
m
0$
m
m
■U:C
WM
jj&S;
m
wm
AT
D(//V/v
O
o
*
vVVWSvNN
H
. SB >
1
u
<r A
v
2p/A
ADD
Say
Brmcls
Gjn 'and
looH for
this label
-You 11
he pleased
with the
result
SPORTING
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
What happened from a breeding point of
view at the A.J.C. Christmas meeting occurred again
last week during Tatt.’s proceedings at Randwick.
Excluding a hurdle race 11 events were run in the
two days. There were 140 starters, of whom 114
were either imported or by imported sires; 27 were
by Australian sires. Of the 33 horses placed four
were of Australian blood and 29 by imported stal-
lions. In seven of the 11 events every placed horse
was by Something “imp.” In seven of them there
were less than three locally-sired starters. Of 26
starters in two-year-old races only 22 had a pedi-
gree beginning “imp.” on one side or the other—and
not one of these latter ran into a place. Of the
four Australian-sired animals detected by the judge
one was from an imported mare, and it is ominous
that half of the four are not likely to he noticed
very frequently in future. The horse of Australian
parentage is rapidly becoming a curiosity at Rand-
wick.
The two-year-olds deserve some special notice;
There were four Australians of the second generation
among the 26 runners at Tatt.’s, and not one of
them promises to be more than a moderate per-
former later on, even if any of them survives the
perils of the training stable. From what has been
seen so far during the season any hope there may be
of an Australian-sired colt or filly annexing one of
the big three-year-old races in the Spring has mighty
little chance of realisation. And, apropos of this,
as throwing some additional light on the deteriorat-
ing effect of two-year-old racing, it may be asked
where are the Australian-sired horses which were
racing as two-vear-olds at Randwick a season or so
ago? They were certainly not among the four which
pot into the 33 places at Tatt.’s. Of the four
Greg (second in the Cup, and out of an imported
dam, anyway) ran only once at two vears and then
not till April. Two Blues was not produced at that
age, nor was Princess Lucy. The other, Satin Bird,
was started 14 times, and, in spite of his Epsom
win later, stands out as one of the conspicuous
disappointments of the N. S. Wales turf.
# * * *
Wedding Day is not likely to win - any
more races at Randwick. The weight-fixers will see
to that, and the fact that she is six years old will
help them. But she will be long remembered as
one of the best of) her sex, for though not first-rate
in the w.f.a. sense, she has been one of the most
brilliant handieappers seen among mares for a long
time. Winner of a Villiers, a Challenge, a Don-
caster and a Tattersall’s Cup, she has also been a
mighty good investment for trainer Mark Thompson.
Wedding Day took the Cup on Saturday after a
bitter struggle up the straight with Greg, to whom
she was giving 131 b. All the incident of the race
was at the end, except, perhaps, for the top weights,
Lingle and Bursar. They were obliterated at the
start. The aged Bee, who had put Arch Marella
to a severe test in the Summer Cup, was reckoned
the best of good things, and 5 to 2 was the most
favorable quotation to be got from Ike. She ran
very unkindly, and after the first half-mile, though
well up, never looked a likely winner. Garibaldi
ran out in front, and when he punctured at a mile
Greg went on and took the turn just in front of
Wedding Day. She closed on him opposite
the Leger. and in an all-out run for the line, just
touched him off in the last couple of strides. She
crowded him a hit, and Hill, on Greg, dropped his
hands at the critical moment, or it might have been
different. The protest was dismissed and femininity
cheered with delight. The girls are always on Wed-
ding Day. They got B’s and 6’s.
Wedding Day is a spidery-looking chestnut by
Antonio (imp.)—Wedding Present (imp.), and as a
rule never runs so well as when she looks as sorry
for herself as a thirsty ewe. On Saturday
she looked a bit brighter and bigger than usual.
She ran the mile and a half in 2min. 304 sec
new record for Randwick and the Commonwealth.
As a two-year-old she was not tried until February,
winning on the first go at Warwick Farm. Later
she had three more starts, being twice placed. At
three years she won a Novice at Randwick and
started without success five times in distances from
a mile to two miles. In the following year came
her big sequence of winning gallops. Just before
Christinas she was second to Rebus in the Villiers
Mile, and was in the same place behind Cetigne last
season—the year after her win.
* * * #
A furlong or a gallop more or less makes
a lot of difference to some horses, and only the
very wise man can tell just when and where to look
for proof of it. But it is a wiser man still who
doesn’t back himself to find what be is searching
for. Take the case of the Poseidon gelding Greg.
This nag, which at last Autumn meeting of the
A.J.C. weakened at the end of 10 furlongs in a
Trial event, started on December 21 favorite for
the Holiday Handicap (lj- mile) at Randwick, • and
with 7st. ran fourth behind Garibaldi, Camp Out
and Kenilira. He showed about as much dash as a
winded rabbit. This poor showing caused him to
go right back in the betting for the Summer Cup.
But on Boxing Dav there was enough money to
bring him back again, and, starting at 10’s, he was
well jup in front at 10 furlongs with 6st. 111 b., but
was well beaten at a mile and a half. On New
Year’s Day he was solidly backed for Tatt.’s Cup.
Again carrying 6st. 111 b. he ran conspicuouslv well
from the beginning, and was obviously master of
Bee, who had left him well astern a week before,
at any stage of the race. At 10 furlongs he was
full of running, and, coming away from the others,
fought out a gruelling finish with Wedding- Day,
only being beaten by a couple of inches in record
fime. On this occasion he was as full of dash as a
game rooster. Yet people go backing “form” with
hard-earned cash! On “form” Greg had no chance
in this race. Bee had every chance. It looked
almost a certainty for her, except to those people
who remembered how old she is and how much rac-
ing she had done. They, this page assumes, are the
people who backed Grey on the ground that “form”
is a conun di-um at all times. They only missed
collecting by a whisker, too.
At the. Christmas and New Year meetings
at Randwick there were daily attendances averaging
about 30,000. As usual the biggest crowd was
there to start the year—3s,ooo, the extra thousands
being mostly women. The tote turnover, for ' the
four days was £171,604, from which Treasurer
Fitzpatrick appropriates a tasty £12,012. This
is an average turnover per day of £42,901. Com-
pared with what happens in Maoriland, where book
betting doesn’t prevail, the figures are paltry. At
a iecent country race meeting in Manawatu the
turnover was £45,480 a day. How much the ring
handled at Randwick during the four days can be
only guessed. That it was well over half a million
is certain. There were 410 Ikes doing business ; and
they were not yelling for fun.
Caulfield Futurity Stakes winner Bala rang
didn’t misplace any of his rapidity while waiting
for his poor feet to get better. Carrying 9st. 121 b.
in Tatt.’s Flying at Randwick on New Year’s Day
he gave Poitrina 41b. and a start at the turn and
beat her home in good style—and it takes something
of a champion to do that to Poitrina. Also he gave
Fight Ever, a smart sprinter, more than 2st. and
trimmed her well over the last furlong. Balarang
ran the six furlongs in 121. ft is coming to look
as if nothing which cannot do the trip in that or a
bit under has any . chance nowadays over six fur-
longs at Randwick. Even for Maidens and Novices
13 or 131 has to be registered—a time more than
good enough to win any Newmarket that ever was
run. Yet there is a turn at Randwick. The New-
market is run straight. With age Randwick is get-
ting faster than greased lightning. '*
Former Maorilander E. J. Watt unfurled
his blue and white again at Randwick, this time >
on the winner of Tatt.’s Second Nursery, the first
trip the young ’uns have had this season over 54
furlongs. Pershore is the colt’s name, and his breed-
ing reads. All Black (imp.)—Perseia. As Pershore
is a well-proportioned juvenile and stayed the jour-
ney well, and as All Black has been responsible for
some smart gallopers (Desert Gold is one) and
Perseia was not a champion on the track, there is
just a possibility of the very affluent Watt having
another Mountain Knight in the loosebox.
A well-known pastoralist in the North is
making preliminaries for shipping horseflesh to Mar-
seilles. Drv salted in bags, it could be profitably
landed at 355. per cwt. A good demand is assured.
—News item.
Now on the turf each horse that fails
Is nominated for Marseilles;
In that fair land, at any rate.
He’ll get a place in every Plate.
Howe’er so fat and limpv-legged,
With care-he can be bagged or kegged ;
No matter how your luck forsakes,
He’ll be a good thing for the Steaks.
The last horse there may be the first —
The lightweight always comes off worst:
Disputes of “dead ’uns” at the scales
Are settled soon —in old Marseilles.
* * * *
What a speedy one was Polycrates when
he won the Newmarket at Flemington from Headwind
two years ago! The winner carried Bst. 121 b. against
the 7st. 4lb. of the runner-up, who was beaten a head.
Last week Headwind won the Standish down the
Flemington straight, with Bst. 131 b. up. He’s an
aged horse now, but the time —lmin. 13$sec. —was
faster than average Newmarket time. Polycrates did
it in lmin. 13sec., nearly a record for the course.
When an unexpected animal won a trot
at Epping (Sydney) the other day it was noticed
that in the tote there was one lone investor on the
winner. Wherefore a guard of honor composed of
curious puntera lined up to discover the identity of
ihe one with all the luck. Presently a little old man
timidly approached the payout window, fumbling in his
pockets for the ticket. He found it after a long search,
tremblingly handed it up and when the clerk pushed
162 10s. notes and a handful of silver towards him
he stuffed the affluence into his trousers —and fled for
home. There was an allegation that it was the
ancient’s first acquaintance with a trot and his first
bet on a racecourse.
* * * *
Fractiousness has resulted in some very
unsatisfactory starts at South Aus. race meetings
recently. Starter Campbell has complained to
the stewards about certain ineorrigibles which not
only spoil their own chances, but jeopardise,
those of the well-behaved neddies at the’
post, and the stewards have talked about refusing
certain horses’ nominations until they comport them-
selves at the barrier. But nothing has been really
done. It is suggested that the best way would be
to order the chief offenders to stand back from the
ropes and take their start from the rear. This
would influence trainers to give their charges barrier
education before entering them. But perhaps some
riders who had no desire to win would touch their
mounts up at the post for a back position. This
would probably be safer than pulling a horse during
the race.
*••***
Probation, the Maorilander who won the
Christmas Handicap at Cheltenham (S.A.), greatly
improved on her previous running. She had severe
buffeting in the handicap—was kicked three times
at the barrier, was about last to leave, got some
nasty knocks in the race, and was run off on the
turn for home; and yet she won. At Broken Hill
a few weeks previously she ran third in poor com-
pany, and racing in Adelaide at Tattersall’s meeting
her performances only attracted the attention of the
stipendiaries, who called for an explanation. The
explanation, which as usual was kept secret from
the public, was considered satisfactory. Probation
is also evidently speedier than her M.L. running
suggests: over there she started 29 times for two
wins, and the victories were insignificant.
X- * * *
“Tipster”: Tell “Some Boy” (B.
12/12/’18) that I am not looking for argument in
favor of the “13” system. All the same, if there
are only 12 starters, the magic works. No. 1 be-
comes the thirteenth in that case, and No. 2 begins
the second count up to 13, and so on. There is just
as much fun to be had gambling on ’em that way
as any other, and heaps more joy than banking on
your ignorance. Where horses in form are beaten
by those supposedly out of form and no questions
are asked, how are ordinary individuals to know the
pea? As this system picks the big dividends—what
more do you want ? The other day at Adelaide Fatal
Error, a previous steeple winner, was favorite;
Bundong second, and Jack Crusoe third choice. The
Chow method gave me Journeyman, beaten into
third place by Artillery Girl when Fatal Error won.
Fatal Error, Bundong and Jack Crusoe all fell. Jour-
neyman and Artillery Girl raced to the last fence
together, and going on last performance Artillery
Girl should have come away after this fence. But
the fatal 13 put the hoodoo on Artillery Girl and
Journeyman cantered in. It must be right! Anyway
I collected.
“Bridoon”: Clarke and Brewer gave For-
rester £3OOO for The Grafter, when Brewer took
him to England, with R. Lewis as jockey. There
were five other horses in the consignment, but none of
them did well on English feed. Brewer found the
hay nearly always musty, and the oats too heavy.
He cabled to Glasscock, of Kirk’s Bazaar, Mel-
bourne, for Australian hay. This feed, grown at
Werribee, arrived at a cost, including all expenses,
under that of English hay. From then on he re-
ceived regular supplies and used it exclusively. Some
English trainers took a little and found all horses
did well oil it. This magic seemed to transform
Tornado, a Brisbane Cup winner, which had been
sent to England but fell right away. Brewer bought
him for £25 from W. T. Jones, as a hack. As soon
as he got his own native hay he developed into a
crack hurdler.
Two of Robinson and Clark’s importations'
(or exportations) to Australia dead-heated for the
principal event at Caulfield on Boxing Day, but
Accrington, who caught Esconib on the post and was
unlucky to lose, is one that R. and C. sold last year
after letting Shhdowland go. He seems a gamer nag
than Eseomb. The tall son of Challacombe has a
nasty English temper and an apparent indisposition
to take care of himself in a crowd. He or Accring-
ton should have been able to reneat the trick in the
Bag-ot Handicap at Flemington on New Year’s Day,
for the handicapper gave them excellent chances.
After all, there is such a thing as “form” in horse-
racing. although the odor of conspiratorial fraud at
last Melbourne Cup meeting still hangs around Flem-
ington, and quite a number of former punters have
really retired from the game since their harrowing
experiences of November, 1918.
* * * *
The late cricketer McLeod, of Victoria,
left £1733 realty and £18,094 personalty to rela-
tives.
* * * *
“Oldest Inhabitant”: Just-dead Henry
Dawson, solicitor and sportsman, of Sydney, had
the proud boast that he had seen 45 successive Mel-
bourne Cups. There have been 57. I saw the first
six.
* * *
“G.H.”: Excuse me. “Pick” (B.
26/12/’18) is wrong in saying that a Gin. bull is used
at 400yds, At Randwick range no bull is under Bin.
Moreover, any club using the 400vds. range can always
be tipped as a new-ehuin outfit. The keenest eye-
sight can only just define the Bin. bull at 300yds.
* * * *
Last week Fred Berry, on a motor-cycle
(with side-car), covered the 637 miles of broken
highway between Brisbane and Sydney in 31 hr.
57min. —a record. Berry held the Sydney-Mel-
bourne record (22hr. 20min.) until H. Parsons re-
cently clipped lhr. 21 min. off it. Further motor-
cycle records went to the bin the other day When E.
Odium, on Sofithport Beach (Q.), tooted over one
mile in 44 4-ssee. (State figures), and with side-car
left another mile to rear in 54sec. (world’s figures).
P. D. Rundell’s fine all-round work for S.
Aus. v. Victoria suggests him as a coming inter-
national. He smote 100 and 16, and though he
took only two wickets for 164, he deserved better.
With Adelaide in South Aus. Association matches
this season he has regularly skittled wickets cheaply ;
as for example five for 50 v. Glenelg, five for 75 v.
Sturt, and four for 51 v. West ff’orrens.
* * * *
W. W. Hunt’s assault on the 100yds.
(amateur) record at Sydney last week just failed.
Still, Hunt equalled the Ma State figures (lOsec.)
held by Stan Rowley, A. Duffey (America), Nigel
Barker, E. R. Cox and W. T. Macpherson. Level
time has been beaten by Macpherson and J. H.
Hempton in M.L.. and by Macpherson in Vic. and
Rowley in Queensland.
Recent inter-State cricket at Melbourne
didn’t show the young bloods to much advantage.
Top scores for Vic. were Armstrong (249), Baring
(199), Ryder (195) and Mayne (120). while with
the ball E. A. McDonald took 17 for 249 out of the
35 wickets that crumbled. The onlv centurions
among South Australians were P. D. Rundell (116)
and D. R. Gehrs (133), while M. A. Noble (68)
headed the N S. Wales aggregate. All these have
previously played. inter-State cricket.
Warwick Armstrong—although he carries
nearly 20st. spread over 6ft. 3in. of perpendicular—
continues to be a lively atom. He made 162 not out
for victorious Victoria v. South Aus. last week.
Just on 20 years ago Armstrong was one of the
world’s best, and he is still great. In two matches
this season he has averaged 83.00 with the bat, and
he has taken seven wickets for 119.
* * * *
Melbourne Grammar has celebrated its
“diamond jubilee” by doing great work in the field.
It lost only one match in the year and that was the
football final. It is Head of the River, won the
Australasian Gup on the occasion when General Pau
made the presentation, and holds the cricket cham-
pionship.
One of the latest ideas of A.I.F. Head-
quarters is apparently to change the Australian Army
from a lighting into a sporting force. it should not be
difficult. Ail through the war sport has raged
briskly in the A.1.F., in and out of the lines. Last
winter, when the bulk of the army which is now
in France and England whs in the Ypres sector,
football and boxing prevailed. There was a boxing
competition last January in Bailleul (since pretty
w‘ell destroyed), which brought out most of the
talent of the A.i.F. Inter-battalion and inter-battery
football matches were regular events in and around
such devastated spots as Neuve Eglise, Steenwerck
and Kemmel. Coming down to the Somme for
Fritz’s spring and summer effort the Digger put
in his spare time racing and playing cricket. The
writer played in a match, last June, 50 yards from
a battery of “heavies” in action. There were
cricket-pitches, with camouflage for matting, for
miles and miles N.W. of the Amiens-Albert road,
and where there were no pitches there were liable
to be temporary racecourses or formidable schooling-
fences. Bishop Long- may or may not have diffi-
culty about getting his education scheme going:
Colonel Dodds will have none as regards. /y<t sphere
of activity.
* -X- * #
On the 18th inst. Fred Kay, the elusive
professor from W.A., will once more meet his old
friend T. Uren at Sydney Stadium. It is really a
sort of Peace Celebration, the championship course
of 20 three-minute rounds being permitted in con-
sideration of the armistice.
“Teddy” O’Rorke, ex-Speaker-of-Maori-
land’s son, who was killed in England in December
by a fall from a horse, was for many years a
prominent figure in M.L. sport, lie won a pile of
trophies at polo, knew a great deal about golf, was
able to put up a good score at lawn tennis, played
much Rugby football, and was a first-class angler.
But all these were side-lines compared with his
achievements as a horseman, lie rode many good
races on the flat and over hurdles, owned some' decent
nags—including Mars, a Wanganui Cup winner—and
was for many years master of the Pakuranga Hunt
Club, ill Auckland. Before he married the wealthy
Miss Rhodes, of Christchurch, in 1893, he was Bill-
reader for the M.L. Parliament.
* * * *
“Tussockbred” : Yes, as “Trigger” remarks
(B. 12/12/’18), there were great sparrow destroyers in
Canterbury (M.L.) in the old times when the poultry
first began to become a nuisance and poison was scarce.
The skill the cocky with a gun showed in getting a
good “rise” of. birds and opening the bombardment
it the right moment to get a kill with every shot
in the cartridge was wonderful. And when the hares
began to multiply excessively these men took to the
rifle and did terrible execution, f They soon found
that it was too expensive to use the shotgun on
single hares and brought the bullet into operation
in conjunction with a small dog. The animal, dis-
guised in a hare-skin, was trained to lope slowly
through a paddock carrying a freshly-pulled turnip.
Every hare thereabouts immediately started after
the vegetable. When the procession was properly
formed, with anything, from a dozen to 20 followers
*nd Cocky concealed in -a ditch with his ordnance,
the pup swung them into, line, spread himself flat oil
the ground, and the execution of the entire herd was
perpetrated, one bullet going through the lot. The
favorite distance to open at was 400yds., but the
casualties continued up to 500yds. Where the dis-
tance between the rearmost animal and the tyke
was over 100yds. some of the leaders usually escaped,
the course of the bullet then becoming erratic. 1
never saw any of these proceedings cersonally, but a"
old cocky up Methven way often told me about
them before he died. He showed me the rifle he used
too.
“G.N.”: “Machete” (B. 19/12/’18) is
running.late with his “new £tyle of two-up” played
by spilling two “trays” out of a dice-box or match-
box. It was a favorite pastime for years on Sunday
trips on “our beautiful” until the Johns got wise and
landed some of the players. Nowadays it is played
mostly with an extra coin, so that two heads or
tails must fall every suin. This is a -time-saving
device brought about by the big fight.


Exercise is Necessary to Keep Your
Body in Good Repair!
In order'to have a perfectly healthy body you must have
every function working in a harmonious manner, and that
means a certain amount of regular exercise—it means that
you must keep the muscles of your body in good repair.
These muscles were given for a certain purpose —not to lie
inactive, rust, become full of neurotic poisons, but for use.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
is thorough, modern and most successful.
The secret of my success with my clients is that I give each
and every one tl\e most strict and personal attention in
prescribing my exercises—thus you would receive exercises
that are most suitable for your individual physique, just as
the particulars you furnish tell me what you require.
If you want to enjoy better health —to have a strong and
healthy body—write to-day for my booklet, entitled
“HEALTH AND STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE,”
which tells all about my methods, fees, etc. Just write
your name and address across this advertisement and send
it to me, with three penny stamps for postage. I will
know what you mean.
REG.L . (‘Snowy’)
BAKER,
“The Ail-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,”
839 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
%
Dog Medicines Used by
Leading Breeders.
s*®S -Mi
.
WORM CAPSULES.
Splendid remedy for
you ns - dogs ; most suc-
cessful cure for. worms.
Price, 1/6.
MANGE SPECIFIC.
Finest external remedy
for mange. Highly
recommended.
Price, 2/0.
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
THE DOG MEDICINE SPECIALISTS,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable from JOHN BRUSH LTD.,
George Street, Sydney. [3
0^ 1
j
SHELL' BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS
USE IT AND PROVE IT.
QrftUh Imperial Oil Co. Ltd
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
IE SECRETARY
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
HE
GENERAL MANAGER
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
/
-'lf/
o
/01/ZSI3
Economical
to Run
I
Anywhere"
The Biggest Value on the Road.
MODEL W 18
MOTOR CYCLE AND SIDE CAR.
IT has power almost unbelievable in a single-cylinder machine—power
to take a side-car, rider and passenger anywhere. It has carried
these plus heavy luggage over the Black Spur and on a host of
other power-testing runs.
Then its single-cylinder engine is simplicity itself—much easier to
handle., to care for and to clean than the big twin, whilst with 50 less
engine wearing parts it is wonderfully reliable.
Its lower power and lower weight mean . more miles per gallon
and per set of tyres—its economy is quite extraordinary. -0107110/
The outfit Complete with Latest Model Side-car .. .. *IO//lU/“
Write for Detailed Specification to
MELBOURNE Rhodes Motor-
Cycle Co. Pty., Ltd., 109-113
Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros., Ltd.,
156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle and
Motor Agency, Ltd., Adelaide
and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE: Eyes and Crowle,
Ltd., 75-79 Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON: John King &
Sons, Ltd., Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle &
Motor Agency, Hay Street.
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
m
m
SIa B **
B-7
is/
r I 'HE judgment of veteran shooters, men who
know by their own practical experience, is that
Remington UMC Shot Gun Cartridges embody all
of the essential qualities that make for satisfactory
service. They are supplied in four trade names—
NEW CLUB REMINGTON
NITRO CLUB ARROW
These four standard brands cover thi
entire range of shot gun cartridges.
For further particulars enquire of your
dealer or send for special descriptive
catalogue.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC
COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT
Australian Manager
6ox 686, G. P. O.
Melbourne
Marine Engines
For All Boats
Caille 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started.
Electric Lights
Caiile 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
Callle Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete line of
marine, motors from 2 to
30 li.p. This embodies
one- to four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on re,quest.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
Sole
Australasian
Agents—
Benson Brothers Limited
76-78 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
71-75 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, MELBOURNE
138 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
High-Grade Jewellery.
Sapphire and Diamond
Bar Brooch 3
£2O.
Paris Design Dia-
mond Cluster
Ring,
£75.
Sapphire and Dia-
mond Cluster
Ring.
£B2/10/-
Diamond Double
Circle Brooch,
£34.
Cluster
Bar
Brooch .
Diamond
£3O.
Fine Diamond
Circle Brooch,
£22/10/-
Diamond two-stone
Ticist Ring,
£lOO.
The Firm’s Kings and Jewellery are manufactured in their own work-
shop, They embody the finest gems and workmanship. The gems are
especially selected by the Firm’s Fondon expert,, and none but the very
choicest are entertained. Selections will be forwarded to any address
in the Commonwealth.
WLm . Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


19
19
OUR friends, old
and new, will find
in PELACO
Collars this year the same
high quality, the same fit
and finish, the same
comfort and value as here-
tofore.
Almost everyone k nows
now that the word
PELACO stands for
Collar-quality. The idea
is firmly grounded. It is
thoroughly supported by
the experience of men
who We.:r PELACO
Collars.
Ask your Mercer to show
you the latest styles.
COLLARS
Made in Aus'ralia
Wear also Pe aco Skirls and ‘Pyjamas
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. psr day.
POWER BOOKS.
Business Power, £1 Is.
Power of Will, £1 Is.
Power for Success, £3 3s.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
HAMILTON g CO., 31 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN* & OFFICE USE.
j
m
ADC
/■ ./>
v;. wm
Perfection
busk: rubber.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU, HOBART.
\U'/
ft
[Oh
TASMANIA
Australia’s Playground.
All information from Tasmania’s mainland
offices: —
Sydney; 262 George Street.
Melbourne: 59 William Street.
Brisbane; 41 Queen Street.
Perth: 50 William Street.
Send 9d. for illustrated guidebook and
accommodation list. Other literature posted
free.
Tickets issued at Melbourne and Sydney
offices to any part of Tasmania. Special coupon
issued at Sydney for a Fortnight’s Holiday m
Tasmania, £l3 10s., including fares, accom-
modation and local trips. ,
Accommodation arranged through mainland
offices. , , .
The Hobart and Launceston bureaux book
for all local trips and to all parts of Tas-
mania. Have your correspondence addressed
to our care. _ _. ,
E. T. EMMETT, Director.
Sydney's Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
This beautifully-situated RESIDENTIAL
HOTEL is unique in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, being RIGHT ON THE HARBOR
FRONT, with its own secluded BEACH AND
GROUNDS and AMPHITHEATRE SWIM-
MING BATHS, the whole surrounded by
natural Bush.
25 Fine New Bedrooms have just
been erected, built over the water,
every room looking out to the Heads.
Daily service of Steamers, including .Theatre
Boat, to and from No. i Jetty, Circular
Quay.
A Delightful Ferry Trip.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths.
Apply Manager,
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL,
Telephones: Y3OOl. MOSMAN, N.S.W.
Y 3002.
DURABLE
MORROCKSESI
f/idtaA.C&m/rcca. Najn&w&J
and MadafadaW
"HORROCKSES***
ON StkVtPCt
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
passed merits. They know it to ba a ?afe
and perfect cure for all skm and blood ail-
ments ; and the number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grasshopper Oint-
ment positivelydraws the po 1 ons which pro-
duce these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should b=> taken in co-junction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
it
THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
ve
;Ie
k-
The above
is the title
of our book
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Oourse
bv HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Oourse is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day
copy
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
stamps
for a
of this
0*
£
w/j>
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing'.
95 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
hooks are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
VISCOUNT BRYCE.
Essays in War Time. By the Rt.
Hon. VISCOUNT BRYCE, O.M.
[Shortly.
SIR EDWARD COOK.
Literary Recreations. By Sir ED-
WARD COOK. 7s. 6d, net.
The Candle of Vision. By A. E.
(GEORGE W. RUSSELL). 6s.
net.
Folk-Lore in the Old Testament:
Studies in Comparative Religion,
Legend, and Law. By Sir J. G.
FRAZER, D.C.L., LL.D., Litt.D.
Author of “The Golden Bough,”
“Totemism and Exogamy,” etc. 3
vols.
SIR RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
Gitanjali and Fruit Gathering. By
Sir RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
With Illustrations in Color and half-
lone by Nandalal Bose, Surendranath
Kar, Abanindranath Tagore, and
Nobindranath Tagore. [Shortly.
Democracy at the Crossways: A
Study in Politics and History, with
Special Reference to Great Britain.
By F. J. C. HEARNSIIAW. M.A.,
LL.D. [lmmediately.
The British Navy: The Navy Vigi-
lant. By L. COPE COkNFORD.
Illustrated. 2s.
A book on the Navy written for the boys and
girls of the British Commonwealth.
Fighting for Sea Power in the Days
of Sail. By H. W., HOUSEHOLD,
Author of “Our Sea Power.” Illus-
trated. 2s.
A companion work to the author’s earlier
volume on “Our Sea Power.”
ROUND TABLE PUBLICATIONS.
The Round Table
2s. 6d. per copy, or 10s. per annum,
post free to any address within the
Empire.
THE COMMONWEALTH O F
NATIONS.
Edited by L. CURTIS. Part I.
Second Impression. 7s. 6d. net.
THE PROBLEM OF THE COM-
MONWEALTH.
With Plates, sewed. 2s. net.
W. & A. K. JOHNSTON’S
WAR MAPS.
Europe, showing all the War Areas.
40 by 30 inches. Colored. Cloth
Folded. 2s. net. Unmounted Sheet,
6d. net.
Belgium and North-East France.
25 by 20 inches. Colored, Cloth
Folded. Is. 3d. net. Unmounted
Sheet, (id. net.
The Balkan States, 25 by 20 inches.
Colored, Cloth Folded, Is. 3d. net.
Unmounted Sheet, 6d. net.
The Middle East, illustrating the
Campaigns in Mesopotamia, Per-
sia and the Caucasus. 35 by 23
inches. Colored, Cloth Folded, Is. 6d.
net. Unmounted Sheet, Od. net.
Palestine. 26 by 22 inches. Colored,
Cloth Folded, Is. 3d. net. Unmounted
Sheet, 6d. net.
CONTOURED MAPS OF THE WAR
AREAS.
(1) Between Paris and Berlin.
(2) Between Petrograd and Berlin.
Including the whole of Austria,
and showing the Italian Frontier.
40 by 30 inches. Colored, Cloth
Folded 3s. net. Unmounted Sheet, Is.
6d. net each.
NEW NOVELS.
Khaki. How Tredick got into the
War. By FREEMAN TILDEN. 4s.
6d.
In the Heart of a Fool. By WIL-
LIAM ALLEN WHITE, Author of
“A Certain Rich Man,” 4s. 6d.
The author has not feared to tackle his sub-
ject boldly and write it out to the end.
The Martial Adventures of Henry
and Me. By WILLIAM ALLEN
WHITE, Author of “A Certain Rich
Man,” etc., 4s. 6d.
The hiah-spirited narrative of the adventures
of two Americans in the War Zone.
Flood Tide. By DANIEL CHASE.
4s. 6d.
The story of the effect of a successful busi-
ness career on the life of a man who, at the
start, was essentially a student and dreamer.
Barbara Picks a Husband. By
HERMANN HAGEDORN. 4s. 6d.
The story of fascinating Barbara Collingwood
rich, beautiful, high-spirited—and her humor-
ous, tragic and romantic difficulties in choosing
a husband. It sparkles and cheers.
Orders for the above five books to be sent
to the Melbourne Depot, 109 Russell Street.
To be Obtained from all Booksellers.
MACMILLAN geo. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS.
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
F.V.E.: “Rosary” misses only by inches.
Chip Chase: There’s a punch in it; but. some-
how, we can’t swallow the yarn. .. .Jobber: Dear
old Conservative! But, seriously, aren’t you, as good
an Australian as we know, interested in movements
in China? If you’re not, then get interested quickly.
We don’t want to doze like England did as regards i s
neighbors.... Alec W.: That’s all right. We can
forgive a real Digger’s paper almost anything ...
Bellerive; Ah, that’s what we like about you. You
don’t keep us hanging about till December 31 for
retributive blood: —•
WITH ALL GOOD WISHES FOR THE NEW YEAR.
THE TRAGEDY OF THE CRIMINAL DEN.
By the glare of a greasy candle.
In a secluded criminal den.
Over shares in a haul of plunder,
Did quarrel four desperate men;
To the fierce and repulsive leader
Of the dangerous criminal gang,
“Shell out” a partner argued,
“For 3 r ou I don’t care a hang.
When the chief in a frenzied impulse,
At the confederate did dart;
A knife flashed by the candle
And sank in the victim’s heart.
With the two who’d grimly witnessed
Fought the chief like a cornered lion,
When one in hifs thirst for vengeance
Brained the brute with a bar of iron.
In the throes of death he quivered
Dy the corpse of the one he’d slam,
While fluttered the waning candle o’er
A widening crimson stain.
J.D.M.: Thanks; will see into it... .A.J.McD.:
May use one; try again. .. .Lana: The incident is
worth telling; but why burden it with all the poor
stuff about the ploughing? Guide: It’s dead
stuff. Might have been written by a serious school-
boy with a bulging brow and spectacles. .. .W.R..
Thanks Black and Gold: No use.... George
Smith: Write and ask Secretary of the A.W.U
J. : We quote the remarkable finish: —
Then think not yourself better, than trees,
Nor growl at the heat nor the sultry breeze.
All born of Nature, all Nature’s are—
Men, trees, fishes, beasts, birds are on a par.
. ...J.C.: Don’t care for it....Shade of Homer:
Sorry that Homer had so poor a sense of humor....
K. : “The Bushman’s Farewell” is bad verse put
to the worst use. . . .Kay: Not up. . . .J.F.E.: 1919
doesn’t thrill us....L.L.: Wobble and bump....
C.G.M.: No merit whatever. .. .A.L.T.: No, thanks.
There are 5,000,000 people in Australia and half of
them could make a better attempt J.C.: “Song
of the Traveller” fails in rhyme, metre, grammar,
everything. .. .F.A.M.: Not nearly up A.F.: Only
sentimental interest.... R.V.: No use wasting time
with covering letters. The blank verse is fajr, but
gets nowhere. The other is feeble D.P.M.: Your
“Dead Poet” is dead to all metrical law B.B.:
Not quite A.L.B.: You mess a possible yarn by
frantic efforts to hit the gallery.. .C.D.: Verse wants
planing in places. Have another try I.A.B.: You
seem to have thought over every well-worked com-
monplace. Get some, force and novelty... .A. P.
Misses, but not by a mile E.W.D.: “Cadge” is
rather too obvious J.F.F.: Nothing there
Mascot: If she’s all that, why not get one fresh
thought about her ?. . . . A.D.B.: The yarn says noth-
ing at all E.E.L.: No feeling in the verses
Gem Gold: Not up E.E. J.: Many of the state-
ments are incorrect... .W.S.: Heavy verse with no
lift in it. . . .J.A.M.: Nicely done; but what’s the
use of a nicely-painted cart if it gets nowhere?....
Trion: The verse doesn’t carry it Xyz: Poor little
thing B.L.H.: Not up R.H.W.: They don’t
strike us J.R.: You could make coincidences of
that sort 50 times a day. If it wasn’t 7 it would be
some number added to or subtracted from 7, and
if it wasn’t hours it might be minutes; so the really
“remarkable thing” is that anybody should write a
story about it. .. .H.S.K.: Doesn’t yell for print....
W.McG.: Anything suitable will be considered.
Can’t form any idea without seeing copy D.C.H.:
Grow up and do a lot of work first. . . .K.J.S.:
1 Come right in and sing it:—
I had a dog, a bonzer mong,
A canine creature fierce,
And when the butcher brought the tongue
His trousers he would pierce.
One dav when prowlipg down the street
He thought he’d do a wonderful feat-;
Lo at a cop
He made a hop
But P.C. yelled out “Hi, there! Stop!”
And drawing back . his leather boot,
He made a kick like a silly coot.
Mv mongrel grabbed him by the leg
And would have made the blighter peg,
But down the street a soldier chanced to stray,
Who in his oocket had fifteen weeks’ pay.
He stabbed the old mong to the heart,
Then gave the skin to his best tart.
. ... A.S.: Good enough verse, but not interesting
T.T.: Subject too slight O.B.: There’s a fine
originality about the method: —
May we never forget the Australian Heroes,
That’s made such a glorious name;
With their medals and their khaki clothes;
They will still be heroes all the same.
The heroes that attacked any enemy barrage,
With great coolness and determination;
To show their pluck that they were not made of
barege;
So well they knew they wanted no castigation.
So well they consolidated their positions,
Under the' greatest and heaviest shell fire;
Or to show any signs of perversion,
But stuck to it like the strongest of wire.
R.C.WX: We couldn’t. Ten or twelve years ago,
and that was probably the name of it! Also pro-
bably it wasn’t, and it may have been seven or 27
years ago... .P.W.F.: Look up this column. We
don’t reply by letter.... Ardmore: Dull, correct
verse with no inspiration. .. .N.T.: That “birch”
canoe has an American look. So has the language.
The verse isn’t bad, but for a lump or two; but
w.e should like assurance that it was honestly come
by....Gecko: The yarn appeared in this paper years
ago; the verse is lamentably bad.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS. i
Mac: Better learn to draw a little before you go
thumbnail-sketching again F.G.: The gag be-
longs to the London of the air-raid period. The
drawing belongs to the limbo of wasted effort....
Rod: You must draw better and have brighter ideas.
. ...H.N.: Admire your cheerful spirit, but the
drawing isn’t nearly good enough. Got a stamp
about you for return?. .. .J.A.M.: The drunk goes
in and out like an animated map. The accompany-
ing poem is terrible T.L.W.: Suppose you send
them to the College of Heralds? A.W.: Advise
you to stick to your appreciative home town...D.R.:
Too small and faint.


Stop Torturing
Toothache Quickly.
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
At last a real ' does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
u
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfort.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., S2O-S2B Riley-st., Sydney.
vN
bl
¥&
Igf
'V
<rs
&
A
4a
i
Wm
K
St
S§
\
■>'
®$BBS&
No one can tell exactly what a headache portends. It may be a slight
indigestion ; it may be the beginning of brain-fag, or worse, but whatever it is a
sign of, the first cause is the same—a disorder of the blood vessels and nerves
in the head.
For immediate relief of the first cause take Chamberlain’s Tablets for
the stomach and liver. They act quickly on the stomach, liver and bowels and
relieve the engorgement of the whole blood system, thus gently letting the
nerves “ down a peg ” and giving rest to the brain.
Headache cannot exist when Chamberlain’s Tablets are taken. Their
marvellous influence on the liver and bowels puts an end to it every time.
You get up in the morning rested, refreshed, and filled with healthy
energy after taking
jk>r the stomach Liver.
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges ti e stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel, trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
Kay be avoided.
13e Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
CAPILLARINE
<r
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Cost less than 10%
A good saddle in fact even a Brooks,
the best, costs less than I o°/ 0 of the price
of your bicycle. Yet without such a
fitment you forfeit 90% of the pleasure
your machine is capable of giving you.
Think it over and insist —always
—on a __ __ __ __
BROOKS
Ask ygyr Agent.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .. .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
25 O’Connell St.,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Davy men.
Used since 15«6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S, GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
EE MS LAND?
THE KEY TO
PROSPERITY.!
QUEENSLAND
opens (be door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land^.
Particulars ot the
millions of acres of
Crown 1 Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE
Name
Address
Queensland Government
lateMigeace and Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE
S.B


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Ain useuients.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JH O U TIIIS A T H 15, SYI)N 15 Y
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
SECOND EDITION OF
EVERYBODY’S DOING IT.
Plan at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
■IVOLI
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH PRESENTS THE LATEST
AND GREATEST LONDON REVUE S'UCCESS,
BUBBLY.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-' & 1/-, plus tax.
CU I Tl 5 II I O N TII E A T I{ 15, SYI)
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST NIGHTS. LAST NIGHTS.
FRIENDLY ENEMIES.
The great propaganda play that succeeded in con-
solidating American opinion in regard to the war.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
HE It MA.lisS T Y ’ S, SYI)N 15 Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT- 7.45.
THE LIMIT IN REVUE SPECTACLES.
HELLO, EVERYBODY!
A revelation in the art of stage-production.
Box Plan at Paling's. Day Sales at White Rose.
H E A T R E ROYAL, S V I) N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
IN A NEW MUSICAL COMEDY,
OH, OH, DELPHINE!
Plans at Paling’s.
i A L A C E TH ID A T R 15. S Y I) N E Y.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
EMI LIE POLINIE,
The Foremost Dramatic Favorite,
DE LUXE ANNIE.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION I’ICTUIi E TIIISAT It IS S
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films'.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
GREGORY NORTH RABBIT BOARD.
Applications for Superintendent of
Works.
APPLICATIONS are invited until Tues-
day, 17th March, 1919, for the posi-
tion of Superintendent of Works.
Applicants to state age and general experi-
ence in the construction and maintenance of
rabbit-proof fencing and rabbit destruction.
Salary four hundred pounds (£400) per
annum. Camel outfit provided in dry coun-
try, applicant to find necessary horses, and
plant for the other portions of the district.
Applications, together with copies of testi-
monials, to be addressed to the Chairman.
Gregory North Rabbit Board, Boulia,
Queensland, and endorsed “Application for
Superintendent of Works.”
For any other particulars apply to the
Clerk of the Gregory North Rabbit Board,
Boulia, Queensland.
E. S. SCIIOLEFIELD,
Chairman.
Boulia, 3rd December, 1918.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Atjstsalasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
nhsT»»
HORUCK’S
MALTED MILK’
is a pure rich milk combined
with the extract of malted grams
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26 Jamieson Street,
**T'f
to. jj
fcan rro
7Vsk forHorfickT"
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON L'i D.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
TREMENDOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
GOODY TWO SHOES.
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
Til EAT It E It OYA I„ MELBOURNE.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Famous
American Comedian,
M. B. FIGMAN, in
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
K ~INC.’S Fl lE.VI It E. llKl.lt »Ult N E.
Lesses, BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. & N. TAIT and BAILEY & GRANT present
THE MERRY CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
|y| V.IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CONSTANCE TALMADGE
in
MRS. LEFFINGWELL’S BOOTS.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
Oil'S THEATRES, Ml 5 LBOCKN K.
Also SIDNEY.
DE LUXE. BOITRKE STREET.
Continuous D.iilv from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Kyevy Evening Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
LOUISE lIUFF AND THEODORE
ROBERTS in
WILD YOUTH.
DOROTHY DALTON in
THE SHADOW.
LYCEUM (Over Princes Bridge).
Every Evening. MatinOes Saturday 2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURE:
CHARLIE CHAPLIN in
TRIPLE TROUBLE.
Prices as usual.
Follies theatre, st Hilda.
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
JOHN N. McCALLUM’S
INCOMPARABLE COURTIERS.
THE ENTERTAINMENT OF THE MOMENT.
THE ACME OF REFINEMENT.
|y|ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
BIT ANN l A Til EAT RE, MELBO U RNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
The “Super” Fx § R Watch
The original “Fx and R” watches are known
throughout Australasia for their marvellous accuracy
and endurance.
, But, as usual, we progress, and so now we are
showing the Super “Fx and It” Watch.
Its present price is 63/-, in Steel Case, but what
a watch it is! Every latest improvement known
to horological science is in it.
It is jewelled in every part where wear occurs.
Tt will go with profound accuracy; indeed, it is so
■ accurate that a ship could be steered to England
by it.
’ For strength and standing up against hard wear,
we unhesitatingly say that no watch, the world
over,, equals the Super “Fx and R” Watch.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
Plain Figures. Cash only.
Gent.’s O.F.
Oxidised Steel
Super “Fx and
R” Fully-
Jewelled Lever
Watch, (J 3/.
“Contentment
and Rest!”
1
m
GBD
After the cares of
the day it is sooth=
ing, in very truth,
to sit back and
enjoy a cool, sweet,
satisfying smoke
through the
the perfect pipe!
Many popular shapes.
Missing Friends.
4 ME LI A 'GILLESPIE, last heard of
A about 1889, then about to get married.
Brother inquires. Information Bulletin
Office.
Public Notice.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
rrHIE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
1. chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
IV. 11. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
HERBERT
JOHNSON’S
m
Making something different,
and at the same time smart
and within the limit of good
form, has always been the
work of HUNTS’ —setting
the pace in Hat styles.
R. Hunt 8 Co.
314 George Street,
Sydney.
TIME TO TAKE A TONIC
The time to take a tonic is any time that
one feels run down and lacking in necessary
energy, when the blood is weak and thin,
and when the nerves are run down and have
lost their tcne. Tonics are the most widely
used of all medicines. They are the medi-
cines which restore the various bodilv
organs, muscles and nerve cells from a lax
and sluggish state to one making them cap-
able of normal activity. Tonics impart a
sense of well being and strength. They are
not to be confused with stimulants, which
may give an immediate false strength. There
are tonics for the nerves, blood and stomach,
but undoubtedly the most useful is one hav-
ing a combined effect and generally benefit-
ing the system.
Undoubtedly the best-known tonic ( is the
much spoken of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
These pills have established a high reputa-
tion as a blood builder and nerve tonic.
Their action helps make the thin blood rich
and red, enabling it to carry nourishment to
weak and inflamed nerves, increase the appe-
tite and make digestion normal, correct
sleeplessness and most forms of headaches.
Try them for any trouble caused by thin
blood or weak nerves, such as anaemia,
rheumatism, neuralgia, sciatica, lumbago, in-
digestion, sick headache or St. Vitus’s dance.
Your own chemist or storekeeper sells Dr.
Williams' Pink Pills, or they will be mailed
post paid, on receipt of price, 2s. 9d. per
box, six boxes 15s. 3d.
Any reader of this paper may have a use-
ful booklet on “Diseases of the Blood” by
writing to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Box 591 G.F.0., Sydney.— Advt.


You Cannot Expect
To Have a Clear
Complexion
By Constantly Massaging It With
So-called Skin Foods or Creams,
Often Rancid or Germy.
Substitute Cuticura.
Contrast the purity, fragrance, corn-
fort, and convenience of these super-
creamy emollients with “beauty fads”
so common, tiresome and expensive.
A bath with Cuticura Soap and hot
water on rising and retiring thoroughly
cleanses and stimulates sluggish pores,
giving the complexion a fresh healthy
glow. If signs of pimples, redness or
roughness be present smear them with
the Ointment and let it remain five
minutes before bathing. Nothing
purer, sweeter or more effective for
your skin and hair than Cuticura.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal. "R.
Town* & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold by
dealers throughout the country.
CHRISTIES
SP£CMU3£
TWO
L/N£s
aS
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T
Z<r /10/MTER
SYDNEY
NEWCASTLE
EIEY
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
ELEY ‘ Fourlong*
A .410 bore 2J inch
Indian Red Cartridge,
loaded with Eley (33gr.)
Smokeless Powder and
No. 6 or smaller shot.
ELEY 450
No. t Rifle
ELEY 38
Automatic
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY 410
‘Universal'
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
a. Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L-LONDON
PRIORITY OF DELIVERY
of Sunbeam cars can be promised
only to those who are wise enough to
order now. As soon as we are in a
position to again build the Supreme
SUNBEAM
for private service we shall do so,
but even when that time arrives, the
orders we have received, and are daily
receiving, must of necessity have first
attention. The moral is for you.
The SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD.,
Export Department : 54-62, Oxford Street, London, England
Head Office - Wolverhampton, England
A SEASONED SHAVER.
“Many’s the Razor I have trieil, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a. seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE, 10/G-POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKIN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO
WHITE Footwear Dressing.
Make and keep your shoes A PERFECT WHITE—
use BOSTOCK’S VIOLO WHITE LIQUID DRESSING.
It gives an added smartness to your shoes, and does
not rub off. Economical in use.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes Ltd., Sydney
iiiiiunillllUli
fl .0 .JL-J-a
s:
ITL-liillPni ■ IB^TtTTi
im: T * iiig
1 to 5 Tons
Capacities
Delivery by Lorry is To-day a Necessity!
The crying demand of the world to-day is for goods—
more goods.
Quick deliveries are essential.
You couldn’t do better than put a Federal Horry to
work for you.
How it will save you money —save you time —and
make your deliveries more certain —will be Carefully
explained if you will write us.
1 Ton, $l9OO
\y 2 Ton, $2350
2 Ton, $2600
3j/ 2 Ton, $3350
5 Ton, $4400
-1 free magazine—“ Traffic News”—will be mailed.
Also full prices and discounts.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
Factory Detriot, Mich., U.S.A. Foreign Department—lB Broadway, New York.
Business, Robbery, etc.
A Tasmanian firm that deserves a
lot of credit is Purdon and Featherstone,
of Hobart. During the shipping shortage
of the war, they laid the keel of a barque big
enough to carry 400 tons of cargo. With
no purchaser in sight they asked for a Gov-
ernment loan, but were met by the cold eyfe.
They went on with the job just the same,
and just before completion the ship was
purchased by Rosenfekl and Co., of Sydney.
Launched on December 4, the barque will load
wheat for San Francisco. This is the first
big ship built in Hobart for 40 years, though
the Speck capital once did more in this line
than any other place in the Southern Hemi-
sphere. There are indications that the in-
dustry will revive, for Henry Jones and Co.,
the big fruit people, have already placed
orders for two more ships.
* * * *
“Arthur It.”: An industry that would ad-
mirably suit returned soldiers is that of
eucalyptus distilling. The initial outlay for
a medium-sized plant is not great, and for
the oil, even in its crude state, there is a
great demand, For anyone with weak lungs,
either cutting the leaves or distilling the oil
is about the best occupation known, and the
average eucalyptus worker doesn’t sneeze
more than twice a year.
* * * *
The lucrative bottle-oh business recently
received a knock from which it will probably
never quite recover. Bottles made at Water-
loo, Sydney, have risen in price steadily. Six
months ago any ’ good-quality black wine or
whisky bottle cost 4d. net (bought on con-
tract by the gross, delivery crates extra)
and a white glass bottle 4Ad. Japanese
bottles (very frail and scraggy about the
neck and shoulder) clambered from Id. to a
little less than the local price. All this pro-
vided a harvest-time for the humble bottle-
oh. He collected thousands of dozens of
dead marines at a price which never exceeded
Gd. and, frequently, when the other party to
the deal happened to be aged about 10 and
a fighting-weight of 4st., went rather below
it. The collections were readily bought by
bottle and case “merchants” at Is. Gd. to
Is. 9d., and re-sold, “washed,” to the original
owners at about double that price. Now
an agreement has been come to of which a
moulded.’ glass-bottle trade-brand is the basis.
This provides that all bottles delivered bear-
ing the moulded notification, “This bottle is
the property of Blank and Co., and is not
sold, but loaned and supplied solely for the
purpose of enabling the contents to- be used
once onlyi ’.for’retailing, and must be on de-
mand handed or given or returned to the
said firm or its agents. The bottles may not
be destroyed, or damaged, or parted with,
and may not be used for any other purpose.”
One or two favored “merchants” only are
legally nominated to receive such bottles
from collectors, and they are re-sold to the
wholesale owners at less than half the old
price. . What the bottle'-oh gets from the
dealer is something equal to the dole he gave
at the back-door in his days of affluence, a
retributive form of justice anyhow.
* * * *
“Gleniris”: An effort is being made by
the Vic. Government, by means of direct
advertising, to boost the sales of Morwell
brown coal. The maximum price, delivered,
is at the rate of 255. a ton (single cwts.)
and the minimum (slack) 7s. a ton. Brown
coal makes an excellent conflagration in the
domestic grate, burning right up and leaving
nothing but a clean, powdery ash which
makes a valuable dressing for the back
garden—much the same as peat-ash. The
coal burns quickly, however, and household-
ers mostly prefer the private-enterprise black
article. In any case, the housewife can’t be
brought to understand why, while the State
produces both classes of coal, only the brown
product should be made available to the
public. With a choice of the two fuels, the
black coal being offered at a rate competing
with that of P. Enterprise, the housewife
would no doubt come to see that she really
gets cheap fuel when buying the lower-priced
brown article. As matters stand, there is a
general impression that the brown coal is
“rubbish,” which the State won’t use itself
—-a reasonable enough deduction, even
though it may have been amply proven quite
incorrect by exhaustive Government tests.
* * * *
“Viator” : Cabled recently that the German
Government arrested Thyssen for communi-
cating with the Allies. Thyssen was the Huns’
leading steel man. He owns (or owned)
huge mines, ironworks and docks, and had
big interests in India, France, Russia, Hol-
land and the English dominions. He con-
trolled the great Vulcan works, and annoyed
the Kaiser with a pamphlet against the war,
on the same line as Ballin, He declared
that the Kaiser had promised him 30,000
acres in Australia and a loan of £150,000 at
three per cent, from the Deutsche Bank, to
develop the Australian gift. Other firms
were promised by the Kaiser great privileges
in India. A Hun syndicate to exploit
Canada consisted of 12 firms with a capital
of 20 million pounds, half to be found by the
German Government. Meanwhile, Thyssen
and all the big firms were to plank down 200
million pounds to keep the war going. All
this was in 1915, and conquest was to be
achieved in 1916. Most firms agreed, but
Thyssen and others who held out were black-
mailed.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: The skeletons of many
fine vessels adorn the reefs in the vicin-
ity of the northern end of the Great
Barrier and amongst the islands; and some
of the fishing luggers are varying the day’s
work somewhat by salving the copper bolts
and other marketable portions of the re-
mains. Old brass cannon, copper ingots,
Spanish coins and similar relics have at
various times been brought ashore, and there
are traditions of many valuable cargoes lying
roundabout. Some of the native churches
possess bells that have come from wrecked
vessels; and on many of the reefs piles of
coal, slates and so on witness to the sudden
end of unlucky merchantmen. Bramble Cay,
Steven Island and the reefs Murray Island-
wards have each accounted for many losses.


Actual and frequent demonstrations
have been made proving beyond doubt
that The NEW EDISON “re-
creates” the human voice to a faultless
degree of perfection.
The NEW EDISON
—the only instrument
that “re-creates.”
The need of music in the home is undeniable.
The home where music is not —is not a home.
Music heals, softens, soothes. It keeps the home fires burn-
ing brightly—and, therefore, you should not pass the oppor-
tunity of placing in YOUR home The NBW BDISON —
the musical instrument without a peer —that actually
“recreates” with astounding fidelity the finest music as
rendered by the world’s most noted and gifted artists.
Write us for full details —mailed free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 K ent Street, Sydney.
I f 1
n
m
T
<&>
a
xsr:
E
W
'
ks
AMONG Danks’ variety of Mantelpieces will
/A be seen many splendid examples of smart
designing and skilful workmanship.
Every one is constructed of Fine Furniture
Timbers, thoroughly seasoned to ensure the
maximum of durability and the elimination of
the danger of warping or opening at the joints.
An inspection will reveal a splendid assort-
ment of beautiful, high-grade Mantelpieces in
a variety of styles suitable for any home.
“DANKS”
Otherwise John Danßs & Son Pty., Ltd.
324 Pitt (Street, (Sydney,
and 391 Bourke Street, Melbourne
m
mdJM
CRICKET
SEASON 1919.
Our stock comprises everything
for the Game. Now showing a
fine range of materials by the
world’s leading makers.
For full particulars of Cricket and all indoor
and outdoor Sporting Materials see a copy of
our new edition Sportsman’s Guide. Post
free to any address.
Smoke SUNOL
Sample 2oz. Packet
1/2 Post Free.
MEN’S BATS.
Each.
M.S., Haymarket Driver, single rubber.. 15/6
M.S., Haymarket Driver, double rubber 17/6
M.S., Haymarket Driver, Spec. Selected 22/6
Ayres’ International, 30/-, Improved.. 32/-
Ayres’ International Improved Selected.. 35/-
C. G. Macartney Autograph 35/-
City & Suburban Sport Co., 17/6, 21 /-, 25/-
(C.S. Sport Co.’s bats are specially faced
for Australian wickets, and require no
prepararation before using.)
Clapshaw’s Spiral Spring 27/6
Dye’s Champion, 17/6; selected .... 20/-
Dye’s Champion, specially selected .... 22/6
Gunn and Moore’s Autograph 33/-
Nicholl’s Automatic .. . . 20/-, 32/6
Shaw and Shrewsbury's A 1 25/-
Spalding’s London Club 25/-
Spalding’s County Special 30/-
Spalding’s Hayward Record 35/-
Stuart, Surridge Rapid Driver 25/-
Stuart, Surridge Oval Driver 17/6
Stuart, Surridge Standard Driver 22/-
Summers Brown P. Spoon, 27/6, 32/6, 35/-
Sylce’s Yorkshire Driver, ord., 25/-; sel., 30/-
Warsop’s Conqueror, ord., 25/-; sel., 30/-
Bats, retail from 21/-, are guaranteed.
MEN’S STUMPS.
Blackwood, very strong, plain ... .
Brass Top, steel shod, ash
Half Solid Brass Top, steel shod ...
Solid Brass Top, steel shod, ash ..
Revolving Top, steel shod, ash
Set of 6.
3/6
7/6
»/-
10/-
12/6
CRICKET BALES.
All Match Weights, viz., 5%0z.
Duke’s P.K.D
Eclipse Compo., 3/6; Eclipse Victory..
C. 8.8. Compo
Haymarket Compo
Diamond Compo
Nicholson’s
Each.
10/-
4/-
1/6
2/6
3/6
5/6
FULL-SIZE CRICKET MATS.
(GREEN).
Made from Best Material.
In two pieces, for double wicket, 6ft. wide.
Leather-bound £6/107-
MEN’S BATTING GLOVES.
Pair.
Featherweight, felt protection 4/9
White Kid, Gold, cape points, hair-stuffed 8/0
Superior, ex. stout tubular rubber , 10/0
Surry Shields, It. or L. Hand (J/0
MEN’S GAUNTLETS.
Pair.
Ventilated, very strong 7/-
Gold Cape, ventilated and padded .... 9/0
White Kid, ventilated, extra quality .. 9/0
All England, rubber palms, padded tips..2o/-
Celebrated Lilley, padded tips 21/-
M.S. Special, rubber palms 25/-
The Giant Special 32/0
MEN’S LEG GUARDS.
Pair.
White Drill, strong 7/0
Tan, continuous straps, good club guard 10/0
T;in, continuous straps, ventilated 13/0
Gold Cape, cont. straps, superior 12/9
Half Skeleton, Gold Cape, new pattern.. 15/0
Half Skeleton, White Buck 17/0
Best Skeleton, Gold Cape 17/0
Best Skeleton, White Buck 20/-
Gold Gape, ex. quality for wicketkeepers.. 17/0
CRICKET SUNDRIES.
Abdominal Pads .... 3/-, 10/0 each
Bat Covers, waterproof canvas.... 4/0 each
Bat Oil specially prepared 1/0 bottle
Canvas Boots, welted soles 12/6 pair
Club Kit Bags .... 15/-, 17/6 each
Cricket Belts, two straps 1/3 each
Cricket Nets ..... 50/-, 60/- each
Gripolene, gauntlet solution 1/6 bottle
Handle Rubbers ... 1/-, 1/3, 1/6, 1/9 each
Scoring Books, full size .. 1/-, 1/6, 2/-each
Scoring Books, pocket size, 6d-, 1 /-, 1/3 each
Bats of all kinds Repaired.
TENNIS
WE HAVE LONG BEEN RECOGNISED AS THE LEAD-
ING SUPPLIERS OF REQUISITES FOR THE GAME.
RACKETS.
M.S. Handicap Q/ m
M.S. Standard 10 /(j
M.S. Champion 12/6
C. 8.8. Quadruple .... 15/6
Haymarket 22/6
HaymarketSpecial, 27/6.37/6
Haymarket Selected. . . 40/-
„ Ex. Spec., 42/6, 55/-
SpaJdmg Greenwood .. 16/9
Spalding Vantage 26/-
(Postage on Racket—N.S.W., 9d ; other States, 1/2.)
BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Slazeng-er’s Champ. 2/7 30/-
Spalding-’s Champ. 2/2 25/-
Tournament .. 1/9 21/-
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
TENNIS NETS.
Full size, well made- 10/6, 16/-. 18/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-
Tennis Nets under 25/- are suitable for school use.
PRESSES, MARKERS, TAPES & ALL SUNDRIES STOCKED.
Rackets Re-strung and Repaired.
•J
mSTRMLm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS •
7IIID TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
99 Kind St, also at
Newcastle l Brisbane


Miss ALMA LATTA uses
REXONA SOAP for tier
Miss
ALMA
LATTA
(from a phoU
by Ken elm
Stump).
'OM
Beautiful Hair.
I think I should tell you how good I
have found your Rexona Soap and
Rexona Ointment, fox' I have used both;
in fact, all our family use your Rexoixa
Oixitment and think it is simply
splendid. Not only is it good for the
skin, hut it heals so quickly and takes
away all the pain and hurt.
Rexona Soap is simply
lovely. I have used it
constantly for several
years, and find it keeps
the skin in perfect condi-
tion and is really delight-
ful for the hair. Any-
one who tries Rexona
Soap for the hair will find
it unequalled as a sham-
poo, for it leaves the hair
so soft and silky, with
never a trace of dandruff.
You can see I am a real
Rexona girl, and I want
you to add me to your
Rexona Club. I advise
every girl to try Rexona,
for I am sure she will
like it.
Wishing Rexona every
success,
I am,
Sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) ALMA LATTA,
Poitrel,
Gilderthorp Avenue,
Randwick.
GIRLS: BEAUTIFY YOUR HAIR.
Do von know that in less than ten minutes you can double the beauty of your
hair? It becomes light, navy, fluffy, abundant, and appears as soft, lustrous and
charming as anyone could desire, after a simple wash with Rexona Soap. A delight-
fill surprise awaits those whose hair has been neglected or is scraggy, dry, brittle
or thin. Rexona Soap cleanses the hair of all dust, dirt or excess oil, and in a few
moments you have doubled the beauty of your hair. Rexona Soap dissolves every
particle of dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigorates the scalp, for ever Stopping
itching and falling hair. If you care to have pretty hair and lots of it, get a tablet
of Rexona Soap to-day. 1/- per tablet. „ A
Rexona the Rapid Healer should he used in conjunction with Rexona Soap, and
will be found unequalled for healing cuts, sores and all irritations and eruptions of
the skin. Price 1/6 and */-.
mv&wev
SKIN & facial:
MEDICATED
C.* BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed
Pens
Seven
Prize Medals.
These series * of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works: Birw»ir>gHsmn, England
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
WAITING!
There is nothing so trying for a woman
these days as waiting —always waiting.
It needs a steady nerve and a strong heart to
carry on —do the day’s work with a cheerful face,
and have a smile handy.
Give yourself a chance to do this bij keeping
fit—a tonic that really helps is
Phosformo
I THE ROYAL*
This is a nerve and cell food and strengthener
that is helping many folk over the worries, work
and waiting that the world is going through now.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
I/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 6C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
Fields of France.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OH, fields of France! What tombs of
ancient glory
Beneath high windows blazoned with
romance,
Enriched with clay of kings, inscribed with
story,
Hold half the treasure ye do, fields of France?
Weep not for ancient shrines o’erflung and
lowly,
Whose graven slabs the feet of saints have
trod ;
Your fields with paschal blood of youth are
holy,
And ev’ry daisy makes its prayer to God.
The slow clogged feet of ancient pride may
falter
Among the shards of relics cast away—
Of font defiled, and yon high shattered altar,
And fret around the fame of yesterday.
Let dust receive and let the rank weeds stifle
The graven stones. Look to your fields, and
see
Where young Endymion sleeps beside his
rifle,
Lulled with the kiss of immortality.
N.S.W.
ELLA McFADYEN.
The J.P. of Corn Creek.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
- *"in r 'HEN first apprised of the sudden
VV elevation of Michael Regan to the
“ T dignity of a Justice of the Peace
for the Bailiwick of Mitta Moa, the resi-
dents of Corn Creek, which was the name
of Mr. Regan’s home town, were first
alarmed, then indignant. True, the matter
had been in the air for some time, but no one
had taken it seriously. Now that the impos-
sible had happened, Corn Creek flooded the
air with its grumbling.
The real humor of the situation was to be
found in a recognition of Mr. Regan’s utter
unpreparedness to adorn the position thus
thrust on him by freakish fortune. This
aspect of the affair, however, escaped the
attention of the parties concerned. Their
objections were based wholly upon personal
grounds. Mike Regan was as unpopular in
the district as a buslifire or a plague of
caterpillars. He was that rarity—a mean
Irishman; and ho was both vain and ill-
tempered. That he was also quite the most
prosperous citizen of Corn Creek may be an
additional 'reason for the dislike of his
acquaintances.
If Regan himself were surprised at the
honor conferred upon him, he managed to
conceal it. Not for one moment would he
allow that events had brought him anything
more than his due. His ridiculous affecta-
tion of ■ superiority gave the community a
kind of mental indigestion. A deputa-
tion from the ranks of the malcontents
fared badly at his hands. The new
justice declined to listen to them. He
supplemented his refusal by a forcible refer-
ence to the growing disposition of the lower
orders to meddle in the concerns of their
social and moral betters. Asked next day by
the local paper to define the difference
between himself and a wart-hog, Mr. Regan’s
reply was to add an “e” to the spelling of
his name, making it Regane. He also ob-
tained a supply of notepaper with a printed
heading, which ran as follows: “Office of the
Justice of the Peace, Corn Creek.” It was
generally thought that this last extravagance
was influenced by Mrs. Regan, or one of the
six Misses Regan. Corn Creek gasped, but
remained powerless to remedy the absurdity.
Matters having reached this unhappy stage
the countryside sat back and waited for the
next move. People were more than a little
puzzled how best to meet the situation.
Between Mike Regan, cocky farmer, and
Michael Regane, Esq., J.P., was such a vast
gap that none but the boldest spirits ventured
to sneer. For the matter of that, the new
Justice let it be known that attempts to
criticise would be met by a calling in of all
the money he had lent among his neighbors.
By this masterly stroke several unfortunates
were deprived of even the consolation of
jeering, and any idea of concerted action
was strangled in infancy.
There were, however, several who refused
to bow down and worship Baal. Of these
the chief was Tom Hendricks. Hendricks
dairy-farmed some fifty-odd acres set in an
elbow of the creek. Besides this he held
under a crown-purchase another hundred
acres of bush land about three miles north
from where he lived. Except to comply with
the conditions of the improvements clause in
his agreement Hendricks had made no
attempt at clearing the block until the
coming of the Spring which saw the elevation
of Mike Regan, who himself owned a bush
selection adjoining that of Hendricks, form-
ing the base, as it were, of the triangle of
scrub whose apex thrust itself like a wedge
of living green into the grey barrenness of the
hills beyond. Regan and Hendricks started
scrub-cutting on the same day. The former,
however, had no intention of grassing the
land that year. He felled only the heavier
scrub, meaning it to dry and settle during
the succeeding twelve months. The follow-
ing summer he intended to slaslihook the
lighter growth and fire the lot at once.
Hendricks, on the other hand, was anxious
for an immediate result. He badly wanted
grass, to feed the young stock which were com-
mencing to eat out his home paddocks. By
Christmas -lie had cut out and paid off his
men. Remained only to wait the coming of
a good stiff wind about the end of February
to fire the ground and convert an untidy
prospect of tangled rubbish into a clean
expanse of grey ash-bed on which to sow the
grass-seed held in readiness in the barn at
home. Others beside Hendricks had a like
ambition.
In the interval of waiting, Hendricks
busied himself mightily with the concerns of
Corn Creek’s Justice of the Peace. He never
ceased to lament the uncomfortable spectacle
presented by the unholy alliance of igno-
rance and authority in the person of Mike
Regan. As a matter of fact, Hendricks sel-
dom lacked an excuse for a display
of his saturnine wit. The new J.P. con-
tinually laid himself open to reproach. His
interpretation of the duties devolving upon
himself as the accredited representative of
judicial •wisdom was frankly farcical, and of
Ms many slips Hendricks took full advan-
tage. He it was, for instance, who for-
warded to the still sulking local paper a
detailed account of the attempt of Michael
Regane, Esq., J.P., to pirate the church of
its fee by attempting to perform the mar-
riage service over a wayback couple as igno-
rant of the limitations of his office as he
was himself. Corn Creek resounded with
laughter over the incident. In vain Mike
Regan defended his action; pointing out,
with much bad language, that he had sup-
posed himself to be on a footing with Eng-
lish J’s.P., who, he understood, were privi-
leged at times to don the surplice. Corn
Creek, by its mouthpiece Hendricks,
that England was not Australia, and thaf
any man who supposed it was had no real
business outside a lunatic asylum. Even
those people who owed Regan money found
courage to join in the general mirth, yet not
too obtrusively.
Then came the time when Hendricks and
the others decided they need wait no longer
in order to get a good clean burn. Corn
Creek, as elsewhere in the bush, where men
figh/t poverty with the weapons of common-
sense and opportunity, took small heed of the
official regulation which attempts to restrain
burning-off operations until after the end
of March in each year, by which time all
chance of a successful fire may have vanished.
They were accustomed to burning-off when-
ever oportunity offered—consistent with
safety to the neighbors. The consternation
of Hendricks and the others can be imagined
when it became known that Mike Regan had
issued a solemn warning that no man could
now defy the Government regulation except
under penalty as per clause so and so of
the Act, a copy of which was to be found at
his office, where it might be inspected gratis.
On receipt of this news Hendricks, accom-
panied by Andrew Thomas Mac Nab, went up
to interview the dispenser of local justice.
They found him recumbent on his verandah
snoring. Mac Nab snatched the handker-
chief away. Simultaneously the snoring
ceased, and Regan sat up and glowered on
his visitors.
“Do ye come in pace or war?” he asked.
“In any case, it don’t matter. I decline to
listen to ye. Shut the gate whin ye go out.”
“A puir feckless loon,” muttered Mac Nab.
“I mind a guid clout behind the lug wudna
dae him only har-rm.”
Hendricks came straight to the point. “I
hear you’ve said there was to be no burning
off till after March. I’d be glad to hear you
deny it. Of course, it would be too damn
ridiculous. You can’t get up to tricks like
that, Mike.”
“Mister Regane, from you,” corrected the
J.P. unpleasantly. “ ’Tis mesilf that holds
the both inds av the stick in the wan av me
hands. By the short hair I have ye. Say ut.”
“Mister Regan, then,” said Hendricks
sulkily. “For God’s sake, can’t you get off
the high horse and talk sense? Well, what
about it?”
“ ’Tis not mesilf has the say, and well ye
know it. Siction twenty-wan av”
“Damn section twenty-one,” said Hen-
dricks irritably. “You’ve always burnt
before March yourself, if it comes to that.
So have I. And I’m going to again this
year. The first good wind”
“Sorra spark will ye light, any av ye, till
four o’clock av the last day av March,”
interrupted Regan calmly. “Ye’ve been
mighty chirrupy av late, giving me this and
that, and laying down what a Justice av th’
Pace would be doing. But tell me this, Tom
Hendricks—did ye ever know me go agin the
law whin somewan was looking? ’Tis wast-
ing me time ye are. And now get out.”
Mac Nab had been pulling at his beard with
trembling hands. Now he burst into sudden
ire. “Ah ken weel the kind o’ mon ye are,
Michael-—a puir, bletherin’ body na fit tae
live. Gin I had ye in Glasca, where I come
frae, I’d push the face of ye down a bit
drain-pipe and let the rats nest in yer
whuskers. Ye’ll no be decent then?”
“Take it away,” said Regan to Hendricks.
“A Scotchman that was born in Colling-
wood ! Queen av Hivin, am I to be insulted
in my own back yar-rd? Take it away and
bury it.”
“Go easy,” advised Henricks to the in-
censed Mac Nab. “He ain’t worth hitting.
It would cost you a fiver, anyway.” He
turned to the complacent Justice. “We’re
going to fire when we’re ready. You wouldn’t
dare put us away. Why, Corn Creek would
chase you into the sea. I’m lighting my
scrub the first wind that comes.”
“Nayther the wan nor the other,” re-
torted Regan. “I’m going away on a trip,
but there’ll be no burning whin I’m gone.
’Tis a mating of Justices no less. I’m on the
binch at Burnside this next Monday. Siction
twenty-wan”——
“Damn section twenty-one,” said Hen-
dricks loudly. You're an obstinate old fool.”
Mac Nab had made up his mind. His
sleeves were rolled up and his lips were
already puckering in an attempt to whistle
“The Boyne Water,” when Hendricks
grabbed him.
“Juist one guid clout under the lug of
him,” he pleaded; but Hendricks wouldn’t
listen. Protesting, the Scotchman was led
away.
“A Collingwood Scot!” Regan’s voice
roared after them. “Shut the gate whin ye
go out.”
Reaching the shop of Jerry Higgs, the
blacksmith, Hendricks took Mac Nab inside
for a consultation. Seated on the cool end
of the anvil he explained the position. Higgs
scratched his head.
“If you fired your scrub and it burnt back
over Mike’s land you’d be gone a million,”
he announced finally. “Why not try it the
other way round?”
Hendricks looked up with glistening eyes.
“By hell, I never looked at it that way.
Dord send us a west wind. Do you get the
good word, Andrew?”
“Pet the hand to do it be my ain,” said
Mac Nab fervently. “Mon, Higgs, ye’re no
far from a genius the noo. I see yon fule
of an Irishman gaun fair daft wi’ rage.
Let’s a’ be canny, though. Frae Colling-
wood, eh? Mon, a graun thocht.”
(Continued on next page.)


Frightful Result of an Explosion—Burnt all over—
Flame-seared Wounds that Broke into Awful Ulcerous
Sores—Grafted Skin would not “take”—4* months
Skilled Treatment Failed to Cure.
ANOTHER ZAM-BUK TRIUMPH.
ANOTHER of those remarkable cases of wonderful healing that have set the seal on Zam-Buk as
the herbal Healing Balm of unprecedented power is furnished in the case of Mr. Ding, whose
story of suffering, repeated disappointment with the failure of other treatments, and the com-
plete and instantaneous success of Zam-Buk, is an object-lesson of the superiority of this great
home healer.
Chatting to our special reporter in regard to I er husband’s case, Mrs. Ding, who resides at 582
Harris Street, Ultimo, Sydney, says:—“My husband met with a frightful accident some three years
ago. He was engaged in attending to his business, and, in going into a darkened room, he struck a
match, not knowing that the gas was turned on, and, the room being full of gas, a terrific explosion
occurred, blowing out the wall, and he was enveloped in flames, and when he came out of it he was
blackened and burnt all over. His shirt sleeves were blown into the flesh of the arms, and they
presented a shocking appearance.
“We took him to the hospital for treatment, and for four and a half months he was
under treatment and observation for the eyes. But his arms were the worst, as the flesh
was frightfully seared, and then broke out into ulcerous sores, which became greatly
inflamed and terribly painful, and sleep was out of the question.
“The treatment at the hospital was unsuccessful, and the arms were no better, so,
thinking they might wish to amputate the right arm, which was much worse than the
left, we thought that we would use Zam-Buk and see what effect it would have. So we
melted some Zam-Buk and applied it, using a pot each day on the injuries. Zam-Buk
drew the matter out of the arms in great quantities, and it was anything but a pleasant
sight, but we did not mind, as the pain subsided as well as the inflammation. It was five
months before his arms were really well. It can be imagined how bad they were when I
tell you that at the hospital they grafted new skin on the wounds, but it decayed and would
not take.
“We consider it wonderful the way Zam-Buk healed these wounds, and he is able to
work now with no ill-effects. It was marvellous that he escaped with his life, so great was
the explosion and consequent injuries, but considering that, we were fortunate in every
way, and will always recommend Zam-Buk.”
am
Buk
EVERY HOME NEEDS A
POT.”
Y'S
m
Mr. DING, whose wonderful cure
by Zam-Buk is related.
Zam-Buk is a perfect
healer for Cuts, Bruises,
Burns, Scalds, Boils, Ec-
zema, Pimples, Poisoned
Wounds, Sores, Bad Begs,
Ulcers, Abscesses, Ring-
worm, Barber’s Rash,
and injured and diseased
conditions of the skin.
Zam-Buk is obtainable from
all Chemists and Stores
at 1/6 per pot,, and 3/6 large
size. Post free from C. E.
Fulford (Aus.b Etd., 39 Pitt
Street. Sydney.
GUARD AGAINST
SUBSTITUTION .
When you ask for Zcim-
Buk Healing Bairn see that
you get it. Do not be put
off with something which
is claimed by your trader
as “just as good,” be-
cause it returns him more
profit. There is NOTHING
‘‘just as good” as the
proved, reliable, ever*
ready Zam-Buk.
“Pass the word to the others to get ready,
Mac,” advised Hendricks, as a parting cau-
tion. “This year Corn Creek is going to
do its burning off all together. I’ll bet old
Mike gets the shock of his life. Lord send a
stiff west wind.”
Four days later the prayer was answered.
Michael Regan, J.P., on the way home from
Burnside, suddenly sat bolt upright in his
seat and sniffed at the gale with incredulous
nostrils. Lifting his eyes lie saw a vast
column of smoke spreading over the tops of
the trees that crowned the ridge overlooking
Corn Creek. With a shouted imprecation he
brought his whip down across the backs of
the horses.
“By the sivin wives av Shaun O’Shea, ’tis
that Hendricks has denied me wurrd, and
sit fire to his dirtily bit av a bush farm.
Queen av I-livin, the whole counthry’s alight.
‘Tis gaol no less, f’r him and that home-
made Scotchman. By this and by that, the
hand av Michael Regan will be heavy on
thim this day.”
Half an hour later saw him driving
wildly along Corn Creek’s one street to
the hotel. The sight of Hendricks and
Mac Nab amongst the little crowd of men
who received him in grinning silence did
nothing to abate his anger. From his seat
on the buggy Regan surveyed them grimly.
“ ’Tis siction twinty-wan av the Act that
ye will answer to. Can any man defile the
plighted wurrd av a Jay Pay and get away
with it? Mind the horses, somewan, till I
spake on tli’ tiliplione. Be the nose ave St.
Pathrick, the police shall hear of this. I
warned ye and all, Hendricks, so I did.”
“Haud yer tongue, ye ' blithering auld
fule,” "advised Mac Nab. “D’ye no ken hoo
the fire was started?”
“Stop where you are, Regan,” said Hen-
dricks. “If there’s any telephoning for the
police I reckon we’ll be the .ones to do it. A
fat lot you know about the law. The fire
started on your own scrub patch. Did you
ever know anyone here to burn with a wes-
terly wind before? Not in fibre history of
Corn Creek. Who did you pay to start it,
Mike?”
“By Gor’, and is it mesilf you’re putting
the blame on?” gasped the astounded Regan.
“Me? A Justice av the Pace? Ilould me
coat, somewan.”
“I wouldn’t start a fight, if I were you,”
advised Hendricks coldly. “You’ve enough
to answer for as it is. There’s not a man
here that doesn’t know you must have had
that fire started to suit yourself. I shouldn’t
bo surprised if you lost your job over this.”
Apparently the same thought had occurred
to Regan, for he began slowly to resume his
clothing. Fighting mad though he was at
the way Corn Creek had outwitted him, he
retained enough of sanity to realise the hope-
lessness of further trouble.
“ ’Tis you that win for the wance-, but I
have the feeling in me bones that the star
av the Regans will yet x*ise over the dirthy
heads av the lot av yez. Queen av Hivin,
that I should be beat be a Scotchman from
Collingwood.”
As he drove away the raucous voice of
Andrew Thomas Mac Nab rose defiantly
from underneath the mass of humanity cling-
ing to him in well-meant restraint.
“Oh, aye; I ken ye weel, Michael Regan.
A puir, feckless loon in his mither’s breeks.
For twa pins ah wud stuff yon whuskers
doon yer throat. Frae Collingwood, is it?
Mon, Higgs, ’twas a graun thocht ye
bad.”
BERNARD CRONIN.
The Art of Guessing in
War-time.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I USED to wonder how the Americans
would get on in France when they
arrived. You see, at the Front you
can’t “guess” at anything, and “calcula-
tions” are often very dubious.
We had a firing-line with an old beet-field
and a row of broken poplars in front of it;
then more beet behind and other trenches;
then a road and a lane and hedges and houses
and more beet —cultivated now —and barns
where we billeted. On the by-road, where our
billet lay, there was also a terrace of red-
tiled red-brick houses, rather damaged by
bombardment, where Frenehies, however,
still lived and washed and sold stores for sol-
diers. At yet another house a mother and
her married daughter cooked omelettes and
boiled coffee for us when they were not hoe-
ing the beet. The husbands of both were at
the war, of course, and the house was full
of kiddies. They were a lively family, and
we all liked to drop in and shop there.
Past this place, but more towards the
line, was the brewery. It had been badly
knocked about, but we were able to use the
cellar for an A.M.C. post. Serious cases
that could not be thoroughly overhauled in
the line were sometimes treated here, and
the place was also an advanced ambulance
station.
There were batteries of guns hidden in the
fields round about. Well hidden, too, for
when they opened up you could tell there
were plenty of them, though in a period of
months I only got to know the exact posi-
tion of one or two. The Germans used to
search for them constantly, occasionally
destroying a house which they fancied was
being used for an emplacement.
Fritz started shelling along the by-road
one afternoon, when we were back in billets.
I was drinking coffee at the Madames’ place
when the first shell approached. There was
a short whirr-r. then a crump that shook
the house and a rumble of earth and beets
on the roof.
The beets were nearly ready for harvest,
and there had been a season’s back-breaking,
bullocking work put into their cultivation by
the two women who now served coffee to us.
But however much mother and daughter
were upset by the bombardment they hardly
glanced out of the window, though the eyes
of the older woman seemed to follow _ the
daughter constantly, I thought, with anxiety.
“No bon,” one of the diggers said.
“We intended to move, when the crop was
sold, to a town out of the war-zone,” said
the daughter. The crop was ruined.
At dusk, when I had to go up the line with
a fatigue party, the five-nines w T ere still
searching the area round the billet. I hoped,
as I walked, that they would not get it, as
I had rather a good possie in a dry
part of the barn, and. besides, a hen
used to lay an egg almost every day in
my bed. Except for the persistent heavies
the night was absolutely quiet. Occasion-
ally a machine-gun knock-knocked for a
moment, and raised a din of echoes away in
the poplar groves, but mostly all seemed in
keeping with the aloofness and serenity of
the slow-moving starlights of No Man’s
Land. All the same, I was anxious to get
back; I had a touch of that something-
about-to-happen sensation, and I guessed
it would prove to be something exciting
and dangerous, and a man likes to be with
his own crowd at such times.
Half-way down the communication trench,
ibetween the support and reserve lines, I
met a digger with his gas-helmet in his hand.
“They’re putting over gas on the right,”
he told me: “bit of a stunt on. Some of it
might blow over here.”
“Not with this wind,” I replied.
“You don’t know, dig. I’ve got my hel-
met ready, anyhow.”
I didn't worry over the information, but
still I lost no time in carrying on for home
(I had finished my job in the line) for the
extreme quiet somehow seemed unnatural.
I was pleased when some of our distance
batteries suddenly began to speak, and the
burst of red and green alarm flares from-!
Fritz’s trench seemed to indicate that the
shells were disturbing more than a beetroot-
crop. I left the communication trench and
followed the main road back towards the
town. The transports were rattling over
the cobbles with loads of rations for the
troops in the lines, and I noticed that the
drivers and others had their gas-helmets out.
“Is there a gas-alarm, digger?” I shouted
to a man on one of the limbers.
“Yes, down the town. I don’t think
there’s any here.”
I thought that this must have been the
case, for the town was often bombarded with
gas-shells when we closed up in billets and
trenches were safe. I continued on with my
helmet still in my bag. Getting nearer home
I was surprised to find that Fritz was still
searching about the billet. Moreover, he had
increased the rate of fire, and was sending
over some shrapnel in addition to H.E. The
roar of the shells as they approached, and
the crash when each fell, filled the air. and
I began to wish the billet was somewhere
else. There was an added clamor about the
moment I reached the by-road which led
towards home. The bells of the churches in
the town rang out, and then the sirens of
the mills along the river. Whistles sounded
in the fields, where the batteries were hid :
the ding-dong of a slow convent bell; a mad
banging of gongs and triangles in the billets
where the troops were.
Gas, right enough! I pulled my helmet out
—they were the old rag helmets in those
days—and unfolded it. I did not put it on
at once, however, for the breeze, a very light
breeze it was, still blew clean and sweet.
The alarm might really only be necessary
for the town, as the transport-driver had
said ; but with gas, of course, you don’t take
chances. A stray Whiff might blow along
anywhere.
The brewery had on a cloak of smoke and
dust, I noticed as I passed. Some recent
shells must have hit the ruins. The ambu-
lance was gone from its accustomed place,
too.
I hurried. Something in the clamor and
din of a gas-alarm grips. Imagine the Devil
ringing your front bell when your conscience
is not quite easy. It’s like that. All the
time the flame fountains of the heavies were
springing up close to the billet ahead and
on each side of the roan. The noises of the
night were weird enough for Death to be
walking abroad here.
The stars were bright, and except for
patches of smoke, the flat fields on either
hand and the road ahead had a partial visi-
bility. When I got near the farm of the
Madames I was able to see that the build-
ing was apparently undamaged, but there
were some puzzling features about the place.
For. one thing the ambulance was standing
in the road in front, and a whole crowd of
soldiers seemed to be doing some sort of work.
It was a strange time and place for work of
any sort, however, and, besides, there were
red splashes of shrapnel overhead and the
patter of pellets on the ground about. The
end of -the building as I approached was
nearest to Fritz. I found a party piling
sandbags and earth against this exposed
wall, and I guessed at the moment that the
A.M.C. post had been shifted from the
brewery to this cottage, which was now
being made shell-proof. The crowd in front
might be light casualties waiting to be
dressed.
A close-by shell-burst showed me that our
billet had been half-wrecked. I increased
my pace still more ; things seemed to be
looking very unpleasant. I reached '-jthe
Madames’ cottage just as our old quack
came to the door.
“I told you fellows to go away when you
had finished the job,” he said. “You’re only
making targets of yourselves. What are
you waiting for, anyhow?”
I listened, puzzled, for the reply. But.
there came only a laugh and some humorous
remarks*.
“Good old doc.” “What’s the verdict,
doc.?” “Let’s hear the worst.”
The quack held up his hand, and spoke
again in his drawling voice.
“Oh, you d—d gadabouts ! I suppose
you’ll have to know. Well, it’s a boy, and a
fine boy, too.”
Lord,- there were cheers then, a roar that
drowned the noise of the gas-alarms.
“1100-blanky-ray!” they shouted. There
were three for young Madame the mother,
three for the kid, and three for Dad at Ver-
dun;
I guess I cheered as loud as anyone, and
that was the only occasion that I guessed
right while at. the Front!
SYDNEY GEOGE.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
• 1 ‘ -/V V- _ ' . ■ ' ...... • •
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
ARE YOU
TU RE
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Jo you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW:-ft is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
849 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins to
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter’s Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
man, woman
and child.
cmm
TTLK
!VER
For your health's sake stick to this old,
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill —Small Dose—Small Price
GENUINE must bear signature
N
3
9*.
m
&
mm
l
m
r
m
mm
-■
M
r
Keep Teeth Clean
aid appetite and digestion,
soothe your throat and stomach
with WRIGLEY’S. the famous
chewing sweet.
Send a box to your friend at the
front, it will give him long-lasting
refreshment through many a weary
hour. The cost is small.
Get it at Chemists, Confectioners and
stores—wherever confections are sold.
The Flavour Lasts!
/ ' . ■; 'V
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
1. C. Gambles & Coy.. Sole Australasian Agents
k Rosebery, Sydney.
KEEP FIT
USING
\
r
Beechams Pills
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action 1 , and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SMOKE
y
IS
ASTER
)... TOBACCO


iMANGROVITt"
LEATHER
LTI
Tiie BEST Belting'
for all power purposes, because it does not
lose that power contact which is vital to
maximum production.
MANGROVITE RAWHIDE BELTING
is unequalled for difficult drives—does not
stretch or slip, but keeps the pulleys moving.
Full information on request.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square (near C . P. 0.), Sydney, N.S. W
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd., 379 sy<£L s y. reet
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne; Kalgoorlie and Fremantle, WA
Charles Atkins & Co.j Adelaide. Paul & Gray Ftd., Newcastle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
mm: n i
f,o." 1 „ , ;“;?„ r „ A “.";,f 1 TEr: ''- €I:TI,N<i EDGEB - "«*•. I'"" «»<**, to you, „, de ,
-J!M?ssf jas.’sraatiffii ir r
necessary. 1 ‘ 11 * lxed Heads Template absolutely
ECONOMY ON EASY DRIVES
does not exist by the use of cheap belting—
but rather by the use of a high-grade belt of
the proper width—thus ensuring longest ser-
vice and greatest economy.
ICK’S BALATA BELTING
ICK’S BALATA BELTING
ICK’S BALATA BELTING
(The Original & Genuine)
is tremendously strong, yet flexible; fit for
the heaviest duty in power transmission, and
costs less for upkeep. Send for booklet.
Sole importers—
JAMES HARD lE. &. CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
Phone 8456 (4 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at Brisbane and Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong-
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of vour
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so With
an initial expenditure and ; maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building,
97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
"O-'
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2% inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
D S W Chandler Ptv Itd
V ' ” "• * »y-
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
£•
<
c;
Vy
tttWH MA»t,
V,
o
o
v.
As
*
&
P^CisrtßtQ
<?ON
e>
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
Patent Lava Flux
'l ensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys east-iron
Sol(] 1,1 tins: llb - 50/-r Jib., 25/-; 2oz„ 7/6.
Hb. Flux will braze broken casting 15 feet long by
1 inch thick—instructions round each tin.
m P Io V ed Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St. Hilda, Victoria.
PUMPS -Good Pumps Only
811®
■
srrs
4JQL'
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
vaned line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy bines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12m. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumas
manufactured include:— v
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK —Send Specifications
ALDERDIGE LTD., Warrnambool
DELGO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Mouses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
h ,, uj,f
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4*4 hours.
TP
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS-
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane
FAIRBANKS
MORSE
•M-tawsc* tonic*
Semi-Diesel Marine Engines
DIRECT REVERSING ELECTRIC STARTING DEVICE
IMPROVED CYLINDER HEAD CONSTRUCTION.
The photo, inset is the
well-known “Albatross,”
now converted to a motor
schooner and fitted with
twin 60-h.p. Fairbanks
Morse Type “Co” Semi-
Diesel Engines.
The owners express the
highest satisfaction with
the work of these Engines
and say that, despite ab-
normally rough weather
on a recent trip, she aver-
aged 6 knots on Seals, oil.
Length of this iron ves-
sel 131 feet, width 21
feet, depth 10ft. 7in.,
mean draft fully loaded
10 feet.
Particulars and Prices from
Used in Large Numbers by U.S.A. Navy Dept.
DANGAB, GEDYE & CO. LTD.,
9-13 YOUNG STREET,
Circular Quay. SYDNEY.
mt
m
M
t
We are Sole Australasian Agents for
“Dorr” Machinery-
DORR MECHANICAL CLASSIFIERS, Essential with all
Ball and Tube Mill Installations for Close Sizing.
DORR THICKENERS for continuous thickening
before Flotation.
DORR AGITATORS for perfect contact of solvents.
THE DORR SYSTEM OF CONTINUOUS DECANTATION
HAS REVOLUTIONISED CYANIDING, CHEMICAL
MANUFACTURE and LEACHING.
Send for Booklets, Data, Prices, etc.
We act as consultants on DORR PRACTICE.
m
DORR THICKENER.
IN STOCK—
“HYDROMAX” TELESCOPE STOPERS and HAND
HAMMER DRlLLS—British Built and Best in
the World.
RECIPROCATING DRILLS FOR DRIVING.
MAY BROS.’ FAMOUS ROLLS, JIGS & CRUSHERS
RICHARDS’ “PULSATOR” JIGS l CLASSIFIERS.
CARD PATENT BALL-BEARING TABLES—The
Supreme Table on Tin and Wolfram.
“CURVILINEAR” TABLES-The Newest, Simplest
and Fool-proof Table.
Hydraulic Classifiers, Screens, Trommels, Lubri-
cants, Explosives, Oil and Water Filters, Valves
Tuyers and all Mining Reaubrites.
Let us advise you from our extens.ve experience.
N.
We design Mining and Concentrating Plants, Flow Sheets, Estimates and Data free on request
GUTHRIDGE LTD., Mining and Eletfrical
Engineers, 350 George Street, SYDNEY.
