

DEWAR’S —The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. O. WATKINS «*£ GO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—fob— . .
Milling and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
N-S'W' MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74 ST., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES-
■«
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
’215*17 Swanston SUlelb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
St,West, Sydney.
OOO’OOZS
Phone City
Joseph W.Hill, Acting General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW”' says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
•Muiftog no
IMHO 918 paioadaii
'it
Head and
Shoulders
above all
others.
Sizes:
V/ h.p.
to 8 h.p.
Stationary
and
Portable.
Order One TO-DAY,
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
R. L. Scrutton % Co. Ltd.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Argue”
9
Noth wo
to Arcuc
Aboutl'
s
%., Ar-P! the Best"
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
Hfl N SE NS
linnet,
for INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
inost beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
ffiolfes
D.
Does not Rot, Crack or Leak
“Not the same as others•”
Malthoid remains unaffected by climatic changes, and its extreme
durability, makes it the most economical you could use.
Other roofings may look somewhat the same; there is a difference
in the manufacture —-the difference that makes ALL the difference.
Sample and Illustrated Booklet post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL,
AND GENERAL
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions . Road Metal and Farm Waggons . Portable Steam Engines .
Sugar Mill Machinery . Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings . Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
Sflrthur
6 (3
MACHINERY.
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
The “ Robey” Patent Uniflow Engine
Represents the LAST WORD ia Steam Engine design, and gives
HIGHEST EFFICIENTO Y AND ECONOMY IN STEAM CONSUMPTION with
SIMPLICITY OF CONSTRUCTION AND CONSEQUENT LOW UPKEEP COSTS,
Write ns fo* particulars and Catalogues.
Queensland enquiries: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO., LTD., 218-220 Mary Street,
Brisbane.
“A.W.” “T.Y.R.”
“A.W. PREMIER.”
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH.
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS.
HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sol© Austj
n Representatives:
Lodge $ Co. Ltd.,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
Inter-State Stocking Agents:
A. SCOTT & CO., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Etd., Worands Bldgs., Grenfell Street, Adelaide
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Bid., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
by Sir W.
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay-
OPAZjOID
Make ]
mistake —the
Suppers. Orchestral performances at all meals.
The Bulletin
Yol. 40.—N0. 2078.
Thursday, December 11, 1919.
PRICE 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Two Little Aborigines
if
FUZZY-HEAD and WOOLLY-TOP.
Their life and adventures, described and pictured in the
book called
MIA MIA MITES
BY
MURIEL PORNETT.
Just the book to give to a child for Christmas. The
kind of book which a child would choose for itself; one
that it would sit down and look through and play with.
The two little Abos. are quaint little folk. Once see
their funny little faces peering otrt from the pages of this
fascinating book and you are friends.
Listen to the kiddies’ cries of delight when you give
them this book.
Printed on rough, tough paper, and strongly bound in
picture boards. Size 71 x 10 inches.
Price 2/6 (Id.).
YOUR BOOKSELLER HAS IT,
• or from
MELVILLE & MULLEN PTY., LTD., Collins Street, Melbourne.
ONOro
An Ideal Xmas
You need no longer worry about wljat to give your friends. Give them all
An ONOTo’is a gift that is sure to please. It is the fountain pen that fills
itself, cleans itself, never leaks, and never scratches. It is a model ot
simplicity. The Onoto is British Made, and is guaranteed by its makers.
PRICE 17/-; Onoto Valveless for those who do not want a Safety Selt-nlimg
Pen,l2/6, and in a variety of more elaborate styles for presentation purposes.
Of a’l Stationers, Jewellers, and Stores Manufacturers : Ihps. De La Rue
& Co., Ltd , London and Managing Agents, Norman, Baker & Longhurst,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Aak for ONOTO Ink Best for all Pen*.
TEN NEW NOVELS
Obtainable from all Booksellers.
BARONESS ORCZY: His Majesty’s Well-Beloved. This is a love story, and
deals with a pathetic episode in the life of the great actor Tom Betterton.
BERTA RUCK: The Disturbing Charm. The cross-purposes of half-a-dozen
lovers lead to a happy “sorting-out” at the end of a charming story.
OPPENHEIM (E. P.) : The Wicked Marquis. Shows all the author’s ripe
knowledge of the world and increased powers of characterisation, with a
touch of humor.
CURWOOD (JAMES O.): The Nomads of the North. The author tells of the
great Northern wilderness as he knows it —its humor, its pathos, its mystery
and its tragedy.
lAN HAY: The East Million. This is not a novel, but it is more interesting
than many. It is the story of America’s entry into the war, as told by the
author of “The First 100,000.”
MILLER (ALICE D.) : The Happiest Time of Their Lives. There is a fresh-
ness and charm about the story which makes it delightful reading.
“SAPPER” (CYRIL McNEILE): Mufti. This is not a war book—but the
story of a man and three women.
FOOTNER (H.) : Thieves’ Wit. A new type of mystery story of a sensational
jewel robbery.
AYRES (RUBY M.): The One Who Forgot. A charming story by the author
of “Richard Chatterton, V.C.”
BUCHAN (JOHN) : Mr. Standfast. A splendidly exciting spy story by the
author of “Greenmantle,” “The 39 Steps.”
Each 5/6 (4d.).
HODDER & STOUGHTON,
LONDON* NEW YORK
MELVILLE & MULLEN PTY., LTD., Collins Street, Melbourne.
■■•4*
KILL That
FLY.
THE NON-POISONQUS POWDER.
IS NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Kills Flies, Fleas, Bugs, Mosquitoes.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
Burn “MUST!)IB” POWDEK on a tin-plate in your rooms. The result will be
that Mosquitoes, Flies and other insects will be driven away; but if the doors are closed the
insects will fall dead on the floors. At evening- or dinner-parties, or whilst reading in bed
or on the verandah, burn a little “MUSTDIE” Powder. The odor is not unpleasant, and
flies and mosquitoes will disappear. Sold everywhere. Tins 9d.
The Red Page
A Librarian’s Decade
Ten years ago a kindly fate tumbled me off
a clerk’s stool and landed me in a librarian’s
chair. I did not quite realise at the time
what was expected of a librarian, blit I have
since learnt. One of the tribe—a lady, too
—in the depths of desperation, sat up and
spoke for her brothers and sisters: —
To the wisdom of the serpent add the dove’s de-
meanor mild;
Hide a politician’s tactics 'neath the meekness of
a child ;
Be all things unto all persons, and to some be two
or three;
Have the air, “Some might be baffled, but there’s
nothing puzzles me.”
Be acquainted with the history of nations near and
far,
Know their populations, industries, and who their
rulers are;
Know all the best authorities on zo- and sociology,
On physics, chess, taxidermy, mechanics, toxicology;
On woman’s rights and logic, on golf and brewing
beer,
With a thousand other Subjects there’s no time to
mention here;
Know all the works of fiction from the time when
Mother Eve’s
“Snakes I’ve Met, or Why We Ate It” filled three
volumes of fig leaves;
Be informed on current topics, and on those that
aren’t current;
Know why things that are are as they are, or why
the others weren’t.
If these conditions you fulfil, and then have laid away
A little store of extra facts against a rainy day—
If all these things you are, I say, and sure are lack-
ing nary ’un,
Then some day you may hope to be a really good
librarian.
The rhyme for “librarian” alone should en-
sure immortality for this.
-I am still ambling up the hill that leads to
a “really good librarian,” but I have had as
interesting a 10 years as any man could
desire. Through the portals of a public
library pass many interesting men, and it is
a loadstone for cranks of all descriptions. A
crank, unless you get too much of him, is a
very refreshing personality. I was given a
library that had been sadly neglected—books
in decay; the refreshing spring of new books
dried up years before; over everything the
pall of* lassitude that such conditions weave.
Any efforts on my part to alter this state of
things would have been futile if I had not
had the backing of a City Council which was
prepared to spend money, and the assistance
of an enthusiastic staff. We made a start
by planing off and repolishing the surfaces of
the reading-desks in the newspaper room to
get rid of an accumulation of dirt, and
painted the room. The frowsy, odoriferous
Domain-dossers who had haunted the place
Folded their tents like the Arabs
And as silently stole away.
They were not told to go; it was simply the
psychological influence of soap and water.
The environment fretted their souls; they
were/ distrait and refused to patronise an
atmosphere with which they were not in
sympathy. We did not advertise for them
as for long-lost brothers.
In the lending library, when a borrower
wanted a book he consulted a catalogue, took
a note of the number of the book he desired,
then consulted what was called an indicator.
This was a huge glass case in which were
small openings numbered from 1 to 30,0,00.
A system of signals showed whether the book
was in or out. If it was in, the borrower
filled in a slip, handed it over the counter,
and in due time an assistant brought the
book. If the book was not to his liking
he must take it away and try his luck next
day. It was decided, not without some mis-
giving, to sweep away the indicator and turn
the borrowers loose amongst the books. The
advantages of such a system are obvious to
any reader—the opportunity it gives to
examine a book before borrowing, and the
chance to search for some special piece of
information. The innovation was hailed by
the true book-lover. About 90 per cent, of
the borrowers come to the library without a
clear idea of the book they want; they bring
the mood, and a browse on the shelves usually
brings the book. With these twain united
they depart much happier than from a dip in
the lucky (or unlucky) bag.
A time-payment firm in Sydney has worked
out that only a decimal-part of 1 per cent,
of its public is dishonest. Our expei'ience is
that the proportion of dishonest readers is
still smaller. -We have had thefts of books,
but where the offenders have been caught
rarely have they been borrowers.
In buying books for a public library the
librarian must “be informed on current topics
and those that aren’t.” More especially on
those that “aren’t.” During the last Sydney
tram strike, when the man in the street
heard of the Taylor system for the first time,
a sudden demand arose for books on indus-
trial efficiency, and in a day the subject
passed from the “aren’t” to the “are.” So
the library must keep its foot just one pace
in front of the step of the man in the street.
Of course it does not always succeed; one
can never forecast how or why the popular
wind will blow, and in a recent number of
the American Library Journal is a lament
that, with all the magnificent resources of
the American libraries, the war caught them
unprepared for many of the problems born
of the strife. During the war we anticipated
a healthy demand at some time for books on
reconstruction after the war. The books
are there, but the demand has fallen short
of the expectation. In other directions the
war has influenced the reading public of
Sydney in differing strain to that of Europe.
For two years after the outbreak of war
Sydney read with slight variations in the
proportions. of pre-war days; then, with the
weariness of a sick man, a section sought
relief from the war in the worlds of imagina-
tion. For seven years up to 1916 the pro-
portion of fiction issued was an almost con-
stant 31 per cent.; but ip 1917 the percentage
jumped to 87, and to 38 in 1918.
It would give an interesting result if a
group of readers were invited to. mark down
the relative importance in their minds of the
various classes of literatui’e. The list, no
doubt, would vary with the taste of the
reader. But without that list it is possible
to show the relative tastes of Sydney’s readers
—assuming that those who come to the muni-
cipal library are average readers. The total
output from our library in 1918 was 379,081
books. The following table shows the total
number of volumes borrowed from each
class, and the percentages (563 miscellaneous
works are eliminated) :
Fiction 146,972 38jp.c.
Children’s Library.. .. .. 85,345 22i „
Useful Arts.. .. .. .. 26,278 7 „
Literature (Essays, Criticisms) .. 18,869 5 „
Social Science .. .. .. 15,293 4 „
Biography.. .. .. .. 14,064 3f „
Travel and Geography .. .. 13,804 3 5 ~
Science .. .. ~ .. 13,461 31,,,
Recreative and Fine Arts .. .. 12,814 3& ~ -
Poetry and Drama .. .. .. 11,401 3 „
History .. . . .. . . 11,346 3 „
Philosophy and Religion .. .. 8,871 2$ „
I had the curiosity to compare these per-
centages with those of the lending depart-
ment of the New York Public Library for
the same year, and the comparison of the
figures gives an interesting glimpse of the
literary appetite of the two cities. New York
reads about 7 p.c. more fiction than we do.
The heading of “Useful Arts” is made up
largely of technical and trade literature, and
here •Sydney scores, as N.Y.’s percentage is
only 3as against our 7. Poetry and drama
are include'd with literature generally in the
American figures of 6 p.c., while Sydney’s
combined percentage is 8 p.c. The increase
is due, I have no doubt, to the fact that
Sydney reads more poetry and drama than
New York. But while the latter city may
not dally with the poets she rushes into the
sterner fields of social science in a manner
that leaves Sydney gasping. The figures for
this class are: N.Y., 8| p.c.; Sydney, 4 p.c.
Thus a New Yorker is twice as liable to
read sociology as a Sydney inhabitant. Syd-
ney reads over 1 p.c. more biography and
about If p.c. less history. Americans are
notably weak in geography, and the figures
of 2 p.c. against Sydney’s 3§ p.c. support
the indictment. One of the surprising re-
sults of the comparison is in pure science,
where N.Y. shows 2 p.c. as against our 34
p.c. When it is realised that, while America
produces some of the finest technical books,
she gives birth to very few works of pure
science, the result is not unnatural.
Evidently the same proportion of people
digest philosophy and religion, as the per-
centages are the same.
A curious phenomenon is observed in
these figures. America produces technical
books but does not read them to the extent
of a country that produces none; and in
Australia, which is the laboratory of social
legislation, the people study social science
less than'a country more'conservative in such
legislation. The moral i 5....
In Great Britain the municipal councils
have authority to impose a rate of Id. in the
pound for the support of a municipal
library, and in a number of cases special
authority has been obtained to increase this
to 2d. or 3d. As* a, consequence one finds
every English town of any importance equip-
ped with a free library. But when one
turns one’s eyes to Australia it is to find
that cities of such importance as Adelaide
and Brisbane have no free public lending-
libraries. The burden of supplying literature
in the country falls usually on Schools of
Art, which carry also the burden of supply-
ing social and recreative opportunities—
when, therefore, it becomes a question of
books or billiard-tables. In the majority of
cases the answer requires no guessing.
Henry George has written : “Social Reform
is not to be secured by noise or shouting;
by the formation of parties or making
revolutions; by complaints and denuncia-
tions; but by the awakening of thought,. find
the progress of ideas. 'Until there be cor-
rect thought there cannot be right action,
and where there is correct thought right
action will follow.” And if there is to be
correct thought books must be freely at the
disposal of every man. In the new Local
Government Bill on the eve of passing in
N. S. Wales, extended powers are given to
municipal councils to establish libraries,
vv ill they use them 1
C. H. B.
Two Sorts of Book
The big tide of fiction seems always to run
in a double channel. Three-quarters of a
century ago Charlotte Bronte startled the
reading world with an intimate story which,
under its human interest and play of charac-
ter, aimed at bringing abodt reform. It
was a “book with a purpose”; though it is
difficult to see how any book that truly re-
flects life can be. without purpose. Years
before, Jane Austen had written a number of
novels which dealt finely with the ordi-
nary circumstances of conventional English
life. “Jane Eyre” was a startling departure
in every way from such quiet work, and
marked its author at the time as the newest
sort of new woman. To us the writings of
Charlotte Bronte do not look particularly
dangerous, nor is it easy to understand the
attitude of some of her reviewers; but the
thing that is of special interest is that after
the long lapse of years Jane Austen is said
to have more readers to-day than the author
of “Jane Eyre.” Much that the latter tilted
at has passed quite away ; abuses to which
she referred have only an interest for the
historian; while Jane Austen, though not a
very deep delver, wrote very truth-
fully of things that will last as long
as there are men and women to play
their small, necessary parts. From the
first beginnings of fiction the writers of
popular _ books and their varied and often
astonishing critics have never quite been able
to make up their minds whether the true
novelist should be simply a tale-teller dealing
in atmosphere, character and moral values, or
whether it is necessary to add to this som'e-
thing of the role of the prophet and a de-
nunciation of evils rampant at the time.
Two books have just come from the press
which stress this lack of decision as to the
novelist’s true place. The first is Margaret
Protests, by Margaret Leonora Eyles
(Erskine, Macdonald, London) ; the second
is The Laird of Glenfernie, by Mary John-
ston (Constable, London). Margaret- pro-
tests with a great deal of emphasis and much
detail against something connected with the
sexual and marital relations, but the exact
point of her teaching is rather obscure. In
fact, she protests too much —a great deal
too much. Mary Johnston, on the other
hand, sets a scene in Scotland before and
(Continued on page 24.)


V
Send a
Little Gift
this Christmas.
DAINTY
GIFTS
FOR
MILADY.
Foremost in the list of acceptable
presents come the ever needful
HANDBAG.
With such brief description the few
charming designs illustrated cannot
convey the real worth and good value
of these smart Handbags.
9093. —Pretty Kodak Shape, in
Morocco, with inner pocket, and lined
hi Poplin Price 23/-
2002.—Electro-plated Vanity
Purse, attractively lined with Blue
Silk. Assorted shapes and sizes.
Splendid quality.
12/6, 16/6, 17/6 and 20/-
3340/20.— —Morocco Handbag, of
fine grain, with Repp lining-. Centre
pocket and side catch.
Good value, 6/6
Similar patterns to above at 15/6 16/-
17/- to 28/6. ’
88.—A Real Bargain. This is a
special line of Australian hnnd-
embossed, Art Leather Handbags. In
brown leather, with laced edges, full
gusset and button-flap fastener. Inside
pocket. Dainty design on side.
Special value, 9/11
11266.—Morocco Sunshine Bags,
lined Repp, 12/6, 15/-, 19/-, 20/-
Suede .. 15/-, 17/6, 18/6, 22/6
Embossed Leather 10/6
White Kid 13/6, 22/6
“A gift is as a precious stone
In the eyes of him that hath it.”
—Proverbs.
HE kindly act of Christmas remembrance is made
perfect when accompanied by a little Gift. The
pleasure it gives both to recipient and giver is
out of all proportion to the outlay.
Yet it need cost but little.
The BIGGER buying, which means KEENER buying,
enables Anthony Horderns’ to offer you unrivalled selec-
tions together with
COUNTLESS OPPORTUNITIES
FOR ECONOMY.
Here is a page of suggestions—just a few selected from
the fascinating Christmas displays.
The Christmas Catalogue is full of helpful suggestions—Gifts
to suit all ages and requirements.
Why not write for a free copy—NOW?
HOICE
VJH»TE Ro S k
Exquisite Perfumes.
The range includes a delightful col-
lection of Handsome Perfume Caskets,
Cut Glass Decanters, Bottles, Sprays,
Powders and Soaps. The delicacy of
these Perfumes will please discrimin-
ating tastes.
BX2I (as illustrated).— Pretty Plush
Casket of Perfume, with hinged
lid and Satin lining. Containing two
Bottles of Perfume. Colors: Sky, Pink
or Green Price 77-
Other attractive Caskets at 5/-, 6/-,
7/6, 8/- and 12/6.
BX4s. — Perfume Spray, Cut Glass,
Silver-mounted 21 /-
Other designs—■
22/6. 26/-, 27/6
BX44.—Cut Glass Perfume Bottle,
Glass Stopper, Silver-mounted —
16/6, 25/-
BX43.—Cut Glass Perfume Bottle,
sterling S'ilver band round neck, lOin.
high 18/6
B X 1 3.—Atkinson’s Celebrated
Eau-de-Cologne, in wicker-covered
bottle. Small, 5/6; Medium, 10/-;
Large, 18/6.
BXls.—Luce’s Eau-de-Cologne, in
dainty barrel-shaped bottle—■
80s*., 6/9; 12oz„ 10/-; 16oz„ 13/6;
20oz„ 16/9.
BXl7.—Cut Glass Decanters, filled
with Piver’s “Princess” Quality
Cologne—
-17/3, 21/9, 22/6, 25/-, 34/6 each.
BXs3.—Milady’s Soap, in a variety
of six different perfumes. Three Tablets
in neat box ... 3/11 per box.
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES.
The Famous Triumph Briar Pipe, ir. a
variety of shapes.
Silver-mounted 8/6
Mith special spigot mouthpiece .... 10/6
Sweet, Cool-smoking Briar Pipes, hand-
somely silver-mounted. In presentation case.
Single j)ipe in case . .. 13/6 to 18/6
Two pipes in case 37 /Q
Triumph Cigarettes, guaranteed pure. A
brand that is sure to please.
In boxes of 25 l/o
In boxes of 50 2/9
Heavyweights 25, 2/3; 50, 4/3
HIGH-GRADE CIGARS.
In Boxes of 10.
LORITA, Australian Made 2/9
LASCA, Exquisita, British Made 4/-
DIG-HAW, Grandee, Australian Made .... 5/-
MANILA CIGARS, in Boxes of 10.
Company General, Rosas 4/6
Company General, Camelias (in foil) .... .")/-
Company General, Presidentes (in foil) . . 8/6
La Rosa Filipina, Regalia Reina 5/6
La Rosa Filipina, Perfectos .... 6/-
HAVANA CIGARS, in Boxes of 25.
A. Murias, Favoritas 12/6
A. Murias, The Club 15/6
A. Murias, Regalia de Valle 22/-
Henry Clay, Americanos 16/-
Cabrana, Regalia Britannica 22/6
Partagas, Conchas Bouquet 14/6
Flor-de-Cuba, Conchas Finas .... 16/6
Gifts that Men Appreciate.
Shopping at Anthony Horderns’ simplifies the problem
of giving Gifts to the menfolk. Being essentially a “Man’s
House,” the big Sydney Store can provide you with a wealth
of suggestions to meet his tastes, habits and requirements.
Umbrellas, Walking-sticks, Belts, Collar and Hand-
kerchief Boxes, Shaving Requisites, Toilet Sets, Jewellery,
Card Cases —and hosts of others—are mentioned in the
Christmas Catalogue. Here are several good values.
J
il
TOYS! TOYS! TOYS!
PICCANINNIES’ PARADISE at Anthony
Horderns’ is crowded with delights for Young
Australia—a perfect treasure trove of Toys
gathered together from the ends of the Earth.
Health-giving sources of enjoyment! Toys that
are specially built to withstand abuse! Toys of
every description!
Rocking Horses, Motor Express Waggons,
Trolleys, Automobiles, Tricycles, Scooters,
Skipping Ropes, Boys’ Reins, Prams, Go-
Carts, Swings, Outdoor Games, Indoor Games,
Garden Sets, Seaside Sets, Railways, Ships,
Toy Carpenter Outfits, Mechanical Toys,
Puzzles, Dolls’ Furniture, etc.
Write for the Catalogue.
Stylish Dress Accessories.
When you give him details of fashionable apparel from Anthony
Horderns’ you give him a gift—of Quality.
THE PALACE FASHION SHIRT.
XlOO. Made in Our Own Workrooms from the best of British Weaves, includ-
ing Cambrics, Zephyr, Madras and Mercerised, as well as the durable Oxfords.
Finished with soft double cuffs and dressed neckband, reinforced necks, or
may also be had with dressed cuffs. Ranging in price from
8/6 to 12/6 each.
Men’s Crepe Dressing Gowns, a choice variety of block stripe designs,
and finished with self reverse collar and cuffs 16/6 each.
Men’s British Crepe Pyjamas, a seasonable garment for present wear.
16/6 suit
TIES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Knitted Derby, Artificial Silk —Plain Black, 3/6, 3/9, 4/6, 4/11
Fancy Designs —Club Stripes 1/S
Real Silk Knitted Ties —Plain Black 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 9/6
Fancy designs 6/9, 7/6
Open-end Ties, some smart Foulard Silk, in various spotted effects 2/6
Wide-open Ends, in the most up-to-date effects, in Spitalflelds Silks—
4/9, 6/3, 7/6, 9/6
l/9 to 3/6
Batswing Ties
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd.,
605 Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
79


w.
2
win- w/wvfii
Paint
Now
Don't wait
UNTIL THE
Damage
IS DONE
Let the beginning of the New Year see your home well
prepared to withstand all weathers.
Brighten up—improve the value and the appearance of
your property with the paint that “Covers the Earth.”
Sherwin-Williams
COVER
THE
EARTH
Paint
prepared.
There’s a Sherwin-Williams Product for every purpose—outside and
inside.
Agents in principal towns throughout Australia.
The Sherwin-Williams Co (Australia) Ltd.
Paint, Color and Varnish Makers,
63 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
The
Edison Amberola
assures a Merry Xmas
All your family and all your Christmas friends
will enjoy the exceptional entertainment of an
Edison Amberola.
The Amberola has the famous Diamond Stylus
Reproducer and plays the practically unbreakable
Blue Amberol Records.
We illustrate the Amberola 75—a particularly
handsome instrument in either Golden Oak or
Mahogany. Price £2 7/10/-. Other Amberola
prices to as low as £lO/10/-
Call on the nearest Edison dealer for a demonstra-
tion, or write direct for full details, post free.
min
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (wholesale only), 3G4-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
r:
The “PLUM”
RAZOR.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
Thousands of “Plum” Razors are sold annu-
ally, retaining their position of supremacy
through sheer consistency of merit. Try the
“Plum,” and you’ll stick to it.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case. 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/-
All the above Post Free.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
V;
- \>
” &:.A V-'
g.
11 f /
v h
/ / /
*' It
' 7 / / /
i'V I /
'/ / /
/ /
/ /
z"*’*
/
' /
\
/
w
>2
"S
\\
yf
m
<A
£
m
<&
L
/>
i
V
\A\V<'
HP
\
Mil.*
<*
'%■
y
DIGGERS
An Old Friend is Here.
You remember Ideal Milk in France
and Palestine. You enjoyed it then;
you can enjoy it now.
Ask your wife to get in a stock from
the Grocer or —better still—buy some
yourself and take it home.
Don’t forget
IDEAL MILK
UNSWEETENED
Made by Nestle’s
347 Kent St., Sydney.


0
EPM
For Constipation
Constipation is dangerous be-
cause it means that poisonous
materials which should have been
expelled from the body are being
retained. The appetite fails, diges-
tion becomes disordered and the
breath offensive. Pinkettes, the new
laxative, are a real help in correct-
ing constipation.
They do not aggravate the com-
plaint as strong purgatives do; and
they do not wear out in their effects.
Taken according to directions they
assist the patient so that the use of
an opening medicine is not a con-
stant necessity.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Kogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
Hotel c/e Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOM" built over the water —
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New .Motor Roatl from Mos-
man. Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
fErtci/NG Wire
wi ;ii
w,
Is an Australian-made Wire
of QUALITY, and worthy
of your support, because it
makes STRONGER fences at
a LOWER COST.
Every coil has the makers’
guarantee for EXCELLENCE,
RELIABILITY, DURABILITY.
It is made from Australian iron
ore, which is world-renowned.
Fence with “Waratah” —
IT NEVER SAGS.
FROM THE ORE TO
THE FENCE AUSTRALIAN.
Storekeepers can get “Waratah”
for YOU.
Fencing Booklet N. 19 Free.
Austral Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Ferrars Street, South Melbourne.
CELEBRAIED
8
The Rapid Cure for Corm
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
bv the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young' —hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 14 Royal Bank Chambers,
Perth, W. A. [1
-eoid Ifie toilers step orows
lid filer- Goiignorae!"
His day’s work done-
hje
nr
smokes his (G.B.D,
A sweet, coofsmoke, from parch and tongue-bite free.
4
111
\mm
GBD
MANY POPULAR SHAPES.
the Perfect
Pipe!
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
QtJ.Collfe Brownes
CWorody»e
Tlie Original and Only Genuine.
Till? mSST MKHICINK FOB
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
anti in tlie Cough of IJKONCIIITIS ami
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, 2/3, 3/-, 5/
Made in England.
m
urn
is
“ NATURE.”
By Sir Thomas Lawrence , P.R.A.
Health is the natural birthright of every child, and of every
man and woman, too —for what are men and women but grown-
up children, after all ? Regularity of habit is the secret of good
health —yet many men and most women need an “aid to nature”
in establishing such regularity and in maintaining it.
Kruschen Salts, the famous home remedy for Constipation (and
the train of evils that Constipation brings) is an ideal aid to
nature —it determines regularity of habit, and by daily cleansing
the system of all impurities promotes a state of constant vigorous
o;ood health. Get the Kruschen Habit—persevere with it 1
It is the “ open sesame ” to health and general well-being.
AUSTRALIAN
P R i r, f
s £ >
LL BRITISH FOR 16 0 YEARS
all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents.
2SSRS. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
boie Proprietors, E. Griffiths Hughes •Kruschen) Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester. Englan 1
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cathedral.
I love the quiet of this ancient nave,
These glimmering tombs, the shadowy peri-
style
Down which the years have paced in single
file;
The sense of mystery as in some cave
Where Time abides beside the soundless
wave;
Death glooms from sable monuments; the
while, ’ . .
peep in the silence of the haunted aisle,
The mumbling Ages sit in grave conclave.
House of the dead itself it cannot die,
But weary grown and hoary keeps its state,
Hugging chill History to its pallid breast;
Stones, beams and carven columns lifted high.
Poised in hushed air, all seem to wait, and
wait . ,
Till crumbling dissolution brings them rest.
ENGLAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
November.
Old drover Night, with scorching whips of
Fate, _ . ,
Hurries his herd of stars through Evening s
gate,
As, languid limbed, November from Day s
wood , ,
Trails her full length of drowsy womanhood.
Down on a couch of fire she sinks in ease,
Her burning body naked to the trees,
And as the dogs of Drought creep howling by
She sleeps, nor ever lifts a lazy eye.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
At Dawn.
I heard a sound of breakers at the dawn,
The echoing thunder, the incessant roar
Of windless waves upon a tropic shore.
I had a vision of the flickering palms,
The wide-wet yellow shining stretch of sand
Down to the foamy margin, and inland
The long brown grasses, and the jungle
growth
Luxuriant and impenetrably green,
Yet terrible. Great creepers hung between
The giant trunks. The sunlight on the leaves
Was clear and hot, while in the dimness
grew
Strange flowers and pale. Above, the sky
was blue
And glorious. The splendor of the sun
Shone on the great Pacific, and the sea
Stretched to the farthest distance, won-
drously,
Blue as the open, over-arching sky.
And my heart leapt within me as I lay,
And looked, and listened to the singing spray.
And I was homesick for the warmth and
light
And freedom. Breakers when the dawn w r as
grey !
A child will listen at a shell and say
He hears the murmuring message of the sea.
Not knowing that the rush of his young
blood
Is all he hears, not the tempestuous flood
Of stormy, wind-swept waters. So, maybe,
These sounds of spacious seas that break
and roll
Are but the prisoned longings of my soul.
victoria.
G. ETHEL MARTYR.
The Laughing Creek.
Slow the creek runs, hushed and reverent,
where the wind is softly singing
In the temple of the pine-trees, with a sound
like distant surf,
Where the censers of the pine-cones, with
their woodsy scent are swinging,
And the dandelion-torches flame along the
sacred turf.
In the temple of the bush groves, when the
moon hangs round and golden,
Like a monstrous yellow aprtcot between the
gloomy trees,
All the wood-folk come to worship; oreads
and dryads olden.
To the Greater Gods are kneeling with the
fern about their knees.
Once a satyr mocked their worship, jested
at the dryads praying
(Even while his own goat’s foot upon the
sacred turf was pressed),
Till the saplings in the clearing with their
inward mirth were swaying
At the sharp and hearty flavor of the satyr’s
piquant jest.
And the creek began to chuckle as it left the
pine-tree clearing,
Till it rang like bells of crystal as it leaped
a stony ledge,
And it gurgled in the shallow's where the
slender reeds were rearing
Like a crowd of masts swell-swaying all
along a jetty’s edge.
How it laughed about the satyr as it kissed
the sand’s white shoulders !
How it chattered to the pebbles, how it
whispered to the fern!
How it choked with too much laughter as it
passed the smooth brown boulders!
How it chuckled in the paddocks where the
yellow 7 orchids burn !
Still it laughs about the satyr, still its voice
rings loud and merry,
As it thins to leave the quiet pool in which
the pines are glassed,
As it races down the hillside by its banks of
gnarled wild cherry—
What a jest to keep its flavor though so
many years have passed !
n.s.W;
CHARLES F. PETTINGER.


THE TOOL-ROOM & ITS EQUIPMENT
All who are familiar with the methods of production demanded by modern
conditions know that the tool-room is an important unit in any manufacturing
scheme, and that on its efficiency the profitable running of a plant is, to a large
extent, dependent.
A manufacturing plant consists mainly of capstan and turret lathes, auto-
matic machines for bar and chuck work, milling machines, drilling machines and
grinding machines.
These tools cannot be run efficiently unless facilities are provided for
supplying the special tools, jigs and fixtures which they use. It is therefore
essential that a tool-room should be installed, having the plant necessary for the
actual production of these articles, in addition to the accommodation and
machinery which is required for their storage and maintenance.
Having had over 20 years’ experience with one of the largest manufacturers
of these tools, jigs and fixtures which are required in all manufacturing plants,
we are in a position to give reliable advice on the equipment and operation of
tool-rooms, either lai'ge or small.
We supply the tool-room plant itself, lathes, milling machines, shapers,
drilling machines and grinders, and also the drills, taps, reamers, gauges and fine
tools which are used either in the tool-room or in the main machine-shop.
ENQUIRIES ARE SOLICITED.
SPECIALTIES. -
Horizontal Hilling: Machines.
Vertical Milling; Machines.
Capstan Lathes.
Combination Turret Lathes.
Hexagon Turret Lathes.
Automatic Turning: Machines.
Hall-bearing: Drills.
Coventry Self-opening; Dielieads
Coventry Concentric Chucks.
Coventry Collapsing' Taps.
Hausli Multiple Spindle Drills.
Drown Bevel Gear Simpers.
Carpenter Taps and Dies.
Pollard Heavy Duty Drills.
Photostat Copying- Machines.
Wadkin Mills Universal Woodworking
Machines.
Dorman Tapping Attachments.
Fellows Gear Shapers.
Gardner Crank Pin Turning Machines.
Heald Grinding Machines.
Pratt Chucks.
Jackson Die Sinkers.
Keller Die Sinkers.
Maiden Screwing: Machines.
Garvin Milling Machines.
Dodge & Shipley Dathes.
Lnmsden Grinders.
Moback Machine Vices.
Norton Grinding Machines.
Queen City Shaping Machines.
E. G. Herbert Hack Sawing Machine!
Rotoflam Hardening Furnaces.
Eternite Case-hardening Compound.
Scriven Shipyard Machinery.
Taft Pierce Tool Room Specialties.
Tangye’s Heavy Machine Tools.
Van Norman Combination Mills.
Worcester Drill Grinders.
Willard Eathes.
Wrigley’s Small Tools.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Agent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD.
Machine Tool Makers and Importers, Coventry, England
Telephones: City 10109, 10110.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: "loathe,” Sydney.
Codes Used: ABC, Uieber’s, Western Union and Private.
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
7he^l
s
Elastic
T.
uss
We will send you our Truss Pamphlet,
sealed in plain envelope, on receipt of
your address. Send or call to-day.
Denyer’s
Elastic Truss
has won Australian-wide recognition on account
of the efficient service it offers Ruptured persons.
There is no better safeguard obtainable in this
wide continent. Ruptured persons everywhere
who are wearing this specially-constructed, com-
fort Truss gladly endorse its unequalled merits.
If you are Ruptured, and not wearing DENYER’S
ELASTIC TRUSS, adopt it at once and benefit from its
use. The price is only
Single 20/- Double 27/6
Denyer Bros.,
Makers of Trusses,
Abdominal Belts
and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Picnics to Right of us
Picnics to left of us,
Picnics all round us,
And who has not heard 01
as the Picnic Dainty with few equals.
“ REX ” CAMP PIE when cut in thin slices is fine for
sandwiches and by combining it with Lettuce Leaves,
thinly sliced Egg, Tomato, Beetroot, Cucumber, Olwes,
Etc., you can prepare dozens of dainty kinds of sandwiches
quite unlike those usually served at Picnics.
It the Picnic takes the form of an impromptu meal, serve
Camp Pie straight from the tin with a salad.
It is economical, tempting and whole-
some, because concocted from the choicest
morsels of meat then packed in tins and
surrounded by clear mouth-watering jelly.
Sold by Grocers Everywhere.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. Ltd.
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
J. 1151
f
5 f
a
h am
BACON. VEAU
and
T ONGUE.
vm
Something Worth While
Looking Into.
Owners have been reporting to us the suc-
cess they are having with GOODRICH
TYRES.
THEY CLAIM MORE THAN WE DO.
Service is the very backbone of our business. Without
it, nothing - we can do in the way of advertising would be
of any lasting benefit.
GOODRICH Tyres MUST fulfil this high Service Good-
rich pledges for them. When one fails, we are more
eager than the buyer that its shortcomings be made good.
We invite every Goodrich patron with a vestige of a
grievance against a Goodrich Tyre to send in his
grievance with the tyre.
We will make these adjustments gladly and generously.
Let Your Next Tyre
be a GOODRICH.
DUVAL CO.
POCKETBOOK
PICKET DUTY
145 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
300 Adelaide St,
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post ns a Newspaper.
Yol. 40.—N0. 2078.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1910.
Pkice 6d.
THE IMPOSSIBLE DEMAND.
THE COW: “I wish someone would teach these blighters natural history.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to ant
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps arc enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. THE Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs In Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.4.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 4)1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and 1) Streets, San Diego, Cal.; J.
Roland Kay Co., 184 b Conway Buildings, Chicago,
U.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egyrt.- —lgnace Horn, Pori Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; li. B. Perera and Go., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samurai and Kulamadan.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of Tun Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Sot., lid.; Bloz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid. ; elsewhere, 40z., lid., and %d. each
idditional 2oz.
■
NOTICE UNDER THE ELECTORAL LAW.
For any unsigned matter in this paper for
which a signature is required under the
Commonwealth electoral law, S. H. Prior, 214
George Street, Sydney, accepts the responsi-
bility.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1919.
THE LAST LAP.
The shouting and the promises and the re-
criminations grow fiercer as the election
starts on its last lap, and the tower of
Babel totters on its basis. More than ever
there seems to be need for an Act to Abolish
Lying at Elections, so that when any can-
didate or his representative speaks or writes
or prints a statement professing to be of
existing fact with a view to influencing
votes, any elector may drag him before a
Court of Swift Jurisdiction and require him
to satisfy the Court of his accuracy. Fail-
ing satisfaction the repetition of the state-
ment by the candidate or anybody else should
be punishable by fine and disqualification,
whereby there would be & great increase of
accuracy and the worst liar would cease to
have the best chance. Added to this there
might be a proviso that the candidate who
gets into Parliament by making definite pro-
mises with a fixed date attached should be
liable to action for getting a vote by false
pretences if the date arrives and the fulfil-
ment doesn’t arrive. And as a further ex-
periment there might be one sample election
with all speeches barred —a silent appeal
through the press and by letters, posters and
circulars, all signed. Then breathless and
hysterical frauds wouldn’t say things on the
spur of the moment and afterwards deny
saying them and allege they were basely
misreported by the Oxide Gazette and
Mullock-Diggers’ Banner.
Certainly this present election, run on
the old lines, is an untidy, unsatisfactory
affair. Ryan, for instance, goes about now
declaring that there is no lack of employ-
ment in Queensland; that the unemployed
upheaval, in which a deputation of the
alleged workless sang songs and smoked
pipes in Acting-Premier Fihelly’s official
room, and no one dared to put them out,
was got up by the enemy, which seems to
be a very strong enemy if it can perform
like that; also, that Premier Theodore’s
statement that the deficit in sight for the
year is already £1,500,000, an(J that there
is little or no hope in the desolate future,
was an invention of the press. And the
press printed all Ryan’s denials, though if
it had been half as malignant as he repre-
sented it would have reported instead that
Ryan admitted everything and said he had
bolted from Queensland because things were
even worse than had been reported. At the
end of last year, when no one knew that
an election was so near, or that Ryan was
going to flee from his old haunts, and when
the soldiers hadn’t begun to come back and
clamor for w’ork, and the great Townsville
meat strike hadn’t occurred, and the record
railway deficit of £1,421,328 hadn’t eventu-
ated, and the State taxation was just climb-
ing up to the record figure of 80s. 9d. per
inhabitant per annum, or £2O a year for a
family of five —at the end of last year the
trades unions made their usual returns of
unemployed members. The results according
to Ivnibbs’s just-published official statistics
were as follows:
Unem-
Number ployed
of members Number per 1000
in unions unem- mem-
that reported, ployed. bers.
Tasmania .. .. 7,722 128 17
S. Australia .. .. 18,686 417 22
N. S. Wales .. .. 132,232 4779 36
Westralia .. .. 17,426 729 42
Victoria .. .. 84,207 6218 62
Queensland .. .. 48,577 6648 116
All States .. .. 65
Four years earlier, before the outgoing of
men to the war had reduced the population,
things were not too good in Queensland, but
its position was better than that of Tas-
mania and not much worse than that of Vic-
toria and S. Aus. But Ryan came in dur-
ing 1915, and now the situation requires a
heap of explaining. Ryan dare not say in
the South that he was a ruinous failure in
his own State and left the Treasury worse
than empty, and that he expects to do still
more awful things in Federal politics. And
Theodore dare not say in the North that
there is a cent in the Treasury which Ryan
left him. If he did the unemployed might
slay him for not producing the cent. It is
a curious complication. But if Ryan can be
elected with a majority before the Queens-
land unemployed kill Theodore, then it may
be safe to admit that Theodore isn’t sitting
on bags of gold which Ryan left hirii, and
refusing help through sheer hardness of
heart, but that he is really the victim of
dire and horrible and RYAN-made impecuni-
osity. Then the unemployed may not slay
Theodore. Meanwhile the last days of the
race are filled in by declaring that there are
no unemployed in Queensland despite the
union returns. As foi* the Queensland
Auditor-General’s statements about three
successive shortages, the £1,046,476 of “un-
foreseen expenditure” which showed that the
shiftless Government couldn’t see ahead, the
great overdraft, the raising of taxation by
nearly 300 per cent., and the fact that the
railways have almost ceased to pay any in-
terest at all- —these all get lost in the con-
fusion.
* » « •
Whether Senator McDougall goes round
with Ryan as Uncertificated Promiser —he
being in the House that isn’t responsible for
the cash—it is hard to say. Possibly the
press that Ryan complains of has misre-
ported McDougall or even invented him.
Anyhow, the pair were recently described as
being at Orange, where Ryan spoke at a
meeting and McDougall is alleged to have
said things at a dinner which even Ryan
could hardly say :
Senator McDougall, speaking at the Eight-hour
dinner, said if Mr. Hughes was returned to power the
soldiers would never receive a gratuity, but if the
Labor Party were elected it would be paid before
Christmas. The Labor Party would ask the mining
king John Brown and Samuel Hordern and the
wealthy shipping companies and banks to give them
the money, and if they refused they would take it
from them. —Sydney Telegraph report.
And that is only one of the thousand mad
promises made by Ryan or made on his
behalf or in his presence or during his cam-
paign. Whatever happens on the 13th,
Ryan’s, party won’t officially have a majo-
rity till the vote is counted and the writ is
returned from Wyndham or Broome or some
such place which is nearer to Asia • than it
is to Canberra. And even after the victory
he may have to wait till Parliament meets
before Hughes leisurely climbs down. So
Ryan and McDougall won’t be able to
rob or burgle or garrotte anybody till long
after Christmas. And if they do it then
without first getting the assent of George
V. to the Robbery Bill, it will be insurrec-
tion, and that may bring a fleet here to
maintain order and take Ryan away in a
warship. And Geo. V. may have doubts
about giving his sanction to money being
“taken” wholesale from the four big English
banks, and the two Maoriland ones and the
French bank, and from all the British,
French, Japanese, Dutch, Chinese, Maori-
land and other shipping concerns. To assent
might imperil his throne. Moreover, the
scheme for looting Hordern, Brown, the
shipping companies and the banks separately
is childish. Even men like Hordern or
Vanderbilt have sometimes no more about
them than a cheque-book and the price of
a few cigars, so the only places where the
requisite money can be stolen are the banks
—subject to the consent of Geo. V. and
sundry foreign Governments. As for the as-
surance that Hughes won’t pay the pro-
mised gratuity, no one supposes that
McDougall believes it; but everybody has
grown so accustomed to the manufacture of
evidence —which is sometimes called per-
jury in the Courts —that probably very few
think worse of McDougall for saying it
even if he wholly disbelieves it. The
case seems to be one in which a Court of
Swift Jurisdiction, established for the Pro-
motion of Accuracy at Elections, might dis-
qualify McDougall —and Ryan also, un-
less lie wholly repudiates McDougall. As
an alternative, anybody who says his vote
was acquired on these or similar statements
or assurances should have a case for
damages when the promises don’t come off.
* * * *
This election has been a climax for im-
possible promises and mad assertion. One
party or another has guaranteed that it will
greatly increase soldiers’ pensions, supply
free houses for life to disabled soldiers, also
soldiers’ widows and children: pension
other widows, orphans, neglected children
and unemployed; nearly double old-age and
invalid pensions; give farmers, prospectors
and all other producers a living wage;
supply houses ad lib. ; iusure against
drought and almost everything else; sub-
sidise the States; take over the banks after
first taking all their customers’ money “be-
fore Christmas” to pay soldiers’ gratuities
with, including of course the funds of the
life assurance societies and savings banks,
so that there will be no banks to take over;
and a lot besides. Most of these are Ryan s
Federal promises. Yet if Ryan wins, the
chances are that Storey will win the coming
N. S. Wales State election, and he is pledged
to even more than Ryan. And in all the
giddy whirl of promises, lies, vituperation,
Aladdin’s caves, visions of Paradise, de-
lirium, hoarse declamation, opium dreams
and mixed and assorted Beasts of Revelation,
plain honest work hasn’t had a mention.
[Written to express the opinions of The Bulletin
by James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
LABOR AND THE REFERENDUM.
This is the way the official organ of the
Ryan Party has been talking for weeks
past:—
The abolition of the Profiteer is the only question
before the people. Remember always the Profiteer,
for he will not for one instant forget us, nor take
his claws from our flesh.
The one thing needful is to abolish the Profiteer.
Till December 13 we are powerless, and these
spiders of commerce have us in their web, at then
mercy. Have you ever watched the loathsome spec-
tacle of a spider attacking a webbed fly ? Well, the
fly is the community—US.
If profiteering is rife, if vultures have their
claws in our flesh and spiders are feeding
on us, the thing ought opviously to be
stopped. But, though the elections are due
next Saturday, nothing in the shape of a
Plan has yet emerged from the mass of
rhetoric with which Labor is surrounding
this question. Whatever the profiteer’s
ethics may be it will be granted that he is
rarely a fool. He has been informed re-
cently in thousands of articles, and from
hundreds of platforms, that he is a criminal.
What does every criminal do on being told
that all is known and the game is up? He
tries to safeguard himself, if he hasn’t done
so already. There is a simple method
whereby any Australian or foreign profiteer
may achieve safety at present: all he need
do is to take care that his profiteering is
done within the confines of one State. A
great American trust registers in Melbourne
and exploits Victoria; a local business pirate
robs N. S. Wales; and so long as neither
operates over one of the borders nothing can
be done by the Federal Parliament while
the Trade and Commerce clause remains in
the Constitution. The Nationalists have put
forward a plain, straight. scheme by which
the webbed fly may be freed and the vul-
ture’s claws unloosed. They ask that the
Australian Parliament shall be given, if only
for three years, the same powers to assail
profiteering as the British Parliament has
had for centuries.
* * * *
Labor’s new dictator claims that he will
win on December 13. In that event he has
promised to pay the soldiers “£25,000,000
cash before Christmas” from ill-gotten war
profits; and when that has been attended to
he will proceed “to slay the profiteering
spider, to smash him utterly.” But- in the
same breath he instructs his followers to
vote “No” on the Referendum questions
submitted by the Nationalists. In such cir-
cumstances his threat to do immediate dam-
age to the profiteers is transparently absurd.
He has not said so, but it may be assumed
that if he gets office he will at some future
time put an advanced version of the
Hughes question to the country by way of
another Referendum. The facts that this
procedure will cost the taxpayers an extra
£50,000 and that the profiteer will get an
extended opportunity to bleed “the com-
munity—Us” are comparative trifles. The
real calamity is that powers of the sort,
if denied to a Hughes Party, will certainly
never be granted to a Ryan Party. An
affirmative vote to a Referendum is tradi-
tionally hard to get. Hughes, by the
chances of war. has behind him those who
have never followed him in the past: if
to their votes, on the Referendum issue, .
there were added the votes of those who
always followed him till he advocated con-
scription, the reform would be carried. The
best that Ryan can hope for in respect of
his proposals—if, and when, they are made
—is the support of Labor extremism: a
purely sectional vote which couldn’t carry
a Referendum on any point in a century.
So that Ryan, in scouting the Hughes
proposals, is really disarming Labor. He is
breaking the anti-profiteering sword before
the battle begins; unloading the gun before
it can be brought into action. If he suc-
ceeds in bamboozling Labor into voting what
is essentiallv the “exploiter’s” ticket on the
13th, he will have proved himself the best
friend profiteering ever had.
It is lamentable that the Labor press
should aid and abet him in this matter. If
it were frank with its readers it would hold
forth on some such lines as these: —
Your leader, T. J. Ryan, is not in a position to
advise you to vote ‘‘Yes” at present.
His rival for the Premiership, W. M. Hughes, is
entirely relying on a “Yes” vote for certain powers
whereby he may alleviate some of your miseries. If
he gets these powers, and uses them to diminish
profiteering, or bring down the cost of living, it
will he prejudicial to Mr. Ryan's future as a poli-
tician, however advantageous it may be to you and
yours.
Therefore vote “No,” and continue to be gnawed
by vultures and bitten by spiders.
' It is true that your leader, Ryan, may win. Vote
“No” all the same. He would rather see you ex-
ploited for years than shoot profiteers with a weapon
turned out by the Hughes firm.
No attempt will be made to release you from
the profiteer’s net until: —
(1) A Ryan Ministry is returned with a clear
majority over the other parties in the House.
(2) A majority of the electors, voting in a
majority of the States, agrees to give Mr. Ryan
greater powers than those which have already been
twice withheld from, and once withdrawn by, W.
M. Hughes.
The prospect is not bright for anyone but the
profiteers: in fact, you look like going short till you
die. Nevertheless, persevere. Vote “No” bravely.
Remember that someone has to bear the cross if
Prime Ministers in embryo are to do any good for
themselves.
There is one other construction which may
be put on the astonishing Ryan attitude
towards the Referendum proposals. It is
conceivable that he is something more sin-
ister than a party tactician; he may be
one who is deliberately manoeuvring" to
create _ Syndicalists. One of the recognised
ways is to block all palliatives, and so work
the poorer classes into the desperate frame
of mind of the French towards the end of
the 18th century. Mr. Ryan doesn’t look
like a Revolutionary, and he doesn’t talk
like one. But in some ways be acts as
Revolutionary leaders have acted all through
history.
[Written to express the opinions of The Bulletin’
by J. B. DalleV, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
THE RECORD LOAN.
Great things are to happen in N. S. Wales,
where the Premier announces his resolve to
borrow £13,110,400 with which to make gar-
lands for the glad New Year. It may not be
possible to spend all this money inside the
financial year which ends on June 30, but
no effort will be spared. In a general way
the division of the money will be as follows:
To promote manufactures of the kind that will
enable the State to dispense with the foreign
profiteers who now supply it with about £30,000,000
worth of goods per annum, and take advantage of
its helplessness to continually raise their charges—
in other words, to secure as much as possible of
this reliable £30,000,000 worth of work for our
own people: £37,800.
To plant people amid the dust and the drought and
the dry bones and the whirlwinds, there to grow
the same old crops of which the country already
produces more than it can use, and to export the
surplus to a precarious foreign market, losing more
than half of it to agents and shipowning capitalists
en route (this item includes irrigation of the
whirlwind) : £7,213,000.
Railways, most of them to carry the produce of
the settlers at unpayable rates, settling beirg an
industry which, under exporting conditions, requires
a lot of assistance and doesn’t feel good even then:
£2,088,000.
Harbors, etc., to facilitate the export of things
that don’t pay and the importation of things we
should make ourselves ( £275,000 in Sydney and
£182,300 scattered over the rest of the coast in
the interests of decentralisation): £457,300.
Tramways around Sydney as per usual: £239,000.
Abattoirs at Sydney: £200,000.
Houses: £500,000.
Water-supply for towns, also electricity and odd
jobs in 1.0 way concerned with reducing our help-
less dependence on the foreign or importing
profiteer: The balance.
It would be absurd to say how much of
these loan works are likely to pay and how
much are dead sure not to pay. Among
the things charged to posterity are these: —
Compensation for resumption of scrub leases (to
put soldiers on), £275,000; “destruction” of prickly-
pear; “eradication” of prickly-pear; help to busted
farmers; rabbit-proof netting; bridges (quite a lot
of them) ; improvements to rivers ; fishing apparatus ;
chemical laboratory ; shallow boring ; and all manner
of things that are described as “works and services
generally.”
And then there are the railways, which con-
sist largely in carrying further out and into
worse country lines that are already on the
bankrupt or derelict list and seem likely to
stay there till New Millennium Day.^
A large proportion of the new works are
justifiable and necessary, or they will be so
when the country has done the essential work
of getting rid of its abject dependence on the
profiteering foreign clothes-maker and frill-
maker and machinery-maker, and has some
real spare time to devote to the job of grow-
ing wheat for outsiders. They are justifiable
and necessary, just like breakfast and din-
ner, but most of them are no more perma-
nent than these meals, so there is no more
reason why they should be charged to Pos-
terity. And when it is taken into account
that the present individual poses as a vigor-
ous, enterprising ’ pioneer because he bor-
rows money to shift the prickly-pear which
he personally allowed to accumulate, while
Posterity will be pilloried all the world over
as a futile incapable if he fails to meet the
bill, the great loan policy seems a dirty
business.
# * * *
The new record loan will be a very expen-
sive one. Probably the tail-end of it will
cost 6 per cent, or more, for already interest
is high and a jag like this will make it
higher. And the big loan will not only
raise its own price. It will raise the price
of loans floated 30 years ago when they
fall due and have to be renewed, for if the
N.S.W. Government has grabbed the money
available and used it to extirpate prickly-
pear there will be less available to renew
the old loan with. The State Premier ex-
plains, by way of extenuation, that the
Commonwealth is to borrow seven millions
or so of the money and lend it to the Ma
State, thus making the other States respon-
sible if Ma bursts; and that Ma will raise
flie balance on the security of her own wed-
ding-ring and skirt and corset. The fact of
there being two borrowers in the market,
Ma State herself and Ma in disguise, doesn’t
make the situation much better. Not so very
long ago—less than a dozen years ago, but
the old politicians have changed so much in
the interval that the episode might have
been ante-METHUSELAH —the McGowek-
llolman combine reached for office with a
promise to reduce borrowing, which had even
then got below £1,100,000 per annum : and
possibly to leave off loans ; and certainly to
spend no loan money except on works that
would pay full interest and sinking fund
as well; also (McGowen added this in an
expansive moment) with a promise to pro-
vide a sinking fund against all the old debts.
In the last year of profound peace the Hol-
man Labor Cabinet had backslidden so
utterly that its loan spendings were
£9,126,844, and the Labor party, -which
Holman led in those days, had become so
corrupted that nobody seemed to care. Had
the peace continued it would probably be
spending £13.000.000 a year of loan money
just as it is doing now. It was certainly
pointing that way. Therefore, it has no
right to plead the war as an excuse for being
no more corrupt than it would have been in
any case.
* * # #
There is in N.S.W. a reliable local market
worth many millions a year for manufactured
goods. That fact is proved, because the
Ma State imports the goods regularly. The
industries wouldn’t be controlled by foreign


THE CHRISTMAS BULLETIN.
The special Christmas Num-
ber of THE BULLETIN will be
published on
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13.
It will be found just as
good as the writers and artists
of Australia can make it;
and, approximately, there are
a hundred of them repre-
sented —as far as this jiaper
knows, the largest collection
of workers with pen-and-ink
ever got together in Australia.
PRICE 6d.
profiteers and foreign agents and foreign
shipowners, for the customers are here. The
imports prove that they are here. But the
importers, and the papers that work for
them, declare, in and out of season, that the
Heaven-sent mission of Australia is to grow
wheat on dry ground that yields a poor
crop, and to send it 12,000 miles by expen-
sive ships to a dubious market, and to bring
its underclothing from Europe or America
or Asia, paying for it any price that the
stranger likes to ask. With this idea in
view the Holman Government proposes to
spend, out of its loan of £13,110,400. £IOOO
in aid of a State-clothing factory, £27,800 in
support of a State-shipbuilding factory, and
not one cent in support of Private Enter-
prise manufactures of any sort. On the other
hand it proposes to spend over £7,000,000
directly, and much more indirectly, in sup-
port of Private-Enterprise and low-wage and
long-hour agriculture in the future, and some
more to support Private Enterprise agricul-
ture which has got into trouble in the past.
One way and another, it begins to look as
if the State loan business consists rather too
much of settling Private Enterprise on dry
ground and in raising loans to finance burr-
cutters, thistle-removers, cactus-shifters, rab-
biters, water-carriers and the like.
BACK TO THE LITTLE TOWNS.
“Sooner or later the physique and moral of a
street-bred people are impaired. England, where
tiie generations of drift from country to town has
home fruit, has recognised this and seeks to counter-
act the decline by a ‘Back to the Land’ movement.
Australia, the mother of a race of incomparable
fighters and athletes, should take warning from
England’s experience.”—S. M. Herald, in an agony
of Freetrade and land boom, 29/11/’l9.
Kipling, the man who built the gag about
the street-bred people, was really a city man
of narrow outlook who talked large things
as an acquired habit. The city of his vision
was an old English or Indian one—a big
place built before water supply, sewerage,
preventive medicine, decent paving and civil-
isation-in-general were invented. It was a
breathless haunt of germs, with narrow
streets, blind alleys, long rows of drab houses
all alike, little light, no joy, no baths and no
hope. In fact, Kipling’s city was incurable,
despite all town-planning devices, and it was
understood that no one would ever have the
courage to wipe it out and rebuild it bodily.
The only thing to be done with it was to get
away from it. The Australian importing
papers take up the parable, their idea being
that in every State there should be a huge
metropolis full of importers, wharf-laborers,
shopkeepers, financiers and land-jobbers,
with as few manufacturers as possible,
manufacture being' an evil to be cut
to the bone. Outside the city there
should be only farms where the Man
with the Hoe lives in an unsewered
home, drinks out of the waterhole, toils long
hours for small, uncertain results, and com-
petes with the Chow, the Hindu, the Russian
moujik and similar low-priced folk in sup-
plying food to the European market. He
should go on the land, having first bought
the land from the man in the solitary big
city whose advertisement appears in the
S. M. Herald. This going on the soil, in a
continent so parched that its biggest railway
traverses 1051£ miles without crossing or
meeting a single permanent stream or rivu-
let, is always spoken of as if it were the only
alternative to degenerating in Strawberry
Hills or Chippendale, it being also taken for
granted that these places are at least as bad
as they look and are incurable. Yet when
it isn’t urging people to go out on the Dead
Sheep Plains and hoe for a pittance, in order
to divert their attention from decentralisa-
tion and skilled local industry, the same
sort of paper is prepared to swear that
Sydney is a centre of light and leading and
the Queen Spot of the Earth.
* # # *
Industrial towns are two-thirds of the
strength of a nation in peace and war, the
root of its civilisation and the principal
secret of its greatness. This doesn’t refer in
any way to any solitary and enormously
bloated city of importers and land-agents
roosting like a carbuncle in a corner of a
wide land. Nor does it necessarily refer to
some ancient place with a Kipling singing
dirges in the middle of it—a place which
has been going wrong ever since the days
of Abraham or Julius Cassar, and which
had 19 or 49 centuries of arrears of sanita-
tion to make up when sanitation was first
discovered. Spots of that sort need com-
plete reconstruction, but their reconstruc-
tion isn’t our business. The fact that Kip-
ling was dissatisfied with Shadwell and
Whitechapel, and thought their inhabitants
undersized, is no reason why the Australian
should rush to take up a selection at the
Back of Nowhere, where it forgot to rain
for 18 months, though the Back-to-the-Land
organ talks as if it is. (Kipling, in
another of liis many moods, described the
farmer in a better-watered country than this
as a monkey with his tail cut off, “sullen
and bowed and old,” who lived in a dirt
hovel and toiled stupidly in the mud and
steeped his food in smoke.) The sort of
towns we have to deal with are those which
Australia wants, and must have, if it hopes
for a place among live nations —towns
started with all the advantages of modern
ideas, and built with the knowledge that a
factory need be no more an eyesore than an
importer’s warehouse or a hospital or uni-
versity or church, whatever John Bright
and his dull cotton-spinning friends might do
or say or think to the contrary. The builders
would have the glimmering of an ide'a that
even if the English artisan is, or was, the
stunted, ill-fed, dispirited serf of Jostah
Bounderby and his kind, the Aus-
tralian artisan need not be. any more than
the Australian agriculturist is bound
to be the beery, unlettered clown in
a thatched hut with a mud floor de-
picted in English fiction. A nation
that hasn’t four or five or six times as mucn
of its population in towns as in the rural
districts is generally in a bad way. If it is
to be . self-supporting or as pejii self-
supporting as possible, it require? some such
proportion. A certain class tries to create
a diseased superfluity of -meal workers by
urging the Australian to grow surplus vege-
tation and sell it at half-price in distant
. markets—half-price because the other half
is eaten up by costs of transit —and seeks
to create a diseased scarcity of workers in
secondary industries by urging the same de-
luded person to buy his manufactured goods
at double price in distant markets —double
because of the cost of transit and the many
intermediate profits and profiteers. In pur-
suance of this idea it preaches the horrors of
being street-bred people and the wonders of
going “back to the land.”
• • t •
The robust agricultural person, taken by
himself, is insufficient defence for any coun-
try. Scientific war may be set down on a
rough guess (the matter is not one for
arithmetical demonstration) as 10 per cent,
of tall, valiant human meat, such as is
always understood to be grown on the land,
and 90 per cent, of elaborate dead appli-
ances, mostly made by street-bred people.
Yet the men on the land aren’t all tall and
sturdy; in fact, there are crooked dwarfs
like notes of interrogation on the land. Nor
are the street-bred people all stunted and
inefficient. As a case in point, the National
Bank (Melbourne), though far from being
(until an amalgamation extended it the
other day) in the front rank for size, sent
493 rakish, dare-devilish bank-clerks to the
war, where they were sufficiently to the front
to score 196 casualties, and for 31 of them
to collect V.C.’s or other decorations. And
the National was nothing out of the ordi-
nary. Still, despite street-dwellers like these,
Australia depended too much on the land
tradition, and its army would have been
butchered like a flock of sheep but for towns-
people elsewhere who found appliances for
it. Hundreds of years ago, when the Arab
or the Persian on one side and the French-
man or the Scot on the other, fought with
short ironmongery which a smith or a farm
handy-man could make, the man on the land
certainly counted for very much. Yet even
in the days when science was an infant the
man of the little city State and the streets
counted for something more than the peevish
Kipling understood —in Tyre, Sidon, Carth-
age, primitive Rome, Jerusalem (a lonesome
Jebusite town which held its own against
the Hebrews on the land for 400 years), in
Athens, Sparta, Corinth, Syracuse, Venice,
Genoa, Novgorod, the 66 Hanse towns which
once bossed Europe, and elsewhere. Now-
adays it is the nation with a multitude of
towns and factories which makes a brave
show in war; wherefore the gallant, multi-
tudinous, bucolic Russians failed miserably
against the Allies in the Crimea, against the
Japanese and against the Germans, and beat
nobody except the still more bucolic Turks.
Also the country with a big proportion of
street-bred people (the industrial sort, not
the loan-floating variety) is the one with
most money and most knowledge. The three
nations which rose and made history in the
last half-century were three that had been
too much on the land and were busy getting
off it —Germany, Japan and the United
States. Japheth dweljs in the tents of
Siiem because Japheth owns the steam-en-
gine and Siiem digs by hand.
w * * #
It is time to throw a brick at the exag-
gerated land superstition, which is mostly
the anti-manufacturing superstition in dis-
guise. The war should have shown us how
poor a thing it is. That upheaval indicated
this country’s supreme wretchedness in the
way of town industries. In fact, if Aus-
tralia had been fighting on its own, as it
may. be next year, this stranded whale of a
continent would hardly have lasted a month
for want of almost everything that is made
by street-bred people, though it was sag-
ging down, like a camel broken in two, with
the burden of unsold land-produce. It is
a question of going back to the little, busy,
clean, self-supporting towns —or it would be
if a people could be said to return where
it had never been.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Gentle Art of Persuading the
Workingman to Starve Himself.
In England last month “the Carpenters and
Joiners’ Union sent an ultimatum to its
members employed at Lever Bros., stating
that they will be expelled if they continue
to participate in the firm’s co-partnership
scheme.” On the day that cable arrived the
following was sent from Labor Electoral
headquarters, Sydney:—
- To all Federal and State Labor candidates
throughout N. S. Wales.
Gentlemen, —I am directed to inform you that at
the last meeting of my executive the attitude of
the movement towards the proposed Referendum of
Mr. Hughes was fully considered, when it was
resolved that all speakers be at once advised to
oppose the question, and to advise their hearers to
vote “No” on the grounds that Mr. Hughes is
merely deceiving the people, and his proposals are
totally inadequate to deal with the grave problems
with which the people are faced.
The Constitutional changes which the
electors are asked to affirm have been advo-
cated by the Labor party for nearly 15
years. Mr. Tudor, who is still its official
leader in the Federal Parliament, stated
recently that he “intended personally to
vote Yes. An affirmative vote might do
good,” he added, “and it could do no harm.”
It was the attitude to be expected of one
whose chief weakness as a Party politician
has always been ' a logical mind and an
honest purpose. Labor-leaders of this type,
all over the world, suffer from a form of
myopia: they can see no further than the
welfare of the workers. So long as the
workers score they do not much care who
gets the credit for it. They uphold profit-
sharing—that profit-sharing which in
France, before the war, resulted in 250,000
workers owning over half the share capital
of the industries in which they were
engaged; which in England has operated
so that the 25.000 employees of the gas com-
panies have close on a million sterling in-
vested in them; which in the business of
Taylor Bros., the woollen manufacturers of
Batley, has given the workers one-half
the share capital and is now yielding two-
thirds of the profits. Of course the apostles
of upheaval object to the system in vogue
at Levers’ works. The employees there
are too little exploited, insufficiently
“ground down under the heel of the pluto-
crats.” They live and work in comfort,
and the poorest of them has only to per-
form the short-day task of the Leverhulme
regime for a few years to emerge economi-
cally “safe.” W. M. Hughes claims, rightly
or wrongly, that if he is given for but
three years the powers which the Labor
party has asked for so often, he will be
able to do something to bring down prices.
It is natural that the profiteers should wish
to deny him the chance. But what place
has the Labor party in their galley?
Granted that the problems which he pro-
poses to try to solve are grave. All the
more reason why they should be tackled
at once and with every possible weapon.
If Hughes proves an impostor, one who
can do nothing of value, the damage will
be to himself: there can be no harm done to
the working-man. If, on the other hand,
he is able to keep his word, thousands
should be contented bv 1923 who will other-
wise be wretched. What conclusion is it
possible to draw but that the Union bosses
are opposing a “Yes” vote on the same prin-
ciple as the English bosses are opposing
Lever Bros.’ co-partnership scheme ? They
don’t want the cost of living lowered for
the benefit of the men who. pay them their
salaries, any more than their British proto-
types want their comrades’ . standard of
living to be raised. Their point of view is
understandable. They live on want and
discontent —the want and discontent of
others. But why, in the name of sanity,
should the workers hunger-strike for their
benefit?
[J. B. Dailey, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
♦
Mud Gods and the People Who Make
Them.
TnE attitude in which Ryan, Theodore,
Fiiielly and co. have instructed their people
becomes uncomfortable for Ryan, Theodore,
Fiiielly and co. It is an attitude of
studied disrespect, familiarity and. yoube-
damnedness, and of aggressive equality —the
kind that leads people to pound on a leader’s
door in the middle of the night and get him
out of bed for the mere purpose of remind-
ing him that those who made him can also
unmake him. The trouble about the Doc-
trine of Incivility to Rulers is that only the
people who live close to Parliament and the
Government otfices can be regularly uncivil,
so the matter degenerates into the control
of the Government of all the People by the
People in the Next Street. There was a
time when the French revolution looked very
like failure. In early, experimental days it
was decided that the free people had a right
to be present at the debates of their elected
rulers and see that their interests were not
betrayed—to be admitted, not on presenta-
tion of their visiting-cards or on an order
from a member, or under masterful super-
vision, but just to be present. So. for a
stormy while a certain mob of Paris held
possession of the Parliamentary galleries day
and night—always much the same mob, be-
cause it became something like a close cor-
poration or trades union and kept outsiders
away. In its brief term it almost governed
France by shouting instructions to the re-
presentatives of the whole people and
dropping things, or threatening to drop
things, on the heads of those who disobeyed
instructions. In a small, amateur, tentative
way the handful of Brisbaneites who took
possession of acting-Premier Fihelly’s
room, and smoked there, and sang comic
songs, and refused to be put out were also
attempting to dictate the course of govern-
ment all on their own. They claimed that
the room and furniture were “theirs,”
though they only numbered a dozen or two,
and the other 699,975 or so proprietors might
have some right to be consulted about the
seizure of their property by persons whom
they had not authorised. They also assumed
that Fihelly was theirs. It was the doc-
trine of the Ownership of the Nearest, which
is also the doctrine of the wharf-laborers
who own Darwin at present. No democracy
ever lasted long on the policy of contempt,
familiarity, jovial riot and mastership of
the Government by the People in the Next
Street, though the People in the Next Street
may enjoy their self-created importance
amazingly and describe it as the triumph
of liberty. For if the people’s chosen rulers
are unfit to rule except under the super-
vision of a self-appointed committee of local
pipe-smokers, then the people are unfit to
choose rulers, and somebody is sure to arise
and prove the fact.
Justice and the “Other Ranks.”
“The committee which inquired into the procedure
of military courts-martial recommends the abolition
of regimental courts-martial. A minority report
further recommends the abolition of district courts-
martial.” — Cable.
Both Regimental and District Courts-Mar-
tial are relics of an era which is dying fast.
No officer or warrant-officer can be tried by
either of them. Their jurisdiction extends
only to the “other ranks”; just as though
in civil life there were slap-dash, rough-and-
ready Courts for the workers and an ela-
borate tribunal —such as that before which
Father (Major) O’Donnell was recently
acquitted—for the rich. The statement that
if Father O’Donnell had been a private
the chances about his getting off would have
been 100 to 1 against will seem platitudinous
to those who have had experience of Army
justice. He was in the fortunate position
(1) of being able to spend £lOOO on lawyers’
fees and (2) of standing his trial in a place
where expert advice was procurable. During
the war n.c.o.’s and men were tried in
thousands under very different conditions.
They were first roughly examined by an
amateur sitting in the field, or the military
equivalent to a magistrate. On committal
they experienced all the humiliations of a
convict until their trial. They appeared
before a Bench which only had a lawyer
on it by a fluke, the qualification for a seat
being not legal knowledge but military senior-
ity. They were prosecuted by amateurs and
(usually) defended by amateurs. Grotesque
abuses of the laws of evidence, of course,
resulted; and it is fair to say that in seven
cases out of 10 the Court found on almost
anything but the evidence. Men have to
be schooled to disabuse their minds of ex-
traneous issues, and senior officers on active
service are about the last who are likely
to assimilate the faculty. The consequence
was that many accused men were convicted
on previous impressions acquired about them
by members of the Court; or on their de-
meanor; or on the view that “this sort of
thing has got to be stamped out.” Nearly
all the court-martial officers meant well.
Their chief troubles were inefficiency, lack
of imagination (which enabled them cheer-
fully to send good men to places like Wands-
worth Gaol for comparative minor military
offences), and a distaste for the whole busi-
ness, which kept them from trying to learn
any law. Regimental and D,C s.-M. aie
evidently doomed even in the United King-
dom. But any future Australian Expedi-
tionary Force will ask for an even bettei
guarantee of its members’ liberty and repu-
tation. Just as in the late war there were
doctor-colonels and parson-colonels and
even vet-colonels, so in any A.l.fi. or tut
future there must be lawyer-colonels and
enough of them to go round. Cheap law
(and military law is all that is meant by
cheap) is notoriously rotten law, and no
man who offers his life for Australia should
ever again be required to put himself at tii
mercy of it.
The Way Out.
Henry Fletcher, of Riverstone (N.S.W.),
is despondent: —
“The main end of government is the fulfilment of
the electors- wishes, not a fight by opposing poli-
ticians, and the Initiative Referendum seems the
likeliest way out” (B. 20/11/’l9). Yes, but that
doesn’t mean that the electors’ wishes will be wise.
The intelligent French by referendum endorsed the
mountebank Napoleon 111. A referendum of the
Kuns would have endorsed the Kaiser. A referendum
chose Barabbas; and a majority vote condemned
Socrates. In fact, historically, if any power, more
than another has proclaimed itself an ass, it is the
majority voice of the crowd. By contrast, there are
matters in which the crowd has hereditary ex-
perience ; love and race and country and fellowship in
fighting the common enemy; and to that extent a
virile race is dependable. But in social collecti\e
action even the privileged British have a meagie
experience; for while the oldest self-governing people,
power has remained till modern times with one
section of one sex. Many men are rational, think-
ing personally; a number are good aldermen or
shire councillors; but as M’s.L.A. or M’s.II.R. the
percentage of competence rapidly declines; and that
because minds experienced in small affairs are de-
creasingly experienced in large affairs. Take the
N.S.W. State Treasurer, J. C. L. Fitzpatrick. As a
businesslike newspaper proprietor he did not con-
duct his personal finances as he does those of the
State, depending on the pawnshop. The State, as
a collective unit, in matters of finance may be no
wiser than the child. Current events recall the
doings of Jack Cade ; as a crowd leader he appealed
to the men of Kent, promising that every pintpot
should hold a quart, and every penny loaf be sold
for a halfpenny. To-day, 430 years later, T. J.
Ryan promises the crowd higher wages and lower
prices; that is, the producer is to be paid more and
sell for less. This infant pap is thought good enougli
by experienced party-leaders to capture the Federal
electors. You could not gull an average worker tell-
ing him to plant a penny and it would grow into
twopence; for in this practical matter he knows
better; yet a gasbag on the stump with a like
proposition finds some acceptance because in collec-
tive finance the crowd lacks experience. The
Initiative, Referendum and the Recall may be quicker
ways of expressing the crowd’s mind, and so giving it
more speedily the experience it lacks; but no more
can be reasonably expected of them. Seemingly there
is no way out but the centuries.
“Bottomless Pit Finance.”
Randolph Bedford writes: —
The “reply” of the author of “Bottomless Pit
Finance” makes me wonder if this is really the
old logical James Edmond. Nobody combated the
fact that State stations and other enterprises owe
£1,120,069 to the Q. Treasury; but the surplus of
assets over liabilities securing that loan is £262,940,
and Mr. Edmond left it to be inferred that the
amount advanced by the Treasury was Dead Horse.
Remarks about Ned Kelly acquiring meat by agree-
ment are merely stupid, as the Queensland Govern-
ment paid for the meat, and Ned Kelly did as
most pastoralists do in unfenced country. Similarly
the joke about fish not being better as it gets older
isn’t merely stale —it’s phosphorescent, and it
answers nothing. Railway deficit (and there has
been only one railway surplus since Queensland
started business) is mainly caused by wages being
brought up to living standard (Mr. Edmond need
not here interject that living is dearer in Queens-
land than elsewhere, because Kniebs says it’s
cheaper) and because fares and freights were left
at the old rates. Remarks as to labels on Mr.
Edmond’s cabin-trunk mean nothing, and the humor
of calling me Bedford, M.L.C., apparently con-
sists in its repetition. If no democrat should be
in an Upper House, how would Mr. Edmond abolish
that Upper House, or, failing that, get democratic
legislation through it? I accepted nomination to
the Legislative Council pledged to its abolition, and
as earnest of the pledge have twice voted its
abolition; and will vote it again, and, I hope, suc-
cessfully, next year. I agree with Mr. Edmond that
“no constituency ever said on polling day that
he was the worst kind of man to be in the House
that affects finance,” and the reason for that is
that Mr. Edmond was careful never to be a can-
didate. Had he been he would have been more
signally defeated by lesser men than I have been;
because half the electors would not understand his
humor and would regard him as mad, and the
other half would recognise his ability and be too
afraid of it to vote for him. As to using much
of Mr. Edmond’s “work” in a paper run by me,
that is mostly untrue. I never lifted a phrase
from Mr. Edmond ; but I did use compilations of
figures comparing balance-sheets over periods, and
I neglected—and wrongly so—to acknowledge to
The Bulletin on half a dozen occasions. Ever
since then I have been careful to acknowledge any-
thing quoted, even to the last comma. And some
of The Bulletin’s financial statements and deduc-
tions I have combated —for instance, those relat-
ing to the Citizens’ Life. Mr. Edmond may have
“no cause for bias, premeditated onesidedness, jaun-


T h J Farmers'& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.of A ustfalia
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmens Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
Limited
dice or grouch,” but he shows it whenever he
touches Queensland or Labor. In the issue contain-
ing his reply he attacks Labor over some verse
written about the time of the Boer War and now
revived for political purposes, with such alterations
as “Putrid faces turned stinking to the sky.” In
the same issue he says the Queensland Govern-
ment “could make appointments to the Upper
House and so get a majority,” when the facts are
that the State Governor and Downing-street think
that the Council has reached its limit of member-
ship—a statement that makes me personally wish
to see its membership doubled as a reminder to
Downing-street that it’s like its cheek to think
about something that doesn’t concern it.
The Bulletin is concerned with only one
remark of Bedford's—the rest is froth and
bubble. Knibbs is alleged to say that living
is cheaper in Queensland than elsewhere.
Knibbs says nothing of the sort. Apart
from house-rent, which is cheap in Queens-
land (and cheapest in the towns that have
become most hopeless), Knibbs shows not
only that living is dearer in Queensland
Idian elsewhere, but that the increases in
Queensland have been far greater than else-
where. Those increases since July, 1914,
were quoted last week for the confounding
of one Ryanite. They are repeated for
the confounding now of another.
Increases in Cost of Food and Groceries Between
July, 1914, and September, 1919.
Queensland 62.6 per cent.
N. S. Wales .. .. 51.4 '
Tasmania .. .. .. 48 0
Victoria ” ”
Westralia 38.0 „ „
S. Australia .. .. 36.7 „ „
The appeal was to C/ESAk. That is
Caesar's reply.
Is the Regular Discredited?
“Rio” puts the case for the regular:—
The writer has had both regular and citizen com-
missions ; has served in the ranks; and has active
service, wounds and hospital experience. This
merely to show that he knows what he is talking
about.
As regards the Australian regular, 80 p.c. were
successes at the Front. The other 20 p.c. are not
typical; they are exceptions. Chauvel, White,
Blamey, Brand, Lloyd, Jess, Whitham, Phillips,
Miles, Peck, Griffiths and the 150 or so Dun-
trooners would surely have done credit to any army.
The faults in the Defence Department are not
with the men there but with the system. As long
as the Department is headed by a civilian party-
politician and run on the same lines as the ordinary
Government Department it will have the defects in-
herent to that system. The examination which per-
manent military officers have to pass before appoint-
ment is academically, professionally and physically
more severe than that in any other branch of the
public service. But what can the brainiest man do
in a place where a shilling’s worth of paper and
stamps and hours of time have to be expended to
get authority to spend sixpence?
To blame the regular for the reduction of th<
physical standard during the war is “the limit.’
Recruiting was at a standstill and civilian commit-
tees for months were urging a reduction in the stand-
ard. The boy of 17 and the old man of 60 who
disguised their ages were held up as heroes. The
press waxed sarcastic when well-known boxers,
athletes and rifle-shots were rejected. Then things
went badly in Europe, and Hughes and Pearce
(under pressure from England probably) asked the
military medical authorities, who were all citizen
doctors, to revise the standard. The doctors drew
up a technical document with details as to eyesight,
teeth, etc., that no regular officer would think of
questioning. The adjutant-general of course approved,
it being a case of poor troops or none at all, and
a second medical examination was arranged to take
place after the recruit had been some months in
camp. To put the responsibility on to the regular
and say the medical men protested is absurd. I
myself heard many regulars comment on the poor
type of men they were getting, and I know of no
doctor who resigned in protest, as he could have done
without endangering his livelihood as a regular does
when he resigns. I would point out here that
Carter, of the R.A.M.C., who raised Cain in Meso-
potamia, is not a civilian but a regular. No one
prides himself more on being a regular than
R.A.M.C. officers, as anybody who has been in a
purely R.A.M.C. hospital knows.
The Bulletin says that every strictly civilian
job was -well done. IVhat about the Pay Office?
In answer to which :
Of course there were brilliant Australian regu-
lars. But, relatively to civilians, there were many
who did not shine. Even if a mere 20 per cent,
failed—and it is likely that the figures were
larger—the point is that failed, against ama-
teurs, in their own profession. Could such a thing
have occurred in any other profession ?
The regulars at home were not blamed for “the
reduction of the physical standard.” They were
blamed for aiding and abetting Pearce in sending
away men who were never destined to see the firing-
line. The “second medical examination in camp,”
referred to by “Rio,” took place not in camp but
on the wharf a few minutes before embarkation.
It was necessarily farcical, and it was against that
arrangement that the protests of the “heads” in
London and in France were lodged. Men like
Monash and Howse objected to have the taxpayers’
money wasted so that the Government could show
impressive recruiting figures.
R.A.M.C. officers were not necessarily regular Sol-
diers during the war, any more than A.M.C. officers
were. Ninety per cent, of the old regular British
Army doctors got staff jobs after Mons, and their
places were taken by civilians in uniform.
The Pay Office was not “strictly civilian.” It
was part of the old machine which broke down
utterly; and its work steadily improved as experi-
enced civilians were put in charge and permitted
to run the business in an ordinary civilian busi-
ness way. But that can be said of practically the
whole war-effort.
♦
Nothing is surer than this: that if those
who receive the minimum wage do not pro-
duce enough to pay it, others must get less
than they produce. That is the basic fact
that has to be faced. It may be perfectly
right that the community should supplement
the true earnings of those who can or do
earn least in order that there may be no one
in the community who is not living in decent
comfort; but somebody has to pay for it—
either somebody has to receive less than liis
true earnings pr the subsidy has to come
out of xmofits. At present there is an obvious
inclination to assume that nobody need pay;
in fact, with the increase of the minimum
wage there is a general demand for increased
wages all round, and in many cases em-
ployers not only are maintaining their profits
but are taking steps to actually increase
them. That ean’t last long. (Somebody will
be left with the baby. On present appear-
ances the first man to suffer will be the
farmer, who can’t pass on the extra, charges
because his prices are fixed outside the
country. And that makes the struggle to
get rid of the returned Digger by “putting
him on the land” more cruel than it would
be even under ordinary circumstances.
“Merino”: Mr. Beale (B. 27/11/T9) ap-
pears upset about the sale of Australian wool
to the British Government. But the great
[Percy Leason, 24 Bond-street, Sydney.]
THE SPELL-BINDER.
“Fools, Rum-uns, Six-bob-a-day Murderers and others,
Lend me all you have about you.
I come to bury Credit, not to raise it:
The promissory notes we float live after us;
The assets are interred with our bones."
—From Mark Antony Ryan’s oration on the dead body of Credit.
majority of growers are well satisfied and
are not worrying. Prices are now on extreme
levels at the other end of the world. But
the fabulous rates quoted by Mr. Beale were
obtained only for a few choice, well-grown
lines. A glance at catalogues will show that
the average was well below those figures.
Taking a quotation at the other extreme,
lambs’ wool has sold down to 12d. per lb.
When the 1916-17 and subsequent clips
were sold, the outlook, except for free, good
quality lines, was far from good. Shipping
was scarce and vessels were being constantly
taken off the Australian service. Transport
overseas was the crux of the position. As
the bulk of the available ships in the world
were at the time in the control of the British
Government, Australia was practically in its
hands.. And it is not likely that the British
authorities would have sent ships here to
carry wool to America, Japan or any other
country. Every vessel that could take the
seas was wanted for the transport of troops,
foodstuffs, munitions and other urgent
materials. At the present time some Aus-
tralian wool men would without doubt be
obtaining fancy prices on an open market.
But we must take the good with the bad, and
recognise the facts that led up to the present
situation. The contract looked an excellent
deal for Australia when it was made and
was hailed with delight throughout the Com-
monwealth. The end of hostilities seemed
further away than November, 1918. Things
turned out better than expected. But having
made the contract Australian growers are
prepared to stand by it. They would be
recreant to the record made by their soldier
sons if they did not.
John Storey, leader of the Opposition in
the N. S. Wales Assembly, let a kitten out of
the sack the other night during the debate
on the Liquor (Amending) Bill. Said he
in a burst of confidence: —
If the police-officer in a town rigidly enforced the
6 o’clock closing law it was not long before mem-
bers of the House presented a petition to have him
removed.
Which is cold, unassailable fact. And the
country Hop isn’t on a worse wicket in
that respect than the city John. What
policeman, from Inspector-General down to
the sleuth who has a Flossie for his “fiz-
gig,” is game to enforce the legal closing
hours on the “big” pubs in any metropolis
in Australia? Not one! Same with
gambling. The Hops will pinch a few
Chinese for playing fan-tan, but is there
any chance of a round-up where the really
and truly gamblers are? If this were the
policeman’s fault it would be bad enough.
But when democratic government is prosti-
tuted in this way—when “members of the
House,” with their eyes on their jobs, take
a hand —the situation becomes intolerable.
Australian coal-miners, who are mostly
N. S. Wales miners, have decided by ballot
to put up the cost of living still further.
They don’t say that they expect to get any
cash advantage out of it, though that may
happen; the main point is to do less of the
objectionable thing called work. It is pro-
posed to demand payment by the day instead
of on the old piecework system, and also to
demand a shorter day. As it is certainly not
intended to work for less money, the day-
work rate must be fixed so as to ensure the
average piecework return, with an increase
in the cost of the output, and, consequently,
of the cost of living. In theory, of course, the
ided is to take it out of the employer; but
whenever the employer is mentioned in that
connection it is always the very rare one
who, through special circumstances, is mak-
ing an exceptional profit. So far as the
great majority of the mines are concerned the
new plan must mean dearer coal; and that
will mean dearer everything else. There is,
of course, a way by which the miners could
get more money, if they -want it, while giving
cheaper coal and thus reducing the cost of
living. But that is by doings more work;
and in the view of the present Labor mis-
leader, work is the Devil.
Outtrim has succeeded in incorporating in
the Yic. Health Bill clauses making vaccina-
tion optional. A declaration made and
filed by a parent within four months
of the birth of a child that he con-
scientiously believes vaccination would
bo prejudicial, is to be a shield against
prosecution. Thirteen months ago the Leg.
Council tossed out & bill containing the ssni'-
proposnis—13 to 9 —but those bright lights
Chandler, Goudie, Kiernan, Weedon and
Crockett have come in since, and the valiant
Russell Clarke is back from the war.
These politicians have found out that you
must vary your bait. So Ryan tells
the farmers they have been rooked of
£400,000,000 through not getting the 9s 2d
per bushel for their wheat that the Canadians
get; and then Riley, with the city vote to
win, says that cheap food’s the thing, and
that if the farmers got 9s. 2d., instead of
4s. 9d., it would raise the price of bread to
Is. or more. They may both be quite honest •
but the political system that hobbles them in
one Parliamentary party isn’t.
“G.L.8.”: “The English flying officer,”
quoted by “Centurion” (B. 27/11/T9), who
found British prisoners bossing things on
the Bagdad-Constantinople railway, and “an
Australian as paymaster of the whole show ”
exaggerated a little, that’s all. As a matter
of fact, they had easy jobs as clerks or
storemen if they could speak German or
French; otherwise they were mostly em-
ployed in gangs under their own officers.
The Australian who was paymaster was a
14th Battalion corporal, one Kerr, of some-
where near Melbourne, and I think he owed
his job largely to his copious French voca-
bulary. , He was really head clerk of the
stores branch.
Just as well to resurrect for the benefit of
our friends the circular issued by the Ger-
man Foreign Trade Department in 1918:
It will be wise for employers who have foreign
trade interests to employ agents in foreign countries
who can pass themselves off as being of French or
English birth. Gennan agents and travellers will
probably for some time after the war have difficulty
in doing business not only in enemy countries, but
in neutral countries. There will undoubtedly be a
personal prejudice against Germans that would prob-
ably make it difficult for representatives of German
Arms to do business. Although this prejudice will
not interfere with German trade, as it will be
merely of a personal character, trading transaction:;
will be facilitated if employers will employ agents
who pass as French or English, preferably, or as
Dutch, American or Spanish.
Yet perhaps the Hun took too serious a
view of the prejudice that was going to exist
against him. The Bulletin, at any rate,
wouldn’t Tike to swear that there are not
cities even in Australia where there would
be a rush to a shop which made it known
that it had a lot of German goods it was
selling very cheap, to get rid of them. That
is what we want a high tariff for. A high
tariff blocks German goods even if they do
come from Zurich and are introduced by a
gentleman who can pass for an impoverished
Spanish duke.
Wonderful how a name can stick, while
the facts shift. The Labor party, when it
demanded the support of papers like The
Bulletin, stood for compulsory arbitration
in place of strikes, compulsory and universal
military training (it originated that), re-
duction of borrowing and use of loan funds
for such works only as would pay full in-
terest and sinking fund, a strong Australian
Navy (it originated that), note-issue with
a strong gold reserve, and amendment of the
Constitution to give the Federal Government
control of monopolies—in fact, the Fisher
Government submitted to a referendum
exactly what Hughes submits now. The
new squad is anti-arbitration, anti-military
training, anti-navy, believes in unlimited
borrowing, believes in unlimited notes with-
out security, and is against the amendment
of the Constitution which used to be its own
pet device. Yet it keeps the old name and
demands support from the old people. It
might be. well for the next new p’arty to
register its name and policy, so that no
crowd with . opposite principles could use
the name without prosecution for infringe-
ment of copyright.
The struggles of Theodore and Fihelly in
Queensland to pacify the unemployed by de-
claring that Ryan bolted leaving the
Treasury empty, and the struggles of
Ryan to prove that he left the Treasury full,
lead to unsatisfactory happenings. Thus
Ryan, addressing the waterside workers of
Sydney:—-
The Acting-Premier wires me respecting the state-
ments regarding unemployed: “It is an infamous
he that I said the Government was stony-broke or
that the Premier had said there would be a deficit
ot £1,500,000. Queensland was never in a better
position.”
These are the discrepancies in this story:—
The charge was not that Acting-Premier Fihelly
(in Brisbane) said that Premier Theodore (in Cairns)
said that the Government was stony-broke and that
there was a deficit of £1,500,000. That statement,
not having been made, can be denied safely. The
charge, based on telegrams from Cairns, was that
Theodore (not backed by Fihelly, but speaking with
his own mouth) said in the northern town that the
Treasury was in a very bad way, and that the
estimates submitted to him foreshadowed a deficit
of £1,500-,000. Also, that there was “little hope.”
There is no use in Fihelly denying that he said
Theodore said it, when the case is that Theodore
said it himself.
Further, Ryan doesn’t seem to have produced the
alleged telegram from Fihelly saying that Fiheliv
didn t say that Theodore said the awful things about
Ryan’s finance which nobody said that Fihelly said
that Theodore said ; it being Only said that Theo-
dore said them himself. Mas there any telegram?


[James Edmond and J. B. Dailey, 214 George-
street, Sydney; and Edmund Fisher, Old Exchange,
Melbourne. ]
Our Duty in
the Pacific —
If we are to undertake the
development and defence of
the Islands in the Pacific, the
establishment on a firm basis of
THE. AUSTRALIAN IRON
AND STEEL INDUSTRY
is an imperative necessity.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Vic. Fremier Lawson is not out of the
wood yet. There are 20 of his supporters
who are ready to take the first opportunity,
consistent with the safety of their own
skins, to displace him. If there is a sum-
mer session—as he threatens there will be
if the business is not completed before
Christmas —the troubles of the Government
will increase* rather than diminish, unless
there is a reconstruction.
Between D'Annunzio, and the return of*a
considerable Bolshevik party at the Italian
elections, and the Irish unrest, and the col-
lapse of Wilson’s pretensions to speak for
the U.S., and the Russian situation, the
Hun fast recovers his assurance. Being
asked to pay for breaking the peace by sink-
ing his surrendered ships at Scapa Flow,
and also to really retire from the Baltic
Provinces, he asked the Entente if its grand-
mother was a monkey, or words to that
effect. The new “everlasting peace” looks no
nearer.
[Oswald Pryor, Moonta, S.A.]
THE COST-OF-LIVING REFERENDUM.
AUSTRALIA: “Help! Help! Throw me
that lifebelt!”
THE RYAN PARTY: “What, and let Billy
Hughes get all the credit for it! I’ll
see you drown first!”
Quite caljnly the N.S.W. Ministry intro-
duced a bill the other night authorising
Sydney Fire Brigades Board to borrow money
“to improve the efficiency of the brigade
and to meet increased ivages .” Its Liquor
Bill contained a proviso for borrowing (no
limit mentioned) to pay for destroying the
drink trade and the revenue derived there-
from, and to pay interest on the money bor-
rowed. And' it boasts that the revenue for
the last five months was £1,374,93S more
than for the same period last y ear “~ tb at
money is coming in at the rate of £25,000,000
a year! If the revenue gets up to £50,000,000
this Government will be borrowing to get
its old hat patched.
A split in a Liberal party on a question of
national importance is such a common thing
that nobody was surprised that Lawson was
unable to carry more than about half of_his
supporters with him when, after his meeting
■with Holman in Sydney, he declared for the
Federal Constitution Alteration Bills and
for a “Yes” vote on the referendums. The
wirepullers and mischief-makei's got to work
promptly ; but Peacock, who thinks very much
the same as Lawson bn the subject, declined
to join the State Frighters in creating a
ci’isis. It is time the few public men like
Peacock who are not tied hand and foot to
party did something more, and insisted upon
the inherent dishonesty, from the democratic
point of view, of associating parties with
referendums. To make a referendum a party
matter is to take fi’om it all its value and
utterly destroy its character.
When the N. S. Wales Leg. Council
slaughtered the Govt.’s Maintenance of Chil-
dren Bill, Holman flew at the “seven or
eight gentlemen w r ho owe their appointment
to the present Government.” The seven or
eight gentlemen bitterly resented this until
Gai-land, K.C., representative of the Cabinet
in the Council, explained matters: —
No gentleman who had been in politics for any
length of time would take the Premier's remarks
seriously.
In other words, “Gentlemen, if you’d been a
few years longer in politics you would know
that the Premier was only pulling the pub-
lic's leg. How else could he make the crowd
believe that he was terribly angry when his
bill was thrown out?”
The Commonwealth Government is going
to pay now for a stupid blunder made by
its predecessor, who appointed a small magis-
trate, used to fining Sydney drunks and
disorderlies, to inquire into Jensen’s charges
against Gilruth. That one-man inquiry was
ridiculously inadequate, and the Commis-
sioner’s conduct in Darwin did nothing to
improve matters. Jensen, a scientist of
rare attainments if unusual views, was one
of the few senior officials in the Territory
wdio got to loggerheads with the masterful
Gilruth ; and inquiry will show that, though
he pi-obably prejudiced his own case, he had
less than a fail- deal. Meantime the hand-
ling of what is known in Darwin as “the
Jensen matter” has set the local Labor
people, who, are about two-thirds of the
whole, against any more one-man Commis-
sions. Judge Ewing is therefore likely to
di’aw a blank.
Sydney gi-ows short of water again, and it
is estimated that £5,000,000 will be required
to bring the supply up to probable early
needs. Sydney has a respectable rainfall;
but even so it costs a lot to accumulate water
at a city which has no fresh-water river of
its own and has miles of flat country to the
west of it for a catchment area. The bath of
the millionth man, which is fetched 100
miles, is a much more expensive affair than
that of the first man, which is fetched 100
feet. The humping of water to a needlessly
big city is as burdensome as the humping of
other things.
The Government that sets out to convict
the foreigner of profiteering will take on a
large contract. For instance, the Huckle-
berry machine sells here at £l7 10s., and
as it is invoiced at £l4 the price doesn’t
seem excessive. But the Huckleberry Co.
at the other end, which bears a different
name, makes it at £3 35., and passes it on
to the Huckleberry Co. here at £l4. They
are both the same Huckleberry, but it would
be the Devil’s own job to prove profiteering.
Should local competition start in a small
way, in view of the stiff price, the man here
will have it pointed out to him that lie had
better join the combine and keep up prices.
If he doesn’t there is plenty of room for a
thumping fall to flatten him out.
A proposal to limit to £8,000,000 the
amount of compensation to be paid if pubs,
clubs, breweries, vineyards and drink-impor-
tation are abolished in N. S. Wales was
rejected in the Assembly. The money-
unlimited —is to be raised by loan, and it
is also pi’oposed that interest on it may be
paid out of loans. But it was decided,
so far as the Assembly could decide it, that
any liquor interests owned in N.S.W. by Vic-
torians, Queenslanders, S. Australians or
other outsiders will be simply confiscated.
Apparently it isn’t so much a matter , of
putting down drink on principle as of finding
an excuse for scattering a heap of loan
money in tlie Ma State, and to let any of it
go outside would be waste. But having de-
clared that honesty calls for the payment of
compensation the new idea stands out as
plain robbery. It is a precedent for the
resumption without compensation of lands,
mortgages and other interests owrned in the
adjacent States, and great rqws may be
expected.
Government having ceased to function in
the Northern Territory, Commonwealth con-
trol of the liquor traffic, for a long time past
lax, has become a farce. Recently a boarder
at the Victoria Hotel wished to take six
bottles of beer out to a picnic. No bottled
heer being obtainable at.any of the hotels —
all owned by the Commonwealth —he sent to
a sly-grog shop and got what he inquired at
3s. per bottle. The usual hotel charge is
Is. 9d. It is openly stated in Darwin that
the goodwill of a sly-groggery was sold the
other day for £lBOO.
Milner has scoffed at Lawson's scheme to
hold over an appointment to the Vic. Gover-
norship till Hughes’s proposed Federal Con-
vention meets; but nothing is to be done for a
fixed term of six months ending May IS. If
the convention is less of a mirage and more of
a reality by April, Milner may be pleased, it
was hinted, to grant an extension. Parliament
may, however, before Christmas Day express
itself so definitely against the imported article
that Peter Mcßride, Agent-General, who
leaves on December 31, may be deputed to
say to the Col. Sec. that enough of the George
Higinbotham doctrine survives in Victoria to
make unwelcome anything sounding like
orders from “the man Rogers” of Downiug-
street.
Australia has long had an idea that a
direct steamship service with South America
might be handy, and the glad news arrives
that a company owned in Holland is about
to supply the want and charge the usual sea
profiteer’s price for its services. Holland is
12,000 miles away, and has an area less
than half that of Tasmania. It has no prop-
erty in Australia, though it owns a number
of islands to the
north; and it owns a
very obscure scrap of
land in South America.
But Mynheer van
Schnapps is an ener-
getic seafaring per-
son, and ready (for a
consideration) to come
to the assistance of
any big, helpless place
which has a lot of
commerce and is too
tired to carry it. The
sea-carrier is on a
great wicket these
days. Last week freight
on coal from Cardiff
(Wales) to Rouen
(France) was £3 a
ton (ss. before the
war) and to Venice £5
(Bs. before the war).
France has to import
because the Hun de-
stroyed its mines and
Italy because it pro-
duces no coal. But
Australia’s trade is
mostly in buying things
it could do without or
could easily produce
for itself and in selling
raw material that it
could use in its own
factories; so it has no
excuse save incapacity for hiring Mynheer
van Schnapps or anybody else to be its
expensive middleman.
The latest N. S. Wales Liquor law author-
ises a referendum re abolishing grog on high
moral grounds—with the usual exception of
sacramental wine, which is to remain. _ Ap-
parently the Church can’t get along without
the accursed thing, and the Church habit of
everybody drinking out of the same glass
makes it insanitary as well as accursed. Even
the most queen-like barmaid that was ever
engaged to three customers at once never
expects two of her worshippers to drink beer
out of the same pewter.
Even the war hasn’t converted the British
Freetraders —they are quite prepared to go
back to the old conditions that came near
bringing the nation to smash; in fact, it is
not certain even now that the smash won t
come. “Let trade flow in its natural chan-
nels !’’ cries the Manchester Guardian, the
leader of the heresy. Manchester was so
keen on letting trade flow in its “natural
channels’’ that it put up millions to dig a
canal that nature had omitted to make, and
you can’t go into the big, dirty town with-
out hearing the vast ditch referred to as one
of the greatest achievements of modern days.
There was a great rally of Ryanites and
Ananiases in Sydney Domain on the last
Sunday of the campaign. Senator Gardiner
said that Hughes’s mismanagement during
the war had lost £400.000,000 to the coun-
try on wool alone, which would be equal to
losing all the wool crop of Australia for
11 years. Then Howard Catts arrived in
heavy rain and said that the wool loss had
been £430,000,000. A man capable of fixing
the loss at £475,000,000 was expected, but
the weather kept him away.
Irvine continues to be supersensitive.
Lawson had to tell the Vic. Assembly the
other day that the Chief Justice draws £2500
a year as Lieut.-Gov. in addition to his
ordinary screw of £3OOO. Appai’ently for the
sake of saying something Prendergast chipped
in, declaring (possibly in the interests of im-
ported Governors) that Irvine’s administra-
tive functions made him pass on work to
other Judges. The sequel was a statement
two days later by Lawson that it had been
“conveyed” to him that there was no justi-
fication for any implication that the Chief
Justice shirked judicial duty. He simply
exchanged jobs with the Judge who took
the Criminal Court' list. Prendergast sug-
gested that somebody was very touchy. It
would have been far better had he made a
frank' confession that, being a politician, he
had talked for the mere sake of talking, and
meant nothing.
“Uneasy lies the head that hasn t a
‘brown.’ Partly Shakspeare and partly
an allusion to the troubles of Premier lheo-
dore, who has inherited Ryan's empty
treasury in Queensland.
Some of these politicians, when they talk
airily of the millions they are going to get,
mention the mostly-apochryphal big divi-
dends that a few concerns pay, and promise
to “stop that sort of thing.” Some of “that
sort of thing” ought to be stopped ; but the
little man who isn’t .making more than t
p.c. is likely to suffer most if his big com-
petitor who is making 20 p.c. is stopped
from making more than, say. .10 p.c. Some
concerns, because they are better equipped
or better managed or have been longer at the
game, can make an extra 4 or 5 p.c. on
their turnover, which may easily mean 10
p.c. on their capital. So long as they are
allowed to pouch that as profit their little
and poorer competitors have a chance. But
limit the profits, and the public will certainly
get the benefit; but for the poor little com-
petitor it spells o-u-t.
[Ted Colics, Old Exchange, Collins-street, Melbourne.]
QUITE USED TO HIS RAPTURES.
“What, you there again, Frank! And singing
me the same old promises, too!"
The “combined churches” of N. S. Wales
have protested against the new Liquor Bill
because it “suspends the democratic provi-
sion of local option.” But does democratic
government demand the right of the majo-
rity to control the whole body in every rela-
tion of life? Will the combined churches
admit that a street or even a town has the
right, by majority, to prohibit the building,
say, of a Methodist Tabernacle or the hold-
ing of an Anglican Communion service? If
not, what becomes of the “democratic” prin-
ciple of local option? It is a futile system,
anyhow—a system that is powerless for re-
form where reform is most needed.
The latest old-maiden-aunt uneasiness of
the N.S.W. Government was a Bill (lost in
the Council) to take care of the share-farmer.
A Board of stipendiary interference-men was
to buzz after him, and it was proposed that
either party to a share agreement might ask
the Board within three months (just when
the crop was in) to cancel the bargain; also
the Board of buzzers might interfere when
neither party asked for it. Perhaps some-
thing may be done next with a Flounder Act,
providing that the fish may be returned
within three months if the buyer changes his
mind, or may be demanded back by the seller
if the price goes up, or the transaction may
be renewed by the Flounder Board, which
thinks it could do with some fish itself.
Victoria spends a cold million a year on
new cockspur lines whose terminals are
black stumps or a wire fence. Twenty-one
“new” lines failed to pay their way last
year. Not alone do they not earn interest
on capital cost, but some of them do not
pay working expenses. Last financial year
£73,424 was lost by these alleged “feeders.”
The truth is that the Railways Standing
Committee must earn its fees, so it roams
around the State taking evidence from in-
terested landowners desirous of selling out,
and recommends new lines, and the Gov-
ernment scents a chance to make a few
friends and goes ahead. Near every one
of these new lines land has gone up from
£1 to £4 an acre; whereupon tired Mr.
Farmer has sold out sometimes to his neigh-
bor and ofttimes to the Closer Settlement
or Repatriation Board.
PROGRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Progress was reported.” —Parliamentary news.
’Twas Bangs who introduced the Bill,
And gave some yards of speech until
He and the House were tired;
When Blithers leapt upon the floor,
To speak about a furlong more, *
With not a word inspired.
With bitter words Longtongue uprose,
His verbal fingers to his hose,
Protesting at the shirking
Of matters waiting to be fixed,
And mixed affairs that'still stayed mixed
The Government was burking.
Then Windybags arose, with pain,
To say what Blithers said again,
While Longtongue merely snorted;
And then, its members having fled,
The House closed down and went to bed ;
And progress was reported.
Thank God, though debts are unpaid still,
And man’s affaire remain so ill
They scarce can be supported ;
Though bankruptcy howls at the gate,
There is one place, at any rate,
Where progress is reported 1
n.s.w.
HAMER.


AUSTRALIA!
THE DIGGER: “Dear woman! — if they were half as anxious about her as they seem to be about me I’d feel more comfortable.”
[Dennis Connelly, 214 George-street, Sydney.]


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS:
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms—
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Granulated),
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and tlie following Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFEICE: COLLINS STREET, MEIBOCRM.-
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary. „
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL, AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. ~-
A. .T. SMITH. London Secretary.
SIDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY —
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOIvMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. -STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
PIONEER Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLE .
MAKERS
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON LTD.
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALE STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric. Steel.” ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
A Safe Investment, or money returned if better value can be obtained elsewhere—the ‘‘PAVILION,” Sydney s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australasian Temperance and
General Mutual Life Assurance Soci-
ety (Ltd.) :
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1907 . £108,447 £21,451 £39,616 £47,380 £463,643
1908 .. 130,384 29,470 44,751 56,163 519,806
1909 .. 160,946 44,733 49,412 66,801 586,607
1910 .. 177,578 40,810 53,658 83,110 669,717
1911 .. 189,794 31,236 52,071 106,487 776,204
1912 .. 203,467 32,286 63,938 107,243 883,447
1913 . . 224,252 33,752 75,588 114,912 998,359
1914 .. 242,979 36,281 71,858 134,840 1,133,199
1915 . . 269,696 37,747 95,302 136,647 1,269,846
1916 .. 298,962 41,098 120,583 137,281 1,407,127
1917 .. 325,647 50,506 160,589 114,552 1,521.679
1918 .. 355,583 55,653 159,812 140,118 1,661,797
1919 . . 405,959 69,792 163,669 172,498 1,834,295
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1907 .. £124,703 £52,289 £16,129 £56,285 £203,811
1908 .. 134,723 64,402 22,320 48,001 251,812
1909 .. 145,757 64,954 34,189 46,614 298,426
1910 .. 155,333 59,369 40,129 55,845 354,271
1911 .. 170,358 61,002 60,537 58,819 413,090
1912 .. 194,650 71,308 56,505 66,837 479,927
1913 .. 234,465 84,420 104,245 45,800 525,727
Taken over from Accident Dept.. . 338 526,065
1914 .. 273,216 105,227 104,846 63,143 589,208
1915 .. 306,949 111,375 89,567 106,007 695,215
1916 .. 366,880 129,745 89,896 147,239 842,454
1917 .. 445,882 157,779 115,708 172,395 1,014,849
1918 .. 535,667 186,986 133,761 214,920 1,229,769
1919 .. 026,610 213,718 142,307 270,585 1,500,354
After a glance at those big figures it is
amusing to recall that at one time the T.
and G.’s future was so uncertain that rep-
tile contemporaries dubbed it the Touch and
Go. Even after it had become more
firmly established the growth of business for
many years was very gradual. Only recently
has the management found its punch. In-
come in the Ordinary department has prac-
tically doubled in seven years and more than
doubled in the Industrial in four years ; in
other words, during the past quinquennium
the T. and G. has expanded its income to
an extent practically equal to the total it
disclosed for its 38th year in business. Com-
pared with 10 years ago income is how
three times greater, and meantime the
Society’s funds have expanded from £885,033
to £3,234,649. Last year showed a record
growth of business in both departments, and
the loss rate was better .than might have
been expected considering the ’flu and war
troubles. The epidemic was directly respon-
sible for £46,509 of claims, and the war
£19,983. This comparison shows the claims
experience for recent years:—
Ordinary.
Premium Claims
Income. Claims. Ratio.
1914 .. £193,696 £71,858 37 p.c.
1917 .. 254,258 160,589 63 „
1918 .. 276,195 159,812 58 „
1919 . . 317,680 163,669 51.5„
Industrial.
Premium Claims
Income. Claims. Ratio.
1914 .. £247,431 £104,846 42 p.c.
1917 .. 400,611 115,708 29 „
1918 . . 479,692 133,761 28 r „
1919 . . 557,673 142,307 25.5„
The difference between the premium income
shown there and the gross-income figures
in the first table indicates what a big item
interest is to an insurance office. Larger
invested funds and higher interest rates have
built up this return from £66,114 six years
ago to £157,216 for the past term. This
shows how the interest return has improved
over a number of years:—
Interest Earnings p.c. of Average Funds.
1910 ..£4 10 6 p.c. 1 1916 ..£4 14 7 p.c.
1913 .. 4 11 6 „ 1917 .. 4 17 6 „
1914 .. 4 12 6 „ I 1918 .. 4 19 9 „
1915 . . 4 13 0 „ | 1919 .. 5 2 7 „
The opportunity of investing in War Loans
has resulted in big changes in the com-
position of the assets :
1913. 1918. 1919.
Public securities .. 36.0 p.e. 53.3 p.c. 59.6 p.c.
Loans 49.2 „ 31.0 „ 26.6 „
Freeholds . . .. 12.3 „ 12.0 „ 11.2 „
Cash and sundries . . 2.5 ~ 3.7 „ 2.6 ~
Funds are now earning 11s. Id. more than
in 1913, and on millions that means an
additional £18,480 per annum. And not
only are interest earnings better, but since
practically two-thirds of total assets are
now Government and municipal securities,
the balance-sheet is much more satisfactory
from the point of view of policy-holders.
Life assurance is one of the few things
which, nominally, can still be purchased at
pre-war prices; but the T. and G. finds it
more costly to handle Ordinary business,
though further reductions have been effected
in Industrial branch costs :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Sept., Ordinary. Industrial.
1905 .. £2l 1 1 p.c. £52 18 2 p.e.
1910 . . 22 19 7 „ 38 4 4 „
1914 . . 14 18 8 „ 38 10 3 „
1915 .. 13 9 11 „ 36 5 8 „
1916 .. 13 14 11 „ 35 7 3 „
1917 .. 15 10 2 „ 35 7 9 „
1918 .. 15 13 0 „ 34 18 1 „
1919 . . 17 3 10 „ 34 2 2 „
That comparison illustrates very clearly the
gulf between the two branches of insurance,
enough last year’s exes, in the Industrial
department were the best the T. and G.
has yet shown, they are still almost twice
as much as in the Ordinary branch; and
this means that there is £l7 p.c. of premiums
less than in the Ordinary available for the
Society to distribute in bonuses. So though
the Industrial last year had a revenue half
as large again as in the Ordinary, and claims
were only about half as heavy, the best actu-
ary Jackson could show after estimating
liabilities under policies (assuming a rate of
interest at 3 p.c. in the Ordinary and 31
p.c. in the Industrial) was a surplus (not
including the previous term’s carry-forward)
of only £8398 in the Industrial compared
with £35,7110 in the other branch.
From a public point of view, the volume
of Industrial business compared with Ordi-
nary is an unsatisfactory feature of the T.
and G.’s operations. Anybody who can
scrape together a regular quarterly premium
should not be in the former department, for,
no matter what the office, such a policy-
holder is getting poor value for his money.
At best about half of the Industrial policies
lapse, while in a district where business is
being forced lapses represent anything up
to 80 p.c. of the business written. To secure
every Is. of the first premium costs about
305., but after allowing for lapses every
Is. of premiums on five policies cost some
of the offices as much as £5, which means
that the whole of the first two years’ pre-
miums are required to cover the cost ot
getting business. It is one of the weaknesses
of our insurance methods that practically
no effort is made to enlighten prospective
policy-holders as to the true relationship be-
tween the two departments. Certainly the
army of agents which fives on commission
from house-to-house collection of weekly or
fortnightly premiums cannot be depended
upon to push a line which carries practically
no pickings outside the first commission.
The Bulletin long ago suggested that In-
dustrial departments should be compelled to
include a clause in their contracts giving
policy-holders the right to transfer to the
Ordinary branch, and that ail communica-
tions, receipts, etc., to policy-holders should
further emphasise the advantages of trans-
ferring and getting better value for their
money.
The bonuses distributed by the T. and G.
serve to further the argument. The Ordi-
nary whole-life policy-holder of five years
standing is receiving reversionary bonuses
of 265. p.c. ; 10 years, 285.; 15 years. 325.;
20 years 40s. On monthly-premium policies
over 5 years in force on the Industrial side
£1 p.c. reversionary bonus is distributed;
on weekly-premium policies from 5 to 10
years in force, an amount equal to 10 weeks
premiums; over 10 years, 20 weeks’ pre-
miums. ....
The cost of writing new business in the
Ordinary department is still satisfactory.
Bast year a record crop of new contracts
was harvested: 12.058 policies assuring
£2,169,712. Assuming that the old or re-
newal business cost 7 p.c. to handle, ap-
proximately £53.000 was outlayed to get in
£77,846 of'first-year premiums, which works
out’ at 68 p.c. Incidentally the average
amount of the policies written shows a fur-
ther improvement; for 1018 it was £150; for
the past year, £167. Five years ago it
was not quite £l2O.
* * * *
The Illawarra and South Coast
Steam Navigation Co. (N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., 1913.. £2647 7 p.c.= £2625 £22 £9O
Sept., 1913.. 2606 7 „ „ 2625 71
Mar., 1914.. 3099 8 „ „ 3000 99 I<o
Sept., 1914.. 2631 7 „ „ 2625 6 176
Mar., 1915.. 3344 7* „ „ 2812 532 708
Sept., 1915.. 3380 7* „ „ 2812 568 12/6
Mar., 1916.. 2962 74 „ „ 2812 150 1426
Sept., 1916.. 2922 71 „ „ 2812 110 1536
Mar., 1917.. 3689 9 „ „ 337 u 314 1800
Sept., 1917.. 4390 10 „ „ 3750 640 2490
Mar.’ 1918.. 4492 10 „ „ 3750 742 323?
Sept., 1918.. 4127 10 „ „ 3750 377 3609
Mar., 1919.. 3912 10 „ „ 3750 162 3771
Sept., 1919.. 3788 10 „ „ 3750 . 38 3809
During practically three of the six months
covered by the latest accounts the seamen
refused to man the boats, but with scratch
crews the co. was able to maintain a re-
duced service. Yet despite all troubles a
net profit only £24 short of that for the pre-
vious term is claimed to have been earned.
It is unbelievable that such good results, in
comparison with those of very favorable
earlier terms, could show up out of the
storms of the past six months. However,
disclosed figures depend entirely on _ what
allowances have been made for depreciation.
etc., and no evidence is forthcoming on that
point. But another glimpse of what has
been taking place is visible in this compari-
son : —-
Sept., Sept., Mar., Sept.,
1914. 1918. 1919. 1919.
Liquid assets ..£9792 £48,575 £51,657 £53,261
Liabilities . . 9460 7,041 6,366 6,567
Surplus .. £332 £41,534 £45,291 £46,694
Thus during the past half the liquid sur-
plus has expanded by only £l4Ol compared
with £3757 during the previous term, which
indicates that actual results were compara-
tively not nearly so good as the first table
would suggest.
During recent years the Illawarra S.N.
has been doing very well compared with the
days when only 7 p.c. divs. were distributed.
Paid capital has remained stationary at
£75>000 for 13 years, but some big changes
have meantime taken place in the fleet, and
shareholders have not had to foot the bill
for these improvements which have helped
to build up earnings. During the past five
years, after paying divs. averaging almost
9 p.c., reserves shown in the first table have
expanded only to an extent equal to a fur-
ther 5 p.c. of paid capital; but besides those
reserves there are amounts lying to the
credit of funds to provide for repairs, public
risk, taxation and other contingencies. These
amounts show up in surplus liquid assets,
which have expanded by £46,302 during the
five years. Two new vessels were paid for
just prior to September, 1914, but since
then there have been no further additions,
while two little steamers have been sold.
The writing down of the ship property has
been very solid, for the vessels sold no
doubt had small book value, and during the
five years the value of the fleet has been re-
duced to £49,500 from £79.738, though owing
to enhanced values the fleet to-day is pro-
bably worth all it stood at in the hooks
five years ago. What it will be worth in a
few years’ time when the world’s shipping
has got back to something like normal is,
of course, another matter. Anyhow, to re-
present each of the 100,000 fully-paid 15s.
shares there are now net assets with a
book value of 19s. fld.. and of that 9s. 4d.
is liquid. Dividends of 10 p.c. p.a. on capi-
tal protected in this way are very sweet.
* * * *
Gordon House, Ltd. (Melbourne) : —•
To Re- lle-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
i 907. . £1698 8 p.c.= £1237 £461 £1739 •
1908.. 1906 10 „ „ 1547 359 2098
1909.. 1671 10 „ „ 1547 124 2222
1910.. 1852 10 „ „ 1547 305 2527
1911.. 2105 10 „ „ 1547 558 3085
1912.. 2080 10 „ ~ 1547 533 3618
1913.. 1865 10 „ „ 1547 318 3936
1914.. 2139 13 „ ~ 2001 138 4074
1915.. 2197 13 „ ~ 2001 196 4270
1916.. 1994 10 „ „ 1547 387 4657
1917.. 1455 10 „ „ 1547 4565
1918.. 2026 10 „ „ 1547 479 5044
1919.. 1927 13 ~ ~ 2001 4970
Apparently the cost of sleeping has not in-
creased to any extent so far as this co.’s
‘‘model lodging-house” is concerned ; revenue
has hardly moved during recent years. Work-
ing exes, are much the same, too, but a little
more is being paid in taxes, while furniture
renewals are calling for a trifle extra. So
profits are not quite as good as they used to
be. As surpluses in excess of dividend dis-
tributions are accumulated the management
is reducing its mortgage debt. Another
£lOOO was repaid during the past year, and
the item now stands at £7OOO. This shows
the progress that has been made in shaking
off debts:—
1905. 1910. 1915. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities . . £10,644 £B6lO £8144 £8353 £7075
Cash, etc. . . 50 119 1395 2279 1482
Excess liabilities £10,594 £8491 £6749 £6074 £5593
It has been slow going; and at the present
rate it will take another 15 or 18 years to
lift the load. Or, if the directors keep on
bumping up the rate of dividend, it may be
even longer.
The Bellambi Coal Co. (N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£25,000 transferred to capital. . £52,351
1908. . £61,936 17* p.c. = £35,000 £26,936 79,287
1909.. 53,879 15 „ ~ 36,250 17.629 96,916
1910.. 57,345 12* ~ ~ 31,250 26,095 123,011
1911.. 73,961 17* ~ „ 43,750 30,211 153,222
1912.. 61,028 17* „ ~ 43,750 17,278 170,500
£150,000 transferred to capital. . 20,500
1913.. 48,770 10 p.c. = 40,000 8,770 29,270
1914.. 53,180 10 „ „ 40,000 13,180 42,450
1915.. 37,268 5 „ „ 20,000 17,268 59,718
1916.. 33,910 5 „ „ 20,000 13,910 73,628
1917.. 54,724 7* „ „ 30,000 24,724 98,352
1918.. 42,637 7* „ „ 30,000 12,637 110,989
1919.. 43,351 12* „ „ 50,000 104,340
This very successful N. S. Wales South
Coast coal co. has been receiving more than
usual market attention during recent
months. Some time ago the whisper got
around to the effect that Inchcape had his
eye on its collieries. Probably the fact that
shipping man Owen Cox had been invited to
take the late J. C. Stewart’s seat at the
Board table was responsible for the rumor.
Owen Cox is now a director, but there are
still no indications of the I*, and O. offering
fancy terms for the property. However,
some of the kerbstone fraternity think
they see possible developments in chairman
David Hunter’s trip to England. Any pur-
chaser would have to open his pockets very
wide to get hold of the Bellambi collieries,
but if anybody is after them it is news to
those inside.
The table above shows that, despite the
increases in prices granted by the Common-
wealth Government, disclosed profits are
not what they vised to be in pre-war days.
The Southern collieries have not been on
anything like the same wicket as those on
the Maitland field, for some of the latter
are more or less closely connected with
coastal shipping interests, while the South
Coast has depended considerably on the
bunkering of deep-sea vessels; and, since the
war diverted shipping, trade has fallen oit.
This shows how the Bellambi co.’s output
decreased : 1014, 445,070 tons ; 1915, 296,150 ;
1916, 231,900; 1917, 237,560; 1918, 269,980.
Note also that the past year’s disclosed net
profits were £6649 short of the p.c. divi-
dend distribution, which helped to even up the
5 p.c. handl'd out for a couple of years. Still
the co. has not done .at. all badly during the
war period. It continues to receive very
good prices for its coal, though, compared
with the northern mines, exes, are higher.
On the South Coast very little coal is cut by
machine, for “stone rolls” running through
the seams are a feature of the field. Timber-
ing costs are also much heavier.
This comparison provides further details as
to the progress which has been made over a
number of years, as disclosed by the balance-
sheets :
1905. 1909. 1914. 1919.
Liabilities.. .. £39,445 £lO,lOO £22,692 £33,640
Assets—
Mines, p 1 a n t,
steamers, etc. . . 209,345 264,673 298,092 245,379
Stores .. .. 4,591 5,322 10,833 12,687
Liquid assets .. 55,183 105,771 176,217 314,914
During the five years to 1914 the surplus
of liquid assets over liabilities expanded by
£63,365) and meantime the book value of
fixed assets increased by £33,419, thus show-
ing an improvement of £96,784 for the
period. Over the past five years the liquid
surplus has grown by £129.603, but fixed
assets now stand in the books at £52,713
less, making the net improvement in the
balance-sheet figures £76,890, approximately
£20,000 less than in the previous period.
Also, between 1909-14 £197,500 was distri-
buted in dividends compared with only
£135,000 for the five years to the balance at
August 31 last. So, despite the profits made
from the sale of two colliers early in the
war —the Malachite realised £2500 in excess
of its book value, and the s.s. Bellambi
£10,350 —the co. has been having a com-
paratively poor time compared with pre-
war years.
Still, shareholders are doing very well.
Because of the capitalisation of £150,000 of
reserves in 1912, the present dividend rate
to old holders is actually better than it
looks, the average for the past disturbed
five years working out at 12 p.c. on paid
capital as it stood prior to the capitalisa-
tion in 1912. Further, the position of the
co. is at present extremely comfortable:
over 54 p,e. of net assets is represented by
liquid assets (mostly public securities),
though some of this holding may have to
be cut into to provide for mining extensions,
etc., later on, or to replace the colliers sold.
As for the mine itself, it is apparently ,in
splendid condition, and there are very many
years of profitable work ahead.
* * * *
“Junius”: So Vic. Electricity Commis-
sioners Lyle, Swinburne and Gibson have
not turned down Morwell brown coal, de-
spite the set of the under-currents. Altona
having been found too costly, and Mitta
Mitta water-power possibilities too small,
the nucleus of cheap electrical power is to
be Morwell, with a subsequent linking-up
of the Kiewa or any other hydro possibili-
ties that may happen along. . Electrician
Merz, with an eye on his railway electri-
fication schemq, bestows his benediction on
Morwell, though he writes up by 25 p.c.
the proposed initial outlay of £2,917,000.
But his criticism does not get over the
fact that, as Prof. Payne, engineer Harper
and geologist Herman pointed out three
years ago, unless Melbourne secures more
power by 1921 it will be electrically at a dead
end. The calorific value of Morwell brown
coal is about half that of the Newcastle pro-
duct. Working by open-cut methods, as in
Saxony, the cost of mining is estimated by
Lindesay Clark at only 2s. 3d. per ton.
So with black coal costing 31s. landed in
Melbourne, and 150,000,000 tons to make a
start on within a radius of two miles of
the proposed Morwell power-station site,
with 20,000,000,000 tons outside that limit,
it is good policy to get a hustle, on. Power
will not be so cheap as the first experts
declared, for it is to cost 0.434 d. per unit
instead of 0.326 d. to secure a 50,000-kilowatt
output. At that figure the State will net
£25,000 annually. However, should the
scheme develop side-lines, as in Germany,
costs may be got down considerably.


A NEW ELECTRICAL DEVELOPMENT
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
The British Westing'house
Eledlric © Mfg'. Co. Ltd.
will henceforth be known and carry on business as
METROPOLITAN-VICKERS
ELECTRICAL CO. LTD.
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES:—
MELBOURNE: 84 William Street. SYDNEY: 12 Martin Place.
AGENTS:— ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane.
METROPOLITAN-VICKERS ELECTRICAL CO., LTD.,
Trafford Park, Manchester.
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere tritie compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Make the water supply for your stock safe. Use
Aluminoferric in the proportion of lib. to two to
three thousand gallons of the most turbid water. In
about three hours all the sediment, mud or fine veg-
etable matter will be precipitated to the bottom, leav-
ing the water crystal clear and pure. Aluminoferric
is quite harmless and has no deleterious effect on
the water whatever. Sold by storekeepers every-
where. William Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, M 1-
bourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [2
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Letter received from
Elmore Waterworks Trust, Elmore, 28th February,
1919: “Re yours of the 19th instant, in regard to
pipes supplied to this Trust. The pipes have been
and are still in every way satisfactory, and are quite
suitable for our requirements. The cost of mainte-
nance during the six years of service has been nil. If
we were putting in any further pipe lines, your firm
would certainly be favored with our orders. (Sgd.)
S. Southam, Secretary.” Send for our illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd.
(H. 0.), Burns Bay Road, Longueville, N.S.W. Con-
tractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
The manufacture of ‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—•
Advt.
* * * *
In common with the general progress in engineer-
ing, marked improvements have recently been made
in the design of steam engines. A patented design
of “Uniflow” Steam Engine is now being made by
Messrs. Robey and Co., Ltd., Lincoln, England.
Highest effiiciency and economy of steam con-
sumption is obtained with simplicity of construction
and low upkeep costs, and the results obtained
from this new type of engine have been so marked
as to place the ordinary type of compound engine
quite out of date, the manufacture of which has
been abandoned. Full particulars of the “Robey”
Patent Uniflow Engine can be obtained from the
agents, Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular Quay,
Sydney. Queensland inquiries: The Australian
Machinery Co., 218-220 Mary Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * • »
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing _ engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital ..
Income (Cross) 191 S
Established
.. £250,000
244,396
122,000
.. 457,852
ACENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Try AINSLIE WHISKY
As Supplied to Royal Navy.
DEWHURST & HALLORAN LTD., Agents,
8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Gundy, the Bendigo geologist, sent up
to Broken Hill in the interests of the owners
of the Marshall leases, says:—
The old idea that the Broken Hill lode did rot
extend beyond certain limits has long been ex-
ploded by the operations of the North B. H. Co.
on the north and the Zinc Corporation on the
south. In the lower levels on these two mines
very extensive ore bodies are being developed, and
I venture to say that other bodies will be dis-
covered going southward if mining operations are
systematically directed.
Well, nothing is surer than that the Broken
Hill lode does not extend beyond “certain
limits.” There is an end somewhere. Other
bodies may, however, be discovered beyond
the present ultimate mines—and that is as
far as anybody is justified in going. The
possibility is, no doubt, worth exploring sys-
tematically : the tens of thousands that have
hitherto been spent haven’t been spent that
way. There are two chances: one that the
great Broken Hill ore body may be picked
up, but that can only be at great depth;
the other that other bodies will be found
in the same channel, and in that case their
size is a gamble. Whoever is inveigled into
the undertaking should understand that he
is in a prospecting and not a mining venture.
This is the present position of Mt. Read
and itosebery, the co. formed by Mt. Lyell
to take over the Hercules, Primrose and
Tasmanian Copper Mines: Cash owing Mt.
Lyell, £167,987; sundry creditors, £3856;
£1 shares owed to Mt. Lyell, £100,006,
shares owed to Tasmanian Copper Co.,
£0 i ,500. Nominal capital when Bowes
Kelly started the co. was a million. The
Hercules co. has had its wad of considera-
tion in £1 paids, and so has the Primrose,
but a technicality has so far tied up the
Tasmanian Copper Co. from this share dis-
tribution. The 100,000 shares due to Lyell
represent the bit that co. takes for floating
the show and financing it until two things
could be settled: (1) that all that the late
Lindsay Tulloch said about the mines was
true; and (2) that science had got to the
stage of solving the problem of treating
such complex ores as those of Rosebery and
Mt. Read. As to the first issue, the Lyell
staff is more than satisfied, as the result of
over two years’ hard prospecting, that the
right stuff is in the mines in quantity.
This means that a fresh zinc region is added
to the possibilities of the Speck. But a
doubt lingers whether all has been plain
sailing over the method of treatment. Does
the admission that the erection of a flotation
plant has been postponed mean that there
is now a doubt as to whether flotation will do
the trick of separating the various metals?
However, the £17,000 spent in tackling
treatment problems has not gone for nothing,
for the laboratories have unanimously agreed
as to the tractability of the ore of both the
mines. So far no explanation is offered
regarding ore treatment, but since the co. is
going on with big electrical schemes, electro-
lysis in some form or another is apparently
to do the trick. There have been rumors
that this was the bait held out to the Lyell
Board to attach Mt. Read and Rosebery to
the Risdon works. But the old element was
too strong, so the co., to the joy of Zeehan,
will have its own works on the spot where
the Australian Metals Co., controlled by
Amshell and Schmidt, once smelted for the
district. Just as Risdon started in a small
way, so only a ton-a-day zinc plant is to
be provided, and worked with power from
the present Lake Margaret station, till full
equipment can set at work with power
generated at Lake Rolleston, at a cost of
£500,000. The Speck Government is to find
this money in return for a guaranteed in-
come from the co. for a term of years. So
now Mt. Read and Rosebery has to find the
necessary to pay off Mt. Lyell and provide
its own electric-treatment outfit at Zeehan.
Seeing that the Tas. Government is already
seeking authority to raise its half-million for
the Mt. Rolleston station, it looks as if the
Bowes Kelly crowd know where to put their
hands on the wad they require.
* * * *
Mammoth Molybdenite is being revived as
a Sydney co. in 180,000 shares of 2s. 6d.,
all of which are to be contributing and sub-
ject to the payment of 6d. per share on
application. Shareholders in the defunct
co. will have the preferential right to apply
share for share in the new go, and shares
not so applied for will be taken up by an
underwriting syndicate. The majority of
shares in the old co. were issued as fully
paid, and this issue was boomed to nearly
£l. It will be interesting to note how the
original holders of this issue will respond
to the demand for a modest 6d. to resusci-
tate the enterprise. The weakness, of the
new scheme is that the co. will start with
very little cash. It is useless to assume that
the crushing and concentrating plants can
be started at once on payable duty. The
problem to be solved is whether in the
mountain of low-grade ore there are sec-
tions of it of payable quality sufficiently
wide to keep the 20-stamper mill running
full time, and unless this can be done the
show is hopeless. Six months’ systematic
development work ought to be ample to
demonstrate this.
* * * *
Just when New Baker’s Creek, Hillgrove
(N.S.W.), was beginning to make some
headway, ’flu disorganised the labor team
and curtailed production, and this misfor-
tune was followed by an accident to the
winding gear, resulting in a shut-down until
calls could be got in. After a few months
oil the call-list, the co. is again in funds,
so further prospecting is ahead. It is now
proposed to crosscut for the upward con-
tinuation of the rich shoot in the Southern
reef, which assayed about 40z., and also for
the downward continuation of the Sand-
stone reef, from which 21 tons yielded
15tioz. This reef is, however, comparatively
a mere thread. The cyanide plant is mean-
time making expenses from the treatment of
accumulated sands.
* * * *
Earp, M.L.C., worked himself up to a
fine frenzy in discussing the amending
Mining Bill to provide a royalty instead of
a percentage of profits on coal won from
leased private lands in N. S. Wales. He
regarded it as infamous to allow penniless
loafers to annly for private coal lands.
“Whv, in the Maitland district they are
worth £lo,ooo an acre!” he exclaimed, as
though that clinched his argument. It had
the opposite effect, as there was an over-
whelming protest against the infamy of
owners' of £lO,OOO-per-acre holdings locking
them up against the public. The new Act
protects owners who registered their holdings
under the Coal Mines Act.
From N. S. Wales Mines Under-Secretary
It. 11. Cambage:—
The Bulletin (9/10/’l9) stated that the prin-
ciple of granting no dredging leases over areas
which can be profitably operated upon by the indi-
vidual miner with ordinary hand appliances is re-
sponsible for the shepherding of large areas, and the
northern tinfields are cited as spots where this evil
is particularly strong and the chief shepherds are
said to be derelict Chinese.
A report has been received by the Minister from
the Warden of the Emmaville Division, which points
out that the statement so far as that division is
concerned is false, and that there is no truth in
regard to the shepherding of ground by Chinese, and
although the conditions referred to may have existed
many years ago, they have not existed in recent
years.
To which the tin-man who supplied the in-
formation replies:—
It is a clear case of “begging the question” to
assume that the statement applied specifically to
Emmaville. Yet as applied to all the tinfields
of the North it is absolutely true. The test
for the Department would be to send one of its
officials on a general lease-pegging expedition; or
to get independent reports from officials with field
experience, particularly surveyors. The Department
is crazy on the matter of “conserving the rights
of the individual miner.” No one objects to the
man who is capable of manual toil having the
right to try to earn a living by fossicking for
tin, but it is monstrous that men who are incapable
of working the ground should block legitimate enter-
prise.
* # * *
Hampton Plains (YV.A.) last week pro-
vided a new thrill when a Boulder crowd
hopped in and repegged several leases on
the Hampton Co.’s area as a preliminary
to applying for the areas as Crown leases.
Early in the rush the Hampton Co. reserved
certain blocks for itself, but the Boulder
crowd reckon that the co.’s titles are good
only to 40ft. down. The co.’s local representa-
tive, however, jeers at this, and declares
that its rights at all depths are unassailable.
Nevertheless, the invasion caused a flutter
on the field, and some leaseholders, including
Lionel Robinson’s crowd, who hold an
option over the block to the north of the Cele-
bration, promptly repcgged and applied for
a Crown lease so as to make doublj sure
in case the Hampton Co. should by any
chance be counted out.
* * * •
From Westonia
Engineering-professor Whitfield and acting-State
mining-engineer Blatehford were recently sent here
by the Government to investigate the water problem
and, incidentally, endeavor to arrive at a solution.
But they did not find negotiations easy. Edna
manager Williams was not in good fettle, as under,
the new Act he saw his chance of selling his pump-
ing plant grow less; Central manager Giblin made
unkind references to the increasing water inflow;
sick Jim Aldridge, of Consolidated, lamented the
recent accident and subsequent condemnation of
his main shaft as unfit for safe working; while
the comments of Deeps manager Stuckey on the
Act are best left unrepeated. However, Whitfield
and Blatehford at last convinced the irate man-
agers that their mission was entirely peaceful, and
finally all were more or less reconciled. A three-
months’ trial is to be given to a scheme, which,
briefly outlined, provides that (1) Central is to
contribute £4OO monthly to pumping costs, while
the other cos. contribute no cash; (2) Consolidated
ore is to be drawn through Central workings and
treated at Central plant on a royalty basis; (3)
Deeps is to fill up openings in Edna May mine
with sand, in order to prevent movement, at a cost
of £2OO or £300; (4) a small portion of the
Edna plant to be acquired at valuation, and Edna
to treat Consolidated sand's and retain the bullion
recovered therefrom in liquidation of compensation
due by Consolidated to Edna in connection with
mine drainage; (5) Deeps is to permit Central to
crosscut from the 560 ft. level in Deeps for the
Central New lode; and (6) Deeps is to be per-
mitted to utilise the material from this cross-
cutting for stope-filling. If there is one thing
Deeps requires more than bullion at present it
is stope-filling material. So no wonder the Deeps
crowd are smiling. The scheme has yet to receive
the approval of Mines Minister Scaddan.
Fred Tricks and his followers have exer-
cised Edna Battler’s option at Southern
Cross, ±l4OO going to the vendors at once,
and a further £l5OO to be paid six months
hence. Since Williams took the mine in
hand 110 ft. of shaft-sinking and a fair foot-
age of winzing and driving have been carried
out. Gunton, who now follows Williams,
does not regard development done as suffi-
cient to enable him to estimate reserves. Still
he reckons on the new 213 ft. level having
more than a decent chance of prospecting up
to the reputation of the 113 ft. level, where
the old hands drove on a shoot for 300 ft.
A second string to the co.’s bow is the north
and south reef. Still, what the Battler has
to prove is that its new claim does not
maintain the patchy reputation of Southern
Cross mines.
* # # *
New Langi Logan, Ararat (Vic.), work-
ing account to date has swallowed £140.505,
£9/00 of it representing the outlay during
the past six months. Still, as 11390 z. gold
were got from 1059 fathoms of wash, the
average was not bad. Toole’s plan of the
mine does not indicate that much punching
up and down the gutter was done during the
latest run. If not, the fact that he has
been running out air-drives and keeping the
pumps clanking is equally good mining, for
lie is providing good ventilation and is
draining the ground. In this way he is pre-
paring for the happy day when the Board
will cease niggling over a contract wage and
turn him loose with six or eight parties to
get the co. off the call-list and drag in
profits. But, after all, unless the mile of
ground between No. 1 and No. 2 shafts con-
tributes over loz. dirt, there will not be
much to show for the £140.000 emptied into
the gutter and the £22,000 expended on
plant. A deep-lead mine is a hard master
unless the luck is in from the jump, and
that hasn't been the case at New Langi
Logan. Toole depends on getting gold
directly, if labor is available, in the 2600 ft.
of the Cathcart lead unworked down to the
junction with the Langi gutter, where he
claims to have 25dwt. dirt over a proved
width of 350 ft.
* * ' * *
The Tyrconnel North Co.,_ having failed to
make good in Queensland and Westralia, is
now trying to effect a recovery at Black-
wood (Vic.). The best that can be said of
its operations there to date is that it is fast
draining the old Sultan run of mines. A
lot of gold was dug out in the long ago,
but the prospecting so far done by Tyrcon-
nel North below the old claims has not
brought to light a jeweller’s shop. A color
here and there is all that has been sighted
so far, though at 2682 ft. a very big lode
formation is raising some hopes, wherefore
the directors consider that, “generally speak-
ing, developments during the past term
have been distinctly encouraging.” Anyhow,
from present appearances prospects are
promising in so far as gold seems to be
living down. A fivepenny call brought in
£S7I during the half-year, but £1124 went
out, and only £192 was left in the cashbox
at the balance. The co. now has a calling
power of Is. lid. per share on 72,300 shares
(£6929).
This is what the Burma Corporation’s
Bawdwin mine can show in the way of ore
reserves: 4,404,819 tons going 24.10 z. silver,
26.2 p.e. lead and 18.4 p.c. zinc. Compare
this with South Broken Hill reserves of
3,500,000 tons assaying Boz. silver, 14| p.c.
lead and 14£ p.c. zinc. No wonder Baillieu
told the Broken Hill miner that the Barrier
is not the only star above the silver-lead
horizon. The difference in silver alone at 5s
per oz. would give a handicap to the Bawd-
win of £4 per ton of ore. Thus far the mine
is opened up to only 653 ft., so it is still
an infant, though it was scratched in the
misty past by Chinese. Several Australians
are on the mine-staff, one of the latest addi-
tions being John Moule, formerly of Mt.
Morgan, who takes the job of assistant resi-
dent manager. The recent big flutter in the
co.’s shares was because the Bawdwin mines
are to be run by a co. domiciled in India
instead of in London. The new show will
have 18,000,000 shares, of 10 rupees each.
Of these 13,531,182 will be issued to Burma
Mines, Ltd. This means that, as the Burma
Corporation owns 721,000 out of 724,000
shares in the Burma Mines, every share
in that concern rakes in 14 Indian shares.
It looks to be a market juggle, but by selling
the mine to a new co. in India heavy
British taxation will, no doubt, be dodged.
The co. also proposes to establish zinc works
in India, which, of course, means a plentiful
supply of cheap black labor.
* * * #
Charters Towers (N.Q.) is nowadays in-
teresting itself _ in tin. Ninety miles out,
at Kangaroo Hills, the Sardine recently put
through 98 tons for nearly 2f tons black
metal. A syndicate has secured a three months’
option over the property, paying £lOOO in
cash and undertaking to spend a further
£lOOO on development, this latter amount
being deducted from the purchase price of
£15,000 if the option is exercised. The
State Government has taken over the old
Venus mill, of which “Dividend” Whitehead
was part-owner (he got his name from the
crack w.f.a. nag which he purchased out
of a Queen Central divvy), and small par-
cels of stone are being crushed for tributors
and mullock-pickers. But the outlook for
long runs is not promising.


[Norman Lindsay, Spriningwood, N.S.W.]
EXCEEDING THE SPEED LIMIT.
“And the watchman, whose name was Australia, told, saying: ‘The driving is like the driving of IOUhu, the son of Gimcrack, for he drivet h furiously.’ "—Third Book of Kings, being the tale o f IOUhu the Scorcher.


THE
Union Trustee Company
of Australia Limited
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees,
etc.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having;
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Maekellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C., F. B. S Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan
Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
CALL OR SEND FOR COMPANY’S BOOKLET.
<-V*v
deaf?
Acousticori
You can HEAR,
and we prove it
by sending you,
post free, an
easy - to * wear
ON 10 DAYS'
FREE TRIAL.
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
Over 330,000 delighted users, including the
Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, who has,
been using the '‘Acousticon’* for more
than five years! The “Acousticon” will
safely and surely enable you to heart
Convince yourself at our Expense, and
DON’T STAY DEAF.
Lamson;
StoreT.
Service^"*
102 Daking House, SYDNEY
Olderfleet, Collins St.,MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St., Cliristc’h.
U. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
[John Barr and Ernest O’Ferrall, 214 George-
street, Sydney; and C. R. Bradish, Old Exchange,
Melbourne. ]
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIING ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHKKSEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Tomjo Ryan reckons he is going to be a
"bear” in the Australian meat-market just
as soon as he can get his new Federal
Government in working order after the elec-
tions. According to some jaundiced people
the correct way to spell Ryan’s sort of bear
is b —ruin.
Lachlan Maekinnon is going to the Cold
Country for three years or so, and ceases
to be general manager of the Argus for
that period, at least. Spowers is to take his
place.
Field-Marshal Sir Evelyn Wood, V.C.,
who died last week, belonged to the Lorn-
don “Catholic set” immortalised in Disraeli’s
novels. His wife, who was a Miss South-
well, devoted much of her life to religious
exercises, and was a believer in the theory
that England must return presently to the
Roman Communion. Like General French,
Sir Evelyn Wood served in the Navy as a
midshipman before he joined the Army as a
cavalry officer.
“P. Juggler” : “Old Brig.” Ryrie never
pretended to be anything more than a bush-
man turned soldier. After the Evacuation
we were on the Anchises bound for Alex-
andria. Boat stations were at oik-p allotted,
C. H. WORKMAN, new associate-director
of the Tivoli Theatres.
and Straker, the Brig.’s staff-captain, came
hustling up. “General,” he said, “your boat
V 5 , ?; 4 ° n . th , e starboard side of the saloon
deck Ryne looked at him. “I don’t know
much about this port and starboard busi-
ness, St Taker.” he said. “Tell me whether
it s the off-side or the near-side, and I’ll
make it all right.”
A youngster with the Australian Wireless
Squadron in Kurdistan lately distinguished
himself. He was the “sparks” attached to
an outpost that was attacked at dawn by
Kurds, who would open up rapid fire and
follow by rushing the barbed-wire defence
works surrounding the post. The defenders
were outnumbered and had to retire from
the wire. At this the Kurds commenced to
throw bushes towards the fence so as to
afford covering for their final rush. The
situation looked gloomy when the wireless boy
took the “lead” which connected the aerial
with the dynamo, and attached it to the wire
of the entanglements. The lightning was
waiting when the Kurds commenced their
final rush. After five minutes with the in-
visible power those who had not been elec-
trocuted were well on their way to a better
’ole. Unquestionably he saved the whole
outpost. But the Army would crumple right
up if his name was mentioned yet.
The man Adam Lindsay Gordon, dead
half a century, has been recalled to the
recollection of Adelaide, where he once sat
for a year or so in Parliament, by the death
of his widow. She married him in 1564 at
Mount Gambler, when only 18 —a thorough
companion for him across country, but not
in the study. “She has more pluck in her
little finger than I have in my whole body,”
lie once wrote. For the last 40-odd years
she has been Mrs. Peter Low.
It was at Villers-Bretonneux that the
Australians came in and stopped the grey
wave that was sweeping, it seemed irresist-
ibly, on to Amiens; and just outside the
town the occasional
visitor used to be
shown a hillock
where a young un-
named Digger
lieutenant ma d e
the first stand with
hi s handful o f
men; and that was
the beginning of the
turn of the tide of
the war. Now they
talk of the young
Digger and even
name him —he was
Lieut. Lyle Chris-
tian, the same who
was the pretty boy
in three of Shaw’s
comedies played by
the Melbourne
Repertory Co.; and
on his perform-
ances one would
have picked him as
a most likely per-
son to faint in the
presence of the
enemy.
“ FIGHTING
CHARLEY ” COX,
as a N. S. Wales
candidate for the
Senate.
“Gallery”: Peter Mcßride’s re-appoiiu-
ment as Vic. Agent-General in London for
a further 18 months is making Lawson’s
Attorney-General feel sorry for somebody.
Robinson, probably the ablest man in the
Cabinet, is alf&ged to have tentatively re-
commended himself as Peter’s successor, and
it was understood that Peter’s armchair
would fit him nicely. Unfortunately, some-
body found the secret too wonderful to keep,
and eventually news found the right address
in London. Peter, alarmed for his future,
hurried to Melbourne, and by unremitting
diligence won the regard of both Houses,
took the Cabinet by the ear, and beat the
favorite by a head. Attorney-General Robin-
son, however, is not losing sight of t ■
Promised Strand. He may be shortly stroll-
ing there on some more or less tremendous
Government mission.
Despite the appointment of Justices
Schutt and Mann, the Vic. Supreme Court
has more work than it knows how to grapple
with. Justice Cussen is shortly to be given
leave of absence, after which he will re-
quire “time off” to finish his consolidation
of the statutes; and Hood, J., who is 73 and
deaf, is likely to retire early next year, it
is thought that a new Judge will be appoin-
ted in January, and Stewart McArthur,
K.C., of the heavily-gilded Western-district
clan, who was mentioned among the “pos-
sibles” in connection with the recent High
Court vacancy, is first favorite among the
Chancery-lane tipsters. Starke probably
could have the billet if he wanted it, biu
there is no reason (espcially no financial
reason) to suppose that he does, and Weigall,
R.C., refused one of the unoccupied wigs at
the time that Schutt and Mann were
appointed. Edward Mitchell, the present
leader of the Bar, might regard a seat on
the Bench as a comfortable piece of fur-
niture in which to spend his old age, but
it is doubtful if he would become the junior
of Schutt and Mann. Wasley, the most
efficient County Court brother, might be pro-
moted if there wasn’t a prejudice against
Judges being raised above that station to
which it has pleased officialdom to call them.
Adelaide Uni. has finished its unusual job
of appointing six new professors in a year.
The two latest are for pathology, a new
creation for Adelaide; and law, in place of
Jethro Brown, now a kind of Industrial
Judge. The lawyer is Colmore Phillipson,
a brilliant English Jew, author of many
books, who proposes to spend his leisure
time in Adelaide in writing more. His
latest is on the effect of the Great War on
International Law, on which subject lawyer
Fred Young, M.P., recently Agent-General
for S.A., says that Phillipson is likely to
be the highest authority in Australia. The
doctor is J. B. Cleland, son of the expert
who for years presided over Adelaide’s chief
mental hospital. J. 8.. who is 41, ran against
the “hospital trouble” of 20 years ago in
Adelaide, and completed his medical course
at Sydney. He has studied tropical diseases
in Thursday Island and the Philippines, has
been bacteriologist to the Westralian Gov-
ernment, and for some years past has been
head of the Bureau of Microbiology in
Sydney.
Tom Henley, War Chest “Colonel,” did
excellent work in Egypt and London ; but if
the gush about his self-sacrificing services
doesn’t ease off soon somebody is bound to
ask whether he didn’t continue to draw £5OO
a year as a N. S. Wales M.L.A. and £250
as a member of the Water and Sewerage
Board.
Back into harness again at Perth, after
a long illness, octogenarian W. T. Loton —
he attended the annual meeting of the W.A.
Bank the other day. Loton is the only
surviving member of the Westralian delega-
tion to the Federal Conference in ’9l. He
arrived in W.A. in the early ’sixties, and
has been making money there ever since.
The widow of Richard Oliver, ex-M.L.A.,
of Maoriland, who died in England lately,,
was his second wife. She was Louise d’Este,
daughter of ,T. S. Courtney, of Penzance
(England), and a sister of the brilliant
editor of the Fortnightly. Oliver, a Pen-
zance man himself, was Minister for Works
in the Hall Ministry from 1879 to 1881, and
later a colleague of Whitaker and Atkinson.
J. W. Joynt, M.A., who died in London
recently, was a notable educationist, for
many years Registrar of the University of
Maoriland. He was an Irishman, born in
1852, and his career in the colleges was
1 'Pliant. 111-health sent him to M.L. in
1880. From 1889 to 1898 he was principal
<>f Nelson College; then he was induced to
become Registrar of the University, a job
which he retained until 1910. when he re-
turned to the Cold Country. ne never
married.
By the suburb’s grand-dad :
There is a melancholy coincidence about the sale
of Wonderland City (Sydney) and the death of
Mrs. Rita Lachaume. The land had been owned
by Madame since the days when Bondi was a re-
mote settlement, and it was she who sold it to
Bill Anderson for his Wonderland venture 12 or 15
years ago. A fortnight after the land was sub-
divided and sold, last - month, the old lady died,
aged 78. Dr. Lachaume was a well-known dentist
40 years back and a leading man in the French
community. It fell to Madame’s lot to receive
Sarah Bernhardt when she visited Sydney, and the
effusive Frenchwoman seized Madame and poured
French over her. Then Madame had to confess
that she had never learned the language. One of her
countless yarns was about what happened after her
husband took a house in Wynyard-square in succes-
sion to Henry Parkes. It was an unpaid gas-bill
for £4O. The courteous Frenchman waited on the
needy knight and asked him to pay the amount, as
the company would not supply him with the gas
required in his business until the bill was settled.
“I can’t pay the bill,” said the old bluffer. “But
I’ll tell you what to do. Pay it yourself, and when
you are moving out leave a similar bill unpaid.”
Vic. Public Works Department is in dan-
ger of losing Brittingham, its chief architect
and the most competent man it possesses.
He is just on 60, and that is officially given
as the main reason for his retirement; but
in inner circles it is known that he has three
sources of irritation —(1) the failure of the
Department to supply him with a decently-
remunerated staff, with modern notions of
building economically; (2) the low pay of
£750 allotted to himself; (8) the sweating
rates provided for inspectors of works. Per-
haps there is a fourth source in Drake, the
permanent head, who somehow does not hit
it with his chief architect.
“Gouger”: Died last month, on the Bloom-
field River (Q.), Peter Cochrane, native of
Scotland, engineer. Most of the sugar-mills
in the North used to send for the old man
when their machinery broke down so utterly
as to be apparently beyond repair. Years
ago Peter was taken down when placing two
of his inventions on the market, and the
experience cost the world an uncanny meat-
preserving process. He could cure beef,
game, etc., without salt, in such a way that
two months after treatment they tasted
exactly like fresh meat. He was implored
to put the discovery on the market. “No,”
the queer old chap always replied, “I’ll not
provide silk dresses for the wives of city
sharks.” A very old wife mourns for him
in their North Queensland Edei. of tropical
fruit and flower and tree—an laden he had
made in the jungle of Tool Koor Mountain.
Though any soil-tiller who works his own
little farm is qualified to join the Vic. Far-
mers’ Union, no objection is nowadays
offered when the city-dwelling station-owner
decides to throw in his lot with Henry Hay-
whiskers. Among the wealthy "farmers”
who have joined up lately is that horny-
handed son of the furrow, Edward Mitchell,
K.C., who owns Bindi cattle-station, and is
now a member oi the Sale branch.
There is only one flier in active business in
Westralia, Major Norman Brearley, yet aero-
planing is more popular there than anywhere
else in the Commonwealth. The other day
the State Governor went up with his wife
and daughter to get a bird’s-eye view of
Perth from 3000 ft. One of Jack Scaddan’s
carrier - pigeons
was in the party,
and was sent
down with a
letter from th;>
Governor to the
Prem i e r. It
wasn’t on a
matter of State
impor t a n c e—
was merely a
piece of stodge
eomme n c i n g :
"The conquest
of the air, fore-
seen by Dr.
Johnson in
’Kassel us,’ has
been definitely
achieved.”
JOHN P.
LUKE, Mayor
of Wellington
( M.L.).
Australia’s ripest trades-unionist is James
Wardley, of the Melbourne Operative
Bakers, who is reputed to be 104 and still
able to take notice of his union’s doings.
To show its appreciation of the old man's
work the organisation recently made him
its "permanent ex-president,” with certain
rights of precedence over other ex-presidents
who have not yet bad a centenary.
Claude 1 lorwitz, a Sydney dentist. wh:>
proceeded in divorce against his wife though
she was said to he dying, had precedent to
support him. The Roman Emperor Sylla
presented his third wife With a divorce
citation while she was on her deathbed,
just after she had been moved from bis
house. Judge and counsel severely repro-
bated Horwitz. No one had an audible
word to say to Sylla.
“The Pariah”: If the talk is still about
one-armed doers, here’s Jim Kennedy, of
Ballan (Vic.). lie does carting and wood-
cutting for a crust, and some years ago was
the mainstay of the local cricket team, both
as hat and howler, and was a holy terror at
football as well. There’s Jim Brady, of Axe-
dale (Vic.), also a woodcutter and fencer,
whose relaxation was cricket. Then there
was a youngster at St. Andrew’s College,
Bendigo, who captained both cricket and
football teams and was twice champion of
the school. lie visited Ballan one Christ-
mas and played for the visitors against the
locals, Kennedy being opposed to him. After-
wards he played a game with the Ballan
team, and that time he and Kennedy were
in together, and carried their bats for 19
and 18 respectively. There was also a one-
armed surveyor in Queensland, Turner, who
was a great axeman; and a one-armed parson
at Elmore (Vic.) could play a good game of
cricket or football.
"Nivius” gives first-hand information: —
If “Oglamite” (B. 2/10/’ 19) wants further proof
re the military wild man Broncho, I add my affi-
davit to that of “Scaler” (B. 27/11/’ 19). Broncho
was handed me at Tel-el-Kebir on 26/5/’l6 to take
to France. He arrived at Etaples on his own one
week behind the main party, forthwith plugged
a sergeant, escaped from the guard-tent and started
a two-up school in a sand gully 400 yards froiii
the depot. He soon gathered disciples and formed
a strong predatory gang. After two months the
usual J. Iscariot informed to get square with an-
other of Broncho's disciples. When we raided
Broncho’s headquarters at 3 o’clock on a wet morn-
ing a week later, we surprised the two outer sentries,
collared an inner brace, Broncho’s second-in-com-
mand, his adjutant and seven of his disciples—
mostly armed. But no Broncho. The inquiry elicited
that Broncho had businesses at Burke Plage and
Boulogne. The retirement of the captured for
from six months to two years each made Brtnicho
seek fresh fields, and we heard no more of him
until we moved to Havre (6/6/T7), when v.d.
brought him to a military hospital. He escaped
as soon as he was put under arrest. Broncho fired
point-blank at two Diggers of my outfit who were
taking the air somewhat too near his headquarters
in October, 1916. He never fought the Hun in
France, though he had many engagements with
the Jacks.
THE ALTERNATIVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twixt Hughes and Ryan must I make my choice.
One gets my vote — l’ll keep my heart and voice.
’Twixt Hughes and Ryan ! Uninvitirg pair
Of tireless tonguesters, issuing hot air
From mouths that ache with hurling maledictions
At one another’s mis-allegcd convictions.
’Twixt Hughes and Ryan ! Men whose constant job
For many years has been to gull the mob,
Impress the fools, appeal to passions base —
The envy, hatred of our human race.
And now their raving leaves us but to settle
The claims respective of the pot and kettle.
For Ryan, Hughes or Farmers’ candidate
(Who represents a class and not the State;
Nor can be taught a Tariff’s power to aid
The cause of Labor versus d—d Freetrade)
One has to vote ; some government we need
To help the weak against the guilty greed
Of them whose money mostly serves as might
To guard wrong-dealing and defeat the right.
Each rival candidate, like Floradorian clerk,
Addresses voters, making this remark:
“You must love someone ; therefore let’s agree
The one you must love might as well be me.”
’Twixt Hughes and Ryan (for the Farmers’ man
Is not a Party, nor a partisan) !
I must discriminate between the two,
And think, though both be false, that one is true;
Try to deceive myself, and do my best
To serve the pot or kettle’s interest.
A dirty game is politics to-day:
A dirty, dirty game; who answers “Nay”
Himself is in it, with a blunted sense
Of fraud and falsehood, guff and impudence.
Between two gamesters, then, 1 take my pick.
The one offends me, t’other makes me sick.
So, seeing I am bound to pick and choose,
I take the lesser evil —Billy Hughes.
OLD EXCHANGE, MELBOURNE.
EDMUND FISHER.


Mi
m
KHEAVY WEIGHTS)
616 S
&:»¥!'*&>x
s
J
TT
* One-Before Igo in
and
One-When / come out
THERE’S no Sweeter Tobacco
comes from Virginia, and no
better brand than the “THREE
CASTLES.”
Thackeray's “ The Virginians
The FAMOUS
BRAND or
W. D. * H. O.
WILLS


LADIES!
Christmas is approaching! You must be
comely. You must think of Gifts for Friends.
The Australian Climate Is severe. A perfectly STYLISH ATTIRE FALLS SHORT OF
ITS EFFECT if the skin is not in harmony.
To no mortal is it given to be always beautiful.
Heaven helps those who help themselves.
inter s
trange
TOILET
PREPARATIONS
Are harmless to the merest babe. They are Used by Royalty.
HAVE WON SIX GOLD MEDALS.
Hair Foods (Oily and Non-Oily) ; Dental Cream; Powder (3 tints); New Face Cream-
vanishing—2 colors, for oily skins; Lakshmi Cream, for Dry Skins; Soap, Lakslimi
Lotion, Dry Shampoo; Creme Marquise, Carmine—All obtainable at David Jones’, The
Civil Service, Farmer’s, Lassetter’s, Anthony Horderns’, Washington H. Soul & Co., and
all leading Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia. Branches in every State.
Send 3d. for Samples of Powder, or Soap, or Dental Cream, or Face Creams, and Booklet,
to John Strange Winter (London, Paris, Rome), 26-30 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
k/\e It on 1 an
HIGH-CLASS
SPECIALTIES
Creams
?r <!
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
(WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne-
E. DROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
All the best Society “Catering Functions’ are regularly carried out by the “PAVILION,” Sydneys Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
SOCIETY
COULDN’T HAVE HIM BOTH WAYS.
“John, I believe you’ve been drinking.”
“Well, do you shink I’d ha’ proposed to you
lasht night if I never touched it.”
“No. 477” supports “1921” :
Take it from me, the advancing of mounted men
against entrenched positions was not a success in
Palestine, whatever it may have been in South
Africa. Certainly the 4th Brigade did canter over
some trenches and almost into Beersheba; but
Jacko had been hastily evacuating _from the
moment the Ist Brigade of N.Z.M.R. captured Tel-el-
3aba, some two hours before, and most of the
trenches were empty; in fact, there only remained
a thoroughly disorganised rearguard. Later, a
troop of the 11th tried the same tactics against a
trench up Sheria way, and I think only two or three
of the attackers survived. Later still a squadron of
the same regiment tried the same silly game just
south of the Lake of Tiberias. They suffered more
casualties than did the remainder of the entire
Desert Mounted Corps during the advance from Jaffa
to Damascus. The 4th Brigade found to its cost
on the east bank of the Jordan, towards the end of
April, 1918, that all Turks were not the same as
the cowed mob they encountered at Beersheba, and
it was this Brigade that was directly responsible
for the loss of nine guns out of 12 on the second
unsuccessful Amman stunt. The Ist Regiment, on
foot, were the first troops to enter Beersheba. They
captured some 300 prisoners there, half of whom they
handed over to the 4th Brigade later on to guard.
* * * *
“Vic”: In 1915,,amongst many automatic
machines at Victoria Station,. London, was
one on which a name could be punched on
an aluminium disc. One night several hilari-
ous Diggers “had a go,” but failed to operate
the machine successfully. Next morning a
dear old dame came along to stamp out a
collar for her pet poodle, and was quite sur-
prised when the result told her that dear
Fido’s name was Blank-Blankety-Blank.
Being the first to operate the machine after
the Diggers she had been presented with
the result of their labors.
•X- * * *
Adelaide Insolvency Court has taken the
unusual course of giving a woman two
months’ imprisonment—which it has the
power to do without any criminal proceed-
ings being taken. Careless trading was
alleged ; but the point that moved the Com-
missioner of Insolvency most was the col-
lection of a soldier’s allotment-order, to the
amount of £137, which she said was a gift,
but he said was not. As her husband had
written the Digger a letter—now alleged to
be a poor sort of joke—chaffing him on the
money having gone to buy a new motor-car,
the Court thought it had “never seen ex-
hibited such callous disregard of the rules
of honor and requirements of friendship,”
told the husband that lie was not on trial
but the evidence cast suspicion on him, and
gave the wife two months, with a second-
class certificate suspended for one year.
“Light House”: Start two doctors from,
say, Marree, in S.A., one to go via Birdsville
to Boulia, the other to go via Oodnadatta to
Alice Springs, examining the natives as they
go, and I will bet my year’s screw to nothing
that 75 per cent, of those examined will be
found to be suffering from venereal disease.
I know of a young gin, employed at a “gov-
ernment house” (head-station), who (dis-
graceful as the admission may be) has made
wreck of the lives of five young station-hands;
and the station womenfolk don’t or won’t
know the risks they themselves are running,
for this young gin, to all outward appear-
ances healthy, is still an “invaluable kitchen-
maid” ! Exactly what are the duties of
Protectors of Aborigines?
* * * *
“Rev. Obadiah” : Right through the service
the grief of the little man in black had been
most ostentatious. Large tears rolled down
his cheeks and splashed on to his coat, and
his sniffing and sobbing could be heard all
through the church. When the service was
over he followed the coffin to the graveyard,
still “mourning aloud, and wet”; and as the
remains were being lowered into
the grave, he burst into a flood of
tears and bellowed like a calf.
Then reverently and sorrowfully,
he stooped, and, taking a handfhl
of dirt, threw it in on the coffin, and
after a last, lingering look, moved
slowly away. Not willing to let (
him go like that, I invited him*
to come to the presbytery for a
rest and a little chat, which I
made up my mind would be com-
forting. Having seated him in my
favorite chair, I poured him out
a stiff brandy and soda. “Now
that your poor wife’s gone,” I
began. “My wife!” said the mour-
ner. “She wasn’t my wife. My
name’s Brownley.” “Then what —
w-hat’s the meaning”-—? “Well,
it’s this way. Old Bill ’e got so
drunk ’e couldn’t attend ; so it was
up t’ me t’ take his place, ’im
being a pal o’ mine, y’know. So
I comes along and does what has
to be done, and I reckon I done it all proper,
too. I’ll move on now, sir, if y’ don’t mind,
an’ thanks for the drink.”
' “Sowing New Seed,” the Orpen painting
acquired by Adelaide Art Gallery several
years ago, has at last been shipped back to
London. Its lack of beauty, combined with
excessive nudity, nearly caused a riot when
it was exhibited first, and brought such
crowds as the Gallery has never seen before
or since. After some enthusiastic moralist
had got at it with an indelible pencil, it was
removed from the public gaze, and now an
arrangement has been made with Orpen to
give something else in its place. The Gal-
lery could at any time have sold it for more
than the £7OO that was. given for it, but
TO THE TICK.
MANAGER: “Miss Fluff, the typist, is she punctual?”
CHIEF CLERK: “ Punctual? Oh, very —exactly fifteen minutes late every morning.”
wondered what ever the Methodist Conference
would say if it made a profit out of a scan-
dal. Orpen, by the way, when appealed to
for an explanation of the picture of two
women, two cherubs and a wowser, ex-
plained that it was a satire —in other words,
a cartoon —on a matter of purely local Irish
interest. But for Orpen’s name to it it
would certainly never have been taken for
700 shillings.
* * * #
“Prisoner’s Friend”: Father O’Donnell
said after his court-martial that he was dis-
satisfied with the verdict—“an honorable
acquittal should have been recorded.” There
are two possible reasons why it wasn’t. In
the first place the charge may not have been
regarded as “a reflection upon his honor.”
The remarks he was accused of having made
about the King were only “disloyal” in the
Army sense: used by a civilian, or outside
a country under martial law, they
would amount to allowable criticism
on a matter of public interest. Very
different from an accusation of having
embezzled the mess funds, for ex-
ample ; and if the Court thought so
it would have erred, under the R. of
P., in bringing in a finding of honor-
able acquittal. There is another
aspect of the matter. Suppose the
Court thought that the
padre, though innocent
of using the words
alleged, had brought the
trouble on his own head
by indiscreet conduct
generally. Suppose the
Court held that in Ire-
land, shortly after a re-
bellion, and with another
threatening, it behoved
overseas tourists to act with particular
wariness. In that case also it would be
debarred from giving an “honorable acquit-
tal.” The principle is seen in divorce, where
an innocent co-re. finds himself cast in costs
because he has interfered between husband
and wife, and so laid himself open to sus-
picion. The first Duke of Wellington laid
down the principle for the army in his
“Despatches” (Yol. V.).
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant” ; The north cor-
ner of York and Barrack streets, Sydney,
has changed hands at £40,000, the tenants,
Alcock Brothers, being the purchasers. The
land used to be part of the Barrack Square,
and when the square was sold nearly 70
years ago, J. K. Heydon, father of the Judge,
was the buyer. He built offices on the block,
and the first tenant was the Oriental Bank
Corporation, which -some years later had a
historic smash.
* • * * *
“Acrabah” ; Add another couple of casual
blokes to the list. Up Jaffa way Joe got
the idea that his works were not in order.
Time, past midnight, consequently “the
quack” was out of bounds. Joe hurried
t® the next-best medical authority—the
farrier-sergeant. The sergeant said he kept
no regular dope, but suggested horse-balls.
“Better only give yer half a one, they migh'c
be a hit strong,” he muttered. Joe took it
gratefully. The next thing he remembered
clearly was the whitewashed walls of the
14th A.G.H. in Cairo.
* * * *
“Don Three”: The Germans had made
one of their infrequent raids the night be-
fore, and we were discussing it, when some-
one who had been peering through the look-
out remarked that there was a wounded Hun
officer out in No Man’s Land. Things were
pretty lively just then, so nobody looked over
the parapet to investigate; but Eric, who
had recently arrived, watched for a few
HIS SIXTH SENSE.
HIS MOTHER-IN-LAW: “ George tells me that
he has developed second sight lately .”
HIS W IFE: “Yes, so he has. I have taught
him to see everything with my eyes."
minutes, and then announced his intention
of going out to succour the German, who
was now groaning horribly. Before we
could stop him he clambered over the para-
pet, and, lying flat, commenced to wriggle
towards where the wounded man lay. There
was an astounded silence from the opposite
trenches for a moment, and then a fusillade
broke out, to which w r e vigorously replied.
Eric wriggled on unscathed, until presently
Fritz grasped the intent of his journey, and
the firing ceased. Soon the youngster
reached the German, and we saw him give
the wounded man a drink. His safe return
was the signal for a fresh outburst of fire
from the enemy lines, and shells began to
spatter noisily down as the _ hero related
what he had seen. “Poor devil,” Eric said,
“he snuffed when he’d had his drink. There
was a bosker diamond ring on a gold chain
round his neck, but I didn’t have the heart
to take it.” “A diamond ring!” yelled 20
voices. “Yes, a big one,” replied Eric sor-
rowfully. The next moment the full strength
of B Company was out of the trench and
charging madly across No Man’s Land.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE SINLESS EXCEPTIONS TO THE RULE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the course of an address at Goulburn, Mon-
signor O’Reilly stated that the dressing of women
was becoming more and more an intolerable scandal.
They were appearing in such a condition that any
man with a spark uf modesty could not possibly
visit them without feeling ashamed when he thought
of his mother and sisters.
Oh, bold and immodest are women to-day;
They dress for the Goth and the Vandal,
Or, rather, wwdress: sure it’s needless to say
The clothes they don’t wear are a scandal.
The eventide bodice is often so “hot”
That it scorches and burns, causing blisters;
But the women we speak of —a terrible lot —
Are not anyone’s mothers or sisters.
All mothers and sisters of moralist Man
Are white as the snowflakes from Heaven;
Their lives are arranged on a virtuous plan,
And they always get home by eleven.
We grant you that Eve was not snowily white
When she talked with the serpent, the twister 1
At the time Eve was tempted the apple to bite
She was nobody’s mother or sister.
The skirt of a damsel who passes is brief,
And the legs she displays are appealing;
She seems not to worry, for Fashion's a thief
Who robs them of “womanly feeling.”
We gaze for an instant and are not dismayed,
Our horror we easily smother;
But we murmur—“Oh, not in such garments arrayed
Would we like to see sister or mother.”
The stage is a place where young persons are flocked
Regardless of social conventions;
But ballets are Art, so we mustn’t be shocked,
For Art has exalted intentions.
In fact, we applaud with our feet and our hands,
Yea, we bang them against one another,
Whilst secretly blushing, as conscience demands,
At the thought of dear sister and mother.
No women are virtuous, modest or sweet
Save those to whom we’re related;
A Frenchman once said it, and cynics repeat
The caustic remark afore-stated.
There’s a style that is saucy, a fashion that’s smart,
A mode of bewitchment that glisters,
Which is all very well for Humanity’s “tart,”
But degrading for mothers and sisters.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


MICHELIN
TYRES
ARE HERE
ONTRARY to reports
being circulated, there is
no shortag'e of Michelin
goods. Stocks have never
been better; and you can rely
upon obtaining immediately
your full requirements of
Michelin Universal Tread
Covers and Michelin Red Rubber Tubes.
If your agent has not your particular sizes in stock at the
moment, he can readily obtain them for you in a few hours.
Micheljns—the world-famous product of the original Tyre
Specialists—will provide your most profitable tyre equipment, because
From a
photograph.
m
W.
1
5%
mm
nrn.
SSSHTiI!
'Jam.
Z^y-TSBr=
)/4^
they cost least per mile.
To pay a little more for a
great deal more mileage is to
reduce the cost of every
mile —and that is what you
can do with Michelins.
Recommended
by all
Practical
Motor-men.
MICHELIN & CO. PTY. LTD., 31 KING STREET, MELBOURNE.


£B5.
£l7/10/-
£l6/10/=
£25,
STEWART DAWSON’S
STEWART DAWSON QUALITY in Diamonds is
the criterion of value throughout the Commonwealth,
and the firm’s long-standing reputation as Diamond
Merchants is a guarantee of confidence for every
buyer. Your choice may safely rest upon this
guarantee. Call and inspect at any of the Stewart
Dawson establishments.
ALL DIAMONDS SET
IN REAL PLATINUM.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth (Aust.).
Regent Street, London.
£lO/10/-
Circle Diamond Brooch.
£B/10/-
Circle Diamond Brooch.
RARE DIAMONDS
OUR TEN HUGE ESTABLISHMENTS are daily
devoting their Ready Cash resources to provide clients
with the world’s best values in precious stones,
jewellery, etc. The purity and brilliance of the
Diamonds in Stewart Dawson’s Rings proclaim their
intrinsic character.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
CONTAINING RING SIZE CARD.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Hatton Garden, London.
£llO.
£2O
£ll/10/
£l5/10/
“Hamalt”: Just before “Deshdicado” de-
sired to be told (B. 13/11/M9) what the
Commonwealth intended to do about educat-
ing our New Guinea wards there appeared
in the N. S. Wales Education Gazette a
call for applications from teachers willing
to go to Port Moresby, under Federal Gov-
ernment auspices, for a term of two years.
Unfortunately the salary of £3OO per annum
is not sufficiently enticing to secure the ap-
pointment of any but mediocre men. How-
ever, Papua is to have a “public” educational
system commenced in 1920. Up to the
present the rudiments of learning have been
imparted by missionaries.
“S. S. Severn”: From a long and wide ex-
perience of our outer' possessions—Darwin,
Papua and the Islands—l am convinced of
the need of travelling or circuit Judges for
Commonwealth territories. A resident Judge
in a small community, where he knows every-
one and all about him, where he plays bridge
with Jones and tennis with Brown, and gets
wild with Smith because his fowls cackle,
though he be all that is honorable and up-
right, and is himself assured that he is un-
biased and impersonal, can’t be as safe as
the cool visitor who drops in from the outer-
world. The resident Judge may be a single
man with a weakness for other men’s wives.
Or should he be married his wife may dis-
TWILIGHT CONFIDENCES.
“She has the swiftest record in town.”
“How do you know ?"
“Oh, I’m her best friend.”
like lawyer Brief’s wife. In a small com-
munity his Honor’s personal foibles may
cause a certain amount of disrespect. He
may even acquire business interests. A
judiciary should be impersonal and detached.
It should arrive the day before the court
opens and go into court knowing nothing of
either litigant or either case. If it lives on
the premises and isn’t a living mummy
the requirements are beyond it.
* * * *
“Vandorian” drops in:—
How would Mrs. Sydney Harbor like to be house-
keeping at English prices? Eggs ss. 6d. a dozen
(and likely to rise) ; milk, lOd. a quart, and going
swiftly to a shilling. Bacon is kept at 2s. 6d. a lb.
by the Food Controller, but a more favored customer
is getting the best cuts that U.S.A. can spare.
Coals are soaring to realms unknown, and will be
rationed again when winter comes. The “roaring”
fires of Christmas tradition will have to depend for
most of the roar upon the wind that bellows down
the chimney. Butter —the present adult ration per
week is an ounce and a half—is a wan ghost of
THE PERFECT DAY.
“Isn’t the sea beautiful to-day ?”
“Oh, my dear, you really ought to have seen it yesterday; it was a lovely blue, and
looked perfectly gorgeous with my orange costume.”
the dead-and-gone English pats with Crumpled
Horns stamped on their fat top-sides. The British
Association, which is having its annual airing, has
been peering into the secrets of margarine—our
daily slab of grease. It mentions, with icy calm,
that “some margarine has a considerable percentage
of castor-oil.” And then it hurriedly sucked a
lozenge and passed on to mention old bones, etc.
* * * *
“£. S. Dido”: This is a sad, true story of
an almost inconceivable mistake made at
South Yarra during the recent Spring sea-
son. Johnston’s firm (we’ll say it’s Johnston)
had been trying for some big business with
a Queensland house for some months, and
the Melburnian seized the oppor-
tunity afforded by a repre-
sentative of the Northern people
being down for the Cup to put in
all the good work he knew. Smith
was the name of the man from the
North, and he and Johnston seemed
to be getting along famously to-
wards a definite understanding
highly profitable to Johnston and
Co. At a later stage in the pro-
ceedings Johnston rang up his wife.
“I am bringing that chap from
Queensland out to dinner to-night.
His wife will be with us. There
is a lot hanging to this, dear.”
So Mrs. Johnston dutifully spread
herself. At about six that even-
ing Johnston proudly ushered his
new friend Smith and Mrs. Smith
in. Smith had not been seated in
the drawing-room more than a
minute when a photograph caught
his eye. He arose, grabbed it, and
after inspection said: “Who’s this
lady?” “That is my wife,” said
Johnston. Smith collared his as-
tounded wife by the arm. “Come
alongj” said he. In the hall they
encountered Mrs. Johnston, who
approached smiling. The smile
froze on her lips while Smith
dashed past, dragging his wife, and
fled down the garden path. Then
the house-father turned to his wife.
It was a simple matter, after all. The
divorce was an old one, and Johnston had
inadvertently brought home his wife’s first
husband.
* * * *
“Country Ped”: Victorian primary
teachers and school committees have been
studying a Director’s circular, urging them
to organise a Flower Day effort again this
year. Last year the schools thus raised
£60,000 for soldiers and dependants. Half
the proceeds this year are to go to the
State Schools’ Horticultural Society, which
conducts the big nursery for State-school
gardens, and the other half is to go towards
equipping the schools. This has ever been the
primary teachers’ bane —that he or she
should turn concert-director and waste the
children’s school time in training them for
the platform instead of keeping them at their
legitimate work. High-school teachers have
never been aske'd to do this. When such a
school is built, it is properly equipped before
opening day, and prompt renewals are made
every year. But when a primary school is
built, all the Department equips it with are
desks, teachers’ tables, sometimes a book-
press or two, blackboards, and departmental
stationery. The rest —science apparatus,
teaching aids, text-books, etc. —the teacher
has to provide as best he or she can—which
often means out of his or her own pocket,
for he (or she) is slated if everything neces-
sary is not procured. What would be said
if the Judges had to train juries to do song-
and-dance turns in order to buy the Court
its law-books?
* * * *
“Copabella”: From those whose passion
in life it is to obey, Victoria’s Licensing Law
demands strange actions and, at times,
stranger swearing. Police listening outside
a country hotel judged by the popping of
corks in the bar, the crash of a glass fall-
ing and the hysteric squeaks of a female
when they hammered on the outer door that
Sunday trading had been in progress. Every-
thing, however, was in order when they
gained admittance, including a confession
from the bar-tender that he had served
boarders (those precious friends of the in-
nocent publican) during the day. The police,
having nothing else upon which to go, tried
a shot at the licensee under the “not having
every door locked” clause. The accused,
aided by a lawyer, countered and won with
the plea that he entered the bar by way of
the slide-window! A law which provides
both that drink may be served to a privileged
few and that the place wherein it is kept
may not be entered by a door, takes some
keeping; and there can be nothing but praise
for the good citizen who keeps it—even at
the risk of tearing his Sunday pants in
climbing through a small aperture.
* * * *
“Mopoke”: At Mouquet Farm (Somme,
1916) we were trying to clean out a trench
which Fritz blew in almost as rapidly as it
was opened up. Casualties were heavy and
it seemed a cert, that any minute would find
you issued with a 5.9 all to yourself. I was
thankful to get out of it at dawn, and on
reaching the bivvy went down to see what
sort of a breakfast was being handed out.
The cooker was surrounded by the platoon,
and Buck Burrows, the battalion hard-case,
was regaling ’em with his impression of the
stunt. I caught this: “It was a fair
blanker! An’ I don’t mind tellin’ yer now
that once, when the trench was moving
like a snake, and nobody near me, I hopped
on my knees —and Gor’ blime, didn't I pitch
the Ole Man a tale, too!”
* * * *
“Otira”: Globe-trotters who are looking
for thrills on mountain railways should take
a trip on the timber line at Nydia Bay, in
Pelorus Sound (M.L.). These rails carry
the sawn timber from Opouri Valley over a
ridge 2500-feet high, and the engineers made
no attempt to find a good grade when they
built the line. It goes up one side of the
razor-back and down the other, like an old
Roman road, and the grade most of the way
is 1 in 1. Everything depends on the rope
and the man at the engine, but in six years
there has _ been only one runaway. That
was one night when the engine-house at the
top caught fire. A loaded waggon was hang-
ing to the cable just over the brow of the
incline, held there by the brakes of the
winding engine. When the flames reached
the wooden brake-shoes the grip was released
A relief party of men was coming up the
track on foot, when one of them heard -i
rail rattle. They jumped just as a black
mass howled past them. They reckoned it
took ten seconds for that truck to cover the
58 chains of precipice, and there were onlv
splinters to pick up at the bottom in the
morning.
* * * *
“Araminta” : The butcher’s man was de-
pressed when he called around with the
chops this morning. He feels, he told me,
that the profiteers have him in their grip
“But you’re getting £4 ss. a week now’’
I reminded him. “Aw,” he confided in a
whisper. "It ain’t all the profiteers, y’ know.
Wot good’s four-pun-five t’ y’ if y’ got a
four-pun-ten wife ?”
“Zantlius”: The more completely eman-
cipated women are the less they count in
politics, apparently. In many countries and
in many ages brilliant or beautiful women
have, generally by their influence over men,
made or marred the destinies of nations!
Nowadays in Australia women have half the
votes and all sorts of chances, but is then-
one among them who stands out as a real in-
fluence, direct or indirect, on the destinies
of this continent? Nor can it be said that
they make up for this lack of individual in-
fluence by exerting power in the mass; prob-
ably because they have no woman leader,
they never use their strength on any woman’s
question.
* * * *
“Gouger”: What treacherous dogs the
Arabs of Egypt and Palestine are! Through-
out the desert campaign the Bedouin tribes
hung on our flanks, watching our small
mounted army struggling across the great
wilderness. On every engagement with the
Turks the Bedouins chipped in with long-
range sniping, paying particular attention
to the unguarded Bed Cross carts. They
waited patiently for the defeat that never
came, because then they could have swarmed
in between us and our scanty water supply.
Later on, in Palestine, when the big British
Army came in, and the Turks rolled up
from the Caucasus with their German
divisions, the vermin used to hang on
the flanks of both armies, watching the
battles and waiting to chip in against the
loser. They were in tens of thou-
sands there. For 20 miles along the rocky
A SINECURE FOR HIM.
WILD A RTIST: “Why don't I try setcin’-
machines or pianos or motor-cars! Wot
next — don’t I sell me pictures?”
PRACTICAL WIFE : “Oh, yes. But I thought
if you could sell them you could sell
anything, and there’s so much more
money in those other things, dear.”
hills of Hebron the black-shawled vultures
used to sit watching day after day the
bursting shells and the galloping squadrons.
When at last the Turkish armies were
smashed and forced to a retreat, the Arabs
swooped down on them, only to find that
the cornered Turk could still bite, and died
very hard. For our part we were glad at
this. It was all right to smash a brave
enemy in fair fight; but no soldier likes
to see him torn to pieces by a pack of
mongrels when he is down. Later on, when
the big Turkish relief armies came up, the
Arabs hung ominouslv around us again:
but when the Turks were routed, the birds
of prey left us for another harvest. Many
stray bodies of Turks surrendered to us
simply for protection.
COMPARISONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Melbourne Police Court On November 22, 14
men were each fined £5 and costs for playing two-
up.
We ask your prayer for that good Government
That saw the kip held in the player’s hand,
And put its statesmanship fo the intent
Of driving out all gamblers from the land.
God sent this victory o’er the demon kip;
Fined are the blokes who give the wowsers lip.
Now Tatt.’s, bazaars and betting all are crimes,
And after 6 o’clock the sinful beer
Cannot be purchased till the morning chimes
Awake to piracy the profiteer.
Smoking shall go, and horses from the turf,
Mixed bathing be abolished from the surf.
But ah! the profiteer is well-connected.
He plays his two-up in a lordly way;
His cards are stacked, fair dealing is rejected,
He’s dignified when ringing in the grey;
Two-up is dead in Wowserville, and also beer,
And each church-pew protects its profiteer.
But woe to criminals who play at pool,
Snooker, or billiards on the tables green!
Woe to the purblind petty-larcener fool -
Who for a shilling serves long years unseen!
The profiteer, rich, dignified, shall still
Sweat all the children’s bread in Wowserville.
QUEEN&LAN.D.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


1
/
Tonic Meals for All Classes of Stock
In response to numerous requests, we have pleasure in
introducing our series of
TONIC MEALS.
Each and every product carrying our Trade-mark will maintain the quality that
signifies for Linseed Oil Meal.
©
©
©
©
©
©
Parasitic preventive and Tonic Meal for Horses will eradicate so-called “Blood Worms,” and will
prevent such diseases as Worm Colic, Worm Paralysis, Staring Coat, Anaemia and Emaciation.
Tonic and Alterative Meal for Horses will prevent Colic, Gripe and Impaction.
Pig Tonic prevents Indigestion, Diarrhoea and Liver Disease, and will fortify your Pigs against the
ravages of such diseases as pneumonia and swine fever.
Tonic and Alterative Meal for Cattle prevents “Dry Bible,” Impaction of the third Stomach and
Indigestion.
Poultry Tonic Meal, used daily, will improve the health of your stock, and insures a maximum egg
yield.
Sheep Tonic Meal is stimulating and highly nourishing.
The services of our Veterinary Surgeon, M.R.C.V S are at your disposal, on request,
rearing, housing and feeding all classes of stock gladly answered.
Further particulars. Pamphlet instructing how to use. Department A.
Questions regarding breeding,
VliVWVttdttJ
oD JLLI9O3W
OPieboyon the bag
guarantees quality ”
HEAD OFFICE ‘£6 KING ST SYL3STEY (^)rks:PaTramatta)
UNSKDQKMEJt
/AEGGITT
\ PARRAMATTA
H( YAeJf>oy on theJbav
guarantiees qualify


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET. SYDNEY,
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-G COFFINS ST., MEFBOCRNE.
QCEENSFAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS.
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH .iUSTRAFIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIFDING, GREN-
FEFF STREET, ADELAIDE.
Hotel,
TARIFF \
12'- pep Day
6'6 Beds Breakfasf
C.R.Kerp
Pr»opp»et , or»
45 swanston 5L
Melbourne /
"King George IV
the TOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Bill R.”: The Dago (B. IG/10/T9) who
supported on his back a half-ton case of iron can-
not claim to be the only performer who has accom-
plished that strong-man feat. At Bermagui
(N.S.W.) I saw Christie Stewart, a Wallaga Lake
abo., lift a half-ton case of roofing-iron that some
teamsters were trying to load on to a waggon, rais-
ing it sufficiently to admit of a couple of six-inch
rollers being placed underneath.
TOO TALL A TALE.
BILL (from the bush): “But ’ow do yer
pull the boat down to the water?”
YACHTSMAN: “I don’t pull her down. I
just let the water come up to her."
BILL: “Ho, do yer? You’re the second
smart bloke what’s tried to ketch me
down here this afternoon."
“L.C.R.” : There has been a mild boom in
old whale-bones amongst Tasmanian scientists. A
month or so ago Lord, of the Hobart Museum,
aided and abetted by Scott, of the Launceston shop,
raked together sufficient relics out of the cellars of
the former institution to rig up three and a half
skeletons of mammals whose remains had been hid-
den away for the past 50 years. One of them was
so rare as to be classed as the first specimen of its
kind to be recorded from Australian seas. This was
the beaked whale (Ziphius cavirostris) , distinguished
by a long snout and scanty teeth. Now Flynn, of
the Tas. Uni., has rooted a similar skull out of the
cliffs at Wynyard in the north, and has been wear-
ing his hat cocked over his eye in consequence.
Bones of the same kind of beast are located in the
Canterbury Museum (M.L.). The descendant of Jonah
is of a very retiring disposition, and is valued
accordingly.
“Senex”: An old busliman gave me a tip
the other day which would seem to be just what the
sailor has been wanting to know since he signed
on. The bushwhacker said that if you are ever
perishing of thirst within reach of the sea, just
dip a billyful out of the big pond, bring to a boil,
and throw in a double handful of wood ashes. As
soon as these have sunk pour out about half the
water into another receptacle, and it will be fresh
enough to drink. I’ve got my own opinion about
the yarn. But try it, will you? I’d have to waltz
Tillie 400 miles to do it.
“D.F.”: Old hands on Kangaroo Island
(S.A.) say that the last of the Tasmanian aborigines
are buried there, and not in the Speck. The old-
time whalers and sealers brought women over from
Tasmania ; for instance, when the settlers of the
South Australian Co. came to the Island Robert
War lans, the head of the local community alreadv
settled there, had two Van Diemen Land wives
named Puss and Bet. It is claimed that the last
of the pure-blooded Tasmanians were three who were
buried at Springy Vale, near Stokes Bay. The
original pigs of Kangaroo Island, by the way, were
brought from V.D.L. in the pre-South Australian
days, and, the story goes, released at Hog Bay,
near which ar e Pig’s Head Flat, Porky Flat and
Morepork Gully. Sydney sealers visited Kangaroo
Island very early, and in 1819 George Sutherland,
master o{ the brig Macquarie, put in over six
months there, from January 8 to August 12. That
was* 17 years before the Province was “proclaimed.”
• • • •
“Ground Floor”: A dun-colored cow
strolled into our pub at Charlton (Vic.) the other
night, and, like other visitors after 6 p.m., selected
the back entrance and moved noiselessly. Not know-
ing her way to the bar she callled in at the room
of the fresh-air lodger, who sleeps with his door
wide open, to inquire the route. Beauty breathed
on him heavily. As he didn’t take immediate
notice she mooed, and gave him a prod or two with
the near horn. When she began to toss the clothes
about the lodger slipped down between the bedstead
and the wall, and yelled for help, while he hurled
boots and everything else that was handy. The
better to inquire into what all the trouble was about,
she turned on the electric light,’ and seemed horribly
surprised when she did it. Light and cover gave
the paying guest courage, ahd he made more row,
which brought help. Retreating, Beauty made for
the kitchen, where she took it out of the old-
fashioned crockery, and then retired in good order.
Progressive townsmen have suggested the modifica-
tion of the shire-council seal to provide for a cow
rampant and the motto “Wake up, Charlton.”
* » * »
“W. Casey” : The Bulletin contributors
who contend that you cannot catch a brumby unless
you do it quickly are correct. That, anyhow, is
the opinion of the recognised wild-horse catchers
about Paupong, Moonbah, Grose’s Plains and Ingelyra
(N.S.W.). The brumby
that is caught generally
loses through fright. Once
the first shock is over you
can say good-bye and go
home. Now and then one
can be captured after a
long run, but it requires a
light rider and a good nag.
At present there are a
couple of “Snippy” stal-
lions and a black pony run-
ning on the hills. They
have proved themselves too
good for the local pigskin
experts, and trap-yards
tempt in vain. The pony
keeps just ahead of a pur-
suer ; it is like a man in
one railway-carriage and
another in the next. Travel
as fast as he likes the
hind bloque gets no closer.
The owner of the pony
thinks it is uncatehable, and lately swapped it for
a dog.
* * * *
“F. Seedy”: I have bred pointer pups
for years (and there is no more delicate dog to
rear than these, unless perhaps the greyhound), and
here’s the cure when they suffer from distemper,
which is nothing other than teething pneumonia.
The symptoms are watering at the eyes, hot nose,
staggers, and, if luck’s out, death. The treatment
consists of the removal of all temporary teeth that
should come out themselves. A pocket-knife prized
in between the tooth to be removed and the one
next will always do the deed, as there is no root
on it. If the pup is bad and down, use an enema
with soapsuds and water, give light diet, a warm,
dry bed and keep him away from draughts. This
is all that is necessary to save 90 p.c. of patients.
In 20 years experience of dogs I’ve never seen a
full-grown one with anything like teething pneu-
monia-—so-called distemper.
* * * *
“Azac”: ’Ware of shearing tallies. Re-
cently it was widely circulated that a Westralian
shearer barbered 321 jumbueks in one day. True,
he was paid for 321, but he took the overcoats off
only 180. A large number of them were stags and
rams, which were counted as “doubles.” Another
Westralian shearer was reported to have pet up a
tally of 310 in one day, but the actual number
shorn was 153 ram lambs, for which he was paid
double rates.
“Prickly Pear”: Talking about the Law-
tons of Chinchilla and Taroom (Q.) as rough-riders
and cattle-throwers (B. 20/11/’l9), let me add
further testimony as to Tom Lawton’s ability with
the whip. A few years ago, when J. T. Bell was
Minister for Lands and was making an official visit
through the Taroom district, Tom had arranged to
drive the party on to the railway from his station,
a distance of 95 miles. He had horses posted alorg
the route every 12 miles. (The road was a track
through prickly-pear and Ibrigalow.) Bell arrived
'SO CARELESS OF THE OATTAIN.
SYMPATHETIC CHILD: "Oh, daddy, come and look. Here's a poor little dog been run over
by a ship!”
at Tom’s at 8 p.m. instead of 12 noon—eight hours
late—and was anxious to get to the railway to catch
a train at 7 o’clock the following morning. Tom said
he would have him there if the travellers could keep
their seats. They agreed to risk it, and Tom hail
them at the railway in time to have a few drinks,
listen to them say what a good driver he was, and
enjoy a feed before the train went out. The team
I saw put in consisted of five (four of them blind-
folded and hoppled while they were getting hitched
up). This was at 11 p.m. But Tom’s trump card
is driving a motor-car. In Taroom in 1915 he
offered to take a pal out 15 miles oik some impor-
tant business, but for some reason neither were
ready to leave until 11 p.m. (pub closing time), and
when the car was started the lights would not act.
Lawton reckoned, on account of the Australia going
out of Sydney Harbor without lights, that he could
drive 15 miles in a car without them, and he did,
too. I know. I was the pal. I promise some quick
rides for someone when Tom gets an aeroplane.
* * * *
Adelaide Register, in its 50-years-ago
column, digs up grandpapa’s foolishness over the
sparrow. Ivapunda Institute was then rejoicing over
the good news that the birds in the Adelaide Botanic
Gardens had at last hatched out a brood, and was
hogging that pairs should be distributed “to persons
in different localities who would take an interest in
propagating and rearing them ; we should have them
spread over the colony, and our little friends would
soon be quite at home.’’ They were.
*. * » »
“ J.H.Q.”: “Black Bonnet’s” description
(B. 13/11/’l9) of the “wild cherry” of N.Q. is Surely
that of the lilli-pilli, which is more or less common
along the coastal creeks of the northern State. The
species should well repay proper cultivation in suit-
able situations, for its fruit has a pleasant acid
flavor and makes a delicious jelly. Red-currant
jelly is not in it with well-made lilli-pilli jelly.
The fruit also makes a very pleasant drink, and,
seeing that the Prohibitionists intend to keep going
to the bitter end, a new pleasant drink will be
a godsend.
* * * *
“Dano”: Somebody drew attention in a
recent Bulletin to the surprise expressed by one of
the Scottish trade commissioners that the jacaranda
was not more largely used in Queensland as an
ornamental tree. Well, the reason is, to a great
extent, that a widespread belief exists that the
beautiful vegetable, when blossoming, is very in-
jurious to health. At a recent meeting of the Ips-
wich City Council a ratepayer complained that
jacarandas in his neighbor’s yard had caused illness
in his family; and the Council, without hesitation,
ordered the owner to remove the trees. What’s the
answer to the Council ?
* * * *
“FY7”: The abo. who broke his giddy
wife’s legs to keep her from straying from the path
of rectitude (B. 20/11/’l9) was an amateur beside
indignant Binghis in the Barcoo years ago. They'
hamstrung the missus with a sharp tomahawk.
Broken legs knit again, but not severed sinews.
Co-re.’s, if not killed outright, were sometimes ham-
strung at the same time as the light o’ love.
“Cape Pork'’: Five or six years ago two
Archer River abos. from Cape York were sent by
the Coen police to Barambah mission, South Queens-
land, some thousand miles distant, for applying the
unwritten law to their gins. Within 12 months
from their capture they were back at their camp at
the Archer, having done the whole of the journey
on foot. This gives seme idea of the dread the
uncivilised blackfellow has of the missions. As
one who has had a lot to do with the uncivilised and
half-civilised abos. 1 regard the mission-stations as
the biggest blot on our continent, and my con-
tempt for those responsible for the cruelty imposed
on the nigs by shutting them up in these places
' would have an outlet if I were Billy Hughes.
j** * *
“Lever”: I’m in a hurry for a safe and
sure 'cure for warts on stud cattle. I know of a
number of so-called cures—some that destroy the
hair as well as the warts, others that take too long
on the job. I treated a young bull with a vet.’s
cure, but it was two months before he was rid of
the affliction. The warts are mostly on the head and
neck.- Some cattle, usually calves and young bulb-,
are one mass of them, while other cattle in the
same yard never show a sign.
* * * *
“Mulga”: Saw this while I was toiling
on a boring plant. One evening the firewood cutter
bet one of the drillers an even pound of tobacco that
he would raise and carry on his shoulder one of the
casing-pipes. We were all dubious, as the pipes were
between 17ft. and 18ft. in length and very heavy. The
challenger stooped down and lifted one end of the
weight on to his shoulder. He then worked along
SPEECHLESS.
“I feel very thorry for young Colienthtein;
he vill never thpeak again.”
“Vy?”
“He vent to the var and got both of hith
handth that off.”
the pipe until it balanced, and then shuffled, Chow
fashion, with his load the stipulated distance, 10yds.
“The Chow method,’’ he said, “was the only way
to carry such a heavy weight—balance and shuffle.'’
If he had attempted to bend his knees he would
immediately have fallen over.
( Continued, on page 22.)
A BUSHMAN’S FANCIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where twisted ti-trees bar the sun
Above the waters of the bay,
Far from an inland river run
A bushman takes a holiday;
And droving fancies, quaintly spun,
While idle, smoke-wreathed hours away.
Across the ocean paddocks green
Far out the long, bare ship-routes lie,
With white-walled tanks a moment seen;
And up between the sea and sky
Gulls swing and sweep, like birds that soar
Where drovers tail their hungry flocks,
While closer in beside the shore
The growling Seadogs heel the rocks.
’Way out pike-librned rock-cattle bide
To rake the ribs of careless ships,
But racing down the paddocks wide
Old Neptune’s stockmen crack their whips.
Along the skyline, where the sun
Is boundary-riding through the day,
Long lines of wave-made fences run
With snow-white sliprails built of spray.
Now darkness rides along the sand,
Birds pass above in home-bound flight;
The young night wears a star for brand.
A distant steamer shows her light—
It seems to one from droverland
A far, lone camp-fire in the night.
MAORILAND.
RIVERINA.


Christmas Gifts
for Everybody
at PALING’S.
m
H!
Ml
..
We are Sole
Agents for
CHAPPELL,
SAMES,
ESTEY
and
VICTOR
PIANOS;
Also ESTEY
ORGANS.
Easy Terms.
m
HRISTMAS-TIME is drawing nearer, and you
probably need a new Piano. Don’t forget the
dear children. What could possibly bring more
pleasure to your family than a Piano, Organ or
Player Piano, or to your friends than a Gramo-
phone, Grafonola, Violin, Banjo, Music Stool,
Music Stand, Mandolin, Concertina, or other Musical Instrument
—something that will bring gladness to their hearts, and will
last much longer than if you bought a tawdry article?
Our Enormous Business has been built
on a foundation of the BEST VALUE.
Remember, we choose only what we know to be the most
suitable goods for the Australian climate, based on our knowledge
of over 66 years.
If you are interested in any Musical Instrument we will
gladly give you the fullest information.
Each instrument is sold with the PALING GUARANTEE,
and on Easy Time-Payment if you wish.
Catalogues are free for the asking. When writing please
mention the particular instrument you are interested in.
PALING’S,
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
Make PALING’S your heart-
quarters for your purchases
of “His Master’s Voice”
GRAMOPHONES, and
COLUMBIA GRAFONOLAS,
Records, Needles, etc.
Let us send you our de-
scriptive Catalogues and
lists of New Records —they
are free for the asking.
And at Brisbane, Toowoomba, Newcastle, Lismore.
That Makes Thousands of Australian Farmers prefer the
“Little Giant” Pumping Outfit to any other?
Some attribute its popularity to its excellent construction —others to its excellent performance others again to its unusual economy.
All of them are right.
mz
The “Little Giant” Pumping Plant occupies the unique position of looking good from any
angle. There is an old saying that “a chain is only as strong as its weakest link. There
are no weak links about the “Little Giant” Pumping Plant. The workmanship and
material are the finest that can be produced. It is strong, compact, efficient, long-lasting
and economical in operation.
The “Little Giant” Pumping Plant was manufactured on the Cooper policy of first studying
all other machines in existence —watching them at work in actual every-day use finding
out just what was and was not wanted, and constructing a Plant accordingly. As a
result it has a reputation throughout Australia to-day never approached by any other
pumping outfits made. It is known and commended in almost every district in the
Commonwealth for its excellent service.
In a recent letter from Messrs. Clark & Fauset, Ltd., one of the oldest engineering and
machinery firms in Queensland, they state: —“We consider the ‘Little Giant’ Outfit splendid
value for the money. As a matter of fact, there is nothing else in this country to be
compared with your proposition.”
The “Little Giant” Pumping Outfit
consists of a strong pump-gear, heavy machine-cut gear-wheels with heavy steel shafts,
running in anti-friction white-metal bearings which are constantly lubricated from large
syphon lubricators. The pump jack is mounted on a solid iron bed and direct connected
to the Cooper 2-h.p. engine. The engine has ample water-cooling tank, which insures
even running in all climates. It is fitted with the famous Liberty Magneto, has float
feed carburetter and the latest attachments throughout. The outfit can be placed on the
well or bolted to a windmill for instant work in a few moments’ time.
PRICE, complete as illustrated, £52/10/-
IF YOU REQUIRE A PUMPING PLANT OF ANY SIZE, OF ANY TYPE,
FOR ANY PURPOSE, DROP US A LINE AND LET US SOLVE YOUR PROBLEM.
The Cooner Engineering Co., Ltd., and their sole agents in every State in Australia, are engineers with long years’
Jxoerience in handling pumping problems. A letter addressed to any of the firms below, stating your requirements,
wUI brUig you by return mail price and full particulars of an outfit to suit your requirements.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
480 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.
_ „ • • sir tt 1? rVk ATIP^TiATI
Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., PERTH.
N.Z. Roan & M. A.
Australasian Imp. &H. F. Co., ADELAIDE. Clark & Fauset, Ltd., BRISBANE.
Co Ltd ROCKHAMPTON, HUGHENDEN & TOWNSVILLE.


Three Reasons Why You Should Appoint
Permanent Trustee Company of N.S. W. Ltd.
Your TRUSTEE EXECUTOR ATTORNEY AGENT.
PERMANENCE.
The Company cannot travel or die. It
is permanently in O’Connell Street, at
the service of your beneficiaries.
J. W. Baknes, Assistant Manager.
SECURITY.
The Company cannot speculate. Its powers
are defined by Act of Parliament. Its
experience ensures expert administration.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
STRENGTH.
The Company has a subscribed capital of
£1,000,000, and all of its directors
well-known business men.
are
Write for New Booklet.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
“Piwa”: Henare’s recipe for the removal
of evil spirits may come in handy. Mix in pro-
portions suited to the taste of the "possessed''
person a small quantity of kerosene and hair-oil.
One dose is stated to be Sufficient to cause the most
stubborn spirit to change his address. I asked the
tohunga to explain how he accounted for the cure,
but I got very little satisfaction. “You pakelia
don’t understand,” h e said. Then he explained that
in his youth lie had had opportunities of comparing
the inside works of a pakeha with those of the
Maori, and had found them to differ materially in
certain important respects. I left it at that, feeling
the explanation a bit beside the argument, but any
afflicted person wishing to give the remedy a trial
is cordially invited to do so.
“Jim Carew”: With the increased use of
wire-fences the old custom of placing wide-horned
bullock skulls on top of gate or sliprail posts seems
to have gone out of fashion. The skulls were used
where gates were fragile, and it was seldom that a
THE MODEL HUSBAND.
“And sensitive! I never see a man so sen-
sitive nowadays! Why, he couldn't hear
the sight of me chopping the wood. He
always had to go inside and shut the
door."
bullock would stray near one guarded by the skulls
of two of his brethren. On a station in North
Queensland years ago there was a gate that had
the full skeletons of two abos. ornamenting its posts.
The apparition caused me a couple of exciting bolts,
the scars of one of which I’ll always carry.
CUTTING OUT THE NON-ESSENTIAL S.
MUTUAL FRIEND: “Thin in my friend Mr. Eamoa, Mr. Kenny."
MR. KENNY: "Wot in it?"
MR. EAMES: “My name in Names"
MR. KENNY: "Never mind your name — wot’s your drink?"
“Chev”: Working on my oyster-lease to-
day I found evidences of activity in an excavation
under a stone wall. Of course X said “Crab!”
(They’re regular devils on oysters, these big mud-
crabs; but what good fellows they are when boiled!)
Got the iron probe to work and hooked out a fair-
sized octopus. All round his dug-out were small
oyster shells, and it is evident he has a liking for
the bivalves; but how he manages to open ’em
is more than I can understand. Old Bob, a
veteran of these parts, begged the corpse. He
vowed that stewed it was a great delicacy—“better
than the finest beef-tea.” I let him have it.
“Bouragi” : I have known and spoken with
many practising cannibals, and the complaint of
saltiness in human flesh has been made time and
time again by them, but
only as regards white man.
The late Chief Inspector
Douglas, of the Queensland
police, who was on the
Palmer with the black
Hops in the roaring days
of that great alluvial
field, told me once that
the cannibal abos. of the
district preferred to cut
their fresh meat from the
Chinese pack gangs, be-
• cause it was much less
salty than European beef.
“Bill Bowyang” states in
The Bulletin that canni-
bals prefer nigger meat be-
cause it is fatter than
white man’s, and that they
dislike habitual users of
tobacco because of the
flavor of nicotine in the
flesh. My faithful body-
sen ant and cook for years
in' Papua assured me earn-
estly that he and his
friends found white man’s
meat too fat, and that it
frizzled objectionably on
the coals. As to the
tobacco taint, the Papuan
and Solomon cannibal is
the most inveterate of
smokers, both of native
and trade weed, and his
habit of deeply inhaling
the smoke from the bau-
bau pipe should thoroughly
inure him to the taste of
nicotine. No Western
Pacific cannibal, either,
would cook his game in
such a careless and waste-
ful fashion as “Bill B.”
describes —tying it to a
tree and setting fire to the
vegetable. I can guaran-
tee that the butchering and dressing is most
carefully done, even to the conserving and
utilisation of what butchers call the “smallgoods.”
I cannot help thinking that a Royal Commission to
inquire into cannibalism would do much to enlighten
a prejudiced public and, perhaps, lower the high
cost of living. I am available as chairman at the
usual rates.
* * * *
“Zanthus”: When it came to forethought
in preparing for a jag the old-time whalers were
hard to beat. According to tradition they used to
pour the rum into clay-lined holes in the ground
so that they could dip their pannikins into the
liquid without the worry of trying to get up.
Nick Bottom”: “Waterstones” mentioned
lately by “Melos” are in nearly all the creek-beds on
the Tweed and Richmond (N.S.W.). I have made a
close study of these chalcedonies, and have found
that in all cases they were formed in cavities created
by air or steam bubbles in the basalt during its
pasty stage. Into the-e cavities water, bearing
silica in solution, made its way, and on reaching
the walls of the cavity deposited
some of its silica, generally in
the form of milky chalcedony.
This process was continued until
the cavity was filled, or until
the containing rock weathered and
left the chalcedonic pebble ex-
posed. “Melos” says these stones
contain only a few drops of
water; but this is only partially
true. I have seen specimens vary-
ing from the size of a French
bean to the size of a man’s fist,
all containing water. They vary
in shape, and, as might be ex-
pected, some grotesque forms are
found. The interior structure of
the pebbles is also very diverse
and in many cases of great beauty.
I have in my collection a minia-
ture Jenolan Cave with stalac-
tites and stalagmites complete,
whilst another specimen (not a
water-stone) shows the different
stages of deposit in beautiful
parallel laminae of red and almost
colorless silica in alternate layers.
If these stones were foreign to Australia we would
fall over ourselves in our eagerness to purchase the
trinkets that would be manufactured from them.
“Widgee”: The Australian who has
whacked it in the Far North has a set of nerve
centres awakened that never quite go to sleep again,
lip there the night-travelling reptile is so frequent
that most seasoned camp-dwellers feel uneasy unless
they take a “hurricane” with them when they go
in o’ nights to have a taste at Murph’s. Before I
saw the real Outback I spent many a long evening
tramping over bush roads in the Victorian ranges,
with never a thought of snakes in country where
they are common enough in the daytime. Now,
when night-strolling on the old range-roads, it is
quite impossible for me to refrain from watching
the track lying white in the starlight before me,
lest its whiteness be marked by something that
needs cracking up with a boulder.
* * •
“Damper” : Takes a long time for the old
h;.nd to lose its cunning. After bushranger Gardino;
had done his 10 weary years he went to ’Frisco,
where he ran a pub. The joint was often visited
by cowpunchers out to blew their cheques against
time. One of these toughs, a noted gunman, with
just enough snakejuice inside to make him fresh,
pulled his weapon on Frank at some fancied slight!
Or rather, that’s what he started to do. .Before the
hardware was half-way out of its hip-socket the tough
found himself gazing down the mouthpiece of the
Australian ex-bushranger’s revolver, and decided to
let his own ordnance slip back into its place. By
the way, anybody know the true details of Gardiner’s
last days and death?
“Azae”: When skins are to be stored for
any length of time, especially in the summer
months, it is advisable, as soon after skinning as
possible, to paint the pelt with some solution to
keep away weevils and ether pests. Either of thes°
mixtures is cheap and effective:—
(T) Arsenic, 4oz. ; soda crystals, Boz. ; water, lgall.
(2) Arsenate of soda, lib. ; water, 4gall.
The ingredients should be boiled together and
applied when cool, but be careful, for they are
highly poisonous. Be sure, too, to paint the pelts
thoroughly. .
De Oriel : One Griffiths, of Hobart, has
a sulphur-crested cockatoo which owns to a century.
His speech is old-fashioned, and he whistles very
ancient airs. Cowburn, of New Norfolk (Tas.),
has another cocky who possesses neither voice nor
feathers, and eats and sleeps with the fowls. At
Tattersall s Hotel, Lismore (N.S.W.), there’s a
crow who resides in the stable, talks very horsey,
whinnies like a gee-gee and swears like the Devil,
Ihe barber in Natimuk (Vic.) has a number of
bright-plumaged birds who swear at you in Dutch.
They were brought from Java.
* * * *
“lOddyson”: It was a peaceful, fraternal
community of five, milling among the box and red-
gum on Bullock’s land, far removed from booze
and the ordinary causes of dissension. 'Die mill
stood under a rough shelter, a mere bark roof set.
on four uprights, in a sea of sawdust, behind ram-
parts of stacked timber. Three carefully-built huts,
one of them a common dining and living room,
nestled under weeping peppermints at a distance of
about 50 yards, suggesting an Arcadia, rough but
effective. For 11 months the greatest good fellow-
ship had existed among the men; but now here
were Turner and Pike displaying towards each
other a politeness that the others felt to be most
uncalled for and was portentous as a thunder-
laden sky. The outburst was astounding, but not
unexpected. The pair clashed over the matter of
prior rights in the use of the communal soap on
Sunday morning, and they fought it out on the
grass with terrific energy and apparently un-
tamable vindictiveness. Pike was beaten in 15
rounds, and retired to his bunk. Thereafter his
air was one of complete abandonment, and Turner
strolled over to Bullock’s homestead alone that
evening. lor three weeks Pike did not go near
the homestead, sit-ated about three miles from
the mill, and meanwhile Turner drifted across
almost nigh.ly. It was Sunday morning again,
DIRTY WORK AT THE CROSSROADS.
B OTH: “And if it wasn’t for your size, sir,
I'd”
and Pike was sitting outside the hut peeling the
potatoes for the common lot, when Turner saun-
tered up, smoking, and seated himself on his heels,
apparently deeply interested in Tom’s job. Pres-
ently he spoke. “I ain’t so keen on you-know-what,
after all,” said he. “We was a pair of mugs to fight.
If there was 20 quid stuck on the end of a stick
I could myself follerin’ it right out of this
distric’.” Tom Pike thought the matter over, and
Turner carried his swag off the property on Satur-
day after lunch. On the Saturday night Tom sad-
dled up and jogged over to Bullock’s on the boss's
coffee-colored mare. He found Anne, the rather
nice-looking cook at the homestead, free of duties,
and hung round her in a loose, desultory way for
half an hour or so. Then he said suddenly : “What
about marryin’ me, Anne?” Anne looked up in
surprise. “Didn’t Bill Turner tell you?” she said.
lell me what?” “He asked me to marry him, and
I told him I was engaged to Artie Summers, and
gom’ to be married in a month.” Tom Pike picked
up a- straw, looked at it very earnestly, bit it, and
N °,„ he Rai< D “Turner never told me nothin’. So
long. He slouched back to his horse, mounted
and went off at an ( amble, apparently in deep
thought and talking to himself. What he was say-
ing for over a mile, half-singing in time with the
joggle of the mare, was: “The dirty ’ound, the
duty ound, and I gave him 20 quid to go i The
dirty ’ound!”
“Bill Bowyang”: I nominate the tiny*
yellow-tinted tree-tit, a resident of N.Q., as the
smallest bird in Australia. The mite is only 2Jin.
long, and its eggs are just over Jin. in length. A
few day’s ago I dropped across a colony of these
birds nesting in the tops of young eucalypts, the
homes built of fine twigs and screened with broad
green leaves. Fine shredded bark, cobwebs and
hair woven into the branches completed the residences.
THE GIRL FROM BENDIGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was our guest from Bendigo.
She came to Brolgatown;
Her skirt was high, her blouse was low—
Dad met her with a frown.
A tree’d gohanna glanced below,
Blushed deep and tumbled down.
The plough horse bolted to the scrub,
Our hens refused to lay,
The cockatoo at Casey’s pub
Had syncope that day.
A magpie mounted on a tub
Cried, “Hep, hep, hep hooray! ”
Fred hangs around the house all day ;
He says he’s “helping mum.”
And da’d, instead of trucking hay,
Is busy drinking rum.
The local band turned out to play
“Oh Come, Beloved, Come.”
The pigs are nosing round the door;
The pigeons, full of guile,
Are flirting with an ancient boar
Who’s chewing Edna Lyall.
The counter-hand at Murphy’s store
Is reading “Enid’s Smile.T’
Our model farm is up the pole—
Ye reapeth as ye sow—
But Brolgatown has found its soul
Like Carthage long ago.
Which is (to end this rigmarole)
The girl from Bendigo.
N.S.W.
STEPHEN SHERRY.


Will
m
0
w
SRSK(&PR£SS
CIGARETTES
Possess that charming' individuality that
is so appealing to many thousands of our
Australasian friends. Quality same as usual —
4 JUST PERFECT/ 9
m
c /n
Wr.
&
©
ri DSolc/t
e/»
%y C/.
o.
°/s/ t
'<*s
%
sSE
m
llln
c c o^
UMBER®
n
o
XD
THE RED PACKET


£3
unrnrrTmTHiiiiiiTiTTTTiiiiiiimiiii
lUJiiiimuiuiJuiiiiiiniiiniimiiiiiiiiiiiniminiiiiiiniHiitnimniiH
CROUP
EVERY Drop of
Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
\V. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
after 1745, and fills a stage with good and
attractive people who make the mistakes and
sin the sins of good and attractive people
until they have worked out their own re-
demption by suffering and sincere sorrow.
Both these books will find the usual circle of
leaders: a comparatively small group of
mature men and women and an immense
thronging crowd of keen youngsters aged from
IS to 25, with the girls in a preponderance
of five to one. Margaret will be followed
with intense interest from revelation to reve-
lation ; and, considering that at least one-
third of the whole book hinges on the ques-
tion of abortion, the story will be held
secondary to the things said by the charac-
ters. For one grown person who is made
to think seriously about a really serious
problem there will be a hundred who have
their knowledge of certain matters enlarged
in a peculiarly unwholesome way. On the
other hand, a similar audience will get
nothing but uplift and a sense of the moral
greatness of which men and women are
capable from following the fortunes of
Alexander Jardine, laird of Glenfernie. Mary
Johnston creates a wonderful atmosphere
and goes deep down, to the springs of emotion
and action. The story carries itself from
first to last and the plot is unusual, although
skirting very well-worked ground. Mar-
garet Leonora Eyles writes well. Iler minor
characters are well drawn and the pictures
are convincing enough; but her heroine is
not quite to be accepted as authentic, and her
hero—that is, the person who gains chief hold
on the affections of the heroine —is as unsatis-
factory as his name—Falcon Smith. There
is a sort of story that, if told with reticence
and modesty, might have been well worth
while; but the author never loses an oppor-
tunity of dragging in sex matters —the 400
pages are crowded with them. , Some samples
of the “smarter” stuff:—
“I suppose, in time, women who can afford it
will buy concubines for their husbands, like Sarah
bought Hagar.”
“Do you think Kfrschy’s got a rosary in his
hand when he looks at a girl ? Not much! He’s
one of them that takes all your clo’es off with his
eyes, when he’s only passing the time of day.”
“Oh, I wish sometimes that the police would
take me and try me for murder. I’d shout in the
courts such an indictment of poverty and child-
bearing and marriage as would set people thinking.”
There are worse things and better than
these; but the book is not pleasant reading,
and its purpose—well, some reader may be
able to discover its purpose ; it is well hidden.
Nothing like that could be said about Mary
Johnston’s book ; but why doesn’t somebody
correct her proofs before the printer gets a
final grip on them?
A Satchel of Books
Historical Studies, by students of the Mel-
bourne University School of History. A
series of interesting papers on out-of-the-way
subjects of special research. There is mucr,
good and careful work, and an occasional
very young observation on its results. Stilj,
universities seldom do anything better than
this, and the little book is worthy of high
praise.
The World of the Living Dead, by Vance
Marshall (W. J. Anderson and Co., Sydney).
This is a book of prison sketches, with a
preface by Henry Lawson. The tales are
rather crude attempts at realism, with here
and there a hint of something better. The
author misses the touch that would give
reality to the whole, but does not miss it
by much. The verses are commonplace ana
full of over-worked phrasing. A book that
is just readable and no more.
Home Fires in France, by Dorothy
Canfield (Constable, London). Rather be-
lated war sketches faithfully done. The
manner is simple and direct, and there is
sometimes a strong emotional appeal. In
the book you see Frenchmen and French-
women as they really were in the nation’s
tremendous trial, and the sight is a good
one.
The Health of the Teacher, by Dr. Wil-
liam Estabrook Chancellor (Forbes, Chicago).
This book is written specially for the
American teacher who has been feeling the
overstrain of doing double work during the
war period. The Australian teacher, how-
ever, can find a lot of good advice in it and
a lot of detailed information of a really
useful sort. To keep fit is the first necessitv
of the. man or woman who would make
school-life go with a swing, says Dr. Chan-
cellor ; and he knows a great deal about it.
Deer Godchild, by Marguerite Bernard
and Edith Serrell (T. Werner Laurie, Lon-
don). An American boy supports a French
orphan girl. He wanted a boy, but had to
take what was handed to him. He writes
to his godchild, and here and there the cor-
respondence can raise a smile. Harmless
stuff.
Selected Poems, by James William Har-
bison (Brighton, Southern Cross, Mel-
bourne). A little book of verses of even
merit and little force. Nothing in the book
absolutely falls down, and nothing absolutely
stands up; so in the gentle and quiet lean-
ing of the stanzas the not-too-critical reader
can find some pleasure.
Deep Waters, by W. W. Jacobs (Hodder
and Stoughton, London). The familiar
night-watchman is effectively resurrected in
two or three of these yarns, but the re-
mainder are feeble. The best is the story
of the brotherly-love convert who turns the
other cheek to the smiter—for a time. He
sums up his experiences :
Turning the other cheek’s all right so long as you
don t do it always. If you don’t let ’em know
whether you are going to turn the other cheek or
knock their blessed heads off, it’s all right. ’Art
the trouble in the world is caused by letting people
know too much.
Jacobs is losing his old touch, but Deep
It aters is a great improvement on his pre-
vious book, “The Castaways.”
The billionth post-war book on the re-
generation of man is The Guild State, Its
Principles and Possibilities, by G. R. Stirling
Taylor. The writer’s attitude is explained
by his statement that “most old things are
better than anything new.” He concentrates
his admiration on old times when kings (and
national Parliaments if they existed) were
practically powerless, and the State was a
multitude of States ruled by “manorial
courts and burgesses of the towns ; abbots
in their monasteries and barons in their
castles.” It was an ideal time, and if roads
(or most of them), railways, telegraphs, tele-
phones, steamboats, airships, motors, print-
ing and some sundries were abolished we
might get back to it. In days that look
green on the back horizon the ruler stretched
out his arm as far as it could reach, but that
wasn’t far. Now, because the hole in the
highway has been filled up, it stretches
further than it did, which is objectionable.
Owing to the awful state of the road between
Sydney and Parramatta, managed by many
aldermen instead of abbots and barons,
there seems a hope that the brave days are
not wholly lost. Mr. Taylor advocates an
enlargement of the old guild system, so that
every industry will be controlled by the
people engaged in it. Thus, apparently,
the railways will be managed by railway
employees, who will fix charges and divide
the takings, while the few million citizens
who are part-owners, but not railway
porters, will be out in the cold. It is a
cheerful prospect and makes one glad to
be alive, despite the expense. (George
Allen and Unwin, Ltd., London.)
Presumably as an aftermath of the war
there is a flood of small books on political
economy, and most of them are very un-
satisfying. A sample is Labor or Gold , by
L. G. de Garis. The writer’s political views
can’t be objected to, for he keeps them very
much out of sight, and aims at giving an
unbiased statement of facts. But he is
too loose, and when he isn’t loose he is apt
to say something that no one questions. For
instance: —
In money values each country has its own names.
Yet the dollar and the peso speak in many
languages.
Robbery, stealing, theft, piracy... .are all forms
of energy.
So are prigging, hooking, snatching, looting,
larceny, misappropriation, embezzlement, to
say nothing of buccaneering, bushranging,
dacoity and body-snatching. But what is
gained by repetition?
In olden days the man caught or hunted his own
meat.
It would be just as valuable to remark that
his meat often hunted him. Some meat was
very short-tempered.
Only when a man has enough and to spare can he
carry out any philanthropic desires he might enter-
tain.
Yet hungry people v ith no visible assets
worth mentioning have been known to philan-
thrope.
It is well known that each man has the right to
live in return for his work.
Not each man. The ex-Ivaiser is one of
thousands who have only the right to die in
return for their work.
The law of Nature is that every result has its
cause.
Except that some results have several thou-
sand causes and some causes produce many
results.
The loafer lives only sufficiently to sustain life.
Yet somfe loafers live sufficiently to sustain
their own lives, two or more .establishments,
a ballet-girl, a racing stable and a divorce
suit.
All men have the right to work and no man has
the right to not work.
Absurdly sweeping. He may be paralysed.
Labor or Gold is full of statements like these
and they lead to no definite purpose. (Geo.
Robertson and Co., Melbourne.)
The Inky Way
The given-away paper has reached Adel-
aide now : it is a weekly, the Aeroplane,
two pages, mostly, of course, advertisements.
Sydney suburban gardens are being littered
with these little free sheets, following the
astonishing success which Lincoln made of
the Manly Daily. Some districts —Mosman,
for instance—have two.
“A.L.8.”: For 40 years, or thereabouts,
Tom Dover has been on the Newcastle
Herald helping to lead the city along the
road to success; and, as ill-health lately
drove him into Lewisham Hospital, an ap-
preciative Mayor and City Council have
launched a testimonial, which has the back-
ing of the local A.J.A.
“H.”: In “Likewise” H. B. Bignold de-
fines an epigram as “a phrase that sounds
clever and is not true.” An earlier
definition is that it is the bright retort
which comes to a man when he has just
left. My theory is that it is the cutting
remark grandmother should have made when
grandfather proposed, and in consequence
of which we might have had richer parents.
“Sydneian”: The name of our old Sydney
friend Dattilo Rubbo was not readily
grasped by some of the residents of Mel-
bourne-on-Yar-ra. Passing the Decoration
gallery in Collins-street, where Dattilo’s art
show was being held, I heard one suburban
dame remark to another, while glancing casu-
ally at the name on a large announcement,
“Rubbo? What’s that? New kind of
cleanser, I s’pose. ’Vyou tried it?”
“Totara” : “Mick” Keane, associate-editor of
Christchurch (M.L.) Press, has been pro-
moted to the editor’s chair, vacated by W. 11.
Triggs, who occupied it for just on 25 years.
After Keane left Canterbury College he
strayed at once into journalism, and as
a member of the staff of the Wellington
Evening Post, and later of the Times, his
work attracted attention all over Maoriland
and beyond it. Some of his best verses
appeared in The Bulletin. W. H. Triggs,
retiring, is 04.
“Octo”: After limping painfully for 49
years, the ghost has ceased to walk at the
Wide Bay and Burnett News, Mary-
borough (Q.). Andrew Dunn, M.L.C., has
purchased for the rival Chronicle the good-
will and one or two other little things which
the vaguely-proposed Labor daily might have
found useful. It is not long since Dunn
negotiated a similar monopoly at Warwick
(where the egg was thrown), and he also
helps to lighten the darkness of public igvu-
rance at Rockhampton and Gavudah
Business, Robbery, etc.
Hamer”: A couple of Diggers, combining
audacity, with enterprise, have started a
blue-light” depot in Sydney, and issued an
invitation, per dodger, to returned men
and others who have strayed from virtue’s
paths and want to avoid the consequences,
to come along and have the same preventive
treatment as the A.I.F. authorities provided
them abroad. The unco’ guid may shudder;
but the Diggers reckon that, though it’s
foolish to fall off a wharf into the harbor,
the folly of it doesn’t make it any the less
proper or desirable to keep lifebuoys handy.
* * * *
“Gavera” : An industry that appears likely
to become one <sf Papua’s sources of wealth
is being made out ot mangrove bark. Nine
hundred tons were exported during the year
ended June 30, 1919, the price realised in
Australia averaging nearly £ll a ton. The
bark is, rich in tannin and has proved its
worth in the manufacture of high-grade
leather belting, etc. Tens of thousands of
acres along the rivers and bays of Western
Papua are covered with mangrove (the
black variety), and to date only a very small
area has been drawn upon. Natives strip
the bark, which is pulverised in an inex-
pensive mill and bagged. Worked on a sys-
tem and with a chemist to grade the product
in terms of tannin content, the possibilities
are, immense, especially as wattle-bark Is
rapidly being depleted in the Commonwealth.
* * # #
“Canariensis”: Tests by Prof. Chapman
(Adelaide) show the Canary Island pine to
be far stronger than other locally-grown
pines, and also than the imported Oregon. A
beam of S. Aus.-grown Canary Island pine
12in. x 12in. would carry a central load of
42, tons before it broke. With a pinus,-
insignis beam the breaking weight was 24
tons, with the Maritime pine 19 tons and
with Oregon beams 26 tons.
,* * * *
“Dick E. Bush” : It sounds silly, but there
may be some sense in putting newspaper in
wheat-stacks to scare mice. Before the war
I was connected with a firm that handled
hundreds of thousands of bags, and it was
our custom (and a damn good one, too)
to put paper into the stacks. The stuff
always came out better than that of our
grinning competitors.
* * * #
Wesfralia’s largest mutton producer turned
up at the Pinjarra Show. Though not full
grown he already weighs 3061 b. Paterson
Bros., of Pinjarra, are the owners, and the
sheep is a Border Leicester.
* * * *
“Hawk”; “Henry Ilorsecollar” (B.
13/11/ 19) proposes wind railways operated
by schooner-rigged trains. I found I couldn’t
navigate a train as you do a ship, zig-zagging
it, so that a nearly head-wind is made a fair
wind. Therefore, I have been concentrating
on windmills to operate dynamos. I can't
do it profitably yet; but the further I go
west and away from the coal supply, and
the more constant the wind in the district
chosen, the surer I am of one day winning.
In districts with bright light there is another
motive power already proved a possibility in
Algeria—solar engines. If a mirror is large
enough, it can heat the water in a boiler
into,steam. But the mirror has to be moved
continuously in two directions so as always
to face the sun; and the power required to
do that, bothers nie at present. A French-
man claims to have solved the problem ; but
so far not with startling results. The Aus-
tralian is a natural contriver; let him tackle
these two great necessities, an economical
Wind-turbine and a solar engine.
T “McNorth” Sandalwood-getting in far
North Queensland is not the game it used
to be. Up till a few years ago large quan-
tities of the timber were obtained from the
coastal areas of Cape York Peninsula, and
the only outfit necessary was a tribe or two
of friendly Binghis, a cutter or other craft
and a load, of tucker and tools. The ’getter
of those days was, usually, a man accustomed
to small boats and narrow waters. His
method was to pitch camp near some likely
spot and chase the nigs out after the tim-
ber. The tribe drifted about the clay-pans
near the beach till some trees were found,
then felled them, cut them into lengths
and removed the sap. Only the heart of a
sandalwood-tree is of commercial value, and
as there is about three times more sap' than
anything else the job of paring down foot-
thick logs is a lengthy one. At sundown
the toilers carried the dressed sticks to the
beach and received their ration of flour and
tobacco. This went on till all the wood
within easy reach was cut; then the outfit
moved up the coast a bit, the Binghis with
their innumerable dogs and trailing gins
walking along the beach as the cutter sailed
abreast of them. The vessel made periodi-
cal trips to Cooktown or Thursday Island
with a cargo ready for shipment to China
and returned with rations. It was a delight-
fully careless life, and, in most cases, a
financially profitable one. Sandalwood is
still obtained in the Peninsula, but the
coastal areas being about exhausted, it is
brought from inland. It is carried on pack-
horses and cut mainly by white men. The
industry thrives better because of business
methods and the fact that the white man is
a real worker; but the disappearance of the
romantic vagabond element which character-
ised the old order is a loss to the yarn-
struntlP*'
THE BEFOOLER BEFUELLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The famous wooden statue of Field-Marshal Von
Hindenburg in Berlin is being dismantled for fuel.”
Whilst yet their faith in you was warm
In wood they carved your swollen form,
And shouted praises at you;
For you they tuned poetic lyres,
They serenaded you in choirs,
And now, to feed their winter fires,
They cart away your statue.
Fat Hindenburg, those “German blows”
You dealt of yore to rabbled foes —
Those clumsy, costly smashes —
They brought you months of empty fame
Ere discontent’s cold winter came;
Then, like the towns you put to flame,
Yourself was burnt to ashes.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


etuAjcdt Ct&cbiic
(HD
C-LfiC^AXG
Tup«
f —l
Heating
Appliances
Cooking
Devices
'S” £lectrtc c ßange
02J
a
iU
7
%
oAluminium
Coffee Percolator
Six-inch three-heat
: Disc Stove
o Aluminium Healing Pad
‘■Radiant (jrill
Here are some Practical
Christmas Gifts
Have you ever thought how much
an ELECTRICAL GIFT would
be appreciated by the recipient ?
Heating and Cook-
ing Appliances are excellent for
presentation —they possess a dis-
tinction in design and their scope
of usefulness leaves nothing to be
desired.
In your own home, too, the preparation and
serving of electrically-cooked meals will add
a daintiness and zest that measures the full
joy of home service.
You attach these appliances’as easily as a
new lamp. Their operating cost is low, and
further, you enjoy a wonderful return in con-
tinued convenience, comfort, and satisfaction
There is a Appliance made
for every heating or cooking need.
We invite you to inspect our assortment
V
Ornamental
s ""Radiant Toaster
Immersion Heater
Six pound Flat-iron
•with attached stand
Lamp Socket Oven
Wentworth Avenue
SYD/MEY
Cr. of* Queen '£? Little Collins sts
MELBOURNE
AGENTS
ADELAIDE, S.A.— l Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie St.
BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd.
(ES.C.A), Corner Edward and Charlotte Sts. _
T ASM AN I A-Oliver & Oliver, HOBART & LAUNCESTON
PERTH, W.A.- -Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., " Mazda
House,” 894 Hay Street.
NEWZEALANDrrThc & Engineering Co, Ltd, AUCKLAND, Christchurch, DUNEDIN, WELLINGTON,


>
He Can’t
Shed His
Coat,
but lie would if lie
could. High prices for
skins put his life in
constant danger.
WINCHCOMBE,
CARSON never fail
to secure senders top
market results for
Rabbit, Fox and all
other skins.
CONSIGN:
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON
DARLING HARBOR. LTD.
If you must
rear baby by hand
adopt a food which approaches
most closely to Mother’s Milk,
and which yields positive results.
Mellin's Food is the tried and
. proved equivalent to Mother’s
Milk; its success is evidenced
by world-wide recommendation.
Simple to prepare; no tedious
cooking —it is alike a boon to
the nursing mother and satis-
fying to the child.
MeNin's
Food
Writ# now for sample of Mellin’s Food and
useful Handbook—‘The Care of Infants’—Free.
Then there's his Bottle —Mellin’s Feeding
Bottle is the perfect and simple Feeder.
Messrs. Gollin &• Co. Proprietary, Ltd.
Sydney
HEALTH CAMPAIGN
is the most important of all.
It is the most vital safeguard
for your family and home.
Protect Your Own Health.
Keep your children in good
physical condition. You
cannot foresee sickness, but
you can provide against it.
The
Montgomerie - Neilson
Oxidising Sewage
Disposal System
Gives to country homes all the
modern sanitary comfort and conveni-
ence of sewered towns, doing away
with all chance of disease dissemi-
nated by the old-fashioned outhouse,
the insanitary, filthy cesspool, and
septic tanks generally.
There is absolutely no smell with
this system. The cost of installation
is not heavy, and when you consider
that 600 are in use in New South
Wales alone, you will realise that the
system is worth looking into.
You can obtain a free booklet tell-
ing of the many merits of the M.-N.
System. It also gives splendid tes-
timonials from satisfied users the
country over—-facts that should weigh
heavily with you.
Send for free copy to-day.
Montgomerie - Neilson
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY.
87 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 8976.
'MuswwMmfi
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc DllSt —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES— .Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS;
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Syflne.v Asrent:
R. X. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
II
to
50 Drops
of Oil
is all that is required to keep an
Three
Times
a Year
Self-aligning
Ball Bearing
in excellent condition. Think what your annual
saving would be jn lubricant alone were your
plant equipped with S.K.F
ALWAYS SPECIFY S.K.F.
0
iTTB
am™™™
MELBOURfjE SYDNE.V BRISBANE
iS
m
The British Brand protects you
against foreign-made inferior goods
46
nmasi;IK3
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
No German or other foreign make can compare with
this best British brand, for fineness of finish andsilky
comfort. Australasian pure wool is used in the
manufacture of Jason, by the world’s best
hosiery makers; —the people of Leicester.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks —which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the Jason
Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters everywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, Eng.
Aq 65 ©
LOADING CHAFF BY GRAVITATION. (No power required.)
MANUFACTURERS OF LABOR-SAVING MACHINERY.
GRINDING, DRESSING, MIXING AND PACKING MACHINERY.
MACHINERY SPECIALISTS. FACTORY EXPERTS.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing WorKs Pty. Ltd.
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [3
“Biobox”: Wearing his best frown,
N’York’s Chief of Police recently visited a
theatre where the Mack Sennett bathing
girls were appearing in person along with
a movie show. He had to get to work
earlier than he expected, for he was shown
to his seat by a charmer in a one-piece
bathing suit.
In Victoria, while Nationalists are blindly
promising their second votes to Cocky, there
is no suggestion of reciprocity on the part of
the V.F.U.; in fact, the latter is leaving the
second prof, vote to the descretion of its
supporters. This plain tip to Hayseed to
hand Labor his second vote if he feels that
way ought to cause some surprises when the
numbers go up.
Freda Sternberg, the Melbourne penwoman
who was Melba’s secretary when the Vo;ce
■was in Australia, and who left here last year
and took a job on the Vancouver Daily Pro-
vince, has moved' on to N’Yark to stay with
actress Margaret Wycherley before crossing
to London. When Freda reached N’Yark
Australian Evelyn Scotney was just about to
make her d6but at the Metropolitan Opera
House.
“S.T.S.”: In support of that odd story
(B. 3/10/T9) of the Yank officer who talked
of “shark troops” and explained himself
“S HOC Iv—shark!” By an odd coin-
cidence I put the. paper down only to tak.
up London Referee (24/8/T9), which tells
how Mrs. Brown Potter, when playing Mary
Oueen of Scots, consistently spoke of her-
self as "Murry Queen of Scarts” —and did
not explain.
“Bally Who”: The Parisian ladies who
painted their bare legs when the price of
stockings rose plagiarised the tattooed
woman of Continental fairs. There are, of
course, many examples of dinkum tattooing,
but the majority of human picture-galleries
of the female sex dare not face a bathroom.
For the most part they don’t want to, and
can easily hold out the three weeks for
which a good stencilling is guaranteed.
A cable says that the Duke D’Aosta may
supersede the King of Italy. The Duke had
a picturesque career during the war, like
Australia’s old friend the Duke D’Abruzzi.
The one commanded an army corps, with
rront success; the other a fleet. But the
Duke’s most sensational asset is his wife. At
close on 90 sue is stm considereu one or me
most beautiful, and unconventional, women
in Italy. Twenty-five years ago she was sent
into exile, in Saint-Moritz, in the Swiss
Engadine, for persisting in riding a bicycle.
It was at the instance of her relative, the
ex-Kaiser, now in exile himself and in dan-
ger of punishment for a graver offence than
bicycle-riding.
Reno in Nevada is the Mecca of divorcees.
If a man snores louder than normal or a
woman pulls the blankets off her spouse
during a cold snap he or she has only to live
six months at Reno to get a divorce cheaply
and easily. The latest news from Divorcopolis
is that Sidney B. Myer has bought the
Nixon mansion there for £17,000. Myer is
said to be at the head of “the largest mer-
cantile establishment in Australia,” and
“owns a controlling interest in a woollen mill
and other manufacturing plants.” The news
paragraph ends by saying that “Myer plans
to transfer a large share of his capital to,
-Reno.” Wonder which Myer this is? And
what’s he doing in Reno?
“Lou” : Some of the clashes that a Banana-
land Cabinet Minister has been having with
the unemployed haven’t got into the papers.
A deputation has waited on him every day
lately, and one member who had been
ordered out two days before appeared
again and opened up with a very nasty, re-
mark. The Minister jumped up, came round
the table, and invited his caller to “Say
that again.” The deputationist kept his
seat and said it again. The Minister changed
his mind and sat down. Had anything
eventuated the politician, who is no light-
weight and has kept himself fit, would have
bumped a ma n who could get a living in
tlie ring if he chose. It would have been a
mill.
“Hamer” In the vicinity of Sydney
Trades Hall I joined a unanimous indigna-
tion meeting held by one man. He wanted
to know, bitterly, when the Trades Hall
bosses were going to see that union officers
got the 17-bob-a-week rise which the Board
of Trade said was a fair thing. What was
wanted, lie said, was an organiser to organise
the organisers; but he reckoned that the
organisers, as a class, were blacklegs and
didn’t realise the value of unionism. Then
he gloomily forecasted that if they organised
and went on strike there would be a lot
of scabs prepared to take their places. The
ordinary meetings were just assembling; and
the one-man indignation meeting was so an-
noyed that it assailed some of the men who
passed by as blanky sweaters. Whereupon
a “brother” I know remarked that if Jack
didn’t take a pull he’d be doing in his job
as organising assistant general secretary of
the Amalgamated Tintack Workers’ Union.
Victoria’s ex-Police Chief Tom O’Calla-
ghan, now. qualifying for the octogenarian
stakes, admits that he was “had” badly by
a street loafer when he was a sergeant of
detectives and supposed to be alert. A hole
had been made in the footpath at the corner
of Swanston and Little Collins to repair a
pipe, and the customary group of loungers
leaned over the barriers and watched the
men at work. Among the group was a 10-
year-old girl who was sobbing “as if her ’art
would break.” O’Callaghan asked the cause
of the distress, and a man by her side, a
sympathetic working-man stranger, answered :
“Poor kid, her mother, bit of a tartar, sent
her a message with ’arfy-crown. She stopped
’ere a minit t’ave a peep and dropped the
coin, which we can’t find.” The explanation
seemed unchallengeable, and O’Callaghan gave
the girl two-and-six and told her to “be off”
and do her message. So pleased was he with
his generosity that O’Callaghan as he
walked away declined to allow a fellow “D.”
to give him ,a bob towards it. A fortnight
later he was strolling past Melbourne Hos-
pital where another pipe was being mended.
There was the same weeping girleen and the
same kindly-hearted working-man offering
the same explanation. Before a new mug
could be victimised O’Callaghan had dealt
summarily with the case.


A SOLDIER’S HOME.
55^
a*.
/:-S
/ / c
yj.
IS
!i r
XX
\
i&t
J. -
JP.
iiisis
\
XX/
V
i* ft
M «1
/■
/
%XL
r..
,%%
\ \!)vxu
1 W
Vi-M§
mk<f
m
m
m
\ l'(
i
;j i? Til* i 4-U f < \j -l
s «*■
imlieWlHilHfllilljfillllO
f ? h I*4 MlLiiM Ml X i l
M&fvyrni?.
.W •
iimmw
* i /.? i «*
fetff
5 »- <
>, i
{¥ Mp
\
\f^X)
M
1 1;; tv > ■■'
?!U jlr? ;
•ISJSstPw'WW 4
;I -A;
'^';j
IM
Y,
l
l
m
! M
;i r.j{\ :-w $ i ; j
>;<i
£S§
i-r
-\ *
>p,%
-.' -* •
??**&>
C\
N\
&N
§J§
sr.=?fv !j ;?*i
test Hi 1
*>-...% V l S}> V•i
>'.S^
/
S?
v?>vr
7/MM.
"s.
>K
L„UV
Hi
&
; N
&■**■
\
\
■
t
J
it
Cobra.” Boot PolisK
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Builds good homes
For soldiers, too.
Like a man
Performing tricks,
He lays rows of
Aussie bricks.
Up and down
The ladder goes
Foxie on his
Nimble toes.
But one brick
The pleasure mars
Bear sees shining
“COBRA” stars!


Speed
kJ Motor
WITH STARTER
u>
'*$8.
— -sas
v '*
Get a
CAILLE
Rowboat Motor
for holiday time.
The wonderful Caille Rowboat
Outfit increases the joys of seaside
or river holidays tenfold. All the
rowing' is cut out. Simply clamp
the Caille to the backboard of your
own or hired rowboat, pull the
starter, and go to all those
bathing or fishing spots that '
you wouldn’t visit if
you had to row.
The whole outfit only
weighs 751 b to
take with you—and you’ll thank the
Caille for giving vou a better Christmas
holiday than you’ve ever spent before.
The Caille Rowboat Outfit is a 2-li.p.
Engine, controlled by a simple push
button, has five speeds, Magneto Igni-
tion, and is easy for a novice to run.
Write or wire for price and get yours
for Christmas.
Caille Perfection
Marine Engines.
We have these world-famous engines in
all sizes from 2 to 30 h.p. in 1 to 4
cylinder designs Standard or Heavy-
duty types. Equipped with Caille
Perfection Water-proof Ignitiom-posi-
tive insurance against danger of
stoppage in storm or downpour. Write
for Caille catalogue to
Benson
Brothers Ltd.
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
C 252
See how
easy the
Caille Row-
-boat Motor is
to carry about.
It gives you the
convenience and speed of a big power boat, without all the expense for
upkeep.
The elimination of belts
means more accurate work
and heavier cutting, more
light, more safety and a
wider range of cutting
speeds.
Double work from planers and other machine
tools by using LANCASHIRE Electric Drive,
1 00 per cent, increase in output is the average
result gained by the application of the
Lancashire Electric Drive to Table Planers,
Open Side Planers, Slotting and Rifling
Machines and all other reciprocating tools.
Higher speeds and more perfect control can
be obtained than with any other system.
By comparison with belt drives, the Lancashire
Electric Drive is economical in power and
has a perfect regenerative and cushioning
effect at reversal.
Belt drives are unsuitable for short planing
owing to wearing and heating of the belts,
but the Lancashire Electric Drive will reverse
satisfactorily on the shortest stroke that the
reversing gear can be designed for.
Any machine of whatever age can be con-
verted to the Lancashire Electric Drive and
made doubly productive. We will be pleased
to inspect your workshop and quote you for
the conversion of any tool to Lancashire
Electric Drive. Enquiries are invited for
“Igranic” Automatic Machine Tool Controllers,
“Lancashire” Generators, Motors, Boosters,
Motor Generators, etc., or complete instal-
lations regardless of size.
NOYES BROS.,
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; (MELBOURNE) PTY., L™> 499-501
Bourke Street, Melbourne, and Darling Building, Adelaide; CHAS. E. BLKNAYS,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane; J. W. GARDAM, Perth. 8421
“B.B.”: He was a dirty blue-banded
soldier, and thei’e’s no doubt about it. The
car when he rolled in was packed; but a
girl arose, and “Take this seat,” she said.
“No,” he replied, swinging on the edge, “let
some other get up.”
The Vic. Farmers’ Union, which is after
eight seats in the Reps., is bellowing its want
of confidence in J. W. Leckie, Nationalism’s
sheet anchor in Indi. Leckie has been talk-
ing darkly about the forces which are
manipulating the cockies “for their destruc-
tion,” and the enraged journal of the new
organisation is not only demanding further
particulars, but is digging up the history of
Leckie’s attitude on matters affecting
Cocky. The Nationalists and Hayseeds are
none too friendly anywhere in Vic., but in
Indi they seem to be developing a mutual
Hate.
“Cadet Officer” : Apparently a good num-
ber of employers have not read the regulation
dealing with the release of cadets to attend
compulsory parades. I have had a number
of complaints from boys that their employers
stop their pay for the time they take to get
to the parade ground from their work. This
is a breach of the regulation, which reads: —
A senior cadet shall be paid by liis employer for
any time he is absent from employment for the pur-
pose of training except the training required of tire
cadet for failure to become efficient, or while under-
going confinement for offence.
It is not only the small employer who is
guilty ; large city firms have been guilty of
docking their lads a quarter of an hour.
On behalf of his millionaire friend Astor,
Labor-member Thomas has introduced a bill
to the Commons to legalise the surrender of
peerages. It looks A poor thing. Astoi,
like many another young man, wanted to
stay where he was, in the Commons, until
he grew old and tired of active politics. And
then, if he were still rich, he could depend
on being given a peerage again. So the
new bill would merely go some distance
towards robbing the House of Lords of the
few young men it has and is likely to get.
The only reasonable way of preventing the
heirs to peerages being removed unwillingly
to “another place” is to abolish the ridiculous
place.
“Lex”: There was a witness in Sydney
lately' who knew more than the Judge
about the rules of evidence. She was "pro-
tecting” the usual male philanderer:
Mr. Coyle: Do you know Gallagher?
Witness': I decline to answer.
His Honor: You will have to answer. Do you know
accused ?
Witness (firmly): I decline to answer.
His Honor: If you don’t answer I will have to
take an unpleasant course.
Mr. Coyle (to the witness): Were you keeping
company with accused?
Witness (doggedly) : I decline to answer.
At this stage the hopeless inquisition was
abandoned. But supposing she had been
bluffed into answering, and had so incrim-
inated herself (the Crown case was that
Gallagher had given her abprtoficierits), what
would have been the position of his Honor t
He is there not to “shop” witnesses but to
shield them. •
“Adrian Drift”; Hagedorn’s recent life
of Roosevelt shows that Teddy began author-
ship on nature subjects at an early age.
In his “Natural History on Insects,” a
manuscript volume illustrated by the author,
he wrote when he was nine; —
Ants are defided into three sorts for every species.
These kinds are officer, soilder and work. There aie
about one officer to 10 soilders and one soilder to
two workers. All the insects that I write about in
this book inhabbit North America. Now and then
a friend has told me something about them, but
mostly I have gained their habbits from ofserv-a-tion.
I need not describe the form of the crayfish to you.
Look at a lobster and you have its form.
At about the same time young Theodore
desired to adopt a dead seal which was on
view in the market-place, but eventually
satisfied himself with its skull. It was at
an earlier age that he had become afraid
of a mysterious animal called a zeal, having
heard a clergyman read from the Psalms,
“For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me
up.”
“Copabella”: Few would regard as thrill-
ing the job of attendance-officer (“truant’ -
finder he used to be called, but the plain old
words are dying out) to the Education De-
partment, but not many vocations permit
such an insight into the tragedies of child-
hood, and the mild horrors which lurk behind
the shut door of what the Briton likes to
call his “castle.” Here are two or three
gathered in one of the most “respectable
cities in Victoria. There is a family of 16,
of whom the mother “buried five,” to use the
common term. Of the quality of these
nothing is known, but of the 11 children
who remain five are mentally deficient.
Breeding is still going on. A full clutch
of children was not attending school, so the
officer asked the mother to produce the
father to be questioned. “Father,’’ it
proved, had been missing 10 years! “And
these?” said the officer, indicating the
clutch. The mother sorted out a couple,
attributable to her husband. “The others
are Joe ’s,” she explained. The in-
vestigator said he would see Joe about them;
but Joe, it was found, had followed the
example of Tom, the husband, two years
ago. “But I saw a man here when I
came in,” said the officer suspiciously. “Oh,
that’s Bill!” answered the mother, “he ain’t
got any yet!” It was plain, however, that
Bill would have one in a month or two. In
another case a wife who had left her hus-
band joined a man whose wife had left
him; each started with children, and they
had since acquired children jointly. The
fatherless and motherless sections of the
mixed lot ran wild, untutored in anything
but the teachings of the gutter. Another
lady had spent several years sharing her
favors for yearly or two-yearly spells with
three men, presenting each with children.
Then she captured the affections of a Digger
returned with a fair wad of deferred pay.
He married her, but not for long; he had
discovered a few things, and, incidentally,
another willing lady. His wife joined one
of her old loves of the one- and two-year
liaisons, but to show that there was no bit-
terness let a room in. her house to her hus-
band and her supplanter!


FOR THOSE WHO MOTOR
Dr. Morsel Indian Root Pills are a Valuable Accessory.
WHETHER one motors for business or pleasure, either as a driver or passenger,
and be it car, motor-cycle or motor-boat, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will
be found a valuable accessory.
From a business point of view the motor to-day is a necessity, being the
most rapid, convenient method of transit. For pleasure it is popular because one
can have an outing and go sightseeing without exertion. But how often does one
find at the end of a day s motoring that they have a splitting headache and perhaps
feel bilious, due partly to the bad, bumpy roads, which have stirred up the liver, and
partly owing to the lack of sufficient exercise to keep the organs working smoothly.
It is strange how a keen motorist will instantly detect a slight fault in the
running of the machine, commence worrying, and set about correcting it, but yet
not bother about himself if his system is not in proper working order and do
nothing until a complete breakdown occurs. As a matter of fact it is often because
one is “liverish” that he becomes hasty and is not then in the right condition to
locate a mechanical defect in his car, and takes considerably more time than a
healthy placid driver.
The human system in many respects resembles a motor-car. Take the
carburetter, for instance. Man provides the petrol and Nature the air. To ensure
smooth running it is necessary that the petrol and air are in correct proportions, and
that no foreign matter works in to choke the feed pipes, otherwise trouble ensues
and the engine runs erratically, if it does not stop altogether.
In the case of the human system, when food is swallowed Nature provides
certain juices to convert such food to the correct consistency required to nourish the
body. If by any chance the tubes which convey these juices become blocked the juices
are forced into other channels, upsetting the system; also the food “seizes” or clogs
and constipation ensues. It is then that special treatment is required to remedy
this defect. In such cases Dr. Morse s Indian Root Pills are especially suitable. They
open the clogged-up works, purify the blood and once more the human mechanism
works smoothly and easily. Every motorist realises the serious injury that may be
caused by parts seizing from insufficient lubrication or jerky driving through irregular
mixture. It is exactly the same with the human body, whose organs should work
regularly all the time, otherwise it is subjected to similar types of racking and strain.
Upon retiring at night after a day’s motoring Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills will be found of greatest benefit, and when
packing up for a motor trip be sure and include a bottle in
the bag. i
Dr. Morse's Indian Hoot Pills are
as essential to health as petrol
and oil are to the motor-car.
Made in Australia.
m-i
&
Cr?'
m
VV
ilSf
'&&M
m
m
wAft
asa
£
£ 8
B
%
■■OL
m
Xn\^
is.
•;.' ...
s^lgg
MS
£■ss
3$
M
SSIfS


Hose of Luxite
is made in pour favorite
material and shades.
The demand for Luxite
Hosiery has invited sub-
stitutes ; so please look
for the Trade Mark on
each pair.
One pair of Luxite will
outwear two pairs of
many kinds. Thousands
of wearers know that
this is true.
If pour dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
Give
Him
Meccano
for
Xmas!
It’s the most fascinating and instruc-
tive hobby ever invented. No study is
needed to buiM scores of real working
models—Bridges, Cranes, Looms,
Motor-cars, Aeroplanes, Searchlights—
all mechanically correct.
MECCANO
Outfits are sold by all the best toy-
dealers and are complete with steel
platfes and girders, pinions, gear and
pulley-wheels, bolts and nuts, tools
and big book of instructions.
Meccano is made in England.
PRICE FROM 8/- PER OUTFIT
UPWARDS.
Send your name and address with
stamp for postage for a copy of the
“Meccano Magazine”—it is free!
To:-
The Meccano Depot (No. 1)
Box 1832 G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
H. G. HARMER, L.R.1.8.A., C.E,
ESTABLISHED 1907,
having taken into partnership
A. C. LAVINGTON,
will henceforth practise as
HARMER & LAVINGTON,
ARCHITECTS
and
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS.
SPECIALISTS IN RE-INFORCED CONCRETE,
TIMBER AND STEEL STRUCTURES.
SILOS, WOOLSIIEDS, TANKS, FACTORIES
AND HOMESTEADS.
Country work a Specialty.
’Phone: City 50. Box 468 G.P.O.
52 WAR LOAN CHAMBERS,
114 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will Quote you price for it.
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone by taking
Dhosformo
I THE ROYAL TONIC
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worry with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 6C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND | C-A-C- **"»
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA— CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - *
QUEENSLAND— Campbell's Buildings, Creek Street, Rnsbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
p
IS
Shipps
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
COME Shirtmakers sacrifice qual-
° ity for sty leathers style for quality
and still others comfort for both
style and quality.
«L Bu t the makers of THISTLE SHIRTS
sacrifice nothing. They make THISTLE
SHIRTS as Good as Shirts should be made
t
Ask for THISTLE SHIRTS
and learn what Good Shirts
really are.
Sold by all Leading
Shirt Departments
Ask also for
THISTLE PYJAMAS
Alexander Stewart & Sons
Ltd.
Makers
Brisbane and Sydney '
A.S. 6
3Vt 6
$
&
N
%
<3
-7?
Matt®
4 V ;,S
yf
V *®T'
vrs
a:
*>?
(kJ
M
“Ox” : I’ve just come across a most dis-
tressing reminder of the high cost of paper:
the Penny Magazine, price twopence.
“W.F.W.”: If “Kopai’s” friend (B.
27/11/’li)) can prove his statement that five
(at least) permanent officers were sent home
on one ship as “duds” I will give £1 to an>
Diggers' fund; and if he can mention any
permanent officers who in the last 10
have obtained commissions by political influ-
ence I will send £1 for every case to the
same fund. Now let’s see what this talk to
the discredit of permanent men is worth.
There is a great demand for swords these
days for military weddings. The tool is
almost obsolete except to cut the bride-
cake and make archways for newly-weds.
So, when you see a man in battered khaki
hurrying round town with a new scabbard,
don’t be alarmed —he isn’t going to set
Europe free; he is merely about to assist
in the enslavement of his best friend.
From a (late German) clod of earth: —
The high cost of living is at length being felt
in what were formerly the German Solomons >cw
Britain, New Ireland and Bougainville, to be moye
precise. At any rate, the' Kanakas are said to be
agitating for an increase of wages, and it won't
surprise us if the Commission decides on an increase
to 10 bob per month per “boy.” As we have to
feed and clothe the Kanakas, and as rice, the staple
food, has gone up 500 per cent., and clothing, con-
sisting of calico or Turkey red, 300 per cent., we
are figuring hard. The present wages of the “boys”
are 4s. per month for youngsters of 14 to 10, and
Bs. for the older “boys” of 20 to 22. Our Kanakas
have absorbed the customs of their former masters
so thoroughly that if we offered it to them, they
would not accept their pay in any other form than
the equivalent of the German mark —the handy bob.
In addition to feeding them and paying their wages,
we have to clothe them with a new lava-lava every
month, and in the case of the women provide a new
cotton blouse monthly. Turkey red costs Is. lid.
per yard (3*d. formerly), and we have to furnish
the regulation 2yds. for each Kanaka. The blouses
we get made at Rabaul by a Chow at 2s. each.
Each Kanaka, when his term of two years is up,
gets his 192 single shillings, and before leaving
proceeds to buy a pig (405.), a camphor-wood box
to put his things in (an old kerosene-box will do at
a pinch), and, of all things in the world, a hurri-
cane lamp (10s.). Then he departs to the village
up the coast, where there are 10,000 like him, and
the rest of the money is quickly blewed at a Chow
trading station. A fat lot the rise in wages is
going to benefit him.
“Spanish Bridle” : The reply of the union
secretary when a chief engineer rang him
up and asked for a couple of sober fire-
men, that “they were all in the cemetery”
was true; and the rumor tnat a large Aus-
tralasian co. is fitting a number of its vessels
to use oil fuel has been greeted with loud .
and prolonged cheers by the long-suffering
mates and engineers of the line. Without
the curse of coal and firemen sea life would
begin to be worth living. About 75 per cent,
of a seaman’s work is cleaning ashes, soot
and filth brought from the stokehold. The
edifying spectacle was common in our ports
during the war of a troopship, or (in one
case within my knowledge) a collier with
badly-wanted naval coal, whistling im-
patiently while the gutters were searched
for shovel-engineers. Often a missing man
was found spending his last tray in a handy
pub. serenely deaf to the hoots from his ship.
Bung, the patriot, was also deaf as long
as his customer had the price of one. Imme-
diately his clinker-slicing friend became un-
financial Bung suddenly discovered he was
assisting the enemy. Ask any mate or chief
engineer who knows— White Australians, too
—if they would prefer Lascar firemen to Bill
Beery. The thundering “Yes” would make you
grieve. And it is only because the Hindoos
are sober and efficient; cheapness has nothing
to do with it. By the way, because seamen
‘and firemen are lumped together in one
union they are also lumped together in the
public mind. Nothing could be more unfair
to the seamen. They are quite a different
class.
“Lex” on a sinful business: —
The Vic. Solicitor-General has introduced a Bill in
the Council to amend the Juries Act (1919). The
object is to lessen jury-squaring, and it was claimed
that if the Bill became law it “would be almost
impossible” for the good old industry to be carried
on. What are the proposed cures? The sheriff is
no longer to draw the jurors’ names before a crowd.
The panel is no longer to be on sale. The addresses
of jurors (in criminal cases) are no longer to be
called out in court. Such precautions should Be
fairly effective in half-day cases. But these aie
the very ones in which there is little or no jury-
squaring. An accused person with enough money
to tempt one or more jurymen can afford to spin
even a criminal matter out over several days. As
for civil suits, they may go any distance, from
three days to three weeks: it is all a matter of the
litigants’ capacity to produce the fees day by day.
And it is in just such suits that jury-squaring is
most rife. The squarer (a professional in most cases)
prefers to wait a couple of days, during which time
he studies his jury, rejecting in the first place
those who are obviously in favor of his patron, or
his patron’s counsel. Then he weeds out those
who are financially above the temptation which he
is empowered to offer. The final concentration is on
one in financial straits, and preferably on one con-
nected in some way with horse-racing. The most
successful jury-squarer Sydney ever possessed used
to say that he had never failed with a racing-
enthusiast ; though whether this class is more venal,
more hard-up, or ‘kinder-hearted was. never dis-
closed. A Melbourne juror took the proffered bait
once with rage in his bosom at the insult. He sent
the cash to a hospital, and ultimately he was the
only one of the 12 who stood out against his
briber. Occasionally the squarer approaches a trans-
parently wowserish juror, nominally on behalf of
Brown, but really at the instance of the “other
side” —say Smith. The danger here is (1) that
the shocked juror may complain in open court, (2)
that he may accept the bribe and act accordingly;
In the event of the second misfortune occurring,
the squarer’s partner calls and warns him that his
traffic with Brown is known to the Smith faction.
Dates and fiaures are quoted. He is recommended
to change in' allegiance, and he at once does so.
It is hardly necessary to add that, like the bribing of
licensing magistrates, consultations in connection
with collusive divorce-suits, and so forth, jury-
snuaring is usually done after dark.


A REAL KEROSENE ENGINE AT LAST.
Operates on Low-grade Power Kerosene.
Equipped with High-tension Magneto
and Force Feed Lubricator.
Kerosene Engine
Manufactured in 3, 5 and 7 h.p.
.. . SPECIFICATION.
VALVES —InIet and exhaust valves are located in the head
and are both mechanically operated.
LUBRICATION —Detroit force feed lubrication for cylinder
and three crank-shaft bearings. Does away with the
old splash type lubrication.
MAGNETO —High tension, gear driven, magneto fitted
r A pri TD Starter cou P^ n £ : Engine starts on first throw.
CARBURETTER —Is a simple Venturi tube with a constant
level fuel cup. Two-way valves enable operation
on kerosene or petrol.
Adjustable and removable die-cast bearing
provided for the three crank-shaft bearings.
GOVERNOR Throttle governor keeps the speed constant
regardless of the load placed on the engine.
PULLEY Suitable Belt Pulley is furnished, placed on the
Outboard of the crank-shaft. Demonstrations given at any time.
These engines used extensively during the war by the English, French
and American Governments.
KT Distributors wanted for EACH of the Commonwealth States and
INew Zealand. , V 7 . . , .
Write, wire, or telephone.
AVERY N. HERRICK,
Agent for The Allied Construction Machinery Corporation of New York,
Telephone No.: City 10548. 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Torturing
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
u
Let STOPAIN Stop That Borins Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Coins Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just “s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfoit.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t™it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
0 $
LivE&fiiMPti Pictures
by —
Oiampeplwm'S
Tablets •
Good Health
It was easy to see who would win
Health and vigour always beat a
weakly body.
It is not brains alone that are
needed in the business world to-
day. It is the man who has health
and vigour to back them that makes
the success.
Men who neglect the minor ail-
ments such as indigestion and con-
stipation soon fall behind in life’s
race.
When the liver and bowels do
always wins!
not act life is a failure—business a
worry —success out of sight.
Chamberlain’s Tablets wake these
drowsy organs like the Sun wakes
the Earth. Life is worth living—
your business a pleasure and a
success.
Don’t take medicine when it is
not needed. When medicine is
needed take the best and take it
right off.
The best medicine for indigestion,
biliousness and constipation is
GIAMBEPLAINSTABUEIS
Jkr the Stomach & Livep.
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save-suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
dera. jes ti e stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
paay be avoided.
Be Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be "per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediatf and permanent
relief.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold, double-cut Diamond
Expanding Wristlet Watch, £l7/10/-
Extra quality, £22/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster and
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £45.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
lSet. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunderii’ double-
cut Diamond Necklet,
15ct. Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’ fine quality, double-cut Diamond
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3O.
m
* >
S II
v4*
rtCr--:
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled Lever movement, compensation balance,
£6/10/-
Others from £4/10/- to £l5.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold
Lij.ks, set double-cut Dia-
mond, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold
Links, set two pure Dia-
monds, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ fi nest-
quality double-cut .
Diamond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Gold Hunting
Waltham or Elgin Lever, £lO, £l2/10/-,
£l5, £2O, £25, £3O, £35, £4O,
£5O. Guaranteed.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
ALL ORDERS POST FREE.
A. Saunders' double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £7O.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ Single
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Bracelet, 15ct. Gold,
£37/10/-
A. Sarnde:
double-cut Diamrnd Cluster Expanding Bracelet,
15ct. Gold, £55,
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER.
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station). SYDNEY
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold double-cut Diamond
Patent Expanding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, lever
movement, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£5.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Necklet,
15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ double-cut
Diamond Cluster Ring,
18et. Gold, £35,
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ finest quality double-cut Diamond
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £6O.
A. Saunders’ Lady's Solid Gold, Patent Expanding Watch
Wristlet, full-jewelled Lever movement, compensation balance,
£lO,
15ct. Gold, £l5. Extra jewelled, £l6/10/-
s*®
0
'k
a
All Genuine Tobralco is
name-stamped on selvedge.
Buy none without /
OTHER TOOTAL GUARANTEED FABRICS
Each carries name on selvedge
TARANTULLE (Regd.) : The quality Cotton Fabric for Home-sewn
Lingerie and tJaby Wear. 40 inches wide. Three weights:
Standard 2/3, Fine 2/6, Superfine 2-9 per yard.
TOOTAL PIQUE —Double width, 43/44 inches wide. Superior, soft
and subtle, specially strengthened between ribs. White and
indelible colors, 5 6 per yard.
TOOTAL SHIRTING for ladles' and children’s wear. 32 inches
wide. Woven indelible color stripes.
NAMRIT —The Indelible Voile. Double width. 40 inches wide
White and indelible colors, 3/6 per yard.
TOOTAL CLOTH—The Guaranteed Velvet Fabric Plain and cord.
27 inches wide. also
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.) for Men. Correct self-wh'te
and exclusive color-border designs. Pyramid label on each.
1/44 each.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.) for Ladies Exquisite self-white
and indelible color border designs. Lissue label on each.
I/- each.
OBRALCQ
Rejjd.
THE COTTON WASH DRESS FABRIC IN WORLD-WIDE USE
ALL the expense of making up your frocks is thrown away if y°
wash material won’t wash. Far better pay a little more and
secure in Tobralco a fabric that washes to perfection time after time.
Tobralco is worn all over the world because it is always so fresh and
dependable, It is made of the finest cotton the world produces; its colors
are absolutely indelible, neither washing nor sunshine will fade them.
For children s hard wear, above all, you will fine nothing so pleasing and
lasting. See the pretty Tobralco patterns and colors at your store.
21 42 P er y ard - 27 1 8 inchps wide ' White. colors, and
I O printed designs. All colors guaranteed indelible.
TO BE HAD OF ALL STORES
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE COMPANY LTD., MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO C.P.O. BOX 1035 MELBOURNE
D.A. 197


Situation Vacant.
FREMANTLE FREEZING WORKS.
The West Australian Meat Exports Company Limited.
POSITION OF GENERAL MANAGER for Fremantle
Freezing Works, now in course of erection.
A PPLICATIONS will be received up to February
28, 1920, addressed to the Chairman of the
above Company, 18 Howard Street, Perth, W.A., for
the position of General Manager, at a salary of
£1250 per annum. Only those possessing a thorough
commercial and practical knowledge of the duties,
and able to produce evidence accordingly, will be
considered. Applications will be treated as Private
and Confidential and must be marked “Position for
General Manager.” Successful applicant will be
required to commence duty not later than June 1,
1920. Particulars of the works may be obtained at
any of the offices of the Pastohal Review through-
out Australia, New Zealand, Canada, South America,
Chicago, Africa and Great Britain.
JNO. HY. NOBLE, Secretary.
18 Howard Street, Perth.
Business Notices.
/ T'HE “GIPPSLAND SPINNER,” designed, proved
**- and made in Australia, beats all the imported
lures. Irresistible for perch, trout, etc.
Makes angling a serene and lasting joy. Send
2/-, P.N. or stamps, to “SPINNER,” 561 Dowling
Street, Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
Missing Friends.
W J ILL WALTER WILLIAM BENTEL,
▼ » or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
kindly communicate with the undersigned.
Important benefits. PARKER & JORDAN,
Commission Agents, Union Bank Chambers,
Brisbane.
K~~E PATRICK KELLEIIER. Will
Patrick Ivelleher, formerly of Maffra,
in Victoria, or any person knowing his
whereabouts, kindly communicate with
ARTHUR F. RICE, Solicitor, Maffra.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSII.
“|“ I VOL I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF MY LADY FRAYLE.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 13,
at the Matinfie at 2.30.
THE TIVOLI FAMOUS PLAYERS
in
AS YOU WERE.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
"piVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. MCINTOSH presents
LONDON’S LATEST SUCCESS,
TAILS UP.
Prices as usual.
It I T K It I O N T 11 15 A T It E. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
LIGHTNIN’.
A Comedy Drama by Winchell Smith and Frank
Bacon, introducing the famous American character-
actor JOHN D. O’HARA and a specially-selected
cast of players.
Plan at Paling’s.
14 It SI A .1 14 s T V ’ S. S Y I) N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
H
LAST FIVE NIGHTS of the
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
GOING UP.
Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 20,
THE BING BOYS ON BROADWAY.
A L A C E T 1! E A T It E. SYDNEY.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF OLD LADY 31.
u
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 13, at 8.
SARA ALLGOOD in
PEG O’ MY HEART.
The Play that will live for ever.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
N I O N PICT U It E T 11 E A T R E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 20.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present their Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
Til 15 AT RE It OY A 1., MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Play,
THEODORE AND CO.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE. MELB O U R N 15.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
LAST THREE NIGHTS OF ’POSSUM PADDOCK.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER, 20,
J. and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT
present their Grand Spectacular Pantomime,
MOTHER HUBBARD.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
H
OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
CHAS. RAY in THE SHERIFF’S SON.
LILA LEE in PUPPY LOVE.
Prices as usual.
AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
IV!
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY,
WITHIN THE LAW.
with
ALICE JOYCE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
QLACI A It I U JI, MEI H O OItX E.
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING,
8.15 to 10.45.
BUILDING ARTIFICIALLY COOLED.
MISS HUTCHISON’S JAZZ BAND.
Admission 1 /-
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tickets 3/6
*j*he alla:; wilkie company,
including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
KINDLE WAKES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY,
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING.
WEST COAST, DECEMBER 10 to 23.
|y|EEBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, includin';
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIR,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
pIiITANMA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Cun ►urn*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
3UJIIUII
Used since 15W6.
CURES
Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALI.INC EYELASHFS, WEAK SIGHT,
9, GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s”- refuse all substitutes.
Legal Notice. ,
TO FREDERICK JOSEPH WINSTAN-
LEY, formerly of Renmark, River
Murray, South Australia, and EDITH
MARGARET O’CARROL (born Winstan-
ley), formerly of Port Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia (beneficiaries under the will of
James Donnelly, late of Wellington, New
Zealand, Inspector of Weights and
Measures), and all persons claiming by,
through or under them.
PURSUANT to an Order made under
Section 2o of the Public Trust Oflice Amend-
ment Act, 1013, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the 31st day of March, 1920, your
claims to the shares of the estate of the
abovenamed James Donnelly deceased, held
by the Public Trustee on behalf of the said
Frederick Joseph AVinstanley and Edith
Margaret O’Carrol, failing which the said
shares will be distributed among the other
persons entitled to the said estate disregard-
ing your claims-.
Dated at Wellington this 14th day of
October, 1910.
G. G. ROSE.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Casli Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. ..£39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. AV. APPKItLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
An Unique Statement,
but True.
The celebrated “Ross” Prismatic RACE Glasses are
the best Race Glasses made in any part of the
world.
Ross Glasses were adopted for the British Navy and
British Army after trials of all other makes of
glasses.
They are hermetically sealed, and so withstand all
conditions of weather.
They have wonderful definition, light arid extra large
field.
Ross’ celebrated Marine Glasses and Telescopes just
landed.
We sell Ross Glasses at Ross’ Catalogue English
prices, plus only landing charges.
Fairfax (EL Roberts Ltd.,
Vice-Regal Opticians for 25 Years,
Sight-testing Rooms Upstairs,
Sole Agents in N. S. Wales for Ross Ltd., London. 23 and 25 Hunter Street.
1
/
K
«ii>j
V,
. _
t U
1
YourFirstShave
Begin shaving with a Colgate’s
"Handy Grip” of your own.
Your dad will tell you this is
the right soap to make smooth,
creamy, soothing lather and
help you to a comfortable shave
without any after-smarting.
You will like the "Handy Grip”
as well as you have always liked
the Ribbon Dental Cream—and
will never wish to be without either.
SoYo-iMim 'lu.'iw
[EES
COCj
COLGATE f
/NG
Y)Cf
ccff*
SJI S *" _ t, ,
. U,|K®9^
O' 1 *
NEW SELF-FILLING PEN ... 15/- & 16/6
SAFETY PEN, in two lengths ..... 15/-
STANDARD PEN 12/6
Obtainable Everywhere.
ALWAYS USE SWAN INK.
■M
Ohe Most Acceptable
Gift for Christmas
‘c\a/a m M pawMv
wWAM p&ni
"Prices from
Three-Bladed Stock Knife —For skinning,
castrating and foot-rot.
NEST Brand, made by Southern and Richardson, Shef-
field, England, Post Free 12/6
HAMMER Brand, made by New York Knife Co.
Post Free 10/6
CATTLE KNIFE (3 blades), spear-point blade, cas-
trating and foot-rot, Post Free . . . 12/6
Two-Bladed Pocket Knife, nest Brand, a
popular Sheffield make, one blade thin skinning or
wide skinning, other ordinary style, Post Free 7/-
Useful Tobacco Knife, 2 blades, Post Free 6/-
Manufacturers' Selling Agency, 8 Spring St., Sydney
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 14/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
find all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
George hotel.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JAIIRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Build e r s'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worhl.
f QUEENSLAND.^
THE KEY TO 1
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity for those
requiring land
Particulars ot the
millions ol acres ol
Crown Land
now available will he
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
F RE E
Aiame
Address
Queensland Government
LateMigeace and Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE
S.B.
Gifts for
Men
at Craig 8 Aitken’s,
The old established
Sydney Centre for
Shaving & Smokers’
Requisites.
Silver-plated Shaving
Stand, similar to illus-
tration, complete with
Brush. Prices: 23/6,
33/6, 36/-
Post Free.
Shaving Mug and
Brush, Silver-plated,
11/6, 14/6, 22/6.
Post Free.
Illustrated, Folder of
Shavers and Smokers’
Requisites Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 35 years.


J-H-C
-56<? y^epared-
ABBOTS
LAGER
( dK<? tyrinlS l/our Gue&fc
ddi/I Sdppreczate
brewed mon
PURE nALT& HOP?' ONLy
Peapes’ “Mid-Summer” Suits
Specially Designed for Holiday Wear.
Every detail of these suits reflects Peapes’ distinction and
Peapes’ quality.
They have been tailored on the smartest lines, expressly for
warm-weather coolness and comfort.
The material is a soft, biscuit-colored British cotton with
a finish that gives it much the appearance of silk.
TOURIST STYLE, seam at back, three outside
pockets 52/6
SPORTS STYLE, half-belt and vent at back, three
outside pockets 557-
Trousers have side, hip and fob pockets and permanent
turn-up bottoms.
PEAPES• PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height, chest, waist and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES & GO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
}
(<
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SIDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Going Up”
Criterion “Lightnin’ ”
Palace r “Peg o' My Heart”
Tivoli “As You Were”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Theodore and Co.”
Tivoli “Tails Up”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciaiuum Dancing
—— ■*
The demented tragedy of “Rigoletto” was
turned on at Melbourne Majesty’s last week
with Lois again indicating Manrico’s hot
heart to a Gilda - sweetly rendered by Ger-
trude Johnson. Formes dutifully suffered
in the motley of Gilda’s ridiculous parent,
but his voice was only partly conscious of
his internal agony. Alfredo Valenti inti-
mated that Spar.afucile's blood-thirstiness
was easily quenched, and Leah Myers was
a comparative dot in the background as
the cut-throat’s simple sister. Miss Myers,
however, enjoyed a bigger opportunity as
Carmen, and she worked arduously to
remove any possible suspicion that the
gipsy was qualifying for the Salvation
Army; yet the smooth, correct voice would
hardly give Josd inflammation of the affec-
tions. Ralph Errolle, as Jose, nevertheless
valiantly pretended that she held an exclu-
sive diploma in the siren profession, and
readily succumbed with a convulsive frenzy
of arm and eyeball that suggested the play
of an irritant poison. Carl Formes, who
usually carries conviction, was a rather
stolid Fscamillo. In fact, if Carmen wanted
to go to the Devil, she would never find
him in Carl’s complacent bull-slayer. Strella
Wilson poured out the patient love of
Micaela in showers of silver notes upon a
hushed house, and Elsy Treweek and
Thelma Carter were quite satisfactory as
Frasquita and Mercedes. But Browning
Mummery was robbed of liis faint preten-
sion to the role of Remenado by the unwel-
come force of comparison with his large and
beefy partner, Dancairo (Fred Collier) : he
rather suggested a smuggler who handled
face powder and eau-de-Cologne. On Satur-
day the season finishes with a grand hash
of scenes from “Boh&me,” “Trovatore,”
“Rigoletto,” “Faust” and “Hoffmann.”
After that the theatre closes until the 20th
to allow the stage staff to erect a mansion
for “The Sleeping Beauty,” the coming
panto that is advertised to contain “500
surprises.”
Second thoughts about “Theodore and C 0.,”
at Melbourne Royal, suggest that it might as
well have been produced at Her Majesty’s a
w’hile ago, when it was first talked about,
with, perhaps, a little more weight of scenery
to back it up, and more suitable people in
some of the characters. One gets the im-
pression that this somewhat mangled adapta-
tion from the French ought to hang together
better than it does. The four most active
principals—Theodore Leonard, Leslie Hoi-
“La Boheme,” at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
Cellina, the philoso-
pher (Alfredo
Valenti), says good-
bye to his coat.
land, Maude Fane
and Gladys Mon-
crieff —-a re well
placed, but Sidney
Stirling, as the
Duke, a character
full of possibilities
for an experienced
musical comedian,
is as comparatively
ineffective as Ral-
ston, George
Welch, Roberts,
Bantock and Pea-
cock, while the
little that Florence
Young has to do is
discounted by the
fact that the
matronly - looking
lady is introduced
as lately a school-
fellow of the Duke’s
young daughter.
Regarded as a broad
comedian who has
his way to make
with a public that
as yet knows him
not, Leonard is a
most promising
worker, with a per-
sonality remindful
of Victor Gouriet,
but a method as
genial as that of
the late George
Lauri. He has to keep things going, and
they gen fast when he is around. He is the
soft of comedian to become a prime favorite
with Australian audiences in all sorts of
characters, from a pantomime dame upwards,
and if he could only lend a little of his force
to Maude Fane, whose charm always seems
to lack emphasis, their fetching duet in the
first act would be even more fetching. It
is this want of emphasis that keeps some of
the snappiest of the chorus items from pre-
senting their full value. For instance, the six
young daughters of Bantock, brought, up from
the country to stare at high sassiety, are
only passably amusing when they ought to be
screamingly droll. In the quiet weeks before
Christmas a musical play needs to get every
ounce of scream out of its composition.
A woman’s show in Melbourne; —
Many ladies have misused paint in the Women’s
Art Club show at the Melbourne Athenreum. In fact,
most of the exhibitors could be safely sentenced to
10 years in an art school; but there are exceptions
who range from good to worth-while. Immeasurably
the best of them is Marion Jones, whose dexterity
glistens in several pastel portraits. Miss Jones has
the gift of catching a face at its highest moment of
vivacity or interest and setting it down with a verve
that gives the picture the appearance of a dashing
impromptu. It is merely an illusion, of course, for
all these things are meticulously studied and planned ;
but it catches the eye of everyone who feels the
thrill of fine drawing. Miss Jones is less admirable
in her oil portrait of a lady (No. 127), because the
character has left the face for the royal blue cape.
Miss Bale has a portrait group (No. 60) wherein a
difficult interior light lends personality and decision
to two otherwise unexciting people. Miss Daisy Stone
is responsible for “An Indian Scarf” that has stolen
its color scheme from the bloom of the plum; but
the same artist loses her grip in “The Early
Promenade,” which, by the way, has a curious
resemblance to “Sweet Seventeen,” by Miss Annie
Gates. A small minority of the landscapes are
moderately pleasing, the best of them being “Fog at
Sandringham,” by A. E. Oakley.
And still another of Christmas presents:—
At the Melbourne Fine Art Society Pen Boyd and
W. B. Mclnnes are endeavoring to give another
wrench to the public’s faculty of astonishment. Their
canvases are amazingly clever and confident in exe-
cution, but distinguished by a repetition that is a
subtle form of parody. For instance, Pen Boyd,
who found the wattle a valuable accomplice for the
expression of poetry in pictures, has used up kegs
of 3'ellow in putting whole forests of the
blossom on canvas. The effect would be
rich if the thing were done in moderation,
but Pen's prodigal vision, enlivened by the con-
sciousness of painting Best Sellers, will make it
impossible for the present writer to look on
scrambled eggs without a shudder. There is an
“La Boheme ,” at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
Amy Castles as Mimi.
even more numerous
collection of studies
showing a thread of
river picking a fur-
tive course through an
immense area of
heavily - timbered
scenery. The artist,
notices several trees
for honorable mention,
but for the most part
he is concerned in
issuing daily bulletins
about the state ot his
favorite river. His one
portrait group, depict-
ing a mother and two
children, could easily
be used by a confec-
tionery firm as a
Christinas calendar.
W. B. Mclnnes’s fancy
is .for a lucerne farm,
which is shown from
a dozen different as-
pects. The first of the
series (No. 32) is tne
artist’s happiest illus-
tration of the lights
and livestock about the
place. But the best of
his contributions is the finest bit of portrait-
painting that Melbourne has seen for many a day.
It is a study of a middle-aged lady in black that
holds one by a quality of Old Masterly simplicity
and accomplishment seldom, if ever, paralleled by
the artist's Australian contemporaries. The blacks
in the canvas are handled with notable skill, but,
without its color scheme and its singular power, the
picture would still be remarkable for the painting
of the hands. Mclnnes’s great talent was never
more effectually proclaimed than in that one feature.
“ ’Possum Paddock,” with its safe and
simple mechanism and ingratiating air of
naturalness, closes its chapter at Melbourne
King’s on Saturday night. For some days
thereafter the theatre will be in the throes
of panto, preparation. The panto, is “Mother
Hubbard,” and Lupino will burst through the
stage in the name part. Also Jack Cannot
will be there.
At Melbourne Tivoli the last scene of
“Tails Up” continues to be somehow con-
nected with the Battle of Waterloo, and the
clothes of Minnie Love are a succession of
dreams, as before. But on Saturday the
bill will be “Petticoat Fair,” in which
Mclntosh’s New Musical Comedy Co. will
burst upon the scene.
Theda Bara, the Speed Queen of the vam-
pire world, slows down a trifle in “Du
Barry” at Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week. The
picture is pretty well done, and there are
only a couple of passages where the leading
lady might be a little less demented and
more historical. “Puppy Love,” with the
engaging Lila Lee as chief exponent, is a
whole education in young and artless sweet-
hearting packed into a few minutes’ fun. The
third of Hoyt’s tales is “The Sheriff’s Son,”
and herein Charles Ray slides gracefully into
an adventure heavily flavored with bandits,
nice girl and excitement. At the Majestic
Mary Pickford is taking a matinge run as
“Daddy Longlegs,” whilst the evening bill
show y s Dorothy Phillips in “Paid in Advance”
and Alice Brady in “The Hollow of Her
Hand.” In the latter desperate yarn the
leading man is Percy Marmont, who figured
in “Fair and Warmer” and “London Pride”
in Australia.
* * * *
“Going Up” ends its Sydney flight early
next week. The jolly musical show sur-
vived the professional fiddlers’ strike, and
will come down with a spinning nose-dive
in time to allow Her Majesty’s a little inter-
val in which to make ready for “The Bing
Boys on Broadway.” They are timed for
Saturday, December 20.
“Old Lady 31” is ready to step over the
threshold of Sydney Palace. “Peg o’ My
“East Lynne," at
Sydney Grand Opera
House.
Constable W. J.
Coulter arrests Sir
Francis Levison
(Rutland Beckett).
Heart” is due on
Saturday, and
should have a brisk
revival season. It
is Sara Allgood’s
farewell to Sydney.
“Lightnin’,” Syd-
ney Criterion’s dear
old drunk, is more
than ever accept-
able at the present
time, when the city
is reeling under a
beer strike. “Why,”
members of the
audience inquire,
passionately,
“should lovable old
men like this be
hampered in the
pursuit of their
life’s hobby by soul-
less unionists?”
The result is a
political discussion
which serves to
while away the
intervals—one o f
which lasted nearly
20 minutes on the
last night the
writer attended the
show.
“My Lady Frayle”
will signalise the
end of a long season
at Sydney Tivoli by
casting loose her
bonnet-strings and
throwing her spec-
tacles from the bat-
tlements of the old
baronial hall. This Bolshevism happens
on Friday. On Saturday the old home of
vaudeville begins afresh with “As You
Were.” The managerial advt. states that
it kept London Pavilion going for two years
in chicken and asparagus.
De Luxe Annie throws off the blood-
hounds and escapes over the frozen lake at
Sydney Crystal Palace all this week. When
she’s not doing this she’s inveigling bald-
heads into proposals strictly dishonorable
and then confronting them with her con-
federate husband, a blank cheque and the
old “Sign, please.” Norma Talmadge is the
lady that in the midst of crifne is still an
unspotted angel owing to bone-pressure on
the brain. “For Better for Worse” is a
de Mille drama of two men and two maids
who, instead of gravitating to a joyous four-
some, obstinately build an isosceles triangle
—the two men pursuing the one tart, while
the other bonzer little tiling is left in the
cold. It needs the big war, a motor acci-
dent, two wonderful operations in surgery
and a complete change of mind to straighten
the tangle. The Strand and Ha.vmarket
show it, with Gloria Swanson in the rich
furs of the lead. Mildred Harris Chaplin
and Viola Dana divide the Lyceum honors
—Mildred in “Forbidden,” while Viola
triumphs over circumstances in the Woolly
West.
Some etchings in Adelaide:—
Preece’s Gallery holds at the moment a good col-
lection of black-and-white work from the other
States. Ure Smith has boats, David Barker views
from Palestine, Godson cathedrals and old bridges;
Bruce Robertson varies between gums and archi-
tectural detail. Victor Cobb is very attractive with
a firm line; foliage is his mark. Van Raalte sends
from the West gaunt gums and a picture of a
Fremantle bridge built in the days when timber
was cheap. F. J. Campbell, who delights in water,
shows Flinders-street station rising gloomy over
the river. Gruner has a drypoint or two, and
Lionel Lindsay shows among his landscapes a study
of brother Norman at work. The said Norman
is represented bv several of his over-accentuated
nudes. One of them is called “The Enigma,” and
the name would do for all; but the power and
the technical skill of them are tremendous. Gov-
ernor Galway, a consistent patron of Australian art,
has made several purchases.
With the coming of summer Adelaide tries
to get into the open. Wondergraph thus
duplicates its indoor show, in which Dorothy
Gish has the story of a girl with what
Shakspeare calls a coming-on disposition,
who declared “I’ll Get Him Yet,” and was
as good as her word. West’s—now making
a special feature of their music, day and
evening—also deal (quite discreetly) with
Experimental Marriage, Constance Tal-
madge being the experimenter. The Grand
features a lady pleasantly described as a
Hell-cat, and the Pav tells of one Blackie, a
crook who determined to Turn to the Right,
and thumped anybody who tried to stop him.
The Sentimental Bloke has been pursuing
his Doreen for a fortnight at the Royal, and
now makes way for Snowy Baker in another
real Australian story. At the Majestic
Leonard Nelson is deservedly the main
feature, but Abdy’s cats have come in as a
balance to Mandeno’s dogs. And at Austral
Gardens a William Anderson Co. is just
starting in the open with “The Land of Nod.”
The SPECIAE CHRISTMAS BULLETIN
will be published on
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13
—General Election Polling: Day, by the way.
THE BULLETIN believes it is the best
sixpenn’orth of light reading matter and
drawings ever issued in Australia. All the old
writers are represented, and some new ones
that the war produced. The illustrations—
nearly a hundred of them —include full pages
by “Hop,” Norman Lindsay and Low; the
pick of the drawings submitted during the
year by Souter, Minns; Ruby, Lionel and
Percy Lindsay; Leason, Muir Auld, Colaban,
Oswald Pryor, Paul, Esther and Betty
Patterson, and numerous others, with some
of the last available examples of the work of
the late Alt Vincent. .
McDougall, ex-M.11.R., having admitted
that he had written certain offensive verses
about soldiers, he was “tarred and feathered
and then taken to Ararat, where his arrival
synchronised with the close of an entertain-
ment at the Town Hall.”
McDougall as a writer failed to top the lyric score,
And so they tarred and feathered him. A loud re-
proachful roar
Was uttered by the poet. Why? What could he wish
for more?
His Pegasus, full-fledged at last, is now equipped to
soar.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Jack is pure gold in
melodrama. In the casts of 35 recent pro-
ductions he crops up as the good young man
no less than nine times. Harry is the next
best for a young girl to trust herself
with in the dark, though he fell badly on
two occasions. Cecils are seldom- naughty.
Stephen, contrary to expectations, was the
villain twice only. James, Cuthbert, Rod-
ney, Martin, Gilbert and Roger are all dirty
dogs. George is a mixed lot, but Philip
is utterly bad, in six tries earning 97 years’
imprisonment and three executions.
“0.K.”: Two features of the “Theodore
and Co.” performance at Melbourne Royal
take my thoughts back 30 years and more.
Maud Fane, in a little round hat edged with
fur, is a rather forcible reminder of the
young Nellie Stewart of yore, whilst veteran
John Forde, in the part of a Man with a
Blue Envelope, is made up in imitation of
Bosco Blithers, the farcically-humorous crea-
tion of the late Phil Day, which had Mel-
bourne in shrieks of laughter at the time
when Nellie Stewart looked so like Maud
Fane in her fur-trimmed hat. Forde’s at-
tempt at a lisp is a reminiscence of Bosco
Blithers, apart from his fringe of red
whiskers and other facial distinctions. If
his front teeth were more extensively blacked
out the resemblance would be even more
striking. To those who saw Phil Day in
his famous part in “Mixed.” the apparition
of old John Forde as a Man with a Blue
Envelope comes like a vision of the past.
They almost expect to hear him say “I’ve
called about a hat.”
Stanley Mackay is on his way back to
Australia. He was the only local theatrical
manager to enlist, though most of the
eligible ones threatened to do so at variqus
times. A Sydney member of the craft
actually fixed a date: he was going into
camp at Liverpool in “the following Novem-
ber when the weather got warmer.” Mackay
was a frail little man in the early forties
when he left N. S. Wales as a gunner in
191 b. He did most of his service in France
and Belgium with the Trench Mortars.
Wherever he was —on board ship, in train-
ing camps, in England, or in billets over-
seas—he hastened to organise a theatrical
show. He carried the costumes about with
him, trained the actors, and took leading
parts himself; and he produced every class
of work from pantomime and revue to Shaki-
peare. The actual value of his work to the
A.I.F. could hardly be expressed in the form
of a decoration. In any case, needless to
say, he got none.


A Word About Tyres
i
'
=1
m
Doubtless , experience has taught you
the economy of riding on GOOD
tyres. Ours has taught us the good
judgment of handling them.
In short, GOOD tyres are GOOD
business both for you and for us.
Obtainable from all leading garages and
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(A us tralasia) Limited,
United States Tyres
are Good Tyres
53 York Street, SYDNEY; and 130-2 William Street, MELBOURNE .
W. A. SORRELL, 157 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND : Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
LAUNCESTON : Irvine & McEachern.
HOBART: Buchanan, Davidson & Co. Ltd.
NEW ZEALAND: Magnus, Sanderson & Co. Ltd., Wellington
•• m Dexter & Crazier Ltd., Christchurch.


r
“MALSON”
THE- SUPER HAT.
PRICE 40)
Post
Free.
FINNEY, ISLES &
LTD.
J
This is one of America’s Best Hats—very light in weight—
very good in quality.
The shape is the very latest, brim about 2J4 inches wide,
bound, unbound, or with double edge.
Shades—With bound edge, Light Fawn and Grey; with
unbound edge, Olive Green and Fawn; with double edge,
New Brown and Medium Slate.
YOUR SIZE IS HERE.
MAIL YOUR ORDER NOW.
From Poverty Point to Luxury— a
meal at the “PAVlLlON”—Sydney’s
Dining Rooms de luxe, Circular Quay.
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
POVERTY
POINTS
“Fairplay”: Charles Wenman, of the
Firm, has been talking about the good times
the chorus-girl has. The noble profession
pays her over £3 12s. 6d. a week whilst
on tour in Maoriland. He forgets to
add that the girls frequently lose a fortnight
in travelling from Sydney to Maoriland, and
that when playing small towns they may
average only four nights a week —and they
are paid for only those they play. Actually
the chorus is a heart-breaking job for any
girl who is battling on her own, and no
girl can be blamed for taking a bite with
a nice young man -after the show. She
runs no more risks than her sister behind
the ribbon counter, and is frequently better
able to take care of herself.
“Stalled Ass”: Statements were lately
published about the hard lot of the Austra-
lian chorus- and ballet-girl, the strenuous
nature of her work, and the meagreness of
her screw. Next day the Taits put the case
for the defence. They “ventured to say”
that the “theatrical profession is extremely
“OLD LADY 31,”
AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
William Driscoll as Mike, woman-hater.
well paid. Some of the artists engaged by
managements get very high salaries, not £lO
or £2O a week, but as high as £lOO a week
and more.” Next time a mining co. is
accused of underpaying its miners, I expect
to hear it reply that that can’t be true, be-
cause it gives its managing director £5OOO
a year.
“Glen H.”: So the Melbourne .Play
Lovers’ Club has decided to publish original
Australian plays, the profits (if any) to go
to the authors; also to compile a chronology
of the Australian drama and stage examples
whenever possible. The programme is an
admirable one, but unfortunately the Club
consists almost exclusively of amiable en-
thusiasts whose dramatic education has been
confined mostly to reading plays which have
proved distinguished commercial failures,
and which if called essays or by some other
name might prove less tiresome. Most Aus-
tralian writers whose aspiration it is to
manufacture “literary” plays would prefer to
have their work judged by people who live
by their pens. I suppose artists would
hesitate to submit paintings to the consider-
ation of a well-meaning body composed of
gentlemen who are excellent ledger-keepers
and boshter tally-clerks.
Jack Waller, partner with the late Syd-
ney James in “Look "Who’s Here,” was killed
recently in Calcutta in a motor-car accident.
The partnership wasn't happy and didn’t
last long. When the break came each
manager got together a show out of the Aus-
tralian circuit and planned a tour of India.
Both made a start; then “Billy” James died
suddenly and Fate sent Waller after him.
“Call Boy”: When Frederick Ward opened
his “Rajah of Sliivapore” opera in Mel-
bourne he struck a
vein of hard luck.
For a start one of
the leads was ar-
rested on the first
night for wife-de-
sertion, and had to
be bailed out before
the curtain could
rise. Next night
one of the chorus
men fell dead. A
series of minor mis-
haps—all of which
were carefully para-
graphed culmi-
nated in an acci-
dent to Alice Ben-
netto, who ventured
too close to a stage
fight and got a
nasty cut on the
head. Ward Sent
a par. about this-
to the Argus,
which published it.
But the sub-editor
was getting tired
of “The Rajah’s”
vicissitudes, an d
sent this friendly
warning: T his
must be the last
par. Up to now
Claude McKay
had the biscuit as
the most inventive
publicity mail in
the business, “ but
“East Lynne,” at
Sydney Grand Opera
House.
Roland Conway as
Archibald Carlyle.
not after this 1” Curiously enough, things
then suddenly ceased' to happen.
“Private Boxer”: At a mayoral reception
to “Lightnin’ ” O’Hara in Sydney, Fitz-.
gerald, M.L.C., after eulogising the Ameri-
can performer, is reported to have said that
“he would prefer to see Australian plays
and actors; but so far Australia had only
produced ‘’Possum Paddbck’ and plays
about Old Dad.” Hugh J. Ward, of the
Williamson firm, who was also present, lay
low and said nuffin’. He, being a native of
the U.S.A., is naturally in favor of his
country’s goods. But is there no hope of
Fitzgerald’s preference (which is the pre-
ference of thousands of theatre-goers) being
respected and catered for? Must the answer
be an eternal negative? Prejudice dies
hard. Yet there may be a lot more money
in the work of local playwrights than in
that of the Yankees. The attitude of the
leading managers seems to be that if Aus-
tralians could write plays—which, of course,
they can’t! —the public would not go to see
them ; so why worry ? A somewhat similar
state of things was to be noted in England
before the war. The late George Edwardes,
whose strong suit was the production of
musical pieces, became infatuated with the
work of Austrian and German librettists
and composers. Any ojd thing from the
Continong appealed to him, while good
’scripts from his own people went a-begging.
When Europe burst into flames Edwardes
was combining business and pleasure at a
German Spa. He was one of the earliest
interned by the Huns, and when released
he went back to England to die from the
brutal treatment he had received at their
hands. The tremendous irony of the cir-
cumstance is emphasised by the fact that,
since Edwardes’s death. Daly’s—his pet
playhouse—has perforce had to stage Eng-
lish-made goods, and the piece now on the
bills there, written by a hitherto little-known
author and composer, has been running con-
tinuously for nearly three years.
“Chu Chin Chow” wiped out the long-
standing record of “Charley’s Aunt” on
October 17. With its 1467th performance
at His Majesty’s, London, it broke (as
Asche advertised) “all records of any play,
in this or any other theatre, in this or any
other country, in this or any other world.”
And 5 * still going strong.
“0.K.”: Remembering that Mrs. Walter
Hill was the real Charley’s Aunt in Frank
Thornton’s first production of the farcical
comedy in Australia, I was astonished to
read in the obituary notices that the lady
arrived here with her husband as far back as
1855. “Charley’s Aunt” was introduced to
Australia in 1593, so Mrs. Walter Hill could
hardly have been less than (50 when she im-
personated the widow from Brazil, and may
have been considerably older. Previously I
had seen her play the wife of Parson Adams
in Brough and Boucicault’s “Joseph’s Sweet-
heart,” and when B. and B. staged Pinero’s
“Hobby Horse” the services of Harry Hill’s
mother were called for to supply a want in
the co. Of the actress’s ability in young
heroine parts there are no surviving critics,
I imagine. She is said to have been Esther
Eccles in the first Australian performance of
"Caste,” and she was Desdemona when G.
V. Brooke played lago and Mrs. Robert Heir
(George Darrell’s first wife) figured as Mrs.
lago. Also she helped Walter Montgomery,
Barry Sullivan and Hoskins to keep the
ancient lamp of “legitimate drama” burning.-
From my recollection of her I would say
that Mrs. Hill in her young days had been
a somewhat hard and angular actress, who
had thoroughly learned the business, without
acquiring any special aptitude for the art.
An- earlier report of Harry (“Ginger”)
Beaumont’s death in Orange (N.S.W.) hos-
pital was exaggerated; but his case was
hopeless, and, after being on the border-line
for three weeks, he crossed over on December
2, aged 51.
“Fax”: The late Colonel Jack Ballenger
seemed of recent years to belong to the
theatrical world because one or two of his
daughters had appeared on the stage, and
himself was for a while the licensee* of a
pub adjacent to Melbourne King’s. One
way or other Ballenger had become associ-
ated with every sort of Melbourne world,
but as a pub-keeper he never looked quite at
home. He was the right sort of colonel in
the wrong sort of place, notwithstanding his
long connection with beer in the brewing.
“Playboy”: Horace Brodzky, now here in
New York', designed the scenery and
effects for the Boom Ballet, at the Rivoli
Theatre. This was the Melbourne boy’s first
setting at a Broadway theatre, and it was
an immediate success. Brod., who has now
been in New York about four years, will
publish early next year “A Portfolio of
Prints” and a memoir of his friend the late
Henri Gaudier-Brzeska, a young Franco-
Polish sculptor who was killed in France.
Gaudier-Brzeska and Horace were chums in
London up to the outbreak of war.
“O. Blin”: I am greatly exhilarated these
nights by the enthusiasm evoked among the
ushers by the son of a new theatrical mag-
nate. Sonny has mostly to amble on hold-
ing an expensive cigarette in a horizontal
position, and at every performance the
ushers line up to applaud the feat. But
somehow the public is immune to enthusiasm
and sits stolidly wondering what the row
is about.
Dolores is booked for Tasmania in
January, and farewell seasons at Sydney and
Melbourne are to follow —Sydney at Easter.
“Harrison O.”: The statement (B.
4/12/T9) that “the National Council of
Women has managed to get the film
‘Damaged Goods’ banned from Melbourne”
goes too far. What has happened so far is
that the Gaud Mayor prohibited its ex-
hibition at the Town Hall, and the Health
Department then decided to prosecute the
management under the Police Offences Act,
which forbids the display of pictures relating
to venereal disease. At time of writing the
film is, nevertheless, being shown at the
Princess’s, where the season began a week
ago. Writer has not seen the picture, and,
if it is as big a bore as Brieux’s play, does
not wish to; but the fuss caused has don •
some good in furnishing additional proof of
the absurdity of official censorship. What is
the use of the Federal Government paying
salaries to three film censors if the pictures
they pass are to be subsequently blacked out
by some petty local authority?
“Ike Pagliacci”: Ben Fuller brought
about a real alliance between Church and
Stage in the U.S.A., and the result is that
we shall shortly have the Rev. Frank Gor-
man in Australian vaudeville. Gorman re-
mains a minister of the Congregational
Church and will return to the pulpit when
he has saved some money. “Until ministers
are paid a decent living salary I will forego
active preaching and remain on’ the stage,”
he says. The rev., who sings in the crow’s
coat of the parson, will arrive here early in
1920.
“Ox” : Newcastle showman Reuben Baker
has started something in Coalopolis. He is
running a juvenile pantomime—principals,
ballet and chorus to be entirely local. New-
castle district is divided into six sections and
one Red Riding Hood will be selected from
each to play the role during the run. The
best Riding Hood is to collect a prize in
addition to her salary, and financial in-
ducements are offered to all the performers
to do better than the other fellow.
“OLD LADY 31”
AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
J. H. Booth
as Cap'n
team Darby.
“Ike Pagliacci” : Digger athlete Le Mounier
comes back to Australian vaudeville with a
wife coaxed from the English stage. Le
Mounier served four years with the 23rd
Battalion and was wounded in the wrist,
both thighs and shoulders. On leave in
Paris he gave an impromptu exhibition at
the Olympia, where Jess Petersen, a 17st.
Dane, offered 100 francs to anyone who
could stand against him for five minutes. Le
Mounier and his pals blew the money up the
same night. George de Reliwski, a Russian,
undertook to throw him. twice in 10 minutes,
but failed to do it once in 20, and again the
cash went to the Aussie canteens. lie gave
a command performance in the battle area
before Birdie and officers, and on sick fur-
lough was permitted to give some music-hall
exhibitions at Bath and Bristol. Besides
being wounded he was gassed; yet in his
act he still allows five large men to trample
over him and two blacksmiths to swing ham-
mers on an anvil poised on his stomach. The
wife acquired is Nora Burke, who toured
England in the title-role of “A Little Bit
of Fluff.”
“Make Up” : Sydney’s Poverty Point keeps
shifting. Since Fullers moved their offices
to the Grand Opera House in the Ilaymarket
end of the town, the Point has disappeared
from Castlereagh-street and is now at the
corner of Pitt and Park streets. Here, at
almost any moment of the day, you can hear
contracts being made for one consecutive
night at Camperdown or two Saturday
nights at the ’Loo.
Died the other month, an aged French
dramatist whose lightest and brightest works
have been seen, in translation, in Australia.
Georges Duval wrote the books for “The
Old Guard,” “The Spring Chicken.” “The
Little Mich us” and “Veronique.” When not
writing original stuff for the stage Duval
was an industrious translator of English
plays. He published French translations of
Sheridan’s and Bulwer Lytton’s, and when
he had finished the whole of Shakspeare’s the
French Academy called him immortal.
“Danyell” : I observed Steele Rudd look-
ing at and listening to half an act of “ ’Pos-
sum Paddock” the other night. I’d have
given a penny for his thoughts. While in
Melbourne Rudd has been fixing up the
scenario of “Our New Selection,” which is
to follow “On Our Selection” as a screen
attraction. The acting will be done in Wales
(New South).
THE ILLUSIVE LIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Private ownership is in itself an illusion, for
most of the possessions of a very rich man must
be merely book entries. He cannot use them; his
ownership is practically that of a trustee. He
‘owns’ such wealth only in the sense that he adminis-
ters it, but that illusion of ownership makes him
careful to administer it as efficiently as he knows
how.” —Sydney Evening News.
“Buy me those pearls,” the show-girl cried.
“Five thousand is the price.”
“No, child,” the millionaire replied;
“These beads are just as nice.
Take them, and they like pearls will seem;
All ownership is but a dream.
“I thought of getting you a car—
A thousand-guinea one—•
Then realised ’twore better far
To leave the thing undone.
Cars are illusions, empty, vain—
And one can always take a train.
“Why squander cash on costly food,
Why have expensive drinks
When tea and tripe are just as goc d ?
The pauper only thinks
The bread and water, which are his,
Are poorer fare than duck and fizz.
“1, even 1, of all my cash
Am merely the trustee”—
“Then,” said the damsel, “as a mash
You are no good to me.
Here comes my dresser, old Jane Nye.
Imagine She is me. Good-bye.”
X.B.W.
D. B. J.
THE ETERNAL DUO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In politics my interest
Is, frankly, microscopic,
And, as my friends will all attest,
I always dodge the topic.
Why wonder at it? Who would choose
Each day, come wet or dry ’un,
To hear what Ryan thinks of Hughes
And what Hughes thinks of Ryan?
The country runs a two-man show,
And for the farce finds money;
But I, for one, each talky pro.
Find monstrously unfunny.
The gallery they may amuse—
Lowbrows, but ne’er a high ’un,
May laugh when Ryan talks at Hughes
And Hughes chats back at Ryan.
And that is why my interest
Is frankly microscopic
In politics; I do my best
To dodge the blessed topic.
Whichever of them wins I lose;
The fight’s unedifyin’.
Let Ryan throw his bricks at Hughes,
And Hughes chuck mud at Ryan!
ST. HILDA, VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


0
Ta
o
HJTUNE,SMOOTHING STONE DRIVE
Driving Pulley 6dia.
Driven Pulley 6dia.
HH| Distance between Pulley Centers 7
HHH Working Face of Stone 10'
B Weight of Stone 2cwt.
Specified GOODYEAR BELT 4x4 ply
GLIDE CONSTRUCTION
Ljr
Fifty per cent, more service with Goodyear Belts
THEY had used all
kinds of belts on the
smoothing stone drives
at J. G. Goodwin & Co.’s
Glassworks, Sydney, when
the Goodyear representa-
tive made his first call.
The results in service had
varied a little, but not
sufficiently to induce the
Works Manager to give
preference to any one par-
ticular kind of belt.
It so happened, and this is
well over a year ago, that
one of the battery of
stones used for bevelling
and smoothing heavy sheets
of glass needed new belting
equipment.
Measuring up the drive,
the Goodyear representa -
ti v e found a distance
between driving and driven
pulleys of only seven feet.
Twice the distance would
not have been too great to
compensate for the rel-
atively slow speed of the
drive and the intermittent
heavy load.
Working from the main
shaft by a half turn on to a
vertical pulley, and with
the driving pulley slightly
higher than that driven,
the belt would tend, as
soon as the weight of the
operator was exerted
against the heavy stone, to
find the dead centre of strain
by working down the driven
pulley until at times one
side of the belt would be
carrying the whole of the
load. And it was almost im-
possible to keep the lower
edge of the belt from rub-
bing against the pulley
supports, with the conse-
quent tendency to weaken
the whole.
Again, a certain amount of
grit and moisture is insepar-
able from such a work, and
has a tendency to destroy
the friction surface and eat
into the life of the belts.
All these special conditions
had to be provided against,
while the ordinary d emands
of service had also to be met.
A belt was needed that
would be free from slippage
or stretch ; one that would
grip and transmit every
ounce of power; that would
not falter with, the intermit-
tent and varied load, and,
above all, a belt that would
give longer and less trouble-
some service.
Finally, a Goodyear 4in. x 4
ply Belt of Glide construc-
ion was specified and in-
stalled, and now more
than a year since—we have
for study and comparison
the records of service.
In this plant Goodyear Belts
have proved themselves,
and are giving 50 per cent,
and upwards of longer and
more satisfactory service.
The Works Manager no
longer doubts which is his
best investment i n belts.
He has, moreover, the sat-
isfaction of knowing of the
improved efficiency of his
machines and operators be-
cause of the unfailing ser-
vice o f the Goodyear
equipped drives.
The Goodyear representative in
each State is ready at any time
to confer with you and to discuss
the solution of your transmission
problems.
Stocks of Goodyear Mechanical Rubber Goods are now carried throughout Australia by
ELDER, SMITH & CO. LIMITED.
A
gum
. -d.. ,--- -. ■- ■ - - ...
gnil IlfclßlßlipllUlKiiSli
|LT
rass®® mzamsi
IN G -HOSE ■ VA .v. „
V • . ~ *sP 1.9
a''* f £.^
, *. / 'Vv :
11\\:


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
-ole Agents : RESCHS. LlfliTED. Redfern. Sydney.
OBWIS&.
whirry;;
MAKERS
s
. : V:
y&sT'
YINO
mi
tsm
'
fer-TC.
««
U&C
»M
O \j»»NSTOW/V
fcrofiw
POT STILL i
PURE
POT
STILL
‘kj Superb Drink
BRINDS
WHISKY
{Justre/ian Diste ‘/fed
under strict Government
super vision by distillers
of over 50years experience
~ X PATON
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Four b. tsmen registered centuries in Mel-
bourne Dis,. ict cricket on Saturday. Onyons and
Sandford made 116 and 108 for Melbourne against
’Roy, and helped an otherwise unpromising total to
329 for nine. Essendon’s 312 for eight at the ex-
pense of Carlton was embellished by 116 n.o. by
Davies. South’s single gleam of mischief against
Richmond was Kenny’s faultless 105, the others
and sundries aggregating only 151. When South
adjourned their offensive, Richmond had lost one
wdeket for one. University, opposed by Northcote,
discovered that their backbone had retired to then-
tail. At one stage of the game half the side had
been dismissed for 57, but May, Mitchell and Fre-
mantle added 176 between them, the final tally being
285. North scored an undistinguished 176 against
’Wood (now no wickets for nine), ’Wood’s all-
rounder, Ryder, wreaking most destruction with four
for 52. McNaughton was conspicuous in East’s
attack on P’ran, and captured five for 49. P’ran
rather meekly amassed 187, whereas East’s response
was arrogant, almost haughty. Their record stands
at two for 94, mostly the work of Mayne (51) and
Baring (30), both- not out.
* * * *
lii Sydney grade cricket Wests and Glebe
still retain their positions at either end of the com-
petition table. Wests made a lamentable hash of
their strategy against Gordon. They got the Nor-
theners out for a moderate 155 (Harvey and Down
top-scoring with 38 runs each, and Russell, the best
of West’s bowlers, getting four wickets for 50 runs).
Wests should then have “gone for” the runs: instead
of which they went after their averages. Warren
Bardsley amassed a wary 46 (n. 0.), and Single
(showing a shade more enterprise) got 24—four
wickets falling for 100. Gordon was lucky to
draw. Norths had a remote chance of beating Pad-
dington, who declared at seven for 198 (Achurcli
106 n. 0.), as the latter are lamentably weak in
bowling. Besides which Noble was standing down.
But they lacked another forcing batsman to back
up Hall (50 n. 0.). Two wickets fell with Norths
102 runs behind at the end. Petersham declared
v. Glebe after a refreshing display at five for 252.
Andrews (108 n.o!) and Emery (56) both laid the
wood on to some purpose. Sending Glebe in with
an hour go they optimistically hoped for another
of those debacles for which the side is famous, but
were unable to separate the opening batsmen, Kel-
leway (81) and Grave (33).
Uni.’s 147 (Boyce 44) was too big for Sydney,
who were all out for 85. Lawes, the fledgling
Varsity bowler, bagged six wickets for 35 runs.
Asher bowled well for Sydney, getting four for 34
and having most of the batsmen in difficulties. Uni.’s
keenness in the field had a lot to do with the result:
it might well be followed by some of the other grade
teams. The M.H. skipper, Gee, took a risk in declar-
ing at 212 for seven wickets against Waverley, who
have a fair batting team. The Cemetarians were
only 55 runs behind, with five wickets in hand, when
time came. T. Waddy assailed the bowling violently
to the tune of 88. Kippax made a slashing 69 (n. 0.)
for Waverley. He was robbed of runs wholesale bv
fine fielding. C. Cumberland (who badly missed
Gar Waddy) fell for 146 against Balmain’s mediocre
bowling. ’Keeper Watsford was the only batsman to
fhine. Balmain got 170 for seven wickets, and thus
won by three wickets and 14 runs. G. Thomas got a
pushful 65 for the waterside community. Coogan,
who has a dav oecasionallv. bowled really well for
the rurals. His four wickets cost but 32.
Dr. Hordern, Sydney’s googly bowler, is
adding himself to the cricketing strength of Sydney
Stock Exchange. Disliking the job for which he
became a doctor, he has become a junior partner
in the William Tilley firm.
Jack Gregory was largely responsible for
the defeat of the S’Africans in the second test. He
took 10 wickets —six in the first and four in the
second innings-—and made 69 runs (second-highest
score). For the first half-dozen o\ers Gregory bowls
as fast as the late “Tibby” Cotter ever did.
N. S. Wales junior cricket is either poor
in batsmen or extraordinarily rich in bowlers just
now. Last Saturday there were at least a dozen
notable performances, including a double hat trick in
one innings by D. Jones in the Hartley competition
(six for 13), B. Carrol’s five for eight and Stenning’s
four for four in the North Sydney competition, Tagg’s
four for two and Collier’s three for none in the Moore
Park ditto, with a hat trick for Martin (three for
12) in Canterbury, and others of almost equal rank.
Capablanca, the Cuban chessplayer, who
took on 38 members of the House of Commons
together last week (36 games won by him and
2 drawn), is the world’s champion. He is only
25; small, dark, slim and dapper; a non-smoker
and a moderate drinker. The runner-up is a Ser-
vian named lvostich—also a youth. One of England’s
best performers is the tennis-player Sir George
Thomas, who, though middle-aged, had a sporting
chance of being selected for the Davis Cup
“Y.Z.” ; Cup Day was much more interest-
ing to tlie Flat in the days when the ingenuity of
all tiie spielers of creation employed itself in de-
luding youth and age, and when sudden excitement
was liable to seize us at any moment as a welsher
sped across the course, pursued by a howling mob
bent upon his destruction. It was the vulgar opinion
in those days that Providence had placed the Salt-
water River where it was, easy and accessible, for
the special accommodation of defaulting bookmakers.
I remember going on to the course from the Foots-
cray station and being just in time to witness the
baptism of a fat little welsher. Saltwater River
isn’t exactly attar of roses to-day, and it was in-
finitely worse those times. The podgy victim was
hauled ashore by a man running a spinning-jenny,
one in whom a fellow feeling was responsible for
some little human kindness. “Why, dammit!” said
the rescuer, “you’re the bloke I pulled out here
last year.” “Yes,” confessed the victim, “and 1
was thrown in the year before that. If this thing
goes on I’ll have to learn to swim.”
**-*•*
The purchase of Night Watch at a high
figure for racing purposes in India strikes one as
being a somewhat rash speculation. From the
moment that he breaks down badly in his train-
ing a gelding is worth only the price of his hide,
wherefore of the two stable companions that were
both in the market for private sale after Melbourne
Cup meeting, Lucknow was by far the more tempt-
ing proposition. The English horse may prove
the most valuable sire in Australia, whereas little
Night Watch will never have an offspring to
his name. He is sound as the proverbial bell at
present, it is said, and he is the light type of
animal that needs only light preparations, and can
be kept going for years, with good luck. But a
buyer can pay a very high price for a gee without
getting even average luck thrown in.
» * * *
Comedy King’s stud record was further
improved last week by the victory of Queen Comedy
in the Ballarat Cup. All things considered it was
rather absurd for Bullengarook at Bst. 111 b. to be
a much better favorite than Queen Comedy at
fist. 81b. The mare had won a welter race at
Caulfield on Guineas Day in game style, and her
breeding—from Pendant —suggests that she ought
to be always worth considering in second-class
company. It seems that the stock of Comedy King
mostlv have sturdy limbs and a good knowledge
of how to use them. Besides, they stay fairly
well in cases where they get encouragement from
the dam’s side.
» * * *
A.J.C. committee members have been win-
ning in their turn of late. Following on Colin
Stephen’s recent success at Moorefield with Chief-
Justice Knox’s presentation nag, Reginald Allen
(who hides under the name of “A Trevelyan”)
landed a double at Canterbury on Saturday.. Hip-
pasia took the Flying for him, and Riding Pad, her
half-sister, the Park Stakes. Sam Hordern has done
big things with Artilleryman, and Pleasant Days has
just picked up a race for him. Now that T. A.
Stilton and Fred Moses have joined the A.J.C. com-
mittee the above list is certain to be added to in
the near future, mainly by Cetigne and Poitrel.
* * * *
The Flying at Canterbury (N.S.W.) on
Saturday looked a good thing for Nautch Girl with
7st., seeing that she ran a close second carrying
Bst. 71b. on the previous Thursday to Sheila Pat
at Moorefield. However, she again filled the minor
position, the pace, perhaps, being too hot for her.
Zeda (Sands of the Orient —Lady Truda), who won
the Nursery, ran much more kindly for W. Lillyman
than for P. Maher, who had the mount at Moorefield.
The Warroo gelding Pine Park, who won the
Jumpers’ Flat in hollow fashion, used to be raced
in the country—where he was a high-class performer
on the flat—by Buckland of trotting fame and
owner of Fritz.
* * * *
That game little mare My Peggy met a
gamer one in Jennie B. in the handicap at Canter-
bury. The former had to give the ponies best on
account of increasing weight; when a mare has to
carry round about 13st. it is time to seek opponents
more in her class.
K- -If * / *
At the Q.T.C. meeting the much-raced
Sydney mare Thana won the Windsor Handicap
(ljm.), beating the favorite, Had-I-Wist, by a short
head. The latter is more at home over a mile and
a quarter, but ran a surprisingly good race, losing
only by a short head. The Champagne Stakes (5
furlongs) went to Glenoe (Eudorus —Malster Maid)
in the smart time for a two-year-old of lm. 14 sec.
News of Tom Haydon’s death in England
has set Melbourne sports thinking of the long ago
when there was an Elsternwick racecourse, abolished
by the local Government for exactly the same reasons
that should have made the scandal of a Richmond
racecourse impossible. Tom Haydon was secretary
of the Elstermvick Park Club, also sec. of the Aus-
tralian Coursing Club, himself being a doggy man
who imported greyhounds from England. Moreover,
he was sec. to the Victorian Club in Bourke-street,
where the bookmakers build their nests. A popular
link between the turf and the stage was Tom Haydon.
Daughter Ethel showed considerable talent as a sen-
timental soubrette. She was pretty, could sing
nicely and dance a bit, so the J.C.W. firm usually
had a job for her until dad took her to England
to astonish the natives. But Ethel did better than
become a star. She married a promising music-hall
singer named George Robey, and would be Lady
Robey this day if hubby’s splendid services as a
War-fund worker had elicited the title which fell to
Lauder.
* * * *
Lord Glanely, the winning owner in Eng-
land for the racing year just ended (he took over
£30,000 in stakes), has had an odd career. He
began as Bill Tatem, a clerk in a small Welsh ship-
ping office. He had saved (and won) enough by the
time he was 30 to buy a small coaster. He is now
50 ; owns the Tatem S.S. Co., and is a millionaire.
Grand Parade and Dominion are the best of his
string.
An Australasian altitude record of
21,000 ft. (just under four miles) was put up by
Captain Isitt in a military ’plane at Christchurch
(M.L.) last week. The previous best was Guillaux’s
10,000 ft. in a hydro-aeroplane in Sydney.
* * * *
Eustace Loveridge, one of Adelaide’s fore-
most cricketers (he was one of those chosen to
practise for the inter-State team), has had rotten
luck. He was field-
ing at cover when
a catch came his
way. Point dived
after it, too, and
they clashed. Love-
ridge's jaw was
dislocated, and
there is no solid
food for him this
side of Christmas.
(He pluckily held
the catch, by the
way.) A more
serious accident of
the same kind hap-
pened in Adelaide
some 30 years ago.
Ernest Stow and
Finlayson, running
for a catch, met
head on, and the
former was injured
fatally.
CHARLEY
BEALE,
manager 1881-
1886 Austra-
lian XI’s in
England.
The knocking-out inside two minutes of
Joe Beckett by Carpentier signifies no more than
that the big Englishman is a third-rater. Beckett’s
defeat of McGoorty impressed nobody here, though
it caused a sensation in England. Tommy Uren,
who can box as a welter, and who is,
nothing sensational as a champion at his
best, beat the American when the latter was three
years younger. Carpentier may out Dempsey as
easily as he did Beckett, and yet be no Peter Jack-
son or Bob Fitzsimmons. Joe Jeannette badly beat
the Frenchman in Paris in 1914, and two years
later Sam Langford “knocked” Jeannette. The pro-
babilities are that the real world’s champion is
camouflaged behind the dusky hide of some Ameri-
can negro, as in Tommy Burns’s day. It is hard,
anyhow, to see him in Dempsey, who, with prac-
tically no opposition, had to exhaust himself in
the effort to stop Willard; or in Carpentier, who
in his prime lost to men of the class of Klaus and
Papke.
Jamito, the vigorous little Filipino scrap-
per, lost on a foul to Vince Blackburn at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night. The calamity occurred
in the 16th round. .Jamito smote his adversary
with his right—a remarkably powerful weapon-
in the groin. Blackburn collapsed in a sitting posi-
tion, and his countenance took on the dazed expres-
sion of semi-consciousness. When his seconds came
to help him to his corner the real fight of the
evening began: it took a dozen men to get him
out of the ring. The battle had been a great one
up to the moment of the accident, with both boys
slamming for all they were worth. In such a
contest mishaps are likely; and in point of fact
Blackburn more than once hit the colored visitor low
before bis own turn came.
According to Murkan papers (which you
can believe or not as you like), Jack Johnson knocked
out Kid Cutler in the sixth round of a 20-round con-
test at. Mexico City on September 28. As an indica-
tion of the social atmosphere the referee shot one of
the judges during the evening’s sport.
The championship sculling position pans
out this way: Barry will meet Alf Felton again
on the Parramatta in March, and Paddon is to get
the first match with the victor.
* * * *
Queensland’s weak tennis team crashed at
the hands . of N. S. Wales in the inter-State match
at Double Bay (Sydney) on Saturday., The men
were licked by 19 rubbers to two, and the ladies
by nine to three.
* * * *
Francis Birtles came back to Sydney last
week after 12-months’ biking through Northern Aus-
tralia. He pedalled over 10,000 miles in the time
aboard one of Anthony Horderns’ Universals shod
with Dunlop tyres.
An English team of League toeballers is
due at Sydney Cricket Ground on June 5 next. It
will then be seen whether or no our players are up to
the high-water mark of eight years back. Football
supremacy runs in cycles. Before the advent of the
1905 original All Blacks Britain was regarded as
invincible in the Rugby code. Dave Gallaher’s fleet-
footed men burst that bubble. Then S’Africa moved
into the picture. Since those days M.L. has dropped
into the ruck, due probably to lack of incentive in
the way of touring matches. In N. S. Wales League
Rugger is at least a doubtful quantity. The first
team which left for the Cold Country in 1908 was
well and truly whipped, but the 1911 combination
had it all its own way. Then a season later an
English team collared the “ashes.” How will our
new blood shape against the professionals of the
Northern Union, who know every point of the busi-
ness?
* * * •
Governor Galway, who had played almost
every other game except bowls before coming to
Adelaide, and has there become expert in that too,
is going to leave behind him a Galway Cup for
competition.
An effort is being made to revive polo m
Adelaide. There are plenty of players, but mostly
in tile veteran stage. There is a scarcity of ponies,
too. Still the opening day saw three teams out.
* * * *
A luxurious two-up school has been twice
raided at Glenelg (S.A.). It met every Sunday after-
noon away in the sandhills to the north of the town,
and its prosperity was its undoing. You can’t
keep a good thing quiet when people flock to it in
hundreds, and several dozen empty motor-cars and
carriages drawn up by a roadside near the sandhills
are a sign that even a policeman cannot overlook.
Among the trophies of the chase now held by the
Glenelg police is a beautiful 20-foot carpet;” also
two pennies double-headed and one double-tailed—
which looks as if the only square thing about the
school was the carpet.
“Silas”: The light came off at til”
Cyclorama, opposite the Melbourne fire-brigade
station, when Billy Williams was engineering the
scrap industry' there, and was between a white hope
known as The Speck and a small coon who had been
eating up white trash in his class for 12 months.
The Speck had developed a taste for stoush in some
up-country town, and the wise ones gave him about
three rounds before he crumpled up under Black
Peter. Contrary to expectation, however, The Speck
was still there when the third round had passed,
looking clean and well, whereas Black Peter had a
chiv like a puff-ball, and had developed a condition
of funk that was funny to those who did not regard
it as pathetic. In the sixth round Peter was outed
with a blacksmith’s wild swipe to the chin, lie
was slow coming to, and The Speck hung round,
still in professional undress, still gloved, filled with
dolorous concern, convinced in his own mind that
the coon was dead. Inspired by a flutter of the
fallen man’s eyelid, the doctor ordered the conqueror
off. “Get out of this,” said he. “He’ll never come
round while you’re heie.” The Speck departed, and
then Peter raised his head, looked cautiously around,
and consented to admit he was alive. Two days
later, to everybody’s surprise, he was round looking
for another fight with The Speck—a strictly private
fight for personal satisfaction. “What!” gasped
Billy Williams. “Do you want a love fight with The
Speck?” “No, no, no,” cried Peter, “1 don’t want
have nuffin’ mo’ to do wid that feller. It’s my
missus—she’s jist dyin’ to have a cut at him!”
“Mulga” : I doubt if Australia has seen,
white or brown or black, a better all-round athlete
than the Queensland abo. Jerry Jerome. He was a
•splendid boxer at an age when most men have taken
to gardening, and as a runner and a jumper there
have been few better. He was a duck in the water,
a fast and very powerful swimmer; he swam the
Condamine in flood several times when no one else
would dare it. In his district he was the best foot-
baller and cricketer, and at rough- or scrub-riding
he was an extraordinary performer.
» * * »
S. A. Davenport, dead in Adelaide, did as
much as any man to popularise lacrosse in S. Aus.—
the one State where it has caught on to any extent.
For some years he was one of the State’s most
brilliant players.
* * * *
Hockey has had a tremendous revival in
England. Most of the amateur Soccer players took
it up when that game became professionalised, and
it was so popular' behind the lines during the war
that both Army and Navy are now making a special
feature of it.
The going was on the slow side for tiic-
Dunn Shield inter-club championship at Sydney on
Saturday. Still the nuggetty W. Hutton (Uni.) man-
aged to clip 2-osec. off the Shield record in the
quarter. 0. Nothling, a tall, slight undergrad, heaved
the javelin 156 ft. llin. in his first attempt, and
later projected it 165 ft. sJin. —which is a record for
Australia. He was second in the 161 b. shot putt
(35ft. BJin.) to Finnish Consul Naukler (East Syd-
ney), with 36ft. The pole vault was a tie
between G. W. Gorman (South Sydney) and A.
Floyd (East Sydney) at 10ft. 6in.—the odd inches
better than J. K. Harbison’s last year’s record. The
point scores for the first day left Uni. (14 points'
ahead of East Sydney (134). Redfern (10), Botany
(7), South Sydney (6J), Western Suburbs (3) and
Police (1).
* * * *
English cricketers who remembered George
Lohmann, the Surrey professional, were lately asked
to interest themselves in getting his brother Stewart
into a home for incurables. The Lohmann boys
were more expensively brought up and educated than
the average “gentleman” cricketer, but not having
much stock in social distinction they frankly took
to the game for a living. George, who was already
conscious of weakness in the lungs when he visited
Australia with Lord Sheffield’s team, tried to build
up his constitution by going to S. Africa to live,
but died of consumption whilst still young. Stewart,
who threw up a billet at the Stock Exchange to de-
vote himself to cricket, was the coach at Wimble-
don College for a long time. He went to America,
and returned to England, and then a paralytic
stroke knocked him out. There’s no blinking the
fact that the men who live by cricket don’t as a
rule live long. Of the English players who have
visited Australia within the past 30 years a good
few died young, and none of the veterans —such
as Shaw, Shrewsbury, Barlow, Grace, Ulyett—were
very old when they died.
* * * ♦
“Yarra Ben”; As there is. a lot of talk
anent the coming of the Tote on Victorian race-
courses these days, one is not surprised to find the
bookies extra-amiable and obliging. They’ll bet any
way, though it must be admitted prices are no less
cramped than usual. At the Bendigo meeting re-
cently one ingenious penciller aroused unusual in-
terest by displaying a board showing the separate
quotations for win, concession and place betting
at the one time. A variation in price was effected
by expedient of turning l a handle. The
ring-man had made the article “all out of his own
head.”
THE CROSSING HABIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Has it ever occurred to the average citizen that
every State ha’s a well-defined boundary, and that
a man can journey from one State to another by
stepping across?” —Sydney Sun.
“It’s marvellous,” mused Mugginsfold, “the stimula-
ting thoughts
That come to one from studying the press.
Take crossing. Say you walk between two popular
resorts
Like Coogee and Maroubra Bay. Confess
Y’ou never realised before that, somewhere on the way,
You crossed the Coogee border and impinged upon
the bay.”
“You’re right,” said Blinks, his friend. “And think
of all that this implies.
We’re always crossing something in a sense.
Each working-day, as sure as Fate, I face the King-
street rise
And traverse Castlereagh. No hedge or fence
Denotes the spot ; and yet there comes a stage (the
thing is clear)
Where Castlereagh must end, and some fresh thorough-
fare appear.”
“I’ve noticed it,”. said Mugginsford, “in ev’ry phase
of life.
In flirting, drinking, politics and fight
A Rubicon appears. To cite a case —the fistic strife
In which young Knockout Snyde engaged last night.
I backed him. The arrangement was that he should
cross his left
And win. The other crossed his first, and there was
I bereft!”
Just here Blinks interrupted. “As it happens,
Mug,” he said,
“Snyde’s case is very much beside the point.
He didn’t use his ‘cross,’ for he himself was fighting
‘dead’.”
“You stagger me!” cried Mugginsford. “The joint
Was faked from start to finish,” sniggered Blinks. “Of
course you lost.
They crossed you there, old sport. In fact, they had
you double-crossed.”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


EXERCISE IS NECESSARY lo Keep Your
BODY IN GOOD REPAIR.
In order to have a perfectly healthy body, you must have
every function working in a harmonious manner, and that
means a certain amount of regular exercise—it means that
you must keep the muscles of your body in good repair.
These muscles were given for a certain purpose —not to lie
inactive, rust, become full of neurotic poisons, but for use.
MY POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH
AND STRENGTH CULTURE
is thorough, modern and most successful.
The secret of m>' success with my clients is that I give each
and every one the most strict and personal attention in
prescribing my exercises—thus you would receive exercises
that are most suitable for your individual physique, just
as the particulars you furnish tell me what you require.
If you want to enjoy better health —to have a strong and
healthy body—write to-day for my booklet, entitled
“Health and Strength from Self-Culture,” which tells all
about my methods, fees, etc. Just write voter name and
address across this advertisement and send it to me, with
three penny stamps for postage. I will know what you
mean.
REG. L. csnowy’) BAKER,
Natural Health and
Physical Culture
txpert,
164 Municipal Buildings, Oxford St. (Cr. Crown St.), Sydney.
The Economy of
1)/}ICEFIELD
Regch
MOTOR oJl]
IS PROVED.
This famous British Motor Oil
gives the greatest mileage per
gallon.
Obtainable from all garages.
C.C. Wakefield 8 Co. Ltd.
5 Moore Street, SYDNEY,
and LONDON,
WHEN TOURING
You don't need a map to
lind out where to set
UCiYTnT V 9f
SHELL’
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Sum
IBOMt
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
TNCLUDINQ
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 0.P.0.,
MELBOURNF.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
The Dip of To-Day
Years of experimenting by skilled chemists, combined with the
most modem manufacturing facilities and unlimited supplies
of necessary ingredients, have resulted in the production of
Powder SHEEP DIP
—A product of exact science, and the most effective and
most Reliable Sheep Dip on the market. “Vallo’ stands “four
square” to every requirement of the Australian Woolgrower.
All Stores Supply
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOUBNE
SYDNEY
BBISBANE
A Well-matured Tobacco at L,ast!
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is Too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
10/8 per lb. 5/4 P er ilk. 2 8 per ilb.
Postage—N.S.W.: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/3, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
/
»£A-
<7^
The Purest Spirit in the World.
Good Gin has definite medicinal values due to
the presence of juniper in the spirit.
When your doctor orders Gin, be sure you get
Coates’ Original Plymouth Gin, which is specially
rich in juniper.
Made at the Blackfriars’ Distillery, Plymouth.
Founded 1793.
At all good hotels, clubs, stores, etc.
Cooper, Nathan 8 Co., Sole Agents, Sydney.
INTER-STATE AGENTS.
H. J. LANG DON & CO MELBOURNE
PERKINS & CO., LTD. . . . BRISBANE
SEPPELT & SON WEST AUSTRALIA


AttistlG Detail in tlie H
ome
f 1 'HE true tome-maker kas an unerring instinct for artistic detail. Xkere
A are few items tkat add so muck to tke attractiveness of a kome as a
keautiful lamp skade. It tkrows a soft, suffused glow tkrougkout tke room
and lends rick coloring to tke surroundings. Farmer’s lamp skades, for
electric and inverted gas ligkt, are obtainable m brown and blue, brown
and violet, red and black, and vieux rose and floral panels. Assorted
designs finished witk bead fringes to tone. Price 18/6
Box4o7 g.po FARMER'S. SYD'WEY w e p aM c a *«a Sa
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel*
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Illustrated booklet forwarded on
application.
_-d§P~ wash beautifully,
|p £tay shapely, and
jf are quality Silk Gloves
’ to the last &itch.
With all their goodness and
the guarantee which goes with
them, they cost no ___
more than ordinary
silk gloves which ' s =|
have no guarantee. 2
Vanity Fair silk
Gloves are sold
by drapers
everywhere.
Ask for them.
V.F. 3
—the
“PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
VISITORS. —Don’t miss one of the city’s greatest attractions-
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
The arrangements at the Manifolds’ At
Home were flawless, but everything was cor-
rect and formal and stiff, and the little
something or other that knits such a gather-
ing was not there. Yet it wasn’t the fault
of host and hostess, whose “old-fashioned”
courtesy and hospitable manner couldn’t be
bettered. Perhaps the concert and enter-
tainment part of the show was too much
featured. The old system of dividing the
attractions so as to distribute the people
over the whole of the State Parliament
House was better. If the Parliamentary
officers had been deputed or had volunteered
to be coadjutors there would have been more
of the personal touch and more enjoyment.
Of 900 asked about 400 responded. Fed-
eral politicians were absent, being very
much otherwise engaged. Despite all his
efforts to hide it, Lieul.-Governor Irvine
looked bored as he paraded down the Coun-
cil corridor with the Manifolds, his own
dame and the Arthur Robinsons. Lawson,
the Premier, chummed up with everybody.
Peter Mcßride, the Agent-General, resplen-
dent in Court dress, was one of the lions.
Gaud Mayor Aikman was courted for favors
to come, and Mrs. Stein, his niece, who
queens it at the Town Flail, was the centre
of an admiring throng. After looking at
her one elderly politician seemed to be deep
in thought; then he confided to a friend that
he had found in a pigeon-hole of memory the
Burke quotation for which he had been
groping—“ Decorating and cheering the ele-
vated sphere she had just begun to move in,
glittering like the morning star, full of life
and splendor and joy.”
The Miller dame was enthroned in a regal
wav with a diamond tiara aloft. Captain
Treacy was a gorgeous episode in naval full-
dress. General McCay had a star mazing
on his mufti. Dr. Godfrey and his wife
(she was a daughter of Graham Berry)
were there. Mrs. Godfrey glittered with jet.
Dr. Barry Thompson attended Mrs. Barry,
who wore blue and gold brocade. Mrs.
Weedon had diamond buckles on her green,
gold and white gown. Mrs. Billy Hughes
was In white. A band played tantalising
jazz music and hesitation waltzes, but there
was no dancing in the roomy corridors. The
younger set thought it a waste of space and
melody. Supper was a continuous movie in
three committee-rooms. "
At the Manifold party at Parliament
House, popular Victor Hood held quite a re-
ception. He is taking up his secretarial job
with the Lieut.-Governor next week. Since
the matter was arranged he has been to
India, and home by way of Singapore and
Rangoon.
The G.-&. and Lady Helen hurriedly-
arranged an afternoon party at Government
House during the week to welcome Dr. and
Mrs. Truby King, of Maoriland. The famous
child specialist is the lion among women at
the moment, and his lectures on child wel-
fare have been crowded. An Englishman
resident in Maoriland, he is in appearance
a good-looking portrait of Billy Hughes. He
speaks forcibly, and scorches the woman who
is a bad mother. The Fergusons invited all
sorts of Welfare people into the cool vice-
regal drawing-rooms to meet the medicine
man on a blazing hot afternoon. Big bowls
of lilies decorated the rooms, and Lady
Helen wore her coolest misty-grey frock.
Mrs. Irvine arrived in Tuscan-straw color,
with blue feathers floating from her hat
The Barretts and sister Edith Barrett were
there; also Mrs. John Turnbull, president of
the Children’s Hospital; and Mrs. Stein and
Mrs. Cabena, both ardent workers in the
cause of Youngest Australia. Vera Deakin
was in the thick of things, and Mrs. Lang-
dridge, of the Women’s Hospital, had a busy
afeernoon. A few genthelps buzzed round
languidly with tea and looked as if they
thought parties should end in the dog days.
There has never yet been a strike of aides.
The Gaud Mayor. and Mrs. Stein had a
champagne morning party to welcome the
Truby King pair. It was held in the coun-
cil room, which was well packed with Wel-
fare people. Dr. Ramsay Webb, president
Danks (of the Children’s Welfare Associa-
tion), Dr. Kent Hughes (a new city
father) and the Rev. Alec McCallum all
made speeches. Dr. King gave his Scotch
wife credit for being “the head of the firm”—
he was the speaker, he said, she the worker.
On this occasion she was the smiling
listener.
The G.-G. is a generous old Scot, and people
with artistic goods for sale find him an eager
buyer. The recent Arts and Crafts show
in Government House finished up with a sale
of goods. His Ex. went the rounds buying
lavishly. He was particularly fascinated
with the Australian tortoiseshell exhibits, and
secured several pieces. Then he fingered lov-
ingly a paper-knife with the tusk of a sea
lion for a handle. Lady Helen frowned at
the price and the party moved on. As soon
as they were out of sight the G.-G. scurried
back like a naughty schoolboy and whispered
to the artist in charge, and the trifle was
put aside with the other purchases.
There was a point-to-point steeplechase
at Berwick recently, with a ball to follow.
The G.-G. and Lady Helen went up, and as
the Berwick country people think great things
of themselves and their guests, invitations
were carefully doled out. Some of the
people who were not asked turned Bolshevik
on the spot, and laid in a store of Warwick
eggs. Half-way through the dance these con-
demned goods were hurled through a back
window of the hall, and the revel had to
finish with a hurried bang of the jazz or-
chestra.
A dreadful thing happened the Best People
in a western village lately. A big social
“function” was to take place, and special at-
tention was being paid to the scheme of
decoration. Of course, any thing so horrid,
subversive of the Empire, and “impossible”
was never intended; but the color-scheme'
adopted was that of Sinn Fein! This was
noticed at once by several who obtained an
early view of the decorations, and then a
wretched pressman heard, and of course he
gratified his diseased sense of humor by pub-
lishing the interesting circumstance. Agon-
ised upholders of the Empire set the tele-
phone to work overtime. “Did Lady
realise ?” “Was it too late to change,
to add a touch of this or that?” Explana-
tions were made, assurances given that the
disloyal effect would be smothered by the
time the scheme was complete. So. con-
fidence was restored —but it was an anxious
time while it lasted.
At the .break-up of Church of England
Grammar School, Archbishop Clarke began
a story which startled some of the men in
the audience. The old churchman said his son
had written it to him from the war zone.
It sailed close to the wind and threatened
to run ashore; but the narrator tacked with
great simplicity and avoided the reef. So
many of these stories come out in two
editions. And if you’ve heard only the other
one, you wonder what’s going to happen
when a dear archbishop starts to tell it.
Sister Beth Perry is back home after many
exciting war experiences. She was one of
the first Australian nurses in the Freeman
Thomas Hospital in Bombay—the hospital
that was, later, entirely staffed by Austra-
lian sisters and native servants. It was
endowed by Mrs.
Freeman Thomas
after her son was
killed. Sister Perry
was later at Delhi;
and she was one of
the nurses who had
to fly to the fort for
shelter because of
the riots at Lahore.
Inside the fort she
busied herself in the
big stone hospital on
eases of malaria and
sunstroke. During
the hard malaria
nursing she developed
’flu, and was sent up
to the Hills to eon-
vale s c e and rest.
But, like the other
Australian nurses, she “rested” by nursing
convalescent soldiers. This was at Mani
Tal. After she was strong again she was
made matron at Barielly, down on the
Plains —a great hunting place in peace-time.
Then another shift to Choka Dal, where her
bungalow was far from the hospital, and she
dreamed cobras. In every place fresh excite-
ments brewed. When it was not riot it was
landslips, and when it was not landslips it
was snakes. The Indian military service
offered her a carry-on job, but she yearned
for Australia. Also, she had gone out as
an Australian nurse, and did not wish to lose
that proud identity. A particular harness-
pal, Sister Miller, stayed on in Burmah.
Sister Miller is one of the Heron Millers,
and is engaged to Basil Holmes, son of the
late General.
An address signed by the representatives
of 22 institutions with which she was con-
nected during her brief reign as Mayoress,
a gold bag and a quantity of assorted vege-
tables were presented to Mrs. Cabena at the
Town Hall on Friday. During the Cabena
regime the amiable little lady made herself
very popular, and most of the city fathers
who, from a stern sense of duty (etc.), voted
against giving her lord a second flutter were
sorry that they could not retain her ser-
vices. Mrs. Quinnell handed over the gifts,
and the new Mayoress was present, presum-
ably to show that whatever uncle Aikman
might think there was no animosity so far :
as she was concerned. i
Bob Knox and his wife (she hurried off 1
early this year to join him in England) have ;
got back to their native Melbourne.
Mrs. Phyllis Reggie Power floated back
to Melbourne last week by the mail steamer, j
She just stepped ashore to introduce her
10-months-old daughter to two grandmothers
before continuing the journey to Sydney,
where the Rupert Clarke infant is waiting
to meet his half-sister.
There is tidying-up at the gloomy A.W.N.L. ,
offices in anticipation of madam president’s \
return next month. Mrs. Hughes is to say ]
farewell to London fogs on the 20th jnst. .
and make for home-and-mother aboard the j
Indarra. The lady’s nerves, most distract- <
ingly “all on tiptoe” before her departure on t
this health-trip, are now alleged' to be quite i
restored.
P. W. Tewkesbury, who, by the way,
has dropped all his mining interests
now, is also dropping his interests in 1
Melbourne. He has leased the Oriental '
for 10 years. His only business plaything
for the time being will be a luxurious '
motor service for Sydney. A rather cute 1
idea may help the new idea to work '
smoothly. Credit customers will have a ’
small metal badge backed by a number which :
will be recorded. A shover will thus know '
at once which niglitbird he may safely trust. .
The badge may even be flaunted as a sort
of general guarantee of a good bank balance. '
Nancy Weir made this portrait of Cap- ,
tain Eugene Gorman, M.C. Captain Gor- .
man was in the
22nd Battalion, and
was chosen to write
the history of
Colonel Wiltshire’s
regiment. The tale,
told in 200 pages, is
being published by
the Austra, 1 i a n
Authors’ Agency, and
will appear almost
at once. And there’s
something to tell, for
in one week the
2 2 n d’s casualties
numbered nearly a
thousand. There is
a preface'by General
Birdwood, and pro-
fuse illustrations by
Will Dyson and
others.
Hattie Knight, the bright little penwoman
who married J. W. Leckie, the Nationalist
candidate for Indi, is her husband’s pub-
licity expert and aide-de-camp in a very
strenuous battle. Interruption has been con-
siderable in the campaign, and the other
evening at Tungamah her usually placid
partner stepped down from the platform and
punched an interjector who, in John’s
opinion, had got over the fence.
Xavier College had a great party last
week to get funds for the boys’ rowing
club. A Xavier lad who gathered in laurels
at the recent tennis tournament was speci-
ally fSted.
Maretimo, one of the show-places of the
Portland coast, and of recent years the
home of local M.L.A. Campbell, is in the
market. It was to Maretimo that Governor
Bowen escaped after he had signed the
famous “Black Wednesday” order sacking
half the public service. Among his fellow-
guests on that occasion were various “heads”
who had just been executed. But they
weren’t to know that for a day or so.
Since E. B. Jones, second Railwray Com-
missioner and prospective chairman, passed
out, Dr. W. E., head of the Lunacy De-
partment, has had to uphold the Jones tra-
dition alone. Now he has company in an-
other Welshman, Owen Jones, chairman of
the Forestry Commission, who came by the
Morea. He is as boyish-looking as Prof.
Harrison Moore when we first knew him,
and you feel as if you’d like to see his birth-
certificate in proof of his claim that he is 31.
In presenting the Brighton City Council
with a house flag, Tummus Bent’s daughter,
Mrs. Bleazby, announced that she yearned
to become a councillor, whereupon the
Mayor gallantly expressed the hope that
she would seriously consider offering her-
self for election at the earliest opportunity.
Vicar F. It. New’ton, of Holy Trinity,
Coburg, who went west the other day, was
looked upon a few years back as one of
the brightest hopes of the Anglican Church.
He was tested when appointed successor to
the much-discussed Canon Nash, at Christ
Church, Geelong, at a time when most of
the parishoners reckoned that if they couldn’t
be piloted heavenward by Nash they would
refuse to go there at all. Newton, in con-
sequence, had a nasty furrow to plough, but
within a year he had won over a majority
of the brethren, although the true-blue Nash-
ites never forgave either him or Arch-
gaiters Clarke.
Frank Gooch, of the land-wealthy Gipps-
land family from which the late “Kilmany”
Pearson selected his wife, is adventuring
into the wilds of the Western District. He
has bought Nerowie, at Bacchus Marsh,
formerly owned by one of the Staughtons
and latterly by the Brownes.
The endorsement of Mary Grant’s can-
didature for Ivooyong was refused by the
executive of the A.L.P. for an extraordinary
reason. Maurice Blackburn explains that,
Mary being a married woman, the executive
has ruled that she “must go to the poll in
her married name.” Why? Well —sh-sh-h-h!
—it seems that, though the lady can pro-
duce her “lines” at a moment’s notice for
the satisfaction of any inquiring enemy,
Blackburn and his executive fear for the
good name of the party and shudder at the
possibility of other Labor candidates being
defeated by “prejudices and suspicions”
arising from the lady’s preference for her
well-known maiden name.
Adelaide’s social diary :
There was a big dinner at Government House one
night last week when about 60 Digger officers were
entertained by his Ex.
The French Red Cross appeal progresses. In the
city the whole effort is to be concentrated into one
day, with button sales as usual in the streets and a
carnival in Government House grounds, where you
will be able to buy anything you don’t want. The
appeal is billed as this State’s last big war-fund
effort.
The Adelaide Hospital Board has appointed Dr.
Phoebe Chappie as one of the medical-officers for its
clinical department.
. The engagement is announced of Thelma Glover,
only daughter of the retiring Mayor and Mayoress
and a debutante of this season, to Harold Pavy, a
newly-plated medico.
May, .elder daughter of late squatter John Duncan,
whose brother is on the G.-G.’s staff, is to wed with
M. A. Fotheringham, eldest son of the late A. S.
Fotheringham.
Roseworthy College is to have a library in memory
of one of its ex-students, John Tassie, who was
killed in France. The donor is the soldier’s father,
John Tassie, managing-director of D. and W. Murray.
Died suddenly on Friday morning, S. A. Daven-
port, nephew of that fine old-timer Samuel Daven-
port. He was a keen mining man and one of the
founders of the Boys’ Brigade. On Thursday the
Rev. Tom Ward, son of a one-time coroner, went
west. Ward was in the Wallaroo and Moonta Co.’s
office before he decided to wear another kind of collar.
The Frank Fishers’ only son, Guy, now on his
way home after an absence that dates from the first
year of the war, is on arrival to marry Miss Squires,
a granddaughter of late Postmaster-General Charles
Todd.
The position of A.D.C. is not one that often earns
legacies from friends made while holding it; but
Victor Nelson Hood, who had a term at Adelaide
Government House, proved to have been down for
£3OOO in the will of the late Mrs. Barr Smith.
£5OOO goes to Lionel Crawfurd, once bishop’s
chaplain in Adelaide, and now Bishop of Stafford
(Eng.). Local clergymen Clampett and Warren
receive smaller sums. The whole estate is sworn at
£195,000.
George Pearce, a returned Digger, has been
appointed assistant-teacher of pianoforte at the Con-
servatorium. At 12, this Methody parson s boy
won a scholarship offered by Wm. Silver, with whom
he studied, and later became his assistant. After
12 months’ active service he was appointed pianist
to the Third Divisional Concert Party—the Cooees—
and before coming home he studied music and sing-
ing under Oscar Beringer and Percival Driver in
London. He wears his hair long, and before the
war looked like a possible tennis champion.
Major John Drought, son of the late Canon
Drought, of Toorak, and Miss Peters, of the
teaching staff of the Grammar Prep., have
agreed to do the right thing. Major John
who is preparing to follow in his father’s
clerical footsteps, is a grandson of the late
Fred Godfrey. His elder brother, Captain
Charles, died in France.
Shirley, the Arthur Hasells’ eldest girl,
changed her name on Saturday at the
Brighton Anglican Church. Lieut. Paul
Blois was the happy man. The pair met
on shipboard when the bride and her father
were returning from the “East.” French
Consul Fliclie and the medical Crivellis
represented France at the rejoicings, and
a Crivelli son supported the bridegroom.
Both wore picturesque light-blue uniforms
with accentuated waists, small black mous-
taches and war ribbons. The bridegroom’s
lot included a Croix de Guerre. . A brace
of sisters with Jan Fordyce bridesmaided
picturesquely in white with colored hats and
bouquets. The newlyweds leave after Christ-
mas to settle in Paris.
“Vandorian” drops in from abroad : —■
Artist Rupert Bunny and his wife are back in
Paris after a trip to the country for the latter’s
convalescence. Mrs. Bunny—who is French and
charming—has been very ill. But France was cold
and wet, and not helpful to the invalid, or exhilarat-
ing to the painter; so they fled back from the sodden
country to Paris and, as a slight compensation, met
a strike among the municipal water-service employees.
Most of the theatrical profession were out on strike,
too, and various other arguments were for a moment
keeping the big city too excited to notice the lack
of coal and that boots were £4 a pair.


Born 1820
—still going strong
c
A
A
a*
%
m
i
)
*
V
$
t:
t
>
<5!
/t
t
•>*
4.
KJ
*•
s?
f
*>
:
*
:
jr
«f
.
i
t*
»
a
«S
r#
9
*
J
WO*
Cne^e
M>' •
;
M,
111/
!
(9 •
•»
/
I
88
'a
Johnnie Walker: “There’s many a slip betwixt cup and lip.”
Friend : “If it were ‘Johnny Walker’ he’d have had his eyes open, eh !
If you pay a good price you should get a guarantee.
Johnnie Walker “Red Label” is guaranteed by the name on
the label and the Non-refillable Bottles in which it is put up.
It is quality protected.
JOHN WALKER & SONS. Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1906
QlfflMit
nE PLUS DLTRfI
'l.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Shave Gowns
are evident
at any affair
of note.
The air of distinction so
essentially typical of all
Shave designing makes
evident the Shave Gowns
in any affair of note. The
wonder of it is that many
of such gowns are made
by the art of Shave with-
out any fittings.
SHAVE
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway, Melbourne.
HOSIERY!
GLOVES!
UNDERWEAR!
“OUR” SPECIAL MILANESE SILK
GLOVES, double-tipped guaranteed, all colors,
4/9 pair.
Other qualities 5/6, 7/6 pair
“DOVE” HEAVY-WEIGHT PURE SILK
HOSE, every pair guaranteed ladder-proof. Sold
in shops 25/- pair. From us, in black only—
-16/6 Pair
“OMI” ARTIFICIAL SILK ANKLE
HOSE, Australian made, noted for splendid dye
and good wear. In black,' white and brown—
-3/6 pair
“DOVE” AMERICAN COTTON SING-
LETS, very long and full size. Short sleeves.
4/11 value for 2/11 each
IvAVSER MILANESE HOSE, in Mastic,
Navv and White 16/11 pair
MAIL ORDERS SPECIALLY CATERED FOR.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
The Dove Hosiery Stores,
313 Collins St., Opp. Equitable Building, Melbourne
rv
tLO I Hw. I Dliviru I i ntiu wi*t»
Mend-arTkajr
THAT WONDERFUL NEW MATERIAL WHICH
MENDS WITHOUT STITCHES. IT S SO NEAT,
SO EFFECTIVE AND SO SIMPLE TQ USE. I DO,
REPAIRS IN A QUARTER. THE .TIME.
Sample Outfit post free on
receipt of 1/4.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for New South
Wales and Queensland —
Bennett 8 Barkell Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
patronised by the best people. Orchestral performances daily.
'The Dainty Afternoon Teas served at the “PAVILION,” Circular Quay, Sydney, are
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Belgian Circle of Sydney paid its
compliments last Friday to the Sydney-
siders who have received honors and decora-
tions from Albert. Consul Segaert, slim,
and a trifle timid as to the success of this
first Belgian party, greeted everybody in a
happily-worded speech—just the sort of
thing you’d expect from a poet, though the
fire burns up not oftener than once a year
now. Mrs. Segaert, slim and laughing-
faced, in black georgette with a ballast of
black and steel beads, talked and laughed
with everybody. Mr. Verbrugghen, not at
all nervous, but determined to do the right
thing, draped himself around the corner of
the piano for the 25 minutes during which
he thanked the British nation, then the
separate parts of it, reaching the flood of
his eloquence when he came to N. S. Wales
and Premier Holman, who, stretched out in
a low cane chair, hid his embarrassment be-
tween almost-grown-up daughter Portia’s
cream-net and the floral design of Mrs. Hol-
man’s cloak.
After dealing minutely with Britain, Mr.
Yerbrugghen introduced America with a
flourish, loosened fold by fold the glory of
the Stars and Stripes, and flung the magni-
ficence around Hugh Ward, who with Mrs.
Hugh in pale-blue brocade sat trying not
to look as though he had won the war.
A dish as rich as turtle-soup was laid before
the Mayor; then 20 different flowers of
speech were garlanded for Farmer’s man-
ager Chalmers, and as he is still on the
high seas the bouquet was laid at the feet
of Mrs. Chalmers, who was present in black
trimmings and a beautifully marcel-waved
head. With a final flourish that included
the whole earth in friendship, the energetic
little man subsided as quickly as a pricked
balloon and retired to the cinnamon-brown
wing of Mrs. Verbrugghen.
Then there was music, and after that
everyone went into supper and had helpings
from the large china bowls as high as hip-
baths of hock and claret cup.
The Daisy Kennedy concerts have been
one of the features of the week. The tall,
self-possessed bit of Soustralia floods the
Town Hall with the suave and fiery melody
of her fiddle and doesn’t mind bringing good
muscular exertion to her job. On the night
of her first recital she swung on to the stage
in a debonair fashion in a peacock-green
frock with a heavyweight design embossed
upon it, and with her bronzed side-locks gave
one an idea of what the Minstrel Boy looked
like when he swaggered off with his gold-
tasselled cloak floating behind him. Still
further emulating her famous forebear, she
showed an utter contempt for strings, snap-
ping no less than three in the evening: two
during the Mozart Concerto —which was a
revelation in richness of tone.
. Daisy Kennedy has a rapturous choir of
birds in her fiddle. Sometimes she lets them
all loose at once, and then it’s being in a
wood at Evensong—it was like that in the
Pugnani Praeludium and Allegro. Then a
lonely one pipes out a call, as in the Finnish
Idyll, and that is like a silver thread of
moonlight piercing the heart of the mighty
forests Consul Naukler speaks of so feelingly.
She gets some fine, tumultuous, sumptuous
effects, too, and has a way of marking the
end of her piece by describing the half-circle
through the air with her bow that is reminis-
cent of the Shaltspearean gesture in elocu-
tion. But it was right to the heart of her
audience she got when she let the dragon-fly
tell the story of its life —which received the
knock-out blow at the treble hand of acccom-
panist Topsie Doenau, who did the deed im
mauve and silver tissue. Among those who
heartily applauded this and “The Orientate,”
a thing suggestive of zithers and veiled
women and flat roofs bathed in moonlight,
were a much slimmer Dolores, Verbrugghen
and Jennie Cullen (who has a Mountain
Daisy method of bowing her own way to the
heart of an audience), Thomp-
son, the Laurence Godfrey Smiths, the
Mowat Carters and the musical Chalmers
girls.
Big John Stinson, President of Sydney
Hospital, wore a smile that embraced Aus-
tralia and the islands of the Pacific the other
day when the Davidson dame handed over
the loot from the Peace Offering Ball, three
thousand and nearly two hundred pounds—
not quite all told, for what was the value of
the slip of paper Mrs. Monty Severn cast
upon the table even at the eleventh hour?
The treasurer took the three thousand
pounds’ worth of paper, and while thanking
everybody concerned for what had been done,
spoke almost lugubriously of the big under-
taking the Board was about to embark upon
in founding a Nurses’ Home, and suggested
that the ball with its four-figure result might
be an annual affair. In the humid atmosphere
a committee which has had its troubles,
though it doesn’t talk about them, received
these words in limp fashion. But the old
boys who had danced the official Lancers
were openly jubilant. They talked of their
terpsichorean efforts with pride, and con-
veyed how delighted they’d be to rip through
the figures once more with such charming
partners. The Maitland lady got an honorable
mention for her share of the work, and then
Lady Davidson handed out prizes to a group
of nurses, capped and aproned, awfully effi-
cient, and somehow rather shy. The books
looked like Sunday-school prizes, but turned
out to be nothing so frivolous —treatises on
nursing and hospital work and such things.
John Stinson was overwhelmed by the pre-
sentation of a large framed flashlight photo-
graph of the ball, and his eye searched the walls
of the Board-room for a possible depository
for the treasure even as he murmured thanks.
Then all started heartily on “God Save” ; but
upper registers weren’t equal to the high notes,
which became practically a solo by the
Governor’s lady.
A number of well-known people are in
mourning over the death of Mrs. Morton, of
Bomaderry. She was the mother of Phil
Morton; of Harry, formerly manager of
Coolangatta and now M.L.A.; and of Mark,
also a member and a recent bridegroom.
Harry Morton married a Northern Rivers
Dangar, and Mrs. Phil Morton was one of
the Hay girls of Coolangatta. The old lady
was a keen politician of the ultra-Conserva-
tive type, and she did notable work in the
district amongst the poor and distressed.
The Society of Women Painters, with a
three-foot list of hostesses, gave its dance
in the Club Rooms on Saturday. This time
the lift was running, so the satin shoes
weren’t worn out by three flights of stone
stairs. The room looked very charming
with its grey floor, and its grey walls still
covered with the exhibition paintings; the
lights winked through palette shades, the
supper tables tucked themselves in .the corner
nearest the kitchen, and the Date Palm
court provided a handy and popular sitting-
out corner. President Mrs. Holman being'
too ill to attend, the handshaking fell to
Mrs. Mergentheim, whose white lace frock
seemed to be in all parts of the room at once.
Hugh Mclntosh’s lady was there with an
ostrich farm on her pink dress. And lots
of young things in charming dresses; and
some not so young. But mother and flapper-
daughter, slim and stout, there were part-
ners for all. But who said cats? Not a
woman artist in the while boiling!
Between sittings of the Board of Trade
Mav Moore snatched this picture of Miss
Cashman, secretary
of the Women and
Girls’ section of the
Printing Industry
Union, and the
strikingly capable
secretary of the com-
mittee which is fight-
ing for better wages
and conditions for
the working-girl. For
three years Miss
Cashman has held
her present position.
Before that she was
in the printing trade ;
so she knows what
she is talking about.
Not that she’s fond
of talking—she says
her present job is
the nearest she ever wants to get to politics.
New Consul Norton’s wife, all in mole
georgette and wearing a drooping straw hat,
was entertained at Farmer’s by the American
ladies of Sydney last week. The tea-drink-
ing took place on the verandah outside the
smoke lounge, where the table of the guest
of honor 'was embowered in red and white
roses, through which gleamed the sheaf of
blue delphiniums she’d been given for her-
self.
Artist Evelyn Chapman, the youthful
colorist who has a picture in the National
Gallery, is still moving her adoring parents
around battered Europe. They were lately
in France, after picking up their hard-
worked baggage in various parts of Belgium,
and were expecting to spend the winter in
Dieppe.
Mrs. Von Goes that was, and de Goes that
is, is in Sydney on a business visit. The
genial ex-Consul for Sweden, who left off
giving princely dinners here in 1917, to be
a consul in Chicago, does not accompany
her.
The engagement between Lady Doris
Blackwood and Lieut.-Colonel Eagar, news
of which was cabled to Australia the other
day, has been broken off. It lasted barely
a fortnight.
A returning Australian brings word of
Frank Fox, who was J. F. Archibald’s
associate-editor when the Lone Hand was
young. Going to London Fox joined the
Morning Post, and went off as one of its
correspondents when the war started. But
he wasn’t satisfied with a back-of-the-lines
connection with war, and on the strength
of his association with the old sth F.A.
Brigade in Sydney, got a commission, and
is now a major with a laine leg and a ruined
left hand. He still has a perch in the
Morning Post office, an interest in some
small publishing ventures, his old abounding
energy—an 0.8. E., and a grandson—if it
isn’t a daughter.
The musicianly Alberts are the right sort
of friends to the middies of Jervis Bay. On
Friday a long table at Farmer’s was lined
with the boyish faces of the successful
cadets who next year join up with the Fleet.
This is the fourth year that Mr. and Mrs.
Albert have entertained the lads as they
have left the College, and they hope to
make the event an annual.
Judith Fletcher took this photograph
of Eileen Shettle, the
girl who raised a
deep contralto voice
at the Conserva-
torium last week
when she chose for
her opening numbers
“Night in the Desert”
and "Dawn in the
Desert,” both com-
posed by Gertrude
Ross and given their
trial runs in Eileen’s
deep tones. Green
no longer holds any
terror for the artist,
for this girl wore
miles of emerald tulle
fashioned into a
frock, and her recital
was quite a success.
A line from London: —
Roland Foster, of Sydney Conservatorium, and his
wife have been doing a round of show places and
holiday resorts in England and Wales, and after a
visit to Paris and Brussels will wind up their trip
with a final month of music in London. Their pas-
sage has, luckily, long been booked by the Orsova.
Thousands of anxious Australians are held up in
London through the lack of shipping accommodation,
and even such roundabout routes as via Singapore
and Japan arc fully booked until next March or
April.
Evelyn Taylor will shortly take E. J.
Watt for better or worse. Bride-to-be is a
daughter of Mrs. Lumley Hill, of Bellevue
(Q-) , said to be the greatest woman-autho-
rity on stock in the Commonwealth. Mr.
Watt has just bought Alfred Bennett’s old
home at Vaucluse, where the happy couple
hope to live happily ever after.
Ruth Lumsdaine says “I will” this week
to Harry Whiting at St. James’s. Lunch
afterwards at the Australia. Gladys Owen
tears herself away from Red Cross work
to play the frivolous part of bridesmaid.
Captain Walker, who had a distinguished
career in Mesopotamia, where he was
A.D.C. to Sir John Nixon, and is married
to another Miss Whiting, is in Sydney for
the wedding.
Hilda Crockford, of Hunter’s Hill, has
promised to obey Dr. 11. C. Barry, of Rand-
wick Military Hospital. Friends decorated
All Saints’ Church, and the bride wore white
georgette and crepe de chine, the novel note
being a bouquet of white heather sent by
her recently-married sister from Somerset.
Brisbane interests:—
Vera Macdonald, daughter of B. W. Macdonald,
the shipping man, has married Roy Hammond, late
Digger, and a few years ago one of Bananalander’s
, best footballers.
Dr. Marshall Allan has placed a half-hoop on the
finger of Polly Bracker, youngest daughter of squatter
Harry.
On December 17 Billy Garde, a popular Toowoomba
solicitor, is to marry Eileen Mowbray, daughter of
late P.M. Tom Mowbray. Sister Mina has come up
to be bridesmaid.
Maud Beatty left Sydney on Monday last for
Buenos Aires, where she is to marry George Kibble,
of a well-known Bananaland family.
Eliza Berry, who died the other day, spent 41
years as a teacher in the service of the Education
Department. She came to Bananaland in 1865, and
resigned in 1936. For 39 years she was at Kangaroo
Point. A sister, the late Margaret Berry, was for
many years headmistress of the Girls’ Normal School.
Lady Goold-Adams opened Rakeevan, Graceville, out-
third Red Cross convalescent home for soldiers. Mrs.
Pemberton, her sister, was present. Rakeevan used
to be the home of Mrs. J. T. Bell, widow of the
Speaker. Matron Waller is in charge.
Among those who applauded the dramatic
entertaipment arranged by Elsie Dumolo
last week to help the Sydney Kindergarten
Training College on its way was Miss Monte-
fiore, who was keenly interested in the play
put on by the members of the Women’s Club
Dramatics, of Which she was the founder.
On Monday afternoon, the 15th, the Joan
of Arc Committee is having the honor of
hostessing the widowed mothers of boys who
were killed at the war. The Committee
sends out an S.O.S. for Christmas gifts for
the kiddies, too. Address: 386 Pitt-street.
At the I-laymarket last Thursday, sand-
wiched between the soulful outpourings of
tenor Molinari and a girl soprano with a far-
reaching treble and the pictured trials of the
Silver King, the winners of the ticket-selling
competition in connection with the Sydney
Peace Offering offensive were called up to
receive their booty. And good booty it was
too: gold watches and gold-chain bags and
shoivers of applause.
On Decembor 18 Society in its last year's
frock will walk across the sheet in “Cupid
Camouflaged” at King’s Cross theatre. Pretty
Valerie Davenport’s wedding to her Jack Tar
with a gpod view of principal guests Sea-
Lord Jeliicoe and his round little lady, will
be another attraction. The gate-money goes
to the Church of England home for babies
at Normanhurst. Dame Margaret Davidson
comes from Moss Vale for this matinee.
Mrs. Ilutter, the best-known and beloved
“hawker” in Paddy’s Markets, is having a
special sale of toys on Dec. 19. This is
Mrs. Rutter’s way of being Santa Claus to
many a poor mite whose dad will never come
back from the war and whose mother faces
the Christmas stocking with a slim purse
Fan your lucky little kiddies spare some old
toys and picture-books from their cupboards?
Or if you haven’t any children how about
playing Christmas Fairy and furnishing some
new toys? Everything is sold for a few
pence, so that every mother has her chance.
Mrs. Rutter’s address is c/o the Voluntary
Workers’ Cafe, Elizabetk-street.
Mrs. Maclurcan’s Cookery Book is out in
good time to help old and new housekeepers
handle Christma_s goodies. So plain have
the directions been made that even a Uni.
graduate can follow them.
Who can say that our Navy doesn’t earn
its pay? Last week it staged “The Private
Secretary” aboard the Australia, and the
female impersonators missed the chance of
their lives in not being in port when the
Tivoli beauty contest was under way. Still
there are always the movies left for Youth
and Charm. The quarter-deck was the
theatre, and rows and rows of little chairs
supported the Very Best in end-of-the-season
dressing. Mrs. Willie Collins chaperoned
herself and so did Mrs. Sep. Levy; the
Markses, Herbert and Walter, were there;
the Gordon Wesches took up two chairs; and
Dangars and Rolins and Laidleys and Moreaus
and the other constant entertainers of gold
braid and brass tacks; also lots of com-
manders and their wives laughed and
applauded in the appointed places.
Gwen Nelson is working hard with the
Fox people in New York, and in between
whiles is seeing something of the Great
White Way. Churchill’s is the cabaret of
the moment, no doubt because it is fre-
quented by the King of Belgium, who dances
his slippers thrqugh there. The huge place
has floor-room for 8000. In the early part
of the evening it is a skating-rink; as
quickly as Jack’s Beanstalk a stage spring:--
up in the middle, and a revue is acted; then
clown come the “flies” and a dancing floor
is laid over what was the ice surface, and
it’s on with the dance! the Ziegfeld—
Clyde Cook, by the way, has got his chance,
and is taking it, too, with the Follies—men
pay a hundred dollars to secure a favorite
table. Every girl in the Follies must be a
beauty. It is all a question of face-value.
Mignon Scantlebury, back in Sydney on
business connected with dad’s affairs, is as
tall and distinguished-looking as of old, with
frocks and millinery and shoes and stockings
the last word in correctness. Mignon makes
the cheek blanch when she murmurs some-
thing of N’York prices—little models given
away at sale time for £3O and so on. Aunt
Mrs. Deane is still in New York, now with
Helena Rubinstein, who has changed the
complexion of two continents. (Her charges
for one littlest treatment are from 15 to 20
dollars.) Mignon tells of the latest and
greatest beauty specialist in the Big Noise —
Canadian Elizabeth Arden, who frightens old
age away with muscle strapping and ice-cold
bandages or ice applications. No massage.
She was a pretty little woman waiting
for a change of boats, or laundry, or some
such at Manila. Now, the hotel at Manila
serves cascades of wine at dinner-time; but
the waiter always filled and refilled the
pretty little woman’s glass with iced water.
Puzzled, she asked the meaning from the
lady of the house, an august person who
moves in stately fashion among her guests
seeing that all are well served. The august
person smiled benignly. “Oh,” said she,
“we knew you were a delegate of the Pro-
hibition Party.” “But,” said the little
woman, “I’m not. I belong to the Social
Purity movement.” “Sorry for the mistake,”
said the August One. “I knew it was some-
thing you didn’t do.”
The required guarantees having been easily
got, our State orchestra will leave Sydney
for Maoriland at the end of December.
Thirty-one concerts are to be given on 14
stands.


IS' ■«is»
m
!■»
1853
ESTB
JEWELLERS
Fine Diamond and Platinum
Pendant, complete with
Platinum Chain, in case,
£275 0 0
A special feature is made of, remounting
old-fashioned jewellery, designs and
estimates being submitted free of
charge.
Diamond
Jewellery
Hardy Bros. Ltd.
specialise in the manu-
facture of highly-finished
Diamond and Gem
Ornaments of every
description.
All Gems are of the finest
quality, pure Platinum
being used for the
Diamond Settings, the
workmanship throughout
being of highest standard.
Five per cent, discount allowed
on all cash purchases.
An Illustrated Catalogue
sent post free on request.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298 Collins Street, Melbourne; 116-118 Queen Street. Brisbane.
GIVE A CAMERA.
Qet it at HARRINGTONS’.
There is no present that will meet with greater appreciation than a
camera. It will give pleasure, not only to the recipient, but to his or her
friends also, and will last a lifetime, so that the memory of the feeling of
friendship and goodwill which prompted the gift will live for very many
years after the recollection of most other presents has passed into oblivion.
Harringtons’ have a full range of THE WORLD’S BEST CAMERAS—
ENSIGNS (British-made)—KODAKS—BROWNIES -ANSCOS
At Prices to Suit Every Requirement,
AND THEY TEACH PHOTOGRAPHY FREE,
to all camera purchasers, or to those tvh© have
had cameras purchased at Harringtons’ pre-
sented to them.
Make your choice from these —
Box-form Cameras, Daylight Loading, for Roll
Films —■
Ensigns.
No. 2JA
Takes Photos 21 x 2]
107-
Brownie.
2 fB
H x 2i
14/6
24
4 J x 24
18/6
31
41 x 31 in.
23/-
No. 0 2 2A 2C 3
Takes Photos If x 24 31 x 21 41 x 24 4J x 2J 41 x3l in.
Price ... 10/6' 14/6 18/6 23/6 23/6
Ensignette and V.P.K.
No. 1 2 V.P.K.
Takes Photos .. 2} xl4 3x2 21 xIS in.
Price 35/- 42/6 40/-
V.P.K. Takes Photos 24 xlf in 40/'
Folding Ensign.
No. 24 31-
Takes Photos .. 41x24 in. 41 x3l in.
Price 45/- 57/6
Folding Autographic Brownies.
No. 2 2A 2C
42/6 47/6 60/-
Autographic Kodak Juniors.
With Achromatic Meniscus Lens —
No. 1 1A 2C
60/- 70/- 80/-
Autographic Kodaks.
No. 1A 3
31A
Postcard
62/6
3A
65/-
3 A
92/6
3A
£4/17/6 £5/2/6 £6/2/6
Magazine Cameras. For Plates, 9/-, 12/6,
22/6, 30/-, 37/6, 55/-
m
m
w
MB 3
Call and let us show you how easy they are to use. If you live out of town
for Christinas Folder, in which all the above are illustrated and describe!
lIP
, send
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants ,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
886 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale.
/
/
" It’s all the same to me whether you want a kitchen
pot repaired, a garden fork, or half the parts
of a traction engine or motor car-—the
Oxy-Acetylene Process makes ’em
strong as new for a trifle compared
with the cost of new ones! ”
tc Fm a great fellow for saving money for householders, farmers, engineers,
motorists, manufacturers, and all who have that wasteful habit of throwing broken metal articles on
the scrap heap. Those cast iron parts of lawn mowers are regular Tartars for breaking, and you
can’t replace them, either. But it’s easy for me to make the broken pieces one strong section again.
Broken pots, pans, and garden tools come to me galore—l take pleasure in demonstrating what a
wonderful money-saving process Oxy-Acetylene is for anybody and everybody. It joins cast and
wrought iron, mild steel, brass, copper, aluminium, and gunmetal almost as quick as you can say
"Jack Robinson,” and it cuts them, too, like a hot knife going through butter. Is it any wonder,
then, that Oxy-Acetylene is rated as the greatest metal-worker in the world. If you don t know the
address of your nearest Oxy-Acetylene Welder—we’ll tell you. Write for illustrated Booklet, to
Oxygen G>li4-
FOV ST BALMAIN
S'VDNE'V •
MELBOURNE—Fyvie &C Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street;
ADELAIDE—AIex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street: BRISBANE—
Evans, Deakin &i Co., 121 Eagle Street; Launceston—Harrison Bros.
6C Co. Ltd-, 20 Patterson Street; PFRTH —Geo. Wills &C Co. Ltd.
Murray Street; FIJI —Brown Sc Noske, Suva.


< ishe <su)an
A soft-dressed, fine
White Linen Col-
lar, complete with
buttons and tape.
You’ll like its easy
comfort as well as
its good style. Both
are assured—it’s one
of the
mLARS
vfttadc in Australia
ESTABLISHED IN 1897.
Ponder’s
Advertising Agency,
W. J. C. COLE, Proprietor.
32-33 Royal Exchange,
Adelaide.
Publicity Campaigns Organised.
Enquiries Invited.
"THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
m
The above A
is the title®
of our book- *
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. u
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
b.V HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference bctw een
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
166 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS. ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
‘■^BRITISH
MADE
Perfects on
BIUR RUBBER
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Clear Away
Pimples
and
Dandruff
with
Cuticura
The Soap to Cleanse and Purify
The Ointznent to Soothe and Heal
These fragrant, super-creamy emol-
lients stop itching, clear the skin of
pimples, blotches, redness and rough-
ness, the scalp of itching and dan-
druff, and the hands of chaps and
sores. In purity, delicate medica-
tion, refreshing fragrance, conve-
nience and economy, Cuticura Soap
and Ointment meet with the approval
of the most discriminating. Ideal for
every-day toilet uses.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal. **R. Towns
* Co., Sydney, N. S. W." Sold by dealers through-
out the world.
HORROCKSES’ HORROCKSES' HORROCKS^S^
[HORRQCKSLS- HORROCKSES HORROCKSES HORROCKSESI
fIORROCKSESi
LonqclotfiA
ESTABLISHED l>ol
SfC
"HORROCKSES’
ON
SCI. VEDGI
HORROCKSES’ HORROCKSESHORROCKSES-
[MORROCKSES HORROCKSES’ HORRQCKSES HORftOCKS^
CO
rfosl\
K
Sun
ID
PARIS
GARTERS
No mefal
can touch you
JJsk distinctly for
Paris Garters
Value and Sendee
Guaranteed.
Obtainable all Mercers.
Stein & Co., Makers, Chicago, New York.
Indents and Wholesale:
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney.
I
£2
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
YOUR KIND
OF FOOTWEAR.
ABBEY SHOES!
Meet exactly your ideas of what a good
Shoe should give in Style, Comfort and
Long Wear.
We feature a high-grade Patent Derby
Bal.
Price - 63/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf.
Price - 52/6
Stocked in half-sizes, and narrow,
medium and wide fittings.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
is a pure r'ch milk < onfst-rd
With tiie extract of malted grams
—very di'estible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
©
iteax&i
g&A*Oj«A
for HorHck’s
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
•«». ?
Replaces
the
Foot
Brake.
£5.
MOORE Gear Boxes
and Brakes
for FORD Cars.
Westcott, Hazell & Co. Ltd.,
3ll PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except oj a hostile character ) will be
taken o; communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. trill be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Z.H.K.: No, lad. We won’t resurrect it.
Those girls, in the vehicle labelled “Comforts for
Australian Troops,” were all respectably married long-
ago. And we won’t sav what they called the Waacs
in France, either. Perhaps they are married, too.
. ...A.T.A.: The la-st stanza of “Funeral Service”
spoils the piece. Try again. .. . G.M. (Mosman) : No
use... . D.M.R.: We find that title you refer to about
once a month. It was very popular around 1830. .. .
C.C. (The Rock): Not a glimmer in it.... Mag:
There is no joy in that sort of thing.... Hambone:
Not quite enough in it. But tiie manner is all
right... .M.M.: The “Tea-tree” doesn’t say enough
to be allowed to say it in that loose way... .lCemo:
Not up... .E.J.G.: The “Bomb” is a dud... .Bendigo:
There’s no sense in chopping up prose phrases into
lines and thinking them verse.,. .D.M.H. : We’ve seen
worst first tries, and we’d like to judge the forty-
first. ... W.J.C.: No use... .L.D.C.G.: That awful
“morn”-“dawn” rhyme again... .Darius: “learns”
won’t d 0... .C.M.L.: It has to go back.... Pip:
“Moonah” not up... .W.P.W.: Melancholy remarks
on youth and age rejected.... H.B. (Waterloo):
The only bad fault about “Summer Afternoon” is
that it is too thin Theta: No A.E.8.: Far
too crude... .R.H.M.: Verse poor; ideas common-
place.... Ron Mac: Don’t like the “Ghost”.... Syl-
vester S.: Verse is curiously lacking in interest....
G.F.A.: The sonnet has one very good line....
E.8.J.: No use to u5....8.E. (Adelaide): “Morn”-
“dawn” in the first stanza and the rest to match. ...
K.L. (St. Kilda): Don’t care for “Memory”....
FB4: Doesn’t really say anything except the
obvious K.S.A.: Nothing there... .R.S.Y.S.:
“Goin’ Home” is getting closer.... Kathleen W.:
Why do you spoil the Simple movement with a line
like “Where this dark world is best” ?... .Bunyip:
That method is quite simple. Choose an ordinary
subject and then ask all the questions you can about
it. Thus:—■
Have you seen the raging flood ?
Have you marked the banks of mud?
Was the sunset red as blood
After tea on Tuesday week ?
Did you see the water flowing?
Did you mark the high wind blowing,
Little bubbles softly going
By the ripples brown and sleek?
Did you know that it was wet ?
Did it fill you with regret?
Did the storm grow wilder yet
As the watery moon came up?
Did you know that water damps you ?
Did you feel the cold that cramps you?—
Verse when built in this way stamps you
As a literary pup!
. ...R.0.A.: See answer to Bunyip... .C.F.J.: Full
of noble sentiments, but you haven’t the knack of
packing them into verse R.S.E.: Not enough in
them... .P.G.S.: Sharpen the ear that at present
allows you to rhyme “cliff” with “leave”
Sophronia: No earthly use....Tui: Sony; it won’t
d0....F.W. (Canterbury): A crude piling of words.
. ...J.II. (Queensland): “Grey Lands” and “Flot-
sam” not quite. .. .Kiss: You’ve spent too little
time on the job. Re-write.,. .M.C.: Do you think
we have microscopic eyes ?.... Wrexham: It doesn’t
look promising, but go ahead....A.E.R.l. (or some-
thing like that) : Glad to hear that “it has been
pronounced to be of a high Shakspearean order.”
Speaking for ourselves we pronounce it to be rub-
bish. .. .L.0.R.: Well, you can explode yourself in
this line: “The blithered, vapid, crazy pre-election
crank.” It may be clear to you, but when we put
it to the office maniac he was dubious about it....
W.W.H.: Three men have written the River and
none of them put “O God!” into it. Try it at
low tide... .Frank J.: “Old Creek Road” not bright
enough.... Charles C. MeN.: We’ll forgive you for
the sake of this:—
The modest planets from their heights essay
To render less uncivil night’s descent.
G.E.C.: Put a rock in your glove A Daugh-
ter of Eve: Easily fixed ; send his address and we’ll
forward your rhapsody to him. .. .Darlington Point:
No use.... Bellerive: “The Bushman’s Revenge” has
the real thrill in it:—
Onward o'er a woodland trail
Rode a bushman young and brave,
Prepared to wreaketh just revenge
Upon an outlaw of a cave;
lie’s brother perished by the hand
Of the miscreant fierce and bold
One night within lie’s secluded hut,
‘ For an ounce or two of gold.
The strains of birds did wafteth out
Upon the morning breeze,
When face to face the foemen met
Amidst the bending trees.
Pistol shots did pierce the air,
And as the smoke did drift away,
Grimly from he’s saddle reeled
The fiend of foul play.
As the victim died upon the grass,
And lie’s steed did take to flight,
“Thank the Lord,” the bushman cried,
“I was victor of the fight.”
...W.C. (Young): Can’t find any poem.... Biddy:
Far too thin.... Eucalyptus: A mild sort of insanity.
....W.C.11. (Q.) : “The Selector’s Wife” fails....
T.W.M.: Very sad; try it on Sunday at Home....
T. A. Bard: You ean’f, be very we 11... .R.H.M.:
None of ’em any good William 8.M.: The Depart-
ment seems to have awakened to the slaughter
Lorettonian: Nothing there Austen Did you
try to make it uninteresting? Plodder: Very
unworkable metre for so slight a thing Alan B.:
A freak yarn that ends nowhere is never exciting...
Iota: Doesn’t strike us E.C. (Concord): No trace
of a story in that W.T. (Albert Park): Doesn’t
quite do it.... J. 8.0.: Verse not up. Yarn held for
inquest E.L. (Stanmore) : A long way off
ILF. (Perth) : Pleased to know it's a “poem.” We’d
never have guessed it J.A.8.: No Umteenth:
The verse doesn’t carry it J.W.S.L. (probably):
“Literature” and “Music” are awful examples of
how it shouldn’t be done.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
11.V.R.: Joke not visible and the wash drawing
doesn’t clamor for reproduction... .Mervyn R.: The
conversation of the fowls is du11.... N.F.: The girls
are fetching, but why are they both looking at the
reader so mournfully ?... .Cam II.: Bush Noah’s Aik
people... .Thomas B.: Crude, but there is humor in
it. Struggle on W.C.C.: Send it to the West
Indies... .S.H.: It is possible to wrinkle humorous
pants -the wrong way. You’ve done it.-...
L.D.C.G.: There is only a limited demand for hor-
rible dwarfs... .W.G.P.: Too late. Join the Fire
Brigade and learn to hurry. ...A.: It’s the off-season
tor prickly-pear cartoons.... D.P.: Don’t want the
procession. Ryan as a hen looks a chronic non-
hatcher... .S.R.: One of the oldest. Try it on
your grandmother and she will tell you coldly that
if was played out in 1812 F.W.: No home for
tl < m here....MoAndrew: Too late.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4240, 2,4, ti Spring Street,
48io! Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JANUARY 14,
VENTURA.
10,0U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
T H !L North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade reirn
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
IMVEItS; also to BYRON DAY, CONE’S
HAltUOlt and VVOOLGOOLGA.
Combination tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to DItISUANE
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwilluinbuh!
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. 6d.; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. 6d.
For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
the:
Bank of Qunnsldnd Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 691,850 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since ISOS specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ■
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
Amerioa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.’
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198’,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman •
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,'
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
BEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Coiner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr. "
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping-,
etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, December.
R.M.S. MAKURA, January.
Tire most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
I hrough bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
lhe Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY. .
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors :
£4,000,000
8,200,000
4,000,000
£11,200.000
The Hon. Sir Cnarles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office — George Street, Sydney. London Office — 29 Threadneedle Street ETC.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
aoiaao avaH
'fl^uouiuioD
Janli-'Bustralia
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE BEST PLACE FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
139 Branches and 501 Agencies.
3f~% INTEREST on all balances up to £5OO.
DEPOSITS received from 1/= upwards.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts Opened.
Shipping.
v, '
m-UU. :.\vs •••.■<■’"' j.
SSSSS
BfeMMi SBOSSS
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
MADRAS MARU, sailing middle to
end of December.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
SYDNEY INTER-STATE
SUB-COMMITTEE.
INTER-STATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
Huddart Parker Llh
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa ; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorgre Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
, Steamer.
Tons.
Sails Noon.
AKI MARU...
TANGO MARU
NIKKO MARU
7000
8000
6000
25th Dec.
30th Jan., ’2O
27th Feb., ’2O.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing: Agents for':
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited!
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blaekheatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle),
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane),
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S'. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji) Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown’
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane


m
W
BK4
w.
Kj*'
mm
7A
m
m
flw
ini
*
as
am
.4
a
"v
,\ i'i:
* a
Vmmiiii »
Sst
h
i
IS-
s«r
m
r
e
H
U 0
Ife
In play they are resilient —faultless in running’ —true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizes: l|m. lfin. 2in. ‘2,Lin.
10/6 15/6 21/- 30/-set
(Postage on One Set—N.S.W., 9d.; Other States, 1/2).
Sole Australasian Distributors
SNOOKER BALES
Sues: ifin. liin. 2in 2,Lin.
£4,4 - £4/15/- £5/5/- £1010;-set
(We Pay Carriage on Snooker Balls).
1C
Headquarters—Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
Invalids Enjoy
Benger's Food. Letters from doctors and nurses continually
voice the gratitude of patients for it. Invalid after invalid
writes to say “It is the one Food of which they never tire.”
The ease with which
Food
is digested absorbed, makes it most welcome to patients,
and it ranks highest among nutritive foods.
Benger’s forms with milk a dainty cream, which is absorbed
with little digestive effort. The different method of preparing it
(see directions) is the measure of its advantages over other foods
Benger’s Food is entirely British in origin, ownership, and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc. everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when preparing it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from:
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U.s.a.) 90, Bcekmati St. Depftts throughout Canada.
REMINGTON UMC
Auto-loading
RIFLE.
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
Ei
2 2
2 2
SHORT
SHORT
MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Hammerless. Easily taken apart
and assembled. Chambered to fire the Ordinary Rim-fire .22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE HOLDS H CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be pulled, without lowering Rifle from the shoulder.
Fitted with Safety Lock. Full directions attached to each rifle.
Weight, 4|lb. PRICE £5/10/- net. Postage or Carriage extra.
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
MARCUS CLARK, LTD. ./. 1\ KNIGHT.
OOWLES & DUNN. F. LASSETTER & 00., LTD.
GRACE BROTHERS. LTD. NOCK k KIRBY, LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD. MICK SIMMONS, LTD.
Also from Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE ONLY from following Sydney Firms:
ALDERSON’S, LTD. ".I. P. KNIGHT.
JOHN BROOMFIELD, LTD. NOYES BROTHERS, LTD.
PAUL & GRAY, LTD.
Australian Representative for the Manufacturers: —
D. D. BRYANT, Box 686 G.P.0., Melbourne.
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE ON REQUEST.
The Indispensable!
In ten years’ time you will wonder
how you ever managed to do
without a
Watennans^lßuntainPea
Year after year, with undiminishing
efficiency and zeal, Waterman’s Ideal
speeds and makes pleasant the task of
the writer. Thus it proves the greatest
economy and a permanent source of
satisfaction. Whatever else goes
wrong, you can rely on your Water-
man’s Ideal-the pen with the smooth
nib and the steady, even flow.
Three Types: “Pocket Self-Filling,”
“Safety," and “ Regular.” Of Sta-
tioners and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, Ltd.,
Cty&ficn, Corner London, Eng.
Australia: H. D. Dtxjjt, 105, Clarence St,
Sydney.
s
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
ISI should read the British Australasian,
3d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street. Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. 11. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
What Looks Better
than a Diamond Encircled
Wristlet Watch ?
As an adornment on a dainty wrist,
fetching’ beyond words.
As a watch of reliability, useful and
necessary in hourly use.
As an expression of taste and wealth,
in accord with the best standards.
We mount the imported watches with
diamonds set in platinum, in all the
latest designs.
Wt set them, too, in all pearls, in
turquoise and pearls, in sapphires
and in rubies.
We save thus all intermediate profits,
and so are able to offer the best
possible values in Diamond-set
Watches, from £2O to £2OO.
Highest-grade Lever Watch, with Diamonds, set in
Platinum, on Expanding Bracelet, from £2l to £2OO.
“Fx. & R.” WATCHES ARE FAMOUS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain Figures. Cash onir.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.


Mr. JOHN BYRNES in Wandsworth No. S Hospital, England (Jrom a photo).
REXONA HEALED A SEPTIC LEG
AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS FAILED
Having been wounded at the Front in Gallipoli in 1915, and in hospital at
Alexandria, and transferred to Wandsworth No. 3 Hospital, England, with a septic leg,
I was suit'ering from 17 wounds, but no treatment that I tried would cure tills leg,
and 1 was four months in bed, and finally discharged in Sydney with my leg an open
wound. Nothing seemed to have any effect on it, and not getting any relief from the
various private treatments I was advised to try (I was at a loss to know what to do)
until I was advised to try your famous Kexona Ointment.
I am pleased to say that the results I got were of the best, for it seemed to
benefit me from the first, and entirely cured this had wound, which had been troubling
me for so long and which had resisted all other treatments. I am pleased to say that
I am now following my usual occupation without any disability, and I believe I owe
it lo Kexona, so I am writing to tell you all about it. I am also sending you a i>hoto-
grapli of myself taken in bed in the Wandsworth No. 3 Hospital, England, where I lay
for four months.
Sincerely yours, (Sgd.) JOHN BYRNES.
19 Womerah Avenue, Darlingliurst.
WHY SUFFER WITH STUBBORN SORES?
A had leg or chronic sore of any kind generally has two phases; the local inflam-
mation and soreness and the impurities existing in the blood. If you suspect that the
system is out of order or the blood impure, take a course of Eaxo-Tonic Fills to clear
all poisonous matter out of the system. Next treat the sore by frequent washing with
Kexona Soap, the pure medicated soap that reduces inflammation, destroys septic
conditions and cleanses the wound of dead and discharged matter. Apply a soothing
dressing of Kexona Ointment, the Rapid Healer; it soothes pain, builds new flesh
tissue, and renews and heals the skin. Kexona the Rapid Healer is sold only in
triangular pots at 1/6, or in larger pots, holding nearly four times the quantity, at 3/-.
Kexona Soap 1/- per tablet, and Eaxo-Tonic Pills 1/- and 3/-.
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
For All
Animals.
r
\\
}
HANG THEM
BY THE
LOOP.
Salt licks
At all Storekeepers, Produce Merchants, Saddlers 8 Blacksmiths.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc*
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Dressing
NOW OBTAINABLE IN TINS.
The Government having lifted the embargo, Bostock’s Shoe
Dressing is again obtainable in tins, as heretofore.
The increasing popularity of this brilliant polish is due to its
remarkable leather-preserving qualities. Containing ingredi-
ents that nourish and preserve the leather, it lengthens the
life of footwear, in addition to imparting a bright and lasting
polish.
COLORS —Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, and White-
In tins, bottles and tubes.
SOLD ANYWHERE.
V.-V
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
Sydney
The Outcast.
[For The Bulletin.]
JWAS as angry as a midnight dog
Disturbed from slumber on the house-
hold mat
By clear cat-voices calling through the fog
That creeps from Caucasus to Ararat.
He knows tne cats are Persian well enough,
Purchased as kittens at three pounds a
head,
Clawed creatures, wrapped in comfortable
fluff,
And yet he holds that they are better dead.
His toothy yaps are added to their wail.
I did not yap, but mentioned many things
In language at whose warmth the stars grew
pale,
And tall, shocked angels hid the day with
wing.*,.
I said that I was hanged if I would stand
The present state of life a moment more —
That if there were not any other land
I still would leave this thrice-aceurs&d
shore.
The reason of my wrath was evident
To all who sought to weigh my words with
care.
The landlord, calling for the Monday rent,
Had broken his red neck across a chair.
How could I prove that in his dying hand
He held six months’ arrears for which he
came?
Would any judge or jury understand
A thing like that without his written
name?
Had I not paid him, chance had served me
well.
He died between my payment and receipt.
He took my cash and in that instant fell
Head forward on his own tremendous feet.
Perchance he died of shock. I dare not say.
Perchance lie fainted when he saw my
cash.
I only know how still and cold he lay
While he and I and all things went to
smash.
Empty, forgotten, useless, sombre, flat
Seemed to me all the corners of the world,
Legless as worms and sightless as a bat,
I saw the tufted darks of day unfurled.
Ambition, longing, fortune and despair,
The things that were and those that still
might be
Had twined their twisted fingers in my
hair —•
Moloch and molluscs made a meal of me.
This being clear, I took a heavy stone,
Tied it about my neck with simple twine,
And, sending forth to Heaven a gentle groan,
I dropped, feet downward, in the smiling
brine.
The little bubbles issued from my nose,
The little fishes swam around my chin, #
And conger-eels awoke in shining rows,
Looking like sections of primeval sin.
Down, down, down, down, down, down, down,
down, down, down
I went through waters of an emerald sheen.
That sinker made it sure that I must drown
Where, rock to rock, the old sea-ridges
lean.
Down, down, down, down, down, down, down,
down I went;
I felt the weight of water much increase ;
I choked and smiled, for I was well content
To fix my anchor in the mud of peace. .
i
Up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up,
My breath went streaming to the higher
air;
And then I reached a little rocky cup
With silver shells about me everywhere.
I sat quite still upon the ocean-bed,
Knowing that I was twenty fathoms deep,
Waiting with patience till I felt quite dead
Before I thought it safe to go to sleep.
Drowsy and dull and glad and very wet,
I felt a sea-snail crawling on my neck.
I thought it must be some drowned sailor’s
pet
Fresh from the ribs of a forgotten wreck.
Drowsy and wet and glad and very kind,
I felt the great green sea about me sway ;
And then death came and pulled the window-
blind
Of dreams and let my spirit out to play.
I met the landlord on the topmost stair,
Beside the gate where Peter holds the
keys;
His red neck seemed in absolute repair,
His wings were shaken by the heavenly
hreeze.
“Where’s my receipt for rent?” I wildly
cried.
“Despite your tricks, I’m here as soon as
you.
Tell the old saint the shabby way you died ;
The odds are twelve to five you can’t get
through !”
The saint was milder than September lamb
Without mint sauce to set its music
wrong.
I wonder if he really did say “Damn!”
Between the pauses of the holy song.
For fifty thousand saints and angels sang
Some grand full chorus just inside the
wall —-
Was it to welcome me their voices rang?
And did the saint say anything at all?
He seemed to move his mouth —I was not
sure —-
But that red landlord, shaking in his fat,
Explained that inwardly his heart was pure,
And took a humble stand upon the mat.
Saint Peter looked him up and looked him
down.
He also looked him sternly through and
through.
“You carry cash,” he said, and seemed to
frown;
“With that the pearly gate is closed to
you.
“You paid your debts! The whole account
is square”—•
He scanned the ledger leaves with anxious
eye—
“ Cast hence your dross! To win a holy
chair
You must be poor and penitent as I.”
The landlord snuffled, grasped a roll of notes,
And hurled it far into the depth of
space....
“Thus we divide true mutton from the goats,”
The saint remarked. “Walk in and find
your place!”
“Great sir,” I said, “I am as poor as Job;
Poor have I been from youth to middle
age.”
That sharp eye seemed my very heart to
probe;
He snorted, found the index and the page.
“Rent six months due,” he read in accents
clear.
“I paid it all to-day,” with tears I cried;
“That was the landlord who was standing
here —-
He had my cash the instant that he died.”
The great saint frowned a long and holy
frown—
“ Produce the rent-receipt and all is well.”
I said, “Before he signed the rogue dropped
down —•
He broke his neck the instant that he fell.”
“Bali!” said the guardian of the shining gate.
“Tell that old story to the fire-marines!
Get hence! The record stands upon the
slate—•
Eighteen-pounds-ten. Depart for warmer
scenes !”
Cold was the journey down the airy slope;
The dull, black gates were very hard to
find.
Although my heart was quite devoid of hope,
Things were no worse than those I left
behind.
No glow of flame was there, no voice of woe,
The path was wet as if from recent rain ;
I saw six devils sitting in a row,
And none of them appeared in any pain.
“Halt!” cried the tallest devil of the six.
“The works are closed ; you cannot enter
in.
The fires are down; the sulphur none will
mix ;
We’re here to block the entrance of free
sin.”
I looked bewildered ; but the second spoke—
He was a pleasant devil, fair and stout.
“Strike’s on,” he said. “We will not baste
or stoke.
If you’re a stranger you had best keep
out.”
“What can I do?” I said. “Heaven’s porter-
saint
Has cast me forth, and night is coming
down.
I’ve waved my wings till I am almost faint;
And I should find it awkward to un-
drown.”
The fair, fat devil scratched a doubtful
head —•
“We might arrange to get you back to
life.
Now, tell me, are you feeling very dead?
Drowned, did you say? You didn’t use
a knife?”
“I am unpunctured, twenty fathoms deep,
Anchored in silence with a heavy stone.
I simply tumbled in and went to sleep,
Sound and unbroken both in skin and
bone.”
The devils murmured in a smiling row —
Their conference appeared to please them
well-
Then they announced their verdict: “Bill
will go
And show you how to get to earth from
Hell.”
We went through tufted cloud and ether
blue,
By stars and suns and comets fiery-tailed.
Each short-cut of the void my escort knew,
Till past a crescent moon at last we sailed,
Caught a far glimpse of a wide-spreading
land
With sheep and cows and horses on the
top,
And, • with a dive, stupendous, swift and
grand,
We struck the shining depth of water —
flop!
Down, down, down, down, down, down, down,
down, down, down
We went to where I drowned at one
o’clock;
We saw the long weed growing rank and
brown
From ancient fissures of a slimy rock....
And there was I held down by that great
stone,
Eaten by all the fishes of the sea,
A mere affair of memory and bone —
Twelve conger-eels uncoiled and laughed
at me.
“Alas,” I said, “Hell, Heaven, the sea, the
land —•
Because one crimson landlord broke his
neck —•
My body and my soul alike have banned;
I’m neither overboard nor on the deck.
Is there no place at all that I can go?
Oh, Emily, Amelia, Laura, Liz,
Is there no refuge for my hopeless woe?”
And Bill the devil answered, “Yes, there
is!”
“Where, where?” I cried and kicked a conger-
eel.
I seemed as one, unwashed, who grasps at
soap.
I felt my spirit rise, my senses reel
Like one absorbing Rhadamanthine dope.
• * * * *
The nurse looked kind. The doctor said,
“He’ll do”
I woke. I stared. Where was that devil
Bill?
O Lord.... I understood.... the rent was
due,
And that red landlord’s neck unbroken
still!
N.s.w.
PAT O’MAORI.
The Hussy.
[For The Bulletin.]
WILLIAM BUNKER lived alone with
his wild, red whiskers and his
memories of an ill-spent life in a
ramshackle hut at Twenty-mile. Sometimes
he cursed the Chinamen who had made him
a derelict, and sometimes he bleesed them,
but he was not unhappy. With the white
cap of Feathertop sentinel against the sky
and the little creek chuckling past his dwell-
ing he was content to live and dream.
And then it dawned upon him suddenly
that he was lonely. Two days before he had
returned from one of his periodical visits to
the township and found the hut *and its
(Continued on next page.)


ft
•'III'
V
\ N
Sc
illll/ll
'iiitmiimi. l
V
minium i
Zam-Buk the Ever-Reliable Healer.
ACCIDENTS are ALWAYS happening—in the kitchen,
in the workshop, in the garden, at the children’s
play, and during every kind of work or athletic
pursuit. Directly Zam-Buk is applied to a wound or
sore it alleviates the pain and inflammation, reduces any
swelling, and prevents the place “taking bad ways." Not
only is Zam-Buk a highly concentrated and reliable healing
agent—it also has splendid antiseptic properties—kills or
nullifies all dangerous influence at once, and causes the
tissues to knit together until all traces of the sore or injury
have gone. As an instance take the following case of a
man where an axe inflicted a serious injury:—
Axe Slipped & Gashed His Foot.
“I met with a very nasty accident a few years ago,” says Mr. James
Rose, of 12 Henty Street, Richmond, Melbourne. “While chopping poles the
axe slipped and caught the right foot, severing the sinews, and disabling me for
six weeks. It was fully this period before I could put my foot to the ground. I
put oil on it, and this healed it, hut the nerve was injured, and I suffered fearful
pain, so I applied Zam-Buk to the injury. The first application took the pain
away, and seemed to soothe it. Then it started to heal properly, knitting the
sinews and also the severed nerves. The sinews were protruding from the wound,
but they joined up again in the process of healing.
“My son Robert had a knock on both his legs, and these injuries inflamed
and festered and were most painful. Zam-Buk was applied, and the treatment
persisted in until the legs were completely healed.
“We have used Zam-Buk for all sorts of troubles, and my eldest son,
Thomas, had a cut of a very severe nature on the leg with an axe also, and
/ain-Buk proved valuable in healing it, too. We have used Zam-Buk on many
occasions, but the above cures are the most important of the lot.”
Mr. JAS.
ROW.
z'
% ■■
i k
O
V?'
b
9*
Zam-Buk is unequalled
for cuts, bruises, scalds, burns,
running sores, bad legs, ulcers, itching,
abrasions, mosquito bites, proud flesh, peel-
ing skin, summer rash, nettle rash, pimples, blisters
children’s sores, abscesses, ringworm, barber’s ’rash,
scratches, scalp diseases, rheumatism, sore feet, heat rashes,
boils, sunburn, festering sores, piles, sprains, scabs, blackheads,
i-n' l ''” 8 ’ coo > insect stings, sore heels, eczema, poisoned wounds,
stillness, sores, teething rash and injured conditions of the skin generally.
x /. > o/b P er _pot, of all chemists and stores; or post free from
C. E. Fulford (Aus.), Ltd., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
A BUSHMAN’S HEARTY PRAISE.
Mr. John Brown, 17 Dix Street, Chippendale,
Sydney, writes: —“During my work in the coun-
try at fencing, clearing land, and aerub cutting,
I have met with many accidents from axe or
knife, some of which have been very severe. But
I have always had Zam-Buk in the camp for
emergencies, and have found it splen-
did. My hands would get terribly
knocked about, but Zam-Buk always
healed them in a very rapid manner.
“I have also used Zami-Buk for
rheumatism in the wrists, joints and
toes with wonderful success.
“I have found Zam-Buk absolutely
necessary in my bush life, where it is
so far removed from any chance of
medical attention, and I have pleasure
in stating how useful it has been to
me in every way.”
AVOID
INFERIOR
SUBSTITUTES.
When you ask for
Zam-Buk Healing
Balm see that you get
it. Do not be put off
with something which
is claimed by your
trader as “just as
good,” because it re-
turns him more profit.
There is NOTHING
“just as good” as
the proved, reliable
Zam-Buk.
surroundings drab and dull. There was no-
thing about him save bush and endless hills;
fur or feathers covered everything that
breathed within miles. lie felt chilled at
the thought. The amazing thing came into
Ins life that night, and thereafter he was
a changed man and the happiest in the uni-
verse.
With his ancient gun in the crook of his
arm he set out, pushing his way through the
web of greenery along the creek in quest
of possums. The moon looked down through
the tracery of boughs—a big moon with a
jovial snnle. The air was warm with the
breath of early summer, and it was very
silent and secret in the cup of the mountain-
world where the creek sang among the ferns.
lie saw it first through a wealth of wattle,
the shimmer of something in the moonlight.
Instinctively he swung his gun, but the object
moved and he halted abruptly.
. * GorbUme—a hussy !” said Bunker through
lus whiskers. He had seen her like a grey
ghost, slim and pale, in the moonlight, and
she had smiled at him. Then she fled, and
Bunker gave chase. The bushes laid their
arms about him, released him and sprang
back to their posts as he crashed through
them; the night was sweet with the smell
of ferns, and ahead lie glimpsed the hussy
fleeing with a Step which suggested sweet
terror and invitation. Bunker’s heart drum-
med as he followed her beside the talking
waters, and then almost before he knew it,
and jin some manner beyond understanding,
lie had captured her, and was holding in his
arms a thing frightened into marble stillness,
but very frail and beautiful.
“Look-er here, young woman, t’ain’t right
for yer to be a-trapesing about like this, and
maybe you’ll get yer death of cold,” he told
her unhearing ears as he picked her up and
stumbled, away to the hut. He was abashed
and afraid of his burden, but no decent man
could let even a hussy go a-scampering
through the bush like that. It wasn’t decent.
Carefully he placed her in his rough bed,
and drawing up a chair sat down and filled
his pipe, while lie waited for her to recover
her senses and give some explanation of her
startling intrusion upon his solitude. He was
in no hurry, however, and as he mopped his
brow and studied her face a strange idea
came to him.
‘‘lt’s my opinion, young hussy,” he told her,
that you’re one of them whatdyoucallems
—a nymp’!”
There was some better word for it, but
lie could not find it at the moment. His
head felt strange and full of the songs of
birds as lie sucked at his pipe and pondered
upon his position. This wild bush tiling was
very beautiful and pale, but what was he to
do about the matter? How could a plain
man hope to cope with such a creature?
When the hussy opened her eyes Bunker
was no nearer the solution of his problem.
He started guiltily when the wide, brilliant
stare met his, and beneath his whiskers and
tan he blushed —a thing which William
Bunker had not done for 40 years.
“There’s nothing to be a-frightened of,
miss,” he assured her. “Leastwise not of
me. I may look a strange bloke, but I
knows how to treat females proper.”
He paused very puzzled and uncomfort-
able, and scraped his horny hands up and
down his corduroy trousers. Hoping that
she would come to his assistance, he waited,
but the wide eyes gazed at him with a mix-
ture of fear and something else, and the lips
were dumb.
“If it wouldn't be a-troubling you, miss,
do yer think yer could tell me how you got
here —or are you a nymp’ or something?
There was another silence, and Bunker
fretted and spat into the corner. Then the
hussy spoke, but the words were like the wind
stirring among young saplings, as musical
and as unintelligible. They sang about the
tiny room and died away, but they left
Bunker happily wise.
“Just what I expected,” he exclaimed. “A
nymp’.”
With a happiness which he had not experi-
enced since childhood he dreamed in thought-
ful silence. The bush thing lay and watched
him with bright hair showing against the
dirty pillow, scarlet lips peeping over the
blue blanket. His joy was such a strange
thing that he feared to shatter it.
“Listen to me, nymp’,” he continued.
“Nothin’ could say how much I want yer
to stay, but I’m not going to make yer. If
yer want to go away yer can. This night
I’ll doss outside and yer’ll be free to go
whenever yer like —but if yer’ll only
stay”
He patted the slim hand which showed
upon the blanket, and went out into the air
with a tattered rug upon his arm and the
songs of all the world on his lips. He lay
awake for a long time staring at the deep
skies and the tossing sea of the hills, and
wondered if ever mortal man had felt as
he did. Presently he slept.
The sun awoke him to a great fear, and
he hurried to the hut. The air of morning
was fresh and crisp, and the magpies held
carnival as Bunker stepped to the door.
The beauty of the morning was lost to him
at one moment, but it was evident and mag-
nified beyond all other days a second later.
The hussy was still there! She was flitting
lightly about the dingy place like a sunbeam,
touching his possessions with a naive
curiosity and whispering her delight. Then
she swung round, saw his stooped figure
in the frame of the doorway and gave him
a smile which sent the blushes chasing again
through his horrified whiskers. It was a
mad world, but Bunker knew that he had
never lived before.
She was like the sunlight on the yellow-
green leaves and he accepted her as natu-
rally. Together they breakfasted, she pick-
ing at a piece of damper and appearing well
satisfied, he eating heartily with his sunken
eyes alight.. Then she slipped out into the
world of sunshine, and hearing her splash-
ing in the creek Bunker pottered about the
hut with as little concern as if the hussy
had been a part of his establishment from
time immemorial.
He tidied the hut until it was clean as
it had never been before, and all the time he
sang for the joy which had come into his
life, for the daughter and sweetheart, for
all the splendor of the summer.
As he smoked his pipe in the clearing she
came back to him, as he knew she would.
Then he was content to drowse in the sun-
shine, knowing she was near, now resting
beside him, now darting away into the
mottled shadows. His shyness had vanished
and had left behind only a great wonder.
“Nymp’, lonely I’ve been here in the hills’
heart, but you have brought me everything,”
he told her, and let his tongue wag on of
many things through the long hours. Curled
upon a great log she listened, seemingly
satisfied that his voice should go trickling
on like the lisping of the creek. At intervals
she made answer in her sighing notes and
Bunker’s ears rang with their harmonies.
When the need arose they ate and the long
day of sunshine drifted away. That night
the stars looked down upon the. whiskered
face of Bunker and saw that it wore a
smile.
The days came over the rim of the hills,
dreamed, and slid away around the world.
The hussy came and went, but Bunker knew
that she would stay with him, and he tasted
life’s essence to the full, while the snow was
kissed from Feathertop by warmer and
warmer kisses. He had brought out his old
flute and sat in the starlit dusk playing upon
it with a new art. The music tripped off his
lips like magic, in time with the dancing feet
of the hussy as she floated about the clear-
ing. Always she was intangible and all his
caresses were contained in his glances.
Into the clearing rode the parson, a gaunt,
practical figure upon a bony horse, and the
hussy fled like a shadow. Bunker met his
visitor with a strange restraint, but invited
him in to eat. The parson always called
upon him when he was on his way to “the
other side,” and hitherto he had been wel-
come ; to-day
“You’re not looking yourself, William,”
said the parson, studying the bent, tattered
form and the thin face with the burst of
whiskers.
Bunker flushed and glanced furtively about
him. He was wondering what explanation
he would, be able to give if the hussy came
dancing down the clearing. He shifted un-
easily, for such a little time ago he had felt
himself a god, and now he was only a broken
old man, with the parson’s sharp eyes trying
to read his secret. He turned away hastily
to put the billy on.
“I think you’re getting lonely up here all
by yourself,” said the visitor. “When I pass
through coming back you’ll come down to
the township with me.”
Bunker swung round with fire in his eyes.
“Blarst your township!” he shrilled. “I
tell yer I’m the happiest man alive,, and I
won’t stir from this place till the day I die.”
“Of course you must suit yourself, Wil-
liam,” replied the parson/ quite unruffled;
but inwardly he decided otherwise. lie
knew Bunker’s danger, and the world of
men was the only remedy.
As they dined the guest retailed the latest
news from the outside, but Bunker paid
slight heed. His eyes were fixed on the
oblong patch of sunshine, and he prayed
that the hussy would stay away. Then he
wondered if the parson would be shocked if
he told him everything. Perhaps he would
be able to give some advice, even to marry
—but he stopped at the thought of th' e
glory of the hussy and the black coat of the
man before him. His knife dropped with a
clatter and the man fixed him with a stern
glance.
“Your nerves are going all to pot. You'll
go mad if you stay here much longer,” said
the hateful, commanding voice. “You’ll
come into the township with me and I’ll
fix you up with a job as gardener, so that
yov’ll have some company.”
“Won’t!” shouted Bunker with the tone
of a spoilt child, but the voice of an angry
man.
The parson could not linger—he had a
long ride before him—and reluctantly he
rose to go. Bunker hurried out before him
and glanced about, but the clearing was
empty and he breathed again. He had
abandoned all thought of telling his wonder-
ful secret to the man in black.
They saddled the horse in silence and
then, as he flung his long leg over it, the
parson gave his final warning.
“I’ll be back this way the day after to-
morrow,” he said. “You’re going to come
down to the township with me then, William
Bunker, if I have to use force.”
He flicked his horse with his switch and
galloped away down the narrow track,
leaving Bunker staring after him with his
face ashen white.
“Gorramighty, don’t let him, don’t let
him!” he cried, and flung himself face-down
on the ground. The parson did not look
behind him again, and the bush swallowed
him.
Bowed and old, Bunker crept back to his
hut and found his pipe. He was too hope-
less to even seek the hussy, but she came
to him—came and crouched beside him
staring with moist violet eyes at his twitch-
ing face as he told her the story she did not
understand. And then Bunker was com-
forted, and time drifted by in the old dear-
way without a thought for the man in
black.
Bunker smoked in the sun all the next
day, and she was with him, pale and gleam-
ing and beautiful. But when the purple
night crept up from their quiet valley on to
the golden slopes of the hills, until the last
light was wiped off the crests, William
Bunker remembered. The morning would
bring back the parson and the dream would
die. He feared the strength of the man in
black and the clamor of the world outside.
Together they would sweep him away, and
the little hut would be eaten by the weather,
the hussy would haunt the disappearing
clearing and moan for him, while he would be
digging a garden plot down in the township,
and the glory would have vanished as the
light from the hills.
Swiftly he lent out into the gloom and
seized the hussy in his arms.
* * * *
The parson found him lying very cold and
still, with the opium-pipe clenched in his
fingers. A slim white crane fled past the
intruder with a little cry as he entered the
room.
DALE COLLINS.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD,
•i
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WEST, N. S.
ARE YOU n
PTU RE D
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and curiibe.some spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one TIIA<T
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
Ain CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chatting leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft robber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think- of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more 9
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is Suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
TAN KS
When we speak of a tank we picture a huge
cumbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter’s Little
Liver Pills, one of the
smallest and most success-
ful pill ;n the world,
can be compared to
tanks in action, for
they surely and
gently touch the
Liver, curing
BtlitSus Headache,
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks sur-
mount obstacles and clear trenches of the
enemy. Try them to-day, your chemist has
them. Good for man, woman and child.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must .
bear signature
I
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
"*»ADE HARK
Qr
■?/
Lasting
WRIGLEYS
6 big bars in each packet for 3d.
The best buy in lasting refresh*
mentand benefit you can possibly
find.
WRIGLEYS is sealed tight -
kept right. You get it always
fresh, full flavoured, clean.
The Flavour Lasts
Made by
Wm* Wrigiey Jr# Co. Prop. Ltd..
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W
jfs*
m
§tr
©s
or.
E
an
i
mu
lllill
pinill
!!!l
11
it
Complete tube screwing outfit
h. .■
' Oster Bull-dog Ratchet
Die Stock No. 102 R
screws f, i, f, 1 and 1 £
inch tube. One of 1 1 sizes
with and without ratchet, each
screwing 4 to 8 sizes of tube.
in one tool!
Screws 6 Sizes
of Tube.
Oster Bull-dog Die Stocks take
the bother and perspiration out
of tube screwing. Popular the
world over for the 5 Big Oster
Features. ( 1 ) Self-locking
dies. (2) Self-centring guides.
(3) Dies open after cut, no
backing off. Dies reset in-
stantly to size. (4) No loose
bushings to lose. (5) No
breakable small parts.
Made with ratchet handle for
use in cramped space.
Carried with extra parts by ironmongers, machinery and
> plumbing supply houses.
The Oster Mfg. Co., Cleveland, 0., U.S.A.
Australasian Representative: CHAS. WRIGHT,
Turner Chambers, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
►•A. 1
/
STER Bull-dog
Screwing Tackle


frIANGROVifg
LEATHER
LTI
Under All Conditions
that belting: is subject to—high speed, hard
usage, atmospheric changes—Mangrovite Belt-
. stands up without flinching and gives
efficient service. Try it on your power plant
and prove its merit —you will find it an
advantage.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing' Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
8>'th C ! bbs - Bri^ht & Co., Fremantle
vi«+« A ?.? tra iia i Jofin Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co
Melbourne.
ft A Little Bit Better”
Always striving to produce steels that
are “a little bit better” than others
and we succeed, too —is why our
SILVER STEEL
RoamS n Drills Ele r Work, Dental Tools, Small Taps,
shipments o In Im ™ ed ’ ate delivery can be made from new
smpments. In short length rounds from l-32nd inch, -rising by 64ths
to 31-64th inch. For Drills Nos. Ito 60, in 3ft. lengths
nquiiies addressed to Desk “A” receive prompt attention.
THE EAGLE AND GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
00. of Ultra. Capital Higrh-Speed Steel,
t cf t ‘ , Iv ?^ lney - Cliff str eet, Fremantle.
46 Bonlder k . OUrn f s - £ oh ? Reid and Nephews, Brisbane.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie. Paul and Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
Charles Atkins and Co., Adelaide.
Building Economy.
If you wish to purchase building materials that
render service in keeping with cost, you should
deal exclusively with us. We make a specialty
of the following lines: —
“FIItROLITE” Australian-made Genuine
Asbestos Cement Sheets and Slates.
“FIBRQ-C” Cold-water Paint.
“FIBEItLIC” Building Board.
“CREOWOOD” Stains.
"REXIEITE” British-made Roll Roofing
and Dampcourse.
“CERT AIN TEED” Roll Roofing.
REINFORCED Cement Tubs.
REINFORCING Bars for Concrete, etc.
Write for Price List and Particulars.
JAMES HARDIE & CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide,
REFRIGERATING AND
IGE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
• —their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE. 1 ’ Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
_We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
i
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2 y z inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Bails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd., SSS.SL,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer,, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pump's. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from-lgin. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include: —
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRA CT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
a
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
UP
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4% hours.
PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
* SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
$ ■'
*
All British-Nothing Better
Substantial, solid British Engineering right through gives Lister
Shearing Machines the sweet-running, quick-cutting and intermin-
able durability which have made them famous among the greatest
centres of sheading in the world.
THE LISTER HANDPIECE.—This celebrated leader of all handpieces is
now further imroved by the Adjustable Lid Bush and Self-levelling Crown
Plate—-two great money-saving features which delight shearers and owners
alike.
Get the greatest value for your money by installing the All-British Lister
Equipment. Estimates and all particulars from your nearest of the following:
Chief
Agents :
Ltd
b i
9-13 Young Stri
SYDNEY.
SUB-AGENTS—Winchcombe, Carson, Etd. (Central and South Queensland); Burns, Philp & C 0... TOWNSVIEEE (North Queensland); Mitchell & Co., Pty., Etd., FOOTSCRAY,
Victoria; A. G. Webster & Sons, HOBABX; Mailoch Bros., PERTH. . •
SALE
Used, but in Good Order:
I—No. 4 "Keystone” Tradlion Drill
I—No. 5 "Keystone” Tradition Drill
BotH witb Full Equipment and Spare Tools.
For full particulars of these Complete Plants, which are offered at low figures, apply to
N . GUTHRIDGE LTD., Mining and Electrical Engineers ,
lO GEORGE STREET, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
No. 25 OIL RIG Tor 2500 Feet.
