

SUPERB OLD SCOTCH
R. <3-. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 10*7 K.ent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers 7 ' and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty ; AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always av i a .
u
t
Qdvanee
ON ALL CLASSES of* SECURITY >7
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS & LOWEST INTEREST
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE DAI.C? LTP
HEAD OrriCE: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building,
186 Castlereagh Street, S; dney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
CHROMOL
;;v •/ . /j
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority ovei* all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J.C.Ludowici&Son Ltd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Wnrfes,
117 Stieet, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE
n
L
ft
m
n
n
fee
m
§
mtOMbrn
C=2
M
nenppie
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritions and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
r±l
dfik
For INDIGESTION
and dyspepsia
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded ISO First-Class Prize
m:
:
Uct /.vMvaVg'ift*
Samples and booklet from
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC.
(F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of the
“ Referee ” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
LYSAGHTS LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY *
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
BL WHISKY
(Bulloch Lade)
ORMEi KEIGWIN <Q> CO. LTD., SYDNEY Sole Ag««»ts.
walls and ceilings this modem way.
ami Gd3ins*
a
o
o
o
Monolithic Plaster Sheets.
“Gvpsboard” is the ideal material for
walls and ceilings in Homes, Flats,
Hotels, Halls, Clubs, Schools, Churches.
It is particularly adapted to the needs of
the country and islands, being easily
transported and easily erected. Gyps-
board” banishes the hard-to-erect
plaster Avail and ceiling that cracKS and
falls. The “Gypsboard” sheets are
simply taken right into the room and
nailed on the framework in neAV build-
ings, or over old, shabby Avails Avhen
renovating. There is no fuss, mess, de-
lay or future repair troubles. “Gyps-
board” Monolithic Plaster Sheets are
permanent—they are solid from front to
back, light in weight, and can be sawn,
nailed and painted like Avood.
, .. wall<s and ceilings, but have rooms that are permanent, hygienic* white ant-
You not only have modern artistic, V - the building. Write for Illustrated Booklet “A” and Free Sample
and insect-proof, fire-retarding, and which last as long as the omioin ft .
to the manufacturers.
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) LTD., 115 Clarence St., Sydney
GIVE YOUR OWN
COUNTRY A SHOW!
TRY OPALOID
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA’S
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2029.]
(Thursday, January 2, 1919.
WAR-TIME PRICE, Bd.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper^


CHARM OF MANNER
may be enhanced by beauty Vaf the face. A
touch of SWAN DOWN give, ju,t that
delicacy and purity to the complexion which,
being scarcely perceptible, is admired the more.
TETLOW’S
FACE POWDER
Imparts a delicate bloom to >
the complexion. So 'Pure that
it-wifinot Harm the most ,
delicate SiZin.
ENGLISH
PRICE
k°
2
per
box
TOtUu
In Five Tints:
White. Cream, Pink,
* Flesh end Brunette.
OP Stores. Chemists
First Class Drapery Houses
Sr PerfUmens everywhere.
Wholesale Distributing Agent»-
Messrs. ELLIOTT LUOS., L I'D., .
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON 11. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO..
Sydney.
LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS I-
-4 A s,JLodg»te Sq„ London,EC
JELEY,
Always Reliable
m
‘i
m
m
ELEY Smokeless'
A Cerise Cartridge
loaded with Eley
42 grain Smoke-
less Powder and
1J oz. shot.
Millions sold
annually.
ELEY
E.B. ‘Nitre/
Cartridge Case
loaded with
Schultze or any
other Standard
Smokeless Powder.
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L» LONDON
Sydney’s Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
This beautifully-situated RESIDENTIAL
HOTEL is unique in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, being RIGHT ON THE HARDOR
FRONT, with its own secluded BEACH AND
GROUNDS and AMPHITHEATRE SWIM-
MING BATHS, the whole surrounded by
natural Bush.
25 Fine New Bedrooms have just
been erected, built over the water,
every room looking out to the Heads.
Daily service of Steamers, including Theatre
Boat, to and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular
Quay.
A Delightful Ferry Trip.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths.
Apply Ma nager,
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL,
Telephones: JT3OOI.
YSOO2.
MOSMAN, N.S.W.
BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
ihese are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
aJI ot us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow-
over the lives of many of us women and while perhaps a few
stoical among us—can avoid
shadow
. .... the more
worrying” over past and prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
ot worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
moans of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
evei.v woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock. u 10
Some Hints about the Hair.—An Excellent
Shampoo.—Few women realise Jiow all-impor-
tant a really good shampoo is if the hair is
to be kept in perfect condition. To shampoo
the hair properly, slt.ske it down, comb it out,
then dip the fingers into a little pure olive or
almond oil, and thoroughly massage the
scalp. Then mix a teaspoonful of stall a v
granules in a cup of warm water. Fill a basin
with warm water, into which the ends of the
hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax mix-
ture into the roots in the usual way. Uinse,
and dry by fanning, or in the open air. if the
weather permits. Should the hair be excep-
tionally greasy, the oil massage of the scalp
should be omitted. Stallax can be bought at
any chemist’s in quarter-pound sealed pack-
ages. It keeps indefinitely, and One package
is sufficient for 25 or .‘5O shampoos.
A Tonic for Thin or Falling Hair.—When the
hair falls unduly, or has become thin and im-
poverished, a tonic should be applied every
night for six on eight weeks. To make a
simple and inexpensive but most efficacious
lotion, at home, take a quarter of a pint of
bay rum and add to it one ounce of boraniuni.
Shake thoroughly, and leave for 30 minutes;
then strain, and add sufficient water to make
half a pint. Every night massage the scalp
for fO minutes, going over the entire head,
then dab the mixture into the roots with a
soft sponge. Regular brushing for a few
minutes every morning will also help to im-
prove the condition of the hair.
*
A Greasy Skin and Blackheads.—A greasy;
oily skin, with blackheads and enlarged
pores, is a sore trial, and many a girl goes
through life with her appearance entirely
spoiled with these unsightly blemishes, which
may now be so quickly and effectively removed
with but little trouble. To remove blackheads
and the dull, dirty look of the skin which
accompanies them, dissolve one stymol tablet
in a glass of hot water. Allow the offerees
cence to subside, then dip a small soft sponge
into the liquid and bathe the face. Leave on
the skin for a few minutes, then dry with a
towel, and the blackheads will come right off
For a greasy skin, bathe the face three times
a week with stymol and sprav with cold water
every morning, using a vulcanite throat spray.
The Secret of a Good Complexion.—The secret
of a good complexion is so simple that, were
it only more widely known, there would be
no such thing as a rough, blotchy skin.
Nature has decreed that the outer cuticle,
when it shrivels and dies, shall be removed:
but so many women fail to realise this. To
remove, by absorption, the dead outer skin
and preserve the complexion «-• ail its pris-
tine beauty, -mercolized wax is recommended,
ordinary creams and lotions being quite in-
effectual for this purpose. Smear the wax
over the face and neck, rub it gently into the
skin, and leave for the night. In the morning
wash it off. using a good soap, such as
Pilenta, and all the dead skin will be removed
with the wax. Then apply a lotion to re-
move any trace of greasiness and brace up
the skin, making it firm and white. The lotion
can be made at home quite easily, by mixing
one ounce of cleminite in four tabiespoonfuis
of hot water. Bottle, and, when cool, apply
to the face with a soft sponge, or the tips of
the fingers, allowing it to dry on the skin.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C.B.—Clynol berries will reduce your weight.
They are harmless, and no alteration need be
made in your diet. They have also one great
advantage over other flesh-reducers: they re-
duce so gradually that there is no fear of
loose, flabby skin and wrinkles.
ZULA.—No, I am afraid I cannot tell you how
to prevent yourself from biting your nails.
You must exercise your will power.
CONSTANCE.—To remove the yellowness
from your skin, get a tin of mercolized wax
and apply it every night, rubbing it well into
the skin. Leave it on till morning; then wash
it off witk warm water and a good soap. (2)
To give a color to the cheeks, get a little col-
liandum and rub some on a leather. Apply this
to the cheeks. It gives a perfectly natural-
looking flush to the face, and is quite unde-
tectable. (3) To remove the blackheads, take
a stymol tablet and dissolve it in warm water,
'■Then the effervescence has subsided mop the
lotion over the face, allow to remain on for
a few minutes, then wipe off, and the black-
heads will disappear.
GEORGIE.—I am not surprised to hear that
the electrolysis treatments were not success-
ful. They seldom are. Get an ounce of phe
minol and a tube of tekko paste. Use them in
conjunction, and you will soon be rid of the
troublesome superfluous hair.
SHEILA—To restore your lmir to its original
color, get two ounces of tammalite and mix il
with three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair every night or morning. In a couple of
weeks there will be no sign of the greyness.
Tammalite is. not a dye, but a natural re-
storer.
ELSIE.—To remove the roughness from your
skin, use a lotion made by mixing cleminite
with warm water. Allow the lotion to cool,
then bottle, and use after washing the face
every morning. h
7A
v
In a “Jiffy”—
Yes! it shaves in a “jiffy”—in a quarter the
usual time. So keen is the blade and so
finely tempered is
The “PLUM” RAZOR
that its edge remains keen for an indefinite
period. Requires but little stropping-, and out-
lathering of the face is usually sufficient.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Y T ulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Rouble Case, 21/-
Siugle Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Rouble Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Pressing, 1/2 Tube,
Post Free.
All the above Post Free.
Send for our Illustrated Price .List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
651 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressing;.
The pre-enrinent feature of Bostock’s Polish is- its remarkable
LEATIIEIM*RESEKIN<i QUALITY.
With the present high cost, of Shoes it is important that a
dressing should have this essential.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
BOSTOCK’S SHOE CREAMS not only impart a brilliant and lasting shine. but
add greater life to Shoes by nourishing the leather, keeping it soft and pliable,
and preventing cracks.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood.and White. In Bottles and Tubes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
NOT
A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE.
«•
Ftex
fleas.
Bugs.
, Mosquitoea
-9?
“MUSTDiE.”
POWDER IS
DEATH TO FLIES AND ALL
INSECTS, COCKRO ACHES, ETC.
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “Milstdie,” Dept. H, Box 1520
G.P.0., Sydney, for a trial tin; forwarded post free.
“MUST I ME.” is sold in tins, l>d. each,
Chemists and Stores. Sent post free on receipt of
stamps by the Sole Australian Agents,
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 19 York Street, Sydney
DUERDIN &. SAINSBURY, Melbourne Agents. [8
The Red Page
The Book of the Transmigration
of Souls
Him 1 is need and opportunity, and the
always has been both of them, though pedj
didn t know enough to know that there \\
cither of them, for something so indefini
that it is difficult to define it. It is
mental development, or an inward proce
or a machine or something in a bottle f
the transference of souls and persouaiiti
( all it an apparatus. I don’t mean thoug
transference, which is a small, babyis
affair. I don’t even mean the temporar;
shifting of Brown’s identity into Smith
identity, for Smith and Brown are, after a
very much alike and live next door. Wh
I aim at is a method by which a person ca
be moved for a certain fixed time, with
without his or her consent, into a ditferen
country and a different set of circumstance
and become a different person, with all t
instincts and traditions of the billet.
The Man on the Spot is supposed
be the man who knows. But he doesn’
really know unless he has been born on t
Spot and unless his ancestors have been boi
there also. In the days when dreary, mic
Victorian novelists wrote romances with lon
names that had perspective in them anc
stretched round the corner—names so lon
that the train had to make two stoppages, or>
at the beginning of the word and one at th
other ten syllables—somebody called his ta
“Put Yourself In His Place.” I want to t
that by putting himself in the other fellow
place—not in theory but in reality, and i
fixing things so that he will suddenly becom
the man who has always been in the otht
fellow’s place. In other words, he is t
become the Man on the Spot. And the Ma
on the Spot being the most useless creator
on earth, my idea is that he should become
after the expiration of his sentence, the Mar
off the Spot, and bring back to his old en
vironment the knowledge that he acquiree
during his temporary environment. In
other words, that he should bring the Spo
back with him.
These are complicated expressions, but
can’t help that.
If somebody will invent a machine, or
soul-theory, or a drop of magic slush in
green bottle with a red cork, that will do th
trick ; then we can have a permanent War
Precautions Act with a new list of penalties
People like Judd and Brookfield and Boote
would not, under the new conditions, be
fined or bound over to keep the peace or any
futile thing of the sort. Regarding the I-lur
as a brother the order of the Court
would be that for (say) 12 months thej
should be Huns, and brothers, of Berlin or
Hamburg or Magdeburg—fitted suddenlv
into a Hun family with which they
might be quite at home and which would
accept them as somebody who has always
been there. If they were of military age
they would be Huns marching with the rogi
ment which burned a cathedral yesterday and
went the entire hog. The sentence might be
from 31st December. 1015, to Ist January
1017. or any other time, for the apparatus
would fix its own dates and be retrospective ii
necessary. At the expiration of the term the
defendant would suddenly return or trans-
pire, and drop into his old niche, and nobed}
except those who remembered his trial woulc
know that he had been away. But he woulc
know what it was like to be a Hun. and aftei
thftt lie would write with a real knowledge
of his subject.
If he liked being a Hun he could at the
moment of the recovery of his identity refuse
to come back. lie might make it a long
sentence or a life sentence. If he came bad
and still said that it was good to be a Hui
the Court could make him a Hun again—
perhaps for 18 months this time, or for al
time, including eternity.
The sentence on the middle-aged lady oi
young spinster who was mixed up in pro
Hun agitation might be that the defendan
should be an hereditary mother or an heredi
tary flapper in Lille or Nisch or Cattaro or
Liege for 12 months during the Hun oecu
pation. her new people having been Prencl
or Belgian or Serb or Montenegrin fron
time immemorial. Clothes, religion, famil}
traditions, relatives and occupation (occu
pation might mean being in gaol or drudging
under a linn taskmaster) would all be sup-
plied by the apparatus. The nation to which
the defendant was assigned would open out
imperceptibly to make room for the defend-
ant
If the person under sentence was hanged
or shot, or perhaps killed In- famine and ill-
usage, it would be one of the chances of
war. If the person was a lady, and came
back with her shoulders "scarred bv hare
flogging she would have to wear a higli-
necked dress at the theatre for the rest of
her life.' If she came back with her moral
reputation ruined she would become respect-
able under the Act and apparatus. If she
came back deceased she would be put in hos-
pital under the Act and apparatus. Peoph
who didn’t come back at the end of the sen-
tence would be declared dead under the Act
without any apparatus, and the estate would
be divided.
Though the recipe or apparatus would
belong exclusively to the Department of
Justice, there is no reason why the use of
it shouldn’t be permitted to private persons.
For instance, consider the case of the
Domain or Yarra-bank pro-Hun or Perth
or Darwin orator. He declares that
he would sooner live under the free and en-
lightened Ilun than under the capitalistic
One-Adult-One-Vote system of Australia. A
voice in the crowd says lie is a liar. He
replies that the voice is the hired agent of
the millionaire barons who lurk in their
castles by the Parramatta and send forth
armed hordes to plunder passing travellers.
The voice says his father wasn’t married to
Ins motherr though they might both be mar-
ried to other people. The orator says that
the interrupter has a skin complaint and
repeats his assertion about the beneficent
Hun. And suddenly someone bets the orator
2d. to nothing that he hasn’t the courage to
be a Hun for 12 months, and throws the
money up in the air with a gesture of con-
(Continued on page 2(U


Vr
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for Satisfaction in
CXl3B. — Hot-water Kettle, Silver-
plated on Britannia Metal, engraved fes-
toon design, 2-pint size . .... .... 80/-
BT r
1
3c3
•OKSS
I
Ms
Cxl62.—Cake Forks, Silver-plated, half-dozen in
beautiful Silk-lined Case, pretty design, 14/6
Other choice designs, 9/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6
Cx 112.-—Egg Stand, Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, Cups and Spoons Gold-
lined—•
4-cup Stand, 40/-; 6-cup Stand, 57/0
0*59. Novelty Fruit Salad Sets, assorted designs .... 38/6
Si her plate satisfaction m the truest sense is
always obtainable at the Nezv Palace Emporium ,
where the stocks are large , the designs the newest
-t=— . and the cost the lowest. =======
Cxl6s„ -Carvers, in handsome Velvet- and Silk-lined
" Cases, best Sheffield make, Xylonite (White), 3 pieces ™
ease 17/6, 30/-, 32/6
3
Cxll9.—Fruit and Flower Epergne, Fnut Bowls ’ Gllt £ g/gyl
Base beautifully engraved
Cx148.-
Rail,
—Oak Trays, with silver-plated on Nickel
Silver
70/-
We pay carriage on Fashion Goods, Family
Drapery, Men’s Wear, Footwear, Cutlery,
Jewellery and Fine Art to any part of New
South Wales; on Inter-State orders to the
nearest port.
Cxl43. —Biscuit Box, Silver-
plated Mounts 15/-
■
Cxl6l.—Fine Assortment of Cabinets of Cutlery,
Spoons and Forks, best Sheffield make, fitted for 12
persons ... £l6/10/-, £22/10/-, £27/10/-
Fitted complete for C persons—
£7/7/-, £B/10/-, £lO/10/-, £l2, £lB
oxls6.—Tea Spoons and Tongs, in
case, Silver-plated, assorted designs—
-13/6, 14/6, 15/6, 16/6, 18/6, 31/-
nw
we
11
Cxl6o. —Cake Forks with Server, silver-
plated, assorted designs 22/6
mm
DERN
Only Universal Providers,
New Pal c ICC Emporium,
■
s&uv
Br*i ck e 1 d Hill
Sydney. ®


Provides Electric Light for Country Homes, Churches, Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
DELCO-LIGHT Pays for Itself.
AsK the Man Who Owns One.
Runs on Kerosene, ? ne ga " on " hich wi “ Ele * ric
- ——— Lamps for 5 Hours. Besides furnishing
plenty of clean, brilliant ligbt, it will operate Fans and Small
Motors for Household Work, Dentists* Motors, etc.
Lowest
First Cost
Lowest
Running Cost
r
m
|««£3ggj
r
1
' v
tw'r
m
Ki
** §
&
•*o
»
The Delco-Light Engine and Generator
which generates Electricity.
The Delco-Light Battery in which
the Electricity is stored.
Satisfaction
guaranteed
wherever
installed
DELCO-LIGHT IS SIMPLE. EFFICIENT and DURABLE.
ELCO-LIGHT consists of an engine, generator,
switchboard and set of batteries. The ergine
and generator are direct connected, which does
away with any transmission losses or belt trouble, in-
creasing the efficiency of the machine. The storage
battery is of the special Delco-Light type, consisting of
sixteen glass jar cells, delivering 32-volt current. Unless
the demand fcfr light and power is very heavy, it is
unnecessary to run the engine, except when the storage-
battery requires recharging.
Electricity is stored: up in the battery by means of
the generating unit. Wires lead from the light and power
connections to this storage-battery, from which electric
current is used as desired for light or power.
■ ... . ' j ..... 2.
You will find Delco-Light to be a model of simplicity.
When it becomes necessary to re-charge the battery the
engine is started by merely pressing on the starting-
switch located on the switchboard. This electrically
cranks the engine, just as the automobile engine is
cranked by an electric self-starter. The engine starts
running on its own power in a few seconds. It can then
be left to itself, as when the battery is completely charged
the Delco-Light engine stops automatically.
* —' —" “ “ ’ ' ” ' f
The supply of kerosene is regulated by means o
a simple lever-operated mixing valve. Moving the lever
to the right or left regulates the supply of fuel.
There is only one place to put oil. The crank case
is designed to hold about three quarts of oil, and a rapidly
revolving gear carries a fine spray to all parts requiring
lubrication.
The reliability of Delco-Light has been proved through
actual service under trying conditions. It has been
thoroughly tested in every possible way, both in the shop
and in practical service on the farm and in the home.
Nothing has been left to chance. The tests have been
more severe than any service an owner would require.
Delco-Light is made by the same Works which have
Delco-Lighted and started over one million Motor-cars.
See Plant in Operation or write for Full Particulars to Sole Agents —
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Warburton,
Franki Ltd.,
307-311 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY.
VICTORIA BTASMANIA
War burton,
Franki Ltd.,
380-382 BOURKE STREET
MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND:
Smellie 8 Co.
Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Parsons 8
Robertson Ltd.,
GRENFELL STREET,
ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Geo. Wills
and Co.,
PERTH.
NEW ZEALAND:
A. D. RILEY gCO. LTD.
WELLINGTON.
FARMERS’ CO-OP. Assn
CHRISTCHURCH.


BURNS AIR
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns 90# Air 10# Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. No Wick! No Greasei
No Smoke! No Odor! Hang or Set
it anywhere. Over 100 Styles.
These Lamps being Portable
they require' no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, which also
contains Hollow .Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, §YDNEY
‘ssn
T H E?l*EaMi
from England
has a new delicious
flavour, so different
from the old-fash-
ioned kind of sauce.
Try it for Yourself.
Of all Grocers and Stores.
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY
«- P BROOKE’S,,
r &mofr
Best Lemon Squask
THE GREAT
RHEUMATIC
BRITISH
REMEDY.
TfeMjf’S
GOUT
AND RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
RJJJMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery of the Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
- All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 31-
Prout & Co., 229, Strand, London.
m
AL
(U*S'A)
GAM
1 5 % SjEsu? ft
GREY
HAIR
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PIXT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. oir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G.; Samuel
Hordern, Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly £1,000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for the
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
The ‘Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
trtnnr
' :S CN
v.. 'Q'-’v-x i
;< 4;v
f V- -,\
MW.I-
- ‘
S.«;V
Msflfeli
■
<K
MOTOR
LORRIES
Long Lives Lived
A motor lorry lives longer in four
weeks of war service than is de-
manded in years of commercial
usage. In the former Clydesdales
by riotor Lorries.
are faithfully doing their bit, and
in the latter their inbuilt Stamina
brings a new phase of durability to
bear on the user’s problems.
Special Clydesdale Features:
Krebs’ Automatic Controller main-
tains constant engine speeds.
Separate unit four-speed gear-box.
Worm-drive axle.
Straight Copper Tube Radiator.
Massive frame with deep centre
section.
H. D. VAN BRUNT, Factory Representative,
P.O. Box 2093, Sydney, AUSTRALIA.
New South Wales Distributor:
E. HARDY-JOHNSTON,
350 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
New Zealand Distributors:
INGLIS BROS. & CO. LTD.,
Harris Street, WELLINGTON.
T. E. SHIEL & CO.,
Stafford Street, DUNEDIN.
THE CLYDE CARS CO., Clyde, Ohio, U.S.A.
Si'S
m
<?
f
\
a?
:>
N
r-
C
Hr
fnsa
I
/ gaum
“Power Personified'
ALADDIN used to summon his
genii when he desired to be
whisked away into other parts.
Nowadays, motorists call for Plume,
the “Magic Spirit of to-day,” when
prodigies of speed and power are
needed.
Get-there motorists “bank" on Plume.
They enthusiastically insist that it g : ves
them a greater run for their money. They
say stiff hills only go to prove how mighty
good it is.
When next YOU turn in to fill up, don’t
say Benzine—ask for “PLUME.”
Sold by Garages everywhere
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout Australia and New Zealand
PR 11
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Apple-tree.
The Spring had tied a yellow bonnet on
each head of broom,
When I looked on an apple-tree and found it
all in bloom,
I gazed in ecstasy to see the pale petals fall,
Till through the apple-branches came a
sudden sweqt call!
It must have been the apple-bloom that took
and turned me fey,
For she was never mortal who called to me
that day,
With ne'er a garment round her, and on her
feet no spoon,
And the long wonder of her hair as yellow as
the moon.
I said no word at all to her, and she said
none to me;
The sunshine in the branches wove a magic
filigree;
A petal on her shoulder fell and one upon
her hair
As she danced a fairy measure ’neath the
apple-blossom there.
No petal drifting through the air was ever
half so light,
I think she was more delicate than moon-
shine at night!
She had the joyousness of flowers, the
mystery of trees,
Her eyes were brown as autumn and as
wayward as the breeze.
I scarce drew breath the while I watched
such loveliness at play,
Then sudden as she came to me she vanished
right away!
And though I said no word to her, and she
said none to me,
I knew her for the spirit of the fair apple-
tree.
The Spring haft tied a yellow bonnet on each
head of broom,
When I looked on an apple-tree and found it
all in bloom,
And watched a nypiph go dancing, ’mid pale
petals shed,
And knew as surely as I breathed, the old
gods were not dead !
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOOCH.
The Messenger.
When Parson came along our street,
The women waited numb,
The men went by with dragging feet,
And gossin’s tongues grew dumb ;
For to sad souls who could but wait,
He was the moving hand of Fate.
The raindrops glistened on his coat
Like little misty tears,
And greetings seemed to choke the throaty
And moments dragged to years;
While weary women, through their blinds,
Watched him, with terror in their minds.
We waited silent for the knell,
The garden gate’s keen click;
He was a wizard with a spell
'To make the street heart-sick ;
He was the messenger of Death,
And through him breathed war’s brutal
breath.
Parson, to-day, we greet with grins,
' For he’s a dear old soul
Who bids us strive to conquer sins,
And wears a hat most droll —
Gay peace that stole his awesome cloak
Has left him just a preacher-bloke.
VICTORIA.
CUTHBERT COLLINS.
Home Song.
I’m living- lyrics with my dear.
My heart is all a-o;hime
With fairy feet
That tap and beat
A dancing rhyme
In lover time,
And sing the true dreams near.
With little ! songs and sonnets fine
My head begins to swim.
As up and down,
In blue and brown,
The Fancies slim,
On sandals trim,
Go tripping line by line.
I’m living beauty with my soul.
Ah. Love! what pipes you play!
When fairy feet
In laughter beat
The singing way.
Some other day,
Shall I still hear you troll?
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Love.
Love is a ballet-girl, my dear.
With a pirouette there and a curtsey here;
With a whimsical twirl and a shy retreat.
And the twittering music of twinkling feet.
She flings you a rose with a butterfly grace;
She kisses you close and then laughs in your
face.
You follow her eagerly, mile upon mile,
For the lilt of her song or the light of her
smile.
And perhaps as you catch her in swift caress
A sequin you’ll snatch from her gypsy dress.
But you’ve wandered deep into shadow and
sin,
And sequins, they tell me, are made of tin.
Madam Will-o’-tlie-Wisp! In a month and
a day
She can court you and kiss you and cast you
away ;
For she maddens young hearts with the wine
of her wiles,
And then leaves them to pay for it—leaves
them and smi’-s.
She’s a hussy, a pert and a ficklesome jade;
But her mouth’s a red night-moth—and who’s
afraid?
QUEENSLAND.
ERNESTINE HEMMINGS.


PERDRIAU
is displayed by up-to-date garages throughout the Commonwealth
• J
are built to give the kind of hard service that our roads demand.
The Perdriau Super-tread is the crowning triumph of the Australian Tyre.
Its mileage results prove its right to first place as an Australian road performer.
Obtainable through your local garage or from the manufacturers
€Lu&/
8i
&
C
a
o
9
tR%
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Flinders Street, Melbourne
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Gaw/er Place, Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
Keep the Home Tyres Turning.
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans fbe teefb wifbouf scratobing
Sweetens fbe brearb;bardens fbe gums
MADE
IN
Australia
iITOWCMHW
t/f
WJL
lf your chemisf or storekeeper
cannof* supply, send in stomps
Rocke .Tompsitte Co. Melbourne.
sm*-
■m
NLc-
%
'■M
v.)
m
a
1 ¥
&
w
AND £!i BACON. V£Al
—IT Tonkiic
Hot Weather Meals
Ready in a Minute
Cool moments of comfort take the place of hot hours in
the kitchen for the housewife who keeps handy a tin or
two of
“REX”
CAMP PIE
Whether it be luncheon at home, week-end trips or a
picnic—there is joy for all in "REX” CAMP PIE. It is all
ready to serve —the tastiest meats cooked and seasoned to
perfection, then packed in a fine jelly.
Serve it with any kind of salad—there
is nothing more appetising.
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese
makes the kind of Sandwiches you really ENJOY
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of "Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of "Rex” Hams and Bacon J. 399
m
m.
xi*.
Vh
w-
<a«ii
OIL TRACTION ENGINES
20=Horsepower, High=Tension Ignition.
Burn Petrol or Kerosene.
SUITABLE FOR CHAFFCUTTING, THRESHING,
PUfIPING, SAWING, HAULING, etc.
Benson BrotKers Ltd.,
76-78 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
71-75 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, MELBOURNE.
138 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
See that your sideboard
is stocked with
THORNE’S
WHISKY
the purest- and most delectable of all
Scotch.
The perfect bouquet and rich mellowness
has made Thorne’s the preferred of
connoisseurs for over eighty years.
Ask for it to-day in the black, square
bottle. Kvery drop of Thorne’s is
O.H.IVS. “Incomparable.”
MARTELLS BRANDY
A fine old Cognac. Dates from 1715. Its use
is endorsed by doctors all over the world, who
recognise the special medicinal value of its
purity and richness in higher ethers.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office,. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper^
Voi. 40.—N0. 2029.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 2, 1919.
Wak-time Peice, Bd.
THE OLD MAN’S LITTLE JOKE.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For 61 10s. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year , to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, anc
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Goteh, Ludgale Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. — Home Neics Agency, 70S Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Hoiing, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Redder Slreoi,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fori
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
l\d. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sloz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 1205., Sid.; elsewhere, foz., lid., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 2, 1919.
THE YOUTHFUL ELECTOR AND
OTHER PERSONS.
A proposal which is heard of occasionally,
and is likely to be heard of more frequently,
concerns the reduction of the voting age from
21 to, perhaps, IS or 18}. A beginning was
made with the proposal that all soldiers, no
matter how youthful, should be voters. The
plea commonly advanced is that the kid who
js old enough to fight for his country at a
great emergency is also old enough to assist
in governing it, whether there is an emer-
gency or not There is, of course, neither
moral nor spiritual law to fix the voting age
or the ruling age. It is purely a matter of
expediency. No inspiied writing of any
sort shows that a child shouldn’t be a voter
at birth, just as he may. unfortunately for
his country, be a king at birth. And inas-
much as there is a notable instance in his-
tory of a king being crowned before birth —
the Church took the responsibility of fore-
seeing that the child would be a son, and
there was urgent need to settle the succes-
sion—some sort of precedent exists for a
prospective mother having two votes while
she remains prospective. Also, if the years
of man are naturally three score and ten,
though that figure is a s arbitrary as three
score or four score, the man who dies at 4o
might reasonably leave his vote in his will to
be exercised on certain general principles by
his executors during the 25 years out of which
he has been swindled. An inchoate senti-
ment exists to the effect that a voter, male
or female, should be beyond the spanking
age, seeing that a freshly-spanked elector
may not be exactly a free agent, though the
ballot provides a measure of protection; but
again there is no fixed rule. The immature
elector would be a sort of revival of one of
the worst evils of monarchy, which allows
the very young and the needlessly venerable
to potter with great affairs. A man who
tried both experiments —who wrote his Song
when he was young and pursuing his first
best girl, and his Preachings when he was
toothless and an extinct volcano —declared
that woe fell on the land wdrose king was a
child. The only reason why he said nothing
about the Parliamentary elector or member
being a child was that no such person existed
then, and he was too witless to imagine one.
1 \nvbody can say, at one glance, which
party''would gain by the addition of persons
between 18 and 21 to the voting list. The
male of that age is a seeker after novelty,
variety and experiment, unless he is • a
hereditary plutocrat or aristocrat or a
hereditary prig, and even these circumstances
may not lessen his exuberance. A prig can
be exuberant. He isn’t greatly hampered by
experience, either his own or anybody else’s
experience. He is just emerging, or not yet
emerging, from the picture-show and boy-
pirate stage. He is seldom hampered by re-
sponsibilities, being usually unmarried and
childless, and rather too young to be held
seriously responsible for the keep of his aged
parents, who, in any case, have the old-age
pension to fall back upon. At his time he is
ready to try all over again any kind of busted
but plausible and excitable device in social
or financial legislation, being quite unaware
of the fact that it isn't new, but very, ancient
and exploded, and he is filled with the joyous
feeling that he has his life before him to
experiment in even if other people ,are
middle-aged. The very young voter, if he
arrives, isn’t, however, intended to be a seri-
ous institution. Rather he is meant as a
useful and plastic dummy directed on his
joyous career by older visionaries or
schemers who will practically use his vote for
him. It is to be a variation of the idea of
the child king and the regents. Regents, as
a general rule, have been weaker than real
kings, because they weren’t real, and more
vicious because they were soured by their
anomalous position, and more grasping
because their time of robbery was short.
A question arises whether this isn’t a
time for limitation rather than for extension
—limitation both as to electors and legisla-
tors. The old idea of property qualification
was an absurdity, but the age qualification
might with advantage be cut at both ends
to eliminate the immature and the people
who are too old to care—those to whom the
future of the community has ceased to mat-
ter much because they have no future of
their own. An elector of 21—one of the
2,800,000 monarchs of the land—deciding
the destinies of a continent on the strength
of a school education, a very limited experi-
ence and a brain which' hasn’t quite finished
growing is really as absurd as an infant
priest or curate expounding the mysteries
of the Hereafter. He would lose nothing if
his debut as one of the monarchs waited
till he reached the age of 24, except that
he might vote at 15 elections instead of
1G or 17 before being disqualified on the de-
cay limit, and he would probably not vote
at half these elections in any case. He
might, of course, die before the age of 24
and not vote at all; in that case he was pro-
bably unhealthy and possibly undesirable.
The change wouldn’t give the rich man any
more hold on the political machine. And
the voter, when his turn came, would have a
larger share of power through there being
rather fewer to share it with. At present
power is very much diluted. If the fran-
chise is extended to boys and girls of 18 it
will be so much diluted that there will
hardly be a taste in the glass.
Further, there is room for a new qualifi-
cation for candidates—no# the property vari-
ety. The candidate should have never been
convicted of certain crimes—there are dif-
ferent varieties of crime, and some are very
sordid and crazy and objectionable. He
should be guaranteed free of any disease—
one disease especially—which is calculated
to warp the mind and the temper and the
soul —if there is a soul. Also he should not
be a person of arrested mental development,
which often means inherited disease—one of
the very numerous unfortunates with a
man’s stature and appearance whose intel-
lect definitely stopped growing in their teens.
These people supply a vast proportion of the
world’s criminals, convicted and unconvict.ed,
also of the world’s dangerous eccentrics.
Ned Kelly and at least one of his associ-
ates were reputed to be of this class. So
probably, but on a higher plane, was Mark
Antony, a combination of a fairly capable
officer, a roaring overgrown boy and a stage
Irishman. One Australian politician, now
nearly forgotten, was so glaringly of this
type that any mental expert could diagnose
him at sight; and there are plenty of other
samples. They run in many shapes, but a
certain irresponsibility is the badge of the
tribe. Very often they are of the class
described as unfit for steady employment—
flighty individuals who hang on to the skirts
of some trade or profession but never make
good. It is the misfortune rather than the
fault of the Labor organisation that it offers
a career for some of these. Being industrial
stragglers they have time to spare for that
line of business, which begins with Domain
oratory and ends, with luck, in Ministerial
office. Sometimes, being too flighty, they
branch off into pure anarchism and regard
even advanced Labor as thinly disguised
Capitalism. If other political parties ran a
branch of Domain oratory, or enlisted a
secret bodyguard of tame Bolsheviks for the
overthrow of the Constitution, it might also
attract these eccentrics. In fact it does
get some of the mentally unfinished —mostly
deficient persons who have inherited wealth.
But the bulk of the class are poor by rea-
son of their lack of earning capacity and
gravitate to the only camp in which
poverty, however acquired, can pass as
a virtue. The time has passed when
men can be disqualified because of their
opinions, unless these point towards mur-
der, arson, rape and similar unpleasant-
nesses. But it is fair that the community,
which isn’t a medical expert, should have
some assurance that the person who proposes
to represent any set of opinions in Parlia-
ment is a wholesome human being and of
full brain development— not one whose
thinking machines stopped growing before he
reached voting age.
THE NEW CLAIMANT TO THE
PRINCIPAL BOWYANGS.
Thomas Joseph Ryan, the one aggressive
Labor Premier in Australia, is commonly
understood to have some sort of lien on the
Federal Labor leadership by reason of his
achievements. Frank Tudor is to be
elbowed out in due time, for not being loud
enough, just as Watson, Fisher and
Hughes went previously, and as Ryan him-
self will go later. The alleged Coming
Man is disappointing, innocently bumptious,
and schoolmasterly. In some recent walks
abroad he dilated, with childlike exaltation,
about the two devices which are supposed
to give him a place among great financiers
and great constructive statesmen. One
if- the so-far successful State meat-supply
scheme, and the other is the so-far success-
ful State insurance scheme. The second
ought to be permanently successful; the
permanency of the' former is still uncertain,
though it seems right enough within limits.
But neither shows any remarkable grasp or
constructiveness.
The Ryan .State butcheries aim at sup-
plying the community with cheaper meat
than formerly, paying the people employed
in the trade better wages than formerly,
and yet making larger profits than formerly,
ll does these things by the simple process
of inducing Private Enterprise ox-growers to
supply the State butcheries with large quan-
tities of ox at a much less rate than they
charge to private dealers, and at much lower
rates than those charged for vast wholesale
orders for the supply of the Allied armies
which were fighting to maintain the cause
of freedom and civilisation. His Gov-
ernment has begun to run squattages of its
own, but its strong point has been the low-
priced animals grown for it by Private En-
terprise. Thanks to them it is able to
systematically ruin the individual butcher,
who is an unpoetic and blood-spotted creature
anyhow. Private Enterprise doesn’t object
much to the arrangement. In the first place
it is mostly a State tenant, and possibly
feared lest its^ lease should be cancelled if it
was objectionable. Again, there was great
latitude given it as regards export prices,
and wo violent patriotic sacrifice was called
for to help along the war. Above all things,
Queensland, which has seven bullocks and 26
sheep per inhabitant, can sell stock at a re-
duction to meet the paltry local demand in
the area served by the Government shops,
which is, as yet, only a fraction of the State.
It can do this and hardly feel the difference.
In Victoria, which has one bullock and 10
sheep per inhabitant, and has to import bul-
locks from other States, the same sort of
experiment would not only break up the local
industry—it would involve a heavy tax. so
that the State could buy outside cows dear
and sell them cheap. If Ryan goes into
Federal politics the one plank in his plat-
form is to be Cheap Food for all Australia.
But his scheme won’t work on exactly these
lines for all Australia. Incidentally, Queens-
land, not being a wheat country, escaped the
disaster which struck N. S. Wales, Victoria,
S.A. and Westralia, when the delusive cereal
fell upon evil days. Ryan, though a con-
firmed Cheap Fooder. didn’t try his wonderful
experiment on bread in any large way.
When there was no great local supply to
commandeer he was as helpless as the
average man. And he can’t try it in the
wider Federal sphere, for the price of wheat,
being already down to bare cost of produc-
tion in many places, can’t be cut without
stopping the supply.
* * * #
The State insurance Idea was not new, ex-
cept in some of its details. It was adopted
in Maoriland as far back as 1869, but the
Maoriland Life Assurance Department, like
the Commonwealth Bank, simply competes
for business in the open market-place. Rival
institutions weren’t shut up to make room
for it. In Ryan’s office one great branch of
the business, workmen’s compensation, is
compulsory and a monopoly. It hasn’t to
go out and look for business as Ryan’s
trains, which show such an amazing deficit,
have to go out and look for freight and pas-
sengers. Business comes to it by Act of
Parliament while it sits still, so it requires
just the same brilliant capacity for manage-
ment as does the Income-tax Department,
which also sits still while money comes to it.
Presumably to dodge the Federal Constitu-
tion, under which insurance legislation is a
Federal matter, though very little is done
about it, competition isn’t prohibited. After
a person has taken all the insurance he needs
in the State office he may buy more in other
offices if he cares to purchase a thing
that he has no use for. Having elimin-
ated superfluous offices and staffs and
advertising and agents and almost all
the expenses, the State concern can
give increased benefits and show a
handsome and apparently genuine profit.
If Ryan climbs to the top in Federal politics
on the strength of this policy, and tries to
apply it as far as the Constitution allows, it
will be a large matter. That is to say, it will
involve taking over some £70,000,000 of life
assurance assets and an annual income of
about £9,000,000 owned, not by capitalists
and speculators, but by co-operators. This
would mean taking the management from
the co-operators and transferring it to the
people in general, including those who don’t
co-operate. It would be almost like letting
the general public manage a trades-union.
The management ought to be cheaper than
that of the small offices. Whether it would
be cheaper than that of the biggest offices
would all depend on the kind of management.
Certainly a multitude of employees could be
eliminated, but if the place was run like
Andrew Fisher’s Australia House they
would merely be replaced by different men
and more of them.
* * * *
When the Ryan kind of man boasts of his
successful enterprises tlie lamentable fact
remains that they add nothing to the aggre-
gate enterprise of the country. The wonder-
ful meat scheme is only a device for selling
the same old meat to the same old people.
Government insurance and Government
banking are commendable ideas with vast
possibilities, but they are only a case of set-
ting new hands to paw over the business
that otherwise would be pawed over by dif-
ferent hands. They may save labor, but that
has apparently ceased to be a virtue. The
great trouble of Australia is that it doesn’t
know how to employ the labor it has, even
after spreading it out by having, say, seven
big co-operative life assurance staffs where
one Government staff would do, and 100
members of Parliament where 50 would suf-
fice. So the country is full of crazy devices
for bribing hopelessly inexperienced people
to go bee-farming. The profits that are badly
distributed in the country don’t amount to
half as large a problem as those that are not
distributed in the country at all. Ryan’s
party devotes all its power of clamor and
reverberation to schemes for "taking over”
the few existing workshops, just as Ryan
took over some of the existing meat and
insurance. Yet three-fourths or five-sixths
of the workshops aren’t here to be taken
over; this country rents the use of them
from Private Enterprise abroad and is a
slum tenant. Present-day trades unionism
professes to oe positive that it knows how
to run workshops. That is why it wants, to
take charge of them and show how T the thing
should be done. Its contempt for other
runners of workshops exceeds the scorn of
dukes and kaisers. And with all this know-
ledge arid all its gigantic organisation and
a great market staring it in the face it never
ventures to create a co-operative industry
of any sort. Its nearest approach to any-
thing new in recent times is Ryan doing a
new middleman act with the same old meat.
THE YANKEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He doesn’t object to the name now. In fact,
that is what he calls the fine army material
he sent to Europe—Yankee. You’ll hear the
word used oftener in his own country than
in,any other, and never offensively.
But, then, the Yankee never speaks offen-
sively of his own country or of its people in
any relation. Country and people alike are
the greatest on God’s earth. Whatever there
is to do America —meaning the United
States—can do it best. I don’t report this
in disparagement of the American. On the
contrary, 1 believe it accounts for much, if
not most, of his success. He has got into the
habit of thinking it is up to him to succeed
and to plan big things to succeed in.
Pride in his country, belief that it can
“lick creation,” holds him together. There
is no other bond worth mentioning. He has
no traditions of race. New York, the great-
est of his cities —-the greatest of all cities in
point of size—is only 20 per cent. Ameri-
can born. Its Italian population is almost
as large as the entire population of Sydney ;
there are as many Germans in it as there
are Australians in Melbourne; it lias more
Jews than South Australia has of all peoples.
But even the German of New York is
largely infected with pride of country. It is
the most industrious microbe that science
has discovered. And perhaps the most use-
ful ; for it and it alone made it possible for
the United States not only to ueciare war
on the Hun, but to proceed to win.
That was what Germany didn’t reckon on.
At first the official Hun had the idea that,
by reason of its wonderfully mixed popula-
tion, the U.S.A. wouldn’t dare to declare
war. But he had a greater hope still: he
believed that, at the worst, it would merely
attempt to Keep open a sea-passage for the
millions’ worth of merchandise it was send-
ing to the Allies. Blundering as usual, he
didn’t reckon with the pride of the United
States. Not the pride of birth, but the pride
of achievement and the capacity to achieve.
There is no more un-military people on
earth. War is such a mad business that the
Yankee had no use for it. He dismissed it
as a thing that was really not worth worry-
ing about because surely nobody else would
ever try it on a large scale. He had a vague
idea, got mostly from books which he had
read at school, that kings were somehow
responsible for the wars of the past; and
the great outburst in Europe, while it
amazed him, only confirmed him in his vague
association of kings and wars; and what
had he to do with kings? The Lusitania
answered him. Then he had to fight; and
having to fight, he had to win. His pride
in the invincibility of his country made any-
thing else inconceivable. He sat down then
to figure it all out.
He had no military traditions to speak
of, no military machine worth mentioning.
He therefore did not do anything just
because somebody else had done something-
like it on the outbreak of some previous war.
But he had done every other kind of big
job—the Panama Canal was the last to
stand to his credit —and he refused to see
that this war job was in principle different
from any other. That explains why 12 months
passed before there was more than a small
handful of American bayonets in the line;
why even, after 15 months, when the tide
of battle turned, the American divisions
there could still be counted on the hand.
The Hun made the most of this to promote
misunderstandings. “These fellows won’t
fight,” he whispered. “They are bluffing to
get a front seat at the peace table.” It was
a venomous lie; but, though it was easilv
nailed, it may still be well to say what
America was really doing.
I joined an American ship in Sydney in
June, when things still looked terribly black
in France. From that moment until I left
New York I did not see one ounce of white
bread, except at training-camps. There were
hundreds of millions of bushels of wheat and
flour in the United States; but the people
were doing without white bread in order to
feed first the soldiers of the Allies and then
the people of the Allies. That was merelv
one small instance of the organisation of
the whole country for war. Its own men
were as yet fighting in only very small num-
bers; but the country was going without
this, that and the other thing so that others
who had got ready to fight might fight bet-
ter. Meantime the vast financial resources
of the country were thrown behind the
Allies. When the tide had definitely turned
Bonat; Law, speaking in London, made a
remarkable confession. When the United
States came in, he said, Britain was so near
the end of its financial resources that it had
pledged its last security. That suggests what
the entry of the United States meant at a
time we can afford to shudder at now.
Then came such an association of Britons
and Americans as there had never been be-
fore. They were honestly and franklv
astonished. They had for the most part
heard merely the worst about one another
and often worse than the worst. The Ameri-
can understood that the Englishman was a
hopelessly hidebound Conservative. He was
astonished to find that his own President
would pass as a Conservative in the most
Conservative English circles. Certainly no
English Liberal would admit that Woodrow


Wilson was a Liberal of anything later than
the raid-Victorian period. Yet this was
the man whom the American trusted in a
crisis above all other men ; and did well to
trust, for the world has to-day no more
clear-visioned statesman, though in Clemen-
ceau and Lloyd Geokge it has bolder ones.
The American had been assured that
Britain was not only effete; it was also sel-
fish beyond words;' it wanted ~ the whole
earth, in spite of its incompetence. His
school-books again had planted that idea;
and the big and tremendously energetic Irish-
descended population of the States had cul-
tivated it. Tales of oppression had been
passed on to these citizens by their fathers ;
they knew nothing of any other side to the
story. They didn't want to know any other.
The worse you think of your neighbor the
easier it is to think well of yourself.
There has been a remarkable conversion
on both sides. When the Yankee first came
to France and spoke to the Australian in the
language of self-confidence —and a little
more —contemptuous words were followed
by hard blows. To-day the two are the best
of friends; in fact, such good friends that the
Australians were the first people that the
Yankee was used with in the front line. He
has found British high authority, too, quite
as geiierdus as the Digger of the Tommy in
the ranks. He has found those whom he
thought utterly selfish not merely generous
bin utterly self-sacrificing. He knows the
story of the Old Contemptibles. But better
still does he realise what the British Navy
has done. He has seen the little, wave-swept,
storm-racked destroyer thrashing a way for
his own great convoys; he knows that over
TO per cent, of all the American troops that
have been taken to Europe have gone in
British ships and over 80 per cent, of them
have crossed under the protection of the
British Navy; and he knows that the pro-
tection has been so nearly perfect that the
enemy has been able to snatch less than one
man in every 5000 from service. The Yan-
kee soldier knows these things of the Briton,
and the Tommy and the Digger know them
of the American. But on both sides of the
Pacific misconceptions still prevail; and
those of us who want to see the peace of the
world assured can’t do better work
than in rooting them out whenever and
wherever we find them. For ourselves, first
and foremost we need to get over the British
contempt for American spread-eagling. The
Yankee yells at the top of his voice that his
is the greatest country on earth. Well, let
him. We have got to realise that he has
to put something in the place of racial unity
and national tradition. And we ought to
realise that if he hadn’t, in this and similar-
ways, put this something in place of those
things which we have, his extraordinarily
heterogeneous millions never could have been
brought to our aid when aid was so despe-
rately needed.
What he supplied is not to be counted by
his contribution of men. Not even by his
contribution of money. He supplied that
impalpable but none the less invaluable
thing called morale. With his hundred mil-
lions behind us we knew that we simply
must win. The Hun, once he saw that the
British Navy could beat liis submarines,
and pour fresh Yankee millions into the
trenches, knew just as surely that he simply
must lose. And that knowledge was the
beginning of the end.
P. X.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Britain and the U.S.—or Neptune,
Limited.
It is something of a shock to learn that the
race of armaments is already starting again,
though no one knows why it should be, for
there is no permanent calm under the sun.
The announcement comes —too often and too
definitely to be mere rumor —that the future
policy of the United States is to have a navy
which, if not the biggest and best in the
world, will be at least equal to the best. It
is a natural ambition in a way, seeing that
the United States is now the richest country
in the world, and can provide the biggest
navy almost without an effort. The appear-
ance of a new Mistress or half-Mistress of
the Sea is a matter of interest. Herewith
some considerations: —
If Britain absolutely loses the command of the
sea in war-time it loses the control and the aid of
1.3,040,000 square miles of its territory. In a simi-
lar situation the United States would absolutely lose
only 125,833 square miles, for Alaska and Panama
can still be reached by land after a fashion.
If Britain absolutely loses the command of the
sea in war-time there will remain to it, as the head-
quarters of the empire and the centre of resistance,
88,729 square miles, which is about the area of
Victoria and rather less than that of Maoriland.
The United States, if similarly defeated and cut off,
would have 3,026,000 square miles to live on, not
including Alaska and Panama.
Britain, if defeated at sea and cut off, would have
some 500 persons per square mile to support, and
would inevitably be starved into surrender unless
some powerful combination came to its help—doubt-
less for a. big consideration. The United States,
similarly situated, would have rather over 30 persons
per square mile to support—less if it kept its hold
on Alaska. It could laugh at the idea of blockade
and famine, and could actually proceed to put the
victorious enemy on short commons by ceasing to
supply him with cotton, oil, meat, copper, etc.
Britain, if utterly defeated at sea, would be less
than the new Serbia, which has at least land outlets.
The United States, defeated at sea, would still be the
sixth Great Power for size, probably the second for
strength, and perhaps the first for wealth, seeing
that it could flatly refuse to pay indemnities to a
foe who had' merely destroyed its ships and cut off a
few scattered colonies.
Britain, if wrecked as a sea Power, would have no
future, for only by sea could it build a new empire.
The United States! if, maddened by defeat, it started
a career of land conquest, would still have a chance
to take Canada and Mexico, block the Panama Canal,
spread into South America, and build up such a
Power as the world has never seen. Then it could
resume sea adventure with a light heart.
So, naturally, this excited, bustling world
takes on a new complexion when there is
talk of the vast, rich, capable, hitherto-
quiescent monster of- the New World de-
manding even a half-share in the ownership
of the waters. When things are so evenly
balanced one well-placed shot might turn
the scale and alter the world’s history. r lhe
United States has the wealth, the access to
two oceans, the coast-line, the population, and
the invulnerability against famine that Ger-
many lacked when the llun made his foolish
bid for Neptune’s trident. If it cares to
concentrate its attention on naval enterprise
it is more free to do so than any Power that
ever existed since Britain gave up its isola-
tion and began to lay in foreign possessions.
Holland, Venice, Carthage, Athens and
Phoenicia, even when they ruled the seas,
were petty, precarious dominions at head-
quarters, with bigger competitors on the
other side of an invisible border. The rear
attack by land finished them, and they died
for want of sufficient nucleus. The United
States is all nucleus. If a country
which can afford to outbuild Britain, pro-
poses to do it or something approaching it,
and if a country which can afford to lose
naval wars proposes to compete with one
to which the loss of a naval war would be
ruin, and if the new country proposes a sort
of equal gamble, at which, through force of
circumstances, it stakes a penny to the old
country’s pound, then there will he urgent
need for a working agreement amounting
practically to an amalgamation of interests.
Otherwise the British Empire will exist on
sufferance. It is the one State in the world
which was created and endures by absolute
marine supremacy, and if it can’t keep that
absolute supremacy it will be time to take
in a partner. Otherwise a day may come
when the U.S. person will invert the proposi-
tion, and reckon that he is taking in a
partner.
Murder or Manslaughter.
“W.8.D.”: The Bishop of Goulburn is re-
ported to have said a few days ago that: —
There should be no clamor to hang the ex-Kaiser;
the ex-Kaiser had not committed murder, but man-
slaughter, which under British law was punishable
not by hanging, but imprisonment.
If Australia wishes to meddle in the matter
at all, it should speak with knowledge. The
Bishop’s statement is bad in law, and worse
in its implication that, for once, at all
events, a British Court is’ going to dispense
injustice by substituting the law of
“clamor” —in other words, lynch law—-for
the ordinary law of the land. There is no
need or justification for nervousness about
the prestige of the British judiciary. Its
traditions are more ancient and great than
those of the Hohenzoelerns or any other
family. No sensible person ought to believe
that it is going to tarnish them for the sake
of wreaking popular hate on the ex-Ivaiser.
Yet the curious notion is abroad. Similarly
with the legal aspect. For some inscrutable
reason, which is based on nothing in law, the
manslaughter theory has spread like a mild
epidemic. It is probably partly based on
the fact that the lay mind cannot properly
grasp the fact that a foreigner can commit
murder in England without coming to Eng-
land to do it. In other words, that he can
do it, as the'ex-Kaiser is supposed to have
done it, by sending an agent there to do it
for him. Assuming that all the other neces-
sary facts are present, the only question for
the Court will be: Did the accused send the
agent? Mr. Justice Barton puts it that:
“If he can be proyed to have actually insti-
gated and compassed, though absent from its
scene, a deed for which the criminal law of
the land where it occurred would hold an
uncrowned individual responsible, there
would, I suppose, be jurisdiction in some
tribunal,” and this, of course, is correct law.
The ex-Kaiser himself has got the point
quite clearly, and is already busily pointing
out to all and sundry that the things done
were done under the constraint of others. If
he could prove that at his trial, or even if the
British Crown failed to prove incitement by
him. then he would have an answer and would
get the benefit of it. But it has to be remem-
bered that war, as Wheaton puts it, “is not
a condition of illegality, but only an abnormal
condition between nations.” This means that
the law waives its right to regard certain
killings as murders so long as these
killings are conducted along certain defined
lines, and are confined to a certain defined
class. Both the lines and the class are
limited by the written laws of war as sub-
scribed to, amongst other entities, by the ex-
kingdom and Empire of which the individual
concerned was sovereign. So long as he re-
mained within those laws, he and his agents
had the benefit of their protection, but so
soon as he stepped outside them the benefit
of that protection was removed, and any acts
done with the protection removed took on
their normal felonious aspect provided they
were felonies. To bomb a hospital or an
undefended locality in England is a felony
in times of peace. It continues to be a
felony in times of war because the written
laws of war do not extend their protection
to those who bomb hospitals. If as the re-
sult of a felony of any sort death results to
anyone at all, and even though the result be
accidental, then the person doing the origi-
nal felony is guilty of murder, and the per-
son who counselled him to do it is similarly
guilty, even though there was no intention
to kill the actual victim, and even though
the murderer had never known of the victim’s
existence or of his death. It is only com-
monsense that it should be so. Murder is
felonious homicide with malice aforethought,
and manslaughter is felonious homicide with-
out malice aforethought, but every homicide
is taken to be murder till the con-
trary is proved. There can be no doubt
the Germans did many things in England, in
pursuance of their policy of “frightfulness,”
which deprived them of the protection of the
laws of.war. There can equally be no doubt
that as a result of the doing of these things
many deaths resulted, and consequently all
such deaths were murders. If the foreigner
pleads ignorance of English law. then the
matter is also provided for, since it has been
laid down in English Case law that such a
plea does not avail those who come on to
British territory and commit crimes. If we
were proposing the hanging of some foreign
laborer, the principles of law involved would
seem so just and reasonable that, nobody
would think the matter worth discussion.
Why should we get timorous and excited
merely because the individual concerned was
once the wearer of a crown? lie planned
to destroy the Empire’s armies and the navy,
and had he succeeded our laws would have
gone with them. The gamble was as legiti-
mate as some other gambles, but he lost, and
our laws prevail. Why are they not to
operate? , . t
The proper view is expressed in air. Jus-
tice Barton’s phrase. “Justice, not ven-
geance.” The life of the Kaiser is not, as
he says, a great item, in the search for
national reparation :
We do not begin to be hard on a wrong-doer,
whether individual or nation, until we mete ouc
more than has been earned. When we overpass tint
limit we are unjust to him. By so much as we tall
short of it we are unjust to society. That is the
manciple, difficult as its observance may sometimes
be. On the one side lies vengeance, on the other lies
culpable weakness, and, with it, betrayal of our
trust. All that he deserves, and no more. That is,
what lies between; that is justice.
That is not only the proper view, but, in the
long run, it is the merciful one.
; 9
The Second Baby Revolution.
The insurrection at Darwin, where 400
meat-workers had a strike and, with 300 re-
ini orcements, went Bolslieviking, appears to
have been more of an experiment than any-
thing else. The demand made was that
Administrator Gilruth and Judge Bevan
should quit the Territory and presumably
leave things in the hands of a Soviet till
further notice. A great many hard things
have been said about Gilruth’s manage-
ment of land-settlement, affairs and other
matters of the sort, and these may be partly
true. Certainly in a country with hardly
any roads and with less than 200 miles of
un'pavable railway to serve 520,000 square
miles of soil, an Administrator with no
power to make laws and hardly any money
to spend is apt to be rather perfunctory.
Especially about those parts of his domain
that can only be reached by 14 or 20 or 30
days’ travel, his perfunctoriness may be con-
siderable. But the grievance of the town
meat-workers, a movable sort of people, who
mostly come from Queensland to do a sea-
son’s industry, is not very clear. They are
a highly-paid crowd, and if the thermometer
is occasionally higher than the pay the Ad-
ministrator can help neither of them. Quite
possibly he isn’t worth his salary, and the
Territory may be overloaded with officials
that are not worth their salaries. Still, the
meat-workers don’t pay the salaries, nor does
the Territory pay any more than the average
on account of them. The extra burden is
carried by the other States. They find the
money and the Territory gets the benefit of
its spending. So, apparently, the attempt
to get rid of Gilruth, in the course of
which he was mauled by the mob, and his
few constables were disarmed and some pro-
perty damaged, was a preliminary attempt
at Soviet rule. Among the eight capi-
tals that the Commonwealth possesses Dar-
win is the ideal one for a movement of the
sort. It is small. It is wonderfully isolated.
Its neighbor towards the sunset is the empty
part of Westralia, and the neighbor towards
the sunrise is North Queensland, where the
I.W.W. and pro-Hnn lives; and its popula-
tion is partly colored, considerably alien and
largely of the bird of passage variety, re-
cruited from North Queensland. No more
suitable locality could be found for a little
revolution. If the shindy grows to seri-
ous dimensions it may hurry on the
building of the transcontinental railway,
or, better still, incite the Government
to buy a fleet of airships and end the isola-
tion that way. At present all it can do at
short notice is to telegraph a reproof.
Smith’s City.
B. Smith, M.H.R., whose mental Smith atti-
tude is incurable, has a proposition to make
next session re the Australian capital. The
Canberra metropolis—the one that is about
1 60 miles long and is mostly about on<~tenth
of a mile broad, and consequently resembles a
famished snake—is a petrified failure. Even
Smith, one of the supercilious Foreign-
traders who helped to fix it in the imagined
interests of Sydney, admits that —in fact, he
declares it. He denounces the place as if it
was somebody else’s place. So, after a pre-
face of lofty indignation about the machina-
tions of Victoria, he proposes that when the
temporary centre of government has served
20 years in Melbourne, it shall be removed to
Sydney for a similar period. Where it will
be removed to after that he doesn’t suggest.
But it is a fearsome expense to shift the
management of a continent from place to
place, abandoning old office buildings and
acquiring new ones, removing the furniture of
hundreds of officials and paying their re-
moval expenses, altering the nation’s address
in thousands of publications, posting notices
to foreign Powers, printing new stationery,
and so on. To do all this for the petty local
vanity of mere B. Smiths is beyond reason.
London doesn’t shift periodically to Edinburgh
and Dublin, but though there are many
Smiths there, London isn’t a Smith kind of
place by instinct. The Smith idea can’t be
carried out without an alteration of the
Constitution, and the necessary referendum
would cost perhans £lOO,OOO, and possibly
no result. The present arrange-
ment is that Australia shall have a capital
of its own which shall be the nation’s pro-
perty, and not that it shall be a lodgCr in a
State metropolis. Pending the establish-
ment of that capital, which seems to be
stranded owing to Smith and others fixing
on an impossible site, our Babylon or Wash-
ington boards from day to day in Mel-
bourne because that city is the centre of the
terrace of State capitals, with Perth and
Adelaide on one side, Sydney and Brisbane
on the other, and Hobart right in front. The
proposal that the Federal centre should lodge
in Sydney from 1921 to 1941, to compensate
for it having lodged in Melbourne- from 1901
to 1921. means establishing the lodger idea
indefinitely. It also means the indefinite
postponement of the Australian metropolis,
with Government land ownership and decen-
tralisation of the people. And the idea of a
real capital city, with the nation as sole
ground landlord, isn’t dead, despite the
shameful and cunningly engineered fiasco of
Canberra, and despite the brutal indifference
of Laborites and B. Smiths alike. Any-
how. -Sydney is the very last place " that,
should be thought of if the Commonwealth is
looking for another hash-tower. It is already
the biggest city in Australia, and the one
where further congestion, by the removal
there of a new official population, would be
most horrible. It has a house famine and a
water scarcity, which don't require to be
aggravated. There is no room for an addi-
tional herd of Federal officials in Surry Hills
where the town-planning brigade declares
people are already living in lanes 20ft. wide,
nor is there space in Darlington or Redfern.
Adelaide, as a big area with less than a third
of Sydney’s population, has room to spare,
and as the centre of a State which has poor
luck in minerals, rivers or rainfall, it needs,
much more than its rich bloated sister, the
bit of money that Federal officialdom would
bring it. Moreover it is Adelaide’s turn.
Victoria has had an advantage through
Federal head-office officials spending their
salaries there. N. S. Wales, which sur-
rounds the Canberra territory and controls
all its trade, has had the advantage of all the
money which has been fooled away on that
deranged proposition. It is time that some
other State hog got its forefeet in the trough
if the Commonwealth isn’t ready to set up
for itself and be its own hog.
Repatriation v. Immigration.
“Good Australian” : The breakdown of the
repatriation machinery in Melbourne, and
the recognised incompetence of Senator Mil-
ler's department give the onlooker reason
to think furiously. ' Our soldiers will shortly
begin to return in thousands at a time, to
find nothing to do after GO days’ furlough.
Our family expects seven young men home,
all under 25, not one of whom knows any-
thing about the land and cares less about it.
They were formerly in banks or shipping.or
insurance offices, which are now tilled with
girls. Therefore this mad policy of the politi-
cians to try and settle all soldiers on the land,
irrespective of their fitness for farming,
would break down seven times in my own
family if it were wanted to operate there. In
my business I am frequently asked to find capi-
tal to start small manufacturing businesses.
People who lend or invest money in joint-
stock companies of all sorts decline to put
capital into small factories which can be so
easily and quickly blown out by a few ship-
ments of dumped goods. Without a sound
and permanent customs tariff, dozens of
small suitable industries must remain un-
born. Jj’.ehind the soldiers who have to be
repatriated stand the kiddies, the young Aus-
tralians to whom this country belongs. They
claim the right to have work, wages, food,
homes and happiness. Yet politicians and
the interested press have begun to urge
immigration. Therefore is it time to raise
the cry, “Repatriation before Immigration” !
I don’t agree with this insane haste to “de-
velop” (great word that in this regard). All
our figures of trade, commerce and produc-
tion are big and growing. There is no need
to stimulate them by trying to double or
treble our population in a decade. . The
United States have been encouraging immi-
grants from older and poorer and less ad-
vanced countries for 50 years past, and the
policy has produced an overcrowded country,
bloated cities, horrible slums, • universal
sweating and vast wealth for a privileged
class. The Yankee policy of gathering in-
ferior people from the slums of old Europe
has certainly given the United States an abund-
ance of cheap labor and millions of hybrid
uneducated people who cannot speak the Eng-
lish language. Do we want such a state of
things in Australia? All the immigration
schemes that I have heard . from our quack
politicians mean bringing in thousands of
poor, helpless, half-educated, ignorant people
from Great Britain, Belgium, Italy, Greece,
Portugal and Scandinavia. (The French
never immigrate, because they are a superior,
educated people whose native land provides
comfort and liberty, and does not prate
about it.) With thousands of unemployed
soldiers, with thousands of Australian boys
and girls maturing every year, the problem
of putting them in the way of getting a living
in comfort is sufficiently difficult without
flooding the country with poor, cheap immi-
grants. wherever they may come from. In
1918, of our population 86 per cent, were Aus-
tralian-born, 10 per cent. British, and only
4 per cent, aliens. We ought to try to
preserve that ratio, so as to keep all the
money, work and control in our own hands.
We have a blood debt to pay those who
helped to save this fine country, and it has to
be paid.
Silence, Please!
History, which delights in labels, will
probably describe the present Federal
Administration as “The Hush Govern-
ment.” Never was there a Cabinet more
fond of letting the darkness into lighted
places and drawing a veil over proceedings
already shrouded in mist. While the war
lasted any attempt to point out that Bill-
jim was receiving a scandalously unfair deal
caused the Government to exclaim in a
shocked tone: “Hush! You will wake
somebody up, and that would discourage re-
cruiting.” Did a newspaper seek to criticise
the disgraceful waste of public money due
to maladministration of the Defence Depart-
ment, it was met with a severe: “Hush!
You will disturb our relations with our brave
Allies !” The Cabinet spent its time sitting
in the dark, with its fingers to its lips, im-
ploring everybody to tread delicately and
keep their mouths shut, lest the war should
not be won, and whenever a tongue was
observed to move an army corps of censors,
employed at a cost to its victims of £50,000
annually, was ready with gag and meat-
chopper. The policy of “Hush!” has
acquired such a hold upon the Ministry that
probably it couldn’t abandon it if it tried,
although there is no evidence that it has even
made an attempt. When a mob of Northern
Territory citizens burnt the effigy of his
Excellency the Horse Doctor, and tore the
pants of another official, a desperate attempt
was made to keep the rest of the country in
ignorance, of these happenings by a ludicrous
misuse of the censorship. While “Paddy”
Glynn was assuring the House of Reps,
that the Territory was in a delightful state
of tranquillity but for a little mild dissatis-
faction over the price of beer, Pearce was
equally busy explaining that the news of the


vr
iiSpl
mmm
m
%
Centre of^-C,
r Cf,
'A3NQAS
The Premier Hotel of Australia.
Renovated from Roof to Basement.
NEW FEATURES
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
New Fireproof Flat Con-
crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
Biths.
New Furnishinps.
Apply Manager. WHAT WE ADVERTISE WE SUPPLY.
ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTIES
Comfort and Quietness. Every
Convenience and Quick Service.
Automatic Telephones in every
Room. Private Safe Deposit.
Stenographer and Private . Office
for use of Guests.
Choice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast or Full Board.
Meals—a la Carte or Table d’hete.
Wfnter Garden
affair had been censored because it bore the
appearance of “an armed revolt.” About
this time, too. the permanent head of the
Repatriation Department in Victoria re-
signed, and this was followed a few days
later by the resignation en masse of the Vic-
torian Repatriation Committee. Repatriatio
Minister Millen was besieged by pressm
anxious to know the reason for such a dis-
play of resignation, but he wrapped himse f
m a cloak of silence, and a week after tie
event the most that could be obtained fro
him was an announcement that he had no ;
yet had time to read the Committee’s letter
policy of ‘‘Hush!” was carried
ridiculous lengths in regard to the decisio
to send Pearce to England. Early in D
cember it was known that he was going, am
on Dec. 10 Melbourne Herald announcec
that berths had been booked for. him anc
his family. A question was then askec
m the Reps., and Watt replied that “he hat
seen a statement in the press on the matte
but that was the first he had heard of i
He should say it was totally untru
(Laughter.)” In answer to a similar que
tion in the Senate, Pearce said that he ha
not made, and was not making, arrangements
to leave. The policy of hushing, denying
twisting and plain lying was continued unt
10 minutes before the close of the session
when Watt opened the bag and threw out
the dead and aromatic cat. There was n
possible reason for mystery regarding th
matter ; it was not even necessary that th
news should be broken gently, as Australi
was cheerfully willing to bear the shock o’
losing Pearce; it was simply due to the fac:
that shiftiness and equivocation have becom
essential features of the Hush Government’
policy, and these have created what Bruc
Smith in the Reps, the other day callec
“the murky atmosphere in which we live.
The word “murky” from Bruce Smith i
such a contingency calls for gas-masks.
♦ -
Repatriation.
When the Fusites were busy selling th
public a pup at last Federal elections Repa
triation was seized upon with great avidity
as a useful gag to keep the bidding going
Millen, who by the grace of Hughes hac
been appointed chief repatriator, made the
subject the main plank in the platform, anc
bobbed up in public places several times
Week to make long, windy announcements
and committed himself to declarations tha;
were so fantastic as to be obviously no more
than the overture to inchoate performance
Millen was so busy using Repatriation as
a rallying cry for votes that blinc
to the sea of trouble likely to' 'arise. But
he got enough votes. That was the only
thing that counted. Since then Millen has
merely succeeded in letting the public see
what a slick little vote-catcher looks like
when he gets entangled with a big job. It
is doing no injustice to Millen to say that
at no time since he put Repatriation on the
bill-of-fare has he shown any enlightening
comprehension of the obligations he con-
tracted at the elections or of the re-
sponsibilities inseparable from his posi-
tion in the Government. All that
Australia has got from him as Min-
ister for Repatriation is a lot of ver-
biage, some conspicuously foolish allegations,
an administrative outfit that is wholly in-
comprehensible, and a demented scheme
under which bureaucratic spending of mil-
lions may proceed with scarcely the figment
of public control. A vast debt for land-pur-
chase is being built up ; various preferences in
public employment are to be given to sol-
diers ; a certain amount of vocational train-
ing is being provided; and that is the begin-
ning and end of it, except that the Govern-
ment appears to be imploring someone or
other to delay Bill,tim’s departure from
England as long as possible. Of any rational
comprehension that Repatriation should be
part of a wider public policy relating to land
settlement and industrial development there
is not a glimmer. Of realisation that delay-
ing Billjim overseas is ruinous to him and
the country there is no sign. All that can be
detected is a diminutive individual over-
whelmed by a contract about which the Com-
monwealth has had fqur years to think
oyer, and in his ‘extremity relying on the
disastrous old trick of flinging borrowed
millions around. The Bulletin hears even
about some wild scheme for establishing fac-
tories in England where goods required by
Australia may be manufactured by Austra-
lian soldiers—this being part of the “Repatri-
ation scheme” that the humorless Pearce is
going to advance with towards London. A
benevolent Providence may be able to under-
stand the advantages to Australia of main-
taining soldiers in England to do work which
should be done at home; but The Bulletin
does not, and is prepared to assert that Mil-
len and Watt and Pearce possess no greater
knowledge. This paper is beginning to have
a suspicion that in order to give Millen
time to think of something Hughes mav
arrange to repatriate Billjim by starting
another war or promoting closer settlement
in Iceland.
The Shoveller.
Shovelling out millions is Premier Hol-
man’s strong point. When peace became
practically assured lie drew a long breath and
told an audience that it seemed probable
money would soon become “available,” and
then there would be a really joyous public-
works programme and things would hum. All
the money available last year was £21,684,120
of revenue and £4,487,511 of loans
(£26,171,631, as compared with £14,450,988
which sufficed 10 years ago), but the armi-
stice having taken a lot off Holman’s mind
he reckoned there was a chance to “go it.”
Apparently all previous attempts to go it
will pale before the new one. Revelations
deal, among other things, with the building
of five new railways in “undeveloped dis-
tricts,” which presumably means districts
that are even further away from the decay-
ing country town than usual —195 miles in
all at a cost of £1,000,000 of borrowed money,
which will be about £50,000 or £55,000 a
year in interest. The land thus opened up is
to accommodate 1464 soldier settlers, which
is, roughly, £7OO worth of railway per
settler. Then there is the value of the land,
houses, tanks, fencing, horses, implements,
roads, seed-wheat, and something to tide
over the first few months. Fencing-wire is
something of a difficulty. The local supply
is inadequate, and if new firms start or old
firms enlarge the Federal Treasurer is liable
to come down on them like an avalanche
with the War-profits Tax. So frantic cable-
grams are being sent to England asking that
the production and shipment of wire shall be
“speeded up.” Imports have taken such a
boom at the very mention of peace that the
latest three months’ return published for N.
S. Wales alone showed that the State had
over £11,000.000 of goods to pay for, or at
the rate of £44,000,000 a year, which was
double the effort for the corresponding
quarter of last year. How it will pay for all
this it is hard to say; anyhow it doesn’t
seem to leave much margin for local indus-
try. The sudden shipments of fencing
material must, of course, come out in other
people’s ships. The revised war-profits law
provides that if any scoundrel is found
building ships in Australia, except for the
Government which pays for them with bor-
rowed money, most of the ruffian’s earnings
shall still be seized as war profits, even if
there is no war. As vessels over 500 tons
can be bought for the Australian trade free
of duty, this is very efficient Protection for
the foreign builder against the Australian
builder. If Acting-Prime Minister Watt
would only levy a War-profits Tax on the
earnings of new settlers as well as on those
of new manufacturers, he would be a more
consistent person than he is.
— r —♦ ——
In Quarantine.
From a recently-suspected person
Mr. Denison Miller, of the Commonwealth Bank,
tells Sydney Telegraph that all his late fellow-
martyrs in quarantine appeared to be well satisfied
with the treatment they received. This sort of vague
laudation is no good to anybody. If we really want
to keep the disease out of Australia there is only
one thing for the patriotic person to do upon being
released from quarantine—to point out the weak
places which, while known well enough to internees,
may be quite unknown to the administration.
To expect that they will point out. these things
before their release is asking rather too much. If,
for instance, the internees in one compound from
which no cases of flu’ had been lately 1 removed, re-
ported to the authorities that attendants were in the
habit of climbing over gates separating their cage
from one in which there had been numerous cases,
they would know that they would be in grave danger
of a further period in quarantine. Hence this quite
common practice of the attendants is presumably not
reported. Mr. Miller says that “the only persons
who came near us were the doctors and attendants,
who wore masks and distinguishing uniforms.” They
did wear masks—even those who climbed over the
gates. But they almost invariably w r ore them slung
round their necks, the mask part hanging down their
backs.
Mr. Miller says that the internees were inoculated
and for the last three days given a daily vapor
bath. He remarks, with what seems like surprise,
that “there were no ill effects.” Well, I am not
astonished that one should be surprised when the
quarantine people do something without producing
any ill effects. Into one small,: closed chamber capa-
ble of seating about 20 people I have seen 42 herded
for their vapor bath, which a few took in bathing
togs, but the majority in their ordinary dress. No
shower was available after coming out of the vapor
bath; and the bathers walked in their steamed
clothes to their own compound, 600 yards away.
Supervision over the sanitary arrangements is so
lax that disgraceful conditions are possible. Con-
veniences in bedrooms may be neglected for eight
days. It seems hardly credible, but ( can swear that
it was so in one case. The drinking water is drawn
for the most part from tanks filled from the roofs.
I should think there was some doubt about the
purity of water caught on the roofs of quarantine
buildings. The tanks cannot be flushed, and they
are so old and corroded that in places thev have
burst and the holes have been plugged. I saw one
plugged with wood surrounded by rag—l hope not
a patient’s handkerchief.
Wonderfully good work has been done by the
Department in damming the disease back. But I
want to see the disease not only kept out of the
city, from which it would certainly spread through
the country, but stamped out in the Quarantine
Station; for Australia is in danger so long as there
remains a case even in quarantine.
Dot, and One to Go.
The Speck’s Parliament, by hoisting the
shutters on December 19, just missed the
opportunity of a joint sitting to choose a
Senator in place of James Joseph Long,
news of whose intended resignation from the
Senate was received in Hobart an hour or
two after the closing of the session- If
Parliament is not in session when a vacancy
occurs in the Senate, the vacancy is filled by
the Governor in Council. But in the present
case there is apparently some doubt as to
whether the Tas. Parliament is “in session”
or out of it, as, although its work is finished
and all its valedictories spoken, it merely
“stands adjourned” until some date in Janu-
ary, before which date it will be formally
prorogued. The point is arguable, and
authorities may be found to prove, that “in
session” does or does not mean actually sit-
ting in conclave. The point will probably
be finally decided in accordance with the
desires of Ministers. If they want to make
the appointment themselves (by advising the
Governor), the session will be declared
ended; if Ministers want to pass the respon-
sibility on to Parliament, then the Houses
will meet in January and choose a man for
the vacancy. As Senator Long is (or was)
a member of the Labor party, and as
the Speck has a law which provides
that extraordinary vacancies in the Stale
Parliament shall be filled by a member of
the same political party as the vacating mem-
ber, and as it may be desired to honor the
spirit of this law in regard to Federal as
well as State legislative appointments, it is
possible that a local Labor politician may
get the offer of the seat in the Senate for the
17 months of Long’s term still to run.
Among the possibles, if this plan is followed,
are Opposition-leader Lyons. ex-Minister
Belton, W. E. Shoobridge, ex-Chief Sec.
Ogden (alDin the present Assembly), ex-
Speaker Woods, ex-Whip Watkins, G. F.
Martin (Prices Commission), and Lieut.
Jim Hurst (not any of them now in the
Assembly). If the appointment is made on
party lines no Labor man will have a chance
unless the Government wants to get rid of a
powerful enemy for awhile.
The Bulletin didn’t like it when it was
obliged, owing to the enormous increase in
the price of paper, to charge eightpence for
itself. Though the stuff the printer spoils
still costs about three times more than it did
when the war started, yet there is every pro-
bability of a steady reduction; and The
Bulletin therefore promptly abolishes the
extra twopence. Agents have been instructed
that the price will be the old 6d. from the
first issue in February.
So pronounced was the opposition in the
Vic. Assembly to the Bill to enable a Chief
Railway Commissioner to be imported that
the Lawson-Bowser Cabinet withdrew it.
Nominally the measure merely provided for
doubling the maximum salary of £2500 a
year now payable, but the House scented the
real object. It is now thought that Norman,
whose term as chairman will be up early in
April, will be asked to stay on for another
six months. The third Commissioner’s job
has also to be filled, and the opposition to
the selection of a man from abroad will be
just as strong as in the case of the Chief
Commissioner.
The long-drawn Styles case in Adelaide
is starting on another chapter. Styles was
Chief Secretary in the Vaughan Government
and came under the frown of a Royal Com-
mission which sat to inquire into its costly
land purchases. The Commission consisted
of Noel Webb, who, though independent and
fearless, was a magistrate of recent appoint-
ment, and his verdict somehow did not carry
quite the weight of a Supreme Court Judge’s.
Of the two. Government officials included in
the Commissioner’s censure, one has since
resigned, and the other has been exon-
erated, on further evidence brought before a
fresh Inquiry Board that was allowed him.
Styles has protested all the time that the
judgment practically given against him —
after he had been assured that the Commis-
sion was merely an “inquiry,” and not a
trial —was contrary to the evidence; but
he g-ot no hearing, and at an intervening
election he lost his Assembly seat. On
strong representations in S.A. Parliament
the Chief Justice was asked to re-hear the
case, but could not find the time. Neither
could President Brown, of the Industrial
. urt V, during the Christmas holidays. Pre-
mier Peake unexpectedly announced that a
new Royal Commission of three Assembly
and three Leg. Council members will be
appointed to go over the ground again.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s •• “Hello, Everybody I’
Criterion “Friendly Enemies’
Royal . “Oh, Oh, Delphine !’
Palace “De Luxe Annie’
Tivoli “Everybody’s Doing It”
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Goody Two Shoes”
Royal “Nothing but the Truth”
Tivoli “Bubbly”
King’s “Jack and Jill”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Picture!
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Follies, St. Ivilda . . .John N. McCallum’s Courtiers
“HELLO, EVERYBODY!”
Take a lot of pretty girls—
Girls who sing and dance,
Fit" ’em out with tights and curls,
Make ’em march and prance.
Fourteen changes, singing blokes,
Cloths of every hue,
Two comedians, seven jokes—
That is your revue.
And when you’ve got it moving fast, to daze the
eye and brain,
So sober cits, will stay too late and miss the homing
train,
You call it anything you like—“ Tut, Tut!” or
“What! Againf”
* * * *
That, of course, is reducing the plotless
“Hello, Everyoody!” (now at Her Majesty’s;
Sydney) to its lowest terms. The J.C.W.
cooks have provided a feast for the eye, an
eighteenpenny meal for the ear, and thrown
the brain a soup-ticket. Scenic artists Les-
lie Board, Geo. Upward and W. It. Coleman
provide the 16 or 17 landscapes, interiors
and streets that keep the stage staff busy.
Board’s Highland cloth for the final burst of
song deserves a special word of praise.
There are one or two new ideas to stimulate
the partly-stunned watcher and make him sit
up straight in his seat. The revolving cone
platform in the wheat scene, whereon the
chorus ladies arrange themselves in tiers and
turn into green-legged poppies by showing
the red side of their skirts, is well contrived.
Another surprise is the arrangement of the
stage, as an abrupt slope rising almost from
the footlights. The Stone Age humorists
find this very useful to roll down. Minnie
Love, as leading lady, happens frequently—
generally in trailing clothes that look worth
a bookmaker’s ransom. An orange confec-
tion is the most effective one shown. Though
Minnie is decorative, as usual, her wailsome
voice has no charm when used in one of the
sob-songs she specialises in. Unluckily for
her, she gets no chance in burlesqhe.
Cannot wrangles naturally as a Dago barber
while cooking a customer with hot towels.
He also scores as a fatuous, fussy patent
agent surrounded by resident and visiting
lunatics. But he can’t resist the tempta-
tion to teach the audience a silly song.
George Welch, specialist in the sleepy-drunk
line of comedy, does invaluable work, and
•breaks out in a new place as a spectacled
and extremely confidential crank in the
“ Hello , Every-
body!” at Sydney
Majesty's.
Gus Bluett as the
elongated office-
boy.
patent-office scene. Gus
Bluett shows a good
sense of fun as a
dopey bootblack, and
again as a gigantic,
barelegged office boy.
He strikes a top-note
of lunacy when he
climbs the hat-rack,
places his cap on the
top, and, still clinging
to the pole, pulls a
comic paper out of his
pocket and starts to
read it. Sidney Yates
is useful in the comedy
scehes and valuable as
a dancer. The mean-
ing of the “Sesame”
dance he does in green
pyjamas with Maudie
Amery and Regina
Seaton isn’t as clear
as the Auditor-Gen-
eral’s annual report
on the state of the N.
S. Wales finances ; but
the setting (a sort of
dry well or deserted
bear-pit) is original,
and the musical frolic
is full of graceful fllit-
terings, gallops,
attempted assassina-
tion and (finally) wife
desertion. Clyde Cook
isn’t par ticu larly
amusing as a Stone
Age belle and a fake
juggler, but there is
fun in a skyscraper-
building turn he does
with George Welch. Nellie Payne’s youth-
ful smile helps her through her invariably
cheerful songandance, and Pearl Ladd goes


THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE), WHO ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
Write or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
r
6^
YC
0 O ORDM OK
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
1
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
aoNVHfisNi aau mim Nvnvaisnv w*
LIMITED.
Head Office: Comer Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
s YJJ Pft A ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
H.
VARY'
T SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
man. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
The House for Hats
Peapes’ of Sydney are hatters to
men who invariably select distinc-
tive styles. A hat with l’efined
lines is shown —a shape particu-
larly adapted for best wear.
Alpine Soft Felt, Brim 2|in.
wide, 2in. bands. Colors: Grey,
Nut, Brown. Steel.
Price . . 35/-, 45 -
Peapes’ pay postage. Send for
the new catalogue, which shows
hats suitable for every occasion.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
7
corseted and singing to her death oyer
Niagara as Maid of the Mist —a Red Indian
interlude. The inhuman placidity of Pearl
so angers an aged Redskin, who prides him-
self on being the champion stoic of his tribe,
that he is only prevented from shaking her
up with his hatchet by a young Indian
wowser, who, like all the wowser family,
has no sense of the fitness of things.
Villiers Arnold attends gallantly to
several songs, and is the central kilted
figure in the stirring finale when the
clans gather to the skirl of the pipes, and the
stage is a twinkling vision of bared feminine
knees all dancing. G. H. Knibbs calculates
that, since chorus-girls have had to bare
their knees and powder ’em. the consumption
of rice powder per girl has gone up from
sflb. to 81b. per annum.
A further inspection of “Friendly
Enemies” at the Criterion (Sydney) streng-
thens the opinion that, viewed as a propa-
ganda play, this production is deserving of
respectful attention. The intention of. the
men who put the play together (and it is
frankly built up in the conventional way)
was to influence the attitude of the Ger-
man-American and the offspring thereof to-
wards Uncle Sam’s war policy. To use the
dramatic method for this purpose was, in its
way, an item of genius, and the result is a
hnighty interesting illustration. Of course
it may be objected that the Germans of the
play are not objectionable enough—that
they are not all Huns. Such possible objec-
tion has neither point nor insight, for, obvi-
ously ‘enough, if the play had turned upon
German baseness of heart and character its
value for propaganda purposes would have
been useless. “Friendly Enemies” is, in
the circumstances of its birth, an excellent
play. It has a meaning, and that alone en-
titles it to approval. If the leading Germans
do not get out of their parts all the charac-
ter which might be extracted therefrom,
there is at least the comfort of noticing that
they get all the comedy.
The quiet artistry of Emelie Polini is again
drawing the crowd to the Palace (Sydney),
where “He Luxe Annie” is being revived.
The moving train in which the garrulous
family doctor begins and ends his story still
runs ' with beautiful oily smoothness —or,
rather, it stands still while the scenery, out-
side obligingly runs past and repeats itself
like history. To the extra-imaginative. or
the bilious that window-view of the fleeing
landscape might bring seasickness if it were
shown too long. Rich people who take a
morose view of the future and the Labor
party might see in it one of their favorite
nightmares turned upside down. Much has
been written about capital leaving the coun-
try; but not even the worst pessimist has
thought of the country leaving capital and
visualised the scenery running away over the
horizon with the receding telegraph-poles
waving a wooden farewell.
“Oh, Oh, Delphine!” now flirting at the
Royal (Sydney), has a special claim as the
big musical show with the plot that keeps
going and doesn’t fall and break its neck at
the first hurdle. It contrasts well with the
glittering J.UW. revue at Her Majesty’s.
The second edition of “Everybody’s Doing
It” is to be published on New Year’s Day
at the Tivoli (Sydney). Goodie Reeve,
daughter of Ada, is the leading feminine,
and in one two of her turns she will sing
imitations of her famous mother.
The Babes in the Wood continue to be
artistically smothered at the Opera House
(Sydney), surrounded by the ballet and
appropriate scenery. Also, Queen Paradise
and Robin Hood carry on their sunshine
campaign against the forces of evil. This
latter is a big job usually, but the Fuller
pantomimic talent makes a joke of it.
At the Crystal Palace and the Strand
(Sydney) “Good Night, Paul,” shows Con-
stance Talmadge balancing on the extreme
edge of some unusual marital situations.
The little lady gets gaily tangled up in a
succession of exhilarating pyjama complica-
tions, around which whirl her husband, his
friend, the friend’s uncle and a hospital
nurse. At Hoyt’s and the Haymarket W.
S Hart plays out a week’s drama, screened
in the Canadian backwoods. As “Blue Blazes
Rawden” he plays up merry Sheol and car-
ries things with a high and loaded hand
generally until his dead enemy’s sweet little
mother from dear old England comes out to
seek her son. The heart of Blue Blazes
then becomes as water, and he allows him-
self to be a target for a neatly placed
bullet, and staggers into the open to die
in a suitable position for the camera-man,
amid the unsullied splendor of a North woods
snow scene. The same screen shows Vivian
Martin running a store at Cape .Cod, mak-
ing the books balance and carrying over a
credit balance to the following half-year.
She is known in the neighborhood as “A
I'eiticoat Pilot/’ “The Hearts of the
World” pulse on the Lyceum screen.
At the Majestic (Adelaide) there is a
bright mixed show, outstanding features being
skating, contortionist work and music (Louis
Aldace, in particular). The Tivoli is re-
opening with a “pantomime'revue” of the Old
Woman who did not believe in race suicide.
"FRIENDLY ENEMIES,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Henry Bloch (Jas. Waters) and Karl
Pfeiffer (NicK Adams) have Words.
At North Terrace is “Pierrot Pie,” much as of
old —bright throughout, but distinctly bright-
est when Sydney James and Madeline Rossi -
ter are on the stage. This competition stirred
the Scarlet Gaieties, over in the Exhibition
Gardens, to elaborate their programme; but
a really cold Christmas has not been good
for outdoor shows. In pictures, Chaplin at
the Pav. vies with Arbuckle at Wonder-
graph. At West’s, Clara Kimball Young-
shows, as a Savage Woman, what the man-
agement calls “primitive passion” in a leo-
pard-skin. At the Royal you can take tea
with royalty, and at the same house a film
has been on exhibition showing how Rasputin
mesmerised the late Czar’s family. The mys-
tery may now be said to be cleared up. Also,
there is a drama on the reel which the
Censors allow to be billed as “To Hell with
the Kaiser!”
* :I; s':
Last week’s remarks on “Goody Two
Shoes” at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) need only
amending in some personal particulars. May
de Sousa, the leading lad, improves on
acquaintance, but people who have been
taught to associate the “boy” with swelling
external lines, naturally expect a stronger
suggestion of her own sex than May is able
to afford. All the same, it can be conceded
that her youthful slimness strengthens the
impression of her fictitious personality. She
is more a “boy” within the meaning of the
word than several previous representatives
who merely travelled on form. Fairy Light-
heart (Maude Gray), however, is not re-
markably sensitive to the charms of her
position, and the comparative failure of the
tall Ernest Langford is only excusable on
the ground that his art has worn thin in its
efforts to keep up with his physical
stature. Those are the main defects in a
cast that seems generally well chosen. Fred
Walton, the Toy Soldier, continues to exer-
cise a special glamor with his engaging pan-
tomime, and the rich field of endeavor pro-
vided for Maggie Dickinson in “Bubbles,”
the “Kirchner Girl Ballet,” and other effu-
sions, enables the little lady to twinkle like
a star. Also the new specialties added last
week justify their long journey from Ameri-
ca. Jewel’p Marionette Circus and the
Kenna Brothers’ aeroplane and trapeze act
are further gleams of humor in the festive
entertainment.
* * * *
A hardy hybrid in farcical comedies is
“Nothing but the Truth,” staged at the
Royal (Melb.) on Boxing Day. The show
looked promising, but the co. was in evident
need of more work together. The story is
wholly Yankee as regards eternal talk of
dollars and Stock Exchange transaction,
whereas in its style of exaggerated charac-
terisation and simple course of events the
fiction dates back to a previous age of Eng-
lish humor. For consistency of unrealism
and plain directness of moral the comedy
seems to stand in a class by itself. An un-
sophisticated young member of an incredible
firm of New York stockbrokers hopes to
double 10,000 dollars of church funds by
betting the oldest of his partners that he
can tell the truth for 24 hours. The old
man, who happens to be the young man’s
fatlier-in-law-eleet, shares the bet with a
third partner in the incredible firm and a
bitterly unpleasant client, and the trio con-
spire to force George Washington’s double
into horrible difficulties with his unnatural
veracity. Consequently the young man gets
the sympathy, of the audience for himself
and his girl, who lent him the 10,000 dol-
lars for investment, and the ultimate defeat
of the conspirators is worked up into a
popular joke. The fact hardly matters that
nothing and nobody in the entertainment
ever appear quite real, except when Robert
Washington Bennett starts telling lies like
a reasonable citizen as soon as his 24 hours
are up. Minor incidental characters are a
Yankee bishop, whose blatant hypocrisy re-
minds one of a British melodrama curate,
a couple of naughty, stereotyped stage girls,
a conventional society idiot maiden, and an
artless matron —mother of Washington’s
girl—who pays the naughtiest of the two
“actresses” 200 dollars to pull her guileless
leg. * * „
Figrnan, in the central character, makes a
virtue of exaggeration and spreads himself
in superfluous detail, nevertheless he isn’t
over-assertive in his method. - Mac Barnes,
as Figman’s fat father-in-law-elect, is handi-
capped by a thick, foggy utterance and
helped by a capacious smile, whilst the quiet
naturalism of Kenneth Brampton is a trying
contrast to the labored American accent of
Pirie Bush (the Eddie of the original Wal-
lingford co.), who looks rather young and
raw in his part. Nellie Wilson and Lucie
Carter, Australian girls back from the
States, are the two naughty adventuresses,
Nellie being very like her old impressive
self when she flaunts upon the scene in a
glaring red outfit and earns 200 dollars by
telling her bogus tale of Shame to Emma
Temple. Lolita Robinson is the pretty lead-
ing lady whom Figrnan folds to his heart,
and Primrofee Caryll gets the unthankful
job of impersonating a society damsel whose
hat and giggle are atrocities, and whose
singing would justify any two conscientious
doctors in taking a grave view of her case.
Leslie Victor, as the Bishop, assists the
third act considerably by demanding his
money back after discovering that his min-
ing stock has gone bad.
The only conspicuous mistake in the pro-
duction of “Bubbly,” at the Tivoli (Melb.),
was the lateness of its prettiest scene owing
to a superfluity of weak items in the earlier
stages of the "revue. There is enough and
to spare in “Bubbly” to keep business brisk
through the holidays. The disordered mass
of goods includes at least two lively sketches
with Beatrice Holloway in the foreground—
“A Tooth for a Tooth,” and “Easy Money,”
the latter recalling an item from “De Luxe
Annie,” even as a butcher’S-shop scene is
a reminder of one of last year’s pantos.
Somehow Leslie Gaze continues to lack
punch as a comedian and artistic vocalist,
but John Junior is putting more vim into
his work; and the toboggan slide that ends
the show goes with a rush.
“NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH ,” AT
MELBOURNE ROYAL.
M. B. Figman, as Robert, telling the truth
to Ralston (Mac Barnes ).
William S. Hart, alias “Blue Blazes Raw-
don,” is hitting the trail again at Hoyt’s
(Melbourne) this week. William, as usual,
has an intemperate trigger-finger, and at the
end of the wild story has to pay in full for
his lack of restraint. The scenery, alleged
to he the Canadian North-West, is uncom-
monly beautiful. Vivian Martin is over-
whelmingly evident in “Petticoat Pilot,” but
for the many adorers of yivian enough of
her is hardly more than a snack. Jewel
Carmen, at the Lyceum, makes a prettier
impression in “Confession,” a play that pro-
vides her with special opportunities. Alma
Rubens scores in the sensational Triangle
play, “The Ghost Flower,” at the Majestic.
* * * *
Somewhat reduced in bulk since the open-
ing night, “Jack and Jill,” at the King’s
(Melb.), is still a solid three hours’ perform-
ance. Moon and Morris, specialty dancers,
have now arrived on the scene; also Virginia
Roche, neat, blonde and American, has
squeezed into the tights of the principal boy,
and those additions fill the eye with satisfac-
tion whilst increasing the personal achieve-
ment in the show. However, no individual, ex-
cepting the jaunty Lupino, is very remarkable
in an entertainment that is largely pictorial.
And even Lupino The Bulletin would will-
ingly forget for another live minutes ot the
Spanish Ballet of a longer stay in old Baa-
dad. The two scenes, strongly painted by YV ii-
liam Rowell, differ widely in details, but they
are alike in their departure from panto con-
ventions, and are almost equally embellished
with Girl. In the Spanish scene the pictuur
is heightened by the clatter of castenets and
the threat of daggers, whereas Bagdad is
made arresting by the play of purple, amber
and silver lights on Oriental costumes and
swaggering physical charms. No one is
especially prominent in these, scenes, barimg
Lupino in the Ballet, and he is only a nickel-
ing gleam of canary-yellow that merges Intel*
mittently into the tout ensemble. Gut tin
valuable Barry is abundant in other direc-
tions. In fact, if he changed his role from
producer to reducer and started freely on
himself, there ought to be vacancies for two
extra comedians.
Uncle Sam’s way of doing it
Uncle Samuel has his own schemes for raising
war loans; and knowing himself best, maybe his
schemes are best—for home consumption. I was
in N’York on the last day of the “drive” for the
fourth “Liberty Loan,” and falling in on it sud-
denly I wondered if the whole city had gone mad.
In Broadway within a mile I counted (roughly)
seven million flags (all but 20 of them American
and 17 of the others French), listened to (again
roughly) 2960 speeches delivered by frantically ges-
ticulating men, women and children (a boy orator
of 16 was a great draw), and heard a thousand
(also more or less) bands blare “Over There,” which
is to the Yankee of to-day what “Tipperary” was
to the Britisher in the first months of the war.
Everybody was asking everybody else if he had
“signed the limit”—Uncle’s way of inquiring
whether you have loaded yourself up to the neck
with war bonds. Every other shop-window was
given over to advertising the loan. Some of the
big department stores advertised nothing else. A
few of them, mixing business with patriotism, pro-
mised to invest in Liberty bonds every cent taken
that day (some of them in that week) at their
counters. Every theatre, every music-hall, was in-
vaded. The performing dog couldn’t wag his tail
without fluttering a bannerette with the old device
“Lend, Lend, Lend.” The N’York policeman on
point duty doesn’t wave his lordly hand to direct
the traffic ; he swings at you a notice-board, “Stop”
or “Go on,” as the case may be. This week there
was a tag to it: “Stop and Buy YVar Bonds” ; “Go
on; Lend more.” At lunch Lazaro and other operatic
stars sang at you —if you were staying in a hotel
where the bill was big enough—and, in the enthu-
siasm that was supposed to follow, a horde of can-
vassers, mostly women and unpaid, descended upon
you and intercepted a 10-eent oyster on its way
north with a demand to “Think of the boys—sign
for just another hundred.” A stout lady from
Boston surrendered for five hundred, and then a
competition started among stout ladies from differ-
ent cities. In the theatres the shows were held up
for quarter of an hour while the same thing hap-
pened to their audiences. Nobody subscribes a
million and drops the form furtively in the post as
though it were the Incriminating Document. He
just waits till a million people (again roughly) are
got together and then uses it to enthuse another mil-
lion dollars or a hundred or something out of some-
body else. The Boost Committee doesn’t waste mil-
lions by letting them come in on felt slippers. Good
old Tom Skeyhill, the first of the Anzacs to take
to the platform, was still touring the United States,
and the organising side of the blind signaller’s show
is so good that two million dollars are credited to his
appeal. As soon as Unc. Sam had finished his
“drive,” the Canuck, over the border, more like
his uncle than his father in business ways, started to
get in his Liberty Loan, and the first thing I knew
about that was a tumult outside the 15-storey pub
I was in. The vast crowd had come to see “The
Human Fly” walk up the front wall of the pub
from side-walk to roof. And he did it; but he
yelled a Liberty Loan speech from a perch at about
the fourth floor and the canvassers got to work in
the same old way.
“Theorbo”: Melbourne Philharmonic has
just given its annual “Messiah,” now
approaching the 80th performance. Peake,
who yielded the baton to Zelman, is the
author of a valuable pamphlet on the whole
history of the Phil. Its early concerts were
in the upstairs hall of the Mechanics’ Insti-
tute, afterwards called the Athenaeum, be-
cause mechanics never would go there. The
hall behind was not built till very long after
the Philharmonic began. Its concerts were
afterwards held in the Old Exhibition, where
the Mint now stands.
The Bulletin feels like Foch did a few
months ago. Trained Yankees weren’t actu-
ally on hand in great numbers; but so many
were coming across that he felt he might
rush in far more of the available British
and French than he would have dared to do
had there been no new reserves coming from
overseas. In the same way The Bulletin,
though it hasn’t yet received any printing
paper by newly-released ships, feels that it
can now safely draw on its reserves, and it
will do so for the purpose of making an earlv
increase in the size of the old six-nenn’ortb


STILL HOT.
“Riots and revolutions in Austria, riots and revolutions in Germany, riots and revolutions in Russin.” etc., etc., etc.-News item.
THE HOME-COMER: “I'm afraid it'll be sonetime before it's a com fortsble seat."


British Owned and Controlled.
The Bro Ken Hill Associated SmeltersPty. Ltdo
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Smelting Works : Port Pirie, S.A. Coke Works : Bellambi, N.S.W.
Branch Offices:
LONDON : 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building'. SYDNEY :25 O’Connell Street
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead Corroding Read
Antimonial Read Chemical Lead
Assay Lead (liar and Granulated)
Kehned Silver (liar and Granulated)
Linotype Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY
FAVORABLE TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade;
Slags, etc., containing silver or lead
Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
All Enquiries to
be addressed to
the Secretary.
ANTIFRICTION
LINOTYPE
METALS
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVE
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
FOR 32 YEARS
PERPETUAL Trustee Company (Ltd.)
has been in business as a Corporate Trustee.
Since its incorporation it has never been held liable by the Courts
for a breach of Trust of any description.
The Company acts as Executor and Trustee under Wills, Adminis-
trator in Intestacy, Attorney Under Power, Agent, etc., etc.
WRITE FOR EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Ltd.), 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Manager: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New South Wales: —
Tolte-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Sept., 'lo.. 184,689 10 p.e.= 133,709 50,980 1,907,343
Premiums on new shares .. 40,735 1,954,078
Mar.,’ll.. 201,492 10 p.c.= 143,457 58,035 2,012,113
Premiums on new shares 21,545 2,033,658
Sept.,’ll.. 222,043 10 p.c.= 150,000 72,043 2,105,701
Mar., ’l2.. 215,115 10 ~ ~150,000 65,115 2,170,816
Sept., ’l2.. 214,023 10 ~ ~150,000 64,023 2,234,839
Mar., ’13.. 259,004 10 „ ~ 150,339 102,665 2,337,504
Sept., ’13.. 250,101 10 ~ ~168,946 81,155 2,418,059
Mar., ’l4.. 275,746 10 ~ ~175,000 100,746 2,519,405
Sept., ’l4.. 246,324 10 „ ~175,000 71,324 2,590,729
Mar., ’15.. 239,407 10 ~ ~ 175,000 64,407 2,655,136
Sept., ’ls., 23h,929 10 „ ~175,000 55,929 2,711,065
Mar., ’lO.. 227,885 10 ~ „ 175,000 52,885 2,763,950
Sept., ’l6.. 246,425 10 „ ~ 180,133 66,292 2,830,242
Mar., ’17..'279,050 10 ~„ 194,464 84,586 2,914,828
Sept., ’l7.. 274,603 10 „ ~195,243 79,360 2,994,188
Mar., 18.. 278,784 10 „ ~ 195.243 83,541 3,077,729
Sept., ’lB.. 273,560 10 ~ ~ 195,243 78,317 3,156,046
The profit isn’t quite what it has been
lately ; but it is £28,000 better than it was
in the corresponding half of the pre-war year
1913. That is the disclosed profit; but
probably somebody is putting a bit up his
sleeve in case of accident. Compare the
position to-day with that of seven years ago.
The paid-up capital is now just upon a
million more, and the deposits are seven mil-
lions more ; yet the disclosed profits are only
£51,000 more, notwithstanding the great in-
crease in interest rates. Three p.c. earned
on the capital and reserves seven years ago
meant £75,495 a half-year. Four p.c. earned
on the present capital and reserves means
£139,620 a half-year; and it doesn’t seem
outrageous to assume that the bank’s own
funds are averaging 1 p.c. more than they
did seven years ago. Moreover, though the
Commonwealth Bank has been cutting in, the
foreign exchange business is still very lus-
cious.
As time goes on, the Commonwealth Bank
may reasonably be expected to cut in deeper
and deeper. So far it lias done little more
than take very profitable business at rates
no lower than other banks would be pre-
pared to do it. But the politician won’t
always be satisfied with that ; and you can’t
rule the politician out of it, because in
theory at any rate the politician is the
mouthpiece of the owners of the bank. The
Commonwealth Bank, lie will say. was not
established merely to make billets for a few
men, but to give the public the benefit of
co-operative banking on a large scale; and
you don’t get much benefit —much immediate
benefit—when the charges are so high that
they bring in half a million of profit a
year. This paper rejoices to see the
Commonwealth Bank making a profit of
half-a-million a year and putting it by.
But the investor is bound to consider
whether the same thing will not happen in
connection with Australian banks as has
happened in connection with, say, fire and
accident insurance in Queensland and Maori-
land, or in connection with trustee business
wherever a public trust office has been estab-
lished.
The “Wales” balance-sheet figures continue
to show the effects of war. Hard borrow-
ing, which means the creation of new
paper wealth, is reflected in the figures.
Smith, the retired candlestick-maker, lends
his savings to a bank, which lends
them to the State; butcher and baker
get the money the State spends, and lend it
to a bank ; and the bank lends all or part
of it to a new candlestick-maker. So the
figures about lendings and borrowings are
piled up higher and higher on the single
foundation of the original candlestick-
maker’s savings. Like this (though certain-
ly there are other factors besides the bor-
rowing and re-borrowing)
Liabilities.
Sept., ’l4. Sept., ’l7. Sept., ’JB.
Notes.. .. £287,655 #499,203 £1,142/141
Bills, etc. . . 6 594,816 7,566.062 10,605,963
Deposits . . 36,722,127 40,579,001 41,252,338
Liquid assets 21,779 t9 S 89 T 528,682,944 26,798,820
Advances . . 27,207,838 26,132,991 32,540,150
Premises .. 795,000 825,000 820,000
All we have to look out for is that, in
building advance after advance upon the
above-mentioned candlestick-maker’s deposit,
the bank has enough capital of its own to
make good any losses. In this case the
shareholder’s capital (including visible re-
serves, of course) amounts to £7,060.000;
and the advances, apart from those secured
by the Government, amount to £27.918,000.
Seven years ago £5,105,000 was protecting
£25,904,000 of advances; so, on paper, at
any rate, the position is much stronger
to-day than it was in 1911.
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1904 .. £36,579 S p.c. = £B,OOO £28,579 £71,127
1905 .. 26,069 12 „ „ 12,000 14,069 55.196
1906 .. 45,886 204 „ „ 20,500 25,386 110,582
1907 .. 31,572 204,, ~ 20,500 11,072 121.654
1908 .. 35,413 204 „ „ 20,500 14,913 136,567
1909 .. 37,960 21* „ ~ 21,000 16,900 153,527
1910 . . 52,500 21 ~ „ 21,000 31,500 185,027
£lOO,OOO Reserves transferred to Capital. . 85,027
1911 .. 49,022 12 p.c. = 24,001 25,021 110,048
1912 .. 42,123 12 ~ „ 24,001 18,122 128,170
1913 .. 48;516 12 „ ~ 24,001 24,515 152,685
1914 .. 39,466 12 ~ ~ 24,001 15,465 168,150
1915 . . 45,155 17 „ „ 34,001 11,154 179,304
£100,003 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 79,301
1916 .. 46,758 12 p.c. = 30,000 10.758 96,059
1917 .. 47,918 10 „ „ 30,000 17,918 113,977
1918 .. 52,546 15 „ ~ 45,001 7,545 121,522
It lias been a wonderful time for the insur-
ance cos. Every balance-sheet from Aus-
tralian and Maoriland offices which has
reached The Bulletin lately has told the
same story of a record year. The marine
business towards the end of the war was
extremely profitable, thanks to the great
work of the British Navy. But during the
past year fire-insurance lias til so been un-
usually profitable. None of the managements
discloses exactly how its profits were de-
rived ; but the N. >S. Wales Statistician
throws some light on the matter in a table
giving the aggregate figures of all the busi-
ness done in the various departments of all
the insurance cos. in that State for the year
to June last. From these figures the follow-
ing comparison can be got: —
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Rate. Rate.
Fire £1,117,849 £415,707 £467,126 37.2p.c. 4J.8p.0.
Marine 411,948 153,883 110,745 37.3 „ 26.9 „ ■
Accident 53,372 22,706 25,283 42.5 ~ 47.4 ~
So every £lOO of marine premiums received
gave a profit of £B5 165., while there was a
profit of £2l on every £lOO of fire premiums.
No doubt the experience in Victoria —where
this eo. is chiefly interested—was somewhat
similar. Anyhow, the following comparison
shows a record small loss rate, while the
expense rate was the same as last year:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums, Losses, ponses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £61,683 £29,526 £24,433 47.9 p.c. 39.6 p.c
1900.. 95,254 49,101 32,1.13 51.5 „ 33.7 „
1905.. 134,748 60,632 54,911 45.0 40.8 „
1910.. 176.949 66,079 69,661 37.3 „ 39.3 „
1912.. 200,694 88,193 81,460 43.9 „ 40.5 „
1913.. 204.542 85,617 84,040 41.8 „ 41.1 •„
1914.. 210,738 98,951 87,681 46.9 „ 41.6 „
1915.. 210.313 90,694 86,626 43.1 „ 41.1 „
1916.. 213,963 93,852 90,365 43.8 „ 42.2 „
1917.. 199,941 81,387 89,888 40.7 ■„ 45.0 „
1918.. 202,655 74,879 91,283 36.9 „ 45.0 „
Though the total of net premiums is smaller
than it used to be the co. is handling a
larger volume of business. For instance, in
1914 gross premiums amounted to £280,791
and re-insurances £70,054; for the
the total premium income was £315,780.
while the re-insurances were £113,125.
The Colonial Mutual wrote its first policy
in 1878, and, like most Australian insur-
ance cos., it had a struggle. The table just
above shows how the business has expanded
during the past 23 years. And while its
connection has gradually grown its financial
position has been made very solid, and the
more impressive an insurance co. can make
its figures the easier it is to get new busi-
ness. Capital and reserves at September 30
amounted to £421,530, equal to 208 p.c. of
the year’s net premiums. A proportion of 150
p.c. is regarded as fairly adequate, so the
Colonial Mutual shows reasonable strength.
Put it another way; the present funds, quite
apart from what premiums may be received
during the current year, are sufficient to
cover claims almost equal to the aggregate
losses for the past five years, Further, the co.’s
funds are well invested ; there is £235,755 in
public securities and War Loan; £174,016
in cash, deposits, etc.; £28,602 in freeholds
(book value) ; £33.551 in shares in other
cos.; and £12,000 in mortgage loans. No
policy-holder could expect better protection
than that.
Shareholders have done wonderfully well.
In 1902 they were getting 8 p.c. p.a. on a
capital of £62,500. Paid capital is now
£300,008, and shareholders have not put up
a penny in the meantime. 'Whereas 16 years
ago the 8 p.c. dividend distributed only £5OOO
per annum among them, the 15 p.c. for the
past year gives them £45,001, equal to 72
p.c. on the capital as at 1902. However, 5
p.c. of the last dividend was by way of a
bonus, and may not be repeated. Interest
earnings provided only £18,053 of the amount
distributed, leaving £26.9450 to be met out of
the underwriting surplus. Only an abnor-
mally low loss rate provided sufficient profit
to nay this dividend. As it is the amount
left to strengthen reserves is the poorest
on record in the first table. The shareholders
would probably have been better advised if
they had taken advantage of the record year
to provide a substantial reserve against the
heavy taxation calls of the future.
The Kauri Timber Co. :
Net
Written Visible
Aug., Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
1905. . £23,065 4p.c.= £23,400 £lO,OOO £189,145
1900. . 4(1,216 4 ~ ~ 23,400 172,269
1907.. 68,062 5 ~ „ 29,250 14,500 147,957
Reserves.
Assets written up, £227.458. . 79,501
1908.. 74,902 8 p.c. = 46,800 2,922 104,681
1909.. 65,667 8 „ „ 46,800 9,360 114,188
1910.. 55,162 8 „,, 46,800 8,852 113,698
1911.. 67,551 8 ~ ~ 46,800 7,694 126,755
1912.. 86,562 9 „ „ 52,650 14,904 145,763
1913.. 87.156 9 „ „ 52,650 25,726 154,543
1914.. 80,603 8 „„ 46,800 14,524 173,822
1915.. 61,445 8 „„ 46,800 12,894 175,573
1916.. 46,668 61,,,, 38,025 11,233 172,983
1917 . 59,108 61 ~ „ 38,025 0,554 187,512
1918.. 72,385 7 „„ 40,950 9,83 S 209,109
To get its products to the world’s markets
Australia has always depended on other
people’s ships; to finance its public works,
etc., it has depended chiefly on outsiders’
money. So when the Hun set out to over-
run the earth, and the people on the other
side of the world wanted their ships and
their money for war purposes, Australians
found themselves in an awkward corner.
Heaven only knows what would have hap-
pened if John Bull had not come to the
rescue and purchased our principal pro-
ducts, even though a lot of them could not
be shipped for a couple of years. Not; only
has the timber industry been up against
freight troubles, but it has also been severely
affected by the collapse of the building and
State construction booms. One compensa-
tion has been that the scarcity of ships has
reduced the importation of foreign sticks:
but the same shortage of freights has held up
delivery of much timber cut for local con-
tracts. Yet, despite all the difficulties of the
past four years, the Kauri Timber Co. has
not done at all badly. The profits figures
in the above table, however, include addi-
tions to various reserves and a contingency
fund, and into the latter substantial amounts
have been dropped lately (£15.279 in 1917
and £9511 last year), probably represent-
ing surpluses on sales of assets. Gross
profits last year were £121,877, compared
with £128,109 for 1914: but expenses have
meantime climbed from £34,520 to £45,768
—£2364 of this latter amount representing
grants to the co.’s soldier-employees.
The balance-sheet figures have moved this
way since 1911:
1911. 1914. 1917. 1918.
Liabilities' .. £52,288 £138,182 £'36,475 £45,097
Assets:
Properties, plant 329,472 400,121 414,532 401,608
Stock.. .. 238,502 311,818 210,513 215,005
Stores . . 2,614 10,254 9,320 11,125
Shares in other
cos 53,858 87,272 99,859 103,166
Liquid assets. . 162,997 110,938 95,238 134,627
With the properties is included “standing
timber,” and since this is an item which
varies in value according to the state of the
market, the cO. can never know precisely
what will be the worth of its properties the
day after to-morrow. At one stage in its
history it revalued its Mapriland kauri
forests and discovered that what was left
was then worth more than the cost of the
original properties. These kauri forests
are gradually being worked out, and a few
years ago properties in Westralia were ac-
quired. The curtailment of the co.’s trade
has had a big effect on some of the balance-
sheet figures. Stocks have been reduced by
£96,000 since 1914, and this has helped
•to cut down liabilities by about £93,000.
On the balance-sheet figures the co. is now
£38,213 better off than it was in 1914 ; but
that does not mean much in this case.
Everything depends on the valuation of the
assets.
* * * *
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal
Co. (N.S.W.) :
Writ- Nomi-
ten nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Sept.,’l3.. 11,650 | j 3216 s>sSi 5 > 5Si
Mar..’l4.. 11.44 S ) p^f. l2 J 2601 3283 6 > 824
Sept.,’l4.. 8,093 Pref. = 1250 3290 10,377
Mar., ’l5. . 719 Pref. = 3250 3178 6,668
Sept.,’ls.. 12.22 S [ 10 P-C-= 4500 ) 3922 g>224
Mar., ’l6. . 6,565 j £rd. 1° p.c.= 4500 | 2467 7 572
Sept.,’l6... 9,164 10 P-°- = 4500 I 2650 g33G
Mar., ’17.. 7,595 { 10 P-°- = \ 3215 6,966
Sept.,’l7. . 6,059 j 5 p 22 jj° j 2559 6,966
Mar., ’lB. . 9,590 j 10p f' = J 3190 . 7,616
Sept.,’lB. . 9,011 | p’j,'*; 10 P-®'" j 3261 10,877
The scarcity of shipping and the consequent
curtailment of the export trade resulted in
a big falling-off in the northern N. S. Wales
coalfields’ output during the war. In 1913
7,402,627 tons were produced, while last
year the total was only 5,380,957 tons. But
whereas the total value of the output at
the mines five years ago was £2,893,935, in
1917 the considerably reduced output was
worth £3.074.966. And since the Wickham
and Bullock Island Co. has been getting a
very fair share of what trade there has been.
the results for the past year, despite extra
costs and all other difficulties, have been very
satisfactory. The co. is also in a good posi-
tion to meet the rush of business which will
set in as conditions return to normal again.
Besides the old Neath property, a new mine
at Cessnoek was brought to the producing
stage during the past year, and the co. is
also preparing to open up the recently-
acquired Kaliugo. a first-class property on
the South Maitland field. Capital is
£llO,OOO, in 90,000 £1 ords, and 20,000 £1
12-J p.c. prefs. No new capital has been got
in since the co. started to work the Neath
over 10 years ago. Since then the Cess-
nock mine has been purchased and developed
out of profits, and liquid assets have been
piling up :
Sept.,’OS. Mar.,’lB. Sept.,’lB.
Liabilities.. ..£21,774 £4,931 £5,340
Plant, stock, etc. 25,671 31,081 30,/<0
Liquid assets . . 7,339 47,098 51,739
In the 10 years, in addition to paying good
dividends and purchasing and developing
new properties, an excess of liabilities over
liquid assets of £14,435 has been converted
into a surplus of liquid assets of £46,399.
This surplus no doubt will be cut into when
the Kalingo purchase is completed and the
mine is equipped. Altogether the Wick-
ham and Bullock Island Co. has put up a
fine performance and made a splendid re-
covery from the position it found itself in
13 years ago when liquidation was urged by
some of the pref. holders. If that move had
come off the ordinary shareholders would
not have got back a penny of their capital.
If the co. were wound-up now there are
sufficient cash assets to repay the prefs. in
full and return £26,399 of the ord. capital
And besides that there is the £30,770 of
plant, stock, etc. The co.’s mines, as writ-
ten down, now stand in the books at £49,184.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction North Silver
Mining Co., from the time it was re-formed
and became the Junction North Broken Hill
Mines:—
Gross Written
Profit. Dividend. Off. Reserves.
Sept., 1912. . £36,828 Nil £22,254 £14,574
Loss.
Mar., 1913.. 5,744 Nil 2,928 5,902
Profit-
Sept., 1913.. 22,114 Nil 6,338 21,678
Mar., 1914.. 6,121 Nil 3,578 24,221
Sept., 1914.. 7,633 Nil 3,839 28,015
Loss.
Mar., 1915. . 18,120 Nil ' 9,895
Sept., 1915. . 7,602 Nil —■ 2,293
Deficit.
Mar., 1916.. 8,974 Nil 7,117 13,79 S
Profit.
Sept., 1916.. 696 Nil 3,865 16,967
Mar., 1917.. 28,381 Nil 20,050 5,636
Reserves.
Sept., 1917.. 19,729 Nil 6,889 4,204
Mar., 1918.. 38.497 £lB,OOO 4,328 20,373
Sept., 1918.. 27,840 24,666 7,850 15,697.
But the book-keeper can make a mining
co.’s profit (or loss) pretty well what he
pleases. In this case the past year’s history
can perhaps be better shown this way : —■
Surplus op Floating Assets over Liabilities.
Sept., 1917 . . ■ . . . . £149,674
Mar., 1918 170,899
Sept., 1918 147,934
So in the half-year to the end of March the
surplus of more or less liquid assets had
increased by £21,225, and meantime £lB,OOO
had been paid in dividends. Total of the
two items, £39,225. Deduct £321, new capi-
tal got in during the half-year, and the
£38,904 left shows what the co.’s operations
did to improve the position in cash or its
equivalent during that six months. On the
other hand, the surplus of more or less
liquid assets lias diminished during the past
half-year by £22,965. But the co. has paid
in dividends £24,666, and has apparently
paid £43,300 for the Pinnacles and May-
flower properties; total £67,966. Add to the
£22.965 by which the more or less liquid
assets have diminished the £14.834 of new-
capital got in; total £37,799. Deduct that
from £67,966, and you get £30,167 as
approximately the improvement in the cash
position during the past half-year—always
assuming that the Pinnacles mine is worth in
cash what the co. gave for it.
It was urgently necessary for the co. to do
something to provide feed for the plant upon
which it has spent so much money. There
is only 180,000 tons of ore in reserve at the
Junction North mine, and there is very
small hope of developing much more. Yet
it is wonderful how these big Broken Hill
mines respond to raking. Twelve months
ago the g.m. reported 200.000 tons in re-
serve. Since then about 40.000 tons have
been dragged out, and the present estimate, as
remarked just now. is 180,000 tons. How-
ever, that isn’t much for a plant which can
eat up about 50,000 tons of one sort and an-
other in six months. To acid to the co.’s life
large quantities of slime were formerly
bought; but there isn’t a great deal of that
left now either. Twelve months wall see the
end of the dumps if they go at the same rate
as they have during the past year. And
there isn’t much prospect of any further
satisfactory deals in slime. Hence the im-
portance of the Pinnacles deal. The big
handicap is transport from the mine to the
Works —a matter of seven or eight miles.


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MOS 2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Pacific Cable Board
ISEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA; NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A ‘WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
{!
od. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
Canada
2/4 1/2
I 7d. (minimum
i 11/8, 20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minimum
(11/8,20 words)
Week-end Service with the United Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West'
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Resrulatioijs may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen sHouse, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2688.
•I. MIDWARD. Manager in tho Pacific
77 Pitt Street,
Particular attention is called to the comprehen
siveness of the 1919 line of G.E. electric fans. The
features of construction, the operating- efficiency
the effectiveness of air delivery, the quietness ot
operation, and the attractive appearance combine
to make G.E. electric fans the choice of discriminat
ing- buyers. Come in and select your fan. We
stock all sizes. Australian General Electric Com
pany, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Conserved water, especially in country districts,
quickly becomes contaminated. To drink such water
exposes one to grave danger from disease. Alumino-
ferric quickly clarifies and purifies water in dams,
tanks, etc. You use it in the proportion of lib. to
every 3000 gallons of water. Most effective and quite
harmless. Used by leading Water Supply Boards
throughout Australia. William Adams & Co., Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Melbourne: 521-3 Col
lins Street. Adelaide.: 96 Currie Street. Brisbane
Corner Edward and Mary Streets. Perth: 33 King
Street. — Advt. ‘ [3
* * * *
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work.— Advt. [3
Above or below ground Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe
is the most satisfactory conduit. No fluid can harm
it, neither can it taint any fluid. As a pressure pipe
it is unexcelled. We also manufacture bore casing.
Send for illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd. (H. 0.), Burns Bay, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
P.O. Add.: Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney., Factories:
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic ; and Pt. Adelaide,
S.A. Contractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
* * * *
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
♦ * * *
Havp You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney,*and 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.,
Mining and assay requisites pan be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
ana all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Minders Lane, Melbourne, — -Advt.
. Road-graders for building good roads, for mak-
ing and grading earth roads, cleaning out water-
tables, making fire-breaks, etc. We carry large
stocks of the best-procurable and most-up-to-date
machines. Several different sizes stocked, to be
worked by 2, 4 or 8 horses or traction-engine-power.
Catalogues and full particulars upon application.
Arthur Leplastner & Co., Circular Quay East,
Sydney. Queensland enquiries: The Australian
Machinery Co., Mary Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write,
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
S'fmnhfr’ Ve]^ S ’ Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
PA es ' o£?”° r wnt ® for Particulars. H. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 2 65 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Stieets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
>Ve are Bohn to
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tke 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
VV. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
When making a Will or Settlement
appoint The
Onion Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Your EXECUTOR or TRUSTEE.
The only Trustee Company with branches
in more than one State.
NEW SOUTH WALES. VICTORIA
QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Office, 48 Young Street.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles It. Mackellar,
It.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C.; Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C.; F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd ; W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, and
Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. Watson,
Assistant Manager.
J. Mair,
Manager.
Mining & Sugar Mill Machinery
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BOUGHT AND SOLD.
Insper-t.on of Plant with a view to Purchase. Rails and Portable Tram Lines.
J. S. WALLS, Lawson House, 49 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telephone: City 4375. Telegraphic: Walls, Clarence Street, Sydnej
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS- IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Board reports that the mine “is situ-
ate on the direct route of any extension of
the 8.11. railway to the nearest township
on the B.A. border, and it is quite possible
that in due course the Pinnacles mine will
have the many benefits of regular railway
communication.'’ Some day, when Aus-
tralia has developed its iron and steel manu-
factures, it won’t wait for a Government
to lay a heavy, expensive line to connect
places of this sort. It will just drop a light
railway and get to work. That direct heavy
Government line has been merely talked
about for 30 years.
* * * . *
That most disappointing of all Broken
Hill mines, the Junction, after flattering its
plucky new controllers, turned dog on them
last half-year. Y'isions of steady dividends
faded away, and, instead, there was a loss
of £1574. True, the working exes, include
everything spent on development (as, of
course, they should in connection with such
an uncertain mine) ; and approximately half
the money (£4087) spent on plant additions
was written off. It’s a dull management
which can’t find excuses for showing a loss
instead of the promised profit; and the
Junction management isn’t dull. Through
coal shortage at Broken Hill the mine lost
’several weeks’ productive work.’’ (“Seve-
ral,” by the way, is really too vague and
sloppy a word for a report of this sort.)
The new development work is expected to
improve the grade of ore which can be
turned out. But other things may reason-
ably be expected to disimprove the price of
lead. Also, from Genesis onwards nothing
has been able to improve for long tlie grade
of ore of this erratic mine.
* * * *
The papers late last week told a story of.
an amalgamation “on the Broken I till line
of lode.” The 8.11. South Extended Ms
options, etc., over some of the plain country
lying between Broken Hill and the Pinna-
cles. Twenty-five years ago all this tract
was pegged, and enough ore to float a syndi-
cate on was found in fifty places. The main
Broken Hill lode was, however, never found ;
and possibly it doesn’t exist there. Even the
B.H. lode must stop somewhere. Certainly
it goes further than was at one time thought
probable; the success of the once-despised
Block 5 (now the Zinc Corporation’s) proves
that. But it ought to be thoroughly under-
stood that the new co., which is to work
leases held by Block 10 and the South
Extended, is out on a prospecting venture
pure and simple. The new co., in 50,000
pref. and 50,000 ordinary shares, will issue
30,000 prefs. to Block 10 for its lease, with
shaft (350 ft.) and plant; of the other 20,000
half will go to the South Extended Co. and
half to Marshall, from whom it holds cer-
tain options. Of course, the amalgamation
doesn’t touch the Block 10 mine in any way.
* * * *
; The year-end clean-up at Mt. Dudley
(N.S.W.) did not bring forth the rich
Christmas cake anticipated. The 127 tons
gave 420 z. 10dwt., with lloz. 13dwt. in con-
centrates and sands. It was thought that
to put in certain supporting timbers would
necessitate underhand-stoping six feet of
floor at the 145 ft. level; and the gold
there would presumably have added to the
yield, for the stone going underfoot at that
level is of high quality. However, the man-
agel, did not proceed with the underhand-
sfoping. Early in the New Year it is in-
tended to open up three supplementary
faces of ore; two going north at 145 ft.,
while the other face will result from the
sinking of a shaft 60ft., enabling a south
drive to be put in at the 200 ft.
level. Also the rich ore going underfoot at
145 ft. will be stoped. There will be practi-
cally no dead work, as all development will
be in solid quartz.
* * * *
Latest figures from Mammoth Molybde-
nite, Mt. Tennyson, near Bathurst (N.S.W.),
indicate that the big deposit consistently
goes about .25 p.c., instead of the confidently
anticipated 1.7 p.c. of concentrates to the
ton. Certainly, the ore body is being
crushed as it is broken down ; but the esti-
mate also took in the show as a whole. The
677 tons treated for the four weeks to Dec. 3
is at the rate of about 8000 tons per year,
running three shifts with the 10-head bat-
tery. So there will have to be considerable
additions if the mapped-out 125,000 tons
annually are to be treated. With a 100-
head plant handling this quantity, and giving
a recovery of 1 p.c., the prospectus reckoned
on a yearly profit of £357,000. “These fig-
ures allow a very large margin for contin-
gencies,” it was stated. The “contingencies”
are as numerous as they are inconvenient:
(1) The ore body so far has shown only a
sixth of its estimated richness; (2) the
100-head stamp is a long way off, seeing that
it is still indefinite when the second 10-head
will start work; (3) the open-market price
isn’t available; and (4) the standing charges
are very heavy. On present appearances the
chances of ever showing a net profit of
£5 18s. 4d. on every ton of stone treated by
the mill, as originally predicted, are very
slight indeed.
Tlie amended mining regulations which
c-ome into force this week will throw open to
the miners’ pegs many a valuable mineral
area in N. S. Wales hitherto locked up
owing to "ancient rights,” which reserved all
minerals to landholders. The reduction of
lease rent from ss. to Is. an acre will still
further buck up the depressed digger. It is
rem'arkfable that the reformers, who are
desirous of giving the miner a leg up, should
have ignored a regulation enforced in most
parts of the world, whereby every co. or
individual leasing areas from the Govern-
ment is compelled every six or 12 months to
lodge with the. Mines Department certified
plans of all underground workings. Were
such a regulation in force here many a shaft
at present watdr-logged, would, with ruling
high-metal values, be quickly uuwatered and
developed. Iluf in most cases, being depen-
dint for information upon local tradition or
the champion liar of the district, the cautious
capitalist and impecunious miner are bofli
held up.
Yerranderie, the little silver show near
Picton (N.S.W.). handed out six sixpennies
last year on 10,000. £1 fully-paids. Since
the co. started in 1900 108 divs. have been
distributed. The Yerranderie silver-lead
lodes are in rough country, originally known
as the Peaks, because of the precipitous
sandstone hills and conglomerate and lime-
stone ridges that practically surround the
field. The rails would have crossed the fer-
tile Burragorang Valley years ago had it not
been for the heavy cost of construction. The
lodes are narrow and have erratic ore shoots
and cannot be expected to supply a heavy
tonnage of ore. The ore is rich in silver, so
despite .40 miles of road cartage the show
has been profitable.
T. 11. Palmer, for 144 years general
manager of IPII. Junction North, has left
his job and hung up his signboard in Mel-
bourne and Sydney. The man who manages
Junction North has to face just about as
many problems as anybody in the profes-
sion; and technically, at any rate, Palmer
has some rather remarkable performances to
bis credit. It wasn’t his fault that com-
mercially many of them didn’t pan out so
well.
* * * *
The old Gadia copper-mine, near Orange
(N.S.W.), is to be given another run early
this year, the Scottish-Australian Co. having
taken over the show. Operations will start
with the unwatering of the old workings
and the sinking of the Chilcott shaft a fur-
ther 100 ft. or so. Already the district has
livened up as the result of the working of
ar. iron deposit by C. and G. Hoskins.
* * * *
Mt. Hope (N.S.W.) is raising £42,000 to
buy a bigger concentrating mill. There is
to be a pro rata issue of shares; and the
directors (Hugh R. Denison is chairman)
say what they think of the scheme bv offer-
ing to underwrite the whole lot.
* * * #
Realising that something had to be done to
prevent the further decline of the gold-mining
industry in Westralia, the State Government
lias been pushed into providing £60,000 on
the Estimates for mine-hunting and develop-
ment during the current year. The amount
doled out last year was only £9609. Among
the suggestions put forward'for spending the
money are : (1) Subsidising needy prospec-
tors ; (2) rendering first-aid to struggling
claim-holders; (3) furnishing portable pumps
to unwater abandoned claims believed to con-
tain payable stone; and (4) providing port-
able mills to enable owners of shows in re-
mote parts to treat small bulk crushings, and
so prove the value of their ore.
* * * *
Westonia (W.A.) is preparing the obse-
quies for the Edna May, timed to pass out
in six or nine months’ time. Until then the
Central, Deeps and Consolidated cos. will
endeavor to present as decent an appearance
as possible. Dividends, too, will probably
be forthcoming from all three. Possibly a
6d. or Is. dividend from each will represent
their capacity in this respect, but if circum-
stances are favorable something more is not
improbable. At present the outlook for
Westonia is absolutely depressing, and after
Edna May closes down Central, Deeps and
Consolidated will be fortunate if they can
effect prompt payment of wages and sundry
creditors.
* * * .
Golden Butterfly (W.A.) has secured an
option over a show in the Marvel Loch dis-
trict, 20 miles south of Southern Cross.
The Loch ore bodies have generally a tend-
ency to the narrow side, but when width is
present regular values are absent. The field
certainly appeals to the prospector and tribu-
tor, but on occasions when operations have
been attempted on a substantial scale, such as
with the Marvel Loch and Mountain Queen
properties, almost everything has been accom-
plished that is possible in mining with the
exception of profit-making. On past per-
formances the Loch district offers little en-
couragement to the Butterfly.
Speaking somewhat pessimistically at the
Lake View and Star meeting, chairman F. A
Govett said that by knocking oft’ develop-
ment and largely curtailing the tonnage, the
co. had managed during the past year to
make a small profit. That method of - work-
ing, however, could not go on for long.
How different was the position in the
boom days. Then the output from ■ the
Lake View, Consols lease averaged nearly a
ton of gold per month, and the mine was
officially declared to be capable of doing even
better. In six months it produced bullion
to the value of nearly £BOO,OOO. and shares
soared from £5 to over £29. The collapse
that usually follows picked returns occurred,
and the market crashed. Instead of finding
ounces the new manager only found penny-
weights.
Perth Mining Association protested to the
State Government the other day against
Westralian producers being compelled to have
their copper refined at Port Kembla and sold
through the “monopolistic” Commonwealth
Metal Exchange. Then, with a feeling of
having done something, it passed a resolu-
tion demanding a report from the Agent-
General on the “feasibility of exporting cop-
per direct to France.” Some uncompli-
mentary things were said about Hughes, and
a threat was made to raise the question of
State rights in the event of that unpopular
person trying to prevent the free overseas
marketing of Westralian ores.
* * * *
S.A. Oil Wells management still doesn’t,
see any reason why it should be down-
hearted. At least, it says it doesn’t. It has
found almost everything except oil, and it
can’t believe that that isn’t on the menu,
too. Last half-year has been devoted chiefly
to a game with a playful bed of sand, so
far 828 ft. thick, so mobile that at one time
if rose 450 ft. inside the casing. Every now
and again the olayful sand poked the casing
in the ribs and made it bend; which means
that the drillers have had to pull the pipe up
till it has got straight again. On one occa-
sion they had to pull it up 250 ft., and
then drill it all again; though, of course, in
that country the actual drilling doesn’t
amount to much. “In many wells of the
Texas Gulf fields,” the boss says, “thick beds
of sand were passed through Our chance
of finding oil lies below the heaving sand and
before we reach the blue shale.” And chair-
man V. J. 'Saddler insists that “the chances
of success are in no way lessened by the type
of strata encountered.” The co. spent £2200
last half. At November 20 it had under
£3OO in cash, after paying outstanding
accounts, and there was only about £l5OO
to call.
Is it worth going on with? Dr. Wade,
the Commonwealth oil expert, said it wasn't
worth beginning; but a good deal of data ha s
been got since then. What does he think of
it now ? We don’t need the certainty of
getting oil to justify the spending of a few
thousands. Is there a bare chance of it? If
so, surely there are enough people in Aus-
tralia ready to take a ticket in this instead
of in Tatt.’s;
The chairman told the half-yearly meet-
ing of three shareholders and a full
Board that the Commonwealth Government
had at last agreed to carefully consider their
application for financial assistance. Some
Minister, whose name was treated as sacred
by the chairman, had frequently promised
“to bring the matter before the Cabinet,” and
had not kept his promise. The balance-sheet
has a list to port not explained by the chair-
man, Mr. Saddler, although he is an old
yachtsman. Directors’ fees, managers’ and
office expenses cost £742 for six months to
supervise a mining outlay of £1455. Direc-
tors draw £3OO a year, a legal manager £3OO
and mining manager £4BO, charges which
seem far too heavy for a small boring co.
which is making threepenny calls.
New Ruby Flat, Branxholme (Tas.L
sluiced 43,548 cub. yards during the six
months to November 30 for a return of 17:}
tons tin oxide. The ground thus averaged
•89451 b. per cub. yard. Sales of tin brought
in £2393, but costs and general exes, swal-
lowed no less than £1847 of that. However,
£645 was all shareholders got on a capital of
£.a0,000. The co. recently secured an option
of over 40 acres adjoining its present pro-
perty.
* * * *
During the past couple of months 33 701 b.
bottles of quicksilver have reached the Com-
monwealth from the New Zealand Quick-
silver Co. This show used to be known as
the Whangarie Cinnabar mine, and has been
worked intermittently for years, but only
recently has the product been retorted in any
quantity. The latest report-shows that 500
t P °" s ;_ ore were handled in four months for
£4120 of quicksilver.
The Broken Hill Proprietary smelters at
Port Pine (S.A.) sent to Port Adel-
aide. m Christmas week, their record con-
signment of silver. There were 1500 bars,
about 27 tons weight, and worth over
£320,000.


THE HUNS’ GLAD NEW YEAR.
“Berlin is divided between dancing, drinking and preparations for wholesale slaughter.” — Cable.


ABBOTS
LAGER
Made f K om
Malt t lops
XI
c^-S44d^.
A PERFECT
BEVERAGE
FOR A
SUMMER'S DAY
THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL !
Call and test it, or write for booklet post free.
'iHE Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
HOME-MADE COUGH DROPS.
A RECIPE MOTHERS SHOULD KEEP.
Cough drops suitable for both children and
adults can easily and quickly be prepared at
home by pouring a few drops of bitrate of
tar on a lump of sugar. Let this dissolve
slowly in the mouth, and as it dissolves, so
the healing and soothing virtues of the pine
tar will penetrate to every part of the
throat, chest and lungs.
Bitrate of tar is useful in many different
ailments, and it is no wonder chemists are
experiencing difficulty in meeting the
demand. Half a teaspoonful poured into a
bowl of boiling water produces a healing
vapor which, when inhaled, gives relief in
cases of cold in the head, bronchitis, asthma,
etc., while it is well known that 2oz. of
bitrate of tar, Boz. of sugar, and half-pint of
hot water produce nearly a pint of cough
syrup superior to the ready-made mixtures
composed of harmful drugs, and at less cost.
Make a syrup by dissolving the sugar in the
hot water, and then add the bitrate of tar.
Stir well, and when cold it is ready for use.
The pleasant flavor and aroma of this home-
made cough syrup make it very acceptable to
children, to whom it may be safely given.
—Advt.
COUNTRY FOLK VISITING
MELBOURNE-
will find “ Queen’s Arms ” a “ home from
home.” This hotel is in the heart of
the city—handy to everywhere.
The menu is excellent and
ample, the accommodation
T3,r ~ A r\IC
By the day, 10/6.
Write
I*4
SffSSL.
[QUEEN’S ARMS^
HOTEL
C* SWANSTON ST
& FLINDERS
LANE
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Albert Bruntnell, M.L.A. of the Ma State
and ex-Salvationist, the man who demands
a referendum on the Prohibition question,
says he has been “threatened by returned
soldiers.” Also he has been “approached by
big capitalists” who offered him “money,
motor-car, in fact everything,” if he would
cease to agitate against drink. He naturally
didn’t give the names of the big capitalists,
but they must have been a laAdsh crowd. If
they gave him everything, what would they
have left for themselves?
Sergeant “Gerald Sexton,” one of the last
batch of Australian V.C.’s, turns out to be
Maurjce Buckley, whose dad is Timothy
Buckley, a Malvern (Vic.) contractor. Three
Buckley brothers enlisted. Gerald died of
meningitis while in training. William, who
squeezed in at 17, is still on service. Maurice,
A r .C., joined up in 1914 under his own name,
leaving with the 13th
Light Horse for
Egypt. Invalided
home on furlough, he
overlooked the date of
his leave-limit, but
presently adjusted
the matter to his oavu
satisfaction by com-
ing over to N. S.
Wales and starting
all over again under
an assumed name.
W. H. WILLIAMS .
M.A.. Professor of
Classics and English
Literature, of Tas.
Uni.
There is one officer in the Holy Land who
is equally as popular with the Australians
and Tommies as he is with his own Maori-
landers. Major-General E. W. 0. Chaytor
has been with the Anzaes since the Landing
on Gallipoli, and was seriously wounded dur-
ing the fierce fighting in May, ’l5. In Decem-
ber, T 5, he Avas promoted Brigadier-Gen-
eral, and given command of the Maoriland
M.R. Brigades. Back in Egypt he was again
wounded in the July fighting of 1916. Early
in 1917 he Avas promoted Major-General and
appointed to command the Anzac Mounted
Division. A story is told of an English
general who asked Chaytor if he con-
sidered the Maorilander a superior tighter
to the Australian. Chaytor remained
silent for several seconds and then said:
“It’s a difficult question, but as far as their
fighting abilities are considered I reckon it’s
a draw between them.” The Major-General
has been “mentioned” several times, and be-
sides holding the Queen’s- Medal with three
clasps and the King’s with two for service
during the South African disturbance, he
also wears the Serbian Order of the White
Eagle, and the Egyptian Order of the Nile.
Died in England, Baronet Charles Dilke,
son of the Dilke who tripped over Mrs.
Grundy in the Victorian era. Young Dilke,
Avho married a daughter of one of the Faith-
fulls Avho pioneered Goulburn (N.S.W.),
kept out of public life; but he followed
affairs keenly with a sharp pen. So The
Bulletin loses an occasional over-sea con-
tributor of whom, in spite of his chronic
pessimism, it saw far too little.
J. G. Shield, re-elected as Hobart’s mayor,
lias Avon his popularity largely because
he is one of the few who say, “I’m
only going to speak briefly,” and then
have the sense to stick to the pro-
mise. During the last year he has
put up a good record of war-work. He
served a long term as Inspector of Govern-
ment Buildings, and in that capacity got to
know every corner of Tassie. More recently
he has done a lot to develop the fruit-grow-
ing industry, and owns two of the finest
orchards in the State.
A NURSERY CRIME.
“Y.Z.”: E. W. Cole, Melbourne’s biggest
retail bookseller, used to be a very earnest
spiritualist, and had such profound faith in
the powers of mediums that, on the recom-
mendation of one tousled spook-fancier, he
invested quite a lump of money in the mad-
dest mining venture in Vic.’s list ®f assorted
wild-cats, burrowing for coal in the dark
depths of St. Kilda. The failure of this
enterprise must have given E.W.C.’s fond
delusion a nasty jar, but a subsequent ex-
perience in his own home, where frequent
s6ances were held, might have completed the
undoing of the most fatuous proselyte. The
medium was a woman who had been working
mild wonders of a kind that were greatly
exciting spiritualistic circles in Melbourne
just then, but which would have been howled
off the vaudeville stage as poor spoof. On
this particular night she elected to produce
from nowhere for the edification of a some-
what literary gathering a rather rare volume
of English memoirs. The usual mumbo-
jumbo followed, and then, with much groan-
ing, the supernal mountain produced its
material mouse, the book dropped straight
out of Spiritland on to Cole’s breakfast-table.
It was shown round, proved authentic, and
the effort was voted marvellous without a
dissentient voice, till Cole himself, the soul
of honesty, said very sadly: “I would have
been much more favorably impressed myself,
gentlemen, were it not that this identical
volume was stolen from my shelves only last
week."
Tragedy has again hit the family of
“Billy” Lane, the “New Australia” leader of
25 years ago. A son was killed at the
Landing. A son-in-law was killed in France.
Now the daughter who married the soldier
has died in the Maoriland ’flu’ epidemic,
leaving a baby who was born the day its
father embarked. Lane himself died in
Auckland a couple of years ago.
Lieut. J. P. Campbell, who succeeded
Capt. Frank Hurley as Australia’s official
photographer in Egypt and Palestine, has
secured some remarkable photos on this
Front. Campbell was one of the original
signallers of the Bth A.L.H., and after serv-
ing at Anzac and Sinai, Avas transferred to
the Australian Army Pay Corps, Egyptian
Section. He possesses a collection of views
of Mena Camp taken in the days when Bill-
jim was learning to be a soldier under the
shadoAV of the Pyramids, and it is to be
hoped that the proposed War Museum or the
Mitchell Library Avill secure these later on.
Whilst engaged in securing first-line views
in the Holy Land Campbell had several
narrow escapes from being captured by
Abdul. Prior to the Avar he Avas Official
Photographer to the Commonwealth .Gov-
ernment, and Avas at one time associated
with the Vallan Studio, Mansfield, Victoria.
Captain Ross Smith, mentioned in the
cables as having piloted the Handley Page
machine from Egypt to India, is a good Aus-
tralian. He offered his services at Adelaide
as soon as the war started, and enlisted in
the 3rd Light Horse. He had had no previ-
ous military training, but became a ser-
geant before he left Australia. A commis-
sion followed on the Peninsula. After being
invalided to England he returned to his regi-
ment as machine-gun officer just in time for
the Romani fight. Later, he was transferred
at his own request as an observer to the Ist
Squadron Australian Flying Corps. Many
Light Horsemen will remember him and
Lieut. Roberts low flying over the trenches
at Magdhaba on December 23, 1016, and the
Artillery will remember his spotting for the
Ayrshire, Lester and Hongkong batteries at
the Rafa fight. He was through the Gaza
fighting as an observer, and when flying Avith
Lieut. Baillue the M.C. was earned by each
of them for rescuing a pilot who had made
a forced landing. Smith kept the enemy off
Avith his revolver while Baillue did the rest.
A bar to the Cross for general service and
the Distinguished Flying Cross are also
among the possessions of Smith.
“E.”: So at length Tom Mann has defi-
nitely given up political agitation as an art,
and taken to chicken-farming. The idea was
well in his- mind when he was last in Aus-
tralia, where some little familiarity with life
on the hen ranch of a socialistic acquaint-
ance filled Thomas with the belief that
Mann wants but little here below, but would
like that little in the shape of a few broad
acres stocked with an amplitude of willing
hens. “It has come to this,” he argued. “I
can never be a boss over men. After what I
have been, and what I have preached for
years and years, I would have any humans
I tried to hustle round throwing my own
talk in my teeth. But it’s different with
hens. I feel I might venture to bully hens.
Hens wouldn’t get back at me with the fun-
damental principles of Socialism. I could
appropriate all the product of a hen’s labor
Avith an easy conscience.” It is in this spirit
that Mann has established his poultry com-
mune in Sussex, but I am betting he will be
back in the political arena within three
years, his fierce antagonism to the owning
and employing class mellowed and subdued
by his sad experience of the gross selfishness,
the perversity, the dishonesty and shameless
laziness of the producers as typified by hens.
I have known several actors, writers, poli-
ticians and artists Avho became poultry-
farmers, and all of them failed. One, a Mel-
bourne journalist of the most advanced demo-
cratic principles, came back to his job on
the Herald a changed man. “Don’t talk to
me about the working-classes,” was his foam-
ing appeal. “I never want to hear any more
about the working-class. I now know the
working-class for what it is —Eve kept
hens!"
“Vic.”: Cole, of the Book Arcade, once
took me into his study, a room alongside the
shop, and he showed me how he composed
his very numerous books. It was precisely
“EVERYBODY’S DOING IT."
the method of Sardou in making dramas, and
Moody in making sermons. Sardou, Moody
and Cole each kept a lot of little boxes, like
those at the Post Office, labelled with the
titles of what they meant to produce. When
au idea struck one of these men it was noted
and popped into its appropriate recep-
tacle. Cole gave me plenty of assurance that
he would have to live to the age of Methu-
selah to produce all the books he had out-
lined. At that time he had turned out about
two score, without any particular effort or
drudgery. Emerson and Charles Reade, too,
had systems something like this. One of
Cole’s productions had a circulation of
400,000.
Australia’s voluble
old friend Voliva, upon
whom fell the mantle
of “Elijah” Dowie, is
still in business at
Zion City (U.S.A.).
Though for four years
and a half his glory
has been dimmed by
the other prophets who
could foretell when
the war would end,
Wilbur managed to
make a bit of a stir
lately with a story
that the Devil is about
due on earth, where
he wiK reign for seven
years. Details of the
scheme are vague ; but
if the coming king is
taking hints, this
paper suggests that he
should try the plan of
filling the earth with
prosperity, on the
ground that the rich enter Heaven with
difficulty.
A letter has been sent to the Chief Secre-
tary of S.A. by 14 or 15 public bodies, in-
cluding all in Adelaide composed entirely
or mainly of women, pressing for the simple
reform that the Censorship Board which cuts
offensive details out of moving pictures shall
have power also over the advertisements and
posters. Posters are often full of lurid de-
tails, and advertisements often promise—in
veiled language—improprieties which censors
have taken care are not there. The mani-
festo also took on the much more open argu-
ment that picture-halls ought to be lighted
during the show. It does not say a word
about the behaviour of the audience in the
dark, but it obviously follows on a public
discussion lately raging on that point.
HAIG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is reported that Sir Douglas Haig is unwilling
to accept a peerage,’— Cable.
Cheers for the Man! Through all the hard-fought
years
He kept the pride of heart that could not fail.
The world was full of agonies and fears,
And growing horror made the nations pale;
Yet one cold brain directing all the rest
Put faith in victory to the last' sure test.
Amid the broken ranks of that first band,
Facing the onset of the myriad foe,
II is word Avas sure. He took the dread command
When all the lights of freedom flickered low ;
And while they flamed or faded, day on day,
Through praise or blame, he kept his even way.
Advanced, forced back, lie tried what man might
dare,
Doing a fearful work with steady nerve,
Heedless of all reproaches he might bear.
Not by a hair’s-breadth did he shirk or swerve,
Till at the last a clearer purpose grew
And freedom learned what freedom’s hosts could do.
Divided counsels weakened that strong blow'
Through the long years of blood and pain prepared.
Proudly he stooped to serve that men might know
The splendid trust by soldier brothers shared.
He sought not single praise worn wordy thin,
But, first or second, only fought to win.
AYhat would this Man with titles of an hour,
AVith idle pomps that tenth-rate statesmen buy,
Who taught the awful rose of war to flower
And gazed on hate triumphant eye to eye?
He holds a peerage of another style
No mob may break nor tinsel king defile.
Leonidas, Bruce, Nelson, Scipio,. Drake—
These are the peers for such as Foch and he,
Leaders of men w'ho saw the red storm break,
And, seeking not their own, grasped victory.
Ho! Give him praise and honor as ye can,
But leave him that high pride—to be a Man !
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


“ A USTRAL” SHIRT WEAR
/v offers a quality that satisfies
your demand for good clothes and is
a warrant of faithful wear. More-
over, the price satisfies your desire
to keep in step with the thrift spirit
which appeals to your sense of
wise economy. See these here
quoted in particular—on show and
sale at both our headquarters and
branch stores.
Golf Shirt of fine quality, English Zephyr of
light weight, in plain colors; also neat Hair-
line and Black Stripes. Colors are Blue,
Grey and Black. A soft Vertical Stripe
Collar, with tape and button fastening to
match. Price 8/- each, 3 for 231-
Golf Shirt of good-weight Zephyr Material,
in neat stripe and check designs. Colors
are Blue and Black, made with Stiff Neck-
band. Price 8/- each, 3 for 23 1-
Golf Shirts of Japanese Crepe in Plain Colors, which include
Blue, Grey, Buff and White, with Loose Collar to match,
Peter Pan Shape with bottom fastening.
Price 7/6 each, 3 for 21/6
Also in Stripe effects in neat design. Colors Blue and Black.
Golf Shirt of Stripe Tobralco in neat designs. Colorings are
Blue, Black and Pink, with new style vertical stripe collar with
button fastening to match. Special Value.
Price 13/6 each, 3 for 39/*
Golf Shirts of Fuji Silk in Plain Tussore Shades, or neat
stripe designs in colorings of Black and Blue on Self Grounds.
With each shirt is included a loose Soft Collar of Peter Pan
shape in plain Tussore Shade. A very popular shirt o
splendid quality.
Price 22/6 each, or 3 for 66/6
Country Customers will find much of interest to them
in “The Men's Wear Book," a copy of which we
gladly send to any address post free on request.
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
om
Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear,
484-400 George Street 3-17 Royal Arcade
New Branch Shop at 304-306 George Street
(near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect
permanent copies with absolute ease. If yo m- dealer
does not stock, send to 5.8., Zanetic Works, Leicester
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
NURSE DUGGAN.
Nurse Duggan, of 195 Cowper Street, Waverley, writes that
Clements 1S a remarkable medicine for convalescent people.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
e?;™ ?" t,: a 3 r, -5 ™; -« -. **
any of my patients or friends. * ' aiproved hei nerves so much that I recommend it to
and am professionally known in nSnicirclcs’to'diy St? xtens yfeP r »S t i c « fe South Africa (Johannesburg)
medicine. ‘ ° cncies to-day in Sydney. I have a very great 1 and good opinion of your
“Tours faithfully,
This letter is but one of hundred'! Thi« mod- - ,-.;,!,.,
appetite, regular bowel action, good rest and healthtnd XT Strength '
or Typhoid Fever, Operations or Wasting nine,' ’ ?tren^h aftef Dengue
Clements
; All Chemists and Stores sell it in Australia
5 jronic ltd.. Rozeiie. x.s.w. n AUStra,la ar *d New Zealand.
GET IT TO=DAY.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
Sydney Quarantine Station at Worth
1 lead is a tough old lot. It tilled its present
purpose !H> years ago, though in those re-
inote days it was called tlie Immigration
Depot. There were deaths among its popr
lat;on even then ; and a little, weather
beaten stone in the cemetery on top of th
hiil says that somebody was buried there i
1832. There was a mild little yell in th
’sixties against "fouling the entrance to th
Harbor,” and in the ’eighties, after sonn
body had spouted about “fluttering our dirt
est linen from the boldest gatepost of on
city, old-man 1 Tarkes promised that th
entire outfit should be cleared, a way witlii
three years. gave it a new
lease of life. Over its Quarantine Statior
Sydney rubs through like a lot of people d
with regard to umbrellas. When it's raining
its too late to buy one, and when it isn’.
raining an umbrella doesn’t matter. •
, ‘‘Anzae” has got on the map. The name
lias been given to a C-.P.Ii, station in the
snow of the western Rookies of Canada
The little township lives mostly on a lately-
reconstructed mill which cuts timber for Ihe
Australian market chiefly.
“Guinea Please”: On this question of
slutting Sydney Quarantine Station from
JNorth Head, most of the profession', I’m sat-
isfied, would say “Don’t.” Recall the inci-
dcnts of the Linschoten, a Dutch, ship from
thOsDast Indies. She entered Brisbane, and
having been inspected was passed as clean,
as she probably was. But when she got to
oyaiiey there was a well-developed case of
small-pox among* the passengers. Within
bait an hour the patient, a woman, was in
quarantine, and within the next hour she
was ashore. She died ; but there was not
another , ease either on board or ashore,
unquestionably this was due to the very
prompt action that was possible because the
Quarantine Station was handy to the in-
spection ground. Suppose, though, that the
vessel had been obliged to go out of harbor
and steam to Broken Bay or Jervis Bay
immediate isolation would have been im-
possible—for quarantine on board ship is
never worth much, and often just nothing—
and the greater number of shipboard per-
sons affected the greater the public risk
aslioie. I urther, they are not all steamers
tlmt come to port; some are sailing-ships,
and it might be days before a sailing-ship,
putting out from the Heads, could make
J*I oken 0 ken Bay or Jervis Bay. You can’t main-
tain a quarantine station ready to meet any
viru'Yf em r s r, lK ' y exceyt at great expense.
Medical and other provisions, for instance
have to be got in when the station is requi-
-8 n^Y C V W, ] lcl ii aS - a . rule ’ is
and the further it is from the city the
greater the delay and expense. Decentralise
by all means; but you won’t improve mat-
ters by shifting your front doormat to the
bottom of the yard; and that is what
the removal of the station from
JSortlr Head would amount to.
THE ECONOMIST.
WILLIE (detected in the act of extracting a
piece of chewing-gum): “ Please, Miss,
need I throw it away? It's only a new
piece! Me brother give it to me
yesterday !”
From a prisoner of war:—
Haven’t written to you for some time. After
two years of dry rot in Apion Kara Hissar have had
a change of scene lately (though it’s not much
better). Constantinople is a much over-rated spot.
As a city it doesn’t compare with Melbourne or Syd-
ney ; and its much-vaunted scenery is far below what
may be seen anywhere near Sydney. Of course the
rums are interesting, though except in the case of
St. Sophia the Turks have done nothing to preserve
them. Food is a tremendous price. Meat costs.
IN LODGINGS.
DAD (reading the story of Noah's Ark): ‘“A ad all the animals came in two by two.’”
DOT: “Oh, dear! It mast hare been as laid as a boarding-house.”
;>s. lOd. per pound, and very inferior at that. Other
items pro rata. Xs we have to buy everythin”- our-
srdves we would have exhausted our little all long'
ag-o only for the, money we received from the Red
Cross, and, in the case of us (Australians), the parcels
we receive from .'our Red Cross. 1 was not passed
for exchange .recently. Men who have lost limbs, or
ai e near the point of death stand a good chance, but
I don’t come under that category. Long service
(nearly three years) as a prisoner is my principal
reason for wanting to come home, but as the Gov-
ernment has not made any provision under that
head we Rip Van Winkles will have to mould here
a little longer. However, we’re still cheerful.
Q. . \ ietoria s (<overiimont is looking for a
successor to Malcolm as Inspector of Chari-
ties. At the time of lii.s selection
Malcolm was an officer in excess
owing to the Small Holdings
branch, of which lie had been chief
having been amalgamated with the
Closer Settlement branch. Instead
ol pitchforking into the position
some third-class clerical officer the
post should be made professional
and given to the best man obtain-
able m Australia. If a Charitv
Board is appointed, as proposed,
there will not be so much need for
an inspector, but no Government
for the last 28 years lias ever had
the courage to push through legisla-
tion authorising the creation of a
Board. The real solution of the
hospital problem in Victoria is to
encourage intermediate hospitals
for people who cannot afford the
big fees levied in existing private
hospitals, and who do not want
charity. The trouble is that the
Government is not game to meet
and to beat the passive resistance
of the B.M.A. doctors.
Adelaide University finds itself in the
strange position of having four professor-
ships to fill at the same time.' That of Law
has been kept open since Jethro Brown gave
it up to become President of S.A. Industrial
Court. J. M. Ennis, recently resigned from
the Chair of Music (with which goes, at
present, the directorship of the Conserva-
torium), on account of ill health. And now
the two veteran Professors in the Medical
School have remarked that'they would like
to retire not Liter than the end of 1919.
Archibald Watson, the brilliant eccentric
Anatomy Professor, around whom many
legends centre (some of them true), is the
only man who has held that .(’hair sine& its
establishment in 1885. Mis enthusiasm for
anatomical details has led him to rush off
to every war of recent times to study new
and fascinating form’s of wounds. Edward
Stirling has been Professor ol Physiology
for nearly 20 years, but. was a lecturer in it
ALONG THE RHINE.
BILL : “Hey, Jim, you’d better stop that row.
Yer know we’ve been warned against
doing anything they might call atroet-
ties.”
ns far back as 1882, before the Medical
School was properly fixed. He is an autho-
rity on Australian native matters, and earned
a knighthood lately for long service in con-
nection with fossil remains and other
Museum matters. Also he has large pastoral
holdings with his hrother Lancelot, presi-
dent of the S.A. Leg. Council.
(Continued on page IS.)
TRIMMERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the event of a steamer being torpedoed with-
out, warning the chances of the trimmers on duty
in the hunkers escaping is a thousand to one
against.”
Of ail the jobs on all tire ships that slam about tl
SCSI . '
the job that is the vilest one is that one done I
me.
The sailors ’as a 'andsome time on deck in wind
calm ;
The deck-’and polishes the brass' and 'doesn’t give
damn;
the steward’s always on the job, with hopes to lari
a tip—-
A pocket full of silver for ’is kindness on the trip.
The stokers get the air forced down if things warn
up a bit,
lint we must roast and sweat and swear like devil
of tlie Pit.
W e are trimmers, just plain trimmers; - they don't
‘are-.ns up for show,
When passengers arrive on board- to take an oceai
blow;
They are shown the engines working and the stokers
drippiu’ '.'sweat,.. .. '
Hut the C hief "as never looked for us to introduce us
yet.
We are not for show.’ or story. We are not for
trippers’ eyes—.
We are just the trimmers working in a bit o’ Hell's
disg-uise. ' .
Back away ;i'oni light and breezes, back away, in
dark and dust,
Where the coal, comes down in runnels —that, is
where we earn a crust:
When the furnace doors are open and the call’s for
more and more,
It’s we that fling- the coal like mad upon the stoke-
hole floor.
We graft inside our dug-outs with a greasy, slushy
light,
And there ain t no time for thinkin’ if it's morn or
noon or night.
We’re black with coal-dust all the time, and when a
bit o’ luck
Comes after four hours’ gruelling, it'., “Duck, you
blighters, duck!”
We ain t allowed to loaf on deck. We’re not fit to
be seen,
W e re only hidden workings o’ the mercantile marine.
That’s us —the trimmers. We’re the blokes who
sweat all day and night,
While, gold-laced on the deck for hours our bosses
play polite.
They wash and sliave and do their ’air. an’ change
three times a day,
But when we’ve ’andled tons and toils o’ coal we’re
glad to stay
Down, on our frowsy bunks and sleep. No shave or
change for us ;
We’re too knocked out, and glad to doss- too dead
to care a cuss.
We only feed the flames of Ilelf from out our little
’ole,
An’ all the thanks we ever get is: “Coal, you
blighters, coal!”
Aon ought to see our ’ome below —it’s not a
pleasant site —
A twelve-by-twelve o’ throbbin’ steel and not exactly
bright;
There ain’t no ventilation, an’ we ain't got no
forced draught,
While we work coal and fill the floors. Dust: fills us
fore and aft—
Our eyes, our skin, our Weedin’- souls —a trimmer
with a soiil!
(I’d like the Chief to ’ear that bit. ’E would go
off the pole.)
We ain’t got hours to think and yarn, nor scan the
’eavin’ blue—
We’re paid to ’eave the stokers coal to keep the
gauges true.
That’s us. We don’t get gauds and bars, nor decora-
tions. No;
Our job’s below the water-line, to make the packet
go.
An’ when a tinfisli does arrive there’s no chance for
a bloke;
The stokers climb their ladders, but we’ve got no
earthly hope.
We're just the survived.” Un-
pleasant, but damn true.
An’ those who lived signed on again—what else was
there to do?
•Tu?t trimmers, trimming for our lives, our wires
. and kids—not fame.
Ihe men who don't get honors, hut have played the
hardest game.
N.S.W.
E. J. HILL


This is a photograph" of the engine room at the works of Batchelor & Tait Limited, Redfern, N.S.W. The belt in the foreground
is a I6inch 8 ply Klingtite supplied by Goodyear over thirteen months ago, since when it has been in continual day and night
use. There is a duplicate engine on the right also equipped with a similar Klingtite Belt giving equally satisfactory service.
Effective Transmission Means More Than Low Cost
To every engineering plant throughout
Australia and almost'without exception,
the installation of Goodyear Klingtite
Belting on all transmission drives
would mean improved service and
lower belting costs.
In the engine room of Batchelor 8c Tail’s Refrig-
erating Plant there is a drive which has proved
disastrous to many belts. Some lasted less than
a fortnight, others saw a few months’ service.
The Goodyear Klingtite Belts installed over
thirteen months ago solved the problem and have
been running 24 hours a day throughout that
period with a fortnightly stop of one day for
engine overhaul. Even under normal conditions
the service Klingtite gives would be welcome in
many plants to-day.
The firm of Batchelor and Tait Ltd, is known throughout
the length and breadth of Australia. Their ice is supplied
to countless metropolitan and country firms. It goes on
ships of ali sorts to the South Sea Islands and even to
Japan. Read the brief statement given us by Mr.
Batchelor, Managing Director of this popular firm: —
“Load very variable which probably accounts for the
mortality in other belts of less efficiency tried on this
drive. One we had lasted only 10 days. The Klingtite Belts
have been running for just over a year and never touched
once. There is no r slippage and we get more compression
with less revolutions than any other belt we have tried.”
Length of service means economy of expenditure; this is
worth while and Klingtite Belts give it to you. But
transmission efficiency is more important, because it
means greater production from your present power units.
S.ocks of Goodyear Mechanical Rubber Goods are now carried throughout Australia by
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
V
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE. PERTH.
«
t
m
m
V
H
fc!
TS
KN
u
(I
[9
H R
w
1 R


BRINDS
tWV
illlflripniwiW'W
H'"‘!
imdi
lii/ih
UR?
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
The war gave Australia the biggest advt.
in its history. Prior to the Kaiser’s outburst
we depended on sport, imported Governors,
tourists and “Bellerive” to boost the Com-
monwealth. But when Billjim broke loose
those items took a back seat. As a side-line
the boys have provided a fine recommenda-
tion for the educational systems of their
homeland. They have been extremely pro-
lific letter-writers, and a large proportion of
them in the course of their wandering and
fighting put on record many things greatly
worthy of preservation. The percentage of
illiterates among the diggers is practically
nil. Most of them were ex-public-school lads.
The trustees of the Mitchell*'Library, recognis-
ing the importance of collecting and preserving
letters and diaries kept by the Aussies while
on active service, are willing to purchase
such manuscripts. As originals are wanted,
anyone owning diaries worth preservation is
advised to make copies of them before sub-
mitting the originals for sale.
* * * *
“Tivvy’s Lot”: Pinky was a hard case
and had bitten the quarter-master’s ear
once too often. This day the Q.M. was
adamant. Pinky couldn’t squeeze a thing
out of him —a new pair of boots, a tin of
jam, anything. Then Pinky grew confiden-
tial “Gripes, Quarter,” he said, “you are
tight. If you was a wasp, you wouldn’t give
a man a sting.”
* * * *
When the Federal Government author-
ised the building of Australia House in
London one alleged justification for dumping
such an enormous weight on Posterity was
DULL BOY!
HE: “ Don’t go on like that. You said I could
have a kiss.”
SHE: “Yes; but I didn't think you’d be so
mean as to take me so literally.”
THE WARNING.
FORTDNE-TELLER (to motorist): “I warn you, a dark man is about to cross your path!”
MOTORIST: “ Better warn the dark man.”
that the various States should be represented
in some form in the constructional elements.
Much of the woodwork is of Australian tim-
ber, and the granite and marble are from
our own mines, but South Australia lost
a good advertisement by a stupid blunder in
the official description of the edifice. The
marble decorations consist largely, if not
wholly, of specially-selected product at the
quarries at Angaston, and its quality has
been eulogised by the London press. High
Commissioner Fisher has circulated (doubt-
less throughout the world) an illustrated
booklet of great size, giving particulars of
his palace and the materials used in con-
struction, but in every instance where there
is a reference to the marble it is spoken of
as “Augustan” instead of “Angaston,” while
South Australia is not mentioned at all as
the source of supply.
***• -*
“Harrison O.”: Owing to the increased
I;ost of dying it is high time that
graves, funerals and tombstones
vere declared necessary commodi-
ies under a War Precautions Act
■egulation, so that the price-fixing
lepartment can get to work and
>ring death within the means of
ill. Funerals have increased in
mce since the War (probably
>wing to the shortage of shipping
space) and so have tombstones (a
possible explanation being that
some of the ingredients used in
their manufacture were required
for the making of munitions), and
now the trustees of Melbourne’s
New General Cemetery have
bumped up the price of graves.
Citizens desiring “exclusive right
of burial in land 9ft. by 4ft.” will
in future be called upon to pay
80s., instead of 255.; while those
who wish their bones to rest in
“prominent positions” must pay
£3 15s.—a “quid” more than for-
merly. A brand new line of graves
in “more prominent positions” has
also been placed on the market,
but the charge for these—£6—puts
them beyond the reach of all save
those who can afford to die the
champagne death, so to speak. The
depth charge has also been in-
creased in the case of graves 9ft.
deep, from 7s. 6d. to 12s. 6d., but
those who are content with a mere
7ft. will be accommodated at pre-
war
“The Wanderer”: In the train two re-
turned Anzacs, browned and bronzed, were
holding the floor. They didn’t try to avoid
straining their voices on the subject of
“Pommy brides.” “She married ’im all
right. The ugliest skirt yer could ’a’ found
in the whole o’ Blighty,” said one. “Didn’t
get you, did they?” asked the other. “My
oath, no ! I beat it. I was one o’ the lucky
ones. But them English girls is the limit.
They’d marry a bloke while he was asleep
—that is, if a bloke were fool enough to shut
his eyes.”
■* * * *
“Centurion” : I had it tipped off. Cabled
that, owing to the impossibility of bringing
back the Australian army horses, all those
over 12 years are to be shot
and the remainder disposed
of locally. That means sold
in open market to anyone
who can put up a small price
and sent to life-slavery and
illtreatment after years of
endurance and splendid
achievement which have put
the nags of other countries
amongst the “also rans.”
Their fate may not be too
bad in France or Britain,
where they know the value
of a good horse, and gener-
ally treat him as he deserves,
but “sold locally” in Pales-
tine or Egypt to a people
who are the cruellest and
most indifferent brutes to-
wards horseflesh I ever saw
—well, no wonder the cable
adds that the men of the
Light Horse are shooting
their pals “by accident” and
that one L.H. brigade has
lately lost 700 this way,
which seems, all the same, a
tall order. The Empire owes
a great deal to the Aus-
tralian trooper. Without his
courage, soundness and en-
durance under unheard of
conditions the great Turkish
attack on the Suez Canal
might have succeeded. It was
the continual Light Horse
work, in a Sinai mid-
summer, which noted every yard of the
Turkish advance and held up their night
attack on Romani until the infantry could
come along with the big punch. Then the
Tj.H. pursued and harassed Jacko’s retreat
at Katia, Bir el Abd and El Mazar, until
they cleaned up his strongholds at Magdhaba
and Rafa, taking every man of his Sinai
garrison and kicking him into Palestine.
The Australian horses’ work in the latter
country is fresh enough to be remembered,
but it was the desert work in waterless
Sinai that was the real test of these super-
neddies. The best hope is that the Indian
Government may take the pick of them. But
six years is that Government’s buying age,
and not many of the horses are under or on
that mark.
“Gerardy”: Mark Twain wasn’t far
wrong when he said that his second view
of Damascus would be better from a distant
hill. Seen from afar, the garden city of
Islam looks like a paradise; but disillusion
follows upon close inspection. On the
afternoon of its fall, Damascus was handed
over to the Arabs, whose flag of many col-
ors was hoisted above the Turkish Govern-
ment offices to a clamor of native approval.
The day following, every street was swarm-
ing with Arabian cavalrymen, armed with
Turkish rifles and mounted on weedy Syrian
ponies, which they recklessly galloped
through the crowds, while aimlessly firing
heavenward, to the consternation of a small,
well-attired section of the population. Every
thoroughfare was littered with the enemy’s
abandoned war material. Billjim made no
demonstration. He was mostly busy muster-
ing bewildered detachments of Abdul that
were vainly endeavoring to escape along
the Remit and Allepo roads.
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang’s” contradiction :
I hate to talk buck to a digger, but still “Cen-
turion’’ (B. 12/12/’18) is talking through his hat
when he states that the Camel Corps took no actual
part in the Romani-Ivatia actions. War-correspon-
dent Massey, in his “Desert Campaigns,” records that
just before the disturbance at Romani No. 4 Com-
pany of the Cameliers was stationed at Mogarali
between Alexandria and Mersa Matruh. They received
an urgent despatch to proceed at once to the Canal,
and on the way they were joined by Nos. 5 and 6
Companies (Tommies). 'The Cameliers went into
action near Katia (I believe they were on the right
of the Ist A.L.H.). Lieut.-Col. Smith, V.C., lead
them, and in the engagement several well-known
English officers were killed, including Lieut. Orchard-
son, a well-known painter in the Big Smoke ;• also
Lieut. Van Knoop, one time an English M.P. Capt.
Geo. Langley (now lieut.-col.) lead the Aussie section
of the Camels, and for his gallantry was mentioned
in despatches and was decorated, whilst one
of his men, Pte. Strewsbury, was awarded
the first M.C. given to the Camel Corps.
Furthermore, “Centurion” must have been drink-
ing something stronger than Pyramid beer or
Richon wine when he states that the Camel Corps
did not capture the Baharia Oasis. Although writer’s
unit was not in the Romani scrap it took a big part
in the advance into the Oasis. No. 3 Company came
from Mersa Matruh to Samalut, on the Luxor line,
and then advanced to Shusha, where they joined the
Bucks Hussars, Glamorgans (Welsh) and Angesley
Engineers. Prior to this the Welsh had slaved like
niggers laying down a light railway and constructing
six blockhouses toward the Oasis. When the advance
began Nos. 3 and 13 Companies of Camels, accom-
panied by the Welsh infantry, armored-cars and a
couple of Martindale fliers moved toward No. 6
NO TIME LIMIT.
FIRST GIRL: “And during the hesitation-
waliz he proposed and I accepted him.”
THE OTHER GIRL: “How lovely! It reminds
you of the *opy-book—‘He who hesi-
tates is lost? ”
blockhouse, where, owing to the immense sand-
dunes, the infantry had to remain behind. The
Camels and armored ears advanced into the Oasis,
only to find, to their disgust, that the Senussi had
cleared out, leaving only the aged and children
behind. Two weeks later my unit (No. 3 Co.)
received orders to proceed to the Canal, and after
riding to Bir-el-Mazar we took over outpost duty
from our Light Horse cobbers.
SOLDIER BAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They make gay music in a street
Shot through with spears of high sunlight,
Where girls swing by on rhythmic feet
In bravery of Summer white.
But in the cornet’s gallant note
An undertone there seems to float.
Lone Pine! Quinn’s Post!
The Summer afternoon’s warm breath
Is fraught with lilting love and life—
Who sees the tight-drawn lips of Death,
Or hears the crash of mortal strife?
The cornet on the note I fear v
Flings out its message high and clear,
Quinn’s Post! Lone Pine !
Oh, hills by far Aegean’s sea,
You know how heroes fight and die,
That joy might live for such as we,
And laughter filigree our sky....
Oh, old slouch hat he waved to me,
As they swung gaily to the Quay....
Quinn’s Post ! Lone Pine !
Now khaki boys surge thickly round
Their bandsmen cobbers in the street.
Does their loud cheering make no sound?
Can you not hear their trampling feet?
See there one keeps a rendezvous.
Is it with me, is it with you ?
Lone Pine ! Quinn’s Post !
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.


Enlarged sec-
tion of treble
end of a Beale
Sound-Board.
Notice how
fine the grain
of the wood is
at this end,
thus affording
theideaVbody’
or density for
a clear ring-
ing treble tone.
7v\crde ixv. Avi^ircxlicx
X
v :
1
X
&
■S V
r
/ i
\
■
mu
~:X
■
# >V
X
This skeleton view shows
the method of morticing and
tenoning each joint in the
back of the Beale Piano—a
most essential construction
to insure tone-permanency
Enlarged section of the
bass end of sound-
board. As the strings
in the bass vibrate at a
much slower rate than
the treble, the wood at
this end of the sound-
board is coarser.
How Perfect Tone-quality is Assured
“or ‘experts—mSmenwChre thoroughly conversant with acoustic principles
and know how to apply them .
In the making of the Beale Piano the sound-board is
constructed in exactly the same way as the belly ot a
violin. The best quality white pine is used—clear,
straight-grained wood that has the most resonant
properties of all wdods for this purpose, lhe
sound-board is not one big piece of wood—but is
built up of small strips of about six inches width.
These are graded from very coarse grain in the bass
to very fine in the treble. The ribs are manu actured
from clear-grained fir and each one is not on y g ue
to the back of the board, but screwed as well. 1 hese
ribs are of a particular shape which gives
a convex
surface to the front of the board. . Then when the
bridaes are affixed and the strings placed into
position the sound-board deflects the tone * n
exactly the same way as does the belly of a violin.
This convex surface—or camber—must be perma-
nent, otherwise tone-quality will be impaire • Y
Beale sound-board is guaranteed in writing tor Z 5
years. Even in the far north of Queensland die
Beale Piano retains - its fine gradations of tone a
clear, bell-like treble; a nch, singing, mellow middle
register, and a deep sonorous, powerful bas^.
The Beale Piano is made in several styles,
that enables the instrument to be enjoyed by
The “ Players ” are fitted with most reliable actions, and have ac f .
those musicians who have not been able to attain technical profi y
Terms arranged if desired ,
Head Office & Showrooms
333 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
eccle
ltp
Factory t
41-47 TRAFALGAR STREET,
ANNANDALE.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.—Advt.
This man is con-
versing with an
executive at the
oilier end of a large building
—through the wonderful “Dicto-
graph.” The “Dictograph” is not. a
phonograph. No mouthpiece, earpiece-,
or anything to hold. Talk to it up to 20 feet away
And the DICTOGRAPH answers with human intelligence!
Confer with any connected employee, and while conversing be free to
refer to letters, files, etc., in any part of your private office. Dictate
direct to your typist. Listen to a meeting in another room (and take
part in the discussion). Consult your associates without their leaving
their desks. Prevent eavesdropping or butting in. Signal for personal
attendance of employees by merely pressing a key. Save time, interrup-
tions and wasted footsteps.
Let us give you a demonstration of the “Dictograph”
'-'our office. Fix your own time.
w-v 7, ri r a . t ui? m e..r »
13 irii.jp 11
lAT E.R COAVERWAG S^TEM
E 3
Lamson
Store
Service
Co.
Queen Street, SYDNEY
Olderfleet, MELBOURNE
Don’t Be A ‘Wisher
Some men keep on wishing they had an Onoto Self-filling
Pen so hard—that if the pen grew with the wish they
couldn’t see it all. 3
The Onoto does not leak. It FILLS ITSELFin a Sash—without any
hller. A perfectiybalanced fountain pen—
QUIT WISHING—GET AN
Self-filling
Safety Fountain
Pen
w a 2 uf / c ‘ urers : Thomas De La
® UE , Co., Btmhill Row
London, E.C. Manatring- Agents I
Norman Baker & I.onghcrst
Sydney,
Ask for CNOTO INK-Best (or all Pm
£
and upwards
Also ONOTO
Valveless for those
who dn not want a Self-Filling
!afet»Pei.,l2/6 of all Stationers,
Jewellers and Stores.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
There has been a big redistribution of
work among the members of S.A. Ministry.
Treasurer Butler, having been relieved of the
Wheat Scheme Control by Premier Peake,
takes over Agriculture from the overworked
Crown Lands Department, and Bice, of the
1 üblic \\ orks, relieves, the same Department
of Irrigation responsibilities, Crown Lands
and Itepatriation being together quite enough
for one man. Also, Mines are for some
reason appended to the .Education office in-
stead of to Public Works. Still, they might
learn there how to pay better dividends.
One item of light reading with which De-
fence Minister Pearce might beguile the tedium
of his voyage to England is the Auditor-
General’s report concerning the Defence De-
partment’s missing pay-sheets. According to
the A.-G.’s latest information the absent
sheets of the A.1.F., in the various States,
represent a total of £99,794, and with un-
oeatable N. S. Wales Home Service sheets
“ total of £120,(179. A sum of
io t ,012, not accounted for in the Ilowell-
Irice prosecution, is not included in these
figures. Still, as Pearce’s mate, U.M.G.
" ebster, would troll: “Such things must be
you see, in every famous victory.” ’
Dear Bulletin,— -Beeby, the N. S. Wales
Munster who has had the gall to vote
himself six months’ holiday with expenses
paid out of the people’s money, has broken
the silence m America. At the usual dinner
fie platitudimsed thus:—
.J 11 :, bi * Pf°blom is to establish trade relations
plus 416 nltecl Statcs » as to dispose of our sur-
To which Well-Out-of-the-Way might re-
ceive an answer as-follows:
We have trade relations with the United States—
so many of them that this low tariff count,? is
flooded with L.S. manufactured goods which' we
hi^htoWfr 1 ? ursely * s > and we s eff i« return to the
a /ew raw materials. In normal
L/ s we buy three times as much .from the United
fnlhe t 0 * Tra *’ ">**** - a drJr
.If we had a tariff like that of the U.S., and shut
US wo,fl7t,U 11 f eS t im POrts, then the
• 'l° tj .lh about trade relations” on a basis
of mutual concession. Evety country makes conces-
sions when it pays. At present the U.S regards
spr S ds al ,lon aS i a M°r’ an mark, .a country which
&CL:ds alo.dj, babbling- political nonentities to be fed
and beguiled and amused.
Apart from wool, which the U.S. is willing to take
because it wants the article, . and to take without
suffering the infliction of Beeby, we . have no “sm-
Plus to dispose of except the things that the U.S.
pi ounces itself and won’t take at any price.
If Beeby would stay at home and make some
products, instead of going away at the public
expense and talking about them. Ire might
with a struggle be more useful.—Yours,
etc., Henry llorsecollar.
A proposal to extend Hie life of the Speck’s
Assembly slipped through on greased wheels
mtely. Normally there would have been a
general election in March or April, and it
was intended to let the Tasmanian soldiers
overseas have a vote. Under the Hare-Clark
proportional system the results could not
have been worked out until all the ballot-
papers come to band in a couple of months
or so, unless a big sum were spent on cables.
But what worried the politicians more than
the delay and the suspense was that there
would be n 0 salaries during the interval!
{bat was naturally out of all reason.
Accordingly the elections have been put off
till the beginning of .Tune, and only those
A.i.if. men who get back by that time will
have a vote.
ETATE DINGBATS AGAIN.
“Although Sydney is the largest city in Australia
and the capital of the largest State, with the greatest
trade and in the most central position, anyone here
having business with the Common wealth Govern-
ment must transact it. through Melbourne. And in
administration of all kinds the Government is
obliged to see everything in the light of Melbourne
interest.” —Sydney D. T.
ANOTHER LOAD.
It is rumored that the Minister for Defence, has
booked his passage to England.
THE MINISTER: “Hi, porter, carry my trunk.”
“D. Flags”: Who knows now what the
flag of the “Australasian League” was like?
The League, which sprang up about 1850 and
flourished mostly in Vic. and the Speck, was
a kind of forerunner of Federation, and it
died"; young. It seems, by the way, to have
been somehow connected witli the anti-trans-
portation movement. At any rate, the Asso-
ciation had bunting, for a Launceston neivs-
paper of 1853 casually mentions the arrival
of a vessel from Victoria flying the Aus-
tralasian League flag.
To counteract the “townward tendency” on
the part of the man on the land a Select Com-
nittee lias recommended the Vic. Legislative
Assembly that there should be organisation of
rural interests, practical development of
natural resources and creation of conditions
conducive to better country life. The Com-
mittee urges that the Agricultural Depart-
ment should be a “doing agency,” and not
merely a recording branch. Stress was laid
on the necessity for cheap electric power,
extension of the sugar-beet industry, and the
exploitation of iron mining. The futile report
has attracted almost as little attention as a
recent elaborate pamphlet on agricultural
education in America,
“Dale”; The flag-flapping of Jowett,
M ILK., is a detail compared to the mono-
tony of his exclamations. There are two of
them: (1) “Don’t say that! Don’t say
that!” and (2) “Good man! Good man!”
The first expresses disapproval and is pro-
nounced without looking up and without
emphasis; the second expresses approval;
and is also pronounced without looking up
and without emphasis. When either record
is put on for the 15th time in a hot sitting
the press-gang up above feels like throwing
inkwells. pi -JV ’ -
Hans Jensen, for the time a
person of some note, earned the
harsh word in Sydney on the occa-
sion of a speech he made . at the
midday banquet given at Cockatoo
Island when the Brisbane was
launched. He had evidently been
reading the “Encyclopaedia Britan-
niea” on shipbuilding', a fid he began
his oration at the hollowing out of
logs by fire and the weaving of
basket-work coracles. After 45
minutes he was still among the
wooden bottoms, and a lot of people
slinked out silently. Among them
was George Black, then N. S. Wales
Chief Secretary, who, as he passed
W. M. Hughes, said: “There is a
serious omission from this speech.”
H hereupon Hughes, with simulated
incredulity, said : “Never —dnlpos-
sible !” Whereupon Black replied :
‘ Yes; no mention has been made of
Admiral Noah and the Ark.” “You
are right,” returned Hughes gravely. “I’ll get
Jensen to recommit the speech and deliver it
at the Town Hall to-morrow night !”
Minister Bowser, Vic., excusing some re-
eent legislative errors to a female deputation,
said : Mistakes may sometimes be made, but
I s V - '" things and making mistakes
that ultimately we reach what we want.”
A glimmer of hope I faintly see.
Tlie State they no more may mar,
When Ministers have eventually
Made all the mistakes there are
VICTORIA. jj
Milieu, Minister for Ite-
patriation, states that totally-
blinded unmarried soldiers
are to be paid a pension of
30s. a week. In these days
when some workers receive
£1 per day and howl for more,
tramway employees demand a
minimum of 14s. (id., and
lady clerks and telephonists
claim that 50s. is not a living-
wage for them, 30s. a week
seems a very miserable amount
to hand out to soldiers who
have sacrificed their sight to
get the stay-at-homes double
the amount. Australia owes
its helpless defenders more
than that. Probably it will
keep on owing them more than
that.
You can do all sorts of
things—if you are the right
sort of person. While the
Makura was held up in Auck-
land Harbor with over 500
People on board, contact with
the ship was declared to be so
perilous that the Gallipoli .offi-
cers on boat'd, assisted by
other passengers, had to coal
the ship to ■ bring her on to
Sydney, and even cable-mes-
sages had to go to the Quaran-
tine Island and undergo four
hours fumigation. Yet one passenger was
permitted to land, and, after transacting his
business-—very sad business, certainly—to
return to the vessel. He just happened to be
the brother of a Maoriland Minister.
Compromise is a strange animal. In the
Lawson Government's Metropolitan Tram-
uavs Bill, as passed by the Victorian Leg.
Assembly, control of the trams was placed
in the hands of a Board to be elected by the
ratepayers. On the ground that this did not
give direct control to the municipal bodies
the House of Hat Landlords amended tin*
Bill to provide for a. Board nominated In-
existing municipalities. The Assembly re-
fusing to accept the amendment, a deadlock
was born. “Managers - ’ appointed by the two
Houses met a few days before Christmas,
m ]d Premier Lawson introduced a “compro-
mise in the form of a Board nominated by
the Ministry. The Council “managers’’
agreed, and the Bill was rushed through,
A HAPPY NEW YEAR.
“A fleet of 79 merchantmen will be in Australian
waters during the next three months.”— Cable.
apparently before the somnolent members of
the House of Fossils had time to realise
that they might agree to nationalisation of
llie tramways. When the painful truth
became apparent, the Argus addressed the
lazy ••House of Review” in language which
if is accustomed to use only when speaking
of Bolsheviks, Protectionists and the Trades
Hall .Council.
Once more the Victorian Government has
been prattling amiably about giving prisoners
in penal establishments the. chance to earn
enough to keep themselves and their families.
Chief Secretary Bowser is the spruiker this
time ; but those who have followed Bowser’s
political career with any attention have
precious little hope of early reform. At
present the State gaplbird can’t even produce
enough to keep him in green vegetables, which
indicates a lamentable state of affairs.
Liberalism in \ ictoria has no more practical
idea of prison reform than it has of its own
actual value in the national scheme of
things.
THE EPIC OF OSS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
r J his is the tale of the Land of Oss,
-As learned at my mother's knee,
And strange indeed were the happ’nings which
Occurred in that wondrous land and rich
In the year of fiddle-dee-dee.
King Gab, who ruled, had the help of two
Dozen Commissions, ten Boards, a crew
Of Acting Ministers, small and great,
AY hose job it was to “coordinate.”
“Co-ordination” was all the rage,
And marvellous work was done
By Councils which, in a lofty style,
Altered the weight of the cubic mile
And lengthened the liquid ton ;
And fixed the prices of socks arid spuds,
Of false complexions and Sunday duds;
And frowned on those, and encouraged these,
And wrote reports, and collected fees.
In course of time in the Land of Oss
Of Boards there were several score;
Daily and weekly their number grew,
And each had a boss, and sub-boss, too,
Advisers and clerks galore.
They summoned witnesses day by day,
And took down all that they had to say;
they found that fish was extremely dear;
And sought opinions concerning beer.
Then when “Economy” grew the cry
In the Land of Oss, King- Gab
Appointed a Board of experts grave
To search for items on which to save.
They rented a building drab,
And turned it into a home ornate,
then on the door fixed a large brass plate
AYliich told all citizens here was the
“Council of Public Economy.”
Daily, in secret, the Council met;
(By time were its members paid) ;
And when the size of its staff increased
A larger office, of course, it leased,
And lengthy reports it made;
Till Dun Brown burghers remarked, “Dear me,
AA ell have to stop this economy;
i’or, if it grows at the present rate,
Nothing from ruin can save the State!”
To stifle the wails of plain Dun Brown,
Officialdom pointed out
That sacking Boards would afford it joy,
But for the terrible unemploy -
Ment problem ’twould bring about.
To take rash action it did not dare,
The task was one that demanded care;
And so King Gab created a De-
Mobilisation authority.
The new department performed its work
So splendidly that in four
Short months the tally of persons who
In Government jobs their wages drew
Was larger by sev’ral score,
All of which number were occupied
In forming plans (which were never tried)
To bring about a reduction great
In the costly hordes that served the State..
And yet more numerous, week by week,
The Councils and Boards became.
Committees flourished in cv’ry town,
And travelled the country up and down,
And spread like a wind-blown flame.
The gen’ral public became so few,
A census showed that it numbered two —
A man named Brown and a chap named Jones,
AY ho called for “Reform” in angry tones.
Brown was created a special Board, '
The public’s intense unrest
To get to work and investigate,
With full authority to abate
The clamor as he thought best.
Brown called the public before the Board,
And into its ears a tale was poured ;
The Board took measures to stop the groans,
And tiiat was the end of Brown and Jones.
The death of Jones was a sad mistake ;
No public was left to serve;
Ihe (ivil Service was shocked and stunned;
Its monthly screw from the Sinking , Fund
!t drew, then it lost its nerve.
Two days and a half it gave to booze,
Then made of its own pink tape a noose,
And hanged itself on the nearest tree—
In the year one hundred and fiddle-dee-dee!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.


GOOD HOLIDAY READING.
and bound in handy pocket size.
Over ONE HUNDRED first-class novels to select from— cateung
for every class of reader.
Call at the nearest Bookstall or Bookseller’s and ask to be shown
the famous “Bookstall” Novels.
Over Two Million Volumes Already
Sold throughout the Commonwealth.
All One Price: Is. each (Is. Id. posted).
NEW VOLUMES ADDED EVERY MONTH,
ij 'ere are a few of the popular authors represented in the Series
EDWARD DYSON
LOUIS BECKE
ARTHUR WRIGHT
M. FORREST
J. SANDES
ARTHUR H. ADAMS
SUMNER LOCKE
RANDOLPH BEDFORD
RALPH STOCK
STEELE RUDD
E. J. BRADY
AMBROSE PRATT
J. 11. M. ABBOTT
THOS. E. SPENCER
ROY BRIDGES
BRODA REYNOLDS
A. G. STEPHENS
NORMAN LINDSAY.
“DAWN ASPER”
—by Broda Reynolds
A splendid novel of the Australian
bush.
“WHEN NUGGETS GLISTENED”
—by Arthur Wriglit
An excellent story of early Ballarat
days.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
aaais-aaanoa
H3NI-0I
BRITISH-MADE
12-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/each
N.Z. from 3/6
Columbia
A Records %
from
5/- each
N.Z. from 5/fi.
Some Fine "COLUMBIA” 10-inch
Double-sided Records.
2482
Sea Road
( Fall In ;■
I We’re All Plain Civilians
Thorpe Bates, baritone
. Thorpe Bates, baritone
Fraser Gange, baritone
( Stepping Down Along the Road Fraser Gauge, baritone
;Jes3 ( Out of the Night Thorpe Bates, baritone
f the Boys Come Home
When the Boys Come Home ’ .. . Thorpe Bates, baritone
| Heroes of the Dardanelles - M iss Bosina Buckmau, soprano
,_ nl (Waiata Maori, Part 1 Miss xiosina Buckman, soprano
~° 9l 1 Waiata Maori, Part 2 Miss Mabel Bee, soprano
(High Jinks: “Love’s Own Kiss’ Mabel Lee & Quartette
3733 1 High Jinks: “The Bubble Bransby Williams
(The Old Country, Part 1. “The pillage Bransby Williams
2636 Tlie om Country, Part 2. “
‘Lond on’ 1
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR “COLUMBIA” RECORDS
„ , T t<i Dakin e House, Kawson Place.
«...
M t* 153 William Street, Melbourne.
» Shan*--
ADRDAii'ro Firth, Royal Arcade.
VP.A.-H. R. Airi . . Ijt( i customs Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. N > Wakefield & Allen Sts.
2*3 HU* St,,*.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
HIS MASTER'S VOICE
WWCSISBRIIY
RECORDS
The Complete Sets
“In a Persian Garden”
—set of 8 records in
album
“British Composers”
set of 8 records in
album
“Elijah” Set ... ...
“Pinafore” Set
“Yeoman of the Guard”
£2 12 0
2 14 0
4 15 0
2 00
2 1 0
“GRAMOPHONE”
Regd. Trade-mark.
Scope—m Entertaining
T T AVE you ever realised the wonderful A of
H
ii j niia q rliiplc catalogue? AVliatever is wo.it a
m Small type, nils a tmcK caiaiogue. _ . - mmP di-
hearing— every artist who gains prominence—is mimed
ately recorded by
“His Master's Voice"
"V 1
Caruso. Melba, Tetrazzini, Paderewski, Chaliapine, McCor-
mack Rufio, Galli-Curci—others too numeious o m
, n fll -Persian Garden” senes-Madam e
melody.
Complete record lists, instrument catalogue, and name o
nearest accredited dealer on request.
Look for the Dog
Trade = mark
the symbol of
supremacy.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
-'-.ZLZzszjl.Z.'-
r-
«*gr
la?
HIS
s®ti®
sSkl''
BS2S
urn
iliulUtitUsi]
m
■
rmwimiiinmnnnmiiiniifi


HOW TO NEUTRALISE DANGEROUS
STOMACH ACIDS.
Few people besides physicians realise the
importance of keeping the food contents of
the stomach free from acid fermentation.
Healthy normal digestion cannot take place
while the delicate lining of the stomach is
being inflamed and distended by acid and
wind—the results of fermenting food in the
stomach. To secure perfect digestion, this
fermentation must be stopped and the acid
neutralised. For this purpose physicians
now rarely prescribe drugs or artificial
digestants; they rely instead upon a harm-
less antacid and food" corrective known as
bisurated magnesia, and obtainable of all
high-class chemists in the form of small
compressed tablets. Two of these tablets
taken after a meal are sufficient to quickly
neutralise all harmful acid, and in conse-
quence they prevent fermentation and wind,
heartburn and flatulence and all of the many
disagreeable symptoms which indicate indi-
gestion or dyspepsia. But only the tablets
prepared from bisurated magnesia will
accomplish these happy results, and there-
fore should you wish to try this remedy you
must ask your chemist very distinctly for
bisurated magnesia tablets. These are put
up in handy little flasks which you can easily
carry in your pocket, and they are sold at a
price which places them within the easy
I'each of every sufferer.— Advt.
LDO>
Water Lifted 500 ft.,
Pumped a Mile,
at a cost of about id. per hour.
OUR FARM PUMP
ENGINE will do this as
well as cut chaff, saw
wood, work shearing-
machines, etc.. It can be
attached to a windmill of
almost any pump in three
minutes. Needs no mechanic
to fix or operate, and
works all day without
attention. Hundreds sold
and giving satisfaction.
£lO DOWN, BALANCE VERY EASY.
if interested in water supply or irrigation
state your working 1 conditions and we will
quote. We stock Steam, Kerosene, Petrol
31 j r Engines, Centrifugal Pumps
and ‘ Myer’s,” “Gould’s'’ and “Deming’s”
Pumps for all services. Mackie’s Rock
and Water Borer, Working Heads and
Plants for deep well and bore pumping a
specialty. Immense stocks Challenge
windmills and Water Supply accessories.
IVe erect plant if required and give easy
terms. Catalogues and expert advice free.
Langwill Bros. 8 Davies Pty. Ltd.
110-1 H Sturt Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
Near Princes Bridge.
A Signal Sneem
. * fill
The TOP-NOTCHScotch.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
* * * *
“H.V.E.”: The gohanna (monitor lizard)
has some very human ways. Watched a lady go’
scooping out a hole in a white-ants’ (termites) nest
—a favorite incubator—one day. It was very hot,
near the sea coast, and tramp steamers were passing
lazily by. The go’ would dig energetically for a
time, then withdraw its head from the hole, clasp
its forearms around the white-ant cone and pant
like a dog. Sometimes it watched the. steamers for
a bit, then yawned expansively and went on with
its work. The receptacle for the batch of soft-
shelled eggs is dug deep down in the centre of the
cone, and when the young hatch out they feed on
the ants. Apart from its being a good and effective
rabbiter the monitor thus incidentally helps in the
destruction of a terribly destructive pest. Even if
it does, occasionally, annex a few hen’s eggs or
chickens the beast deserves protection in every dis-
trict, yet this most inoffensive creature is often
wantonly destroyed, just as useful birds are. When
will the man on the land recognise and (of his own
accord) learn to value and protect his best friends ?
I fancy the go’ also accounts for a good many young
snakes, just as it does lizards. Very often, while
a golianna is up a tree in search of nestlings,
’possums or squirrels, an alert kookaburra will
swoop down, using horrible language, and deliver a
terrific peck on the thief’s tough hide. Then Jack
lights on a tree adjacent to the enemy and chuckles
as if he’d just made up a new joke. The sacred
kingfisher (the fowl with pale sky-blue wings and
buff breast) also attacks the big lizard, but his
small beak can make little impression on the scaly
armor. However, his staccato chatter usually brings
his first cousin, the kookaburra, with its sharp and
powerfid beak to the rescue, and the pair give the
big fellow a bad time. Cut the kookaburra and the
gohanna, both comedians in their way, out of the
bush, and maybe it would be a melancholy place.
“Wandi”: The town “sportsman” is a
Ilun. Nothing is sacred to him when he gets
loose with a gun. He will even blaze at willie
wagtails, magpies, kookaburras and magpie-larks.
I saw a specimen one afternoon murdering a koala.
The inoffensive quadruped was perched on a large
limb of a big red-gum, and seven charges were
fired into it without shifting it from its position.
The koala is encased in a tough skin, covered with
soft dense fur, that frequently defies ordinary duck-
shot. Beyond slightly flinching and emitting an
occasional snort the beast took little l.eed of the
first four shots of the other beast, but at each sub-
sequent discharge it raised its arm slowly, crying
piteously and pawed at the air. It seemed to me
that the poor brute was dumbly' entreating its
persecutor to cease, as a wounded man might
motion with his hand. Even the callous heart of
its would-be slayer was touched at last.
“Fitz”: “Pornpy” asks (B. 2S/11/T8)
whether anyone has ever seen a gin with twins? I
should say it would be rather uncommon, not for
any physiological reason, but because twins, or one
of them, are knocked on the head as soon as they
are born. Binghi considers twins a misfortune. In
some parts of Java, by the way, if a woman is
delivered of two children at a birth, one of them
is supposed to be a crocodile, and the midwife
carries the crocodile twin carefully down to the
river and dips it in the water. The family take
food down to the same place regularly', and the
human twin, for the rest of his life, has to go down
periodically to the river to pay his respects to his
crocodile mate. There’s a relic of totemism in
this. The people believe themselves blood brothers
of the crocodile in some way. Twin superstitions
are common among all savages, and generally with
unfortunate consequences to the twins.
In B. 21/11/T8 “H.V.E.” states
that the native-bears in the southern (N.S.W.) dis-
tricts have developed a form of paralysis. Lead-
poisoning produces paralysis, and the writer can
testify that nearly all the bears on the North Coast
died about 20 years ago from lead-poisoning, admin-
istered by small-bore rifles. There was no more
tough-lived animal than the bear, and the writer,
who lived where they abounded, has never seen a
dead one which had not been shot, or worried by
dogs (one dog cannot kill a bear). The animals
seemed to enjoy an immunity from disease, although
the appendix was of enormous size in proportion
to its body, and, although the intestines were
full of large worms. The bear has two styles of
speech. One for war, business and general purposes
—a cross between a purr and a roar; the other, a
plaintive cry, like that of a child, to express its
DEADLY FRIENDS.
“Now we've decided to separate, let it be a
happy parting.”
“It certainly will be.”
NO NEED TO ADVERTISE.
BRO. TEALEAVES : “I don't believe in this foolish custom of ‘shouting.’ ”
BEER SPECIALIST: Well, if yd rather drink with th’ bloomin' flies, y'r needn't skite
about it.”
feelings when in trouble. About 20 years ago it
was discovered that the koala had a most valuable
pelt, and the slaughter of the- innocents set in. One
shudders to think of the torture inflicted on the
victims by ignorant and unskilful hunters. The
bullft must enter the brain or the spine, otherwise
the poor brute will retain his hold, and may be
blown to pieces before he falls. The writer has
seen a man put 17 .44 Winchester bullets through
a bear, which still held on. Early in 1898 two
shooters obtained permission to shoot bears in
some country held by the writer. They were only
five weeks in the paddocks, but they said that they
had already received £BO for the skins, and some
bundles were still to be sold. About the same time
a bushworker who had been ill, and could only
do light work, went on a campaign and secured
enough pelts to buy the freehold of a large two-
storeyed pub.
* » * *
A good old Australian recently passed out
in the Fitzroy Gardens, Melbourne. It was a huge
red-gum, aged from 1000 to 1200 years. Six years
ago decay was noticed setting in on the tips of his
big branches, and although the curator made every
effort to renew his vitality, old R. Gum had reached
his limit and had to be felled. The authority for
his age is G. Brown, curator of Melbourne Parks and
Gardens. The trunk was sft. in diameter at the
thickest part. The wood, which is beautifully figured,
is to be made into furniture.
* * * *
“Bedourie”: “Bareoo” (B. 28/11/T8)
and “C. (29/8/ 18) are both entirely wrong with
regard to the latitude's to which buffalo have wan-
dered. One of the species was shot by the late
William Duncan on Mooraberrie (over 200 miles
south of Cork) about 1901, and to prove this asser-
tion the present owner of that station, Mrs. Laura
Duncan, is in possession of the horns—a magni-
ficent pair of tremendous weight. The small water-
hole at which the beast was shot is called “The
Buffalo” to this day.
* * *
“Gou’ger”: The “hatters” who live in the
lonely spaces have the digestions of emus. Year in,
year out, their tucker consists of Salt-beef and dam-
per. Where game is plentiful, kangaroo steak occa-
sionally varies the menu, and, away north, wild pig.
Generally they have no vegetables, except that in
the tropics the blacks are occasionally persuaded to
dig for yams and search for scrub fruit. Th e yams
are first-class vegetables, but the scrub fruit is
mostly as edible as leather belting-. Many of the
older hatters, when want of flour causes them to
come to towm, clear back to camp as quickly as
possible, never taking advantage of the chance to get
their insides well lined with good fodder for once.
One such old relic, happening to break the rule, had
a royal blow-out at our pub, and W'as dead
inside four hours. The doctor guessed his stomach
had gone on strike, being unused to a variety of
unusual food. That’s the best we could make of
his report, anyhow.
“Trooper Bluegum”: Palestine thoroughly
appreciates the Australian eucalyptus. Over the
length and breadth of the land we meet the übiqui-
tous gum, a most grateful shade for was,-weary
Light Horsemen. Most of the native vegetation of
Palestine is mere shrub, dwarfed into insignificance
by the towering gums. Pity Australia doesn’t appre-
ciate the old bluegum more.
* * * *
■ “Chris” : The Zinc Corporation of Broken
Hill is about to re-afforest its extensive holding at
Myponga (S.A.), comprising at least 2500 acres,
from which it has for some time been drawing
supplies of timber for the B.H. mines. The co.
is going in for hard as well as soft woods, and is
doing so with the official blessing of the Adelaide
Forestry Department. The soft woods grown in
the State are mostly pines, especially Pinus insignis.
THE MORNING AFTER.
McBOOZLEY : “I say, did we cross the har-
bor last night? My boots are saturated.”
“110”: Those who know the sandhills in
Centralia will perhaps have noticed peculiar-looking
tracks on the surface of the sand, and without close
inspection have probably concluded they were made
by a small lizard or some similar crawling’ thing.
But a little exploring will bring to light, about
half an inch below the surface, a small black beetle
about the size of a traybit. This citizen always
travels just underneath the sand, and the upheavals
of his progress make the tracks. The little tunnel-
ler always sticks to the sandhills, as of course he
is unable to drive through hard ground. I suppose
he has a name, but I couldn’t find it in “Who’s
Who."
(Continued on page 24.)
THE SWAMP.
[FOR THE BUĹETIN.]
• one whole day and a long night through
made our camp
a she-oak grove by a coastal swamp..
Our tent gleamed white in the she-oak trees,
Whose falling hair
Made a soft, brown mist in the sweet, blue air.
A sound subdued from their tresses rose,
A moan, a sigh
As of unseen seas, when the breeze went by.
’Twas wattle-time, and the scented bloom,
New lit and young,
In a mass of gold from the still trees hung.
There music dwelt and a splendor moved
Through all the day
From the green of dawn to the twilight gray.
For careless ever, like one who goes
Where Joyance leads,
Sang the little reed-bird in the tall, green reeds.
Blue, swift and slender the dragon flies
A-hawking flew,
And a hawk hung poised in the burning blue.
A crane, slow-flapping its great wings, passed
Across the scene,
And a parrot jewelled the leafy screen.
In twos and threes from the hills around
The peewits came,
And the brush-flower burnt like a crimson flame.
On ti-tree trunk and on frond and log
Tiie lizards slept,
While the sun moved west, and the shadows crept.
The sun moved west, and the tall hills sent
Broad shadows east,
And the reed-bird's song in the reed-beds ceased.
Then fell a,hush, and within that hush
Rose, clear and shrill,
A cicada note on a distant hill.
A note of farewell, it seemed to us,
Its singing bore,
And the night came down, and it sang no more.
Night came with shadows and fitful gleams,
And mist and damp
And our fire burned red by that coastal swamp.
Then life not known of the daytime woke —
That life that preys
On the feathered things of the leafy ways.
We heard feet moving and velvet wings
On swamp and height,
And a dingo howling across the night.
As, faces lit by the red camp-fire,
We mused enthralled.
Like a lone, lost spirit, a curlew called.
Brown crickets sang in the moisty mould,
And every breeze
Drew a moaning note from the she-oak trees.
And all night long, as they moaned,
Strange fancies woke,
And we could not rest for the things they spoke.
Thus much and more, through the hours we saw.
Thus much we heard
In that place of blossom and tree and bird.
Since then gold wattles have bloomed and bloomed,
And moons aloft
In the sky have wizened and waned full oft.
And yet, at times, when the night is still,
In dreams I tramp
Through the white sand-dunes to that coastal camp.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Let Your Pals Take Note That
You Are Well Dressed!
%
(V
U
LEAVE
YOUR
ORDER
TODAY
Call and in-
spect our fine
range of
Suitings or
send for
patterns,
Fill in the
coupon now.
And they will if you wear a suit
that’s Murdoch Tailored. Just
because Murdoch Suits are made to
fit the figure and give satisfaction
they line up in the forefront of
men’s vision. There’s an attention
note that assures a forward march
in the appearance of the wearer.
A Murdock jq
Suit-to-Measure
is supreme in value. You can
prove this without risking a penny.
Our guarantee, “Satisfaction or
money refunded” defends your
purse.
OTHER MURDOCH PRICES:
84/-, 95/-, 110|-
DESK R
MESSRS. MURDOCH’S IN PARK STREET LTD., SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Suitings at Suit-to-Measure, with tape and
self-measurement form.
NAME
ADDRESS • • •
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.”
LEVIATHAN TAILORING
FOR YOUR
NEW SUIT.
No wonder that men like to wear Tjeviftthuil
Tailored Suits again and again. Suits of such
high character are bound to have the hearty appro-
bation of all wearers, for they are designed by
cutters of the highest tailoring skill, and built up
by carefully-trained, long-experienced workers.
Perfect Fit, Splendid Finish and Excellent
Workmanship are three positive factors which per-
suade men to wear Leviathan Suits year after
year.
See the
NEW SUITINGS
84|-, 901- to 147|-
Expressly Tailored to Your Order.
If you cannot call to see them in the piece,
write for Free Patterns, Tape, and our Easy Home-
measurement Chart.
Order by Post. We Pay Carriage.
■m
m
m
%
m
TAFFATWILL”
SHIRTS
MADE BY AND OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM
THE LEVIATHAN.
“TAFFATWILL” (Regd.) has the lustrous finish
of beautiful Wool Taffeta, and can be had in Blue, Grey or
Black stripes on rich Cream grounds. “TaffatWlll’ 1S a
standardised Shirting which we have supplied for many
years. It never varies in quality. The increasing sales
and the many repeat orders from satisfied customers are
ample proof of the complete satisfaction felt in the wearing
qualities of the fabric.
Made in Three Styles of Cuffs-STIFF, SOFT-DOUBLE or
WRISTBANDS, with button and link-holes. Sizes 13in. to
18 ‘" ““ 9/6 (3 for 27/9)
THE BEST SHIRT VALUE IN AUSTRALIA.
a t*e
Leviathan
Cor. Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
SPLIT SLEEVES,
SLEEVE LIFTS.
REINFORCED
INLAY FRONTS.
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE
/
f ft
m.-
m%
V
«,V,-*w« « **>■—* v
?H§l
=r .« 5 r or
#*** , .'*Z2L ass G»
MSS
ilgg,s«». -^!
.-.J
ss
SliSi
m
*******
M k
Group of Roll Shells for Ore Crushing Rolls as supplied to the Principal
Mines in Australia.
Steel Castings
-
Crushing Spares
FOR ALL CLASSES OF
Ore Reduction
Machinery.
CAST STEEL:
BATTERY LINERS,
SHOES and DIES,
CAMS, HEADS, TAPPETS, TUBE MILL
ENDS, GEARING, etc.
SPECIAL HARD CAST STEEL:
For ROLL SHELLS and PARTS which require to be
machined, but which are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL:
For BALL and TUBE MILL LINERS, ROCKCRUSHER
JAWS, MANTLES, CONCAVES, TOGGLE SEATS, etc.
*
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS:
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street, Richmond, VICTORIA.
Agents tor New South Wales —ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., Circular Quay East, Sydney, N. S. Wales.
Agents tor Queensland —AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY COMPANY LirUTED, Mary Street, Brisbane, Queensland.


Martin s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
vm
H
J S.
is
A
s
a few of the Records recently secured
by users of Meggitt Limited’s
Linseed Oil Meal,
A Hordern, Esq., Bowral, at Sydney Royal Agricultural Show, 1918,
six firsts, Guernsey section.
Mr. A. C. Lammond, Nowra, Sydney Royal Agricultural Show, 1918,
five firsts, Friesian section.
Mr. T. G. Smith, 111 Mallop Street, Camperdown. Royal Agricultural
Show, 1918, six prizes, including four firsts.
Mr. Chas. Newings, Berry, “Snowman of Camden ” Ist Ayrshire sec-
tion, Sydney Royal Agricultural Show, 1918.
Mr. T. F. Herne, Nowra, Ist Shorthorn, Sydney Royal Agricultural
Show, 1918.
Mr. J. Crossman, Ingham, Ist and Champion Pony Stallion. Ingham
and Townsville.
Mr. H. B. James, White Lodge, 42 Molesworth Street Kew
Victoria, world’s record White Leghorn Hen, “Lady
Constant.” ’ •’
Nestles & Anglo-Swiss Condensed Milk Co.,
Royal Agricultural Show, 1918, 36 entries,
2 Reserve Champions, 1 Special, 21
at Brisbane
2 Champions,
Firsts, It Seconds, 1 Third.
And fourteen other firsts.
Mr. Pad bury, Guildford, Western Aus-
tralia, 11 Awards Guernsey section.
18 Awards Jersey section, 8 A war
Ayrshire section, 9 Awards Holstein
section.
Pamphlet No. 2, Instructing how
to feed, mailed free.
Feed your Calves, Poultry, Pigs, Cows, Horses and Sheep on Meggitt Limited’s
Linseed Oil Meal.
s r °Ram\»v f£ OR « 8 T A*™**—Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Queen -Street, Brisbane;
S, Ramsay Ltd., Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. W. Adams & Co., Perth; Messrs.
& Co., Launceston and Hobart; Messrs. Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; or
Meggitt Limited
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil
Meal Manufacturers of Australia),
26 King St., Sydney.
Works:
Parramatta.
IJNSKD OILMEN
meggitt l tb
PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.
“Melos”: I can assure “John Quill” (B.
12/12/M8) that the Westralian abos. are not the
only representatives of the race that believe in a
life beyond the grave. Some years ago I witnessed
the burial of a Clarence River darlrie; and the
affair convinced me that the principals, at any rate,
were assured that the deceased would get after
’possum in the happy hunting-grounds. A shallow
grave was scooped out, and in this the corpse was
GRACEFUL.
“F’what we are ’boutoreceive Lor makeus truly tankful.”
placed in a sitting position, with tomahawk, boom-
erangs, etc. Then two patriarchs of the tribe
clasped hands across the pit and muttered an incan-
tation—probably reminding the departed that his
weapons were handy. After this brambles and leaves
were placed over the opening, with a few saplings
to keep them in position. A neighboring tribe pro-
fessed belief in a form of re-incarnation—“fallem
down blackfellow, jump up white man.” Theirs
was the less hopeful religion.
* si. x
“Azac”: Yon can take my word for .the
following mixtures for the purpose of water-
proofing tarpaulin: and oilskin-coats. Make
a mixture of 60 per cent. boiled linseed
oil, 31 per cent, raw oil, and 9 per cent, fish
oil, and boil the lot together with vegetable-black
used as a coloring matter. A half-pound of black
should be used to one gallon of oil. The boiling
operation must be continued until the mixture is
reduced to about three-quarters of its original bulk,
and after cooling it may be applied with a paint
brush and the article hung out in the sun to dry.
Another good mixture for oilskins is one quart
boiled linseed oil, loz. soft soap, and loz. beeswax,
boiled together until reduced to three-quarters their
original bulk and applied* as above.
* * * 4
“Gecko”: Can any snake sampler class
this tick-infested crawler for me? He’s sft. lOin.
long. Color, cranium black; body from nape to
vent alternately ferruled in broad bands of buff and
chocolate, and as many as three distinct rings of
the darker hue encircling each section of the paler
hue, the whole resembling a design frequently seen
on a millet-broom handle. Tail, saveloy brown;
belly, sulphur-yellow, with irreguar spiashes of
navel orange. The serpent, which is the fastest and
most daring freak of my acquaintance, hangs out
in the mulg-a scrub west o’ Bourke.
*„ * * *
Oyo”: No doubt the kerosene-tin is a
good friend in the bush; hut don’t despise the pre-
served fruit-can, 21b. size or thereabouts. Being
usually made of strong material, it answers well as
a billj, can be made into a decent dipper or
candlestick, and, if you have the savee to cook your
porridge gluepot fashion, it is tiptop as the inside
vessel. Here’s how: Bend the lid of the fruit-can
outwards in the form of a hook. Put enough water
in the can to make the gruel. Hang in a saucepan
or billy of water, and, when boiling, drop the oats
into the can. Leave it alone for 15 minutes, then
say grace. The outside pot furnishes fluid for tea or
washing-up. But it is as a patent bush-lantern that
the tin takes my fancy. Take one end out and in the
side, about an inch from the bottom, punch a hole
that will allow a household candle to fit tightly. Let it
go inside about an inch. The butt end of the dip forms
the handle. Light up, go out in a gale, and I’m
backing the glim against the wind, head on or other-
wise. An express bicycle rider (A.1.F.) put
me up to the dodge. He was never stuck for a lamp,
and travelled hundreds of miles at night behind this
headlight.
* * * *
“G.D;M.’': The most gaily-coloral snakes
vy e have are those of the genus pseudelaps. One, a
nocturnal crawler of from 20 inches to 30 inches in
length, is purplish-brown above, bright red below,
purplish-brown along the division line of the two
rows of sub-caudals and also on ventral plates;
head adorned with purplish-brown cap bordered by
bright orange bands. This species is confined to
the remote rocky regions of N. S. Wales and Banana-
land, consequently is rarely seen. The other brilli-
ant member of the family, a smaller and compara-
tively common kind, is brown on upper parts, each
scale having a yellow central spot; under-surface
creamy; head and neck black, with a bright scarlet
band or collar on the nape.
“Azac” : All who firmly believe that it is
possible to water the milk by giving the cow large
quantities of water prior to commencing the teat-
pulling operation may gather round and listen to
what M. Porcher, Professor at the Veterinary School
at Lyons, has to say. In recalling the physiology of
lactation, he insisted on the fact that milk is
secreted and not excreted. The researches, experi-
ments and conclusions of several investigators (chiefly
French scientists) all come to the conclusion that
it is impossible to water the milk through the cow—
that the suggestion is nonsense. Doesn’t matter, any-
how. The milkman knows how to overcome a little
difficulty like that.
* * * .
“Camelero”: The camel is the most un-
concerned of all animals when under fire. Horses
and mules will stampede when they hear the whining
noise of an approaching shell, but the “hooshter”
never moves. Even when wounded it refuses to
budge until ordered by its riders to do so. During
the big battle at Gaza, while the men of the Camel
Corps were in the firing-line, someone sent word to
the rear to bring up the camels, as the men were
about to retire. It was a foolish order, for when
the camels came over the rise known as Sheik Abas
they were “observed” by the -enemy gunners, and for
half an hour a storm of shrapnel and high explosive
poured over the barracked “oonts” and the men who
crouched beside them. Almost every animal was
killed or wounded, but they never moved—which pro-
bably saved the lives of many of their riders. During
th e battle of Rafa the camels were twice under heavy
artillery fire in the one day, but they padded quietly
on their way. Cameliers who had previous experi-
ence with the beast in W.A. state that he is
too foolish to realise when he is in danger, and pro-
bably this is true, although I’ve known him to b
brainy at times. At El Arish two Maorilandei
amused themselves by twisting a long rope around
camel’s legs and throwing the animal. The came
didn t appear to mind, but three days later whei
one of the jokers was feeding it the animal suddenly
grabbed him by the arm. When assistance arrive!
the man was battered beyond recovery. At Abbassia
a native had his skull bitten through by a came
which he had flogged a month previously. The
animal may be foolish under fire,? but he -never
forgets bad treatment, and sooner or later starts ou;
to square accounts.
■‘Bert R.”: Most certainly the bee-eatei
destroys bees, also it feeds them to its young, as an
examination of its nest will prove to anyone witl
energy enough to dig up one of them. These birds
tunnel into a bank about 4ft., scoop out a round
space for the nest, and get to business without
troubling about grass or feathers for lining. It is
not long before the accumulated bees’ wings provide
all the lining needed for the nest, and nothing else
is used.
“Te Wliare”; Ever try the “ground
almond ? It is the edible root of a species of sedge
closely allied to the Australian pest known as “nut
grass.” The tubers are eaten in India, China and
parts of Southern Europe. Maiden (Director Syd-
ney Botanical Gardens) issues a warning against
reckless spreading of tlfe plant, which arises much
after the fashion of the South-Coast curse known
as “Bergalia grass”—another of the sedge familv
■* * *
‘Azae”: At a week-end camp at North
Bondi, Sydney, in a waterhole covered by green
undergrowth, there is an eel which comes out to feed
as soon as the sun goes down. He has been there
for three or four years, and the campers think
great deal of their strange pet, which eats out of
their hands. The wriggler is about 18in. long.
* * * *
“Melos” : A recent Abo. scribe gave quail
the palm for being the most effective camouflage!-
amongst the Australian birds. Here are some others
at least as good. The little sandpiper (dottrel),
whose color-scheme harmonises perfectly with the
dry reeds about river beaches, where the bird is
mostly found, is one. The piper’s habit of nodding
its head, like a reed shaken by the wind, and its
peculiar call, resembling the clinking of stones dis-
turbed by the river’s flow, aid materially to the de-
ception. The inland curlew is another specially pro-
tected by camouflage. On the approach of an
enemy the bird becomes part of the landscape bv
imitating a piece of wood. It is almost impossible
to distinguish the slender, grey figure from the
similarly-colored timber and bark. The bittern, in
a suit of brown and buff, matching the reeds
of its swamp habitat, also resorts to trickery in
time of danger. Standing motionless with head
pointed skyward and body rigid, the bird looks more
like a stick or reed than a living creature. Another
deceiver is the frogmoutb, whose habit of sitting
lengthwise on a dead limb makes detection well-
nigh impossible, as the striped grey body matches
the pattern of its perch. The tree-creepers and the
silver-eye are also difficult to locate on account
of their protective coloring. An inhabitant of the
reedy swamps, the emu-wren, is another elusive
sprite. Its erect, rush-like tail and rufous-brown
body are in perfect harmony with the color of the
marsh vegetation. The grass-wren of Central Aus-
tralia is colored exactly like the desert sands where-
on it abides. To place it is a matter of great diffi-
culty, as on the slightest hint of danger the little
fellow squats motionless, relying upon the protection
afforded by its color so much that it will not rise
unless actually touched.
“Cowbailer”: The fodder plant that best
deserves to be brought under the notice of the man
or. the land is the good old weeping-willow. The
stock-owner who fails to distribute it along every
available water-course and in every swampy spot
in his territoryvisn’t availing himself of one of the
best helps towards pulling stock through hard
times. Cattle greedily eat the soft green leaves
and the small sticks. Even when the branches
are bare for a couple of months in winter the fallen
leaves are relished by cattle.. As a food the vege-
table seems to have no ill-effects upon the
digestion of animals fed almost entirely ou it.
As to planting willow—well, every stick stuck in
a moist spot will root and rapidly grow into a
beautiful shady tree. When putting in cuttings it
is advisable to select sticks long enough to be out
of Strawberry’s reach, or she will lop oif the ton
too often.
A GRAVE RESPONSIBILITY.
Big BROTHER: “Here, nou let that alone, see, or first thing yer know yer’ll break it,
an' then yer'll have to pay fer it.”
NEW YEAR BELLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s New Year’s night and the country town
Is wearied now of its revelry;
Old “Budger” Bill from the bush is down
A month or more on his yearly spree.
A lank, lean “tough,” who has travelled far
Where parsons preach only now and then,
He settles down in a cosy bar,
And drinks “good luck” to the world of men.
A bell-peal comes to his ear what time
He drains his glass, and his limbs grow slack ;
And, clear as the bellbird’s ringing chime,
Brings care-free days of the dead past back—
The far-off past when the world was wide,
And life was fair as a festal day,
When, sweetly shy as a day-old bride,
The bush, unmarred in her beauty, lay.
A vision comes of a long, red road —
The long day's tramp that the teamsters know—
The straining team with its creaking load,
And, hitched behind with his head bent low,
The spare horse, limp as the raw-hide rein.
And through a rift in the dust ahead
A line of teams on a sun-parched plain
Slow moving south on a sea of red.
He feels the smell of the water near ;
A well-known voice calling, “Bill, old pard,
\er rather late; but I’m glad yer ’ere.
There s stacks er tea, though the damper’s hard.
It s not too bad, and the beef is prime.
Here, Jim, me lad, now yer axle’s ’iled,
Unyoke fer Bill, and ag’inst the time
I’ll have the spuds and the billy b’iled.”
Old Bulger Bill rests a heavy head
On arms worn hard as the red-soil plain.
A full-faced dame puts the kids to bed,
Then waddles back to the bar again;
“He head,” says Bill, “is as light as Hell!”
“Perhaps,” says she, “it’s the constant noise
The children made with that horrid bell—
They’d drive you mad with these Christmas
toys.”
N.S.w.
G. D. MACDONALD.


\
?
m Hi
mm
i mi
mm
Wm
*
SIS
Industry relies on
RUBBER GOODS”
In every direction its use is now essential in some form for the furthering
of the commercial and manufacturing enterprises of Australia In hundreds
of ways it makes for Efficiency, which from now on must be the slogan of
the industrial community of this country. In this connection, all users
of Rubber Goods can always rely on obtaining the utmost Service
with Economy when they bear the “ Dunlop ” brand. For years
everything ot the best in Rubber in this country has emanated from
the Dunlop Mills-quality in the goods and satisfaction to the user
being the foundation upon which our huge business has been built
Our efforts have been appreciated, our
business has grown, and our patrons are
numbered in tens of thousands, all because
DUNLOP
Rubber Goods
are dependable and efficient. We make
Rubber Goods for every conceivable pur-
pose, and shall at all times be pleased to
cater for your requirements. Our manu-
factures comprise:—
Mining and Engineering Rubber Goods;
Rubber Belting; Railway and Shipping
Requirements ; Rubber Heels ; Mats and
Matting; Hot Water Bags; Waterproof
Garments and Rugs ; Tennis, Golf and
Lacrosse Balls; Football Bladders; Handle
Grips; Wringer Rollers; Milking Machine
Requisites; Hose —Garden, Suction,
Brewers’; Medical Goods, Ebonite, &c.,
and Cycle, Motor and Vehicle Tyres.
Australia has a wonderful future, but only by
Industry, Thrift, Economy and Loyalty to your
own manufactures can this country fulfil its destiny.
Remember this—and specify “ Dunlop ’’ brand when
you require Rubber Goods. Our representatives are
at your call, so are samples, lists, etc., on application.
DUNLOP RUBBER
COMPANY.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
27-33 Wentworth Av.. Sydney.
67 King Street, Perth.
268-274 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
103-105. Flinders St., Adelaide.
53 Cameron St., Launceston.
95 Courtenay PI., Wellington.
116 Worcester St., Christchurch.
62 Fort Street. Auckland.


i
■
11 ■' l
The Autographic feature, with which
all Kodaks are enables you to
make a note, with the date, ON THE
FILM AT THE TIME—a fine
idea when making records which will
be treasured in the future.
Make lasting KODAK records
of your soldier boy’s return.
Your soldier boy will soon be home. Think of all the welcomings and celebrations —families re-united after long years of
absence and suspense —just imagine the joys of meeting your own hero boy again, home at last, safe and sound.
Do not let these momentous occasions pass without making a permanent record —splendid Kodak pictures that for all time
will tell of all that happened on those first days of happy re-union.
Anyone can learn to use a Kodak in half an hour, and the daylight-all-the-way method of finishing the picture is simplicity itself.
The No. 3a Folding Autographic Kodak— the most popular camera in the world —makes pictures postcard size,
5i x 3J inches. Price £O/1 5/0. Others from 40/- to £l5/2/-
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St.,
Hobart; Buthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rock-
hampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; 109-111 Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z.
(Wholesale); “The Kodak Corner,” corner Bambton Quay and Willis St., Welling-
ton, N.Z. (Retail); 3 Borne St., Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale); 76 Stuart St., Dunedin,
N.Z. (Wholesale); 148 Bich field St., Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
tempt. Whereupon the badgered orator
takes up the challenge, and marches to the
Justice Department accompanied by a large
and breathless crow’d, and arranges to be
Private or Herr Schmidt or Potsdam or a
French prisoner in Germany for the whole
of 1917, and chance the consequences.
I propose to elaborate this theory in a
Book of the Transmigration of Souls, with
illustrations and footnotes, and a foreword
and an index and an appendix—not the kind
that the doctor cuts out at great expense,
With sufficient cash provocation I will add
a glossary, whatever that may be. It
sounds like a boot polish.
*
HENRY HORSECOLLAR.
A Persian Poet
In general the Persian poet lounges inter-
mittently and gracefully down literature
with. a rose m hi. mouth and a packet of
sophisticated, quasi-mystic verses in h
hand ; , °, IH 'e he ba ? a hfLK K
other hand , litzgeia d, I thi k,
sponsible, for that than Omar—that wine
m the original thought was more symbolical
than wet. Mostly, the Persian thinks and
teaches ascetically, and writes in heavi y-pei-
fumed, over-educated aesthetics.
In his 98 years on this earth there is no
record of a rose of dalliance that tickled
Sadi’s lips, albeit the Rose Garden is the
best-known panel of his tryptich. A blue-
gowned dM-vtah, patched and kindly and
pool, he travelled out of I eisia and walked
from Ispahan into Syria. Europe and Egypt,
Abyssinia and Barbary, Palestine and Ar-
menia, India and Arabia, all felt his foot-
steps and heard his talk—good, pungent,
’ i -£ I*, t
truly mystic talk, and a good deal of it, I
expect. In. 1190 he was born m Shiraz;
in 1291 he died there; and to-day his three
books, the Book of Counsel, the Rose Gar-
den and the Garden of Perfume, are part of
the curriculum for «chnolhnvs and scholars
tne curriculum toi scnooinoys ana scnoiars
through Mohammedan and Parsi India and
Persia.
He sucked Mohammedan learning dry at
the College of Bagdad, and went on his
travels. He joined up against the Chris-
tians in the Holy War, was captured and
made to div trenches at Trinoli as a slave
niaue to Gig tienenes at xnpon as a Slave.
There an Aleppo chief recognised him and
ransomed him for 10 dinars; took him home
and married him to his daughter—a foul
shrew with a poisoned tongue. The
memorv of her tongue creens into the
memory oj. uei tongue cieeps into me
three books occasionally to their detn-
ment, but forgivably: it was a very
unclean tongue. Of his other wife
not much is known, other than that she
lived at Sanaa, the capital of Yamand, and
bore him an nnlv *.on who died venno- After
a b only son w no died young Alter
38 years ot tempest at home and abroad, Sadi
gave in and spent his last GO years at Shiraz
m a hermit s cell. There he got quiet to
meditate and write his books—and die.
Omar’s glorified, morning-after fatalism is
J3S f?Li* from Pprsifln if* numiopl
„ i musical.
Samarcand and Shiraz are only names, and
the rose of Persia is a perfume.—evanes-
cently charming, but only an intermittent per -
fume. To the sufis—Sadi, Jami and Jalal-
iudjn—God the Beloved, the Friend who
bas care of all the little household things,
th< ; divmely-common things. Nothing can
ente F tbe , hoasa but by way of the kindly,
""h 08 , 1 ; band 1S the
talisman that changes them all. It matters
n .°* the guests be. slaveiy and pain and
Z
°' e F e sra . u 1 ’ a ail i
a )^k b % ba ?r ( ; Ue f.q
death, to His fiiends it is all good because
l I f OX K s their and
beloved. And being good, it is all beautiful,
and mat ! :er 01 t ea< “hmg and song,
T hat „ is not fatalism or submission to the
W1 1 1 1 1 , of £ od . or whatever else it may be
called. It is a wide, all-embracing vision,
colored with a strong, increasing hope. And
it is good economy—nothing is wasted ;
furthermore, a man is not even put to the
ense of learnin S to read to become a
And it is the Rose -the Rose of Persia-
which d in no den of perfume with
nightingale for orchestra, but touches the
straw in the yard and makes it an act of
God, conclusively proved to every passer-by.
Sadi ’ was C 0 when he got that far and wrote
it in the GuUstan or Rose Garden. Omar
. th now hp
didn - t wrße before he departed,
FRANCIS BRIEN.
A Satchel of Books
The Wilbie Winkie Zoo Books, written by Mrs.
A. R. Osborn, pictured by Ida Rentoul Outhwaite
(Whitcombe and Tombs, Melbourne). Children are
well catered for these days, and already there is
a pretty good Australian library of nursery fiction
with illustrations that, while they make their first
call to the youngsters, have yet a high art value.
The “Willie Winkie” series should get a good place
on the junior Australian bookshelf. The yarns
are admirably told and the pictures give a reai boy
and girl interest to the animals figuring in them.
The little books are Australian throughout, attrac-
tively produced and well printed, with color illus-
trations on the covers. There are six in the series
and the very names inspire confidence—“ The Teddy
Bear’s Birthday Party,” “The Naughty Baby Mon-
key,” “The Guinea-pig that Wanted a Tail,” “Peter’s
Peach,” “Fuzzy, Wuzzy and Buzzy” and “The Quar-
rel of the Baby Lions.”
Bugle Rhymes from France, by Paul Myron (Mid-
Nation, publishers, Chicago). This book of jingle
may have been intended to put heart and enthusiasm
into the American armies; but it is hardly possible
to believe that verses of such wretched quality, in
which dull and obvious thoughts are outcried to
death, could ever have inspired anything but mur-
derous anger against the author. Paul Myron is
the clumsiest sort of craftsman, and the alleged play
which fills up the book shows that his prose is as
bad as his verse. Australian versemen need not
worry about any possible American rivalry if this
sort of thing sells in the United States.
How Foch Makes War, by E. George Marks
(Djunock’s, Sydney). The author has a profound
admiration for Napoleon, which is shared by Foch.
That much as least it is possible to gather from
these strangely written pages. Try a sample of the
style:—
“Foch induced the Germans to throw in reserves
—outside the battle zone —to combat French divi-
sions—unmanceuvred—greatly inferior to the Ger-
mans ; combined in massed manoeuvre—Napoleon’s
pivoting device, employed at Jena and other famous
fields —numerically superior at decisive point of
battle.”
Anybody who can understand that will have a sport-
ing chance of knowing what the author wants to say.
Poems, by Alexander G. Steven. This little volume
of verse has a good deal to recommend it. There
is music, color-sense and some pleasing thought. The
author has several other small books to his credit,
and it may be claimed that this is at least equal
to his previous work. These lines, describing “An
Aged Man,” are as good as any:—
“Or else he idles by the loitering brook,
Gazing upon the scene with steadfast look,
Feeling a dim affinity with these
Waters and ancient stones and quiet trees.”
Mothers of Men and Other Verses , by F. Stewart-
Gee (The Examiner, Launceston). Easy verse with-
out any special inspiration. Tne phrasing is rather
commonplace and the craftsmanship only fair. Still
there is a breath here and there even if it is a
rather faint one.
Four Plays , by Adrian Consett Stephen (Angus
and Robertson, Sydney). The brilliant young Sydnev
soldier who, after winning the Military Cross, died
in the war, gave great promise of becoming
a playwright. That promise is revealed in the
book just published. Some of the work the author
had regarded as unfinished ; but it is all interesting,
and here and there are touches of brilliancy. The
plays belong to the modern intellectual school; and
reading them one may form some idea of the ’heights
to which the man who made such a beginning might
have risen.
The Wand of Dawn , by Minnie I. Rowe (Melbourne
Publishing Co.). This is a book for children, illus-
trated by the author with several full plates in color
and a number of smaller drawings. From an art
point of view the drawings do not call for special
mention and the story is of the slightest. Even
a very small Australian may resent some of the
verses. The book is excellently turned out and well
printed.
The Inky Way
“The Stranger” : “Simon” is out of it in
linking George Spring, of Kadina Plain
Dealer, with Gus Miller’s Express at
Cadina (N.S.W.). Miller was foreman for
Spring’s father on the old Cooma paper, The
Mercury. Spring, senior, started Ivatoom-
ba Times, i n 1899, with I. A. Southwood,
now M.L.A. for East Torrens (S.A.), as
foreman. George Spring, junior, was then
19. I. A. Southwood and G. Spring, junior,
took over Katoomba Times in 1890, and
shut it up in June, 1914, when the shale-
mines were closed down. Two months later
they started The Plain Dealer, at Kadina
(S.A.). Spring bought his partner out last
year, and Southwood is now conducting The
Nationalist, in Adelaide, when he is not
after the Bolsheviks in Parliament.
London Bookman devotes over two pages
to a review of Leon Gellert’s “Songs of a
Campaign,” with photographs of Gellert and
Norman Lindsay. “A very remarkable first
book,” is the opinion of St. John Adcock, the
Bookman’s chief reviewer, and of Lindsay,
as illustrator, he says: “He is grimly gro-
tesque on occasion and bitterly satirical, but
there is a haggard beauty as "well as horror
m his ‘Dreams of France,’ and the simplest,
subtlest sense of pathos in such sketches as
those which illustrate ‘Sights’ and ‘The
Jester in the Trenches.’ ”
“N.A.”: After appealing to the State
Department of Labor and Industry, the N. S.
Wales district of the A.J.A. is beginning to
wonder whether or not it pays to be a non-
militant body so far as the workings of the
State award governing country newspapers
is concerned. It was reported to the execu-
tive about four months ago that a certain
news proprietary 200 miles out west was
infringing the provisions of the State award
in several important respects. It politely
informed the Department of Labor and In-
dustry, and asked that it take action, as all
efforts of the A.J.A. had failed to bring the
employer up to the scratch. A month or
more elapsed, and eventually a crested letter
was received enclosing a copy of the indus-
trial inspector’s report, adding that in view
of its nature the Department was unable to
take any action. Summarised the inspec-
torial report solemnly set forth that tire
industrial bloodhound travelled the necessary
mileage by train to examine the procedure at
the newspaper office. He arrived there
shortly before midday, and met the proprie-
tor. of the sheet as the latter was leaving the
office. With great presence of mind the
inspector introduced himself, and was not at
all resentful when the other profusely apolo-
gised for the fact that he would have to keep
him waiting until he fixed up a business
matter down town. Would the representa-
tive of Mr. Beeby mind waiting? Certainly
not. The latter strolled into the office at the
appointed hour, and after waiting some more
was advised by telephone that the neWspaper-
owner would be unable to get back that after-
noon. With commendable fortitude the
inspector packed up his trunk and wended
his way back to headquarters. He had
been unable to verify the allegations
of the A.J.A. The committee of the
latter body at once urged Beeby’s depart-
ment to send the affable inspector to the
spot again. That was two months ago, and
nothing lias happened yet. It’s just what
might be expected from a bunch of officials
presided over by the Minister for Absence.
“Bookware” : The London Bronte Society
has just issued an excellent memorial
volume for Charlotte’s centenary. The con-
tributors include Mrs. Humphry Ward,
Chesterton and Gosse. A Bronte Museum
is established at Haworth, and has
been visited by very many thousands. An
attempt was made to secure the Old Par-
sonage, but enough money could not be
raised. The most interesting article in the
Museum is Charlotte Bronte’s wedding-
gown and veil, presented by her husband,
Rev. Nicholls.
In 1863 there were but two provincial
newspapers in N. S. Wales printed by steam,
the Maitland Mercury and the GouLbtjrn
Herald.
“Nemo” : The absorption the other day of
Bendigo Advertiser by the Independent
carries me back to the old days, when I was
grafting in the press gallery at Melbourne
Parliament House. Angus Maclvuy was
there for the Advertiser, and how well I
remember his guttural voice! The Inde-
pendent in those days had a Catholic ele-
ment in it, and it was understood by many
that the Rev. Dr. Backhaus, a wealthy R.C.
local priest, had a pecuniary interest" in it.
The doctor was then a notable figure in
Sandhurst, as it was called at that period.
He was a German, with a fine command of
English, and wore long hair combed behind
his ears and falling on his neck.


Manufacturers !
Use
Reinforced CONCRETE
The Building Material of the Ag'e.
m
C
r
" ' '
W
i-'.V
Sfefc
is*
SPSgiiPS
** Sr.
■ ;
Reinforced Concrete Chimneys at Ryde, N.S.W., for the Metropolitan Board of Water Supply and Sewerage.
The first Reinforced Concrete Chimneys in Australia. Cheaper and far stronger than brick. Less than half the price of Steel.
Our Indented Steel Reinforcing Bars, rolled in Australia,
are used in all the Government Wheat Silos in N.S.W.
We will give you Designs and Estimates for all Reinforced Concrete Work, free of charge.
BUILDINGS, TANKS, SILOS, CHinNEYS, RESERVOIRS, RETAINING WALLS, FLOORS, etc.
Write for our Book, “Reinforced Concrete in Australasia.”
Sole Agents for Indented Steel Bars —
William Adams 8 Co. Ltd.
175 Clarence
MELBOURNE—S2I-3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—96 Currie Street.
Street, SYDNEY,
BRISBANE —Cor. Edward § Mary Streets.
PERTH—33 King Street.


A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Shoe Hook, Lift and Glove Hook.
Full size, complete in Velvet-lined Case, 307-
Other styles, without Glove Hook, 10/6, 15/6, 21/-
A. Saunders’ Fish Eaters and Servers, pure* Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, plain design, Velvet-lined Oak Case, £3/15/-
A. Saunders’ Salt Cellars and Spoons, pure Silver-
plated, hand burnished, Silk- and Yelve'Cjined Case,
20/-
Ditto, Solid Silver, £3.
CASED GOODS
■
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, 8 pieces, plain design
finest-quality instruments, Velvet- and Silk-lined Case, £3/10/
m
•-.•lp
UPI i
a
, ■mmhhhmnhi
A. Saunders’ Combination Case, comprising half-dozen Afternoon
Teaspoons, half-dozen .Cake Forks, 1 pair Sugar Tongs, A 1 quality,
pure Silver-plated, 50/«
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Combination Case of 2 Jam Spoons,
pure Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, 15/6.
Jam and Butter to match, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Combination Case Teas and Tongs, Butter
Knife and Jam Spoon, pure Silver-plated, embossed handles,
15/6.
i iij l l | -...jii.ujigae Mßffßfflgp
■ "’il|C ii'f/il "' , i
m
A. Saunders’ half-dozen Cake Forks, and Server, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, complete in Velvet-lined
Case, 21/-
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
■ ■ ■
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY,' N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
T7l OR OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
Jj ROYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
safeguard your health
pr j.Collis Browne's
CWorody»e
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in tlie Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, IJS, 3/-, oh.
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD. |
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE S T REE t3 S YD N EY. JBBi
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him'
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
If any illustration appearing, in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
'HAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
n 917* ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,'
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art op BoxiNG, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s including Nana. 2/- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/6. .For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 1/9. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/ 1 .
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/9. How to Train for
All Sports, 2/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3-. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads. 1/9. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/- ; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ING, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle s
Card Games (Buies for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/9. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner.,-and : Lightning Calculator,
l/'l. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/-
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook,’ 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How. to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, - 2/-- Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life Of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other VerseS, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. I-leptameron, and many others, all at
4/6 each, posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
. " Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2J-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll-'s Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coar.es;, 1/9 posted.
Chevas.se’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 1/9. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/r posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and ITS Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pav 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted.
•Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Damaged
Goods. 1/6. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9. Three
Weeks. 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
I m-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


.
<7 /
Mm
A?
m
i
\
\
1
m
m
&
<3
1
‘ v'-'x
tm
A
V
H
S'-
V:
c
*
BI
f*
..
pspsi
) g
x?«
i iki
a
««
xJiitttS:....... ’
?-'***■ «
wiia
rig-: ’II
. ■■ ■■ ■
tmi
road —in Any
weather “FISK”
Non-Skids will give
a maximum service
of Miles and Comfort
and—-
A Road Grip of Safety
that NEVER FAILS
NEW SOUTH WALES—
JAMES WARBLE & CO., 4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—— N
JAMES WARDLE & CO., West Victoria Square, Adelaide.
AGENTS


GREGORY NORTH RABBIT BOARD.
Applications for Superintendent of
Works.
APPLICATIONS are invited imtil Tues-
day, 17th March, 1919. for the posi-
tion of Superintendent of Works.
Applicants to state age and general expel i-
ence in the construction and maintenance of
rabbit-proof fencing and rabbit destruction.
Salary four hundred pounds (£400) pel'
annum. Camel outfit provided in dry coun-
try, applicant to find necessary horses and
plant for the other portions of the district.
Applications, together with copies of testi-
monials, to be addressed to the Chairman,
Gregory North Rabbit Board, Boulia,
Queensland, and endorsed “Application for
Superintendent of Works.”
For any other particulars apply to thf
Clerk of the Gregory North Rabbit Board,
Boulia, Queensland.
E. S. SCIIOLEFIELD,
Chairman.
Boulia, 3rd December, 1918.
§f\
©
<§>
Specimen Section of a
“ COLO ” Tyve.
Eight Points of the “COLO
Tyre
(1) TEE AD. —Corrugated, presenting small sur-
face to the road, thereby saving friction.
(2) TEE AD. —A great thickness of rubber, which
is practically cut- and chip-proof.
(3) BBEAKEB STBIP, which, being made of
loosely-woven, heavy fabric, binds the tread
to the carcase of the tyre.
(4) PUEE BUBBEB.—Pure Bubber is placed
under Breaker Strip.
(5) CABCASE.—Composed of five plies of heavy,
long-fibre canvas, heavily impregnated with
rubber.
(6) FULL AIR SPACE.
(7) SIDE WALLS. —Realising tlie severe work
tyres are called upon to do in the country,
we have placed a great thickness of rubber on
the side walls, preventing water from entering,
as often happens in other makes of tyres after
a few months’ service. Other makes have
very little thickness of rubber at this point.
(8) BEADS are heavily reinforced and skin-
coated with rubber, to prevent rust.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.,
Tel. City 2567.
162 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
CHARLIE
CHAPLIN'S
MILLION
DOLLAR
COMEDIES.
SUPER
FEATURES
POVERT
POINT
“Jean Sibi” : Melba’s recent concert at the
Melbourne Town Hall was a repetition of
a recent matinee success, perhaps accentu-
ated by the note of personal farewell. This
time the entertainment was embellished by
Tosti’s “Good-bye” and similar classics be-
ing included to provide some lucid intervals
in the incomprehensible mass of French
“kiss” music and Italian arias. Though the
sugary English stuff was absorbed by the
multitude with a vociferous intimation of
its superiority to foreign extravagance, the
French and Italian melodies were not en-
tirely disregarded by the one or two people
who appreciate the difference between Tosti
and Puccini. They gave the loud hand to
Arditi’s “Se Saran Rose,” Rimky-Korsa-
kov’s “Chanson Indoue,” Poldowski’s “Man-
dolin,” the “Zeffiretti” aria from Mozart’s
“Idomeneo” and the excerpts from “Faust”
and “Boli&me” with jewelled Melba’s pro-
gramme. All the items were sung with the
“BABES IN THE WOOD,” AT SYDNEY
ADELPHI.
The Robbers Mo (Roy Rene) and Stiffy
(Nat Phillips).
old trills and thrills, and the same old solici-
tude for the rhythm of the tune that bring
lesser singing to the level of burlesque. It
was obvious that Melba’s soprano was still
equal to producing notes of luriinpeaehable
contour and decorating each with tone-color
according to its need. In fact, whether the
great organ took the highest flights or
descended with little velvety feet downstairs,
it seemed unaffected by its BO years of
achievement. John Leminone fluted while
the Voice took a spell, and John’s manner of
producing his notes like prayers, while
appearing to dissemble the genius which
rendered such perfection possible, made him
sacred to true music-lovers. What connois-
seurs of platform decorum must have felt
about little Leila Doubleday will probably
never be published. That young lady has
no “style.” She plays with a preoccupation
too fine for the personal flourish, and if she
realises the intentions of the composer—as
she did in Nardini’s “Larghetto” and a.
couple of other items at the concert —it
doesn’t matter if her attitude suggests a
person sawing w-ood.
The new Commissioner of Police in
London, General Sir Nevil Macready, is the
youngest son of the great actor of that name.
Lady Bancroft claims to be the only person
now living who appeared upon the stage
with Macready. It seems highly probable,
for he retired in 1851. Just before that he
played Macbeth.
“Oamelero”: Some of the soldier concert
parties which toured the front-line in Pales-
tine were worth riding miles to see. Per-
haps the best lot was “The Bats,” composed
of Tommies and Australians. Their scenery
was manufactured from pieces of canvas
found in Jerusalem, and their costumes were
made from the silk taken from destroyed
enemy aeroplanes. They had to get along
without a piano, until one dark night several
Billjims disappeared from camp, and before
morning the “Bats” had their musical-box.
Later a very wild officer from a Tommy’s
mess came around the camps looking for a
missing instrument; but by that time the
“Bats” had altered the appearance of the
piano in such a way that even its maker
would not have recognised it. Another
troupe from an Australian Divisional Head-
quarters amused the boys when the heat,
scorpions and snakes in the Jordan Valley
were making them feel mad. One of the best
artists in this show was Trooper “Ted”
Gerard —otherwise “Gerardy” of many a
good Bulletin verse.
“Bob Ray”: Talking of “Boccaccio” re-
minds me that Nellie Stewart’s co. last pro-
duced the old opera at the Royal, Sydney, in
September, 1890. It was a great co.—Nellie
Stewart and Marian Burton, as Boccaccio
(alternate nights) ; Annette Ivanova,
Feametta; Aggie Kelton, Isabella; G. H.
Snazelle, Lambertuccio; Johnny Gourlay,
Lotteringhi; Knight Aston, Leonetto; W. H.
Woodfield, Pietro: Syd Deane and other
lesser lights. Aggie Kelton, Snazelle, Wood-
field and Knight Aston are dead; Gourlay
and Deane have long been in America. No
importation could approach Nellie Stewart
in comic opera in those days. Fannie Lid-
diard, long since retired, and Flo Young,
both Australians, were her nearest rivals.
Another outcome of the war is an “Eng-
lish” theatre in Paris. Plays promised for
earlv production are “General Post” and
‘The Man Who Stayed at Home,” also the
old successes, “A Pair of Silk Stockings,”
played in Australia by Marie Tempest;
“Lady Frederick,” which Ethel Irving-
brought along; and “Mrs. Gorringe’s Neck-
lace,” in which Beatrice Day and Mrs.
Brough played up to each other so well.
Lena Asliwell is said to be the moving force
at the back of the scheme.
“Belladonna”: A man who makes more
than a living by travelling round the Mac-
hoy (Q.) district with a cino. and a few
films one night found himself in a tow T n with
only half his films. He was on his way
through the show before he noticed his blun-
der, so straightway he asked the crowd which
it was to be —their money back or a wait
until he went 10 miles there and back for
the rest of the programme. The crowd de-
cided to wait, and when the showman re-
turned and got going again he was given
three cheers and an armful of long-sleeyers.
The Firm’s “Goody Twm Shoes” is
unique among modern pantos, in having
a genuine pantomimic in its cast—Fred
Walton. Although on the stage as much
as any of the comedians, he speaks not,
neither does he sing, yet Arthur Stigant,
in song and story, was not hoorayed like him.
In his star scene Walton carries on a pro-
tracted silent disputation with two stuffed
soldiers bv facial expression and gesture.
Every little movement has a meaning of its
own. and . all can follow 7 the debate with
amused interest. In a limited way, Walton
does with his face and hands some of the
thine« Genee did with her wonderful feet.
“0.K.”: The tales that showmen tell
never make an irresistible appeal to my sense
of eternal truth, but now that I find the
late Paul Cinquevalli gazetted as Emile Otto
Paul Braun in the British Court of Probate
I am almost persuaded to think of all show-
men as gratuitous liars. Tw'enty years ago
the famous juggler assured me that his
family name was Brodzky. He told me that
his father was a Pole who had sent him to
Germany to be educated. In those days
there was no reason why a man with the
Hun name of Braun should claim to be _a
Pole by the name of Brodzky. 1 am left
wondering whether the vwiloquacious Paul
told me a tale for the tale’s sake, or whether
the original Emile Otto Paul Braun was not
the Cinquevalli whose name he said he had
adopted on account of its notoriety. On the
other hand there is the possibility that Paul
the juggler was himself the original Cinque-
valli, and his story of his acrobatic prede-
cessor was merely a romance invented for
press purposes.
A FATHERLY TIP.
“Father, dear, when I am married and yo
away to live, can I take the piano with
me?"
“Yes, of course; but I’d say nothing about
it, or you might find a difficulty in
getting married!”
Eugene Stratton, recently dead, was
one of the -whitest men in vaudeville, as
well as the most popular of music-hall enter-
tainers. He made money, and held most of
it, but in every big town in England he had
a few pensioners, and if entrde to his dress-
ing-room was denied, the refusal was in-
variably accompanied by a dollar or half a
sov. Stratton was self-taught in everything,
including his dancing, a sheer delight, especi-
ally with the accompaniment of Leslie
Stuart’s music. Perhaps his best songs and
dances were “The Lily of Laguna” and “I
May Be Crazy.” He was singing the latter
right up to his retirement from the stage.
The comedian was passionately fond of
horse-racing. Boxing he knew from A to Z,
and he made an early start at the game as a
lad with a touring circus in the States,
He told the yarn himself. The circus
included an alleged champion who had a
standing offer of 10 dollars to anyone who
could last out four rounds with him. Strat-
ton was a sort of assistant second in the
corner, but his real job was to slip a piece of
sheet-lead into the right-hand glove of the
alleged champion on a signal from the
pug, who sized up his challenger as he
entered the ring. They called this bit o’
lead by the name of “Neddy,” and, of course,
one blow from the loaded glove was generally
sufficient to end the bout before the fourth
round came along. One day a big, husky
Westerner entered the ring and ’Gene did
not hear the champion whisper “Slip Neddy
in.” The result was a terrific beating for
the circus'champion. ’Gene lost his job. It
was then he joined Havers’s' Ministrels.
went with them to England, and there joined
the celebrated Moore and Burgess Minstrels.
“T. 0.1.”: E. D. Haygarth, mentioned by
“L.11.P.” (B. 5/12/T8), was “supering” and
“generally useful” at the old Princess’s
Theatre in Spring-street, Melbourne, in
George Fawcett’s early days (1861). This
writer knew him well, and doubts if he ever
played with G. V. Brooke, who left in
1861. Haygarth made one of a crowd —a
double company, in “Barnaby Rudge,” pro-
duced by Fawcett in the early ’sixties.
Clarence Holt, Hoskins, Fawcett (2), John
Dunn and his daughter Rosa (Barnaby)
being of the cast. Fawcett played Miss
Miggs.
Depressing statement printed in the
movie-department of a Melbourne daily:—
“Hundreds of young men and women have
been tempted to spend their money in
attending so-called picture-acting school’s. In
many cases engagements have been pro-
mised, and it would be interesting to learn
how these promises have been kept.” A few
moving-pictures of considerable size and in-
terest have been produced in Australia
during the past year or two, most of them
depending for their background on this
country’s great natural resources of forest
and range and river, with the insertion here
and there of such matters as stockyards and
lcangaroo-hunts and bush humpies, which in-
volve no expenditure but the railway fares
and hotel bills of the movie outfit. Usually
the crowds of extras employed in such pic-
tures, whether men or women or both, just
happen to have been on the spot, being part
of the life of the district where the film was
made. The principals are mostly people
with a good deal of stage-experience, or
have some special personal interest or quali-
fications, and have merely moved into the
movies for a few days only ; and the various
productions, owing to the competition of
million-dollar movie-plants in the U.S. and
elsewhere, have had to offer a bold front at
as small a cost as possible. Obviously, there
have thus far been precious few openings
here for budding movie talent, wherefore the
acceptance of fees from “students” on the
expectation on their part of being found
engagements wears an air of suspicion.
Yet the police, who are able to “put away”
the spieler and the magsman on the smallest
evidence, can’t get up a case against the
movie-school swindle. The affable Law
won’t let them.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : Apropos “What
the stage has done to popularise Dickens”
(B. 12/12/T8). The first Australian
drama founded on a Dickens novel was by
the late George Fawcett (Rowe), and was
produced by him in the very early ’sixties,
when he was sole lessee of the old Prin-
cess’s Theatre in Spring-street, Melbourne.
This was “Barnaby Rudge,” for the produc-
tion of which Fawcett gathered a fine.com-
pany. The following was the cast: Hare-
dale, Clarence Holt; Sir John Chester, Wil-
liam Hoskins; Maypole Hugh, Tom Faw-
cett ; Lord George Gordon, Sandford Faw-
cett ; Dennis, John Dunn; Mr. and Mrs.
Varden, H. J. and Mrs. Ray ; Sim Tappertit,
Downey (also prompter) ; Willett, landlord
of the Maypole, Richard Stewart; Joe Wil-
lett, Sam Glover; Barnaby’s mother, Mrs.
Holt; Barnaby, Rosa Dunn; and Fawcett
himself Miss Miggs. Joseph Jefferson
brought with him from U.S.A. a dramatised
version of “Nicholas Nichleby,” in which he
appeared as Newman Noggs, at the same
old theatre.
“K.” : Some songs are worse than others,
but the worst song ever built was “Love
Me and the World is Mine,” a roaring,
blatant thing that, 10 years ago, nightly
lifted the roofs of a million boarding-houses.
(All the worst singing and cooking is done
in boarding-houses.) At the big Sydney fire
last week, the lessee of the corner pub that
contributed its two topmost storeys to the
blaze and was a teetotaller’s torch in the
night, rushed upstairs and stepped swiftly
down the hot staircase with his pet parrot.
The bird has two stock remarks and one
song, and it was trying to express itself by
letting go the remarks and croaking the
song, “Love Me and the World is Mine.” At
last that rotten ballad has fulfilled its des-
tiny. It was written to be sung by a
scorched parrot.
THE BIRD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’these woeful times he’s much alone.
Upon the actors’ corner
lie rubs his shoulder to the bone,
And oft there comes a scorner,
A pressman or a jesting brother,
With some old ribald joke or other.
Said one of these: “In this new age
How are the mighty humbled?
Fred gets the bird at every stage.”
“I get the bird,” Fred grumbled,
“Yet will the old profession follow,
If now and then it is a swallow!”
VICTORIA.
S.


v*
*
«"»
•~>*
■ V'V - &
&a
«*as
•w*
?*
!■?• ■
■■M
A. ■?; ( Cvw3* i-.V'
vc
5&
v‘-
K
jtim
i?aw
$§
v»
• - % / >' r
rp? «;w^
' * 'V.C ~:-/Vs ,'; •■£
Price £466
150,000 Last Year!
—the enormous annual output of Overland motor cars!
Many thousands of them went to all parts of the world. The Overland
is indeed the international motor car, because it is made on a scale which
permits a value unapproached!
Appearance, performance, comfort, service, price all these essen-
tials of the ideal motor car are distinct Overland advantages.
For instance, note the “85-Four” shown here. A car of great power,
but so simple to operate that a child can drive it Sturdy, depend-
able, so satisfactory that it has won the enthusiasm of everyone who
ever owned one.
Ms*
*
»3&
,e¥
•M&f
&
/<■ .
w #
% 1
/ ®IL\ \ Y&
\ <:
A<M,
//
rv&r:
;,o<
wte
;w
spafe
.•> c?
d--®-
v*s-j 3 :;.-
MnX *$
t> :»/••' .a”*** w '- \ !
•:
•'• /
&z
I ff-<.’3-jKt •■*'-*■" ‘ --••■ ••
</ i . J *.. _
£&
&
«S®
YSv
f»• ffj • .««»
W 5
‘Xis.v,
-r 45?
•sgsz**
vjpdiftS
V ..’
S«»''’'
Stf***''
Sss&S******
w.
g£Z~2£»*
~*Z'A
***»'*"
.'—r*
vt&te&W&foi--'
WfrT*"
m ..
*rjyr
-4
sIBBRSM
siS§£
ff
z
«V**
«s
ASA
ss
&&
Wft
V\
Os
ifilrfl
v -e
sS^s
-><
• y <V ;
&
vV**,
2»
-?>v
SI
isr&ejr
m
E
&m&.
i#5S
■JBILE&:-M£
•W*
«*r
Australian
Distributors
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO- LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO., Wan Qanui ; N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
Christchurch, N.Z.
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY.
WILLYS-OVERLAND, Inc, Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A.


'
y v /
rv
'tfasoKM
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
Perfect . . . .
P r otect ion
against, damaging friction and consequent
loss of power is be t secured by lubri-
cating with
There is a grade of National Motor Oils
for every type of engine—car, cycle,
truck, boat or ’plane.
Rational Oils are USED for each of these
types, and have proven with each their
claim for unmatciiable protective quali-
ties. Use NO OTHERS.
Obtainable all Garages and Storekeepers
in one-gallon tins, four-gallon tins and
barrels. Ask also for National Motor
Greases.
NATIONAL, OIL, CO., LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WABBLE & CO.,
Adelaide.
m
p
ofjuxite
ee Unalloyed” Dyes
The dyes used in Hose
of Luxite are “unalloyed”—not
loaded with heavy metallic com-
pounds to give the hose a glossy,
heavy appearance.
The soft, full-bodied shimmer of
Hose of Luxite is gained by the
use of rich, fine-stitched materials,
pure-dyed.
That is why its elegance and
beauty last through repeated wash*
ings.
The wide range of styles and
prices .-will suit every purse and
purpose.
Don’t accept substitutes, and
tliink you have
Insist uppn the genuine.
If your dealer is unable to
supply you, write us.
Walter Gathro Pty. Ltd.,
York Street : : Sydney.
SEND YOUR
ELECTRICAL
REPAIRS
to
The Australectric Company.
97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
All Work Guaranteed.
Telegrams: “ EXPANSE.” Telephones:
4254]
4255 J
City
2umwbk
0
EAU-DE-COLOGNE
THE MOST DELIGHTFUL PERFUME IN AUSTRALIA
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% xMetallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER <BHAS> BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“ Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
'’iUNTS
MOSQUITOES
A MarVeclgus
discovery,
Gives absolute
PROTECTION
FROM THE PEST.
Nothing else
LIKE IT
I'd better
J et n
some
Vs
Per bottle, all Chemise
and Stores or
*2l/Posted to any narf
Sm! 0/ Australia
from H.C.PRICB. ChArswood.K.S.W. P. L,P
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
Of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 8/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
SPANISH INFLUENZA.
All medical men recommend a searching antiseptic and
NAZETHA
fulfils this requirement. Obtainable from all chemists for 1/6, and no
one should fail to protect themselves at this time of epidemic.
NAZETHA
The Qreat Cold Cure in the Little Bottle.
A. P. Miller & Son, chemists, Hobart.
ONE GOOD AND SUFFIGIEN REASON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The authorities of the Lara Inebriates’ Retreat,
Vic., interviewed over 100 inmates recently, en-
deavoring: to discover why men take to strong drink,
and, having taken to it, cleave to it. Every man
gave a different answer, and all but one were obvi-
ously seeking' to excuse themselves.
“Why did you drink?” they asked the gent, interned
in Lara’s walls.
lie said he lived too far away from dams and water-
falls.
“I drank,” observed another, “to the best of my
belief,
When all my dear white rabbits died, to drown my
bitter grief.” -
A third declared he only drank when feeling very
faint,
And that was wholly due to an hereditary taint.
A fourth avoided limpid brooks, also the crystal
spring,
Because, he said, that seemed to be the customary
thing!
But one man told the simple truth, and left no
doubt about it.
“1 drink strong drink,” he said, “because I can’t get
drunk without it!”
VICTORIA.
YZ.
“Vic.” : The Adventists have a remarkable
Socialist settlement at beautiful War burton,
towards the Yarra sources, which they estab-
lished several years ago. It is a great suc-
cess, a very choice lot, known locally
as the Tiny Township. There is" an
unlimited water-supply, whicli has been used
for electric-power to run a great furniture
factory and a publishing house. All hands
work, on salary, the profits being applied to
the purposes of the sect. Annual output has
mounted from £14,000 to £82,000.
•“Country Fed”: “0.L.” complains (B.
21/11/'!S) that Vic. Public Works Depart-
ment has not been able to build the simple
cottages required for returned soldiers
because of the alleged shortage of timber,
when there are large stacks of timber about.
It is part of the Government policy that the
timber-seasoning works at the Newport
Railway Workshops must pay; consequently
all contractors for Government works are
bound b.v their contract to use timber only
from Newport. The idea is all right, but in
practice it is very imperfect, because the
seasoning works are not big enough; con-
sequence is that the timber gets distributed
m dribs and drabs. That's why a builder
is able to build two private houses while
building one teacher’s residence. Probably
Minister for Agriculture Frank Clarke
locsn’t know this. Let him get that special
clause cut out of contracts for soldiers’
residences (the ordinary work doesn’t mat-
ter so much), and he won’t need to apolo-
gise for the slow building of these houses
again.
“Desk Adder” : Year in, year out, I spend
most of the waking hours with my spectacled
nose about Gin. from the office blotting-pad.
Then I knock off and go home—where 1 have
another blotting-pad to hang over. What I
pine for is a job where I can look out to sea
and rest my eyes on the horizon. The other
day I saw what I wanted. One of the light-
house-keepers along the N. 8. Wales coast
had reported that, .during eight months or so,
he had counted 100 whales going north on
important business, and another (or the
same) 100 going south wearing an air of
duty nobly done. Will the Federal Govern-
ment appoint me Minister for Whales and
mild me a residence on a headland com-
manding an extensive view of the ocean?
f whales must be counted and recorded it is
nly fitting that the work should be done
iroperly by a high-salaried official—with a
• mtably large staff, of course. To delegate
ne job to a mere lightkeeper with real work
o keep him going isn’t Australian.
“0.L.” : A pair of prosperous rural-pro-
ducers, partnering a proper tv upon a fairly
populous Victorian countryside, decided
lately that the time was ripe for buying a
piano. When the luxury presently arrived
at the railway-station, 15 miles from the
homestead, the partners determined to take
along a waggon and pair and bring the goods
safely up to the house themselves. They
allowed an afternoon for the trip, and when
the piano was securely roped on the vehicle.
amth the front of the case open, Bill mounted
the box-seat, and Jim, who could thump out
any old tiling on almost any sort of music-
works. planked a petrol-ease before the
keyboard and started the journey with “Aus-
tralia Will Be There.” (There had been a
visit to a pub or two in the meantime —a
trifle of four or five drinks or so.) A
couple of miles out a family sitting at after-
noon-tea on a verandah above the road heard
a distant, swelling melody—a “Katinka”
chorus unaccountably jingling from the bush
below the bend. The piano stayed at that
house to tea, and then to supper; and after-
wards the housefather, with Bill and Jim.
had a drop or tw T o in the library until it was
time to bed the piano down for the re-
mainder of the night. In the morning, after
au early breakfast, the outfit started off in
good time to reach home for lunch at mid-
day. Three miles further on, however, with
Jim uproariously accompanying his own
voice, the party was overtaken by a settler
pal who was bringing home a little
something for the week-end and insisted that
the. musical pilgrims should share therein ;
so it w r as Monday before the next stage was
commenced. Home and breakfast, after an
early-morning start, w r as the revised pro-
gramme ; but Steve Signers heard the “Lar-
board Match, Ahoy!” as the turn-out passed
his farm, and he left the cows in the. bails
while he invited the piano in to have some
ham and eggs. Mrs. Siggers hadn’t listened
b> any music for some months, so Bill and
Jim helped to-eat a pair of fowls for lunch
al }u a bit of nice pickled-stuff at tea-time,
with Jim spending a lot of time, in between,
beneath a clump of shady gums near the
house, rippling the old piano for anything
the buggers family wished to hear. Tlie boys
left that evening, travelling by moonlight for
a midnight return to tlieir ranch—a beauti-
first and last, though it didn’t even
finish that evening. Other convivial circum-
stances intervened and the 15-mile trip was
only completed and the piano finally planted
in the partners’ smokery just,one week to
the tick after its discharge from the railway
truck.


1 j * I,i: : ;
<i
Hi
HU
I'u
l''\
\Vsv
i'l/i/I
m
lV \
<>//
I'll
• .'HI,
l‘l\
\
1 1
mi'
i
'X
u
m#
/%S a fft r ' a §
' / ' , •' 1 ' ,: 'i *
Sonraysed;
Currantl'
Sarvraysed
v. Lexias
m
mu
m
Concentrated • Sun -[ight
Rai
\^Rays
SINS RAISED by THE
OF THE Southern Sun.^/
THREE CASH CONTESTS
GASH. In Preparation for our March Campaign. CASH®
Splendid Chances NOW for Housewives, Rhymesters and Budding Authors.
Nursery Rhymes &LimericKs
Come on Poets!!!
We want a collection of NURSERY RHYMES AND LIMERICKS,
adapted to SUN-RAYSED Sultanas, Currants, Lexias—Nurserv Rhymes
a la "OLD' MOTHER LftTBBARD,” “LITTLE MISS MUFFIT.”
“TAFFY WAS A "WELSHMAN,” “OLD KINO COLE,” ‘-LITTLE
JACK HORNER,” “TOM, TOM, the PIPER’S SON,” and scores of
others. D A
LIMERICKS as many as you like.
Every Nursery Rhyme or Limerick used by us in this Publicity
Campaign (and we guarantee to use at least fifty of them, with author's
name' at foot) will secure £1 Is. Cash Prize for the author, for which
sum it shall he the absolute property of the A.D.F.A.
Every Nursery Rhyme or Limerick submitted needs a SEPARATE
ENTRY FEE; and each one will have a chance of winning a separate
£1 Is. prize. Entry fee is 11b. of Fruit —see later.
The A.D.F.A, will shortly be publishing a new Recipe Book contain-
ing methods of making tasty and appetising dishes from SUN-RAYSED
Sultanas, Currants and Lexias,
Good, Tested Recipes from Australian
Housewives are Wanted.
Any recipes forwarded—if not in our present Recipe Book, and if
Used by us in our New Book- —will be paid for at the rate of £1 Is. per
recipe. In the event of two entrants sending the same recipe (if we use
it) the first from whom received shall secure the prize.
FAIRY STORIES.
We also want some Fairy Stories dealing in any way with
SUX-RAYSED Sultanas, Currants and Lexias, written in a manner
atli active |g> children.
Limit, 500 Words.
First Prize— Second Prize— £,3 Third Prize—^,2
Prize-winning Stories shall be the absolute property of the A.D.F.A.
Unsuccessful stories shall be returned to entrants, if accompanied
by an addressed, stamped envelope.
Here is an entertaining and profitable way of spending the long
evenings, and testing the fine qualities of SUEEAYSED Fruits, and
winning a Yew Years present for yourself.
Entry fee for each of these contests is a docket FROM YOUR
GROWER, showing that you have that day bought ILB. OF SUN-
RAY SEI> FRUITS—EITHER SULTANAS.' CURRANTS OR
LEXIAS.
Three pounds will, of course, entitle the buyer to THREE entries.
NOTE.—-If your grocer does not carry stock, and will not secure it,
please send us Is. 3d., postal notes or stamps, and we will post you value
in fruit (less cost of postage —Victorian,. 6d.; Inter-State, Bd.).
If sending two entries, enclose 2s. 3d., and if for three send 35., as
parcel postage rates decrease after first pound weight.
It will, of course, be much cheaper to BUY FROM YOUR GROCER,
as postage rates are so much heavier than rail freights.
All communications to be addressed to and if any Postal Notes, to be made payable to
C. J. DeGaris, Director of Publicity, A.D.F.A., Mil dura, Victoria
whose decision shall be final and abszlute.
Winners’ names will be advertised in City Dailies during February. Entries for all Three Contests close 30th January, 1919.
Use the word, “SUN-RAYSED.” Get the Habit!


“THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN ”
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
bv HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
<aE\ i
(5
rj)
m
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal Achool of Drawing,
94 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing _ in J-iiE
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Public Notice.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchei
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees,
W. 11. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
“Run Down” People.
The condition of being “run-down” is one
that doctors do not recognise as a disease ;
the physician of to-day, who gets Ins training
in a hospital where severe disorders only
are encountered, knows little about it. Hut
those who are run-down in health know unit
it is not a fancied affliction.
The expression “run down” conies from
the feeble action of an unwound clock, and
the comparison is a good one. Applied to
health, it means a condition in which all the
bodily functions are enfeebled. Appetite
fails, the digestion is impaired, the nerves are
impoverished, the complexion becomes pale,
there is no animation, but rather worry and
mental depression. Fatigue is a constant
symptom. . , ..
No particular organ being affected, you
must look for relief to the blood, as it circu-
lates everywhere. Improvement in the
blood is quickly felt throughout _ the entire
svstem, and Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are one
of the best and most convenient blood
builders. As your blood becomes rich and
red. the various organs regain their tone and
the body recovers its vigor. If you have
any or all of the above symptoms try the
tonic treatment with Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, but never buy a substitute.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box,
six boxes 15s. 3d. , , _ .
Free. —Send for valuable booklet, Dis-
eases of the Blood,” to Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., Box 594 G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt.
CAPILLARINE
i
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
The Standard Remedy which haft outlived the Centuries,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men,
TTsed since 1596 CURES Write for Boole
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING HELASH& WIAILSIOHI.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bkitish Austkal-
vsiaN, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia aud news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the Biiitisii Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 110 High liol-
born London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tha
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
S 3
i
esa
TYRES
0
r-
IUVt/y
m
yM
- - ?
99
UHS
A j*
I
m
&
m
!!!'
CD
9
P
m
Ti
i in
uunmm
1H
3S?
=533
in
r-%
H«art of Empire Series, No. 4.
Westminster Abbey
founded by Edward the Con-
fessor about 1050 and rebuilt
by Henry 111., though only the
beautiful King Edward Chapel,
the Choir, Chapter House, the
Crypt remain of his work.
Henry VII. made some notable
additions, including his famous
Chapel, a perfect specimen of
the skill of mediaeval architects.
All our kings, from Harold and
William 1., were crowned in the
Abbey, and many
are buried there,
together with
poets, statesmen,
and heroes.
WESTMINSTER ABBEY is a most beautiful and complete link with the glorious
past, round which most great events in England s history have centred, and 1
fitting that every approach, whether from the Embankment, stately Whiteha 1,
Old Palace Yard, or Victoria Street, is through broad and spacious thoroughfares,
excellent for vehicular traffic and delightful for motoring.
But for all roads the tyres should be Avons, which are built for speed, resiliency and
durability. „ . -
Fit British AVON Tyres—Seven types to choose From:
a weight for every load and a tread for every road,
Agents for N.S.W. : Hammond & Co., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Victoria :H. C. Pannifex, 26 Market Street, Melbourne.
„ ~ S. Aus. : Qibbs, Bright & Co., Adelaide.
„ „ Queensland: The Queensland Motor Agency Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
In two leading chemists’ shop-windows in
Auckland, recently, hung the following dis-
play cards: —
Influenza cured in a night.
This wonderful influenza cure has never been
known to fail. . ...
If you don’t wish to fall a victim to the prevailing
epidemic of influenza take one bottle of this ceitam
preventive.
While these cards were still on display in
the windows, the following announcement
made its appearance on the closed door ot
each shop:—
The proprietor regrets that these premises have
had to be temporarily closed, owing td the tact
that he and his assistants have all been laid out oy
the epidemic of influenza.
The national kitchens have been the great
success of Britain’s war organisation, the
only people who disapproved being a few
of the meal-shop proprietors. The kitchens
are marvels of organisation, cleanliness
and cheapness, and an absolute necessity
in days when women are being called
out of their homes on work of national
importance. They were viewed with sus-
picion at first, but the only trouble
about them has proved to be the difficulty in
getting new kitchens opened quickly enough
to meet the demand. At the Trades Xsnion
Congress, which was divided over most
things, a resolution in favor of more of these
places was carried by a unanimous shout.
Their popularity shows that they have come
to stay.
“0.L.” : In actual importance the optician
bears about the same relation to the oculist
as does the chemist to the family physician;
but, because the Victorian politician has but
a poor general education and can’t see why
"he should interfere, optical goods may be
handled with fewer restrictions than, say,
the simple stock of a grocer or ham-and-
• beefist. At the recent inter-State conference
of opticians, held in Melbourne, the fact was
mentioned that the Vic. Optical Association
lias as one of its chief aims the registration
of qualified opticians. This is a self-protec-
tive aim, of course; but it is perfectly
reasonable for the expert spectacle-man to
raise a howl of m-otest, and keep on raising
it until he gets the attention of the public
and of Parliament, when he sees sight-spoil-
ing specs, being sold by men lacking any
knowledge of the trade. Applied optometry,
however, is a business which has no boun-
daries at the top end any more than it has
at the bottom —that is, short of the optician
calling himself an oculist. As matters stand,
there is a temptation for the experienced
dealer in eyeglasses to encroach on the oculist’s
domain, wherefore attention from Parliament
to this essentially practical matter would
put the spectacleman exactly where he
belongs in the scheme of things, and that
would be good for the oculist, the opto-
metrist and the blinking pubbc.
In drafting a new set of “model” building
by-laws which Victorian municipalities are
to be urged to adopt, the Public Works De-
partment has taken a very narrow view of
human health requirements. One of the
provisions in the new draft is that back
yards of “at least 200 square feet” must be
adopted for all new dwellings. Possibly
Works Minister Arthur Robinson, who never
did like the idea of doing anything disturb-
ing, is afraid that any more drastic proposal
might startle the Victorian landlord into re-
taliation. The landlord is a terrible animal
when roused.
“Simon”: The Defence Department mud-
dles on gloriously. Lately it called for
tenders for the , supply of 9000 soldiers’
braces. Owing to general shortage of
materials 'this represented a fair parcel, and
as several patterns would naturally be sup-
mitted, backed up by the required money
deposit, tenderers would be considerably tied
up over the busy Christmas season until the
lines offered under bond were released one
way or the other. However, little details like
that don’t worry the D.D. After a month of
waiting and wiring, the matter stands as it
did when tenders closed. Next time they are
likely to be told to go to the softgoods middle-
men and pay 33$ extra. _ J .
“Bill Bowyang” : Billjim, during his stay
in Bethlehem and Jerusalem, learnt some-
;hing about woodcarving. Olive is the only
wood available for this art in the Holy Land
and if the Jewish wood-workers had the
many varieties of Australian woods suitable
for carving at their disposal their carved
furniture would soon .become world-famed.
Hereabouts we are looking for timbers tor
artistic uses and are realising that m the
past we have ruthlessly destroyed m our
fields and burnt on our hearths better tim-
ber for furniture manufacturing purposes
than we are importing. In Bananaland and
N. S. Wales there are many trees suitable
for carving and these may be conveniently
divided into three classes —soft, medium and
hard. In the first category the best-known
and favorite are colonial beech, sometimes
called Queensland beech, and generally white
beech and gum. The former is con-
sidered to be the finest wood for carving pur-
poses. It is exceptionally even in texture
and cuts well in any direction, and may be
used for frames, panels, cabinets and
similar work. A peculiarity about it is that
nails eat holes through the wood and become
loose, and although it is much used for cask
staves it will not stand iron lmops. I here
is some peculiarity in it which produces
rust. In furniture it becomes very solid
when joined with glue. It takes a dull wax
polish, and may be stained to imitate almost
any kind of wood. Brown cedar and red
bean from Bananaland and N. S. Wales is
of a rich red color, uniform grain, close and
compact, and cuts well. Both of these woods
are admirably adapted for carving purposes.
Kauri is well known. The best variety for
general carving is that of a brown color, as
it cuts cleaner and ebonises better with age
than the whiter kinds. In the hard
division the main woods are black bean,
bla'ckwood. Tasmanian beech and rosewood.
In the past A. E. Sutton, of Melbourne Con-
tinuation School, and C. B. Levens, of the
Irahran Lloyd Centre, have done much to
encourage the suitability of Australian woods
for carving purposes, but there’s a huge num-
ber' of people who know nothing about the
trees which grow in this country.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE.
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply *
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes- —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JANUARY 22,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
Hanking, Public Companies. &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt fChairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES ; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.O.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW'
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund .. • •
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stocl
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman);
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.0.; James Love, Esq.,
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, gsq. .
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD Olf’lCE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland,
scents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
480,000 0 0
222,000 0 0
k 3,091,669 4 5
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital Sf’i
«■>«■? w•••■ ■ • •; 4HJBS
Sw<: Miiui SIiIiLDON, M,
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRaNK N-
YAUWOOr,; Esq.;’ HERBERT It. LYSAGIIT
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.O.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon,
Chief Inspector: J, S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager-. E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. •• /00,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Piid-UD • . . . « • 1,000,0.00
Uncalled Capital .. .. •• 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits O2
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, JNew Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES
at Interest tor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian'United Steam Navigation Clm.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadiaa-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
/
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALE-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CAN
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES. GRE
NIAOA.RA. FALLS. Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
NEXT SAILING:
R.M.S. NIAGARA, JANUARY.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning bj A y
The Paradise
of the Pacific.
EXCURSION to
HONOLULU,
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach —“The Home of Surfing.
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services apply.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.. 259 George Street. Sydney.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
Direr,tors:
WALES.
_ _ £3,904,860
£3,025,000
£3,904,860
£10,834,720
The Hon. Sir Charles X. MacKellar, K.G.M.G..
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner. Esq., M.H.B.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors : S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Head Office— George Street, Sydney.
Thomas Buekland,: Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert .L. Faitlrfull, Esq.,
The Hon. James T. Walker. „ _
General Manager : Sir John Russell French, k.B E
London Office —29 Tgreadneedle Street, B.t
M.D.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents, and Correspondentsi throughout- the -vi K» L . Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiable _thiouglio_ut_the World.
HEAD OB'FICE
JBank ot 3uoimlia
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
_... . Tnwns of Australia London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
bills negotiated collected fransacted within the Common-
Ban wellth? Un "ted a iangdom and abroad" Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
Bramies, ancj over 2750 Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific.
Interest at o°/
per annum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
DENISON MILLER, Governor
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor —j
OF
COMPANY
BANKING
COMMERCIAL
THE
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
rve Capital
- £2,000,000
- £2,010,000
- £2,000,000
£6,010,000
Established 1831
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Ivnox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
head OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Inter=State Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
FOR BRISBANE AND OTHER QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
PALtINGATT
BOMBALA..
RUPARA. . •
arawatta
AdelAideSteamship'
Co., Ltd.,
15 O’Connell St.
Australian Steam-
ships, Ltd.,
350 George St.
Adelaide Steamship
Co., Ltd.,
15 O’Connell St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.,
0 Bridge St.
for NORMAN BAR, ALBERT BAR AND
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
Huddart Parker It
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sail-
ino-s between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
'* ll STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three, weeks. Between
Alelbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
h United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
large airv Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks
Commod ous Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
UIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAiIH,
oii a 1?V 1 V ro PTY LTD., Melbourne and
McEACHARN A CO. 1 1Y LTD., Adelaide;
Newcastle SMUK Hobart.
■pHE North Coast Steam
■ Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regm
to include first- Munvillumbal.:
mH IC to Byion Bav, Richmond dr Clarence Rivers,
here connectmg with one of. the Company s up-to-
*ROIJND IHCKETS— -First and saloon on
steamer! £6 lls ; second-class rail and steerage on
Rtpamer. £4 ss. ,
For Guide and all particulars apply
HOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE SI., SYDNEY.
BOOKIN'* uO g EUT A b elL. Managing Director.
A.OS.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
is fitted with wireless and with
every 6 modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
Se The round journey from. Melbourne occupies 26
davs and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. Am ,
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Eta.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
eorge hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.


.Champagne
QarlesJleidsietfc
Reims
By Appointment to their
Excellencies
The Countess of Dudley,
Lady Denman, Lady
Chelmsford, The
Lady Edeline
Strickland.
Exclusive
Hats,
Kimonos,
Blouses,
Lingerie and
Novelties.
94a King Street, Sydney.
The Chateau Napier,
Leura,
Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
miIIS_ modern Residential Hotel is unique
in its situation on the highest point in
Leura, commanding extensive views for over
60 miles.
A new wing has just been added, furnished
in the most modern and luxurious manner.
House heated with American ideal heating
system.
A new smoke-room with sunny open bal-
cony has been added.
Electric light throughout.
Tennis-court. Billiard-room. Motor-garage.
Golf Links and Bowling Green right handy.
Private Sitting-rooms.
Tel. 121 Katoomba
Under
Royal
Warrant
ygflgf
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents -
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
are S*°P«-
L.ag sydn e S
Jl i S ,(j eot« e f t- 4y iiney
’gydtvey .
s«oSi2B®,«»s*S4»w
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (Si chandon.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED. Sydney.
QUEENSLAND
MOST RESOURCEFUL OF
THE AUSTRALIAN STATES
Visitors to Sydney and residents of A ew South Wales
u'hen seeking information about the Great Northern State, whether
from a tourist, land settlement, scientific or investment point of view,
should first enquire at the Sydney Branch of the
Queensland Govt. Intelligence S Tourist Bureau.
Full Information and Descriptive Literature supplied FREE.
ADDRESS: 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. SB
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
At the races ou. Boxing Day at Ramhvick
the Governors’ tin ion, having taken the
pledge against the gee-gee “till the war be
over,” made its reappearance on the lawn
with an air of mild excitement. The Gover-
nor-General—president of the Union —cut ;r
dash in an unusual and distinctively fine o
Scottish overcoat that buttoned tightly ovi
his waistcoat. Lady Helen, in a light-tintei
gown, surveyed the races-through.a lorgnett
(That, of course, is the best way to surye;
races in Australia.) The Davidson lad
was in grey and old rose. His Ex. cam
from Moss Vale hills for the gathering. Lad
Davidson is a keen judge of a gee-gee. an
was apparently delighted to see. the end o
ihe_ “pledge.” She enjoyed a good day
racing. A whole bevy, of genthelps top
hatted, and in all their pre-war “form
< A.D.C. Stanham still a little. stiff in hi
walk as a souvenir of Hun compliments i
France) strolled along in attendance to heac
off the gathering .of the unwanted. Lad
Doris Blackwood was'with the Admiralt
House contingent.- Mrs. George Fuller wa
in the brass-railed pen, and Mrs. Spence
Brunton, in a soft shade -of dark-powde
biue, sat with the. She . eampec
under the brimless top-dressing of the bates
toque. King Salter also lurked awhile' i;
the long-empty Governors' cage in the grant
stand.
The summer frock floated pm the wings o
a stiff breeze on Boxing Day at Randwick
The muslin dress Ts stTIF frill and flowing
The heavier weight tailor-built suit, how
ever, turned a much leaner yardage to th
wind. This kind of outfit shows a long
rounded coat, loose and trimmed with button
and braid—a forecast of autumn fashions.
When Paul Thomsen and Adolf Hodee
the belated Labor members of the Frencl
mission, stepped oiit of quarantine into
Sydney, .T. 1). Fitzgerald, who was down ti
meet them, might well have mistaken then
for two travelling artists of Bohemiai
tastes. Hodee wears his hair long, and botl
of them wear their ties large and loose
'But artists—why not?” says Thomsen. O
course why not! That is the French wa.\
all over. An artist may be even a farmer
and not merely a painter or a sculptor
TbomSen is a carver, Hodee a gardener. Sucl
a time the botanist had in quarantine! Hi
could wander about among an acre or so o
Harbor foreshorb scrub, and everything thai
grew there was a 'prize to him. He was
happy in communing with nature, having n<
English at all to commune with the vast
majority of his associates. From Van-
couver onwards Dr. Crivelli’s bustling
French wife attached herself to a grateful
mission as lion, interpreter—and then
handed her compatriots over to Fitzgerald
and hurried ou to Melbourne.
Lieut.-C’olonel Sturdee, of the Royal Aus-
tralian Engineers (the Permanent lot) takes
over the instruction of budding sappers at
Duntroon early in 1919. He’s had nearly
four years on active service, and is due
home in the Niagara soon.
The Monash lady leaves Sydney bv the
\ entura m March to join her General in
England. By the same craft goes Mrs.
1 wenilow, formerly o'f Greenwich (Lane
Cove), for a tour through U.S. The Sydney
woman i s a widowed sister of H. N. South-
'll oil. who used to look after Paling's concert
management.
Hello, Everybody ! ’ brought a big house
to Her Majesty s on Boxing Night. All the
accustomed first-nighters were snugly stalled
in their usual pens. The peaceful conditions
that surround an armistice have apparently
roused Woman to let herself go a bit more
in fashionable undress. A panorama of bare
shoulders, white and • less: white, plump and
bony, spread over the lower part of the
theatre. r l lie old V-shaped corsage that
reveals so generous a view o'f the spinal
column (or whatever you like) was partly
wreathed in clouds of tulle. A vision in pink
was in Dr. Stewart McKay’s box. Under-
neath. a nursery-load of children munched
sweets and chortled with delight when the
comic turn “The Builders”-sell off some
skyhne scenery. In an opposite box Mrs.
Hugh \V arc! had pianist Lawrence Godfrev
Smith and Ins young wdfe.
On the stage Minnie Love was arrayed like
a variegated-paper ornament—something like
the design that hangs from the ceiling in
bush Hotels or kings’, palaces. Maudie Amery,
a young dancer dresse'd in a few rose-pink
petals, etc., skipped delightfully. Pearl Ladd,
a« the “Maid of the Mist,” was inside one of
the most attractive of the “Hello”
white shimmer fringed with glittering crys-
tal. A cockatoo-feathered duster, milk-white,
adorned her brow.
At the season’s annual dinner to the
Veterans, given in Sargents’ rooms, one
of the most sprightly of the old
gentlemen from the Bare island Home
was the fine ex-soldier, Mr. Co wlutm,
aged 90. Tall and still active, he has the
trim figure that belonged to the earlier Vic-
torian type of lighting man. They culti-
vated a waist in the army in those days.
The youngster is a grand-uncle of Hilda
Cowham, the. well-known black-and-white
artist on tin' other side. State-Commandant
Lee took part in this big rally of old
Crimean and Indian Mutiny veterans.
Australians caught in Maoriland by the
’flu’ plague and the consequent shortage of
ships tried all sorts of tricks to get home for
Christmas. E. 1). Pike, one of the heads of
a timber-shipping firm, managed to get a
job at Onelmnga as purser of the Wallsend,
a ship of two or three hundred tons or so.
But even then he didn’t have a chance to
give Santa. Claus a drink ; for the Wallsend
was shot into quarantine and not released
till the day after Christmas.
Pneumonic influenza carried off at Fiji, on
December 17, Clive Lamb, formerly of Rose
Bay ( Sydney), and two days later the same
plague killed his widow. She was a
younger daughter of the late John Gleesou,
of Maoriland.
The Anzaes, sun-tanned and war-worn
warriors, are coming home in big batches.
Some of them ‘arrived on Boxing Day, via
Melbourne, by train. Mothers, sisters and
best girls were waiting at the Domain buffet,
while a rush of small brothers —hero-wor-
shippers always—hung on to the most con-
venient patch of khaki they could lay hands
oil.
News has arrived of the marriage, in Eng-
land recently, of Aoel Arthur Holmes., Lieut.,
D.C.M.. R.F.C., to Lucy Turkington. Her
dad is manager of the Aviation Department
in Harland and Woolf’s huge shipbuilding
yards. Belfast. The flying man is the only
son of the Arthur Holmes, Manly.
Melba’s good-bye warble in our Town Hall
is dated January 7.
Maoriland’s excellent verse-writer, Boyce
Bowden, wasn’t permitted to get to the real
Front, after all. Arrived in camp in Eng-
land, he was classified as only 82, and
barred from France. The disappointed
young man was mollified with a job as lec-
turer in English under the educational
scheme' arranged by the Maoriland Govern-
ment.
Two years or so ago Eaditli Sullivan won
the Emmeline Woolley scholarship, entitling
her to advance to the
Royal Academy of
Music, London. The
Sydney girl was then
17 sweet summers
and defying th e
calendar. That was
in 1910. Her recent
record maintains the
promise that was ex-
pected. Gor don
Lavers, of Sydney
(the bright young-
ster’s teacher before
she moved on), got
word the other week
that his pupil had
won the Royal Acad-
emy’s silver medal
for piano-playing and
the bronze jhedal for
singing at sight. Eadith has made vocal
work her second subject. And the R.A. big-
wigs have bestowed their blessing on her
progress as a songster. The youthful
musician is studying with Oscar Beringer.
Boxing Night probably sounded good
as a concert date to amateur managers,
but the well-meaning supporters of the
Women’s Hospital (Crown-street) were mis-
led in selecting the holiday evening for their
sing-song. “First nights” at the theatres
(a panto at one) and all the outdoor attrac-
tions that bristle on December 26. killed the
goose that was urged to lay a golden egg
for the hard-up institution. There- was a
desert of cane chairs, showing their lean
legs to an occasional oasis of audience.
Secretary Mona Daley, of the haven for
women, will have to try another scheme.
Governor Denison Miller, of the Com-
monwealth Bank, had -a rousing re-
ception from his Sydney staff after lie got
ashore from the much-quarantined Makura.
Deputy-Governor James Kell voiced , the
greetings and handed the returned traveller
ar. illuminated address in album form.
About 400 returned Billjims on the roll of
the St. George’s Heights Auxiliary Hospital
were the guests of the Mosman branch of the
Red Cross Society at a Christmas dinner
last week, with the Heights and Mosman
V A.D.’s in attendance. The boys worked
hard in the morning’s heat to decorate the
recreation halt which was cleared for con-
cert purposes after dinner, when the Federal
Excellencies and Chief Justice' and Lady
Cullen took part in the happy-go-lucky show.
The. Governor-General yarned with thfe boys
like a ranker, and.afterwards told them what
he thought of them from the platform. Then
the Red Cross Society (represented by Mrs.
Cordon Wesehe, Mrs. Richard Sly and Miss
Gladys Owen) presented each soldier with a
leather wallet and a set of Olive Crane’s
Christmas cards. A special feature of the
supper-table was a big cake surmounted by
a miniature .18-pounder gun and cfew.
With this recent photo of Australian artist
Rupert Bunny came news by last week’s
mail. Bunny, since,
the war, has spent
most of his time as
an lion, worker at
t-lie Alcazar d’Ete in
Paris, the head-quar-
ters of the American
Fund for French
Wounded. U.S. was
never too neutral to
roll up shirt-cuffs and
get into the Red
Cross business. The
Victorian was in the
transport department
of this big depot.
Writing on October
27 he says: “The
news is too wonder-
ful, but we all feel
the end is near. Still.
these depots and hospitals will go on for a
long time. The Alcazar, which suggests
houris handing round iced drinks to an
elegant crowd in white flannel, is now the
home of the American Red Cross fund, and
deals out blankets, linen, etc., to the French
hospitals. It is run by several very rich
American women My show at Petit’s
Gallery was considered a great artistic suc-
cess, so much so that it had to be kept open
several days longer than intended. But.
financially? Well, I opened the day and
hour when the news of the worst crash of the
Russian revolution came through. Petit was
desolate—he had counted on a big sale. But
so much French money was invested in
Russia that buyers were shy. The French
Government bought three pictures and I
sold others. "Talking about bombs my
wife and I decided that Ft was ' use-
less to worry about such accidents as Ger-
man explosions from the sky. They crashed
frequently round our house all last summer.
Still, when night came and a Gotha hovered
overhead, my wife decided that it would be
still more foolish not to descend to the cellar
and thus save perhaps an arm or a leg or even
a nose. So down we used to go, taking each
time our special pets—the -cat in a basket
and two tame tortoises we have had for
years. These pilgrimages, when the raids
were at their worst, sometimes occurred
twice in one night, and the tortoises became
quite annoyed at so much travelling. In one
raid near us 11 people Standing on the pave-
ment—presumably watching the Gotha—
were all killed. They fell as they stood, all
in a row.”
The V.A.D. girls rolled up their sleeves
to work overtime during the Christmas holi-
day—mostly in convalescent hospitals—
and at the huge Randwiek haven. At
George’s Heights Red Cross Plospital, also,
they kept hard at it till late at
night. But there wasn’t anv rush of offers
from car-owners to give them a lift to the
tram. So they—or most of them—trudged
in the starlight along the mileage of red
road, Very tired girls they were, with aching
feet that stumbled over the loose stones that
are a feature of this track. There is great
enthusiasm amongst the bosses of the Red
Cross who haven't been honorary char-ladies
for over three years to keep the V.A. organi-
sations together in some shape or form.
Even man’s voice is also raised against
losing such tireless workers.
There is no middleman to cull the gilt off
the Coogee carnival gingerbread, so 'the
entire befits go to St. John Ambulance.
This philanthropic force, which is entirely
self-supporting—neither State nor Common-
wealth ever gave it a cent—maintains two
lug motor-ambulances, a small permanent
staff of paid officers and a large staff of hom
workers. It attended over'l2oo eases in the
Eastern Suburbs alone within the past 12
months. It also combs the beaches in search
of casualties from South Head to Botanv
Bay. The Coogee annual carnival gives the
necessary sustenance (with first-aid from
subscribers) to keep the St. John wheels
running.
Pastoralist William Grubb, an uncle of
Mrs. Reggie Allen, of Sydney, who died the
other day in Tasmania, is also a brother of
Charles, of the same cool Speck.
The J. J. Murray family (Manly) had a
pleasant Christmas box, containing the news
that their eldest son, a major in the A.1.F.,
who got the Military Cross earlier in the
war, has been awarded the D.S.O. for gal-
lantry in action in France. A younger
brother,. 11. J. Murray, who was wounded
at I’eronne, ate his Christmas pudding in an
English convalescent hospital.
Imperative summonses to attend meetings
for the purpose of getting on with the scheme
of the “Peace ball'’ at Easter, have been'surg-
ing through the post. The next gathering, to
consider the size of the supper, the decora-
tions, the brand of cigarettes and other
quite preliminary details, which only con-
cern the affluent committee, is fixed for Jan,
8. At the inconvenient hour (to busy
women) of 11 a.m. the peace-bailers - will
again sit down in the Town Hall cloak-
room. A Church of England orphanage is to
get the cash.
Isabel Ramsay, a Sydney pressworpan,
has been appointed secretary to Bruce Rairns-
father (of “Bert and Alf” fame). Though
London is to be her headquarters, she will
be frequently in Paris, whore Bairnsfather is
going to do a good deal of work. Isabel
speaks and writes French fluently.
Returned by the Ventura. Mrs. Reg Calla-
ghan. who left here as 'Doris Egerton Jones
about a; year ago. She married her
gunner in London. lie was aboard the same
boat—invalided. Doris Jones's fifth and
latest book, “The Year Between.” has just
reached the market, and has an Attstralian-
Gallipoli setting for its theme.
Arrived back after over four years of war,
Major George Shaw, of the 10th Battalion.
ID was aboard the Makura, and so had the
had luck to be hung up in quarantine. His
wife and- little daughter meanwhile Waited
in Adelaide. In peaceful davs Major Shaw
is a mining, man. and was located at Moonta.
South Australia.
Lieut.-Colonel Geoffrey King. C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., an Amsac who returned bv the Ven-
tura, left here with the Ist Field Artillery
m the early days of the late hostilities. His
wife, whom lie married just before leaving,
has been within coo-ee of her .husband ever
since, in Egypt and England, and returned
v, itli him. Mrs. Macarthur King, the very
energetic President of the First Field Artil-
lery Comforts Fund, is his mother.
Mrs. Ernest Broughton sold her pictu-
resque home Delves, Strathfield, just before
L-imstmas. Her husband’s death in 191 f
left the little lady too desolate—there were
no children to dry her tears—to keep on
housekeeping. She’s staying at the Aus-
tialia till the \ear gets an airing.
The Y.W.C.A. has been waiting on its
doorstep to welcome its new general see,.
Miss ©nelson, who came ashore from (lie
Makura. The recent arrival had an inimita-
ble and ml counter table chance of renewing
her acquaintance with Sydney Harbor from
the sea-breezy North Head amongst tin l
quarantined passengers. '


The New Series 19
Studebaker Cars.
Beautiful in
Thoroughly
Mechanically
Design-
Modem .
Right
HE fine coach-work, distinctive design and comfort-giving
qualities of the new SERIES 19 STUDEBAKER
CARS, with their many outstanding features and special
equipment for Australia, at once commend them to the thought-
ful, discriminating buyer.
The new Studebaker Cars are just what is wanted for our
conditions.
Limited supplies are arriving now.
By ordering at once you will be able to secure an immediate delivery.
THE STUbEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch: 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Tomer Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
l'imaru,
Wanganui.
ESTABLISHED 1852


\Aeltcmian
JsPEfIALTIES
Creams
ard
Pastes
. for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
AIL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E DROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD j
Farmer’s Great 1919 Summer
CASH BONUS SALE
- - '
The sign of the Bonus
Savings, 2f- in the £
for cash.
Commences Thursday, January 2,
and ends on Saturday, January 18.
This eagerly-awaited shopping event com-
mences again on Thursday, January 2, and
is strictly limited to a 15 days’ career only
—ending on Saturday, January 18.
Wonderful Money-saving Bargains
are offered in every section of the House,
bargains which, in addition to their speci-
ally-reduced or extra-keen prices, afford an
additional saving of 2/- in the £ for cash.
But, remember —these substantial double
savings offered for 15 shopping days only.
Country readers can obtain Sale
Catalogue , suit, post free on request.
FARMER’S , Pitt, Market & George Streets, SYDNEY.
You May Begin to Use It
because your neighbor has fount! it so good—or
because our advertisements hate interested you.
Whatever the reason that induces you to use
IRELAND’S
Baking' Powder
for the first time, you will continue to use it for all
your cooking- as vour only Baking Powder, because
it is so uniformly good—and because the results
achieved are always good, ?
That is because. we’ve taken care to have the
selected ingredients most scientifically mixed —-every
tin being of the same high standard of excellence as
its fellows.
Order a tin to-day from your grocer.
Sold everywhere.
raking 4
p Q\VOER te J
Her aKgg
J. IRELAND LTD.
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rusr Proof
Corsets
One of the men whom the Australian
newspaper expedition met in Dublin was
Lord Loch, whose father owned the finest
ciop of whiskers that ever grew at our
Gov’ment House. Loch, who is a general
these days, with a staff job in Ireland and
two long rows of ribbons on bis chest, was
a vivacious youngster when his father reigned
in Melbourne, and if lie could have had his
own way would probably have stayed behind
and taken a job cattle-droving when dad
went to S. Africa. lie hasn’t lost his affec-
tion for the Australian back-country even
after these years; and he is ready to stand
up on his long legs and give most unlordly
cheers for the digger on the smallest provo-
cation.
Billjim’s best friend in the days when he
chased the Semissi and Abdul out of Egypt
and Palestine was Miss McConaghy, an
Irish lady who, prior to the war, was en-
gaged in missionary work in Palestine.
When Abdul started forth to capture'Egypt
Miss McConaghy left her home at Jaffa
and proceeded to Cairo, where she arrived
in time to nurse the first boatload of Bill-
jims returned from Gallipoli. Later on she
took charge of the Australian Comforts Fund
in Cairo, and with a couple of assistants
and a motor-car kept up a steady supply of
cigarettes and other things not issued by
the military authorities to the boys in the
front line. She declared that if she worked
amongst the Aussies for a hundred years
she would never understand them, never-
theless they were the most cheery and de-
lightful boys, she had ever met.
An elderly Victorian sheep-raiser lately
permitted the Red Crossers of his neighbor-
hood to hold a fair at his palatial shack,
with various sideshows and jumble-stalls of
the usual sort. Old Boggles himself pre-
sented a pair of rare old china vases with a
snakish design which had got on his nerves.
Nobody bought them during the day, so to-
wards closing time they were put up for
auction with a collection of other left-overs.
Somebody bid 7s. 6d„ and as no one seemed
to want them at a higher rate, the amateur
auctioneer was about to knock them down
when Boggles burst into the sacrificial ring.
“Seven-’n’«7((j?/” he roared, and picked up
one of the rare old vases in each hand.
“Sooner’n sell ’em for seven-shix I’ll shniash
’em to atomsh !”—and smash ’em he did on
the lovely parquet flooring.
A Victorian woman who has written much
good stuff for Tjik Bulletin smiles over
this recollection : “Over JO years ago I stood
before the late bookseller Cole and his wife
in answer to an ad. for an assistant. The
benevolent face of E.W. (he was ever old in
looks as well as ideas) beamed affably, for I
was passably comely. But the missus, a
dumpy little dame, was more critical. ‘I
hope you are not a little larrikiness?’ she
said. I assured her I was not. So I was
engaged, and have kindly memories of my
brief stay at the Book Arcade. Both Cole
and his wife were interesting characters—
lovable yet stand-offish. The little stout
woman had her ideas, especially on the
raising of children —what they should eat,
drink, etc. To his manager, ‘Mister’ Pyke,
the practical affairs of life were entrusted.
He was the heart of the business. King
Cole was the soul, counting the blessings due
to the world of letters, but invariably for-
getting to count the cost of his publishing
ventures.”
Philip Davey, who has just come back to
Australia, is one of five brothers who joined
the A.I.F. in S.A. Philip had two trips
abroad. When the war started he was well-
boring in Centralia. and promptly took the
shortest track to Adelaide to enlist. In-
valided home with enteric, Davey soon pulled
himself together and returned to the fighting
zone, whence he emerged by-and-bye with the
M.M. (a decoration which has also been
gained by two of his brothers) and the V.C.
Perhaps the only fad the late book-arca-
dian Cole didn’t take up and hang on to was
spiritualism. He left the cult of occultism
to. his cheery wife, who got a lot of enter-
tainment out of seances as long as her
health lasted. Mrs. Cole, in fact, persuaded
herself that she was a medium, which was
probably the reason why old King Cole
dropped out of the spiritualistic circle, if he
ever belonged to one. The messages that
used to come to his wife were profoundly
untruthful as a rule, yet she continued to
think of herself as a matron in touch with
the spirits. But, there were limits
to her credulity. One night she attended a
dark seance at the late Stanford’s office in
liussell-street, Melbourne, when Bailey was
in charge of the cabinet. Knowing that
Mrs. Cole was an easy victim on the subject
of a daughter whom she had lost in infancy,
a fakir had the inhuman audacity to appear
in crouching form as the spook of the de-
ceased child. He crept to the knees of the
devout “sitter” and ventured to touch her
hand. She appeared to take the dim visita-
tion seriously, but on her way home with
her friends Mrs. Cole remarked that she
felt pretty sure the spook she had shaken
hands with was merely Bailey.
The four daughters of the late William
Gibson (of Foy and Gibson) are substantial
heiresses. They share a million and a half
pounds sterling between them, and it looks
as though most of the good Australian-
earned money will stay in England, where
the four ladies are at present located. Their
father remembered public charities at the
last. He asked his daughters to give £lO,OOO
each out of their respective shares, the
£40,000 to be equally divided between
England and Australia. Two of the three
unmarried daughters —Edith and Wilhelm-
ina—-will select the Australian chariti.es.
The craze for miniatures should be accen-
tuated by the performances of Bernice
Edwell, whose countenance confronts you
in the accompanying
photo. An exhibitor
in the Paris Shlon
and in the Sydney
and Melbourne Gal-
leries, she has caught
the likenesses of
many eminent per-
sons, and given them
additional celebrity
with her brush. Most
people who sit for
her, however, find
that she is a definite
realist, who, while
preserving the deli-
cacy of her art, con-
cedes naught in flat-
tery to the most in-
fluential model.
Moreover, she uses
her palette with the greatest discretion, never
descending to the potboiler’s device of holding
the passing eye with a “pretty” color-scheme.
At present she is showing some of her nicest
things at her studio in South Yarra. *The
Baldwin Spencer lady, Ilenry Gyles Turner
and other well-known people look out from
the tiny frames with almost the same power
of expression they possess in life.
Melba fires a parting shot, before leaving
for England, about the Town Hall, which
she smites cellar and roof. She finds it
miserably hot in summer and wretchedly cold
and draughty in winter. Likewise she affirms
that the interior decorations are most ugly.
The suffering press and public endorse all
her complaints. The pale blue of the arched
ceiling is beautiful enough, and the whole
place was admirable, in regard to the walls,
when they remained white. However, a
repulsive coloring in red and green was
adopted, always displeasing to the cultured
eye. Melba recommends, in the best taste, a
scheme in cream and gold, which might be
set off with faint blue.
The Australian girl should get up on the
roof and cry aloud for the speedy return
of the Australian army—or the un-
married section of it. The following ad.
from an English paper is backed up by a
paragraph assuring readers that the offer is
perfectly genuine, and that the advertiser is
an officer :■ —■
.MATRIMONY.—A discharged Australian (39)
wishes to meet robust young lady, fond of sport.
View matrimony and Australia.—Reply by letter.
The advertiser and his bride (if he succeeds
in getting her) should be welcomed on arri-
val by a boiling deputation of 700 robust
Australian girls armed with hockey-sticks
and ready for sport.
Seafaring men are the ones to appreciate
feminine society. Thus an Australian sub-
lieutenant, commenting upon changes at
H.M.S. Excellent’s gunnery school at Ports-
mouth : “Whaley is much the same, except
that now in lieu of waiters in the mess there
are some nice little ‘Wrens.’ It is a great
improvement—different to the rough-and-
tumble we have been having in the gun-room
on the old craft.” The bos’n’s-mate will yet
wear ribbons in her hair and be logged for
powdering her nose on the quarter-deck.
A new idea in charity reform was intro-
duced at a recent meeting of the Port Mel-
bourne Municipal Council when the usual
Christmas distribution was being considered.
The smallest allotment on the council’s list
was for the ancient but worthy Ragged
Boys’ School, in Latrobe-street. Joseph
Morris, one of the councillors, remarked that
the institution had “a repugnant name,” and
moved that its guinea should not be paid ;
and it was even so! Certainly the title is
not a happy one, savoring- too much of early-
Victorian charity ideas; but the “ragged”
boys who would have benefited by Port Mel-
bourne’s guinea had nothing to do with the
naming of their school, which was done long
before any of them were born. Bumbledom,
however, generally does handle its charitable
doles —especially when they mount so high
as a guinea—-in an insufferable petty manner,
and Port Melbourne merely ran true to form.
Froip Adelaide: —
The Galway lady’s untiring work for the French
Red Cross Society has won her the Order de la
Medaille de la Reconnaissance, first class. The same
distinction has come to the Hackett dame, who was
a pillar of the W.A. branch of the fund. Lady Gal-
way, by the way, is gradually working through her
list of “good-byes.” On Friday afternoon the mem-
bers of the Poetry Society met at Balfours to wish
her luck, and a few days later Mrs. Glover went to
Government House to hand her a farewell address
on behalf of more than 250 Red Cross eircles.
Artist G. A. J. Webb’s holiday to this village was
happily cut short by the good news that his soldier
son had arrived in Melbourne after a. long spell of
active service. The news came on Saturday morning,
and he and his daughter packed themselves and their
belongings into that afternoon’s express.
Kathleen Kyffin Thomas is back in her Red Cross
office after holidaying in Melbourne ; the Thomas dame
has also returned from Yarratown.
Lieut.-Col. C. W. H. Birt has added a second bar
to his D.S.O. —chiefly for good work during six days’
hard fighting in*the front line.
Thanks to the armistice, this Christmas is bringing
an opportunity for holidays to war-workers, and a good
many societies and committees are going into recess.
Both the Red Cross tea-rooms and the Trench Comforts
shop are to be closed for six weeks or so, and the
Women’s Motor Detachment is also taking a fort-
night’s spell. The Prospect Red Cross, circle, after
making £l2O at its- last weekly market, has granted
itself leave of absence till the end of March, .and the
Mt. Lofty Crossers are also laying off, fortified
by the knowledge that their final effort for 1918, a
fete «rn James Marshall’s garden,, brought in £l3O.
Mrs. .E. de'Mole, who died at Fitzroy at the end
of the week, after a brief illness, was a daughter
of the George Stevenson who arrived here in ’36 and
was one of‘the founders of The Register.
On Thursday, the Glover playground, first of its
kind in Adelaide, was opened by the Governor. A
second playground is to be established in the west
park lands by the Town Planning Association, and it
is hoped that before very long similar reserves for
children will be scattered about the metropolitan
area. Incidentally, the Christmas holidays in the
public schools have been extended from four to five
weeks —-chiefly on account of the splendid work the
teachers (women especially) have put in on behalf of
various patriotic funds.
“Conspicuous and devotion to duty” won
Major L. G. Tassie, A.M.C., his D.S.O. During heavy
fighting he “set a fine example of coolness in going
among his stretcher-bearers, directing and encourag-
ing them,” and supervising the evacuation of the
wounded. When news came that there were wounded
in a village that was being heavily shelled, he organ-
ised parties and cleared the place.
Mabel Hardy has been appointed assistant archivest
in the newly-established State archives and public
records department of the Public Library.
The chairman of the Port Adelaide Racing Club,
Dr. A. V. Benson, got back from active service just
in time for the Boxing Day meeting of the club, and
received a big welcome. Another sporting colleague,
Dr. A. F. Lynch, has been acting-chairman during
his absence.
Major-General Legge, whom Vandyck has
pictured, is now at work on the organisa-
tion of Australia’s permanent aviation
corps. He is a N.
S. Wales man and
a graduate of Syd-
ney University. In
November, 1887, he
began his military
career in the Ist In-
fantry regiment as
second lieutenant,
and from 1892 on
his promotion was
rapid. In addition
to holding import-
ant administrative
jobs h e served
through the South
African war with
distinction. He was
made Commonwealth
representative on the
Imperial General
Staff in 1912. After giving a hand in the
masterly evacuation of Gallipoli he fought
later in France. As a man used to com-
manding Australians lie has a sound de-
fence for the old charge that our boys are
lacking in discipline. “It’s all right if an
officer knows his job,” he says. Military men
mostly have their own systems for keeping
hard and lit. General Legge chops wood.
Etcher John Shirlow’s daughter Grace
spent a merry Christmas at Healesville,
under the name of Mrs. Erie Stebbins,
which she had acquired a day or two previ-
ously. The man who gave it to her is a
young Melbourne accountant, one of the
well-known Bendigo family and brother of
Ivan Stebbins, who has a N. S. Wales pul-
pit at Katoomba.
“Goody Two Shoes,” at Her Majesty’s,
was welcomed by a crowded house that
fanned itself vigorously and breathed hard
over its ramparts of boiled shirt. A part of
the panto, had not arrived, having been de-
tained in quarantine, but what there was
stretched from half-past seven to after 11
p.m. The Tallises had their brood in the
managerial pen, and the next compartment
was occupied by the M. B. Figmans, who
have come from the U.S. to fill the aching
void left by Fred Niblo. The brains of the
partnership may be equally divided, but the
beauty is all on the feminine side—a sweqt-
faced brunette, whose graceful shoulders
were draped with a gorgeous blue scarf, the
cause of much envy. Lolita Robinson is the
lady’s stage name. Melba, in pale green,
which suggested a mid-Victorian drawing-
room, arrived late, with Tommy Cochran as
aide-de-camp, and shared a box with hand-
some John Sanderson.
The garments in “Goody Two Shoes”
start one combing a slang dictionary for
suitable criticism. May de Sousa has a
pair of satin knickers, the color of a ripen-
ing pippin, corrugating up to fur-lined
pockets about the waist. Her array of hats
is wonderful and includes a curious brown
affair that might have been a casualty in a
motor accident. Principal-girl Madeleine Har-
rison is an ash-blonde w r ho recalls Dorothy
Vane in feature. Her plump pink under-
standings peep engagingly through a fence
of lavender ribbon over a foaming back-
ground of lace, and her prettiness is
enhanced by some dinky hats. Maggie
Dickinson ranges from a Kirchner harlequin
to a doll and flaunts one head-dress like a
“Welcome” arch to a returning cannibal
chief. Arthur Stigant, the Dame, is a con-
tinuous tumult. His best Sunday dress has
embezzled the camouflage scheme of a deep-
sea tramp. Another turn-out. yellow with
black spots, makes the wearer look like a
bibulous female jockey.
“Jack and Jill” is full of the trifles that
trouble the feminine eye. Virginia Roche
looks smart in some cream and pale-blue
effects, and Violet Collinson’s brunette color-
ing is enhanced by the touches of scarlet
in her wardrobe. Dame Lupino endeavors
to make next year’s fashions ancient his-
tory. One frock, with a large detachable
after-part that could serve as a meat-safe
or a dustbin when unemployed otherwise,
is a purple and green extravaganza like a
matured black eye, Another queer black
and white outfit with a tight ruffed skirt
and absurd verandah effects about the waist-
line makes the comedian a relation of the
mushroom family. Bert Bailey’s costumes
are weird disorders. One square-rigged suit
in washing-blue is evidently the achievement
of a sea-going tailor infatuated with Euclid.
Lucie Carter, over from the U.S. with the
Figman Comedy Co. which opened at Melt.
Roval on Boxing Day, was a well-known
figure in Melbourne a few 7 years ago. In
those days Lucie was one of the chief fea-
tures at Nott’s confectionery shop on the
Block, and her good looks and succulent
accent brought her a lot of notice. Her first
stage auventures happened in the U.S.
Lieut.-Colonel R. W. Chambers, with
a record of four years’ service in the
field, has been named by Colonel Maudsley
as the first exhibitioner from Melbourne Uni-
versity for the diploma of gynaecology and
obstetrics. For six months Chambers will
be at Old Trinity College, in College Green.
Dublin; and for another half-year lie will be
at the Rotunda Hospital, in the same city.
The Rotunda is at the head of the famous
Saekville-street —“the finest street in
Europe.” Somebody invented that tag for it
long before Sinn Fein made an illfated battle-
ground of it.


The Perfect Front
The Perfect Back
The Perfect Corset
i
£
...
Inimitable Style
Assured Health
All-Day Comfort
gfiniiiM
The Original Front-Lacing Corsets
are, and always will be indispensable.
New world conditions, demanding the unusual of all patriotic
women, have emphasized the superiority of the genuine
Gossards. They have become a part of the patriotic war uni-
form for women.
Only in a Gossard can every woman attain the ideal proportions
of her type, an inimitable style and a hygienic support that
safeguards her health and assures a priceless all-day comfort.
The perfect Gossard back, with its delightfully flat lines that
never have been and never will be attained by those
attempting imitations, perfectly supports the spine
and back muscles in every position.
The perfect Gossard front eliminates all appearance
of fat or thickness and gives a hygienically correct abdominal
support that means perfect comfort standing, sitting or bending.
The perfect corset, the original front-lacing corset, and the
only correct expression of front-lacing principles, minimizes
fatigue, assures added efficiency and the economy of a wearing
service that alone is worth whatever price you pay.
The name ffOSSHtIJ on the inside of the corset is your
guarantee of the genuine. Insist upon it. Avoid imitations.
Below is a list of the leading stores all selling the genuine
Gossard Corsets. You can identify them by the
Gossard signs displayed in their windows and by their
advertising of Gossards.
Wear*
a
c;o/?vSv:7vS
They Lace In Front
AUSTRALIAN DEALERS
Allan & Stark, Ltd., Brisbane
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd., Melbourne
Carroll’s, Townsville
W. T. Waters &
Farmer & Company, Limited, Sydney
A. W. Kirkby & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton
James Marshall & Co., Adelaide
Co., Ltd., Sydney
Made in the
United States and Canada
The H. W. Gossard Co., Inc.
Largest Makers of Fine Corsets
Toronto CHICAGO NEW YORK buenos aires
Worn with Health and Comfort
by Women the World Over
!•
=
»X
«
11
m
mm
deal Figure
Tall Slmder
Ideal Figure
Short Slender
.
Ideal Figure
Tall Heavy
Ideal Figure
Short Heavy
Ideal Average
Figure
Ideal Figure
Large Beloiv
Waist
Ideal Finure
Larne Above
Waist
Ideal Figure
Curved Back


The stupendous difficulties that await the approach-
ing Peace Conference will need more than the prover-
bial wisdom of Solomon to solve. Fortified with
inspiration supplied by King George IV., the whisky
of the wise, the Allies may expect a just and
permanent peace.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUfjft ?
LEWIS &WrilTTy MAKERS
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postatr" tu United
States, 3d.
• m
9
■ wfcv
pA^
,
World
Famed
HATS
are for^ os j
Light, yt\
durable (
aid of ei
cellcrtt vaU c
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMPNS
SPORTING
NEEOS
Australia has been breeding thoroughbred
horses in real earnest for, say, half a century.
Twenty years ago or more there were great Aus-
tralian-bred racehorses, and many of them bred very
well. The A.J.C. December meeting at Randwick
last week can be taken for investigation of an angle
of this subject. During the two days 13 events were
run off. There were 198 starters. Of these 13 were
imported from England, 139 were by imported sires
and 46 were by Australian-bred stallions. An Eng-
lish horse won one race, horses by imported sires
won 10 races, the Australian-sirea horse won the
other two. Of the 39 placed horses four placings
only were to the offspring of the local sire—and two
of these fell to one horse. In the Villiers Stakes
(counting Sydney Damsel as third) two of the placed
horses were sired in England, and both parents of
the other were imported. Of the 16 starters in that
event only one claimed an Australian sire. Ho
moved off at 100 to 1, and didn’t finish in the
first six. In the Summer Cup field of 18 there were
tw'o Englishmen, 12 by imported sires and four by
Australian stallions (one of them being from an
imported mare). Of these four all but the one from
the imported mare ran conspicuously rotten races,
one being absolutely last. Further, although not
technically counted as imported horses, the winner
and the runner-up in this race (Arch Marella and
Bee) were imported from Maoriland —so, too, were
Marble Arch, the winner of the hurdles, and Silent
Way, third in the Welter on the second day, Kil-
breeze, Kilmaine and First Rain. Put with strict
accuracy, so as to include Maoriland purchases as
imports, the result of the racing was: 20 starts by
imported horses, 3 wins, 3 other places; 45 starts
by Australian sires’ progeny, 2 wins, 2 other places
(one horse getting one of each) ; 133 starts by nags
foaled in Australia from imported blood, 8 wins, 21
seconds and thirds.
Judging by , the two-year-olds it seems fairly
certain that” there is not going to be much
difference later on, for The locally-sired youngster is
introduced to the breaking tackle just as early as
the other one. In the December Stakes, onh of the
principal races for juveniles run at Randwick (it
carries £lOOO added to the sweep and forfeits),
there were 15 runners. Of these four only were by
Australian sires, and it is remarkable that two of
these were from imported mares. None of them had
a hope. Each of three place-getters was by an
imported horse, and the winner, Almsgiver, has
“imp.” on both sides of her pedigree. Each of the
two other nursery happenings was won by the
progeny of an import. The three events boil down
to this; 60 starters; 15 by Australian sires, 5 being
from imported mares; 45 by imported sires. “Imp. ’
appears after the name of all the place-getters except
one—Malbar, by Malster, who registered a third on
the second day.
Now one can twist all this arithmetic about
in any way that seems convenient, but anyone
who wants to get material out of it for a song about
the Australian as a horse-master is going to find the
job migjhty difficult. The inescapable fact rests on
one of two alternatives: either that, taking the race-
track as giving the final test of pace and stamina,
the thoroughbred deteriorates in Australia, or
breeders are for some other reason giving an unte
served, because unnecessary, preference to the impor-
tation as a stallion. If the first was not the case it
would be reasonable to expect that stallions of the
third and fourth generations of horse cultivated in
Australia would be siring the winners of important
races. Yet how many are doing this now ? Take
the results from year to year, and you see the few
Australian stallions disappearing from the list and
hear of the winners by Linacre and Kenilworth and
St. Alwynne and Comedy King and Tressady and
Syce and The Welken and All Black and Almissa —all
imported. And the reason? Well, there are all sorts
of opinions. This page’s firm conviction is that,
taking him all round, the Australian . breeder as a
horse-master is only a rumor. He is a business-
man first and last —and having found out that the
thoroughbred can be run-down at this end and the
blood replenished by importing, he goes on helping
to do both. It is out of all reason to suppose that
raising crops of pampered yearlings and racing their
tails off a few months later can have any results
that are not disastrous. And it is equally absurd to
imagine that handing these immature animals over
to the care of the kind of intelligence possessed by
90 per cent, of trainers can make the results any
less certain. Australia lias magnificent pastures
and a climate singularly suitable to stock of all
kinds —and in Australia the thoroughbred is being
simply butchered in immaturity by stud-grooms and
trainers, with the encouragement of numerous racing
clubs. That we were going from bad to worse had
been sticking out a yard for years. This season
every important two-year-old race, the Derbies, the
w.f.-a. events and the principal handicaps, have been
won either by imported horses or nags sired by
imported stallions. Some trace of Australian blood
remains through the mares, but even this is rapidly
disappearing - , and, in any case, the part played by
the maternal side in horse-breeding is practically
hidden from understanding, for a mare useless on
the track is far more likely to produce a champion
than one which happened to be a first-flighter.
* * * *
The placing of Panacre, who finished
about twelfth, third in the Villiers Mile instead of
Sydney Damsel was naturally followed by a loud yell.
Tote backers of the Damsel, having nothing to do
but watch the backers of Panacre annex ill-gotten
wealth, roared like wounded bulls. Those of them
who had torn up their tickets roared like 270
wounded bulls on hearing a rumor that the money
was to be refunded, and those who heard of other
people picking up discarded tickets went round
breathing fire and brimstone. The A.J.C. very
properly decided on Boxing Day that the Club, not
the public, should be responsible for the mistaken
judgment delivered from the box. It announced
that dividends on Sydney Damsel would be paid on
presentation of tickets, and that a further third-
money payment would be paid in connection with
the race. The Panacre div. having been paid, the
cost to the Club will be about £lBOO.
* * * *
The case of mistaken identity at the end
of the Villiers Mile at the A.J.C. meeting on Decem-
ber-21 gives substantial backing to the case for the
complete change in the color system some time
advocated on this page. In the race the navigator
of Panacre was in all pink, and the rider of Sydney
Damsel was decorated with a pink jacket with black
spots and a black cap. Now, the idea of allowing
one horse to carry a very distinctive livery while
permitting another to run with a variation thereof is
absurd. In this case the judge didn’t notice the
variation, and his eye catchipg only the plain pink
Panacre was promoted from well back up to third,
with disastrous results to Sydney Damsel’s backers
on the tote. Such a happening would be impossible
if the jackets carried in a race consisted of a simple
grouping of the primary colors —black, white, red,
blue, yellow, green. These could be used “neat,”
and divided into hoops and stripes as might be de-
manded by the number of starters. As things are
now, color schemes are copyrighted, and race after
race takes place without several of them being
brought into use. Sometimes a whole season goes -
by, and the groupings are not seen. This is preposter-
ous. One of the consequences is to make races
increasingly difficult to follow. Another is to drive
new owners into more fantastic manipulations of
color. And a third is to present the judge with a
devil’s own conundrum every time half-a-dozen mokes
arrive in a bunch.
* * * *
Not only do place-bettors stand a chance
of being hit to leg when the judge mistakes the
formation of the passing rainbow, but, because of
the fourth horse not being picked out, they always
run the risk of being smitten through one of the
three placed- prads being disqualified. At Aspendale
Park (Melb.) the other day Nibbaul arrived third
21b. short, and was ruled out. There being no fourth
horse placed, third prize lapsed, and the bets went
up in the air. The place fielders only had one horse
to pay out on, there being practically no place money
for Afterglow, his starting price for a win being a
shade of odds on. This was obviously grossly unfair
to backers of the fourth animal. All they could
do was to weep tears of blood and listen to the
ribald jests of the joyful fielders.
* * * *
Sam Hordern is not one of the lufky
owners in N. S. Wales, but he had a collision with
luck last week and helped himself to the A.J.O.
Summer Cup. It was Arch Marella’s first win since
he became decorated with the Hordern colors, which,
it may be incidentally remarked, have lately been
changed. There was a fair quality field, and as the
public, in cpite of yearly evidence that this race
is invariably disastrous to horses with big weights,
persisted in backing Bursar (9st. 71b,), Lingle (9st.
Clb.) and Gadabout (9st.), 8 to 1 Arch Marella was
going at the death. With Sst. the ex-Maorilander
had run a good second to Ivennaquhair in the
Metrop., but subsequent running suggested that
another furlong was not very acceptable. Perhaps
it might not have been, either, if there had been
more pace on at the beginning and there had been
anything except the ancient Bee to argue the point
at the end. The last part of the journey was run
at a good clip, but the struggle put up by Bee and
the desperate finish Hutchens had to ride to keep
Arch Marella’s head in front hardly make the
winner’s performance look as meritorious as is sug-
gested by the watch (2min. 45sec. for the 13 fur-
longs). The only other runner to do well was
Garibaldi, winner of the Holiday Handicap (1J
mile) on the first day. He again ran out in front.
When he blew up at the turn Arch Marella went
on and there was nothing left with a kick but old
Bee. She was a2O to 1 chancfe, and McLachlan made
her push the last ounce of the winner, who just
lasted to the line. Lingle was a poor third. Bur-
sar gave no trouble. Gadabout ran like a super-
annuated bullock —and threw some mighty tasty
doubles with Rebus for the Villiers into complete
disorder.
* * * *
The Syce filly Bambina, who showed con-
siderable rapidity at Rosehill (Sydney) a few weeks
before, annexed the Nursery Handicap on the first
day of the A.J.C. meeting in a fairly emphatic
way. Wherefore she was made favorite for the
December Stakes, on Boxing Day, and got badly
beaten. Almsgiver, who got wiped out at the start
on the first day, sailed home an easy winner after
a sharp struggle over the last furlong, with Var-
comte and Shapely. Almsgiver ran second to Sue in
the Gimcrack in October. She is a beautifully shaped
filly, trained by Col. Gillimore, and one of the
smartest of her sex of the season.
•* * ■* *
The Malster-Lovegraft two-year-old Rem-
ington, a frequent starter this season at ltandwick,
must have cost someone nearly enough to repatriate
the army. There was a heap of money for him
in the Breeders’ Plate. He arrived well astern. At
Tatt.’s meeting, soon after, there was another heap.
He turned up third. At last week’s A.J.C. fixture the
heap was there again in each of two races for
immaturity. And in both there was the same old
thud. He had every chance but finished as weakly
as a kitten. This colt is like a good many others
—speedy without a doubt, and being raced too
young. # #
As a two-year-old Palm Leaf was a flier.
She had her first race since then on Boxing Day in
the A.J.C. Flying, and Ike was ready to take 6 to 4
and occasionally oblige with evens. It would have
been all right if she hadn’t run against a suburban
performer with a poor record named Ilippasia. As
this unexpected animal was able to flee with 6st.
121 b. over the six furlongs in “12” Palm Leaf
carted her Bst. 21b. in two lengths behind.
• * * *
For Sydney Tatt.’s Carrington Stakes,
one of the two “big” six-furlong handicaps run at
Randwick each year, there were this time 26 starters.
About a dozen of them were front-rank sprinters,
and half a dozen or so were good suburban per-
formers over short courses. The other seven or eight
were of the kind which, without rational excuse,
seem tp butt into nearly every race which isn’t very
far. Not one of them could by the wildest stretch
of imagination be suspected of having 'a chance of
winning. It seems a pity, when a field of “cracks”
and near-about-that standard hanpens to be brought
together, that the proceedings should be complicated
by a number of inconsequential brutes lining up at
the barrier without a hope of doing anything but
getting in the road. The Carrington is always a good
race. It was good again on Saturday; but it is
impossible not to admit that the race would have
been substantially more interesting if at least seven
and perhaps nine of the field had been somewhere
else. It is not likely that the race would have
ended otherwise than it did, but it is certain that,
with less wreckage to get tangled up in, the fighting-
line in the last furlong would have beeff heavily
reinforced.
Poitrina’s sister, Aires, had won the A. J.C.
Trial (six furlongs) so well a week before with Bst.
81b. that even a 61b. penalty on her handicap of
7st. 51b. left her, for the Carrington, looking like
one of the good things which only transpire at rare
intervals. It became a question of picking one to
beat her. And the job was tackled with consider-
able confidence, for, though Aires started at 7’s, there
was more money for Sydney Damsel (6’s), and Dame
Acre, Briseis, Shiela R., Princess Lucy, Fight Ever
and Palm Leaf were solidly backed. All but three
of this lot were swamped in the first furlong. Palm
Leaf was quickly out on her own, and stayed there
till opposite the Leger. Then Aires and Princess
Lucy ran her down, and the former, lasting best,
gave Bracken a comparatively easy ride home. Palm
Leaf was third; then Greenstead. The rest were
well beaten off or tangled up, and the calamitous
Bimeter transpired a conspicuous last. A coinci-
dence is that the three placed nags are three-year-
old fillies. Last year Aires started five times,, but
was never a winner. Princess Lucy was not used
at that age.
* * * *
They still do things in the good old N. S.
Wales way up in the Gunnedah district. At recent
trots there a well-known sporting squatter was asked
to judge. He tried to get out of the job by stating
that he had never before filled such a position, and
feared he would make a mistake. They met this by
explaining' that it didn’t matter, since as he was
the best fighter on the ground there wouldn't be
any trouble about his placings. He took the job.
There were no scraps.
* * * *
Earlstine (Earlston (imp.)—Mai tine),
winner of the Launceston Summer Cup on Saturday
iast, carried Bst. lib. and ran the mile in “40,”
which is a Tasmanian record for the distance. But
the nag nearly made a mistake about it. She only
beat the moke that took second money by eight
lengths. *
* * * *
“Mulruana”: Died at Efsternwiek (Vic.)
Alex. (“Sandy”) Williamson, who was in the employ
of Walter Hickenbotham when the great Garuine
occupied a box at Coreena Lodge. , Subseqeuntlv, as
a private trainer, he w'ori races with the steeple-
chaser Nilus, Reindeer, Sodawater and others. Rein-
deer ran second in the Grand National Hurdle of
1898 when Pat won by a head. Williamson was 70
when the numbers went up. Ilis death leaves the
veteran Hickenbotham one of the last prominent links
with the deeds of Carbine. He at present has
charge of Cerago, a two-year-old with Derby pros-
pects.
« # * *
A reference work compiled by the registrar
of racehorses, and recently published by the A.J.C.,
gives an idea of the extent of racing in Australia.
Registration of racehorses became compulsory in
1912, and approximately 50,000 names have been
recorded by the registrar. As no horse can ■ race
until registered, and the half-breed is supposed to be
a thing of the past, some 50,000 thoroughbreds have
been broken and prepared for racing on registered
courses alone. Of course, someone pays the ex-
penses incurred in this business, and it happens that
most of us hand in donations trying to pick ’em.
Thus we do our bit, so to speak.
The collapse of N. S. Wales on the wet
wicket against Victoria showed the team in a very
poor light, and emphasised the suspicion that leaving
the left-hander J. Bogle (University) behind was a
great mistake. This season Bogle has accumulated
the highest aggregate (620 runs), and holds the
tallest average (103.38) —and yet was passed over.
Bogle did not take net practice seriously, and the
selection committee sized up net practice against
“form.” The committee now has time to • look
round for new blood before choosing Ma’s XI for the
return dust-up at the end of the month.
F. Baring (East Melbourne) who knocked
pieces off the N. S. Wales bowling while scoring 131
(out of 263) in the inter-State match at Melbourne
last week, is one of the finest of Australia’s modern
batsmen. In pre-war days he was just finding his
smack, and in Sheffield Shield matches averaged
38.75 in 1913-14 and 30.14 in 1914-15. Last year
he knocked 485 runs (40.41) in Melbourne week-
end cricket. Baring’s best whack this season had
been 62 against University. The much-travelled E.
R. Mavne (Collingwood) was the other three-figure
smiter of Ma (105) on Victoria’s behalf. In inter-
state matches with S.A. Mayne averaged 34.00 in
1913-14, and 23.12 in 1914-15 ; and his home-coming
to Victoria seems to have whetted a mania for big
scoring. Jack Ryder (Collingwood), who got busy
with 74, is a great all-rounder. When Victoria won
the Sheffield Shield in 1914-15 Ryder scored 425
runs, averaging 85.00 ; and in Vic. cricket last year
had the biggest aggregate (568, averaging 63.1) and
took 37 wickets, averaging 13.8. Baring, r Mayne
and Ryder were chosen for the S’African triangular
jaunt, which was pigeon-holed when war got the
limelight. '
* * ' * *
At the Adelaide Oval, St. Peter’s and
Prince Alfred Colleges concluded their annual cricket
match on the 17th. P.A.C. won by six wickets.
L. V. Pellew (the Pellew family has always been
prominently associated with S.A. cricket) scored
127 for St. Peter’s, and C. P. Prest (P.A.C.) com-
piled 108 not out. These are the first centuries in
the college match since Don Steele (P.A.C.) amassed
three figures in 1912. Pellew and Prest also had a
fair share of the bowling honors. Seven batsmen
got out in the very unsatisfactory way of l.b.w.
These contests have been .noted in the past for per-
formances by lads who eventually made/a name for
themselves in first-class cricket. Three international
players who introduced themselves to the public in
a college match: —Joe Darling (P.A.C.), in ’B5, with
252. Clem Hill (P.A.C., in ’93), 360, retired.
(This got Clem into the inter-State matches, and
shortly afterwards he accumulated a triple century
in Sydney.) C. E. Dolling (P.A.C., in ’O4 and ’O5),
311 and 106. It is 40 years since the initial inter-
collegiate contest.
Clem Hill, Gehrs, Wliitty, Willsmore,
Rundell, Bridgman, A. Richardson. V. Richardson,
Townsend, Selth, Pritchard and Jose were S.A.’s
selection for the match against Vic. which opened
yesterday. The first six mentioned have had previous
inter-State experience. In batting the team appears
strong. Although nine of the combination bowl in
club cricket Wliitty is the only trundler that has
proved himself with first-class opposition. They are
a young looking lot. To some it seems rather a
doubtful wisdom to have picked Clem Hill as
skipper, as he has not played in a match for four
or five years and is not familiar with the abilities
of the men under his charge. Still, 25 years ago
there were people who scoffed at the selectors who
put schoolboy Clem into a State eleven. Hill con-
founded that crowd by putting up a record score.
Now we will see whether middle-age has done for
the schoolboy what middle-age had done for the old
’uns when he was a kid.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: Ar-'4ale from a jury-room is
recalled in the retirement from the Bench of Judge
Docker. A team of .English cricketers was in Sydney, and
on the opening day of the match his Honor was
sitting at Quarter Sessions at Darlinghurst. The case
for trial was one of “receiving,” the evidence against
the accused being that only of the man who stole
the article —a pig of iron, very difficult of identifica-
tion. The Crown had closed its case at lunch-time
and the address for the defence by Gannon, K.C., was
deferred until after the meal. At dinner great regret
was expressed in the jury room (I was a juror) at
.missing the opening day of the cricket match, the
’foreman, a well-known wool-broker, being especially
troubled. The writer suggested that, as the case for
the Crown had closed, it was quite competent for the
jury to return their verdict of “Not guilty” immedi-
ately on their return into court. The foreman was
very nervous, but on resuming in court he screwed
up his courage and announced that the jury had
decided to give a verdict of “Not guilty.” Docker
became very indignant and was about to hurl the
usual anathema at “thick-headed jurymen,” when
Gannon intervened to support the jury’s right to
find a verdict when the Crown case had closed. The
Judge accepted the verdict, and immediately Judge,
counsel arid jurymen did a race for the next tram
to the Cricket Ground.
* * * *■
“Bill Bowyang” : The best all-round ‘ath-
lete with our mounted men in Palestine is Sgt. Jack
Dempsey, who in pre-war days was considered the
finest buckjump rider and horsebreaker in N. S. Wales.
Dempsey has won many competitions in Egypt and
the Holy Land, and on different occasions has bagged
five 100yds. championship races, meeting each time
representatives from England and Scotland. He won
the high jump at a Cairo sports meeting last Decem-
ber, clearing sft. 6Mn. He was afterwards invited
to take part in a Camel Corps meeting on the Canal,
and won every event he entered for, including the
wrestling-on-camel-back competition. For this event
Dempsey rode the worst-tempered beast in the Camel
Corps, and afterwards declared that although he
was afraid of no horse ever foaled he would never
again mount a camel. The Tommies considered that
they knew something about horsemanship until they
saw Dempsey and his cobbers Stanbridge and Haw-
kins riding and breaking-in at Heliopolis and Moascar.
Dempsey is also a goad boxer and swimmer.
* * * *
“D.W. J.” : Maoriland ped. L. C. McLach-
lan, who died in the Shivery Islands recently, put
his legs to good use while he lasted, and he wore
weli. He would have been in the first flight among
professionals anywhere, but. was just a yard or so
short of being a world-beater. He was at Gympie
in ’B9, and there I knew him intimately. Running
was on the boom then, and McLachlan, who at the
time was running a billiard-room at Northumberland,
was not unsuccessful. After winning a big handicap
at Toowoomba he returned to M.L. in 1900 and
started breaking records. Some of his times reached
the limit as then known, and, quite naturally per-
haps, a lot of people' got excited and wanted to ship
him off to England. His best performances were
over 220yds. When at his best there were not. many
who could arrive at the end of a furlong with
greater expedition. Mac. ran in every Australian
State, and in Fiji. In the early days of Zeehan there
was a big handicap on the menu, and a few weeks
before it happened a young stranger took a job on
a handy farm. When the day of the run arrived
some of the heads noticed that the cocky’s laborer
transpired in running togs which looked as if they
had been used before and disclosed unusually brown
legs. The stakes were delayed ; but Mac. got them
in the end. A queer thing about him was that he
didn’t develop full speed until nearly 30.
* * * *
“Snorer”: I don’t know anything about
the visibility of a pipe-bowl or a match-box at 100
yards, but I’ll swear “Nimrod” (B. 28/11/’18) has
nothing more to go on than mere theory or defective
spectacles in deriding the possibility of hitting such
a mark with reasonable frequency. Neither a pipe-
bowl nor a match-box is larger than a stag’s eye.
Very well. 1 take this from “Stalking- in the High-
lands,” a well-known work by the Laird of Tamomac-
kilts: “In, the woods of Blytheorran it was a rule
never to fire if more than the eye of the stag could
be detected through the leave's. This restriction
enabled the- Prince of Schloversooken to give some
remarkable' evidence of his mastery of sporting
weapons. No matter how far off the eye could be
seen he never missed it.” Of course I'don’t know
what Schloverspoken would have done with a match-
box, or how he would have performed among the
’roos, but he appears to have been a fair sort of shot.
*** \ *
The life and athletic exploits of Cecil
Healy, killed on the Western Front with the A.1.F.,
are recounted in an in-memoriam volume, published
by John Andrew & Co. The illustrations are excel-
lent. A useful book for all friends and admirers
of the great swimmer.


Be a Hard-Hitting, Skilful,
Forceful Boxer I
In other words, a real man—a man able to stand up for his rights, if
need be, and deal out more than he receives.
You’ve surely seen many cases where MIGHT WAS RIGHT, where
a great rough “bully” unjustly attacked an inoffensive individual.
Just imagine if you were to be goaded by the insults of a “bully”
until your self-respect could stand no more. How would you get on
in the “scrap” that followed? Could you stand up to your man,
confident of your ability to “out” him, or would you be nervous on
account of your lack of knowledge of the Noble Art?
Now, to be forewarned is to be forearmed. You will do well in
to box —in knowing just when and how to hit—how to stop a
X rusher —how to land a knock-out.
I TEACH BOXING BY POST
and will quickly develop your natural skill. Why
not be one Of my pupils? The instruction is prac-
tical, simple and easily understood. It thoroughly
explains and illustrates every serviceable “move”
in Scientific Boxing.
You reap the benefit of my many years’ experi-
ence and keen observation of the best “moves” of
the world’s best boxers.
You ought to write for my illustrated Booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which gives
fuller particulars, cost of tuition, etc. Just write
your name and address on this advertisement and
post to me. I’ll know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER.
“The All-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
836 BELM9NT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
Magnesia
for indigestion.
m
Y 0^ t
p
SS I
->K3P
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS.
USE IT AND PROVE IT.
Srffth Imperial 03 Co. Ltd
That’sthe
Hie quick way the comfortable j
way, the healthy way,the J
economical way -on
5J "m
Do you travel
this way?^
II
CATALOGUE WITH
PLEASURE.
s
Rhodes Motor Cycle
Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Russell Street,
Melbourne.
NatbraSSSJ?
'i'.’Ai
L.RowlanO§.
baixarat He
rv
sSfc
T
UAUt.%%
sF<©>
uIM
V-
Cor\heins>
Lime-Soda
LlTrtlAtMAGffE:
IA
IThere's a Holiday in Every Bottle . •
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO '
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 Q.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
HAND FORGES and DRILLS
■
W
Large variety of Drills
for Hand or Power, and
All Styles of PORTABLE
FORGES IN STOCK.
Benson Brothers Ltd.
76-78 LIVERPOOL; STREET, SYDNEY.
71-75 QUEEN'S BRIDGE STREET, MELBOURNE.
138 CURRIE STREET. ADELAIDE.
-0., .?
r m
/
l
•• : fl 11 :
II! I!
i I -I I If!
U bii 11! ;!
'
I
Vi
f H
Tf~V
|fi!sa======
ft 7 i-qn-um
Shirts
■s'6 (Post Free)
Their
Supremacy
Rests on
W - O - R - K-M-A-IM-S-H-I-P
It is workmanship that lends individuality in a
decided degree to “Veribest” Shirts, placing them
in a class by themselves, and which forms the
Big Reason why the Shirts YOU wear should bear
the “Veribest” label.
“Veribest” Shirts are made in our own work-
rooms, and their attributes of Correct Cut —Easy,
SPORTING SHIRTS.
White Mercerised Shirts, with collar and pocket,
4/6, 5/6
White Flannel 8/6, 10/6
yet Accurate, Fit —Perfect Balance and Flawless
Finish increase to the maximum the sum total
of Shirt Comfort and Shirt Service.
To workmanship of the highest order add
materials of Excellent Quality—Colors and
Designs coincident with Fashion’s Latest Deci-
sions, and you have a complete statement of the
Reasons for “Veribest” Supremacy.
LOUNGE SHIRTS.
Zephyr and Cambric, with soft Single or Double
Cuffs 7/6, 8/6
Khalci Cotton, with detachable Collar, 9/6,11/6
Tussore and Jap. Silks jg /g
Lincoln, Stuart S Co. Pty. Ltd.,
244-54 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.


19
))
OUR friends, old
and new, will find
in PELACO
Collars this year the same
high quality, the same fit
and finish, the same
comfort and value as here-
tofore.
Almost everyone £nouw
now that the word
PELACO stands for
Collar-quality. The idea
is firmly grounded. It is
thoroughly supported by
the experience of men
who Wear PELACO
Collars.
Ask your Mercer to show
you the latest styles.
COLLARS
A fade in Australia
Wear also Pe'aco Shirts and ‘Pyjamas
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking'; Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
POWER BOOKS.
Business Power, £1 Is.
Power of Will, £1 Is.
Power for Success, £3 3s.
FULL PARTICULARS PROM
HAMILTON 8 CO., 34 Pitt Street, Sydney
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boiht,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from,
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
passed merits. They' know it to be a safe
and perfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments ; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grasshopper Oint-
ment positivelvdraws the poisons which pro-
duce these maladies out of the system. As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should be taken in con junction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU, HOBART.
vUi/' >'
n ft
■■■zzsL
n .■
V'l'* -
TASMANIA
Australia’s Playground.
All information from Tasmania’s mainland
offices: —
Sydney: 262 George Street.
Melbourne: 59 William Street.
ltrisbnne: 41 Queen Street.
Perth: 50 William Street.
Send 9d. for illustrated guidebook and
accommodation list. Other literature posted
free.
Tickets issued at Melbourne and Sydney
offices to any part of Tasmania. Special coupon
issued at Sydney for a Fortnight’s Holiday in
Tasmania, £l3 10s., including fares, accom-
modation and local- trips.
Accommodation arranged through mainland
offices. _
The Hobart and Launceston bureaux book
for all local trips and to all parts of Tas-
mania. Have your correspondence addressed
to our-. W. i i
. ----- E T: pjpiETT, Director.
THE
WINTON.’
A PERFECT
STOCK SADDLE.
The'WINTON”
Stock Saddle
is one of our finest productions, and
for rough riding and a comfortable
every-day saddle there is nothing
better. The flaps and skirts are com-
bined in one piece, giving a narrow,
non-chafing grip. The pads are set
high up over the stirrup-bars, giving
the utmost security to the rider. The
panel has wide leather points extend-
ing beyond the flaps. The tree is
exceptionally strong, steel-plated bars
and steel stirrup-bars. It is fitted
with bevelled leathers and folded girth.
£lOl7/6
AVITHOUT
STIRRUI’S.
Solid Nickel Stirrups 15/ extra,
or Nickel-plated Steel Two-bar
Stirrups’ 9/6 extra.
Sent Freight Free for cash to any
port or railway station in N.S.W.
Buyers in other States write for
special freight terms.
Send Your Height and Weight.
Write for Catalogue of 70 Saddles.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
393 GEORGE ST.,
32 HUNTER ST.,
Sydney.
“THEY COME AS
THE PICKWICK,
A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
Super Fx & R Watches
No other make of Watch equals them
For profound accuracy,
For hard bush wear,
For absolute reliance.
They are 63/- each, in Metal Capes, but they last a
lifetime and give daily reliance.
Fairfax and Roberts Ltd.,
Plain Figures.
( ! a?h Only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
Gent.’s Full-size Open-face
Oxidised Steel Super Fx & R
Watch, 63/*
me*
DURING 1919
—and the years that follow —there will
be many men who will smoke the
with happy recollection of the appropriate
presentation made to them at Christmas
1918. The G.B.D. is without doubt
“THE- PERFECT PIPE.”
MANY POPULAR SHAPES. ALL TOBACCONISTS.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except o / a hostile character') will b»
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
M.J.W.: Not improved. ... R.S. : Those
slight things must be well done throughout. Write
half as much and don’t leave loose lines. .. .C.A.:
“One Big Association” makes dull reading. .. .
H.F.W.: As far as it could be read, it appeared not
to be worth while... .H. 8.: You can’t rhyme “own”
and “chaperon” in this paper. .. .S.P.Q.R.: Not well
enough done.. .M.C.: “Blind Understanding” is a good
enough magazine story... .A.D.: Too long. ... J.H.:
“Salute” and “Creed” to hand. Please get some real
ink. . . .J.G. : Not badly done, but the interest has
waned. , . .M.8.P.: “Wheels” get into too many
ruts W.J.C.: Returned. .. .Hannibal: Your first
stanza is humbug... . Rita: It was a bit of brilliant
inspiration to think of saying the Kaiser was worse
than the Devil... .K.S.: Some good lines, but as a
set of verses, no u5e....A.L.N.: Let it go at that.
. ...J.S.C.: English verses too lumpy, and French
ones under suspicion. In any case, we print only in
the Australian language.... R.E.: Fail to find the
heat; and the point is equally obscure. The other
verse is very bad.... Chick Fly: One sample:—
The’re cpmeing, from the fields of France;
Where they stopped the foul huns advance,
With shot and shell and splintered lance.
That left the botch not even a chance
Of winning on the Somme.
Comeing from fields red and goary,
Decked threefold with fame and -glory;
Sang by men, both young and hoary.
W ith scars and wounds to tell the story;
The story of the Somme. •
Sing loud, there praise unto the stars ;
The praise of these, our sons of Mars.
Who's felt the pain and jolts and jars,
Of shrapnel, steel and armored cars,
While fighting on the Somme.
... .F.M.: Verse far too crude. . . .E.J.G.: Yarn *a
bit too obvious... .C.A.: Lamentably dull.. . . A.E.G.:
“Rescuers” much improved, but doesn’t make a
yarn yet.... John S. H.: The poorest sort of waddle
verse... .A.M.: No g00d... .E.R.S.: Very bad copy
of very poor verse. .. . R.A.P.: It’s bad... .N.T.: A
sonnet is only 14 lines, but you can’t take even that
in a single breath without one stop.. . .G.A.E.: Lame
as a wheelbarrow with a hind broken wheel....
D.L.W.: Overworked idea. .. . J. 8.: Very thin....
D.A.J.: It isn’t “Nature’s Voice” —-not by furlongs.
... .H. 0.: You desire to say to the future statesmen
of this country: “Think first of Australia, the Em-
pire and the working classes.” The brilliant
originality of that idea should wake . them up... .
Bellerive: The id.yllie bit about the hoopiron goes
into its old, accustomed place:—
I trod upon a hoopiron—•
AVhile passing down a lane,
It sprang and hit me on the shin—
W hich made me writhe with pain,
Hoopiron may be useful—•
For a barrel, box or fence.
But to leave it in a person’s road
Is anything but sense,
Tred upon its rusty edge—•
And it will let you know it.
The true and simple little lines
Of Bellerive the poet.
. ...S.D.: It’s an old story, no better for the tell-
ing. .. .R.S.: The decayed bulldog, is a sorrowful
beast in verse of that quality. [P.S.—There should
be an epic surrounding a decayed bulldog.],.. i .
Mereal: Deserves its place in the temple of fame: —
The world is turning round
Like a big pendulum clock.
At which point will it stop?
And where the bugle sound ?
All be ready when it comes.
Each man in his plabe,
Every country hand in hand,
As if we were one race.
When our men will safe return,
Australia’s name on high,
Ring the Bells, strike up boys, g
Australia’s torch will ever burn.
... .S.C.: You don’t “soar” much. . . .Dingo: Close
to the shocking example level. .. .A.D.: Thanks; but
of no use to us. It would be small credit to Billy
Hughes’s “publicity suite” if Paris L’lllustra-
tion’s limb hadn’t been pulled as easily as so many
others E.H.: Thanks; but one (the first) is old
and the other is not up.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Dol: If the joke isn't loaded it is stupid. The
drawing doesn’t clamor for publication Marjory
Me.: The artistic policeman shed tears when he had
to wave the child back. But point duty is point
duty. . . .D.C.S.: “No,” with both barrels. ...R.L.:
We have destroyed him as instructed. It was a
quiet but pretty assassination. .. .F.K.: Hardly
enough of it 'to curse. .. .C.A’.J.D.: You don’t even
use the right ink. But it really doesn’t matter until
you learn something.
“D.F.”: Gaol-birds are about the scarcest
fowl in the Speck now. A recent counting
slioAved only 34 prisoners in the Hobart
Gaol —and the police are not on strike,
either. Population of 200,000. Another
count at the same time showed that of the
Australian Y.C.’s 10 had been won by Tas-
manians.
Something new in the way of entertain-
ment was put up by the Western Austral-
ians for the benefit of the French Mission.
At the Guildford Recreation Ground a crowd
of abos. gave a demonstration in the form
of a corroboree, and as the visitors had not
seen anything of the kind in the other States
they were greatly interested. The proceed-
ings were conducted by representative
natives of the Murchison and the South-
West districts. They were naked, with the
exception of loincloths, and were orna-
mented in their most striking warpaint.
Native huts, in which were a number of
abo. women, grtvc the demonstration a
natural setting. The gins during one or
two of the sacred performances covered
themselves with blankets to shut out what
to them were forbidden sights. After the
entrance promenade there were Ivatanning
dances, the ‘‘boys” from the Drysdale River
performed the crow, alligator, emu and
turkey sarabands. The binghis presented
General Pan with a collection of native
weapons and curios, and the big soldier
reciprocated by handing the abos. some
Christmas cheer.


* /V'
•
m
k
■
■
A
■
>•
I ■
*#
■
-1
w*m
I
:
$
*
m
a
’
: :
‘ I
M
-
a®i
ri>V-S-
-■
/v
■
i
V
?
: - ■■
h
m
mm
1
\4
Prize Winners— Big Money Getters— Top-priced Wool Growers
None of these desirable essentials can be obtained unless your stock are in the pink of condition.
Your sheep, cows and horses must have a rating of Salt Lick to keep their blood cool and vigorous.
BONDO Salt Licks
are the finished product of nature supported by the laboratory and the skilled artisan.
Manufactured in Australia, they have no superior in this or any other market
They are Cheaper and Better than Imported Licks.
Are you one of the purchasers of the 700,000 cases used in Australia? If not, become a convert
at once by demanding from your storekeeper a case of BONDO SALT LICKS.
STOREKEEPERS, WRITE OUR AGENTS.
>
• H
*
M
'
Wholesale Distributing Agents—Victoria: DALGETY & CO.
New South Wales: BROWN & DUREAU, King Street. Sydney.
South Australia: SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMERS’ UNION.
West Australia: FOTHERGILL & CO. LTD., Fremantle.
BOND MANUFACTURING CO.,
72 and 74 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.


Missing: Friends.
IF this should come under the notice <
Miss VERA BARNETT, last heard
at Glebe in 1915, please communicate wit
J.W.S., Bulletin Office.
AMELIA GILLESPIE, last heard .
about 1889, then about to get marriec
Brother inquires. Information Bulleti
Office.
A LBERT ERNEST SCOTT, of Wallasey, Cheshir
England. Information as to present whereabou
wanted by his mother. Until Ist October, 1917, w
resident in Canada for about three years. Lande
in Sydney, N.S.W., from Vancouver, 8.C., on 26
October, 1917, and discharged from R.M.S. Niagai
same date. Will probably be employed as ship
steward or hotel waiter. Any assistance in helpii
to trace will be gratefully appreciated, t>lease, b
Mrs. LILY STEWART, Malvern House, Leasow
Road, Wallasey, Cheshire, England.
Public Notices.
THE TONGKAH HARBOUR TIN
DREDGING CO. N.L.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
Notice is hereby given that
Dividend (the .’list) of 10 per cent
or 2s. per share, together with 'a bonus o
5 per cent., or Is. per share, amounting in a
to £22,500, has been declared payable on th
22nd January, 1919. and for this purpos
the Share Register will be closed from th
15th to the 22nd January, 1919 inclusive.
By order of the Board.
11. J. WISE, Manager,
Dated at Hobart this 18th day of Decern
her, 1918.
Amusement*.
Harry Richards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
"P I VOT, I THEATRE, SYI) N E Y
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
SECOND EDITION OF
EVERYBODY’S DOING IT.
Plan at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
"J*IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH PRESENTS THE LATEST
AND GREATEST LONDON REVUE SUCCESS,
BUBBLY.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- Sc 1/-, plus tax.
IiITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WJI.LIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN SYDNEY.
FRIENDLY ENEMIES.
The great propaganda play that succeeded in con-
solidating American opinion in regard to the war.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
|_| E R M A .1 E S T Y ’ S, S Y D N E 1.
* 1 Direction .1. C. AVILLUMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
THE LIMIT IN REVUE SPECTACLES.
HELLO, EVERYBODY*
A revelation in the art of stage-production.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
IN A NEW MUSICAL COMEDY,
OH, OH, DELPHINE!
Plans at Paling’s.
DALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY
■ Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
EM I LIE POLINIE,
The Foremost Dramatic Favorite, in
'I DE LUXE ANNIE.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNI O N PICTI’It 10 THEA T R E
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
|_|EK MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
■ ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLTAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
TREMENDOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
GOODY TWO SHOES.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
THEATRE ROY A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the" Famou:
American Comedian,
M. 8.. FIGMAN, in
NOTHING BUT THE TBUTH.
hC ING’S THEATRE. SI ELBOU R N E.
Lesses, BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. <Sr N. TAIT and BAILEY & GRANT present
THE MERRY CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
|y|A,JESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
MABEL NORMAND
in
MICKEY.
Matinees Daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements. w
—— -X
U OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
1 ■ Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening; Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
WILLIAM S. HART in
BLUE BLAZES RAWDON.
VIVIAN MARTIN in
PETTICOAT PILOT.
LYCEUM (Over Princes Bridge).
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday 2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURE:
JEWEL CARMEN in
CONFESSION.
Prices as usual. .
Amusements.
COLLIES THEATRE. ST HILDA.
■ MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
JOHN N. MvCALLUMS
INCOMPARABLE COURTIERS.
THE ENTERTAINMENT OF THE MOMENT.
THE ACME OF REFINEMENT.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Showing the pick of the world’s films, includin'.'
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICIv.
gRITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
The Bank of Adelaide.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament 1865.
AUTHORISED CAPITA!, £1,000,000. SUBSCRIBED CAPITA!, £625,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND . .
£500,000
555,000
£1,055,000
UNCALLED CAPITAL 125 000
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAR EHOLDERS 625*000
£1,805.000
HEAD OFFICE: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
R - Branches and Agencies in South Australia, and Agents and
Correspondents throughout the World.
A Branch of this Bank is now open at 105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
FOR THE TRANSACTION OF ALI, ORDINARY BANKING BUSINESS, UNDER
THE MANAGEMENT OF MR. A. H. DALE.
Adelaide. South Australia,
December 23, iOlB.
JOHN SHIELS,
Manager.
0R
Cycling without fatigue
means cycling on the world’s acknow-
ledged finest saddle a
BROOKS (
the choice of every, veteran cyclist
the product of a firm with a world-
wide reputation.
Ask your Agent.
- \
/
as
to
m
si
ft
SS
SSL
% v
ORLICK'S
MALTED
MILK
Baby knows the difference.
He knows what makes him feel good,
happy, and contented.
You know that he thrives upon this
™ easily assimilated, nourishing food,
therefore insist on always having
Horlick’s Malted Milk for him.
Write for sample, sending 2d. In
stamps to HUTCHINSON & Co., Ltd.
26, Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
No Shortage of Supplies. Ample Stocks throughout Australia.
DIAMONDS as
YEAR GIFTS.
No other Gift in the whole list of Valuable Things has such
Personal Appeal as a Diamond Bing.
K33.—£12/10/-
K79.—£11/10
lit 013. —Diamond
and 3 Emeralds,
£lO/10/-
ALL our diamonds
ARE SET IN
PURE PLATINUM
AND 18ct. GQLIL
fl
K923.—£35
l mm
K 73 I. — I ) iam on cl
and Emerald
Cluster, £55.
Jlolo.—£l7/10/
£lO/10/-
G93.—£10.
CALL AND INSPECT, or WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE
OF USEFUL PRESENTS.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
LARGEST JEWELLERS OF THE EMPIRE.,
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
QUEENSLAND.
RE WILLIAM SMYTH DECEASED.
PURSUANT to a Judgment of the
Supreme Court of Queensland made in an
action by Queensland Trustees Limited and
Ellen Jane Smyth (Widow.) against Harry
Lowcock and others the persons claiming as
next of kin or in the right of next of kin to
be entitled to share in the distribution of the
estate of William Smyth late of Gympie in
the State of Queensland Mining Speculator
who died on the fifteenth day of July 1899
must send in in Writing to the abovenamed
plaintiffs Queensland Trustees Limited
Queen Street Brisbane particulars of their
claims within thirty days from the date of
the publication of this advertisement or in
default thereof they will be peremptorily
excluded from the benefit of the said Judg-
ment.
Dated this Twentieth Day of December,
1918. ,
CHAS. S. NORRIS (1.5.). Registrar.
Chambers McNab & McNab, 30 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane, Solicitors for the
Plaintiffs.
Business Notices,
1 Js
FOR
EVERY
MAN
the're is an ABBEY Style, giving
comfort from first to last day’s
wear-*—correctly designed and care-
fully modelled to ensure distinction
of appearance.
ABBEY SHOES
are of the high quality which
ensures long service, and makes
them most economical to wear.
We illustrate one of our latest
models —a choice Glace Kid Bal.,
with Patent-leather Toecaps.
Prices, 32/6 8 35/-
In half and full sizes and three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A B B E Y,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
£
<
V
<aoU^
3
This Is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
Cj^‘
318 Lltlfe Collins St., Melbourne.
For our sick and wounded
ROYS. —When you, have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.


cimciM
CLEARS
DANDRUFF
.
Little girl’s head covered with dan-
druff which irritated causing loss of
sleep. Scratched and head became
slightly inflamed. Suffered six weeks
and hair became dry and came out in
handfuls. Other remedies did no good
so sent for sample Cuticura. Bought
more Soap and Ointment and after a
few weeks treatment all signs of dan-
druff had disappeared.
From signed statement of Mrs.
James Lee, Koorawalyee, W. A.
For hair and skin health Cuticura
Soap assisted by the Ointment is
supreme for every-day toilet purposes.
Soaptocleanse and Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
EEEBiE
Fire Insurances
SPECIALS
TWO
LINES
s Klf
FOR
m ■*
■ - .
mm
pfs4< i f4
| AM.
i4,Jt4*ih4
A *«m*4
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY
ZC MOMTER ST NEWCASTLE
EEEESESESE3IS2HES
Lonyclct/u> and CcUlcceA
WILL PAY vou mi Tut END.
ESTABLISHED 1791
’'HORROCKSES':
ON SELVeDC£
TIORROCKS£^AORRQCKS£?
miEEamsEEEmsMsi
VaseliQffl
ARBOLATEH
*£9ROUCn MW
Vaseline
R«4. wft Pfct„ofr< «y
Carbolated
PETROLEUM JELLY
An antiseptic
dressing tor
insect bites,
and corns.
AVOID SUBSTITUTES
11/ustra ted booklet full ofvaluable
' information free on request-
CHESEBKOV6H MFC. CO.
(consolidated)
New Yorlt Lonflon
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
BOX 221 G.P.O. SYDNEY.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
ture,&c. Rents also assured,
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, eta.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH. General Manager.
•&=
ji
-4.
%
p
%
%
*
4
3
2T
X
1
smso
m
v®iTmys tjep& iifflg
It Works
Wonders on the
Car, Too
Not only is John-
son's Prepared Wax
a boon to the house-
wife —protecting her
furniture, piano,
gramophone and
woodwork with a
beautiful and enduring dustproof polish —
but it works wonders on the motor car, too.
produces a hard, dry, glasslike polish of great beauty
and durability on any finished surface. It forms
a thin protecting coat over the varnish, adding years
to its life and beauty. It covers up mars and
scratches —prevents checking—sheds water and
makes a wash last twice as long.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax contains no oil —does not
become sticky in warm or damp weather and im-
parts a surface so hard and dry that dust cannot
adhere to it.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is but one of the John-
son Products which includes Johnson’s Cleaner for
use on motor cars that are greasy, mud freckled
and stained; Johnson’s Carbon Remover for carbon
clogged engines and Johnson’s Radiator Cement for
leaky radiators.
They are obtainable at all good dealers.
S. C. Johnson & Son
Manufacturers 79 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W
the: touch tells
Glide smoothly, never grate .
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men —these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
!H
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
m
9
¥
Made in 17 degrees, OB to
9H, and 3 styles of Copying,
OP ALL STATIONERS ANO ARTISTS'-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Japan snatched the war opportunity by
the hair, though Australia missed it. Japan
increased its exports from £68,000,000 to
£160,000,000 per annum in three years (the
value of goods sold to Australia more than
trebled); paid off part of its foreign debt;
made a revenue surplus of £22,000.000 in one
year to build railways with ; multiplied the
profits of its shipping trade (partly made by
carrying goods for us) twelve times over;
and put up wages to a point never before
dreamt of. In its haste to be rich it made
£893,000 in one year by the export of tooth-
brushes.
* * * *
“11.N.C.5.”: Let me correct “Edo’s” (B.
21/11/’J 8) paragraph about the Kalgoorlie
Returned Soldiers’ Association. He said
that the Association recently started a
workshop, in which men waiting for per-
manent employment put in time making,
among other things, excellent axe-handles,
yet local traders, instead of encouraging
what might grow into a fairly large
local industry, look cross-eyed at the
homemade article. “When they do buy
they give only Is. each ; but they sell at from
3s. 6d. to ss. each.” It was the Red Cross
Society that started the shop, and local
trader's have given the promoters every
encouragement. The prices at which the
handles are retailed are 2s. 3d. for first qual-
ity, 2s. for second quality, and the total cost
of production is Is. 6d. and Is. Bd., according
to quality. So that really the soldier gets a
very fair deal and the retailer gets no excess
profits.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The war and the temporary
scarcity of imported softwoods has resur-
rected a fading business in the wild, wet
country round Macquarie Harbor (Tas.).
Rafts of pine logs floating down make the
Gordon River look like,; old times, and the
pine patches on all the creeks round Mac-
quarie Harbor are beifig cut over again.
Some prospectors have gone into new coun-
try altogether—-the Spero River, which flows
mto the ocean between Cape Sorell and Point
Hibbs —and it is proposed to put in a tram-
way to bring a million-odd feet of pine to
Birch’s Inlet, where, in ISI6, Captain Kelly
cut the first lluon pine into which a steel
axe was ever put in Western Tasmania. But,
perhaps now that we can get pine from the
Baltic and TJ.S.A. again there will be no
need to bother.
* * * * *
“G.”; Talking about the copper-shortage
(B. 5/12/T8). Small change is becoming
so scarce in South Aus. that in Adelaide
notices are being posted in shops and
restaurants asking purchasers to hand over
the exact amount due. The _ opinion
of one of the leading bankers is that
traders are going to be up against trouble
this year-end. The Tramways Trust gets
through barrow-loads of bronze coins. When
it raised the fares in October T 7 a ha’penny
a section it thought that an extra £5OO or
£6OO worth of these coins put into circulation
would meet requirements for a long time, but
£l5OO worth had to be got from Melbourne, and
now another £lOOO worth of halfpennies are
required. Apart from the tramways it, is
estimated that £2OO worth of new bronze
coins are required in S.A. every week for
ordinary trade, and £lOOO worth were needed
to make things right for Christmas trade.
What becomes of the pennies and half-
pennies has got everyone puzzled. It }s cer-
tain they don’t w;ear out. Public telephone-
receivers, slot-gasmeters and slot-machines are
cleared too, regularly to account for the short-
age. The trouble is perhaps caused by those
cranks who make a hole in a kerosene-tin or
some other small receptacle, and all coppers
received in change are cast into this bank,
which is opened annually for a new dress of
some other sort of “blow-out.”
**• * *
■ “Dale”: Nature may have intended South
Australia to be the bacchanalian State (B.
12/12/T8), but the Speck has decided that
it will pay better to ride on a water-waggon
—with hydro-electricity supplying the power.
In the year 1918-10 the bulk supply sold ran
to 14.256,409 units, as compared with
3,658,240 in the previous year, while the
retail supply figures mounted to 2,456,000
units, an increase of 24 per cent. Big hopes
for industrial progress in the future are
justified by the Electrolytic Zinc Co.’s works
(which are providing in one way and
another for about 2000 soids) and the Hydro-
Electric Power and Metallurgical Co., which
is planning big extensions.
A FAIR WAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Female officers in the Commonwealth Public Ser-
vice. arguing their case before Justice Powers the
other day, contending' that they must have money
enough to dress well, added that “face creams,
powders, etc., were necessary for any lady’s toilet.”
In this hard age small sympathy
Man shows for woman’s needs
Such as conventionality
Or cruel custom breeds.
No woman powders up her nose,
As jocund critics all suppose,
For vanity. Be just,
Admit she throws the pearly dust
Because she really must.
A ruddy nose, a pallid lip,
A cheek of pasty hue
Do not a modern girl equip
To take and hold her due.
The rosy tint upon her Cheek
Is woman’s armor, so to speak.
The pay is scarcely fair
That leaves the lass, when all is square,
Too poor to dye her hair.
The girl who wants the means to fight
The ravages of age
Is acting well within her right—
She asks a living wage.
Why blanch her cheek? She must contrive,
Poor girl, at least to look alive.
The sex, while not denying
High cost of living, is decrying
The higher cost of dyeing.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


A
Miss Anna Case, the celebrated
American platform artist,
proving by actual comparison,
the marvellous fidelity of The
NEW EDISON “re-creation.”
The HEW EDISOH
—a magnificent instrument
The NEW EDISON is essentially a musical instru-
ment, not a mechanical apparatus. Its “re-creations” of
the human voice are as inspiring- as the original
performance of the artists.
The wonder and miracle of a perfect voice with its clear
full melody and golden tones, loses nothing in the
re-creation,” and even when in direct comparison the
difference cannot be 1
Get one for YOUR home
Full details gladly mailed, post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
« # •
$
SPENCER - MOULTON Three-
Ribbed T vies are impervious to
the intense Australian heat.
You will worry much less about
atmospheric conditions if you use
these tough yet resilient tyres.
Arid winds, parched roads, tropical
downpours the ill-effects of all
are best countered by these all-
British tyres.
Fit them once, and you will want
them always. Ask the motorists
you meet.
-
%
three:
RIBBED TYRES
Interesting Catalogue and ’Price List
Will be sent by return mail on request.
GEO. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England.
Works : Bradford-on-Avon, Wilts, England.
STOCKISTS:
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO.. 129, King Street.
CHRISTCHURCH) N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 213. Madras Street.
t.
P.C.8.—139
For our sick and wounded
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union dub and Two Minutes front
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay •
TARIFF from 11/0 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Parties
lars posted on application to
The Manager. .
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
Guns
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOQN,
all metal, very strong.
Price 2/- post free.
■-.v.-.w^^fete
ssH
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 20-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight
about 5 Jib Freight paid,
*■* Sunol Tobacco
. Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/2, Post Free.
m
823. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, double bolt, SOin. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about 711 b; Freight paid,
£.lO/10/
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 7d. each, post free.
Owing- to market fluctuations!
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
~A Y i , n cl l ® s ter Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 < T e ’ 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
~ . 28 * n ;> full choke - take-down system, chambered for 2iin. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate.
Weight 731 b Freight paid, £ll/11/-
barrel,
POWDER
Just arrived large shipment of Gunpowder.
You are advised to make an early purchase.
AUSTRAL ... 3/9 lb.
FFF - 3/9 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 5/- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/0 lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
PLEASE NOTE—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity
packed up to 281 b. is 10/= in N.S.W.
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
m
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 32in. steel barrels,
both choke, D. & E. fore-end, side clips, chambered for 2jin. cartridges, beauti-
fully engraved, weight about "Jib. Freight paid,
£l4/14/
■x 1
834. Remington Browning Automatic
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels,
system, magazine holds six cartridges ;
weight about 71b. ...... Freight paid,
take-down
£ll/111-
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
i/12-gauge,
top action, solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol
grip, walnut stock; weight about Gun can be taken apart same as an
ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
B2~Auto-Ejector, 45/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.:
4/8 Inter-State.
1C
• •
mjSTßnuris greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS
arm tobacconists
City Sports Depot
99 Kind St, also at
NencasYte d Brisbane


Another Charming Advocate
for REXONA.
Miss
ELSIE
PICKETT
(from a
photo.)
I am a Rexona girl, too, and
I want to tell you how much I
think of your delightful Rex-
ona Soap and Ointment. I
always use Rexona for my
skin, for I find it keeps it so
fresh and nice, and for iny
hair I find Rexona Soap simply
delightful. I never use a hair
tonic or anything else now,
and yet my hair is so soft and
fluffy, because I always sham-
poo it with Rexona Soap.
Everyone at our house uses
Rexona Ointment, but I think
I use more than anyone else,
for it seems like every day
there is something to use Rex-
ona for, and not only does it
keep the skin so nice, but it
heals and takes away the pain
and hurt so quickly.
I am sending you my photo-
graph, which you may use if
you wish, and I sincerely
recommend Rexona and Rex-
ona Soap, and think every girl
should be a Rexona girl.
Very sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) ELSIE PICKETT,
Hazeldene. 156 Victoria Street,
Darlinghurst.
Gives Natural Beauty to
Skin and Hair.
That natural beauty of skin and hair which cannot be imitated can be obtained
by regular use of Rexona Skin and facial Soap. Ordinary toilet soai>s do not
assert this influence. 3lany of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin
and destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse;
they cannot heal and protect the skin. Rexona Soap contains the same soothing,
healing, antiseptic balsams as Rexona the Rapid Healer, the value of xvhich in
the treatment of skin affections is known throughout the world. Simply use Rexona
Skin and Racial Soap regularly once or twice a day. and see if it does not quickly
soothe and cleanse the lessen the tendency to pimples., and leave the com-
plexion clear, fresh and velvety. Price 1/- per tablet.
SKIN & FACIAL
ED SOAP
// h i\\
IpBICE'S
NDLES
I
For all Cl/ mbs
AND aII!TIMES.
PRICE’S PATENT CANDLE CO LT?
London. Liverpool)^
MAN CH ESTER.G LASOOW.
LIGHT CAR
A proved Light Car for the Owner Driver-
your enquiry for early delivery of post-war model to —
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Standard Motor Co.,
Ltd. Coventry.
•§
<3
SB
:
The Vision of Ethney.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fEthney, "'ho was ot the race of the Danaan gods,
1 i her Veil of Invisibility and became a mortal
woman, St. Padraig baptised her, and she spent her
davs in prayer; nut before her death her kinsfolk of
t he wind appeared to her, calling her back to the
delights hf earth,]
W' ITII fii’i'ow-flights ■ of' sunlit rain
Young April pattered on the pane,
When'God had drawn His glory-bow
Across the darkened vale below,
Hid, flashing gems, the leaves were seen
A-drip upon the glowing green.
About the chapel on the hill
The sweet, wet place was very still,
Save for half-songs the birds would sing,
Dipping a swift and shining wing,
And some soft murmur on the air
That told of pious folk at prayer.
pale Ethney prayed with lifted eyes
And moving lips and frequent sighs,
kneeling below the window deep
Where yellow lights stole through to peep
At holy dusks of even tone
Sleeping below the carven stone,
go well she prayed, so long she prayed.
Perchance a far thought slipped and strayed
Down ways of memory windy sweet
With young Spring grass to wet her fee^t,
And music blowing up the day
Td call a laughing world to play.
Of high Danaan kings she came
Who walk the winds and tread the flame
And live and draw the happy breath
That never knows the taste of death.
But she, for joy the years had spent,
In cloistered quiet penitent,
Made life of death and gain of loss
To weep below a shadowed cross—
For peace to sigh and sin to grieve
And die as dies the race of Eve.
At dusk and morn the chapel bell
A word to quiet folk will tell
Of crosses three and candles seven
And Bread of Life and Wine of Heaven,
And of God’s blessed garment hem
Trailing through old .Jerusalem.
Fair Ethney prayed with lifted eyes
And lips that murmured words too wise;
But far and far her thought would run
To valleys full of corn and sun
And laughter that seemed very good
Where tall, pink foxgloves dressed the wood.
A holy quiet filled her heart;
But 'little dreams would softly start
And flutter round her golden head
With every murmurous word She said....
I think it was the April rain
Mocking the sunshine on the pane.
A little bride of Death was she.
Counting the brown beads at her knee,
A little bride of Heaven who gave
The high Wind Places for a grave
And all the joy of grass and tree
For prayer and holy ecstasy,
Washing her soul of maiden sin
A place in God's white house to win.
I think it was the April rain
Laughinsr delight against the pane
That veiled in grey the hope of Heaven
And all the wonder of the seven
Tall, white sword-angels standing by
To guard the stairway of the sky ;
For in her ears a brook would sing
A song beyond imagining.
Of mossy stone and robin trill
And thorn-trees white upon the hill,
And little early lambs at play
In beechen glades of yesterday.
I think it was the April rain
That whispered at the window pane....
“Saint Jude, St. Peter, plead for me” —
Mananan’s boat is on the sea —
“Och. Mary, Mother of the Lord” —
The jewel-flash of Lugh’s white sword !
“I weep for thought of soil and sin” —
The soft white moon is new and thin.
Young Angus laughs through two long sighs
For gladness in a lover’s eyes.
And they will hear the harp’s low tone
At midnight, dancing round the stone,
With merry grass between their toes
And scents of clover and of rose.
“Och. Mary, Mother, pray for me"—
The dark leaves rustle on the tree,
As up and far across the sky
A cloud goes trailing silver light;
And where the shining waters lie
The fish are leaping in the night....
I think it was the April rain
Singing against the window-pane.
Tale Ethney prayed with lifted eyes
And moving lips and frequent sighs.
When up across the land there came
The sound as of a running flame
With harping soft and piping shrill
And laughter round and round the hill.
It reached the window deep and long
With many voices in the song;
And Ethney turned her golden head
Knowing the words the Wind Folk said.
“Come back,” they cried, “the April bow
Is curved across the land below;
And where the red and yellow end
Three sally trees their branches bend
To kiss the water running slow
Ky banks where slender rushes grow.
Forget the priest, forget the prayer,
A golden wonder waits you there
Up ladders of the laughing air.”
Oeli, Ethney, little bride of Death,
-Drew in a long and happy breath ;
And, like a child that walks in sleep,
Nile swayed to reach the window deep.
Utnetching her thin, pale hands to hold
r PK °f one that went in g01d....
Inen on her dreaming ear there fell
-the clear voice of the chapel bell.
She started with a sudden cry,
Alasped the dark cross that stood on high;
An<r f ( >it the great world reel and slip
\ flighted prayer on her lip.
''sobbing music seemed to sway
* nont the hill ; and far away
with the tears of April rain
Ti, , fell to cleanse the world in vain ;
Tto\ 0,1 d °n high the chapel bell
1 d words of sin and death to tell.
They found her, white as some sad moon,
Beneath the carven stone a-swoon ;
And tenderly, for pity’s sake,
They watched her tired spirit wake.
Saint Padraig came, and kind was he;
He laid her head upon his knee....
And, ocli, his thoughts were long and far
Of music under tree and star,
Of wind that creeps along the night
When all the thorn is scented white,
And love and life and death and loss
And fast and prayer and Holy Cross —
“I daughter, God give you quiet sleep.
There are too many tears to weep.”....
I think it was the April rain
Sobbing upon the window-pane.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Good Andrew.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE squatted on his stone heap quite in
the manner of a mediaeval saint, and
poured dust on his head; and the
small boys of Yam, circulating at a safe dis-
tance, with the imperishable instinct of the
persecutor, hurled sods and twigs, and
whooped with impish rapture.
The Good Andrew groped for another
handful of dirt, never faltering in his noisy
and illiterate worship, and sprinkled it among
his. hair and down his cheeks, already liber-
ally lacquered with loam. His copious sweat
caught up the dust, and it puddled into
black mud that settled in the .crevices of his
ears, and in the deep wrinkles that seamed
his weather-beaten fac;e, or drifted into the
sanctuary of his thick, red-brown beard
knotted into elf-locks where the hair thinned
out along his scraggy neck.
“Andy, Andy, dirty man,
Washed his face in the frying-pan!”
The.kids piped in chorus, and threw more
clods. One ventured a small stone, which hit
Andrew on the top of the head, and bounced
off so funnily that the peek of childish merri-
ment awoke echoes all down the hollows of
Cradle Creek. The Good Andrew did not
seem to heed. A thin stream of blood zig-
zagged over his temple, till its course was
bogged in the dirt, making a darker patch
that left the saint’s face almost indistin-
guishable as a human countenance.
Andrew lifted his voice in dogmatic advice
to the Deity; his tone grew shrill and im-
perious ; his demands were insistent. There
were urgent matters calling for attention,
and high heaven stretched like a dome of
brass, hot, inhospitable, impenetrable. The
boys, emboldened by his absorption, drew
nearer with their missiles. Danny Can
prodded the saint behind with a stick-
At this juncture Brother Best fell among
the scoffers, whirling his whip. He had come
down from his milk-rcart, a fiery champion of
the chapel militant, striking right and left.
‘‘l’ll teach yeh !” cried Brother Best. “I’ll
learn yeh ! Baitin’ ’n’ bedevillin’ the godly at
their very prayers. Imps, villains, I’ll skin
yeh all raw, null I that!”
Squealing boys scattered across the com-
mon, and Good Andrew arose from his devo-
tions and stood erect on his heap. He was
not more than five-feet high ; he had been
broadly-built, but he was shrunken now; a
tattered Bible hung about his neck on a
leather lace, a Wesleyan hymn-book was sus-
pended by a string from his belt; his clothes
were indescribably dirty; his thick hair
matted in a huge bunch under the tattered
and grimy straw-hat he had assumed; the
color of the shirt he wore was past all find-
ing. This garment was buttoned close up to
his neck, and, what was even more remark-
able in an outdoor worker, tight about his
wrists. Andrew's clothes might be soiled past
redemption ; they were patched with meticu-
lous care and an extraordinary skill, that no
gleam of the original Adam should peek
through.
Andrew did not thank Nehemiah Best.
His little red eye was full of bale, his
words were bitter: “Get you away from my
sight, man of anger!” he ctied. “If the Lord
chastise me, ’tis His will, blessed be the
Lord !”
Brother Best stood abashed. Brother Best
owned a dairy, and milked thirty cows, and
it was rumored he held shares in the Fly
mine, and Andrew Good was a small, shabby
nomad, a mere dweller in tents who broke
blue-metal on the public highway for a mean
living; but Nehemiah quaked before the
righteous wrath of the stone-breaker. “They
boys do need a lesson,’’ he faltered. “ ’Tis
ondecent the goin’s on of they onbelievin’
brats.”
“ ‘Suffer little children to come unto Me’!”
the Good Andrew quoted with shrill declama-
tion.
“Aye, aye,” accented Brother Best; “but
not with sticks.”
“As it pleases the Master,” said Andrew
passionately. “If I am to be beaten with
sticks, never a dishonest hypocrite of a milk-
man shall say nay. Begone! Begone!”
Brother Best returned to his cart, a crest-
fallen elder, a sadly-misjudged man, and
Andrew took up his hammer and resumed his
daily toil, muttering imprecations as he
worked, and with sufficient reason —had he
not been deprived of the felicity of martyr-
dom? '
Andrew Good was a comparative new-
comer to Yam, but already he had developed
into a power, a new force in religion. As a
revivalist of amazing passion he had suc-
ceeded in filling the wooden chapel overlook-
ing the Fly dam, giving the clatter of its
cracked bell a significance it had not had for
many years. Now, everybody went to chapel,
and the Good Andrew, standing in his dirt, the
worn and miry books strung about him, the
light of a fervor that was almost insanity
shining in his eyes, was the impelling influ-
ence.
“What will the Good Andrew say?”
“What will the Good Andrew do?” were the
questions that preceded each service. There
was a wonderful fascination for the devout,
simple, ignorant Methodists of the mines in
the unexpectedness of Andrew’s antics, the
elan of his attack, the almost comic fervor of
his rough eloquence.
(Continued on next page.)


Backache is Really Kidney Ache.
Backache is really kidney ache; the ache comes from
the kidneys, which lie just beneath the small of the
back. When the back is weak and lame —-when it
“cricks” if you turn sharply or stoop —when it burns
wsth a burning ache and keeps you awake half the
night —when you cannot bend without a stablike pain
taking you —when it makes hard work of the least task
—give your kidneys help at once in Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. Doan’s Pills are a Special Kidney and
Bladder medicine; they give strength and tone to the
kidneys themselves, and so cure the cause of backache,
gravel, rheumatic pains, watery swellings in the ankles
and beneath the eyes, urinary troubles, dizzy spells,
pains in the limbs, spots before the eyes, sallow com-
plexion, etc.
“Every Picture
Tells a Story
Two Sydney People Cured to Stay Cured.
Mrs. C. T. Hunt music teacher, 99 Botany Road, Botany. Sydney, says:
“For years I used one medicine after another trying to get relief from aching
pains in my back. They were ,very trying, and I could not move without
getting a severe twinge, and at night my rest was broken. A friend recom-
mended Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and it was good advice, for they
gave me relief after a few doses, and a thorough course completely banished
the pain. I did not write sooner, as I wished to test my cure, but now that
1 have been well for some time I am quite justified in saying that my cure is
permanent.”
Sixteen years later Mrs. Hunt says: “Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
worth their weight in gold, for they cured my aching back sixteen years ago
and I have been free of the ailment ever since.”
Mr. W. R. Francis, plasterer, 21 Arcadia Road, Glebe, Sydney, says:—
“For a long time I suffered with severe backache, the pain being just over
the kidneys. I was so bad that when I had to stoop down it was almost
impossible to get my back straight again, and every movement increased my
suffering. A friend advised me to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills saying
they had cured him, and he was so earnest that I got some. I used two
bottles and can safely say that I am cured. I advise all who suffer with
backache to get Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I feel no pain now, and can
stoop without any trouble.”
Fifteen years later Mr. Francis says: “I have been free of backache
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me fifteen years ago.”
Backache
Kidney
Price 2/J) per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Andrew Good brought a new gospel to
Yam. He preached an enraged antipathy to
the flesh. In the body was all evil. _ The
soul was a clean, pure thing enmeshed in the
sins and infamies of carnal man. The body
must be made despicable. Attentions to the
body were so many tributes to Baal. The
process of washing was sinful in itself; it
was a glorification of the body ; it was akin
to the worship of idols.
The Good Andrew was likely to electrify
the congregation at any moment with a
sudden, unannounced diatribe directed against
the curling of one’s hair, the cleansing of
teeth, the vanity of combs and brushes; and
he stormed with a violence of conviction that
carried people’s souls like straws in a torrent.
Andrew had converts. The boys of Yam
had appreciably less w r ater to carry, the
demand for soap at Warboy’s store fell 50
per cent. Yam was becoming scandalously
unclean, but no man could aspire to the per-
fect dirtiness of the prophet.
Good had been a sailor-man for thirty
years, he said; and of all the bad sailormen
sailing the sea since the day of Noah and his
ark not one was more prone to wickedness and
quick in evil than Andrew Good, A.B. The
Good Andrew bearing witness to the trans-
gressions of Andrew Good stirred the reli-
gious Cornishmen of Yam to a kind of hys-
teria, in which they threw up their hands and
cried their own sins aloud with tears and
gnashing of teeth.
When at his worst as a son of Belial,
standing tottering on the dizzy brink of the
deep and flaming Pit that threw its red foam
to his very feet, the sailor had suddenly
known his sin, and with the coming of grace
all vanity fell from him, especially the deadly
craving to stand well with women. Ever
since he had fought his body, as it were, face
to face and had striven to mark the Devil’s
part in him with thexstains of the Devil. ■
When the new road was made other work
was found for Andrew Good to keep him for
Yam. Yam had need of him. The plate at
the little chapel brimmed with gifts after
every service now. The township had never
known a time so fruitful'of grace.
Naturally there remained a pagan section
that manifested nothing but contempt for
Andrew’s mission, and greeted his outpour-
ings of the spirit with ribaldry. These con-
tinued to bathe openly in Adams’s dams in
the back paddock on hot Sabbath afternoons,
and the Good Andrew, with the audacity of
his splendid convictions, went forth to con-
vert the heathen, and standing on the diving
ledge projecting from the higher bank of the
quarry, delivered terrific sermons to. congre-
gations of nude sinners splashing in the cool
clear waters below.
On these occasions the unregenerate pelted
Yam’s mirk.v evangelist with liquid mud. and
for such as hit and stuck Andrew seemed
meekly grateful. But there came a Sunday
when Andrew, descending on the Sabbath-
breakers, found the harvest-hands from
Adams’s and the truckers from the Fly riot-
ing in the dams. Two of these, when the
Good Andrew was in the throes of perfervid
exhortation, stole behind, and, taking the
little man up bodily with a “One, two,
three!” pitched him neck over crop into deep
water.
In the flood others seized upon poor
Andrew Good, and ducked him under. Then
he was towed the length of the Long Quarry
and back again. The spirit of mischief
spurred by the apostle’s curious antics im-
pelled the youths to strip Andrew, a hunk of
soap was procured, and Good was lathered
into the semblance of a whited sepulchre.
He was ducked again, and again and again
he was soaped from head to toe, and then the
young men rushed Good Andrew up into the
fierce sunlight, and making a ring about him
capered and sang with the abandon of revel-
lers at an orgy of Dionysus.
For some minutes Good crouched in an
attitude of abandon. Then suddenly he
uttered a shrill cry, and, breaking through,
ran like a lean old faun, bounding down the
bank of the creek, and, throwing himself on
his stomach on the water’s-edge, clawed up
mud with eager hands and smeared his body
thick with a veil of dirt.
From neck to heel Andrew Good was
tattooed closely with indelible drawings, all
libidinous and profane in the extreme.
EDWARD DYSON.
Radium.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT mattered nothing to “Chiller” Murray
that the girl W'ore the half-hoop of
diamond/s upon a certain finger, save
that the donor of this symbol was extremely
busy in Europe on matters of international
import and wms not likely to re-introduce
himself to Bungabong for some considerable
time, if at all.
Ere the days of Chiller’s prosperity, when
he had fossicked the country-side, the girl
had ignored him, contemptuously, as he de-
served ; but Chiller, with an enormous dia-
mond pin, blatant yellow boots and other
signs of wealth thick upon him, refused to
bo ignored, and in time came to be a bane
to the girl and a nuisance to the township.
The latter fact, however, the township did
not convey to him directly, being peace-
loving to a degree. In which frame of
mind it was greatly aided by the attitude
of Chiller, who, upon frequent occasions
when he had absorbed too much whisky, ex-
hibited a pocket cannon of extensive calibre,
w'hich he announced w r ould be his sceptre in
certain designs he had upon the dic-
tatorship of the world, commencing with
Bungabong and the surrounding district.
Sober, he exhorted his influence per medium
of his fists to such effect that no man in the
township, nor even tw T o men in collabora-
tion, ventured to contradict him.
Mary rejected his advances with vigor and
decision till old Williams, her father, with
much preamble, informed her that he was
Chiller’s debtor for much more money than
he could ever hope to repay ; and, concluding
with a tremulous account of the good old
melodramatic “give me the girl or pay dp”
ultimatum, presented by the villain of the
piece, crept shamefacedly away.
Next day came a little buff envelope, the
contents of which gave Mary unspeakable joy,
though she did not exhibit it, but, instead,
sent a message requesting Chiller to give
her two months to make her decision —•
which that self-satisfied mine-owner was
well content to do.
Seven weeks later there descended un-
heralded upon the town a dusty khaki giant
who waved genially from the box to the
people who crowded out to watch the arrival
of the weekly coach. At the Williams’ cot-
tage he jumped nimbly down and passed in-
side—the first of the Anzacs on furlough to
return to Bungabong.
The news reached Chiller over a bottle of
whisky and left him in a murderous temper.
“Bill Wethers is back, is he?” he said, and
emptied the bottle as he pondered the situa-
tion. Those about noted with relief the
absence of a bulge in his hip-pocket. Never-
theless their apprehension returned as he
picked up the empty bottle by the neck, and
without ostentation made off along the dusty
road, the winking bottle swinging in his
hand.
“Nick down ter Williams’s an’ tell Bill that
Chiller Murray’s lookin’ fer him with a
bottle,” the hotelkeeper instructed his son;
and the boy made off across the back pad-
dock to execute the warning.
From the front windows and hiding-places
eyes watched the huge figure mount to the
Williams’s verandah, kick the door uncere-
moniously open and disappear inside. Fol-
lowed a long interval of tension, and then a
girl’s shrill scream, and two locked figures
lurched from hopse to verandah and from
verandah to street, and there in the open
was administered to the objectionable Chil-
ler the hiding of his life. Such punishment
as no one in the township had ever seen in-
flicted upon a man fell to Chiller that day—•
a hiding that left him bruised, bleeding and
incapable of movement upon the dusty road.
Several people thought fit to warn Bill
of Chiller’s much-exhibited firearm and
his propensity to use it. “I got one, too,”
was all Bill said, and there the matter
rested. The township noted that Chiller
was much subdued and made no mention of
reprisals or of his mortgage, and Bill re-
tired to his farm out on the Eastern-road.
The affair was partially forgotten till one
night Bill, in the act of retiring, had a visi-
tor. He turned and confronted across the
table the person of Chiller. Chiller was mur-
derously drunk, but his body was steady with
a curious tenseness. A minute they surveyed
each other. Bill read the intent in Chiller’s
eyes, noted the means of executing it in his
hand, and his mind worked swiftly.
Bill had a revolver under his pillow—
loaded in two chambers, he remembered.
“I come to get you, Mister damn Anzac,”
sail Chiller. “Pinch my blarsted girl, would
you? Would ’a paid you better to stay at
the damn war and rotted. See this? I’m
goin’ ter blow' yer brains out. In three min-
utes I’m goin’ ter blow yer brains out”—
he studied the ornate gold watch upon his
wrist.
i “Don’t be silly, Chiller,” said Bill think-
ing how lie could reach the bed'. “Two
’n’ half minutes,” said Chiller imperturb-
ably. “Two minutes.... One min”- : —- The
table reared up from • Bill’s end _ and de-
scended from Chiller, smothering him in oil
from the smashed lamp. Chiller’s gun loosed
off with a shattering roar in the confined
space, and Bill, fumbling beneath the pillow,
counted mechanically, one, two, three shots.
The room was black as pitch and curiously
still again. Chiller was lurking in the dark-
ness. Not even the sound of his breathing
disturbed the silence. Ten minutes passed thus
ere Bill ventured to , ease his body, cramped
against the wall at the bed-head. A pencil
of flame cut the darkness from the opposite
corner. “Four,” counted Wethers. He had
but two shots and Chiller had expended four.
The duel was even now. Cautiously Bill
reached for the pillow and flung it along the
wall. It swept the mantelpiece with a sud-
den crash of falling knick-knacks, and elicited
a shot from the madman. Bill aimed care-
fully at the flash and loosed off. A chuckle
from the darkness followed, and three bul-
lets in rapid sucession struck the wall be-
side his head.
“Eight,” counted the trapped man, and a
chill crept over him. Chiller had a stock of
cartridges, and he had but one shot remain-
ing. Presently Chiller’s voice spoke, and
to Bill’s strained senses it seemed to float
tantalisingly in mid air. “I can’t see you,
Mister damn Anzac; can’t see you ; but I’m
gein’ ter get you. I’m cornin’ round. Oh,
yes, I’m cornin’ round —see?” Came a move-
ment from the opposite wall; but Bill
held his fire. “What, got no more cart-
ridges?” asked the chuckling voice. “Orright;
I’m cornin’ round.”
Bill cursed the darkness and the fate that
had made him draw the blind. The velvety
blackness swirled before his straining eyes.
He heard the scrape of the other’s clothing
against the opposite wall. Which way was
he coming? He strained his eyes and ears,
but the sound was elusive and could not be
located. Cold sweat, such as in all his four
years of war he had never experienced, broke
out upon him, and then his heart gave one
sickening bound. Into bis line of vision
came a tiny glow—a little circle of light.
He watched it. awhile as it moved along,
neither dipping nor rising, moving slowly yet
steadily. Exhaltation and fierce anger surged
over Bill in a hot wave. With intense care
he calculated his aim and with steady finger
pulled the trigger on his last shot. There
came a long-drawn sigh; a momentary
silence, and then the resounding thud of a
fallen body.
Bill struck a match.
* v * * *
“You see,” sdid Bill to Mary after the
trial and acquittal, “he just about had me
rattled. He was coming at me, and I didn’t
know from which side. I just about had the
wind up, when I saw a little circle o’ dots
movin’ slow along towards the stove. I
knew it was him feelin’ along with his arm
stretched out so I took aim from that illu-
minated wristlet watch and, slammed the
last one fair into him.”
ALIDON.


ium
m
m
SMB
■
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE GO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office-99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
REM OIL
/
r~
IM* OIL
KBSai
Al BOTTLE of Rem Oil is not only a convenience but a matter of
* real economy to people who take pnc* in keeping their firearms
in good condition. It will be found equally effective for all household
machinery. It is unaffected by climatic conditions and will not gum
or clog the most delicate mechanism.
S. Enquire of your dealer or write for special descriptive circular of Rem Oil, A
SS. also Paravaselme—a gun grease—and Remington UMC Rust Remover* \
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
8.6 P - D * BRYANT, Australian Manager Box 686 G. P. 0., Melbourne
MillililiMlllM
SEASICK
REMEDY
has received the unqualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest testimonials
from the world’s greatest men, women, and
institutions.
Does no; contain Cocaine, Morphine, Opium, Chloral or any of the
coa tar products.
No Bad After Effects,
MOTHEKsIU REMEDY CO., ITD,,
Corner Clarence and Market Streets, Sydney.
Guaranteed to cure
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNESS
OR MONEY RETURNED
sgMgtta
IfOlllllll
Pi pe-Scre wing
Easier pipe-screwing than you ever thought possible—that’s what
Matchless Screwing Tackle gives you. Newly designed, it has
easy-cutting features never before offered you, which cannot he
obtained in am other tool T ne
You don t know what it means to screw
used Oster “Matcliless” Screwing Tackle
you.
pipe easily unless you have
A fair trial will convince
Get a “Matchless” from your nearest dealer.
Made in
to Screw Pipes from
to 4in.
Carried in Stock,
with extra parts,
h y ironmongers,
machinery and
hardware and
plumbing supply
houses.
m
a
i
The Oster Manufacturing Co.-
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Australasian Representative—
CHARLES WRIGHT, Turner Chambers, 16 Hunter St., Sydney
BE PERSUADES
to try Beeeh&ffi’s Pills! All who have had experience of this preparation
unhesitatingly endorse the view long ago expressed that “ Beeeham’s
Pills are Worth a Guinea a Box This is what people say who have
taken them —who have proved their wonderful value for themselves.
Their opinion should go far to persuade you to try Beecham’s Pills also.
They have cured others and will cure you. They have brought the
desired relief in multitudes of eases—is it not highly probable that they
will do the same for you ? Beeeham’s Pills grew into fame years ago as
a digestive medici le of the greatest value. They have maintained their
high reputation through the passing years, and, at the present time, they
are relieving, and curing vast numbers of people who suffer from
dyspeptic troubles all over the world. If you happen to be one of those
who need a tonic, purifying and cleansing medicine be persuaded
TO TRY
BHECHM’S PILLS.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10<jd (36 pills), 1/11 (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
Ru
ARE YOU m*
PTUREO
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Jo you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS ? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FTRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the ,
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne. Vie.
Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet to keep the bowels
regular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is t
“Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.” Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
Cartels
ITTLE
IV ER
PS SJLS.
Small Pill—Small Dots—Small Prloa.
GENUINE must bear signature
i C
Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
{Patented)
Post Free
8 I l*»ll M' KSI iW IPEI
m
10/-
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
“MAGPIE” FLOUR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM,
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
The New Valveless Schebler
Carburetor for Fords.
>ment is too good for
THE LIBERTY AEROPL4NE
particularly the CARBURETOR. Consider for a
second the requirements necessary for a Vaporiser
attached to such a highly-important Machine.
It must produce rapid ACCELERATION. Ample
POWER at full throttle for hours at a stretch.
An even MIXTURE at all altitudes and positions
—now at sea-level and horizontal; in a few
minutes, at 20,000 feet and ascending vertically
and, linally, it must have thorough reliability and
few moving parts. Such a Carburetor ought to
be good enough for your Engine, and that Car-
buretor is THE NEW VALVE LESS SCH EULER,
which is the same design as used on THE
LIBERTY AEROPLANE. It is impossible to
describe in detail all the special features of
The New Valveless
ScHebler.
Sufficient to say that it is A NON-M OVING-PAKT CARBURETOR, and a decided
advance in the science of Carburetion; incorporating several new features and principles
The only model on sale at present is suitable for |
THE FORD CAR.
It can he easily attached by any owner-driver. PRICE £5 Complete
ROBERT C. SWAN 8 CO., LTD., m m street. s ylMy .
s ®le Agents for Wheeler>Sohebler Carburetor Co. of Amarioa.


MAN GROyiTE
LEATHER
SELTING
GETS
IT
GRIP
on the pulleys and transmits maximum
power all the time.
MANGROVITE RAWHIDE BELTING
is unequalled for difficult drives.
Prove it on your power plant. Let us
give 3’ou expert advice.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49Wynyard Square (near C.P.0.), Sydney,N.S.W.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S'th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd., 370
Kent Street,
Syd ney.
2CI Latrobe Street, Melbourne; Kalgoorlie and Fremantle, W.A.
Charles Atkins & Co.j Adelaide. Paul & Gray Ltd., Newcastle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
I
1
i
STEEL 0».lt4&
'»**« -... £
HIGH-QUALITY STEEL-CUTTING EDGES, with Iron Backs, made to your order
from our own material.
When ordering state size on cut, depth, thickness, length and width of slots,
whether for Fixed Heads or Movable Bolts. If Fixed Heads Template absolutely
necessary.
Marty Uses for
Hardie’s Fibrolite
Genuine Asbestos
Cement Sheets.
They are ideal for window trimming—solu-
tion of l>ig spaces in ceilings—practical for
stock rooms-—conformv to Church Architec-
ture —lend dignity to Public Buildings.
“Fibrolite” will cover up any kind of old,
dingy, cracked walls. It goes on new par-
titions in the same successful way.
Send for samples and particulars to —
JAMES HARDIE & CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cr. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (4 lines).
681-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Also at Brisbane and Adelaide.
(3
T
0
‘Since eighty nine
from Pure Grape Wine
*
SPECIAL HOSPITAL.
TUCKER <Et CO. LIMITED
SYDNEY
“STAR” Portable Lampless Oil Engines.
These Big-powered Engines are now becoming immensely popular for general Farm and Station work, such as
Woodcutting, Shearing, Chaffcutting, Pumping, etc., and each Engine supplied by us means another well-satisfied
6 34-b.h.p. . .
8-b.h.p. ....
10-b.h.p
£l7o Including
£2os Expert
....... £235 to start.
We can arrange easy Terms, and guarantee satisfaction in every instance.
DALGETY (Si CO. LTD., Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
Agents for TANCYES, CLAYTON & SHUTTLE WORTH, WCLSELEY Shearing Machines, TRIUMPH Oil Engines, CANE Milking Machines, etc.
Sheep Shearing machines
The best men available at shearing time present themselves at the.sheds
where Wolseley plants are installed. They know they will have the most
effective machine to work with, enabling them to put up big tallies.
Order now for next season. Cash or terms to suit purchasers.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED, Australasian Agents ALL BRANCHES.
m
SAFETY FIRST
SERVICE ALWAYS
Xhe Problem of Safety—the Problem of Eliminating Waste Power—
of the Reduction of present Factory Costs—these are all
solved for you by equipping your plant with
Dodge Power Transmission Appliances
m
Pulleys, Self-Oiling Bearings, Adjustable Shaft Hangers, Friction Clutches, Couplings, Collars, etc.
The pleasing design, ample strength, wide adjustability and the ease with which it can all be erected, add greatly to the merits of
the Dodge line, and must appeal to all practical Engineers and Mill Owners. Carried in Stock for quick delivery by Sole Agents—
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence £t. y Sydney, N.S.W.
Our Catalogue, “ "»wer Transmission Appliances,” is available.
&
PLANTS FOR ALL ORES.
We are Sole Australasian Agents for
“Dorr” Machinery-
DORR MECHANICAL CLASSIFIERS, Essential with all
Ball and Tube Mill Installations for Close Sizing.
DORR THICKENERS for continuous thickening
before Flotation.
DORR AGITATORS for perfect contact of solvents.
THE DORR SYSTEM OF CONTINUOUS DECANTATION
HAS REVOLUTIONISED CYANIDING, CHEMICAL
MANUFACTURE and LEACHING.
Send for Booklets, Data, Prices, etc.
We act as consultants on DORR PRACTICE.
1
r - :
DORR THICKENER
IN STOCK—
“HYDROMAX” TELESCOPE STOPERS and HAND
HAMMER DRILLS-British Built and Best in
the World.
RECIPROCATING DRILLS FOR DRIVING.
MAY BROS.’ FAMOUS ROLLS, JIGS & CRUSHERS.
RICHARDS’ “PULSATOR” JIGS & CLASSIFIERS.
CARD PATENT BALL-BEARING TABLES-The
Supreme Table on Tin and Wolfram.
“CURVILINEAR” TABLES—The Newest, Simplest
and Fool-proof Table.
Hydraulic Classifiers, Screens, Trommels, Lubri-
cants, Explosives, Oil and Water Filters, Valves,
Tuyers and aEI Mining Requisites.
Let us advise you from our extensive experience.
We design Mining and Concentrating Plants, Flow Sheets, Estimates and Data free cn request.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Minina and Electrical Engineers, 350 George Street, SYDNEY.
