

7
R. Q. WA.TMJIN'S SZ, CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Ikent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty ; AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY*
TERMS
\
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
| NSWMONT de PIETE
* o*l C9T LIMITED
74 Casilereagh St. Sydney.
CAPITAL &200.000 Fhone City 5325
Branches jf- 29 Kino st.,Newcastle. NSW-?ISI7 swanstohs7.Melb.Vi<
40 Adelaide St.Bnsbane.Q. 186 Castlereaph 5t,159 George St. West, Sydney,
JTttS’6&ce JZesznett.
JVanacres’.
±T\
"CHROMOL
s»
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Beit.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J.C.LudowiciSSonLtd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
§
6?
□
v/a
1
C=2
BGk
ro
and
JUNKET inade from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive o;
Hansens
unmet,
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Roofing of “super” merit
d
rSV
“Not the same as others”
because of the absolute superiority
of the ingredients used, and process
of manufacture.
Actual samples and illustrated booklet post free from
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (P. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of the
“Referee” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
LYSAGHTS LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY .
cA
watt'*
G*^
Of**
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
(A mature, high-
grade spirit).
.Sole Agents.
ORME, KEIGWIN CSt, CO. LTD.. SYDNEY-
RELIABLE PUMPS FOR ALL PURPOSES
For reliable pumping on all kinds of farm and station, general water supply and irrigation.
Large Stocks of Pyramid, Triplex and Centrifugal Pun ps of various types and sizes for every service.
Send particulars of the work you want the pump to do and we will quote you.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; and
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499 BourKe Street, Melbourne.
PLEASANT AND
A TRUE ANTISEPTIC—
TOOTH PASTE.
BALIA'S BEST.
The Bulletin
VoJ. 40.—N0. 2039.]
[Thursday, March 13, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at. the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting .its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few —the more
stoical among us : —can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
A Beautiful Complexion by .Natural Means. —
The secret of a perfect complexion lies in the
continual renewing of the outer cuticle of the
skin. This is Nature’s own method. The
outer skin as it becomes coarse or shrivelled
must be removed, and an opportunity given
to the finer one beneath to show itself. It is
because the old, dead skin is allowed to re-
main on the face that so many women, and
even young girls, suffer from pimples,
blotches and sallow dull skins. To remove, by
absorption, the dead outer skin, and with it
all blemishes, the use of mercolized wax is
universally recommended, ordinary face
creams being powerless for this purpose.
Smear the wax over the face and neck, rub it
gently into the skin, and leave it on all night.
In the morning wash it off, using Pilenta
soap and warm water, when all the dead skin
will be removed with the wax. Then apply a
lotion to prevent any trace of greasiness
being noticeable and to give a peach-like
bloom to the skin. A lotion to do this can be
made up quite cheaply from the following
recipe: Take one ounce of clemiiiite and dis-
solve it in four tablespoonfuls of hot water.
Place in a bottle, and when cool apply to the
face with the fingertips, allowing it to dry on
the skin.
To Remove Blackheads. —Dissolve one effer-
vescing stymol tablet in a glass of hot water,
allow the effervescence to subside, then dip a
small sponge into the liquid and mop over the
face. Allow it to remain on for a few min-
utes. then wipe off with a towel, and the
blackheads will be entirely removed. To pre-
vent them from re-appearing, use a stymol
tablet in the manner described twice a week.
How to Shampoo.—Before shampooing the
hair dip the fingers into a little pure olive or
almond oil, and'thoroughly massage the scalp.
Then dissolve a teaspoonful of stallax granules
in a cup of hot water. Fill a basin with warm
water into which the ends of tlie hair can
fall, and shampoo the stallax mixture into the-
roots in the usual way. Then rinse and dry
by fanning with a palm fan.
Grey Hair. —To restore the color of grey or
fading hair, take two ounces of concentrated
tamm'alite, and mix it with three ounces of
bay rum; apply to the hair for several nights,
using a small sponge, and the hair will grad-
ually resume its original color. When the
desired shade has been obtained, the tarama-
lite lotion should be used about twice a week.
Apply it to the roots with an old toothbrush
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
TO WHITEN A BROWN NECK (W.K.).—To
whiten your neck, use jettaline. Get a tube
of this from the chemist and rub a little well
into the skin of the neck: leave it on till next
morning. Do this regularly every night for
three of four weeks, and you will find that
the skin will become beautifully clear and
white.
BABY. —You need not lose your pretty com-
plexion. Get a tin of mercolized wax, and
rub a little well into the face every night.
This well remove the dead outer skin and
reveal the pretty fresh new skin underneath.
Be careful what soap you use, as this is very
important. I should suggest Pilenta.
MATER. —To reduce yourself to your original
weight, get a packet of clynol berries and eat
four daily, one after each meal and one at
bedtime. When once you have returned to
your normal weight you can discontinue
them, as the cure is permanent and not merely
temporary., as so many others are. There is
no need to make any alteration in your diet.
DISAPPOINTED. —I am not surprised that
you have been disappointed in your hair: you
are not using a suitable shampoo. Get a
packet of stallax and shampoo the hair every
fortnight with this. It will make it soft and
keep it fair.
NELLIE—There is nothing more disastrous
to beauty than superfluous hair. In that you
are right, but you are wrong in thinking that
there is no permanent cure. Get an ounce of
powdered pheminol and a tube of tekko paste.
These two. used in conjunction, will perma-
nently remove the growth.
GERTIE. —The lotion to which you refer is
made as follows: Get an ounce of cleminite
and mix it with four ounces of warm water.
Allow it to coo), bottle, and dab over the face,
allowing it to dry on the skin. This is far
superior to powder, and gives a fresh bloom
to the face without the appearance of make up.
MAISIE.—Yes. the longer your eyelashes the
larger and brighter your eyes will look. To
increase the growth of the Jashes rub a little
mennaline into the roots every night. Do this
very gently, but thoroughly, and you will be
delighted with the result. [-
Your Mirron
will Qive|H
you
the pleasing f
assurance that
your Complexion
is what It shouh.
be if you use
ml
■Z\L
&
v.
y 9 vo/,
\-
TETLOW’S
m
FACE POWDER
It imparts a delicate bloom to the
Complexion, so pure that it will
not harm the most sensitive skin.
Soli In Five Tints
White. Cream. Pink. Flesh and Prunette.
by all Stores. Chemists, Perfumers ant
First Class Drapery Houses
Per
Tio
jr PR,CE
; box
Wholesale Dislribuling Agents:-
! Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS.. LTD.,
I Sydney.
I Messrs. WASHINGTON 11. SOUL,
• PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
! Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
! SONS LTD., Sydney.
; THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
j Sydney.
I LONOON WHOLESALE AGENTS
HENRY C. QUELCH £s CO..
4 fk 5. Ludgate Sq.. London, Eng
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
r QUEENSLAND.^
THE KEY TO 1
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ot the
millions ot acres of
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
Stale's resources—
FREE
tVame.
Address
Queensland Government
lat«Mi|eace asd Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE
S.B.
/ft
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, Gd. Weekly—an illustrated papei
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europ
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hoi
born, London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, usei the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
TTI or OUR SICK AND WOUND!
Jj BOYS—When you have finished w
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
DepGt, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE
9d. A TIN, AT CHEMISTS,
GROCERS and STORES.
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER.
RILLS ALL INSECTS.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H.
Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney, and
sample tin will be sent post
free; or forward 9d. in stamps
for full-size tin.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
The Red Page
The Medium.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Who has not felt between the dreams of
night
How larger voices mingle with our own,
And in full major to our minor tone
Roll out sonorous melodies of Light?
With thunderous surge of wild desires and
fierce
They burn the banners of my brain to air.
O God! that one hot thought my soul might
pierce
To ease the terror of a world’s despair!
I grip my hands with force unconquered yet
By the slow tides of Time I cannot stay.
My pen bites, scorching, in its young, wild
way,
But the old tears upon my eyes are wet.
O futile hand ! O silent, breathless flute !
How the great songs throb anguish on my
ears,
Hurling their harmonies down all the
years
When I, poor fool, of every sound am mute!
Be still! be still, immortal souls of song,
Rending my heart with agonies your own !
Shut.out your music. Leave me cold and
lone,
Or use my life to lift your dreams along.
Oh, if you need a pen, here is my soul.
Here is my body’s blood for ink of fire.
Write, write with me your paeans of
Desire,
Or break this flute and loosen your control.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Our War Memorials
At this moment, when we are all more
concerned with the threatened epidemic than
anything else, there is a great danger that
we may not pay attention to the effigies and
obelisks that are springing up in our midst,
erected to commemorate Australia’s glorious
part in the great war. Bronze and marble
should he used to beautify the city, arousing-
reverence and not provoking ridicule. To
prevent the latter a committee should he
formed in each city at once, consisting of
the Director of the Art Gallery, two citizens
noted for their artistic tastes, two architects
and two artists (i.e., a sculptor and a
painter). Architects and sculptors should
work together on such monuments as would
make the citizens understand the truth of
Art. The man in the street has not a
trained eye. lie only “knows when he likes
a thing.” But we certainly would not
elect as judges at the Conservatorium of
Music the man who likes a tune on the con-
certina. How important it is, then, that
monuments that are to hand down the
memory of the illustrious dead should be left
to such a committee as I have indicated,
which would be authorised to discriminate
so that we in attempting the sublime may
not achieve the ridiculous.
Undoubtedly memorials are being erected
that are grotesque and unbeautiful. And
this shows that there is a neglect of duty.
And the neglect is our own. For our obliga-
tion to posterity is to hand down to it
monuments that will be in keeping with the
grandeur of the ideals for which our men
have fought. These monuments must be
artistically worthy of what they commemo-
rate —not objects which the citizens of the
future may deplore (for sentimental reasons)
their inability to have removed. We have
too many such in, Sydney already. Do we
think of them with love and admiration and
bring visitors to our city to see them?
The citizen who likes to see utility in his
monuments might enjoy passing by a foun-
tain where the waters play on a surface large
enough to cool the air, while pausing to gaze
on the symbolic sculpture in which his city
immortalises the glorious dead. A very
perfect site for such a Sydney monument
is in front of the Registrar-General’s office.
The statue of Queen Victoria could be placed
near to the Prince Consort’s and so add to
the statues in Hyde Park, while still facing
the square to which she gives her name.
N.
Our Wonderful Language
A new United States, term has been added
to the interminable catalogue of words and
idioms which are too many and too meaning-
less and too badly spelled already. Even
the word “catalogue” is a premeditated lun-
acy. It begins with a “c” which out of pure
cussedness, and with no profit to anybody,
isn’t a “c” at all, or anything like it. There
is an “a” which represents no sound in the
alphabet; another “a” which is the same ; an
“o” which represents no sound in the alpha-
bet ; a “g” which likewise stands for no
sound in the alphabet; and a “u” and an “e”
which are no sound at all any more than a
corpse. As for idioms, a speech in which
you pull a leg or bite an ear when you. want
anything is crazy. The new idea, much
discussed in Melbourne owing to shortage of
vehicles, is “staggering the trains.” In
“staggering” the “a,” the “gg,” the “e,” the
“i,” and the “ng” are noises not in the alpha-
bet, and it isn’t really proposed to stagger
the trains, which would go off the line if they
staggered any more than they do. The idea
is that the people in one eight-hour business
should work, say, from 6 to 2 and another
from 7 to 3, and another lot from 8 to 4, and
another from 9 to 5, so that, instead of sub-
urban vehicles being partly empty at some
hours and full of “standing room only” at
others, the business may be comfortably dis-
tributed and everybody get a seat. For my
own part I think that people who stand such
idioms as “staggering the trains,” and especi-
ally the spelling thereof, don’t deserve to sit
down. Any position is good enough for
them, 'especially when you consider that out
of the eight letters in “position” only two,
the “p” and the “u,” are correct, and it
embodies four sounds that the blessed alpha-
bet never heard of. Even if the Melbourne-
Brighton train was staggered so much that
it arrived sideways at Bourke by mistake it
wouldn’t be half so staggering as the wonder-
ful language of those who complain about it.
HORACE CHEESE.
A Pioneer
Before all the bouquets fall on President
Wilson I want a few for the late John
Hants, of Kenthurst (N.S.W.), who a score
years ago not only formulated a plan for a
League of Nations, but published it in a
book. x\ native of Pitt Town, John, aided
by his wife’s money, selected rocks and
swamp in a gorge off the Catti Creek. His
imagination saw vast possibilities: a canal
dug to the deep waters of the liawkesbury,
and the timber on the slopes sent by boat
to Sydney. The timber was cut, so that
the boats should not be delayed on arrival.
The' canal, several miles long, would cost, say,
half a million. As the local M.L.A. did not
hustle the Government, the white-ants got
busy with the wood and a bush-fire made a
clean sweep. The swamp looks ideal for
ducks and geese. So it is; but it also suits
eels, and the latter consumed John’s promis-
ing broods. After many failures, a strain
of cattle survived with goat-like powers of
browsing on rocks. I bought my first milker
of John; price, 19s. 6d. The codlin-moth
went for the apples; the bee-moth got the
bees. A good horse always bogged in the
waterhole. The crops might have grown
if there had been rain, or not so much of it.
John, having failed in that venture, felt
that his true mission in life was to recon-
struct society on a basis of justice: a league
of nations ; self-determination to do as you
were told —and you were told in detail at
great length. When the book was printed
with the last of his funds, he sent copies by
registered post to the Pope and all the
crowned heads of Europe. John’s imagina-
tion aeroplaned. In due course replies
would come bidding him take ship at once
and do what may now be described as the
Woodrow Wilson turn. Of course they
would at once see the advantage of meeting
in a friendly manner and agreeing to stop,
all war and armaments; and naturally the
author of the scheme would be asked to pre-
side at the gathering. But there must have,
been a Webster at the P.O. even in those
days ; for the .Grownod Heads’ answers failed
to materialise. One copy was actually sold
after a three weeks’ canvas ; yet, promising
as this appeared, prompter means were
wanted to keep the billy boiling. John con-
ceived a co-operative farm, orchard, saw-mill
and bee-colony—£2s per shareholder. Going
to Sydney, he took an office in the old build-
ings where Crick and Meagher had their
sign—in a room where Frank Cotton and
Alec Riddel had previously floated their
single-tax paper to save society. John
succeeded.as a land-agent; a score of persons
took shares; Some actually went and camped
in the New Arcadia, and even subsisted for
a few weeks while remnants of the capital
remained to buy tucker. Then an indignant
Dago swore to go for John with a knife ; and'
the apostle, with a few followers, rushed to
Wyalong. Later he died in a Sydney hos-
pital, death hastened by work in a sewer.
That last job, taken through pressing neces-
sity, was, if one carefully considers it, the
most worthy of his life.
I do not affirm that the copy of his book
sent by Hants to the White House has been
seen and studied by Wilson. _ They were too
much of a mind for it to be necessary.
Besides, the ideas were decrepit when John
evolved them. But, when the glad vege-
tables are being distributed, let a few fall
on the grave of John Hants, who lived and
(one hopes) died in the Land of Dreams.
HAWK.
A Mislaid Province of Australia
Resources of the Gregory, compiled in the
office of the Cloncurry Advocate (Clon-
curry, North Queensland), deals with a sub-
ject that deserves more eloquence than has
been expended on it. Everybody who hasn’t
lost faith in tropical Australia should read
it. and recommend it to the faithless. At
the back of Cairns and Townsville, and at
the back of many other beautiful green
places in the North, one climbs on to a table-
land extending far west till it dies out in
the Northern Territory. The area is un-
certain, but it is very large. The climate
is uncertain, save that the moisture is pretty
regular, and that good itinerant man, Bishop
White, nearly froze there on various occa-
sions by reason of the elevation, which isn’t
quite certain either, but is considerable.
The tableland is much longer than it
is broad. It extends for a great dis-
tance almost parallel with the Gulf
of Carpentaria, so that the abundant
rivers flow north, down to tlie sludgy water’s
of that deceiving indentation, and the scarce
rivers trickle south on tlie other side into
the dead salt heart of Australia, which has
no outlet. It is the curse of Australia that
the inland basin is so big. According to
the map there is one spot only 137 miles
from the north coast of Australia where the
waters turn south to end their precarious
existence (unless they die on the way)
among the salt lakes that are within a long
coo-ee of Port Augusta, on the south coast.
Blackall. Barcaldine. Longreach and Boulia
are all on the unlucky side of the Divide.
The trouble which retards the progress of
the fertile and well-watered tableland, with
its wealth of minerals, is the lack of adjacent
Ports. The Gulf is near, but by reason of
the silt carried down by the Coleman,
Mitchell, Gilbert, Norman, Flinders, Leich-
hardt. Gregory, etc., the Gulf for a long
way out is sludge. .Grant Allen, the Eng-
lish novelist, got paid once for a tale in
which the heroine’s yacht was wrecked in
quite recent years (the vessel was fitted
with electric light, which is recent enough)
on a coral reef in the Gulf, and the lady
was forcibly married by a native chief.
Being discovered by an expedition sent out
hrom England, she was so ashamed of her
nakedness and her half-caste children that
siio threw herself from a beetling cliff into
tlm sea. But in reality the Gulf shores
melt into the sea almost imperceptibly, and
don t beetle much more than Melbourne har-
(Continued on page 26.)


Miller Kerosene Lamps.
'
&
Comfortable Golf Shirts.
S*
Dependable Hats.
Value in Dinner Services.
Cylinder Churns.
\
Durham Duplex Razors, 5/6.
Anthony Horderns’
Sell It Cheaper.
o matter what you require, you
can buv it cheaper at Anthony
H orderns’. That is the reason
whv customers throughout the
J o
Commonwealth consistently purchase their
needs at Australia’s largest store.
Send for price lists of what you require ; they will
be posted free. Anthony Horderns’ Mail Order. Service
is at the disposal of everyone, an efficient staff of sales-
men attending to the wants of buyers who ‘cannot visit
the New Palace Emporium. The same prices are charged
as to those who buy over the counters, and all goods are
carefully packed and expeditiously dispatched.
We pay carriage on Family Drapery, Fashion Goods,
Women’s and Men’s Wear, Boots and Shoes, Cutlery,
Silverplate and Jewellery to any part of New South
Wales ; on inter-State orders to the nearest port.
These concessions place the enormous resources of
Anthony Horderns’ at your disposal —at city prices, too.
Savings will therefore be effected by purchasing there.
Ladies should make a-point of sending for a copy of
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn and Winter Fashion Cata-
logue. It illustrates the new season’s modes and will be
posted free.
? bo >.°.Vn<.-ah".°.
"Ll*/.
Reliable White Machines.
'
Cosy Underwear.
1
■
It
Durable Footwear.
Canton Ploughs, 1, 2 and 3 Furrows,
ORDEEna
Grey Enamelled Kettles.
3-h.p. Royal Enfield.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.L"
Only Universal Providers,
New Pal ace Emporium,
uvt n's
Brickfield Hill,
iSiSS S_>/ d n eyr. SSI^sS)


e
■
H:'
"
m
V'
.
Sr.'
<
;s-
-ill
'
V
mm
Wmi
m
m
II
■
.
its
:
■
m.
m
■L
HH
__
■■
with a
KODAK
Get right out into the open with a
Kodak clear away from the crowded
parts and retain your perfect health
whilst yielding to the fascination of
making interesting Kodak pictures.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior
is a splendid camera for all general
uses, makes pictures 3 1 /\ x 2 % inches.
Price 62/=
Others from 40/= to £l5/2f=
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia), LTD,,
Incorporating Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart; Ruthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rock’hampton;
Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; 109-11 Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; The Kodak Corner,” corner Eambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z. (Retail);
3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z. ( Wholesale) ; 148 Eichfleld St., Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
Let the “Unseen
Artist” aid you.
Hear also the SPECIAL SERIES
of Accompaniment Records for Soprano,
Contralto , Tenor and Baritone. The
greatest , surest aid for students ever
introduced. Also EXCLUSIVE to
“His Master's Voice/' '
Look for the DOG TRADE-MARK ,
PERCY GRAINGER.
11
SCHAERER.
PADEREWSKI.
Famous Artistes—at the Piano!
Hear Paderewski’s wondrous rendering of Schumann’s “Des Abends”
(2-045505); the fascinating “Valse Caprice” of Rubinstein (2-045510): or
Le Carillon de Cythere’ fChimes) No. 05565. These glorious recordings
by the world’s most celebrated pianist are typical triumphs of
“His Master’s Voice”
Toveis of piano-music are recommended to hear, also, the records of
Moiseiwitsch, Backhaus, Mark Hambourg, Irene
Scharrer, Dorothy Forster, Percy Grainger and Una
Bourne, the gifted Australian Pianiste and exponent of
Chaminade. All of these are EXCLUSIVE to “His
riaster’s Voice.”
Complete record lists, instrument catalogue and
name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street SYDNEY.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Regd. Trade-mark
His Master's Voice
“His Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.


ON A LINES, A IACHT,
MOTOR BOAT, A CHANNEL
STEAMER, A COASTER or
A TRADER
MOTHERSILLS SEASICK REMEDY
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea Sick-
ness, or money refunded. Equally effective
for Train Sickness.
<tfER Sir
o
vS
s
A SICK
has been tested on the English Channel, Irish
and Baltic Seas by representatives of leadtn
London and Continental newspapers, who
unreservedly endorse its unfailing power to
prevent and cure mal-de-mer.
“The London Yachting World” says: A posi-
tive cure for sea-sickness. Be sure it’s “Mothersill’s.'’
No Bad After Effects.
{All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO., LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts.. Sydney.
YOUR
Here’s
the Bottle
we wish we
could show you
the flavour.
The distinctive
flavour of H.P. is
obtained from the
skilful blending of
Eastern fruits and
appetising spices —~
with pure Malt
Vinegar.
Made in England,
but sold hrn.
J
FROM LEMONS ONLY
if
&7710&
Tke Best Lemon BquasK.
BROOKE'S,,
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
AND RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
RHiIJMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery ol the Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 3/-
Prout & Co., 229, Strand, London.
\om
ALNUT
armhmr'bfsm
\mu
I ms
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE „ 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir Jus. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G.; Sir Samuel
Hordern; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. EI.T.IOTT, F.1.A.. Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000.
H. TV. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,500,000.
Although nearly
year 1917,
The Society iss
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
£1 .000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for th«
including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
ues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
•X. ''"v*
Mu;
KK
m
mi
mm
m
mm
Chjbestiale
MOTOR filHHi LORRIES
The Allies* Cause Knows No
Obstacles
When it became known that the
standard type of lorry as constructed
in 1914 fell short of meeting the re-
quirements of war service, English
and American engineers collaborated,
which resulted in building the Clydes-
dale Lorries. The Clyde Cars Com-
pany have increased facilities for
further production, and Clydesdale
Lorries are now available for ship-
ment for commercial uses. This is
the opportunity of lorry-users the
world over.
Clydesdale Lorries are made in
capacities of 14 to 6 tons.
Special Clydesdale Features:
Krebs Automatic Controller main-
tains constant engine speeds.
Separate unit four-speed gear-box.
Worm-drive axle.
Straight Copper Tube Radiator.
Massive frame, with deep centre
section.
H. D. VAN BRUNT, Factory Representative,
P.O. Box 2093, Sydney, AUSTRALIA.
New South Wales Distributor:
E. HAJRDY-JOHNSTON,
350 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
New Zealand Distributors:
INGLIS BROS. & CO. LTD.,
Harris Street, WELLINGTON.
T. E. SHIEL & CO.,
Stafford Street, DUNEDIN.
THE CLYDE CARS CO., Clyde, Ohio, UkS.A
11/"'
mm
ms#
PLUi
i
J
a
m
c
If Powe/k is
WHAT YoU WANT-
TjsePlum&
If you want to feel the exhilara-
tion of driving a car which,
day hy day is fairly tugging
with power, use Plume Benzine.
You will feel this power the
moment you open the throttle.
Motorists speak highly of the
power developed hy Plume
Benzine. They say Plume
doesn't jib on the hills—that
steep hills only serve to show
how powerful it is—and that it doesn’t let them down
when they are in a hurry.
Plume is all power —it gives the pull and the quick
acceleration that are so essential to satisfactory
motoring.
Plume also gives that extra mileage that makes such
a difference to the petrol bill.
Fill up with Plume next time, and experience the
pleasure of driving a car that is alive with power.
PLUHE BEN7ME
/ACUUM OIL CO.PTY. LTD.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wander Song.
Mad, restive city, you hold naught for me;
Your glamor and your might; your music
and your light
Mere tinsel prove to nomads of the sea.
I’m sick to death of all your sounds and
sights |
You call to me in vain; I loathe with might
and main v ,
Your sin, your social laws, your fool delights.
There is a wider life that holds me fast;
It calls, and ever calls; it’s full of lures and
thralls, , .
And oh ! it always draws me back at last.
It speaks through halliards drumming on the
mast; .„
Beckons from alien lands and lone Bactric
strands, .
And hails me down the northern storm-wind s
blast.
Aboard, my men! Aboard! and swing
away....
I long to leave behind, with all their kith
and kind, .
Vain cities that would bind me to their
sway.
N.s.w.
NIYA BECKE.
The Groove.
Though restless souls there be who plan
And plot through all their days,
I have in mind a little man
Of quiet-going ways.
While others roam the world, and range
The lands from sea to sea,
Upon the tides of chance and change
liis course runs evenly.
Though kings and empires tumble down,
Though war and famine blight,
He takes his morning-way to town,
His home ward-way at night.
Through happy times, and times made red
By blood and blood-red flame,
For more than forty years, ’tis said,
His path has been the same.
Because he walks so often there
Each rut and stone he knows;
Across the park and through the square
And down the street it goes.
As though tired out with stress of feet
It wanders, patched, and worn ;
In winter’s cold and summer’s heat
He treads it night and morn.
While Time speeds on with ne’er a stop
He plods to toil and back;
’Twixt shop and house, and house and shop,
It is the linking track.
I sometimes think, at board or bed,
That track, in time, will prove
Beneath his never-ceasing tread
A deep, all-hiding groove.
Deep down, where mould and cobwebs lurk,
He twice a day shall roam—
A shadow going forth to work,
A shadow stumbling home.
All silent as the wainscot mouse
That scents its feline foe,
’Twixt house and shop, and shop and house,
He day and night shall go.
Nor shall he in the lists of strife
His strength and spirit prove,
But, evermore, live out his life
Within his self-made groove.
For there, the world and all shut out - .
A dim shape underneath,
The man I write these lines about
Shall think and move and breathe.
And while o’er many a field the lark
Drops music, sweet and clear,
A dim shape, shambling through the dark,
He shall not see or hear.
Nor shall he mark the planets swim
Through azure deeps afar;
For sun and star are not for him
Who seeks not sun and star.
N.SAV.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Japanese Cup.
A most coquettish lady, a funny little lady,
A fan between her fingers and her daggered
hair piled up.
Is splashed in vivid scarlet on the white bowl
of my cup.
And another in a kimono of emerald and
orange,
With a queer inverted basket on her dusky
little head,
Has turned a slim and haughty back upon
the girl in red.
This one in royal blue demands the centre
of the saucer,
And that, in primrose, waves to her to keep
her courage up,
While one in gold and tango steals the blos-
soms on the cup.
I have quite a merry harem when I come to
drink my coffee;
With tiny mouths and stockinged feet they
keep me company
And a patriot’s suggestion that the liquor
should be tea!
The whole thing is outlandish. I, who never
left Australia.
Am fain to Turkish coffee, and the while I
drink it up
Japan will dance attendance round the
circle of my cup!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


A Wise Decision to fit
PERDRIAU TYRE-5
to Your Ford Car
1 hev offer distinct advantages in guarantee, in quality and in price.
&
ft
c
D
*2
rm
We g uarantee 4000 miles to Ford Owners
with Perdriau 30 x 3)2 Tyres, though their
actual mileage goes far beyond this.
Obtainable from all Garages or from the Manufacturers—
Perdriau Super Tread Tyres, 30 x 301
Cover, £B/16/6.
High-grade Laminated Red Tube-
Heavy, 24/-; Light, 19/6.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd. aii states.
FLIES
CfNRFCf
vVDISEhSE
to The sickroom
, I.i # v
:W
m
m?
' i" * •
v • -^w.
I ;
: r?
B
FROM THE
STHBLES
. and
DRfiIMS V. ; -
fMIDTHE
KITCHEN*'
i //
o
w
*Nd b *CON. VEAL I
' r r
The Practical Motor
Lunch
Packing the luncheon basket
should take but a few minutes.
No need to waste time cutting
sandwiches — that's quite out
of date. Just slip a couple of
tins of
“REX”
CAMP PIE
into the basket. Open them up
when it’s time for lunch—and
pou have a meat delicacp that
everyone will relish. A fine,
wholesome, satisfying meal
that you really enjoy. And
whether you drive a “ Rolls-
Royce ”or a “ Ford “ Rex"
Camp Pie is always “in place.”
ALWAYS KEEP A FEW TINS
IN THE HOUSE
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE
NO OTHER CHEESE HAS QUITE THE
DELICIOUS FLAVOR OF
“REX"
LUNCHEON CHEESE
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pare Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J.6IJ
The Higher Type of Machine
Tools sold by Benson Bros.
Power, Rigidity, Convenience and Accuracy are the
chief characteristics of the exclusive Machine Tools
that we stock. Every tool is unique in design, and
engineers readily see that, apart from the power and
the solidity of the designs, the convenience of
the various movements will mean better work from
the man who has to operate them.
We are agents for these better-class Machine Tools:
Le Blond Lathes, South Bend Lathes, Warner and
Swasey Lathes, Prentice Radial Drills, Landis
Screwers, and many others. Write for Special
Catalogue dealing with the Machine Tool you are
interested in.
M
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.,
76-78 Liverpool St., Sydney. 71-75 Queen's Bridge St., South Melbourne. 138 Currie St., Adelaide.
Dodge Brothers
motor CAR
IN' securing tlieir requirements for their vast Expeditionary Army
the United. States War Office, by a process of elimination, con-
fined their selection to standardised articles of various descrip-
tions, according to the class required.
Particularly in motor vehicles was this standardisation apparent, and
f n °re than usual thoroughness was displayed in eliminating makes
that did not come up to requirements.
Eventually three types were decided upon, viz.: A heavily-built car,
a medium-weight car for general purposes, and a light-weight car.
The Dodge, which represents the medium-weight car, was the only
make of its class approved and adopted by the War Department.
They were furnished, not in hundreds, but' in thousands —both for
the home training-camps and for service in Belgium, France and
Italy.
No greater compliment than this has ever been paid to a motor-car.
The Dodge Brothers Car received the official stamp of approval
in preference to all other cars of its class, when the life of its
nation was at stake.
The Standardised Car.
■ ■ ■
Dalg'ety & Company Limited,
130 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40—No. 2039.
THURSDAY, MARCH 13, 1919.
Trice 6d.
THE TOUTS.
THE OBSEQUIOUS TOUTS: “Hotel, sir?”
RETURNING BILLJIM: “No, thanks —I’m putting up with a cobber of mine till I have a look round.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Mufgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tub
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co, 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. Gd. per annum you can have The BuLLE'rik
sent regularly to you every week for a year , to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts , etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence’ > column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 ivords, are specially acceptable ), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
'will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Thu Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
' South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., h'H Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
11.8. A Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
V.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 163 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —-Ignace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Ilmng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai. ,
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commomvealth, Maoriland ,
Fiji, British Papua , Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, 'All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — -otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sloe. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., jZld.; elsewhere, hoz., lid., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 13, 1919.
THREE WILSONS AND POSSIBLY
MORE.
Woodrow Wilson began with copious
and noble generalisations—the sort which
wiser and wickeder men avoid except when
they use them to deceive —-and presently
found that their universal application would
bring everything to a deadlock. During his
early days in Europe he scorned compromise,
whereupon compromise arose and hit him in
the kind grey eye. Also he denounced the
old secret methods of diplomacy; yet a time
soon came when every point that the Peace
Conference had to deal with was first
debated, after the room had been searched
for hidden reporters, by an inner council
consisting of Lloyd George, Clemenceau
and Wilson, so that the three Greatest
Powers might come to some agreement before
meeting the merely Great Powers, and then
the Second-rate Powers and the Small
Powers, to say nothing of mere outside _ or
doormat Powers like Siam and Hedjaz.
Then trouble arose over the noble aspiration
that the League of Nations should be a
League of All the Nations, instead of a sordid
combine of part of the world to keep down
or reform the other part. It was a pure
and lofty idea such as permeated the New
Testament and actuated the Early Church,
and it aroused wild applause in the least
desirable quarters. But when an attempt
was made to decide how the Hun criminal
in the dock and the armed Bolshevik hoodlum
in the street should lead a double life and
also be grave and reverend judges on the
bench, helping to rule their betters, it was
decided that the League must only be Part
of the Nations to begin with. As a conse-
quence the Hun, who fancied for a moment
that he was to escape all payment for his
misdeeds under “Wilson’s Peace,” has
ceased to pour fulsome eulogy on the man
who a few weeks ago was running a dead
heat with the Saviour, and calls him a
whited sepulchre of disappointment.
* * * *
Next it was found that the worm of com-
promise was eating at the roots ,of the great
central idea itself. The League at first was
to represent real nations, and stand for the
principle of self-determination, whereas the
last great shuffle of the cards, at Vienna over
100 years ago, was a mere swapping of weak,
unwilling peoples, and a parcelling out of
territories, and a giving of almost everybody
to the master he least wanted. In other
words, it was a League of States. A State
is as much land as a government can steal,
while a Nation consists of people of one
stock, with the same language (barring a
few exceptions where the language differs),-
the same religion (except where it is other-
wise), with common ideals, even though they
may be poor ones, a general desire to go
their way together, and sufficient cohesion to
make them identifiable. Also they must
have a history behind them and a country.
The last clause rules out the Gipsies, who
are identifiable enough but don’t even seem
to know where they come from; and their
Government, for they are reputed to have
one of a sort, has always been a tent or
waggon affair. Among the races which
fill the bill in every respect are the Jews,
Finns, Poles and Roumanians, the Czecho-
slovaks (with the old kingdom of Bohemia
for a reference), the severed fragments of
France, Italy, Greece and Denmark, which
want to rejoin their own folk, and the
Ukrainians and Letts. Unfortunately the
Koreans, Irish, Boers, Hawaiians and Egyp-
tians also fill the bill, and three of them have
said so very clearly. So it was hurriedly
decided that conquered races belonging to the
enemy should be self-determined, but those
belonging to the Allies should be postponed.
Wilson himself was among the first to tell
the Irish that his beautiful generality wasn’t
to be taken too seriously. By ill-luck it had
been taken seriously, and some small nations
were roused to hopes which may culminate
in breakage.
* * * *
Back for a spell in his own country the
refulgent President has kept on diminishing.
He has tried to explain that there is nothing
in the idea of the League having a common
army with which to keep the peace—an army
in which an Englishman, Frenchman,
Italian, Greek, Belgian or Serb would have
the same chance as an American to climb to
the top by merit, so that he would order the
United States contingent about. He has
also pacified his critics by saying that United
States armaments will not be interfered with
by common European fellow-Leaguers. The
U.S., now the only country in the world
which is building a great war-fleet in red-
hot haste, will thus reserve the right to be
armed to the teeth and loaded to the muzzle
amid general disarmament. Further, if
Mexico, as a self-determining country, leases
a bit of territory to Japan as is threatened,
it is to be squashed, League or no League.
Further, though the great combine of nations
is to keep the peace when necessary, Wilson
assures his country that nothing is further
from his intentions than that the blood of
Uncle Sam’s soldiers shall be spilt in peace-
keeping enterprises in the Old World. In
really trying times the Uncle Sam country
is to be an honorable but honorary member.
The Monroe doctrine, which has been inter-
preted to forbid the interference of European
Governments, whether Leagued or otherwise,
on the American continent, is still to stand.
And when Japan, in its haste, interpreted
the clauses about the removal of “barriers”
to mean that Japanese low-priced labor
would be freely admitted to the United States
and Australia, and that the Republic’s
tariff would be reduced for the benefit of the
Japanese producer, the news was broken to
it that it was one of those who rush in where
Buddhas fear to tread. Even poor old
China, a weak Ally with a good case appeal-
ing against a strong Ally with a good gun,
wms told with. Wilson’s concurrence that
there was nothing doing.
So far there have been three Wilsons.
The first was the prophet with the halo, the
apostle of justice and light, scorning greed,
injustice, revengeful feelings, secrecy and
compromise. That was the Heavenly
Wilson. The second was the Earthly
Wilson, getting down with agility and a
cloud of words from his pedestal. Next
there was an almost Jingo Wilson, who
overdid his part in the effort to placate the
hostile party which had cmptured Congress.
This one deliberately soois on the United
States in its career as the only country with
a huge warship-building programme, and
gives assurances that his League of Peace
isn’t intended to prevent his own country
arming as it pleases, and that while the
United States, as a member of the League,
may interfere elsewhere, any Leaguers who
interfere in the two Americas will get the
surprise of their lives. Probably a fourth
or Hash Wilson, being a mixture of the
other three, will resume the debate in Paris.
Also there are signs of a Retiring Wilson,
who scorns such tinsel honors, as a third
nomination fpr the U.S. Presidency or a
reach-out for the Headship of the League of
Nations, and who retreats with dignity, like
Diogenes, making the best of a confused job
and retiring with a book under his arm to
his hogshead.
WANTED—A REAL AUSTRALIAN
NAVY.
In the A.1.F., shortly after the hard fight-
ing began, a system was instituted of only
granting commissions from the ranks. It
quickly justified itself. A commission began
to be the badge of proved efficiency in the
field. Australians have never quite swal-
lowed the semi-mystical idea of the profes-
sional militarist that all officers are entitled
to respect as symbols of the monarchy. But
respect, obedience and anything else re-
quired were readily given to those officers
who merited them. One of the weaknesses of
the R.A.N. is that it has failed to read the
signs of the times and the character of Aus-
tralians as the A.I.F. authorities have done.
The higher ratings are still limited, to all
intents and purposes, to a class, with the
results that many ambitious boys are sheei’-
ing off the navy as a profession, trained men
already in the navy are getting out of it,
and those who remain, and see no prospect
of promotion, are embittered.
The original idea was that any Aus-
tralian boy who was physically and men-
tally qualified might become an admiral. In
theory, it is so. Entrance to the R.A.N.
College is supposed to be irrespective of
class, though even here there have been
grounds for suspicion in regard to tlie use-
fulness of a “pull.” Yet it is in this respect
only that the R.A.N. has any pretension to
be more democratic than the R.N. —a ser-
vice which frankly refuses to make midship-
men of any but' boys belonging to the so-
called upper and middle-class families. Once
training has begun the R.A.N. works on
lines parallel to those of the R.N. The sole
difference is that in the one there is a
manufactured aristocracy; in the other, an
original aristocracy of either money or birth.
While one set of Australian boys is being
trained to enter the R.A.N. from Jervis Bay,
another set is aiming at the same goal in the
Tingira. The average elector is under the
delusion that the chances of the two lots of
trainees are more or less equal. In fact,
nothing could be less so. To state the posi-
tion briefly, while the, lad from Jervis Bay
can, with reasonable application, rise to
commissioned rank at 20, the Tingira
youngster will be lucky if he does it at 50.
In 99 cases out of a hundred the best tlie
latter can hope for is the rank of W.O. His
position, as regards promotion, is analogous
to that of a man who joined the pre-war
British army as a private.
* * * *
The ambitious youngster in the R.A.N.
lower-deck is in a heart-breaking situation
from whatever angle his case is considered.
Thirty officers are being turned out of Jervis
Bay every year. There have been a number
of contradictory cables about gift-ships
which are to be sent from England to Aus-
tralia. But even if the highest estimates as
to the number of these vessels prove correct,
and even if the R.A.N. building programme
is adhered to, there will still be a surplusage
of officers. There has been a surplusage
since the war began; there would probably
have been one had it lasted another five
years. In addition, a vast number of shore
billets and even some sea-going ones are held,
not by Australians, but by the higher R.N.
ratings. The depots are full of ex-R.N.
warrant-officers, and there are numbers of
them in home-service ships. Chief and
petty officers abound who gave the best
years of their lives to the R.N. and who are
drawing pensions' on that score, while they
spend the evening of their days in the
R.A.N. holding soft jobs which a wise Gov-
ernment would reserve for its own sailors.
Is it to be wondered at that the Navy Board
has been constrained to offer a bribe of £25
per man to those trained ratings who are
due for their discharge, on condition that
they remain in the Service? -Even the Navy
Board, which is responsible for the present
state of affairs, can see that something needs
to be done if the Commonwealth is not to
lose a class of specialists whose training has
been the work of years.
* * * *
But a policy of retaining fees is futile.
Courageous and radical reform is required,
on the same lines and in the same spirit as
that which was instituted in the British
Navy when Ghtjechill went to the Admi-
ralty. Australia is ripe for a big improve-
ment on the R.N. Mate Scheme. It is
immaterial how the change is brought about
so long as it produces the essential require-
ment of equal opportunities in the way of
advancement for all. A possible solution is
the abolition, of the Tingira. It costs over
£40,000 a year, and if much of its output in
the form of trained seamen threatens to
abandon the Service on becoming effective, it
is perhaps better dead. With the Tingira
gone a new system would come into operation.
As an example, all boys who had served at
sea for from six to 12 months might be made
eligible to sit for examination at Jervis Bay.
Of these a set number would win the right to
go to sea again as prospective officers. On
reaching the rating of leading hand they
could be re-examined and if successful re-
turned to Jervis Bay for special courses in
their chosen subjects, just as during the war
military officers were sent for special courses
to Woolwich, Aldershot, Slioeburyness and
so forth. Or, again, the college at Jervis
Bay might be done away with in its present
form. In that case every aspirant for the
R.A.N. would have to join the Tingira and
after a term of training there he would go
to sea. From a sea-going ship he would
proceed to specialist schools in the particular
department—gunnery, accountancy, engi-
neering or what not —for which he showed
most aptitude. The creation of the machi-
nery of the reform would, anyhow, be a
simple matter. It is the will to create it
which is lacking, and which always will be
lacking so long as the R.A.N. is largely con-
trolled by men who are unable to vision an
effective navy run on any other lines than
those of the R.N. of a quarter of a century
ago.
THE HOUSE WITH THIRTY PEOPLE.
In times of epidemic it is the custom to write
lugubrious descriptions of a city’s slum
areas, and the Melbourne papers are doing
it now. For example:—
In the South Melbourne municipality it is com-
puted that 50 per cent, of the two-storey houses are
farmed out. The practice is not confined to houses
of any one class. It is applied to residences of
every kind, from the pretentious and commodious
brick or wooden houses built originally to accommo-
date a single family to the meanest of three-roomed
structures. To all thfese the tenants are applying the
principle of sub-letting.... The system involves an
utter disregard of the laws of sanitation. One tenant
with a family of five pays 255. a week for
seven rooms. He sublets three rooms at 155.,
12s. and 10s. 6d. a week respectively Five
families reside in another house in Albert Park. In
a two-storey house of 10 rooms 30 people were
housed.
And so on ad lib. Any writer can dig
up an article of that sort any day out of a
score of localities in Sydney and Melbourne.
In Britain their publication is almost an
extinct industry. It is no use writing about
what everybody knows.
* * * #
No one in all the wide world has solved
the problem of crowding from 700,000 to
7,000,000 people together so that every
worker shall be within reach of his shop, or
office, or workshop, or warehouse, or wharf
in the one business district, without packing
the people closely together, just as nobody
has found out how to give each sardine a
cottage and garden to himself inside the tin.
The building of new cities at seaports that
are at present unused and at favorable in-
land spots is essential, unless people are to
live and' eat and sleep on top of each other
in tenement houses and flats. Flats are
tenement houses which haven’t had time to
degenerate much. Tenement houses are flats
that are out of date or were built out of
date for cheapness. The home that Austra-
lian idealists and town-planners aim at is
the ornate tidy cottage with a breathing
space around it. But it should be built
with a view to being destroyed and replaced
or completely reconstructed every few years
as new improvements come along. The life
period cannot be fixed. In a time when
new schemes of lighting, heating and sanita-
tion are scarce it might be long. In times
of revolutionary ideas it would be short. The
rental value should be based on the average
life period, after the manner of life-insur-
ance premiums. There is nothing gained
by lamentations about the unhygienic charac-
ter of old premises. The only hope is to
establish a workable, consistent, punctual,
relentless, automatic policy for the demoli-
tion and replacement of dwellings that have
outlived their usefulness.
Regarding overcrowding as distinguished
from dirt and ancientry, so long as it is the
policy of States like Victoria and N. S. Wales
to have only one place of any account for
people to go to, there is the risk that too many
people will go to that place. If the Com-
monwealth Government moved itself and its
paraphernalia to its own premises at Can-
berra, or to some better site, instead of being
a lodger in Melbourne, the pressure might
be so far relieved that there would be only
four families in that little house at
Albert Park instead of five. It is
mere mockery to complain of a seven-
roomed person at South Melbourne or
a five-roomed individual at Albert Park
taking in lodgers when the supreme
Government of Australia lodges itself. If
the State Government followed the example
of most American States and hung out its
shingle in a minor city, that would also
diminish the crush, and there might be only
three families in the humble shack at Albert
Park. After that the State Government
might supply Portland with the same rail-
way and other facilities that Melbourne
possesses, and give it a chance to be a sea-
port with 100,000 people. Then, there
being a little elbow-room, it should be easy
to resume and destroy the shack at Albert
Park and the 40 insanitary houses owned by
one insanitary landlord somewhere else, and
put up sanitary plates instead, the inhabi-
tants being accommodated elsewhere in the
meantime. Just now there is no elsewhere.
The daily papers lament a great deal but
seldom suggest anything, lest the wonderful
One Big City policy should be spoiled. It
is the putting of 30 people in a 10-roomed
house that makes the Big Cities the proud
places they are. The other big cities of
the world achieve their glory in the same
way. There is no other way.
THE DINNER BELL.
There is an intimate relation between man
and the thing he eats. The Jews ate Pales-
tine for a thousand years, and its limestone
ridges produced something in the race which
has long since faded out. Rome fed on the
Latin farms and the hills about the Tiber
and got very strong on the diet. When in
later days it began to eat Egypt, much fat
Nile mud got into its system. There is
always a risk in imported food. Australia
eats Australia; but that portion of it which
drinks imported liquors has a sad habit of
becoming anti-Australian in its views. Yet
the relation of meat and drink to the soil and
to the people that through it are built up out
of the soil is secondary to the price of food.
The soil affects the muscle and brain of man,
the price operates upon his soul. There is
an exact relation between a people’s activity
and the difficulty of getting breakfast.
Where it is only necessary to pull the break-
fast off a tree, life becomes a long, sleepy
procession of aimless days; where that break-
fast has to be caught by furious effort main-
tained over many hours, life blossoms into
fierce activity. The one thing man will not
endure is hunger; and statecraft, taking
account of the human trait, has tried to
arrange things on such a plan that, while
hunger always threatens, there shall be just
about enough food to go round. That is the
condition under which things work best for
the man in charge of affairs. Below or above
that line it is recognised that there is danger.
* * * *
But such statecraft has not always been
available, or, if it lias been, a combination of
circumstances has beaten it. Take thqt
ancient East which let the legions thunder
by and paid no heed to them for a thousand
years. Its sleepy contentment in the midst
of all the causes of discontent had one origin
and one only—rice. Rice was cheap and it
was found that it would keep body and soul
together. The great Mogul conquerors
didn’t feast on the stuff to any great extent:
but the supine peoples who _ for ages made
themselves a mat for anything that would
condescend to walk on them were almost
exclusively rice-fed. They lived rice; they
thought rice; their religions were rice reli-
gions ; and as long as a few grains were
obtainable to put in the pot nothing could seri-
ously matter. After a while, whether there
were grains to put in the pot or not, nothing
could matter; for their souls were as thin
as the rice-water itself and it would have
required a whole century of beef to bring
them back the force they had lost. _ Simi-
larly, in Ireland, the potato exercised a
terrible power in enabling the people o
endure that which should not have been
endured. Look closely into the story, and
the fact stands out that the teeth of the Irisn
rebellion were drawn exactly _ at the point
where the potato got its work in. Up to the
end of the sixteenth century a successful ris-
ing against English authority occurred, on an
average, about once every three days. Bar-
ing the seventeenth century the spirit o
revolt remained but became less frequent m


its action and less successful. The potato
was getting its strangle-hold. In the eight-
eenth century there was plenty of rebellion
of a kind, highly spectacular and well staged ;
but it is notable that its leaders were always
drawn from the classes who ate fewest pota-
toes and that its successes were greatest at
the points where the tubers formed the small-
est part of the menu.
* * * *
Cheap food always has had the effect of
helping out "law and order.” Life could
hardly be worth seriously fighting for if dinner
could be got for about a penny and break-
fast for the turning over of two sods. The
rule is invariable; for the man is his food,
and cheap food means a cheap man who
doesn’t much mind whether somebody else’s
boots are wiped on him or not. Why, then,
this insane desire of all political parties in
Australia that food should be cheap? We
don t want cheapness; we want progress.
From that point of view even the food-
exploiter has his uses. The sad part of it
is that, when the breaking point is reached,
this brand of patriot is so liable to be
hanged ; whereupon the chop comes down to
twopence amid the rejoicings of a people
that cannot foretell its own doom.
THE LITTLE SHIPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-night there are two little ships out in
Trial Bay hanging on for dear life in the
easterly gale, the rain and the darkness;
hardly able to tell if they are , holding or
dragging; not knowing what minute will
bring the first bump that foretells the
stranding and the wreck. But the little
ships will go to sea and run their chances
as long as men have courage to take ’em;
backing their knowledge and pluck against
the worst the weather can do; always cling-
ing to the one hope in the last extremity :
“We’ll be able to fetch in somewhere before
it gets too bad.”
When I was a young officer we used to
pity ships that carried a thousand or more
tons oh a 16- or 17-foot draft. We called
“little” from the bridges of our 3000-
ton steamers. But I’m talking now of the
little steamers of from one to two hundred
tons running on a mean draft of six to seven
feet loaded and four to five feet light, work-
ing the coast of N. S. Wales from Tweed
Heads to Eden: ships that are built to work
the shallow bars and rivers that compose the
majority of the ports of N. S. Wales.
There are two brave little ships riding
out in the bay to-night, and because I have
my own midget safe I can’t sleep for reckon-
ing-up their chances. The sea is running
high, the wind is howling, and the rain is
thick in the squalls. If I had my craft out
there I should feel sick at heart, because a
stupid and penurious Navigation Depart-
ment has decreed that bars shall be unlit
and ports unwatched except upon certain
occasions; wherefore many a little ship is
lost because it doesn’t get a sporting chance.
From Port Stephens to Moreton Bay there
is not, outside of a bar, a single safe anchor-
age during an easterly gale, and I do not
believe there is a single bar that would be safe
to cross six hours after the wind had begun.
In the daytime a ship has seldom far to go
to fetch some bar, and mostly a man can take
his ship into safety if the flood-tide is mak-
ing and he can see the leads; but at night
there are no lights on the leads unless some
ship is expected and the pilot or man in
charge is notified. Even then there may be
no lights if the man in charge decides the
bar is too dangerous to work. So getting
caught at night means death. Suppose a
coaster is bound to the Tweed and passes
Smoky Cape with favorable weather. At
night she runs up perhaps as far as Nam-
bucca Heads, when rain-squalls and a making
sea from the east warn her of a possible
easterly gale. She at once turns round and
makes for the only shelter of a kind near;
that is, Trial Bay. If the leads on the
Macleay bar are lit and the flood-tide is
running, she is safe in Crossing in and
anchoring a mile inside the bar. If the
flood-tide is not making, she still has a
chance of hanging on in the bay until it
does make (only a matter of six hours at
the most) and then getting in before the
sea gets too heavy. But if the leads are not
lit there is no chance at all except to do
what the two little ships are doing out in
the. darkness and the gale, knowing that if
their chains part, even if the flood is making,
they cannot run for the bar.
Leading lights should be lit on all work-
able bars at least on the flood-tide, bad
weather or fine. In fine weather a man may
want to beach a leaky ship in a quiet spot.
In bad weather, night or day, a man should
be able to run for the nearest port with a
reasonable hope of entering, and it should
not be left to the discretion of the man in
charge as to whether the lights are lit or not.
Let him hoist his “Bar dangerous” light if
he thinks the bar too rough to work. For,
study it how he will, in the darkness he can
never tell as accurately as the man on the
water whether the best chance of safety lies
in crossing in or standing off.
But, above all things, let the lights be lit.
Give us seamen a sporting chance.
BOWS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Promotion of Subterranean
Industry.
Some little time ago it was mentioned that,
though the Hughes Government wouldn’t
put a blot on its escutcheon by any hurried
move towards Protection, it was willing to
promote the manufacture of shipbuilding
materials by promising the Broken Hill
Proprietary Go. large Government orders to
encourage it in the business. Still with a
view to keeping its escutcheon free from
blots it is now reported that another firm
(Metal Manufactures, Limited, is men-
tioned) has been promised a monopoly of
the Government’s custom for copper wire
provided it gets a move on—which it is
doing. There is something unsatisfactory
about these subterranean methods of promot-
ing industry, despite the fact that they make
a precarious blob of occupation and profit
here and there while Hughes is still able to
smite what chest he has and say that he
remains true to his tariff principles. Aus-
tralia wants to have industry spread all over
the country—not confined to places like
Newcastle and Sydney and Melbourne, which
are under the Ministerial eye. It wants it
open to all people, and not merely to those
who are near enough to the seat of power to
breathe —possibly a breath that can’t bear
analysis—into the Ministerial ear. Above
all, it doesn’t want the chances confined to
firms that are already in existence and ready
to be negotiated with, so that they may grow
to huge dimensions and become monopolies.
If Australia is to be any kind of a country
there must be an equal chance for new men
of enterprise to start anywhere, whether some
god-like Minister hands them down a Gov-
ernment contract or not. Tariff assistance
for all is an open, honest device, while secret
assistance for a few by the allotment of
Government orders is certain to smell, sooner
or later, of tip, commission, baksheesh and
palm-oil; also of the rake-off and the back-
stairs. It tends to look, sooner or later, too
much like dynastic politics, where the person
who is married to somebody has a pull over
the one who isn’t married to anybody. In
fact, the demand is for a system which will
give prosperity an efficient, orderly start
and let it run automatically like the uni-
verse. A spasmodic prosperity that arises
here and there through the spasmodic inter-
ference of persons like Jensen, who profess
to be the saviours of a country which
shouldn’t be lost, is as bad as a ramshackle
and bumpy universe which is always falling
into holes and has to be pulled out by
miracles. It may be good to hear that the
Government, during the 44 years that
Hughes has been in office, has managed, by
enormous and underground sagacity, to get
one moderate-sized steel-plate industry going
and may soon get a telephone-wire industry
going. But 526 Australian factories shut
up during the first three years of that Gov-
ernment—and they included many honest
little shows which didn’t make things the
Government contracts for, or didn't live in
big cities close to the Government ear, or
weren’t personally acquainted with any
member, or didn’t know the ropes. A royal
commission should be appointed to find out
the ropes and make the information public.
Business Men and Machinery.
The departments which pay off and repatri-
ate returned soldiers have sunk into blither-
ing chaos at the very beginning of their
labors. Half the paybooks seem to have
been lost. Half the officials are fast qualify-
ing for the lunatic-asylum. And returned
soldiers of hitherto unblemished record have
begun to kick the office table into three
pieces in their hysterical anger. Wherefore
the Daily Stodge comes out with the usual
plaint, which runs somewhat as follows: —
The official way is the result of long experience
of minor officials in dealing with the public, and the
intention is that the minor official may be quite safe
in anything he does, and that the superior official
will not be troubled. That is the difference between
officialdom and business.... The business-man seeks
to keep in touch with his customers.... There is
the most urgent need that strong and competent
hands shall take hold of the machinery of both the
Defence and Repatriation Departments.... Never
was there greater need of business men to control
the machinery....
In war-time, apart from the actual fighting,
there is a vast amount of new work, and
often rough work, and perhaps unprece-
dented work, and always rush work to be
done. Large bodies of men have to be
handled in a way which won’t provoke them
to justifiable wrath, and still more to that
contempt which leads them to kick the furni-
ture. And the peace staffs being naturally
quite inadequate, extra men of the right
kind are wanted for temporary service. Aus-
tralia is rather short of them. It has plenty
of agents, merchants, lawyers, bank and in-
surance managers and the like, who are
accustomed to manage things well in the
way of giving orders to polite, soft-voiced,
soft-footed clerks. It has an abundance of
farmers who know how to organise labor in
the person of the occasional swagman.
Squatters may be found who employ a few
hands at ordinary times and do confused
battle with a crowd of shearers once a year.
Railway managers are to be discovered here
and there. They take charge of new loan-
mcney lines, often built at impossible prices
to improbable placesv-lines in the construc-
tion of which they had no more voice than a
man has in the selection of the stray infant
which is left on his doorstep—and they do
their best with tfiem, which is more white-
wash than business. Also there are bishops
who organise or disorganise dioceses. But
the class that is very scarce is the one which
is accustomed to run huge productive private
enterprises, or large productive State enter-
prises which haven’t the convenient loan
behind them, and which have to live or die
by results. Such men have to see that the
weekly or fortnightly pay isn’t a breakdown
culminating in a riot, that the dog hasn’t
bitten the paysheet, and that the time-record
hasn’t vanished, no one knows where. That
kind of person is often handy to borrow at
a crisis, but he doesn’t grow in a country
that imports practically all its hardware
and its softgoods.
Closing Up.
In 1801, which isn’t so very long ago as the
crow flies, Queensland’s copper production
was worth £8554. It stands now for almost
half the output of the Commonwealth, and
Cloncurry and Mount Morgan stand for 95
per cent, of Queensland’s total. In other
words, they stand for some 45 per cent, of
the crop of the Commonwealth’s principal
metal. Cloncurry is so much the bigger of
the pair that in this matter it is about one-
fourth of the whole Australian business in
itself. The Queensland ore is richer than
the average, so that four men get out as
much value as seven do in the other States.
Yet even with the metal at gorgeous war
prices, the great Cloncurry field has, with
trifling exceptions, been working at a loss.
Now that standard copper has dropped, with
the cessation of the war, from £ll6 per ton
in London to about £7O, the only prospect is
a general closing up. Mount Morgan, the
glory of Queensland, may also close. It was
once a gold-mine, but is now principally
copper. The present wage-rate was fixed
when the price of the metal was £ll6, and
to-day nobody sees exactly how to meet
expenses, let alone pay dividends. The tin
town of Irvinebank recently shut its
doors. Tin is quoted even now at £203 per
ton, which is a change from the £6l of 20
years ago, but still the mines have been
showing a loss. The last of many troubles
was a strike, which arose because some
unionists were discharged and other union-
ists put in their places, and the manage-
ments decided that it wasn’t worth while to
fight Bolsheviks in a hot climate and pay for
the joy of doing it. If the One Big Union
forces take over these Northern industries,
so that Labor will get the whole value of its
production and nothing more, it will either
have to do with less wages or develop an
unexpected genius for management. The
Queensland meat-preserving trade also
begins to pant and show signs of distress.
It was never a highly-profitable business- —
in fact, the original companies mostly came
to grief and either wrote off heavy losses or
sold out for an ancient melody. But it was
a great standby, all the same. All over Aus-
tralia the “wonderful natural resources of
the country” seem to find a difficulty about
liquidating their bill for board and lodging.
The decline of agriculture is obvious, though
it is being partly arrested in some branches
(the Queensland sugar business isn’t one of
•them) by giving new men loans of money,
raised by the State at exorbitant interest, to
induce them to go on the soil in the place
of old, soured men who are coming off. In a
general way, the position is that trading,
financing and gambling in unearned incre-
ment are doing well; likewise the various
jobs that don’t require to show payable re-
sults, like railway-building, etc. But plain,
honest production is in a weak state. Pro-
duction is the butt of every Bolshevik and
Anarchist and I.W.W. and One Big Union-
ist and strike-organiser. And in Queens-
land, where the Bolshevik has his principal
home, and where the Government attained
office on a vague but exciting programme of
the reconstruction of society, the policy of
breakage has been rushed faster even than
tne average.
Feeding on lOU’s.
The Petersham (N.S.W.) by-election gave
Premier Holman a chance to expound him-
self about returned soldiers:—
They would take it on themselves to see that none
of these men would be unemployed. Those who could
not or did not wish to settle on the land would be
absorbed in public works for the development of the
country.
Which means that the men who can’t be put
on land acquired at high prices by the State
out of loan funds will be put on public works
built out of loan funds to develop these lands
bought out of loan funds. For, under the
impossible Holman party, just as it would
be under the more impossible John Storey
party, all works are loan works. Last year
the State revenue was £7,821,157 more than
in Holman’s first year of office. This year,
if the first seven months are any kind of a
test, there will be a further increase of at
least £2,000,000, mostly through extra taxes
and charges. Yet the impossibility of paying
for even a new coalscuttle for a Government
office without borrowing the money and
charging it to posterity is more terrible than
ever. The money didn’t melt through war
charges, for the State had nothing to do
with them ; it simply dissolved through the
utter futility of an Elocutionary Government.
As the revenue grew bigger, loans to supple-
ment revenue increased. Apparently the
loans increased because, so many men having-
gone to the war, there were fewer left to be
supported out of loans. Now they are to.be
increased again because the men are coming-
back and there are more of them to he
supported out of loans. For there must be a
stupendous increase if, as Holman says, all
the returned soldiers are to be supplied with
work by the mean, lazy policy of charging
our grandchildren with the bill.
+.
A Lesson in the Folly of “Loyalism.”
The big coal-mining strike of 1917 found
Victoria in desperate need of fuel. Victoria
takes about a million tons per annum from
N. S. Wales, and the Peacock Government,
which was then in power, naturally cast its
eyes towards Sydney. John Brown, about
the most blatant talker of fight where union-
ism is concerned in the Oominonw-ealth, was
approached via the N. S. Wales Government,
and he readily agreed to contribute Pelaw
Main and Richmond Main to the holy cause.
The business of finding Loyal Labor began;
also the industry of making promises. . Four-
hundred men were recruited in Victoria for
transportation across the border, and they
got as many assurances of undying devotion
and support as the electors of a doubtful
constituency in polling-week. The Vic.
Government promised generally that it would
“stick to them to the last.” It promised
specifically that the original quota of 400
would be kept up to strength on a reinforce-
ment system; that houses would be built to
accommodate their families ; that police pro-
tection would be found if the necessity arose
—in fact, as a promiser it stuck at nothing.
The Loyalist Toilers got to work. From
first to last there was no attempt to rein-
force them. They lived for 16 months in
squalor, mostly in tents, with their families.
The inevitable happened in the way of low-
ered morale and family breakages. The
strike dispute was presently “arranged,” and
the unionists started to come back. The
Peacock Government had by this time gone
out. Its successors knew nothing about any
promises made to the strike-breakers. By
December 18 last the tally of those who had
come to the assistance of Victoria in its dark
hour had dwindled to 97. The men who
had been promised police protection were
being assaulted twice daily, at least —going
to and returning from work —and sometimes
oftener. Forty of them cleared. The mine
(Richmond Main only was being worked
by this time) closed down; and after five
weeks of idleness, varied by assaults, the
rest were paid full wages for that period and
shown the way out. The present Victorian
Government denies that its predecessors
made any promises. As against that, there
is the evidence of the men concerned; the
evidence of all the probabilities; arid the
fact that Geo. Fuller, of N. S. Wales, is
prepared to make a statutory declaration
that Mr. Hagelthorn made the promises to
him. The Bulletin is not concerned here
with the aspect of the case as between the
unionists and the men who took their jobs.
The phase which interests it is the short-
sightedness of the policy of the employing
class as represented by the Vic. Government
and John Brown. The effect of it is as
though they had issued a joint manifesto in
terms:
To Strike-breakers. —The unionists having signi-
fied their willingness to resume work at Richmond
Main, provided all those who stood by us there when
they struck were booted out, the booting has taken
place. It always has, and it always will, in similar
circumstances. We shall need you again for strike-
breaking purposes when the next big industrial row
occurs; and, if promises are of any avail, we shall
get you. Meantime, good-day and be damned to you!
An incidental effect of the episode is the
creation of a small army of Bolsheviks.
From the point of view- of the employing
class, it hardly seems worth while.
- ♦
Intense Cultivation.
The people who advocate a w-orking day of
six hours, or a 36-hours week, for Australia
seem, in a general way, to take it for granted
that the factories and machinery will be idle
for the other 108 hours of the six days. A
country that does so much shutting-up is at
a serious disadvantage. The Jap, who over-
does things and has no Sunday, goes to the
other extreme, and often works his factories
by shifts the whole 168 hours per week.
Possibly a compromise might be arrived at
and two shifts be worked. The Jap’s idea is
that the mortgage, or the interest on capital
invested, is working the full 24 hours, and
takes no Sunday. He holds that to leave
the ground that the factory stands on lying
fallow 108 hours out of 144, when it might
be growing a crop of clothes or boots all the
time, is waste, and the loss is a burden on
industry. It necessitates four ugly factories
where one v ugly factory would do, and indus-
try has to pay in some way or other for the
extra factories. Also, if a machine can do a
certain amount of work in its lifetime, and
that work is spread over 12 years instead of
three, the apparatus is either out of date
and working at a loss long before it is dead
else it has to be scrapped at a loss long
before it is worn out. In the long run in-
dustry has to stand that loss also. The
Jap’s idea is intense cultivation of the fac-
tory site and the mortgage money, just as
much as other people believe in intense cul-
tivation of the railway track and the sea by
running trains and ships at all hours. A
whale for intense cultivation is the brown
citizen. Hitherto he has been mostly intense
by hand, but he is learning machinery very
fast,
A Northern Dream.
T. D. Chataway reports progress :
The Administrator of half-a-million square miles
of country sat back in his chair on the verandah
behind the vine-covered trellis-work, and passed in
review the victories of the past two years. Slowly
he turned the pages of his annual report. Visions
rose before him of the dreams he had dreamt when
with settled purpose he came to the far-off spot ia
Revolution.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I AM Revolution !
The world your fathers knew
Is trodden down and beaten out,
Riddled and sifted through !
The colonnades where never stirred
The speech of landless men before
Are echoing to their shouted word,
Their clogs upon the floor.
My red hands rend the rohes of kings,
The sceptre cracks across my knee,
The smug-faced, stolid, ancient things
Fade out and cease to he:
The beaten roads are far behind,
The new ways shape before my blade,
Seek long, frail hearts, yet never find
The world your fathers made!
I am Revolution,
The son of Want and War,
Begot between the dusk and dawn
To spoil the things that are.
A myriad patient, hollow eyes
Circled the cradle at my birth,
Watching my dreadful planet rise.
The cattle-men of earth,
Creatures of lordly rape and wrong,
Bitten and warped with work and sin,
They who had suffered overlong
The" cribs they kennelled in ;
They who have never understood
Aught but the right to give, and lack,
Waken at last; and, if I would,
I cannot rein them back.
I am Revolution!
Within the Book of Dooms
I write the end of sluggish peace,
The sloth of curtained rooms,
The soulless, tireless time-machine
That shaped the creeds of throne and see,
Wherein, because a thing had been,
’Twas just that it should be !
lam the Law! Before my breath
The shackles melt; and men. for me,
Go singing down to mate with Death
In gladness, being free.
‘I am the scourge of all that is,
The captain of the swift and . strange,
The soul that men call Nemesis,
The arbiter of change !
I am Revolution!
The bounds of rule and race
Go down before my burning eyes,
The vision in my face.
My armies fill the veiling dusk
That blinds the world, and, toiling, build
Within the olden orders’ husk
The structure I have willed.
What goal awaits the cause I serve,
What Grail my heart’s hot quest shall find
I know not; but I cannot swerve
From Fate who strides behind.
I am the hope that springs from pain,
The hand of flame upon the wall,
The breaker of the sword of Cain,
The Leveller of all!
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


im »
he yJusfraJia.
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN the WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices. Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
t '
'
the tropics of North Australia. He was making
progress—slow, possibly, but sure. For instance,
there was the declaration of his acting Health Officer
that though Culex Fatigans was found occasionally,
Stcgomyia Calopis had not been lately seen near
Pine Creek or Darwin. He brushed aside impatiently
the reflection that that was the time of the year
when Stegomyia usually took his vacation. Grate-
fully he noted that Culex Yigilax was only occasion-
ally troublesome, while SCutomyia Nota-scripta,
which did not bear disease, was of spasmodic
occurrence. Better still, the breeding of Chrysoconops
s Acer, the offspring of bathroom water, had been at
last successful. And though the Administrator’s
great domain had not shown much increase in the
production of those things for which the human
craves, there had been a rapid augmentation of the
flocks and herds, or whatever you call tnenr, of the
Water Boatman. If only the Boatman would have
large families and escape liis natural enemies, all
the malarial mosquitoes in the 500,000 square miles
af country would disappear.
Still slowly turning the pages the Administrator
noted that within two years in his capital city no
less than nineteen premises had been disinfected,
twenty demolished, and fourteen awaited conveyance
to the rubbisli-tip. Great work, indeed ; but there
remained the rest of the city—some 107 houses—
and the immense work of keeping clean the backyards
of the State hotels must be continued.
Other problems brought thoughful lines to the
forehead. The Patagonian children had had sore
/ryes, which had been cured, but the future might
still hold sore eyes for some of them. And there
was still the problem of the fly. Despite his regula-
tion insisting upon all stables being made fly-proof,
there were persons who had horses but no stables,
or stables and no horses. It was a matter for
grave consideration whether it should be made com-
pulsory that all horses be kept in fly-proof stables,
and all stables be by horses. A solution
must be found during the year. Yet, looking back
Upon the past, the Administrator felt that much had
been accomplished. Busybodies might ask about
getting people into the country, developing the fish-
eries, digging out the metals, stocking the pastoral
areas and what not; but at least the mosquitoes,
flies, errant bottles, wandering goats and bath-water
had had unremitting attention.
«. .
The Inviolable King.
This is said to be the report of the silly
commission of jurists attached to the Peace
Conference -
According to international law the personal acts
of a sovereign are the acts of the State, and the
sovereign cannot be held personally liable.
Which, if true, amounts to acquittal of
Kaiser William. But what is that inter-
national law, and where is it written? Four
times inside 400 years the question of a
sovereign's personal responsibility has been
brought before a Court. One case, that of
Mary of Scotland, may not wholly apply, for
a successor had been appointed to the
throne, and she was tried for alleged offences
committed after she had ceased to be a
queen. But Charles 1., Louis XVI. and
Maximilian of Mexico were tried for
offences committed during their reigns, and,
though the case of Louis the Locksmith
might have been a foregone conclusion,
Charles and Maximilian each got a
patient hearing. In each case the plea was
that a monarch couldn't be held responsible,
and the plea was knocked out. If the pro-
posal to put Andrew Johnson on trial
hadn’t been vetoed by the U.S. Congress, the
divine irresponsibilitv of presidents also
might have had a bad time. So far as The
Bulletin knows, there isn’t one instance on
record in which a Court, with his Majesty
In the dock, accepted the fiction of the in-
Violability of an oiled and diademed king.
The precedents are all against IV. Hoiien-
zollern. It is hinted, however, that Bill
may be held liable —and possibly hanged—
for his doings as Dictator of Belgium. He
couldn’t ivell be inviolable there, for another
sovereign,. Albert, possessed all the inviola-
bility which Belgium could supply, and he
was shot at by William’s ordhrs and on his
own ground; wherefore the tradition that
monarclis are sacred may be William’s
undoing. Certainly something of the sort
must be admitted, else the King of Bulgaria
might come to London on a visit, blow out
King. George's brains, and then, by reason
of his sacred character, leave publicly by
special train with high officials and a guard
of honor to see him off.
The Untended Sewer.
Renb Thompson .and Myra Lilian Carr pleaded
guilty to the charge of suffering a girl under 18
years of age to be in a house of ill-fame.
It is one of the many evil outcomes of the
old-established British practice of refusing to
officially recognise the existence of prostitution
that, not only does prostitution flourish,
but, in addition, all its most noisome
adjuncts. One of them is the child in the
brothel. In theory, of-course, houses of ill-
fame don’t exist at all. Neither they would
if (1) human nature was different, or if (2)
all policemen were part supermen and part
saints. As it is, there are probably as many
brothels per head of the population in uncon-
trolled Sydney as there are in controlled
Paris. An inevitable result of unlicensed
prostitution is police corruption. It is the
duty of the police to stamp out “disorderly
houses.” Not to wait till they are urged thereto
by exasperated neighbors, but to do it on
their own initiative. It is a fair thing to
say that all houses of ill-fame are “dis-
orderly.” They are inevitably sly grog-shops
—often an extremely dangerous sort of sly
grog-shop. They are places where robberies
are chronic —and safe in proportion to the
victim’s reluctance to publicly complain.
And, as evidenced above, they are places
into which young girls and even children are
decoyed. The fewness of the raids made
week by week on the hundreds of establish-
ments where these things are known to
occur is the measure either of the extent to
which the local police have been squared, or
of a philosophic recognition on the part of
the force that, in some form or other, these
places are ineradicable. Or, again, it may
be a dash of both. Meanwhile they continue
making large profits, distributing a vast
amount of disease, and ruining innumerable
lives. There is no taxpayer so virtuous as
to be unaffected by their activities. The
lucky ones merely helfi to find the money to
deal with the diseases which the houses dis-
seminate. There are others who in addition
wake up to disaster in the form of sons or
daughters who have been enmeshed. Yet
there is no voice to be heard in the Legisla-
ture, on the Bench, or in any of the churches
calling for change. It is outside the realm
of practical politics to talk about prohibi-
tion in this respect. But, as the experience
of the world has shown, the traffic may be
regulated in such a way as to free it of its
worst menaces from a public point of view.
With registration, and its corollary of fre-
quent inspection, the local brothel would get
the healthful airing which it badly needs.
So long as a community has to have drains
it is surely business to see that they are
sanitary ones.
Westralia and Secession.
About the State that talks of backing out:
That tendency on the part of the person who is
suffering ■ a recovery to bite his housekeeper because
she is near and convenient is evidenced in the demand
of a party in Westralia, with the State Treasurer
leading, for secession from the Commonwealth. One
of the reasons assigned is that Westralia sent a
larger proportion of its manhood to the war than
any other State, and for every man who was away it
was docked of the 255. per head per annum
which the Commonwealth pays to the States. Both
statements are true. Westralia sent nearly 10 per
cent, of its population to the war—a really fine effort,
though there were other good ones. It did this
partly because it was patriotic. It did it partly
because of all the States it had the biggest surplus
of males in its population, and males were wanted.
It lost most in ratio to its population by the fact
that the Federal subsidy wasn’t paid for inhabitants
who were away; on the other hand, it gained most
in military wages. Also, Treasurer Gardiner com-
plains that one of the W.A. Government steamers
was commandeered for naval purposes, but that
happened to everybody’s steamers, and it is a poor
thing to foam and secede about. Federation has
given Westralia its transcontinental railway, the loss
on which is almost entirely borne by the other
States. It was allowed to collect border duties for
a while when the other States had none, and it was
voted a special subsidy of £2,050,000 spread over 10
years, which it is still collecting. But it came into
the Commonwealth with the biggest public debt per
head bar two, practically all acquired in 20 years,
and it promptly proceeded to build up the biggest
public debt bar none—a world’s record, in fact. Ever
since the last year before the war it has levied far
less taxes per head on its people than any other State
—this despite the fact that it was, above all its neigh-
bors, a State of one industry, and that one fading
like a snowball in Nebuchadnezzar’s furnace, so that
the situation called for strong measures. If West-
ralia got out of the Commonwealth now, and lost its
subsidy, and had to bear the loss on its bit of trans-
continental railway all by itself, and its creditors
heaid that there was no hope of the Federation stand-
ing behind its loans, it would almost assuredly double
up. Presumably it would leave its share of the war
debt and other Federal liabilities for the other States
to carry when it got out, but even this relief might
not save the situation.
Whim Cheek, a copper township 1087 miles
north of Perth, proposes to die and he wiped
out at the end of this month. It sells its
copper in England, for there is hardly any
use for manufacturing here—even our pen-
nies are made by niggers in Calcutta—
and our local Price-fixing Minister and
trades unions have no voice in fixing
the price England will pay. Also Whim
Creek sends the stuff to England at
the English shipowners’ freight-charge,
m which also the local Price Fixer has
no _ say. At present the English copper
freights are high and the English copper
price has fallen. The present value of cop-
per, despite the slump, is better than it was
before the war; but though Whim Creek
could live on it then it can only die on it
now. For almost everything it requires
except bread and beef is imported and paid
for at prices also quite beyond the reach
of the Local Fixer, which prices are 50 to
75 or more per cent, higher than they were
in old peace days. It is possible, of course,
to go Bolsheviking among such industries as
we have by way of protest, but that is only
likely to make matters worse. There is, in
fact, no instantaneous remedy for the evils
that afflict Australia. It has devoted many
years to making itself a coolie country which
isn’t content, like other coolie countries, with
coolie wages, and it will take some years of
patient and intelligent endeavor to make it a
skilled-labor country.
♦
A solemn promise was made by N.S.W.
Premier Holman at Petersham that em-
ployers would be legally compelled to re-
engage returned soldiers. Unhappily, owing
to the country’s wretched fiscal policy, which
Holman has never done anything to
alter, many of these employers can’t
be found. A large number have closed
up—the number is larger than it seems,
for tlje slump was to a great extent
disguised by the starting of temporary
war industries. More, like the people who
run the great Cobar mines and smelters, are
closing. In other cases, though the in-
dustries haven’t closed, the old proprietors
have given up the struggle and been
absorbed. It would be easy to find work
for the returned men twice over if Australia
liad the sort of tariff which creates new in-
dustries, but it hasn’t. Instead of building
new houses it proposes to force the returned
inhabitant into the old, decayed tenement.
“O.Iv.” : What strikes me hardest about
Woodrow Wilson is his wonderful power
of forgetting. He talks of America’s share
in the war and its splendid fight for the
Ideals of Civilisation, etc., as though he
never had sent that telegram of congratula-
tion to the Kaiser on his first birthday after
the bloodshed had begun. Most of the worst
that Germany could do to Belgium, and a
terrible lot of revolting horrors in France,
had been committed before Wilson wired
greetings to the .Butcher. But as, on the
one hand, no American citizens to speak of
had then been murdered on the high seas,
while, on the other hand, American trade
with Germany was being rudely interrupted
by the_ British navy, the adaptable person
was still keeping his high ideals in clover
and his noblest scruples in his pocket. The
Kaiser to whom he wished many happy re-
turns of the day in 1915 was just as much a
blood-stained enemy of mankind as the
played-out poltroon who now has ceased to
count. Wilson did not lift a finger till
Russia had gone to pieces; and the conse-
quences of that are so tremendous, and may
be so much more tremendous yet, that his-
tory will probably crucify him. If time
should prove that things have happened for
the worst, his memory will certainly be
saddled with most of the blame.
Gone where the good Frenchmen go, Fran-
cois Pinard, a veteran of 3870, when he did
good work against Germans in France as a
franctireur —the polite term for sniper.
Afterwards he managed the big Hotel Wag-
ram in Paris, the Pietermaritzburg Club in
Natal,. and a variety of hotels in S. Aus.,
of which State he was a good citizen for
over 40 years.
If there is a single individual with a kind
word to say about the manner in which re-
turned soldiers are being put on the land that
appreciative person is lying very low. Two
complaints last week were about an allot-
ment at Dapto, near Sydney, which
four repatriated tenants have already aban-
doned, and about a man to whom 230 acres
on the old Parkes (N.S.W.) goldfield were
sold at 955. per acre. Around the town
is a belt where the old diggers washed away
all the surface, and covered the top with
gravel, and pitted the land with holes. This
debris was saved up by Providence for re-
turned soldiers because nobodv else wanted
it very badly.
From Lieut.-Col. Kindon in reply to “Per-
sonnel” (B. 6/3/T9) :
I know that, whatever may be the policy of The
Bulletin as to whether returned soldiers should be
tried by the civil courts in preference to courts-
martial, it is not its policy to permit untrue state-
ments to appear which, in addition to being untrue,
cast a grave reflection on the honor of officers who are
carrying out an unpleasant duty to the best of their
ability.
I have presided at every district court-martial held
in Sydney since the beginning of February, and can
therefore write with full knowledge of the facts.
The members of a court-martial are sworn to duly
administer justice without partiality, favor or affec-
tion, but “Personnel’s” suggestion is that members of
the court make a practice of deliberately breaking
this oath and of finding innocent persons guilty
through fear of offending the District Commandant,
or some other officer under him who has preferred a
charge against an accused person.
The facts are that, out of seven district courts-
martial held in Sydney since January 30 last, a ver-
dict of not guilty has been found on three occa-
sions. This is a sufficient answer to the statements
made in the paragraph.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Hello, Everybody”
Criterion “Maytime”
Pai.acii “Bubbly”
Tivoli “My Lady Frayle”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s "Goody Two Shoes”
Royal “The Great Divide”
Tivoli “The Better ’Ole”
King’s “Jack and Jill”
Princess’s “Lucia di Lammermoor,” etc
Hoyt’s De Luxe k Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Meliia Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Auditorium Surrender of the German Fleet
There’s something - lacking about this
musical show with the unusual plot now at
the Tivoli (Sydney). Probably it’s the
Devil. The Devil’s no devil in evening-dress.
Where Hell’s concerned it’s red tights or
nothing. Vera Pearce, as Lady Frayle, is as
handsome as one could wish, and her various
gowns are dressmakers’ dreams. But though
she works hard and well, Lady Frayle doesn’t
seem to matter, after all. She might count
if she had time to hammer her sorrows home
and take and give more than three kisses
from the young man she has fallen in love
with. But the drama or grand opera of the
show has to be constantly crowded aside to
make room for the comedy and songandance
which carries the thing along.
* * * *
Claude Flemming is the Devil who arrives
disguised as Lucifer D. Nation. He does
his best to give the audience something
between the full-powered fiend of “Faust”
and the one-cylinder jesting demon of mod-
ern revue, but it’s a dreary job. Marie Le
Varre, a very shapely importation from the
States, proves herself a brisk and versatile
comedienne w T ho can't sing much; and Ken-
nedy Allen potters naturally with her in the
costume of an Anglican canon. Bert
Clarke, well remembered here as a crack
vaudeville performer, patters through the
part of a stage-butler, and Celia Ghiloni’s
work as Mrs. Grundy, a full-time scandal-
monger with six singing daughters, is
delightfully finished. The acting of the ex-
perienced comic-opera artiste shines out
amongst that of people who are trying them-
selves in a new line. Goodie Reeve is tune-
ful and appealing as the young girl who tem-
porarily loses her young man to the rejuven-
ated Lady Frayle, .though Hugh Huntley
(the young man in question) suggests the
tailor’s dummy harder than any leading
youth of recent times. Gwen Burroughs, an
actress who can put real sting into a pas-
sionate love-scene, has a part in which she
can only walk on and off and look hand-
some. The show is well dressed and drilled,
has two or three remembersome numbers and
moves amid good scenery provided by the
Clints and Harry Whaite, Whaite’s share
being an elaborate garden-set. The new
lighting arrangements help the stage pictures
greatly.
** * *
“Bubbly,” the Tivolean revue which -was
uncorked for Sydney at the Palace last
Saturday, should really be on the Castlo-
reagh-street shelf instead of “My Lady
Frayle”—a musical experiment which it is
hard to classify. “Bubbly” is the sort of
show the playgoer expects to find at the
Tiv. Still it tastes very well at the Talace.
“MY LADY FRAYLE.”
Now a grey-haired social leader was the stately Lady
Frayle;
She’d a Past that thrilled the neighbors, but she
wanted one more dash,
So she whistled up the Devil and he came without
his tail
To make the old girl young enough to do a modern
mash.
Oh, the Devil’s hair was yellow, but his eyebrows
they were black;
He looked well, wrapped in a curtain, with the
limelight in his eye;
But some sort of thrill was missing when he took
the daylight track,
For he didn’t seem to wear the proper garden-
party tie.
Still he made the ancient lady young enough to woo
her boy.
On the hellish understanding his young soul should
be the price;
Yes, all Hell was left untended for this small retail
employ,
Though it didn’t mean a scintillating carnival of
vice.
But My Lady Frayle relented when the mild young
man had kissed,
So the Devil lit some powder and reversed her
with a cry;
Then the fiendish tenant vanished, but his rent was
never missed, 1
And the party felt much brighter for the absence
of his tie.


WHY NOT CONSULT
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Y (STATE GUARANTEE), WHO ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management,
Write or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee. '
&
BOORD & SON
VJ LONDON, ENGLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydneyl
mu mim Nvnvaxsnv w*
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office : Corner Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE. General Manager.
A “Warrigal” Suit for 75/-
PEAPES* STYLE—READY-TO-WEAR
This All-Australian production is an outstanding value that
demonstrates the excellence of the Australian-made “Warri-
gal” Suitings. It is fashioned In the typical Peapes
style, with two-button Coat, breast pocket outside, seam only
in back. Four-pocket Vest. Trousers: Side, hip and fob
pockets and permanent turn-up. The range of sizes ensures
accurate fitting.
Dark Grev, Broad Herringbone, All Wool. Readv to wear,
75/-
Also in Dark Brown.
Please state height, chest, waist and inside-leg measure-
ments.
Peapes’ pay postage:
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men's Outfitters,
309 and 3U GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY*
m
.
m
mm
mm
1
Hugh Steyne does a lot of the comedy .work
Avith Charles Albert and Billy Rego for
seconds. Though some distance after
Lupino, Steyne is remarkably adaptable.
Beatrice Holloway smiles and smiles and
gets through the sugary melodies while John
Junior does the decorative young man’s job,
frowning all the time as if his boots Avere
tight. Their best act is “A Tooth for a
Tooth,” in Avhich a dimly-lit love adventure
Avith two murders in it turns out to be the
"Bubbly” at Sydney
Palace.
Hugh Steyne as
Reckless Reggie.
gas dream of a
girl in a dentist’s
cha i r. Marie
Eaton (warmly
Avelcomed back
after her influenza
act) rouses the
house with song at
every try, and
Leslie Gaze sings
and saunters i n
the usual gallant
manner. Noel
Geddes is a dainty
spect a c 1 e as a
powder-puff, and
the six small
bubbles, headed by
Dorothy Ryder,
are dragged back
for a second time
of “It Can’t Be
Did.” Florence
Fox smiles and
sings in American
severhl times, and
the Kurylo pa i r
of dancers leap in
the bare-1 egged
classical man ne r.
Cecile Paquin and
Co. pose as 191.9
color gravures, of
which the lady in the shell is most regretted
when the tableau curtain drops. This show
has plenty of music, color and movement,
with right sort of devil in silk stockings.
❖ ❖ 'fc ❖
“Hello, Everybody!” rages on at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), and the Arizona spng
pours over like maple syrup or musical
molasses. That melody is of the right con-
sistency for the trade and sticks to the ear.
“Maytime,” at Sydney Criterion, is a
comedy of sensibility after the “Milestones”
model, and with incidental music. The epi-
sodes occur between IS4O and 1917. Youth
and trust and love pass; only human folly
and vanity remain. Such is the inevitably
minor key of a play which follows the for-
tunes of a family through three generations.
Otille, daughter of Colonel Van Zandt, loves
and is loved by Richard Wayne, one of her
father’s apprentices. They are torn apart
vowing that their boy-and-girl passion will
never die; but he returns, after years, to
find her the wretched Adctim of a marriage
of convenience. He Aveds another and the
interest in their romance departs, to be re-
vived in that of their equivalents of later
years.
* * • *
Obviously here everything depends on the
creation of the required illusions —more par-
ticularly that of youth, since it is essentially
a play of youth. Miss Gladys Moncrieff
as Otille succeeds. There is something a
little stilted and reserved about her style,
Avhich makes her an ideal maiden of the
Early Victorian period, and her beautiful
vpice is well adapted for the incidental
numbers. But Reginald Roberts is in the
picture only once-—when he appears as
Richard Wayne grown old. There is noth-
ing of the disingenuous lad about Mr.
Roberts, nor is there any weapon in tin-
armory of the make-up expert potent enough
to hide the fact. His traditional manner-
isms—the high nasal note intended to indi-
cate boyish simplicity, the business with the
eyes suggestive of captivating innocence, and
so forth—-carry no conviction. As a boy-
hero he has done his dash. Leslie Holland,
who has most of the comedy “fat,” is handi-
capped by a poor make-up and a preposter-
ous wig in the first scene. But his acting
is always sound, and so is his sense of
humor. The successive wives Avhom he
introduces are excellent in their different
lines—Addie Lennard as a languishing
female in a crinoline; Beatrice McElwain
as an enchanting little girl of the early
’eighties; and Florence Young radiantly
comic as a A'irile wife of the dress-improver
period. Phil Smath. Olive Godwin, C. R.
Bantock. Maie Baird, Sydney Stirling and
many others in a big cast do their jobs with
efficiency, and the dressing is as interest-
ingly accurate as anything that the Firm
has done.
That discerning young showman, Allen
Doone, opened still another “Wearing of the
Evergreen” season to a crowded Sydney
Royal on Saturday evening. As Philip
Fitzgerald, Allen blarneys his way into the
heart of Edna Iveeley (this time the curls
are shaken under the name of Norah McNa-
mara). Later on lie is arrested for singing,
but is not sufficiently daunted to desist.
Crosbie Ward and Ethel Bashford provide
the villainy, Harrington Reynolds is the
grumpy uncle, and Connie Ivyte hands out
slabs of Irish humor that sounds as though it
was canned in America.
*& * *
At the Lyceum Fanny Ward strikes the
top note as the “Japanese Nightingale,” and
Sydney isn’t blaming the naughty baron at
all for desiring her after he has seen her
through the eye of the god. However, the
girl runs away from the baron, becomes a
geisha and marries an American youth who
comes from California. On the same screen
William Desmond school-teaches, cow-
punches, sheriffs and marries the girl under
the title of “The Pretender.” Constance
Talmadge is in “Mrs. Leffingwell’s Boots,” a
comedy with the old properties of. the hus-
band she loves, and the man she flirts with,
and the thing she covets —this week a pair
of shoes. She gets the footwear, hubby
gets a wrong view of the situation through
the other man’s blind being only a few inches
open, and the Crystal Palace audience gets
the laughs. At Hoyt’s and the Haymarket
William Hart supplies the looked-for thrill
as “Selfish Yates,” a saloon-keeper in Ari-
zona —the bands describe the locality every
day.
*$ $ $
Fullers’ new theatre is a wonderful im-
provement on the gaunt old barn which was
formerly the Sydney National. It is unique
locally in one respect —the higher-priced
seats are reasonably comfortable. There is
also a view of the proceedings on the stage
uninterrupted by pillars or posts. Saturday
night’s show was a good one, including
Queenie Paul, Eve Yelland, Bert le Blanc
and other skilled performers.
“The Better ’Ole,” at Melbourne Tivoli, is
a series of mostly-disconnected episodes de-
signed to provide the fullest exposure of the
humanity, happiness and simple virtues of
Old Bill and his cobbers, Bert and Alf. The
trio are the features of almost every happen-
ing, but for their interest they depend
entirely on their powers of conversation. In
fact, they have to elaborate the Bairnsfather
drawings and rely on their exuberant Cock-
ney loquacity to impress each picture on the
mind of the audience. Bill, of course, is the
dominating personality; and though he is
allowed to intensify his popularity by play-
ing the humble hero in an unconvincing
trench-scene, his walrus moustache is rather
too prominent in the foreground of events,
whilst Alf’s struggle with his patent lighter
becomes as wearisome as Bert’s automatic
pursuit of the available womenkind and the
promiscuous presentation of identification
discs. Monotony is almost inevitable when'
three characters have to carry the whole
show on their backs. Yet with those and
other disadvantages William, at any rate
does rather well. Portrayed broadly and
effectively by Arnold Bell, the character
tends less to degrade the British soldier than
did the original designs by the soldier-artist
Bill indeed effaces the early impression of
his affluent beeriness and decrepitude by his
personal glory and fondness for the domestic
hearth. When he comes home to his missus
with the Legion of Honor on his chest, one
feels that lie has almost justified his crea-
tion. Percy Cahill’s mechanical low-comedj
is sufficient for the erotic exhibitions of
Bert, whilst David Hallam’s forte is the
suppression of the inclination to levity in the
crude and wooden-headed Alf. Lottie Sar-
gent appears as Mrs. Bill for a couple of
minutes in the final scene. Thomas Lloyd
doubles a parson and a British officer, both
strongly overlaid by his own personality;
and Fifi Russell, Audrey Worth, Clarice
Hardwicke and Vickie Miller furnish the
allurement which tempts the giddy Bert from
his soldierly duties. The scenery is not par-
ticularly remarkable, and the incidental
singing has apparently no other purpose than
to distend a slender entertainment.
“The Great Divide” (Melb. Royal) demon-
strates that the embellishment of bad men
with beautiful characteristics is still a thriv-
ing industry in America. In the play we get
a typical Western rustler developing a Chris-
tian Endeavor outlook and a Baptist frame
of mind as the result of an encounter with
a noble female. Certainly he doesn’t appear
too promising when he pounds, loaded with
whisky, into Ruth Jordan’s shack and
eliminates by cash and massacre the other
candidates for her beauty and society. But
Ruth’s intuition has detected the archangel
lurking beneath the liquor and the lurid
manner. Wherefore she endures a dubious
alliance, apparently to fasten his gaze on
Life, the Future and all the other splendid
abstractions to which outlaws succumb in
Amurkan plays. Soon the soul within him
flourishes like a cabbage, and the result is
an outburst of secret philanthropy for the
benefit of her mother and her seedy relations.
But Stephen Ghent never allows Ruth to
know the extremity of charity and self-sacri-
fice to which he has been driven by florid
precept and pious example. Only in the last
act, when they appear married, though
estranged, someone discovers for her the com-
bined curate and Carnegie who masquerades
under the alias of Stephen Ghent. Then, of
course, Ruth learns that she loves him and
helps herself to some strident kisses, thus
bringing an absurd scene to a tumultuous
close.
Such stuff is the sort of treacle that is
ladled out nightly to the movie public. Its
one virtue is its brevity, but even its brevity
is a bit too much. And it only affords acting
opportunities to two or three people, who are
embarrassed by the fatuous texts and gaudy
hyperbole with which the dramatist has
crowded their conversation. Poor Muriel
Starr, as Ruth Jordan, early exhibits signals
of distress. Uncertain whether her dialogue
should be shouted or moaned, she hurries
through it at a pace that mercifully oblit-
erates its most exquisite messages. Frank
Harvey (Stephen Ghent) seems more im-
pressive and human, but the change from
the stark, forthright English of the rough-
ened Westerner to the rhodomontade of an
uplift missionary occasionally throws him
off his orbit and ruins his composure. Norma
Mitchell, whose metier is the staccato chatter
of Yankee proverbs, ought to thank Heaven
for the generosity of a dramatist who has pro-
vided a few opportunities for her favorite
pastime. But she is of no more importance
dramatically than Louis Kimball, who plays
a lovesick doctor; Atholwood, cast as an
extempore bandit; or Marion Marcus Clarke
and James Hughes, who are seen as the rest
of the Jordan family. The drama is practi-
cally the property of Ruth and Steve, who
are evidently not delighted with their mono-
poly. ,
“Faust” at the Princess’s (Melb.) on
Saturday probably carried more weight
because the Rigo company had an un-
expected interval for searching rehear-
sals. The production as a whole was
certainly a noticeable improvement on
the previous shows. The orchestra had
a finer share in the general achieve-
ment, and the chorus, especially the male
section, never once failed to hold an import-
ant place in the proceedings. The prin-
cipals, however, were only fairly well chosen,
the shortage of effective baritones and tenors
leading to the repetition of gentlemen who
gain a reputation for versatility on their
readiness to undertake any blessed role.
Such a warbler is Guido Cacialli. His tech-
nical efficiency is undeniable, but the ten-
dency to allot him any part within his range
leads to the stencilling of its histrionic fea-
tures and the curious flattening of its
musical characteristics. He isn’t the man
for Mephistopheles. The role in his hands
runs to tummy and rum-ti-tummy. It is
ponderous and conventional, without a spice
of diabolonian majesty and pride. And the
dead, tuneless voice, always suggestive of a
sort of rumbling reverie, seems to have bor-
rowed some of its owner’s inertia. Balboni,
cast as Faust, happens to be the best avail-
able man for the job, but he is not parti-
cularly haunting. The maintenance of a
saccharine manner in a wig that almost robs
him of his sex is maddeningly monotonous to
an artist whose voice and gestures revel in
“BUBBLY,” AT SYDNEY PALACE.
Rego goes burgling.
passion and conflict. Miss Patti Russell
guides Marguerite safely past the pitfalls in
the score. Her voice isn’t confident enough
for the raptures of the Third Act, but it is
sweet and tender and shows evidence of a
steady education. Also, she has a youthful
figure, which is an asset denied to many a
professional. Filippini, as Valentine, could
worm his way deeper into the affections of
the multitude if he utterly abandoned him-
self to the business in hand. But he is a
stereotyped specialist of the Italian school
to whom the drama of the moment means
only a variation of tremolo .without affecting
his dramatic repertoire of a couple of hand-
waves, a stamp of feet and a glare. Nellie
Leach, on the other hand, is capable and
volatile, and Vera Bedford has only the fault
of looking too youthful for the role of
Martha.
* * * *
“Faust” alternates with “Rigoletto” this
week, and on the Tuesday and Wednesday
(matinee) performances manager Rigo was
■ to introduce a local Mephisto, Fred Collier,
i who will try to exhibit the necessary devil.
Next Saturday “Lucia di Lammermoor” will
reveal the kilts, so the local Scotch ought to
turn up in large numbers.
“Goody Two Shoes” has resumed business
at Melbourne Majesty’s without any apparent
loss of sparkle. The big show is much the
same as before, the management resisting the
temptation to make any more allusions to the
epidemic than a couple of stray quips in a
topical song. Jokes on the ’flu, however,
don’t go for much. People’s feelings are
too bitter to permit a smile for a comedian
who tears their passion to chatter, so to
speak.
At the King’s (Melb.) “Jack and Jill” is
even more reticent about the ’flu than its big
contemporary up at Her Majesty’s. Other-
wise there is nothing fresh to report, barring
the reappearance of Violet Collinson as prin-
cipal girl after parting with her appendix in
a private hospital.
Hoyt’s Melbourne people are getting the
old throngs back with" a capital double bill
wherein Billie Burke and Harold Lockwood
mortgage the principal places. Billie smiles
and gambols in “Let’s Get a Divorce,” which
is near enough in theme to Sardou’s “Divor-
gons” to suggest that the French play is its
unacknowledged parent. Harold Lockwood,
who has the kind assistance of John Barry-
more, reappearing after a long interval, is
most of the force and farce of “The Man
from Mexico” which Hugh Ward and George
Willoughby staged in Australia. At the
Majestic “Tarzan of the Apes” drops his
menagerie for a menage a deux in three or
four thousand feet of super-sensation. Next
Saturday Tarzan retires before Charlie
Chaplin in his latest merriment, “Shoulder
Arms.” Which reminds one that another
huge attraction is promised at the Audi-
torium on Saturday. The Taits in conjunc-
tion with Union Pictures, Ltd., are going to
screen Beatty and the Bull Navy receiving
the surrender of the German Fleet.
“T. 0.1.” : The auctioning of Carlton Ter-
race, in York-street, in the interests of a
branch of the Dangar family, recalls that for
six years two of the houses served as the
Sydney Town Hall. The Council moved
from there into the present building in 1874.
“Scrutineer” : Holman's slighting of Car-
michael in placing Davy Hall above him on
the Precedence List of Ministers seems still
to rankle. During “Car’s” visit to Sydney
last year the, cordiality was all on one side —
Holman’s. The day Carmichael left 1 was
close to Holman’s oar. As the Captain rode
by the Premier stood up and waved an effu-
sive farewell; but the recipient of the prof-
fered honor was engaged gazing intently at
the top of a building on the other side of the
street. It looked intentional. And the
crowd applauded.
“Another Surveyor” : “Licensed Surveyor”
(B. 6/3/T9) is quite right about the way
some prominent members of the profession
ignore the Oaths Act. I can only recollect
one X. S. Wales ca:se where punishment was
meted out. and that was toalrttle country
surveyor in a very small way of practice.
Though he pleaded that he had been too ill
to oeysonally supervise the survey, he was
sent up for six months’ suspension. This
csort of thing never happens to the big city
surveyor, though the Registrar-General has
ample means —-in his field-examining staff —
of ascertaining whether the man who signs
the plan and subscribes the declaration had
ever even seen the locality.
“Ropeboy”: The N.S.W. South Coast
miners are now committed to the “darg,” the-
minute of the district delegate Board in favor
of the wild animal having been endorsed by
the different lodges. But this does not
mean that a majority of us favor it. In
the opinion of many prominent unionists,
including some who advocate the “darg”
system, if the question were put to a ballot
throughout the district the proposal would
be turned down by a substantial majority.
At certain lodge meetings where the minute
was adopted, by a show of hands, not a
quarter of the members were present. It
simply had to be carried, and that was the
end of it. A certain few at each centre
have seen to that. Those opposed to it
have remained dumb or stayed away from
the meetings. For a start it was decided
that we shouldn’t be allowed to earn—or,
anyhow, to keep, if we did earn —more than
12s. 6d. a shift. But as some miners had on
very lucky days made up to a couple of
pounds, 12s. 6d. meant too hard a hit in the
eye, and the rate has now been fixed at 14s.
4d. The luridest swears come from wheel-
ers. Some of them see themselves losing
their jobs as the output tails off. But they
are being told that in some way or other
it is going to hurt the owners so bad that
they will all soon be squealing. And noth-
ing else matters.


“The Bulletin’’ is sickrpfV
hearing about these repatrT-
ation delays. If Billjim and
-his cobbers will only disguise
themselves as State Gov- ,
ernors they’ll get their 1
wants attended to quickly
'
Why not utilise camouflage? A few
shillings’ worth of canvas and paint
would enable the Government to show
its appreciation and gratitude—
in characteristic
manner.
This is a wiid nightmare of Miilen, homeless and out of k job,
haying his case considered by 300,000 Bilijims. (On second
thoughts it looks more like Webster ; but then the Repatriation
Department seems to be getting more like Webster every day^)*
REPATRIATION SUGGESTIONS.


• BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead. 1
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL, AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. J. SMITH, London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS, PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI, N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
STEEL CASTINGS.
We make the FINEST STEEL CASTINGS obtainable
ranging in weight from a Pound or so up to
SIX or EIGHT TONS; also MANGANESE STEEL
CASTINGS of best quality.
It will be to your interest to let us have your enquiries.
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.
Victoria Street, Richmond,
I Victoria.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless (Austral-
asia), Ltd.: —
Nomi-
Written To Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, ’14..5616 2A p.c.= 5600 3000 16 16
Dec., ’14.. 7812 5' „ „ 3500 4312 4328
June, ’15.. 4611 7 ~,,4900 2938 1101
Dec., ’15.. 2230 Nil 2230 3331
June, ’l6. . 6235 10 p.c. = 7000 1543 1023
Dec., ’16.. 6150 Nil 1010 4540 5563
June, ’17.. 4623 10 p.c. = 7000 2709 477
Dec., ’17.. 5422 5 ~,, 3500 1825 97 574
June, ’lB.. 5680 5 ~,, 3500 2529 225
Dec., ’lB.. 6379 5 „ „ 3500 2361 518 743
Six months ago the directors transferred
£5OO of the balance standing at credit of P.
and L. account to reserves; but since the
amount has been swallowed up in the “re-
serve for patents, depreciation and marine
insurance,” for purposes of the above table
it has been regarded as written off. This
reserve for patents, depreciation and marine
insurance is being built up by additions
other than the appropriations shown in the
first table, and which, judged by the past
half-year, are equal to about 5* p.c. p.a. on
the book value of plant, stock, etc. This
shows how the total reserves have expanded :
1914, £8248; 1915, £14,112; 1916, £18,696;
1917, £23,325 ; 1918, £29,485. Since Decem-
ber, 1914, £15,015 has been set aside for
depreciation; meantime the reserves have
grown by £21,237. How much of the
£29,485 might be regarded as true reserves
The Bulletin has no means of ascertain-
ing. They have thus been passed by alto-
gether. Further, the figures shown in the
table are labelled “nominal reserves,” because
no less than £90,000 of the paid capital of
£140,000 is represented by patent rights.
Apart from these rights the position of the
co. compares with what it was four years
ago in this way:—
1914. 1918.
Assets apart from patent rights £70,064 £112,945
Liabilities 3,;987 29,217
Surplus £66,077 £83,728
That shows an increase of £17,651 in four
years; but to get at the actual improve-
ment an amount to cover depreciation
has to be deducted. To represent the
£140,000 put up by shareholders there
are the following tangible assets: Plant,
stock, etc., £82,825 (less depreciation),
and £30,120 of book debts, cash, etc.
Apart from the few hundreds of interest
from War L'oan, at present £82,000-odd of
plant has to earn dividends for £140,000 of
capital.
So far. there has not been much in it for
shareholders. During the five years covered
by the table they have averaged only 5 p.c.
p.a. The co.’s operations have, of course,
been restricted by the war. Since the begin-
ning of this year the co. has been granted
freedom of the air again; but owing to the
scarcity of passenger ships it will be some
time before. the co.’s instruments are kept
busy. During the war, however, consider-
able progress has been m'ade in the manu-
facturing department, which has proved* that
it can turn out apparatus as good as any
produced elsewhere. Better profits should
show up as conditions return to normal. But
the co.’s prospects depend almost entirely on
what attitude the Commonwealth Govern-
ment takes on the matter of P.E. wireless
services.
***■*■
Toohey’s, Ltd., of the Standard Brewery,
Sydney
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Jan., *ll.. £22,756 6p.c.= £12,000 £10.756 £49,870
July, ’ll.. 20,398 6 „„ 12,000 8,398 58,268
Jan., ’12.. 26,867 7 „ 14,000 12,867 71,135
July, ’12.. 24,086 7 „„ 14,000 10,086 81,221
Jan., ’13.. 27,750 7 „„ 14,000 13,750 94,971
July, ’13.. 23,487 7 „ „ 14,000 9,487 104,458
Jan., ’14.. 33,120 8 „„ IS,OOO 17,120 121,578
July, ’14.. 27,360 8 „ „ 16,000 11,360 132,938
Jan., ’15.. 35,692 8 ~ „ 16,000 19,692 152,630
July, ’15.. 24,514 8 „„ 16,000 8,514 161,144
•Tan., ’16.. 22,521 8 ~ „ 16.000 6,521 167,665
July, ’16.. 21,203 8 „„ 16,000 5,203 172,868
Jan., ’17.. 17,885 8 „„ 16,000 1,885 174,753
July, ’17.. 19,024 8 „ „ 16,000 3,024 177,777
Jan., ’lB.. 23,163 8 „ „ 16,000 7,163 184,940
July, ’lB.. 23,805 8 „„ 16,000 7,805 192,745
Jan., ’19.. 23,581 8 „ „ 16,000 7,581 200,326
There are no indications of mafficking in that
last line. At a first glance at the P. and L.
account the cold-water post-mortemist will,
however, be shocked to find that the income
from brewings, etc., after making provision
for various contingencies, has leaped from
£101,554 for the half-year ended January,
1918, to £152,057 for the past term. But,
as a nerve-steadier, note the growth of the
exes, by an almost equal amount. Though
the accounts are presented in the old stereo-
typed form, it is pretty obvious that the
management has altered its practice, and is
now including in its P. and L. account
credits gross instead of net. One result of
this procedure is to make any comparison
with previous terms worthless. Further, it
has the effect of reducing the ratio between
net profits and revenue. Whereas the Jan-
uary, 1918, net profits equalled 22.8 p.c. of
what seemed to be the income from brewings,
etc., last half’s net profits, though a couple
of hundred larger, represent only 15.5 p.c.
A glance at the profits column in the table
prefacing these remarks will show that
although the January term is the beer-
drinkers’ season and profits in normal times
have practically always exceeded the. July
figures, the profits for the past half (includ-
ing the armistice toastings) are actually less
than for the previous term. Seeing that
’flu and a panicky Minister had broken loose
before the balance-sheet was completed, the
directors may have rushed in at the. last
moment to provide for some of the inevitable
losses consequent on the closing of pubs.
Possibly also the introduction of somebody
else’s new lager brew has had a small effect
on the figures.
This shows how Toohey’s balance-sheet
figures have moved since the war,, and also
over the same number of terms prior to the
trouble:—
Jan.,’lo. Julv,’l4. Jan.,’l9.
Liabilities £38,287 £90,590 £95,784
Breweries, hotels and plant 317,088 390,675 388,854
Stocks . . . . . . 54,511 78,322 155,313
Book debts 107,662 172,921 138,497
Cash and War Loan . . 4,115 2,610 34,447
Paid capital ' has remained stationary at
£400,000. During the 44 years to July,
1914, the surplus of liquid assets over liabili-
ties had grown by £85,262, and meantime
the book value of fixed- assets had increased
by £73,500-odd. Since the war, after meet-
ing all outlays on plant, properties, etc., the
liquid surplus has expanded a further
£69,210. And during the later period
£144,000 has been passed out in dividends,
compared with £124,000 for the previous 41
years. So despite early closing, increased
wages and the higher price of raw materials,
Toohey’s have done very well. What is to
be the future of beer nobody knows for cer-
tain : and the doubt as to the strength of the
no-liquor crowd has cast a shadow on the
market for the co.’s shares. Capital is
made up of 500,000 shares of 16s. each,
which were being bought at 275. before
the war. At January 31, stock, book-debts
and cash assets, after allowing for payment
of the dividend, represented 12s. 6d. per
share. All other assets, apart from good-
will—the brewery, plant and pub properties
—had a book value representing a further
15s. 6d. per share. But the investor is so
shy that 15s. 6d. is the best price being
offered on the market. This means that all
except 3s. per share of the market value is
represented by more or less liquid assets.
* * f *
The English, Scottish and Australian
Bank :
Net Profits on
Busi- Repurchase
ness of Old Written Re-
Profits.. Deposits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1906.. 48,667 1797 4Jp.c. = 24,275 8,990 162,908
1907.. 58,324 659 5 „ „ 26,972 8,750 186,169
1908.. 61,784 599 5 „ „ 26,972 19,590 201,990
1909.. 62,194 937 6 „ „ 32,366 9,928 222,827
1910.. 71,878 1211 6 „ „ 32,366 22,000 241,550
1911.. 76,180 711 7 „ „ 37,761 21,500 259,180
1912.. 93,381 1413 8 „ „ 43,155 14,000 296,819
1913. .107,694 1315 8 „ „ 43,155 15,700 346,973
1914. .118,036 1315 8 „ „ 43,155 15,700 407,469
1915.. 97,685 2215 8 „ „ 43,155 16,600 447,614
1916. .108,196 2615 8 ~,, 43,155 17,000 498,270
1917. .107,917 3615 8 „ „ 43,155 18,000 548,647
1918. .130,169 3615 9 „ „ 48,549 18,000 615,882
The English proprietors of this concern re-
gard it reverently as a sort of link that binds
the Empiah. Last year the chairman told
shareholders that they had
an ail-important part to play in facilitating trade
between the Mother Country and those self-governing
communities which owe allegiance to the flag, financ-
ing the output, the transport, and the marketing of
their produce, and sending back to them from the
Mother Country the varied manufactures of which
they stand in need.
Providing, of course, that it pays. And that
it does pay handsomely is indicated by the
table. Certainly since the Commonwealth
Bank got the inside running with the Aus-
tralian Government, some of the sweetest
pickings have been lost to the private banks.
But what has been dropped in this way has
been more than recovered in other directions.
Gross profits in 1914 were £285,861; for the
past year they were one hundred thousand
more, and, despite the increase in taxes and
the very necessary lift in salaries, a record
net profit was shown. In 1914 all exes,
(including taxes) swallowed £162,825; for
the past year exes, apart from taxes ran
away with £189,457. And this is how taxes
have soared: 1915, £33,327; 1916, £56,068;
1917, £73,796; 1918, £65,513. The smaller
amount paid out for the past year was due
to the partial relief from double taxation
afforded by the British Treasury.
The E. S. and A. got badly knocked about
in the ’nineties, and the accounts still show
the scars. The old debt standing in the
books is still almost times the amount of
'the paid capital. When the final re-arrange-
ment was decided on in 1896 the old deposits
were put into four classes. This shows how
the figures stood 22 years ago and what has
happened since:—
1896. 1910. 1915. 1918.
Debenture
stock. . £983,547 £983,547 £983,547 £983,547
Terminable
receipts 891,454 Nil Nil Nil
Prel. insc.
stock.. 889,419 559,419 889,419 889,419
Deferred
stock.. 505,758 759,500 686,000 633,000
£3,573,178 £2,632,466 £2,558,966 £2,505,966
As the table shows, the terminable receipts
were paid off long ago. The remaining stock
is interminable, except 'as to deferred
stock, to purchase which one-fourth of the
profits, after various deductions have been
made, has to be set aside each year. Dur-
ing recent years £14,385 per annum has
been utilised in this way, buying from
£15,700 to £lB,OOO of the stock at market
rates. The profits made by picking up the
stock at a discount are shown in the first
table. As this old debt is redeemed, similar
amounts are written off premises ; so instead
of visible reserves being strengthened, in-
ternal reserves are benefiting. For the cur-
rent year the appropriation for purchase of
this stock has been increased to £16,183. As
to the other old debts thd bank has to pay
(1) 4 p.c. interest on debenture and pre-
ferred stock, and (2) 3 p.c. in. dull times
and 44 p.c. in good times on the deferred
stock. When money is cheap this is a
heavy load to carry. At present, however,
it is cheap capital.
This shows the balance-sheet movements
since just before the^war: —
Liabilities.
1914. 1917. 1918.
Notes £2,756 £1,742 £1,697
Bills, etc. . . . . 549,546 998,993 756,655
Old debts .. • .'. 2,575,566 2,523,966 2,505,966
Deposits at interest 3,816,818 4,848,251 5,189,190
Free deposits . . 3,041,110 4,311,068 4,199,262
Liquid assets . . 4,200,486 7,455,266 5,643,783
Premises ... .. 300,029 251,707 234,330
Advances . . . . 6,452,765 6,086,711 . 7,956,943
On account of the 24 millions of old money
tied up in the business, and which may be
regarded as pref. capital, the position is very
strong. All other liabilities to the public at
June 30 last amounted to £10,146,804; and
although, as a result of the abnormal condi-
tions" ruling during the year, the liquid assets
have been deeply cut into, no less than
56 p.c. of these liabilities are represented by
assets within easy reach —£2,729,343 in
cash, £992,884 in Government securities and
£1,917,937 in bills and balances in transit.
To meet the £4,503,015 of liabilities not held
in liquid form there are £7,956,943 of ad-
vances and £234,330 of premises (book
value). So all internal reserves and 45 p.c.
of the book value of the non-liquid assets,
would have to be lost before depositors’
security would be imperilled. Before the
smash paid capital was £1,575,000. It is
now £539,437 in 43,155 £25 shares paid to
£l2 10s. Formal reserves in excess of this
written-down capital have now been accu-
mulated, so on shareholders’ funds even the
increased div. of 9 p.c. is nothing out of the
way.
* * * *
Co-operative Film Exchange, Ltd., head
office in Melbourne and branches in other
States, which began with a deficit of £5439,
comprising preliminary expenses £439, and
flotation loading £5000:
Feb., Profit. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
—•—• £5439
1914.. £1504 Nil £1504 3935
1915.. 3128 9 p.c. = £930 2198 1737
1916.. 2773 'lO „ „ 1165 1608 129
1* 615 -) Reserves.
1916. . 632 632 503
Loss.
1917.. 51 452
Transferred from bad debts reserve, £llOO 1552
Loss.
1918.. 887 665
The directors say that the net profit for the
year was £213; but since £llOO of the year’s
P. and L. credits consist of revenue which
had been previously provided for bad debts,
and is now apparently no longer required,
there was a loss of £BS7 on the year’s actual
operations. This co-operative show was
launched after several of the big movie con-
cerns had joined forces to import and distri-
bute films. The beginnings were promising,
and in the first three years, besides handing
co-operators dividends totalling 19 p.c., the
very heavy flotation loading—£sooo of the
paid capital of slightly over £lO,OOO repre-
sented promoter’s scrip—and preliminary
exes, had been almost made good out of
surplus profits. Since then the co. has run
into bad weather; Besides having to pay
heavier duty it lias been squeezed by the
foreign producer, while at this end it has
not been able, owing to fierce competition,
to increase its hiring charges to correspond.
The U.S. Govt.’s embargo on the export of
films further upset things last year. This
shows how exes., apart from depreciation,
have outpaced gross profits:—
GrossProfit.Expenses (inc. dutv).
1914 .. £11,448 £6,673
1915 .. 13,867 10,439
1916 .. 28,031 27,189
1917 .. 33,675 33,517
1918 .. 23,399 23,876
The directors anticipate better results as
conditions get back to normal, but the task
of squeezing out a profit is not going to be
an easy one.
One of the co.’s chief troubles is that it is
under-capitalised. Paid capital is £11,645 ;
reserves, £665. To finance its operations
the co. is working on an overdraft of £17,564,
and owes £14,555 besides. So while share-
holders’ funds amount to only £12,310, there
are £32,119 of liabilities. Though the man-
agement includes its, film stocks at consider-
ably under cost, the present lot of assets are
not very impressive—£27,4o3 (nearly 2|
times the paid capital) is represented by film
contracts and unexpired leases of hired films.
Of the other assets £10,038 is in book debts
and cash, while plant, fittings, furniture and
stock-in-trade stand at £7Oll. The security
for the capital is thus poor, though if the
directors decided to close down they would,
no doubt, be able to retain a lot of cash that
otherwise would go in making new contracts
with producers.
* * * *
The Launceston Gas Co. (Tasmania) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June, 19X1..£1471 4p.c.=£1050 £3OO £l2l £9,304
Dee.. 1911.. 1564 4 ~ „ 1050 200 314 9,618
June, 1912.. 1490 4 „,, 1050 300 146 9,764
Dec., 1912.. 1543 4 ~ „ 1050 400. 93 9,857
June, 1913.. 1312 4 „ „ 1050 200 62 9,919
Dec., 1913.. 1640 4 ~ „ 1050 450 140 10,059
June, 1914.. 1385 4 „ „ 1050 200 135 10,194
Dec., 1914.. 1670 4 „ ~ 1050 500 120 10,314
June, 1915.. 1378 4 „ „ 1050 250 78 10,392
Dec., 1915.. 1786 4 „ „ 1050 500 236 10,628
June, 1916.. 1547 4 „ „ 1050 250 247 10,875
Dec., 1916.. 1808 4 „ „ 1050 500 258 11,133
June, 1917.. 917 4 „ „ 1050 11,000
Dec., 1917.. 1803 4 „ ~ 1060 550 253 11,253
June, 1918.. 2090 4 „ „ 1060 700 330 11,583
Dec., 1918.. 2030 4 ~ „ 1060 650 320 11,903
This little co. has been able to make a bit
more since it lifted the prices to consumers
a trifle : but it will never grow fat. The
River Esk, which makes electricity for a
municipal enterprise that is not out after
dividends, is a serious competitor. The
result has been that while shareholders have
for many years got a return of only 4 p.c.
p.a., the co.’s position has not been improved
to any extent. Go back 10 years:—
1908. 1918.
Liabilities ... .. ..£38,992 £32,120
Assets other than fixed assets 16,278 12,241
Excess liabilities ..£22,714 £19,879
In 1908, plant, buildings, etc., stood in the
books at £82,087; at Dec. 31 last, £82,942.
After paying the 4 p.c. div., and meeting
renewals, extensions and repairs out of
revenue, the co.’s position has been improved
by less than £3OOO in the 10 years.
* * * *
Commercial of Sydney shareholders get in
nicely on the ground floor in that bank’s new
share issue. It is proposed to put out
40,000 additional shares of £25 each, to be
paid up to £l2 10s., present holders being
eligible for one new share at par for every
four now held. As a regular 10 p.c. p.a. div.
is being paid and the present £l2 10s. shares
have lately been worth over £24 in the
market, shareholders get what amounts to
a very sweet bonus.
* * * *
The position of the Australian copper-pro-
ducer daily becomes worse, and although
mines are closing down in almost every direc-
tion the crisis has not yet been reached.
The Federal Government has forced the cos.
into a bog which has not yet reached its
worst. The product of the mines since last
October is still unsold, and under the pre-
sent method of handling it is exceedingly
doubtful if the copper ever will be sold
at a satisfactory price. At the outset of
the war the Australian Metal Exchange was
formed by the Government. That Ex-
change,, according to Prime Minister Hughes,
was going to handle our metals in a wav
which would stagger the world by its intelli-
gence. Later, under practically Federal
Government direction, the Copper Producers’
Association was formed, and amongst other
things that controlling „body was to see that
every copper-producer got a square deal.
The actual facts are that in the handling of
our copper the Australian Metal Exchange
and the Copper Producers’ Association have
about as much say as the Kaiser has at the
Peace Conference. Australian copper is
the plaything of W. M. Plughes. lie has
been trying to sell it, so acting-Prime Minis-
ter Watt says, since last September, and has
failed. Even during war the prices W.
M. Hughes got for our copper, in a relative


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MoS3.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
and CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
HAS AN
EMPLOYERS’
INDEMNITY POLICY
that meets exactly your requirements.
Under Employers' Liability and Workmen s
Compensation Acts.
Mine Manager Wanted.
PPLICATIONS are invited from ex-
perienced men for the position of Man-
ager of a metalliferous mine situated in the
Southern Mining District of New South
Wales.
Applicants must give particulars of their
previous mining and milling experience, and
send copies of their testimonials and refer-
ences, also state salary required.
Box 358 G.P.0., Sydney.
Particular attention is called to the comprehen-
siveness of the 1919 line of G.E. electric fans. The
features of construction, the operating efficiency,
the effectiveness of air delivery, the quietness of
operation, and the attractive appearance combine
to make G.E. electric fans the choice of discriminat-
ing buyers. Come in and select your fan. '' e
stock all sizes. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner nt
Queen and Little Collins Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Water is a valuable asset in summer for drinking,
concentrating or boiler purposes. Why not use
Aluminoferric, and have it clear and crystalline.
Aluminoferric is thrown into the water as a solid
or added as a liquid. One pound clarifies from two
to three thousand gallons of most turbid water with-
in three hours. Write for full facts to William
Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Melbourne: 521-3 Collins Street. Adelaide: 96 Currie
Street. Brisbane: Corner Edward and Mary Streets.
Perth: 33 King Street. — Advt. # ”
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America.— Advt. [1
* * * *
Corroded pipes a thing of the past. Pioneer
Wood Pipe has made all the difference to the
.engineer. He can now plan a permanent system by
specifying Pioneer Wood Pipe, which remains un-
changingly efficient throughout an unlimited length
of service. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited (Head
Office, Burns Bay, Lane Cove). P.O. address: Box
1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Contractors to all State
Governments.— Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorney,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patefit
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
* » * •
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lovvest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
Macquarie Street and Circular Quay. Exceptional
opportunity for sound investment. Erect residential
flats by altering and adding to a stone building
with four floors, on land having 29ft. lin. frontage
to Macquarie Street, by a depth of 68ft. Bin., facing
Circular Quay, where shops should readily let.
Torrens title. Price £9250. Excluding all indoor
fittings. Apply to owners. Box 2547 G.P.0., Syd-
ney.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.—Advt
* * * *
I'. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. — Advt.
The Sydney Export Co. has a specially-designed
plant foi the treatment of complex ores. Separation
of woliram, tin, copper, molybdenite and bismuth a
specialty. Highest price given, prompt cash settle-
ments.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tkc 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
When making a Will or Settlement
appoint The
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Your EXECUTOR or TRUSTEE.
The only Trustee Company with branches
in more than one State.
NEW SOUTH WALES. VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Office, 48 Young Street.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C. ; Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C.; F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd ; W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, and
Duncan Sinclair.
. G. Watson,
Assistant Manager.
J. Mair,
Manager.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS— IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
sense, were bad enough, and just exactly
what qualifications he has for satisfactorily
selling copper in times of peace are not
apparent.
A very unsatisfactory aspect of the whole
business is that whatever is being done is
known only to, one or two. Those qualified
to judge say that the present position would
not be one of gloom or trouble were the
business in experienced hands. Meanwhile
the position is daily drifting on to the danger
line. There are some who say the Federal
Government is out to give the copper-miner
a kick ; and if the mines close down, because
copper cannot be sold, the kick will be the.-e
all right. But that is not the way for the
Government to tackle sabotage. By the end
of this month there will probably be some-
thing in the neighborhood of 15,000 tons of
refined copper unsold. With reasonable
business acumen the unsold stock as at
March 31 would not have exceeded 5000
tons, and, what is more to the point, the
10,000 tons would have been traded off at
a price which will be found to be £4O per
ton in excess of what will ultimately be .
for the present stocks.
The Australian copper-producer is a long-
suffering animal; but most of him seems to
deserve what is coming to him, because he
has not a kick in him. Mount Morgan
recently announced that the best offer it had
received for its unsold copper was £67 per
ton. Unless Mount Morgan and its com-
patriots of the Copper Producers’ Associa-
tion get a move on they may find that they
will have to accept less than £67 per ton.
For the present crisis in the metal market,
brought about by peace, is as nothing com-
pared with previous crises brought about by
Stock Exchange or industrial conditions;
and they may happen again. But for some
reason or other the dominant faction of the
copper-producers think that W. M. Hughes
must fie left to do just as he pleases. If
they reel that way, well and good. It’s
their copper. But a number of other im-
portant producers throughout the Common-
wealth think differently, and as far as their
copper is concerned the action of the Federal
Government in maintaining the embargo is
resulting in direct cash loss. If the Federal
Government can justify this, well and good,
too. Copper-producers in Queensland, N. S.
Wales and Westralia are, however, waiting
for the justification. TJp to date the prin-
cipal copper-mines that have closed down, or
are closing down, are:—C.S.A. and Great
Cobar (N.S.W.). Hampden. Elliott and
Cuthbert (Q.), Whim Well (W.A.). Those
still running are Mt. Morgan (Q.), Wallaroo
(S.A.), Mount Lyell (Tas.). The Electro-
lytic Co. of Port Kembla (N.S.W.), which
owns the principal refinery, naturally is be-
ginning to feel the position, and the majority
of the smaller copper-producers—those who
sell ore to Kembla- —have been put out of
business for some time.
* * * *
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) threatens to close
down at the end of this week, and the
reasons given are: (1) serious fall in the
price of copper ; (2) uncertainty of the
market; (3) impossibility of disposing of tne
metal ; and (4) heavy loss in working. All
the reasons seem sane enough except the
first. The last quoted price for electrolytic
copper was £BO per ton. This compared
with £lOB per ton is, of course, a substantial
drop ; but a copper-mine which cannot work
at £BO per ton has something wrong with it.
The w r ar price of copper has ruined our
perspective. A price of £BO per ton for
copper should be good enough for anybody,
given normal freights and realisation
charges; and although these conditions can-
not be expected immediately, they should
show up later on. It may be that the pre-
war charges will not be obtained for a few
years yet, but the profiteers are gradually
being pulled off the roof. Great Cobar’s real
reason for closing down is that the ore has
become too poor to stand up to modern costs.
For several years it has been in the hands of
a receiver, acting for the debenture-holders,
and the policy has apparently been to root
out whatever pay-ore was available while
copper was at a high price. The war prices
of copper certainly added two or three years
to the life of the mine. From the time that the
mine was sold by the Longworths and Dr. Reid
to Great Cobar, Ltd., the co. has had a very
unhappy and, at times, misguided career.
The mine and the plant never seemed to work
in unison. It is not so many years since
the boast was made that the production
would reach 1000 tons copper per month.
That was the plant-marl talking. The mine
never said anything like that. It looks now
as if the show had really come to the end of
its tether. Anyhow, it will take some cash
to find additional pay-ore. Some time ago
the N. S. Wales Government lent the deben-
ture-holders £40,000. It enabled them to get
the war-time run out of the mine, and the
war-time prices enabled Cobar to pay back
the £40,000. Which was fortunate for the
Government. Rather than allow the reduc-
tion plant at Cobar to remain idle, and so
destroy that inland town, the Great Cobar
people are urging the State Government to
bring all the mines of the distinct into a
scheme for having their ore treated there.
Boiled down, it looks like an attempt by
Cobar to sell its plant to the Government.
Ir is too much to expect that Cobar has in
its last days become a convert to co-opera-
tive effort. There was a time when Cobar
could have adopted that method with advan-
tage to all concerned, but it is a bit late now.
* * * *
“G. Arden Hill” : The introduction of the
“darg” at all pits on the N.S.W. South Coast
will mean a diminution in output for each
fortnight of approximately 35,600 tons, and
a curtailment of the pay-sheets by £5500 or
thereabouts. That means a reduced output
of about 900,000 tons per annum and a loss
of £143,000 in wages. The “darg” was
introduced ostensibly for the purpose of
creating working places in the coal-mines for
an imaginary platoon of unemployed coal-
hewers, and also with the object of checking
the speeding-up inseparable from the con-
tract system. But unfortunately the "darg”
offers no relief to the man in a deficient
place; he must continue to belt hard to
accumulate tonnage, and the probability is
that he will find it even more difficult to
wheedle compensation from the management.
There is no blinking the fact, though, that
the principal object of the plan is to
strafe the proprietors into granting conces-
sions in the way of an increased hewing
rate, shorter hours, the payment of full com-
pensation for working deficient places, and
so forth. It is undeniable that the "darg”
will hurt shareholders ; but, it is equally dis-
tasteful to strong, vigorous miners in good
places where they could easily earn from 20s.
to 255. per shift on tonnage rates, but who
are restricted under the system to a mini-
mum of 14s. 4d. As showing the inherent
selfishness of human nature, the majority of
men at present in average or deficient places
applaud the “darg,” while those in easy
places denounce it. And if the positions
of these men are reversed at the next quar-
terly cavil the probability is that their views
will be reversed accordingly. How long are
we to wait for the abolition of this pernicious
contract system, and the substitution of a
fixed daily wage commensurate with the
nature and importance of this basic indus-
try?
Gundagai Long Tunnel (N.S.W.) battery
has again replied to the bears with oz. stuff
—the latest clean-up giving 2540 z. (14oz. in
concentrates) from 253 tons. For a time
the battery was ahead of the mine and only
five head of stamps have been dropping. This
month, however, manager Allen hopes to
keep 10 head busy. The latest return helps
to dispel some of the gloom which has settled
on the show since the beginning of this
year. Even now shareholders don’t quite
know the true position. To the last ex-mana-
ger George Hepburn was confident. It was
he who got things into working shape, and
there are a lot of people not satisfied that
the Board has done either the right or a
fair thing in dropping him. At least he
has had over two years’ experience
of the peculiarities of the show, while Allen’s
is limited to two samplings. True, Allen was
long with the old adjacent Gibraltar; but
that experience is of doubtful value in work-
ing the Tunnel. By the way. D. K. Inglis,
who had probably seen more of the show
than all the other Sydney directors together,
has dropped off the Board.
From a Long Tunnel shareholder: —
The result of the recent crushing could have been
made known in Sydney by wire or telephone two
days earlier. Apparently the directors have given
instructions that the figures must be sent down
by letter-post. This mine is noted for its big
surprises—2cwt. of stone from near-by workings
yielded 900 oz. gold. There is always the possi-
bility of further such finds, and big money may
some day be made on early information. The mine
has a telephone to Gundagai, and is therefrom linked
up with Sydney. Whilst, say, a sensational return
(good or bad) is crawling to Sydney in Webster’s
mailbag, what is to prevent somebody sending a
friendly message to favored ones in Sydney ?
* * * *
A little co. of 1500 pound shares is being
formed to prod the Mastodon, one of McKel-
lar’s finds a couple of miles from Mt. Dudley,
near Trunkey (N.S.W.). The Mastodon
reef shows up at the surface for a consider-
able distance, giving encouraging values all
the way. McKellar gets £5OO, and the
remaining £lOOO of the co.’s capital is to go
in finding out the strength of the show at
depth.
* * * •
Edna May (W.A.) will exhaust its ore
reserves by September, and unless a new ore
body is disclosed or another property secured
the co. will call in the auctioneer before
Christmas. The outlook for the other
Westonia cos. after the withdrawal of the
Edna May pumps is not cheerful. As the
heavy inflow of water will then threaten
their existence, it is probable that Deeps will
decide to make secure the joint 480 ft. level
with some hundreds of tons of concrete to
hold back the water when it rises in the
Edna May workings. The Mines Dept,
will not object to Deeps working with the
level so secured, notwithstanding an accumu-
lation of water overhead. Concreting will,
of course, be a costly job; but what matter
so long as the life of the mine be prolonged
and the market kept active? As to the
probability of any considerable sum being
disbursed in dividends by Deeps—well, that
is a matter referred to only by humorists
and the unsophisticated.
♦ * * *
Edna May Central should expose the Con-
solidated Main reef in Central ground as
the 321 ft. level workings are extended east.
Such a development would be comforting to
Central, but very depressing to Consolidated,
as it would mean the latter co. had lost its
best ore body to Central.
Yuanmi, Murchison (W.A.), at its last
balance had £lOOO in War Loan, £9842 in
stores and £l5l owed by sundry debtors.
Against this there was £4352 due to credi-
tors. The year’s mining operations gave a
revenue of £56,104, but including in the
exes, about £lO,OOO spent on development
and shaft-sinking there was a loss of £7517.
Increased price of stores and inability to
run plant at its full capacity on account of
shortage of labor are blamed.
* * * *
Apparently Lake View and Star (W.A.)
has a chance at depth. Four winzes have
been sunk on a big payable ore-body at the
2000 ft. level, and two are said to be in ounce
ore. It is now intended to sink the shaft a
further 400 ft. without delay. Another good
development was recently reported at the
SOOft. level, but from all accounts it is only
a patch.
* * # #
Payne’s Find Co. has at last accepted the
inevitable and sold its Westralian show.
It is now trying to make money out of a
molybdenite proposition at Tamworth
(N.S.W.).
Tongkah Compound, seeing an end of the
big divs. from its lucky-bag, has taken an
option over a Siamese show with the tangled
name of Paguga. The block is 250 acres
and is said to carry 17oz. oxide per cub. yd.
If that is proved by check boring (to be
done probably by W. Bethune), the idea is
to build up a new co. of 120,000 shares, of
which the vendors will take 40,000. Pal-
frey man says there won’t be any trouble
financing the co. if the option works out
O.K. The scheme means that 80,000 shares
will be landed into the laps of Tongkah
Compound’s lucky crowd.
* * * *
The record of Briseis (Tas.) for 1918 was
a net profit of £39,500 from 2334 tons tin.
This was won with tin at £320 per ton. The
metal has now shot back to under £230,
mainly because Brother Jonathan has been
allowed to squeeze prices down. Dry weather
told against the mine outputting largely in
the December quarter, but the drought
helped Clark in his joh of banking back the
Ringarooma River till the diversion works
can be finished. Currie and Lake’s side-line,
the Wallace dredging claim, at Yackan
dandah (Vic.), is done with, as for 1918
the yield dropped to only 10540 z. No won-
der that plant is being scrapped and that
Clark has men boring for something new
around the old Gulgong field (N.S.W.).
Now that engineer Currie is back from chas-
ing the Hun, his job will be to try to recover
some of the cash dropped by the Briseis
Board into a British anthracite mine that
had to hang up because the pumps couldn't
be got to overtake the inflow of water. The
loss here and the slump in the price of tin
hit Briseis hard.
* * * *
Geo. Klug is to run the rule over Tasman
and Crown Lyell directly ’flu restrictions
cease to bar the tripper to the Speck. Since
November D. W. Welch has been getting
the same old plant going at the Tasman, and
by a mighty effort 890 tons were treated for
94 tons concentrates. Tire grade of the
product ran about 60 p.c. lead and 19oz.
silver, but as 18 p.c. lead, lOoz. silver and
18 p.c. zinc went into the tails, something
was wrong somewhere. It will be Klug s
job to tell where. He will also have to
decide whether the mine is worth a better
plant—or any plant at all.
******
Geologist Richards has reported rather
favorably on Bell’s tin, a lode proposition
at Hayes Creek, 112 miles from Darwin
(N.T.). Richards has outlined a scheme of
development, and it is proposed to amalga-
mate Bell’s Extended with the parent and
float a co.
* * * *
Shipped from Melbourne to India the
other day the largest single consignment of
silver which has ever left Australia. Weight
40 tons, value £250,000; forwarded on
behalf of the Broken Hill Associated
Smelters.
(Continued on page 82.)


THE RETURN FROM EUROPE.
UNCLE SAM: “But the dern thing’s empty.”


jgWk
3V \V-. R\
V ♦
Vf-5
rw
SK •
cs»>MhL_.
&
35^-4
LAGER
Made from
Malt a, Hops
ONLY
A PERFECT
BEVERAGE
FOR A
SUMMER’S DAY
THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
oniy appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each instrument
FREE TRIAL \
Call and test it, or write for booklet post free.
The Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
A HANDY REMEDY FOR INDIGES-
TION AND DYSPEPSIA.
For a long time it has been recognised
that bisurated magnesia forms the best of all
remedies for indigestion, dyspepsia, heart-
burn, flatulence and other forms of digestive
and stomach trouble, many remarkable cases
having been reported by those who have
made a practice of taking half a teaspoonful
of this simple antacid in a little water after
meals. Only one difficulty stood in the way
of the universal adoption of this method of
treatment, and that was in the original
powder form bisurated magnesia was not
adapted for use by those who were com-
pelled to take meals away from home. But
even this slight difficulty has at last been
overcome, and the genuine Hsurated mag-
nesia is now available in the form of small
compressed tablets, put up in handy pocket-
flasks, and obtainable of high-class chemists
everywhere.— Advt.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Old King Cole, of the Book Arcade, left
£103,094.
Of the Ma State’s 19 Premiers only five
have been native-born —Farnell, Dibbs, Lyne,
Carruthers and Wade. Cowper, Martin and
McGowen came here in swaddling clothes;
Jock Robertson, John See and George Reid
in knickerbockers. Nine were English, three
Irish and two Scotch.
The Yankee army is sparing of war
decorations; but at least one Australian got
the best it offers. Sergeant Nicholas
Rodakis, of Warrnarnbool, lent to an Ameri-
can unit to stiffen it, took charge when the
commissioned men went under, and got the
D. 5.0., which means, incidentally, £25 a
year for life.
Passed on, at the age of 61, John English,
Sydney’s Gaud Mayor since January. Eng-
lish had a stormy time in the Labor party,
when, in defiance of the official selection, lie
contested Belmore electorate and was de-
feated by P. J. Minaban. The efforts he
made to secure absolution from his fellow
Laborites caused a mild sensation from time
to time; but at last lie won his way and
reached the top civic dignity in the full odor
of party sanctity. R. D. Meagher, who is
the one independent in an evenly-divided
City Council, will probably get back to the
chair.
SAVED!
“The Commission finds that, according to inter-
national law, the personal acts of a sovereign are
acts of State, for which the sovereign cannot per-
sonally be responsible.”
BILL HOHENZOLLERN: “Veil, veil, veil!
Der very soodt dot I cast avay in der
vartime vill now safe mine life!”
George Black many years ago produced a
brief history of the N. S. Wales Parliamen-
tary Labor party of which he was one of the
founders. It was such a valuable pamphlet
that he was encouraged to bring it up to date
in 1910, and 50,000 copies of the new edition
were printed. For some time past he has
been engaged on a larger history, and he has
got far enough forward now to see the end
of the big job in the distance.
W ilson is the 27th President of the United
States. He is the sixth whose ancestry was
Ucots-Irish, the others being Jackson, Polk,
Buchanan, Arthur and McKinley. Wash-
ington was of English descent; so were his
immediate successor and 13 other presidents
down to Taft. Three have been pure Scot-
tish—Monroe, Grant and Hayes. Two have
been Dutch—Van Buren and Roosevelt.
One, Jefferson, was Welsh. Nineteen have
been lawyers, two soldiers, one a planter and
a farmer.
The British military authorities can beat
Webster for speed. Dr. W. Ramsay Smith,
of Adelaide, lately received notice of his
app o i n tment as
Lieut.-Colonel i n
the It.A.M.C. as
fr o m October 2,
193 4. He has been
back home for years
—after, by 'the way,
doing what is still
regarded as remark-
ably good work in
Egypt.
FAMILY CONFIDENCES.
W IFE: “ Really, I dunno whether I orter
wear a mash or not?"
HUSBAND: "Well, yer might—if only for
the sake of appearances."
The record of two Millbrook (S.A.)
brothers, Mick and Jim Houlahan. They
left Australia together (February 2, 1915)
and, joining up with the Tenth in Egypt,
were together in the Landing. Together
they went to France in May, 1916, with the
50th, fought the Hun together until January,
T 7, and had 10 days’ furlough together in
England. They were both wounded the fol-
lowing April. Each secured a Military
Medal, and the awards were reported on the
same day.
W. M. MacFarlane, Chief Stipendiary
Magistrate of N. S. Wales, is about to retire
after 38 years’ service in various capacities.
He is a son of the late Dr. MacFarlane, one-
time M.L.C., who was to have been Aider-
man McDermott’s second in his duel with
Robert Lowe. But the challenged whistled
up the police, and the alderman and his sec-
onds, Capt. Moore and Dr. MacFarlane, were
called upon to show cause, etc. But nothing
came of it. Another of the doctor’s sons,
Edward, was formerly Under-Sec. for Lands.
From a. Gallery hand :
Customs Minister Massey Greene improves the
favorable opinion he had won among friends and
opponents. A quiet, industrious character, Greene
has been held back from his proper place in political
esteem by a nonchalant manner .which is'the armor
of the shy man all the world over. He really is
shy; but no one who has seen him stroll into the
House, hands in pocket and head erect, with a sug-
gestion of enormous self-approval, would ever believe
that he loves the dark places where he can hide his
ruby head. People are now beginning to know him
better and get engaging little clues to inherent
characteristics. Up to the time he rose to office, he
had been mostly a Whip whose voice was only heard
in the lobbies keeping the Ministerial sheep handy for
important divisions. But when he succeeded Jensen
at the Customs and made his maiden (or nearly
maiden) speech as a full-blown Minister on a new
Excise Bill, there was sudden discovery that Greene's
frozen style had thawed under the warmth of a
natural affability, and he was answering questions
and smiling at interruptions with a patience that
held confirmed disturbers and choked the words in
their throats. Greene’s urbanity and energy ought
to carry him higher, and if he continues to suffer
bores with the same unruffled friendliness he has
exhibited up to now, he will achieve a record that
will mean much in personal popularity and political
powe.*.
Colonel Galway, Governor and good sport,
is likely to take part in a coming Adelaide
tennis tournament. His Ex. competed once
lately, and, despite an antiquated racquet,
made a very fair showing. He is 60, but
has kept himself very fit.
Captain M. 11. Cleeve, M.C., now relieving
P.M. at Broken Hill, had two escapes when
doing his bit as staff-officer on Gallipoli.
On one occasion, while lying in his dugout.
a piece of shrapnel cut his moustache off-
without injuring his face. Another time
some flying lead cut the strap of his wristlet
watch without touching the skin. But he
collected his parcel at Baupaume, and is
now carrying overweight lead that the doc-
tors have yet to relieve him of.
Racing-man Robert Crawford, who died
the other day at Melbourne, started life as
a commercial traveller and from that de-
veloped into the owner of a successful
grocery. But he made most of his money
in gold speculation, being associated with
one or two hard-headed citizens who guessed
right three times out of five; and his racing
enterprises never loosened his firm grip on
the bawbees.
The S. Aus. Public Service Act of 1916.
allowing the appointment of a Government
workers’ tribunal, has only just been taken
advantage of. (Government workers are
not allowed to approach the Arbitration
Courts.) The tribunal is to consist of one
member representing each side, with a
President, and the latter post has been given
to Tom Bright, an Adelaide lawyer. lie is
67, a sportsman, and grows carnations in
his spare time. He is a son of a politician
of the last generation, and was partner to
Judge Gordon when the latter was at the
Bar ; also to the K.C.’s Paris Nesbit and
the late “Jim” Anderson. In his young
days, at Clare (S.A.), he was a famous
cricketer.
Morris Miller, of the Tasmanian Uni., has
scored a Litt.D. at Melbourne Uni. for a
learned thesis on Ivant’s doctrine of Freedom
and Morals. Dr. Miller is about the eighth
person to obtain this degree, which the Mel-
bourne llni. confers only for a literary effort
embodying “a substantial contribution
to knowledge.” Some previous recipients
were the late Prof. Morris, Balwin 'Spencer,
Sugden, Sedgefield (Petrograd), Alston
(Cambridge), Tennyson and Seigfried
(French Mission.). Miller recently got
himself indignantly jumped on by the unco"
guid aldermen who mostly control the Board
of Trustees of, Hobart Public Library, for
daring to suggest that Norman Lindsay’s
picture-book was a fit publication for a place
on the shelves.
“John Drayman” flings a friendly shoe; —
D’Arcy Addison, of the Speck, who was married
to the widow Downer at Adelaide on February 26, is
one of those fair and wispy-haired individuals who
carry their years so successfully that the discovery
that they are no longer fresh from school always
comes with a shock. Yet the photographs of the
Premiers he has bossed as Under-Sec. begin to make
the wails of his office look crowded ; and when one
recollects that the Speck has had less than two
dozen Premiers all told, one awakes to the astound-
ing fact that Addison is a middle-aged youth of
about 48. Though the capable, painstaking, soft-
spoken official, who is a diplomat from slim fetlock
to slimmer forelock (which he now wears sedately
near the back of his neck), will probably succeed in
making a safe and pleasant matrimonial voyage, it
can do no harm to mention that, though unassum-
ing and unformidable-looking, he is an expert swim-
mer and as a boxer (with or without) is confiden-
tially reported to have been the most astonishing
surprise-packet south of the equator, and a sticker
against heavy odds past all belief. Addison pere was
a public servant of parts; one brother is a flying
officer in France;.another is a pressman, and one is
something slick on the amateur stage. All are
clever, and 'all hide the fact behind a mask of cheer-
ful modesty which, might easily be mistaken for
meekness.
The suggestion that Danger Owen may
find a place! on the N. S. Wales Supreme
Court Bench recalls the time when his father
was there and the son practised much before
him. Of course there was the usual sugges-
tion of favoritism, which reached a climax
when Julian Salomons with characteristi-
cally brilliant impudence remarked “Y’onah
is blinded by the sun and can’t see the law.”
Justice Owen hated common law, and didn’t
know much about it; but presently he was
sent over “to strengthen” that side.
The late Matthias Lyons, a St. Kilda
(Vic.) grain-merchant whose estate is now
being administered, didn’t approve of his
good money being spent on- frill. His will
provided that he should be taken to the
cemetery on a lorry, and that neither his
death nor the funeral arrangements should
be advertised. Recently a Melbourne under-
taker commented publicly on the fact that
horse-draperies, hearse-plumes and closed
hearses were going out of use, a more cheer-
ful air being given to burial processions bv
glass-sided vehicles built to disclose a nice
stack of flowers within. But these changes
can’t be said to have had much effect on
expenses.
“Coot”: “The Oldest Inhabitant” (B.
27/2/T9) discourses on the monocle of late
Chief Justice Martin (N.S.W.). No Vic.
Supreme Court judge has thus orna-
mented himself; but Crown Solicitor Guin-
ness does. Guinness facially resembles the
late Joe Chamberlain. Perhaps that’s why.
Well-known and popular journalist “Bob”
Powell, who pioneered the Labor press in
Ballarat and six months ago left Barrier
Truth to join the World (Tas.), is, The
Bulletin is sorry to hear, seriously ill in
Hobart General Hospital. The trouble is
something like locomotor ataxia,' and after
three months of strenuous battling the re-
sult of the struggle seems very doubtful.
Died at Maitland (N.S.W.), “Monty”
Arnold, son of an ex-Speakex-. Dad got
his son a job on the staff of the Assembly,
but in 1891, being then 40, he retired on
pension on the grounds of ill-health. Very
soon afterwards he set up in business as a
sharebroker. The storm broke when he
announced his intention of contesting a seat
in Parliament. W. P. Crick drew attention
to it, urging that if Arnold had health
enough to sit in Parliament, he had enough
to return to liis duties as a clerk in the
House. The candidature was not pressed.
Arnold was a noted footballer in his day.
The death of John Schutt, veteran
librarian of the Melbourne Law Courts, re-
calls an incident of the old courthouse in
Latrobe-street. The Full Court (Stawell,
Barry and Williams) was sitting. A strong
Bar was engaged in an important case; Fel-
lows on the one side, Ireland and young
Molesworth on the other. Fellows said
there was a case in a book, named, which
supported his contention. Ireland did not
remember it. The book was sent for, but
could not be found. Schutt was in agonies:
he put a notice on the library door asking
whoever had the book to return it at once,
It did not turn up. The Court gave judg-
ment against Fellows. Then R. I). Ireland
arose and handed the missing volume to his
junior. Molesworth, with instructions to hand
it to Fellows when he (Ireland) should have
left the court. Ireland had b<*en sitting on
the volume all the time.
Came ashore for good the other day, after
51 years afloat, Captain Manning, commo-
dore of the Union Co.’s fleet and skipper of
the Wellington-Lyttelton “ferry” steamer
Maori. Failing health pushed Manning to
sea at 16 to serve an apprenticeship on wind-
BEN LESLIE,
Mayor of
Kalgoorlie.
jammers trading to
Mauritius and India.
He first struck Maori-
land in 1873, and liked
it so well that he went
back for good in 1881
to join the Union Co.
as first mate of the
ill-fated Penguin. In
189 G he entered the
Wei lingtom-Lyttelton
service and stayed
there for 22 years.
Six trips a week
means 7000 runs, a
matter of well over a
million miles of steam-
ing. During that period
lie commanded the
Rotomahana (the first
steel ship built on this
planet), the Mararoa
and latterly the tur-
bine flier Maori. Dur-
ing all his time at sea
he never lost a ship or
a life, which is a great
record. Writing fiction
is his hobby: he has
published two books
of sea yarns. “Below
and Above the Water-
line” and “Interned.”
Professor Tucker, who has just resigned his
chair (Classics) at Melbourne Uni., was
educated at Northampton Grammar School
(Eng.). In 1872, when he was 13, the
school was examined by the head of a big
school at Bedford, who said nice things
about young Tucker. Thirteen years after-
wards Tucker was appointed a professor at
Melbourne, and, on arrival, wrns lunched by
the professorial staff. To his surprise,
Tucker found himself alongside the man who,
13 years before, had said the nice things at
Northampton. It was Professor Morris.
Tucker was at Cambridge for four years, but
he never lunched with his professor of Latin
—Mayor. Mayor used to have threepenny-
worth of porridge and a dish of nettles,
cooked by himself.
THE CONQUERORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Clanking of mess-tin and clatter of hoof,
Off down the street in the wonder of dawn;
Blanket of snow over hedge-row and roof;
Rooster, new-wakened, announces the dawn;
Hark to the pasan that bursts from the line:
“ ’Ow many more ruddy miles to the Rhine?”
Virtue has triumphed and Europe is free:
Loud ring the joybells with resonant peal!
Here come the victors, Homeric in glee,
Shouting the loud jubilation they feel,
Mingling with clamor of siren and bell:
“Gord, Bill, me blisters is givin’ me ’ell!”
Ye who have fought for us, ye who have bled,
Ye who frustrated the Huns’ knavish arts,
Heroes whose courage and gallantry spread
Joy through the continents, are not your hearts
Filled with rejoicing this wonderful day?
“Shurrup, Gorblastyer, we’re only ’alf-way.”
Kilo on kilo the column winds on,
1 Grey skies above them and mud underneath;
Novelty over, excitement all gone,
On press the conquerors, fed to the teeth.
“ ’Ow many miles are we goin’ to-day?
Wonder ’oo started this Peace, anyway ?”
FRANCE.
EDMUND G. COUSINS.


CROM fabric to buttonhole
” “Austral” Sac Suits to-
measure honor the reputation
for character and quality they
have merited for over half a
century.
The high grade of fabric, the
skilled fashioning of individual
styles, and the nicety of every
detail of fit and finish are
features which always dis-
tinguish them from ordinary
made-to-measure clothing.
And in the long run these are the
qualities of Tailoring that offer the best
of service and most of satisfaction, as
every man knows.
“Austral” Sac Suits
to Measure
85/-, 95/-, 105/-,
126)-, 147)-,
1681-
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS.—To any address throughout
Australia we send patterns and simple forms of self-measure-
ment post free on request. Moreover, your satisfaction is
assured by our Money Back guarantee.
The Carriage is Paid on all Country Orders.
484=490 George Street, 3=17 Royal Arcade,
New Branch Shop at 304=306 George Street (near Hunter st.\
SYDNEY.
If
A
mm
m
% \
.
mm
m
m


IN THESE SERIOUS EPIDEMIC DAYS
Got CLEMENTS TONIC for your Blood
c 'v~r&sL r»“:
These are anxious days for Australia, when it behoves all persons to take ptwt ,
effort the menace to health that threatens them. No one can afford to take anv undue ?*iX* *wi S +n VeS and wai ' d off to their greatest
ton of health and the greatest powers of resistance to any invading force, wither It P^ rson vvho has the best condi-
climatic conditions, worries, or minor illness, is best fortified against it. It is the old disease, privation, oppressive
he is shielded from attack of destructive and destroying forces. o y m a new way of the soldier well armed;
Clements Tonic, which, for a quarter of a century, has beenadmitted a medicine nf . . ;
and the blood cool and pure, should now be used as a means to fortify the body and the eenS^wllu 6 m T ?f^ ing the nerves sound
well, has a palliative effect on the bowels, stimulates the liver and kidnevs and health. „ It tones up the stomach as
largely a blood and nerve medicine, and should be a part of the" iS
Get it from your Chemist To-day.
Clements Tonic Lt.d,. Rozelle, N.S.W.
Use it as the Pure Blood Remedy.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE POLITICS OF THE COSY
CORNER.
ALGERNON: “Well, thank goodness, they'll
never bring in prohibition of kissing."
HERMIONE: “No, they leave that to local
option.”
“Home Again”: Our hard-case, Private
Digger, had got furlough and gone to Scot-
land ; and from there on the day before he
was expected back came this wire to the
0.0.:
Pulled off proposing stunt successfully. Delight-
fully happy. Gratitude boundless if you grant 48
hours’ extension to consolidate. Compre Golden
Rule.
To the grief of every subaltern in camp the
Old Man turned him down.
* * * *
“Adam”: It happened near St. Quentin
last September. The sergeant and I had
been detailed to bring the rations up from
the back line. We managed the forward
journey without a mishap, and started on
our way back to the boys and supper.
The sergeant had just remarked how
quiet it seemed, when there was a yell from
half a dozen Huns and he fell dead in front
of me. They got me in the shoulder and
stomach, but I managed to hurl myself out
of the trench, and just then a flare enabled
me to see our trench a hundred yards back.
Our boys had retreated during our absence
and we had simply walked into Fritz’s arms.
I crawled back somehow and gasped a little
of my story. My officer heard me, and then
said quite humorlessly, “But, Kingy, where
arc the rations?”
“A Rough Gunner” : The road from Zille-
beke to our waggon line near Caffi Beige was
sometimes noisy. A four-horsed team with
a G.S. waggon had left the gunpits for the
waggon lines. When about a furlong from
Shrapnel Corner a bursting 5.9 startled the
leaders. By the time Shrapnel Corner was
reached we were doing 30 miles an hour.
A British M.M.P. directing traffic was an-
noyed. He failed to check the avalanche,
and even his question, “What unit do you
belong to?” had to be repeated before the
driver on the seat “Cripes! can’t
you see we belong to the Flying Corps!”
* * * *
“Moana”: When the Turk had decided to
make for home and harem and Allenby had
Jerusalem at his mercy, the British General
decided to wait until the morrow before
accepting the city’s official surrender. This
was probably to give him time to look up
what he was expected to do towards fulfill-
ing the prophecies we hear so much about.
That afternoon a couple of Tommy cooks,
when out skirmishing for green stuff to make
a salad for the officers’ mess, got close to
the Jaffa Gate, whereupon a number of
excited city fathers dashed out and pushed
several pieces of ironmongery into the hands
of the astonished babblers. These proved to
be the keys of the ancient village, the cooks
having been mistaken for two officers.
* * # •
“504”: Although flying may develop the
sight and the hearing, it does not, curiously
enough, improve the sense of balance. Even
the most experienced airmen, when flying in
a fog or in clouds, have very little idea of
the actual angle of their machines. One of
the best pilots in the R.F.C. tried the experi-
ment of going up blindfolded and attempting
to record his impressions. He got the first
two movements all right—a sharp climb and
a wide, downward spiral—but after that be
was right out of it. Once when he “felt”
the machine climbing rapidly on a level keel
it was actually descending slowly with the
left wing well down.
* * * *
“0.L.”: One •of the choicest recent in-
stances of the Victorian Health Depart-
ment’s casualness was disclosed in the case
of a city liftman-caretaker, with his wife
and child, all down with the ’flu in a Mel-
bourne office building and duly hospitalled
m their own quarters. Office-tenants con-
ducted their business on the same floor, their
customers came and went as usual, and the
feeblest interest was taken in the matter by
the authorities. Usually the caretaker of
such a building occupies a stuffy nest of
cubby-holes, where the family lives a
cramped life among the weekly wash dry-
ing on a clothes-horse, and the perfume of
onions sizzling on the gas-stove. The air
flowing out of such quarters is seldom of A 1
quality; and when it is mixed with ’flu germs
and the general odors of a crowded sick-
room a Chinese slum-dwelling wouldn’t be
able to give it many points. But the Health
people reckoned there was “no cause for
alarm,” and drew attention to the alleged
fact that they were “doing their utmost.”
* * * *
“Mellish Reef”: My experience—which is
pretty extensive —tells me that there is very
little flogging in that part of New Guinea
which Germany used to own. The Com-
monwealth officials certainly discourage any-
thing in the shape of brutality. A couple
of years ago, at one of the islands, I saw two
indentured Kanakas, a boy and a Mary,
who had been mercilessly flogged by the Ger-
man overseer on a plantation a day or two
previous to our arrival. We happened to have
a district officer on board, who at once
arrested the Hun and fined him £5. A little
later this same Hun committed the offence
again, and was then sent south to a concentra-
tion camp. Certainly, there is flogging which
is officially sanctioned. But it isn’t Hiin-
nish. Recently, at Rabaul, a boy repairing
the wharf refused to do what the foreman
wanted. He was at once marched up to the
Native Affairs Department, where he was
given six strokes for disobedience. Then
he was marched back again to work. I
don’t expect everybody to agree with me.
because everybody hasn’t had experience of
handling . black _ labor; but, because the
Kanaka is a child in a man’s body, I insist
that this is the sort of correction best suited
to his needs. In Papua we are following
another plan, to the great prejudice not only
of the country, but of the “boys” themselves.
* * * *
“Karee”: An Aussie who is dispensing jus-
tice in the wilds of Uganda sends me the
latest Von Lettow yarn. It was near the
end and he sent a chit to his alleged pur-
suers, saying: “Am out of quinine again;
ONCE BITTEN.
“Say, old man, could you lend me a fiver?”
“Oh, righto—when I come tack from Fiji.”
“But I didn't know you were going to Fiji.”
“Neither I am, old man.”
200 porters bolted; most of my Europeans
sick. Propose coming in to surrender on
.Tuesday.” The reply was sent by special
runner: “Herewith IOOOgr. quinine. Try-
ing get you porters. For God’s sake, man,
play the game!” Current African jokes are
that the Hun once spent a month’s sick
leave in Durban, and that he tried several
times to surrender to the Portuguese, but
could never catch them. The East African
operations and the great headquarters story
leave nothing to be proud of except the
behavior and sufferings of - the European
troops, mostly doing black man’s work in a
black man’s land. When we reflect that a
German colonel with a handful of whites
(about 125 surrendered) kept huge armies
at bay for four years, it suggests something
wrong at the top. But they say in Africa
that there’ll never be an inquiry.
ANOTHER TRIUMPH FOR THE
DOCTORS.
DIGGER NO. 1 (from France): “By Jim!
It’s good to have the pubs open. I
couldn't have stuck it another day."
DIGGER NO. 2 (from Egypt): “Gam!
Y'orter bin inoculated like we was with
camel virus. T can go three months
without a drink!"
“Centurion”: “Camelero’s” yarn of the
Bedouin who turned out to be an English
officer disguised recalls an experience when
the Light Horse were patrolling the desert
on the West Egyptian border. Our patrols
used to go 20 or 30 miles out along the
tracks to the Baharia and other oases where
the Senussi were. One day we were told
that “an agent”—which is a politer word
than “spy”—-was to be expected on a certain
route. His credentials Avould be “a small
piece of india-rubber 3in. by much
hacked and cut at the edges.” The gentle-
man was duly located and went through on
his free pass-like an M.L.A.
* * * *
The silly censor obliterated so much his-
tory that every community hears most truth
about the misdeeds of its own men. It hears
about them when the men come home, and
tell by word of mouth of their own riots—
the ones they saw. The Australians weren’t
exactly pale saints when they were finished
with the trebly Unspeakable Turk. Still
they lent a streak of respectability to
the carefully-censored looting of Ismailia
and Cairo, in which latter place, among
other happenings, a girl was stripped in the
street out of pure joyousness. Instead of
taking a hand the Aussies advanced with
much blankjr and outed the aggressors, and
gave the victim some clothes, without caring
whose clothes they were, to go home in.
The trouble between the Bishop of Adel-
aide and a high” suburban church has been
settled in the Soustralian way. Vicar and
congregation /agreed to drop the “extra ser-
vices the Bishop objects to, asking him at
the same time to withdraw the suggestion
lhat they hold certain “erroneous” beliefs,
because they don’t. The only people disap-
pointed are the letter-writers. Adelaide is
a whale on writing letters, and never since
the days of “Sowing New Seed” has there
been such free discussion. There was a
chance for the earnest souls, for the non-
believer who mocked, for the R.C. who
thought the services “caricatures,” for the
Lmtarian who said “Experience shows that
the Mass is very great magic and medicine for
the uncultured masses: why rob them of it?”
Even for the anonymous old Anglican who
thought the. matter could be settled only by
physical violence, and who respectfully
oiieied the Bishop his services i. “I am six
feet one high, weigh ISst., and am fairly
active.”
(Continued on page 18.)
DOLLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
8. AUSTRALIA.
She took her some rag,
And made her a doll
Like a dissolute hag 1 .
Th’ expression was droll,
But she loved it! Mainly
It lay on her knee 9,
Staring insanely,
Under the trees.
The filling ivas rag.
Just rag.
She took her gay frills
That made her a queen;
A sweet voice which thrills,
And blue eyes serene—
How he loved her! Mainly
She sat on his knees,
Laughing inanely,
Scenting the breeze.
The filling was flesh.
Warm flesh.
Rag dolls grow uncouth;
Deny it who can,
The ardor of youth
Dies out in a man.
Hovv she hates him ! Vainly
She dresses to please,
Growing ungainly,
Gone at the knees.
The filling is fat.
Plain fat.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


A. JD 3£ . IN
® •
L M
.
mem
■ :
: ■
S TRAL:
Side
oaT
Key Action.
ItMMfJISII
The Beale Piano Aclion-
cl d£ew oJT its superior features
1. The whole of the Beale Piano action is
manufactured from a special kind of timber
which does not split, warp or crack. It is
exceedingly tough and the various parts can be
brought down to the light weight necessary for
a light touch, without sacrificing any of that
strength which durability demands.
2. The hammers, dampers and all other felt
pieces used in the Beale Piano are made from
pure, Australian Merino Wool of the finest
grade. Such wool will remain “live” for the
greatest number of years, giving a quality of
tone that is appreciated by the true music lover.
3. Every piano-action mechanic knows the
superiority of the front escapement, double-
repetition type of action, such as is found in
our instrument. This is the most responsive,
sympathetic and utterly reliable action’ known
to piano builders. It guarantees a “touch"
that delights the technically proficient musician.
4. A Beale key, made of genuine spruce, from
a built-up piece of timber; the strongest
possible construction. Ivory is the pure, white,
fine grained East African and Egyptian variety.
The yellow West African and Indian ivory is
never used.
When you decide to have a good piano, investigate the Beale. Terms if desired.
Showrooms:
S&Geor&eSt
Sydney.
3D
Factory:
41'47lrafak! ) arSt,
Annanaale.
dh.out the Co:


MO SdNIHH
E
10077
Matured and
Mellow —a
Grand DrinK
Do Your Pals a Good
Turn-Introduce The m
ho hhe Great* Refresher.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Directo".
“Wealsman”: Hobart Carnegie Library,
which the aged librarian. Alfred Taylor (a
regrettably sick man these days), insists on ex-
alting as the Tasmanian Public Library, last
financial year spent £39 on new books and
£32 on gaslight! Outside the newspaper room
the institution looks more like a museum of
antiquities than anything else. In the lend-
ing branch no modern fiction is ever seen,
but numerous old editions, such as Dean
Swift's 1790 and Sterne’s 1807 or there-
abouts, are borrowable. The reference
branch is so furiously up to date that the
latest available “Bncy. Brit.” is rising 29
years old. The library is subsidised by the
municipality of Hobart and the Government,
but the joint contribution is a poor thing
which cannot provide a decent feed for either
the library employees or the hungry book-
shelves. Vigorous protests by a minority
of the trustees, including Dr. Morris
Miller and ex-Speaker Woods, recently re-
sulted in a special Government advance of
cash to enable the trustees to raise the salary
of the two chief attendants to £l5O a year.
The salaries previously received by these
officers, per week of about 56 hours, is not
mentioned, but it was so far below a decent
living wage that had they not been con-
firmed bookworms they must have surely
starved.
* * * *
“Moobitta”: Oh, these patriots! Cer-
tain blocks of land were reserved down south
for returned Billjims, and the Repatriation
Board reckoned to get £6OO for six months’
grazing rights, the money to be used as a
herd-raising reserve for the boys. A local
committee of four was duly appointed as
guardians. Presently one of the local com-
mittee pondered why his neighbor Blighter
OF COURSE.
“George says he is coming to-night, and
father has forbidden me to see him."
“Whatever will you do?”
“Turn out the light.”
topped the market with fats. Strolling over
the reserve he spotted Blighter’s cattle
browsing contentedly and lazily admiring the
scenery. “Ah, ah.” he says, “before I’ll
allow Blighter to beat me at this game, may
I be sold for a store!” Then he drove half
of his herd on to the next block. Good
enough—until No. 3 guardian found out.
Then he did likewise. Then No. 4 fell to
the joke and put his little lot on. After that
there was harmony among the faithless four,
who shook hands after divine service like
ordinary human beings. Alas! vengeance
arrived in the frame of a Crown lands ranger
in whom Bill has a faithful ally. He blew
along one sunny afternoon and promptly
DE RIGEUR.
“Oh, no! I never come down here without
a covering of some sort."
impounded some 170 head of stock from
the blocks', and claimed heavy damages,
which were forthcoming. But when it was
discovered who were the arch-traitors the
consternation could be heard as far as
Footscray.
* * * *
“G.P.”: It may do the B.M.A. good to be
spoken to as it lately was by a learned judge
in England, its Council’s methods being
occasionally quite over the odds.
We had a case in point. It seems
that in the “red” Telephone Direc-
tory there appeared under the
heading of “Professions” a list of
the ophthalmic surgeons practising
in Sydney. This horrible thing
of course was done without the
knowledge or consent of the eye-
men ; but to the Council it looked
uncommonly like an ad. For 30
years or more oculists had been
accustomed to place the name of
their specialty on their brass name-
plates, as we.ll as in the telephone
book. This was done not as a
means of advertising their goods,
but to let people know that the
fraternity traded in ophthalmic
complaints only, and to prevent
opticians with similar names from
being mistaken for the genuine
article. Along a notice came from
headquarters to all members of
the B.M.A. that in future the
Council would not tolerate the
words “oculist” or “ophthalmic sur-
geon” in any telephone directory.
The announcement fell upon the
members of the Ophthalmological
Society of N. 8. Wales like a
cloud-burst. The specialists con-
cerned had a private palaver to
protest against the new rule, a
special meeting of the B.M.A. was
convened to discuss the matter, and
the rule was rescinded by a sub-
stantial majority. The offending
words still remain in the ordinary
directory, but the offending lists will dis-
appear from the red volume.
* * * *
“Dinkum”: Stewey returned from final
leave wearing a disgusted look. He told us
his troubles. “Struck a bonza little bride in
the Strand on Christmas Day, and thought
I was home and dried. Chats her if she’s
had her dixie-lee. and gets ‘Bli’mey. no!’
for an answer. Into a joint we goes and
has a screw at the meen-you. I asks what
she’s having, and she says ‘Turkey.’ I says
‘Twice!’ to the waiter. Then we gets
served and she smiles at me, and, cripes,
she’s old as Eve and only got one tooth in
her head ! Along comes the bill, and I sees
turkey’s three-an'-six a time; and, w y hat do
you think ! The old tart couldn’t worry her
hindquarter of bird —only eats the crimson
stuffing and lets me in for three and a zae.
Finish Strand brides for mine !”
* * * *
“Fareo” : “Bert R.” (B. 27/2/T9) states
it is nothing uncommon to see in orders after
a sentence of “28
days’ detention,” the
words, “awaiting
trial 63 days; total
forfeiture 91 days.”
He charitably attri-
butes the waiting to
busy times. The fact
is that most delay is
due to’ the methods
of the Court-martial
Section of the A.I.F.
When an accused -is
charged, a summary
of all the evidence
and a statement by
the .-accused must be
taken by an officer
an d forwarded t o
C.-M. section. If all
the elaborate rules of
procedure are not
complied with, it is
returned with a bag-
ful of minutes, and
the whole matter is
gone over again—
sometimes three or
four tiines. An offi-
cer who may know
all there is .to know
about fighting fre-
quently knows
nothing about taking
a summary of evi-
dence, and the ac-
cused. if eventually
found guilty (some-
times months after
his first summary),
loses pay for the whole period.
“Osra”: One of the interesting points
brought to light in the ’flu scare is the com-
parative immunity of people who are being
treated for syphilis. In one house of five
people the only person who didn’t get ’flu
was a man at present under treatment for
syph. And of more than a thousand men
under treatment in the largest V.D. clinic in
Melbourne only one is known to have suc-
cumbed to flumonia. The immunity may
be due to the fact that in most cases the
trouble has for years been treated with
mercury.
* * * »
“Triatic”: “Anchor A.B.’s” yarn about
the harbor-hauuting flagship
(B. 27/2/’l9) reminds me of
the rivalry that existed between
the Australia and the New Zea-
land. The sisters belonged to
the same squadron. Once when
the Australia was in dock and
her crew absent on leave (she
missed Jutland that way) a
working party from the ' New
Zealand souvenired a few plates,
basins, sea-boots, etc., from the
Australia’s mess-deck—a little
indiscretion for which they were
punished by their own captain.
Next time the ships passed at
close quarters greetings were
exchanged. For instance. Con-
torted faefe from port-hole of
New Zealand: “Hello, wall-
flower!” Cheerful Aussie (wav-
ing a sea-boot from Australia’s port-hole) :
“Hello, plates and basins!”
* * * *
“Gil Bias” : N. S. Wales quarantine regu-
lations get a good deal cut and pulled about
along the . Murray. At Swan Hill N. S.
Wales citizens come down and have their
hair cut and their teeth pulled by Vic. bar-
bers and dentists on the bridge over the
Murray—or did until the police shoved all
traffic off the bridge. People who want to
go right over use a boat or punt somewhere
off the main road, and everyone is satisfied.
* * • *' *
One doesn’t often get the chance of know-
ing what vice-royalty really thinks about it
all; wherefore there is a ha’porth of value
in this extract from the letters of the late
Lady Tennyson to her mother, written about
1903, but only just published:—
Sydney certainly is a delicious place, and the
most delicious place in Sydney is the Government
House. It is a very fascinating and spoiling life,
every luxury, comfort and pleasure; everybody
pleased to. see us, or at any rate pretends to be,
and the slightest thing one does is thought so kind
and gracious. It would not be human not to enjoy
all one’s advantages, and any life after it must
necessarily be very tame and dull. It is rather
hard work sometimes, day after day hurrying off to
visit one of the many admirable institutions, com-
ing back too late for a walk or a game with the
boys, but still I feel it one’s duty to do all one
can for the short time we are here, especially as
it seems to give pleasure. Every afternoon filled
up except Saturday, and that I do stand out aboui.
as it is the boys’ half-holiday.
But if the poor woman had only heard th
things that were said by some of the peopl-
who thought “the slightest thing one s.
kind and gracious” ! It wasn’t an easy mat
ter for a poor man like Tennyson to folio
Hopetoun, even for six months.
* * * »
Some people in Melbourne talk of prose-
cuting the Federal Parliament for keeping
dirty premises. The reserve attached to
Parliament House used to be a gem in tin-
way of tidiness. Now it is a sort of tip on
which may be found any sort of germ except
decomposed elephants. Some dispute has
arisen as to which authority should shift
the debris, and it probably won’t be settled
until samples are forwarded to the Privy
Council.
“L.C.G.”: Can any teacher beat this?
Elsie D. was enrolled in my school at 104
years, and her father, a travelling round-
about proprietor, startled me with the in-
formation that this was the 70th school she
had attended. Shifting about generally
keeps a child back, but Elsie was well up to
her standard. She is still adding to
her list of schools, and, incidentally, to her
Australian geography.
* * # •
Adelaide is of opinion that policemen on
point-duty should be protected from the
weather, and big brollies have been con-
structed for the purpose. The covering is
made of canvas, and will be fixed to a steel
rod, which will be dropped in a socket in the
roadway. “In the event of a bolt,” it is
explained, “the policeman can withdraw the
pole immediately.” So few things move
quickly in Adelaide that it is felt to be un-
desirable to do anything that might inter-
fere with, a runaway’s progress.
• * * *
“P.X.” : Prince Alfred Hospital in Sydney
has a “social service” department which big
employers might look .into. Naturally the
Hospital is concerned only with its own
patients. The social service officer visits
their homes: sees that their dependants (if
any) are being looked after; searches for the
causes that produced the' sickness; and,
generally, does what he (or she) can not
only to relieve the patients’ anxiety, and so
hasten recovery, but also to prevent other
cases of sickness arising from the same
causes. In the U.S.A. it is reckoned that
over 20,000 nurses are at this class of work.
I met one on a Yankee transport. Before
joining up with the army she had been on
social work down in Texas. She was with
an oil-refining co. "Now,” I said, “precisely
what was your job?” “Well, I’ll tell yon
what I was on to last. There was a Wel-
fare department in the business. It had lots
of loose ends to look after. F’rinstance, if
an employee wasn’t doing as well as he used
to, a note would go into the department.
A SETBACK.
S HE: “Billy was getting on so nicely, but
now there are complications. ”
H E: “ That's had."
SHE: “Yes. His wife caught him flirting
with his nurse"
Then the department would start inquiring.
First, the place where the slacker was work-
ing would be nosed to find if surroundings
were wholesome. If they were 0.K., then
something else, was the matter. For some-
thing always is the matter. The case was
turned over to me. I was an outdoor
worker. I moved round and found the home
of this slacker —a young woman this was:
the boss reported that she’d got listless —no
punch to her. I found that she lived at
home with her family and the father had
gone cranky. I-Ie used to prowl over the
house most nights scaring ’em bad. They
never got a night’s good rest. That was it,
sure. My job was to get that man put
somewheres he’d be taken care of. and maybe
brought round. It took some chasing—the
works provided me with a I^ord —but I got
him taken care of; and I’ll be surprised if
that young woman doesn’t get her old ginger
back quick.” That’s the sort of efficiency
which ought to satisfy even Mr. Webster. '
AĹ OF A PIECE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All of a piece were the sunset light,
The rose on the tree, and the golden girl;
Beauty, the weaver, ’twas that wove them,
Weaving deftly, as Beauty can,
Just to capture the eyes of a man,
Ju'st to make the heart of him love them,
Setting the blood in Ilia veins a-swirl;
Ah, the rose and the girl, its piece-mate
Ah, the sunset of rose and pearl!
All of a piece are the faded light,
The rose in the mire and the girl grown old;
Beauty, the trickster, ’twas that wove them,
Weaving deftly, as Beauty can.
Just to capture the soul of a man,
Just to make the heart of him love them,
Then to sicken and grow grave-cold ;
Fragile wear is the cloth of Beauty—
Rose and sunset and girl of gold!
x.s.w.
RODEROC QUINN.


■
m
i
m
U
m
Hi
intern*****.
ij|| f
a
■
■
w
m
m I
W
::
■;
n' I
...
-
m
m
JHMfcLRIBBED
NG
ft
SQUARE. TREAD
BARNET GLASS
MOTOR TYRES
Economic Tyre Service depends on three things —the quality of
the material put into the Tyre, the care expended in manufac-
turing it, and most important of all, to make a tyre suitable for
the climatic and road conditions.
A Tyre created under the above methods must necessarily mean
QUALITY —and Quality means more MILEAGE.
This is what we claim for BARNET GLASS TYRES —not an
extravagant claim as thousands of Australians can testify.
MILES CHEAPER AND AUSTRALIAN
BARNET GLASS RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED
Founders of the Rubber Industry of Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Christchurch, Auckland, Hobart, Launceston
1
i m
m
■
It
1


HOTEL ESPLANADE,
PERTH’S PREMIER HOTEL.
racing the Swan River and Indian Ocean. An ideal situation.
Close to Post Office, Banks, etc. AIX MODERN CONVENIENCES.
M. A. BEAVOR, Proprietress.
ZINC
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING OF G&NISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS;
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF N.S.W.
NOT POSTPONED.
ROYAL JUBILEE, SHOW
GREATEST COMBINED AGRICULTURAL SHOW AND EXHIBIT 'X
IN THE WORLD. 12 DAYS—7 NIGHTS.
14th to 26th APRIL.
£ll,OOO PRIZES £ll,OOO.
ENTRIES CLOSE. —Horses, March 15 ; Cattle and Pig'S, March 17 ; Poultry, March 18;
Dogs, March 20 ; Agriculture and Dairy Produce, March 21 ; Horticulture, March 24.
Prize Schedules and Entry Forms on application.
H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE WIND IN THE TREE.
[For The Bulletin.]
“No purpose could be served by swelling the
volume of criticism.” — W. A. Holman.
Lee us refrain from saying anything,
Sag meekly down like mushrooms in the grass,
Without a single pointed gibe to fling
At any passing knave or braying ass.
It may be true that those who hold their place
And take in ready cash the sweets of power
With frequency will flout us to our face
Or shape a heedless lie to fit the hour.
It may be that a thousand things go wrong
In heedless hands unfitted for their task;
It may be that they have a nerve as strong
As any Burglar Bill behind his mask.
It may be —dash it all, what may not be
Behind the screen of such a tangled game ?
But the true patriot will not look to see,
Nor try in any way to place the blame.
Thus Holman speaks. Say not a word at all.
Sit down and watch the play and try to smile
’Tis Autumn ; and the first dead leaves that fall
Perform their mission in a perfect style.
'Die leaves are very brown upon the tree
Of politics that waves above the State;
But that which puzzles and amazes me
Is that those withered leaves hang on so late.
Give us a breath of loud, and boisterous air,
A raging gale, as critical as strong,
To strip the wasted boughs and leave them bare—
We have been silent, Holman, far too long!
N.S.1V. MARY McC.
Something- like 100,0(X) Diggers have been
returned to Australia, and there are 200,000
still to come. These men, with their de-
pendents, have special needs. They ought
to be heard in Parliament. Yet when the
first opportunity offers in N. S. Wales to
give them a voice of their own, the two old
political machines creak out: “There is no
room for you. If you want to speak, you
must speak through one of us.” IK is as
absurd as it would be if an optician had
only two kinds of spectacles, everybody who
needed glasses being compelled to take one
or the other.
There is only one sure way to leave off
trading with the enemy, and that is to keep
our own trade. Mention was made here two
or three weeks ago of the efforts which are
being made to cultivate trade relations
between Switzerland and Australia, the pro-
OVERTIME.
“Mr. Beeby is studying industrial conditions
abroad.... Mr. Beeby has had an audience with the
King.”— Cable.
ONE GEORGE: “An’ how's the job? Wages
satisfactory ?”
THE OTHER : “Mind you, nothing personal,
but if I have to meet many more of you
Australians I’m going to put in for a
rise.”
posal to that end coming from Zurich, which
is as German as Hamburg. Now come
circulars from the U'.S.A. notifying that, say,
Swartzenburg and Schloss, who formerly car-
ried on business in Germany, have opened up
in America and are prepared to supply
Australian customers with old lines.
President Wilson has gone back to Europe
in another cloud of beautiful, vague words.
For example:
It is one of the agreements of this covenant that
it is the right of every member of the League to call
attention to anything that it thinks will disturb the
peace of the world. There is no subject that may
touch the peace of the world which is exempt from
inquiry and discussion.
Well, what then? The peace of the world
is threatened by the Bolsheviks of Russia.
What, precisely, besides “inquiry and dis-
cussion,” does the academic gentleman pro-
pose to do in that case? In 30 years, if
every nation of the world had a hundred
Wilsons to go on teaching idealism, the
world might do without a policeman. In
30 years Wilson’s own country might do
without policemen if it set to work to train
the next generation right; but it would be
in a mess if Congress decided to-morrow that
for the future everybody should be enlight-
ened and honest, sacked its “cops,” and let
it go at that.
There is nothing the Defence Department
has so much of at present as leave. A
very large proportion of the men who are
A LET OFF.
“Lenin told the All-Russian Trade Union that the
production of banknotes exceeded £500,000,000
monthly. Simultaneously several provincial Soviets
were issuing notes the total value of which was
unknown.”
B OLSHIE: “Two thousand roubles. Ivanski?
Certainly! Take them off the top
heap. You gave me a start. I thought
you were going to ask for a cigar!"
returning now are invalids; but the military
hospitals are overflowing, and it’s a constant
struggle to push the newcomers out. Sick
or well, they are asked plaintively whether
they don’t want their discharge; if they don’t
(and some of them are so sick and tired of
it all that they will accept almost anything)
they are told to call to-morrow or in a
month. Men who are in pain and in urgent
need of medical attention are got rid of in
this way; some who ought to be under rules
of strict diet are wandering about and adding
large sums to the money that will have to be
paid on their account before they are well.
There is only one thing more conspicuous
than the muddle —the sublime indifference of
those who are supposed to be straightening it
out.
Latest features of the housing question :
(1) The scarcity of houses is worse than ever,
though people are settling down to it. How they
have settled down is explained when the community
hears of eight or 10 cases of ’flu in one small house.
(2) The habit of building small houses to rent is
more extinct than ever, though flats are built in
plenty; also houses to sell. The sufficient explana-
tion is that the letting business doesn’t pay.
(3) It is proposed to reduce the working hours of
house-builders, which will probably make it pay
worse.
Incidentally, a Federal Director of House-
building is to be appointed for seven years
at a salary of three houses (£1500) per year.
A Superintendent of Tents and Caves will
doubtless follow; also an Inspector of Sleep-
ing-out.
The S. Australian coalition is cracking,
and at the next elections (which may be
hastened by the wheat-pool troubles) there
will probably be four parties—Farmers and
Settlers, Liberal Union, Nationalists and
Labor. Possibly there will be five, as the
Bolsheviks (under some other name) may
run men in certain districts. It is a good
sign: the attempt to put one of two brands
on the whole mixed mob has had more to do
with the corruption of politics and the wast-
ing of public money than any other half-
dozen causes.
The fact that the Vic. Farmers’ Union
promises to get the farmers’ vote has inspired
Dan McNamara, Labor M.L.C., to try to
hook the backbone of the country by show-
ing how the Labor party hopes to reduce his
freights. The annual interest on money
borrowed for railways is two millions.
Labor, he says, is willing to reduce freights
and fares by the full measure of this interest,
meeting the charge by a new tax on unim-
proved land values —a flat rate of 3d. in the
£, with an exemption of £5OO. The idea is
that the farmer now pays most of this two
millions, the big landholder being a poor con-
tributor to the freight-revenue, whereas the
new tax must fall mostly on the man with
many acres. It is a brazen attempt to cor-
rupt another lot of voters and give another
backstairs subsidy to an industry.
A well-seasoned sergeant-major who didn’t
go to the war has been given the cushy job
of journeying to France with the charger
which the Defence Department presented, to
General Pau. The Dept, excuses its selee-
tion on the ground that the s.m.
would have enlisted had the Dept,
allowed him to. That is quite
possible. But he didn’t enlist, arid
that is the end of it. A hundred
thousand men might have done the
things that have won the Y.C. if
they had been given the chance;
but it didn’t come their way, so
they don’t get the Y.C. A thou-
sand other employers may be sure
that men who. stayed at home would
have gone if they could, but that
won’t excuse them giving prefer-
ence to those men over the fellows
who did go. The Defence Depart-
ment can be depended on to give
the wrong lead nine times out of
ten.
Labor men who say that they
want to see the people honestly
represented in Parliament and for
that reason have mostly supported
“effective voting” schemes, are now
indicating how the workers’ second
vote should be dishonestly used.
When three men are running, a
.Labor man, a Farmers’ man and a
Tory of the extreme anti-Labor
type, vote, they say. for Labor as
No. 1, then for the Tory as No. 2.
The Tory is least to their liking ;
yet they will give him their alternative vote.
It may be good tactics from the party point
of view; but you can’t justify it on any
broader grounds.
It is recommended by the Central Labor
Executive, and the Conference is to brood
over the idea, that when next Labor gets into
power each Minister should have an advisory
committee of five members to keep a suspici-
ous eye on him. Hughes raised the Ministry
to 14, and 70 advisers would make 84 men
in the Government, out of 111 Reps and
Senators. We are coming on.
“Politieus” from the inside:—
A bitter fight is threatened when the Australian
Labor Conference meets in Sydney at Easter. The
One Big Union is out to get its objective adopted
by the A.L.P., but the saner minds of the party
intend putting up a big fight to prevent this, and
look like succeeding. The Parliamentary members
are taking an active interest, Catts, Nicholls and
Mahoney, M’s.H.R., having been chosen to represent
their branches. It isn’t hard to guess how they will
vote. If the extremists are beaten they threaten to
secede and form a new party, running 0.8. U. can-
didates for every seat. E. E. Judd is an advocate of
the adoption of this course, unless the A.L.P. declares
itself in favor of revolutionary methods. The seces-
sion of the Bolsheviks should do much to help Labor
to power. But, whether it does that or not, it is time
the disruptionists were got rid of. Many of them
are recent importations, who are merely using the
Australian Labor movement to propagate Revolu-
tionary Syndicalism. At the recent 0.8. U. Congress in
Melbourne three out of the four N. S. Wales dele-
gates (Garden, Itilburn and Rutherford) were late
arrivals, Judd being the only native. Whatever the
outcome of the Conference, it should rival in interest
that of 1916. The true and complete history of that
tea-party has yet to be written.
Holman says he doesn’t know anything
about Agent-General Wade’s return. He
will as soon as there is a comfortable place
on this side for the ex-Premier to drop into.
Parliamentary Labor in N. 8. Wales and
Queensland is plucking up courage at last
to renounce the Bolsheviks. It was time.
The Labor chiefs are nowadays hungry for
office, or the party would no more have
coquetted with this crowd than with the
Union Club in Sydney. The Labor party
trusts the State and aims at increasing the
State’s functions. The Bolshevik mistrusts
the State as much as the Union Club does.
The cleavage being clear, the Labor party
had now better pull out fhe straws that it
stuck in its hair to satisfy the direct-
action-ists, and frankly get back to, sanity.
It may lose a third of its members for a
few years; but it will have a solid founda-
tion on which to build again. Meantime the
Bolsheviks will have their own members of
Parliament —as they ought to have in pro-
portion to their numbers. The plan of send-
ing whites and blacks to Parliament to re-
present every shade between the two, and
blues and reds into the bargain, never was
honest and never will be.
The little tin gods that the war brought to
the surface are very hard to get rid of. In
England pre-war conditions with regard to
photography, for instance, were reverted to
in November; and cameras can be freely
used in France. But in Australia it is still
necessary to defer to the little tin gods in
this matter, just as it was in war-time. It
is quite true that the little tin gods don’t
interfere, as a rule. But they retain the
power; and retaining the power they must
of course retain their jobs. The mischief
isn't only that these jobs are superfluous.
The greater injury is that laws remain in
force which nine people out of 10 disregard ;
and a community can’t have a much more
dangerous training than that.
South Aus. has adopted the sensible plan
of “trving-out” the returned-soldier appli-
cants for land. Unless cockying is their
life’s job they go to the Mount Remarkable
farm, where they are trained as well as
tested. Many of them have left to take up
blocks; nearly as many have found the job
unsuitable, and are being put in the way of
doing something else.
The inquiry into the doings of Richard
Butler and the Wheat Scheme in S. Aus.
continues to bring out a number of small
things showing friction in the department
rather than misdeeds. Last week a third
party told a scandalised Commission that
Vardon and Nicholls, Butler’s subordinates
and the principal witnesses against him now,
had asked him (the outsider) if he was a
friend of the Minister, and, if so, would he
“take the old down to the Torrens and
drown him.” It makes good newspaper
copy, but is hardly the sort of thing which
an expensive Commission sits to find out.
The Vic. Railways Union has protested
against the A.M.P. reducing its bonuses
because of war claims, and suggests that
unionists should put members on the Boards
of insurance offices to conserve their
interests. It would be a very good thing if
they did —they would find out. fin- instance,
that bonuses are merely profits (something
in this case collected in excess of require-
ments) and that if requirements suddenly
increase, by reason of more numerous claims,
then the profits or bonuses must shrink. The
same reform, proposed by the Whitley Com-
mittee in England, ought to be introduced in
a thousand other offices and workshops. Half
R. W. McVILLY, Maoriland’s New
General Manager of Railways.
the strikes and lockouts that occur in Aus-
tralia are simply the result of suspicion lead-
ing to the belief that the other party is doing
something which it isn’t doing at all.
GLOOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The real trouble is the utter blackness of the
political outlook.”
The night is black from pole to pole,
The statesman jumps upon his soul
To find himself in such a hole.
The night is black as any coal,
The crooked logs refuse to roll;
Joy wears despair’s old camisole.
The ship of State is on a shoal,
The land is sick with tax and toll —•
The night is black from poll to poll!
N.S.W.
O. M.


If you want to cash your good intentions at the bank of satisfaction,^
Order Your E-aster Suit
Now at Murdoch’s.
%
nr.
n
Vi
S'
DESK. •
MESSRS. MURDOCH’S IN PARK STREET,
LTD., SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Easter Suitings at
Suit to measure, with tape and self-
measurement form.
Name
Address
You’ll need a smart suit for the Show,
the Races, and other holiday functions.
See to it that your appearance is O.K.
when Easter arrives.
A MURDOCH ji\
Suit-to-measure I v “
Every detail will be tailored to please
you—style, fit, finish and fabric will
accord with your ideas. And for
value and economy you cannot equal
it—that’s the fact that should appeal
to you.
LEAVE YOUR ORDER TO-DAY.
Call and see our fine range of Suitings
or write for bunch of patterns. Fill
in the Coupon now.
Other Murdoch Suit-to-measure
prices, 03/-, 95/-
Remember, we guarantee satis=
faction or refund your money.
Murdoch’s in Park St. Ltd. Sydney.
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys. ”
it
Currants, Sultanas, Lexias,
“Raisins Raised by The Rays of The Southern Sun,
by A.D.F.A. (Australian Dried Fruits Association.)
TO THE PUBLIC OF AUSTRALIA—
I guarantee to release throughout Australia, through
most of the Daily Papers of the Capital Cities, on
SATURDAY, 29th" March, 1919, one of the Most Novel
and Attractive Publicity ‘'STUNTS ever placed before you.
I further guarantee that all men, women and childieii
will have the chance of tasting SUN-RAYSED cun ants,
Sultanas, Lexias, under conditions that none of them will
be able to resist.
I cannot release this plan before the 29th March
because there would not be enough fruit to meet the demand
until the New Season’s SUN-RAYSED fruits are harvested
in February and March, 1919.
The whole of Australia will get the “SUN-RAYSED
Habit. '
GROCERS-Get in your Stocks of SUN-RAYSED
Currants, Sultanas, and Lexias before 29th March.
YOU’LL NEED THEM, and if you have not got
them you will miss valuable business.
EVERYBODY ELSE— GET THE “SUN-RAYSED”
HABIT NOW. You will find it will help you considerably
after 29th March.
The Best Food per ounce and per Penny in Australia.
A National Slogan —“ONE POUND OF ‘SUN-
RAYSED’ FRUITS PER WEEK.” Watch the Daily
Papers for 29th March.
C. J. DeGARIS,
Director of Publicity A.D.F.A.,
MILDURA.
Electric Motors
Q
There is a Westinghouse Motor for every power application purpose.
They are built in all types and sizes —bpth alternating and direct current.
They are built to withstand severe service and to give maximum
efficiency at a minimum operating cost.
They are remarkable for their sturdy electrical and mechanical con-
struction, and exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can on y
accrue from long experience in designing and manufacturing. We
have manufactured more than 1,500,000 hp. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterized by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a part
of machine equipment.
A good—Westinghouse —motor ic the only one that, will enable you
to realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is at your service.
t
Manchester
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES:
84 William Street, Melbourne. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
AGENTS:
ELDER, SMITH A CO., LIMITED,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
These two simple recipes (which involve NO COOKING)
will help you to enjoy your SUN-RAYSED Fruits and will
prove their
Economy as a Food.
Efficiency as a Nourishment and
Appetising Qualities as a Palate Tickler
Australia’s New Lolly,
“THE GOOD LITTLE NORMEY,”
Can be made in any home.
, i
“Mix equal quantities of SUN-RAYSKD Currants, Sultanas
and Seeded Lexias, put through an ordinary mincing machine,
form into little balls, and coat with desiccated cocoanut.”
More attractive to the palate and better for the health
than sweets costing THREE TIMES THE PRICE.
The New Sandwich for Luncheons for Offices, Schools, Picnics, and Parties.
"The Molly Sandwich.”
“Mix equal quantities of SUN-RAYSED Currants, Sultanas
and Seeded Lexias, put through mincer and spread on
bread and butter.”
Better than fish pastes or meat pastes.
Buy and Buy —not By and By—but Now.
Better to Buy and Try, than to Try to buv —and find all the
SUN-RAYSED Fruits sold out.


NO MORE COUGHS AND SORE
THROATS.
AN EASY WAY TO USE TAR.
Cold, damp weather invariably means
coughs, colds and sore throats for thousands
of children. Nearly all of this pain, suffer-
ing, inconvenience and attendant danger can
be overcome or prevented by giving to the
little ones several times a day half a tea-
spoonful to a teaspoonful of a pleasant,
soothing cough syrup made by dissolving half
a pound of sugar in half a pint of hot water,
and then adding 2oz. of bitrate of tar, which
can be obtained from the chemist. Stir
thoroughly, pour into a pint bottle, and
when cool it is ready for use. In this manner
the well-known remedial and soothing pro-
perties of bitrate of tar are made use of in
such a way that the children like it, and ask
for more. Grown-up people also will find
that in spite of its cheapness and pleasant
tas£e, this cough syrup made from bitrate
of tar is one of the best things they have
ever used, because it brings the healing pro-
perties of pine tar directly into contact with
the inflamed membranes of the throat.
—Advt.
IB£D
Water Lifted 50Cft.,
Pumped a Mil?,
at a cost of about id. per hour.
, OUR FARM PUMP
'ENGINE will do this as
well as cut chaff, saw
wood, work shearing-
machines, etc. It can be
attached to a windmill of
almost any pump in three
minutes. Needsnomechanic
to fix or operate, and
works all day without
attention. Hundreds sold
and giving satisfaction.
£lO DOWN, BALANCE VERY EASY.
Jf interested in water supply or irrigation
state your working conditions and we will
quote. We stock Steam, Kerosene, Petrol
, AY?* Air Engines, Centrifugal Pumps
and M.ver’s,” “Gould’s’' and “Deming's”
l for all services. Mackie’s Rock
and Water Borer, Working Heads and
1 lants for deep well and bore a
specialty. Immense stocks Challenge
Windmills and Water Supply accessories.
We erect plant if required and give easy
terms. Catalogues and expert advice free.
Langwill Bros. 8 Davies Pty. Ltd.
110-m Sturt Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
Near Princes Bridge.
A Signal Success
«s
KingCjeorgelV
wmsKsr
TheTOP-HOTCSTScotch
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Melos”: As a nevv-year offering accept a
few hints about snakebite. Get medical aid at
once. If the patient shows signs of fainting give a
little brandy, sal-volatile, or, best of all, hot,
strong coffee. If the breath be failing, resort to
artificial respiration, as in the case of the apparently
drowned. Keep the patient warm and in good
cheer. On no account let him exhaust himself
by walking about. As in many cases of snakebite
much of the venom is discharged on the surface of
the skin, it is well to cleanse the part before scari-
fying, otherwise there is a danger of introducing
the poison into the blood stream.
“Steve Hart” : “Are there any red foxes in
Australia?” asks “Hawkesbury” (B. 30/l/’l9). Yes,
thousands. There are also some yellow and some
almost silver-grey specimens. The red fox is smaller
than the others, has black legs and the skin is
more valuable. I have heard of white foxes (albino),
but have not seen one. Near Trangie (N.S.W.) a
black-and-white fox hung out, but as it side-stepped
dogs, baits, traps and guns no one could tell that it
was not a dog cross.
“Goonah Goorah”: No boomerang which
lies perfectly flat on a table is worth picking up
for come-back purposes. The blacks make the
weapon on that principle for fighting purposes only.
In that shape it is not intended to come back.
These boomerangs are usually made of brigalow, and
when thrown go straight ahead and inflict a danger-
ous wound if they got home. A good come-back
boomerang is always slightly winged up at each
end (done by Binghi putting it in the fine ashes of
his fire and when hot placing his foot on the
centre and bending up each end slightly), and it
must also have one side slightly rounded and the
other side flat. A good ’rang must have a true
cutting edge to the air. So far, I’ve seen no Abo.-
writer mention the little toy boomerangs made of
the leaf of the pandanus palm, for the piccaninnies
and bigger boys to play with. When properly made
and thrown they make a good flight, and can be
caught in one’s hand on the return. The name for
boomerang is wong-ullah amongst Queensland coastal
blacks from Ingham to Mackay.
* * » *
“The Dud”: Our ship, crowded with re-
turned originals, came to anchor off the Quarantine
Station, Portsea. No sooner had the anchor-chain
rattled its length than up dashed a pocket-edition
steam-launch full of officialism. A Digger, a wonder-
ful Bananaland growth, craned over the side.
“Iley!” he foghorned down to the admiral of the
steam toy, “take your blanky navy away before I
sink it with a spit!”
“Obadiah Ren.”: Any Abo.-scribe know to
what depth a “snake-proof” fence should be sunk
in order to keep the common death-adder outside?
Among the sandhills near the Outer Harbor (S.A.)
fences put down to a depth of about 12ft. have
failed to keep the viper out.
* * * «
“Wealsman”: Some recent cases of alleged
poisoning by the decorative climbing-plant known as
Virginia creeper have revived the old controversy
(this time in Tas.) as to whether the plant is or
is not responsible for a mysterious malady some-
times likened to erysipelas, sometimes to eczema.
The Speck’s useful botanist, Leonard Rodwav (artist
Florence’s dad), explains for the manyth time that
neither of the two sorts of Virginia creeper—the
five-leaved and the three-leaved—are poisonous.
Eoth are common in Australia; the smaller and
three-leaved variety {Ampelopsis veilchii), being the
close climber and as rich in autumn tints as its
bigger brother ( Ampelopsis quinquefoliata) . is pro-
bably most in request for house-walls. The so-called
Virginia creeper that causes the sickness is the
Californian poison-vine ( Rhus toxicodendron ). This
plant is declared by Professor Ray Lankester to have
got into arboreal circulation in England awhile ago
under the name of Ampelopsis hogii, and when an
American lady saw the plant in Kew Gardens.
London, she gathered up her skirts and fled from the
spot. It has three leaflets, something, though not
quite, like Veitch’s Virginia creeper, but it does not
develop tendrils.
HEADS.
VISITING SPORT: Who s that head over there? He looks pretty comfortable. I
never seen him on a racecourse, yet he don’t seem to do no work,”
LOCAL DITTO : “He ain’t a head — he’s the local member of Parliament.”
PEACE AT ANY OLD PRICE.
SYMPATHETIC PARTY: Surely you’ll retaliate for the way he has knocked you about?"
BROKE-UP PARTY: Can’t say, Mister. Y’ see, I'm a peace-by-negotiation party, an’
don’t believe in any needless prolongin’ of ’ostilities.”
"D.F.”: All the books repeat the yarn
that the echidna, alias porcupine, alias anteater, lives
mostly on ants. Did anyone ever see him eat them?
I have seen porcupines going about their business
many' a time, but 1 never saw one touch an ant, and
a man who has dissected a good many tells me that
he never came on traces of ants in their stomachs.
The porcupine is a secretive kind of bird (it lays
eggs, anyway, so it’s that near a bird), but such
evidence as can be got from it when kept in cap-
tivity is against the ant theory.
* * * *
“Azac”: The Australian black and brown
snakes belong to the same family as the Indian
cobra, the venoms of which
have the effect of clotting the
blood, while that of the
death-adder has not. Recent
experiments by Sir Lauder
Brunton, Sir J. Fayrer and
Dr. L. Rogers show that if
cobra venom be mixed with
permanganate of potash the
activity of the poison is de-
stroyed, and if a solution of
the permanganate be injected
into the tissues close to where
bitten (even up to as long
as 10 minutes after bitten)
either no symptoms of the
poisoning occur, or the fatal
result is averted. .It was
estimated that the solid per-
manganate would neutralise
its own weight of venom when
directly mixed with it. More-
over, it acts on every kind
of poison, including that of
death-adders. The highly-
qualified experimenters re-
commended the following
method of treatment: After
ligaturing the bitten limb,
make a free opening in the
site of the bite, deep enough
to reach to the lowest point
touched by the fangs Qin.
should always be sufficient) ;
then rub in crystals of per-
manganate. The actual punc-
tures made by the fangs should
be freely cut into and per-
manganate introduced and
well rubbed round (being wetted either with water
01 saliva) until the exposed tissues present a
uniform blackened appearance; or, alternatively, a
solution of water and permanganate (one to 10 in
strength) could be used as a hypodermic injection
into the punctures.
“U.P.”: Anyone know the reason of the
friendly feelings apparently existing between the
death-adder and rats? Some years ago in a South
Aus. coastal district there was a raid of bush rats,
and with the plague came numbers of death-adders,
and the nuisances seemed to be on excellent terms.
A settler ploughing in the district states that sel-
dom was a furrow run the length of his field without
turning up both adders and rats. When the rodents
migrated the adders disappeared, too, and neither
were seen for years afterwards. During the plague
the daughter of a settler went into the vegetable
garden early one morning, and while picking a
cucumber a rat was disturbed, and the same instant
she was bitten by a death-adder. (The child was
promptly attended to and recovered. The adder
was also attended to, and didn’t recover; but that's
just en passant.)
“A.K.” : Bandicoots have been troublesome
in Mosman (Sydney) gardens of late. I caught three
(in three tries) in a wire cage. Bait was bread.
When a fourth was caged I determined to make a
pet of him. Am told ’coots pet readily. Prisoner
sat hunched up, looking very like a ’possum. His
snout was a very enlongated rat’s snout. His tail
more ratty than a rat’s. He refused all food for
two days, then broke down at sight of peanuts and
ate like a Seventh Day Adventist. But he would
not be friendly and smelt like a Bolshevik. So I
handed him over to a gardener to drown. It was
done, and ever since I’ve felt like a baby-killer. The
poor coot had three little ’cooties in her pouch.
Now, you natural-history hatters, did you know that
b coots carried their young' in pouches like kanga-
roos?
* * * *
“McNorth”: In the everlasting shade of
the cocoanuts on the Torres Strait island of Boigu
is a native-built church that illustrates the islanders’
handiness with any old tools and material lying
around. The walls are of “cement,” made by
burning great quantities of coral and 'mining the
lime with sand and water. The roof is a thatch
of nipa-palm leaves laced with lawyer-vines over a
framework of mangrove and other sticks. The
doors and “windows” are of split slabs. The house
is solidly built, weather-proof and tastefully deco-
rated. There is a pulpit, altar and lectern carved
out of local timber and polished with cocoanut oil.
Only about a fistful of nails were used altogether,
and the only tools were a tomahawk or two and
a rusty old saw. There are no seats or pews yet;
but the dearly beloved cheerfully sit on the floor
and beef out the hymns, content in the knowledge
that some day they will have their “surch” rigged
out “proper white-man fashion.”
(Continued on page 24. )
THE LAZY DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Leisured and lazy are all things here,
Moving slowly and minding not
The hour of the day or the month of the year
Or whether the old world gallop or trot.
Smoothly and softly the wave comes in,
Creaming, creeping along the sand,
All haste forsaking, contented to win
What all waves long for—the kiss o’ the land.
Deep in the distance coos a dove,
All in tune to the tone of the hour,
As hither and thither the warm winds move,
W T ith scarce a rustle of loaf or flower.
Loiters the gull on the wet sea-edge,
Cooling its breast in the wash of the wave,
And lizards slumber on root and ledge,
For sleep is a mercy that all things crave.
Oak and ti-tree, and flower and fern—
All a-swoon in the sunshine sleep,
While beetles drone, and the shadows turn,
Slow lengthening out as the moments creep.
Set like a scarlet torch in the sun,
Still on its stem one bmsh-flower flames;
And there ’twill burn till its bloom be done,
And death its glory of color claims.
Here in the cool of a fretted cave,
I, on the brown, soft sand, recline,
At one with the lazy wind and wave,
And know that the best of all is mine.
Time is money, but who shall price
All we lose if our lives be spent
Where Fortune tosses her loaded dice,
And cheats us all to her heart’s content?
Rest of body and ease of mind—
These are mine, and I„crave no more:
The mood that is one with the wave and the wind,
And takes scant heed of the wolf at the door.
K.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


AUSTRALIAN
HISTORICAL NOVELS
Great Stories of Adventure in the Early Settlement Days.
Just Published.
“SALLY”
THE TALE OP A CURRENCY LASS.
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
A splendid novel dealing with the days of Governor Macquarie.
One of the best Australian novels ever published. Highly praised by all
the critics.
Price 1
ALL BOOKSTALLS AND
BOOKSELLERS.
Posted 11
The same price as each of the other
NINETY “ BOOKSTALL ” NOVELS.
•Here are some other Australian Historical Novels in the “Bookstall” Series:
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH”—By DON DELANEY.
Another splendid novel dealing with the Macquarie regime. A story of
rushing excitement that holds the reader’s attention from the first page.
“MR. BARRINGTON”—By ROY BRIDGES.
The story of the adventures of George Barrington, the “gentleman”
rogue, thief and highwayman, who was transported to Australia and
became a notable figure in the little convict settlement.
“FOR TURON GOLD”—By DON DELANEY.
A first-class tale of an early Australian goldfield.
AUSTRALIAN BUSHRANGING NOVELS.
“THREE YEARS WITH THUNDERBOLT” —By AMBROSE PRATT.
“THE OUTLAWS OF W’EDDIN RANGE” —By AMBROSE PRATT.
“THE DEVIL’S NIGHTCAP”—By LANCELOT BOOTH.
“THE CAPTAIN OF THE GANG”—By DON DELANEY.
“DAN KELLY—OUTLAW”—By AMBROSE PRATT.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
476
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
GEORGE
STREET,
SYDNEY.
i
W •
mm
llitSlH
gpr
ll
■
IpP
ZJf?-
.
mmmm
>* - *
SB**
/IV
'
Made entirely i
Prices-
Australia. Packed always in Red Boxes.
•3/-, 5/-, 66, tO 6, 15/- and 25/-
Post Ffee to any
address in
Australia*
162 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY, N.S,W.
LEVIATHAN
Specialty TAILORING
Leviathan Tailoring is an Absolute
Delight in Wear and Service from
the first day of putting on until the
last. Stylish and shapely when
new, a Leviathan Suit retains
these very desirable qualities right
through the life of the garments.
There is much beneath the sur-
face in a Leviathan Suit not
readily seen, but built right into
the foundation, ensuring efficient
service to the end.
If you have not been getting
satisfaction elsewhere, allow our
Master Craftsmen to Tailor your
New Suit, and you, too, will at
once realise what a Perfect-fitting,
Long-life Suit should be.
SAC SUITS
TAILORED TO MEASURE.
Tlie Latest and Smartest Styles in All-
wool Suitings of English, Scotch, Irish and
Australian Manufacture.
Acceptable Grey or Brown Shades.
84/-, 90/- to 189|-
the
Suit.
Sac Suits in Finest-quality Australian-
made Super-Worsteds.
136/6 and 147/- the suit.
Mr
G
Write for Patterns. Home-
measurement Chart ,
Tape, etc. All Free.
10 per cent. Special
Discount off all our
usual prices allowed
to Returned Soldiers
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
ORDER BY POST.
© T**
UyiAWAN
Cor. Swanston & Bourke Streets. MELBOURNE
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
GAL
o
10-inch
double-
sided
2
EACH
6
(H.Z. 3/-)
Some Splendid Double-sided
REGAL RECORDS
G6885
To Arms March
Johnny O’Morgan March
King's Military Band
King’s Military Band
G7182
f 1916 Pantomime Hits, Part 1
,1 1916 Pantomime Hits, Part 2
Silver Stars Band
Silver Stars Band
7
G7224
G6883
{ Departure of Australian Troops Descriptive
( Arrival of Australian Troops in Egypt Descriptive
G6874
G6939
\ The Modest Curate
( Wondering W'illie .
Walter Walters, comedian
Walter Walters, comedian
G7269
S What You’ve Never Had You Never Miss
{ You Great Big Wonderful Baby
.F. W. Ramsay, baritone
F. W. Ramsay, baritone
G6925
f The Four-Foot-Ten Brigade
l The Constant Lover
Harrison Latimer, baritone
Harrison Latimer, baritone
G6890
We’re All North Country Lads and Lasses
’Twas an Old Fashioned Song
Stanley Kirkby, baritone
Stanley Kirkby, baritone
G6847
V-
( I Want to Go to Michigan
( Beautiful Baby Doll
F. W. Ramsay,
F. W. Ramsay,
baritone
baritone
G6780
( Sit Down, You’re Rocking: the Boat wiil-o™
1 Stop Thief (You Stole My Heart Away) Vi llliam Halley
G7323
Circus Bay in Bixie
Listen to That Bixie Band
Trevor and Thompson
Trevor and Thompson
G7268
the Angelas Told .
Highj Swinging Low
Stanley Kirkby, baritone
Stanley Kirkby, baritone
G7207
f Land of Long Ago
( The Ballad-Monger
Thorpe Bates
Thorpe Bates
GK5817
( Are We Downhearted?
| Bra%'o! Territorials ..
Harrison Latimer, baritone
Harrison Latimer, baritone
G6809
The Lads in Navy Blue barit ° ne
We Didn’t
Want to Fight Stanley Kirkby,
baritone
G6940
( Somewhere a Voice is Calling
) Sleep and the Roses
William Adams, tenor
William Adams, tenor
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR “REGAL” RECORDS
v s w-firafonola, Ltd., DakingHouse, Kawson Place. '
A S m BOCKXE vic! ami TASMANIA. Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Fty.,
ME Tfi m William Street, Melbourne.
BE xpsvsr
Sgg M 3 B ‘ sl>
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


SPANISH INFLUENZA.
All medical men recommend a searching antiseptic, and
NAZETHA
fulfils this requirement. Obtainable from all chemists for 1/6, and no
one should fail to protect themselves at this time of epidemic.
NAZETHA
The Great Cold Cure in the Little Bottle.
A. Pm Miller & Son 9 chemists, Hobart *
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.’
BOSTOCK’S—the Sign of a Good Shin
1
b OS2S& i
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
The present being times for the practise of economy, no better preservative of
leather can be recommended than
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
This well-known Shoe Polish possesses all the qualities for enhancing the wear of
footwear, keeping the leather soft, pliable and brilliant. Shoes regularly cleaned
with Bostock’s give added service.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Bottles and Tubes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Vioio Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
“Bill R.”: “Leo Lear’s” complaint that
willows planted in a stream eventually block up the
waters is not always found to be just. West of
Gonlburn (N.S.W.) the Wollondilly River can be
traced for miles across the Merilla and Garrundah
plains tv its fringe of willows; similarly with the
creek that flows through Bibbenluke,.on the Monaro.
let those trickles still meander on to the old
address, and during every flood they tear off
branches that grow into trees again down stream.
I will admit that the willows, if thickly grown, will
make solid earth of a quagmire, but I fail to see
how they can arrest the course of a running stream,
and during many a drought they have proven the
last resource that saved the starving stock.
“Melos”: For snakebite, Dr. Speisseger,
of Carolina (U.S.A.), in 1749 recommended the
juice of the root of the banana plant. This was
the formula: Crush the roots, squeeze out the juice,
and as soon as possible give one tablespoonful. An
hour later give another spoonful. The doc. claimed
that this never failed to cure. It is alleged that
the remedy was discovered by a negro slave who
was subsequently rewarded with freedom and a life
pension. Recently a Brazilian stated that he had
witnessed some remarkable cures of bites from pois-
onous snakes while on a trip to the district of Rio
Tarquay. One of the patients was an Indian peon,
who was bitten in the foot by a Yaraoca snake. He
arrived at home apparently in the final stages, bleed-
ing from the gums and swollen. A drink of banana
juice taken from the tree trunk was given him, and
in tinee days he was quite well. Another case
was that of a child who was treated in the same
way and recovered. lam not prepared to recom-
mend the treatment; but it seems worth looking into.
* # * *
“Toby C.”: A mob of North Queensland
navvies were discussing the virtues of Ryan and the
One Big Union when a gohanna was spotted crawl-
ing into his dugout on the side of a cutting. He
had not bottomed his claim when about 2ft. of his
tail attracted the attention of the ganger’s pup,
which soon hitched on and made an honest attempt
to draw the rest of lcojurrie into sunlight. The
dog failing, the boss hitched on, but dog and man
did no better. Then a navvy was called up and
connected. Still the anchor could not be shifted.
Eventually five hefty navvies, one railway ganger
and a nondescript camp whelp succeeded in pulling
the go's tail off about two inches from the bottom
trouser button.
A LONG JOB.
JACKEROO: “ Good rain, Jacky!”
Jacky: “Parson tol' me he pray six plurry
months for it.”
“Six and Eight”: In all probability the
explanation of the date-palm (B. 20/2/’l9) having
attained the age of 79 years without bearing fruit,
is that the tree is a male. Date-palms are unisexual;
male and female flowers are borne on different
trees, and only trees bearing female flowers fruit.
A MATTER OF OPINION.
REV. SNIGSEY: “Mr. McGregor, I am surprised to see you digging in your garden
the Sabbath. Surely you don't call that a work of necessity?"
McGREGOR: “Aye. Ef she no gits wur-rums she'll no git fush."
“J.G.”: This is what I know about it.
A few years back when the whole of North Victoria
was strewn with poisoned baits to wipe out bunny
I fixed up a block of land north of Bendigo accord-
ing .to the instructions and directions of the district
vermin-inspector, with the result that I killed
hundreds of birds, many of them being the exceed-
ingly useful babbler, or cat-bird, the best feathered
friend the fruitgrower has. One or two pecks at
the phosphorised pollard was sufficient to make the
birds throw in the alley. That year I murdered
more birds than I did rabbits. Last week I saw a pad-
dock poisoned near where I live south of the Dividing
Range, and soon afterwards I spied a whole tribe of
magpies staggering about crying in pain or lying
dead. I can vouch for the fact, also, that blackfish
are poisoned wholesale, indirectly, by these baits.
The first thing h rabbit does when he finds the
poison disagreeing with his digestion is to rush to
the nearest water, and invariably he snuffs out in
the pool. Then in a few days the fish begin to
sample this new kind of monster worm, and that’s
the end of them. About a month ago the anglers
along a Gippsland creek complained to the Fisheries
Department that practically all the fish in the creek
were being killed by the poisoned rabbits that had
fallen into the wet.
* * * *
“Cecil D.”: Has any Abo. the life story
of this fellow? He is a wicked-looking fly about
half an inch in length; color, black; has two
reddish-yellow feelers which project from the top of
his head. His recreation, which is also his chief if
not his only means of subsistence, is hunting, the
black Spiders which can be found in any old wooden
shed. He doesn’t wait for an invitation, but goes in
and turns the prey out, dragging it forth if it
doesn’t exit fast enough. The spider gets the wind
up immediately', and ,nev.er puts up a scrap. I saw
one of these flies chase two spiders out of a web
lately. One of them hid in the space between the
weatherboards and the uprights, but the fly soon
scented him out and Jack Johnsoned him in one
round. The fly' evidently possesses a deadly sting.
Before the doped spider ceases struggling the winner
begins to bite off the legs where they junction with
the body and to suck from the wounds. When the
remains are pumped dry the hard-doer goes and looks
for another bite and sup. He has my hearty good
wishe*.
“A.W.0.”: The theory that the scorpion
lays eggs and that the young are hatched out by
the heat of the sun is false as Barbara. 1 had one
of these creatures under observation for some time
and ascertained that the young are brought into
the world fully formed and without the slightest
trace of eggshells. I discovered Miss Scorpion under
a rock in the yard and removed her to a spot pre-
pared for observation purposes. Then I hunted up
a prospective hubby for my captive, and brought him
round for an introduction. The lady was indignant
at first, but after a good deal of coaxing decided to
drown her scruples. The couple waltzed for about
half a day, holding each other’s claws; then after
excavating a hole about two inches deep under a
flat rock, they retired. All was quiet for two days ;
then I noticed Mrs. Scorpion out alone each evening
on the roof of her dwelling admiring the scenery.
Upon removing the roof of her home I found that
she had carried out the well-known scorpion marri-
age-laws, and had killed- and eaten hubby. A
close watch was kept on the. widow to see how the
family would arrive. Everything was O.K. late one
evening, and the next morning I found 13 healthy
youngsters all scrambling and tumbling over ma. As
it is not reasonably possible for the eggs to be
laid and hatched during the one night, I consider
this is conclusive that young scorpions do not arrive
per egg.
* * # *
“Kenrie”: Stop the press a moment until
I add a name to the list of Australian furniture-
making timbers. This is black brigalow. It has a
good color, cuts well and takes a fine polish. If
you want to make a frame to enclose a photograph
of Australia’s sawn-off tariff or of the local-industry
murderers in the Federal Parliament, brigalow is
what you’re looking for.
* * * *
“Gouger”: A terror to the beche-de-mer
and pearlshell divers of the Barrier Reef is the
huge clam. When in need of food the clam opens
its shell, camouflages the whole arrangement with a
sort of scum (the shell itself often weighs 3cwt.)
and waits for any unwary fish to come within reach
of the .trap. My mate was silly enough once to
jump overboard waist-deep in water in order to
drag the dinghy closer into a reef. One of his legs
landed fair into a small clam, and the yell with
which Clarence announced the fact hit the sky. The
two shells closed on his heavy sea-boot with an
ever-increasing pressure. The blackboys were over-
board immediately, driving chocks of wood between
the fast-closing shells, and trying to open them wide
enough to cut the muscle inside with a sheath-knife.
Meanwhile the owner of the bo6t and leg inside
it almost pulled the dinghy under in his efforts to rid
himself of the vyce. Finally the clam was slashed
with the knife, and the shell was then easily forced
open. It was only three days after this that a
heavyweight clam scored one of our crew for good
and all. A boy diving for beche-de-mer failed to
come up after immersion. Two others dived
and came up immediately with the frightened yabber
that the first boy was caught by both arms in a big
clam.' All the nigs, aboard immediately dived down
with knives, but the big clam-shell had closed so
tight that it was impossible for them to slash the
clam. The rescuers later on brought the boy up,
dead, with both his arms cut through at the elbow.
They explained that the boy made frantic signs for
them to use their knives and cut his arms off, but
before they had finished he was drowned.
“John Moran”: Saw a death-adder which
I had in a cage shed its skin. It became Aery
restless one night and kept circling around the cage
rubbing its head against the side. Then it would
reverse so as to rub the other side of its head.
Watching closely I saw that the skin around the
vermin’s mouth seemed frayed, and gradually the
hide on the top jaw got turned back over the
head and the covering on the bottom jaw was turned
backwards. After the skin got clear of the eves
it peeled a good bit faster, and in about five
minutes was right back to the thickest part of the
body. Then the operation got very slow until I
put a half-brick into the cage about an inch away
from the side. This seemed to help his devilship a
lot. The shed skin was turned inside out; not a
tear or break any'where.
* * * *
“Mazoe” : For a useful trifle let me nomi-
nate the honev-bird of South Africa in general and
Rhodesia in particular. A very common-looking
fowl this, about the size and shape of a willy-
wagtail. Back, wings and head are a rusty black;
breast and underparts a not-over-clean white. When
he sights a human on the veldt he will fly as close
as he thinks safe and kick up the sheol of a cor-
roboree (or inaaba, as they call it here). He will
fly from bush to bush, keeping 10 to 15 yards away,
screeching and scolding. If you follow' him he will
lead to a wild-bees’ nest, which may be a couple of
miles away or only a few yards. The nest is in a
tree —unless you happen to want honey badly, when
it’s sure to be up in a precipice where nothing short
of an anchored balloon is of any use. The Kaffir,
when he robs a religiously leaves a piece of
honeycomb for the birch, even though it be the total
output of the hive. The African wild-bees’ hives are
not large, and the biggest haul of comb I’ve seen
taken from one would not fill a hat. The natives
of Mashonaland make a hive by stripping the bark
from a tree Gin. to 12in. diameter and about 2ft.
long. This they allow to dry in rits original shape.
They then plug up the ends, cut a door and tie it
in the fork of a tree in the hope of a house-hunting
swarm taking possession.
“Bareoo”: About the foothills of the
dividing - watersheds of the eastern coastal streams
and tlie western inland rivers (Q.) there is a very
rare snake. It is about 3ft. Gin. long and of a uni-
form blood-red color, and when seen (which is
seldom) it is on the black-soil brigalovv flats close to
the banks of the mountain creeks. The species is
not found in Victoria or N. S. Wales. Some time
ago Archie Meston related how he secured a speci-
men of “a turkey-red snake” while climbing Chan-
ingambal (Q.). Doubt was expressed in many quar-
ters as to the authenticity of the find, but there are
many unknown things in the almost unexplored
bush land. Anyhow, I can corroborate Meston's
statement that there is a blood- or turkey-red snake,
and, according to Binghi, it is most deadly. My
black boys said when we met the crawler on the
Dawson-Cornet watershed, “That pfella saucy one.
He bin bite blackpfella tummel down quick pfella
altogether.”
PUTTING HIM IN HIS PLACE.
VISITOR: “It's fwightful. Evewy thing burnt
to a cindah. Not a blade of grass any-
whaar"
INHABITANT ( annoyed) : “Well, what about
it? You ain't come to graze, ’ave yer?”
“Wandi”: Among the easiest nests to
reach by the bird-snatcher are those of the magpie
and the butcher-bird. These are seldom built very
high from the ground—often they are in low sap-
lings or small oak-trees —and being bulky structures
built of sticks they are also easy to find. Most per-
sons in the bush seem to have a desire to include
Maggie and her sweet-voiced cousin in the family-
circle, and the smart boy of the household generally'
knows the location of a nest in his neighborhood.
He watches it from the time the eggs are laid till
the chicks are ready to lift, and the only time he
doesn’t lift them is when the other boy steals them
the day before. There is no bird more frequently
robbed of her progeny, just when they are able to
do for themselves, than poor old Maggie. Yet she
can challenge the world with her song, and is always
policing the paddocks for those who treat her so
hardly.
ABOVE SUSPICION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mulholland bought a truck of wood,
And found within a day or two
His action was not wise and good.
The way those blocks took wing and flew
Defamed a decent neighborhood.
Mulholland hoped to mitigate
Their aerial activities,
And ventured in the street to state
That neighbors on the left, called Lees,
Were buying little wood of late.
Then Lees was heard in self-defence.
He swore that he was burning coal;
Mulholland was, by inference,
A liar quite bereft of soul.
“There s Brown,’’ he cried with heat intense,
“Your other neighbor, I insist
You might suspect that fellow now
Of pinching anything you’ve missed.”
“I can’t,” Mulholland sighed. “The cow,
He's an ex-heavy pugilist!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


m
;v
,
dr*
%
m
—*«r
Hi
:
*
i
. ■ \ • •
*■ 8 -*- *.
L.* ........... .'..... ' ' ' ...... : .
*
%
H
I
2JVETHE BEST SERVICE
■
m
#4?
-* s - ,••
W*:
■ >
ST*®
a*. '<.*»<*■
>«<#; >*:■
3PM
* m**m»h*
W*
m
f” V
? "*V.
jiNgfiSiE - *
■ i,
mm
* .P--
■
% ***»■
\\V >- . ■ f*i
£ *
: «** ■
m
m> imimtft-f^
T*| Near Mt. Macedon, Victoria.^
What great opportunities for comradeship, recreation, and
sight-seeing the motor cycle confers! Comparatively cheap
in operation, its running cost is infinitesimal compared
with ground covered and advantages bestowed. But
the tyres must be right. They must be dependable,
economical, and capable of great service. In this
connection it is very noticeable what a preponderance of
DUNLOP TYRES
there is at any gathering of motor cycles. The majority
of machines are equipped with “ Dunlops,” reflecting ’the
confidence owners have in their ability to stand up to
hard work with the minimum of trouble. It’s a confidence
founded on experience, and it’s justified. It simply pays
to use “ Dunlop’s.” All sizes, “ Railroad ” and “ Grooved,”
at leading agents.
DUNLOP RUBBER COMPANY
ALL STATES
AND N,Z.


The Aged and Infirm
are sometimes more susceptible to COUGHS and COLDS on the
CHEST than the young and vigorous. When an aged person gets
a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not only is the BEST
REMEDY taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that
does NOT cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution. In such a case, HEARNE'S Bronchitis
Cure is just THE proper Medicine to use, a 3 it is the QUICKEST,
3AFEST and BEST — a Remedy that is just as effective with
fOUNG PEOPLE.
ys
-+>\nu§:
fz
W
S
Heame’s
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest Remedy in the World
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (doublesize)
From all Chemists and Stores.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to—
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Offices —
Sydney, N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
l4.
) c KiMc.us.y-'H'tvn,
bor does. So real ports of any size are
wanting. A scheme for a causeway to Mor-
nington Island and a port on the island has
been mooted. When dredging or building or
air-navigation supplies a ready means of
access this rich country should have a great
future. It is no slouch of an area. What
is casually called the Cloncurry copper-field
is about the size of Tasmania. Fields are
big in the North. Paddocks are provinces.
A Descent into Politics
The energetic A. G. Huie of Sydney is a
long-standing newspaper correspondent whose
illuminated address to Captain Cook was
only a fragment of his labors. He now
appears as the author of a little work on
Proportional Representation, which throws
such a blinding light on a fairly simple
matter that the reader isn’t likely to see any-
thing for three days afterwards. The same
thing happened to Paul when his mind was
illuminated outside Damascus. An advt. on
the back sets forth that Mr. Huie edits and
manages a Proportional Representation
paper which also advocates the “appropria-
tion of land values or ground rent as Public
Revenue.” Whether he is a complete Bol-
shevik and would also “take over” the work-
shops and William McMillan’s warehouse
doesn’t appear. The Bulletin is a stren-
uous believer in the establishment of new
cities at the closed ports, with the State as
sole ground landlord from the beginning, and
in the Federal graduated land-tax which is
slowly (rather too slowly) breaking up the
big estates. Also it has an intense desire to
resume the railways and other works now
owned by money-lenders—it urgently desires
to see the debt paid off and the property made
our very own. The bond-holder has a far
bigger lien on this country than the land-
owner, and his mortgage worries this paper.
But as for the appropriation of all private
lands without compensation, that would be
such a serious matter to the 488,819 small
landowners with less than £3OO worth of
dust apiece that Mr. Huie .ought to pause in
his wild Bolshevik career. He may be very
good on Proportional Representation, but
when he advertises that his paper is the Pro-
portional organ, and that it also advocates
the abolition of all import duties, the loss
being made good by charging the cocky and
repatriated lien-farmer rent on the land he
has already paid for, he is mixing up things
that don’t connect. (Dey and Co., Sydney).
A Satchel of Books
The Magnificent Ambersons, by Booth Tarkingtori
(Hodder and Stoughton). A great number of
readers will enjoy this book. The characters are
well drawn and likeable; and the interest is well
sustained all through. Tarkington takes a track of
his own in fiction, and follows it boldly. Lucy is
quite as lovable as George thought. A very good
yarn in its class.
• Sentinel Sonnets „ by Alfred Chandler and w.
Siebenhaar (Australasian Authors’ Agency, Mel-
bourne). Most of the verses included in this little
collection relate to the war; and the sonnets are
for the most part fairly well constructed. True,
there is generally a certain stiffness of movement and
very little of the “song” which gives life to the
conventional form. The chief fault, however, is lack
of freshness and inspiration. They say the old thing
pretty well; but it is a very old thing.
Ilis Alien Enemy , by E. M. Forbes (John Murray,
London). Before the war an Irishman married a
German. The child of the marriage fought on the
German side and was taken prisoner by a friend
who knew him well before the madness started.
There are elements of high tragedy in the book; but
the author doesn't develop them to any extent. A
readable yarn, but confused with unnecessary tangles.
The Pawns Coun«t by E. Phillips Oppenheim
(Hodder and Stoughton). Mobs of spies and patriots
jump hither and thither, and do all sorts of things
that are highly sensational and quite unbelievable.
The American girl, Pamela, is so marvellous as to be
almost ridiculous. The interest is forced and the
book poorly constructed.
The Ivory Cross, by Forester Clarke (Robert Scott,
London). A girls’ book by an Australian writer that
deserves a good word. The people are worth while,
the telling of the yarn is pleasant and the conversa-
tions are convincing. The events narrated circle
round a Gippsland farm. Occasionally the author
lapses into the commonplace; but there is a freshness
in the tale that gives good promise.
The Kingdom of Wowse, by Pagani (National
Press, Melbourne). A confused and painful attempt
to get mirth out of mud. The author in a series of
poor verses and knock-kneed paragraphs sets himself
to advocate what he is pleased to call “sin.” He
doesn’t define the article he offers ; and in 46 pages
there is nothing which could raise a smile. The
book is too dull even to be quoted as a shooking
example.
Scattered War Leaves, by Prof. L. C. Galli (The
Advocate Press, Melbourne). Incidents of the war
told briskly enough and quite sincerely, but without
any particular skill or notable ability. The illus-
trations are by Bombardier M. Napier Waller, who
lost his right arm on active service. A faiir war
book—but there are so many of them.
The Desert Trail, by Scotty’s Brother (W. K.
Thomas and Co., Adelaide). Here again we are on
well-trodden ground. Another story of the work of
the Australian Light Horse through Sinai and into
the Promised Land. There is a lot of detail which
may be of value to some future historian, together
with a series of photographs and a map. The book
is published by authority of the Department of
Repatriation.
Tribute to Billjim, all the more valuable
because almost unwilling, in “Wrack of
War,” by J. A. Hammerton :—•
I had seldom been impressed with the Australian
soldiers I had seen along the Strand.... Of course I
was wrong. A swan is not seen to advantage as it
waddles along the bank of its 1ake....1 had read
with a lurking suspicion those pages in “Gallipoli”
wherein Mr. Masefield... .insisted so earnestly on
the physical beauty of the men, that it seemed the
gods of old Greece had come back.... He was
right, as 1 can now bear witness. I have seen the
swans in their native element... .In hundreds, in
thousands, we saw these splendid young men.... 1
said to my artist friend, “These men conform to
Masefield’s description; they are nothing short of
beautiful” ; and our admiration for them had been
stirred before we noticed they were Australians.
But, mark you, they were nearly all on horseback,
riding on the gain limbers or in waggons. It was
a. beauty of face and head, of lithe and sinewy
bodies, we had been admiring. Later in the day,
when we went among them in trench and dugout,
the same features appealed to us, but the godlike
grace of these young riders was not reproduced in
the walking men. Memories of the wanderers along
the Strand came back.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Azac”: Bill Bluegum and Jack Stringy-
brook were timber-getters. Bill never
worked without holding a license, but Jack
proudly claimed never to have been guilty
of such extravagance. One day while they
were on a job they failed to hear the
approach on horseback of the district ranger
until he was almost alongside of them. “Go
for your life. Bill,” yelled Jack; “here's
Williams.” Bill, grasping the situation in
an instant, dropped from the staging and
tore down the track, with Williams after
him at full gallop. Naturally Bill was over-
taken, but not before he had gone close
on 300 yards. He was coldly urged to
show his license. With great agitation
he slowly fumbled in every pocket and at
last produced a grimy, sweat-stained purse,
from which he extracted the document. It
was now Williams’s turn to grasp the situa-
tion, and after parboiling the air with his
language he galloped back. But Jack had
done a break.
* * * *
“Australia J.” : Last year the bonus pay-
able in Bananaland for the scalps of dingoes
and foxes was increased from ss. to £1 each.
Now the Government has learnt, with pain
and indignation, that certain enterprising
and dishonest persons who have trapped
female foxes have kept them in quarantine
for breeding purposes. The number of
dingo scalps handed in, in one month,
equalled the number paid for in the whole
of last year.’ Suspicions have been aroused,
too, that sojneone is forwarding parcels of
scalps over the border, to the serious damag-
ing of the Queensland Treasury.
* * * •
“A.W.R.8.”: A recent note in The Bul-
letin about mat-making from stringy-bark
sets me thinking. The idea occurred to my
father (the late Thomas Bates of Metung,
Vic.) about 25 years ago. He got in touch
with Donaghy and Sons’ ropeworks in Gee-
long, and they made a beautiful mat and
sent it back to him. They informed him,
however, that there was no commercial value
in the idea. I suppose the imported mat
was cheaper; but I’d bet a trifle the imported
article won’t give half the wear that ours
did.
* * * *
“Country Ped.”: The strangest device in
the slygrog-selling line that I have come
across was that of an Italian (call him
Genoa) who owned a vineyard near Vic-
torian forest country. A wood co. here
employed over 100 timber-getters. Besides
being a pinky manufacturer (thus being
allowed a gallon license) Genoa was a
butcher. In the front of his cart he always
carried a keg of wine. A drink cost six-
pence, and the lover of lunatic soup was
required to put his mouth to one end of a
piece of rubber-tubing inserted in a hole in
the top of the keg and suck. When Genoa
considered sixpenn’orth had been imbibed, he
grabbed the tube between finger and thumb
and choked the drinker off.
* * * #
“Silas Snell’s” tale of perfidy:—
Loo Min was the only Chinaman at Doubledeck.
He ran a vegetable Eden in an elbow of the creek,
and such vegetables as the miners of Doubledeck did
not steal Loo Min sold at a good profit to the
more honorable members of the community. But it
is notorious among miners that the Decalogue says
nothing about Chinese. The Decalogue says, for
instance, “Thou shalt not steal!” but there is
obviously a mental reservation in the case of China-
men. Plainly the inference is that you may steal
from Chinamen. The Chinaman had the reputation
among Victorian miners of stealing from everyone.
The miners gave him that reputation in justification
of their own promiscuous pickings from the Asiatic.
Loo Min had to be absent from his garden at cer-
tain periods hawking his wares. At such times
people living within easy access went to Loo’s gar-
den and helped themselves. Loo put up a formid-
able fence. Clew stole most of the fence for
material for his new stable. Dartle stole the rest
as the nucleus of his contribution to the building fund
of the chapel that was to be built on Goose Hill.
Loo secured a savage dog. Someone stole the dog.
In this extremity Loo got married. He brought
his wife up from Melbourne, and Doubledeck voted
her not at all bad. Mrs. Loo Min stayed at home
and guarded the garden, while Mr. Min trotted his
baskets about the diggings. The venture was a
great success. In Coltman’s case alone the bill
for vegetables was quadrupled. Coltman was a
widower who ran the only boarding-house at Double-
deck.
One afternoon, perhaps five months later, I was
trapping blackfish in Goose Creek, when I heard Loo
Min raising a celestial pandemonium in his back
yard. Investigating, I discovered him pasting his
small joss "(made in Birmingham) with a hoe, swip-
. ing his deity from one end of the enclosure to the
other, and howling like a mastiff affected with
gastric agonies.
“Well, well, Loo,” I said, “what’s it all about?”
“My missie welly bad woman!” wailed John, and
fetched joss a whang that knocked an ear off.
“fieap bad woman!” Joss got it , in
“Lun all ’way.” Joss bounded up against the wa
and was caught on the rebound, and swiped into
coop, killing two chickens. Loo’s howl jnnaP
notes. ‘‘She gone all far away. Damn! He Jumped
on his helpless god. .“She no come back belonga
poor Loo Min. Dammit!”
“That’s too bad,” I said sympathetically. Missie
Loo wicked woman. Whom she run ’way with/
Loo split Joss from chin to brisket. ,
“She wick’ woman, all li,” he wailed. She dam
welly bad wick’ woman—lun off with my best clus-
tomer. He no come back.” . T
Then I realised that it was Coltman that Loo
was mourning.
* * * * ...
“G. 1.”: “Soldiers,” according to a vie.
weekly, “might try ginseng.” Ginseng can
be raised in the back garden and tended in
odd moments ; £25 worth “can be carried in
a hand-basket.” But £25 won tgo far in
buying green roots or seed; and the plant
caii’t be marketed as dry ginseng until bve
years old !
» • * *
“Gleniris” : Now that the Commonwealth
Government has decided to give the Austra-
lian tobacco-grower a lift, the position held
by the S’African Government in relation to
the industry in that country is worth noting.
Curing the leaf, to be done satisfactorily,
should be by the flue system and not
by the method of drying in open sheds usu-
ally employed here in the past. Owing to
the S’Afriean Government having taken the
curing in hand, the consumption of locally-
grown tobacco has increased threefold m
six years, four-fifths of S’Africa’s smokos
being now produced within its own borders.
In Australia the retention of the ancient
curing-methods can only mean a temporary
resurrection of the industry, with the Gov-
ernment presently acting as chief mourner
for the departed.
* * * *
“0.L.” : Araminta tells me that hot socks
have gone up out of sight, 20s. and 30s. being
a common price for genuine silk goods.
Artificial silk stockings sell at ss. and range
upwards beyond the pre-war price of the real
silk article. Now one learns that the U.S.
exported six million pairs of synthetic silk
hosiery during 1918, the price averaging Is.
3d. per pair. The U.S. has become the
world’s largest producer of these manufac-
tures, and “the sky is the limit” in the
matter of output. There seems to be a
pointer or two for Australia in this.
* * * *
“U.P.”: A temperance deputation waited
on Premier Peake to protest against the
S.A. Government advancing money to
erect distilleries on the river Murray
for returned soldiers, as prohibition was
coming and the money would be wasted.
Peake replies that the Government is
willing to chance it. W. G. Auld,
President of the Winegrowers’ Associa-
tion, sa'ys he lately saw a Murray Itiver crop
of Doradilla grapes yielding 12 tons to the
acre and worth £l2 per ton. Vines come
into bearing on the Murray areas much more
quickly than on the plains and on the hills
surrounding Adelaide, he says. A distillery
has already been erected at Berri, and will
be opened shortly to supply South Aus. and
other wine merchants with spirit.
* # * *
“E.S.S.”: What proportion of the furs
worn by our womenfolk are stitched
together in Australia? We have skins
in abundance —’possums, bilbies, foxes,
dingoes. palpoos. koalas, native-cats,
“bushy-tailed rats,” flying foxes and
others; but they are nearly all packed
off to America to be made up. The fur of
the Australian silver-grey ’possum is the
only substitute the Americans have for the
chinchilla, a now rare South American ani-
mal, whose fluffy grey skins cost £5O a dozen
in the open market. Our familiar ’possum
skins are labelled in New York windows.
“Australian chinchilla.” Why not make
them up here (there’s money enough in the
game) and call them honestly “Australian
furs”?
“B.”: While at Toowoomba (Q.) the
French mission saw the portable silo of rein-
forced concrete patented by Frank Brennan,
the local lawyer who is M.L.A.' for the
district. Brennan, though a lawyer, has a
sincere and determined interest in farming,
and believes that every farmer should be
comnelled to grow a few acres of ensilage
be the season good or bad ; and the French-
men, whose men on the land beat winter
and snow conditions by tunnelling every
hill for silos, were full of praise for the new
idea. Brennan’s method permits the re-
moval of the silo for refilling after the
fodder becomes ensilage, with the original
contents preserved for use.
* * * *
“Silas”: Dix had invited me up to visit
him at his place at Cardiff. I was to be
sure and get off at Holland’s Siding, and
Dix, junior, would pick me up there and
drive me out. I noticed that the hands of
the man opposite were shockingly cut about.
He did not seem to be possessed of a whole
finger. Said the man next to the man
opposite, “Sawmiller?” The man opposite
said, “Was once.” “On’y just stopped in
time,” said the man next. And there it
ended. At Holland’s Siding a rusty old
donkey-engine was puffing excitedly, driving
a circular-saw set in a rough bench under a
roof composed of four sheets of stringy-bark
supported by four crazy uprights. One man
was at the bench sawing stringy logs into
“box” blocks; another was unloading logs
from a waggon. A quarter of an hour
passed, and still there was no Dix, jun. A
sudden, sharp yap came from the man at the
bench. Then momentary silence. The man
on the dray straightened his back, and threw
the perspiration off his bald head with the
edge of his hand. He looked towards the
man at the saw, who. having recovered from
his first surprise, was now swearing freely.
“What, another?” said the man on the
dray. “My oath, yes!” answered the man
at the saw. “How many does that leave
you. Bert?” asked the man on the dray.
“Six ’n’ a ’arf,” replied the man at the saw.
When young Dix arrived he devoted himself
to a bit of rough-and-ready surgical _ work,
and I discovered that the conversation of
the two men had had reference to fingers.
THE COMPOSITION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sol Solomon der olt clo’es sdore
He run in Veeliam sdreet,
Und Michael Cohn he lif nexd door,
Und sell der poiled pigs’ feet,
Der picklet herrink, und der nice
Cucumper soused mit plenty spice.
Sol Solly to dis Michael Cohn
Von untert pounts he owed,
Und von day ven der leedle Shon
Is playink by der road
Der come a tram alonk. Py Shim,
It fery near runt oafer him !
’Tis Michael Cohn rush oop so prave,
Und risk to lose hees life
Der leedlo Solomon to save;
Und Solly und hees vife
Run oud, und, mit tears in der eyes,
Thank Cohn for save deir darlink prize.
Says Sol: “Nod effer more can I
Pay half der debt I owe!”
“Dond mention id,” der hero cry—-
“I vould not ask it so.”
Ivvick Solly jumpt der chance: “Den, say,
Six shillinks in der pount I pay.”
VICTORIA.
SILAS.


£5
m
Ljf
C
OL
01
-4
/r
m'
W
" >,
#
\
✓j;<«
M
t'C?
JVvTSa
&
4p
ssks
i—>.
i//<
ijs 1
&
«2r->
MS
tfv
s®
n.
rKOST.
rr<
39
~p
Co
s^-
m '
Safe.
/3
2®£»!
<o^
m
v*
s.
1 !
3s€;
3%
*»■
sr/v
AC.
OVf
ifc?
'*£S^SPCr
?^r
•i»«vr
-r
in
- v
gM
««
Ysa
r-ZB
r»-c;
&3Xc
■+< i j
*.,
-ul
lT>
?•*>
i
w>
>s
T«
Aa
«s<es
35^?
A X
°o/>
«Q
%
rr
£
Sfee
Zzz*k?i
&
AV.'V
Q
/
\
/ \
\
V
V.
B
:2gK^S
4/.. ii! f '»' ■
fg/llh'V..,
»».w'>
4
■-
K5F."#
.. ...*
mn».w
**
e
r,
IS /
Adamax is the Time-proof
Economical Roofing.
The saturant used in the manufacture of Adamax Asphaltum Roofing is pure
mineral hydro-carbon, which is forced into the felt under heat, so that every pore is
filled.
It really preserves the felt, and even under extremes of heat.it will not evaporate.
Neither will cold, wind, rain, or any of the elements have any harmful effect on it,
so that with Adamax you get a time-proof roofing that can be quickly and properly
laid by any man who can use a knife and drive a nail.
Costs only one-tliird the price of galvanised-iron, with a similar saving
in the freight.
One roll covers 200 square feet, allowing 2in. overlap. In one-ply
(thin), two-ply 1 medium), three-ply (thick), complete with nails and
cement for securing edges.
Send to Desk “B” for free samples and descriptive pamphlet.
Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Melbourne: 521-3 Collins Street. Adelaide: 96 Currie Street.
Brisbane: Cor. Edward 8 Mary Streets. Perth: 33 Kins Street.


/M,
A. Saunters’ Card Receiver, pure Silver-plated satin
finish, 20/"
A. Saunders’ Entr6e Dish, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-
; ' 7 ~"
1 ■
*
A. Saunders’ Water Pitcher, pure Silver-
plated, hand burnished, enamel lining, 50/«
A, Saunders’ Custard Set, finest English Crystal
pure Silver-plated Base and Spoons, £3/10/
A. Saunders’ Baking Dish, pure
plated, highly burnished, enamel
407-
Silver-
lining,
r
A. Saunders’ Preserve Dish, pure Silver-
plated, Ruby-tinted Glass.
Without Spoon, 17/6.
With Spoon, 20/-
, >
I - - t.
:■ • :
.
B
i 'UTs-^x
A. Saunders’ Tea and Coffee Service, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, com-
orising Tea. Coffee, Su?ar and Cream, with Covers, hand burnished,
“Reed” design, £B/10/-
JEWELLEK,
805-815 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Fruit Dish and Spoon, pure Silver-
plated Frame, highly burnished, Crystal Glass, 30/-
\ Saunders’ Bread Board, pure. Silver-plated,
complete, with Knife, 32/6.
astaa
kMXUIf
A. Saunders’ Inkstand, pure Silver-plated, Cut-;
Bottles, 15/0-
S3P
A. Saunders’ Asparagus Dish and Sauce Boat, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, hand-embossed edging, £5/10/-
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
AVe Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian . Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Build e r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the woihl.
SAVOY HOTEL,
Hay Street, Perth, West Australia.
PERTH’S LEADING HOTEL.
Recommended to Visitors from Eastern States.
Tariffs £4/4/- per week, 12/6 per day.
J. M. QUIGLEY, Manager.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
!,ssrs.s»s
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given t 0 EDITION
11917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. llow to Get Rich,
1/6 posted Du. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6 Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
nosted Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola's including Nana, 2/-_ each posted.
Educating t-he Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
S A 6 posted. How to Strengthen the
1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Jo vs of Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. FortUne-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a hook for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Males,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post ftee.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Becom-e Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 10/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3.. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy • Self-taught, 1/6. How _to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-, Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man from Snowy Riyer,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made l/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/-
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society. 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide. 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
ppsted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed op Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PAYING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
illustrations, 3/*. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam L ind '
sat Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 6/o.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tocology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3, 2/-. mow
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- P° ste “:
Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster-s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 ilius..
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pav 3 and 4 guineas?). Booth a iung and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 2/d.
Mo'ore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- postg.
upvbv Lawson*s Humorous Verses, l/o. ahb
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches frol *
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
Or BOOKSELLER TO THE COM MONWEALTH. __


The REAL REMEDY for BACKACHE 8 KIDNEY TROUBLES
wmm.M
x
v£
/ v
r p
0,
z
w.
MRS. 1
J. S.
WOODSIDE
(from a
photo hy
Kenelm
Stump). >
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
•
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Troubles relieve the worst cases because they
remove the cause of such troubles; they get to the root of the matter, clean out the kidneys and
make them filter out all the poisonous waste matters and uric acids that lodge in the joints and
muscles, causing rheumatism. They soothe and heal the bladder, and quickly relieve you. They
are a unique remedy, entirely different from anything you have ever used. There is nothing else
to compare with them. Ko matter how old you are or how long you have suffered, the veiy principle
of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills is such that it is practically impossible to
take them into the human system without obtaining results.
If you feel that your kidneys are the cause of your sickness, your
run-down feeling, begin taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache
and Kidney Troubles, because as soon as your kidneys improve they will
help the other organs to health.
Make Your Bacßacße
Quicßly Disappear.
Many times when I have read what other women think of your “Gin Pills” I thought of writing to tell you my opinion of them, which is that there is
nothing in the world like them for women. I have been a constant user of them for many years, and consider that my present fine health and strength
are due to their beneficial effects. They clear the head and the kidneys, and are invaluable for the many ills women are prone to suffer. I sent you my
photograph, and give you my full permission to make public what I say about Gin Pills. My advice to all women is to take a Gin Pill now and then—
there is nothing so good; they prove all a woman can look for. This sounds a big thing to say, but it’s true.
Craigielee,” Craigend Street, Darlinghurst.
I remain, yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) JESSIE S. WOODSIDE.
GIN PILLS will Help You
Do von suffer with Backache ? Do you rise in the morning with a groan ?
Do you feel that you are getting old? Having made up your mind that you
are a martyr, do you vent your ill-humor on the family? After a tvhile the
pain and stiffness leave you, and you forget } r our troubles until the next
morning, when the same dull pain in the small of the back, the difficulty of
bracing your nerves, brings back all the dire forebodings of the day before.
•
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and all Kidney Troubles are the
most popular pills on the market. They are entirely different from all other
pills, and are infinitely more efficacious, and are sure to give prompt relief in
all cases of Backache, Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Bladder Trouble,
Headache, Tiredness, Sleeplessness, and that run-down feeling which we all
suffer from at some time or other in our life. Don’t forget to take a bottle
of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and the Kidneys home with you
to-night.
Many years ago, in a Women’s Hospital, I saw Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills used
and heard them well spoken of. Afterwards, when I got ill with backache,
caused through chill of the kidneys, it seemed quite natural for me to take what
I had seen do so much good in similar cases. What Gin Pills had done for
others they did for me, and lam quite well and strong. I always keep Gin Pills
by me, and I take some directly there is any threatened change of weather,
particularly if my back or limbs ache. lam sure Gin Pills are widely appreci-
ated, for whenever I recommend them I generally find that my friends have
been in the habit of using them before I spoke. I write, as I think what I have
to say will interest you, and because I am grateful for the benefit I have received
from your fine remedy.
I remain,
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) J. W. ROLL AND.
Milson Road, Cremorne.
m
=«S*£f
rn
m
1
m
'S.
M//S/S J. W. HOLLAND
\
(from a photo).
If you suffer with pains in your back or sides, or have any signs of Kidney Trouble, or Rheumatism, such as puffy swellings under the eyes or in
the feet or ankles, if you are Nervous, Tired and Run-down, or bothered with Urinary Disorders, Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney
Trouble are the Remedy which will quickly relieve you of your misery.
You can secure an original bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Troubles from all Chemists and Storekeepers at 1/6, or in
larger bottles, holding more than twice the quantity, for 2/6.
DfSheldons
BACKACHE \
and Kidney Troubjles.


Sydney’s Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
This beautifully-situated RESIDENTIAL
HOTEL is unique in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, bein'? RIGHT ON THE lIARDOR
FRONT, with its own secluded BEACH AND
GROUNDS and AMPHITHEATRE SWIM-
MING BATHS, the whole surrounded by
natural Bush.
25 Fine New Bedrooms have just
been erected, built over the water,
every room looking out to the Heads.
Daily service of Steamers, including Theatre
Boat, to and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular
Quay.
A Delightful Ferry Trip.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths.
Apply Manager,
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL,
Telephones: Y3OOl. MOSMAN, N.S.W.
Y 3002.
PRACTISE THRIFT
3 Ani Aj (”» o
iri H. I_A\ j\J O'iS
V OWDE« _
2$ rS"*f
* Sw by J.lrttU»ndt**£{£
On every side this advice is given, and housewives should
practise it on every possible occasion.
The consistent use of
IRELAND’S
Baking Powder
means real economy and good cooking results. Scones,
Cakes, Pastry, Biscuits, etc., are always the lot of the
cook who relies on Ireland’s Baking Powder.
People may say that all Baking Powders are alike. They
may be in some respects, but no Baking Powder is more
reliable or more uniform than IRELAND’S.
PRAC TISE THRIFT right now and order IRE-
LAND’S BAKING POWDER, and insist on your
grocer bringing it to you.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle.
ROBUST HEALTH FOR ALL,
WHY WEAK, AILING MEN AND
WOMEN SHOULD TAKE PHOS-
PHATE WITH THEIR MEALS.
Life to the man or woman who is weak,
nervous, run-down and constantly ailing is
a mockery. Nothing can adequately com-
pensate for the loss of health and strength,
and to secure robust, glowing health and an
abundance of vigor and vitality there is
nothing an ailing man or woman would
withhold. It is claimed that a broken-down
constitution can be reconstructed, that weak
nerves can be made strong, and that thfc
dejected, debilitated and run-down can be
made bright, vigorous and well once more
simply by following a short and quite in-
expensive course of treatment, consisting of
a sgr. Bitro-phosphate tablet taken with
meals three times daily. Knowing this,
surely no one will be content to remain weak
and ill, for the Bitro-phosphate tablets are
obtainable, at small cost, of high-class
chemists everywhere. Thus the treatment
is within the easy reach of everyone who has
need of it, and in view of the remarkable
results already reported by users, we venture
to think that many of our readers will be
anxious to give Bitro-phosphate a trial.
—A DVT.
POVERTY
POINTS
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“E.T.”: Passed out in New York the
Yankee vaudevillain, R. G. Knowles, a
breathless, husky-voiced patter-vocalist who
made a brief tour of Australia in the fairly-
long-ago. As a purveyor of “readied” wit
Knowles made a reputation fully equal to
that of Chirgwin. On his first appearance
in Sydney his audience at the start was not
enthusiastic. Knowles spotted it and com-
menced to expatiate on the beauties of the
city—a sure card. He got the crowd fairly
going when- he advanced to the footlights and
remarked : “If the man who dug the harbor
is present, will he stand up?”
The story goes that Sinn Fein leader De
Valera, in escaping from Lincoln gaol, was
loyal to all the rules of melodrama. The
arrangements were communicated to him by
a minstrel who sang in Irish outside the
walls and played on the harp of Erin. He
was a gay minstrel in knee-breeches and
green stockings, and had a dhudeen in his
head. His love of potheen may be taken for
granted. The hour having struck, two
bright-eyed Irish colleens, Norah and Arrah,
spoke soft brogue and blarney to the sentries,
after the manner of the old days when sen-
tries w T ere affable and mashed the passing
maiden. While they did this the leader
stepped out and fled over the bogs to London.
Save for the absence of Michael Feeney,
process-server and informer, it was a very
complete little Boucicault drama designed in
a mirthful moment to pull the leg of the base,
brutal and blanky Saxon.
“Treasurer”: Out Moree '(N.S.W.) way
the Chautauqua show was generally regarded
as a boon and a blessing. “Trallwm's” yarn
(B. 6/3/’l9) weighs itself out of credence
by its patent exaggeration. Anyhow, here
is Moree’s answer. There were 30 guaran-
tors, and, although they were mulct in £4
each, nearly all signed a fresh contract for
next year. The new document contains
nearly 60 signatures, collected not by a
prepossessing young lady, but by a stern-
faced male member of the combination. It
may be added that four leading townsmen,
though not signatories, asked to be allowed
to stand in with the original guarantors, and
that one guarantor threw in £lO and
wouldn’t take the change.
Critics in Wilson’s country are making a
to-do about a il 7-year-old Russian Jew,
Jascha Heifetz, who is extracting wonderful
music from a violin. The youngster was
born at Vilna, where his dad was in a sym-
phony orchestra, and he started as a musi-
cian while still in the cradle. At three he
began to take lessons, at four he gained
admission to the advanced classes at the
Imperial School of Music in A'ilna. and at
six he Avas playing stuff like Mendelssohn’s
Concerto to enthusiastic audiences at Kovna.
The “Holy Land” is moving with the
times. A bright crowd calling itself “The
Sparklets” has been giving a variety-show at
the Oliveum, which is a “fit-up” theatre run
up on the Mount of Olives.
A deputation from Poverty Point told \ ic.
Premier Lawson that it knew two actors who
were employed at a freezing works. But
that’s nothing. The Bulletin has known
of an entire company.
“Machete”: “Norbell’s” yarn about old
Ned Holloway and the music cues (B.
27/2/T9) recalls another. One of the eo.
fell ill and someone had to double a part.
Ned volunteered, but the stage-manager
scoffed. “Quite easy, laddie,” quoth the
old ’un. “First of all I come on as the
burglar with my own hair and finish my
lines. Then I slip off, jam on a fair wig,
and come back as the rich banker! And”
—in his deepest bullock-bell tones—“who's
to know me?”
“Park”: We have freak entertainments
even in South Aus. Some time ago a man
provided an elaborate funeral for his late
wife. It. occurred to him lately to have
another thrill ; so he arranged with an
undertaker and a livery stable to give a
repetition. But this time the hearse and
landaus were drawn not by the usual blacks
but by greys. An empty coffin was in the
hearse, and there were “floral tributes” ; in
fact, there was a meticulous regard for de-
tail. The public is still trying to guess
what sort of a bug had bitten the pro-
moter.
“F.R.”: The sensuous and inartistic
Vnuscle dances of the Arab women and the
revolting contortions and self-torture of the
howling Dervishes made Billjim tired. He
wasn’t particularly interested in the Cairo
theatre’s Danse du Ventre —a barbaric spec-
tacle. It only cost a piastre on Friday (the
Moslem Sunday) to see the Dervishes dance
and howl; but one helping of that insanity
was enough for any normal man.
Cecil Brooking, who was cousin Alaric in
“Peg o’ My Heart” and the peppery French
impresario of “The Eyes of Youth,” is on
his way to England, where the Actors’ Asso-
ciation. of which he was for two years a
councillor, has become a trade union. He
likes Australia and the Australian play-
goer so well that he will return when
he can acquire the sure defence of a con-
tract.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Marie Lohr looms
large in the review of the dramatic year
published by the Daily Telegraph. Her
present success as actress-manageress at the
Globe is “Nurse Benson.” Marie scored her
big success immediately after the swift
failure of an odd medley called “Press the
Button.” by Robert Ilichens. It was all
mechanical effects and buffoonery. The
piece with which Marie opened at the Globe
was “Love in a Cottage,” by Somerset
Maugham. It is a dud play, but the person-
ality of the star carries it. Still she has
“MY LADY FRAYLE." AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
Canon Kennedy Allen asks the aid of
Butler Wilcox (Bert Clarke ) to ter-
minate a love affair.
faith in Maugham, who has supplied her with
another thing called “A Y T oice from the
Minaret.” The dramatist h'as been war-
working in the Orient and collecting local
color.
In this year’s Christmas panto, at Drury
Lane Florence Smithson is one of the singing
principals. Her high notes are still bird-
like.
“Norbell”: I heard the only Dan Barry
deliver one of his inimitable “curtain”
speeches in the Skating Rink, Brunswick-
street, Fitzro.v (Vic.), at the time of the
Duke of York's visit. Dan’s spruik was
a work of art. With emotion he told his
patrons how glad he was to be back in “dear
old Fitzroy” once again. “I have been in
the far North,” he said (meaning Gympie
and the Towers), “for more than a year, and
whenever I got my mail at the various post-
offices, my heart always leapt when I saw
the old Fitzroy postmark.” (Loud applause.)
“I find Melbourne in a state of great excite-
ment over the visit of his Royal Highness
the Duke of York and his wife. It was
my privilege to be introduced to both of
POST MORTEM.
“ What's the matter with Philthy’s yogs to-
night? They're all falling dead."
“ Yes — everything's been disinfected."
them the other day by my friend his Excel-
lency the Governor-General.” (More loud
applause and cries of “Good boy, Dan!”)
“I asked his Royal Highness what he
thought of the reception Melbourne had
given him, and he said, ‘Mr. Barry, it was
magnificent. The best turn-out of its kind
1 have ever seen. In fact, there was only
one blemish on the whole celebration.’ ‘And
what was that, sir?’ I asked. ‘Well, Mr.
Barry,’ said his Royal Highness, ‘I can’t
understand why the authorities didn’t take
the procession down Brunswick-street, Fitz-
roy.’” (Storm of applause, during which
Dan exits R.)
The early-closing regulation was removed
from London theatres at Christmas,, and
they promptly reverted to the old 8.0 or
8.15. But most of them still take advan-
tage of the afternoon habit which London
got into. Even the Drury Lane pantomime
was gone through twice a day. So were
“Going Up,” “Nothing but the Truth,” “Chit
Chin Chow,” and a host of others, includ-
ing “Charley’s Aunt,” out for its usual
Christmas revival.
“E.V.K.”: Christmas two years ago I
spent a holiday at Pialba, a blue-and-silver
sea-place in the south of Queensland. Came
one day Charles Ivenningham, once the
favorite tenor of J.C.W. light opera, to-day
broken in health. With the monsoon rains
we listened by the hour to Kenningham play-
ing scraps from the operas. One day we
were all held by a haunting thing of his own
composition. He told us it was written
years ago for Marjorie Williamson, then a
fascinating child. He had called it “Mar-
jorie Daw,” his pet name for her then. He
hadn’t seen her since she was a child, hut
he told us how she had stood in his mind
through all the years as an emblem of life
and joy and' promise. And now there’s the
tragedy of her death at 24.
“Billy T.”: A clean-shaven, plump and
rather engaging Melbourne drummer, whose
principal line is rat-traps or something of the
sort, tells of being located once in a moun-
tain resort, where, to his great astonishment,
he presently found himself an object of
extra special interest to a brood of dames,
all beyond that stage at which their interest
in a man is of any particular interest to the
man. He could not allocate to himself a
comfortable seat, lurk or retreat anywhere
about the hotel without presently finding his
privacy assailed by a bustling dame or two,
with a bunch of crochet work or a mass of
tatting, and it was obvious that they ex-
pected to find in him a truly sympathetic
soul. After many evasions the poor man finally
faced it out with a massive matron of 60.
who came with a load of woollens and
planked herself beside him on the verandah.
“Look here,” she said, “I have a stitch to
show you. I am sure you will love it.
Just watch.” She explained the mysteries
of her stitch, and then said: “Now you just
go and get your knitting, and we’ll have a
good long talk.” “My knitting?” snorted
Drummer. “Excuse my vehemence, madam,
but what —what the devil would I be doing
with knitting?” “Why,” gasped the amazed
old lady, “aren’t you Mr. Julius Knight, the
celebrated actor?”
It happened at Mt. Chalmers (Q.) when
that mining centre was booming. Somebody s
“Rollicking Girls” drew a big house for their
first performance. After a dud serio-
chronic had done her worst and an alleged
comic-singer had depressed them with
ancient jokes, a burly miner rose and
announced: “It’s a crook show; let’s have
a dance.” Then as forms and other “sit-
downs” vanished outside, the spokesman
ordered the pianiste to “Strike up a waltz,
miss.” The music began, the Rollicking
Girls came down and accepted partners, and
everyone had a jolly time. After that local
shows always included a dance.
“Quidam” : Mention by “75” of the Gipps-
land giantesses, Clara and Anna Snell (B.
30/1/T9), reminds me of the trip they made
to Charters Towers in the 90’s. It was
sweltering hot weather, and the weighty
damsels sat on thorns in the theatre and
perspired terribly. Travelling around in the
North did not suit them at all, what with
small steamer cabins, na row-gauge rail-
ways, cramping coaches and the heat. Then
at the Towers they struck a lot of unbeliev-
ing small boys, who used to approach them
in the crush and jab pins into their legs to
see if they were sawdust. That broke their
hearts.
“Smike”: In my album of entertaining
dramatic criticisms I like this one best:
“ ‘Hamlet’ was staged in our town last even-
ing. If there should still be any doubt as
to the author of the tragedy, let the graves of
Shakspeare and Bacon be opened and see
who has turned in his grave.”
The late husband of “Belle of New York”
Edna May left an American estate of a cool
million pounds. The widow gets £25,000
for powder money and a life interest in the
estate.
Rostand’s “Cyrano de Bergerac,” to be re-
produced in London, will have a new “lead”
—the intrepid Major Robert Loraine, mum-
mer and airman.
“II.”: Oscar Asche expects to keep “Chu
Chin Chow” running right through 1919 at
Her Majesty’s, London, thereby scoring four
consecutive years of uninterrupted boom.
But he is quite prepared for a nossible sud-
den slump. The substitute (all ready) is
called “Mecca.” Spectacular, of course, to
the last button. Incidental music by Percy
Fletcher, who has done much work for the
big Australian.
“Norbeil”: George Rignold was conduct-
ing a rehearsal at Sydney Majesty’s, and
wanted to demonstrate something with a
rifle. The armorer produced an old
muzzle-loader. “Unloaded?” asked the Big
Chief. “Oh, of course, Guv’nor.” ' “Um!”
grumbled Rignold. “they always are! Bet-
ter be sure.” He pointed the rifle out into
the darkened theatre and pulled the trigger.
A terrifying report resulted, and the double-
bass player was a casualty. He'd got the
flash of the gunpowder full in the eyes, and
it was weeks before he again took his place
at the doghouse.
London County Council has decided to
treat a course of Shakspearean theatre-going
as a definite part of education. The un-
assuming but solid Ben Greet company is
playing not only light stuff such as “Mid-
summer Night” and “As You Like It,” but
“Julius Caesar” and “The Merchant.” Chil
dren go with their teachers, and are allowed
to count the show as a school attendance.
UP WITH THE RAG!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The lights are up, the play’s afoot,
The puppets on the carpet prance,
The fairies on their cobwebs put,
And gaily in the moonbeams dance.
The player king (who keeps his head)
Is still a quaint, inhuman wight;
111 love-links variously led
The lady fair pervades the night,
Like some peculiar phantom we
Have all grown so accustomed to,
That half the time we fail to see
She lives in no land, old or new.
The splendid hero stirs to life
That’s not quite living. Ever nigh
The comic man comes grinning, rife
With humor that can never die.
I’ve seen them so, familiar shapes
That do not change with changing years—■
Familiar woes, accustomed japes,
False happiness, fictitious cares.
Yet gladly I behold again
The glitter of their artless show;
It gives me, who to roam am fain,
When all dressed up, a place to go.
I greet with joy the pantomime,
With cheers the play’s affected band.
What use the freelance if, betimes,
He have no target for his brand ?
victoria.
STARGAZER.
TASTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not like the comedies cerulean in hue,
By which, alas! our stage is oft discredited;
I’m not in love with what is called (I don’t know
why ) revue,
Unless the “book” is most severely edited;
A friend unto the Drama, I the nicest taste possess—
At shows I show juridical sobriety ;
Give me a piece that’s pure—ah, well, say one, in
tone and dress,
That trembles on the verge of impropriety.
I’m not an out-and-outer; the whole hog I never go,
And don’t approve of songs that are ambiguous;
I’d walk out if a red-nosed dame or saucy serio
Cracked gags unto the knuckle too contiguous.
I do not wowse, I thank the Lord! I like a little
joke,
One that can be re-told in high society;
And so a dance, a song, a jape my “Hear, hears”
will provoke
If it trembles on the verge of impropriety.
VICTORIA.
SMART SETTER.


t - v - -;
aa&SS^tS^MSggs^S^iSg^^■ t^fesl
z*>
'W5?i
r>iv^,
<*r
V?
'Oa
a
af«
*2!
eg
**
• «. i? j V vr w.* js v *f‘y7
®^S?s|c®|
!g^%Mii
; ,vt-, '<-
. i-'1
v >” y. r )> s< '■’jaSm - ■iJSBrSr9IS^ <
y t-:
£5
■><o^
MS
I
/r
**
3&
V\
v:
ijgg
t s&n
m*
,j?
SfvV
'' ■ •’. «&
■ -t f- :^l
&s£s&&s
*£s2s
:■&
3H
yii^V;
Sf'&Jttf*; t<
F£
SBf
M
>v;
&
£3
ss
1
.♦a
IS
M
X /
mii
V<;;.
PCrSSss
/
i fc
w>
z&*
2fc
.VS
; Vs
/
.-.-. •■
*s
ms.
8s?l
3^
;*J
1*
g&s>s
"V-
-y-'*
X^?2
3*3£*
■<*?■
<~r.\
«•£
&n££i§
fc&s4
&§
TO
•'ll;
nr~>?
rm
m
*s**3©s&«as
»f*sai
8«£
a.
aft
.SR&sksS
2i»sk«
2K
ft fc «»»»».<W*S»6
MSS
*
*-«•
■—*>• *•: -cSiv>Pt*v
3K*i*
CH^VT*>6
gp«wi
K.Vm
sre£3S£s£L?s£
**&&
Xsot
IvC
r-" •
«s£&j
S' >'vSs2?k3?S
%
' ■. > a
vyCS
f.y
»k.
A. - *
r*
H-
'■‘-v
Vc
HC
m
a«
w*
V-
r^!
>m:
»v^-,
cu.
<<s«
• w
«u
v»
•Ss s ?^*
The Car of Quality.
150,000 Last Year!
“ the enormous annual output of Overland motor cars!
Many thousands of them went to all parts of the world The Overland
is indeed the international motor car, because it is made on a scale which
permits a value unapproached!
Appearance, performance, comfort, service, price—all these essen-
tials of the ideal motor car are distinct Overland advantages.
For instance, note the “85-Four” shown here. A car of great power,
but so simple to operate that a child can drive it Sturdy, depend-
able, so satisfactory that it has won the enthusiasm of everyone who
ever r owned one.
Australian
Distributors
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. LTD., Hobart.
I A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
Christchurch, N.Z. —*—
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY.
WILLYS-OVERLAND, Inc, 'rtiledo, Ohio, U.5.A.


J
Skingetters
Rabbit, Fox ami all
other classes of skins. Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney OR Brisbane. LTD.
Top Prices—Correct Counts —Full
Weights—Prompt Returns. Salesmen
only. Not buyers or dealers.
w
For
“Trouble-Free”
Motor Cycling.
For speed work, hill climb or solo or
side-car touring’, you’ll find in
the ideal lubricants. Their high-flash
point and unmatchable viscosity keep
your engine clean and vigorous and
safe against wear. •
Obtainable all Garages and
Storekeepers
in one-gallon tins, 4-gallon tins and
barrels. Ask also for National Motor
Greases.
NATIONAIj OIL CO., LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Adelaide. '
Power Books
By Frank Chaining Haddock.
THE RESULT OF SO TEARS’
RESEARCH and EXPERIMENT.
Business! Life! Success! Leader-
ship ! It’s all a battle. And your own
Brain is the real field on which you
rise to victory-—or else go down to
defeat among the submerged millions
who lack the l'ower to Think.
Dr. Frank Channing Haddock, one
of the world’s great Thinkers and
Scientists, devoted 30 years of his life
to tireless experiment and research,
that You might possess this Science of
Brain Building.
His incomparable lessons, running
through the five famous Power Books,
will make you a dominant personality
—a Brainy Thinker.
IF YOU HAVE AMBITION.
IF YOU DESIRE SUCCESS,
Send for full infomation to
Hamilton 8 Co.,
Publisher’s Representative,
34 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
ANY information relating to JAMES
CROOKS and WILLIAM CROOKS,
who left Claggf.n, Cookstown, Ireland, about
30 years ago and settled in Queensland, will
be thankfully received by Alexander Crooks,
c/o Mrs. S. I. Williams, “Sydochome, ’
Mallala, South Australia.
The March Issue of
“SEA, LAND and AIR”
CONTAINS THE FOLLOWING
EXCLUSIVE ILLUSTRATED ARTICLES.
THE BOOK OF THE “WOLF."
By her German commander, Fregatten-Kapitan Merger. Translation and Photographs.
COMPLETE STORY OF THE “MATUNGA,”
presenting many new aspects of her capture and loss.
GOVERNMENT CONTROL OF SHIPPING.
Described by The Rt. Hon. Ford Inchcape, G.C.M.G., K.C.5.1., K.C.I.E.
HISTORY OF THE ORIENT LINE.
By Captain J. H. Watson, J.P., F.R.A.H.S.
THE BATTLE OF THE MAIL-ROUTES.
By Francis John.
HOW WIRELESS MESSAGES ARE SENT.
By Ernest T. Fisk, jU.lnst. Radio-Engineers.
MR. WEBSTER, P.M.G., AND THE AUSTRALIAN AERO CLUB.
Some interesting correspondence.
COMMONWEALTH AERIAL CUSTOMS PATROL, A.D. 1922.
By C. A. Jeffries.
AERIAL AUSTRALIA.
By Ted Colies, A.I.F. (formerly “Bulletin” Staff).
LLOYD’S AERIAL EXPEDITION (Sydney to Calcutta).
'Exclusive Photographs.
“SEA, LAND and AIR” is the official journal of The Australian Aero Club
and of the Wireless Institute of New South Wales.
TOPICAL, RELIABLE, NON-TECHNICAL, ALL-AUSTRALIAN.
THE BEST-PRINTED MONTHLY JOURNAL IN AUSTRALASIA.
9d.
If your Newsagent cannot supply, send 9d. for Specimen Copy, or 9s. for
\ Annual Subscription (Post Free), to
THE CIRCULATION MANAGER, THE WIRELESS PRESS,
97-99 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAFEGUARD You* HEALTI |
ptJ.Collis Brownes
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BHONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEUISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, IJS, S/-, oh-
Made in England.
Smoke equipment
An airtight jar, well filled with your
favorite “weed,” some matches that will
strike first rub, and a
G
the perfect pipe!
There, indeed, is complete equipment
for smoke satisfaction. Select a GBD
and enjoy pipe comfort!
There’s a shape to suit you.
Sold by Leading Tobacconists.
City of Newcastle Gas and Coke Co.
(N.S.W.) m „
' To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1912.. £6,739 15 p.c. = £4894 £1,845 i 96,295
£66,370 Reserves transferred to 29,925
Unexplained additions to reserv'es ..1,377 31,302
Dec., 1912.. 7,089 10 p.c. = 6637 452 31,<54
Assets written up • • 67,801 99,550
£99,555 Reserves transferred to capital
June, 1913.. 8,377 10 p.c. = 6637 1,740 1,740
“A” & “B” “C”
Shares Shares
8 p.c. 5 3-5 p.c.
Dec., 1913 .. 10,160 9292 187 681 2,421
June, 1914 .. 9,627 9292 308 2, 2,448
Doc., 1914 . . 11,111 9292 468 1351 3,799
7 p.c. 4 9-10 p.c.
June, 1915 .. 8,906 8130 551 225 4,024
Dec., 1915 .. 9,077 8130 691 256 4,280
June, 1916 .. 9,619 8130 832 657 4,937
Dec., 1916 .. 9,677 8130 972 o<s 5,512
June, 1917 .. 8,313 8132 1111 —■ 4,u82
Dec., 1917 . . 8,807 8132 1251 4,006
June, 1918 . . 9,876 8132 1380 364 4,370
Dec., 1918 .. 9,820 8132 1403 285 4,655
This co.’s capital is £289,057, of which
£165,925 represents reserves capitalised sub-
sequent to the 1912 Gas Act, and £48.758 new
money got in during the past five years.
Since the Broken Hill Prop, and other con-
cerns went to Newcastle the coal city has
expanded rapidly, so that with the increased
prices charged in five years this co.’s revenue
has grown 50 p.c. But expenditure, includ-
ing an unspecified amount for depreciation,
has almost doubled in the same time: —
Dec., 1913. Dec., 1917. Dec., 1918.
Revenue.. ..£23,954 £30,705 £35,41i
Expenditure .. 13,795 21,897 25,597
Thus, despite the largely increased revenue
in comparison with new capital got in, the
disclosed net profits are actually less than
they were four ajid five years ago. But the
expenditure figures are not of much value
unless the amount written off plant, etc., is
given separately. Still, partly because the
directors have had some difficulty in main-
taining the 4 9-10 p.c. div. on the new capi-
tal—which was badly required for expan-
sion—there has been very little inducement
to clip profits more than necessary. Other
balance-sheet figures are shown in this com-
parison :
Dec.,’l3. Dec.,’l7. Dec.,’lB.
Liabilities .. .. £11,850 £33,127 £31,158
Buildings, plant, mains 233,940 308,315 312,197
Stocks 9,413 14,660 11,667
Liquid assets .. . . 21,296 10,331 11,141
In five years £78,257 has been put into build-
ings, plant and mains. Meantime £48,758
of new capital has been got in ; and whereas
there was a surplus of liquid assets over lia-
bilities of £18,859 in 1913, there is now an
excess of liabilities amounting to £8350.
Probably the new extensions have not yet
fully shown their revenue-earning possibili-
ties ; probably also the old assets were val-
ued at their very top and the old capital
written up accordingly. Hence the dividend
on the old capital may be really better than
it looks, while the dividend on the new
capital may be expected to improve. 'Cer-
tainly if there is not a good prospect for a
co. of this sort in Newcastle, it is a poor
look-out for the rest of Australia.
* * * *
A new industry for South Aus. has been
started at Port Price by the Gulf Salt Co.
An electrical power-plant capable of lifting
something like 6000 gallons per minute has
been erected on a creek.. The water is con-
veyed by gravitation over land graded for pur-
poses of producing solar salt and by-products.
The co. estimates it will he shipping away
30,000 tons a year when the Customs tariff
gives it the necessary protection.
* * * , *
Ida 11., Laverton (W.A.), about which
little is heard nowadays, is reported to be
showing rich ore at 650 ft. It is now nearly
four years since the last div. was. paid, and
about two years since the co. passed the
show over to tributors.
'* * * #
From an official panegyric of the Edna
May (W.A.) it appears that the cash actu-
ally subscribed was £9OOO and that bullion
to the value of nearly £700,000 has been
taken out of the mine. Almost half of that
amount was handed out in divs., which would
have been larger if a heavy outlay had not
been necessary to overcome water,
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) is reported to be
looking well. Last year’s operations showed
a steady improvement, and for the past seven
months an average profit of £l5OO a month
has been maintained. This mine, like
several others on the Ivalgoorlie field, has
been found in the past year or two to possess
wealth in the higher levels which was either
overlooked or wilfully ignored in the bad old
days when the market was the first and last
consideration.
* * # *
The recent development in the old" Hill
End (N.S.W.) is the best for years. But
though the ore is rich, there isn’t enough of
it. The Mica vein, from which it comes, is
only 4in. wide at most, and has a habit of
fading away to a mere thread. But the
most hopeful indication is its improvement
with depth. The Amalgamated Co., which
is working the Mica and Star of Peace veins
below the Amalgamated tunnel level, is speed-
ing up in view of its limited tribute agree-
ment —two years from the middle of last
year. • The stone is not being hand-picked,
as was done in the old days, but the whole
of the face is being put through the battery.
The drive is making down and south, and the
co. counts on cutting across a couple of
makes before reaching the Star of Peace vein.
The level is at 800 ft.. the deepest in the field
to date. In the Central values are also
improving, and 2oz. stone is mentioned in the
latest official talk.
From a North Queensland tin-seratcher:
Those figures re tin prices (B. G/2/’l9) look nice’
on paper; but this is how we fare tip here. Instead
of £147 for tin in 70 p.c. concentrates we gift
£127. The margin is lost in freight, insurance,
buyers’ - profit, etc. Commodities in the way of
tucker, tools, etc., have increased 40 p.c., not to
say anything of increased charges for carting and
crushing. We are not dismayed at the slump; but
at least we want a fair deal.


I
m
wk
' ■ ■■
■ •
*
1
■
I S.:fe &
mk
s
1 :
7
BP
1 *
Goodyears are best
for Light Cars too
THE New Goodyear 30 x
3 i Tyres with the big
block All Weather Tread
have not been on this
market very long.
They have, however, been long
enough in use to demonstrate most
effectively their ability to give
wonderful mileage under all condi-
tions of city and country service.
A contributing factor to their wear
resisting qualities is the new black
tread compound, now used through-
out the whole range of Goodyear
Pneumatics, from the 28 x 3 for
Motor Cycles to the 38 x 7, and
even larger, for pneumatic equipped
trucks and motor bus service.
The carcass of the tyre is of such sound
construction that a retread is in 90 per cent of
cases possible, adding many thousands of miles
to the normal life of the tyre.
Many car owners, particularly those who have
Ford, Maxwell or Chevrolet Cars, now using
the new Goodyear 30 x 3 I A A.W.T. Tyres
have already received 6000 miles, and report
the tread good for another 3000 miles at least.
If you have not yet seen the new Goodyear 30 x VA,
make a point of doing so before again renewing your
tyre equipment —there are more miles for less
money in Goodyears.
Goodyear lyres, Heavy Tourist Tubes and Tyre Saver Accessories are tasy to get front Goodyear Service Station Dealers.
Branches and Agencies all Principal Cities.
Service Stations and Dealers Everywhere.


m
“Unalloyed” Dyes
The dyes used in Hose
of Luxite are “unalloyed”—not
loaded with heavy metallic com-
pounds to give the hose a glossy,
heavy appearance.
The soft, full-bodied shimmer of
Hose of Luxite is gained by the
use of rich, fine-stitched materials,
pure-dyed.
That is why its elegance and
beauty last through repeated wash-
ings.
The wide range of styles and
prices will suit every purse and
purpose.
Don’t accept substitutes, and
think you have “Luxite.”
Insist upon the genuine.
If your dealer is unable to
supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.,
York Street : : Sydney.
K'TZJS
KITTS*:
•zx*
PURE SPARKLING apple juice
“BOTTLES OF JOY.”
Every glassful of “Kitz’s” is a positive
thirst quencher; every bottle is a bottle
of joy and health. Have you ever had
a longing for a drink that would
definitely quench your thirst? Just try
“Kitz’s” Cider. It quenches and revives,
puts “pep” in you, and is healthful
and nutritious, too.
Get the Kitz Cider Habit—
It’s a Habit that won’t get you.
In Baby Bottles at Hotels and Cafes—
Quarts and Pints at Stores.
AGENTS-
SYDNEY: Tucker & Co. Ltd., Caldwell’s
Wines Ltd.
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co.
CAIRNS: Burns, Philp & Co.
GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co.
ROCKHAMPTON: J. M. Headrick & Co.
ADELAIDE: W. P. Auld & Sons Ltd.
PERTH: Philp Coyle.
HOBART: Ferguson & Co.
LAUNCESTON: John McKenzie & Co.
•HUNT'S
MOSQUITOES
A Marvellous
discovery.
Gives absolute
PROTECTION
FROM THE PEST.
Nothing else
LIKE IT.
Id better
n
some.
Me
Per bottle, all Chemists
and Stores or
2 /[Posted to any part
! 0/Australia*
P-I.PI
/rom H.C.PRICS. ChMswood N.S.W.
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
passed merits. They know it to be a safe
and perfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments ; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grasshopper Oint-
ment positivelydraws the poisons which pro-
duce these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should be taken in conjunction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
FORMALIN
Rills the Flu
cS
BRANDT’S
Formalin
Fumigating
Lamp
as illustrated,
12/6.
Postage extra,
1/6.
Vaporised Formalin is a powerful
disinfectant. Used on Ships, Public
Buildings, and in the Home.
Brandt Bros. Ltd.
Manufacturers of Fumigating Lamps,
Atomizers, Sprayers, Inhalers, Filters, eto.,
236 Pitt Street, Sydney; and
338 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Will Save Your
Linen Against Loss.
No article should leave your possession
without being MARKED WITH
CASHS <®> NAMES
Beats marking-ink. Any name woven
on Fine Cambric in fast colors.
Easily sewn on. Looks and wears well.
i PRICES:
7/6 for 12 doz., 5/- for 6 doz.,
3/- for 3 doz.
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
Made in Australia by
J. & J. Cash Pty., Ltd.,
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Victoria.
Write for Style Book. [1
5^
»»
,
ABBEY
SHOES!
Select your shoes according to
QUALITY—not Trice —that’s the
way to ensure satisfaction —and
it’s always the most economical
in the long run.
We feature a special Golf Shoe in
choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 42/-
Light Soles, 40/-
Postage extra.
Made in half and full sizes, and in
three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed bp the importing
bookseller.
VISCOUNT BRYCE.
Essays and Addresses in War Time.
By JAMES BRYCE (VISCOUNT
BRYCE). 6s. net.
The last ’ two essays, written very recently
and now printed for the first time, examine
the history and the meaning of ‘'The Principle
of Nationality and its Applications,” and set
forth briefly the functions and organisation
of “A League of Nations to Preserve Peace.”
On Society. By FREDERIC HAR-
RISON. 12s.‘not.
This work is the final instalment of Mr.
Harrison's literary and social studies, the
various volumes of which embody his mature
thoughts on Ethics, Politics, Economics, Art
and Iteligion.
SIR J. G. FRAZER.
Folk-Lore in the Old Testament:
Studies in Comparative Religion,
Legend and Law. By Sir J. G.
FRAZER, D.C.L.. LL.D., Author of
“The Golden Bough,” “Totemism and
Exogamy,” etc. 3 vols. 375. 6d. net.
The Monming Post : “Professor Frazer (the
old title clings), not content, with that mag-
num opus, ‘The Oolden Bough,’ has proved
himself again in these three volumes of high
purpose and achievement, which should be as a
lamp unto the feet of those who tread the dark
country of comparative religion.”
SIR GEORGE lIENSCHEL.
Musings and Memories of a
Musician. By Sir GEORGE
lIENSCHEL. Mus. Doc. With Por-
trait. 12s. 6d. net.
ROUND TABLE PUBLICATIONS.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Empire.
Price 2s. 6d. per copy, or 10s. per
annum, post free to any address within
the Empire.
Leading Contents for December:
AUSTRALIA—LABOR'S PEACE PROPOSALS
—THE SOUTH PACIFIC.
WINDOWS OF FREEDOM.
THE END OF THE WAR,
SOME PRINCIPLES AND PROBLEMS OF
THE SETTLEMENT.
THE FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC FUTURE.
The Problem of the Common-
wealth. L. CURTIS. The after-
war relations between Great Britain
and the Dominions. Sewed, 2s. 6d.;
Cloth, 4s.
The Commonwealth of Nations. The
historical basis of the foregoing. 6s.
The British Navy: The Navy Vigi-
lant. By L. COPE CORNFORD.
Illustrated. 2s.
A book on the Navy written for the boys
and girls of the British Commonwealth.
Fighting for Sea Power in the Bays
of Sail. By H. W. HOUSEHOLD,
Author of “Our Sea Power.” Illus-
trated. 2s.
A companion work to the author’s earlier
volume on “Our Sea Power.”
W. & A. K. JOHNSTON’S
Atlas for Australasian Schools. 36
Maps in Color. Is. 6d.
NEW NOVELS.
Birth. By ZONA GALE. 4s. 6d.
The story of a “dud” who has a noble soul.
Contains some sketches of character which are
lifelike. \
Khaki. How Tredick got into the
War. By FREEMAN TILDEN. 4s.
6d.
In the Heart of a Fool. By WIL-
LIAM ALLEN WHITE. 4s. 6d.
An impvessive story—the equal of “A Certain
Rich Man” in forceful dramatic situations.
The Martial Adventures of Henry
and Me. By WILLIAM ALLEN
WHITE, Author of “A Certain Rich
Man,” etc., 4s. 6d.
The high-spirited narrative of the adventures
of two Americans in the War Zone.
Flood Tide. By DANIEL CHASE.
4s. 6d.
The story of the effect of a successful busi-
ness career on the life of a man who, at the
start, was essentially a student and dreamer.
Barbara Picks a Husband. By
HERMANN HAGEDORN. 4s. 6d.
The story of fascinating Barbara Collingwood
—rich, beautiful, high-spirited-—and her humor-
ous, tragic and romantic difficulties in choosing
a husband. It sparkles and cheers.
Orders for the above six books to be sent to
the Melbourne Depot, 109 Russell Street.
To he Obtained from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON.
“0.L.”: I am familiar, I think, with most
of the expressions used by the Digger when
demanding a cigarette from a pal, but there
seems to be an addition to the vernacular in
“Got a gasper?”-—or am I behind the times?
Doing publicity work at Australia House
is A. F. Parker, the young Laborite who
once contested Barwon and will run next
time for Fawkner. He left Australia in
1915 and gained a commission in France
about 12 months ago. As a youngster he
was articled to Joe Woolf, the Melbourne
solicitor.
“Wandewoi”: Lindsay’s cartoon, “Ivultur
for the Blind” (B. 15/8/’18), reminds me
that the battlecry of the 45th Battalion on
August 8, when the Diggers started the last
round with Fritz, was “Remember the
Warilda!” The boys heard of the torpedo-
ing of the hospital ship just before they
“hopped the bags,” and, as they 'afterwards
said, “TFe gave the swine ‘lvamerad’!”
Advt. from the Southern Australian,
of Adelaide, September 29, 1843:
The surgeon of the Madras lias a few charges of
very pure lymph from the child of the wet-nurse to
the Princess Royal of England. Any lady desirous of
having her child vaccinated will be visited on appli-
cation by letter. \y. B. Neville, M.D., Port Adelaide.
Ah, what good old times they were—when
even pus was pedigreed !
H. R. Mackay, Conservator of Forests,
who began as a State Treasury clerk, is
pretty certain to be selected as second mem-
ber of the new Vic. Forestry Commission.
For several years he was in the Vic. Defence
Dept., under Commander Collins. It was
when he was appointed Sec. of the Commis-
sion on Forestry that he started his deep
study of tree-growing and timber which won
him his present job in spite of the critics.
From London :—•
Returning to Australia by way of America, 11. A.
Davies, of the Argus. He left with the A.S.C. in
’lO and won a sergeant’s stripes in France; but
trench fever and rheumatism sent him to Blighty,
where he helped with the Anzac Bulletin. When
Lloyd Dumas, who came to England with Hughes,
returned home, Davies was pushed into the un-
pleasant job; but got out as quickly as possible.
He expects- to see brother Bill, the American repre-
sentative of the Australian Associated Press, in New
York.
“O Pip”: Many Aussies will remember
tlio 42nd Squadron R.F.C. headquarters
and ’drome at Bailleul. In the messroom,
in a glass case, every member of the mess
had pinned a cheque for £5. If, after a
stunt or a special mission, the pilot failed
to return, his cheque was duly cashed and
his memory “honored,” each bird conscious
that he might provide the means for the
next merry evening, yet to all appearances
sublimely indifferent.
“V.” : My tuner friend tells me sadly there
are thousands of silent pianos in Sydney and
suburbs. The elder generation of our girls
have married, and have now no time for
them; and the flappers are too busy o’
nights looking at pictured females with
soup-plate eyes. Many of them have quite
forgotten how to play, and they will shortly
be too ancient to go over it all again. Mum
and Dad, who used to sit up a bit, retire
early, growling about the good money that
was wasted on music-teachers. Pianos are
mostly kept nowadays because it looks re-
spectable to have one on the premises.
The electric-blue uniform of the Flying
Corps is beginning to obtrude itself in
Australia. It is a wildly inappro-
priate material for men who work amongst
gallons of oil and pounds of grease. So
much so that the uniform is only worn on
festive occasions. Its adoption by the
British Government was a matter of cutting
a business loss. When the Russians
defected, England was in the act of making
them a new 'set of overcoats—millions of
them. Something had to be done with the
strange-colored stuff, so a War Office genius
got the idea of “specially distinguishing” the
flying men by handing it over to them. The
language in the corps was appalling. Not
only were the unfortunate, youths forced to
wear a costume in which they felt ridiculous,
but they had to pay a stiff price for it.
With the uniform go all sorts of unwarlike
sundries, including black calf shoes, and an
ebony cane which in the case of a few super-
knuts has a gold knob.
“H.S.”: The Prince of Wales, whom
Dudley’s son is suspected of having cut
out with his best girl, sounds just the
sort of kindly, amiable youth who would be
defeated in a contest for a romantic maideu.
Here is a true story in point. Some Aus-
tralian officers were in “Skindle’s” in Poper-
inghe—which was then a much-bombed but
little-shelled place, and hence a popular
resort with those unlucky enough to be in
the Ypres sector. The Prince came in
with a couple of young staff-officers. One
of the Australians said to his friends : “I’ll
bet all the drinks we’ve had that I get a
souvenir of value out of him without making
him annoyed.” It was a big wager—they
had been there for hours—but they closed
with it. Affecting a blithered appearance—
an easy bit of acting ,in the circumstances—
the bettor lurched towards the bar and pre-
tended to look for matches. Turning to the
Prince he said, unrecognisingly: “Gotta
match, sir ?” The Prince, smiling affablv,
produced an old silver matchbox, "and said
“Take as many as,you like.” The souvenir-
hunter leant against the bar-counter and
made ineffective efforts to light a cigar. At
last he succeeded. Absently dropping the
box into his pocket he stumbled back to his
friends. The Prince did nothing. His
train of thought might have been • “This
officer is drunk. If I ask for the match-
box he will know that I know it. Besides,
I am a prince, and, on the noblesse oblige
principle, above haggling about match-boxes.
He is going to-night where they won’t let
me go. Let him keep it.” Anyhow, that
is the way that the thoroughly nice-natured
boy that he is said to be would have
reasoned. It is a type that few girls can
appreciate until they reach the age wh a n
only the family still refer to them as “the
girls.”


Shipping,
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraph}'. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street.
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, APRIL 2,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Dunking, Public Companies. *c.
the:
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LICKS.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Patd-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edvrd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HICAD OFFICE - ISKUSBANJE.
(tranches—Lorn don, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £145,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. : FRANK N
YARWOOD Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon F
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kin-
Streets). Manager : E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown. ‘
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (326 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Now Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750 000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
it H a a d r? P , 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. 500 000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345’702
GRANTS DRAFTS H Au^-- al l a ’ Npw r Ze;l -
-n • ,r , , j land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fi at ' lnte for
. . „ ~ , „ fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian’United Steam Navigation (&„.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping,
etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFK
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES
' NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Pari of tlie United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU 9 of the Pacific. ’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach-—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
TOUR FOR TWO TO
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
The winner of the above trip (value £57), donated by Burns, Philp and
Company Limited tp the War Chest and Jack's Day Art Union, not being
in a position to take the trip, has Burns, Philp and Company’s approval to
invite cash offers for the same.
Offers to be addressed to
Care of W. fi. POPE., Esc?.,
G Regent Street,
Paddington.
WALES
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
**sasS*-?
' yu
Directors
£3,904,860
£3,025,000
£3,904,860
£10,834,720
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors ; S. E. Eaidlev, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq.
£~\ . .
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager : Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
? eorse , Street, Sydney. London Office—2.9 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
t 36 B , ra " ches anc * Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
JM° f ßuotraKa
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
, General Banking 1 Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (Newßritain)
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor
1919
DENISON MILLER,
Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.1..C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow,
Esq. M.L.A.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England: The London County and Westminster and
Parr’s Bank, Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited. minster ancl
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Intending passengers for other States
are requested to inquire at Quarantine
Department, Customs House, Sydney,
regarding necessary permits required
before sailing.
Permission to break journey at inter-
mediate Ports is suspended
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
Huddart Parker L
ine
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney- and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
chence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
liate liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
HOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
lei bourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High=class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 15/- per day inclusive.
8/= per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1586. CURES W||fc for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WMK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, England
Insist on “Singleton's"—refuse ail substitutes.


i, V
'Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE (
champagne
OarlesHeidsie*
Reims
yj
tG?
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
pi** 1 *
t
L Geo rS c? SJ’ <ln ® >
„ \v»nB r’svdtvey
9 St., »* A ,USO
iS^itPSP 1
l o%t° Tt ], Sf> ar v
•sox I " r st,ss'|";;.,w«,
•asss:— -
Elll'
aney
..... at Age
wm
■v :
I^acPbLISH
p*«*
U>r„ t ,, F7of-
fbßPATtvr.OijscE
CAIJ
Did
you?
iNI
The Chateau Napier,
Leura,
Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
r IHIIS modern Residential Hotel is unique
-L in its situation on the highest point in
Leura, commanding extensive views for over
60 miles.
Tennis Court, Billiard-room, Smoke and
Card Rooms.
Motor Garages.
All dairy products supplied by our own
Farm.
Electric Light throughout.
Private Sitting-rooms.
Golf-links and Bowling-green right handy.
'Tel. 121 Katoomba.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Holman Government having declined
to raise the Davidsons’ wages, it is under-
stood that the latter will presently depart.
They cannot scratch along on £5OOO a year
and all found. Besides, the indigenous
Mary Jane refuses to stay more than about
five minutes, and in that time she proves
herself idle, incompetent and familiar. In
any case, there is less and less for a State
Governor to do. and any man with either
sense or sensibility must feel powerful suspi-
cions that he is not earning the money.
In the good old days, now irretrievably
dead, the official had a set purpose. He was
there to provide lavish entertainment for
that section of the community which could
best afford to entertain itself. Also it was
his job to feed and otherwise amuse visiting
Britishers —provided they were affluent. By
this means, it was understood, the Crown
was popularised and its dignity upheld. In
the last four or five years what W. Shak-
speare would call “a sea-change” has come
over public sentiment. Many of the rich
have failed to live up to their national obliga-
tions. The profiteer has overdone it. The
spectacle of such people being selected as
those whom the King delights to nourish is
tending to produce not loyalty, but the other
thing. So tlie State Ex.’s occupation has
gone.
Talking of vice-regal matters, poor Lord
Dick Nevill is lame for life. He slipped
on one of Canada’s ice-bound surfaces and
smashed his leg in some complicated fashion
that defeated the doctors.
Recently, at Westminster, Patricia of
Connaught publicly renounced her claim to
the princess robe with its slightly moth-eaten
trimmings, and gave her hand and her sweet-
ness into the keeping of Commander Ram-
say. The royal family assembled in force
to watch the Archbishop of Canterbury light
the fuse and fire the bomb that is to blow
the archaic mariage de convenance into the
century before last. Many of the presents
were of a domestic nature. William (cable
address, Holland) sent a Dutch cheese. Th«
ex-king of Portugal sent the aluminium pot
in which his royal goose was cooked. The
Queen of Spain sent an edition-de-luxe of
“What a Young Mother Should Know.” The
Crown Rabbit of Germany sent a barometer.
Karl of Austria sent a complete correspond-
ence course in the follow-up system as prac-
tised by his progressive subjects. The TJ.S.
President’s gift was a copy of his own famous
brochure on making omelettes without break-
ing eggs.
One of the pall-bearers at Lady Edeline
Strickland’s funeral in Malta, Major-General
Hunter-Blair, was gentleman-help to his
brother-in-law, Governor Glasgow, in M.L.
Slim and handsome Reggie annexed the affec-
tions of Emily Rhodes, youngest daughter of
rich Robert Rhodes of Christchurch. Their
two eldest boys were killed in the Great
Crime.
Lady Idina Wallace, who has just been
divorced, is the 25-year-old daughter of Earl
De La Warr, a brother of the late Strick-
land dame. Her mother was a Brassey,
who divorced the festive Earl a few years
ago.
The decision of the Red Cross that Rose
Hall Convalescent Home should stand as a
memorial to the late Mrs. Langer Owen
meets with approval on all sides. Mrs.
Owen’s untiring labors on behalf of the sol-
diers are remembered with pride along the
harbor front. The lady’s husband, Langer
Owen, K.C., is in the running, without a
handicap, for the horsehair of the Supreme
Court bench.
The marriage is announced in Cairo of
Mollie Langer Owen, a daughter of the
K.C., to Captain Elliot. The Elliot family
is distinguished in the proper sense of the
term. The father was a particularly bril-
liant editor of the Edinburgh Review for
22 years. Freshwater, where they live, is
a queer little watering-place on the seaward
end of thfe Isle of Wight. Tennvson wrote
most of his poems within a mile or two of
it, and not far from the Tennyson abode
lived and wrote Wilfrid Ward, one of the
notable characters of the Oxford Movement
Altogether the Sydney girl has married into
an environment of almost terrifyingly high-
thinking. 8
Another cable mentions the arrival of a
son in the Edinburgh household of Com-
mander Vaughan-Lewis, R.N. She was
Josie Neild, the remarkably attractive and
only daughter of the late Colonel “Jaw-
bone” Neild. A brother still lives in the
old family place in the Edgecliff-road.
The Sep Levys, being homeless —they sold
their Woollahra house to the Kelso Kings
before going to England—'are temporarily at
52 Macleay-street. “Fifty-two” is Austra-
lia’s super-hashhouse. Whole families
settle down in it with contentment, and
unless some severe jolt comes along they
show a disposition to remain till separated
from the place by death. The infuriating
servant problem is chiefly responsible.
The Winter Garden section of Sydney
society is mildly interested in bankruptcy
proceedings against Stewart Dawson, jun.
They are being brought by Dorothy Riviere,
a daughter of Barney Allen, the bookie, who
a year or so ago married a youth known
familiarly as “the Baron.” The Baron
the Baroness and Mr. Dawson foregathered
considerably at one time. Also young Mr.
Peel, who was variously reported to be a
scion of the house which gave the word
“peeler” to the English language and a son
of the eminent London bookmaker —who,
however, spells his name Peal. They were
all remarkable chiefly for elaborate clothes
and a leisurely habit of life.
“Minna Canth, a Finn, was the mother of
Women’s Rights, and I am proud that my
country was the first in Europe not only to
carry the Woman’s Franchise, but also to
elect women members of Parliament—Diet
we call it there.” And Mr. Naukler, the
Consul for the new Republic of Finland,
smiled and went on to tell more of the
women of the little hemmed-in nation whose
intellectual acquirements were so strong a
weapon in its fight for freedom.
“In a country where there are 80,000 more
women than men no woman can afford to
lead an idle life, and in consequence woman
is trained to the height of her ability. In
the towns the girls staff bank, business house
and Government office, while the brass plates
of woman doctor, dentist and architect catch
the sunlight on all sides. The women,
although in so great a majority, have not
swamped out the IDiet; only 25 of the 200
members wear skirts, and these members are
famed for the brevity and the lucidity of
their speeches, and the fact that they direct
their efforts almost entirely to the improve-
ment of social conditions.
“There are 900 women students at the Uni-
versity at Helsingfors,” the spokesman for
Finland says, “and they show a preference
for history, philosophy and literature. Alma
Soderlhjelm, a noted lecturer, is not in a
Professor’s Chair of History simply because
of the rule against it. There are also rules
against a woman becoming the pastor of a
church; and if she is a barrister she may not
yet plead before a Judge. There are three.
women Doctors of
Divinity and one
lawyer seeking for
means to overcome
the obstacles re-
maining in the path
of their ambitions.
Of the 2000 teachers
more than half are
women ; probably
that is why Finnish
education is so prac-
tical. Especially is
this the case in the
People’s High
Schools, where les-
so n s in gardening
and cookery are
given. Weaving
and the use of vege-
table dyes are taught
by ‘Martha.’ ‘Martha’ is a society whose
lecturers and teachers go into the country
districts giving practical demonstrations on
all housekeeping subjects.”
The thoughtful expression of the young
Consul was caught by May Moore’s camera.
He, by the way, is a University graduate
himself.
Still another upheaval of the ancient
laws, and R.C. young men and women can
now be married during Lent and Advent.
Hitherto marriage has been looked upon as
a frivolity tha-t was packed out of sight
from Ash Wednesday till Good Friday had
slipped into Easter; and the few weeks pre-
ceding Christmas were also a close season,
so to speak. The only restriction now
remaining in force is the one that decrees
that Nuptial Masses may not be celebrated
during these solemn periods of the Church’s
year.
There is the usual epidemic of orange-
blossom before Easter. It isn’t economy : if
they’d put these things off for a few weeks
they could get the benefit of excursion fares
for the honeymoon.
St. Mary’s was crowded for the Rita
McEvoy-Cecil White nuptials. There were
clusters of women who had dropped in to see
the bride, and shoals of small girls with eyes
for the bridesmaids. The bride, daughter
of the Firm that has shod so many feet, was
in white satin and a softly-arranged veil.
The bridesmaids wore pink and blue georg-
ette. Father Cullen, C.M., of Ashfield,
transmuted the true-lover’s knot into the
plain gold circlet that the best man conjured
from his pocket. The Wentworth witnessed
200 guests honor the usual toasts. *
This is May
Moor e’s reproduc-
tion of the smile of
songstress J. Reidy,
whose clear notes
have been produced
by Nelson 111 in g-
worth. Miss Reidy
is the winner of a
three-years’ Conser-
vatorium scholar-
ship. And isn’t the
Con. buzzing just
now? Verbrug-
ghen, excited with
the State’s under-
taking to guarantee
his orchestra, is
more like a bundle
of live wires than
ever. The first
popular concert under the new scheme is
already programmed.
A feature of the new guarantee scheme will
be a series of Saturday evening concerts,
beginning on next Saturday at the Town
Hall, where for 6d. the citizen may fill the
corridors of his soul with the undying music
of the earth.
The Synagogue was the scene of another
monster gathering of the guest and his
wedding garment when, on Wednesday, at
half-past six, May Diamond, petite daughter
of the J. L. Diamonds, of Centennial Park,
promised to cherish (no, not “obey”) Cecil
Pond, of Brisbane. Silver lace and satin
and net formed this bride’s frock, and her
veil was held in place by many delectable
baby roses. Chief-Rabbi Cohen performed
the poetic Jewish ceremony. Sister Essie
Diamond bridesmaided in soft shades of apri-
cot ; and two tots, Fay and Bertie Diamond,
took care of the bride’s train.
On Saturday Miss Boggio and Mr. G.
Parmentier were married by Father Piquet
at St. Patrick’s. The lady was well known
to members of the French library and the
French circle ? the ’groom is a wool-buyer.
Brisbane’s social balance-sheet-
Twenty-three rosy-cheeked English brides arrived
in Brisbane on Saturday after putting in a few days
at the Lytton quarantine camp. None of them com-
plained about camp life, so they must be sweet-
tempered.
J. M. Hunter, Minister for Lands, is very keen on
having an Observatory. He thinks it would make a
suitable soldiers’ memorial, and the Royal Society is
boosting the idea. The Harvard poeple are spending
a lot of money on an observatory in Peru, which is
not altogether satisfactory, and it is thought that if
they were offered a Bananaland site they would come
along with their telescope.
Lieut. Harold Maughan, D.F.C., son of Senator
Ryott Maug'han, is aboard the quarantined Morialta.
Mrs. Evans, wife of the former Commissioner for
Railways, died suddenly this week. 'She had done
much war work, and was very proud of her soldier
son;*.
Mrs. J. J. Kingsbury, wife of the Crown Prosecu-
tor, is very ill.
Mr. and Mrs. J. MeWliirter, sen., and their
daughter, Mrs. M. Muir, are going to England by
the Orsova.
The other morning Artist Minns, who is
still wearing a design of sticking-plaster
upon his head, received a letter from his
old acquaintance Burglar Bill. The
address was cut out of the telephone book,
and the words composing the script had
been carved from newspapers: “Kind Sir.
lam sorry I hit you so hard. Burgling
is not my profession. I play ' ponies,
but the influenza stiffened them and me too.
I am returning your pants, which are too
big; also pawn-tickets.”
Ex-Hkkald penholder Florence Baver-
stock recently came up from Huslcisson,
near Jervis Bay, to take her youngest
daughter to school. She found the city
masked and the schools closed. Hungering
for Fatty Arbuckle and a laugh, she made
for a picture-show. That was closed, too, so
she went back. “The children spend all day
in the sea,” remarked Florence; “it is so
much livelier than the land.”
The Ewan Frazers —now living in Sussex
and making themselves mighty useful during
war-time-—were in London when last mail
left, staying at the Hyde Park Hotel. Syd-
ney-siders complain of the extortionate way
prices are kept up. At a first-rate hotel
coffee was 2s. a cup. Not the meal, you
understand —just the cup of berry-juice
charged as an extra. And the Mary Anns
and Tweenies won’t go back to their jobs, so
the bedrooms of the first-rate hotels are for
the first time in English history non-
immaculate.
The Herbert Allens and Miss Cherie
Gordon, of Manar station, are amongst those
helping to crowd the Osterley, outward
bound.
Mrs. Theo Marks, according to some who
travelled with the lady to Singapore, got
married there immediately on arrival. The
bridegroom is reported to be a handsome
young Englishman named Colvin.
Mrs. Hope Osborne, changed her
name by marrying Captain Norton (known
in Sydney as “Duckie” Norton) at Monte
Video some 18 months ago, is to be congratu-
lated on the “welcome little stranger” event.
She was last sighted in London among the
Australian colony.
There was a joyous mother in Forbes the
other day. Mrs. Howe, of the District High
School. Her boy—her one treasure —au
original Anzac who hasn’t had long furlough
since April, 1915, has been invited to join
Bean, the Commonwealth’s official correspon-
dent, on his flying trip to Gallipoli and Con-
stantinople. The young man, a lieutenant,
no doubt owes the surprise jaunt to his
faculty for languages. Besides French and
Italian, he is the comparatively rare Austra-
lian bird who has Arabic as well.
We never hear of one hint that English
Health Guides offer to people in a ’flu epi-
demic. Sneeze! Just a-choo! Morning
and evening; and sluice mouth and nostrils
afterwards.
The Millions Club extended the cool salad
of welcome to Captain Carmichael, M.C., on
Thursday. The luncheon to the lean hero
was set out at Sargent’s, where the cutlet of
gladness was worried by columns of arch-
bishops, politicians and public-hearted citi-
zens, broken here and there by a dash of
womanhood. Replying to J. D. Fitzgerald’s
carefully culled bouquet, “Car” held up
Young Australia’s tom economic and indus-
trial garment and pointed out the rents with
a fluency that might have disconcerted
Joseph’s brethren. He swooped for a
moment’s derision on the Quarantine regula-
tions, and generous Fitz. said “Hear, hear!”
in the scarcely audible pauses. Further
offerings in speech and song were tendered,
and after Alma Whitaker (of Los Angeles,
California) had delivered two neat little
jokes, the guests reached “The Ladies, God
bless them.”
Mrs. Simpson-Baikie, who lives at Naga-
saki, is amongst those on whom the 0.8. E.
has fallen. Before she married her captain
(he has a ’longshore billet now) she was Con-
stance Brandon Usher, one of our best
piaiiistes. Mrs. Brandon Usher goes by the
next Nipponese boat to pay a call on her
daughter.
Returned by the Berrima, Sister Boniface,
who wears the grey and scarlet uniform of
Queen Alexandra’s Nursing Service, and the
1914-15 star as well. Before making off
to nurse Billjim, Sister Boniface was bush
nursing about the Snowy. Her mother,
although years over military age, has done
her part, too. She left here in 1916 and
has been helping to make artificial limbs at
the Red Cross Depbt at Plymouth.
Dunedin’s fine red-headed Dr. Eugene
O’Neill, major, has a C.M.G. to link to his
D.S.O. It was as far back as the Boer War,
when a very youthful sawbones, that Eugene
won his D.S.O. for rescuing wounded men
under fire. And when he returned; but for
his modesty the heart of many a colleen and
Highland lass would have dangled at his
waist-belt.
The memory of a brave soldier and a fine
gentleman is to be perpetuated in Australia
by the General Pau scholarship for children
of deceased soldiers. Typical of the man
with the kindly eyes as blue as his uniform
that his gift should be to the children.
Chief Justice Cullen’s dame hostessed the
final meeting of the Cremorne branch of the
War Chest under the trees of Tregoyd on
a sunny afternoon last week. In response
to their own kindly feelings and ex-Commis-
sioner Budden’s suggestion, the workers
immediately took the initial step towards
furnishing a cottage at French’s Forest
whose soldier-tenant is expecting his wife
and child to arrive in a fortnight’s time.
Two Australian sisters, Mary Harford and
Kathleen Adaway, donned the uniform of the
Vancouver Hospital a few hours after the
Niagara had arrived there last trip. The
matron, after one glance at the record of
their three years’ active service, seized upon
the two ex-A.I.F. girls and set them to work
in the military annexe.
Esther Paterson sends 14 specimens of
Aussie girls, sketched mostly at their bewitch-
ment rites. The Girl, as Esther shows her, is
mostly a miss of powder and lip salve, very
dainty, but like the lady of Dobson’s rhyme:
“Made not for heart-wounds, but for
scratches.” The letterpress has a gaiety
that sometimes approaches wit, and the
whole production is bright.


Still going
•u
□ ra
r h
□TQ
y vj a
\h\
□IQ
=Ssal
O ?
0 o
> Q
£
5
«s
<7
*J?.
y,"'\
r
A • )
A,
7
if.
\
/A
*
u./o
/#5
1
7
*A
\\
(P
i
S*
m
7T
’
%
i
R
§
c
X
;
Mr % Unsophisticated (to waitet ) ; “Scotch whisky, please. n
Mr % Wiseman : 4 ‘ My dear fellow, never say that. THE MAN WHO SIMPLY ORDERS ‘WHISKY^
DESERVES WHAT HE GETS—BUT THE MAN WHO ORDERS ‘JoHNNIE WaLKEr’ IN
THE NON-REFILLABLE BOTTLE GETS WHAT HE DESERVES.”
The knowing ones have learnt to say “ Johnnie Walker *' instead of Scotch whisky—that’s
much the safest, but when you add “ in the non-refillable bottle please," mortal man can do
no more. Every drop of “Johnnie Walker” Red Label Scotch whisky is over io years old.
Guarantekd same Quality throughout the World.
Bottled only by JOHN WALKER Cf SONS , Ltd. / Scotch- Whisky Distillers, of KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE


Leaves the Hair Glossy and Soft
Farmer's “Gold Bar’
SHAMPOO
Success can only be expected from the coiffure if the
Hair is carefully attended. " Gold Bar ** Shampoo
Powders are specially prepared for Farmer's, being
delicately perfumed, suitable for dry or oily Hair.
One Shampooing leaves the Hair glossy and fluffy
and the head delightfully refreshed.
Price per packet, 6d. Per do2ei\, 5/b
Orders by post receive prompt attention.
FARMER'S, SYDNEY
We Pay Postage
\\
PERFECT GOWNING
WITHOUT FITTINGS
Such is the craft of Shave,
Ma ster hadies Tailors and
Dressmakers of Melbourne, that
they are able to fashion perfectly
the most elaborate gown
or the severest tailor -
suit without fittings
Visits by Shave to Sydney
and Adelaide each
half-year, and to
Brisbane yearly
LADIES' TAILORS,
DRESSMAKERS
Centreway, Melbourne
To show in Sydney
shortly. Kindly enquire
Hotel Carlton for
opening date of display.
5
AAeltonian
IV 1 HIGH-CLASS m
{specialties
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AOEJSCJES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
The much-postponed Caulfield races were
held on Saturday. The afternoon obligingly
dried up after a flooded week ; but the change
did not come in time to coax out the best
dressers. For one thing, the sassiety
cats had got their best boots wet too often ;
for another, new clothes are scarce, shop-
ping having slowed down during the ’flu
scare. Governor Stanley and his lady
made their first racecourse appearance since
the war began. Her Ex. wore a dainty
little rainy-day dress under a huge coat.
When she shed the coat she brightened her
frock with a big bunch of pink roses from
the glowing hedges in the carriage paddock.
Mrs. Norman Brookes showed some van-
dyck markings on her dress under a short
fur coat. (Capelet fur-coats are the reign-
ing extravagance now.) Mrs. Leslie
Macdonald brightened up her tweeds with
frills of muslin. The decorative Roma
Clarke scored the usual dress sensation with
a peaked straw toque of sea-green and wings
like yacht sails. Fortunately there was no
wind. A bride from the Snowy River
sported a heron’s tawny plume in her hat.
The English bride of a young sqldier startled
all observers with a pleated dress of blue
rings on a custard-yellow ground. Mrs.
Merson Cooper haunted the birdeage in a
fawn suit, and young daughter Dulcie
walked in navy serge with a pink crepe
collar.
Andrew Chirnside, who used to live among
his sheep at Derrinallum, has latterly been
established at Melville Park, Berwick, where
he has 1200 beautiful acres among the foot-
hills of the Dandenong Ranges. Chirnside,
who bought the place from Sam Maekay,
rather fancies himself as being in the
squire class; but his intentions are all
right. Recently he whacked up his Berwick
demesne with the Repatriation authorities,
giving them 400 acres of it for soldier-settle-
ment—no mean gift when it is considered
that the present average value of the pro-
perty is well over £3O an acre. Chirnside’s
Berwick holding, however, is merely a play-
ground for him in his declining years, the
bulk of his now immense income being
received from sheep-properties in Queens-
land.
For some years Anthony St. Ledger, for-
merly anything-but-Labor senator from
Queensland, has adopted Victoria as his
favorite State. Occasionally he has been
heard from in Melbourne as an earnest sup-
porter of the Cats’ League and a true-blue
Blitheral of the right sort; and now he is
going to settle down here for good, having
applied to the Full Court for admission to
the oyster-opening profession in this State.
Archbishop Mannix now has a lady to
pour out his coffee and see that Raheen, his
home at Kew, runs on oiled wheels. His
mother is there.
Sydney will be the richer and Melbourne
the poorer by the transfer of Father ,T.
O’Dwyer. Latterly he was acting-rector of
Newman College, within Melbourne Univer-
sity, but he will be remembered best as
rector of Xavier College at Kew. While at
Xavier he won for it a status that it had
never previously occupied. Among the boys
“Pfere” was this sort of man: his presence at
an entertainment or Old Boys’ smoke-night
was never embarrassing. Usually bitter
where “Romanists” are concerned, Dr.
Deeper, formerly Warden of Trinity, sub-
mitted the motion which led to the appoint-
ment of the rector of Xavier as vice-presi-
dent of the Vic. Council of Education. A
brother, Michael, who has a title or two, is
Lieut.-Governor of the Punjab. Work on
the staff of St. Aloysius’ College has been
allotted to Father O’Dwyer for the present.
Mrs. Russell Jackson, who used to be
artist Kitty Boyes, is an ill-used young wife.
About 18 months ago she broke through a
network of barriers to see her husband, who
as captain of a transport was expected to be
somewhere in the Far North. After many
vicissitudes she finally rushed into her
sailor’s arms at Vladivostock. The other day
when hubby, returning to Australia with his
ship, officially empowered, as a reward for
war-time diligence, etc., to take his wife
aboard and retain her for a six months’ tour
(a sort of belated honeymoon), ’flu troubles
headed him off from Melbourne and landed
his vessel in Sydney Harbor; and one sad
girl has been given to understand that the
love which laughs at locksmiths may be
beaten by a miserable quarantine regulation.
“The Maidens on the Rocks” is the
pathetic title nine well-known spinsters be-
stowed on themselves when batching together
at Portsea. The shortage of bachelors, due
to the war, is creating a horrid problem, and
the married men dare not offer to console
the poor girls. Wives are selfish monopo-
lists. Most of the time they’re so sick and
tired of dad that thev grow irritable as soon
as he heaves in sight. But let him show
the slightest flicker of interest in a passing
figure and the war starts afresh.
The arrival of a bright young man with a
fast motor-boat at Portsea has further post-
poned the ennui which ever threatens brisk
fashionables in unexciting watering-places.
The youth has started an aquaplaning
school, and the dear girls are taking lessons
in costumes that have burgled the Bank of
Color of all its resources. Passing
strangers who see a streak of shining hull,
followed by a shrieking rainbow and a wake
of foam, are hereby informed that the phe-
nomenon means that the school is in full
swing.
The Monash dame and daughter Bertha
lunched at Federal Government House on
Thursday. Judge Murray from Papua was
also present.
The Grice dame hostessed a large feminine
lunch party to Lady Stanley at the Alexan-
dra Club on Monday last. The affair was
decorated with pink roses. But not one
military officer’s wife among the guests !
The John Campbell widow, with youngest
daughter Helen, leaves Toorak for London
by the Osterley to see daughter Marion, who
lately married a naval man, and to collect
son Johnnie, an ex-Grammar oarsman who
left here at 18 to fly for England. Mrs.
Campbell also hopes to cross to France to
see the grave of her Anzac son Donald. The
other boy, Walter, was buried in a shell-hole
four weeks later. The death at home of
her husband and eldest daughter Alice over-
flowed her cup of sorrow.
The departure of Justice Isaacs’ associate
daughter, who is going to England with her
married sister, Marjorie (Mrs. Cohen), has
called forth letters in the press asking that a
returned soldier shall be handed the £3OO a
year job.
Doris Blackwood, with her cousin, the
Ava lordling, and little sister Veronica, trips
back to England under the Stanley lady’s
wing. The vice-regal party travel by the
Osterley, which departs about the middle of
the month. General Monash’s wife and
daughter Bertha will also be passengers.
The Themistocles took away Meadow-s
Smith, w T ho is “conducting” the remaining
members of the French Mission, Paul Thom-
sen and Adolphe Hodee, he of the broad-
brimmed poet’s hat. Other passengers:
Eleanor Moore, who goes to a woman’s
Peace gabble at the Hague; stately Mrs.
John Masters, of Toorak, with daughter
Enid; Brig.-General McNiqoll’s popular
wife; and Mary Bell, daughter of the Mayor
of Ballarat.
Leah Myers, pic-
turea here by
Talma, is another
of the Sydney ama-
teurs who caught
Frank Rigo’s critical
eye and received a post
of comparative
splendor in his
opera c o m p a n y.
Though obviously a
novice in operatic
work, she sail g
Santuzza in “Caval-
leria” with such
confidence and skill
that her manager
has allotted he r
Carmen and Tosca.
Leah Myers is the
wife of a Sydney
business man, and discovered her voice at
an age when she had plenty of leisure to
develop her find. She has also composed.
Actually she has followed three routes in
music, but her mezzo-soprano is now first
favorite, mainly owing to the careful atten-
tion of the Belgian Albert Goossens, who
took it through Puccini, Gounod and Mas-
cagni for several trial spins.
Italian Consul-General Cavalieri Eles,
with his signora and signoretta, departed
last week for Hongkong by the Nikko Maru.
The travellers have made many friends here,
and their cabins were piled with farewell
flowers and gifts. Clive Baillieu, Dr. and
Mrs. Crivelli, Belgian-Consul Lauers and
others waved good-bye.
The Rupert Atkinson couple, who migrated
from Bendigo to Toorak, are buying Sara-
togas for their jaunt to America at the end
of the month. Mrs. Rupert is collecting
some stunning frocks, whilst poet Rupert is
sharpening pencils and loading fountain-pens
to write sonnets to flying-fish and the dark*
eyes of Hawaiian beauties.
Norman Marshall, a son of the D.D. of
Scots Church, was at the Australian Paper
Mills when the war started. Now a lieut.-
eolonel, with the M.C. and D.5.0.-and-bar,
Marshall left as a sergeant and helped at the
Landing. Cape Helles brought him his first
pip, and at Lone Pine he won the M.C.
After the evacuation he got a captaincy.
At Peronne, following a lot of assorted war-
fare, he was given the D. 5.0.; and the bar
was a post-armistice award.
Mrs. Bernard D. Fathers has gone to
Blighty to keep handy to her doctor hubby,
who is doing a post-graduate course after
mending damaged Diggers in France for two
years. Dr. Fethers w r as the fifth of a tire-
less family to get close to the Hun. Four
brothers—a lieut.-colonel, two captains and
a lieutenant —have made the name of
Fethers as familiar as Smith to our War
Office. The lieut.-colonel and the lieutenant,
by the way, have the D.S.O. and M.C.
between them.
Flight-Commander
Richard Minifie,
pictured in the ad-
joining photo, is one
of those intrepid
Aust rali a n s who
only needed the
opportunity to re-
veal the msel v e s.
Going to England
in 191(1, he joined
the naval branch of
the British air ser-
vice, and soon after
getting his wings
was making Fritz
feel homesick. The
demolition of
Taubes and Alba-
trosses, however,
was only part of his
routine. Like some other bright spirits, he
began to skim closer to the scenery, and
machine-gun troops, staff cars, hangars
and aerodromes. One little affair brought
him the D. 5.0., two others added a couple
ot bars, and he was beginning to stack his
record with perilous stunts when he had a
mishap and was taken prisoner. The youth,
who is an old Melbourne Grammar boy, is
now on his way to his people in Brighton.
His only brother returned damaged a while
back after some excellent work aloft.
One of the most consistent friends the
Digger has in London is Mrs. Rattigan, a
motherly little woman a t the Anzac Buffet.
Equipped with a fund of the best brand of
feminine bonhomie, she has made it her
special mission to fill Billjim’s spare days
and evenings with decent entertainment.
During the long run of “Damaged Goods”
as many as possible on the first night of
their leave were significantly handed out a
free ticket for the play with the V.D. moral.
After that, the lighter diet came on. The
cheery little Australian hails from the
Kiverma.
Adelaide’s evidence :—•
Prince Alfred College’s preparatory school is to
lose its popular headmaster, J. R. Robertson. He
has been given a billet in connection with the Masonic
craft.
J. G. Moseley is one of the numerous South Aus-
tralians who left in the Aeneas. He plans six
months in Europe and America, and has taken his
wife and daughter.
a opulai Jimmy Howe, who, except for a year’s
break, was a member of one or other of our Houses
of Pailiament from 1881 till 1918, has just in-
dulged in his 80th birthday.
A proposed war-horse memorial has the enthusi-
astic support of returned Light Horsemen and the
benediction of the local branch of the P.C.A.S,
e are still wondering - whether JeJlicoe is to visit
us oj not. At the request of the Navy League,
I lender Peake has asked Acting-Premier Watt to
take heed that we are not overlooked, and the mat-
ter has been duly “noted.” The Mayor is going to
do something frightful if Adelaide is passed by.
South Aus. is now a clean State, and the Exhi-
bition quarantine camp has struck tents and dis-
banded itself, with mutual expressions of goodwill—
especially towards Lands Minister Anstey. He
happened to be in Melbourne at the Premiers’ Con-
ference when the border was closed, and was the
guide and friend of all marooned Soustralians.
Gratitude has been expressed with a travelling-bag.
lhe Methodist Hospital scheme had good luck for
a two-days f6te at The Terraces, the picturesque
home bought from the Simpson Newlands, where the
hospital is to be. Money rolled in briskly.
The two star items in the procession at the
Glenelg Repatriation Carnival were models of the
Victory and the Buffalo. Both were the work of
11. Dalton Hall, once leading torpedo man on the
Powerful.
Jean Robertson, the Adelaide girl who was one
of the strongest members of the Repertory Theatre
co., and began her professional career with a J. C.
Williamson co., has scored in America. When David
Belasco staged “The Wanderer” she was made under-
study to the original Tisha, and was subsequently
given the part. She has been on tour with the co.
for nearly two years, and has won praise from critics
in San Francisco, Philadelphia, Chicago and New
'York.
Tuesday night saw the first of the Anzac Hospi-
tality Fund’s Continentals for returned soldiers.
There was a big rally l of Billjim and his lady
friends.
The good news that Lieut. Neil Campbell was not
missing, after all, had hardly been circulated when
further news came of some mistake. The final offi-
cial verdict is that he must have been killed when
he was reported missing in April of last year.
As much of Hawthorn as could pack itself
into the Church of the Immaculate Concep-
tion witnessed the marriage of Captain (Dr.)
Frank Keane, M.C., and Yere Newman on
March 4. Father Claffey, the parish priest
who tied the knot, was assisted by all the
priests of Hawthorn and Xavier College;
and Father O’Dwyer, former rector of
Xavier, delayed his departure for Sydney to
be present. The bridegroom is re-establishing
himself in his old practice at Hawthorn.
The bride is the second daughter of the late
John Newman, who used to be managing
director of the Castlemaine Brewery.
Ella O’Loghlen and “Tup” Williams
whose engagement was lately “announced,’'
are to be married very soon. “Tup” has
been appointed police magistrate at Sale.
Patricia of Connaught, now the wife of
seadog Ramsay, is a favorite everywhere.
Melba is a great admirer of “Pat,” and
Coornbe Cottage contains several sketches in
oil by her.
With the War practically over, numerous
Red Crossers and comforts workers are
beginning to recognise one another’s inesti-
mable services and translate their mutual
admiration into silver and gold. Accord-
ingly, Melbourne jewellers are doing quite a
respectable business in ink- and fruit-stands
and other decorative objects, while interested
people are holding hushed little ceremonies
and are passing over bits of plate with
affectionate words. One doesn’t always
know where the money comes from, but it -s
alleged that one Melbourne jeweller called
for a linger-bowl after handling the coin for
one gift.
Breathless note from the Bush: —
I want to put it on record in case we decide to
do away with her. She is a fat, middle-aged woman
with a benign expression and a green dress. When
we girls met her in a Victorian train she commenced
to talk down to us in a motherly way. We were
two weary-eyed office girls, bound for the bush and
freedom. Too' tired to talk back, we let her gabble.
“I knew you were a country girl,” she said to my
chum. “I knew it as soon as you came in.” We
took it and asked no questions. “And I knew you
were a town girl,” looking at me. “Oh, yes! I
knew it!” She shook her head sympathetically.
“Town girls are so sallow.” My chum and I
hurriedly started a conversation in self-defence. But
she scored a knockout just before we reached our
station. In anticipation of meeting friends we
retired for a wash and brush-up. The Terror fairly
beamed satisfaction. “That’s better, dears. You
look much better know ! Just like little babies—no
matter how ugly they are, they always look sweet
when they’re just washed.”
The French Red Cross committee pro-
tested loudly when Gaud Mayor Cabena
called a meeting to close down the effort as
no longer needed. Finally Cabena in des-
peration adjourned the meeting for a month.
When the last mail left London the Red
Cross there was being wound up, leaving one
little branch for permanent invalids. It is to
be merged into an association which will be
ready to help in case of battle or plague.
The new scheme is to be drawn up at
Geneva. The Australian Red Cross carries
on as usual and the Comforts Funds show no
sign of disbanding. Mothers don’t forget,
if other people do, that over 120,000 Diggers
are still away from home.
“Faust” failed to fill all the seats at the
Princess’s on Saturday, but there was a good
first-night house of musical familiars who
will gladly brave the risk of ’flu to hear the
Devil sung to death. Most of the permanent
brigade were there, including the Stapleys,
Professor Scott, Dr. M. V. Anderson, Elsy
Treweek and Mrs. Filippini. They concen-
trated their glasses on Augusto Balboni, who
nearly took the prize for the best-dressed
female—until someone discovered that his
Buster Brown crop was really a wig further
softening the effect of his rounded features
All the same, he looked like a “principal boy”
in his purple tights and deep purple tunic-
fringed with gold. Another pretty picture
was Nellie Leach, whose russet-brown shape-
liness as Siebel made many a glass waver in
its devotion to Balboni. Patti Russell’s Mar-
guerite broke an old-established custom by
enchanting Faust with a couple of pigtails
of her own heavy brown tresses.
Muriel Starr is shedding a parting tear
over her mother, who is tracking back to
the States. Muriel’s husband (Jolmston is
his name) starts for Wilsonland in June.
He is taking a home job with his Chicago
chewing-gum firm.
Henry Scotney, who has.been in the con-
tracting business at Fitzroy these many
years and is a pillar of local politics, is off
to New York, with Mrs. Scotney to visit
widowed daughter Evelyn Scotney-White.
A cable has been received saying that the
singer is “out of danger”; but the family
doesn’t know what the danger was, though
the ’flu is blamed, of course.


Extra
mileage
you can
see
and
measure.
CM
A
MICHELIN
U niversal
Tread
The extra thickness of the
Michelin Tread —due to
&
extra rubber and fabric —and the broad, flat
traction-surface mean Extra Service, additional
mileage.
Especially is this true since every ounce of
Michelin rubber and fabric is the toughest
that money and skill can produce. And
the Experience behind Michelin con-
struction is unmatched.
Michelins g'ive
most miles for
the same money.
Michetin Covers are just
as good as Michel in Red
inner Tubes, which are
often imitated in color,
but never equalled in
Quality ,


In these days of industrial strife, epidemics and
the volcanic Peace Conference, the heads of poor
mortals are continually in a whirl; but the gods have
provided a wonderful antidote in King George IV.,
the topnotch Scotch whisky. —Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redlern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Goap
LEWIS &WMITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
A Brooks will
make a ‘ ‘ bounce”
impossible, the
Brooks compensating
springs will see to that
and only a
BROOKS
has these. Therefore whate’er may be
your choice of mount, never be influenced
to accept any other make of saddle than
this —the world’s acknowledged best.
Ask your A sent.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
The Oakleigh Plate Flutter at Caulfield
last Saturday was so open an affair that nine of
the 20 starters were quoted at prices wavering
between 0 and 12 to 1, Molly’s Robe being favorite
at the post. The Ally, always in the front, nearly
did the trick. But boy Duncan, riding a determined
finish on Cielo, beat the lady by half a head, with
Blue Cross only a head further back and Mareca close
up. Of those foiur the penalised Cielo seems least likely
to take the Newmarket next Saturday. Yoorala ran
in a squib-like manner, as usual; for Tragic Star
and one or two others the plea of bad luck was
raised after the race.
Assuming that Magpie was in good going order
last Saturday (and they backed him at even money),
the best handicapped one in the Newmarket crowd is
aged Mistico. This one-time champion Westralian
horse has taken a long time to show his quality in
Victoria, but he seems to have arrived at last, and
his chance of winning the Newmarket or Australian
Cup is undeniable. Mistico beat Magpie at level
weights in the nine furlongs St. George’s Stakes as
though another 71b. wouldn't have stopped him, whilst
Outlook and Eusebius (not to mention the unbacked
Star Comedian) were far behind. The running of
Eusebius was either too bad to be true, or else an
awful reflection on the judgment of the touts who
had declared that the son of Eudorus was showing
great form on the track. Anyway, he never .was
within striking distance of Mistico after they had
turned into the straight, though he was meeting the
old ’un on 111 b. better terms than the Australian Cup
handicap gives him.
Yes, Mistico looks as dangerous as was Jolly Beggar
a few years ago, when he missed the Newmarket by
a head and subsequently won the Doncaster at Rand-
wick. But there are others. At time of writing
the Futurity intakes has yet to be run, and if Lucknow
wins the Futurity this doubtful prophet will fancy
him for the Newmarket, notwithstanding the disap-
pointing performance of his stable-companion Magpie
last Saturday.
Old Marculfus was talked of again on the first
day of the Caulfield meeting. He started practically
first favorite for the Bond Cup, but ran as though
he were a light of other days. Marculfus was a
light that burned only fitfully at his best. Probably
he could have won the Melbourne Cup of three or four
years ago, into which the handicapper had “chucked”
the handsome deceiver. But Fate decreed that Mar-
culfus should fall down in an early stage of the race,
and so he missed his chance of celebrity.
Backers of Frank Dempsey’s mounts have had a
good many bad days of late, but last Saturday he
rode three winners and a third in four mounts. The
winners averaged 5 to 1, so the faithful Dempseyites
went home in great feather.
* * * *
At the time of writing, as a result of the
breaking of the drought—in spots—Flemington race-
course is more or less flooded. The tragedy always
happens when the Saltwater River rises above a
given mark. And yet things are not nearly so bad
from the racing standpoint as they used to be.
Patrons who are still young remember the time when
certain fences, now shifted to higher ground, had to
be cut down to render them jumpable. About the
same time first-class wild-fowl shooting was to be
had on the course, the only drawback being the
possibility of a sportsman getting out of his depth
and being drowned.
Caulfield has always been superior in this respect.
But the height of its fences remains one of the
mysteries of Australian racing. Under the rules no
fences are permissible under 3ft. 9in. in height. There
is only one fence at Caulfield which comes up to
that requirement, viz., the brush, which is 4ft. Sin.,
and the field goes through it to a depth of 18in.
Caulfield’s little fences are, of course, solid, and, as
such, they make the animals which attaqk them jump
big. Still the course remains more one for a smart
hurdler than a bold, free steeplechase crack. Witness
such winners there as Arcadia, Colonel Shilinski, My
#
Mistake, Airly, Isis, Bribery and Bullawarra. They
were all novices over the so-called big timber; and
in the case of most of them it rtas their first public
appearance in the rOle.
The suggestion is not intended that there should be
a reactionary movement in favor of the murderous
4ft. logs and upright post-and-rail fences which
Kipling pilloried quarter of a century ago. The
requirement all over Australia is more and bigger
brush fences and more diversified fences. It is in
this direction probably that a revival in the owning
and training of ’chasers lies. The old-time courses
were fatal to the soundness and appearance of even
the most perfect performers. Who that ever saw
them will forget the hind legs of that great old trier
and weight-carrier Sportsman ? It was a wonder he
stood up, much less won races, with them. His rival,
Bay Eagle, had an almost equally dilapidated appear-
ance, and the same might be said of Ditto, Pilot
and countless others. The effect was to make horses
that had been raced over timber, or even schooled for
the purpose, useless for anything else. A course of
all brush fences —none being under 4ft. —and a water-
jump, in addition to fences with ditches on the take-
off or landing side, would be spectacularly very
attractive, and a horse could jump over it for years
without getting a blemish. Incidentally, it would be
safer for the riders, though they are always one of
the minor considerations.
** * |
Horse-trainers who are accused of under-
feeding their horses for the sake of economy can find
comfort in a yarn about The Barb of yore. Frank
Madden says The Barb never had an oat during his
brilliant career. Many other good racers have been
vast consumers of oats when in training, and all of
them are supposed to need a fair allowance of the
grain that gets their pluck up. But The Barb was
an oatless animal, seemingly.
* * * *
“U.P.” on a non-unionist: Rotan, ridden
by Matson, the sst. S. Aus. schoolboy (mentioned B.
0/3/’l!)), was walked to and from tiie course—-about
f>o miles. Young Matson rides him to school daily.
The prad further helps to earn his oats by working
in a drill, drawing a mower, and pulling a trolley
and in off moments he supplies the horse-power for
a chaffcutter.
* * * *
Revenue, the shortest-priced animal that
ever won a Melbourne Cup, has been killed while
serving as an officer’s charger in Palestine.
* * # *
“Ex-Stipe”: Have you noticed that jockeys
invariably seize the chance offered by a period of
enforced idleness to improve their riding? At the
Broken Hill March meeting C. Boorn, a local light-
weight, made his reappearahce after “standing down”
for six months. He rode five winners and was
“placed” in another race. Even the bookmakers
cheered the performance.
“Mulga”: Happened in W.A. at a pony
meeting. Red-hot favorite backed down to odds-on.
Jockey weighed out and left for the dressing-room,
depositing his lead cloth on a handy near-by fence.
In the dressing-room he slipped off his colors and
donned a lead vest weighing the same as the lead
cloth. Just when the horses were being taken in hand
by the starter _ the trainer grabbed the lead cloth
and bellowed his opinion of the brains and methods
of boys calling themselves jockeys. Israel heard the
trainer’s lamentations and his entreaties for some-
body to hurry to the post with the lead cloth. Odds
lengthened until you could almost write your own
ticket. Several knowing birds quietly risked a few
pounds at the long odds offered. The favorite
romped home and weighed in correctly. Then it was
Israel’s turn to wail. 1 ■
* * * *
The racing authorities in Victoria should
have something to sav to the “short-odds” mer-
who confine their unrisky speculation to
‘place” betting. These disingenuous brethren are
apt to offer prices “for a place” when only six or
seven numbers are up, yet they are really offering
only odds against (or accepting odds on) the
chance of a nag finishing in the first two. Here
and there a novice is tempted to a “place” invest-
ment on something that comes in third, and then
he is surprised and grieved to discover that he has
lost his bet instead of winning’ it. Of course the
bookie, if questioned before the race, will explain
that he only lays ’em “1, 2” when the field is
limited ; but the greenhorns don’t question him.
They are attracted to his bag bv the cry
“Place!” which is a fraudulent term under the circs.
“One, two” is a recognised betting term, signifying
“first or second.” The recognised meaning of “a
place” is first, second or third; therefore the man
whose yell implies “1, 2,3,” when he is only bet-
ting “1, 2” may be said to be looking for dupes.
* » * *
At Sydney Stadium on Saturday night
Jack Green and Jack Finney projected themselves
at one another for the fourth time. The Bantam
Championship of N. S. Wales was in issue. Finney
boxes left-handed, but the fact did not worry Green
on this occasion. He outfought his adversary fairly
consistently, and in the eighth round the latter’s
supporters threw in the ’kerchief. Finney’s left
hand had gone, as it has done before, and as it
will again unless he changes his method of punching
with this member. Several of his strokes on
Saturday night appeared to be delivered with the
back of his wrist.
* * * *
Another bantam championship—that of
Queensland was decided on the same date in Bris-
bane, when Albert Locke retired from the fray in
the eighth round, on the ground that Mick Fitz-
gerald had hit him low. Michael denied the im-
peachment, and a medical examination supported him
for what it was worth. Accused the winner.
“Silas”: It had been an unsatisfactory
fight from the gong. Micko obviously did not
want to hurt the Nut, if the Nut was willing not
to hurt him, and plainly the Nut was entirely
agreeable. Once Micko did get a punch on the nose,
but as the lads came promptly into holts I heard
the Nut whisper; “ ’Twas vour own gaudy fault,
Nipper—you run into it.” However that may be
Micko presently got tired, and, seizing the excuse a
rubbed ear afforded, lay down and shut his eyes.
The referee, who had tumbled to it, tipped a point
to Ten-Seeonds-Check, and T.-S.-C. began to count
“One—two—three,” dropping about a quarter of a
minute between each call. At seven and a half
Micko s impatience got the better of him. He
opened one eye. “Fer the love iv Heaven,” he whis-
pered, “wind up yer watch!”
* * * *
Where are the colored pugs of yester-year?
Gone, and they have no successors apparently. Sam
Langford, whom even Johnson feared a few years
ago, was knocked out last month by one Fulton.
Fulton is a giant and clever, but is credited with
cold feet. Joe Jeannette is down amongst the third-
raters. MeVea has chucked fighting and taken to
work. And Johnson, when last heard of, was a sort
of sanitary man —an assistant-garnerer of dead bulls
in a Spanish ring.
If every home-coming transport were sup-
plied with (1) a deck for cricket and (2) a swim-
ming bath the boredom of the trip would be miti-
gated a lot. In every unit about 60 per cent, of the
Diggers are cricketers more or less competent. And
close on 100 per cent, of the A.I.F. like a wash, more
especially after exercise in the tropics. On trans-
ports in the past the ship's people have shown a
mulish unwillingness to pump up salt-water for
washing purposes, though thousands of gallons were
poured on to the decks every morning. It should
be a simple matter, on any of the big carriers that
are billed to leave within the next four to six
months, to rig up a canvas bath on deck and leave
it there as a permanency through the tropics. Fed
l>y a permanent stream from a bore-pipe it would
receive, astonishing patronage. The writer knows, as
he saw the scheme tried in 1915 —for one day only.
* * * *
Ned Duffy went (he way of all flesh in
Fogland recently. Thirty years ago he made his
name a household word by attempting various extra-
ordinary feats, always for the same old vague wager
with some obscure individual who could never be
produced. He was the first man—and probably the
last—to wheel a barrow from Glasgow to London
and back. Once, after advertising the feat for many
months and collecting a lot of stray coin, he started
to row from Scotland to New York in a two-oared
open boat; but he had sense enough to capsize and
swim ashore while still in the Firth of Forth. In
his youth Ned was a soldier, and was with Roberts
at Kandahar.
Charley Checkett, the Batsman’s Friend,
is leaving the Adelaide Oval after 37 years’ care-
taking there. He was the greatest exponent of the
art of wicket-preparing in the Commonwealth.
* * * *
The rain ruined District Cricket in Mel-
bourne last week. The only match to start was
North v. Essendon, in which the latter won the toss
and put the enemy in. The strategy was justified,
inasmuch as seven wickets were pushed into the inud
for 60. Then North closed and outed five Essendon-
ites for 67.
Scoring amongst the Juniors was even more paltrv.
Thompson for the A.N.A. (against Preston) took
eight for 20 in the first and five for five in the
second. Stone and Frobel exterminated the entire
A.N.A. army for 16; each taking five for six.
* * * *
W. Wells (Paddington) rattled up a vig-
orous 124 v. North Sydney before the rain soaked
Sydney premiership cricket on Saturday. He is one
of the promising members of the young brigade.
The only other smiters to pass the half-century were
Syd Thomas (Central Cumberland) 86, Dug Reid
(Western Suburbs) 66, and C. Achurch (Paddington)
69.
Fast bowler Rex Norman (Glebe) was
no-balled eight times on Saturday, and he didn’t
improve matters by snarling at the umpires over the
occurrence. No one ever does.
* * *
A. J. Hopkins (Middle Harbor), the one-
time international, lowered five wickets for 28
against Gordon on Saturday.
* * * *
Waverley B made the noise of the season
in Sydney second-grade cricket on Saturday bv
outing Glebe 11. (three absent) for six runs, of
which Sundries scored five. O’Grady (5 for 1) and
Jones (2 for 0) did the damage.
* * * *
“Pat” Walton (formerly Wittwer—a thor-
oughly Australian family driven to change its name
during the war), dead in Adelaide at 24, was known
in two States as cricketer and footballer. He played
for East Torrens when at home. Having two years
in Sydney in the National Bank, he played for Glebe
in summer and for Newtown in winter.
* * * *
Norman Brookes is making his first public
reappearance in the M.C.C. autumn tournament. He
will partner A. W. Dunlop in the doubles.
* * * *
Queensland has a close-up swimming cham-
pion in Miss Springfield, who lately did the 50 vards
in 32 2-ssec. Same evening she plunged 60ft., which
is 2Jin. off a world’s record for the sex which uses
hairpins.
The Semapliore-to-Largs swim has been
revived on the Adelaide beaches. The distance is one
mile 40 yards; 38 started, and 36 (including the
three women starters) finished. Willis, of Wallaroo,
won by 20 yards from Moon, of Port Adelaide, but
Spencer Major (scratch) did by far the fastest time,
2/min. 43sec. The best girl’s time was 38.57. A
boy of 12 finished the distance, and the launches took
up a collection to reward his pluck.
Bananaland’s “best” for the 100yds.
breast-stroke swim is now lmin. 18sec. E. Collins
owns the new record. He was the previous holder at
lmin. 19 2-ssec.
* * * .
C. Bastard, of the Adelaide City Baths,
has been at that job 32 years, and during that
time has taught about 7000 people to push them-
selves through the water. Down to about 15 years
ago, Bastard reminisces, the breast-stroke was in
favor. It is rarely seen now, for the chief aim
of young swimmers is speed. The trudgeon (named
after its first exponent) has gained many followers,
it is much used at present. In short distances,
however, the “crawl” leads. It was Dick Cavill
who while playing about in the Lavender Bav
Baths in Sydney, discovered and named it. By this
method he easily beat his brother Ern in a race
It speedilv grew in favor, and now it is practised
all over the world. It is seldom used for distances
over 60 yards—it is very tiring—but Kahanamoku,
of Honolulu, has traversed 100 yaTds by it in
53 4-ssee.—a world’s record.
* * * »
“Big Jack” McMahon, Anzac and M.C.,
has gone under to the ’flu. He was a forward
of the hard, bustling type, in the North Sydney
Football Club (Union Rules). He swam for the
same district, and rowed with the old Mercantiles.
Fifty-one started in Westralia’s annual
two-mile plunge through Guildford this season, and
the generosity of the handicapper helped F. G.
Burton (16min. start) to win by a furlong. Cham-
pion P. Emberson (scratch) put up the fastest time
(59min. 22sec.), which was 2min. better than the
previous best.
* * * *
A fresh south-east breeze made tliiugs
lively for the boats in the Sydney Club Handicap
on Saturday. On the homeward run Florrie, with
L. Pont at the tiller, was well ahead of the proces-
sion, and finished 2min. lOsec. in front of Onda.
Arline, Donnelly, Kismet and Federal were next in.
“Mulruana”: In a side-street off the
Strand (London) a Billjim two-up school was in
full swing. The amount in the centre was set,
barring two bob. “Two bob wanted in the centre!”
cried a fervent voice. Just then a Salvo lass sighted
the school and concluded that a patriotic collection
was being taken up. She threw in a florin and
waited. A pause, all heads turned to the sky as
if in thanksgiving. A Digger in front of her turned
round and handed her four bob. “I don’t want any-
thing back,” she remonstrated. “It’s all right,” said
Billjim, “he tailed ’em!”
* * # *
“Barb Dwyer” : I live on what is recog-
nised as a bad 1 corner in a Melbourne suburb, and on
fine days under the windows of my study the motors
whiz on each other’s heels, heading for sequestered
seaside places. The whiz is occasionally relieved by
a crash, and then I guess whether a car has headed
into a tram, or tried to surmount another car, or
made impact with one of the telegraph, lamp, tram
and other posts that wall the fairway. In any case
the fatalities are liable to be equally sudden and the
general damage unquestionable. The last victim was
a young soldier who had gone through the war with-
out a scratch, to have his neck broken by a collision
with a tuppenny tram. I have seen five injured here
on as many occasions, yet no steps are taken to
blazon the corner’s character as a death-trap. Why
not at all such destructive turnings set up the death-
record under a skull and crossbones? Such an inti-
mation would convey to the hasty motorist the
advisability of at least taking out an insurance
policy.
* * # *
Captain A. Lang, of the Royal Flying
Corps, who established a world’s record by going up
5f miles in the air and coming down safely, is a
well-known Vic. motorist. Record stunts have become
a habit with him. Some time ago he came down
hurriedly with his ’plane and injured his neck.
After that he was declared unfit, but was given a job
on home service. Later, he was appointed to one of
the English testing stations; and afterwards became
chief test pilot of an experimental station.
* * * *
On March 1 the Automobile Club of Aus-
tralia held a hill-climbing contest, the first since
August, 1914. Ostensibly it was a friendly club
outing; in reality it was the first skirmish in the
struggle between U.S. and Britain for the supre-
macy of the • Australian market. Britain’s chance
depended upon two Vauxhalls, both four-cylindered
and rated at 19.77-h.p. by the A.C.A. formula.
Against theln were a formidable phalanx of Ameri-
can cars, such as a Lozier (12 cylinders), two Cadil-
lac eights and several Hudson super-sixes. The
Vauxhall, driven by Boyd JSdkins, scored 209 points.
The best score of the Americans was 109 made by
A. V. Turner in his “D'.F.P.” In the straight-out
speed-jcontest up the hill, regardless of formula, the
two Vauxhalls were first and second in their class
(under 20-h.p.) and the 30.62-h.p. Hudson super-six
in the over 20-h.p. class.
* * * *
An attempt is being made by S. Aus.
motorists to get the track to Melbourne put in
order. The trouble lies in the few miles of
heavy sand along the Coorong. No relief can be
got by going further to the north, as the railway
does, for there one encounters the sandy, roadless
scrub-country, formerly known as the Ninety-mile
Desert. Determined drivers pass the few bad miles
every week (Murray Aunger long ago got through
from capital to capital -in under 15 hours), but
the ordinary owner does not care to take the risk,
and to the motor-bike the sandhills are even more of
a bar,
» * - * *
“Bill R.” : How is this for the record
narrow escape? We were hooking garfish from the
cliffs at Tuross Heads (N.S.W.), and to burley the
schools below a loaf of stale bread was dropped into
the sea. Andy, coming up from surfing, offered
to wager his share of the beer that he could,
ln . a high-diving feat, strike the bobbing loaf
with his head. Just as Andy left the rocks a
16ft. shark made a mighty swirl from down under,
and opened his jaws to take in the bread. The
rest of the act was incoherent; but I estimate that
the sharia struck the other side of the Pacific nearly
as soon as Andrew regained a footing on this bank.
*** • »
South Aus. is much disappointed at not
having the chance of a return cricket match to show
■”) a .ft , result of the first one—won for Victoria by
McDonald’s fast bowling after S.A. seemed to have
it well in hand—was not the correct form. Two of
the days booked for the return game on the Adelaide
Oval were devoted, when the ’flu kept the Victorians
at home, to a trial between the best local men. It
was marred from the spectacular point of view by
the absence of Townsend; besides being (as he
showed m Melbourne) a useful bowler, he is a fierce
hitter. The hero was Rundell. Arriving late, with
five of the other side out for 169, he took the other
five himself for 20, and then made 124 not out. Don
Steele, who is in practice again, was run out for 58
THE CONVERT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•‘The Maori land Cabinet has decided to permit the
churciies to import wine if prohibition is carried.”
I met, emerging from a church, a day or so ago,
A person I have known for many years,
By name Adolphus Tanglefoot. His moral code is
low—*
Or, rather, was. It caused disdainful sneers
In all the local Bands of Hope and Sunday-schools
and such ;
Nor did the fact appear to grieve Adolphus over-
much.
Imagine my astonishment to see this one-time sport,
This haunter of the racecourse and the bar,
Apparelled in a hat and coat suggestive of the sort
One notices where wowser parsons are.
Insistently I grabbed his arm and asked him to
explain ;
He did so, in the following unedifying strain.
“When all the pubs and bars were shut in conse-
quence of ’flu
I didn’t worry such a blanky deal,
For ev’ry sport with any brains, however little, knew
Tlie way to get of alcohol a meal.
But now the wisest may for drink conduct a fruitless
search,
Unless they go, as I have done, in training for the
church.”
u.s.w.
10-2-4.


Why Wait Till You Get
a Thrashing'
before you learn to box?
Why run the risk of being an easy prey to the first “bully” that crosses
your path ? ■
Why take the chance of losing your prestige—your manliness in the eyes
of your fellows —through your inability to assert your rights when the
occasion occurs.
Why not learn to defend yourself, and become a REAL man —a man always
to be reckoned with —looked up to —and respefcted ?
I TEACH BOXING BY POST
Teach you how to take your part—how to stand
up and deliver good, hard punishment to any fellow
who dares to insult or belittle you.
I unfold to you my wide knowledge of the manly
art of self-defence —teach you every “hit,” “move”
and “stop” known to the world’s leading boxers.
My instructions are very simple to follow and
vou will find my lessons both interesting and bene-
ficial. You will be both pleased and surprised at
the rapid progress you will make under my personal
guidance. Write to-dav for my interesting booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which describes
mv methods, terms, etc. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement and send it to
me, with three penny stamps for postage. I will
know what you mean.
.T*-
'
L
REG. L. BARER,
“The All-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
870 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
f
-7.
mm
TT
THE CHOICE
OF THE PEOPLE
m
mm
e
s
NO 2
The Racing Man
Rides*
&ndim
because in mighty “Powerplus”
he gets more in pace, power
and dependability than is his
in any other make
Catalogue from
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Lid.
Russell Street bourne
V\‘
m
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAM ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Don’t experiment when
you buy SAWS get
Sanderson Bros.’ and Newbould’s
Cheap Tools are a bad policy at any time, but
poor saws are a danger.
FOR the hard Australian woods the most reliable Saws you can
buy are Sanderson Rros.’ and Newbould’s. They have proved
themselves on every class of Australian timber, and are well known
for the unrivalled service they give. You cannot get better any
time than the High-grade English Steel from which Sanderson Bros.’
and Newbould’s Saws are made. It means maximum cutting effici-
ency, with the greatest reliability and margin of safety.
Barge stocks of Crosscuts, Circular, Band and Vertical Saws, also
Files, Machine Knives and Grinding Wheels. Write for lists and
prices. Expert advice freely given on all sawmilling problems.
Yates’ Woodworking 1 Machines.
We are sole agents for these Well-known machines, and will send
catalogues to all interested.
The Bull Tractor for Sawmiller & Farmer
The Bull is the most compact and efficient tractor for the country. It
not only gives you all the hauling power you want for timber and
general farm hauling, such as ploughing, reaping, etc., but also pro-
vides engine-power for small sawmills, chaffcutters, etc. Send for
particulars now to
BENSON BROTHERS LTD..
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
138 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
@
..
!@USTRAUAN
Ari
■:
Jiivt.%%
m
K
Rowi?S§E
NUMtKT n
i TaM* r Wate'r^^
Cor\hains
Lime-Soda | (t
LuniAi Magnesia
r ' “
There's a Holiday in Every Bottle .
/
Tke“B«rberry Weatherproof
The Ideal Coat
for Present Wear.
Now that broken weather is prevail-
ing the Burberry Coat is more than
ever an essential item of the well-
dressed man’s wardrobe.
Light as air, but warm enough for all
requirements—porous and self-ven-
tilating—rubberless, yet proof against
the heaviest downpour. Never a bur-
den to wear or carry, the “Burberry”
stands alone as an All-weather Coat.
Apart from its Practical Value, the
“Burberry” possesses that Distinction
of Texture and the Exclusive Cut
which have made it a Style-leader in
every civilised country.
New Shipment
Just Arrived.
Our Latest. Shipment features the very
Newest. “Burberry” Designs for MEN and
WOMEN. That illustrated is the famous
“Burberry” Slip-on, than which there is
nothing more suitable for Australians’ wear.
Full Particulars and
Prices post free on
application.
If you want the Best
Buy a “BURBERRY.”
Wsm
*9
g
LINCOLN, STUART S CO. PTY. LTD.,
Appointed “ Burberry” Agents for Vidloria,
244=254 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.


‘ Best ’ always wins
'/ 'HERE’S a BEST way to
sing a song, thread a needle,
or sweep a floor. The best Way to
make Collars is thoroughly under-
stood in the PELACO workrooms.
To such an extent has this “best
way ’ ’ been studied that PELA CO
Collars always “win" with men
who demand the utmost in style,
quality and service.
Reliable Mercers everywhere sell
Made in
.COLLARS
Australia
"THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN."
The above
is the title ,
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, iri clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
as
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
108 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
In the Heart oP
c>lelboumo
—handy to everywhere—sums up the position
of the Queen’s Arms Hotel. You can choose
no better hotel for YOUR stay in Melbourne.
The Queen’s Arms offers modern, homely
accommodation and excellent cuisine.
Tariff, by the day, 10/6. Write now.
QUEEN’S ARMS
HOTEL
C? SWANSTON SI
& FLINDERS
LANE
Claud R. Kerr,
Proprietor.
A
as<3
CHAUFFEURS. —You will earn more money if
you understand the care and repair of your car.
You can master the science of motor-construction in
your spare hours. The Dyke System of Instruction
by working models imparts the practical knowledge
you need. Every vital part of a motor-car is explained
in detail. The Dyke System converts mere motor-
drivers into expert motor mechanics. Write to-day
for Prospectus “M.” Address: Jas. Rodger & Co.,
159 E Manchester Street, Christchurch, N.Z. [lO
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the- Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
SEND HEICHT & WEIGHT.
Write for our Catalogue,
showing these and 70 other
Saddles. Special freight
terms to other States.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
Saddlers,
393 George Street, Sydney
The "Kemp 8 Gayndah
The ,
“Gayndah”
Park
Saddle,
No. 16.
Saddles.
THE “KEMP” is a light
saddle, to sit a buck in, and is
made in long-wearing Kip
Leather. The position of the
pads gives the rider great se-
curity. It is fitted with folded
girth, bevelled leathers and solid
nickel stirrups. £9/17/6.
Freight free for cash to any rail-
way station in N.S.W.
THE “GAYNDAH” PARK
is a great favorite for its com-
fort and long-wearing qualities.
It has pigskin seat and nice,
flexible kip flaps and skirts.
Folded girth, leathers and S.N.
stirrups. £9/2/6.
Freight frea tor cash.to any
railway station in N.S.W.
I
sonE. worn!
Hodgson-made Whips
All Kangaroo.
THONGS, 7ft. Bft. 9ft. HANDLES.
12-plait.. 14/- 16/- 18/- 12-plait.. 13/6
16-plait.. 17/- 19/6 22/- 24-plait.. 15/6
Handles for Thongs 9ft. and over, 1/6 extra
for Loading. Post Free for Cash.
Pen
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
Reliable BUYING AGENTS
Cycle and flotor Pneumatic
Tyres, Solid Tyres, Tennis
and Golf Balls, Carriage
Tyring, Engineering Rubber
Goods, Mats, Matting, etc.
are required at once in this immediate terri-
tory to handle our Rubber Goods. Over 00
years’ experience, we can ship substantial
quantities of Rubber Goods.
Customers’ brands made to order. ALL GOODS OF
HIGHEST GUARANTEED QUALITY.
THE MIDLAND RUBBER CO. LTD.,
RYLAND STREET. BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
Contractors to British Admiralty, War Office, Principal Railway Cos., etc.
SOLDIERS’ MEDALS.
From numbers of Country Centres we hare orders for Soldiers’
Medals, and rightly so.
To whom a Medal, if not to the bravest of each community ? We
gladly gave watches to our heroes departing. We more joyfully
give a mecjal to our conquering hero on returning.
We have a fine range of designs of Medals specially made for
such presentations.
Emblematical, symbolical, true in detail, fine in conception,
noble in realisation.
Heavy Good-weight Medals, all-Australian gold, design, work, and
yet reasonably low in prices. ,
For Presentation Committees we deduct a very special discount.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
Pl cish Fl on U iy? s '
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
if ))
.
FOURTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT of
THE BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED
To the Fifth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on Friday, 21st February, 1919.
The Directors now have pleasure in submitting: to the Shareholders the Fourth Half-yearly Report,
Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account as on the 31st January, 1919.
The net profits for the half-year, after deducting rebate on bills
current, interest on deposits, land and income taxes, paying all ex-
penses and providing for bad and doubtful debts, amount to . . .. £18,052 13 7
To which is to be added
Balance from last half-year.. .. .. .. .. .. 9,141 12 2
which has been distributed as follows:
To dividend for the half-year at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum £13,500
„ Queensland dividend tax .. .. .. .. . . .. 675
„ Balance carried forward to next half-year.. .. .. .. 13,019
£27,194 5 9
For and on behalf of the Board,
£27,194 5 9
A. S. COWLEY, Chairman.
BALANCE = SHEET of The Bank of Queensland Limited
For the Half-year ended 31st January, 1919.
LIABILITIES.
Deposits—
Commonwealth of
Australia .. £250,000 0 0
Private.. .. 2,824,617 5 10
; —£3,074,617 5 10
Bills payable and other liabilities,
including provision for con-
tingencies . . .. .. 202,827 2 4
£3,277,444 8 2
Capital .. ..£450,000 0 0
Profit and Loss.. 27,194 5 9
— 477,194 5 9
Contingent liabilities-
outstanding credits, as per contra
3,754,638 13 11
57,552 0 0
£3,812,190 13 11
ASSETS.
Coin, bullion and cash balances ..£457,281 11 7
£3,812,190 13 11
PROFIT AND L OSS ACCOUNT.
Dr.
To Salaries, rent, rates and taxes
and other expenses at head office
and 42 branches . .
„ Balance
£48,205 2 7
27,194 5 9
£75,399 8 4
By Balance from last half-year .. £9,141 12 2
„ Gross profit for the half-year
(after deducting interest on
deposits, rebate on bills current
and making provision for bad and
doubtful debts) ~ .. .. 66,257 16 2
£75,399 8 4
Audited and found correct.
W. H. PARKER )
GEO. FRED. SCOTT ]
Auditors.
A. S. COWLEY, Chairman of Directors.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Dare: Yes, but you don’t make clear what
these men want. What is it ? Try again, if you
like... .E.H.: Give “Wharfies” some more work.
Too many obvious fill-in lines. .. .Lag: Not the
smallest chance at present... .E.J.C.: The subject
has been pretty well exhausted for the moment....
Ivy G.: “Song” failed by only a point or tw0....
A.A.K.: Where are the alternate rhymes? A thing
as slight as that wants them. .O.B.: Vivid original-
ity in this:
The mother hen got to stratch and strain,
The poet got to stratch and use his brain;
I know not which is the best of game,
Although I breed the best of Indian game.
Now these poets like to make a name,
Only too often to refrain;
From cracking up their game,
Often die and blame the strain.
A.P.T.: As you say, you’re “gifted for poetry,”
all right:
Let us in a body save Australia from Bolsheviks
As we often have done before, but not now for weeks.
These gloating criminals, in beer and grime and gore,
Who would not enlist in time for the very late war,
I think they should get hung to the very nearest
tree—
Don’t you, Mr. Editor? Of course you’ll say by the
oky-go-key.
H.R.A.: Thought runs thin and verse .sometimes
limps. Look at that rhyme “awe”-“before”....
Rover: Too Wild altogether S.L.: “After” is too
mild H.H.C.: No use stringing out stuff, Chinese
fashion, down the page and pretending that it is
verse R.C.M.S.: Rotten F.W.: No use
E.L.P.: Not nearly up G.G.P.: .Same to you
J.H.: “Drought” and “Fates” not quite... .C.D.M.:
Not well enough done.... A.R.P.: The rhymes bump
like a worn-out Sydney tram; and the whole thing
seems to mean nothing R.M.S.: Anything sent in
is read and dealt with on its merits Gus: No use.
... .Forty: A lot of excitement about something that
can’t be discovered from the yarn S.M.: No good
here... .F.A.: No yarn in “The Atheist.”... .P.N.:
Can’t find a use for it C.P.W.: But a dream
doesn’t come to tunkitty-tunk music like that
T.E.F. (probably): Too crude S.S.: “Impulses”
a bit too savage and gory C.A.N.: Horrible scar-
city of rhymes... .C.E.11.: Fair workmanship, but
with no interest P. 0.: Very poor stuff K.D.R.:
It doesn’t quite work S.M.: Verse slops all over the
place. .. .E.J.T.: Not up by some distance...,
Fanuela: Smooth enough verse; but only says the
old things... .Robie: No new thought there....
E.S.S.H.: Doesn’t thrill W.C.C.: Reprint a dull,
commonplace howl like that! K. J.S.: It gave us
the thrill of the week:
The miser in his little dan
Was cackling like a broody hen,
For he had made a very good deal,
And in his pocket money could feel.
Suddenly he heard the one word “Pig,”
And looking un he saw a big,
Fat burglar standing by his side
Who had a cap made of cow’s-hide.
The miser, with a countenance dire,
Threw all his pound-notes in the fire,
And picking up a chair near by,
Tried to make the burglar cry.
The robber seized him in his grasp
Until the wretch could hardly gasp.
At last he found that he was beaten
And hurried off to his friend Satan.
L.W.: Awful verse R.8.J.: Not for us
W.C.K.: I eeble flight.... Lethe: Not strong enough.
.... W. J.D.: “General Blank” wants better handling
in places. Others will do nicely W.H.M.: Yarn
goes thinly J.G.: Not much in that Twyford:
No M. 0.: Verse too lumpy V.W.: “Thought”-
sort” doesn’t that hurt your ear?... .T.D.: Not
up H.J.A.G.: The poorest sort of stuff SM •
Dull and with no grip... .L.P.J.: It doesn’t ring
true. ...N.P.: Not well enough done Smith:
Doesn t get there... .C.C.: N 0... ,M.B. J.: Too feeble.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.M.: There’s a grin in the gag, but no fun in
the drawing... .A. McP.: As poor as ever. Improve
your drawing....A.R.E.: It will not come up. A
steam-winch couldn’t pull it up S.R.: Doesn’t
belong to Australia.... J.F.: Try a. Highland paper
with that kilt joke... .R.M.M.: Obvious jest and the
drawing isn’t good enough. But it’s a good try
369: Very wooden. Draw better and try for some
animation.. . .L.G.C.: Don’t scratch. Be firm and
j011y... .Jait: They look imported, and they’re cer-
tainly muddy Dixie: Out of date now H.G.H.:
N 0.... C.C.McN.: Outed.... Leo X.: Sorry, but we
can’t use it.... 6970: Yellow flag hoisted... .D.V.8.:
It echoes somewhere Harold L.: You’ve missed it.
too. E.D.: Old jape. The dog isn’t going fast
enough....E.F.: You’ve used up a fine expanse of
board A.C.D.McP.: Go away to a quiet spot
and study drawing... .J.A.W.: No use whatever....
F.C.G.: Over the edge and far away.... Twyford:
Your illustrated poem beginning “There’s a swish
where the great waves rushing have caught in the
wooden piers” has been thrown overboard with our
best swishes....H.G.: He can’t lie in the shade here.
Someone would trip over him L.S.: Faint
scratches in the Louis Wain manner.
“Mulbon”: Webster’s efficient telegraph
service, which couldn’t find the big and
ancient Sydney suburb of Five Dock, has a
better performance than even that to its
credit. I sent a telegram to the Registrar
of Joint Stock Companies, Melbourne, and
was presently notified that it was un-
delivered, the address being insufficient.
“Harrison O.”: As a sinner of many years’
standing, I enjoyed “John Folding’s” sketch
of the Bishop of London (B. 20/2/’l9).
There seems ample justification for the esti-
mate that the picturesque Bishop, regarded
as the democrat he is so anxious to be con-
sidered, is “a Lark.” I recall that a while
back, when numerous charitable and patri-
otic appeals were being accorded his benedic-
tion, some ill-bred hound suggested that
£lO,OOO a year for a bachelor bishop was' a
bit over the odds. The Bishop at once real-
ised the justice of the argument, but very
promptly refrained from taking rash action,
as an ungodly person might do in similar
circumstances. _ Instead, he solemnly ap-
pointed a committee of churchmen to inquire
whether his stipend could be reduced without
injury to the Church. The committee, with
equal solemnity, reported that it did not see
how he could scrape along on less; so the
democrat reluctantly resigned himself to the
unpleasant necessity of continuing to accept
his full £lO,OOO.


mm
D
&
09
X
M
Ww\
%
Ni IU
iMtivssAm
ft
T~i •>. 77x
sss
MMfcS^a
iiiiiaj/imUi
Wmf'/m i
2
?-4=c
’-IT
)V-
V
A Light Four
A Light Six
A Big Six
Beautiful in Design
/
Thoroughly Modern
Mechanically Right
LIKE A “DIGGER”
These New 1919 Studebaßers were
built for Australia, and have just
those qualities of stamina and
initiative that enable them to taKe
the lead in any company every time.
They are cars that people turn round to take a second look
at, for they have a rare grace of design and a beauty that
commands interest and admiration.
Everything that experience and initiative can suggest to
combine safety, comfort, performance and elegance has been
materialised in these latest models.
The Famous Silent L Head Engine, the Newly-designed
Gear Box swung on a sub-chassis amidships, the Double
Thermoid Coupling Forward, the Hotchkiss Drive, the
Silent Spiral Bevel Differential, and Scientific Weight Distri-
bution and Spring Suspension are all most exclusive features.
Magneto Ignition, Leather-trimmed Khaki Hoods, All Goodyear Tyres, Complete Equipment.
ORDER NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch: 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisme.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
"Wanganui.


Amott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
im UHeinenfs.
Harry Rickard* Tivoli Theatres JLt«l.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSII.
1“ I v O I. I THJSAT It K, SVI) N K V
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
MY LADY FRAYLE.
A delightful Musical Play in Two Acts.
Plan at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
■piVOLI TRjiATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
hugh d. Mclntosh presents the reigning
SUCCESS OF LONDON,
THE BETTER ’OLE.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
o K I T K IO N TI!iiAT It E. SYDNEY.
w Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
. Including FLORENCE YOUNG,
in
MAYTIME.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
H K li M A .1 E S T Y *"SL S Y I) N Ky 7
■ ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE LIMIT IN REVUE SPECTACLES.
HELLO, EVERYBODY!
A revelation in the art of stage-production.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
D ALACK TIIEAT It E. SYDN E Y.
■ Direction Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY, 2.30.
Hugh D. Mclntosh’s gorgeous production,
BUBBLY.
The merry Revue that set Sydney laughing.
Plan at Nicholson’s daily.
UNI O N 1* ICXU It E TIIEAT It E s
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
|_IEIt MAJESTY'S TUISATRIS, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
TREMENDOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
GOODY TWO SHOES.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
TIIEA T It E It OVA L, MELKOU UN E.
* Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Everybody’s
Favorite,
- MURIEL STARR, in
THE GREAT DIVIDE.
|T ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
rv Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. & N. TAIT and BAILEY & GRANT present
THE MERRY CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees J. & N. TAIT.
Direction FRANK RIGO.
NEXT WEEK.
LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR, FAUST,
CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA and
I PAGLIACCI, RIGOLETTO.
Popular Prices: 64/-, 2/- {plus tax).
G. D. PORTUS, General Manager.
|y| AJKSTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CHARLIE CHAPLIN in his Million Dollar
Feature,
SHOULDER ARMS.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
A U n I T O R I U M, aTeT. bo iTrn e.
" Lessees J. &N. TAIT.
Direction UNION THEATRES LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 15.
The famous picture of a nation’s inglorious end.
THE SURRENDER OF THE GERMAN
FLEET.
Popular Prices: 2/-, 1/-, 6d.
U OYT’S~ THEATRES, MELBOURNE
1 1 Also SYDNEY.
DE LUkE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
BILLIE BURKE in
LET’S GET A DIVORCE.
LYCEUM (Over Princes Bridge).
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday 2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURE:
HAROLD LOCKWOOD and JOHN
BARRYMORE in
THE MAN FROM MEXICO.
Prices as usual.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
Hie productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
U ORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
gKITANKIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRTANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d,
-
753Hh<
• v*. .>
rfMk’&Mj
Splendid
for
Young Men
Slost young men like to look “presentable.”
Not foppish, but trim and tidy in appear-
ance. You can’t be that unless your face
is properly shaven. With the EVER-
READY modern razor you will enjoy a clean,
close shave, imparting that “something” so
needed before a man feels comfortable and
presentable.
EVER-READY Standard Outfit, consisting of
razor and safety frame, triple nickelled,
with 8 blades, in neat case.
Price
No unsightly gashes, as the safety frame
prevents all risk of cutting the skin.
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency,
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
VON
TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 6th March, 1919.
THE ROYAL MILITARY COLLEGE
OF AUSTRALIA.
Appointment of Officer in Medical
Charge.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for and desirous of
appointment as Officer in Medical Charge of
the Royal Military College, Duntroon,
Federal Territory.
Salary £5OO per annum inclusive of all
allowances, except quarters and travelling.
Single quarters will be provided or married
quarters if available, but no allowance will
be paid in lieu of quarters.
The successful applicant must be pre-
pared to take up duty not later than the
14th April, 1919. Full particulars may be
obtained from the Principal Medical Officers,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth and Hobart.
Applications are returnable not later than
the 24th March, 1919, addressed to the
Principal Medical Officer of the District in
which the applicant is residing.
T. TRUMBLE,
Secretary.
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to soli.
Pergonal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney
Overseas Buying AgencyZ. ! SKsa«=.'sri;“«.^.
NOTE ADDRESS 64. HAYMARKET, LONDON.
Will buy anything for you, save time
and money, and make no charge for
its service and 20 years' expert know-
ledge of London markets.
Personal, Home or Business Pur-
chases—no order is too small. Quota-
tions and Catalogues (when obtainable)
furnished free. Write for free Booklet.
The 0.8. A. (W. H. GORE & CO.), 64, Haymarket, London, S.W. Cable* “ Osbuyacy. London.
m
%
1
%
m
m
m
m
m
Bra
%
On a
mommt
s
Simply raise this little
lever, immerse nib in
ink, lower lever and
the pen is filled. It’s
the
LEVER POCKET
SELF-FILLING
In this type of the World’s Best Fountain Pen you have a quick filling
device which is far and away better than anything previously invented.
Like the other parts of this perfect pen, it is too simple to get out of order
• Waterman's Ideals are made in three types:
“ Lever Pocket Self-Filling,” “ Safety,” and “ Regular.”
Of Stationers and
Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, Ltd., Comer London, England.
Australia: HAROLD D. DIXON, 105 Clarence Street, Sydney
DIAMONDS as NEW YEAR GIFTS.
No other Gift in the whole list of Valuable Things has such
Personal Appeal as a Diamond King.
K79.—£11/10/-
3)
Klol3.—Diamond
and 3 Emeralds,
£lO/10/-
ALL OUR DIAMONDS
ARE SET IN
PURE PLATINUM
AND 18ct. GOLD.
mm
mm®
K923.—£35.
K734.—Diamond .
and Emerald
Cluster. £55.
m
ssssx^ s
JlO4O. — £11/10/
£lO/10/-
G93.—£10.
CALL, AND INSPECT, or WRITE FOR OCR NEW CATALOGUE
OP USEFUL PRESENTS.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
LARGEST JEWELLERS OF THE EMPIRE,
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
AMELIA GILLESPIE. last heard of
about ISS9, then about to get married.
Brother inquires. Information Bulletin
Office.
Legal Notice.
IN THE MATTER of the estate of James
Anderson late of Napier in the Provincial
District of Hawkes Bay and Dominion of
New Zealand Gentleman deceased.
TO ROBERT MARSHALL DONALDSON
sometimes called or known as ROBERT
MARSHALL and sometimes ROBERT
MARSH at one time of Adelaide and
Broken Hill in South Australia and Perth
in Western Australia and all others
whom it may concern.
NOTICE.
WHEREAS the above-named James
Anderson by his last Will and
Testament duly proved in the Supreme
Court of New Zealand Wellington District
Napier Registry bequeathed the sum of
Two thousand live hundred pounds (£2500)
to his Trustees to pay the income thereof to
Mrs. Eliza Donaldson the wife of Robert
Donaldson of Te Telco Bay of Plenty New
Zealand during her life and after her death
1 10 pay the said sum of Two thousand five
hundred pounds to all her children who
being sons should attain the age of twenty-
one years or being daughters should attain
the age of twenty-one years or marry under
that age in equal shares.
AND WHEREAS the said Robert Mar-
shall Donaldson formerly of Adelaide and
Broken Hill in South Australia and Perth
in Western Australia is one of the children
of the said Mrs. Eliza Donaldson —AND
WHEREAS the said Mrs. Eliza Donaldson
died on or about the 19th day of February
1918
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the
said Robert Marshall Donaldson and all
persons claiming under him are required to
communicate with the undersigned solicitors
on or before the 31st day of July 1919 and
in default thereof application will be made
to the said Supreme Court of New Zealand
Wellington District Napier Registry for an
Order presuming the deatli of the said
Robert Marshall Donaldson in the lifetime
of the.' abovenamed testator and thereupon
the said sum of Two thousand five hundred
pounds will be divided amongst the surviving
children of the said Mrs. Eliza Donaldson in
terms of the said Will of the said James
Anderson deceased.
COTTERILL & HUMPHRIES
Solicitors,
Napier, New Zealand.
<1
2
V
This Is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
Mice
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne
CAPILLARINE
1
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees,
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.


Mr. William Power
Tells How Coticura
Healed Rash
"A rash came on my legs and it
I gradually worked np into my back and
w
neck and then to my face and
head until I was nearly crazy
with the itch and heat of it.
It came out in blotches and
the skin was very much in-
flamed. I could not keep from
scratching it; even in my
sleep I used to tear the parts
affected and my clothes used to stick
to my back.
“I then sent for a free sample of
Coticora and after the first week I
noticed an improvement so I bought
some more' Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment which healed me.” (Signed)
William Power, Ballieston, via Rush-
worth, Vic., June 22, 1917.
Clear the pores of impurities by daily
use of Cuticura Soap and occasional
touches of Cuticura Ointment as needed
to soothe and heal. They are ideal for
every toilet and nursery purpose.
Soaptocleanseand Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
SPEUAL/Of
TWO
L/NES
S
0
i# s
y
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
1 s
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
Zc /iOAiTER 3 T NEWCASTLE
EIEY
CARTRIDGES^
Always Reliable
ELEY ‘UNIVERSAL*
A Light-Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 drs. T.S. Black
Powder and ij oz. of shot.
ELEY
_ *3BO
Automatic
Hammerless
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY 38
S&W Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS.
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L? LONDON
the: touch tells
Glide smoothly, never grate.
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men —these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
3
Made in 17 degrees, 6B to
9H, And 3 styles of Copying.
OF ALL STATIONERS AND ARTI STS’-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
V-r,±
3anni’rti?.>on
55»,w
K
m
m
■
r
»
£
SB
-V -^N
3psS^(ir
r
Tyre Economy Assured
And it is assured you by the largest rubber manu-
facturer in the world —the producer of ‘United
States’ tyres. Behind them are 47 unified factories
and a staff of 55,000 men.
HpO give you the utmost service your tyres
must meet your particular needs. For,
no motor car is better than its tyres. Since
no one type of tyre will suit all types of cars
you should choose your tyres from a complete
line. This you will find only in
United States lyres
They are in five types —a complete line:
The ‘Nobby’ tread is the original successful anti-
skid tyre. The grip of its knobs makes it bite the road
surface like files of steel.
The ‘Chain’ tread is the most efficient
price anti-skid and high-traction tyre manufactured.
The ‘Plain’ tread is a front-wheel tyre of unusual
durability.
‘Usco’ is an anti-skid, costing lithe more than the
average plain tread indeed Uscos’ are frequently
used in the place of plain treads.
The ‘Royal Cord’ is the modern multi-cord tyre—•
the very highest development of resiliency, flexibility,
strength and anti* skid qualities in cord tyres.
And so you have a type for every motoring taste and
condition of price and use.
Your motor dealer will be glad to tell you more about
the ‘United States’ complete range of treads. See him
soon. If need be he can readily get in touch with us.
These are the five
treads of
XTnited States'
Tyres
United States Rubber Company (Australasia) Limited
Head Office: 53 York Street, SYDNEY.
Branches: 130=2 William Street, MELBOURNE
6 Mercer Street, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Cabled at some expense that Agent-
General Wade has written to London Morn-
ing Post and “defends Australian borrow-
ing. but more particularly that of N. S.
Wales. He points out that the financial
position of N. S. Wales is sound,” etc. Now
bow long would any Agent-General keep
' his billet if he said anything else? Can
anyone imagine a truthful barrister rising
with the statement: “Y’r Honor, I appear
for the defendant, who is a great scoundrel
and assuredly did the crime ; but I am paid
to say the contrary. I enter a plea of not
guilty and have two alibis ready”?
The Vic. Horticultural Society is express-
ing its loyalty to the Throne in a touching
manner. At the next fruit and flower show
at Melbourne Town Hall —it’s due in a week
or two —there will be a prize of £2 for the
best-packed case of superior dessert apples,
and the Society will purchase the champion
case and send it to King George. One pic-
tures the apple-growers packing their cases
with tender care in the hope, not that they
will win the £2 prize, but that some of the
fruit of their industry will catch the royal
eye and gladden the royal mouth. The joy
of George when he gets the winning lot! He
will, of course, insist on opening the case
himself, with the family looking on. “And
these w T ere grown in Victoria!” his Majesty
will say to his queen. Whereupon she will
fill his crown with as many as it will hold
and pass them round.
“Quarte Sous”: “Joyce” and “5.9” were
flashing samples of small paper-money when
our last Bulletin left Aussie. The Straits,
- says one, have notes down to 2|d. French
notes, says the other, descend to 2£d. Well,
here’s a note issued by the Commune of
Sivry (Belgium) for one centime; and that’s
less than one-tenth of Id. Incidentally, a
mob of Aussies who landed in this neighbor-
hood the other day ahead of the ration train
found that butter was Ss. 6d. per lb., milk 3s.
a quart and eggs fifteen pence apiece. Ask
the Wild Cat to tell us how many centime
notes it takes to make a milk pudding.
“0.G.Y.”: The remarks of “Bath Chair-
man” (B. 13/2/T9) re the creeping paralysis
of Sydney Parcels Post Office bring back
memories of hours spent there in silent pro-
fanity. On one occasion, after a wait of an
hour and a half, my parcel became available
a few minutes before closing-time. I asked
a Customs examiner what happened to the
people waiting attention when knock-off
sounded. His ready answer was, “Kick
them out!” I thought it a little over the
odds, and said so. Back came his reply
that they hoped the business community
would raise Sheol about it some day, and so
bring better conditions for himself and his
co-workers.
From the S. Australian border:—
A Mt. Gambier boy who had been away for four
years doing his bit arrived back in Melbourne when
he could not cross the border without going into
quarantine; so he put up at Casterton and wrote
Dad asking him to bring Mum and the young uns to
the border, where they could have the long-looked-for
meeting. The mounted constable evidently felt
rotten about it; but duty is duty, and before they
could get a word in he had hopped over to the lad
and said: “Boy, I’m sorry; but I can’t permit you
to go within ten feet of your people.” The Digger
gave one look, then opened his mouth and said:
“Gor blimey, I fought me way through Gallipoli and
France, and stopped at nothing; and now it’s home
and I’m held up by a John Hop!” But they
took it well and soon all parties were shaking hands
in the new fashion. Dad grabbed a pole Bft. long;
Billjim laid hold of one end and Dad and Mum and
the kids the other. Didn’t that old stick shake!
John Hop sneaked away: he told me he was afraid
of splinters!
“Copy Boy” ; In the list of billets which
have been held by George Steward,
new Vic. Chief of Police (B. 20/2/T9), it
is not mentioned that in 1910 he was
appointed Commissioner for Vie. under the
Federal Land Tax Act —and slung the job
after six weeks.
Home, after over four years’ service, a
24-year-okl veteran, Captain Vernon Erie
Smythe, M.C. and Bar. His elder brother,
Captain Edward Vivian Smythe, has also
the double honor. Vernon, who had been a
clerk at Jerilderie (N.S.W.), enlisted or
August 27, 1914, and was a sergeant at
Lone Pine. He gained his first and second
pips on the Peninsula and the third after
moving over to France.
“Hawk”: If our Great ’Loan Land ever
thinks seriously of paying its way, it may
shade its overdraft by an act of uncommon
sense. Let any head of a family examine
his expenditure, and he will find the heaviest
item is “Clothes.” For himself and his boys
and girls to hold their city jobs, they must
dress the part. To be a la mode a man’s
bags must have a certain cut, coat a particu-
lar length and number of buttons, the hat a
fixed height of crown and width of brim;
shoes must be pointed or block-toed, and col-
lar and tie.the prevailing standard. This
for the male; for the female the laws are
more so. Considering our crowd instinct
there is no quarrel with our uniformity if
it were maintained. That the pants’ pockets
should be on the bias, or otherwise, is not
vital; the hair in the soup, so to speak, comes
from sudden, arbitrary and unreasoned
changes in all these rules, so that good gar-
ments have to be scrapped, and a new rig-
out. no better for any purpose but that of
fashion, bought in their place. This aberra-
tion is the fortune of Messrs. Fluff and
Frill, Ltd., and they w r ork the mine for all
it will cyanide. To avoid loss they charge
double for fashionable goods ; join this pen-
alty on to the short life of the articles, and
you have some measure of the most blood-
sucking tax on modern man. If we had half
the courage of a Russian Soviet, present
fashions —as good as any—would be fixed
for, say, 10 years; anyone making or hand-
ling clothes for sale differing from filed speci-
fications to be hanged by the neck till he
was dead or of a better mind. And they
who knowingly conspired by print, picture
or model to pervert the public taste in glad
rags should be masked and quarantined.
There are millions in this idea—for some
other form of idiocy which would be bound
to take its place.


Get The NEW EDISON
“re-creations” of
STELLA POWER’S voice.
Admirers of this rising young artist
—Australia’s coming singer—will
delight in this important announce-
ment.
Madame Power has made three very fine
records for us, which embrace seven,
songs, and musical critics who have
heard them declare they are in the artist’s
best style—the clear, bell-like tones of her
perfect soprano beipg “re-created” with
remarkable fidelity, even in the most
sparkling passages of cadenza and trill.
Madame Power sings exclusively for The
NEW EDISON.
Here is the list -
80400.
fa) BLACKBIRD’S SONG (Scott).
(b) SONGS MY MOTHER TAUGHT ME
(Dvorak).
UNA VOCE POCO FA (A Little Voice I
Hear). Ii Barbiere Di Siviglia (Ros-
sini). In Italian.
80401.
CHARMANT OISEAU (Thou Brilliant
Bird). La Perle Du Bresil (David).
In French.
SPRING (George Henschel).
80402.
BEL RAGGIO LUSINGIIEIR (Bright
Gleam of Hope). Semiramide (Ros-
sini). In Italian.
NYMPHES ET SYLVAINS (H. Bemberg).
In French.
On sale NOW at all Edison dealers.
Pull details, post free from
STELLA POWER,
Australia's Own Brilliant Coloratura
Soprano.
Stella Power was a protegee of Melba.
In 1918 she made a concert tour of the
United States, after which she returned to
Australia and wilt shortly be heard here.
She is especially well known and liked in her
native land.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 3(54-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
FACING extreme drought and torrential rains, the motorist in
Sydney learns to depend more and more on Spencer-Moulton
Three-Ribbed Tyres. The Spencer-Moulton toughness, grip, and
resiliency give an unprecedented degree of comfort, speed, and
safety over the ever-changing road - surfaces of the country.
Ask any motorist who has tried Spencer-Moultone
in Ha difficult climate or country— that ’» all.
V
ft
rife
ir* «JSp
■>s -' 4 v!
*i i.. .l"' • v*i^|p'r'
OULTON
THREE RIBBED TYRES
Nitllfl
Hg2jj^|
m
isi
m-;.
4 Jig
S3 l
m,t
m
f/i
m :
WASf
wgi
P.C.B.- I(
SPENCER - MOULTON ALL - BRITISH
SOLID RUBBER TYRES ARE WINNING
THE SAME UNIVERSAL APPROVAL
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., LIMITED,
Head Offices : 77-79, Cannon Street. London, E.C. 4.
Works : Kingston Mills, Bradford-on-Avon, Wi ts.
STOCKISTS : Cape Town, J hannesbur/r, Melbourne, Sydney, Christchurch,
W ellington, Cairo, Colombo, Madras, Singapore,Klaug, Kuala-Lumpur, Medan,
Saieon.
guyyp
SI
HOTEL
MET
. . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/*
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
OPOLE,
The Manager.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
De'pOt, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
2TJ
.Dependable Guns
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong.
Prioe 2/» post free.
“SUNOL" Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 20-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 2Gin. barrels, both choke; weight
about 611 b, Freight paid, £.51101-
5 §§££s
Smoke Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/2, Post Free.
823. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about 731 b, Freight paid,
£lO/10/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 7d. each, post free.
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
»SE
m
V-t- 0 *"
833. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
f 1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrel, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2jin. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. tt Itt I
Weight 731 b Freight paid, 3wll/ll f m
POWDER
Just arrived large shipment of Gunpowder.
You are advised to make an early purchase.
AUSTRAL 3/9 lb.
F.F.F 3/9 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 5/- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/0 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
PLEASE NOTE —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity
packed up to 281 b. is 10/- in N.S.W.
We Repair Ail Kinds of Guns and Rifles
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.G.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 32in. steel barrels,
both choke, D. & E. fore-end, side clips, chambered for 2|in. cartridges, beauti- A If A /_
fully engraved, weight about 721 b Freight paid, **l*s7**t/
55SS
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; £ll/111-
weight about 71b Freight paid, ‘ *
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-gauge,
top action, solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol
grip, walnut stock ; weight about Gun can be taken apart, same as an
ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
B2 “Auto-Ejector, 45/
Fostase —2/6 N.S.W.:
4/8 Inter-State.
LfC
msTwams greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
am TOBACCONISTS
m
City Sports Depot
99 King St dlso at
Newcastle i Brisbane


GIRLS! Miss Mona Ferguson
is a REXONA GIRL. Are You
■
: :'v-
Pi
■
. ..
u
m
¥4
A
a REXONA
GIRL, too ?
Miss Mona Ferguson is one of the
brightest, prettiest and most tuneful
members of the J. C. Williamson Co.
Ltd., and is a favorite with all theatre-
goers. Miss Ferguson is a true Rexona
girl and writes us as follows:
Having been a constant user of
Rexona Soap for some years, I think
you may be interested in hearing my
opinion of it, which is, that it stands
alone as a skin and hair beautifler.
All other soaps that I have used
have a tendency to enlarge the pores
of the complexion. • Rexona Soap
seems to make the skin closer, finer
and smoother every day it is used.
With regard to Rexona “anoint-
ment” (as a little child I know calls
it), I must tell you that I use it in
winter to prevent the chapping that
would otherwise ensue from bitter
winds, and after surfing in summer
I always anoint (the word is useful,
isn’t it?) my face, neck, arms and
hands with it, first rubbing a little
of it well in, and then quickly wip-
ing the remainder away with a clean
linen towel. It gives me pleasure
to write. I hope it will give yon
pleasure to hear.—Yours truly,
(Sgd.) MONA FERGUSON.
MISS MONA FERGUSON
(from a photo by Monte Luke').
Rexona and Rexona Soap
More Popular Than Ever.
All the world over everyone
likes the Rexona Remedies.
They are universal favorites,
and never disappoint you.
Rexona is the Rapid Healer,
and Rexona Soap is the facial
soap of the century. Care
for yourself by using Rexona
and Rexona Soap, and your
skin and hair will reflect the
improvement from the first,
and you will delight yourself
as well as your friends.
Rexona the Rapid Healer has'
always been famous for its wonder-
ful healing powers. Many people
now thank Rexona for skin health
and comfort. It is a reliable remedy
for cuts, burns and all irritations
and eruptions of the skin.
Those who have once used Rexona
and Rexona Soap wonder how they
ever got along without them. So
don’t forget to take a pot of Rexona
the Rapid Healer and a tablet of
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap home
to-night.
« C 0...,
/Anlrieun,
p u rifi‘* y AOKiufelj,
i «e 4 1 5 J (Jeitab,,
£
•»k oW * Pamady h»r
* wl * •'"tar..*,.
£5
C'«an6f^
ill
z
£2
REERE.SWNC SOOTHIN
MEALING ANTISEPTIC SOAP
MEDICATED on the same principle
ISS THE TAMOUSREXONA OINTMENT
m
S 3
REXONA
1/6 and 3/-
REXONA
SOAP
1/-
s
<3
8M
m
A!
The All
ritish
saANDARtfe
LIGHT CAR
Absolute simplicity longest
mileage for minimum petrol
consumption. Easy to start.
The ideal car for the Owner
Driver.
Send your enquiry for early delivery
of post-war model to—
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Standard Motor Co.
Ltd., Coventry.
12>ea u rv-j
largely & n\a.fter*
C^omplepciorx^
0
<§
skin loveliness & add a zest to the toilet:
PRICES, London. Liverpool, Manchester, Glasgow, Etc.
The Watch at Murman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Somewhere in Russian Lapland, occupied recently
by British and American forces, Sir Hugh Wil-
loughby was frozen to death with the crew of his
ship, the Bona Esperanza, in 1554. He had been
appointed to lead an expedition in search of the
North-East Passage.
Y~ JTIHEN wecametotheHurmancoast
Where the night and day are one,
' Up stood a gallant English ghost,
And hailed! us, man and mother’s son:
“Be you the captains blithe and true
Sailing from the windy Nore
I give the ghostly keys unto
Of Murman’s lonely wizard shore?
“Oh, welcome, men of kingly Kent,
And Bristol, seaward to the west!
Oil. welcome, men of kindly Trent,
And gallant Lincoln’s foamy crest!
“Is this the Dooming Year?” he said;
“The year o’ grace, the crack o’ doom,
He bade' me bide beside my dead
Who turns the key and rives the tomb?
“No headland sere or icy sheer
But there an English seadog lies,
And holds, against the Dooming Year,
His watch with glazen English eyes.
“Now is it thrice a hundred years,
And six-and-sixty more beside,
Since our Good Hope in dule and tears
Was gripped within the iron tide.
“Gone was the eland, hoof and horn ;
Breathed naught by yonder haunted sea;
The horrid Dark without a morn
Was thick with Lappish wizardry.
“The iron night, the iron tide,
The glaive of ice that shore the breath,
As man by mhn we dropped and died,
And Horror reigned alone with Death !
“Then I was ’ware of Heaven’s cheer,
And mother-lights that lapped us warm.
At foot the Murman waters here
Were creaming kindly to a charm.
"And in my hand the keys were laid;
Dew-fallen words mine ear had blest:
‘Thy ward is set; thy prayer is prayed,
For England and the Blessedest!’
"I swear the years have gone in mist
A.nd sea-borne clangs of captainhood.
The winds have blown us ere we wist
Your larger hope, your riper good.
“For I have rid the night-wind grim
Along the headlands held in ward,
And man-wise quickened to the hymn
Of England’s ghostly ocean-guard.
“The welkin thickens, not with snow.
But with the cloud of carrier wings,
From Lindisfarne to Plymouth Hoe,
Down-beating death on doom-ripe kings.
“The carrier faith, the eagle fire
That eyries deep in middle air,
Their goodly plummet of desire
Fling far in ocean’s guarding lair,
“And, ‘England, England, England!’ rings
A-down the ropes of moon and sea;
And, ‘England, England, England!’ springs
From Murman fires of mystery.
“Yea, cerates, London weds the deep
As Venice did with ring and bell;
And, certes, English captains keep
The marriage-feast of Freedom well.
“Thank God, my masters, on your knees
Your Bona Esperanzas ride
In queenliness the summer seas,
Where Hope and we in dolor died.
“Though Murman’s dreary land of night
A pleasaunce were for England’s
-*-h®Port of Heaven beacons bright:
Bight fain my quittance there I take.
Receive the keys: the veil undrawn
Makes end of vigiling and vow.
It is the year o’ doom and dawn
That Time, has travailed with till now."
O rare Sir Hugh, thou mirror true
glorious English captainhood I
A™® tl irou gh and through,
lh at hale of yours should he our good!
MAOKILAND.
JESSIE MACKAY.
Death’s Gate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE were those who foresaw its
coining—greybeards who professed to
feel its approach and to see it in the
air; who remembered the evil of 1860 and
again of ’96. But who believed? Had the
tang of the arrack lost its bite, or the palm-
wine its savor of seductive sweetness? Had
the eyes of Nassiban and her jewelled sisters
grown lustreless, their limbs less shapely as
th®y lay on the silken cushions of the divan
aD i l i ie t their court in the house on the city
Wa ” • Let dotards prate! What would De
would be, and had not the priests put the
city under the protection of the gods?
Death came first on leisurely feet. It
struck, here and there, among the budmashes
?£ tae A OW - n street-sweepers and workers in
“ e potteries; one or two from the street of
the butchers; a dozen from among the ham-
als j kazaar * ® ut > day by day, the mist
of death rose and quivered from the dying
river, and, nightly, the westering sun struck
palms' pUrple umbra > hanging low among the
-vrfL 00 * 1 !!* 16 ?*?£ u . e Was u P° n them in earnest.
iJfJV Vr!!} .® lr Wol 'k and in the street.
Ilig nd low, it swept them like the breath
l re - Bonurjee, the money-
- 6 f a V n Wa -ie Rama ’ the rich landowner.
da /, went out like the snuff of
? D f e - and the men of the Hindi
The rnKw/^iu 0116 by one - or ran to hifle.
th . e outer P u rlieus came into
1 f the jewellers to work their will
“asters had passed to
g i hau > Leath struck as thev
gathered the plunder. It slew the robber in
the house of the robbed. It tripped him on
the threshold, so that the thief lay with his
loot in the gutters of the street. Gold and
silver was trodden in the dust and none
stayed to gather it. Fear came also. Fear
and drunkenness. Men broke into the houses
of the vintners and sought to stay the pesti-
lence with strong waters. The women of the
zenanas shrieked and died behind the bars,
or with frightened faces, unveiled, watched
from the lattice of their windows the naked
death that stalked in the streets.
It was a city of fear and death. By day
the smoke of the funeral pyres rose to
Heaven in a cloud, and the night glare of the
ghauts streamed like a beacon athivart the
darkness. It shone o’er leagues of sea, so
that the knees of the men of the ships were
loosened by fear of the great killing.
There was no escape. At the beginning of
the trouble a regiment of infantry was
marched in from Fort Omrah. A cordon was
drawn around the walls, and the only egress
was by death—death within by the plague;
without by the bullet of the guards. Those
who tried to break out died by rifle-ball, or
were poked back by the bayonets of the sol-
diers.
“What of the gods?” men cried. The
Hindus pulled the priests from their cells
and smote them about the head. “What is
this,” they cried, “that has come upon us?
Was it for this we made offerings of silver
annas at thy shrine? For this the baskets of
fresh ghee, the first fruits and the dressed
ducks ? Take heed lest we slay thee and find
ourselves another guru, whom the gods may
better heed. Into your temples and pray
hard!”
The imaums of the mosques called the
faithful to prayer. The moollahs mounted
the minarets and sent the cry of lamentation
to the four quarters of the heavens. The
bonzes of the pagodas struck the sacred
gongs. The conches sent each its shattering
roar through the vibrant air to waken the
sleeping gods, and the notes of the Aliphata
poured from the tower-tops across the hot
night, impassioned, solemn, shrill, in an in-
sistency of beseechment. So the stricken city
wailed its anguish to the stars.
Into this riot of death and fear, plague,
panic and superstition, on the fifth day came
James Sturt, immaculate in white duck. A
short conference with the military guard, the
production of papers, and the red-fezzed lieu-
tenant had sprung to the salute, with more
of deference than he would have shown to a
sultan. A soldier carried him, pick-a-back,
across the ford of the river before the walls.
Two others deposited his baggage at the gate
and, saluting, withdrew. Sturt hammered on
the wicket with the butt of his revolver and
waited. The gatekeeper, crazed, most likely,
with fear, or perhaps drunk, was long in
coming; and, whilst Sturt waited, he thought.
Once let him pass the gate and there Avas
no hope of return. Ingress was easy enough
to those who knew hoAV. Egress was impos-
sible. It was the law of Asia. Brutal in its
necessity, yet with a certain kindness in its
brutality. The city was stricken with plague.
Be it so. .Draw a line around it and leave it
in the hands of Allah, lest the evil spread.
But what was he doing here? Why had he
left his clean quarters to come to this pest-
ridden place? There Avas yet time to draw
back. Had not he better get down again ro
the coast and continue his journey to Eng-
land ? They were not his people, these poly-
glot aliens!
The door opened, a frightened face peered
out, and, showing his pass, Sturt stepped
over the threshold.
“Can’t let the poor beggars die alone!” he
muttered, as the wicket clanged shut behind
him.
Night was falling as he entered. It was
already dark under the archway of the gate,
and the keeper lifted a lantern to see more
clearly what manner of madman it was that
walked thus unconcernedly into the shadow
of death.
“Effendi,” he said, “thou knowest? There
as no return.”
“I knoAV,” answered Sturt. “I am
hakeem and have come to help. Light thou
the way.”
The matter of lodging solved itself.
Bamboo shack to the semi-palace of some
rich date-merchant, he could have his pick of
a thousand masterless houses. He estab-
lished headquarters in the place of a dead
notary, detached, in its own grounds, yet in
proximity to the thickly-populated area,
where the plague was most active. A few
of the moollahs, Arabs, with stern, ascetic
faces, had kept their heads. By aid of
these, persuasion, much exhortation, even
blows and pronrses of lavish future bak-
sheesh, he succeeded in kicking some courage
and order into a band of workers. With
the scant means he had in his baggage and
what imperfect drugs he could requisition in
the town, he braced himself for the struggle
and did his best. Sometimes, weary, with
nerves jangled with hideous sights and
sounds, at the end of his day’s Avork he
Avould throw himself on his couch in a pas-
sion of fierce self-questioning. What was
the good of it? All the struggle and the
hopelessness? What were they to him, this
black scum? A fleeting glance of recogni-
tion, from dying eyes, he mieht catch some-
times at the end. Gratitude? Pah' He
would do the same, at any time, for a sick
dog. Humanity? Dogs or men—what d : d
it matter? There was only one end for all.
But—he had put his hand to the plough.
He had been a fool to come, in the first
place, but, ah—well!
So James Sturt, M.D. of Edinburgh and
London, agnostic, freethinker, rationalist
professor of a hard and feelingless material-
ism, would resume his work of healing the
sick and ministering to the dying with
hands and heart gentle as any woman’s.
Early in his task he had learned that he
was not alone in the mission of mercy—not
the only European doing bis best for the
stricken. There was another, a woman
borne said a princess. Some, an angel
from Paradise. But English—oh, yes. A
memsahib of the h’Vhest. sai'd the Hindus-
sent straight from Buddha to comfort his
people. He had not met this paragon, his
unknown co-worker, but was glad of her
help. There was so much to do. The sum
(Continued on next page.)


'HOJ S'.NVOa AMI
"'Every Picture
Tells a Story.”
1
m
m
THAT
3 AD
Don’t worry and complain about a bad back. Get rid of it!
Your back doesn’t ache without a cause, and often the cause is weak
kidneys. Perhaps hard work has put your kidneys a little out of
order, or a cold has settled there. In that case a medicine is
needed to help the weakened kidneys, and if it’s kidney backache
the chances are you’ll soon be over it. The lameness, stiffness, dull,
tired feeling, nervousness, dizziness, rheumatic pains and urinary
trouble should go too, Use DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS. You can have faith in this medicine, as it is publicly
recommended by Sydney people.
Mrs. S. T. Burrows, 19 Springside-street,
Rozelle, Sydney,, says: “In common with
many others I have nothing but good to say
for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Some
few years ago I was suffering a good deal
with my kidneys, and in consequence was
troubled with pains across the small of my
back and dizzy feelings, besides having no
energy for anything. One day my attention
was called to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
and in the hope that they might benefit me
I got a bottle. After taking them for a few
days my health began to improve, and by
the time I had used six bottles I was com-
pletely cured. I am very grateful to Doan’s
Pills for the good they have done me, and I
hope many will profit by my experience and
use this grand remedy. I never suffer with
backache now; in fact, feel splendid in every
way.”
Sydney
Proof
for
Sydney
People,
Mr. Mark May, 59 Hans'ard-street, Water-
loo, Sydney, says: “Off and on for years I
suffered with my kidneys. One symptom was
constant trouble with the secretions, which
were very unhealthy and painful. Back-
ache also troubled me a lot, the pain being
at times very severe. I tried a great many
remedies in the hope of being cured, but it
proved only waste of time. When I first
saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills adver-
tised I decided to get some, and I am very
pleased that I did, for they drove away the
backache, regulated the secretions, and
strengthened and toned up my kidneys, and
made me feel 0.K.”
Eighteen years later Mr. May says:—“l
am still free of every symptom of kidney
trouble, and have beeh since Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills cured me eighteen years
ago. These are fine pills for the kidneys.”
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
of misery in this crowded, frantic hive of
dark-skinned humanity was so vast that the
single worker might well stand more than
appalled. His own efforts, fight as he
might, seemed likely to prove so futile that
he more than welcomed the addition of a
second pair of helpful hands, fit nerves and
a sane mind. A woman! It was a pity.
He disliked women. Yet surely she
possessed attributes, else why was she there?
Elderly, of course. One of the wandering
philanthropic women. He knew the type.
Self-opinionated and hard to get on with.
The urgency for action precluded curio-
sity ; and mere conjecture, he felt, was
superfluous. In the nature of things they
must encounter, sooner or later, in their
individual ministrations; meanwhile, he was
fiercely occupied.
They mot at the bedside of a dying Hindu,
a leather-worker of the bazaar. The other
inmates of the house had fled when the
master was stricken. One had had the
grace to warn the lnemsahib. She, alone
in the house witli her patient, had nursed
him for a day and a night; had soothed his
delirium, and now, in the merciful lull from
human agony that comes before the end, held
a cup of water to the parched lips. As, un-
bidden, Sturt entered at the open door, the
kneeling woman gently lowered her lifeless
burden to the pillows of the charpoy and
turned. Their eyes met.
“Janet,” he cried. “You! Great God!”
The woman’s hand went to her throat.
“Jim!” she gasped.
That was all. Accusation, recrimination
died on their lips. They stood, one on
either side of the bed, and between them the
dead face questioned each with wide eyes.
What was their quarrel that its triviality
should be thrust before the dignity of death
—their lives before the life of a dying city?
A rush of hurrying feet came through the
courtyard and a native servant broke into
the room.
“Effendi, the house of Ibrahim Ben Azur
is stricken. Already his son is dead of the
pestilence. Come in haste !”
As Sturt turned, the woman’s eyes met
his, he thought, beseechingly. “Come,” he
said, and they went together to the new call.
Thenceforth these two sank self and per-
sonality to strive only toward a single end—
to fight death rampant; to bring order out
of chaos ; to succor and console. Explana-
tion, arraignment could come later.
The truce of temporary, tacit comradeship,
thus arranged, worked well. Each brought
to each invaluable aid —Sturt his best of
medical science; she her presence at the
sick-bed, deft, gentle hands and the charm of
womanhood that soothes and comforts. The
city was mapped into districts and, gradu-
ally, in days and nights of toil, amid hid-
eousness almost unspeakable, systematised
order won its way. The whimpering folk
gathered courage from the courage of these
two. They ceased to shrink like hurt
rabbits at the mere approach of death.
They fought back and disputed the claim to
their own lives. The pestilence no longer
claimed each victim that it touched. It had
been got in hand.
Thrown together in the nature of their
work, Sturt watched her moving among
scenes of horror, courageous, gentle, patient,
never losing heart; and,* watching., knew
the heroism of it all. It came to him as a
shock that, for all their intimacy, here was
a woman he had never known before. He
thought of a loss to himself in a queer,
detached way. He had thought, had hoped,
never to meet her again. Well, when the
plague was passed, when they could leave the
city, they would shake hands, and, congratu-
lating each other on work well done, go each
his separate way. There came back to him
the memory of a night at Simla when, three
years ago, returning from a round of duties,
iiis world had crashed to instant ruin, had
crumbled at the knowledge that his wife had
left him. shamed and dishonored. This
woman ! His wife !
liis creed, if he had a creed, had been that
of cold, reasoned science, bloodless as a
problem in mathematics. Self-analysis he
had always scorned, but now, involuntarily,
sub-consciously, questions impinged upon his
mind, demanding answer. Had he con-
tributed to the crash? His test tubes and
his laboratory? She had wanted warmth
and color. That she had sought them else-
where—was she all to blame? Pshaw!
She was his wife.
They met daily, in the homes of the people.
He saw her sV the sick-beds of the well-to-
do ; beside the foul mats of stricken beggars ;
saw her spend her splendid womanhood in
willing sacrifice, giving of herself to these
aliens, unthanked, hardly understood. He
saw all this and the banished train of
thought returned. Forgotten phrases;
words that he had learnt, a little child at his
mother’s knee.
Forgive? Nonsense! There were some
wrongs impossible of forgiveness. What
love had been his to give, this woman had
had it, full measure. She had taken his
heart, had amused herself, played with it.
as a child with a doll. Then, like a peevish
child, had torn it to shreds and thrown it
aside. Forgive! No! He would do her
justice. No plea for reconciliation had
come from her lips. Her pride was high
as his. She had kept the silence of the
past, mutually agreed between them. Chance
had thrown them together, chance had set
them a task. Doubtless, she, too, longed for
the ending of it.
Among- the dying folk were many Arabs,
strict followers of Mahomet, whose creed rose
superior to circumstance. Before a faith
crying its credo through agony and the
sweat of death. Sturt found the pinchbeck
creed, the fabric of reasoned unbelief, in
which he had hitherto measured the universe
beginning to totter. What if the super-
stitions he had always scorned were not
superstitions? What if the dying cry of
the heathen, so oft repeated, contained, after
all. the universal truth?
lie and the woman stood, one day, at the
bedside of an Arab, a poor son of the desert,
to whom apparently life had given nothing
of its gauds; poor camel-driver, who, all
through his existence! had scarcely possessed
a second piastre to jingle against the first.
Deserted by his own race, tended by
strangers, the man was in the act of dying.
The last fluttering breath was sighing to an
end. Suddenly the closed eyes opened wide
and intp them sprang a sort of energy of
recognition. He struggled to his elbow,
cried some words in a strong voice and again
fell back, dead. “What did he say?” she
asked. Sturt knew a little Arabic. “He.
said ‘There is no God but God, 1 ” he
answered. “Like that, he said it. ‘There
is no God. but God.’ Funny, isn’t it?” His
cheap cynicism rang hollow and empty and
he went from the presence of the dead with
a feeling of shame.
In the silence of the night, lying wakeful
on his pallet, while the slow seconds ticked
away the hours, he fought his battle, and it
was hard. Into this privacy, into this fight
of the ego for its own salvation, there must
be no intrusion. Through what particular
hell Sturt passed none has the right to
inquire.
There came a day when they could say
with certainty the plague was stayed, could
foretell the ending of their task. The life of
the city returned. People began again to
take up the broken threads of business, and
the stall-keepers in the bazaars again called
their wares. The two co-workers met at
the rendezvous for what each confidently
expected to prove the last time. There
needed only a final consultation, a discussion
of arrangements as to the few cases remain-
ing on their hands. The woman entered
listlessly. Sturt was quick to note the
physical languor of her movements, so differ-
ent from the almost fierce energy of activity
displayed during the need of the past hor-
rible weeks.
“Feeling the strain?” he queried, and saw,
with shocked eyes, that the hand held out
for. the cup of coffee he offered trembled
visibly. Her eyes held a look he failed at
first to understand.
“I think I’ve got it,” she said quietly.
Tlie words shook Sturt to the depths.
“You, Janet!” He sprang up in horrified
protest. “You! My God! -No!”
“You tell me then,” she said and slipped
her arm from the sleeve of her blouse.
Beneath the soft flesh of her armpit he felt,
with shaking fingers, the little hard nodule,
and knew it for the harbinger of death.
If Sturt ever fought death for a human
life he fought it now. And out of the
depths he cried for the life of this woman
who had sinned. But from the first he
knew it was a losing battle. At the end, a
halting whisper came on the fluttering
breath : “Jim, it was all a mistake. I did
not know you cared.”
He was on his knees now, the lax body
pressed to his heart. There came to him
a full realisation of his loss ; of her splendid
womanhood and the assurance that she had
loved him still.
The limp body stirred in his arms. The
closed lids fluttered, then opened, a moment.'
One instant his eyes met hers, warm with
love, ere the lids fell again. The stopped
breath returned, flickered, ceased again, went
on, calmly, gently. Death’s greyness passed
from the face, as the drawing back of a
curtain ; and Sturt, replacing his wife’s form
upon the pillows, knew that it was Life.
D. W. O. FAGAN.
Ypres.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL poplars stood in the rain in the
squares, and in the quiet streets lined
with little stuccoed houses Valenciennes
lace was made by the 35,000 who lived there-
abouts. Outside, there were only one’s own
footsteps to hear above the steady rain that
in Ypres seems to pour for ever. There was
nothing much to see save the bright lapse of
raindrops on cobblestones and a few wet
houses. I suppose there is nothing at all
to see now but holes in the ground. Holes
in the ground where the high-towered Maison
des Templiers stood long in ruins, the first
Council house the Knights Templars built for
themselves when Ypres was a great Flanders
town. There is no record of their having
used the hall; presumably they built it in
case they might want it.
Holes in the ground where the Rue deDix-
mude was, and where the dogs three abreast
drew little green waggons full of cabbages
or milk or apples (in the rain) ; and where
the country women pulled heavy barrows,
lurching over the broken roadway past the
lofty pole with the arrows on top—poles to
which birds were fastened high up and shot
at with bows and arrows by the archers of
St. Sebastian clubs. The archery clubs were
all over Flanders, using Sundays and holy-
days for transfixing captive birds with
arrows. There is a hole in the ground, no
doubt, where the meat market stood like a
Fleming burgher with his feet spread out and
his back against a wall.
There were some good pictures there;
not many, but good. Sketches by
Itubens; pictures by Jan Thomas (a
pupil of Rubens), Van Ostade, Brueqhel the
Younger: penitents and pig-killing, land-
scapes and miracles, painters in studios and
girls making lace in doorways. Vivid and
strong, with the Netherlands meticulous
finish and care, together with the broad
treatment and the inspiration. In St. Mar-
tin’s Cathedral (a famous place that left
me cold ; there were so many good churches
in Flanders that one got pernicketty and
fastidious) pious pictures hung, by Jan
Thomas again, and by F. P. Hals, of Ghent
—good pictures, but very pious.
The pestilence that came at the end of the
,15th century killed 15,000 of the then ap-
proximate 100,000; not many of the 35,000
are spared by the pestilence that came at
the beginning of the 20th century. But it
goes on—the Lowlands goes on, in its
ordained environment of blood and tears. It
builds best in that accustomed atmosphere.
Soon there will be 35,000 making Valenci-
ennes lace in Ypres again, in the rain.
HILARY LOFTING.


nrnrp.
•tt,
ms
? fi * *' * {filEfs w
® ffi§NL'Js!pflir
rS***' s?*\ J
s**
s|t
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z, Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Re*lffgt°n,
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
«j
i?
B-7
a, mumh^T^
:.;.
THE judgment of veteran shooters, men who
A know by their own practical experience, is that
Remington UMC Shot Gun Cartridges embody all
of the essential qualities that make for satisfactory
service. They are supplied in four trade names—*
NEW CLUB REMINGTON
NITRO CLUB ARROW
These four standard brands cover the
entire range of shot gun cartridges.
For further particulars enquire of your
dealer or send for special descriptive
catalogue.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC
COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT
Australian Manager
Box 686, G. P. O.
Melbourne
“I’ve Struck It—
The Real Thing in Razors. Gets through the job
in a quarter the time, and 'makes the. business a
pleasure. The ‘PLUM’S’ the Razor for me.”
THK “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6-POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30'/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All , the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKIN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “ PLUM”
Razor.
OSTER
V*/ MATCHLESS
Screwing' Tackle,
Easy-starting, easy-pulling, easy-adjustment have all been perfected
in this tool. It is self-contained —it has no loose dies or partsi.
Leader screw troubles are permanently eliminated by our patented
chip shield.
Furnished in four sizes. Without ratchet, in., % in., tin. to 2in»
With ratchet, lin. to 2in., 2% in. to 4in. All use one set of dies only,
except the largest, which uses two.
“The only way properly to appreciate a Matchless is to use it.” See
your dealer at once.
The Easiest
Way to
Screw Pipe
Carried in stock,
with extra parts,
by ironmongers,
machinery and
hardware 8 plumb-
ing supply houses.
m i
11
s mm
Australasian Representative—
CHARLES WRIGHT, Turner Chambers, 16 Hunter St., Sydney
The Oster Manufacturing Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio , U.S.A.
TAKE
warning when the following symptoms make their appearance bilious-
ness, acidity, constipation, depression of spirits, flatulence, declining
appetite, headache, loss of energy, restlessness at night and heaviness
during the day. Generally speaking, these are indications that all is not
well with the digestive system. Take the necessary steps to remedy
matters. Before another day passes seek the assistance of
beecham’s pills
which will speedily relieve these unpleasant feelings, generally due to
complications arising from a disordered stomach, and bring about a
radical change in the General Health. For many years this excellent
preparation has been universally acknowledged to be a first-class remedy
for digestive troubles. They improve the powers of nutrition and thus
enable the body to benefit to the full from the food taken. Anyone who
is at all troubled with ailments originating in derangement of the
stomach, liver and bowels is urgently advised to take Beeeham’s Pills
AMD MARK THE DIFFERENCE!
Sold in boxes, labelled price IOJd (36 pills), (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
r
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Jo you
want to obtain an Appliance that is' not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLTANGE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FTRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK
Next time you feel
fagged, try a glass of
Horlick's Malted
Milk. You will feel
the difference almost
at once. You will
note a speedy accele-
ration of energy.
Horlick's rapidly en-
dows the system with
vim, vigour and
vitality.
Ask for Horlick's
Sample will be sent
on receipt of 2d. in
stamps to Hutchinson
and Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
old, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt-
ing. Good for
old and young.
Purely
Vegetable
Carters
Small Fill—Small Doss—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
- / j 9- -
muni
For Your Liver
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
who are unnaturally drowsy and
sleepy, who lack ambition and
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and weariness.
They are effective without being
drastic and they have none of the
bad effects of strong purgatives.
Pinkettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use uring colds
and fevers.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.”
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
“Dreadnought’’Wire Strainer
I
Post Free
(ktTiT
(Patented)
fig I
10/-
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE,


A N GROVITEj
LEATHER
The only belting that you can afford, Mr.
■Plant Owner, is one that will keep a close
acquaintance with the pulleys all the time.
Mangrovite Leather or Rawhide Belting
answers every requirement for efficient trans-
mission. It grips pulleys and transmits maxi-
power, thus ensuring production.
Tanned by our special Mangrovite process,
it is strong, durable and dependable.
Prove it on your plant.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowicl),
49 Wynyard Square (near C.P. o.),Sydney,N.S.W.
e JL t !™ Australia: Cibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S th Australia; John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Eagle S Globe Steel Co. Ltd., 370
204 Latrobe Street. Melbourne; Kalgoorlie and Fremantle, W.A.
Charles Atkins & Co., Adelaide. Paul & Gray Ltd., Newcastle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
■
mm-
i,;i "j
K s'Eacot.df'
,< ** -
HIGH-QUALITY STEEL-CUTTING EDGES,
from our own material.
II
*
with Iron Backs, made to your order
When ordering state size on cut, depth,
whether for Fixed Heads or Movable Bolts,
necessary.
thickness, length and width of slots;
II Fixed Heads Template absolutely
No Waste Power
when yon 'use Dick’s Baiata Belting on your I
plant. The flexibility of
1 Dick’s Baiata Belting
m “ mmm “* (The original and genuine.)
is greater than any other belts —leather or
composition.
Slipping is almost impossible owing to the
unique nature of its surface.
Before placing that belting order
SEND FOR OUR FREE BOOKLET.
Write to-day. Sole Importers:—
JAMES HARDIE &. CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Coir. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
Phone 8450 (4 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at Brisbane and Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents- Paul & Cray Ltd.
mmm
smm
IN FUTURE
We will make our Fortnightly Appeal
To the Petrol Community
from this position in “The Bulletin.”
Previously we had a position, technically described as “Unspecified,” which resulted sometimes in our
announcement bashfully appearing, in one issue, amidst SILK STOCKINGS or LINGERIE, or in another
week it was trying to scintillate amongst the FOG of ALCOHOLIC ETHERS or BACCHANALIAN BOUQUET,
As FAITHFUL and PRACTICAL SALESMEN of MOTOR ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES
such surroundings were, to say the least, disconcerting, but now our embarrassment is at an end, and
nencerortn,
EVERY TWO WEEKS,
with our other good HARDWARE FRIENDS surrounding us, we hope to help make this page, at least,
A REAL ENGINEERING PAGE.
Robert G. Swan & Co. Ltd.,
THE HOUSE FOR MOTOR ENGINEERS' SUPPLIES,
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
m
»WRIS
tmm
“Clayton” Portable Steam Engine.
"Tangrye” Portable Lampless
Oil Engine.-'
‘ Star,’’ Portable Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Agencies c„ mpr ue
TANCYE’S Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Pumps of all types, etc.
CLAYTON Portable Steam Engines. WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. BUNCLE Chaffcutters.
CANE Milking Machines. E.R.B. Separator Engines, Pumping Engines, Crutching Plants,
TRIUMPH Oil and Benzine Engines, Vertical Tyfe. “STAR" Portable Oil Engines, etc.
MACHINERY DEPARTMENT-MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Triumph Oil or Benzine
Engine.
E.R.B. Separator
na
Buncle Travelling- Chaff cutter
A*^ v ‘
HEARING MACHINES
Repairs to Handpieces.
Avoid the delays of the “rush” season—send YOURS in now.
We have special machinery installed for the sole purpose of adjusting
and repairing handpieces.
DALGETY § CO. Ltd.
Australasian Agents:
AH Branches.
mm
m
?
•i
FI
aa &
;
DODGE IMPROVED ROCKBREAKERS
With Manganese Steel Jaw Plates
We are now manufacturing these Machines locally (with the exception of the Jaw
Plates), where formerly they were imported from America.
Experience has enabled us to improve the design, and, where a fine and uniform product
is required, such as to CRUSHING ROUES, HUNTINGTON MILES, &c„ they are unequalled.
Four Sizes carried in Stock. Capacity I—l 21 —12 Tons per hour.
Larger Sizes to Order. Write for Full Descriptive Circular.
PARKE 8 LfCY CO. LTD.
*s & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
A Revolution in Concentrating Tables.
PATENT APPLIED FOR.
Mining Engineers and Mine Managers have boggled at having to pay high prices for Table Concentrators, owing to expensive mechanical
construction.
We are now able to announce the invention of a Table Concentrator which not only meets the demand for a Tow-priced Machine, but OCCUPIES
MUCH LESS SPACE, has FAR GREATER CAPACITY, and MAKES CLEANER CONCENTRATES than ANY EXISTING TABLE.
Having been in the ore-concentrator business for over 20 years, we know what we are talking about.
The price of this unique Concentrator, which we have christened “The
Why buy second-hand Tables WHEN YOU CAN BUY a GREATLY SUPERIOR new Machine for about the same money?
TO USERS OF THE “CARD” CONCENTRATOR.
Our Patent Ball-bearing Carrier can be easily applied to existing machines. This invention takes the place of the three supporting springs, which
are dispensed with. This patent ball-bearing Carrier is practically everlasting, and contributes to the smooth-working and highly-efficient operation
of the “Card.” If the “Card” head motion is kept in order the Table Will run NOISELESSLY AT ANY SPEED.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS: _
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, 350 George Street, Sydney.
-Curvilinear,” is only SJ7S-
