

DB'WA.E 3 S —The Spirit of Friendship
R. <3K WATKINS
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kc;nt Street., ssyu^j.cj’,
Mining Mid Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’™and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty j BbTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Saies conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always aval ae.
WE ADVANCE
MONEYS?
C-N--VVV
V \"S£
ON EASY^M
TERMS
m \ m v\< a. >
m
tu.Ut
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
PSWMONT de PIETE -
I> 4 I C9T LIMITED.
74 Casllereagh. 5t.74. Sydney.
CAPITAL 5. 200.000 ‘Fhone City 5325
foncAes jS- 29 Kihc St., Newcastle. NSW- 71517 swanstohs7.Mel6.Vu
40 Adelaide Sißmbane.Q.lB6 CastlereaghSt.lS? George St. West, Sydney.
r P JBejnnett. Oe>jner , &/
f:T>
if
CHROMOL
99
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining anti smelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J.C.LudowiciSSonLtd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
n
n
0?
m
22:
/:
u
Ov
n
9.
J^neapple
I^&Sj
7/d
®5
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
fo. INDIGESTION
ant! DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Build your house “upon a rock
-and roof it with
a,
D
m
Your structure will then be assured of more than
ordinary permanence.
■"""" ■'Actua, samples and illustrated booklet, post free from
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australian Manager), Chains House, Sydney
A new and revised edition of th e
,f Referee” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
J.D.EX GIN
(The White Heart
on the Black Bottle)
KEIGWIN CSb CO. LTD., SYDNEY Sole Agents.
GYPSBOARD
The most durable and attractive material for every kind of interior
in town and country. Far ahead of other material, yet costs the same
2/6 per sq. yard ; easy to erect and lasts as long as the building.
Ask for Booklet and Sample from the manufacturers,
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney
PLEASANT AND
A TRUE ANTISEPTIC-
oPAiiom
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA'S BEST.
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—'No. 2045. j
[Thursday, April 24, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, a


BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.’’
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few—the more
stoical among us—can avoid worrying over frast and prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To those fortunate
few this little chat, will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method ‘of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Some Hints about the Hair. —An Excellent
Shampoo. —Few women realise how all-impor-
tant a really good shampoo is if the hair is
to be kept in perfect condition. To shampoo
the hair properly, it down, comb it out,
then dip the fingers into a little pure olive or
almond oil, and thoroughly massage the
scalp. Then mix a teaspoonful of stallax
granules in a cup of warm water. Fill a basin
with warm M-ater, into which the ends of the
hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax mix-
ture into the roots in the usual way. Rinse,
and dry by fanning, or in the open air, if the
weather permits. Should the hair be excep-
tionally greasy, the oil massage of the scalp
should be omitted. Stallax can be bought at.
auy chemist’s in quarter-pound sealed pack-
ages. It keeps indefinitely, and one package
is sufficient for 25 or 30 shampoos.
A Tonie for Thin or Falling Hair. —When the
hair falls unduly, or has become thin and im-
poverished, a tonic should be applied every
night for six or eight weeks. To make a
simple and inexpensive but most' efficacious
lotion, at home, take a quarter of a pint of
bay rum and add to it one ounce of boranium.
Shake thoroughly, and leave for 30 minutes;
then strain, alid add sufficient water to make
half a pint. Every night massage the scalp
for 10 minutes, going over the entire head,
then dab the mixture into the roots with a
soft sponge. Regular brushing for a few
minutes every morning will also help to im-
prove the condition of the hair.
A Greasy Skin and Blackheads. —A greasy,
oily skin, with blackheads and enlarged
pores, is a sore trial, and many a girl goes
through life with her appearance entirely
spoiled with these unsightly blemishes, which
may now be so quickly and effectively removed
with but little trouble. To remove blackheads
and the dull, dirty look of the skin which
accompanies them, dissolve one stymol tablet
in a glass of hoi wafer. Allow the efferves-
cence to subside, then dip a small soft sponge
into the liquid and bathe the face. Leave on
the skin for a fdw minutes, then dry with a
towel, and the blackheads will come right off.
For a greasy skin, bathe the face three times
a week with stymol and spray with cold water
every morning, using a vulcanite throat spray.
Tli© Secret of a Good Complexion.—The secret
of a good complexion is so simple that, were
it only more widely known, there would be
no such thing as a rottgli. blotchy skin.
Nature has decreed that the outer cuticle,
when it shrivels and .dies, shall be removed:
but so many women fail to realise this. To
remove, by absorption, the dead outer skin,
and preserve (lie complexion in all its pris-
tine beauty, mercolized wax is recommended,
ordinary creams and lotions being quite in-
effectual for tins purpose. Smear the wax
over the face and nock, rub it; gently into the
skin, and leave for the night. In the morning
wash it off. using a good soap, such as
Pilenta, and all the dead skin will be removed
with the wax. Then apply a lotion to re-
move any trace of greasiness and brace up
the skin, making it firm and white. The lotion
can be made at home quite easily, by mixing
one ounce of cleminite 'in four tablespoonfuls
of hot water. Bottle, and, when cool, apply
to the face With a soft sponge, or the tips of
the fingers, allowing it to dry on the skin.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C.B.—Clynol berries will reduce your weight.
They are harmless, and no alteration need be
made in your diet. They have also one great
advantage over other flesh-reducers: they re-
duce so gradually that there is no fear of
loose, flabby skin and wrinkles.
ZULA.—No, I am afraid I cannot, tell you how
to prevent yourself from biting your hails.
You must exercise your will power.
CONSTANCE.—To remove the yellowness
from your skin, get a tin of mercolized wax
and apply it every night, rubbing it well into
the skin. Leave it on till morning; then wash
it off witlt warm water and a good soap. (2)
To give a color to the cheeks, get a little col-
liandum and rub some on a leather. Apply this
to the cheeks. It gives a perfectly natural-
looking flush to the face, and is quite unde-
tectable. (3) To remove the blackheads, take
a stymol tablet and dissolve it in warm water.
When the effervescence has subsided mop the
lotion over the face, allow to remain on for
a few minutes* then wipe off, and the black
heads will disappear.
GEOEGIE.—I am not surprised to hear-that
the electrolysis treatments were not success-
ful. They seldom are. Get an ounce of phe-
minol and a tube of tekko paste. Use them in
conjunction, and you will soon be rid of the
troublesome superfluous hair.
SHEILA. —To restore your hair to its original
color, get two ounces of tammalite and mix it
with three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair every night or morning. In a couple of
weeks there will be no sign of the greyness.
Tammalite is not a dye, but a natural re-
storer.
ELSIE. —To remove the roughness from your
skin, use a lotion made by mixing cleminite
with warm water. Allow the lotion to cool,
then bottle, and use after washing the face
every morning. [1
Your Mirra
'will give
you
&
tz
r
fs
e pleasing
assurance that
yourComplexton
IS what It shouk
he If you use
TETLOW’S
FACE POWDER
It impart* a delicste bloom to the
Complexion, so pure that it will
not harm the most sensitive skin.
Sold In Five Tints
White. Cream. Pink. Flesh and prunette,
by all Stores . Chemists, Perfumers and
first C/ass Drapery Houses
£NGUSH
'Pet
■r ID
tz
box
Wholesale Distributing Agenrs:-
Messrs. ELLIOTT ISKOS., LTu.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
' Sydney.
LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS !*
HENRY C. QUELCH 8 CO..
4 8c 5. Ludftate So.. London. Ena.
man.
Fox
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com"
piexion with pimples and blotches*
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation, and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
[he Or. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Beading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
chargp. -
Hudson’s Eumenthoi Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
FOR COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
and the PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION!
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the United
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with' milk on 12
men during 15 days. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss in body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine, or other harmful or
poisonous drug. Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co.
Ltd., Sydney. 1/6aTin . I*
JU
wm'mi
HU
ON
The Red Page
A Scientist’s Sore Spot
Early last Spring every ornithological
society in Australia was making a noise
about the cruel massacre of penguins and
sea-elephants at Macquarie Island. The
uproar became contagious and spread to the
Cold Country, where finally the House of
Commons butted in on the business. John
McCall, Tassy’s Agent-General, then advised
Lands-Minister Hayes that Douglas Mawson,
who had visited the Island en route to the
Antarctic, was going to force an investiga-
tion, so llayes took time the forelock and
got busy. A couple of hundred naturalists
wrote to him seeking the semi-Antarctic
joy-ride. Baldwin Spencer, Captain White
and Clive Lord.seemed to be most promi-
nent in the runninsr. CUyiain Joe Hatch,
the 82-year-old eager of the oil-works,
corn ted <-tv inquiry and offered a free trip to
fhe investigators. The accommodation on his
Rachel Cohen, however, was not considered
palatial enough when the time came, so
there the matter stagnates.
The writer got an opportunity of making
the trip, and not being wise, grasped it. His
strongest conviction is that this Tasmanian
suburb, 1000 miles away, is the most deso-
late place on earth. The sunless summer
has not yet succeeded in .raising the quick-
silver out of the middle thirties, while the
annual rainfall is measured by the yard.
The drear uplands are forever covered in fog,
despite the fierce and incessant winds which
make the island so cruel to shipping. There
is already a mournful list of wrecks on the
25,000-acre speck in' the waste of waters,
and there are many graves on the shingle
at Caroline Harbor. The Eagle, Caroline,
Bencleugh, Kakanui,* Lucitania and Grati-
tude have been lost, and the people of Aus-
tralia will forever connect the disappear-
ance of the Commonwealth trawler Endeavor
with the island, though she was not wrecked
there.
Climatic disadvantages are not all that
militate against exploration. Continuous
wind has moulded the surface into an unend-
ing series of waves, and the corrugations of
the lowlands are as deep as those of a switch-
hack-railway. The depressions are partially
filled with stagnant water and the putrefying
remains of sea-elephants which, with the
whitened skeletons, bear testimony to the
massacres. The northern portion "is a Gol-
gotha. The uncanny shrieking of beasts
and the wailing of the wind supply an appro-
priate accompaniment.
The penguin population is estimated at
between 30 and 40 millions, and Joe Hatch
claims that they are ipereasing since the oil-
men have systematically destroyed sea-tigers
and skua-g 41s. In appearance and voice the
tigers are much like their brothers of the
jungle. After eating their fill they make a
diversion of massacring a few dozen pen-
guins. The toll thus exacted is probably
millions greater annually than the number
destroyed for oil. The skua-gull keeps the
penguin census-figures down by decreasing
the birthrate. The hawk-like creatures have
acquired a palate for eggs by tasting the
unfertile ones which the penguins discard.
The penguin method of incubation is to hold
the egg, with a fold of- the loose abdomen
skin wrapped around it, by the two feet, the
male and female taking alternate 48-hour
shifts. When the hatching season pro-
gresses no discard eggs are available, so two
skua-gulls will attack a broody penguin, and,
picking at its eyes, force it to drop its egg.
The eradication of the tigers is being brought
about h.v the rifle; poison is used against the
skua-gulls.
A remarkable characteristic of the pen-
guin is that it must be taught to swim, this
duty devolving upon the parents. To facili-
tate the tutelage in the rough sea the old
birds oil the .water with a fluid from their
bodies. Another human trait is that many
of the birds prefer to remain bachelors, and
these have. separate apartments set aside
for them in the rookeries.
There are several species of penguin, but
the Royal variety, whose rookery is at Luci-
tania Bay, are the best for oil production.
Yearling birds are preferred. They are*
knocked on the head when returning from
the surf, the slaughter being confined to
January, when they are moulting and in the
best condition. The youngsters are recog-
nisable by having only one head-feather, a*nd
it takes 800 of them, each weighing about a
stone, to fill the oil-digestor. Twenty-five
pounds of steam is theft turned on for 12
hours and the crude oil is run off. About
700 tons of this oil. is used annually” by
Australian binder-twine manufacturers.
The sea-elephant, from which 300 tons of
oil accrues each year, is a species of seal that
comes ashore to shed its skin in August.
Being tame, it is easily knocked unconscious
by a tap on the head with a ferruled waddy.
The throat is then cut, the blubber stripped
and placed in the digestors, whence issues
the sea-elephant oil of. commerce. This is
used mainly in the tanning trade and by soap
manufacturers.
The oil-works at “The Rockies” carries a
ste l of a dozen men of all the nations. With
the exception of meat, everything, including
fuel, has to be imported. On one occasion,
when the boat was wrecked after landing
them, the men were left on the island for
nearly two years; the captain of a relief
smp sent from Tassy failed to locate the
ret, j, rned A with the tale that it
had disappeared. A Maoriland expedition
£~l P m0 f re f S v UCCe f“- During their long
«S~1° r th % had n0 fu el—the menu con-
sisted of an all-meat diet—duck, teal, pen-
guin livers and eggs a la carte. Inscriptions
on caves show that Yanks traded there for
the now extinct fur seal over a centurv ago
and the crew of one boat, including a
stewardess, lived and died out on the drearv
waste. *
A meteorological and wireless station was
established on the island about six years ago;
but after the officer who installed and ran it
for a while came back, no one could be in-
duced to accept the position.
Whether the ornithologists will make
another rumpus next Spring remains to be
seen; in any case, the probability is that the
Tasmanian Lands Department will refuse to
renew the lease, which terminates this year.
to Joe Hatch’s crowd. The octogenarian
will not lose much by it. For a quarter of
a century he has carried on a job which
would kill most men in 12 months, and as a
reward he has lost three vessels and all his
capital. It seems hopeless to expect the
industry to be a continuous one owing to the
impossibility of getting men to remain amidst
the shivering desolation. The rough seas
would quickly sweep away any jetty—if it
were possible to construct one—and the load-
ing of oii from rafts in a rough sea is only
one of the difficulties which make Macquarie
Island unthinkable. Unthinkable except to
one whose enthusiasm and confidence, like
the gold-fossicker’s, amounts to a fever and
cannot be damped, even by persistent adver-
sity, so long as life lasts.
COBBEB.
A History of Our Uncle
Cecil Chesterton’s History of the United
States is the best and most useful little
work of its kind up to date, and being pub-
lished this year it is distinctly up to date.
The writer doesn’t pretend to be exhaustive.
He condenses the early shindies so vigor-
ously that lie gets to the battle of Bunker’s
Hill on page 25. That sacrifices Pocahontas
and the scalping of General Braddock and
the slaying of Jenny Somebody, generally
depicted as a Very beautiful girl tied to a
tree, with Indians leaping round her; but it
leaves room for things that really matter.
Another great economy is effected by practi-
cally cutting out the wars. The causes and
results are shown in full, but the mere
butcheries —the hackneyed tales cf Gettys-
burg and Chickamanga and Chickahominy
and Missionary Ridge, also the Blanky
Angle and the struggle at Saratoga, where
the trunks come from—are reduced to
skeletons. Without these interruptions of
dead meat, which can be got separately in
other books, the narrative becomes consecu-
tive, and it is possible to pack a huge
amount of knowledge into 240 pages.
A feature which concerns us is Chester-
ton’s whole-souled contempt for the British
and Australian system whereby no one can
be a Minister unless ho is a member of
Parliament —which means, in Australian
Federal politics, unless he has persuaded a
constituency to elect him. With this goes a
whole-souled contempt for the nominal re-
sponsibility of Ministers to Parliament. As
a matter of fact, they are practical y respon-
sible only to their party, and their party
dare not throw them out because that would
mean putting the other party in, and that
would mean each member of the party sacri-
ficing his chance of the next vacant port-
folio. The alternative, is the appointment,
by the ruler, of Ministers, generally men out-
side Parliament, whom of course the people
haven’t elected. This is the United States
and was the German practice. In Germany
it worked badly because the people didn’t
elect the Emperor. In. Australia it wouldn’t
work because the people don’t elect the
Governor-General. In the U.S. it has worked
very well because the people choose the Pre-
sident. Ministers are responsible to the man
who is responsible to the people, and who
can be impeached by the people’s representa-
tives. As a result, when a big man is
wanted suddenly for big things, the choice
isn’t limited to the men who have gone into
Parliament in days of small things. There
is the whole body of electors to select from.
It. isn’t necessary to appoint a newly-fledged
briefless barrister as Attorney-General
because he is the only barrister oii his side
of the House. A financier, an engineer or a
War Minister may be appointed in a time of
rush because he has been up to his eyes in
the necessary sort of business to the last
moment, and has proved his capacity by
success—not because he left the business
when he was a mere apprentice, and spent
the interval working his way up by debate.
So long as the man at the top—the man
who makes the appointments—is responsible
to the people, and the people’s representa-
tives have all the power of legislation, there
is much lode in. the system which makes
every elector qualified for the administrative
jobs.
During the war Lloyd George struggled
against the defects of a rotten system by
giving portfolios to men whom he thought
necessary and finding them seats in Parlia-
ment which they would rather have been
without. Australia takes another method
and delegates its portfolios to Commissioners
who are not even allowed to be in Parlia-
ment. . Thus the Railway portfolios are held
—subject to interferences which aren’t
always an advantage—by outside men with
longer appointments than a U.S. Minister
enjoys, for in fact the TJ.S. Minister is in
f « definite term. And the banking half
of th e Treasurer’s portfolio is held by Deni-
son Miller on conditions which make him
independent of the whole Cabinet. If Aus-
tralia had an elected Governor-General the
Uncle Sam system might be tried here If
the veto in London wasn’t considered a
sufficient acknowledgment of the Imperial
connection, the Chief Justice or the Auditor-
General might be appointed from headquart-
ers. Or the Government in London might
be nut in charge of the Public Debt with a
° °r\. borro l nn " . That would be some-
tiimg like an Imperial connection. (Chatto
and Wmdus, London.) V L
The Curse of Paul
The official title of the book is The Rival
1 htlosophics of Jesus and of Paul The
author is Ignatius Singer, and George Allen
and Unwin,. Ltd. (London), are the pub-
lishers. This critic calls it “The Curse of
Haul tor short, just as one might say “The
Curse of Cromwell.”
Jt is an old saying that Christ invented
Christianity while Paul invented theology
and Ignatius Singer, going on Bible evidence’
enlarges on that belief. He holds that Christ
made.no definite pretensions to divinity and
that in none of his sayings did he claim to
be a descendant of David. He alwavs re-
ferred to the Law as sacred and as the ulti-
f ™l of -PPeai: lie was LentianV
tie Reformer and the friend of the
-rea? m G ?s’s a o n Ahe T UCh H \ was loved b - v the
-.reat mass oi the Jews, who saw nothing in
Has teachings to. conflict with their Md faith
At the same time He was hated by the
(Continued on pone 24.)


<re ?s&u»
1
\
w
i
mi
H 8
Anthony Horderns’
Mail Order Service
To the many people who are acquainted with Anthony
Horderns’—that immense storehouse of the world’s
merchandise, with its brilliant displays, choice and
varied, in the fifty spacious departments, and replete
with modern facilities for the comfort and convenience
of shoppers —to such people no hesitation would be felt
in entrusting an Order by Post to
Anthony Horderns’ Mail Order Department.
Your order will receive the same discriminating care
in selection of goods required, the same faithful
attention to detail and prompt attention, as the order
received from you in person. And you get the
advantage of the lowest city prices.
Anthony Horderns’ pay the carriage on Family
D rapery, Fashion Goods, Women’s and Men’s Wear,
Boots and Shoes, Silverplate, Cutlery and Jewellery
to any part of New South Wales or to any port in the
other States.
There are several helpful catalogues, nicely illustrated and full of
information, which make shopping by post very simple. You can have
one, or more— they cost you nothing and are sent to your address directs
postage paid, immediately on receiving your inquiry.
WHICH CATALOGUE DO YOU WISH?
Fashions.
Fruit Preserving.
Stoves and Ranges.
Mattings and Rugs.
Men’s Matters.
Harness & Stable Requisites.
Toilet Needs, Patent Medicines,
Tobacco and Groceries.
Travellers’ Requisites.
Poultry and Bee Keeping.
mms
rMf
u V
&
i.
- v_ V
ff ) 9slp
ve
■AV".
ANTHONY HORDERN&SQNS Lid
Only Universal Providers, New Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY N.S.W.


DELCO-LIGIT
Provides Electric Light for Country Homes, Churches, Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
DELCO-LIGIiT Pays for Itself.
Ask the Man Who Owns One.
HHllllBiaiaailiaiiniliailllllllllllllßllliaiiaillllllllliallH
Runs on Kerosene,
one gallon of which will light 32 Elecflric
Lamps for 5 hours. Besides furnishing'
plenty of clean, brilliant light, it will operate Fans and iSmall
Motors for Household Work, Dentists’ Motors, etc.
Lowest
First Cost
Lowest
Running Cost
■4S-
m
r
m
mm
xiim
*
:
* '
'''
S&fci
.
The Delco-Light Engine and Generator
which generates Electricity.
The Delco-Light Battery in which
the Electricity is stored.
Satisfaction
guaranteed
wherever
installed
DELCO-LIGHT IS SIMPLE, EFFICIENT and DURABLE.
DELCO-LIGHT consists of an engine, generator,
switchboard and set of batteries. The engine
and generator are direct connected, which does
away with any transmission losses or belt trouble, in-
creasing the efficiency of the machine. The storage
battery is of the special Delco-Light type, consisting of
sixteen glass jar cells, delivering 32-voit current. Unless
the demand for light and power is very heavy, it is
unnecessary to run the engine, except when the storage-
battery requires recharging.
Electricity is stored up in the battery by means of
the generating unit. Wires lead from the light and power
connections to this storage-battery, from which electric
current is used as desired for light or power.
You w.ill find Delco-Light to be a model of simplicity.
When it becomes necessary to re-charge the battery the
engine is started by merely pressing on the starting-
switch located on the switchboard. This electrically
cranks the engine, just as the automobike engine is
cranked by an electric self-starter. The engine starts
running on its own power in a few seconds. It can then
be left to itself, as when the battery is completely charged
the Delco-Light engine stops automatically.
The supply of kerosene is regulated by means of
a simple lever-operated mixing valve. Moving the lever
to the right or left regulates the supply of fuel.
.There is only one place to put oil. The crank case
is designed to hold about three.quarts of oil, and a rapidly
revolving gear carries a fine spray to all parts requiring
lubrication.
The reliability of Delco-Light has been proved through
actual service under trying conditions. It has been
thoroughly tested in every possible way, both in the shop
and in practical service on the farm and in the home.
Nothing has been left to chance. The tests have been
more severe than any service an owner would require.
Delco-Light is made by the same Works which have
Delco-Lighted and started over one million Motor-cars.
See Plant in Operation or write for Full Particulars to Sole Agents —
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Warburton,
Franki Ltd.,
307-311 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY.
VICTORIA g TASMANIA
Warburton,
Franki Ltd.,
380-382 BOURKE STREET
MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND:
Smellie 8 Co.
Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Parsons 8
Robertson Ltd.,
GRENFELL STREET.
ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Geo. Wills
and Co.,
PERTH.
NEW ZEALAND:
A. D. RILEY 8 CO. LTD.
WELLINGTON.
FARMERS'CO-OP. Ass'n
CHRISTCHURCH.


ITZ’S
CIDER
$ |
nrrrs|
.. m
PURE SPARKUNG APPLE JUICE
“BOTTLES OF JOY.”
Every glassful of “Kitz’s” is a positive
thirst quencher; every bottle is a bottle
of joy and health. Have you ever had
a longing for a drink that would
definitely quench your thirst? Just try
“Kitz’s” Cider. It quenches and revives,
puts “pep” in you, and is healthful
and nutritious, too.
Get the Kitz Cider Habit—
It’s a Habit that won’t get you.
In Baby Bottles at Hotels and Cafes—
Quarts and Pints at Stores.
AGENTS-
- Tucker & Co. Ltd., Caldwell’s
Wines Ltd.
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co.
CAIRNS: Burns, Philp & Co.
GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co.
ROCKHAMPTON: J. M. Headrick & Co.
ADELAIDE: AV. P. Auld & Sons Ltd.
PERTH: Philp Coyle.
HOBART: Ferguson & Co.
LAUNCESTON: John McKenzie & Co.
Frara
Simply say
H. P. to
your Grocer—
he will hand
you a bottle of
the most appe-
tising sauce in
the world.
Made in England
and sold
her*.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
AND rheumatic pills
The Famous Medicine that relieves
RHIIJMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery of the Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 31-
Prout & Co:, 229, Strand, London.
'Mb
1 1 m
ft '
M
m
wm
m
•Ally's U>SA)|
I QAM
mmMm
p
IJh/A
PLUI
1
Cl
m
If Poweik fs
WHAT YOU WANT-
TjsePlume
If you want to feel the exhilara-
tion of driving a car which,
day by day is fairly tugging
with power, use Plume Benzine.
You will jeel this power the
moment you open the throttle.
Motorists speak highly of the
power developed by Plume
Benzine. They say Plume
doesn’t jib on the hills - that
steep hills only serve to show
how powerful it is—and mat it doesn’t let them down
when they are in a hurry. V
Plume is all power ~it gives the pull and the quick
acceleration that are so essential to satisfactory
motoring.
Plume also gives that extra mileage that makes such
a difference to the petrol hill.
Fill up with Plume next time, and experience the
pleasure of driving a car that is alive with power.
PLUME BE
E
?WJM£
VACUUM OIL CO.PTr. LTD.
d
D
I
□
is
You Take it on
Approval
when you buy Ireland’s Baking Powder. You need
not keep it when it falls short of expectation even
to the slightest degree.
We insist—in fact, we demand —that you get your money back.
And the grocer from whom you buy will not hesitate an instant in making the refund.
Order one tin of IRELAND’S BAKING POWDER at our risk.
If you do not find it perfectly satisfactory l ours will be the loss. '■
IRELAND’S Bakins: Powder
is an unusual quality that never varies.
It is your safeguard to better baking.
Your Grocer has Ireland’s Baking Powder to sell
you on Approval—Try it!
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle.
StoMMOHWEALTH PARLIAMENT LIBRARY
Pen
The Self filling
Safety Fountain
“I’ve Struck It—
The Real Thing in Razors. Gets through the job
in a quarter the time, and makes the business a
pleasure. The ‘PLUM’S’ the Razor for me.”
THE. "PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6,
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
\
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM
Razor.
tt
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Easter Time.
At Easter time in Southland town
The trees are red, the roads are brown;
There’s rain that falls like gossamer mist;
Each lad’s in love, each lass is kissed.
In Southland town at Easter time
Staid prose is chased by dancing rhyme.
At Easter time in Southland town
The winds blow high, the leaves drop down.
And make the softest nesting place
For loves to meet by God’s good grace;
Gorse-edged are roads un hill and down,
At Easter time in Southland town.
In Southland town at Easter time
Up the long hills slow horses climb,
With many a double waggonette,
Where in the front stern age is set;
But oh! the back-seat warm and snug
Where young hands meet beneath the rug!
At Easter time in Southland town
Each girl’s a queen in robe and crown,
Each cart’s a chariot of gold,
The hills have beauties all untold,
And birds pour out their hearts in chime,
In Southland town at Easter time.
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.
No Mystery.
Men look for God
With bended head;
They weep upon the bosom of the night:
They scan the sky, the roof, the closet-wall,
And find Him not!
To me ’tis strangely odd —■
My friend is God. ; ' 1
N.S.W.
JOHN BARR.
A Song of Big Seas.
In the song of big seas
There’s the sound of hoofs galloping,
With shouting of multitudes urging them
on;
From each crest in the breeze
Bursts a glory enveloping
Heaven and earth and the stars and the
sun,
As shoreward they sweep past the reef-line
and bar,
Unchanging and dallying never, they are
As the rhythm of a world that is swung like
a star.
In the burst of big seas there’s a sob of
hoofs galloping,
Galloping, galloping, galloping far.
Out seaward they seem
To be loping in listlessly,
Line after line with the light on their
flanks.
But the shingle-slopes scream
As they pour in resistlessly,
Ceaselessly coming in infinite ranks.
Like pendulums swung by the fingers of
Time,
Like the sway of big bells that are rocking to
chime,
With the foam of them fashioning rainbows
sublime.
In the distance they seem to be lounging
in listlessly
Lazily swinging to measure a rhyme.
They are born of the deep,
With the wind for their fathering;
Strong with the life of the night-bidden
gale,
They are soft as the sleep
Of a grey tide that’s gathering
Music which soon all its waters shall wail.
Like riders they rise, and they quicken their
pace,
As they rush at the reefs and the cliffs’ bitter
face,
And the foam where they fall is like beauti-
ful lace.
They are born of the deep with the wind
for their fathering,
There are white waters watching their burial
place.
Though the heart of the world
Is too deep for our measuring,
Its beats thrill the seas that encircle the
earth.
Though in every wave hurled
Amid glory for treasuring,
A beating pulse dies, yet another has birth.
In the distance so dim, w’here the skies kiss
the sea.
Where the winds and the waters and sun-
light go free,
Where the thoughts of earth’s wanderers ever
will be—
Oh, the heart of the world, though it be
past our measuring,
Surely is there with the soul of the sea !
When the waves cease to foam
To the sound of hoofs galloping.
And the cheering and thunder of voices is
done,
Shall we have gone home
Through God’s glory enveloping
Earth and her skies and the slow-sinking
sun?
Shall we have sailed west to that country
afar,
Past the outermost path of the uttermost star,
Where the sunlight and laughter and little
winds are,
When the seas cease to foam to the sob
of hoofs galloping.
Galloping, galloping, galloping far?
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
The Wave.
Roaring full-throated from the deep I come,
Shaking my hoary mane whipt by the squall;
Only the wandering sea-bird knows my home;
Only the shore, my master, sees my fall.
Onward I rush, while deeper grows my roar,
Hard on the bar where loud my brothers
beat,
On till my blind bulk, prostrate on the shore,
Dies in a whisper at my master’s feet.
JACK SOMMERS.
AT SEA.


u
c\
V
On Every Australian Road
and in the Outback country, over roadless tracts
Perdriau
Tyres
prove their dependability and enduring qualities.
Perdriau Tyres are obtainable from your
local garage or from the Manufacturers: —
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.
270 Gec/ge Street, Sydney.
Flinders Street, Melbourne
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Gawler Place, Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
FLIES ami DISEASE.
INSECTIBANE
KILLS FLIES and
OTHER INSECTS.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores
throughout the Commonwealth.
jgmntinmiiiii'imm
-fJACON.VEAU 1 .
W-r-1
a
REX
«
It Adds to the Jogs ef
Week-Ending.
Take a few tins of Rex Camp Pie with you next week end.
See how it saves cooking and food prepat atien. Everyom
enjoys
a CAMP PIE
BThey enjoy its flavor and tenderness—they find that it satis-
fies and sustains. Rex Camp Pie is most economical. It is
all good wholesome meat prepared in the special Rex wey.
fi SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Preducts
Curers of “Rex" Ham and Mason
□
601
□
s
r
r
Double-duty Tractors for
Farmers and Sawmillers
All the hauling; and ordinary engine-power required by the farmer
or savvmiUer is contained in the BULL TRACTOR.
It works small sawmills and then hauls timber anywhere.
It takes the place of horses on the farm for ploughing', reaping
and general road hauling, while it also gives splendid power for
driving chaffcutters, sawbenches, pumps, corn-shellers, etc.
It eliminates the necessity for two kinds of farm-power, giving you
a powerful concentrated unit that reduces the cost of farming or
sawmilling.
Special Booklet will be mailed on request by
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.,
76*78 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
71-75 Queen’s Bridg'e Street, Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
tvery drop of
THORNE’S
WHISKY
demonstrates its
absolute purity.
That excellent Thorne’s flavor —
famous for over eighty years —is
ample proof of perfection of spirit
and proper distillation.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
SPECIALS
A high-grade cigar, notable for the choice blend of its leaf,
which imparts a delightful bouquet—to be enjoyed right
to the last puff.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40.—N0. 2045.
THU USD AY, APRIL 24, 1919.
Pkice 6d.
IN THE DOCK
THE COURT: “Prisoner haring been drunk and disorderly since 1964. and there being a record of four and a half years of assault and theft, the fine is
£6,000,000,000.”
GERMANIA: “All right, old rooster, I hope you may get it.”


THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin 1 Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. Cd. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts , etc., which should be crossed, and
all Ilusiness Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political , Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forivarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, dr any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
C.3.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago',
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. — Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
lloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon.-— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillic Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua.— Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paver) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: 802., lid.; Sloz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to IZoz., Sid.; elsewhere, )oz., lid., and id. each
additional Zoz.
IBxzUefztfi.
THURSDAY, APRIL 24, 1919.
BACK FROM THE LAND.
“If it is desirable in the national interests that as
many returning soldiers as possible shall engage in
the primary industries, it is equally desirable, and
for the same reasons, that a considerable proportion
of the people in our grossly overcrowded cities should
go back to the land.” — From recent S. M. Herald
leading article entitled “Bach to the Land.”
Anybody who makes an estimate of his
expenditure on absolute necessaries has only
to figure out how much of it is raw clay and
trees and ore to make his house and furnish-
ings ; raw cotton, wool, flax, silkworm and
ox cuticle to make his clothes; and raw cow,
sheep, potato, sugar-cane and wheat (not
manufactured flour or bread) to make up
his food, and he will realise how very little
in a financial way the primary producer
counts for in the scheme of things. Having
done that he will also realise what a poor
thing it is to be a primary producer in a
world with cheap-food ideas, and what a
slave’s game it is to go “back to the land”
and grow surplus grain for export to markets
where prices are regulated by Hindu and
Chinese and African competition.
* * * *
The trouble with each of the big States of
Australia is not its “grossly overcrowded
cities” but its grossly overcrowded city.
Manufacturing industries of any importance
are only followed in cities, or at least in
towns, because cities and towns gather round
them. Australia hasn’t nearly enough
manufacturing cities, though in the way of
raising one or two enormously bloated trad-
ing depots it is the marvel of the world. By
reason of its lack of town population it is
a continent that is sinking into debt even in
the days of its greatest prosperity. Inside
of 70 years it has got rid of about
£550,000,000 of gold and run about
£600,000,000 into debt to pay for the things
which should have been produced in the
cities —not grossly overcrowded cities, but
just numerous cities —that it hasn’t got. It
has proportionately too many people on the
land and too few elsewhere, the evidence
being that the land produces more in some
lines-than the country wants and more . than
can be Lold, while the articles that the towns
produce are in miserably short supply. The
two countries which within the 70 years of
Australia’s borrowing spree emerged from
the ruck of nations and jumped to the first
and second positions for wealth and import-
ance didn’t take the S. M. Herald’s advice
and “go on the land.” Germany in the last
days of low-tariffism, which were also the
first days of the Hohenzollern Empire,
was, like Australia, a place that possessed
hardly one big ship of its own, imported the
bulk of its manufactured goods, exported
wheat and such-like cheap, heavy “truck” to
more advanced countries like England, and
w T as in debt to everybody who would lend.
Also it was a great exporter of unemployed
population. Just before the empire com-
mitted suicide, 44 years later, it possessed the
biggest mercantile shipping line in the
world; its vessels were on every sea; its
finished goods were in every market; it had
ceased to grow wheat and meat for export,
and was actually beginning to import; it was
lending surplus money to other nations on
hard terms, and emigration had practically
ceased because there was work for everybody.
But though the population had risen by
25,000,000, equal to 024 per cent., the agri-
cultural population actually diminished a
trifle. The growth was all in the towns—
not in one grossly overcrowded haunt of
importers and unpatriotic Freetrade news-
papers, but in a multitude of towns. Ham-
burg, Munich, Leipsig, Dresden, Nuremberg,
Dusseldorf, Frankfort, Breslau, Cologne,
Hanover, Chemnitz, Stuttgart and 12 other
cities showed a far bigger rate of increase
than the bulky capital, quite unlike three
big Australian States • where almost every
place save the bulky capital is on the down
grade.
* * * *
Germany began its stupendous era of pro-
gress by deciding to cut out those two ruin-
ous middlemen who eat up Australia—the
foreign importer and the foreign carrier. It
resolved to be, what every true Australian
wants this country to be, its own manufac-
turer and its own carrier, and to sell its pro-
duce to its own artisans at its door, instead
of being the ill-paid agricultural drudge of
better people. And but for the twin curses
of ill-managed militarism and incapable
imperialism it was hard to put limits on its
career, and its career isn’t finished even now.
The progress of the United States was very
similar. In its low-tariff days, which lasted
till after the Civil War, it was the dumping-
ground for English manufacturers, and the
serf who supplied England with cheap raw
material. Its railways were mostly owned
in England; so were its public securities:
and its ships were practically nil. In those
times it was “on the land” when it wasn’t
gold-mining. Now it has so far got off the
land that the products of its manufactures
are worth more than double the value of all
its raw material output combined, and its
dollar threatens to boss the earth. It has
still a surplus of food for export, but it has
abandoned all ambition to specialise as every-
body’s “man with the hoe.”
* * * *
Countries that are almost wholly agricul-
tural, either through lack of minerals, as is
the case with Ireland, the north of Scotland.
Persia and Italy, or from ignorance and
other causes, as is the case with India and
China, are all poor. In other countries the
agricultural section of the people is gener-
ally, as a matter of course, the worst-paid
section. It is taken for granted that the
agriculturist must be hard up and hard
worked, with the compensating advantages
of a free life, which he . has little time to
enjoy, and open air, which is often damp
and brings on rheumatism.
* * * *
It is possible, to imagine a State where
the export and import of, say, wheat except
by the Government was prohibited, where
the supply was regulated, and the Govern-
ment always kept a year’s or two years’
stock on hand as a protection against
drought. Then the price of the loaf might
be put up high enough to allow union wages
and union hours to the producer. And a
community which had plenty of good indus-
tries to keep it employed, and especially one
which didn’t spend so much of its substance
in paying interest on absurd old debts, could
afford to allow a living wage for its loaf.
Bread isn’t necessarily a pauper. But in
such a community there would be no room
for the importer as we know him. He is
to us what the old noblesse was to France,
the Grand Dukes to Russia, the Church to
the folk of the Middle Ages, the squire 'to
an English village, or the absentee landlord
to an Irish estate.. In other words, he is
o i s blasphemy against the
S. M. Herald to question his divinity. The
manufacturer is generally a mere ordinary
democratic person and man of the people.
More than, one-third of this country’s fac-
tories consist of a working employer or per-
haps two, and a “wage-slave” or a pair of
“wage-slaves.” There is no stately York-
street or Flinders-lane warehouse in the
case ; no brass plate ; no boss with a knight-
hood and a seat in Parliament; no London
branch with another knight in charge; no
London Board of directors with peers on it;
no limited liability co.; and no dignified re-
presentatives occupying saloon accommoda-
tion in the mail steamers. The manufac-
turer hasn’t got beyond the “bloke” stage,
except in rare cases; therefore he isn’t a
social institution like the man who dumps
foreign products 0 n these shores. To avoid
interference with this personage the Austra-
lian is invited to go on the land, which is
where the French worker went in the days
w hen there were personages in his country.
THE MEDIAEVAL JURISDICTION.
A cable-message stated last week that a
Bill. is going through the House of Lords
“designed to give relief to Dominion soldiers
who have contracted war-marriages in the
United Kingdom.” In plain words, the domi-
cile issue is to be eliminated from the divorce
problem so far as the military are concerned.
But if domicile can be safely dispensed with
in the case of soldiers, why not in the case of
civilians? Proof of the husband’s domicile
is an indispensable preliminary to divorce at
present, the meaning of the phrase in Eng-
lish law being “the place where the husband
has the intention of permanently residing.”
But there are men who have no intention of
permanently residing anywhere. \ Such a type
may have arrived in Dundee, emigrated to
Canada, married in Australia, drifted off to
Paris, and been still on the move when his
wife decided that she had had enough of it.
There are hundreds of deserted women in
Australia, as elsewhere, to-day. They are
chained to men who have long ceased to
support them or their children, and they are
denied their freedom because the Law says
they can only get it in the place where the
defaulting husbands are domiciled. Were it
not for the new House of Lords measure, the
already considerable tally of deserted British
wives (who are wives only in so far as they
are debarred from marrying anybody else)
would have been added to by the cases of all
those who have made unfortunate marriages
with soldiers domiciled in such (to the
wives) inaccessible regions as Maoriland,
South Afriqa and Newfoundland. If it is
reasonable that British women should be
given the opportunity to start afresh after
mistaken marriages with Dominion expedi-
tionaries (and who can argue otherwise?), it
is surely equally reasonable that Australian
women should enjoy the same privilege.
# * * *
The smear of ecclesiasticism is over our
divorce laws, and till it is removed they
must remain paradoxical and a source of
injustice and illegality. The mediseval idea
was to make divorce impossible; modern
clericalism compromises by calling for the
retention of every device, however idiotic,
that tends to make it difficult. If a wronged
wife tells her lawyer that she has left her
husband because he is a drunkard and a
waster, and that, consequently, she is anxious
for him to succeed in his restitution suit, the
lawyer must drop her case —in theory. If
the Judge has reason to suspect such a state
of things he must find against the husband —
in theory. Proved condonation of anything
of the sort by a law officer of the Crown
would involve him in ruin. But bad laws
exist only to be flouted. The principle of
collusion is so inherently rotten, and it acts
so harshly and unreasonably, that the unedi-
fying spectacle is daily offered of attorneys,
advocates and even Supreme Court Judges,
disregarding it. Solicitors recognise that it
is useless, even dangerous, for people to be
kept together who have decided that they can
only live happily apart; wherefore many of
the most reputable of them advise as to the
safest and most effective way of breaking the
law on the question of collusion. Judges
may know what is going on, but where they
are men of the world and humane men, they
not merely shut their eyes—they help the
illegality forward. The fact that the whole
structure of the divorce law rests on a false
basis is an explanation of the astonishing
amount of perjury that characterises the
jurisdiction. Perjury, which is a serious
crime in a case of theft, may be respectable
in a suit for divorce. So little does modern
society sympathise with the institution on its
present basis, so deep is the half-unconscious
hostility to it in the public mind, that in
fully seven divorce suits out of 10 the wit-
nesses who decline to deliberately forswear
themselves are commonly regarded as either
eccentrics or scoundrels.
* * * *
The King’s Proctor is an official who
exists, nominally, to see that the parties in
divorce do not do those things which, in fact,
everybody knows them to be doing unceas-
ingly. It is his business to rivet together
husband and wife who are unanimous as to
the desirability, of a separation. His authori-
ty runs not only before and during the suit,
but for six months after it. If he or his
agents discover before a given desertion or
restitution case comes on that the parties
have foregathered, it is his business to expose
them. If, in a suit where adultery is in
issue, the petitioner gets a decree nisi, and if,
later (when both parties, possibly, have made
arrangements to re-marry), the King's Proc-
tor discovers that the petitioner as well as
the defendant was guilty, he is required to
intervene. The happily separated pair are
thrown together aarain to the confusion of
conventional morality and to the detriment
of any children either or both of them may
subsequently have by the sort of irregular
alliance which is so common in such cases.
In point of fact, the King’s Proctor rarely
does any of these things. Scores of divorce
cases are going through month by month in
Australia. The proportion in which there is
intervention .by the King’s Proctor is not one
in a thousand. The dignitary does not move
unless the collusion is so transparent that he
has to. And by his inaction he says, as
plainly as he can, that his job is a sinecure,
if not a menace to our existing social system.
King's Proctors, domicile difficulties, collu-
sion difficulties —all such things will be
swept away 'when Australia learns to entirely
remove the mystic touch from its legislation.
To the clearest and most logical thinkers
in the world to-day—the French—marriage
is a civil contract. like any other. ' People
may or may not be married in a church in
France, but the ceremony before the Maire
is indispensable to make the union legal.
The State’s interest in the business is pri-
marily a matter of the welfare of the chil-
dren. Where two parties make a contract
and ratify it before a representative of the
people, there should be but one question
afterwards for decision by that people’s
judiciary: Was the contract kept, and, if not,
how is it to be voided with the least damage
possible to the offspring concerned ? The
King’s Proctor is a fantastic anachronism.
He dates from the epoch when officials pried
about in search of adulterous citizens for
use as public cock-shies. Collusion is an
anachronism; the State should have no con-
cern with the frame of mind of litigants in
divorce in reference to one another. Shear
the divorce laws of _ such excrescences as
these, and the result will not be more divorce,
as ecclesiastical-minded persons suggest, but
simply divorce that is more honest. The cause
of morality will not be prejudiced; in many
ways it will be greatly advantaged. And
Judges, and other officials of the State, will
get a clearer run as regards arranging things
with a view to the welfare of the children.
Which, after all, is one of the few things
they can usefully do in a case where the
parties to a marriage agreement have found,
on investigation, that to abide by it is equiva-
lent to Hell on earth.
THE PUBLIC’S EYE.
From a city consulting-room:—
For calling me a liar (B. 3/4/’ 19) because I
recorded that “Queensland opticians were able
to prescribe glasses for the serious diseases of the eye
with impunity under the aegis of the Ryan Govern-
ment,’’ “Pulex” deserves to have his trade placed
on the dissecting-table. The optical business requires
a searchlight thrown upon it, in the public interest.
No amount of bolstering up will ever induce the
educated medical fraternity to believe that optometry
has any scientific value. The British Journal of
Ophthalmology, perhaps the greatest authority in
the world on matters of optical and ophthalmic in-
terest, remarks in its December (1918) issue that
English opticians are striving for official recognition,
and piously hopes that they won’t get it. When the
optician consents to stick to his proper sphere, which
consists in learning to cut and grind lenses- pro-
perly, in becoming acquainted with decentring pro-
blems, and in knowing how to fit and make up
artistic spectacles in accordance with correct pre-
scriptions, he becomes a valuable member of the
community; but when lie goes beyond that, and
boldly takes up the work of the ophthalmic physician,
he becomes a menace to society.
The whole truth of the matter is that, with the
growth of the large manufacturing optical firms, the
optician who in the old days was content to sit in
his premises and make up spectacles according to
prescriptions, cutting and grinding his own lenses,
has had of necessity to seek fresh fields and pas-
tures new. Seeing a flourishing financial future in
front of him, he took to attending lectures on optics,
and blossomed out as a duly-qualified optometrist
with a string of letters after his name. Scientific
men with a knowledge of the number of insidious
ocular diseases which are met with in actual prac-
tice would have imagined that the sight-tester would
have been deterred by the difficulties. They would
have thought that the life of the sight-tester would
be full of anxieties, arising from the ever-present
danger of ordering glasses for serious diseases of the
eye, such as might proceed from kidney or brain
affections; but no such scruples affected this vain-
glorious individual. He entered into the business
with airy nonchalance, well knowing that his egre-
gious mistakes and his failures to discriminate
between a healthy and a diseased ophthalmic condition
would never have to stand the glare of publicity,
since his client would know well in his own mind
that he should have sought expert ophthalmic advice
in the first instance, but didn’t from cheese-paring
motives or through ignorance; and, therefore, there
is no likelihood of his making a further ass of him-
self by attempting to take any legal action.
Tasmania was the first State to pay attention to
and absorb the perilous doctrines of legalised
optometry from America. Queensland soon followed
suit. The undiscriminating public has no doubt been
impressed by the legal status obtained for the trade,
and will be certain to patronise these people more
than ever; for what greater proof could the public
require that its most precious inheritance, the
visual sense, was in the hands of those best qualified
to take care of it, when it could see an announce-
ment on the shop window or on a brass-plate that
Mr. Blank was duly registered as an optical practi-
tioner by the State Government? The whole secret
of this legislation was the public’s dislike to part
with cash to a professional man, and it did not mind
what sort of service it received. As soon as the
public gets to know that the money saved by its
cheese-paring, in employing a sight-tester instead of
an expert medically-qualified refractionist, is under
a pound sterling, it may wake up. It is hard to
believe that such a small sum as this would prevent
people getting expert advice, but such is the case in
Sydney. I am not far wide of the mark in assert-
ing that 90 per cent, of the refraction work there is
carried out by the sight-tester, who can never aspire
to scientific accuracy, owing to the variable nature
of the organ whose vision he is endeavoring to im-
prove by mechanical means. Optical undertakings
are run even in connection with drapers’ establish-
ments. ’Tis a great pity to see the art of refraction
reduced to this environment, and so much valuable
optical material going to waste; for it may be said
without fear of contradiction that, in good hands,
more beneficial and lasting results are to be obtained
by the correction of refractive errors than in any
other department of medicine. Flappers purchase
glasses just as they do a hat, a pair of boots or a
blouse; so long as they are rimless pince-nez, with
the newest patent nose-clip, they are perfectly satis-
fied. The young customers are regaled with heart-
rending tales about specialist’s charges and the
inferiority of their refraction work, being told to
have nothing whatever to do with them, and when
they are assured most impressively that once “drops”
are instilled in the eyes for refraction purposes, the
pupils never will return again to their normal shape
and size, and that permanent deterioration of vision
is bound to follow such tampering with a delicate
organ, it is scarcely to be wondered at that this
advice is treasured up with avidity and passed round
amongst the flapper’s relatives and friends.
It is a positive shame the way these big establish-
ments with an optical side-line foist their execrable
high-powered “one-piece bifocals” on poor sexa-
genarian and septuagenarian men and women, with
rickety legs and arthritic joints. These obnoxious
glasses are Handed over the counter, without a word
of explanation as to their harmfulness, when getting
out of a tram, going down steps or walking over
irregular ground, and the result is, in some cases, a
sprained wrist or a broken leg. When the patient
returns to complain of their unsuitability he is told
that “bifocals” have gone out, and that two pairs of
spectacles armed with Crookes lenses are indicated.
As to the quack spectacle fiend, the most recent
example of this kind of swindling has just been
related to me by the owner of a country newspaper
in the sun-scorched parts of N. S. Wales. A German
vendor of spectacles and eye-lotions has been operat-
ing in the district, giving a suburban address,
where he invites the patients to undergo treatment.
He professed to be able to cure “trachoma” cases,
and even cataract. In one case personally known
to me, he endeavored to extract 15 guineas from a
poor working family by promising to cure their
child, aged 12, who was suffering from poor vision
as a result of granular lids. This little girl really
required expert treatment for months; but the
parents only avoided becoming victims to this oily-
tongued rascal by not being able to raise the neces-
sary cash. He got hold of some old people, who
either had or imagined they had cataract, and
promised for a fee of 50 guineas to cure them with-
out operation. As soon as he had gathered substan-
tial deposits of cash he absconded and left his
victims deploring their financial loss. Ignorant coun-
try folk are great believers in these optical marvels,
who advertise their skill in the local journals.
“Pulex” mentions that in Queensland a fine of
£5O is liable to be imposed upon optometrists and
opticians for treating any disease of the eye. The
clause might just as well have been omitted. Who-
ever heard of a sight-tester being fined £5O or 50d.,
for that matter? Am I to believe that one of these
gentry has never prescribed for any of the diseases
of the eye, when I have convincing proof to the


contrary stuck under my notice on many occasions?
An optician who couldn’t dodge being fined for any
infringement of that clause wouldn’t pass for a
very cute man of business amongst his optical pals.
The clause is meant to be evaded, and is evaded
every day in the week in our big cities. Nobody is
senseless enough to imagine that any practising opti-
cian would be so silly as to prescribe glasses for a
client who had had one of his eyes put out of action
by a chunk of blue-metal or a fragment of iron or
steel, or who had had his vision damaged in a blasting
accident or by exposure to strong acids or alkalis.
Also we would expect him to dodge any suspiciously
red and inflamed eyes, for should he be vainglorious
enough to treat these cases optically, he knows that
he would be running into danger, since there would
be visible even to the thickest-headed magistrate
obvious and incontrovertible evidence of a diseased
eye condition. But he will have a shot at all other
conditions of the eye, diseased or otherwise, providing
that the eye. is quiet, and presents no outward 'mani-
festations of a pathological process. The number of
internal diseases of the eye is legion, and it is in
this important matter that the weight of scientific
opinion is dead against the sight-tester, who, sus-
tained by an airy confidence in the infalli-
bility of his Crookes or other lenses, often
steps in where angels fear to tread; always
to the great detriment of his client’s vision
and occasionally to his premature decease. In most
of these cases of internal disease in the eye that
organ looks just as a normal eye ought to look ; yet
deep in its interior, and only discoverable and treat-
able by the expert ophthalrnoscopist, there may lurk
unmistakable evidences of serious mischief or of an
incurable malady. These are the cases in which such
horrible mistakes are made, and which cause the
sight-tester to be regarded as a nuisance by the
scientists.
The remedy for these evils is a better education
of the public in optical and ophthalmic matters.
Parents ought to know that no cases of myopia or
short-sightedness should be left to the tender mercies
of the optometrist, no matter how skilful he imagines
himself to be; yet these are the cases he rushes,
from the apparent simplicity of 'the task, and the
certainty of getting a fair amount of kudos for
doing the job. This affection, which is a disease
of the eye, and usually comes on as soon as the
child begins to attend school and uses its convergence
muscles, requires great attention to the general
health, and alterations in the educational environ-
ment, as well as glasses, prescribed by an expert
medical refractionist. It should be taboo to the
sight-tester.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Art of Being Sorry for Ourselves.
John Bull’s country has just closed its
financial year with a revenue of
£889.020,825. Deducting the £70,000,000
or so derived from postal, telegraph, tele-
phone and Suez Canal profits and sundries,
it means that Father Bull, in his strenuous
desire to pay as much as possible of his
war bill out of revenue, has shoved taxation
(apart from local taxes'* up to lift per in-
habitant per annum. It was about £l5 a
couple of years ago, so there seems no end
to the old man’s efforts. Australia charges
all its war expenses to loans; charges as
much as £4 ss. per inhabitant per annum
of its ordinary public works expenditure to
loans : and levies £7 per inhabitant in taxes.
That is to say, an Australian family of five
pays £1 Is. 2d. less per iveek to yet the coun-
try bach to solvency than a British family
does. The Australian has developed within,
the last score years into the boss sybarite
of the world, living mostly on imported food
and dressed almost entirely in imported
clothes, letting his railways go to wreck
when war cut off imported supplies, content
to have his civilisation hung up in war-time
because he is too haughty to make his own
ships, and living to a quite extraordinary
extent on loans, Government grants of seed
wheat, paper-money issues and the baby
bonus. And he is more profoundly sorry
for himself than the average as an oppressed
individual who runs the Government himself
and is his own oppressor. If he put his
tax-level up to, say, £ll per inhabitant (not
£lB, as in Britain) and could be trusted not
to immediately “blew” the money on creat-
ing new frills, he could have. a gorgeous
public works policy without loans and reduce
his old debts into the bargain. But, appa-
rently, he loves being in debt and weepful
about his position as a downtrodden and
embarrassed character.
♦
Our Debt of Gratitude to Hughes.
Prime Minister Hughes has made a repu-
tation, if he hasn’t exactly covered a multi-
tude of sins, by the stand he. took over
Japan’s demand for the free admission of its
people to all Allied countries. It was a job
which called for galvanic energy, and that
Hughes is galvanic everybody knows. It
called for unlimited powers of conversation,
and Hughes possesses more conversation
than any other ten men of his size. A
sudden and powerful demand arose for per-
suasiveness, activity, button-holing and
Parliamentary management, and there must
be all these qualities about a man who has
been three consecutive Prime Ministers, and
wno. when he lost his party, went out and
found another and carried on business as
usual. A certain amount of courage was
required, and Hughes produced the article.
The position was a difficult one, for the fight
had to be put up with little assistance. Eng-
land, France, Italy, Belgium, Serbia, Monte-
negro, all fighting Allies, care nothing how
the Japanese come and go. Some of them
are poor and some are crowded, and all are
remote from Nippon, so they know that the
Asiatic, even if he comes, won’t stay to any
serious extent. The United States, or rather
the western part of it, is anti-Japanese. So
are Canada. Australia, Maoriland and South
Africa, but they are not independent com-
munities and had no representation among
the Bie Four. It was a long row to hoe, but
Hughes and his little party hoed vigor-
ously. If Japan had sent an army to Europe
and a fleet to European waters—in other
words, if it had been a more trenchant
friend —it might have had influence enough
to carry its point, wfiich point, by the way,
it reserves the right to raise later on, so the
trouble is by no means ended. But while
Australia has every right to be grateful to
Hughes it should be discriminating in its
gratitude. Nothing that has happened
makes him anything different from the
utterly disastrous financier that he was
before"; in fact, after living in _ an atmo-
sphere of magnificence and millions, or
thousands of millions, he will probably be
more ruinous than ever. Nothing has
befallen to make him anything but the
old lamentable Foreign-trader and im-
porter’s hack, with an out-of-date school-
book idea of political economy—a man who
is utterly behind the times in business
matters, and incapable of learning the needs
of the country except in the antiquated
folios which the Cobden party wfote for
other times and wholly different circum-
stances. Even in his own talky line he
may he more lamentable when he comes back
than when he went away. The deft
arrangement of political combinations with
big soldier-politicians like Smuts and non-
uniformed but influential politicians like
Wilson, Borden and Massey may have
given the socially-adaptable little man a
taste for high diplomacy. And, apart from
the good work of keeping out alien immi-
grants, there is no high diplomacy to do
here at present except making arrange-
ments with astute U.S. gentlemen who want
to sell more goods to us and buy less from
us than ever before. Australia owes much
to W. M. Hughes. But it doesn’t owe him
a job as general, admiral, head of the
Treasury or man in charge of the Tariff.
It would be almost worth while to tem-
porarily endow an official church for the
sake of making him archbishop, a position
which he ought to fill to advantage. Or if
there was a diplomatic billet going with no
financial problems—only conversational pro-
blems —his claims should be paramount. But
the matter ends there. Misdirected grati-
tude doesn’t pay. The U.S. made Grant a
President and Britain made Wellington a
■Prime Minister because of their military
records, and both found they had handed
out misfit rewards.
Borrowing on Fritz’s lOU.
A suggestion which has drifted into the
press is so purely Australian that the kan-
garoo looks an unnaturalised alien by com-
parison. A big indemnity is to be collected
from the Hun by slow instalments spread
over 30 or 35 years or some such period, for
the money to pay it all doesn’t exist, and
Fritz must have time to earn it. He won’t
pay anything more than the first instalment
if he can help it, and he will certainly put
up a Shed of a fight whenever a chance
presents itself to get out of the liability and
to recover what he has paid. The first in-
stalnients will go to repair the ravaged
countries, so Australia won’t begin to collect
for a long time, if ever. Still it is proposed
that this country should promptly borrow a
very big sum from J. Bull on the security
of its prospect of getting something, and use
the money, not to pay off a bit of high-
priced war debt, but to “finance” the wheat,
copper and lead industries. Of course, if
the indemnity never comes the new loan will
be an addition to the permanent debt.
Everybody expected the Government would
have a razzle with the indemnity, but surely
it would be only decent to wait till there is
an indemnity. It is high finance to pawn
the child’s boots for beer, but to pawn the
boots that the child hasn’t got yet is sky-
high finance.
Maoriland Stays Moist.
Maoriland, right up against the hurdle of
Prohibition, has again refused to take the
jump. Judged by the no-license majorities
in the various districts at past polls, the
cause of anti-BuNG should have won with
thousands of votes to spare; but requiring
only a bare majority of the whole country to
make the place as dry as Ezekiel’s valley
of bones, the prohibitionists have failed.
The real reason is to be found in the differ-
ence between anti-BuNG and anti-booze.
Under the local-option system the people
give an anti-BuNG vote directly aimed at
the pub around the corner, the methods of
which they have come to dislike. But the
national vote is not merely against the pub.
It is aimed at the cask and the bottle, at the
glass and the corkscrew, at the brewery and
the snug corner of the club —in point of
fact, against the whole machinery of liquid
gladness wherever found in the shaky isles.
So the same people who long ago told Bung
they didn’t like him, and who have repeated
that remark very often since, now declare
that they will have liquor—or, at any rate,
will not say that others shall not have it.
Though the majority seems small, it -is
really bigger than a first glance would sug-
gest. Take out all the professional liquor
reformers and their friends of the various
churches as belonging to a sex by them-
selves, add to them three-fourths of the
women of the Dominion, who do not know
the meaning of liquor, but who take the
Methody parson’s word for it that it is a
cur-r-se. In these two groups will be found
nearly 50 per cent, of the population; so
that it becomes evident that practically the
whole male population—the part of it that
can fairly be described as man —must have
voted against Prohibition to secure the pre-
sent result. That really represents a rather
overwhelming victory for liquor, as liquor,
rather than for the Trade that sells it. Next
November the issue of State control of the
whole business is to be put to the people;
and the arguments for real reform, as
opposed to the craziness of abolition, will
come out of the realm of mere academic
debate. Maoriland offers a fine field for the
great experiment; and, if the voters are
wise enough to carry the proposal, the world
may see a new era of sober drinking inaugu-
rated, with the profits of every friendly meet-
ing over a glass going directly into the
public pocket.
» !
“Not Contemplated.”
The bumptiousness of big, rich absentees
was instanced by a letter signed “London
Shipper” in the daily papers. Its pur-
pose was to tell us that the magnates of the
stupendous shipping combine of London are
justly indignant with the Australian people
for trying to be shipowners themselves.
Like Jonah, who was also in the shipping
business, they do well to be angry. Their
view of the case was put with this burst of
unconscious humor: —
The feeling in shipping circles in London is very
bitter against the Commonwealth steamers. The
idea is that the Commonwealth obtained the permis-
sion of the Imperial authorities to purchase these
steamers for a specific purpose. It was not con-
templated at that time that the Commonwealth in-
tended to compete for after-war business.... Lord
Inchcape, at a banquet in London, is reported to
have plainly indicated to the manager of the Govern-
ment line that the Conference steamers viewed with a
certain amount of suspicion the entry of the Gov-
ernment-controlled vessels into the Australian trade
.... It is hardly conceivable that the Government
would suppose the established lines, who have in-
vested millions of capital and for years built up a
splendid fleet of steamers to meet the ever-growing-
trade of Australia, are going to remain passive, etc.
etc.
That and a lot more make up a very good
statement of the case from the absentee trust
or combine or conference point of view. It
is not only the Conference’s view of the
case; it is also the view of the importers
who represent absentee' manufacturers, and
naturally sympathise with the absentee way
of looking at things. It is their view,
because any hustle in the way of Govern-
ment-owned ships may lead to the local
building of ships, and that may lead to local
building and manufacturing in general; and
what that may lead to Heaven only knows,
blit the foreign-trading interest grievously
suspects. Of course Australia didn’t sup-
pose that the rich outside shipping interests
which “built up a splendid fleet of steamers”
for their own profit, and not caring a straw
about Australia except as a source of profit,
was “going to remain passive.” Only con-
firmed loafers, the go-slow crowd, rich para-
sites, opium-eaters and the like are passive.
Even passive resisters are active enough.
But some people expected that these ship-
ping interests would accept competition as
part of the day’s work, and not profess that
an outrage had been committed on them and
their wives and children because 5,000,000
people decide to take shares in a rival enter-
prise and call themselves a Commonwealth
instead of a Conference. It may, or may
not, be true that it “wasn’t contemplated”
by Lord Inchcape and his business accom-
plices that the Commonwealth line would be
anything more than a temporary war
measure. There are many other things that
were not contemplated. It assuredly wasn’t
contemplated that the “established lines who
have invested millions of capital” should
combine under Inchcape or anybody else
to make our sea communications a virtual
monopoly. And when Prime Minister
Hughes did his famous deal in ships, hardly
anybody had begun contemplating that the
control of the great Union S.S. Co. of
Maoriland —which carried with it, df course,
the absorbed Tasmanian S.S. Co. —was going
to pass into the hands of an English co.
which is a member of Inchcape’s wonderful
and wide-spreading Conference. About that
time Australia began to realise that, unless
its Government got a move on, this country
would presently own nothing that floats
except the Middle Harbor punt and the
ferry-boat between Hobart and Bellerive.
Inchcape and his fellow banqueters would
have everything else.
+
The Republic of Ah Sin.
China has bumped the Peace Conference
with a demand that, as a recognised and nomi-
nally self-determined nation, she shall get
back the seaports which within the last few
years have been forcibly “leased” from her —
or, rather, from the corrupt, feeble and ex-
tinct Manchu Government of usurping
foreigners—by bullying Powers, both enemy
and Allied. Also the Republic of Ah Sin
asks for the cancellation of the shameless
agreements under which its territory was
divided by the bullying Powers into “spheres
of influence,” after the manner of vultures
pegging out allotments on a carcase without
asking the carcase’s permission. In virtue
of these agreements each Power promised to
bulldoze the Chow for mining, trading, rail-
way and other concessions, and stealing on
its bit of China only, so that every Chinaman
was liable to be trodden on by one European,
but no two Europeans would tread on each
other in the struggle to trample on the same
Chinaman. The attitude of the Republic
is that, if these glaring wrongs are not
righted, nearly 4,000,000 square miles of
territory will stand out of the League of
Nations, unless dragged in by force, and
nearly 350.000,000 people will reserve the
right to lick and wallop the League of Sick
and Weary Nations at the first opportunity.
It takes its stand not only on its ordinary
rights as a people, but on the specially high
moral principles which Woodbow Wilson
laid down in his Fourteen Points. These
Points begin to prove themselves a bomb-
shell dropped into the combustibles of three
continents. The old, war-worn diplomatists
px-oposed to restore to France, Italy, Serbia
and Roumania their lost provinces, and to
rebuild Bohemia, Armenia, Georgia, Finland
and Poland—all for simple and obvious
reasons. They wanted to weaken the arch-
disturbers .by breaking up their empires.
They wanted a lot of second-grade
States instead of one overwhelming State,
because they would be less able to dis-
turb the peace. They wanted these new
or revived States to be happy and comfort-
able, because fat, prosperous little communi-
ties that sleep well o’ nights are not a dan-
gerous element like lean and hungry ones of
the Cassius breed that lie awake thinking
over their injuries. t 4lso, the old, disillu-
sioned diplomatists believed in keeping faith
with their friends, because they might want
those friends again. But never in all their
lives would they have dreamt of explaining
their actions on high-sounding, George-
Washington, Fourth-of-July principles,
because when once a country starts a pro-
cession of torch-light principles they apply
in all manner of unexpected places. By
posing and demanding that others should
pose as a sort of armed Sermon on the
Mount, Wilson has brought the halt and the
maimed and the blind among nations and
half-nations clamoring for redress at the Con-
ference door, and there isn’t enough redress
to go round. The old, crushed China,
which had never heard of the Fourteen
Points, might have been glad to crawl into
the League of Nations to escape further
spoliation. The new China, exalted by the
knowledge that one of the world’s greatest
rulers believes in doing justice though the
heavens fall, wants Britain, France and
Japan to fight each other to a finish, it
necessary, so that she may get back _ the
rights she fooled away. It is a serious
thing to make 350,000,000 converts and not
know what to do with them, and that seems
to be about what the case amounts to.
The N.S.W. Meat Board and the
Political Game.
In re-constituting the Meat Board N. S.
Wales Government has created a couple ot
billets worth £l5OO a year each, and played
the old game of buying off possible enemies
with the creations. Cramsie, the pro-
ducers’ representative, is the nominee of the
Graziers’ and the Farmers and Settlers
associations. Holman is in deadly fear
that these bodies are inclined to listen to the
voice of Carmichael, so the opportunity
was seized to show them who is their
friend. The appointment of Labor-member
Osborne, of the Boorabil case, is a typical
Holman move. Osborne was a successful
organiser and wire-puller; that much isi
suggested by the fact that Wilkinson in-
troduced him to the Boorabil matter. To
remove him to a Government job for live
years at a bigger screw than he could get as
a Minister meant weakening the Opposition
at the next election and thus improving the
chances of Holman. And. meantime, the
Government can pose as the broadminded
party that does not recognise political boun-
daries when public need has to be considered.
Yet, as a matter of fact, the Laborite no
more truly represents the consumer, than a
Nationalist would or a Bolshevite. The
whole business of the Meat Board has
been unsavory. When it was first formed
the then Secretary of Health was made
chairman. There was no obvious con-
nection , between running a health depart-
ment and the highly-technical business of
killing and distributing dead meat for con-
sumption, but there was a laudable desire to
give some of Holman’s friends in the ser-
vice a lift. So King went to the Meat
Board as chairman, and has been receiving
£1250 a year. He retains the job with £5
a week added. The history of the old Board
was rocky, mainly owing to the hideous
mess that had been made of the job of con-
structing the abattoirs. When it was obvi-
ous that an intolerable position had been
reached, it was decided to reconstitute the
Board—and it has been done. The proper
course would nave been the appointment of
an expert in the business of killing and dis-
tributing meat and utilising by-products,
and the big Queensland meat-works could
have produced the man if he wasn’t to be
had in N. S. Wales. For the £4500 per
annum that is to be paid to an ex-Health
Department man, a stock and station agent
and a Labor member there should have been
some promising experts available. But a
practical action of that kind —which in the
long run will probably have to be made by
Holman’s Board —would not have been of
any political value at the next election, even
though it might hfeve meant cheaper meat to
the consumer and better returns to the pro-
ducer. Some day the two latter will, per-
haps, grow weary of this political game.
Chiefly on the Issue of Control
v. License.
Let “Wowser” have his say:—
The registration of prostitutes, as advocated by
The Bulletin, would be a step backwards, not for-
wards, in fighting our venereal scourge. It is in-
correct to say that prostitution is a profession.
Prostitution, like slavery, is a very old and filthily-
unnatural vice. It is incorrect, also, to suppose
that prophylactic and early-treatment measures,
because of failure in past unscientific centuries, are
of little avail.
Even if the registration of prostitutes were not a
medical failure, it would still be intolerable in a
new country with new ideals, and I say this in spite
of the storm of quasi-virtuous indignation from
short-sighted or insincere anti-wowsers. Perhaps it
would be fair to admit, however, that registered
prostitution has never had a' sound trial in any
country, as it is farcical without the /examination
and medical certification of all male clients, as sug-
gested in B. 3/4/’l9. Nevertheless, prostitution, like
slavery, baby-killing, baby-farming and other atroci-
ties, must be abolished. One hugely important ele-
ment in its destruction, and one which has never
been stressed urgently enough, is mental deficiency.
Dr. Andersolt, Medical Director of the Municipal
Court of Boston, gave figures recently that are
hideous in their suggestion. He found that the
mentally deficient among the large number of prosti-
tutes examined by him numbered 49 per cent.,
and various other proper deductions brought the
percentage of normal prostitutes to as low a figure as
20. A vigorous national policy in regard to the care
of the feeble-minded will reduce venereal and other
diseases, and crime, enormously.
To argue that registration or State control
of prostitution is a step backwards is equiva-
lent to saying that State control of crime,
lunacy or milk is a step backward. There
was a dark period in English history when
lunatics were treated much the same as pros-
titutes are now. They were suffered to
wander around loose, to their own and the
public’s detriment. The Lunacy Acts
changed all that. Under them the lunatic’s
freedom of movement is restricted : any place
which houses a lunatic has to be licensed for
the purpose; and all such institutions are
liable to be visited, without notice, by Gov-
ernment inspectors. It was calculated,
before the era of the registered milk-vendor
set in, that every £lO that was made by the
milk-profiteers cost the State the life of one
child. It is not too much to say that at
the present time every pound sterling taken
by thousands of prostitutes costs the country
the lives of many children. The chief objec-
tion with many people to the registration of
prostitutes is that it amounts to “a recogni-
tion of prostitution.” But prostitution does
exist; whether as an institution, a profession
or a vice is immaterial. And so long as it
exists it is sheer insanity for the community
to shut its eyes and refuse to recognise its
presence. The Bulletin -has never claimed
that registration will, in itself, abolish V.D.
But all the statistics, and all the arguments
of commonsense, go to show that it must
help. The Bulletin has never deprecated
prophylactic and early-treatment measures.
The worst it has had to remark about them


Centre oT^.
H
Australia"
Wfnier Carden
y
’
mm
The Premier Hotel of Australia
Renovated from Roof to Basement.
NEW FEATURES
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
New Fireproof Flat Con-
crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
B:.ths.
New Furnishing's.
Apply Manager.
SYDNEY.
ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTIES
Comfort and Quietness. Every
Convenience and Quick Service/
Automatic Telephones in every
Room. Private Safe Deposit.
Stenographer and Private Office
for use of Guests.
C'noice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast or Full Board.
Meals—a la Carte or Table d’hote.
WHAT WE ADVERTISE WE SUPPI/ST.
is that, outside a disciplined body such as,
say, a battalion or a naval vessel, it is im-
possible to ensure their general use. If the
experts say that “a vigorous national policy-
in regard t.o the care of the feeble-minded
will reduce venereal and other diseases,”
then The Bulletin is with them, and it
will support such a policy to the final ditch.
It also favors other measures referred to by
"Wowser,” including rigid, control of the
drink traffic (bad drink being a big factor
in the causation of V.D.) ; the making of it
a crime to pass on V. 1).; increased hospital
accommodation for victims of venereal dis-
ease ; and a campaign of public enlighten-
ment, on the dreadful effects of the scourge.
The Bulletin likewise agrees with the
advisability of abolishing prostitution, and
if any reformer will put forward anything
that looks like a practical working pro-
gramme in this direction, it is prepared to
stand by him to the best of its capacity.
Pending the arrival of some scheme of the
sort, it holds that prostitution should be con-
trolled like any other dangerous industry.
The Sweated Parson.
If an ecclesiastic in Australia belongs to the
rank and file he is treated in not far short of
the ruthless manner advocated by G. W.
Foote, who said: “The services of the clergy
are imaginary, and their payment should be
of the same description.” A C. of E. rector
may get £5 a week and a house, or the
equivalent in rent-money. lie usually has a
wife and family ; often a big family. Also
what is called “a position to keep up.” The
Presbyterian minister gets, as a rule, £3OO,
and the Methodist £2OO. R.C. priests are
left out of the discussion, since (1) nobody
knows ouside Church circles what any indi-
vidual priest draws, and (2) priests are not
expected by their parishioners to marry early
and rear numerous children. The cost of
living has so bounded of late years that it is
hard to buy sufficient food for a healthy
family of half a dozen on a fiver a week,
much less to purchase the innumerable other
articles which amount to necessaries in a
civilised community. If a rector or a promi-
nent Methodist or Presbyterian parson could
dress himself and his family, and, generally,
live like one of his financial betters in the
opal-lumping or mining line, his lot would
be easier. But that would represent a frac-
ture of the social rules; and it would result
in his ultimately losing his job. The poorer
and the more dispirited the clergy get, the
less impressive they become as teachers and
counsellers. Their dependence on the well-
to-do has the effect of cramping their style.
A shabby-genteel Savanarola is unthink-
able. A man cannot hurl defiance at the
Devil in a convincing manner, with the eye
of a butcher who is dunning him for £3-
odd. gazing inimically through one of the
tabernacle windows. An effective preacher
must be either a frank mendicant or sol-
vent—there is no middle way for him. It
is the misfortune of many Australian clerics
that they are always on the middle way.
Meanwhile weaker and weaker men, intel-
lectually and otherwise, join the ministries
and year by year the congregation dwindles.
Are the Churches worth preserving? Surely
they are, if only for the comfort they bring
to thousands. Yet they are being allowed
to die quietly of a form of anaemia. The
blood is being drained from them by starva-
tion wages.
Bum.
“Broker” : What is sometimes overlooked
is that the importer is, first of all, a mer-
chant —a buyer and seller engaged in the
practice of trade and exchange. Therefore
he needn’t be always an importer. When a
European fracas stops the supply of shoes,
garters or glassware he has two alterna-
tives : he goes to Japan, a friendly neighbor,
or he makes or helps to make the goods
here. Before the explosions of July and
August. 1914. the manufacture of spirits in
Australia was a small business. A few dis-
tillers in Queensland, Victoria, N. S. Wales
and S. Aus. produced some good rum. fair
brandy, a whisky of sorts and a kind of gin.
The war put an end to the tremendous sup-
plies of liquor from Europe. Most of the
rum available in London was taken for use
in France, and gin used up such a lot of
good barley that the shortage soon stopped
the business, so that prices moved from 4s.
f.o.b. London in 1914 to 30s. in August.
1918, while freight and charges jumped from
£lO a shipment to £B2 in that time. The
distilleries that made whisky suddenly found
themselves turning out shells, and in 1915
it became obligatory to hold all Scotch and
Irish whisky for three years to age, before
it could be sold. As for brandy, nearly all of
it. came from the Champagne district of
France, which the gentle Hun hammered to
bits. In short, the local market has been
getting barer than the side of one of its own
unlabelled bottles. Here, then, came a
chance which, the importer did much to im-
prove. His friendly interest in Australian
distilleries became a passion. He taught
them tricks they had hungered for during
many lean years. What do we find? Just
this —that Queensland firms are now manu-
facturing rum in small pot and patent stills,
sometimes trebly distilled, which expert
opinion claims to equal anything made
abroad, and with maturity will beat the
world. The Tort Lincoln a fortnight ago
carried a shipment of 150 hogshead con-
signed to a London firm which is a pioneer
in the merry old rum trade; its name is
famous. Victorian distilleries are making
whisky and gin that are no longer to be
despised. The gin has taken championship
prizes in Holland, and large shipments of
both spirits have already, by consent of the
Shipping Space Allotment Committee, been
made to the “East.” South Aus. brandy is
excellent, one of its recommendations
abroad being the guarantee of its purity by
the Commonwealth Customs. The industry
in many respects is well and firmly built.
Mr. Importer, with one eye cocked on
Japan, and the other on home, has taught
Bung something worth while. When the
Trade is quite cleaned up (though Prohibi-
tion won’t do that) we should have a local
business which the world will wonder at.
Cotton.
Australia has as much potential cotton
land as wheat land—possibly more. And
cotton is a good crop. In 1914, before the
war skied prices, the average value of the
United States crop was £5 an acre. The
Australian Government once decided to give
the industry a lift, so it enacted that for
eight years it would spend not more than
£6OOO a year in giving 10 per cent.- bounties
on not more than £60,000 worth of ginned
cotton—not raw cotton. There was no pro-
vision for creating industries to buy the
cotton, and nobody cared to go into, the busi-
ness and purchase the necessary machinery,
seeing that a good part of the eight years
would have run out before he got things
going. Besides, there was always the chance
of getting nothing, seeing that only the first
£60,000 worth would be paid for. ' The U.S.
cotton crop, before the war prices began, was
worth about £150,000,000 a year, so the at-
tempt to establish £60,000 worth of industry
suggested that the Government was really
thinking of radishes or birdseed. If the
Federal Ministry would shift itself up north
for a year instead of moving to London, and
would try to get the hang of tropical Aus-
tralia, that part of the country might have
a glimmer of a chance.
More Yanko.
“Clingstone” writes in support:—
I think every settler on the Murrumbidgee Irriga-
tion Area (I have been one for nearly five years) will
agree with the remarks of “A Leetonite of Seven-
Years’ Standing” (B. 10/4/’l9). One of the reasons
that 90 per cent, of the settlers are carrying a
horrible load of debt is that they become liable for
rent (and water-rate, but no one grumbles at that)
immediately the block is granted them. The gag
was that after planting their trees and vines the
settlers would be able to make a living from onions
grown between the trees, pig-raising, tobacco, etc.
Most of them tried, but I do not believe that more
than 5 per cent, succeeded in keeping themselves in
tucker. Excepting those who started with a large
capital, nearly all of them had to get a living allow-
ance from the Commission, otherwise they would have
had to leave their blocks. All of this has to be paid
back, of course. When a man takes up a “homestead
farm” block in a wheat-growing district, providing
he puts the improvements on he pays no rent for
five years. Yet, if the rabbits are not too bad, he
can clear some ground and get a crop before he even
fences his farm.
Take one instance of how things work out on the
Area—and this is a very common experience. A man
took up a heavily-timbered block and cleared, fenced
and ditched it. He started, like a lot more, with
very little experience, and, after reaching this stage,
decided that not only did he have too little capital’
but the game did not suit him. A buyer came along
and offered to purchase his improvements. On going
to the Lands Office he found that either he or the
buyer had to pay all the back rent before the farm
could be transferred. As this man remarked: “They
charge you for the privilege of spending your money
on the block.” A lot more in the same position,
instead of clearing out and losing the money they
have sunk in improvements, have struggled on, get-
ting advances from the Commission, and often
going broke at the finish.
The taxpayer has to pay for this. But if it were
not for the back rent the settlers would have been
able to get out without loss to themselves and with
benefit to the Area. Considering this aspect of the
question and the fact that the settler cannot make
one of these farms pay before the fourth vear and
that the land is practically worthless except for a
sheep-run in its natural state, I think the Irrigation
Area should be put on the same footing as a drv-area
block, and ..the first five yea re be rent-free.
“Anzac” : The Bulletin got on to the nail
m the article entitled “The Calamitous
Resumption Policy” (3/4/’l9). As a
returned soldier, at present in a survey
party, I can endorse all the arguments used.
Wherever the N. S. Wales Government has
resumed land of fair quality for soldier
settlements the price has been exorbitant.
Take, for instance, Toole’s Creek and Tar-
cutta properties, in the Wagga (N.S.W.)
district. This is essentially sheep country,
and the soldiers are paying as much as £l4
and £l6 per acre, which will mean life-long
slavery, even with good seasons. Then there
is Walbundrie station, in the same district.
The land is good, but the price prohibitive.
The orchards around Batlow are costing £75
to £BO per acre for the removal of timber
alone. Then there is the inferior land
which the Government has acquired—in-
stance the Yanga subdivision in Balranald
district. Rubbish that the station wanted
to get rid of has been “negotiated” for sol-
dier settlement in 8000- to 10,000-acre
blocks. In that district, experience has
proved that nothing less than 20,000 acres
is a living area. Some of the subject land
is honestly not worth the survey fee. Finally,
look at the Richmond River district. The
surveyors’ and Crown rangers’ reports in-
variably state, “poor gravelly soil,” “barren
stony ridges,” “no natural grasses,” “un-
suitable for grazing or dairying,” “no good
for agriculture,” and so on ad infinitum.
The best land the Government has to offer
is in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area, but
the peonle in charge don’t seem able to bring
settlement there to a successful issue.
—— ♦
1m i t raveller recently returned from
S Africa told the newspapers that in Cape-
town, after a certain stage in the influenza
epidemic, the only precautions taken were
to drench the streets, sidewalks, shops,
hotels and even steps and verandahs of pri-
vate houses with strong disinfectants. It
is as likely a way of checking the disease as
any that has been tried in Australia. Used
in conjunction with a drastic campaign
against spitters it might do much good. The
spitter does his loathsome and insanitarv
work not only on shaded sidewalks, but oil
the floors of buildings. In some Australian
cities feeble attempts have been sporadically
made to check his murderous activities. In
Sydney, for example, the municipal authori-
ties dressed up a number of officials in con-
spicuous uniforms so that they might,
amongst other things, identify spitters. An
efficacious scheme would be for the State
Governments to make some thousands of
public-spirited citizens special constables for
the purpose of dealing with spitters, whether
on the streets or off them. There are only
two places, broadly speaking, where a per-
son may safely and unobjectionably spit—
on to a handkerchief or into some receptacle
provided for the purpose. Casual expectora-
tion. as practised at present by selfish and
hog-like individuals, is a prime factor in the
distribution of a number of infectious dis-
eases ranging from pneumonic influenza to
consumption.
The N.S.W. Government proposes to put
the disastrous Homebush abattoirs on a
more solvent footing by writing down the
ridiculous capital—nearly a million and a
half—on which payment of anything like
full interest seems impossible. If that
means that a big part of the loan money is
to be paid off out of revenue, then it will
be an honest cleaning up. If it means that
nothing will be paid off, but a portion of
the loan charged to some other account, it
will be a dishonest fake. Betting is heavy
in favor of the fake.
Up till March 31 the Vic. Closer Settle-
ment Board had spent £1,903,219 in acquir-
ing 2191 allotments, containing 595,542
acres. Of 31,067 soldiers who have come
back to the State, 25,689 had been discharged
at a recent date. Of the 25,689, only 4639
had applied for land-qualification certificates,
and 2661 (57.8) were successful in obtaining
them. The number of allotments taken up
by these 2661 soldiers, however, is only 1076.
In addition 34 of the certificate-holders are
being assisted in share-farming propositions.
Thus only four Diggers out of every hundred
who have been discharged have taken up
either land or share-farms through the De-
partment, leaving 96 p.c. to be provided for
otherwise. It seems a pretty strong hint
to Willie Watt and Millen that “the land”
isn’t the sort of job the returned man is look-
ing for.
When Willie Watt was a youngster he
showed another boy the right way to sell
Heralds in the street in Melbourne. He
had not learned by experience, but he knew.
A profit of 2s. was quickly made; then Watt
passed all his takings, including the 25.,
to the other boy, whose slowness he deplored.
The other boy declined the profit, and
ultimately they took a shilling each. Boy
Watt was father to the man. When he
became Treasurer under Jack Murray,
lawns easy-going ways irritated him, and
he decided to show Big Jack the “right wav”
to lead a Government. Jack relinquished
the Premiership in his favor and agreed to
take a place in the team as Chief Secretary.
But instead of drawing the Premier's £l4OO
a year, Va tt took £l2OO and allotted the
same amount to Murray.
One of the things that the Peace Con-
ference dallied for, while the Bolsheviks
raged and multiplied, was the Labor Com-
mission's report. It proved to be a vast
document with schemes for the fixing of
uniform hours and conditions and wages
throughout the League of Nations. If the
miners’ union at Broken Hill (N.S.W.) isn’t
satisfied at any time it and the miners’ union
at Cracow (Poland) will presumably cite
each other before a League tribunal at
Geneva (Switzerland), and probably finish
by telling each other to .go to Sheol (Scrip-
ture). The League Parliament, when there
is one, should deal with these questions, but
there is no such body yet. While civilisa-
tion is in the middle of a landslide is no
time for poking away up into the clouds.
An inquiry from Moree:
Re all this talk about stopping importing and
making our own goods, etc. 1 sent to Sydney re-
cently for a small hammer and a gridiron. The
former was 3s. 9d. and the latter 4s. fld. Where is
the sense in paying prices like this if you can get
a cheap foreign article?
Well, why didn't Moree get a “cheap foreign
article”? It wasn’t a high tariff that stopped
him, because British-made hammers, for in-
stance, come in free. The circumstance
might reasonably suggest to Moree that the
way to get a cheap hammer is to try a high
tariff, and thus create local factories, cutting
out a foreign profiteering merchant or two.
half-a-dozen or so profiteering foreign agents,
a vast amount of cartage in foreign profit-
eers’ ships and on foreign profiteering cos.’
railways* and the expensive handling at an
Australian port.
Victoria’s Statist has issued a sum-
mary of the people who have paid tax
on incomes earned in 1916 and 191 i.
The wool-grower heads the list in both
years, 576 paying an average tax of
£36 Os. Id. for ’l6, and 419 an average
of £44 4s, lid. for ’l7. Importers came
next, 1209 paying £3O 17s, Id. and 939
£3S Bs. 9d for the two years. Those who
did worst in the second year, judging by the
decreased amount of taxes they paid, were
manufacturers, butchers, grocers, dairy-
farmers, carpenters and carriers. For 1917.
939 importers paid £3B Bs. 9d. each, whereas
only 792 manufacturers paid £2O 19s. 9d.
as an average. Again, 439 drapers averaged
£l5 9s. Bd., while 643 farmers paid £l2 Is.
4d., 406 various other primary producers
£4 13s. 6d., and 4873 industrial workers
£2 16s. 6d. The primary producer (except-
ing the wool king), manufacturer and indus-
trial worker ran a poor second to the trad-
ing middleman.
“Pharmo” : I am prepared to sw r ear that of
the many toothbrushes I sell every day 90
per cent, have been handled by at least three
customers. Most of them rub the thumbnail
along the brush in order to ascertain the
strength of the bristles. This is, to say the
least', a disgusting method of retailing goods;
but what am Ito do? If I keep one sample
of each line on the counter for inspection
and sell from a stock at the back, I am
told that none of the samples on the
counter are of the type required, and
I am requested to let the buyer see
the rest, as he (she) is sure there will be
one to suit her (him) there. If I refuse
I offend the customer and lose other busi-
ness as well as the sale of the brush. A
solution of the difficulty is to have each
brush packed in a sealed carton by the
manufacturer. People are notoriously afraid
of breaking the seals of packed goods for
fear that they will have to buy the contents.
One brush might be opened as a sample.
There is only one line of cartoned tooth-
brushes on the market at present, and I
believe that its great sale is solely due to
the sealed packing.
“Donk’s Dingbat” (Belgium) : When will
some of the “heads” get fitted with plain
horse-sense? An Australian paper which
has just reached us supplies an illustration
of the interest taken by Commandant D’Andre
(French Mission) in the Australian rifle
manufactured at the Lithgow Small Arms
Factory, and of his taking “copious notes”
thereon. To every Digger it is really an
illustration of stupidity on the part of who-
ever is responsible for this excess of courtesy
to the representative of a foreign Power.
The onlv excuse for such a proceeding could
be that the Defence Department contem-
plates making an early alteration in the pat-
tern of the rifle. The French jealously
guard the secrets, where they exist, of the
manufacture of all their w r eapons of war.
This is so particularly in regard to their
75 c.m. field gun. Notwithstanding the fact
that Australians have many times fought in
close liaison with the French, their artillery-
men have never allowed an Australian gun-
ner within their gunpits, for fear he would
learn something about the buffer of the
75, the principle of which is kept a close
secret.


Twin
rrr>
Six
F. H. GORDON & CO. LTD.. 133 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Agents for Wolseley, Stellite and Mitchell Six Cars.
Builders of The Australian Six.
The World’s Greatest Motor Car.
No matter what ear you have ridden in, the range of speed, flexibility and power of this
wonderful machine will make you marvel. It’s colossal, indescribable; it’s quite dif-
ferent.
The Fastest Thing on Wheels—a Packard
150 miles per hour, the fastest man has yet travelled on earth. Packard has this
record, besides holding every world’s record from 1 to 6 hours and from 1 to GOO miles.
Packard has beaten all British, European and American Cars.
Packard Twin Six Cars and Packard Trucks
are the World’s Best.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
THE BIRD.
“American correspondents’ despatches say that
President Wilson, forced by the dreadful condition of
Europe to concentrate upon immediate peace, is
sacrificing his cherished ideas and leaving the League
of Nations the mere shadow of his hopes.”— Cable.
At bottom the Coalition is responsible for
the howling farce which has been made of
Health administration in N. S. Wales. Hol-
man had to have a certain number of men
in the Cabinet to hold up his end securely
against the Liberals, represented by Fuller,
Garland and others. Fitzgerald therefore
had to have a Ministerial job of some kind ;
and having a Ministerial job he had to
justify himself. He did it by doing the
superfluous.
Colebateli, the new Premier of Westralia,
won in his first round with the machine.
Lately “the party” decided that Ministers
must‘be elected by the Caucus. Colebatch
demanded a free hand and, after a fight, got
it. If his hand was free enough to pick
heads of departments from the whole State,
instead of being restricted to a score of
politicians, there might be a chance of get-
ting Westralian affairs back on to solid
ground.
Quite an imposing meeting of the un-
employed was held last week in Sydney.
N. S. Wales, which is mostly Sydney, gave
out about £60,000,000 worth of work last
year, sending away raw material to avoid
the employment of making it up, and im-
porting finished goods to dodge the work and
wages of manufacturing them. So of course
it has its unemployed. It is shouting for
them and it deserves all of them it gets.
Gilgandra, which is 325 miles from Syd-
ney by rail and has less than 20in. of rain
in four years out of ten, has held a meeting
and declared it a “knock-down blow” to the
place that Scholz’s property hasn’t been
bought' by the Government to put returned
soldiers on. In these days, when there is
so much repatriation loan-money flying
around, there are three objects in view: (1)
To boom Gilgandra ; (2) to make a sale of
Scholz’s property; (3, and incidentally) to
do something for the returned soldiers.
Already almost every place with two inhabi-
tants and lOin. of rainfall has advertised
itself as an ideal spot for returned soldiers.
It suggests the rush to adopt an orphan with
a little money.
If the Watt Government doesn’t hurry
with the tariff wall, it can make a cemetery
vault instead. At present the corpses are
lying around unburied. Bryant. May, Bell
and Co., of Richmond (Vic.), a "white-
man’s” firm which produced safety-matches
under ideal conditions for the workers,
instead of doing the customary bit of over-
time at this season of the year has told its
370 employees that Japan lias settled them
and they must look for employment else-
where. The firm says: “As we have thou#
ands of pounds’ worth of manufactured
stocks on hand, and there are sufficient
Japanese matches here to last Australia 18
months, we see no chance of re-opening for
12 months.”
Proportional voting, which has now out-
grown its infancy in the Speck, promises to
finance the general elec-
tion there next month.
Neither Laborites nor
Nationalists are holding
pre-elections, but have
endorsed all statesmen in
embryo who have pushed
themselves forward.
Thus 27 candidates have
already nominated for
Franklin, where six
seats are available, while
the other electorates are
not far behind. As
each candidate must re-
ceive first preferences
equal to one-fifth of the
quota in order to save
his £25 deposit, there is
a big chance of lost
“sinkers” making the
election show a credit
balance.
The Speck lately saw
something of the price-
fixing burlesque. During
a petrol drought in
March car-owners and
others with small
stocks had no difficulty
in selling engine-fodder
for £3 a case, despite the
Prices Commissioner’s,
maximum of 28s. Re-
putable establishments
got over the difficulty by
bottling the goods and
selling them at exorbi-
tant prices, thus putting
themselves outside the
Act.
In the way of secret diplomacy the treaty
which is to be signed at Versailles looks like
a world’s record. Though there has been
leakage of a more or less inaccurate kind,
the details, at time of writing, are only
known to those in high places in France,
Britain, Italy and the United States. The
people don’t know except vaguely by leakage.
As regards the crowd of small Allies, it is
doubtful whether even those in high places
know much. If the Little Nations don’t
like the terms they are at liberty to stand
out and run the war by themselves.
The murkiness of it all is amusing. Geo.
Washington never dreamt that a mild and
pallid successor would dress up in a mask
and a black cloak and a slouch hat, and col-
logue about the partitioning of the world
with three hardened foreign diplomatists, in
a locked room, with curtains drawn and a
curl-paper stuck in the keyhole.
The Russian Bolshevik Government
brought a crowd of Chinese into the country
as torturers, executioners and civil
servants. Now some of them, as
agents of the Government meat
business, are accused of selling
human flesh mixed with dog at
160 s. per lb. The price seems
high, but the Bolshevik Govern-
ment has issued a great paper cur-
rency. not based on gold but
“secured on the entire assets of
the country”—a thing often recom-
mended by some people in Austra-
lia. It isn’t certain that the issue
has exceeded the security yet, but
it has gone far enough to make
prices go up. There is no fixed
limit to the rise of dog, suburban
allotments or anything else when
there is sufficient paper money
about.
One of Australia’s most notable
profiteers has died worth
£4,6oo,ooo—Lord Glentanar, other-
wise Thomas Coats of Paisley, the
man who ran up the price of our
sewing cotton several hundred per
cent, and increased the cost of
clothes. If he had paid wages and
rates and his income-tax and war-
profits tax here, and bought his food
and drinks here, and if his estate
had finally put £BOO,OOO of probate
duty into our treasury, the Labor
party here would have cursed him
with the greater and lesser excom-
munication and the curse of Crom-
well thrown in. Being an absentee,
it didn’t utter a word of complaint
for fear of waking the fiscal issue.
There is something fishy about that
fiscal issue.
Cheap trips for Parliamentary candidates
is the latest idea in Tasmania. To give out-
siders a leg-up against the old hands who
have gold passes, Propsting, Railway Minis-
ter, has arranged to let them have tickets at
half rates (luring the campaign.
What is starred as one of the most im-
portant judgments since John Hampden’s day
lias been given by English courts. A hotel
was commandeered under the Defence of the
Realm Act; and the Courts say that the
State must pay' the rent, even though the
Government’s action was takfen to avert
danger to the public. That is very nice for
I’ropputy; but what about Person? If
property is to be paid in full for its
share in national defence, then there can be
no longer any justification for paying T.
Atkins a few pence a day for doing his
share.
An interesting little game is being played
in S. Aus. , The “Nationalists” are in
power; but, though the whole crowd is sup-
posed to be pulling one way, everybody knows
that the ex-Laborites and the ex-Liberals
whom Conscription threw together are as
far apart as they were when they used to
fight one another. Also, there are Liberals
and Liberals; the Farmers and Settlers’
wing, for instance, attaches immense im-
portance to things that the rest hardly think
about. To prevent disruption it has been
proposed that the electorates should be
carved up, so many being allotted to each;
but as there is certain to be quarrelling over
the soft seats, the plea for proportional re-
presentation gains ground. But propor-
tional representation iii the country will‘not
fill the bill altogether. The House may truly
represent the people; but so long as the
Ministry represents only the biggest section
the minorities might almost as well remain
outside.
Inasmuch as the supply of oil for motors,
motor-bikes, launches, steamers, airships,
etc., is one of the world’s biggest problems
and biggest industries, and inasmuch as the
Commonwealth has at least a chance in
Papua to become one of the world’s great
producers—what do you think has hap-
pened? The Hughes-Watt Ministry has
decided to speculate £50,000 in the business
if the British Government takes half the
risk and the profit! The Bureau of Science
and Industry, which hasn’t even been autho-
rised by Parliament yet, costs almost that
much per annum for doddering in an office.
But it is in the next street to the Ministerial
dugouts, while Papua is far away. The
present combine would sell a half-interest in
Golconda for £50.000 unless Golconda was
right up against its doormat.
With an adroitness that Hughes could not
surpass, Watt recovered himself when he was
sliding off on a wrong track at the luncheon
which followed the launching of the Dromana.
He was expressing surprise and disappoint-
ment at the State Government ignoring the
function, when Wise, Assistant Defence
Minister, gave him the office that Oman, Min-
ister for Agriculture, was only a few feet
away and was looking at him. Then Watt
expressed pleasure at observing that the
“best-looking and largest of the Vic. Minis-
try” was there. Oman swallowed the com-
pliment whole, instead of being angry with
Watt for forgetting that he was in the
Government.
PINPRICKS.
HYDE PARK HORACE: “If there’s one thing I
dislike more than another it’s rags on
the piano before breakfast.”
Bowser, Vic. Chief Secretary, drew a
cheque for £l5O on his private account
rather than let the State pay more
commission than he thought was just
on the sale of the auxiliary training-
ship Dart. The absent-minded beggar gave
two options of purchase: hence the trouble.
Other members of the Cabinet offered to
share with him in paying the £l5O, but he
declined, as he regarded himself as techni-
cally responsible.
Whitsitt, who is the entire and unani-
mous Independent party in the Apple
Island’s Assembly, the other day sent Pre-
mier Lee this mild little telegram :
Tasmania is being ruined under Federal control,
Free and unrestricted trade by a clean State being
violated by the Federal Government’s actions.
Summon Parliament to petition the King to suspend
the Constitution, and to pray deliverance from
Federal control. -Meanwhile charter boats, at any
cost. Protect our sovereign rights, and defy inter-
ference by the Federal Government.
Lee was hunting up George V.’s telephone
number when the mail left.
On the ground that the game was not worth
the candle, Andrew Robertson, M.L.A. for
Bulla, has ceased to be Hon. Minister and
Whip in the Lawson-Bowser Cabinet. His
resignation was no surprise. It is not the
custom to pay Vic. Hon. Ministers out of
the appropriation for the Cabinet: but as
Whip Robertson drew £250 or £3OO from
his colleagues, Pennington will get the job
if it is left to Lawson ; but if Bowser has
his way he may recall Farthing.
Of all English papers the Manchester
Guardian is running the League of Nations
the hardest: the cables mentioned last week
that it had just produced a great special
number carrying messages to the world from
the world’s foremost public men. The
,Guardian - always has been an earnest
pacifist;' and it is very earnest, too, about
building a. league that will do something
towards standardising the world’s wages.
If that doesn’t happen Manchester sees that
its cotton-spinning trade will slip away to
Japan and China; in fact, it has seen a
great deal of it thus slip away already. Man-
chester depends wholly upon foreign raw
material' for its great industry; and that
raw material is just as near Japan and
China. How Manchester is going to keep the
industry and pay very much higher wages it
doesn’t know, seeing that it has been barely
able to keep the industry on its old standard
of wages. And nobody else knows, either.
CHINA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Conscious of teeming cities and the sweep
Of those vast rivers past her temples old,
Dim, twisted streets where colored lanterns creep,
And stench and slime and dusty lacquer gold—
So China lives. Upon her lips there lies
A brooding shadow. ’Neath her forehead seams
Gleam, like slit moons, impenetrable eyes
Dazed with the glamor of strange opium dreams.
Beauty and Art, the Poetry of Song,
And leaping thoughts to set the soul .aglow, -
The clash of arms, the battle of the strong,
She knew them all—ten thousand years ago.
Thus, while the world sweeps past to war and feast,
She stirs half-languidly, the listless East.
She stirs half-languidly to join the fray,
While progress clamors loudly at her door ;
About her dreaming courts hot passions sway,
Clutching from feeble hands their golden store.
What though a myriad aspirations press
Her tireless pedple surging like a sea,
She looms apart in dumb, mute hideousness,
Weary with overmuch maternity!
And yet, sometimes, beside a lilied lake,
It seems as if a new breath swept the morn,
When through the fantasies of dreaming break
Swift shining radiants of a youth reborn ;
As if from out that sullen brain was spun
Some lotus vision opening in the sun.
The cry of nations echoes through tile night,
The call of nations clashes through each day;
New' faiths are leaping upward in the light.
Old faiths are crumbling to a sure decay ;
Laughter and strife and strength and energy—
Ever and on the restless tumult swells,
AVhile she hears, dreaming, ’neath some flowering-
tree,
The slow bronze music of her temple bells.
Who shares the secret of those moon-bright eyes ?
On what far vista is their brown gaze flung?
A mocking symbol that all Fate defies,
The silken poppy in her girdle swung,
Let each one toil and strive his little span,
She yawns half-languidly behind her fan.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.


THE DAILY WHIRL IN THE N. S. WALES HEALTH DEPARTMENT.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd
Registered
<BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms—• ,
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products—
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .1. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY— __
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
FOR 32 YEARS
PERPETUAL Trustee Company (Ltd.)
has been in business as a Corporate Trustee.
Since its incorporation it has never been held liable by the Courts
for a breach of Trust of anv description.
The Company acts as Executor and Trustee under Wills, Adminis-
trator in Intestacy, Attorney Under Power, Agent, etc., etc.
WRITE FOR EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Ltd.), 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Manager: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assur-
ance Co., Ltd., which is the Citizens’ Life
Association with the M.L.A. and the Aus-
tralian Widows’ Fund grafted on to it: —
Ordinary Life Department. Added
Written to
Dee., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.
1900.. £ 278,713 £62,207 £34,867 £395 £181,184
1907.. 299,001 83,803 24,190 12,925 178,083
(Amalgamation with M.L.A. took place at this point.)
1908.. 067,435 274,307 74,074 157,054 101,400
1909.. 092,089 321,484 58,392 1,745 310,468
(Widows’ Fund came in here.)
1910.. 941,605 481,520 84,252 2,524 373,303
1911. . 1,047,150 534,801 95,864 5,275 411,210
1912. . 1,098,748 593,820 100,391 2,031 401,906
1913. . 1,127,198 595,487 92,604 15,320 423,787
1914. . 1,162,249 004,258 102,274 1,541 454,176
1915. . 1.174,039 660,113 98,095 0,980 402,245
1916. . 1,191,225 676,011 82,324 6,837 426,053
1917. . 1,219,400 776,218 88,888 10,673 337,711
1918. . 1,278,085 805,623 95,304 147 372,611
The M.L.C. i« by fur the largest of the
co-operative life concerns in the Common-
wealth. In the Ordinary department, funds
at Dec. 31 last amounted to £0,417,108.
The co. makes a definite contract with its
customers; it undertakes to pay the full face
value of the policy, together with all declared
bonuses; and it also undertakes that the
cost to the policyholders of handling their
business shall not exceed a certain fixed rate.
The shareholders’ cut in the Ordinary
department is limited to one-fifth of the
profits. That arrangement is an assurance
to policyholders that the management will do
its best in their interests, for if the share-
holders feel hungry and Want a bit more,
the management must at the same time earn
four times that hit for policyholders. The
£805,623 of claims shown above for 1018 in-
cludes £32,156 of bonuses to shareholders,
and is thus included for the sake of uni-
formity, as there was a time when the figures
were not given separately. Last year the
actuary recommended the distribution of
£247.025 of the 1017 surplus; of this
£215,769 went in bonuses to policyholders
and the £32,156 went to shareholders.
The artificial prosperity created by the
war lias not been without effect on figures.
Insurance has been easier to sell. Note the
growth of the average of new policies writ-
ten during the past five years :
No. of Average Amount
New Policies. Assuring. Assured.
1914.. 10,619 £2,003,040 £lB9
1915.. 7,219 1,307,236 181
1916.. 5,839 1,315,471 225
1917.. 6,534 1,538,72 5 236
1918.. 8,103 2,048,870 253
The 10,619 1914 policies bring in a yearly
income^ of £64.762; the latest 8103 an annual
£72.677. The effect of this, of course, is
to tend to reduce the expense rate. For
I ft] 4 exes, look 12.14 p.c. of the premiums;
for the past year 10.90 p.c. Also the new
business is now being got in much more
cheaply ; assuming that the old business cost
7_p.c., then last year’s new business cost only
55 p.c., compared with 81 p.c. four years
ago. The loss rate was again heavy last
year, though how much of it was due to the
war is not stated. The result is that,
though income has increased by over
£1101)00 since 1914, the surplus is still
£81,500 short of what it used to be; and. in
consequence, bonus distributions are smaller.
Two mutual concerns have been amalga-
mated with the original Citizens’ co.—the old
M.L.A. and the Australian Widows’ Fund.
There are trustees keeping an eye on both
interests, and each crowd has a bouquet to
throw. Let the A.W.F. speak first: —
The share of surplus apportioned to the A.W.F.
section amounts to £5.3,732 for the year just closed,
as against £44,371 for the previous year. At the
last quinquennial period of the A.W.F., prior to the
union, the percentage of surplus to the premiums
received was 14.6 per cent., whereas for the year
just closed the percentage of surplus to premiums
received in the A.W.F. section was nearly 48 per
cent. —in other words, the cash surplus allotted to
the policyholders of the A.W.F. section for the year
just closed represents nearly one-half of the total
premiums received.
And now the other trustees:—
Last year we expressed satisfaction that the policy
reserves of the M.L.A. section had been placed on a
3 p.e. net premium valuation basis. We have now
to note with satisfaction that the bonuses in this
section have been substantially increased. The valua-
tion basis having been placed on such a conservative
basis, and peace being happily assured and the extent
of war mortality known, this is a fitting occasion to
increase the bonuses in this section. The surplus
apportioned to the M.L.A. section is £61,85? for
1918, as against £42,854 for 1917.
Thus since these old mutual offices came
u»der the wing of the Citizens’ things have
looked up wonderfully for their policyholders.
For that reason the M.L.C. has * gained a
wide circle of friends and good canvassers.
The first thing to consider when selecting
a life office is safety. Will it be able to pay
up 30 or 40 years hence? As mentioned
before, the M.L.C. gives a definite contract.
Besides its funds it has £200,000 of share-
holders’ capital. In his report the actuary,
working on the basis of funds earning only
3 p.c., calculated that the net liability of the
co. to policyholders was £9,417,108 at Dec.
31. At that date there were liabilities
of about £287.000 and assets totalling
£9,837,190, of which no less than £0,154.220
(02.5 p.c.) was invested in public securities.
Loans on mortgage represented 23.2 of the
funds ; 8 p.c. was out in loan on policies ; and
that left a little over 0 p.c. to be repre-
sented by properties and sundries. Nobody
could desire better security than that.
Including the Industrial department, the
M.L.C. has subscribed eight millions to War
Loans, though it has not paid for all of it
yet. All accumulations since 1915 have
gone that way; and future surpluses are ear-
marked- for the same pen. Mention was
made just now that liabilities were calcu-
lated on the basis of funds earning only 3
p.c. in future. Actually at present funds
are earning a shade over 5 p.c. Thus in
calculating its liabilities the co. has left a
big margin of safety. Aii effect of this con-
servative estimate is to withhold a large
volume of “surplus,” creating a substantial
internal reserve.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dee., Income. Claims. Dividends), Off. Funds.
1900. . a: 205,910 £4(1,767 £75,251 £849 £83,053
1907.. 230,086 55,770 82,820 96,496
1908.. 217,371 98,068 54,268 1734 33,301
1909.. 227,299 74,829 98,522 4746 49,202
1910.. 243,286 74,108 105,330 2755 61,093
1911.. 264,235 65,606 108,077 3916 86,636
1912.. 281,597 63,186 111,978 6196 100,237
1913.. 298,526 93,365 115,794 6594 82,773
1914.. 322,017 66,240 134,643 121,134
1915.. 337,959 72,835 143,912 121,212
1916.. 354,568 68,702 153,102 802 131,962
1917.. 382,807 88,527 165,190 159 128,931
1918.. 409,949 160,209 176,638 2128 70,974
During the past year the accounts show that
shareholders received £58,371 in dividends
ami bonuses in this branch. Add the
£32,156 from the Ordinary department and
the £3640 from employers’ liability business,
and shareholders got altogether £94,167.
Last year’s claims were particularly heavy
owing. to the maturing of endowments :
£110,731 was paid out in this way, compared
with £38,542 in 1917. To get in the
£322.677 of premiums cost £118,256. or 36.6
p.c., which is a very low rate for this class
of business. The “block” system, which
places certain districts under the control of
one representative, who spends a couple of
days of the week collecting the few coppers
that comprise the fortnightly premiums of
his clients and has the rest of the week avail-
able for chasing new business, has cheapened
the cost of industrial insurance, besides mak-
ing the service infinitely more efficient.
Nevertheless, 7s. 4d. in the £ still goes in
exes.
* * * *
The South Australian Brewing Co.
(Adelaide)
Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves., serves.
Feb., £ £ £ £ £
1906.. 17,370 5 p.c. = 12.500 2,750 2120 37,591
1907.. 18,172 5 „ „ 12,500 2,750 2922 40,513
1908.. 24,135 5 „ „ 12,500 6,103 5532 46,045
1909.. 17.551 5 „ ~12,500 5,051 46,045
1910.. 25,072 5 „ „ 12,500 12,572 46,045
1911.. 35,637 6),, „ 15,625 16,057 3955 50,000
1912.. 46,277 74 „ ~18,750 27,527 50,000
1913.. 70,968 74 ~ „ 18,750 32,218 50,000
1914.. 55,953 10 „ ~25,000 30,953 - 50,000
1915.. 50,114 10 ~25,000 25,114 50,000
1910.. 32,161 10 „ ~25,000 4,750 2411 52,411
1917.. 22,348 6] „ „ 15,625 4,750 1973 54.384
1918.. 32,174 8$ ~ „ 21,875 10,299 54,384
1919.. 32,294 10 ~ 25,000 7,294 54,384
The result of the prohibition poll in Maori-
land has made the liquor interests in the
Commonwealth feel a little less uncomfort-
a"ble. All along it has been felt that the
Australian States were less likely to go dry
than Maoriland; and now that the Shivery
Isles have refused to cut out grog altogether,
the outlook for the local breweries seems a
shade less gloomy. Cold Tea in the Com-
monwealth will not be quiet until a vote is
taken • but the Trade will go into the fight
with some confidence. Still, the condition
of the liquor traffic is entirely unsatisfac-
tory ; and “moderates” in Sydney got on to
the right track when they recently estab-
lished a reform association.
Though the S. Aus. Brewing Co.’s output
grew last year, owung to the additional cost
of raw materials the gross profit (£60,056)
was less than for the previous year. But
since £l2OO more was got in from rents and
the provision for taxes was lighter, net
profits showed a small increase. All the
profit in excess of the 10 p.e. div. has gone to
write down various items : goodwill, £2500;
leaseholds, £750; plant, etc., £4OOO. The
£44 left over has been passed to a rent re-
duction reserve. Chairman Jacobs told
shareholders that the £60,000 originally paid
for goodwill has now been written down to
£7500. So, going back to the last column in
the table, there are now true reserves of
£46,884 in excess of tangible assets repre-
senting the £250.000 of capital. Besides
these reserves there is £57.050 in a freehold
depreciation account and £lO5O reserved for
contingencies. Whether the freeholds, brew-
eries and plant are worth the £426,955
shown in the books The Bulletin does not
know ;_but the directors continue to regard
the £5 1 ,050 in the freehold depreciation
account as a true reserve. Depreciation
allowances are also made in two other
places: £13,646- of last year’s gross profits
went in “plant and rolling stock repairs,
buildings and repairs, and bad and doubtful
debts,” while £4750 of the P. and L. balance
was appropriated by the directors to write
down plant and leaseholds.
Restricted trading and heavier expenses
nave not left any scars on the balance-sheet
figures. But the progress shown has not
been nearly so rapid during the past four
years as it was for the four years prior to
1915 :-r-
-. . 1911. 1915. 1919.
Assets apart from fixed
assets .. .. £73,073 £143,083 £140,759
Liabilities .. .. 035,637 240,828 190,806
Excess liabilities .. £162,564 £97,145 £50,107
The book values of fixed assets and goodwill
over the same periods have moved this way:
~ , 1911. 1915. 1919.
Goodwill .. .. £60,000 £15,000 £7,500
Fixed assets, less depre-
ciation reserve . . 427,990 421,041 369,905
Meantime shareholders have not visibly suf-
fered as a result of war troubles: they have
had 35 p.c. in divs. during the last four years,
the same as was distributed in the previous
period ; and without a doubt the present posi-
tion is far better than it was four years ago.
The Freehold Assets Co. (Melbourne),
which in 1907 succeeded the Freehold Assets
Realisation Co., whose job was to act as
undertaker to the Freehold Investment and
Banking Co.—
Reserves.
Taken over from old co. .. £14,119
To Re-
trofits. Dividends. serves.
•Jail., 1908 ..£1,484 Nil £1484 15,603
Written off reserves, £2957 .. 12,646
Dec.. 1908 .. 6,540 7 p.c. =£5,197 1343 13,989
Dec., 1909 .. 7,284 8 „ „ 5,939 1345 15,334
Dec., 1910 .. 11,327 10$ „ ~ 7,795 3532 18,866
Dee., 1911 .. 8,569 9 ~ ~ 6,682 1887 20,753
Dec., 1912 .. 8,319 9 ~ ~ 6,682 1637 22,390
Dec., 1913 .. 8,302 9 „ „ 6,682 1620 24,010
Dec., 1914 .. 9,040 9 ~ ~ 6,682 2358 26,368
Deo., 1915 . . 6,899 9 ~ ~ 6,682 217 26,585
Dec.. 1916 .. 6,979 9 „ ~ 6,682 297 26,882
Dec., 1917 .. 5,407 9 ~ „ 6,682 1725 28,607
Dec., 1918 . . 12,886 16$ „ ~ 12,251 635 29,242
This co. is giving decent burial to what is
left of several old boom-time derelicts, and
is finding the job very pleasant. It gets
its income from a nuniber of sources: rents,
interest on purchasers’ balances, surpluses
realised on sale of purchased assets and divi-
dends from other concerns in the same line
of business in which it has holdings. When
the management unloads properties at prices
higher than it paid, it puts the probable
profit aside in a realisation suspense account
until the instalments come in. Last year
a number of transactions were completed,
and the profits have benefited by £63»u, sur-
pluses in excess of book values; and from
this extra profit a 7$ p.c. bonus is handed out,
in addition to the usual 9 p.c. div. This
shows how the cleaning-up proceeds:—
1908. 1917. 1918.
Liabilities.. .. .. £89,954 £83,859 £84,066
Realisation suspense account 7,460 31,177 25,339
Property .. .. .. 76,438 30,604 30,407
Shares in other cos. .. 6,256 114,364 114,422
Balances owing .. .. 58,440 37,460 30,084
Other assets . . . . 46,589 39,172 47,260
So more than half the property on the books
10 years ago has been unloaded, but the in-
terests in other cos. include further consider-
able property holdings. Despite the higher
values, this co. seems to have been able to
do very little nrofitable unloading during the
past couple of years. Anyhow, after allow-
ing for the £9233 which has gone into profits
since 1916, the realisation account has grown
by only £932. and now stands at £25.339.
profit which will be shaken our later on if all
goes well. The co.’s own capital is £74.245,
in £1 shares, and it is working on £70.909 of
debentures and owes £13,157 besides. If
the assets ultimately prove to be worth every
penny they are now shown at in the books,
there is over £1 17s. to represent each £1
share. This is an improvement of about 9s.
per share since the reconstruction 10 years
ago. Meantime an amount in excess of the
paid capital has been handed out in dividends
and bonuses.
London Stores, Ltd., which bought a
men’s outfitting business in Melbourne, and
started with various goodwill and other in-
tangible items representing £26,368 of the
capital:—
Written To Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
1911.. £26,368
1912.. £7,293 Bp.c.= £4,200 £3,093 23,275
£1066 added to goodwill items .. 24,941
1913.. 9,702 8 p.c.= 5,600 £1590 2,506 22,435
1914.. 11,003 8 „ „ 5,600 704 4,699 17,736
1915.. 15,132 9 „ „ 6,300 645 8,187 9,549
1916.. 15,134 10 ~ ~ 7,000 604 7,530 2,019
Reserves.
1917.. 18,330 10 „ „ 7,000 549 10,781 8,762
1918.. 19,040 10 „ „ 7,000 496 11,544 20,306
1919.. 22,111 15 „ „ 10,500 487 11,124 31,430
Conditions ruling during the war years suited
this and other such concerns admirably.
Probably at least 70 millions of the War
Loans raised in the Commonwealth have
been spent locally, and because the public
has had this paper money to play with it
has imagined itself considerably better off
than it used to be. So, though practically
every shipment of new goods landed by the
London Stores has cost more than the pre-
vious lot, there has been no difficulty in un-
loading at increased prices. This co. has
got in no new capital during the past five
years, but in that period its gross profits
have grown from £47,532 to £75,983. The
energetic management has of course attracted
a lot of new customers to its stores since
1913, but some of the additional profit has
been earned very easily. For instance,
assume that in one particular line it is
the trade-practice to add 20 p.c. ou cost to
the customer. A shipment worth £lOOO five
years ago would have then given a profit of
£2OO. The same goods to-day probably could
not be obtained under £l5OO, and the same 20
p.c. on that would give a profit of £3OO.
The result is that, though exes, all round
have increased, the proportion of exes, to
gross profits has been reduced from 76.8 p.c.
to 70.9 p.c. Last year’s net profit of
£21,624 was very sweet —equal to over 30
p.c. on the paid capital.
Because of the high cost of stocks a paid
capital of £70,000 does not now go nearly
so far to meet the requirements of a busi-
ness like this as it 4id before the war. But
the fact that the co. can now carry stocks
vvith a book value of £85,604 compared with
£37,250 five years ago, while increasing its
trading debts by only £3632. is due to the
wide margin between profits made and
divided. The reserves accumulated since
1913 have actually slightly exceeded the
growth of stocks. Lately the co. decided
to acquire freehold premises, and cash assets
have been cut into to provide that portion
of th(“ £41,065 of property not represented
by the mortgage of £19,660. This shows
how the balance-sheet figures have moved:—
1912. 1914. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities .. £7,310 £5,526 £6,773 £28,818
Stock .. .. 31,237 37,250 78,596 85,604
Property, etc. .. 41,065
Book debts . . 3,257 3,230 4,803 4,030
Plant, etc. . . 5,624 6,332 4,474 4.369
Cash, etc. . . 14,728 14,085 15,212 7,686
The vendor got 30,000 £l. shares when the co.
was formed in 1912. The public took 40,000
shares, and holders have done wonderfully
w 7 ell. At the co.’s first balance there were
tangible assets with a book value of about
13s. 6d. to represent each £1 share. At
February 28 last, after only six years, there
was £1 12s. 6d. in tangible assets. Mean-
time shareholders have averaged almost 10
p.c. p.a. There always was money in hand-
ling rags ; but the past few years’ perform-
ances have made old records look like in-
valid-pensioners. How much longer the run
is going to last this paper does not know ;
but it does know that the present artificial
prosperity cannot last, and that there is
every indication that, after the next Com-
monwealth loan has patched some of the
remaining holes caused by the war, we will
have to readjust ourselves to new condi-
tions. and will probably have to nurse the
pennies to make good the 1 Oil’s we have been
scattering broadcast.
* * * *
Cno nulla Hotel, Ltd. (N.S.W.) :
To Re- Nominal
Jan., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1914.. £l6O Nil £l6O £825
Preliminary exes, written off, £144 681
1915.. 1118 5 p.c. =£723 395 1076
Preliminary exes, written off, £144 932
1916.. 748 5 p.c. = 733 15 947
1917.. 625 5 „ „ 738 834
1918.. 969 5 „ „ 740 229 1063
1919.. 1181 6 „ „ 889 292 1355
L)oing a little better now, thank you, but
there still isn’t much in it for shareholders.
Last year’s net profit of £llBl was made on a
gross income of £8677, giving a return of
under 14 p.c., and as shareholders have put
up £.14,816 a shandy is the best they can
expect until conditions brighten. The pub.
on the headland of one of Sydney’s popular
seaside resorts, is well situated to attract
business ; but with the profit on liquor cur-
tailed, early closing, high cost of provisions
and so on, the anticipations of six years ago
have been badly shaken. Some of the capi-
tal—how 7 much is not revealed—is earning


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit Mo S 3.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
ThePacificCableßoard
15155 T ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
fiom Australasia to United Kingdom and
C anada, also for the United States of
America. to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Rritain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily-
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/- 1/6 / (minimum
„ „ , , ' 115/-, 20 words)
New Zealand..
Canada 2/4 1/9 i (minimum
' ' < 11/8,20 words)
U. S. A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4 (
. . 111/8,20 words)
Week-end Service with the United Kingdom
and U.B.A. has been temporarily suspended
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines)!
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
l— iE, 77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
There are many mornings when a fire is unneces-
sary, but when there is just enough chill in the air
to make you uncomfortable while dressing. Why run
a risk of catching cold when the turn of a switch,
connected to a G. E. Radiator, will send a warm, sun-
shiny glow through the room? We have in stock
G. E. Luminous Radiators in various sizes and pat-
terns. Let us demonstrate to you the value of this
modern electric comfort. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Water is a valuable asset in summer for drinking,
concentrating or boiler purposes. Why not use
Aluminoferric, and have it clear and crystalline?
Aluminoferric is thrown into the water as a solid
or added as a liquid. One pound clarifies from two
to three thousand gallons of most turbid water with-
in three hours. Write for full facts to William
Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Melbourne: 521-3 Collins Street. Adelaide: 96 Currie
Street. Brisbane: Corner Edward and Mary Streets.
Perth: 33 King Street.— Advt. [1
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. [3
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—A Record Delivery!
An order for miles of 8in. Pioneer Wood
Stave Pipe from the N. S. Wales Government
Railways and Tramways was recently completed
in a period of eight days. The above
pipes were required urgently to convey water to
the township of Goulburn, where the reservoir was
nearly depleted. We are prepared to supply large
quantities of Wood Stave Pipe at short notice. Send
for illustrated Catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co. Ltd. (Head Office), Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. P.O. Address: Box 1576 G.P.O., Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
* * * »
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorney,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lovyest rates from Felton* Grirmvade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
Road-graders for building good roads, for making
and grading earth roads, cleaning out water tables,
making fire-breaks, etc. We carry large stocks of the
best procurable and most up-to-date machines.
Several different sizes stocked to be worked by two,
four or eight horses or traction-engine power. Cata-
logues and full particulars upon application. Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
Queensland inquiries: The Australian Machinery Co..
Mary Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coddison & Co., 4S3 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assa
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling*
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowes
J* 4 * 8 - write for particulars. H. B. Selbv & Co.
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bom
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt
* * * *
T. H. Palmer, B.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice
™” un 5> metallurgy, flotation and selective flotatioi
Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pit
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap
Melbourne. — Advt.
The Sydney Export Co., 681- Pitt Street, Sydney
has a specially-designed plant for the treatment o
complex ores. Separation of wolfram, tin, coppei
molybdenite and bismuth a specialty. Highest prie
given, prompt cash settlement.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
AGENTS WANTED.
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established 1910.
Branches iu every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
When making a Will or Settlement
appoint The
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Your EXECUTOR or TRUSTEE.
The only Trustee Company with branches
in more than one State.
NEW SOUTH WALES. VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Office, 48 Young Street.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C.; Hon. 11. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C.; F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd ; W. H. Mackay; R. M. Pitt, and
Duncan Sinclair.
J. Mair,
Manager.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 6 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
nothing, as it represents goodwill froth. In
fixed assets and goodwill £21,470 has been
laid out, but there is a blister of £OOOO on
the property. The progress made in replac-
ing the goodwill froth by something more
substantial has been very slow; only £1355
of reserves have been accumulated in six
years after paying out an average dividend of
less than 44 u.c. f>.a. Apart from the
mortgage of £GOOO the co. owes £955, and it
has £ll9B in cash and £1254 in other more
or less liquid assets.
* * * *
From a trustworthy man in the trade: —
I'he appointment of a Commission to inquire into
the N. S. Wales coal trade is opportune, and it is
to be hoped it will dig deep. When Judge Edmunds
made his award, virtually under instructions from
W. M. Hughes, at the termination of the eight-hour
bank-to-bank strike in 1910, he granted the coal-
hewers (contract workers) the arranged-for 15 p.c.
increase on existing rates, and the auxiliary workers
(day laborers) 20 p.c. At South Coast collieries at
that time the mean hewing-rate was 2s. Od. per ton
a little more for four-yard headings, and a little
less for easy pillars. The increase to the miners
therefore averaged about 4id. per ton, while the
daily wages of a wheeler advanced from 10s. to 125.,
a shiftman from 11s. 4d. to 13s. 8d„ and other day-
laborers proportionately. At the same time the col-
liery owners were allowed to increase the price of
coal by 3s. per ton in order to recoup themselves for
this additional outlay in wages. There are more
coal-getters than auxiliary workers in a pit (for in-
stance, one wheeler usually wheels off four or five
pair of men, and there are more wheelers than shift-
men), and, allowing for surface hands, an additional
44d. per ton should well cover the 20 p.c. increase
paid to all these off-hand workers. Add another 3d.
for increase in yardage rates (this applies only in
headings) and incidental titbits, and it brings the
total extra expense to the owners to Is. —an estimate
that is in their favor, if anything. The owners there-
fore pocketed at least two-thirds of the 3s. increase,
and where millions of tons of coal are concerned it
amounts to a tidy sum in the course of a year. It
means that of the £300,000 which it is stated the
3s. increase cost the State Government for railway
supplies, the coal-owners grabbed £200,000. And as
the railways take one-tenth (1,000,000 tons) of the
total State output, it will be seen that the public
(indirectly) was fleeced, by taxes and increased cost
of all commodities, of £2,000,000. A similar grab
on the same lines would be too much; and if the
coal-miners’ representatives acquiesced in the brigand-
age they ought to—well, they ought to be ashamed
of themselves.
The figures as to profits made by the owners
out of the Hughes increase may be wrong.
The fact that a man like this correspondent,
who has lived among coal-miners all his
life, believes them to be right, is good proof
that an inquiry into the industry is called
for. Campbell, K.C., is the Commissioner.
* * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta directors, though
they have shut down on production, are
said to have great confidence that copper
producers will have a good time when the
present stocks have been consumed ; also that
there will shortly be so large a demand that
the cleaning-up should not take long. Then-
job, they believe, is to prepare for the good
market that is coming, just as American
producers are doing; and to that end the
treatment plant will be reorganised. Some
of it has been at work for over 30 years.
Most of the material, etc., for the reorgan-
ised plant is already on the premises.
•Just-dead George Collins Levy, who in his
time edited two Melbourne dailies —the
Herald and the Age —sat in the Vic. Leg.
Ass., held sundry 'Government billets, and
wrote books, comes into this column in virtue
of the fact that, after a spell in the Gold
Receiver’s office in Melbourne, he went to the
fields and installed the first quartz-crushing
plant in Victoria.
* * * *
War prices for most metals made the N.
S. "Wales mineral output for 1918 a record
so far as value is concerned; production
totalled £14,391,981, which was £1,439,262
better than in 1917, the State’s previops
best. There was also a small recovery in the
gold won, 87,1450 z. (£369.743), compared
with 82,171 oz. (£349,038) in 1917. Over
one-third of the gold came from around
Cobar, and old Mt. Boppy weighed in with
over half of that district’s output. Adelong
(£35,359), Araluen (£26,424) and Gunda-
gai (£21,004) were the other principal pro-
ducers. Of the £696,580 of copper produced
(£117,574 less than in 1917), Cobar con-
tributed £501,685. Tin gave £548,876 in
1918, compared with £373,696 in 1917. The
silvex--lead mines output £5,712.138, an in-
crease of £600,000-odd over the previous
year. The aggregate mineral production of
the State is now £300,499,184, of which coal
has provided £92,721.420; silver-lead,
£86,235,094; gold, £62,368,521; copper,
£14,988,804; zinc about 13 millions; and tin,
£11,511,880.
Bourke’s Hill, Emmaville (N.S.W.), had
to carve through a hard slab of poor ground
last half, and drought also added to manager
Sloane’s troubles. No. 2 plant did little
sluicing, a lot of its gear being brought to
aid No. lin its tough job. So only 61,326
cub. yds. were sluiced, giving under 28 tens
concentrates, compared with 35 tons in the
previous term. Costs got above Is. per yd.,
due chiefly, as manager Sloane puts it, to
the “exorbitant charges now being made for
all commodities.” Also the drought, neces-
sitating considerable pumping, helped to lift
costs. For the six months to Aug., 1918,
the co. was averaging £241 per ton for its
concentrates; during the past half there was
a slide to £163. So a profit of £678 was
the best the co. could show. One sixpenny
( £1125) was handed out, putting the P. and
L. account in debit to the extent of £llO.
Still the position is easy ; the co. owes just
on £lOOO and has about £3395 in liquid
assets. The dredges are now in better
ground again, and if costs can be kept down
there should be profitable work ahead, even
though the co. has to re-adjust itself to
receiving only a little over £l4O per ton for
its concentrates.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold yield still tumbles. That
for March was the lowest monthly output
for many years, and a further fall seems in-
evitable. Sentence of death has been passed
on the Edna May, the Kalgurli and the old
Mararoa lease at Norseman; the Fenian, at
Meekatharra, is reported to be sick unto
death at depth, and Phillips River and
other Outback centres are either paralysed
or down and out. Meantime nothing of
importance in the way of new mines is in
sight.
Some time ago the Light of Asia, Cue
(W.A.), was bought on terms by the Mara-
roa Co. to take the place of its exhausted
show at Norseman. Shareholders were in-
vited to rejoice over the deal and to look
forward to prospects improving right away.
They didn’t, and now a number of scrip
holders want to know the reason why. The
fact is that the vendors left practically
nothing in sight to take out, and as results
from development work have mostly fallen
short of official expectations, the market has
sickened. Last month’s return averaged only
15s. per ton, but according to the managing-
director, on whose report the show was
acquired, there is much better stone show-
ing in other parts of the mine, and in one
place-—No. 3 level—the ore is alleged to be
worth 80s. The information, however, that
shareholders want is the average recovery
value of the stuff in sight, and whether they
are likely to get anything out of the mine.
Opinions differ so much regarding the value
of the show that a report by an independent
expert is badly needed.
* * * *
Phillips River copper-goldfield (W.A.) is
again in a bad way. Most of the ground
is held by outsiders, who for some years
hav T 6 allowed tributors to bog in while they
sat back and collected royalties; and seeing
that over £300,000 worth of copper and
gold has been extracted since the war began
their cut has been worth having. As the
Btate (which owns the works) is no longer
sell T copper at a price that would
justify further ore-buying, almost everybody
on the field is out of work.
* * *
Two Westralian delusions applied for fur-
tdier exemption the other day. One, the
Q«een of the Hills, at Meekatharra, claimed
that increased cost of supplies and difficulty
ot treating sulphides prevented it from carry-
ing on. The Warden declined to re-
commend more than two monms’ exemp-
tion. The show still figures among Lake
\iew and Oroya s assets, but it is worth
r Blc ? ck ? ange Pinnacles was the
other applicant, and in its case three months’
exemption was granted to enable the Board
to raise more money for development. Pros-
pects, however, are poor.
t virT \ monGls a £° Boulder Perseverance
(W.A.) gave up in a fit of depression and
appointed a liquidator. Since then tribu-
tors have taken about £55,000 out of the
mine and have increased the value of their
monthly return from £786 to £9672 Mining
men who profess to be in the know say that
it is. time the co. resumed gold production
on its own account, but shareholders do not
seem to bother. At the end of Dec. last the
liquidator in London announced that the re-
maining stores and plant would probably be
offered for sale this month. At present
there is cash etc., in hand to pay a dividend
of about 4£d. per share.
* * * *
*“?T 0i L Bird ” : S , ome time a S° Geo - Meudell,
ot Melbourne, claimed that oil had been
w U f k and other places in
Hestralia. T\ hen I combated the claim on
this page one Strevens, an English oil
chemist, butted in on Meudell’s behalf. Re-
ferences were made in Parliament to the
a Icgcfi discovery, and finally pressure was
bi ought to bear upon the Mines Department
to send, in opposition to expert advice, a
geologist along to Pingelly to make an in-
spection. He found a foul-smelling well
in granite country, and from his report the
following illuminating extract is taken:
“Th* distinct' smell of kerosene which I
notad whil* collecting sample CIO could not
be detected in Cll.” (The well had been
bailed out in the interim.) '‘The owner gave
me sample Cl 2, collected by himself some
time ago. He informed me that he had
added small quantities of salt and petrol some
time previously, when he had no idea that
it would be of any interest to anyone else.”
Gibb Maitland, Chief Government Geologist,
adds a few depressing words to the effect
that the well is situated in country where
no expert would expect to find oil.
♦ * * *
The judgments in two Privy Council
appeals won by the Golden Horseshoe
arrived from London the other day. Both
appeals were from a judgment of Chief
Justice McMillan (W.A.) in a case brought
by a partly German-controlled gold-recovery
concern against the co. for using processes
which were alleged to be infringements of
certain patents. The local Courts decided
that the Horseshoe had infringed in one
case but not in the other; and, as neither
party was satisfied, the Privy Council was
asked to settle the matter. It decided that
the Horseshoe had not infringed either.
* * * *
Zeb Lane’s idea was to turn Collie coal
into briquettes; but it didn’t bring him any
money. J. L. Strevens also sees that
briquetting is the thing; and, knowing more
about oil than Zebina did, he proposes to use
the crudes expressed from the local “black-
boy” vegetable. The plan was tried some
time ago on Leigh’s Creek coal; but Leigh's
Creek, away up in the far north of S. Aus.,
isn’t Collie. Still, the S. Aus. experiment
was a success every wav except commer-
cially.
* * * *
R. S.. Black, who, with others, has lately
amassed a good deal of wealth out of a
tribute on the Associated Northern, has re-
tired- from the active management of the
dying Kalgurli and placed metallurgist
Brinsden in charge. Another year will
probably see this once-great mine buried.
Edna May Battler’s new option, the Tra-
falgar, near Southern Cross (W.A;), does
not look promising. In about 10 years all
a party of three or four miners got out was
something like 1300 oz. The available infor-
mation indicates that the show possesses a
small reef in hard country, and that there’s
nothing in it for a co. But a little prodding
will soon tell definitely.
Neither the auditors’ nor directors’ reports
to the New Salak Co., which owns a mine
near Kuala Lumpur (F.M.S.), shed light
on what is happening at that show. The
auditor testifies that the Melbourne office
books are tip-top, but that there is mo local
auditor’s certificate attached to the Malayan
accounts. So he is unable “to certify in
the usual way.” What is obvious is that
the co ; owes about £2500, of which four-
fifths is due to vendors, and that the last
Profit and Loss account shows a loss of over
£ISOO. The directors have had no news
about what is going on at the mine, nor can
they say anything definite about future pros-
pects. What they may think is conveyed
in their request that shareholders shall give
them the power to sell the whole outfit. That
seems the best thing to do if the Melbourne
organisation cannot keep in closer touch
with the mine.
* * * *
The only colt that Collins House has in
the stable is Laloki (Papua), which under
J. L. Wharton’s care is filling out nicely.
When G. C. Klug took it on in the hope of
pulling Great Fitzroy through he saw
250,000 tons of 5 p.c. copper-ore developed,
but the Fitzroy could not get the cash to
shove things. Thusitcameabout that Wharton
was able to promote the present Laloki co.
The latest moves have been, first, to snick in
the Dubunga mine, half-way to Bootless
Inlet, and, next, to get the right to build a
tramway from the mine to the Inlet. This
double is all fixed up, and it will not be long
before a jetty is run out into 22ft. of water
to allow of the shipment of the ore, first
from Dubunga, and later on from Laloki.
Dubunga is held on a half-share option.
Ore is to go from Laloki to Port Moresby
until the tram is running.
Under C. F. Procter, Rose, Sham-
rock and Thistle, near Bright (Vic.),
is trying to get some of the gold that
old J. A. Wallace is supposed to have let go
under foot. The co. is concentrating on
the Landtax reef, which it has followed
down 50ft. under the long tunnel level.
Parcels of stone taken out of the shaft and
overhead have averaged about lOdwt. What
is more cheering to the crowd is that Procter
testifies to 7ft. of stone at 50ft., as well as
an improvement in the grade. Another six
months is to be taken getting things ship-
shape.
* * * *
S. Australia’s mineral production last
year was £1,451,438, compared with
£1,460.674 the previous year. Copper
headed the list with £828,556 (£902.495 in
1917) ; next came ironstone, £277,279
(£359,723). Gold was valued at £26,252,
making a total of £271,003 for the past 10
years. In that decade the value of copper
n)Tn S 436,002, and of ironstone
£l.-60,060. Total of all minerals for the
10 years, £8,244,851.


THE UNWELCOME FIFTH.


g."'" l , 1 . r«rrr=rr=T—rr, ■- sssrrj^vjrsrsgs
ABBOTS
LAGER
SPheßeor without ,
a "Rival ~
A'at/efrom
*/%&// 4>/fops
osar
THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness'
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
ot the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
™° us - The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL l
test it, or write for booklet post free.
OQl Earph one Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
THE
Hotel Sydney
(SYDNEY)
Is one of the largest, most modern
and best equipped in Australia.
rt is situated opposite the Railway Station
and is centra] to everywhere.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 400 GUESTS.
Quiet, Cool and Comfortable.
Hot and Cold Water, Day and Night, in every
Bedroom.
Half an acre of Glorious Roof
Garden.
Tariff from 12/6 per day.
Have you Lunched or Dined at the “Sydney ’ ?
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
May birthdays: Brig.-Gen. “Fighting
Charlie” Cox (N.S.W,), 50, and Dr. R. H.
J- Fetherston (Vic.), 55, on 2nd; Justice
Rich; (High Court). 50, and Prof. Laby
(Vic.), 39, on 3rd: Charles Earle
(Dominion, M.L.), 48, and Gordon, M.L.C.
(S.A.), 54, on 4th; Edgar Waite (Director
of Adelaide Museum), 53, on sth; G. M.
Prendergast, M.L.A. (Vic.), 65, on 6th;
Insolveftcy Commissioner S. .T. Mitchell
(S.A.), 07. bn 11th; Chief Justice Pope
Cooper (Q.). 71, on 12th; F. A. Coghlan
(N.S.W. Auditor-Gen.). 00. on 13th; Brig.-
Gen. Abbott, M.H.R. (N.S.W.). 50, on 14th;
ox-Attorney-Gen. J. W. Blair (Q.), 48, on
10th; ex-Agent-Gen. Newton Moore (West-
ralia). 49, Justice Chubb (Q.). 74. poet
Leon Gellert, 27, on 17th ; Madame Melba on
■l9th ; Will Fleming. M.11.R, for Robertson
(0.A.5.), 45, on 19th; A. B. Moncrieff
(chairman Adelaide Tramways Trust). 74,
on 22nd; H. Angas Parsons, K.C., M.P.
ADDING INSULT TO INJURY.
RETURNED SOLDIER (in a muffled voice):
"Yes; an' note they've got the 'ide to
arsk me to wear a mask."
(S. Aus.), 47, on 23rd; Ivor MacGillivray
(ox-S.A. legislator), 79, on 24th; Archgait-
ers Riley, 65, and Charles Goode (Adelaide
merchant), 92, on 26th; Colonel Fred Bird,
M.D. (Vic.), 61, on 27th; Principal Scott
Fletcher (Wesley College, Sydney), 51, on
28th; G. Gordon McCrae (“father of Vic-
torian poetry”), 86, and Surgeon-Gen. David
Bruce. F.R.S. (born Melb.), 64, on 29th;
and Prof. Berry (Melb. Uni.), 52, on 30th.
Bish#p Stretch, of Newcastle, who died
last week, within a month of his retirement,
was the first Australian-born to wear the
apron in his own country. He was
appointed coadjutor Bishop of Brisbane in
1895.
Henry Bruce Lefroy, recently K.C.M.G.’d
and then elbowed out of the W.A. Premier-
ship, is the eldest son of Anthony O’Grady
Lefroy, who had been Colonial Treasurer of
Swanland for many years till Responsible
Government arrived in IS9O. The family
was a Dublin one. Henry B. was educated
at Rugby, but returned to station life 'early.
He entered Parliament in 1893, took part in
the Federal Council at Hobart in ’95, joined
Forrest’s Ministry a few years later, and as
a faithful henchman of Bigjohn was rewarded
with the Agent-Generalship in 1901. As a
man he is a genial, straightforward and well-
meaning soul, but as a politician, and more
especially as a “compromise” Premier, he
was a loud failure.
Airmen Harry Hawker and Sydney
Pickles, competitors for the Daily Mail
£lO,OOO trans-Atlantic prize, are
Australians, and both took part
in the contest for the same paper’s
prize of a similar amount for the
best flight round England. No
one fulfilled all the conditions on
that occasion, though Hawker did
extremely well. Another contest
was fixed for August 9, 1914, but
on the first of that August Wilhelm
broke loose, and Hawker, Pickles
and the rest of the airmen found
steady jobs for the duration.
Hawker was born at St. Kilda
(Vic.) in 1890; Pickles arrived in Sydney
four years later.
Exit at 37, Gordon Holmes, sound lawyer,
earnest Laborite and for 10 years past
valued Bulletin contributor. Holmes be-
gan working for social reform while a Uni.
student in Melbourne. He first nailed up
his professional brass-plate at Swan Hill,
but of late years had worked up a highly
satisfactory practice in Melbourne.
“Cattle King” Syd Kidman who is about
to make his first visit to the U.S.A., means
to see South America as well, and then go
on to England. “I’m retiring from business
altogether,” he says: he proposes to turn
some of his stations over to companies. The
country shouldn't lose by it. Kidman has
done some service to Australia; but he kept
his vast holdings horribly bare of improve-
ments.
Ran his last race in Suva on April 15.
Colonel Leslie Edward Brown, of the Fiji
Volunteers. Chairman of the Fiji Racing
Association, and local M.L.C. Ilis horses
woh all the stray cups at shows and races in
the islands of Malua (“Some time, not now”
■—the Island code of work). His fostering
of local industries was sane and practical.
For instance, he started the planting of
vanilla and set up the first vanilla curing
plant on his estate at Nasese. For 31 years
lie had been the partner and friend of Alex.
B. .Toske in Brown and Joske; the Dalgetys
of Fiji.
The father of Justice Rich, of the High
Court, was chaplain at Darlinghurst Gaol
for no less than 37 years, and he attended
more condemned people to the gallows than
any other Australian parson of the last gen-
eration. One of his “star” clients was Mrs.
Collins, the Botany poisoner of two hus-
bands : he saw her safely through the trap.
Another, who had more luck, was dentist
Bertrand. After serving about 30 years
for the murder of a bank clerk in the ’sixties
he was released; whereupon Canon Rich
took charge of him until he sailed for London
en route to Paris.
“Z.H.K.”: At least one little lot. of Dig-
gers _ met the Prince Feisal, who made such
a stir at the Peace Conference in Paris.
Before Damascus actually fell on October 1,
irrepressible Billjim was scouting through it
for souvenirs. As one party trotted down
the street they were just in time to see three
sun-browned German officers jump into a
car and start off. The Dinkums gave chase,
and before the escaping Huns had got any
speed up the Aussies were alongside. One
trooper, seeing a sword projecting from an
officer’s belt, made a grab and pulled it out
of its scabbard. Then the fun started.
The car pulled up with a jerk, and the
astonished Aussies discovered that the offi-
cers were not Germans at all, but belonged
to the Hedjaz Army, and that the owner of
the sword was Ameer Feisal, third son of
the King of Hedjaz and Commander of the
Arab forces, to whom the city was actuallv
surrendered! The Prince saw the joke,
became quite chatty, and explained that the
hardware, the hilt of which was richly inlaid
with gold and precious stones, was a familv
heirloom and was worth many thousands of
pounds. He expressed surprise at the great
size of the Australian horses and their re-
markable endurance, and then with a nod
and a smile he drove off.
Ernest Rutherford, just appointed to the
Cavendish Professorship of Physics at Cam-
bridge (the highest appointment of the kind
in the English-speaking world), is a Maori-
lander, born at Nelson. When he was 22
he gained first-class honors in mathematics
and physics at Canterbury College, and from
that time shone as a brilliant scholar in M.L.,
England and Canada. He was awarded the
Rumford medal of the Royal Society (Eng.)
and the Barnard medal; was Macdonald
Professor of Physics at McGill University
at Montreal; Longworthy Professor of
Physics at Manchester; gained the Nobel
prize for chemistry in 1908; and was
knighted in 1914 (which doesn't matter).
He is 48.
THE HUZZY.
“I know for a fact she's not true to him.
She carries on most disgracefully with
her husband."
' Louisa Wilson, Sydney’s first qualified
pharmacist-girl, has died of ’flu. Her sign-
board went up at Ivillara 16 years ago.
South Aus. Institute of Accountants was
founded in 1885, and only six of the original
members are still alive —G. T. Lane, W. L.
Ware, Vinrace Lawrence, Harry Turner,
•I. E. Thomas and H. Fry. Lane is now
president—for the third time.
At the Requiem Mass at St. Mary’s prior
to the funeral of Sydney Mayor English,
there were six ex-Mayors—Thomas Hughes,
Allen Taylor, R. I). Meagher. R. W. Rich-
ards, Joynton Smith a"nd G. T. Clarke. Two
others still live—C. J. Roberts, the father of
the family, and A. A. Cocks.
The aged fathers of two tradesmen who
talked their way into the Federal Parlia-
ment have died in S. Australia within a
week. Yates, M.ILR., went to the war, and
was doing 60 days’ military gaol when his
father died. Senator Pearce didn’t go to the
war, and it wasn’t exactly gaol that he was
in when his father died.
William Callender, of Wellington (M.L.).
just retired from the post of general man-
ager of the Bank of New Zealand, spent
49 years in its service, passing through every
grade since he entered as a junior in Christ-
church. His father, the late .Tames Callen-
der, was at one time a merchant in Mel-
bourne. 11. Buckleton, manager of the
Auckland branch, will be the new g.m.
From Wellington (M.L.) :
Mr. W. G. W. Fortune, who has been lecturing in
the interests of prohibition, is returning to America
in the Moana.
In view of the polling, well might the Cold
Tea party say with old Robert Burton:
“Fortune and hope, adieu !’’
A pathetic survival was E. C. Longson,
just dead in Adelaide at 88. Half a cen-
tury ago he was a leading citizen, a small,
energetic figure, rather priding himself on
a resemblance to Napoleon the Third. In
Adelaide, from 1856 on, he was a broker,
and secretary to all sorts of committees!
His election experiences, learned under
Bright and Cobden, made him remarkably
successful as a campaign agent; it was sug-
gested that to get into Parliament you had
only to engage him. In the early days of
the Stock Exchange in Adelaide he had a
great name. A long down-and-out period
followed ; then a resolute reform; to the end
he was a familiar figure about the Exchange.
No man ever had more friends, or better ones.
One of them kept him supplied with the top-
hats and tail-coats of his bygone days.
Albert Brough, of Nottingham, said
to be the tallest man in England, died of
flu. He was 7ft. in his coffin.
I assed out at Ijaunceston. Thomas Vin-
cent, formerly manager of the British
Zeehan and other mines held by the same
English co. in Tasmania. He retired about
six years ago, at G 6, handing over to his son
Major Tom.
Historians from Bonwick down have said
that John Batman, pioneer of Port Phillip,
was the son of a missionary sent to Tahiti
late in the eighteenth century by the Church
Missionary Society. A recent search has
revealed that the parent. William Batman,
held a publican’s license in old Parramatta.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Apropos J. W.
Fleming (B. 17/4/T9). Though undoubt-
edly an old Victorian native, he was not the
oldest. That honor is reserved for a gentle-
man still living at Gisborne whose pedigree
this writer gave some weeks ago in The
Bulletin. Fleming's father, a butcher, at
the first land-sale (1837) purchased a
quarter-acre between Elizabeth and Queen
streets, on the north side of Collins-street,
for £23. In 1874 it was brought under the
hammer in allotments, with buildings
thereon, as “the Fleming estate.” and sold
for £75,000. The late .1. W. Fleming was
born on the original sale-day (June 1, 1837).
The father started a butchery on a spot
which subsequently became the suburb of
Flemington.
Mackey, the Vie. Speaker, narrowly
missed appointment to the Supreme Court
Bench when lie was a member of the Bent
Ministry. At one Cabinet meeting he had the
numbers —a majority of one—but J. M.
Davies, the then Attorney-General, who had
turned down the offer himself, got an ad-
journment, and the result was Cussen and
not Mackey. Bent would have made
Mackey a County Court Judge, but Mackey
would not take that position. Besides, it
would have been necessary for him to retire
from Parliament and stay out of politics for
six months before he would be eligible for a
judicial appointment below that of Supreme
Court justice.
Thus Arthur Mee, the well-known English
publicist—the man who wrote the bio-
graphies of Joseph Chamberlain and Lord
Salisbury—to a Sydney journalist concern-
ing a Dominating Personality :—•
Your little Welsh Windbag goes puffing about
annoying half the people of this country bv his im-
pertinence. I used to like him; I thought he was
the embodiment of British vigor. But he lias become
a political offence, with no conception of manners
and no idea of the relation of a guest to a host. I
have changed my mind about him, and have come to
the conclusion that he is a nuisance. It is a tremen-
dous pity, for everybody here feels the impressiveness
of the Australian tradition, and it would have been
a great thing to have had a Big Australian instead of
a Little Egoist bearing your banner now.
Duncan Mcßrydc, the wealthy Broken
Hillionaire member of the Vic. House of
Landlords, who is over 70. and has been
taking care of himself lately, will quit Par-
liament next month. His term will expire
then, and he will
not face the South-
Eastern Province
again. When Bent
reconstructed his
Ministry in Oc-
tober, .1908 (the
time Swinburne
threw up the
sponge). he in-
cluded Mcßrydc as
Minister for Public
Works. The re-
formed Cabinet
lasted for two
months, and that
was the only taste
of Ministerial office
the kindly Scots-
man has had.
W. M.
WILLIAMS.
M.L.C.,
of Tasmania .
ex-Mayor of
Hobart.
After 20 years' striving Dick Toutcher,
member for Stawell and Ararat in the Vic.
Assembly, has got a crumb. He has become
Chairman of the Railway Committee, which
will yield him about £250 a year in addition
to his Parliamentary screw of £3OO. He
helped as whip to oust the first Peacock
Ministry and to put Irvine in as Premier in
1902. Irvine passed him over, and Richard
fa iled to secure selection as Chairman of Com-
mittees of the Assembly when he had a try
in recent years. The most he could obtain
was membership of the Railway Committee,
worth about £l6B a year. Now he is en-
titled to half a guinea a sitting more out of
the total annual appropriation of £l2OO for
six members.
LOVE’S LABOR LOST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Alf and Bert, two humble friends of mine,
Had finished up the war and knocked the Boche out,
They thought all training, when they left the line,
Would be, thenceforward and forever, “wash-out.”
Fond hope! Some high-brow crowd conceived the
notion
Of fitting them for service to the State,
So filled them up, ere they recrossed the ocean,
With knowledge, at a most alarming rate.
From ten till twelve they studied engineering,
And Greek hexameters from one till two;
From two till three, wood-staining and veneering;
From three till four some basket-work they’d do.
And in the evenings someone would instruct them
To milk the Cow, or keep the busy bee,
Or someone else would scholarly conduct them
Through Caesar’s Second Gallic' War, Book 111.
They grappled with dynamics and astrology,
Astronomy, anatomy and law,
Fruit-farming, civics and philology,
Till Alf could tell you with a steady jaw
What every ’ology this side the grave meant,
And Bert had learnt the name of every star.
I hen Alf went back to sketching on the pavement,
And Bert to serving drinks behind a bar.
FRANCE.
EDMUND G. COUSINS.


mm
■
m
■
r
■■■
V
f
0
ffi
EXPfI/NSION
■ NOW ON
All the latest SHEET MUSIC, as well as hundreds of beautiful bound
volumes of the greatest works in the musical world ; SOLID LEATHER
MUSIC ROLLS and CASES, BANJOS, GUITARS, MANDOLINS,
VIOLINS, KALOPHONES, KALOPHONE DISC RECORDS,
MUSIC STANDS—EVERYTHING is being cleared at least ONE-
THIRD OFF THE USUAL PRICE—in some cases 50 per cent- ;In
fact, our whole stock —Pianos and Proprietary Gramophone Records
excepted —is being cleared in order that we may concentrate every effort
on the development of our piano and player-piano business.
Make the most of this unique EXPANSION SALE. You will
probably never again have such a wonderful opportunity to secure Up-to-
date Music and Musical Instruments at prices like these.
Orders by post or ’phone promptly attended to.
DISCOUNT
35
3
PER CENT.
Showrooms: bbb George St,
Sydney.
<3 ale
09
LT 3 ?
&
Factory: 41**47 Trafalgar St.
AnnarLclale.
Branches at Bathurst. Orange, Lismore. Newcastle. Goulburn. Wagga. VICTORIA- Maple*, .n ‘H Melbourne suburbs. TASMANIA : William* Bros . Hobart s
Maples. Launceston SOUTH AUSTRALIA job* Evan. LtJ . AJelaiJe •UEENSLAND; 90-92 Queen Street. Brisbane; Kent Street. Maryborough
Flinders Street, Townsville; Rockhampton; Sydney Street. Mackay; Cat rna. WESTERN AUSTRALIA; Thorntons Ltd *at Perth.,Kalgoorlie and FreemantU.
60


IN THESE SERIOUS EPIDEMIC DAYS
Get CLEMENTS TONIC for your Blood
Pure Blooa means /ess risk of infection and greater powers of resistance to epidemic attacks.
The purer the blood the stronger the body. Epidemic disease thrives on the debilitated system.
- Ihese are anxious days for Australia, when it behoves all persons to take every care of themselves and ward off to their greatest
effort the menace to health that threatens them. No one can afford to take any undue risk, and the person who has the best condi-
tion of health and the greatest powers of resistance to any invading force, whether it is epidemic disease privation, oppressive
climatic conditions, worries, or minor illness, is best fortified against it. It is the old story in a new wav of the soldier well armed;
he is shielded from attack of destructive and destroying forces. J
. Ton , ic ’ which » for a quarter of a century, has beenadmitted a medicine of rare health value in keeping the nerves sound
and the blood cool and pure, should now be used as a means to fortify the body and the general health. It tones up the stomach as
well, has a palliative effect on the bowels, stimulates the liver and kidneys, and imparts a healthy influence. Clements Tonic is
largely a blood and nerve medicine, and should be a part of the medical equipment of every home at the present time.
Get it from your Chemist To-day.
Clements Tonic Ltd.. Rozelle, N.S.W.
Use it as the Pure Blood Remedy.
Society
The Premier of South AuS. has promised
an anti-hanging deputation that murder will
be divided into degrees of crime, with degrees
of punishment, so presumably only butchery
in the first degree will be a hangable offence.
He added, rather irrelevantly, that “be had
always thought it a menace that an able
lawyer should be in a position to 'secure the
acquittal of nearly every person he de-
fended.” Everybody knew the lawyer he
was thinking of and felt more or less sym-
pathetic. At the same time no one knew
what should be done about it. A trial isn’t
a horse-race, so that the able lawyer might
run his case with 9st. 71b. on his back while
the raw practitioner on the other side was
admitted at 7st. 61b. And the bad lawyer
can’t get 10yds. start or play 22-aside
against his opponent’s eleven. Still there
are counter-balances. Against S.A.’s emi-
nent man of law with the uncanny knack of
getting his clients off,- Sydney some time ago
buried a regretted practitioner who occa-
sionally appeared for a prisoner who whs
too young to know better. His ill-luck was
phenomenal; it was said that, even if .he
defended aii imaginary person on a charge
that nobody ever heard of, his client was
more likely to be hanged than not. He was
THE SHELF.
“Do you think a man should propose to a
girl on his knees?"
“Well, if she does not she should get off."
a kindly person, and everybody except liis
clients was sorry when he died. His clients
wanted to decorate the gaols they were in
and- have a football match or a regatta or
roast an ox whole.
*-***■
Now that the worst of the trouble is over
almost everybody connected with the great
Conference has issued an assurance that
there never were any dissensions or recrim-
inations, or any threats that Wilson would
go home instanter, or that Clenienceau would
resign, or that Japan would make a separate
treaty with the Hun. The outburst in the
papers about Hughes’s indiscreet plain
speaking never happened, .for Hughes never
indiscreetly plain-spoke. Tn fact, lie was
in bed with a sore throat all the time. Even
the fact that Serbs and Italians took stray
shots at each other on the disputed border
was all wrong. • All they took on the border
was afternoon tea- Everything was beauti-
ful and the dove of peace was boiled for
dinner every day. If the delegates had only
sai'd that when the row was on. the story
might have been believed. But probably
they were too enraged to speak just then.
Now the belated yarn is unconvincing.
* * * *
“Dial Sight” : One trench-weary battalion
had a crack sniper who offered to give mild
Blighties for a consideration. His proce-
dure was to puncture the weary Digger in a
not too vulnerable part of his anatomy from
a suitable distance. (It was known that a
shrewd “quack” could detect a self-inflicted
bullet-wound from the closeness of the
range.) The snipee had to agree to receive
THE WARRIOR.
“There goes Staquer; he served on the Australia for the last four years."
“Quarter-deck?”
“No; winter-garden.”
the souvenir when it suited the sniper. As
soon as he became financial, one old hand,
bored with slaying Huns, rushed the special-
ist with his fee, and asked for his pill right
away. The haughty one waved him off
saying, “Yer pretty slick, Dig., ain’t yer,?
Yer gotter wait yer turn!”
* * * *
“D.F.”: King Island, the 270,000-acre
specklet in Bass Strait, was discovered,
according to Governor King, by one
Reid, of the schooner Martha, in 1798.
It very soon became one of the chief
sealing-grounds in the strait, so much
so that in 1803 King began to talk of
a close season there. In 1802 a gang
from the brig Harrington killed 4500
in 10 weeks on the New Year’s rocks,
just off the west coast. There was
evidence that someone had struck King
Island before Reid, for in that year
the master of the Harrington found a
wreck which no one- could identify.
Sealers continued to haunt King
Island for a long time, and in
1827 there blew into Hobart
Town one Ro.binson —n o t
Crusoe—who had lived there
for 15 years, growing peaches
and other fruits, and had left
because it was getting too
crowded with trippers from Van
Diemen’s Land. The present
settlement, which is mostly con-
cerned with cows and fat cattle, began about
30 years ago;
* * * *
“Z.H.K.”: I slipped a grin the other day,
as I cantered down a road in Syria, -when
I saw a native youngster getting along ahead
with “Col. C. V. Blazeaway, 4th L.H.F.A.,
A.1.F., Abroad,” written in bold black letters
across the seat of his pants. His thrifty
mother had made him a pair of bags out of
the calico covering of the Colonel’s parcel.
* * * *
Even the work of great artists in their
line, like Shakspeare and Jack the Ripper
and Napoleon, can be improved
on. A man strikes what he
thinks is the top note, and
someone with a topper note, if
the term is allowable, comes
after. Deeming, who cemented
his wives under hearth-stones
and had a barrel of Portland
and a fresh marriage engage-
ment on hand when arrested,
was something in his day. But
a man in Paris has gone one
better. He not only cemented
his lady friends, but opened a
shop for the sale of their
effects. If Deeming had
forged a title-deed and sold the
house with his deceased wife
in it, he would have just about
equalled that effort.
* *
Justice Harvev. who has come into N. S.
Wales Divorce Court to help learned brother
Gordon clean up a great litter of discarded
husbands and deserted wives, did a very
human thing the other day; and The
Bulletin heard various dead-and-gone
Divorce Judges gnash in their graves. A
w™an, a professional singer, had been
married to a drunken rotter, who finally got
mislaid. After a period of struggle she was
“maintained” by a doctor, and one baby
followed another into a cold world. Then
the doctor went to the war, leaving the lady
provided for out of his pay. But the lady’s
conscience was quickened by the death of
one of the children, and she wrote to her
doctor-friend that it must all stop. There-
abouts an old friend who knew all the cir-
cumstances wrote offering her marriage ; and
matters stood at that when the lady came in
to ask for a divorce. Harvey did some hard
thinking. There was the old gag of the
Divorce Court that the petitioning party
must come in with “clean hands” ; there was,
on the other side, a woman adrift from a
worthless husband and a respectable man
anxious to marry her. Harvey took the
plunge, and gave her a chance to wind up as
a “respectable” wife and the mother of a
regular family.
“Clive Brewster” : These returned gunners
seem to have learnt things besides how to
serve their guns. Captain X the other
night took his particular bit of muslin out
to Bondi —to listen to the things the waves
will say, in spite of the censorship. She
was a nurse at one of the hospitals, and so
had to be in by 11 p.m.—wowserish rule !
Unfortunately, they were so engrossed that
the fatal hour was just upon them and the
hospital far distant. Did the brave gunner
blench? Not he! Hailing a taxi, he told
the driver; “Go like the Devil to the
Women’s Hospital!” Taking all liis cor-
ners on about half a wheel, he arrived at
the hospital. There he sprang round to
the door and opened it. The lady got out
by herself. With a heartfelt sigh of relief
the driver turned to Capt. X and said.
“Thank God we’re in time, sir!”
* * * •
From an emergency nurse in a ’flu hos-
pital ;
It has been an average day, with the usual number
of admissions, the usual callers, the usual delirious
THE REASON WHY.
The DarltNG : “So many widows marry
again , don’t they?”
The Beast: “Yes — dead men tell no tales."
screams, the usual sobbing relatives, the usual
ghouls in the street watching the new cases come
in. Even the tradesmen who call are ghouls. We
found one of them this morning inspecting the bodies
in the mortuary. We weren’t horrified; we are
hardened ; some of us thought it funny.
Yesterday I saw a young wife die hideously. I
won’t describe it. To-day her husband called with
the death certificate we had forwarded him, and
declared we had misspelt the name. “They won’t
accept this when I get married again,” he protested.
Some men don’t deserve a wife!
Our only clerical visitor thus far has been a
young Irish priest, with a roguish twinkle in his
eye. 1 suppose he has had that eye for about 30
years, and I think he has seen a lot with it. “Any
more of my people here ?” he asks; and then he
dons the regulation cap, goggles, mask and gown,
and goes cheerily through the wards. He is one
of our few bright spots. But he hasn’t been here
to-day. It is the only time he has missed. I
wonder how he will call next—on a stretcher, per-
haps ! He is a brave man.
A cabman brought in a case this morning, and
drove back to the rank without even fumigating his
cab. I’m sorry for his next fare.
Only a few months ago my maid left to take up
nursing. She is here now, and I’m glad to carry
out her smallest instruction. The women are won-
derful —great, big-hearted girls who, in the rare
quiet moments in their own rooms, may refer to
their charges as—well, 1 won’t say what —yet lavish
on them an heroic, tender care that has held death
back every hour of every day for three weeks past.
The dark clouds lifted for just a moment last
night, to let into our world the tiniest, sweetest
baby you ever saw. It lay beside its unconscious
mother, and opened its eyes to a world where strange
white-shrouded people moved ghostily about, and
where its first little whimper was lost in the scream
of a delirious victim. But that little scrap of
humanity was as welcome to us as water to a
famished man. It reversed the old order; it was
life in the midst of death.
* * * *
“W.S.”: “Trial by ordeal” isn't as dead
as we thought it was. At Singleton
(N.S.W.) a few days ago an Indian was
charged with hawking spirituous liquors in
his cart. The defence was that the chain
lightning was carried for medicinal purposes.
The discolored citizen, who was sworn on a
glass of water, which represented the sacred
fluid of the Ganges, offered to prove whether
he or the prosecuting ,T. Hop was speaking
the truth by each placing an arm in a caul-
dron of boiling oil. The Bench reckoned
if knew where the truth lay without going
that far and fined Lo the poor Indian accord-
ingly.
“Willie Woodbine”: The most ragtime
army in France was the Portuguese. We
were once billeted near them, around Estaires
(Nord), and although not encouraged to do
so. we occasionally cobbered with them.
They were a free-and-easy, good-natured lot.
with a mania for having their photos taken.
The estaminet owners frankly preferred the
Aussies. I guessed why when I saw six
“Pork-an’-beans” privates line up and share
one glass of “bock” between them. It was
all the poor blighters could afford.
(Continued on page 18.)
A HYMN OF HATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ev’ry morning to the city
Dull suburban husbands go,
Reading calmly in their papers
Of tl>e world’s great ebb and flow;
And their clothes are never dusty,
And their boots have aye a shine,
And they never go on “benders”
Or toko barmaids out to dine.
Where do all the wicked devils
Live of whom one hears and reads?
There must be a legion somewhere
To supply the world’s misdeeds.
All the wives who get divorces,
And the men who suicide,
Rob the banks, or go insolvent—
Where, oh where, do these abide?
Nothing happens in the suburbs.
Stern detectives never come
To arrest suburban people
Or to search for smuggled rum;
And the prim suburban housewives,
Show no signs of going gay,
And there’s never an explosion
In the house across the way.
Though the men who live in suburbs
May be devils when in town,
They seem mostly merely Jorkins,
When they are not Smith or Brown.
All the people of the suburbs
Have my deepest enmity,
For this good and ample reason —
They are replicas of ME!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.
EASTER 1919.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Saviour died and rose again
How many years ago?
\ow, ask me not. How can I know —
A simple soldier me?
But this I swear,’ O men —
He died, and lives, upon Gallipoli!
AUSTRALIA.
A. I. F.


s
= 51
•IIHHS 3W3HdnS 3HI
SS UOIISU§IS3p |SSJ3AIUn SJI 10
-Aquom—pajnisui Apdu sAsmjs—Aqsiq/w s jo
uoipnpojd sqi pus si; joj ssq qoiq/A ‘uoiisjjiisip
pus Suipuajq jo sps aqi ui suoiisiauaS Ausui jo
33U31J3dX3 3qi [JS pUOOJ 3q OJ SI Asp-01 S ( JSM3Q
UJ *IO3dS3J pUSUIUIOO pip J3A3 3§y * X}un;Tep\i
♦puiui sqi 0} IU3UIIU3IUOD 3jsi pus Apoq 3qi
oi qqsaq pipuajds jo sijiS snouojS aqi SuiSuuq
‘ssapaad pus iusisuod 'A}ijsnb 3jqipis3.ni jo sjssA
Suoj uoiispunoj sii joj ssq spsM3Q jo uoiisindai
3 HX S3O P -raqipu pus 'uopsindai poo3
S Inoipi/A JSJ IU3/A J3A3U US]ft[ ’UOl^^ndG^J
•pupjusui jo uoiispsjdds 3qi
luiss pus spsM3Q jo ppsisqo sqi papjnoui
ssq isqi uoiisjjipip aupvip pus Aipnd pajaad
JO SAIISOipUI OS SS3U2JS3M iOOqiIAV SS3UIJOS
‘sssuqsasq inoqiim ssaudsip —inoAsjj jo uusqo
sjiqns isqi si ij ‘Aiijsuosiad ssassod uaui ss
ppsjsqo sassassod Aqsiq/w poor) —
AIIHOLVW
-NOUVind3H-H3IDVWHD
-Spi)U9SS9 9941|) 9S9IJ) SS9SSOd
)snui A3JSI MM pooS A|fi4j^
ar
iililiiilll
m
mi
m
WHISKY


.
GRINDS
*APr>oduc
q/ 1 Over-Fifty
Ifears’Experiencc
BRINKS
GIN
7rr/A
win
3
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported,
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“V • ie cow-cocky does not believe in
wasting anything—not even time. Recently
a young dairy-farmer in Gippsland (Vic.)
decided to marry. On the morning of the
wedding-day he milked the cows as usual,
motored to his fiancee’s—4o miles distant—
said ‘ I will,” and returned home by motor
with his bride in time for the evening’s milk-
ing. The honeymoon, it is understood, will
be spent in the cowshed, with an occasional
visit to the pigsty. ,
*V* * *
“Snud” (from Cairo) : More dangers sur-
round the marriages that the Diggers are
contracting abroad than appear on the
surface. The other day a Billjim and his
Italian _ bride were leaving the garrison
chapel in a motor-car, when the showers of
rice and the banging of a kerosene-tin tied
to the rear of the car startled a pair of
hoises attached to a Gyppo water-cart, and
oft thev went. I hey dashed, one on each
f'-r,’ a T j a tounge on which a convalescent
Right Horseman was sunning himself. He
had no time to jump out of the way, so as
the pole whirled above him he flung his
LOOK OUT, GEORGE!
“Of course now that we are married George
has to he so careful of his money, you
know."
“Yes, dear — I’m sure he has.”
arms and legs around it and was carried
along. The runaways were soon stopped by
swarms of the boys, and the unhurt cobber
was from his perilous perch amongst
the horses’ legs. The lounge was smashed
,to pieces. Talk about the risks of war!
j * * *
. One of the dirty things which the new head
is trying to clean out of the Vic. police force
is _ the anonymous-letter habit, which has
gained an almost incredible hold over the
force, probably because of the weakness of
previous Commissioners. One Commissioner,
in order to be wise to the ways of his under-
lings, actually encouraged men to write to
him anonymously about their brother officers.
was that nobody knew whom he
could trust; discontent and suspicion were
everywhere rife. Frequently the allegations
made were untrue, being inspired bv jealousy
and personal animus. Steward has said
emphatically that he won’t have this sort of
ling, but lie still gets plenty of anonymous
mail-matter. One day, shortly after assum-
ing office, he received 14 letters in a batch.
SWEET CHILDREN.
“And were mamma's darlings quite good while she was out ?”
“Puffickly good, mamma. We played lelephoncs. Billy looked up a funny name in the
book, like Mr. Bull. and then askes him how Mrs. Cow and all the baby calves
were. Oh, we had such fun!”
A Sydney suburban undertaker distributes
as an advertisement of his business a foot-
rule marked off to the l-16th of an inch. A
hint that you’re coming to him by degrees, as
it were.
* * * *
The verdict of the High Court in Bugge
v. Brown is highly important to employers
of labor, particularly in rural districts. One
of Brown’s employees lit a fire to cook his
midday meal at a place which he was ex-
plicitly told must not be used for that pur-
pose. The wind carried some of the sparks,
igniting the grass. The fire
quickly spread to a neighboring
property owned by Bugge, who
sued Brown for damages. Vic.
Chief Justice Irvine found that
the employer was not liable, on
the ground that the fire was not
lit by the man in the course of
his employment. The High
Court by a majority reversed
this ruling, and decided that
the master was responsible.
The _ State Chief Justice and
Justice Duffy considered that in
lighting a fire at an unauthor-
ised place the employee was
acting on his own initiative.
Isaacs, J., and Higgins, .T., held
that, the man having been sup-
plied with uncooked meat, it
was incidental to his employ-
ment that he should light a fire,
and this position being once
arrived at it was immaterial
that the man lit the fire in a
forbidden place. The man was
performing a necessary act, but
did it negligently, and as the
master had authorised the act
it must have been done in the
the employment.
While therefore two learned
Judges decide for the plaintiff
(Bugge) and two for the de-
mi fend^. n * (Brown) the defendant
loses. The verdict places the onus of re-
emnlmml 1 t-V 1°" em,)loyer even should an
Tt- 'rnoir £ 1 di r ?ct opposition to orders,
secure 6S th<3 boss s P° siti on extremely in-
# * «.
If a masked burglar, wiffh identifiable
boots and a recognisable accent, calls during
demand th°e n f a ¥ ell ? oun ? e householder and
demands the family jewels at the muzzle of
matter m £ litoe about the
matter till the morning. True the hnro-wi
SL* the troubll at S e 'local wKce
station, where he may detail his losses and
sss:' «■*£
* * *
“Eegeebee”: The Milk- and Ice-Carters
demand snecial consideration and pay on
account of alleged extra risk taken during
the reign of ’flu. Of course, they’ll get it.
Now, I’m a pretty good Laborite, but as
I don’t own a union ticket or subscribe to
the International Bolshevik Agency, I’m not
blind to some points that are overlooked by
those who do. .-in Arbitration award makes
it illegal for dairymen to emnloy anyone less
than 15 years of age, but, apparently, dis-
tributors may employ boys of eight or nine to
do the job for them, while they themselves
salute the rosy dawn and brother toilers from
a box seat. The consequence is that the small
1 urban who scatters the dregs of what was
once a pint of milk in the neighborhood of
m,y morning pail, gracefully trails a creamv
track from the gate (from which he has
broken two hinges) to the back verandah,
som . et imes discover the utensil glued
to the floor m its own juice. When I com-
plain about the hinges the gate is left ajar
and a prowling cow polishes off 50 young
cauliflowers, kicks the dog, churns up the
lawn, comes on the verandah, and greets mv
small son through the window. He is the
only one who enjoys the joke. When the
carters get their extra quid a week, we’ll pay
unla f ° r k , get the sa me old dimin-
ished portion. Isn’t there an Arbitration
„ or something to protect the poor pub-
■ every dog?" ° PUbHc jl,St fair ga me for
* * .
I itzwilliam ’: The other evening, break-
ing my rule, I bought a flask of whisky
Experimentally I asked the bar
queen for Australian. She pro-
duced a pitying smile and a
large flask, the contents of
which the label guaranteed as
distilled, matured and bottled
in Australia. Upon trial it
proved to be an excellent mel-
low whisky—if the experience
of a mis-spent life has taught
me anything, quite up to the
standard of the better-class im-
ported brands. The flavor was
distinctive—more like Irish
than anything else But the
brand consisted of two words,
one of which was Scotch of the
kailyard. Why? The flavor
was no more like Scotch than
Scotch is like Canadian, or than
either is like Irish. The liquor
is quite good enough to sail
under its own colors, but is
handicapped by its ridiculous
name. Anyone who badly
wanted Scotch, and was de-
ceived by the label into believ-
ing it Scotch, would probably
pour it down the sink; and a
man like myself, who wanted to
experiment with Australian
whisky, would shy off when he
saw the label, as I would have
m°inP ha< n - 0t een - of an inquiring turn of
fhP m Q n, l f 0 S l mply ? lves the impression that
ashamed of his own
»oods, wlnch is way to sell them.
“Flumania”: The hash made of the man-
a£e™e, nt ° f the present epidemic by the
official medical authorities is becoming a
byword, especially in country towns of N. S.
Wales. The Government medical officers
appointed in ordinary times have their posi-
virtue of their seniority as residents
of their district, and in most country towns
are nice old gentlemen who have hitherto
rested peacefully in the shade of a well-
eaincd professional obscurity, but are now
leaved into the limelight as “guardians” of
t . hea] , th against the 'flu menace.
Ihe actn lties of one of these gentry recently
called forth a flattering reference to “fossil-
Ised „crudities and imbecilities of a bygone
a H e \ d lleir only weapon, as a rule, is a
cluneal thermometer, which is thrust into
the face of every aspirant for a permit to
travel or to remain at large. Not one of
them has apparently heard of the Habeas
Corpus Act, and none of them has any
knowledge of the present epidemic disease, as
is shown by the succession of “suspicious”
cases in country towns, which have mostly
tei minated in gastritis, and in one case as
a premature addition to the population. Yet
in spite of the large Government cheques
earned ’ by most of these gentry, has any-
one ever heard of one of them investing in a
train-fare to Sydney to study the actual
case, so as to be in a position to make
a I l c diagnosis instead of the series
or. false alarum which have done so much to
send country districts into a state of nerves,
with the accompanying dislocation of busi-
ness?
■** * *
.1 he Lawson Government has been stricken
with the mad idea of spending a large sum
of perfectly good cash on yet another com-
memorative medal, to be distributed among
State-school children when the dove of peace
gets its official freedom. All manner of re-
toi ms relating to children’s welfare await
attention. There are witting school-build-
ings to be replaced, new baby-clinics to be
established, expensive arrangements needed
to improve baby’s milk-supply, the matter of
the six-bob-a-week boarded-out infant to be
considered, and so on ; yet the Ministry is
quite prepared to let these matters wait,
brazenly alleging that it “can’t afford them,”
while it shoves at Willie and Annie a useless
bit of stamped bronze which will serve no
worthy purpose whatever. Some time ago
ttm Government issued an ‘Anzac medal.”
Before deciding on this latest wastefulness it
should call on some metropolitan school for
a test round-up of that issue. Probably not
one State scholar in a dozen could produce
the useless trifle. '
* * * »
Uncle Bill”: Nothing unusual occurred
when “Birdy” shook hands with each Digger
who received from him the 1914-15 ribbon at
Ilorseferry-road. Just a year ago I re-
ceived a medal from the boss Digger at a
big parade in Belgium. He “shook” each
man and also had a few words to say.
When my turn came he congratulated me
and thanked me for what I had done. I
wondered what 1 had done and felt inclined
to ask him, but seeing a typewritten slip
m a box that was handed me to keep my
medal m, I reckoned I had the information.
, Proved merely to be a warning that no
lost decoration would be replaced, and no one
has yet told me why I got that Duckboard.
SOMEWHAT DISAPPOINTING.
“Yes, Uncle, that's the Pacific Ocean.”
"Well, well! I always had an idea that it
was higger’n that.”
Birdy” is not alone in this issuing con-
solation prizes. My cobber in his last letter
from Belgium says: “Young Ned of Wales
gave me my Duckboard last week and I
have not washed my hands since.” So there
was evidently more “shaking.”
THE SPEAKING SILENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
She stood there sadly,
Pulchritudinous,
Mirific yet mournful,
In all the glory
Of radiant womanhood;
Her perfumed cheyelure
Half revealed and
Half concealed her
Shapely shoulders.
And so on,
Et cetera.
Yet she seemed sad.
“Darling, what ails you?”
He asked her softly.
A Sphinx-like stare
Waa all her answer.
“If that you love me,
Tell me, my dearest one,
Why are you sad?”
She shivered slightly,
A low sound of moaning
\\ rung from her tortured
Soul smote his ear.
She fell on his bosom
And broke two cigars;
Weeping and murmuring.
“Darling, I cannot
Smile any more !
I cannot speak, love,
Dear heart so faithful,
For my three front teeth
Are still at the dentist’s!” ■
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


■
0
•V=
a
a
o
0
0
,
mm
■(Mm
kM* ' :
m
mm
mm
■v
m
ImY
' mt
S
m
- V
WMm.
.
Hm
SSgSRS
m
VM&
Jk:'-Sjsk
*>r
s®
tt
4:4
A r f//(,AL^
■ ,» ?*"t v . "/■ :
mt
f /y
fm
mm
/z-V'Vf
Adamax Roofing Costs Less in the End
The good things you are hearing in your own community about “Adamax” Booting
are being repeated throughout the entire country.
It seems as if the national tendency toward greater economy were adding new emphasis
to its unusual value.
Certainly its capacity for serving well and wearing long is winning great numbers of
new friends every day.
What “Adamax 5 ' is doing for thousands of thrifty builders it will_ undoubtedly do for
you. In other words, it will return you a better service for your investment than you
can commonly expect.
The great popularity it now enjoys is the natural result of the pains and line
material we put into it, and the results it delivers.
Because it lasts longer and gives less trouble than ordinary roofing Adamax costs
less in the end.
Quality Makes “Adamax” the Time-proof Roofing.
“Adamax” Hoofing is made with one end in view—to make a Quality Roofing that fully
meets the requirements of the town and country builders alike.
It is a roof that is impervious to the ravages of heat, cold, wind, rain, gases, acids,
chemical fumes, sea-air, etc.
The perfected process of finishing “Adamax” gives it a hard, fire-retaidant surface——
making “Adamax” the roof that will not rust, rot or pinhole, because “Adamax
contains no tar, resin or fish-oil or any substance that will dry out, leaving the long-
fibred felt basis lifeless.
Send to-dav for free samples and descriptive pamphlet.
LOTTO I,D Plaster Sheeting'—
Ideal for Interior Walls & Roofing'
With it you can secure pleasing panel effects, for the sheets lend them-
selves to artistic treatment.
Their first cost is their last cost; there is no further expense for renovation
or replacement.
The sheets are not affected by climatic changes. They make comfortable,
cool rooms in summer and warm rooms in winter —are fire-retarding, pliable
and elastic, will not warp, twist or buckle. .
Write us for further particulars to-day.
We are selling agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
William Adams & Co. Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
521-3 Collins Street, Helbourne.
96 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Cr. Edward & Mary Streets, Brisbane.
33 King Street, Perth.
ADAM AX


PERRIN’S
Royal Terminus
Hotel,
BRIGHTON BEACH,
VICTORIA.
First-class Residential Hotel*
Ideal Situation*
’Phone 1018, Brighton.
SPORTING
cartridges
Our Special Offer..
The Celebrated
SOVEREIGN, 21/- per 100
SMOKELESS, 20/6 per 100—in 500 lots
CARTRIDGE, 20/- per 100 —in 1000 lots.
This is the finest smokeless cartridge made
12-Gauge, loaded, double-chilled shot, and
Nobel’s Empire Smokeless Powder.
Shot Nos. 2,3, 4,5, 6, 8 and 10.
We have the largest stocks in Victoria
of Winchester, Remington and Dominion
Cartridges. Send for special list
MgEWAN’S.
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
The TOP-NOTCH’Scotch.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Chameleon”: Re “Tim Bucktoo” and
hia West o’ Winton “shilling thirsts” (B.
20/3/’l9). In Selwyn, liuridala (late Friesland)
and other mining townships out from Cloncurry, I
have always paid at the rate of half-a-crown for three
drinks, provided they were “all of a kind.” Hence
it is an unwritten law in a shout to call for the
same poison as the first person asks for. Three
whiskies cost 2s. 6d., but two whiskies and, say, a
schnapps, cost 3s. (Sixpence a drink extra for
mineral water, and Is. if it’s Schweppes.) Four
drinks of a kind are 3s. 6d.; six drinks, 55.; seven,
6s. 1 have never heard this called the “Barcoo
shout,” but I’ve heard the half-crown piece called
the “Barcoo shell.” Strictly speaking, to obtain
tho concession you must produce a half-crown piece,
but this necessity is waived for a good customer,
although it is noticeable that a “half-dollar” is
never included in the change given by a publican in
those regions.
* * * *
“Maire”: Ropata was a Maori chief of
high mana and there was much lamentation at his
death. His remains were enclosed in an ornate
coffin and, as befitting his rank, many tangis were
held. In the month that followed his demise the
deceased rangitira was carted extensively around the
native settlement of the northern end of Maoriland.
It was at a place called Te Whiti, or something
similar, that the tour ended suddenly, owing to
the hearse—a spring-cart—jolting into a deep rut.
There was a loud report and Ropata’s casket split
to fragments. The mourners took the calamity
philosophically. “Py gorry,” said one relative,
“him go up to Heaven orright.”
* * * *
“J.F.Iv.”: Somebody asked the origin of
the “Barcoo shout.” Here it is. Scene: Winter’s
Hotel, Isisford (Q.), 29 years ago. Enter two
station-hands who call for two drinks, tendering a
half-crown in payment. The liquors would ordinarily
have been 25., as all drinks at this time were Is.
each ; but Winter suggested that a professional toper
who happened to be handy be invited to wet his
whistle and thus cut out the half-crown. The
latter coin was much in circulation at this time,
coins of smaller denomination, especially Is., being
rare, so a publican usually returned Is. from a half-
crown when two drinks were served. The custom
now prevails in a few towns in the far west of
Central Queensland, Winton being thf> only place
in more civilised parts where it operates.
* * * .
“W.A.C.”: “Centurion” slings ink at my
cure (steaming eucalyptus leaves) for strangles
because his patient resented the muzzling in an open
paddock and “put the hoof” into him (B. 27/3/’l9).
The only unstalled prads that stand being nose-
bagged in the open are merry-go-round horses and
nightmares. He is also wrong in stating that only
young horses are attacked by strangles. I have
seen 20-year-old Dobbins pass out attached to a
death-certificate worded: “Strangles, pneumonia.”
* * » #
“Cycle”: The Lake Cowal (N.S.W.) wild
pig of 20-odd years ago was evidently a more
adaptable hawg than his relative of the Balonne (Q.)
mentioned by “Ne’er-do-W'eel” (B. 3/4/’l9). The
Balonne pig, he says, did no good in captivity, was
hard to catch and wasn’t much good when he was
caught, unless you slew and ate him
on the spot. In my time on Lake
Cowal, untamed pork was very plenti-
ful in the lignum swamps and adja-
cent scrubs, and the pioneering cocky
made good use of it. Run in and
killed off the grass it was no class,
being too lean and a bit rooty-
flavored ; but a month or two of
boiled bunny, with a dish of pollard,
then topped off with grain, left no
room for complaint. A big sow in-
terned at the right time was the best
proposition, for the family, not hav-
ing to root for tucker from the jump,
grew less snout and more ham. The
sows, raving no tusks worth mention-
ing, were not risky in the catching,
but the boars were qui'ie another pro-
position. The best man I ever saw on
the job was an aged Maorilander, who,
with a couple of mates, got busy on
the lake at the time' I 'of the Wyalong
gold rush. In a short time they had
caught, yarded and schooled most of
the grunters in the neighborhood, and
finally drove them to town, a distance
of 20-odd miles. The old man’s
method of tackling an aged and
crusty boar was drastic but simple.
His dog was trained to find and halt
Dennis. Then the veteran, armed
only with a heavy stick, would ad-
vance until the boar charged straight
at him. At the right moment he
side-stepped, and down with a thud would come the
waddy on the pig’s snout or thereabouts. Before the
boar knew what had struck him he was on his back
securely tied. It’s dead simple, if you have the
nerve.
“ S - Severn”: My second day in London
produced a gypsy caravan passing down the Finch-
ley-road. Most folks I told about it said they had
DIDN’T WANT ANY EXPERIMENTING.
“Really, Jacly, I don't know which would be best for you — [?] drop of quinine or a drop
of castor-oil.”
“Mine thinkit, Boss, you better gibbit a drop of rum an’ make it sure.”
never seen one. It was a very fine affair. Five
houses on wheels, two in crimson and gold, one
all green, and two more in cream and silver. Sev-
eral carts, something the build of costers’; and 16
splendid horses, all done up in gorgeous trappings.
I saw Mr. Petulengro and Mrs. La Chicarona, with a
big net of onions swung behind her ’bus, and a
bandana snooding her hair, and ear-rings the size
of saucers. She descended, and came over to me.
“Will cross my hands with silver?” she asked. I
did not want to. Her glittering old eyes looked
deeply into mine. “Never mind the silver,” she
said. “I will speak only two things. Your first
husband was a soldier; your second will be a duke.”
* * * *
“Wowser”: “Monyah’s” opinion that the
Chow is immune from ptomaine poisoning (B.
o/4/ 19) calls to mind that fishermen in certain
parts of India dig for John large holes and fill
them with fish. After a few days’ exposure to the
sun the dugouts are filled in, and on being re-opened
a couple of months later enormous crawlers are
found in the putrid mass. Bottling, sealing and
despatching them per special boats to China is quite
an industry.
* * * *
“Almanac” : Never mind the Malay method
of irrigating the nostrils. This gives the same
result. Equal parts of common salt, carbonate of
soda and boracic acid. Dissolve a large teaspoonful
in hot water; add cold to make a pint, tepid. Get
from any chemist a yard of rubber tubing as used
for baby’s feeding-bottle. Now place your vessel
on any handy place higher than the head. Put one
end of the tubing in the liquid and draw gently
(with the mouth) to make a flow, then insert tube
in the nostril, keeping the chin thrust forward until
vessel is empty. Also gargle (same solution) as
often as you like. Have used this with good results
for catarrh. You’ll never catch cold if you make
a habit of the trick.
* * . *
“Roamer”: About 18 months ago a
gin named Rosa, on Connor and Doherty’s station
(known as the Piggery), 20 miles from Wyndham
(W.A.), gave birth to twins, both females. She
is a full-blooded abo. During my travels on the
Fortesque River two gins gave birth to twins. One
mother was a full-blood, the other a half-caste. At
Mt. Anderson station, about 60 miles from Derby,
on the Fitzroy, a gin gave birth to triplets.’
When she saw them she threw them in the* fire,
remarking, All same dogs.” The manager informed
me that it was not uncommon for twins to be born,
but that the family always killed one. The blacks
understand dogs and cats having litters, but do not
apparently recognise more than one at a time in their
own progeny.
“Sarto’ : Some instances of camouflage I
have met among the insects of my little district.
A small greyish brown grub that stands up on its
rear end when you touch the bush it’s on and
reckons the enemy will mistake it (brother
grub) for a dry twig. He mostly succeeds
in his reckoning, too. Another similarly colored
grub drops to the ground immediately the
foliage is touched, rolls himself up, and
gives an excellent impersonation of a dried clover-
seed. A flat, black chap about an inch long,
three-quarters across in the middle and rounded off
at the ends, imitates and makes a noise like a piece
of bark. This fellow is often found. There’s a
perfectly white spicier that frequents the white
HE MANAGED IT.
FARMER (proud of his generosity) : “Hulloa.
how did yon like that goose I sent you!
Did you pluck him all right?"
THE BREAK-UP : “Oh, yairs. I’ve had a
lot uv ’ sperience, y’know. I've bin
used to pluckin’ alligators up North!”
petals of flowers, and a yellow one that may be
found on the petals of the sunflower; also, a tiny,
gaily colored specimen that tries to palm himself
off as a Peace celebration.
(Continued on page 22.)
ON THE ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From Stanley to the Pitman I’ve teamed the nor’-
west road.
With three good yoke of cattle and near a ton o’
load;
Man and boy for ten years I’ve tramped beside the
dray,
Scratching up the sandhills or sloshing through the
clay,
Dodging through the tea-tree, bumping up and down
(Now, then ! Gee then !)
Fourteen working hours a day, and (Come here,
Brown t )
There’s fixings for the cockies and timber for the
mine,
And now and then for Jones’s pub a load of beer
or wine;
When winter hits the country and things are fairly
• slack,
To dodge the bits of pot-holes I take the inland
track;
For bullock’s bones are brittle—l’ve seen a foreleg
10
(Now, then, Ranger!)
As easy as a gum-twig in a ....(Gee hack, Snow!)
Maybe you think it hard work and lonely, too, fot
mo;
But then I’ve got the lads here to keep me com-
pany ;
I’ve always got the coastlands, the blue skies and
the grey—
I’ve alwajs got my own voice to sing the miles
away;
And when the wind comes west’ard it brings me
from afar
(Ranger f Rover!)
The shouting of the breakers on the (Hold up,
Star !)
There’s many a man and better has drove a team
this way.
And yet, of all the old hands, there’s only me to-
day;
For Jackson turned religious, and Nosey Smith is
dead
(They sold his team of Devons to buy his fam’ly
bread) ;
And Casey from Detention, the smartest of the lot,
(Now, then ! Gee, then !)
Was pinched for duffing poddies, and it's....
(Whoa back, Spot!)
No longer, like the old days, are we the country’s
pride,
The motors and the railways are pushing us aside;
You couldn’t do without us a dozen years ago,
IN TOPHET.
SEEUS : “What has he been up to?"
TELLUS : “Oh, he teas one of those meddler
some persons who went about the earth
poking their noses into other people’s
business.”
But now it’s “Oh, the bullocks! Ain’t they very
slow 1”
All rig-.t—l’ll sell the damn team, and go and
settle down....
{full, you blighters)~
Blast the lazy lot of ’em. ...{Gee! Whoa back ,
Brown /)
VICTORIA.
BERNARD CRONIN.


good novels
for One Shilling
The long nights are setting in and you will require a stock of good reading.
There’s no need to purchase expensively-bound volumes by overseas
authors of whom you have never previously heard.
Patronise well-known Australian authors. Ask to be shown novels in the
famous
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books
A series of novels by the best of Australian authors specially written
and published for Australian readers. \
100 NOVELS.
1/- each.
OVER 2,000,000 ALREADY SOLD.
AH
Bookstalls and
Booksellers.
1/U posted.
NOTABLE ADDITIONS TO THE SERIES.
The N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., has arranged to publish severai novels by aiISS
BEATRICE GRIM SHAW, the Australian authoress who has won w oild-w e ..
Nobody, is writing of the Islands in the same attractive way as Miss Ginnshaw does.
The first volume,
“THE CORAL QUEEN ” By BEATRICE CRIM3HAW
is now ready. Order it from the nearest agent or direct from the publisheis.
A New Author—
MR. JACK McLaren
is well known as a contributor to many papers. His first novel,
“RED MOUNTAIN”
is a splendid story of Northern Australia, and will undoubtedly prove to be one of
the most popular novels in the Series.
OF THE. BEST
RS
HALLY.
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
FACT’RY ’ANDS.
By EDWARD DYSON.
THREE YEARS WITH THUNDER-
BOLT.
By AMBROSE PRATT.
BILLY PAGAN.
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
MR. BARRINGTON.
By ROY BRIDGES.
THE SQUATTER’S WARD.
By EDWARD S. SORENSON.
IN THE LAST STRIDE.
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
BULLY HAYES —BUCCANEER.
By LOUIS BECKE.
A CURATE IN BOHEMIA.
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER.
By RALPH STOCK.
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
Royal Doulton, Crown Derby
and Royal Worcester.
Featured amongst the Firm’s large stocks of Jewellery, Gold
and Silver Ware, Ivory and Tortoiseshell Ware, are their fine
selections of Royal Doulton, Crown Derby and Royal Worcester
China Tea and Coffee Sets, Fruit Plates, Bowls, Jardinieres,
etc., representing some of the choicest designs by these well-
known makers, and offering excellent opportunity for the
selection of useful and beautiful presents.
Half a dozen Royal Boulton Tea Cups and Saucers in case.
Exquisitely colored in Rich Magenta and Gold .... £l<
Full particulars of colors and prices will be sent upon request.
Selections sent on approval to any address at the Firm’s own risk
and expense.
HMm grummonft & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LEVIATHAN
Coat Sweaters
Ensure Warmth with Comfort. Undoubtedly a Protec-
tion again?t Cold. Absolutely Essential for Sporting and
General Outdoor Wear.
V-FItONT SWEATER.
Warm and Comfortable. V Opening (as shown in inset
No. 3). All Wool. Medium Weight. Colors: Navy,
Heather or Grey. _
SIZES 36m. 40m. Chest.
PRICES 18/0 21/-
With V-Front (inset NO. 3) or “Peter Pan” Collar (in-
set No. 4). All Pure Wool, our own special make.
Colors: Grey, Navy, or Heather.
Sizes 36in. 40in. 44in. Chest.
PRICES 22/6 27/6 32/6
THE “TRENCHER” SWEATER.
All Pure Wool, with the following distinctive features:
Silesia-lined Pockets, Tape Seams, snug, close-fitting
ribbed Cuffs. Collar may be worn three different ways.
Colors: Grey, Navy, or Heather.
SIZES 36in. 40in. 44m. Chest.
PRICES 25/- 30/- 35/-
ii
v:iii
m ■
I I
?r-
-m
THE TRENCHER.
\\
r
Returned Soldiers and
Sailors 10 per cent.
Special Discount off all
Marked Prices.
Winter Underwear.
Now! is the time to secure really serviceable Underwear. Nothing
is to be gained by waiting till the cold gets more severe. \ve
feature four special lines.
SINGLETS (with long or short sleeves), or PANTS. Natural wool
and cotton, English make, splendid quality. Winter weight.
SIZES 3Gin. 40in. 4tin. Chest.
PRICES 7/6 8/6 9/6 .
SINGLETS (with long or short sleeves), or PANTS. Natural wool
and cotton, Australian manufacture, warm and serviceable.
SIZES .... 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in. Chest.
PRICES ... 11/6 12/6 13/6 14/6 15/6
SINGLETS (with long or short sleeves), or PANTS. All wool,
Australian manufacture, medium winter weight; ensures supreme
comfort. ... ~, .
SIZES .... 86in. 38in. 40in. 42m. 44in. Chest.
PRICES... 13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6
SINGLETS (with long or short sleeves), or PANTS. All wool,
heavy winter weight, nice soft finish. Absolutely tlie best propo-
sition. ... r ,,
SIZES .... 36in. 38in. 40in. 42m. 44m. Chest.
PRICES!.. 16/6 17/6 18/6 19/6 20/6
State Chest and Waist measurements when ordering Singlets;
length of leg unci height for Pants.
SHOP BY POST—WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
Cor.Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE
WHITE
LISSUE
HANDKERCHIEFS
FOR LADIES
Ladies should see the delightful
rang 3 of all-white Lissues : as
exquisitely soft, and sheer, and
enduring as the world-famed
colored-bordered Lissues. In
wash and wear a constant and
delightful surprise. Lissue label
on every Lissue Handkerchief.
Dainty White and Fashionable
Border Colors.
a
Wl
r
p Y« AMID
WHITE
PYRAMID
HANDKERCHIEFS
FOR MEN
Men wlio like the fine, absorbent,
and durable qualities of color-
border Pyramids will find all-white
Pyramids at least as good. They
offer the same excellence of wear
in a handsome range of all-white
designs. Pyramid label on every
Pyramid Handkerchief.
Fancy white border designs and plain
hemstitched; also smart border colors.
TOOTALCLOTH:
The Guaranteed
Velvet fabric,
equal to silk
velvet for grace-
ful draping. Rich
colors that will
not rub off. In
plain and cord,
27 inches wide.
TARANTULLE
(Regd.): The
quality Cott'on
Fabric for Lin-
gerie and Baby-
wear- In three
weights,4o inches
wide.
LISSUE HAND-
KERCHIEFS
(Regd.) for ladies.
Dainty exquisite
self-white and
indelible color-
border designs.
PYRAMID HAND-
KERCHIEFS
(Regd.) for men.
Correct self-
white and exclu-
sive indelible
color-border
designs.
NAMRIT: The
Indelible Voile.
In printed
designs and self-
colors, 4oin.wide.
TOBRALCO
(Regd .): The
Cotton Wash-
dress Fabric
in world - wide
use. Self - white
and indelible
colors, 27/28 ins.
wide.
TOOTAL PIQUE .
White and indel-
ible colors. 43/44
inches wide.
TOOTAL SHIRT-
INGS for men
and women. In-
delible colors, 32
inches wide.
Sold by Drapers and Stores.
emu
These goods assure
satisfaction in color,
wash, and wear. Their
guaranteed ouaiity
has made their popu-
larity world-wide.
SEE NAME ON SELVEDGE.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO
G.P.O. BOX 1035, MELBOURNE.
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE CO., LTD.. MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.


m nun
8
f"
1
~N
m
mmmmmm
t
5S
NS
mm
Secure and efficient administration at
moderate fees.
The Company offers the advantages of finan-
cial standing, longevity, experience, readiness
oi access and thorough information.
Governed by a directorate of
business men of high repute.
well-known
Charges for Corpus Commission are not made
until estate becomes distributable.
Management of affairs can be undertaken at
shortest possible notice.
A service approved in every detail by practical
men.
Estates managed. Trust funds to lend.
&
GIVING HIM A CHANCE.
JIMMO : “’ Ello, Ned, what’s doin’?”
NEDDO (in the tails of a temperancc crank): “I've gat a thirst, an' this here bloke's tryin'
ter talk it down.”
“Pick”: In his dissertation on snakes (B.
3/4/’l9) “Te Whare” declares that numbers were
drowned by the late deluge down Bega way
(N.S.W.). My experience has been that a snake
cannot be drowrtcd. Once I helped to keep a brown
specimen down a well whilst we bailed it out. The
job took six hours, and when finally we jabbed the
land eel he fought viciously with the pitchfork with
which we were caressing him. Also, at Moruya
(N.S.W.), I made one of the party that hooked out
snakes of various sizes and moral qualities from
debris piled by flood-waters against a bridge We
did business with 28 of them that afternoon, and
though they had been in the water several days
they were all merry and bright until we had finished
with them.
* * * *
Melos : In the bush one clay I came
across a collection of pebbles and colored glass
wrapped in a piece of worn blanket. This was the
myall bag” which the abos. placed in the path of a
member of the tribe that had committed a capital
offence as a warning that, if he did not obliterate
himself, the tribe would undertake the job. It was
the custom to direct the culprit to the spot where
the bag had been placed ; and it was also the custom
to keep him under close observation until the penalty
was paid. On the Upper Richmond River (N.S.W.)
some years ago an erring binghi, after getting notice
to quit, retired to his camp and tried starvation. It
was the least painful method of avoiding a murder
ease, and, perhaps, one that was frequently adopted.
McNorth ’: In the course of a long ex-
perience of black brother I have found some queer
ideas regarding deities, demons, spirits and such-
like. In the Solomons there was a crowd of man-
eaters who trusted implicitly to a disc of pearl-
shell worn round the neck to influence the con-
troller of the wind, which was the spirit of a de-
parted canoe-chief. When a fair wind was wanted
for canoeing, the talisman was slung across the
back of the steersman. If a head wind was required
to (say) come off the land and lessen the surf so
as to make a landing easier, the disc was worn on
the breast. Sometimes it worked, and then the
success of the process was widely advertised. If
the wind obstinately refused to shift, the nigs con-
cluded that the spirit-boss was “too much wild,”
and let it go at that. Away in inland Dutch Papua
there was a mountain tribe which believed that a
certain tree, a kind of short-boled cypress pine, was
able to walk about at night in search of evildoers,
especially young married women who felt restless,
the perambulating vegetable was sure to find them
and crack their skulls with a blow from a branch.
It may be that some of the old men who had more
wives than they could manage had something to do
with the mystery, but the result was that that tribe
possessed more than the average of virtuous wives.
Usually, definite powers for good or evil are con-
ferred on each god or devil, but the Binghis of
Cape York (N.Q.) have a being that nobodv seems
to know the functions of. After a lot of patient
questioning, I managed to unearth the fact that his
or her, or its, name is Bula-Bula, and that the
carvings and paintings o*t certain dancing-shields are
intended to represent its face. These shields are
about three feet long by 18 inches wide, with a
grotesque kind of half-human face in white clay
and ochre painted in the centre. Legend has it
that some old-timer once saw Bula-Bula clearly
enough to memorise his features and carve them on
a piece of wood for the benefit of posterity. No
virtues or vices are assigned to him. That is all
the niggers seem to know about it, except that Bula-
Bula hangs round the jungle near the camp, a vague,
nebulous, shadowy, pathetic kind of figure apparently
waiting for somebody to tell him what to do. A god
out of a job!
* * * *
“S. O. Whyffe”: What is a wagtail? The
black and white fantail is generally called “Willie
Wagtail.” Le Souef says only one wagtail, a different
bird, has been seen in Australia. Two papers lately
showed some bird photos, results from a naturalists’
picnic, of “the wagtail at home.” Good pictures, too,
but the bird is a restless flycatcher or scissors-grinder.
A naturalist once tqld the writer, per Bulletin, that
bushmen could not grasp botany for lack of Latin,
o' words to that effect. I wonder if he was in that
picnns.
How’s this? Froggatt, N. S. Vales
Government Entomologist, makes the statement in
the Australian Naturalist
When the “bumble tree” or “wild pomegranate”
is in blossom, it is, during the daytime, frequented
by large numbers of common mound-ants (Irido-
myrmex ditec tus), which prevent access to the
flowers by the native bees, with the result that the
latter have acquired the habit of working at night
when the ants are absent.
It’s a cert they’ve got no use for the 0.8. U.
* * * *
YY art’ : YY hen C. Gould, F.G.S., was the
Speck’s Government Geologist, he got on the track
°,* be hunyip at Great Lake. He first heard from
I rancis McPartland, son of a constable, who de-
clared that he had several times seen three or four
together. Gould made inquiries fropi the chief
constable, who sent him the following letter:—
la fi r > ™ th regard to your memo, of Sept. 23,
1870, relative to animals reported to have been seen
in the Great Lake by young McPartland, and sup-
posed to be seals, having made their way from the
sea up the Derwent and Shannon rivers, I have
made inquiries amongst the shepherds in the vicinity
of the lake, and I find that several of them have
seen an animal swimming in the lake very much
resembling a black sheep-dog with only Its ™
Water ; * cannot hnd that more than one
has been seen at a time. I do not think it possible
PiLer v° ' llake their way llp from the sea to the
Gieat Lake, in consequence of the very considerable
waterfaU being in the Shannon nea7 its 'juncDon
Lin ,1. flbiess, being amphibious, they could
escape the fall and reach the river above by land.
The people that have seen this animal in the lake
maintain that it is not a platypus, but twice as
large and much darker, but as it has never been
very plainly seen, and considering the difficulty of
any sea animal getting as far as the lake T think
fLLII' St ," nd ° übted Jy be a very large platypus. Mr.
Headlam s shepherd saw one at the verv top of the
lake, which he says was four or five-feet long, with
a veiy large black head. A shepherd of Kefmode's
also saw one. Ryan saw one at Swan Bay !n the
moonlight. Ridgers, the contractor, has also seen
them, and I am told Mr. Ivcnriek Hexmore saw
one at the Sandbanks.-—I am, sir, your obedient
servant, James Wilson, chief constable.
Chas. Headlum, of Eggleston, weighed in with a
letter stating that he and his son were pulling
across Great Lake in 1863 when they nearly ran
into an animal about the size of a large sheep-dog,
which immediately made off at great speed. Others
claim to have seen something of the kind in Lake
Tiberias and Lake Echo. Joseph Barwick, at Tea
free, had a shot at one. Here is his account:—
It was quite unlike any animal I ever saw before.
His length appeared to be 4ft. or 4ft. 6in. ; color
black; with a remarkable round bulldog-like head.
What surprised me at the time was, instead of his
making for the land, he made for deep water. The
animal must have had very short legs, as there was
only 15in. of water in the place where I saw him,
and his back was not much above water.
Dozens of other people heard noises or saw splashes
in the water, but a reward of £5O failed to pro-
duce the animal. You can get a lot of very strange
animals for less than £5O, too!
“Merrigal”: Some curious old Samoan
customs. Visitors to one particular settlement were
always presented with food and the native-cloth outer
garment of the waiters, donned for the occasion, as
a memento. The hamlet of Salelesi ordained a
chief to deliver the picturesque language at any
gathering, and for this he received the pick of his
host’s porkers. To drain the first jorum of kava
and dine exclusively off the pig’s head at feasts
were the privileges of another community. Dwellers
in parts devoid of materials for mats had license
when sleeping from home, to roll up, for keeps
those upon which they had dossed. Another crowd
had a charter to speechify lying down. Ordinarily,
speeches were delivered standing, the spruiker holding
before him, at the perpendicular, his staff of office.
Its projection at an angle was an insult. Conversa-
tion in a house was always conducted while sitting
down, that being the posture of reverence. Regard-
lng covenants, one made long ago with the Tongans,
that they shouldn’t return tq Samoa, except to
trade, has never been infringed. There were war-
time compacts, too, as when the first meeting of
opposing tribes occurred late in the' day. Their
vanguards, having exchanged the traditional kava
and compliments, might agree to fight early next
day. Overnight the forces camped at close quarters
without any misgivings. A truce was concluded by
disposing some cocbanut leaves, or emblems of a
national deity, betwen the rival hosts. Afterwards
the warriors intermingled and conversed freely.
Anyone requiring a house erected offered the builder
an expensive mat. If this was accepted, the work
was begun. No fixed price was stipulated, but pay-
ments on account were made until, when two sides
AN OPTICAL ERROR.
COCKY: “Strike me pink, ’ow did yer come to fall in the lagoon ?”
POMMY: “I thort it was one o' them mirages Ed read about.”
and an end were completed, the final price was
mentioned. If the contractor closed on it, all was
well; if he didn’t, the building remained unfinished
until a compromise was arrived at. No blackleg
would come forward to complete the job, out of
regard for his neck.
“Obadiah Hen”: Take a tip. If you’re'
hying in big-timber country never let the kiddies go
barefooted, as the deadly tetanus germ lurks in the
decaying leaves, bark, etc., that surrounds the trees,
and a slight scratch or an unprotected sore on the
foot might result in Australia losing a future
Treasurer who might build a high tariff-wall and
fioni the top of it drop a dead cat on the raging
foreign-trade devil without.
“Bison”; “G.C.” (B. 20/3/19) should be
informed that most animals travel better against the
wind than with it. Horses especially like a fair
head-wind. They sweat less and don’t fag so quickly.
10 reason is that with a fair head-wind an animal
is assured of a liberal supply of good fresh air with
every intake of breath, whereas with a wind behind
there is always a certain amount of dust, which
blows ahead polluting the atmosphere.
* * »
“11.V.E.”: Even the much-maligned raven
(usuahy styled “crow”) has its good points, a fact
which has become patent since recent disastrous floods
have strewed carcases of cattle about the Bega and
biogo rivers and on the beaches at their mouths near
Tathra (N.S.W. South Coast). The sable under-
takers, assisted by foxes and the omnivorous gohanna,
oi- monitor-lizard, are stripping the flesh from the
putrid remains, incidentally disposing of the
abhorrent blowfly’s chicks, which already inhabit
them. In this work the true crow ( Corvus coronoides)
which doesn’t pick the eyes out of juvenile jum-
bueks, has also helped. I have often seen the raven
{Corvus marianat ) in immense flocks on Monaro
(N.S.W.) plains, following closely in the wake of
an army of grasshoppers—near relations of the plague
locusts which bothered thfe Israelites (or was it
Pharaoh?) in Egypt some few thousand years ago.
Strange that, when a bird does a little harm occa-
sionally, its known good points should sink into
oblivion! At the same time I’ve seen too much of
the raven’s ghastly work among young lambs to feel
very friendly towards Him.
THE PROPOSAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Jim came homeward from the war
Ihe sentiment he cherished for
The girl he’d left behind him made
A great heat-record in the shade;
And Jimmie told the Diggers: “She
Shall play coquette no more with me.”
He’d known her long, he’d liked her best,
He cl asked her often. With a jest
She d put him off. He found her now.
He faced her with a beetling brow,
A bay’net pointed at her head.
“Now yield you to my arms,” he said.
Up went her hands. His heart was glad;
He heard her whisper: “Kamerad!”
VICTORIA.
E.


w/
c&n always t»e fclic^ x
for Service & Satisfaction
a&V.
S' \:
at* !«s
/.: -r
?si£
y
1 v
V
g>^
it*
\Sk^
, :• .«.*>»
J ' V"
S*r
W‘
VM/i
a
*8
Sfc
%
:
m,
V
>
/
rrSjT
W
_ \ i
v
fn
9
/
/
i w,
7/..
Vt
/
's*
,- V
islE
<g
m
«.
7
«s 5
T'V
r* C
j.
'A
Happy Motoring Days
are only possible when you are free of all tyre
troubles. The knowledge that you have de-
pendable “Dunlops” on your Car —with their
minimum running cost, finfe quality and
strength to take you any journey over all
classes of roads —is always a source of
satisfaction. Many an outing is marred by
faulty tyres. Don’t take any chances —fit
“Dunlops,” there’s nothing better.
STOCKED BY GARAGES IN GROOVED AND RAILROAD
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
(Founders of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry).
ALL STATES
& NEW ZEALAND


There is Nothing Better than
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
For GOUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
CROUP and WEAK LUNGS
This Medicine can be given with PERFECT
SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE
to the YOUNGEST CHILD, as it does NOT
contain, and has NEVER contained any poison
or harmful drugs. It is very pleasant to take,
and children take it readily—even CLAMOR
for it. HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
is prepared by our MR. W. G. HEARNE
who is a REGISTERED CHEMIST
with nearly forty years’ experience.
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
vV'IV/W/
• •
0i s
5 K
(P
M//y
%
S3»-
■** /)
V
V"
1?.
mu
Qc icincticy- tniTuT)
If not obtainable locally
send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington. N.Z.
Always ask for
. “HEARNE’S”
ruling minority of thieves who were so much
in a minority that they had to take Christ
prisoner by night with the aid of Italian
soldiers, and procure a condemnation in
haste from a rather indifferent Italian
governor. To his Excellency one life seemed
of small account in those days of lavish
capital punishment, yet his Excellency was
worried.
Paul, on the other hand, was on bad terms
with the mass of the Jews, but got on fairly
well with the ruling classes. The Hebrew
was an amazingly tolerant person within the
limits of the Law. Pharisees who believed
in a resurrection and Sadducees who didn’t
shared the seats in the Sanhedrim. This was
almost equal to the spectacle of an atheist
sitting in a Methodist conference. The syna-
gogues seemed to have been open for almost
any kind of argument, for the apostles went
into them and held high debate, not only
with Jews but with Greeks and sundries.
Such a thing wouldn’t be tolerated either in
St. Mary’s Cathedral or in Little Bethel.
Paul, with his theories of the Atonement,
the divine origin and Messialiship of Christ,
the immaculate birth and the Triple Deity,
tried to define things which Jesus himself,
filled with the desire to teach charity, mercy
and justice, left undefined. Paul was a
whale for definitions. He would have defined
a crust before eating it. Every Mahdi seems
to have his Khalifa who comes after him
with a craze to set the house in order and
to write the creed in a book by double entry.
Paul, like everybody else, debated in the
synagogues, but he wasn’t the same sort of
debater as his Predecessor, who always
carried His point by reference to the accepted
Law of Jehovah. It was considered that
the new man’s contentions were not proved
by all the Scripture then existing. So being
ruled out of order he decided to make a new
Scripture, and carried bis appeal to foreign-
ers who didn’t know the Jewish law and
didn’t notice any discrepancies between the
old story and the new one, which professed
to be a continuation of it. Thus the Jew,
who was the mainstay of Christ’s congrega-
tion when the doctrine was taught by Christ,
gradually became outlawed when Christ’s
doctrine was taught by Paul.
Ignatius Singer’s view is that the Foun-
der was strenuous, learned, dignified, in-
tensely sympathetic, making no assertions
whatever as to his pedigree, popular with
everybody worth knowing, even landowners
and possibly manufacturers, and hated only
by parsons and lawyers. Even Pilate, the
Dago who washed his hands, had no per-
sonal animosity. And on the other side is
the Follower —heated, precise; a stickler for
the heavenly and earthly dignities which he
ascribed to the Founder, but which that
Person, who had never even seen him, didn’t
trouble to claim ; a clamorer about pedi-
gree ; a- lavish -writer of letters to the
editor, a pompous butler to an unobtrusive
Master: a wildly combustible Boswell to a
Johnson who wasn’t even aware of his
existence. And, finally, we see this small,
galvanic figure depart with coat-tails flying
in rage, to seek the Gentiles, because Jewry
wouldn’t accept his view of a great philoso-
pher whom Jewry knew and he didn’t.
Taking this view of the case, Paul started,
off ins own bat, the Great Row, which isn’t
finished even now.
Everybody who is afflicted with imagina-
tion conceives pictures of ancient charac-
ters. Abraham looks tall and rather plenti-
ful in the stomach, the same as Blastus, the
King’s Chamberlain. Saul never grew stout,
lie looked the hard soldier of the Old Guard
to the last. Samuel had a Peeksniffian ex-
pression and bulky legs. Solomon was tall
and in his latter days had a corporation
and a disappointed face with pimples. And
Paul was small and thin and restless and
rat-like and desperately energetic, with red
eyes and jumpy feet. Nobody who looked
otherwise could have done what he did.
J. E.
O.B.U.
The One Big Union, with a sub-title, Will
it Emancipate the Workers? by P. S. Cleary,
is a clever analysis of the strange institution
which preaches equality of reward and pro-
poses to start with a number of boss officials
at £6OO a year, a lot more at £5OO, and at
the other end a horde of enslaved female
typists at £l3O each, which is less than some
of their class receive from private employers.
The book contains much information about
One Big Unions elsewhere, extinct or
approaching extinction. They all had the
general-strike idea which, according to Tom
Mann, will cause the rich to “flee the coun-
try,” and which is to transfer all wealth
from those who have to those who haven’t,
so that the starving rich (including those
who have just a moderate income) may be
ultimately driven by hunger to rise
against the bloated poor and make a
row. Mr. Cleary is a profound be-
liever in the Labor movement, and wisely
suggests that if Political Labor insisted
on its candidates passing “an examina-
tion in social and general education” it could,
out of the material at its command, create
a party which would work wonders. At
the same time his view seems rather exclu-
sively Labor of the fiscal-sinkers’ kind. For
instance, he says: “There is nothing to pre-
vent Labor forcing Parliament to fix the
price of commodities ; to regulate the interest
on capital,” etc. Parliament can regulate
the prices of the things with which we supply
ourselves, and the number of these can be
guessed at by the list of exports, for when
a country supplies itself with an article there
is generally, some time or other, a surplus,
however small, to be got rid of abroad. It
can’t regulate the price, lhnded here, of
things we don’t produce (these are shown in
the list of imports), for they dome under the
control of some other fellow’s Parliament,
and, however much it may insist on cheap
supplies for its own people, it always believes
in getting the last possible penny out of
other people, like ourselves. Knibbs’s trade
returns for 1918 till 14 pages with the names
of things we can regulate and 28 pages with
the names of those we can’t, so the case
seems pretty hopeless. As for ' fixing the
interest rate, this is a hard-borrowing coun-
try, and the lender in London has just fixed
it at 0 per cent, for the very best security,
which would probably mean 10 or lk, for
inferior risks. (Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
Sydney, publishers.)
What is Art?
"Jim M.” (B. 27/3/TO) says: “It is not
true that ‘the art quality is not so much the
beauty or the skill in the thing itself
as some thought of beauty or skill
that it arouses in ourselves,’ because
an insipid picture of a girl by Greuze
would suggest more beauty than a hid-
eous dwarf by Velasquez or a beer-bottle
bv Manet.” _ “J.M.” misses the point, which
is that art is hot a thing in itself, otherwise
it would long: ago have been defined with
mathematical precision. Beauty is likewise
a varying quantity; as witness the different
views taken about wives and best girls. As
a child with art perception, “J.M.” might
have admired a girl by Greuze, and with
developed perceptions he admires Velasquez;
but in due course, his art perception evolving,
Velasquez will be as crude to him as Greuze
is now. The imbecility of the current ideas
about art are illustrated by these two
instances, out of hundreds of a like kind.
In Paris, the home of the world’s most emi-
nent artists and critics, the best works of
Rodin and Millet were for 20 years uu-
honored and regarded as freaks. With
expert approval the trustees of the London
National Gallery purchased an alleged Vel-
asquez for £40.000; but doubt being cast on
its pedigree, the case came to court. A
French witness was the recognised final
authority as to whether the nicture was
worth the price paid or a tenner. He said
a tenner, for he proved that Velasquez
always used a special varnish not present in
the picture. In this instance the best
London art authorities saw nori-existing
values, just as Paris critics failed to see
existing values. The name of the art critic
is Blufi:.
BIOLOGIST.
Ruby Lind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Stranger than silence the Spirit came,'
Touching your heart and touching your eyes.
It reached your soul like a warm, white flame,
And idle for ever your pencil lies.
The smile that you gave to a lady’s lips,
The light in her eyes where the home-love shines.
The sway of a skirt where a white shoe trips—
They are more to us now than an artist's lines.
Softer than silence the Spirit stole;
It touched your heart and it touched your eyes.
And, closer than breathing, it touched your soul
And showed you the mystery of the skies.
3UAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
The Inky Way
“Yak” : Talking about poets laureate. I
came across a review of Henry James Pye’s
life, in which it was recorded that “he wrote
an ode yearly to George ill, which was read
to the King on his birthday until he became
insane.”
Sydney Evening News :
The master put up a gallant fight for two hours,
although his gun was outranged, and onlv ceased
fire in order to get his boats away after he had been
either killed or wounded.
Good old British bulldog!
“Melb”: Although Newman College at
Melbourne University is so young, it has
done amazingly well in accumulating a
library of 12,000 books. The nucleus was
a priceless heap of theology (7000 vols.)
from W. L. Bowditch. Then Father
O’Reilly, of Castlemaine. tumbled in 2000.
The College bought Dr. Bevari’s valuable ac-
cumulation upon Australian subjects, and
just previously, there came to its possession
a large and unique collection made by Coun-
cillor Jack xueMahou, of Fitzroy.
“B.”: The reference (B. 10/4/T9) to
the out-of-the-way items that George Brick-
hill used to pack into the late lamented
Every Saturday recalls the speech of Will
Dyson at the Press Club’s send-off. Scribes
thronged the room and put heart into their
expressions of goodwill, as Dyson was (and
is) a good fellow. Responding, Will said
that he had taken the trouble to obtain
‘reliable data” from the statistical editor of
Every Saturday, and had arrived at the
conclusion therefrom that if all the energy
of all the pressmen in Melbourne could be
concentrated and harnessed it would be
capable of He paused and we held our
breaths and waited for something that would
make us blush. “It would be capable,” con-
tinued Dyson, “of driving a sewing-machine !”
“EtW .S.”: “Jim M.’s” discourse on art
and photography (B. 27/3/T9) makes me
wonder if he has evbr seen a good photo-
graph. I don’t mean the products of the
casual, snapshotter. or the representation of
the prize pumpkin in the weekly cow-journal,
but a photo, by a master hand executed with
pictorial intent. If he has not let him turn
up “Photograms of the Year” (any year
during the last 10) in the Public Library,
and he will see that yellow, red, blue and
green can all be rendered in their proper tone
values. If “Jim” wants further enlighten-
ment, tell him that. color sensitive-plates and
color screens are in common use for that
purpose by those who use photography as
an art medium. Furthermore, in a perfect
print from a perfect negative the range be-
tween black and white equals that of any
other representation of nature in mono-
chrome. The photographer’s main difficulty is
one of eliminating the superfluous, but how
that has been overcome by skilful manipula-
tion can be seen in the work of Stieglitz of
Aiherica. Demachy of France, Mortimer of
England, or Cazneaux of Australia, to men-
tion a few representative photographers with
international reputations.
Business, Robbery, etc,
“Jaymak”: When, the excellent quality of
the Broken Hill Co.’s steel becomes more
widely known, there wall be many tears shed
by the foreign-trade crowd in Australia.
Recently I saw a test for toughness made
in the factory of one of the best implement-
makers in Victoria. A piece of gin. steel,
taken at random from bars intended for the
manufacture of harrows, was fastened in a
vyce and twisted round 3} times. Although
the metal was quite, cold it showed no sign
of any flaw, and thus proved itself far
superior to most imported steel. Another
piece of metal liact been punched almost at
the end and then a mandrel put through it.
There w r as no sign of split or crack. P.S. —
You can show this to Bruce Smith if you
like. It might awaken him from his long
sleep.
* * * *
“Ragar”: The native fruitgrower on the
Fly River (Papua) has his own ideas on the
subject of doctoring trees that are not bear-
ing as well as lie thinks they should. He
laughs at the white man who manures the
earth around the patients. His method of
administering a pick-me-up is to dig a hole
about the size of his tw'o fists in the trunk
some three feet from the ground, fill it up
with raw fish—the riper the better, and it
doesn’t take long to ripen in this climate —
pack it tight, and cover up the mess with a
thick coating of clay.
“Sigzae” (France): The statement (B.
1/8/T8) that "butter exported to the
order of the British Government goes,
among other places, into Australian mili-
tary camps in England and France, and
is charged up against the Common-
wealth,” surprised many of the Diggers.
Since it was published I have ques-
tioned a large number of men—men from
practically every unit—and I've not dis-
covered one who remembers the taste of real
butter, except the tinned variety ■which came
in gift parcels from Home. It may be butter
when it is charged up against the Australian
Government, but it is margarine when it
reaches the Australian soldier.
* * * *
“Ragar" : The Chow storekeeper keepsthe
most obliging stock. I went into a store in
Thursday Island recently to get some ready-
made suits of white duck. After looking me
over carefully Ah Men produced a sample.
As the sleeves drooped four inches beyond
my finger-tips I said that it was much too
large for me; but Ah Men assured me:
“’E all li; ’e all li—’e slink plenty by-um-
bye.” I tried on a second coat, the only
other size lie had—and this was too small.
When I told Ah Men so he wasn't a bit
disturbed. “This one ’e sletch, ’e sletch; ’e
c-ome plenty good by-um-bye,” he confided to
me.
“Gleniris”: After enduring the chicanery
of nrivate selling-agents unto 70 times seven,
the Victorian hen-rancher has at last taken
his neighbor by the hand and formed a co-
operative poultry-farmers’ society, which is
optimistically trying to lift the wholesale
price of the new-laid article. That such a
society is badly needed by the egg-raiser is
shown by a, comparison of the wholesale and
retail rates. The present alleged wholesale
price for best fruit, sold at the various city
rooms and quoted in the daily papers, is Is.
6d. per doz. The retail rate, without any
guarantee from the grocer, is 2s. —and a
favor at that. The co-operators ought to
be able to do something with such a margin
to work on.
* * * *
The Murray Waters Commission will soon
have the plans finished for the Upper Murray
storage basin, a work which it is estimated
will cost about a million and a half. The
scheme in its entirety is a huge affair, and
provides for nine weirs and locks on the
river, from Blanelietown to Wentworth.
37 weirs and locks from Wentworth to
Eehuca, nine weirs and locks from the junc-
tion of the Murray and Murrumbidgee to
Hay (or, alternatively, locks and weirs up-
stream in the Darling from the junction of
the Darling with the Murray) and the Lake
Victoria storage. The original estimate was
£4.6"3.000, but it will probably run now into
£6,000.000.
* # * *
“Moana”: Henare makes a great shearer
and works like a fiend in pursuit of te
cash during the jumbuck-barbering season.
But he can't save. He loves to appear opu-
lent and be “te big man, py korry, just like
te pakeha.” So he squanders his hard-
earned money on motor-cars, fur coats and
expensive luxuries of that kind. Recently
in Hawkes Bay I saw' a shed with a board
of 30 barbers, all brown, each accompanied
by his missus as picker-up. Outside there
were 30 motor-cars, of various makes and
different degrees of rattle, in which Henare
and te better half made the rounds of the
stations.
THE SLAVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In our lofty cabin avoid the clouds
We gambled with faces keen
At ith the love of the red coin in our eyes,
While the sinking sun looked cunning and wise
And the distant sea glowed green.
In round upon round were the smooth cards sent;
On the street's grey ribbon below us went
Small ant-like folk and mean.
The night threw a wrap, bejewelled, dim,
Hound the shoulders of tired earth ;
Faint seen through the smoke of the cigarettes
The faces of pasteboard marionettes
Brought plenitude or dearth.
The hours trooped by on their padded feet
And the hush of the night was warm and sweet,
But our weary souls lacked mirth.
The sparrows chortled and roosters crowed
As the grey old day crept in
To masquerade as a babe new-born....
Then our boarding-house attic looked forlorn.
And we stopped with a foolish grin.
A shilling of Kennedy’s cash was mine,
And Owen was standing-in two-and-nine —•
Ah 1 the sweated wage of Sin!
VICTORIA.
OUTHBKRT COLLINS.


':'-V
m
m
1 i
>
■
I*'7;'‘ <
.-.; j
' 1
■at »
iilpiisw
Hpll
i&Um
'
mm
Hi
if
m
m
§
Wt U ""
■
j§sj?
:X
>.
*»»§il!iP«*II
.-!
'
m
■EEa&^^mr:-*
''; \?1
m
* / - '*• J ! '• ' >J
■* J ' />J Jrt:
/
I
/
/
«
*■****’* -
/
■
MM
v
i
■ni
sißfail
K
UK*
II
if®
r:
•;
.
afe
.
■
i
S..
1 V
S';
-
S :
I*
b
k
1
k
1
**
ML
11
I
Hi
V
ar
11
4:
:
■ I
V,
,
m
i
’CJ
4,-,.
.
'
»a
Ilf:
Wm§SsM- ■'■■■.;.
n
m
m
m
w.
-
1
~,y
!
1 i
V '
■
:
•"•Vi/'
•••••%;
_
niifilnrt'raa
m
“ DURABESTOS ” * —The Hydraulically-com pressed
ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEET
Hade in Australia.
The Host Economical Roofing for Covering Large Areas.
A Durabestos Roof Improves with Age.
Samples ant/ Prices on Application.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
gitilp
Manufacturers,
•SIHVTC 30VHI
aigynno shi
''WLt
vH
$
%
£
<*
&
>A
a
0
o v <?>
m
Head Office:
Baptist Street, Redfern, N. S. W.
Postal Address:
Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
56 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
243 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
113-9 Currie St.,
ADELAIDE.
Lord St.,
PERTH.
Amelia St.,
BRISBANE.
Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
71 St. John St.,
LAUNCESTON.
And at WELLINGTON, N.Z.


The Enemy in Sight.
High Prices for Skins, li that’s
what you want, consign Rabbit,
Fox and all other skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN ONLY, LTD.
Sydney OR Brisbane.
N
For the
Motor-
Cycle
NATIONAL
MOTOR OILS
assure a service of perfec-
tion and definite economy
under all conditions.
They are even-flowing, clean,
with high flash-point and
remarkable viscocity.
Obtainable All Garages
and Storekeepers
in 1-gallon Tins, 4-gallon
Tins and Barrels. Ask also
for National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
hoMEFROMhS ,
There’s no hotel in all Melbourne''
that can offer you better accom-
modation. Rooms are airy and
modern, and the menu and service
par excellence. Tariff by day, 10/6.
ULEEN’SARMSHOTJ
' Cl SWANSTON ST&FLINDERSL*".* M
MELBOURNE
CLiAUDE R. KERR, Proprietor.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Pneumonic Influenza
To guard against Influenza install a
“BRANDT’S” 8.8. Atomiser Steam Sprayer
Height, llin.
Made of Polished Copper.
PRICE: Complete, as illus-
trated, without Primus Stove,
£3/tO/-. Postage 3/- extra.
With Stove, £4/15/-
Postage 4/6 extra.
Will also fit on any Gas-boiling
Stand.
Demonstration Daily.
Inhaler Dept City 7424
Carbide Dept City 3209
BRANDT BROS. Ltd.
Manufacturers of Steam Sprayers, Atomisers,
Inhalers, Fumigating Lamps, etc.
S3t Pitt Bt.| Sydney; & 338 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
You Must Know Something
About Wireless! —
If you are an Engineer,
If you are an Electrician,
If you are a Telegraphist,
If you are a Seaman,
If you are an Aviator,
If you are a Lawyer.
If you are a Consultant,
If you are a Teacher,
If you are a Student,
If you want General Knowledge.
If you want to Travel,
If you want to be Up-to-date,
If you intend to be an Operator,
If you wish to Experiment,
If you are going to have a Station,
If you wish to join a Wireless Club.
Every Man, Woman or Child will derive benefit from a knowledge of the
■most wonderful, most mysterious, most useful, most humane invention of
all the ages.
Our simple and complete courses of instruction will interest you, help you
and qualify you, in your own home or in our School.
Write to-day explaining your position and your aims, and we will tell you
what course to take.
Marconi School of Wireless,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
And 422-424 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
c
‘mi
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE BELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
A. W. LEWIS., 62 Brookman Buildings.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressing.
The pre-eminent feature of Bostock’s Polish is its remarkable
LEATHER-PRESERVING QUALITY.
With the present high cost of Shoes it is important that a
dressing should have this essential.
BOSTOCK’S SHOE CREAMS not only impart a brilliant and lasting shine, but
add greater life to Shoes by nourishing the leather, keeping it soft and pliable,
and preventing cracks.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Bottles and Tubes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
THE, PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
HOTEL ESPLANADE,
PERTH'S PREMIER HOTEL.
Facing: the Swan River and Indiair, Ocean. An ideal situation.
Close to Post Office, Banks, etc. ALL MODERN CONVENIENCES.
M. A. BEAVOR, Proprietress.
SPANISH INFLUENZA.
All medical men recommend a searching antiseptic, and
NAZETHA
fulfils this requirement. Obtainable from' all chemists for 1/6, and no
one should fail to protect themselves at this time of epidemic.
NAZETHA
The Great Cold Cure in the Little Bottle.
A. P. Miller & Son, chemists, Hobart.
Bananaland wants a steel works and G.
W. Brophy was anpointed to cboose the site.
He has been on the job for over two months
and has travelled from one end of the State
to the other. He’s going to get his ore from
Biggenden, on the Burnett, within 60 miles
of a good port. The ore is excellent —self-
fluxing, high-grade magnetite. This Big-
genden body is, however, small, but next
door the Don Juan has only been prospected ;
whilst, two miles away, Mt. Hastings is said
to be the biggest body in the State. Brophy
estimates the cost of his plant at a million,
and reckons on putting it under Yankee
supervision. He himself hailed from Nova
Scotia some three years ago. He is going
to instal two 650-ton furnaces, which will
eclipse those of the B. H. Prop, at New-
castle.
The Vic. flour-millers’ combine, which
some people describe as a “soulless” con-
cern, met another of the same sort when one
of its members refused lately to supply flour
to the Civil Service bakery at Richmond.
The combine uses a fairly comprehensive
bludgeon. Individual bakers who wish to
remain in business have to agree to do, or
not to do, a number of things. No baker,
for instance, is allowed to undersell another
and thus “steal” his customers. If he does
this and is caught in the act, he won’t get
any more flour until he submits himself to
discipline. Some bakers charge one price
to Mrs. Smith and another to Mrs. Brown ;
but it is nine—ten— out for the dealer if the
men who run the. Big Show hear of the mat-
ter. They may impose a “fine” of any-
thing up to £100, payable in cash or by in-
stalments. The Civil Service co-operative
concern has systematically undersold other
bakers as much as possible, and was allegedly
blacklisted as a result, its representative
being told that stocks were not available.
The miller who did the refusing has been
fined £50, which will no doubt be paid by
the combine.
A committee of the N. S. Wales Labor
party has suddenly recommended :
(1) That after having turned dog all its Parlia-
mentary life, and especially during the many years
it was in office, on its principle re the abolition of
the undemocratic Upper House of nominees, the
party should suddenly wake up and foam at the
mouth.
(2) That the Governor, who has nothing to do
with election policies, should be informed that the
Labor party will fight the election on this issue, just
as it has done all along, only nothing came of the
issue.
(3) That if a Labor Government passes the
measure, as it should have done in 1911, and the
Council rejects it, the Governor shall be requested to
appoint sufficient new M’s.L.C. to carry the measure
next time —provided the Government doesn't forget
to have a next time.
(4) That if he refuses the nominations, there shall
be blanky insurrection—in other words, the Govern- '
ment will govern without the Council, and conse-
quently without the Governor and the Constitution.
(5) That if the Bill is passed here but vetoed in
London there shall be blanky insurrection on the
same lines.
A crowd that lets its policy sleep all these
years, and then says it is going to make a
first attempt to carry it, and threatens some-
thing that may mean civil war if the first
attempt doesn’t succeed right off, is either
hungering for war at any price or has lost
its block.
“Elizabeth Street” comes to town:—
Opposite me sat a tallish, thin female with a face
like a snap-trap and no vestige of humor in her hard,
little, steel-grey eye. Next her was a small kiddy of
perhaps three and a half; next, again, at some dis-
tance, a little pinched grey man like an ill-constructed
bundle, reading a book. The small man was deaf,
as I discovered when the conductor tried to extricate
a fare from him. Then the tax-gatherer arrived at
the tallish, thin female. “Fare, please!’’ The
woman dug her purse out of a bag and her fare out
of the purse. “That child is over three,” said the
conductor. “Indeed?” said the woman. “Yes,
indeed,” replied the conductor nettled at her tone.
“You’ll have to pay for her.” “I shall do nothing of
the sort.” “You’ll pay, or I'll have to put her off
the tram.” “You may do as you please.” The con-
ductor reached for the bell-pull and jagged it. The
tram stopped. “Now, madam, will you pay ?” “I
have told you already—I shall do nothing of the
kind.” “Very well, then, off she goes.” The con-
ductor lifted the child, which regarded him with
wonder but no alarm. He put the youngster off.
“Now, madam,” he said, “you can go off after it.”
“I have paid my fare ; I shall stay where I am.”
“Good enough!” And off he went. At the next
corner, the little old chap with the book suddenly
realised that he had reached his journey’s end and
started up. “Why, God bless my soul!” he said,
“where’s Annie? The little girl, my grandchild! She
was here a moment ago.” “Gor’struth ! I put her off
two blocks back,” said the conductor, “that lady
told me she was hers.” The tallish, thin female
turned on him coldly. “Excuse me,” she said, “I
told-you nothing of the kind. I am unmarried. I
never saw the child before in my life!”
In lSPl, at the close of the great immigra-
tion period, out of every 10,000 people in
Queensland 2429 were born in Great Brit-
ain, 1093 in Ireland and 802 were mixed,
Germans predominating, with many Scan-
dinavians, Russians and Poles. Another
5209 were born in Australasia of British
or Hun or any other parents. The rest
(467) were unaccounted for. In 1901, out
of every 10,000 people in Queensland 871
were Huns, Poles, Scandinavians, Russians,
etc., by birth; only 758 were Irish and 1784
British. They all decreased —except Huns
and sundries. Of course a multitude of the
Huns and sundries of 1891 were dead by
1901; so a vast immigration of the Hun-
and-sundry class had been going on to in-
crease the proportion of the foreign-born.
But while the proportion of foreign-born
increased, the Hun-born element decreased,
like the British- and Irish-born. The new
rush was largely of the Russo-Polish sort.
The people of Scottish birth, usually a
steadying element, were outnumbered by
these rather frothy creatures by more than
two to one. Since 1901 immigration has
been poor in all the States, but Queensland
has imported enough people of continental-
European birth to make good the deaths,
while the number of the locally-born with
Hun-and-sundry parents has gone on as
usual. Queensland has always contrived to
have nearly three times as large a propor-
tion of European aliens in its population
as the other States, which accounts for
many things, including the recent shindy at
Brisbane. *


M
:
e
55S
TKe -3AL9N°LA
is Kigk grade
Insfrument-
e»r\ Australian
Invent ior\
°f wkick Musical
Circles insist tKot
for lone Qualify
<s> Reproduction
of sr\y class of
Music • it
surpasses nil
imported
TaJlking
Mackines. •
Honors iSrAustralia
IMndoolPublic Le
eileiter, ficsirnie afvdiich prniied.lelcjw,
been reccaved.ff’oiti
, . “liirecior cdTfhe Comervdorium ofTlu v sic.—
I , corning irorn one who rank? pre-eminently'oneoTihe worlds
highest little farther iohe v soid o? ±o fond.
consiracfisre excellence of ihb £reatMusicd Wiramenf.
HENRI VERBRUGGHEN,
DIRECTOR,
Conservatorium of Music,
Sydney 24th March _ 191 9
Dear Sirs,
I delighted with the Salonola. I have already used
it on several occasions for the purpose of illustrating different
interpretations of the same piece by various artists. This is I
have found a most effective object lesson for the students.
The quality of the tone and the clearness of the
reproduction of the Salonola are the most important factors in its
usefulness to me and I must congratulate you on your being able to
produce such an Instrument in Australia.
Yours faithfully,
Messrs.Heiron & Smith Limited,
Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY
HE 3AIONOLA carL !be secured on payment deposit zQ/fc-weekly-
Public are cordially invited to attend Demonstrat ions
at the CompanyV
Heiron'Smitlih
214'
(Hettjeeii ‘Jhrk. &J3tathurs'tS > t?)
Opexx till Spin. r ~hddLsLX/&.
f/he Sstfonofa. conta.in.s
tfie cfeepest, purest,
joy of fife . .tfe
joy of
ffflzisic.
dfie Safono/a wit ft its
zjorfdwide reputation
is an, dlu strafe a
invention,, made in,
ustm/ia.


1
ms*
r
(yflusciie
“Unalloyed” Dyes
The dyes used in Hose
of Luxite are “unalloyed”—not
loaded with heavy metallic com*
pounds to give the hose a glossy,
heavy appearance.
The soft, full-bodied shimmer of
Hose of Luxite is gained by the
use of rich,, fine-stitched materials,
pure-dyed.
That is why its elegance and
beauty last through repeated wash
ings.
The wide range of styles and
prices will suit every purse and
purpose.
Don’t accept substitutes, and
think you have “Luxite.”
Insist upon the genuine.
If your dealer is unable to
supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.,
York Street : : Sydney.
EM DOi
GRIP
VjHE SELF VULCANUffIG/
WILL REPAIR
""ANV SIZE
GLOV.'OUT or torn place
OE7AINABLE AT ALL GARAGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
c %wmo
*r¥'
&
SECURITY
Is assured to the Wise and Cautious,
who ! habitually see that all their
personal and household Linen is
MARKED WITH
Securi s your Property against loss.
Any J Tame Woven on Fine Cambric, in
fast < -olor. Easily sewn on.
Ess'entia.l for School Outfits.
12 'doz. 7/6; 6 doz. 5/- ; 3 doz, 3/6.
Ob tamable from all Best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J- & J. CashPty.,Ltd.,
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melbourne.
Write for Style Book.
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncl ts, Boils. Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
The P roprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
passed merits. They know it to be a s afe
and jperfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments; and the va c t number of testimonials
receilved prove it to be. Grassh :pper Oint-
ment pa sitivelydraws the po: ons which pro-
duct} these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the .Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
anr? should b° taken in conjunction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Cliemists throughout the Commonwealth.
in'imi/nMiiiniimiiiHiiimimiimmnmiiiiiiiL,
MADE FROM LEMONS ORLY-#/!
a BROOKE’S,, W
T &mofr
Best Lemon Squask
Real Belting Economy
You invest your money in
coal to get power —power,
the basis of production. If
power leaks out in transmis-
sion, it never becomes pro-
duction.
DICK’S
Balata Belting*
(ORIGINAL and GENUINE)
guarantees least power leakage. Its flexibility is
greater than that of any other belting—leather or
composition. Its tensile strength is unparalleled,
and it is so prehensile that slipping on the pulley
is impossible if reasonable care is exercised.
In plants where steam and moisture, acids and
alkalis soon ruin ordinary belting, Dick’s Balata'
Belting has proven its longer fife and its lower
cost
Dick’s Balata Belting is used by the jST.S.W.
Government and all Government Construction De-
partments. It will be to your advantage to get
further particulars this economical belting.
Write for Booklet to-day to the Agents—
JAMES HARDIE & CO. LTD., “Asbestos House,” corner Wynyard and
York Streets, Sydney. (’Phone 8456—four lines). 581-3 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne. 30 Currie Street, Adelaide. Newcastle Agents:
PAUL & GRAY LTD. Brisbane Agents: QUEENSLAND MACHINERY
CO., Albert Street.
1
m
An
I
m
P 3
1
i
“I HAVE GOT THE JOB!”
“I’M STARTING ON MONDAY AS MANAGER OF MY DEPARTMENT. THOSE
I.C.S. STUDY PROGRESS CERTIFICATES ARE WINNERS WHEN PROMOTION
IS OFFERING. THE BOSS BELIEVES THAT SPARE-TIME STUDY INDICATES
CHARACTER, AMBITION AND EFFICIENCY.”
Spare-time Study with the I.C.S. is winning promotion for thousands of men and
bringing happiness to thousands of homes ail over the world.
There is a Job ahead of You
The boss can’t take chances. He will choose a trained man with sound practical
knowledge.
THE I.C.S. OFFER EXPERT ADVICE.
PEAX YOUR FUTURE.
'lnternational Correspondence Schools
(The World’s Schoolhouse)
LONDON, SCRANTON, PARIS, NEW YORK.
183 Pitt St., Sydney ; 79 S wanston St., Melbourne.
What Position Co You Want?
Information supplied without obligation
to enquirers and a Free Booklet posted*
.Advertisement Writer
. Agriculturist
. Architect
.Artificer
.Accountant (prelim.)
.Boilermaker
. Book-keeper
.Bridge Engineer
. Builder
• Chauffeur
. Chemist
. Carpenter
• Carriage Builder
• Civil Engineer
• Clerk of Works
• Coke-oven Manager
• Concrete Engineer
.Die-maker
. Draughtsman
.Dynamo Attendant
.Electrical Engineer
.Electrician
.Engine Driver
■ Fireman
■ Furniture-maker
■ Gas-power Engineer
■ General Education
■ Illustrator
■ Livestock Breeder
■ Mathematician
• Marine Engineer
.Mechanical Engineer
• Metallurgist
.Metal Prospector
. .Mine Electrician
. .Mine Foreman
. .Mine Manager
. .Mine Surveyor
. .Motor-body Builder
. .Motor Engineer
.. Motor Mechanic
. .Moulder
. .Municipal Engineer
. .Navigator
.. Patternmaker
. .Plumber
. .Poultry Farmer
. .Publicity Manager
. .Quantity Surveyor
. .Railway Ergineer
. .Refrigeration Engineer
.. Salesman
..Secretary
. .Sheet-metal Worker
.. Shonhand-Tvpist
.. Show-card Writer
. .Sign Painter
.. Smelter
. .Steam Engineer
. .Structural Engineer
..Surveyor
. .Telegraph Engineer
.. Telephone Engineer
.. Templater
.. Toolmaker
.. Window Dresser
.. Wireless Expert
.. Woollen Worker
. .Works Engineer
Foreign Languages—French, Italian, Spanish, German, hv Phonograph.
KINDLY PRINT NAME CLEARLY.
Name
Address
Everyone in the Speck is becoming so
interested in paint that the Island will soon
be daubed all over. Ten or a dozen fac-
tories, with innumerable pigment fields at
their back, have been opened up with vary-
ing success during the past 12 months. The
latest is the patenting of a new method of
producing white lead. Galena is taken
directly as mined, fed mechanically to the
furnace, instantly vitalised, and then com-
bined with atmospheric oxygen, which is
forced in at the top of the furnace at the
rate of 1000 cubic feet per minute.
After much mental perturbation, it seems
likely that the Vic. Cabinet will give a
private co. the right to exploit the waters of
the Kiewa River for the production of electric
energy. Experts are inquiring whether an
adequate supply can be obtained from the
source, and should their report be favorable
the co. will probably be given the 50 years’
concession it asks for. Leading advocates
of the brown-coal scheme, whose opposition
to the Kiewa proposal arose from the desire
to see the ivlorwell field opened up, have, it
is alleged, been convinced that there is room
for both.
Decreased gold production is not confined
to Australia. In his Annual Bullion Let-
ter, Samuel Montagu estimates that, judging
from the periodical returns already pub-
lished, the world’s production of gold for
3918 will prove to be about £81,000,009.
The reduction in output calculated on the
basis of the 1915 total was 2 p.e. in 1910,
9 p.c. in 1917, and probably about 16 p.c.
in 1918. The world’s output of the metal
for 1916 was £90,835,300, and for 1917
£84,718,000, compared with £91,988,200 for
1913. The Allied Powers produce over 90
p.c. of the tptal.
The lads from the Duntroon Military Col-
lege have a magnificent military record.
During the four years’ fighting 181 staff
cadets (nearly all lads in their teens) have
gone direct to the Front from the college.
Of this number 38 have been killed and 40
wounded, some seriously; 36 of those re-
maining on the active list have been pro-
moted from second-lieutenant to major, and
61 are captains in command of companies.
The distinctions awarded to graduates in-
clude D. 5.0., 21; Distinguished Flying
Cross, 1; Bar to M.C., 1; M.C., 27; Croix
de Guerre, 2; Servian Order of the White
Eagle, 1; Italian Medal for Valor, 1; men-
tioned in despatches, 44. One Duntroon lad
was mentioned five times, three others thrice,
and 14 twice.
A scheme whereby the waters of the
Snowy, the Clarence and the Murrumbidgee
( Burrinjuck dam) will be utilised for wash-
ing, drinking and power-supply in a number
of N. S. Wales towns is to be put in motion
shortly. It was hung up during the war
for lack of sufficient loan money, which got
down below £5,990,000 last year (peace
expenditure; War Loans were separate).
When a little community, not equal to one
first-class European city, is only lashing out
the borrowed money at the rate of about a
hundred millions every 20 years, it naturally
feels cramped.
“Sparks”: “Murkah” is wrong somewhere.
In The Bulletin (10/4/T9) he states that
the wireless station at Nauen (Germany)
is readable in Australia only under favor-
able conditions. Just outside Fremantle,
night after night, I have read Nauen. The
signals were invariably good and the beauti-
ful “gong-like” note that “Murkah” speaks
of enabled me to read them through any
atmospherics. The apparatus for receiving
was the usual ship installation with
the necessary coils added. On the same
apparatus I have read Californian sta-
tions fi’om the N. S. Wales coast; and
I have heard Perth station plainly just
a day or so from Colombo. What is
Sydney Radio using for a detector?
Is it a piece of blue-metal or a coherer
(1894 type)? Speaking of Marconi spark
systems, the set at Cocos Island (the same
one that called for help when the Emden
was doing her bit) has the most unearthly
note I’ve ever heard. It’s like a knife on a
grindstone. Incidentally, the transmitting
note of Sydney Radioes so bad that on the
N. S. Wales coast it is often quite un-
readable —this while the operator is send-
ing at full power. If “screening” has any-
thing to do with the receiving power of
Sydney the best remedy is to pull the station
down and erect it somewhere else. The old
theory of the best site of a radio station
being the highest point has long ago been
blown out.
“Stargazer”: The. first-night audience of
miners that patronised Barrow’s Avonians
at Native Youth, we’ll call it, in Tasmania,
was tlie_ most exacting that ever harrowed an
Australian dramatic co. The crowd sat out
“Hamlet.” in a state of conscious rectitude,
till the burial of Ophelia was on, and then
when the priest had got so far as
Yet here she is allowed her virgin rites,
Her maiden stmvments, and the bringing home
Of bell and burial,
a man arose in the body of the hall and said
very deliberately: “Don’t you believe it,
blokes. It’s a fake. They’ve framed it up
on us!” The players came to a dead finish.
The audience waited in wonderment. “She
ain’t there!” continued the accuser-general.
“I, just seen her in Harrow’s bar-parlor,
drinkin’ a glass of stout. And if you don't
believe me—l paid for the stout!” Half the
audience was now on its feet, protesting,
demanding its rights. In vain the justly-
celebrated English tragedian (born in Col-
lingwood) who was playing Hamlet endeav-
ored to explain that it was customary to
utilise an effigy of Ophelia in the burial
scene. This audience wouldn’t stand such
pitiful pretence. An emissary had to be
despatched to run Ophelia to earth, so to
speak. The lady was found, and proceedings
resumed. But. alas! the daughter of Polo-
nius had been havin'’- more than one glass of
stout, and when the loud audience insisted
on her sitting up in her bier to demonstrate
that there was no further deception, she re-
volted and broke free, and had to be brought
back and buried with violence; and for the
rest of the scene the eloquence of the poet
and the art of the players were wasted by
reason of the poignant howling of Ophelia
m her grave, which unfortunately was not
provided with a back way out.


COPYRIGHT.
THE BIG STUNT!
"Sim-Raysed”
£2500 Cash
No Catch.
£2500 IN CASH PRIZES
To firmly establish the
Dried Fruits Industry, on
which Repatriation under
irrigation so greatly de-
pends, thus opening up a
Big Opportunity for plac-
ing Returned Soldiers on
Fruit-growing Lands in a
congenial “outdoor” occu-
pation under conditions
of prosperity.
7 //
//
/ '
w
>
CVVI
»7/#//# /
,Vv''
W
>
\"v\N
;sss;
V N V' v
'\' v \»
s&Wy? /'■'■''////rISW \V,\V
.*‘P ,
V>'
<*•«
WSJ
Su iy rays ed'
Qjrraftfs.'
■ Mi .j'
Survraysed
I6 a m na %
•’oSarvraysed
:‘v. Lex i as
Concentrated • S UN Light
Raisins raised by the
Rays of the Southern Sun.
"Stm-Raysed”
£2500 Cash
To get “SUN-RAYSED”
Fruits into every
Australian Home.
FIRST —You Buy —Then
You Count - Then You
Enter —Then You Eat.
Then (if you care to)
You Buy More! You Count
Once More! You Send a
Second Entry!
Then you get the “SUN=
RAYSED” habit—and Buy
—and Count —and Enter—
and Eat—as often as you
like.
A.D.F.A. (Australian pried Fruits Association).
With the opportunity of winning some of the £.2500 Cash Prizes
£2500 IN CASH. HERE THEY ARE. NO CATCH.
First Prize £lOOO —Cash
Second Prize £2so—Cash
Third Prize ... £lOO —Cash
Fourth Prize
Six Hundred Prizes, each 0f...
One Thousand Prizes, each 0f...
£5O - Cash
£l—Cash
10/=—Cash
1 guarantee that the whole of this £2500 will be distributed in CASH to Prize=winners by 30th August, 1919.
The Simplest Publicity Plan Ever Invented.
HERE IS THE QUESTION —
How many berries are contained in a 41b. parcel (net weight) of
“SUN-RAYSED” fruits lodged at the Bank of Victoria, Limited,
Mildura, carefully wrapped and sealed after having been most accurately
weighed before Three Justices of the Peace, the parcel containing: —
(a) lib. (net weight) of average quality “SUN-RAYSED” Currants,
(b) 21b. (net weight) of average quality “SUN-RAYSED” Sultanas,
(c) lib. (net weight) of average quality “SUN-RAYSED” Lexias?
Answer that Correctly, and the Cash is YOURS!
The answer must be submitted in the manner shown below, but not
necessarily on this actual form. Any number of entries may be printed,
typed, or written, and sent in, provided an entry fee (see below) accom-
panies each entry.
I estimate the number of berries to be:—
lib. “SUN-RAYSED” Currants
21b. “SUN-RAYSED” Sultanas
lib, “SUN-RAYSED” Lexias
Total
WRITE VERY CLEARLY.
NAME (Mr., Mrs., or Miss )
FULL ADDRESS
STATE
DATE
The prizes will be won by those competitors whose TOTAL most nearly
approaches the actual number of the berries in that package at the Bank of Victoria,
Limited, Mildura.
Where two or more competitors agree as to TOTAL, the adjudicators shall
take into account the accuracy of those competitors’ estimates for EACH OF THE
THREE varieties of fruits.
If it be then impossible to separate two or more competitors, the number of
Prizes so affected (in the order and merit of the efforts of the competitors con-
cerned) shall be grouped and divided equally between or amongst them.
The Contest Closes on 30th JULY, 1919,
or earlier if Supples of Fruit should be exhausted before then.
ENVELOPES WITH POST-MARKS SHOWING THEY WERE POSTED
AFTER 30tii JULY WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED IN THE COMPETITION.
Prize-winners’ Names will be advertised and Cash Distributed by
30th August, 1919.
REMEMBER. —No one knows how many berries are in that parcel at the
Bank of Victoria —not even the Director of Publicity himself. That
parcel will be unsealed, opened, and the berries counted and checked
in the presence of Three Justices of the Peace on the 11th August,
1919. These gentlemen will vouch for the correct count, which
will be published above their signatures in the advertisement
announcing prize-winners.
DO THIS. —Competitors are allowed (aftd urged) to count the contents
of the packages they buy for their entry-fee, but must remember
that the number of berries in lib. of “SUN-RAYSED” fruits vary,
owing to the many differences in the sizes of the berries.
NOT A GAMBLE.—You get Fruits and Full Food Value for your
entry-fee, besides the opportunity of winning Big Cash Prizes.
The Entry-fee is Cheapness Itself.
HERE IT IS—
Buy 41b. of A.D.F.A. “SUN-RAYSED” Fruits from your Grocer. That
will not cost you more than 3/4 —probably less in Cities and Suburbs.
If in lib. cardboard cartons will cost l|d. per lb. more.
ATTACH TO EACH ENTRY FORM the Grocer’s genuine docket at Retail
Rates for 41b. of “SUN-RAYSED” Fruits.
The Docket MUST specify “SUN-RAYSED” —otherwise the entry will be
DISQUALIFIED.
Therefore, ask for and get—“SUN-RAYSED” Fruits.
If Grocer be out of stock, he can quickly get more by wiring to his merchant.
I have advised all Merchants and Grocers to have b : g stocks.
If your Grocer has not got “SUN-RAYSED” Fruits, and will not get
them, post us 3/4 (plus postage on parcel. 1/6 Victorian or 2/8 inter-State).
Each 41b. NET parcel incurs postage on 51b.
We will then send fruit in four lib. cartons packed in a cardboard box with
- general literature.
IT SAVES YOU MONEY TO BUY FROM YOUR GROCER.
ADDRESS ALL ENTRIES (NO LONG LETTERS, PLEASE) TO
C. J. DeGARIS, Director of Publicity,
A.D.F.A., Mildura, Vic.,
whose decision in the whole matter of the contest shall be final and
absolute.
Telegraphic Address—“DeGARIS—PUBLICITY —MILDURA.”
Our New 24-page Recipe Book (illustrated and colored) forwarded to any
address on receipt of 4d. in stamps. (We pay postage.) Contains SO Tested
Recipes for using “SUN-RAYSED” Fruits.
The “SUN-RAYSED” Children’s Book (64 pages, colored and illustrated), con-
taining 14 Fairy Stories and over 80 Rhymes, Limericks, etc., posted anywhere
on receipt of 2/-
Get the Habit —“SUN-RAYSED. ”


HEALS
ITCHING
Of the skin on chest and shoulders.
Suffered for a month and appeared to
be getting worse. Dry and scaly and
itching so intense scratched and made
skin bleed. Decided to try Cuticura
Soap and Ointment and after using
them one week the itching'was entirely
stopped. Continued using Cuticura
and am healed.
From signed statement of James
Kirby, 75 Baptist St., Redfern, Sydney,
November 7, 1917.
Keep your skin clearby using Cuti-
cura for every-day toilet purposes.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
Brandt’s Instantaneous
Bath Water Heater
To Keep Out
the Influenza.
Put a little Disin-
fectant into the
water ; it will
guard you against
an attack ol the
“ ’FLU.”
“Chips”
Bath.
Heater
(as illus-
trated),
PRICE
55/-
We manufacture all kinds of Fumigating
La-mps, Steam Sprayers, Inhalers, etc.
Sales Dept City 7424.
Carbide Dept City 3209.
Brandt Bros. Ltd.
Lamp Manufacturers,
236 Pitt Street, Sydney; and
338 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
. 1 4jfoTtnirctt\
3s
IS
EIEY
CARTRIDGES
1
Always Reliable
m
w
1
■
ELEY Grand Prlx’
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless <3> Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
ELEY
‘450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
m
1 3
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS. L?LONDON
%
S
-Z-
-■J3s
o
/P=N
5)
A
Os'
m
*
j
Jc3
f
"1
mmmmm
mmnmmK
JSjBWWiMXTfI
It Works
Wonders on the
Car, Too
Not only is John-
son's Prepared Wax
a boon to the house-
wife-protecting her
furniture, piano,
gramophone and
woodwork with a
beautiful and enduring dustproof polish—
but it works wonders on the motor car, too.
produces a hard, dry, glasslike polish of great beauty
and durability on any finished surface. It forms
a thin protecting coat over the varnish, adding years
to its life and beauty. It covers up mars and
scratches —prevents checking—sheds water and
makes a wash last twice as long.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax contains no oil —does not
become sticky in warm or damp weather and im-
parts a surface so hard and dry that dust cannot
adhere to it.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is but one of the John-
son Products which includes Johnson’s Cleaner for
use on motor cars that are greasy, mud freckled
and stained; Johnson’s Carbon Remover for carbon
clogged engines and Johnson’s Radiator Cement for
leaky radiators.
They are obtainable at all good dealers.
S. C. Johnson & Son
Manufacturers
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
All
Chemists,
SEASICK
GUARANTEED OR MONEY REFUNDED.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO. Ltd.,
CORNER CI.AREN'CE AND MARKET STREETS. SYDNEY.
C 10
TROOPS
TRAVELLING OVER-SEAS SHOULD
AVOID DISCOMFORT FROM
SEA SICKNESS.
Mothersill’s Seasick Remedy
is invaluable. It positively
Prevents and Cures Sea. Air,
and Train Sickness.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
There is going to be a fierce fight for the
Atlantic passenger trade. Uncle Sam is out
after it. lie is already planning to fly the
Stars and Stripes on five passenger levia-
thans of the Lusitania type that are esti-
mated to cost the trifling sum of 14 millions
sterling. But he isn’t fool enough to part
with the money. He is going to have the
ships and the money too by building the arks
at his own yards during the next two years'.
From the national point of view it hardly
matters in those circumstances whether the
ships cost four millions or fourteen.
The exciting and temporary Bolshevik
Government at Budapest (Hungary) began
by fixing the wages of laborers in Govern-
ment employ at 255. per day. In its begin-
nings the similar concern at Petrograd paid
scavengers £GOO a year. It worked splen-
didly till the stores of food and clothes on
hand ran out and prices went up because no
one was toiling hard enough to replenish
them, and till the purchasing power of the
£6OO went down through a new lot of paper
being printed every day to pay wages with,
so that £lOO notes became as common as
bugs and in much the same repute.
Maoriland is pained to discover that a
million carcases of local meat which the
British Government bought during the war
still await shipment, while poor American
meat is selling at poisonous prices in Eng-
land. Maoriland can’t understand it, and
says that surely there isn’t graft in high
places in England. Maoriland can throw
its scruples about thinking so overboard, and
settle down to the firm conviction that there
were more big thieves in London and there-
abouts the war than ever previously.
Graft —why, some public offices, especially
in the newly-created “Ministries,” simply
stank!
“McNorth” : Pearl-shelling in Torres Strait
calls for vessels with more than an ordinary
turn of speed. In those reef-strewn waters
the usual practice is for the diver to stumble
along the sea-floor as best he can while the
lugger containing the air-pump drifts down
the tide above him. When a reef or sand-
bank interrupts the passage-way of the diver
he is hauled on board and the vessel is set
on. the beat back against the current to the
point of commencement. As the tides run
between the, reefs like rivers, a slow-footed
craft would eat up so much time working
back that there would be little left for diving.
Thursday Island lugger-designers soon real-
ised this, and the . result is a fleet of vessels
with very fast sailing qualities. They are
built sharply sheered from stem to stern,
deep-draughted and clean-lined. Some of
them can lie within five points of the wind
without “shaking”—which is as close as the
average racing boat can get. Most of the
luggers are built at Thursday Island—by
Japs nowadays.
McNorth”: Cooktown (N.Q.) ow r ns more
pubs per capita than any other town in Aus-
tralia. Fifty years ago, or thereabouts, the
place boomed and cash was plentiful. It was
the business centre of the enormously rich
Palmer goldfield, and in those davs had 30
grog pagodas, nearly all strung along one
side of the street that straggles up from
the mouth of the river where Captain Cook
beached the Endeavor for repairs. But now
the Palmer Is cut out and almost deserted,
and Cooktown is dead and decomposing. It
has gone the way of most mining towns that
had no agriculture to fall back upon when
the ’weight gave out. The population has
dwindled to a decimal and only three or four
of the stores remain. Nevertheless 17 of the
hotels still exist. Only Allah knows how
they manage to keep going, but the licensees
look out of their empty bars with hopeful
eyes and speak cheerfully of the days to come
'Wien, by deep-sinking in the Prince United
or by installing pumping machinery in the
1 aery Queen, the glory of the Palmer will be
revived and Cooktown will come into its own
again.
English Printer’s Register talks sav-
agely about the waste of paper in high
places when the scarcity of it was greatest.
A jam-making firm wrote that, having sold
the War Office a few pounds’ worth of plum-
stones the kernels were used in testing gas-
masks—it was required to fill in, with each
consignment, 17 different forms, pink, yel-
low, white, red and blue. The higher the
rn? Ce T*r »(' ea ter seemed the recklessness,
lhe War Aims Committee calmly ordered a
book on Parliament’s Vote of Thanks to the
lorces, five million copies. The Stationery
Office protested furiously that there was
not sufficient paper in existence.” The
Ury gl w d tl,e expense was too
So M ar Aims retired, changed the
title to The Nation’s Thanks to the Fight-
ing r orces, ’ and ordered one million. Sta-
tionery took the responsibility of printing
only naif, and now declares that only 60 000
were used, 440,000 wasted. About the same
time came the “Prime Minister’s Message
o all at Home. A million were ordered
S a c4peT. nM: ™' m *a™ wS
INSPIRED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Till morning wrought the poet frail
To make his song that must convey
The fervor of the nightingale,
The wonder of the lark, the gay,
Strong note that greets the Austral day
When Margots all their soul exhale.
And, as he wrote, upon the tiles
A vagrant tabby cursed the moon;
Another on the fence at whiles
Put up a patient, plaintive croon;
Two more a duet sang that soon
Raised Cain along the garden aisles.
The critics, when the verse was read,
Bent rev’ront knees, and strove to tell
Its fine perfection. “Here are shed
The golden notes of Philomel,
Here lark’s asolian wonders swell,
As ne’er before in ink,” they said.
Of what the bard writes now, “Ah, that,”
They say to him, “is not so well!”
The bard embittered mutters “Seat!”
To talk of the inspiring swell
Of skylark or of Philomel.
He knows, but does not dare to tell:
“Not theirs the fault—it was the cat!”
VICTORIA.
E. DYSON.


There’s health
in the open:
take your KODAK
Keep well away from infection. Take
up a hobby that invites you into the
open air and combines good health
with an interesting and useful occupation.
Get a Kodak to-day- —you will become
an enthusiast within a week.
There are Kodaks from 40/- to £l5/2/-
The No. la Autographic Kodak Junior is a splendid
camera for amateurs makes pictures 2\ x 4J inches.
Price 67/6.
Make your prints on
“Eutona” Self-toning Collodion Paper.
Prints in sunlight, and you can watch the progress of the printing.
Requires fixing only the gold is in the paper. It gives a fine
range of rich tones has a matt surface— simple in use
requires no dark-room.
Of all Kodak dealers and
p-' • ■
mm
m
:
m
■■
%. fm.
BN HHHH
KODAK
(Australasia)
LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St.,
Hobart; Ruthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rock-
hampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; 109-111 Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z.
(Wholesale); “The Kodak Corner,” corner Xambton Quay and Willis St., Welling-
ton, N.Z. (Retail); 3 Borne St., Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale); 76 Stuart St., Dunedin,
N.Z. (Wholesale); 148 Eichfield St., Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
Nights at home—brightened by
“His Master's Voice
r_
YL
m
w.
)
s
W
f / Y
%
/
n
Look for the Dog Trade-mark on instruments and records. It is the symbol of
supremacy.
During these times when travel and public entertainment
are restricted because of the epidemic, “His Master’s
Voice” comes more than ever into prominence as the ideal
entertainer.
Safe in your own home, snug by the cheerful fireside,
you may sit and listen to the wonder-music of the masters
—the world’s greatest celebrities, the world’s most famous
humorists!
Caruso, or Biman, for instance, may enthral you, while
shortly after Bauder the irresistible may set you laughing
heartily. So on, without limitation.
His Master’s Voice” records - played on an “His Master’s
Voice instrument- —bring you the world’s best reproduc-
tion of master-voices and masterpieces.
Record lists, instrument catalogue
and name of nearest accredited dealer
on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street -SYDNEY
“ GRAMOPHONE”
Regd. Trade-mark.
Mis Master's Voice
“Hit Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.


)
■M
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond-
and Pearl-set Necklet,
15ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A Saunders’ pure Diamond Cluster Bar Brooch,
Isct. Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders' pure double-cut Diamond Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £7O.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Watch
Wristlet, full-jewelled lever movement, compensation balance,
£B/ 10/-
Extra jewelled, £lO. 15ct., £l5.
m
QCs?
Saunders’ Gent.’
pure double-cut
Diamond Bins,
l&’t. Gold, £l5
A. Saund ers’ pure
doubl e-cut
Diamond' Ring,
18ct. Gold I, £lO.
A. Saunders’
Emerald and
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
ISct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
ISct. Gold, £ts.
A. Saunders* pure doul lie-cut Diamond Brooch,
15ct. Gold, Ho.
A. Saunders’ pure d.buble-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
Larger Diamond, £5, £7/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
Diamond- and
Vearl-set Scarf
l’jn, 16ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Crossover
Riii!?, 18ct. Gold,
£45.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Rinsr,
18ct, Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
pure double-
cut Diamond
Necklet, 15ct.
Gold.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£3O.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Ring.
18ct. Gold, £2O.
A Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Expanding Bracelet,
15ct. Gold, £55.
\ Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold pure double-cut Diamond-set
Expanding Wristlet W atch, * lied lever movement,
compensation balance, £25.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold pure double-cut
Diamond-set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled
lever movement, £2O. Guaranteed.
Without Diamonds, £4, £4/10/-, £5, £6,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO to £2O.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Cluster
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l5.
A.
Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Knife-edge
Bar Brooch, 15et. Gold, £l5.
A.
Saunders’ pure
Bar Brooch, ]
Larger Diamond,
double-cut Diamond Knife-edge
-srt. Gold, £2/10/-
£3/10/-, £5, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
pure double-
cut Diamond
Necklet,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Set. Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement:, compensation
balance, £lO. 15ct., £l5.
A. Saunders’
pure Diamond
Scarf Pin, 15ct.
Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £5O.
mi
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Half-hoop
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15et. Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15dt. Gold, £5.
Miliars' Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles* Beams, Sleepers,
Paving 1 Hocks, Bu i 1 d er s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, JtONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PEIRTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
SAVOY HOTEL,
Hay Street, Perth, West Australia.
PERTH’S LEADING HOTEL.
Recommended to Visitors from Eastern States*
Tariff: £4/4/- per week, 12/6 per day.
J. M. QUIGLEY, Manager.
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
S/S t 4 h\ d t ffiFW JSSSfVfSS
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
the married, or those in-
tending TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
\ PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No Such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
triven to the world.
nR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
Ql7 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6 Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
n»SrF 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
nosted Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
7oia’s" including Nana. 2/- each posted.
FmiCATING THE HORSE, 1/3. VENTRILOQUISM
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 nosted. How to Strengthen the
Memory 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle op the Uni*
vekse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained. 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet's Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted,- 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. Goto and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets. Jams and Syrups. l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide. 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions. 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille. 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ikg, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man Ills Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society. 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wanxan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide. 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets op Beauty. Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON'T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/t>.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted Tocology
10/6 posted. IngeßSOLL’s WORKS, 1/3, 2/-. llow
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Phpvasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and mscuiT BAKmis and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook 1/3 posted.
Hu'Vrs of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
»vn its Cure. 1/2 posted. AVebstek’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (AA h>
leatne guineas’). Bootmaking and Repair-
P. a , y 8 , ? d Dynamos and Electric Motors. 2/3.
’ ~-,T r:\ivi-RSAL Assistant and Complete
MfchaniC, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
'sfcrfts of Clairvoyance, 1 posted.
T/Ivuv Tawson’s Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
? nt qox bv Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
Aob of u Af S Fvil 2/9 One Day, 1/3 posted. The
the Monk of Evil S/9, w Pl>EE ’ CI / ES from the
Dock RD 2/-. Life’s Shop Window 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/.
AA'RITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
THE BIG BOOK STORE,
:
67 § 69 Market Street, Sydney miv.
me-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH,~m


For Sale.
SECOND-HAND
FARM MACHINERY
For Sale.
One Four-wheeled “BIG-FOUR” Oil
Tractor, powered with 60 brake-horsepower 4-
cylinder Oil Engine, complete, and in first-class
condition.
One “HOLT” Caterpillar Oil Tractor,
powered with 60 h.p. 4-cvlinder Oil Engine. Prac-
tically new.
One 20 brake-horsepower “BLACK-
STONE” Kerosene Engine, complete, in
good order.
Inspection can be arranged.
For full particulars and prices, apply
ELDER. SMTTH & CO., LIMITED,
Adelaide, Melboui e or Sydney.
Amusement*.
*|"IVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 26.
HUGH D. MoINTOSH PRESENTS
THE FASCINATING MUSICAL PLAY,
MY LADY FRAYLE.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
URIC MAJESTY'S THEATRE, Mlil.llOt It NIC.
* 1 Direction .1. <J. WILLIAMSON 1/11).
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
AVIATION MUSICAL PLAY.
GOING UP.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Til 15 ATIt 15 It OY A JL, MKl.lSOli It.NK.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON f.TI).
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Everybody’s
Favorite,
MURIEL STARR, in
THREE FACES EAST,
Preceded by
THE MONKEY’S PAW.
KING’S THEATRE. MELItO U R N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT Present the Brilliant American
Success,
THE EYES OF YOUTH.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
PLAYHOUSE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
DENIS KEHOE’S IRISH PLAYERS IN
MOTHER MACHREE.
Maurice Wehlens’ Comedy Drama in 3 Acts, with songs.
4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-, plus tax. Box Plan at Glen’s.
JY|A .IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THIS WEEK’S GREAT FEATURE.
NORMA TALMADGE,
In the New Select Picture.
HER ONLY WAY.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
BRYANT WASHBURN in
. TILL I COME BACK TO YOU.
STUART BLACKTON in
THE WORLD FOR SALE.
Prices as usual.
gT VERY REEL A REAL ATTRACTION.
METRO FILMS.
SHOWING THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
THEATRE,
MELUOUBNE.
M
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, 6ell§ Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney,
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvideatSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus to be Distributed for
1918 will exceed
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income
£1,000,000
£1,700,000
£39,000,000
£5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
II W APPERLY, General Manager.
Notices.
tN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND
-L MATRIMONIAL .JURISDICTION. No. 11l of 1919.
MR. JUSTICE REAL
Between MAURICE VINCENT LAWLER Plaintiff
and ANNIE ItANTOLE LAWLER Defendant
TO THE DEFENDANT ANNIE RANTOLE LAWLER
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the twenty-
first dav of March 1919 commenced against you and
that the plaintiff by his writ of Summons claims a
dissolution of his marriage with you And by his
petition filed in this Honorable Court on the twenty-
first day of March 1919 the plaintiff alleges that on
the twentv-fourth day of March 1918 and on other
dates unknown to the plaintiff you committed adul-
tery with a person unknown to him and prays to
have the custody of his child GORDON VINCENT
LAWLER and take notice that the Court as by
orders dated the twenty-fourth day of March _ 1919
and the ninth day of April 1919 authorised service of
the said writ and petition on you by fixing on the
notice board in the Registry of this Honorable Court
at Brisbane an office copy of the writ of summons
issued herein and the office copy of the petition
filed herein and the insertion of this notice twice in
the Sydney Bulletin once in the Brisbane Courier
and once ‘in the Brisbane Telegraph within forty-
two days from the date of the said order and by
leaving with Mrs. Isabel MacDonald, McNab Street
Rosalie near Brisbane a copy of the petition enclosed
in an envelope addressed to you and showing on the
outside that it is a copy of a petition for divorce and
by giving notice of such last mentioned service by
letter addressed to you care of Miss Castles Wickham
Terrace Brisbane and take notice that you are
required within twenty-one days from the perform-
ance of the last act required by the aforesaid order
to cause an appearance to 6e entered for you at the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Queensland at
Brisbane and that in default of your so doing the
plaintiiff may proceed in this action and that judg-
ment may be given against you in your absence.
Dated the eleventh day of April 1919.
(1.5.) CHAS. S. NORRIS, Registrar.
W. J. MCGRATH Solicitor for Plaintiff,
272 Queen Street, Brisbane.
GAPILLARINE
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established oier SO years.
<r
£
s
isoo2
3
CP
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
ty&ice
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Overseas buying Agency
MANAGER Marry R Mart
(Late" Daily MaiPOverseas Buying Agencyl
64, HAYMARKET,
LONDON
NOTE ADDRESS
Will buy anything for you, save time
and money, and make no charge for
its service and 20 years’ expert know-
ledge of London markets.
Personal, Home or Business Pur-
chases —no order is too small. Quota-
tions and Catalogues (when obtainable)
furnished free. Write for free Booklet.
The 0.8. A. (W. H. GORE & CO.), 64, Haymirket, London, S.W. Cables ‘ ‘ Osbuyacy, London.”
for SPEED
STRENGTH
SAFETY
Equip with
Spencer-Moulton
Three-Ribbed
THEIR grip on loose or
saturated roads reassures
you at the first real test; their
cushion-like resiliency is always
a delight; while on sharp surfaces
their well-known toughness gives
the very highest degree of safety.
The more difficult the conditions
of climate or country, the greater
your appreciation of Spencer-
Moulton Reliability.
Send for Catalogue.
SPENCER-MOULTON ALL -BRITISH
SOLID RUBBER TYRES ARE WINNING
THE SAME UNIVERSAL APPROVAL.
:
*
%
TYRES
RIBBED
THREE
STOCKISTS : Cape Town, Johannesburg,
Melbourne, Sydney, Christchurch, Welling-
ton, Cabo, Colombo, Madras. Singapore,
Klang, Kuala-Lumpur, Medan, Saigon.
P.C. B.— 166
GEO. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.
77-79, Cannon Street, London, E.C. 4.
Works : Kingston Mills, Bradford-on-Avon, Wilts.
The Great House
for Watches.
Our output of Watches runs into
thousands annually.
After selling watches for 80 years
we think —indeed we know from cus-
tomers’ letters —that our reputation
for GOOD WATCHES is unique.
We stock only the highest grades
of watches, but our prices will be
found the lowest. Every watch is
passed by our expert before it is
allowed into our stock. Every watch
is guaranteed for 15 years.
Our super “Fx and R” Watch, in
its many forms and sizes and cases,
has no equal for absolute reliability,
profound accuracy and wonderful
strength; and yet they are inexpen-
sive watches.
Gent.’s Silver Super “Fx and R” Wrist Watch, with
Luminous Dial and Hands, on Pigskin Strap, £5/5/*
Nickel £4/4/-
Fairfax § Roberts, Ltd.,
Plain Figures. Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
ABBEY
SHOES
will give you the greatest satis-
faction in COMFORT, LONO
SERVICE and SMART APPEAR-
ANCE.
You are assured perfection of fit,
because our shoes are made in half
and full sizes, and in three fittings
—narrow, medium and wide.
We illustrate a Special Golf
Shoe in Choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 42/-
Light Soles, 40/-
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
No Experience
Needed.
Nothing looks worse than an unshaven face.
It gives a young man a “gawky” appearance.
Don't let vourself fall into that class. The
EVER-READY modern razor is simple to use,
cheap and really good. No experience needed.
Merely slip in an EVER-READY blade,
lather, and the EVER-READY will shave as
We EVER a READY ber: COKBINATION OUTFIT
NO 2, comprising Ever-Ready Safety Erame
and Handle, with 12 “Radio” blades,
together with the Ever-Ready automatic
stropping machine and leather strop, very
compact and in neat case.
Price 15/6 post free.
No risk of gashing the most sensitive skin,
Order one.
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High-class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 15/- per day inclusive.
Sf= per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.


WHY NOT CONSULT
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE), WHO ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management,
Write or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
&
l
I pOORD*, SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney Jl
DT
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED. ZTS&ffigZSrSrSm.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
iYONEY H. CARY. Chairman . G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
The New Flat-set Hats
Peapes' Distinctive Styles
The favored styles in Felt Hats have flat brims.
The hat illustrated is one of the newest styles, and
may be worn with centre-crease as shown, or dented
at the sides. It is a light hat of smooth-fini*hed
felt with tapered crown, turned edge, and flat brim
2jin. wide.
Colors: Fawn and Nut Brown .... 13/6.
Peapes’ pay postage. Please state size and color
required.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men's Outfitters,
309 and 311 George Street,
SYDNEY.
-/u
V
SUNDRY SHOWS.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
ller Majesty's , “Going Up”
-Royal ... “The Monkey’s Paw” & “Three Faces East”
King’s “The Eyes of Youth”
Playhouse ; “Mother Machree”
Tivoli "Sly Lady Frayle”
Hoyt's Db Luxe k Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Mkitannu Moving Pictures
Paramount Sfetro Filins
“Faust” was an unfair test for the all-
AustraJian east that tackled the opera at
Melbourne Princess’s last week. Gounod’s
score calls for surprising vocal virtuosity
and dramatic ability; so the locals’ modest
failure was excusable on the grounds of
natural nervousness and inexperience. Pro-
bably if they had been commanded by a
more magnetic conductor, the result would
have been more encouraging. This was
particularly the case in the Garden scene,
where Slapoffski’s tempo was more suitable
for a Policemen’s Chorus or a concerto dedi-
cated to a Melbourne tram. The ladies in-
evitably showed the greater talent, Ger-
trude Johnson supplying another reproduc-
tion of Marguerite which was only disturb-
ing in the last breathless ascent towards her
top-note. Martha became lively with the
concentrated vivacity of Vera Bedford,
whose flirtatious responsiveness seemed
rather overwhelming to the extempore devil
of Fred Collier. The latter’s large bass
voice was ample enough for the haughtiest
diabolonian insult, but the strain of three
and a half hours’ omnipotence was too much
for his singularly undemonstrative nature.
Like many other heavy basses, Collier has
been strictly rationed in the matter of per-
sonality. A similar shortage in tempera-
ment and physical power was revealed by
young Browning Mummery in the part of
Faust. Mummery has the sweet, silvery
tootle of a choir-boy, but his voice would
only woo a Marguerite who was a confirmed
chicken-fancier in amorous adventure.
Frankly speaking, Browning would have
been more lifelike as Siebel, whom Thelma
Garter decorated with a nice w T arm voice
and two bonnie brown legs. Bartleman, as
Valentine, seemed the most sophisticated
performer on the masculine side, but his
job was too small to exercise all the enthu-
siasm he has for this work. He would be a
bigger man with a bigger opportunity.
* * * *
Saturday’s presentation of “Maritana”
was hampered by the formality of the lead-
ing singers. Excepting Elsy Treweek, whose
flashing brunette beauty enormously en-
hanced the feminine side of Maritana, none
of the others could even be stung by the
music into demonstrating a dramatic in-
terest in their parts. The young Don
Cesar (W. L. Sanders), who fruitily
declared his ambition to Fall Like a Soldier,
metaphorically tumbled like a bolster on a
feather-bed. Life was almost extinct in
Don Josf\ apparently sung by Fred Collier,
though the programme declared he was
appearing as the King, and there w T as little
else but voice in the unidentifiable monarch
and the fjueer little Marquis de Montefiore.
But Elsy Treweek compensated for her col-
leagues’ stodginess. Remains only to men-
tion Thelma Carter as an attractive Laza-
rillo. She uses her head and her heart to
the benefit of the veracity of each character
she plays. The Rigo season concludes to-
morrow, but before the final night Fritz
Hart’s one-act opera, “Pierrette,” will be
given a run.
* * *
Though “Going Up” at Melbourne
Majesty’s is the joint production of two
German-sounding gentlemen named Hirsch
and Hauerbach, its “atmosphere” and story
were plainly invented in New York. Also
much of its music is a reminder of previous
Yankee noises. Still two or three of the
songs have an agreeable strain of melody—
especially “If You Look Into Her Eyes” at
the end of the second act —and there is a
swaggering aviation item, “Going Up,”
which a w'ell-arranged chorus turns into an
effective curtain. The yarn, based on James
Montgomery’s comedy, “The Aviator,” fur-
nishes a bogus airman, Street, with an in-
credible nocturnal flight for a stake involv-
ing dollars and the likeliest marriageable
female. The greatest excitement occurs
towards the terminus, but even here the
business of following Street’s journey with
tumult and telegrams is one of those forced
conspiracies of clamor where everybody is
fortissimo until the breath gives out.
* * * *
The point about the show, however, is not
the levity, but the legs. Savants of femi-
nine comeliness are again allowed to enjoy
the lolly-like extremities of the eight young
women who have won the superlatives of
many adoring critics. The eight dance very
nicely in the second act and score as a
piquant hotel staff in the first. A more re-
freshing subject for approval is the dainty
and unaffected talent of Grade Lavers
revealed in the background part of a hotel
telephone-girl. The new arrival, Ethel
Erskine, who appears as the prize in the
aviation contest, has more voice than the
average imported genius, but she has a
rather missish personality. Cecil Bradley
is ample for the role of Madeline Manners.
With the connivance of the demon. M. Bong
Pong, she threatens to save herself up for
Connie Ediss parts. Alfred Frith is the
unbelievable aviator hero who is alleged to
set all the girls’ hearts jumping madly. He
acts almost entirely with his face, and
seems unjustifiably proud of a talent for
combining a gazeka and a gargoyle in a
single grimace. William Greene, as the
French birdman Gaillard, is vastly im-
proved by wearing a little moustache.
George Willoughby, who sings a little song
mostly in, the interior of his being, gets
rather stertorous in his efforts to resusci-
tate the George he used to know. Maude
Beatty appears as his stage missus, and
Harry Wooton, Hopkinson Smith and Fred
Maguire also have some connection with
the plot, while Field Fisher attempts a
difficult compromise between Falstaff and
Baby Bliss. The grotesque limbs of Jack
Hooker, Tom Preston and the nimble lieita
Nugent are requisitioned as an overture to
the gaiety which develops in the last act.
* * * *
“Three Faces East,’’ at Melbourne Royal,
is a short, jumpy story of German-English
espionage which develops an energy for lurid
denouements in the usual atmosphere of
ostentatious secrecy. The first scene shows
the heroine. Fraulein Jlelene, being com-
manded by her German boss to take a U-boat
to England and work with a mysterious
myrmidon named Boelcke for the oblitera-
tion of the British Cabinet. Leaning heavily
on the long arm of coincidence, Helene joins
the household of a Cabinet Minister, where
an alleged Belgian butler named Valdar has
a prominent place. This butler is the cus-
tomary double-crosser who is really toiling
nobly for the Vaterland. In a funny final
scene, where he gets a bomb ready to mas-
sacre the Cabinet, he gives up the ghost of
his identity as Yaldar and reveals himself
to the lady as the formidable Boelcke.
Helene, of course, is actually the prize spy
“EYES OF YOUTH:' AT MELBOURNE
KING’S.
The detective (John de Lacey) talks kindly
to the outcast wife (Emelie Polini).
of J. Bull, and her pals are all lying handy
to swoop on Boelcke. The circumstances
leading up to the capture had been clearly
improvised by Dead wood Dick; and the
manner in which British and German agents
tumble over one another, exchanging mes-
sages and conferring in the likeliest public
places, suggests that the two forces were re-
cruited from a blind asylum. The most
impressive of them is Boelcke, whose seeth-
ing schemes are indicated on a dark and
tortured countenance by James B. Athol-
wood. James has an affluent Semitic pro-
file, recalling Mark Hambourg, and his un-
governable talent for espionage is reflected
in his tread and his tireless, writhing hands.
Muriel Starr, who wears some pretty frocks
as Helene, has nothing to do but chop up
her speeches into a sort of Morse-code when
histrionic excitement overcomes her discre-
tion. Frank Harvey as head of the Eng-
lish service seems to feel overcrowded by his
load of nonchalant omnipotence. Edwin
Lester as his assistant is more circumstan-
tial, but even he appears wearied by the
effort to maintain his plausibility. Arthur
Styan manages to swell to the dimensions of
a Cabinet Minister, and Ethel Morrison con-
traltos the dutiful sentiments of his tall and
roomy spouse. Sidney Stirling is not seri-
ously ineommoded by the job of giving life
to an English Johnny oflicah, but the part
is only an intermittent intrusion for the
purpose of providing mild comic relief.
Among the others, all sparingly fed with
dialogue, no one is more diverting than lan
Maclaren as a melodramatic maestro of the
Hun spy system who asks Gott to strafe
England.
* « # #
“The Monkey’s Paw,” the one-acter pre-
ceding the main business of the even-
ing, is a much more artistic proposi-
tion. though the story has a founda-
tion of incredible Hindu magic. The
development is highly dramatic, and the
climaxes are first-class. Atholwood, Styan,
Harvey and Norma Mitchell do the little
piece with an unstagey naturalness which is
particularly satisfying. Atholwood’s idea
of old man White is a charming little
vignette of exceeding value.
** * *
Stella Power sang to a fair audience at
the Melbourne Auditorium last week. Her
voice showed all the old staying qualities
and syrupy cadences in David’s “Charmant
Oiseau,” the “Casta Diva” air from
“Norma” and some other melodious items;
but she needs to exchange a bit of tempera-
ment for some of her cool self-satisfaction to
achieve highest rank among interpretative
warblers. Harold Elvins helped with the
accompaniments, and on his own account
disclosed the jewellery in Debussy’s “Arab-
esque” and “Sarabande” until the two
pieces shone like a Jewish birthday party.
Amadio’s flute and Gladys MacDowell’s
voice also contributed to the proceedings,
whilst pale young Norman Bradshaw gave
the “Ah, non credevi tu” from “Mignon”
and some other numbers with a tumultuous
ardor that made the feminine majority bang
their hands in responsive rapture.
** * *
Allen Doone has a formidable rival in
Denis Ivehoe. who opened in “Mother
Machree” at Melbourne Playhouse on Satur-
day night. Denis does the Doone business
quite as well as Allen, and exercises a voice
which surpasses the Amurkan’s in imparting
honey to a rapturous Irish air. His sing
of “Mother Acushla” will make the pathriot
see shamrocks. Kehoe is one of the unas-
suming human elements in an unsophisticated
tale of eviction and swindling, enlivened by
the behavior of a shameless poacher, and
intensified in a third-act climax by the sud-
den apparition of two long-lost characters.
Rutland Beckett, as Shamus O’Connor, and
Leslie Corder, as his dad, have to remain
gracefully dead for the better part of the
drama; but there ds enough interest to keep
the mind from straying to the absentees.
John Cosgrove, the landlord’s agent who
evicts poor ould Mother and her childher with
the maximum of outrage, is a conspicuous
figure. It is good to see his schemes brought
to naught by the nice young Earl (Peter
Melling), who eventually reveals a ripe fancy
for chaste Irish beauty by marrying Moira
O’Connor (Adele Inman). Mother Machree.
effectively acted by Mrs. Ward Lyons, is
the emotional centre from which all the
affection and good feeling radiate. Mother’s
kindliness is conducive to peace, and her
voice is an opiate for the pain of broken
hearts. Frank Cullenane, as a priest, and
Barney Egan and C. R. Stanford, as two
farm servants, are other likeable features,
but they hardly count beside Ma Machree,
who brings the ready mist to the sintimental
eye.
** * *
Emelie Polini is still looking longingly into
the glass unabated interest in “The
Eyes of Youth” at Melbourne King’s.
Jfc :Jc sjc sj:
“The Better ’Ole” has to take up its
trench and walk from Melbourne Tivoli to-
morrow night. On Saturday Vera Pearce
and others are due in “My Lady Frayle.”
*
The quiet artifice, of Bryant Washburn is
a noticeable factor in “Till I Come Back to
You” at Hoyt’s Melbourne house this week.
The story has a Belgian setting, and is
alleged to have been founded on an incident
in the career of the Belgian King. J. Stuart
Blackton is the big name on the other
six-reeler, “The World for Sale.” and he
considers _ the globe well sold for five
minutes in the society of a gipsy girl.
Charles Bryant puts the same value on the
love of woman in “The Toys of Fate,” the
current Metro fiction at the Paramount.
Here the heroine—another gipsy, by the way
is played by Alla Nazimova, ■who is very
worth while. Nazimova, well known as an
Ibsen interpreter, has all the wealth of fine
gesture that distinguishes the front-ranker in
the movie business. The Melba has bor-
rowed Charlie Chaplin for a few days in one
of his latest farces, “The Immigrant.” The
week’s sensation at the Britannia is “Carmen
of the Klondyke,” whose rich, ruby affection
is as good as a foot-warmer during any cold
spell.
** * *
Adelaide, comparatively healthy and
hungry for amusement after the summer
fast, was a good place for shows to be in at
Easter, and the “Goody Two Shoes” panto-
mime started at. the Royal to big book-
ing. At the Majestic, Eve Kelland proves
to have learned a lot since she went to
London, the Courtneys are the same old
triends, the monkeys of Felix have a quaint
turn, and there is some good athletic relief
—altogether, a strong bill. “The Female
Swindler ’ is at the Tivoli. Agnes Keogh
is It, Laurence Dunbar is the polished
villain, Roy Redgrave a detective with a
heart as big as Ins feet, and Tom Cannam
has a clever overdrawn Hebrew study. The
King's has reopened to admit the Ballarat
Band, over to play at Oakbank races and
elsewhere. In pictures, West’s shows Mil-
dred Harris, who is billed as the wife of C.
Chaplin rather than as her own competent
self. The Pav. takes a safe ticket on an
O. Henry story ; but the brightest picture in
sight is the old Drury Lane drama, “Sport-
ing Life,” at Wondergraph, with overflow
meetings at night in the Town Hall.
Lieut.-Colonel Merrett, whose bobby is the
Vic. Agricultural Society, of which he is
head, is being prodded on by wool, wheat and
stock men to have a try for the South-
Eastern Province seat that Mcßryde is relin-
quishing in June. Barkis appears to be
willin’.
A war-scarred crew turned up at Fre-
mantle the other day on the British cargo-
boat Kamenetz Podolsk. Every man of the
crew of 60 hands has served on a ship that
was either sunk or severely damaged by a
submarine. Captain Glanfield, however,
Avas out of the excitement. This is his first
big trip since he was released from Rulileben,
where he spent nearly four years.
That imported thread on bobbins which
women sew with—the kind that Coats, the
profiteer of Paisley, ran up from lid. to 9d.
per reel, whereby he was able to die worth
£4,600,000 —cost Australia £652,000 last
year. In 1918 it got a much larger quan-
tity for £390,000, and the difference helped
to pay for Coats’s title, which he acquired
in 1916. Australia pays for a lot of queer
things—including titles for people like Coats.
Adelaide Uni. has filled the Chair of
Physiology, vacant through the death of
Prof. Stirling—its first and only occupant—
by inviting Brailsford Robertson to come
back from Toronto. Robertson was edu-
cated in Adelaide, and is Stirling’s son-in-
law. Since going to Canada he has earned
a big reputation in research work, and the
great Loeb, with whom he worked in Cali-
fornia, promises that he will be one of the
first men of his generation. He is only 35.
From a ’flu hospital :
The comments of “H.S.” (B. 17/4/T9) on the
backwardness of the would-be female Hun-killers in
turning their hand to ’flu-killing in Sydney get a
hearty “Hooray!” from the nurses at this hospital.
Perhaps our ugly goggles and shrouds are too fatal
a disguise to tempt the V.A.D. who sports a red
cross for the help it gives in the great game of
husband-catching. I know that out of a whole
battalion of them only two volunteered for work
here. One came with enough baggage to last a
world-tour, but tossed ip the thermometer next day
because she had to. wash a male patient. There is
none of war’s glory about this business, nor any of
its compensation for the nurses either. Five of the
girls here, working 16 hours a day during the first
Aveeks of the outbreak, until their power of disease-
resistance was reduced to the minimum, are now
down with the ’flu in the next room. And a gener-
ous Government stopped their pay the moment they
went to bed! Isn’t there a Workmen’s Compensa-
tion Act that can be brought into force here? An
ambulance man went out in my ward last week
from disease contracted while bringing in patients.
If he had died on active service his widow would
have received a pension. As it is, she has no
guarantee of getting a penny. I suppose they call
this inactive service.
“F.C.”: One defect of importing foreign
experts is that they never remember to for-
get the conditions of the country they came
from. The men who had built the Dro-
mana at Williamstown (Vic.) tvere first in-
vited to the launching and to tea after-
wards, but were subsequently notified that,
though they might have a free feed, they
weren’t to witness the chief function. That
was to be restricted to the superior “holders
of blue-and-pink tickets,” mostly politicians
who had done all the talk but none of the
work. We are due for a lot of readjust-
ments, and in one of them we shall cut out
our glorification of the jaw. It’s coming to
be a question whether every person wfith a
loose tongue, instead of being honored with
a front seat, shouldn’t be arrested on suspi-
cion of being a public danger.
“Emergency Nurse”: There are times
when we have to be narks. A delirious
female ’flu-patient in the ward had been
calling on God for six hours to give her a
glass of beer or a shandy. At last a fat
old girl in the opposite bed beckoned the
Sister over. “I’m going to get a bottle of
brandy in my next parcel, Sister, and I’ll
give the poor thing a drink of that.” The
fat old girl is now making rude remarks
about unsympathetic relatives who will not
grant a sick woman’s request for a bottle of
brandy. We’ve already taken four bottles
out of her parcels before they reached her.
You see, she couldn’t drink shem all by her-
self, and the lady w r ho wanted the beer has
gone.


Be Fair to Yourself!
A MURDOCH OVERCOAT WILL
ENSURE HEALTH AND COMFORT.
You owe it to yourself to steer clear of colds
and chills. Defend yourself with a good,
warm overcoat.
You can’t afford to take risks during the
winter. Secure a Murdoch Overcoat and
keep snug and cosy when the atmosphere is
chilly.
We offer you smart, well-made garments
that can’t be equalled for value and good
service.
Here are two splendid lines that merit your
attention :
Men’s Tweed Overcoats.
Made from heavy, dark-grey tweeds, full-
lined, single-breasted, fly front, vent at
back, wide collar, gauntlet cuffs. All sizes.
Price 55/-
Men’s Chesterfield
Overcoats.
Made from Australian all-wool blankety
tweeds, dark shades, wide collar, patch
pockets, fly fronts, with or without belt
at back. All sizes.
Price 7Ob
We can fit every man. Call and try on your size
to-day, or send height and chest measurements over
coat to Desk R.
In order to protect our patrons and assistants from
germ, infection, we have installed an inhaler on
evejjy floor. We invite our customers to take
advantage.
If unable to come to town make use of our
telephone. City 0630. Three lines.
Murdoch’s
B.K
Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.”
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
BRITISH-MADE
12-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/- each
N.Z. from 3/6
- Records
troiri
5/eacK
N.Z. from 5/6.
A Few Selections from Columbia
Supplement No. 40—Now on Sale.
12-INCH SINGLE-SIDED, 7/0 EACH.
71S3—“The Enchantress” Madame Clara Butt. With orchestra
“Come Into the Garden. Maud” Ben Davies, tenor
10-INCH SINGLE-SIDED, 5/- EACH.
X3S6— ' “Ye Banks and Braes o’ Bonnie I>oon” Madame Clara Butt, contralto
X23s—Rigroletto: “Pari siamo” (In Italian) Iticcardo Stracciari, baritone
12-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED, 6/- EACH.
1.1235
f Unless Hubert Eisdell, tenor (Violin obi. by Albert Sammons)
l If I Built a World For You Hubert Eisdell, tenor
L 1230
Capriccio Italien, Part 1 (Tseliaikowsky) Sir Henry .r. Wood’s Orchestra
Caprlccio Italien, Part ’i (Tsehaikowsky) Sir Henry Wood’s Orchestra
issn
5 The “Spring Sonata” in Major (Beethoven). Part I. “Allegro.”
( Part 2. “Adagio molto ex press! vo”
Albert Sammons (violin) anil William Mimlocli (piano)
10-INCH DOl HIVIi-SIDED, 4/3 EACH.
1)1808
f Asphodel Hubert Eisdell, tenor
1 My Ivove is Hike a Red, Red Rose Hubert Eisdell, tenor
12-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED, 5/- EACH.
708
) Hello, My Dearie, Onestep Prince’s Band
( My Hawaiian Sunshine. Foxtrot Prince’s Band
697
Suite: Equisses Caueasiennes (Caucasian Sketches). Band of H.M. Grenadier Guards
■ No. 3. “Dans la Mosquie” (In the Mosque).
No. 4. “Cortege du Serdare” (Procession of the Sirdar).
10-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED, 3/- EACH.
2850
J Oh, It’s a Lovely War
I Coo-ee
Ella Shields, comedienne
Ella Shields, comedienne
2805.
/■American War Songs. In Two Parts .. Tito Stellar Quartette (witb Orchestra)
Introducing:—Part 1. “Bugle Call.” “Tramp, Tramp, Tramp,” “Girl I Left
Behind Me,” “When the Cruel War is Over.” “Tattoo” (Bugle Call),
< “Tenting on the Old Camp Ground,” “Taps” (Bugle Call). Part 2.
“Reveille” (Bugle Call). “Red. White and Blue.” “Yankee Doodle” (Fife
and Drum). “Battle Cry of Freedom,” “Hail Columbia,” “When Johnny
l Comes Marching Home.”
2860
f For >le and My Gal Jacobs Trocaderians
1 Over there Jacobs Trocaderians
2847
f Life in a Trench in Belgium, in Two Parts Descriptive
| Lieut. Gitz Rice, Ist Canadians, and Henry Burr
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR “COLUMBIA" RECORDS—
SVD.\EV. N.S.W\—Grafonola, Ltd,, Dakins- House, Itawson Place.
MELBOURNE. VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo VUertheim Pty.,
Btd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE. Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd,, Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
; :iv - : • •ki -y %
“—W
r
*ni-!anjiH h<i
■JiJi
*£•<l ku^M
* **t.#
x'fitv
m
iS i
mm.i
>.? * f
■HISSES! ISSK:;JsS»™«s!s>|2 sammim
o><mssh»2*
W&0
■&
' %;iV !:
*tfWW
m.
A
'<^UH»f § ' i
lift Si»
HI
V
sj?|
3
mm
WX:\
X
&£&s&s&
*/ ‘( M^P
«Rl VW- ft ■siafelagg&w*
t: WSW '
• m. • *
r •V’ v;? >
Ml
H .! ..;:L;.
ftl :*&IH
P
»3£3
H
i ;m
e ?’
" *# I
! ft 3r Cm
.■ftftft ipM!
v'ja/ ; Mv.v >•*“ v'/, -..• *• *
. >:■-■ «^K?rv«4KiMMNI
Group of Cast Steel Bogie Centres for A 2 Express Engines, Victorian Government Railways.
Steel
Castings
for
Locomotives
and
Rolling Stock
for
Tramways
and Railways
including Cast Steel
WHEEL CENTRES to
Standard Specifications
Weight 36 cwt. each
average tests of the steel\.
contained in these castings/*
—37 tons per sq. inch tensile ; 18 per cent, elongation in 2 inches.
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES WITH FULL PARTICULARS TO THE MANUFACTURERS:—
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AN» CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY STREET, BRISBANE.


GIVE. HYGIENIC ARTISTIC FLOORS
IN THE HOME. WAREHOUSE and OFFICE.
r-
S>
eta
3>o
cr!E
asi>
tr'a
go
mm
DISTINGUISHED for BEAUTY of FINISH
EASE OP APPLICATION AND ENDURING WEAR.
»
DB
SUPER
-FINE
If not obtainable at local hardware store
write to
TAUBMANS Limited,
Varnish Malters,
232 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
492 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
J“S teggZ
SSSWE
823 S
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
Lung
Troubles.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Consumption.
For any weakness of throat or chest, or any tendency
to tuberculosis ; for a troublesome cough, bronchitis, or
any chest affection, the standard, approved treatment is a
course of Angier’s Emulsion. This remedy combines sooth-
ing and healing properties with exceptional tonic and
strengthening qualities. It heals and strengthens the lungs,
promotes appetite, greatly improves digestion, and exerts a
pronounced tonic, invigorating influence upon the genera
health. No other Emulsion is so strongly recommended an
so largely prescribed by the medical profession, and noother
Emulsion can show so many testimonials to its efficacy.
Send name and address, 46. postage, and
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence
mention this
St., Sydney, N.S.W.
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
[?]
POVERTY
POINT
For the operatic venture at Melbourne
Princess’s Frank liigo found the notes, but
most of the gold was provided by Stanley
Timms, son of the railway contractor. He’s
a man of musical culture, who served in the
war with a Manchester regiment.
From the President Y.B.P.A.: —
John Hugo, the last of the Hugo Buffalo Min-
strels, was buried on March 31 in Coburg (Melb.)
Cemetery. Strange to relate, none of his old ad-
mirers or professional friends thought it worth while
making the journey. Thirty years ago he was the
one, but now For the last 25 years he had been
working for one firm in the bill-posting line. Syd
Morgan (secretary) and John A. Cochrane (presi-
dent) were amongst the pall-bearers. John Hugo was
one of the trustees and a founder of the Vie. Bill
Posters’ Association, and he never failed to march in
the procession every Eight-Hours’ Day. This year
the banner was surmounted in purple and black in
honor of a dead comrade, who was a staunch unionist
and a loyal friend.
“0.K.” : With its fifth act sawn off “The
Doctor’s Dilemma” would be delightfully
humorous, in its heartless Bernard Shaw
way. The satire on the false pretentious-
ness of medical science and fashionable prac-
titioners has a lot of simple truth in it. The
satire on the audacious hypocrisy of Artistic
Temperament is bitingly sincere alike in
Shaw’s portrait of Louis Dubedat, the gifted
rotter, and in his sketch of the emotional
young woman who glorifies his talent whilst
excusing his criminal selfishness. But all
the lesson of the play is told in four acts,
and the fifth is only a superfluous dualogue
which leaves a nasty taste in one’s mouth.
Up to then the widow of Dubedat has seemed
womanly and sweet in her championship of
a picturesque husband No. 1, but when she
announces that she is infatuated with the
memory of her deceased scamp, and has in-
duced a new and wealthy husband to cele-
brate her birthday by buying up all the
drawings of his deified predecessor, you
wonder what sort of a heart she is supposed
to have and what kind of a capitalist she
has captured. The last scene is a mistake.
It takes all the superficial charm from
Jennifer and puts silly words into her
mouth. For instance, speaking of her dear,
dead Louis, she says: “He was one of the
men who know what women know —that
self-sacrifice is vain and cowardly.” What
woman on God’s earth ever accepted that as
an axiom!
“T. D. Emdee” : Dan Barry was probably
the only touring manager of his day who
could get “tick” in any country town. I
remember Jimmy Morgan, one of the best-
known advance agents in the Commonwealth,
blowing off about a bucolic editor refusing
him credit. Jimmy was representing the
old “firm” (W., G. and M.), and went almost
mad when he was told that “only Dan Barry
can get strap here.” Dan’s good name was
due to simple precautions. He not only paid
every copper he owed before he left a town,
but also went to each hotel where the mem-
bers of the co. stayed and saw that their bills
were met. If the mummers didn’t hold the
cash, Dan paid and stopped the amount next
treasury. »
“Old Pot”: Australia has had her boy
actors, too (B. 10/4/’l9). If John Williams
in Esmonde’s play, “The Law Divine,” is
any more boyish than the late Hans Phillips
or Dot Boucicault, he must be a Master
Betty. Phillips played Cis Farringdon, the
precocious youngster, in the first Sydney
production of “The Magistrate” about 1885.
So long as he wore an Eton jacket he looked
a kid of 14, but when he donned a swallow-
tail coat to take step-pa out for a good time
he was a full-grown man. Hans got as
"much glory out of the piece as George W.
Anson (Mr. Posket). Dot Boucicault was
the original Melbourne Cis, while Robert
Brough was the errant magistrate. George
Bryant was in the first Sydney staging of
Pinero’s farce. He made a hit as Sergeant
Lugg. a dialect policeman.
“Sanson”: Evidently “The Parson” (B.
10/4/’l9) has overlooked the use of doubles
in picture-faking. In that circus film of Enid
Bennett's the lions were ladylike enough,
but Enid wasn’t the Daniel. No screen-
beauty would keep her back turned to the
camera as that trainer did. The only actual
photographs of the Australian girl with the
animals were a couple of flashes showing a
lion fixed on a pedestal at each side of her.
For the rest she was on the safe side of the
cage, but a few close-up views of Enid crack-
ing a whip strengthened the illusion that she
wasn’t.
The unfortunate mummer and the more
unfortunate mununeress are suffering a great
deal of hardship owing to influenza forcing
Sydney theatres to close. In many cases con-
tracts are specially drawn to relieve man-
agers from the payment of wages in such cir-
cumstances, just as “acts of Providence” ,
allow shipping cos. to avoid their responsibili ■
ties. Where there are no contracts —well, it’s
a case of get out and take your chance. Last
time the theatres were shut up by the plague
one management paid its show-girls something
to tide them over, but the amount was docked
from their pay when the houses were re-
opened. Which is right enough—if the pay
was a little better. Anyhow, the actor and
the actorine reckon that they are not getting a
fair deal, and a strong union is being formed
—not a “fancy” union ; not one from which
the agitators can be bought off; not an asso-
ciation ready to sky the haresfoot and douse
the limes, but a strong corporation like those
which protect doctors, lawyers, journalists
and others. Many of the leading people in
the profession are supporting Jhis very sen-
sible scheme, which will no doubt be modelled
on the recently-formed players’ trade union
in England. Show people who voted for
that movement included H. B. Irvine, Madge
Titheradge, Gerald du Maurier, Ethel Irvine,
Dorothy Brunton, Gerald Ames, Ivy Shill-
ing, Norman Page, James Carew and a long
string of others. It was time.
WELCOME. OLD FRIEND!
PERKINS : "By Jove, I am glad to see you
back. Has the strike been settled?"
CHARLES: “What strike, sir.”
PERKINS: "Oh, come now! Where have
you been since you took my order?”
From New York :
The crop of theatrical failures is larger this year
than ever, the ending of the war leaving many battle
plays without an interested audience, and new things
are being staged nightly. One of the biggest suc-
cesses of the year is “Lightnin’,” in which Beatrice
Nicholls and Tom MoLarnie, who will he remem-
bered in Australia with J. C. Williamson, have good
parts. Another is “The Better ’Ole.” Colin Camp-
bell, who also has happy memories of Australia, has
made a big success of this piece, which, whatever its
demerits, bears the sold-out notice for weeks ahead.
And there’s Barrie’s “Dear Brutus,” which has en-
raptured some of the critics.
“OP. 2”: London manager 0. B. Cochran,
who has thrown down the gauntlet to the
newly-formed Actors’ Union, which has
made payment for rehearsals a plank in its
platform, can hardly be expected to have
much sympathy with the dramatic side of
the business. Though he controls several
West-end theatres and has made most of his
money out of a stage-play (“The Better
’Ole”), Cochran’s early activities were con-
fined to the music-hall, with occasional ex-
cursions into the prize- and circus-rings. He
is a showman pure and simple—with not
too much accent on the simple—and seem-
ingly is the only manager in Fogtown who
objects to pay the mummer for the hard
work of rehearsing.
Adelaide Register has dug up the pro-
gramme of a -performance given by its own
staff, close on half a century ago, of Byron’s
burlesque of “The Lady of Lyons.” The
hero was played by Phil Benjamin, still liv-
ing in Sydney, his mother by Tyson (owner
THE REAL THING NOW.
ARTIST : “I suppose Mimi has no need to
pose now that she is married?"
FLO : “My word, hasn't she! Her husband’s
a terrible wowser.”
of the programme), and Hele and Franklin,
both still busy in the RegistEe office, were
in the cast. So was cricketer Whitridge.
who died only the other day. Long dead
are the Pauline of the occasion, J.C.F.
(“Alphabetical”) Johnson, journalist and
Minister of the Crown, and John Howard
Clark and R. K. Thomas, two of the paper’s
proprietors.
Lady Bancroft, who started in paint as
Marie Wilton, has the extraordinary record
of having appeared on the stage with
Macready. though his funeral took place
over 70 years ago. Just before his death ne
played “Macbeth.” and the girl appeared as
the Spirit of a Child in one of the witches’
scenes.
“Peg-Leg” : The flis-
pensers of charity t.o
unemployed theatrical
employees strike some
queer domestic ar-
rangements. A little
blonde usher from one
of the shows applied
for relief. “Any de-
pendants?” asked the
man in charge. The
girl looked up. “Yes.
Two. A baby and—a
• —a husband.” Which
explained the appear-
ance of a waster in a
check suit around the
front of the house every
treasury night.
“Dob” : Re the movie which is coming out
from the Cold Country very shortly.
“The Life of Lord Nelson.” One part
of it was taken in Torquay, Devon,
where the Maoriland discharge depot was.
and the producers had the use of
about 200 “outed” M.L. Diggers to act
as soldiers in a big fight. * They had
to charge up a hill and capture a castle on
top. The director gave the order to go.
and away went the men. They, did well
for a short distance, but out of the 200 only
20 arrived at the castle. The rest had
got tired before they were half-way up.
so thought they would “get a Blighty.”
Machine-guns could not have mown them
down as fast as they fell. The “charge”
had to be made again, after the Maorilanders
had promised not to get shot until the castle
was taken. One of them suggested having
a keg of tanglefoot in the stronghold—“then
every would try to get there first”
Half of the film was destroyed by fire soon
after it was taken, and the picture co. was
going to re-act “the taking of the castle,” but
whether it accepted the Anzac’s advice re
the beer I cannot say.
“Snell” : Somebody in a recent issue told
of a practical joke played upon the conductor
of a theatrical orchestra, certain raffish asso-
ciates having cut the seat out of his
trousers. I can supplement this with the
story of Gomm. Gomra, who was an Aus-
trian, I fancy, and a bachelor, was the leader
of a party which provided the music at a
Ballarat “assembly.” He was the limit in
the matter of absent-mindedness. One night
some rapscallion or another cut the legs out
of the fiddler’s black trousers, and he fiddled
away in perfect unconsciousness, making an
astounding display of yellow woollen under-
pants. On the next: night of the assembly
dancing was impossible, the gathering giving
itself up to howls of laughter, throughout
which Gomm played with owlish indifference.
His trousers were still in precisely the same
abbreviated condition.
“II.O.”: In the. second act of “Eyes of
Youth” Emelie Polini, as an operatic prima
donah, is exhibited suffering from cham-
pagne and tantrums. A performance of
“Louise” is about, to happen. The orchestra
is doing its preliminary canter, but the lady
refuses to get ready. She reckons that
without her there will be no show; but a
triumphant manager flings open the door of
her dressing-room, the three knocks that
herald the raising of the curtain are heard,
and from off-stage floats the voice of an un-
known genius, whom tin' manager has un-
earthed for the occasion, warbling “Depuise
le Jour,” while the prima Jonah throws fits
of jealousy. It may be a quaint continong-
tal custom to begin “Louise” at the third
act, to which the aria belongs, but I have
grave doubts.
“E.F.” : One of the oldest surviving mem-
bers of the Brough and Boucicault co. (at
its best) must be George W. Anson, who
lately was playing in a revival of “Peter
Pan.” Anson was a popular actor in “the
provinces” before lie got his start in
London, more than 40 years ago, in “Clan-
carty,” a drama by Tom Taylor. He took
the part of Scum Goodman, a spy who was
torn to pieces bv the mob, or something
shrieksome. Anson can hardly be less than
70. and his rugged face looks older. But the
really wonderful survivor of the original B.
and B. brigade is Teddy Boyce, who was
Grimaldi in a Drury Lane pageant not long
since. Long before he came to Australia
little Teddy had been a popular identity in
Gaiety burlesque along with Nellie Farren.
Kate Vaughan and co. Paralysis put him
out of the Gaiety Co., and was thought to
have incapacitated him for further mum-
ming of any sort. He was a comparative
wreck when B. and B. brought him to Aus-
tralia, with grave doubts as to whether he
would stand the strain of constant work in
comedy and burlesque. His long stay in
Australia completely restored him to health,
seemingly, for old Bliieskin. of “Little Jack
Sheppard.” is now in his 78th year. In his
young days Boyce performed an act of hero-
ism in saving the life of a poor little ballet-
girl whose skirts had caught fire, and the
Society for the Protection of Life from Fire
made a fuss of him.
Martin Harvey has given London a single
performance of Maeterlinck’s new play, “The
Burgomaster of Stilemonde.” The old
dramatist has either outlived his symbolism
or laid it aside for the occasion; the story is
a plain melodrama of mixed marriages and
the Hun invasion of Belgium. The heroine,
wife of a German officer, is daughter of a
mayor whose life has to pay the forfeit of
some alleged misconduct by the village. The
Son-in-law just manages to get out of giving
the firing-order; but it is given all the same,
and finally his wife makes it quite clear that
she has no further use for him. (Thunders
of applause.)
“Senex”: A recent mention of Joaquin
Miller reminded me that in ’O6 I heard the
“Poet of the Sierras.” as he was billed, give
a turn at Keith’s Vaudeville House, Phila-
delphia ffU.S.A.). He was a striking figure,
tall, well-made, with long grey locks curling
over his shoulders, heavy moustache and
imperial; a piercing grey eye, and nose like
an eagle’s beak. He recited several of his
poems in a clear, musical voice, and the
vaudeville patrons took it kindly.
STAGE STRUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The manager sat in his rotary chair
And fondled a shilling cigar
As he focussed a slightly contemptuous stare
On the stranger from Ooat-an’-Galah.
“Ali! Looking for work!” and the manager smiled,
“A job as an actor, eh?”
The manager's air was deceptively mild:
“What parts are you anxious to play?”
“Well,'Mister, 1 ain’t a particular bloke,
The hero or villain 'll do,
Or the comic who kids you play-aetin’s a joke,
Or the Bobby—l leave it to you.”
“I see,” said the manager, “monarch or page,
First robber, or one of the band.
May I ask .you what you’ve done up to now on the
stage
To warrant this modest demand ?”
Said the stranger, in hoarse, unmelodious tones,
“Though 1 ain’t never been on the stage,
I can play the tin-wliistle, jew's-harp, or the bones,
In a style tliat’d make me the rage.”
The manager sighed. “Your remarkable gift
Would be wasted in drama, but you
Should be able to give chamber-music a lift;
Is there anything else you can do?”
The stranger emitted some euriouij snorts,
Then cried: “Why, o’ course! ’Pon me soul!
I won the first prize at our annual sports
For climbin' the greasy pole!”
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
THE VAMPIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We mourn Matilda’s shame at Bumbledoo.
Ah! poor frail girl! My wife she might have been;
But now she’ll slink unhallowed ’cross the screen,
Half-nude, to wreck men’s lives, and women’s, too.
Ah. would that I could find the scurvy scamp
Who tricked her into this! For thus she wrote:
“By chance I’ve met a pianist of note,
Beneath whose guiding hand I’ve learned to vamp.”
N.S.W.
BOB DEXTER.


WVjrrt
fite
*«>
v v V-\ '< ..* **.
• *: • /> 5 •.'..*
: ** o ■• ■•* A • / ■
fy.r .’•*
A . •• •
«>/S
:i :va
:*/?;
V;* #*
i's'r v'-X.* '*>.'.■
f/A ■« • a
y.%.
i'i
Ki
>a
K
V
VA
m
•fyWii
Vv
5
- ?
w.
J . v l
*'r *
y =>-*,, •'.
V,"
■ i,:> *
*8
L.%*
rai*
The Car of Quality.
Choose An Overland
Hie great Overland range of models includes a car for
practically every need of motoring.
And the popularity of Overland cars is due to five distinct advan-
tages — appearance, performance, comfort, service and price .
Here we show the famous Model 90, a car light enough
to be very “mobile,” yet heavy enough to hold the road easily;
powerful, easy to drive and easy to ride in.
Investigate this Model 90 at your early convenience. Then,
with hundreds of thousands of other people, you will choose
an Overland
Immediate Delivery.
Australian Distributors—
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE &t. CO. LTD., Hobart.
A. HAT RICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
Christchurch, N.Z.
WILLYS-OVERLAND, Inc.
1762 Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A.
*/ ■>'" • if. ■}-■ > « 5, C <«. ®
■ " "• ■' ■'
©II
•• i' *fc » HV
V'nt
• ■ s:
v\?v.-y .J
v
» . • •;' • / * '--'ft
m
to
&M&
SS3£iy«^
V'sJiOi
#'ff
;fe|i
It®
*8
Smb
Me
- l e <
feM!
:>a
e*
<sln
*>&>
'f'r
■vfm
VJ>Aftjf'
' w . V© >' *t fV
#.*'*'•»'•'••* ***■ 'sj»X
# y 3\
, •yv"'v > '
B
«vs
NBft?
L+ifz& l'Ac
v-yy:
kc.vjjPZKt
ijfcSK v
►y/f
:\
-Si.*;
*
/.
*JL \
85
i*>«* fsv^
ares
; ■ Vw*y~** '” , ' <
igr
vT-v;
::
•J
i 4
•;/ r- - '«
«//
*
g-X>
■V-. £ ‘S
3W-:
••v'
ft!
. ‘A. 5
r«
LV;
WJk*
.S^**s
■ y v .»x.^
5* J&V-4E.V 17
I ’A. >
• . i* *
f«ar
5
si
y ! /\^>'...j<_,'i.v . »
;y
\\«i
\Jww
r/= w
:/v
. .%a-smV ,^<* / <( )av
: y.-r;
'Ssa%»«s?3«rx>c- :
V?
s • \*v \ v vg 'svms'rm 'ZmittJiL
t t,.i . * t
ala i ti
Sjj
■*-e4*&r*jO;
|£
“ U ;€
iSli:i
Sf r i?V^% r L
♦5
!*♦
N
:i--*
-/> V> y
aw
®il
■£<Lr*s' ,, R
»v
if*
13
40
je
i
Aiv;
«'A
,‘XTa'f
■?X
v¥'
S^s=
- :
in
%
> ; Cl'
SHXa
s?e
kJ? V
S&&
KU


Japan threatens a separate Peace with Germany if
her position towards Kiao-Chau and Shantung is not
improved by the Peace Conference. A judicious use
of King George IV., the topnoteh Scotch whisky,
would give the right inspiration and assist to settle
the argument.—Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
WMt Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE
'->■/ ) r ■ ,
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, UNITED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUMfi ?
\
LEWIS fewnlTTY MAKERS
GROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
NEED CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Look, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish
liver and bowels.
Mother! You're child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish. See if the tongue is coated;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy” with
c s>ld, throat sore; when the child has tainted
bieath and doesn t eat, sleep or act naturally
or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, remember,
a gentle liver and bowel cleansing should
always be the first treatment given.
equals California Syrup of Figs
1 Cali fig —for children s ills; give a tea-
spoonful, and in a few hours all the waste
matter, sour bile and fermenting food clogged
in the bowels pass out of the system, and
you have a healthy and playful child again.
All. children love this harmless, delicious
fruit laxative, and it never fails to effect a
good “inside cleansing.” Directions for
babies, children of all ages and grown-ups
are plainly on the bottle.
Keep it handy in your home. A little
given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow,
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist tor
a bottle of “Califig”—California Syrup ot
Figs—then look and see that it is made, by
the California Fig Syrup Company. Ketuse
substitutes. All chemists sell “Cahng
California Syrup of Figs—in two sizes, ft
and 2/4. ' r
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“ON TOP” WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
ilie pace seems to be getting slower than
ever in Tasmania. Launceston Examiner (31/3/’l9),
*' iri ff results of a local race meeting', reports
the March Plate as being “won bv a head, with
three years between second and third.’’
* * * *
The Great Eastern Steeplechase, at Onka’
pannga (S.A.), was won by Doiran (list, lib.) in
the hands of E. Mooney. The race is worth £lOOO
and the course is one of the most sporting
in Australia. Tararu Jack, the great Vic. jumper,
could do no more than run fourth with 13st. up.
The Cup went to Melbolt (Bst. 121 b . -) in 2min
Which is a S. Aus. record for a mile and
three furlongs.
• * * *
Field a ore won the big race on the last day
of the Q.T.C. meeting, and Lordacre (who is in the
Doncaster) the Easter Handicap.
* # *
At the Meredith (Vic.) St. Patrick’s Day
meeting last Saturday a local jockey (R. Kldridge)
rode the winner of every race on the card.
* * * *
The progeny of Land of Song will be
watched with interest for awhile, seeing that he was
one of the solidest and most satisfactory of the per-
formed racers that have been imported from Eng-
. o 01 P erha P s it: was Ireland in his case. Land
of Song was shipped at about the same time as
Kearern, ana both in appearance and achievement he
looked the more promising for stud purposes.
Although lie didn’t last long enough to become
acclimatised on the Vic. turf, Land of Song ran well
m the few w.f.a. races he started for, his first being
a rather brilliant win. lie filled the eye like, say.
Bursar, and was a great stayer considering his brief
preparation for business in this country. Given the
right sort of mares to mate with, the Irish Derbv
winner should have some good stuff among his grow-
ing family. *
Between Mooney and McGowan, two of
the most prominent cross-country riders of S. Aus.,
there lias been bad blood for a long while: and
some of it was spilt in Curvie-street lately. On a
complaint lodged by Mooney about interference at
r mee ting, tlie other lad was suspended by
the S.A.J.C. “during its pleasure.’’ When both
parties got outside the Club’s office there was a
scrap. Mooney has an arm which, owing to an old
riding fall, is not much use in this kind of work,
and he was getting the worst of it when stipendiaries
Hogan and Clem Hill went to his relief
* * *
A Sydney paper, in the course ; of a eulogy
of .J. S. McDonald, greatest of N. S. Wales ponv-
joeks, printed this:—
“He was employed at the age of 14 at a shoeirig-
forge. During the few' months lie spent there he
called for and returned most of the horses treated,
which pave him many opportunities; of having a
‘little flutter* along the country roadi, thus improve
ing his riding abilities.” t
It would be interesting to hear McDonald’s present
opinion of the lad who improves his riding abilities
by ‘'flutters” almg roads with other people’s horses.
It is a common Australian failing, and it is pro-
ductive of more splints, strains and broken knees
than enough. The average English horse, whose
feet are faulty and whose legs and fetlock joints
puff on small provocation, might be ruindd by one
or two applications of the treatment which is
ascribed to McDonald. The AA’aler, with his sound
feet, flat legs and light sloping shoulders, is almost
fool-proof. But even the AValer is liable to be
prejudiced in time by fast w*rk «n blue-metal.
Aman tes, who won the Park Trial at
Victoria Park (S.A.), was one of A. and G. Tye’s
imported failures. She is a full-sister to the Adel-
aide Oup winner St Spasa, and now runs in the
interests of two Yorke’s Peninsula sportsmen, McKay
and Kodda. Amantes is a five-year-old mare, and
was a “frost” in the eastern States, but ran a nice
race at the Park.
“T.M.”: Re betting systems. Writer
knew a punter who used to visit Sydney suburban
courses weekly, for the sole purpose of backing the
favorite in the jump. AVith rare exceptions it won,
and the bettor then collected and at once took the
shortest cut to the train. This went on for two
winters, during which hurdle favorites “caught”
with monotonous regularity. The idea is that there
is less “crook” work done over the sticks. AVhere
racing is reasonably honest the man who risks his
money “in the air” is considered a mug.
*** . »
“Jack Ilice”: The Bulletin’s complaint
(3/4/’l9) that the cable did not say who rode
loethlyn in the Natiouul strikes home. Two
.Nationals, at least, have been lost through the sheer
exhaustion of the man on top. Ered 11 assail jumped
first on to the course proper on Musician, but
was unable to help his mount, and finished out of a
place. lie had wasted about I4lb. to ride, and could
hardly speak on dismounting. Hon. Reginald AVard,
owner and rider of Cathal (and youngest brother,
by the way, of Australia’s Lord Dudley), finished
second to Wild Man from Borneo. Cathal ought to
have won easily in the run home had his rider been
able to help him. Ward lost a fortune over the
result. The then Prince of Wales (afterwards Ed.
Alf.) won with Ambush If., because the favorite,
Hidden Mystery, was knocked down by Covert Hack,
a riderless horse, at Beecher’s Brook. Covert Hack,
one of England’s greatest cross-country horses,
jumped his jockey off at the first open ditch. With-
out a doubt, the horseman is half the race in this
event.
On Westralian goldfields courses, since
August, S. Johnson has ridden in 80 races for 25
firsts, eight seconds and 14 thirds. The next-best is
Cockburn, who out of 46 starts has won 12 races,
six seconds and seven thirds.
* * . * *
Australian jockey Arthur Langford was
strolling London when he ascertained from a news-
paper that there was a race-meeting at AVindsor. * He
hailed a taxi, and it cost him a fiver, but he con-
siders the money well spent. When he got to the
course the first man he met in the paddock was
Richard AVootton, who put him on to three winners
and turned another fiver into a hundred.
Jumping horses wear well in Tasmania.
Five of them entered for this veal’s Grand National
Steeple, at Easter, were: Jack, 16 years; Rahner and
l4; Brilliant Mick, 11; and Tapali, 10.
And Tapali and Rahney were the top weights.
Rahney, by the way, has now the Australian record
ior number of starts. Although most of his races
have been over hurdles, he has fallen only twice.
An ancient resident of Coleraine (Vic.).
Charles Mullalley, who thinks he’s about a hundred,
claims to be the oldest living jockey. He and Adam
Lindsay Gordon had mounts in the Great AVestern
Steeplechase, roughly, 50 years ago. Mullalley was
the winning rider. . He rode in country races until he
was about 80.
* * » »
Thomas McMahon, trainer, of Rockhamp-
ton (Q.), was hauled up before the local stewards
the other day for “improper behavior” towards the
chairman of the R.J.C. So marked was the impro-
priety of Thomas that he had to be removed from
the course by the police, who subsequently prose-
cuted The . committee of the Club fined him
A. 10. In Paris a well-known rider, Fernand
Levoeux, was suspended for a year for omitting to
touch his hat to a racing- dignitary; and Tod Sloan
uas warned off the British turf for life for persist-
ed ly dining at restaurants frequented by members
of the Turf Club. Nominally it was for backing his
own mounts, but the gravamen of his improper con-
duct was the other thing. Turf impropriety, like
morality, is largely a matter of climate.
Colin Boyd celebrated liis 21st birthday
the other Saturday by winning the steeple at Fleni-
jng’tori on John Donald. This boy has probably the
best performance over obstacles ever put up by an
Australian jockey of his age. He was in his first
lacc in June, 1914. and has since ridden
.H 2 times for 60 wins, 46 seconds and 16 thirds
Considering the number of races he has been in he
has had very few falls.
Shortly after war broke out, Ivalgoorlie
Racing Club determined to hand over all profits to
patriotic funds. At the annual meeting held the
other day the balance-sheet showed that considerably
over £lO,OOO had gone that way. How manv other
clubs outside capital cities can shew as good a
record ?
* * * *
George Martin, the Sydney barrister who
died of penumonia on Friday last, was one of the
best Australian oarsmen who ever went to Oxford
He arrived there from Bath, which is a rowing
school, a recognised top-notcher, and was in his
College Eight and in the winning boat #f the Uni-
versity Trial Eights in his first term.
* * * *
In the final of the Covered Courts Doubles
Championship in England R. Lycett and R. AV.
Heath beat Portlock and Ingram, 6-2, 6-0 6-0 In
the Challenge Round, Davson beat M. J. G. Ritchie,
6-2, 6-3, 8-6. Davson is the remarkable plaver
before whom young Gerald Patterson, of \ r ictoria
went to pieces in the preceding round. Patterson’
whom Brookes has chosen to partner him in the
doubles at AVimbledon, was nervous.
Lord Charles Hope won the Services Golf
Championship in England—a competition in which
most of the Australian champions serving with the
A.I.F. engaged. The winner is a sort of Australian
himself. He was born in Melbourne 27 years ago,
when his father —then Hopetoun—reigned there.
The N.S.W. trawler Brolga put up a
deepsea-fishing world’s record in time for the Good
Friday market —30 tons of edible fish in 39 hours.
I'he catch was mostly fiathead. Flathead is the cod
of Australia, with the differences that it keeps better
and is more delicately flavored.
A variant of the three-card trick was indi-
cated in cross-examination in a Sydney court last
week, viz.:—
“Do you know ‘Skir.ny’ Baxter?—Yes.
“Isn’t he identical with the man who got in at
Parramatta and pretended to be a lunatic, and
boasted that he had just been left- £009?”
Ordinarily the accomplice is a sportive parson or
priest, bearing home the week’s collection, or a
simple-minded old business-man who has had a
stroke of luck in the realms of speculative finance.
But a lunatic with £C08! It is laying it on with
a trowel. A humorous feature of the three-card
swindle is that the cleric, or reputable old financier,
or what not, is always anxious to collaborate with
the mug in swindling the manipulator, and to make
the trick a the mug must accept the
infamous proposal. No honest man was ever taken
down at the game.
* *. #
A 14-year-old Australian boy at Christ’s
College, Christchurch (M.L.), by name V. B.
Powell, has held the Junior Championship of the
College for the past three years. In 191 G he broke
the 100 yards and quarter-mile (school) records in
dw. and in 1918 he did the 100 yards in
11 3-osec. (winch should be pretty nearlv a world's
record for a boy under 14) and jumped' 17ft. siin
At recent military sports he jumped 19ft. 4iu.
STUMPS DRAWN.
“The match finished?”
“No; the leer.”
‘Snell ’: In the days when boxing boomed
in Melbourne there were two brothers named
atiggins, Williamstown wharfies, who could always
be relied upon to put up a hair-raking, nerve-
shalung 10-round scrap w'hen wanted. If there was
need ot a rattling preliminary, or if a boy in the
i j , on , nl ght was fluked out before the push
had had its bob’s worth of skin and teeth, the
Stiggins brothers could be put on with the certaintv
ot giving pleasure to all. At one time for a space
oi three months the brothers were on every Satur-
day night at one hall, giving a curtain-raiser to the
principal event, and the referee could never And
room for a decision between them. The announce-
inent always was, “Draw, gents t To be continued
in our next.” And it was continued till the Stig-
gins brothers had fought 120 rounds, genuine paste
every one of them, both boys going home to mother
with a shocking assortment of marks. Then came
the night when the official announcer had to sav:
‘ Gents, I’m asked to apologise fer the absence "iv
the Stiggms brothers this evenin’. 1 don’t think
it s likely we’H ever be able to get them to fight
again, as they’ve fell out!”
* * * *
There was a big crowd at* the Boxing
1 avilion (Melb.) last week to see Sam Saunders
overpower Chris Jordan in the first 20-round go
that v ictoria has seen for some time. The affair
we , l ' t die limit, and the decision invests Saunders
with the lightweight championship of the State.
There was a lightweight disturbance at
Brisbane Stadium on Saturday night when Bob
Williams (NS.W.) beat Cally (M.L.). As usual,
the crowd vehemently disputed the referee’s verdict.
Hill and Waddy, a brace of S. Aus. heavy-
weights, met at Broken Hill last week. Hill was
lel led to the boards thrice in three rounds' and then
Ins corner heaved in the towel.
Boxing in Sydney continues to be dead.
That was its biggest performance bar
two which the s. Aus. totalisator put up in the
Bosanquet Handicap of the A.R.C. Four or five of
the field of 18 were messed up at the start and never
had a hope. The ultimate first and second were
awtul outsiders, and A. E. Bowman’s Mount Miltsin,
with only 111 £1 tickets, paid £lBB 9s. Kongo-
long had the useful dividend of £l6 3s. for second.
Ine two records are Westendale £lBl 10s. for
second in 1917, and the strange happening: awav
back in 1881, when the tote was a new thing and
n nV aCe S# ?™P° rt l ant as the Goodwood Handicap!
al/the p.'Tjgl 8 Sinffle ba ° ker ’ Who po]leeted
Veteran Joe Travers, whose slow left-
!^ d ot bOW ; h , ng haS bee ? llSeful t 0 S ’ A - for m any vears,
has steadily improved in batting, and this rear lie
pul ed off a treble with the Adelaide Club! being
iimnts in of a t n he the aVeraseS in both de P art ‘
Westralia’s best cricketer is Arthur Chris-
tian. Playing for North Perth his season’s batting
averagers 50.5 and his bowling average 7.6.
Old-timer A. J. Hopkins (Middle Har-
bor), playing for a touring Sydney XI v. Orange on
Saturday, downed four wickets for six runs.
Left-liander P. Hornibrook (Ivaliuga).
bowling v. Excelsior in Brisbane first-grade semi-final
last week, took five wickets with six balls.
It happened lately in Victoria. There
wei e foul staiteis in the 440yds. ’J’liree of them
had bet on the fourth, with the usual arrangement
lor an all-rouiul divvy. The books, however, had
squaied this fouith man and he was as dead as
mutton. Half-way round the track the three bet
tors led theii hope by a yard or two, but he pre-
sently overtook them and had quite a handsome lead.
Then the poor chap fell headlong over his own f*et
This looked all right to the books, who knew it
was coming; but, like true sports, the three other
entrants stopped abruptly and helped the fallen one
to his feet. The crowd got quite excited about
the matter, and at the subsequent inquiry the co-
operative four were rubbed out. But nothin"- hap-
pened to the books concerned, except the loss of
their money. The foot-racing odds-layer is an
illegal bird—he officially doesn't exist, v’ know
and therefore can’t be dealt with.
* * * *
The South Aus. Coursing Club first held
i.s y\ateiloo Cup at Buckland Park 35 years uiro. The
officials were: Field-stewards, 0. Downer, James
Ha>, K. A. Stock, J. H. Parr, W. S. Billen and N.
\\ heaton; slip-steward, M. Pepper; flag-stewards,
A-. «• Malcolm and R, C. Baker; judge, J. h.
Stirling. Lancelot Stirling is 'the only one now
alive. He judged the first 10 Waterloo*,‘ and hasn’t
missed a Cup meeting for donkey’s years
**i ’ «
It looks us though (lie lucrative racing
businesses of John Wren and others in the Mel-
bourne district are going to be reasonably dealt with
by the V.R.0., even if the Government has nothing
ln the matter. The three pony racecourses,
anyhow, are wholly and solely the concern of John
Wren. Practically they are licensed gaming places
and he is the proprietor who pouches all the re-
ceipts from sundry sources, paying away stakes
enough to keep the biz flourishing - ; He does nothing
for the betterment of the breed of thoroughbreds,
seeing that only undersized stock is eligible to rtm
at his shows, and the races are a succession of
.Circular scampers in which stamina hardly counts
lhe big clubs have created the turf institution bv
conductmg racing without personal profit to the
management, thereby making the shows so attractive
that tlie bulk of their gate-receipts comes from
people who either don’t gamble at all or bet so
little that they can’t be said to gamble wortli men-
tioning, Wren's patrons, on the other hand, are all
on the gamble. If they could get roulette-tables
instead of pony-races they would rush the business
all the more. Obviously the present state of things
is a sinful absurdity, like the unlawful privilege
enjoyed by Wren’s tote of yore. He makes a vast
income by providing pony “sport” of a sort that
iBn t permitted in the European racing l countries.
If the encouragement of the breed of small horsps is
t« continue, the men who provide the racing material
have a far better risdit to increased stakes than
W ren has to his enormous profits.
* * * *
At Brisbane last week .T. W. Thompson
swam 220 yards on his back in Smin. 27sec. This
is 18sec. better than the previous best over the
distance on an upside-down basis.
“Machete ’: There is good gunning among
curlews in Moreton Bay (Q.). Our plan was to
get into a mangrove or other scrubby point about high
tide, when the curlews gathered in force on the high
sandbanks. After half an hour of the ebb they
would "flight ’ in thousands to lower banks just
becoming uncovered. The flights gave first-class
shooting, for when the curlew is travelling he
wastes no time, and the slightest movement will send
“l] 11 ducking and wheeling. He is not bad eating
after being roasted with an onion inside him to take
away the fishy tang.
* * » „
Passed out, from ’flu. John Charles Scales,
a well-known Vic. professional ped., who was a
class man over the sticks. Scales developed the
stiaight-out leg m front when leaping, the stvle that
the famous Kraenzlein perfected. Frank Brown, one
;' nl ® amateur hurdler, now at the dead finish on the
western kront, was also an exponent of the straight-
leg style. Seales had only scored 27 years when the
epidemic got him. It is very difficult to compare
pros, with amateurs at the same game. The pro.
always runs over low hurdles (3ft.), whereas the
amateur has to race over 3ft. 6in. jumps, whether the
distance be 120 yards or 440 yards. It is compara-
tn»jly easy for a short man to develop the Kraenzlein
st.\le or for a tall man to stride over the low three-
rooters.
* * * #
The T A.A.A. has accepted a memorial
trophy for competition between teams at the annual
track champs. It will he called “The IT. H. Hunter
Memorial Shield,’ and be for perpetual competition
to keep the name of “Rusty” Hunter, the Victorian
amateur sprinter and broad-jumper, fresh in the
mindsi of amateurs. “Rusty” represented Vic. in the
inter- Varsity and Australasian championships, and
had many a hard-fought contest with brilliant Nigel
Barker. As a captain he made hi* last dash at the
Landing. His old associate in. the sport, “Storkv”
Adams, is running the memorial scheme, and anv
stray subs, will reach him at the Amateur Sports
Club, Melbourne.
The “over 75” division had their turn on
the bowling green at Sydney last week. Thirty-two
of them were linked, and after a couple of hours'
roll-up Davies’s team well-nigh obliterated Passail‘s
“V 31-4. A gloomy circumstance was the fact that
out of 32 in the roll-up in 1916-17 only 16 were in
last week’s game. ,
THE GARDEN HANDICAP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘Pacing has been abolished in Hungary. The race-
course at Budapest has been converted into a vege-
table-garden.”—Cable.
No more the “sport” in Budapest
Stands full-fed round the track.
Lo, now the hooky’s gaudy vest
That bulged is hanging slack ;
Vanished the glossy coats that shone
And rippled down the straight;
The flat and .grandstand crowds are gone,
And closed for all the gute.
Where unrepentant younger sons
Hung on the favorite’s pace,
The thoroughbred Potato runs
A vegetable race.
But lean and pallid men are seen
To gather round the course;
They back the Cauliflower and Bean
As once thfe faithless horse.
A piebald Pumpkin makes the pace,
The fast roan Khubarb shies ;
Asparagus is tipped a “place”
As Turnip tops the rise.
A seedling Carrot barks her shins;
The beaten Squash drops out.
“Odds on the Spanish Onion wins!”
The haggard 'punters shout.
The keen Horse-radish crowds the bunch,
And Cress and Mustard bolt.
(The hungry bookies catch for lunch
A Sweet-potato colt.)
The Marrow lumbers down the hill
Too late by seven weeks;
The Scarlet Bean is running still
Behind the “also” Leeks.
The cheery Cabbage romps in first.-
A protest surges up:
“He fouled the Swede!” (The judges cursed
The Market Garden Cup.)
The second, Broccoli, lies dead....,
The cert, sneaks in alone.
“Damn! Lettuce wins by forty head!”
The busted bookies moan.
N.S.W.
HILARY LOFTING.


I Let Me Make You Stronger
and Healthier
by my perfectly natural and interesting system of scientific
exercises.
Exercise is the natural stimulant of the body. It
strengthens every nerve, muscle and sinew. It expels all
impurities, and nourishes with rich, pure virile blood laden
with life-prolonging oxygen.
BUT, in order to obtain these benefits, you must learn the
correct and scientific method of physical culture. You
cannot read until you’re taught—you cannot exercise properly
until you learn the correct methods!
My instruction will strongly appeal to you, on account of
its simplicity and the rapid results it secures. 1 aim at
building up the muscles, both internal and external, in a
thorough anil scientific manner. No one part is built up
at the expense of another, but your weak spots will have
special attention.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will bring you renewed health and strength. The exercises
vou receive will be those most suited to your individual
physique, just as the particulars you furnish tell me you
require.
My booklet, entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH FROM
SELF-CULTURE,” tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I
should like to send you a copy. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement and send it to me, with
three penny stamps for postage. I will know what you
mean. A
REG. L. (‘Snowy’) BAKER,
“The All-round I
Champion Athlete'
of Australia,”
15 MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS, 82a OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
i'
>..
you
"Wowd/Best
n^OTOR^PIWr
S7i/i(=c/«s ) (s&secJ
fr\ C?us>tr&jG<3. .
BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COY ltd.. AUjIATiJ UHZ.
H
iae
11
NO
The Returned Man
Rides
sndim
He's seen it on the job in France
and knows that no machine can_
match it for power, strength
and endurance.
Catalogue from
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE
m
m
i--
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAM ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
the secretary
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
WHY EXPERIfIENT ? USE
SANDERSON BROS,
and NEWBOULDS’ SAWS
Cheap tools are a bad policy at any tune, but unknown saws are a
positive danger. For safety and continuous efficiency there are no
saws like Sanderson Bros, and Newboulds’ English Saws, whether
you use Circular, Crosscut, Vertical or Bandsaws.
The reputation of Sanderson Bros, and Newboulds’ Saws is founded
on continuous good service in handling all classes of hard Aus-
tralian timbers. They possess splendid cutting qualities, and the
quality is continuous.
Large stocks carried of Sanderson Bros, and Newboulds’ Saws, Files
and Machine Knives. Full range of Grinding-wheels for every
purpose in stock.
Yates’ Woodworking Machinery
We are Sole Agents for these celebrated wood-working machines,
and give expert advice without obligation on all sawmilling and
wood-work manufacturing problems. Catalogue and full particulars
of any Yates Wood-working Machine will be sent to you for the
asking.
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
71-75 Queen's Bridg'e Street, Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Kruses
Fluid
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
mm
S^USTRAUAT*
-*^79
iifV hitift
**■
m
•JlUi—
M
LRowiSSS
MUIKO n
King °/Tabid
CorvTainb f
Lint Soda i(t
mere?) a Holiday in E/very Bottle .
%
Y r
The “Stocking
Riding Bpj||
211 -
i ; (Post Free)
'.yyy,
s'',' ■'
■CSC,
•cu-ca
jSgSsSg^g^.*^jg^gygg.-.
&
>l.? k
r»?c; ' V. r
-Srjd
/, V
5..»
V $, l v*. x",
\ \ ■■■.*>;■■?■ 'Xt *
ft ...
* ,-* .U'**,. f
>• £v -
<— ‘ ?:
-Tx
ss
11 y co ns t r ire te d
r -strong,“ Fully-
k " seasoned. Tim Willow-
Calf, uith’ Elastic Sides
and Double Tags; Dust*
flight, Icomfort*"
serviceable -Easy
on: and off, the-
is a boot
thatno Australian horse-
man should be without.
Obtainable in all sizes
orders-We Guarantee
' “"Specialrsts-in--.“j-’--- * v
244-254 Flinders


SANITAX
HAIR BRUSH
'TEE “ SANITAX” HAIR
BRUSH should appeal to
all who seek a brush that is
absolutely clean, germ-proof
and durable.
The " Sanitax ” is the only
brush that can he thoroughly
washed or sterilized in a few
minutes. This is made possible
by the open construction of
its metal back.
"SANITAX” HAIR
BRUSHES, hygienic and
durable; finest selected Russian
bristles, set in metal back, hand
drawn with silvered wire.
Prices. 25/-, 27/6, 32/6.
We Pay Postage
FARMER’S
FARMER’S
HENNALINE, Eg yp ,i,„
Shampoo, a delightful prepar-
ation for cleansing the hair
and scalp, contains sufficient
Henna to glint the hair hut
does not alter the shade
CREME ELCAYA
greasy Toilet Cream), will
protect and beautify the skin,
per jar . . . 5/5
POWnFR COMPLEXION
POWDER, gives the skin a
velvety appearance, when used
m conjunction with Crem e
clcaya. Price, per box 4/6
SYDNEY
Your Autumn Gown
Tailored by Shave
will enable you to
enjoy all the little re-
finements of style to-
gether _ with perfect
ht which mark the
tailored garment,
without having to
undergo the trials of
many fittings.
system of
Model Fitting makes
this nossible.
isitors to Melbourne
are invited to call.
I V ’f, . Sydney and
Adelaide twice, and Bris-
bane once, each year.
SHAVE
Ladies* Tailors & Dressmakers,*
CENTREWAY— MELBOURNE.
i Meltojuan
!/ ▼ 1 HIGH-CLASS
iSPgfIALTIES
Creams
irS
Pastes
fOr
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
BARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN (§> SON 3 LONDON
AGENCIES • !aXL - OVER . THE • WORLD
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust proof
Corsets
The G.-G. was kept busy as a dressmaker
pinning decorations on women at the recent
investiture. For manly medals, the second
button of the unfastened tunic gave a grip.
But when the ladies arrived the embarrassed
G.-G. hesitated. lie was heard to whisper
in an agitated way to the buxom wife of
an ex-Gaud Mayor, “I hope I am not doing
any damage!” as he gripped the elusive edge
ot her low corsage.
The O.B.E.—the disc for which is about
the size of a frying-pan and has a gold
and purple ribbon—is already irreverently
known as the Order of the Limelight. The
poorer women, who worked equally hard and
often had to practise self-denial to furnish
the needed time and funds, have received no
public recognition. Yet it was they who
kept supplies up in every direction. Many
of them have gone without butter on their
bread or milk in their tea for the sake of the
soldiers,
Aether plot against the Throne. About
debs, have grown up during the war
and the crop is waiting to nod to George
a '(f* Mary. Dorothy and Marjory Pearce
will be included in the harvest. That is
why the Power behind the Defence Minister
would never allow them to “come out” in
Australia.
After Lent the Melbourne matrons are to
have a pow-wow about arranging a revel for
Jellicoe. Nearly live years have passed since
the eiders of Melbourne sassiety worked
together over, a ball. Onlookers are wonder-
ing if there is to be any fresh and younger
blood transfused into the exclusive but rather
out-of-date set. At any rate, . there are
bunches of blossoms ready to debut, and
platoons of majors and colonels of 20-odd
whose presence would make any dance a
success.
Although the nature of the illness which
has made the newly-knighted Davies, Presi-
dent of the Leg. Council, a prisoner in the
home circle for six weeks has been kept
Quiet, it has now become known to his
triends that a stroke of paralysis has
affected his right leg. lie is in his 80th year,
and probably is reflecting that lie lias had a
fair innings. It he relies on his own judg-
ment he*will decline re-election to the
Council chair. in that event it is safe
to tip Manifold as his successor. Manifold
is unofficial leader of the House. Sachse is
Chairman of Committees, ambitious and
rich, but the House has not for him the
homage that it. paid to Palmer, Mitchell,
Macßain, Zeal. Wrixon and Davies—the
line of Presidents from 1850 to 1919. Mani-
fold is regarded as a better seventh man
when one is needed.
Sister McKinnell’s friends appeared to
expect that the whole staff at the Exhibi-
tion ’flu hospital would huffily resign when
she relinquished her job, just as they said
they would when the Mother Rectress of St.
\ iucent’s was asked by Bowser to take
charge a few weeks ago. Not only did
nobody resign in sympathy, hut the next
nurse, in rank, daughter of a former police-
superintendent and sister to an Anglican
vicar and chaplain, accepted promotion.
When the Geelong-born Bishop Stretch,
who has just gone the way which even
bishops must tread, was in Queenslgnd his
headquarters were once at Roma. As usual
the big. breezy cleric got on very well with
his flock. Some big station people gave him
a team of four cream-colored ponies, and he
was fond of driving them about the country.
One day he stopped for a yarn with a
couple of swaggies. At last Stretch, who
was not in uniform, said, “Well, s’long; I
must be going—got a show at St. George
to-night.” “S’long,” replied the others;
spose th’ rest, of tli’ circus ain’t far
behind?’’
O’Brien, Vic. Chief Government
Medical-officer, who is 66 but looks 12 years
younger, intends; to retire from the service
on June 80. The question of his right to a
pension for 40 years’ work has to be settled.
There was a short hreak in O’Brien’s term
of service. Relying on a ruling in an
exactly similar case, and on a decision given
in another appeal, the doctor did not trouble
about his claim (£6OO a year) till recently.
Now the official coldness displayed is discon-
certing him. Still, he has this in his favor—
he is almost universally recognised as one
of the finest types of public officials.
After spending years in Darwin, where
white women cannot live, Nurse Dolly Rose
came to Melbourne, contracted ’flu and died
in the Alfred Hospital. A Ballarat girl,
she went north some years ago and was well
loved. A jolly woman, still in her thirties;
a staunch democrat; a big-hearted Austra-
lian.
Captain Percy Chirnside is coming back to
his Werribee acres with his youngest hope,
Andrew, who is to be schooled at Geelong.
Mrs. Percy and her daughter will follow'.
George Collins Levey, who has died at last
in London, was one of the most-talked-of
newspaper men in the business when The
Bulletin was young. He had been the
first boss of a Melbourne penny Herald, and
an editor of the Age ere the Symes took
over the property. A man of affairs in jour-
nalism, and a fairly able writer, but a bit
of a snob. He pronounced his name Levvey,
for no apparent reason save to deny his
Hebrew ancestry. And he was a C.M.G.
Returned-missionary Nellie Sclioles, home
on furlough from the Presbyterian mission
at Chiuju, Korea, died last week at Box Hill,
brother Prank is medical superintendent of
the Fairfield Hospital, and Captain Jack,
another brother, died on service with the
A.I.F. in France.
Dr. Davenport has handed over his sum-
mer home at Sorrento to nurses convalescing
from the ’flu. There are no Government
convalescent homes for these women, who are
fighting with the same zeal as the soldiers
fought in the trenches.
Mrs. Alex. Thompson, of Fairlight station,
North Bananaland, is just recovering from
typhoid, contracted, she believes, in the ’flu
internment camp. Mrs. Thompson had
visited Sydney for her daughter’s wedding,
and going home had to put up with border-
camp insanitation.
Geelong Grammar School has received a
fine addition to its museum. The collection
of native weapons belonging to the late
Lieut. Ralph Clifton, who was killed in
France, has been handed over to his old
school by his. sister. Mrs. Montifiore, of
Jesslauds, Warra (Q.). The collection
was started in the very early Bananaland
days by the late Ralph Clifton, senior,
and is very valuable. The widowed mother
has been looking over the Geelong Grammar
corner dedicated to her son.
The Free Lending Braille Library (the
gift of the Edward Wilson Trust) will be
opened on Saturday by Senator George Fair-
bairn. Councillor Weller, who is president
of the Braille Writers, has invited people
to. the ceremony. The building, now just
bemg completed, i.s on Commercial-road,
bouth Yarra.
S. P. Mackay, who lately sold his pro-
perty at Berwick, has bought a nice home at
Gfenvale, about four miles beyond Whittle-
sea, where a couple of fine motors are
garaged. The owner before last was A. D.
Murphy, who was a racing partner of Sam
Hordern.
This busy Aus-
tralian, Alice Ander-
son, a young person
just out of her
teens, is an expert
mechanic who runs
a stable of six cars,
with a half-dozen
girl shovers, all of
wh o m she has
trained herself.
Each shover knows
her car in a way few
women know their
sewing machines.
The Anderson gar-
age is a regular
Princess Ida affair—
not a man about the
place. The girls
working about just wear “blueys.” They
have concluded, however, that no girl looks
well in ordinary pants, so they are evolving
a brown twill working-suit. ' When they
drive they wear pants and leggings with the
usual chauffeur’s tunic and cap. Miss
Anderson, pictured here by Alice Mills,
wears her hair close cropped and a boy’s
suit. She began three years ago with her
own car. Work increased and she trained
help. She needs more help now, and last
week an advertisement for “girls” to train
brought her 168 _ applicants of all ages.
She likes to catch ’em young. One appren-
tice (not yet a chauffeur) is a girl of 13.
The girls take touring trips as well as city
work, but they avoid night jobs as much as
possible. The chauffeurs wear khaki drill.
“It does fade,” they complain, and are pre-
paring ,a boiler of green dve in which to
transform their uniform.
Miss Anderson is related to our clever
University woman, Enid Derham. Enid’s
soldier-brother married one of the bright
Anderson girls. 5
Mrs. Bob Moleswortk, Mrs. Norman
Bayles’s only sister, has sent a letter to the
Argus suggesting that the Children’s Hos-
pital should have its fumis increased by rich
babies sending along their bits to help the in-
fants with no bank accounts. A cheque for
two guineas from Baby Molesworth was en-
closed. All over Toorak infants are throw-
ing aside their rattles and calling for cheque-
books and fountain-pens.
Mrs. Harold Blake, eldest of the Willie
Miller daughters and grand-daugliter of the
late “Money” Miller, is revisiting Melbourne.
She is now a widow with an attractive
daughter. Years ago she married an
American and settled in the United States.
The Euripides brought back Major Frank
de V. Lamb,_ who has been away for several
years Red Crossing in Egypt, England and
France. Frank belongs to the extensive
N. S. Wales flock of Lambs, and is one of
Dalgety’s bright young men.
Archibald Strong, whose god is Syntax,
has been appointed chief film-censor at
Melbourne in the place of Harry Wollaston,
of the Customs Department, resigned. Evi-
dently the Repatriation Department has no
unemployed talent on its books suitable for
the position, which carries an “allowance.”
New official jobs of this not unattractive
sort could surely be marked for ex-soldiers
of good reputation and some literary or
academic attainments, without prejudice to
the worldly prospects of capable oldsters
like Strong.
Stuart William Buchanan McGregor—a
man with an imposing nose and name—has
come as British
Trade Commissioner
in Australia. He
has spent four
months in roaming
around the Com-
monwealth, from
Darwin to Hobart,
and is now estab-
lished at Head-
quarters in Mel-
bourne. Besides
being a commercial
man he is a civil
and mechanical en-
gineer who spent
several years travel-
ling in South
America and also in
China on important
missions for the
b oreign Office. McGregor has started a
regular publication in Melbourne called
I rape and Commerce Notes, a valuable
collection of stone-hard facts.
Legal-manager George McLean, of Castle-
a l ™- 11 *’ ls T^ be new chief-president of the
A.N.A. He went on the Board of Directors
three years ago, after 20 years’ membership,
and his record in reaching the top after so
shoi t a term of Board-service has only been
equalled _by Assistant Defence-Minister
Wise. His love of harmony probably did
more than anything to put him there.
At each annual conference the more musical
delegates get together and form a choir,
which is always ready to rise up and sing
something on the slightest provocation. As
an affable choir-leader Mac filled a popular
rsle which presently brought him votes.
Professor Harry Allen, of the Uni., is to
have a jubilee next year. It is now 49
years since the learned old pathologist paid
his matriculation fee at the Shop.
Another great school war record is Mel-
bourne Grammar’s. Its roll of honor (in-
complete) contains 1301 names up to Dec.
12, 1918. Of these men 184 made the
supreme sacrifice. The distinctions gained
include 1 V.C. (W. D. Joynt), 7 C-B.’s, 1
K'C.M.G.’ 4 C.M.G.’s, 26 D.S.O.’s, 3
D.S.C. s (one with bar), 4 D.F.C.’s, 84
M.C.’s (three with bar), 6 D.G.M.’s 8
M.M.’s, 2 M.S.M.’s, 11 0.8.E.’s and 17
foreign decorations.
Unless Justice Hood can prove an alibi,
he will be convicted of keeping abreast
ot Yankee light literature. In a divorce
case the other day he observed that if the
co-re. was innocent he hadn’t the “courage
of a rabbit or the brain of a hen.” Either
R s a clear case of two minds jumping alike
W, ? e has been di PP in & into the latest
Porchy book. If that’s so and the habit
spreads, well have a Judge telling a witness
that he s got cold-storage space to let above
the ears and observing that counsel has a
nut full of decimal fractions.
Cecil De Mole, just dead in Brisbane" 5 after
x. wa * one of a n old Adelaide
family. All his life—-he was only 48 —was
? t0 n ® outb British Insurance Co.,
r l p ba , d been , manager in various cities
from Perth round to Townsville. He was
prominent in cricket and lacrosse in his
early days, and in golf latterly.
Adelaide’s depositions: —
inJl® Chi r br T ht back Ca P tain LA. Whit-
mgton, though, as the transport’s adjutant, he had
to go on to Brisbane with the ship, and quarantine
i egulations prevented his landing here. When he
gets back he will find his own obituary in the local
papers, for he was reported killed in October, 1917.
The Committee of the French Red Cross Appeal
has balanced its accounts and cabled £ 13,000-odd to
Paris as the result of its December effort.
Dr. C. Duguid and his wife and small son are
bound for a 12 months’ trip to Scotland. He arrived
here not long before the war, and served with the
A.M.C. during the Light Horse’s desert campaign.
He has been a great battler for the returned Digger.
Lieut.-Col. Bickle has had word that his son has
accepted a job in the submarine branch of the
R.A.N. and is on his way back with the flotilla.
Brewster Jones’s Symphony Orchestra drew a big
crowd to the Town Hall on Tuesday, when Franck’s
Symphony in D Minor was the star item. It was one
of the most ambitious musical efforts this city has
heard, but both the big orchestra of local musicians
and their conductor got it down. There should be
a record booking for the second concert in June.
Brewster Jones passed triumphantly through the
Elder Conservatorium and annexed the Elder Scholar-
ship when he was a very small boy, and, unlike some
prodigies, has done all that he promised then, and
more. He is composer as well as pianist and con-
ductor, and a Nightingale Suite of his own mixing
figured on Tuesday’s programme.
The shocking fist of a writer last week
made the name of Vera Jackson’s fiancG Gore
instead of Gove.
Edward De Garis, the Mildura magnate,
has decided on a second matrimonial venture,
Minnie Swanton Waugh, well known as a
Child Welfare worker, being his fellow-con-
spirator. The two met at a solemn confer-
ence, but found they had other things to talk
about beside the deserving poor.
Eina Pennicott, daughter of the vicar of
Christ Church, South Yarrtt, has booked for
a wedding with Douglas Boyd, son of the
William of Koroit. Eina is a grand-
niece of the Countess of Darnley, long ago
Florrie Morphy, of Melbourne.
Capt. J. .S. Wilson recently returned to
Australia. He saw four years’ service in
Gallipoli and France, and won a D.C.M. at
Menin-road. His marriage will shortly
take place with a well-known Melbourne
girl who has money of her own. As
’’Digger,” with luck, will get some of the
Wills’s Bristol cigarette money, the wolf
should never sight that door.
The Apollo-like widower Clarence Weber,
strong man though he is, succumbed to the
charms of Mrs. I. Mitchell, an attractive
war widow. The new Mrs. Weber is one
of his prize pupils, having won the gold
medal at his last demonstration. Seven
little Webers will gather round their kindly
stepmother.
May Gibbs, she of the gum-nut-baby art,
has a new hobby. Recently at Perth she
took up matrimony. James Ossoli-Ivelly
was selected by the artist-author for the
great experiment. '
After many months of ill-health Giulia
Tamburini Coy died in Melbourne just before
Easter. She and her late husband —Leandro
Coy, an excellent tenor—are remembered as
two of the brightest stars of the golden age
of opera in Australia, when Lyster was able
to produce it well and make it pay. Giulia
Coy (a niece by the way, of Tamburini, the
famous baritone, for whom Rossini delighted
to write operas) owned a soprano of rare
beauty and personal attractions not often
associated with vocal excellence. She was
75 when the call came.
Agnes Murphy has been in Melbourne for
a few days eating farewell food before she
departs for America. Mrs? Benjamin Hoare
gave her a party, and Mrs. Tom Hogan slew
the fatted turkey for a lunch.
From a Maorilander in London:—
Talking about war and its effect on the marriage
market, do you recollect the Ranfurlys (he was our
Governor some years ago) ? The son and heir
married Hilda Cooper, daughter of Daniel Cooper,
baronet, in 1912. He (Ranfurly’s only son) was
killed in action in 1915. Two years later his
widow (two sons) was wedded to Commander Geof-
frey Mills, who died soon after the event, also on
active service. Last year the lady said she would
again, this time to Michael Wardell, of the Hussars,
and a new baby boy is the fruit thereof.
In the new “Going Up” show at Her
Majesty’s there are some frocks that capture
the feminine eye. In the first scene the
hotel girls twinkle in lavender, with dinky
peaked caps, to keep in tune with the color
note of the scenery. Also the opulent
octette of previous disturbances have not
lost their capacity to startle the baldheads.
One ravishing confection is composed of little
gold hats with brief skirts of bear-skin, top-
ped off with the same, though it isn’t spelt
the same way.
The limit (to date) in the way of an
entente cordiale between stalls and stage
is reached in a N’Yark revue. The
chorus, wearing black satin bloomers, stock-
ings and any diamond rings it happens to
possess, slips on a diaphonous body gar-
ment, and singing a ditty, “Button me up
the back,” pranees into the front stalls and
permits the occupants thereof to perform
the required service.


••••
J
m
Cy»
mm
. V
■
m
SsP&SRFj
IS®
mm
m
25#
■
•:• ;
roil
s«
m
gfS
-.■: •/
«piK>!
•;-- : ;,V; , ; . ■. ' .
UZ ' s fjr.
f*SPwawate»
Vice-Admiral SirK.RSiurdee
MEBBHMHtMiiaiiißiMfci
asgaafflasai
‘WSS’
%
111
Ivhi&U'
m
■ w,
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sturdee is one of a new series of drawings speci-
ally executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being- entirely
free from advertising- matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir
Douglas Haig, General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W.
Robertson, General Foch, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D.
Sturdee, will be sent to any address on receipt of six penny (Commonwealth)
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD,, 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
f%. i /% nr cr n
%/ % / / % i **«* # i
V V /—% f . 1% #/
a %
T
%
m. k
*S
J
l
t ri
%
%
1
I
v


i
Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
King
George V
‘ <
CHAMPAGNE^
OlarlfisHeidsie*
Reims
'*«• 01
sS*rgs,
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
& *£&**> gg*
THE
BRAND of QUALITY
V and 'o
preserving
trade mark
registered
ini:
lII
We»CM7 WHIM PACKL
5 t N o E wV^
FOR
LINOS, WOOD FLOORS, etc.
There is ONLY ONE “NUGGET.”
Refuse Just as Good.
SILK!
The Fabric of the Ages
In the year 2697 b.c. a Chinese Empress, “Lui-Tsu.”
invented silk-weaving - . For over 4000 years its
popularity has never waned. And to-day its light-
ness, durability and beauty are appreciated and
utilised as never before.
There is scarcely a garment that modern women
wear for which silk is not recognised as the ideal
material for all seasons and occasions.
Exquisite “Vanity Fair” Silks
Find one of their daintiest expressions in
“Vanity Fair” Silk Gloves
Every pair contains a binding guarantee from the
maker. The Sydney representative of the Mill will
make good this Guarantee to the retail trade.
The Schuylkill Silk Mills, Reading, Pa., U.S.A.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
George Martin, who went under to in-
fluenza last week, was the youngest son of
the late Chief-Justice Martin. His mother
—a sister of the late W. A. Long—was a
notable figure in Sydney quarter of a cen-
tury ago. Only two members of the once
big family are left here—a sister (Mrs.
Harry Manning, wife of the well-known bar-
rister) and a brother. Another brother,
Charles, enlisted from Queensland and was
killed at Morlancourt last year while taking
a gallant part in a raid. George Martin
lived at the University Club, whose secretary
died of influenza a couple of weeks ago.
Captain Camberlege is returning in
charge of the Australia, and there will be
rejoicing on the social waterfront. Many
senior R.N. officers are a shade nervous
about the Australian Navy; their positions
are assured in their own conservative service,
and they dread the hand of the politician
in the R.A.N. Captain Camberlege has
never been one of these. He has now had
everything from a T.B.D. to a battleship
in the R.A.N., and has been satisfied all the
time. And so have the men under him.
Writing to a friend in Sydney, Sir Gerald
Strickland says that a fortnight after Lady
Ldeline s death he lost his eldest brother,
who was a resident of Malta. The ex-
Gov. and family were just then proceeding
to their old Westmoreland home—Sizergh
Castle, which dates from the 12th century.
There was a double event in the Charles
Laurence family at Birralee, Strathfield, a
few days ago. Mrs. Laurence had just
completed 50 years with her lawyer, and the
Little Boy from Manly and all the other
children and still more grandchildren met
f he . web-preserved “heads” on the lawn to
load them with flowers and other golden-
wedding gifts. That was the first event.
Ihe second, which was brought off in the
evening, was the marriage of Roy, the baby
of. the Laurence family, just back from
Trance, to Miss Glover, whom he met in
Klighty. He had been wounded, of course
it generally begins that way.
wa ® the , S uest of honor of the
Wai Chest Depot workers on a sunny after-
noon last week. Mrs. Meares, an' ardent
War-chester, lent her green lawns at Belle-
yue Hill for the foregathering of 120 fellow-
workers, who applauded vigorously when
their popular superintendent received her
CaT>taC? e Af glft f t 0 a . cc °mpanying laudations.
Captain Moseley, who has been one of the
sliest s most persistent packers, made the
presentation speech, in which he outlined
the war-work done by women from the
tropics to the poles. At the psychohUcal
moment Mrs Chambers produced the jeweL
kr s case and the Captain handed over the
ITSsmiledY 01 f ltS platinum chain - Mrs!
Antill smiled her famous smile over the Vic-
tonan posy from the War Chest flower shop
and thanked everybody very prettily Then
there was tea and talk, a^d P a flutter was
caused among the younger set by one miss
Singapore." foment to Som
£mSI! JSSL Easte •»
th?a e bsence Ui of U thf erm W£lS res P° a sible for
-I t he groomsman and one of
T eSl ?f'? S £ rom the wedding of Minnie
Lorraine Metcalfe, daughter of the \ t
Metcalfes, of Cremorne, to William G Cnod’
rich, of Waroo station (Q. The hrit
lietrolTi' <l
furkpi i Ue • ninoD - ? he ncw Mrs. Goodrich
r C t )ne i of Austr «lia’s best, Corporal
Mick Meahy, has passed out Win, in,. 1
years' active service to liis credit i '
Another influenza victim durino' ,
was Dr. Elworthy, of ffidwick "if
belonged to the Elworthys. 0 f Imbil station* 3
Cympie, and his wife was n a,?,, f: tl0n ;
Sydney Maxted. who for Vears d and ° f
2Sr "' c s - &suss
Forty-six qualified nurses and voluntary
Aids engaged in nursing influenza cases are
in residence at the temporary Red Cross
Hostel over the jam and pickle depbt at the
corner of York and Brskine streets. The
Red Cross has the use of four floors. Mrs.
Joscelyne is in charge and keeps a strict eye
on the separation of contacts and non-con-
tacts ; and on Thursday afternoon the lady’s
heart was made glad by a cheque for £lO
from a caller who wanted to do her bit. The
£lO represented a short Easter vacation for
some of the worn-out workers.
Jean Morton is working in one of the ’flu
wards at Prince Alfred, where she specialises
in scrubbing. Sister Ruth is on duty at
Chester Convalescent Home for Y.A.D.’s at
Potts Point. Rosamund McMillan, a
daughter of the calico knight, is hon. cook at
Chester. Another McMillan girl, Joselyn,
has gone to New York to join her aunt, Mrs.
J. B. Scott, who is an arc-light of the
Theosophical Society in the big cranky city.
The Morton girls are not novices at this
sort of thing. During the recent fighting
they cooked and did housework in hospitals.
The feminine side of the family is as efficient
as it is picturesque. Their mother, Mrs.
Philip Morton, can show points in cooking
to most chefs.
Beatrice Holloway and her husband,
Robert Greig, are both ’flu sufferers. In
fact, it has been noticed that almost every
member of the Symposium group at the
I rince Alfred floral ffite has been stricken in
a greater or less degree.
J. H. Curie, with over a million miles of
travel to his credit, turned pale and fled
before the difficulty of getting from Sydney
to Melbourne for Easter. He stood the
inoculation, but the succession of health
tests and temperatures proved too much for
him, and he retired to his habitat at the
Coogee Bay Hotel. He says that a lion in
one s path is a lamb compared with the offi-
cial with a thermometer.
A man discovers one of our new toys :
Scene: Smoking compartment of a train about to
bound from Sydney to the Mountains. There are a
couple of men standing and two girls sitting. Enter
guaid. ‘Now, ladies, I will have to ask you to
move out: this is a smoker 1” One of the girls pro-
duces a handbag, from the depths of which she ex-
tracts cigarettes, matches and a holder. To the
holder is fastened a ring, which she slips on the end
of her finger so that the nicotine shall not stain her
pretty paw. Having given her friend a gasper, she
lights one herself and waits to see the effect of the
performance. The guard tumbles out backwards.
J. S. Watkins’s life-size portrait of Mrs.
Black, wife of George Black, ex-Chief Secre-
i l *? i e *.y was well known for her
philanthropic work—was offered as a gift
tw? e f and ’ 011 refusal
there, to the Mitchell Library. The trustees
of the gallery had “no space,” and the com-
mittee of the library had only “regrets.” But
the picture will be on exhibition for three
months, anyhow, at the , Hordern Gallery.
Two visitors from Java are trying to enjoy
our climate and restrictions. They are the
lran h C V ambers couple—Mr. and Mrs.—
and they look, a very good advertisement for
nine years ot the dense, wet heat of the
Hutch East Indies. He is a cousin of Had-
Burns-Philp eiS ageDt in Souraba - va for
This is D’Arcy
Addison, who mar-
ried the handsome
Downer widow in S.
Aus. a few weeks
ago. Under a mask
of cheerful modesty
he hides a fund of
cleverness and tact,
shown by the num-
ber of the Speck’s
Premiers he has suc-
cessfully handled as
Under-Secretary. As
he is an expert
swimmer and boxer
the troubles of matri-
mony can be met
with an unruffled
front. Addison is
dated 1873, but you
would never guess it from his extremely
3'outhful appearance.
• Ti ie Art hiir kassetters, who returned here
in the Osterley, are already on the way back
to London by the Ulysses. Mrs. Lassetter
has been working for nearly “the duration”
in the 3000-bed hospital at Cambridge, her
home town When flumonia struck that in-
stitution, 30 deaths a day were not unusual,
hut no extras in a precautionary way
were taken. “No masks, no scare. We
were much too anxious and busy trying to
get enough food and the right food for our
. says - As for food, she didn’t
think till she got back here that there was
so much in the world. Mrs. Lassetter was
founder and president of the Prisoners’ Aid
Association (women’s committee) in Sydney
and Miss Emily Cox (president) gave' a tea
at Rose Bay Golf Club so that members
might meet their former colleague.
Mrs. John Hughes, after about three years
of Blighty and thereabouts, is returning with
remaining daughter Mary (Cicely is now
Major Austin Curtin’s wife) and son-Gilbert,
who wears twin stars. With them is Cap-
tain Geoffrey Hughes, whose parents, Knight
Thomas and his lady, have gone across the
Pacific to meet their now only child. The
elder son, Captain Roger, was killed a couple
of years back in France. Captain Bryan,
son of Mrs. John Hughes, who earned an
M.C. with the Irish Fusiliers, was killed
12 months ago. Another son is still Over
There.
Mrs. Agnes Macartliur King, who presided
over the Girls’ Evening Committee from the
Ist of Genesis, was handed a souvenir the
other night—a soldier-made leather handbag.
The girls’ committee is not to sink into
oblivion, but will give a hand to the family
of any deceased soldier in need of help.
H. J. Taperell,
photographed here
by Judith Fletcher,
was recently ap-
pointed to the edi-
tor’s chair of Syd-
ney Evening News.
He is a Maorilander
—native-born—a n d
if you could hear
him yarn about the
inner political games
in that politically-
exploited country
you’d be quite satis-
fied of the need for
extended suffrage for
women—two votes to
one for man ! Syd-
ney Daily Tele-
graph induced Mr.
Taperell to cross the Tasman and join its
staff, and for years he did notable dramatic
criticism and leader-writing for the paper.
When the Sunday Times was being recon-
structed some little time ago he was given
a responsible post on the quarter-deck and
remained there until the Bennett house made
him an offer that he couldn’t reasonably turn
down. His hobby is journalism.
Brisbane’s Easter egg .
Lieut. Jack Finlay, who before his soldiering days
was a popular officer in the A.U.S.N. Co.’s service,
is home again. He and Miss Plant, youngest
daughter of Lieut.-Col. Plant, celebrated the occasion
by getting married. They are studying the moon
at Cairns.
Mrs. and Miss Buckland Taylor are leaving for
U.S.A. very soon. At present they are farewelling
relatives at Toowoomba.
Eddie Cahill and George Brooke have arranged a
concert in aid of the Children’s Hospital Nurses*
Quarters Fund, to take place on May 5. Lady
Goold-Adams has promised to be amongst the critics.
The new aide-de-camp, Lieut. Hector de Tuetey, is
a good Australian of French descent, who left Queens-
land in Sept., 1914, with the 9th Battalion. He
was twice wounded on Gallipoli, won his commis-
sion, and served in France with the 49th Battalion.
Capt. Cosens and his wife are returning to England.
One of the Queensland Morts is engaged
to Tim Merewether, of Newcastle. The
Merewethers are big mine and house-pro-
perty owners up north.
Tim Keigwin .is on his way to Australia
with his new w-ife, who was Gwen Hughes.
He means to settle down in Sydney and toil
at the family’s wine and spirit business.
Jack Cannot is opening a singing and act-
ing class at Paling’s on the 10th of next
month. His ambition is to abandon the
stage and settle down with his wife and
infants at Coogee.
Chailes Mackellar, M.L.C., and his wife
are settling down in their new Wahroonga
home. The just-returned son is a tall, good-
looking youth, who went to London origin-
ally in search of a commission in some mere
foot-slogging regiment. However, when the
War Office authorities noticed his size—and
that .of. his cheque-book—thev heaped a
commission in the Life Guards on him.
Before the war no one was eligible for
nomination to commissioned rank ~in this
arm of the service (every officer, by the
way, has to be nominated or approved by
the Sovereign) unless he could show a
private income of not loss than £lOOO a
year. The financial conditions were relaxed
f, u “ e after the first few holocausts, but
the moneyed. man was still favorably re-
CVmS v Pinky r T £ reene ’ of landra, and
IwfbJa V A rS ’ !° f Kmg s Plains ’ other
Household Cavalrymen from N. S. Wales.
hflvp Ve st™P^ d 'iL Smitl1 ’ wbo is su PPO se d to
have stood in the vestibule of the Australia
as d voun£ m S apt - C 2° k ’ finds that he isn,t
as young as he used to be; so he has
obtained relief of the onerous job of glneiS
manager and become consulting mfnager.
whn P bf\ lias been taken by secretary Tyler,
who has been long enough on the premise's
hardlv°TTre e™-* 1 ?. mi ' ddle -aged. And yet
mano- L ?■ Smith s Place either. Of course
managing-director Tilley brought hack
ideas from America, and one result will be
some structural alterations. The offices
will be pushed back to provide for more
vestibule, and the manager will nest aloft
on a mezzanine.
Crafts work made the windows
ot Uiallis House attractive this Aveek.
China bowls are radiant with gum blos-
soms, while the leather-work makes the
average woman wish she had been brought
up to the profession of bag-snatching. The
poet who wrote about the cup that cheers
must have had a vision of Miss Newman’s
tea-set. l ottery, woodwork, oxidised copper
and art jewellery are displayed in many
original designs. A xylonite set, with pyro-
graphic design of peacocks, is the work of
Miss Elliott, one of whose hand-mirrors the
National Gallery has secured.
By this time Jellicoe is casting his
weatlier-eye over the Australian navy, and
no doubt picking up a number of hints as to
how not to do things from our Navy Depart-
ment.
Bridge, who married Victorian-girl
Ethel Sinclair, is coming to the very front of
London musical circles; and Royal com-
mands and strawberry-leaves are strewn
upon his daily path. His compositions have
an appealing charm.
If you are thinking of adding to your
collection of Australian artists, all you have
to do is to drop into the Salon of Fine Art
which came into existence last week at the
Metropolitan Buildings. The rooms are
papered in neutral tints, against which the
pictures show to great advantage. In addi-
tion to the paintings, there are fine collec-
tions of etchings and painted china. The
Ashtons, Muir Auld, Wolinski. Lister-Lister,
J. S. W atkins, Lionel Lindsay and Ure
Smith have some delightful Avork on exhibi-
tion.
Died at Monte Saint Angelo last week,
Sister Mary Baptist, who was a daughter of
the late Dr. Ileeney, of Brisbane. Thirty of
the 48 years she spent in the religious life
Ayere passed at the North Sydney convent.
A brother of Sister Baptist’s, Mr. F. X.
Ileeney, is one of the Land Court Judges of
the northern State.
The Mark Cohens, of Dunedin (M.L.L
are in Sydney. Mark has edited the Even-
ing Stab in that frozen extremity since time
immemorial, and to think of him apart from
the editorial chair is as impossible as to
think of a Dunedin first night without some
of the Cohen family in the front row of the
dress-circle.
Captain and Mrs. Bromwich lately gave a
farewell tennis party at Garden Island in
honor of I auline McMorran, who sailed with
her parents for England last week. Pauline’s
mother intends to leave her in Paris with
relatives for a year. Mrs. McMorran and
Mrs. Harvey, wife of the Judge, are sisters.
The Catholic Women's Association Ball,
which Avas to, be. held on May 7, has been
postponed to an indefinite date in June.
The War Chest flower shop puts up its
shutters on the 27th, and the War Chest
Depot slams its door finally on the 30th of
this month.
Oh Monday next the flag will flutter gaily
on the spot where Cook’s foot made its fitst
impression on Australian soil, and more flags
Avill mark the anchorage of the Endeavor —
or, at any rate, get as close to it as the
Uldest Inhabitant can remember.
. Mrs - B. K. MacKinnon is up to her eyes
in preparations for the Junior Red Cross
Exhibition which is to take place on June
lw and 13 in the Town Hall, microbes per-
mitting. . AnyAvay, the hopeful youngsters
are keeping up the keenest interest.
News comes of the marriage in London
of Captain George Gardiner, of the 13th
Battalion, to Sister Parish CW.A.). They
met on the Karoola in 1915, Avhen Captain
Gardiner was returning from Gallipoli with
a badly-wounded leg and the pretty Sister
was working as one of the ship’s staff. He
was given a Home Service job in Sydney,
but tired of it and pushed back into the
A. 1.1. By the end of 1916 he was with
his battalion in France, and lie finished up
by being wounded, again and taken prisoner
bj the Huns. Sister Parish Avas almost as
near the front line as he was most of the
time. She was working in the C.C.S. at
Steenwerck when the Germans decided to
begin their 1918 Spring offensive. Boche
airmen flew over and dropped leaflets warn-
ing those in charge of the clearing-station
to get the patients aAvay, and to go them-
selves, as the town, station and railway line
were to be bombarded. Sister Parish was
one of the last nurses to leave, and she took
with her Captain Biwping, M.C.. a
brother-officer of her fiance, Avho had been
dangerously Avounded in a German raid a
tew days earlier.
Mary M. EdAvards, the brilliant pastel-
colorist, has groAvn tired of country life, and
is about to settle in a city studio once more.
Several fashionable hotels report an
alarming outburst of hay fever—said to be
to the season’s heavy crop of grass


mam
W^' s \
■
'*>■
m,
. . Y . '.• "
■ s.’
V-' - j ' ,
.■« ,! * ” * ■
Co-operative with You.
The Studebaker business divides its profits with the buyers of Studebaker Cars
not with the parts-makers.
Studebaker Cars are manufactured complete m Studebaker Plants.
Studebaker Motors, Springs, Bodies, Hoods, Drop Forgings are all made in
Studebaker Plants.
Special formulae for Studebaker Steels are worked out, and the Steels are analysed
and tested in Studebaker Laboratories.
Studebaker Gears, Axles and Transmissions are all manufactured and heat-treated
in Studebaker Plants.
And this completeness of Studebaker Manufacture means not only better, stronger
and longer lasting cars ;
But in addition it means the saving of the parts-makers’ profit—the waste and
extravagance of the “assembled or semi-manufactuied car.
25
Studebaker Cars are Quality Cars
But the huge volume of Studebaker production and the efficiency of Studebaker distribution makes
Studebaker Prices Low in Comparison
IN THE NEW SERIES 19 MODELS—
A Light Four. A Light Six. A Big' Six.
All that can be built into a complete line of Cars to give
GREATER VALUE FOR LESS MONEY
AND
A LONGER LIFE AT LESS EXPENSE
has been achieved.
These beautiful models are now in our showrooms. You may test the roadability, comfort and luxury o
the complete car on the road.
If you cannot call we will bring the car to you or gladly forward illustrated literature at your request.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch : 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
. ; v ■ 1 » 'i'.? '■ '
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
Wanganui.
masr*


L_
1
. \ *
8
saaa
1
LL
5
TO buy collars that hear
the Pelaco brand is to be
assured of the true satisfaction
that high quality alone affords.
Mercers everywhere sell Pelaco
Collars, Shirts and Pyjamas.
Made in Australia
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.” I
tH
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
! describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
<-‘opy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN."
The harry J. "WESTON
Postal .School of Drawing
117 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/0 per (lay, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002.
Apply Manager.
CSTERBROOKS
*"■ PEN NIBSj
As a business-man
you like a smooth,
rapid correspond-
i ence Pen.
Write—“Esterforook,” Box 98 G.P.0., Sydney,
K.S.W., for samples of ESTKEBEOOK’S Swan
and Federal Pen > T ibs.
Ihc Standard Remedy which lias outlived the Centunru.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since Ifl'.ic. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
ft, GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, EngUai
■ . ItWUt «U‘‘Oiogleton a "-'refuse all substitutes.
m
A BIG DIP
THE "BODLIA”
STOCK SADDLE
[This Saddle will appeal to those riders who like a very dippy seat.
The pads run well up the thighs, giving the rider increased security.
The seat is narrow in the waist, giving a good grip. It has long daps,
long girth straps buckling below flaps, short panel with wide leather
points and extended leather facings at back. The seat is of Pigskin
and built on our best “Fouright” tree —the shape-right, wood-right,
plating-right, strength-right tree. The fittings included arc folded
leather girth, bevelled leathers and solid nickel stirrups. Send your
height and weight when ordering.
£>llls/-
Freight Free for Cash with Order to any
Port or Railway Station in N. F. Wales.
Buyers in Queensland and other States, write for liberal freight
concessions. Ask for our fine Catalogue—l3o pages of Saddlery
' to interest you.
Walther# Stevenson Ltd.
Saddlers,
393 George St.
BYDNEY.
(Copyright.)
THE “MYSTERY MESSAGE.”
GET THIS.
TALK IT.
SING IT.
DREAM IT.
SUN-RAYSED
YOU MUST
THEN YOUR
EVERY
(IF CO
WILL S E
FRUITS ARE
BUY AND
ORDER
FOUR POUNDS
RRECTLY
CURE A
VER Y SWEET
COUNT AND EAT
YOU REPEAT
EACH ONE BUYS
THEY SURMISE)
BIG CASH PRIZE.
£2500 in CASH - CASH - CASH £2500
FIRST PRIZE, £lOOO CASH.
2nd PRIZE, £250. 3rd PRIZE, £lOO. 4th PRIZE, £5O.
1600 OTHER CASH PRIZES OF £1 AND 107-
Equal opportunities for EVERY MAN, WOMAN and CHILD
who can COUNT.
SEE “THE BIG STUNT”—PAGE 29.
tt
♦
C. J. DeGARIS, Director of Publicity, A.D.F.A., Mildura, Vic.
GET THE HABIT - "SUN-RAYSED
iJUJ'fci;
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes front
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay .
TARIFF from 12/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/*
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
A Gentleman's Superb Country Residence.
COWRIE HEAD-STATION PROPERTY,
Darling Downs, Queensland.
CLOSE to Kingsthorpe Railway Station, and distant twelve miles by road from
Toowoomba.
A superior, commodious house, built of stone; twelve-foot verandahs; ten
rooms, stables and numerous other detached offices; garden and orchard; well,
bore and mill, and a four-roomed cottage.
This ideal country home stands on an elevated position surrounded by a rich,
cultivable, black-soil plain.
The land, which comprises the homestead block of the Gowrie Repurchased
Estate, being portion 51, parish of Isaac, containing an area of 260 acres, i
open for Perpetual Lease Selection under the State land laws; capital va >
£2080; annual rental, £72 165.; provisional valuation of improvements, xooi )■
For further particulars concerning this valuable property
personally or by letter, to the District Land Agent’s Office. Toowoomba, or
to the Land Settlement Inquiry Branch, Department of Public oan ~
Brisbane.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Dorothy A.: “Atonement” close up; but
hardly fresh enough. .. .Jim C.: When you tell a
story like that, why not make the thing at least look
credible by giving place and time?... .Caloola :An old
bin. .. .Crow: Write Sydney University Society for
Combating Venereal Diseases, and to the Government
Printer, Sydney, for a copy of the Venereal Act.
Further particulars from Miss Ettie A. Rout, M.L.
Soldiers’ Medical Club, Hornchurch, England....
Albert W.: Can’t trace it... .L.F.W.: War verses
not quite good enough. Go again... .T.0.N.: Don’t
guarantee to return pars, even when accompanied by
stamps... .Undereliffe: “Alcoholiday” is a good
word; but the sketch falls short. Returning....
Joe A.: Can’t advise you how to remove tattoo mark-
ings. .. .Billy Manly: You saw published in Mel-
bourne some photos of eight youths, standing behind
a surf life-saving reel, labelled “The Two Premier
Life-saving Teams of Australia—the West St.
Kilda Open Sea-bathers’ Teams”? Well, send the
publishers some real surf in a bottle... .A.R.N.: Not
nearly... .J.N.: Yarn of the bottles wanted lighter
handling.... D.P.M.: The verse doesn’t move u 5....
A.N.: N0....L.W.: Pretty poor effort. Even in the
noblest flights of song it is reasonable to expect that
some of the lines shall mean something... .11. P.: An
easy parody like that should at least keep to the
metre. Yours goes wrong from the first line....
W.E.C.M.: Haven’t you found out yet that the
people of Australia are something other than
“colonial.”... .G.R.M. : “New Dynasty” doesn’t
carry enough interest. .. .W.W.: Very crude. .. .
A.G.J.: “China” held for inquest... .Vingt: Don't
care for “unloved.”... .C.W.: No yarn worth telling
in that... .O.B.: It has all your well-known distinc-
tion of style:—■
These little ones spring up like flowers in Spring,
They prattle round our knees in the eve,
Not long it seems before they’re on the wing,
To fight their way it’s hard to believe.
To fight their way in this world to make,
A mother’s heart heaves a sigh;
Often to think the part they’ll take,
A mother's love is always nigh.
Yet they go in their teens and dream of things,
Like birds in the air on the wing;
Youth is strong all beauty it brings,
A mother’s heart filled, gladly she sings.
. ...L.L.: “My Tricolor” seems to be insane, though
it may be only ridiculous E. 8.: Sorry the “Sum-
mer Girls” don’t work C.C.D.: “Pugilism and
Bed” misses, but not by a mile J.P.: “Kaiser”
yarn goes heavily; and the attempt to drag mirth
in by the left ear fails G.L.T.: “Drink of Water”
held for consideration 1.R.M.: It didn’t quite
hatch 0ut.... A.R.H.: Take it away and fumigate it.
It isn't safe to have an insanitary thing like that
about just now G.G. (probably): Very bad verse
on a theme that has already been handled 25,765
times... .Jeano: Verse doesn't exaetty thrill u 5....
W.D.: Have a look at a sample:—
Factories he is building by the score,
While Australia is content to say,
Contemplating building hundreds more,
Australia perhaps some day may.
After the past four years of glory,
While our lads have been away,
We hear the same old story,
Nothing done, politicians on big pay.
.. . .J.P.: Charon yarn too forced and artificial. .. .
E.J.H.: Too rough No Name: “Was it Hypno-
tism?” mixed and incoherent.,. .A.E.S.: “Bloody
Muddy Fields'’ is not up to standard... .H.R.M. :
Must go back. ...Parane Desmond: We don’t publish
novels. .. .E.G.C.: Watch your rhymes. You can’t
rhjme law with “ashore.” Can’t remember the
“Dugouts.” C.R.8.: That washing-day idea better
done before. In verse of that sort four lines require
two pairs of rhymes N.C.M.: Not up by some dis-
tance K.K.: “Mr. Mackey” doesn't make a yarn.
. ...R.W.C.: Very dull story T.8.G.: No
R.N.C.: Pretentious verse about nothing much....
M.J.L.: The sparrow doesn’t fly here Wattle
Bloom: Commonplace without skill \dmiral:
Doesn’t quite convince Tom R.: Verse very
p00r... .C.M.A.: Nice idea, but verse doesn’t carry
it... .T..J.L.: “Splitter” fell just on the wrong side.
... .Hermish : One sure way of getting typewritten
MS. received coldly is to pack the lines so tight
that a pen can't be dug in between... .Deirdre: We
saw the old man coming Munchanaio: Too
5ma11..,. .Critic: Why should it be “a catch for easy
victims t Within limits, there’s no reason why a
sound farmers’ co-operative co. should not work on
deposits from shareholders. The N.Z. Farmers’ Co-
operative Association of Canterbury holds about
£460,000 of deposits, four-fifths of them fixed from
two to five years. Trouble usually arises when the
money is withdrawable at almost a moment’s notice.
But if a co. invites deposits when it should be
calling up additional capital it deserves a brick.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.L.11.: Improve your drawing about 90 per cent,
and search for brighter gags....L. McD.: We’ll
manage, thanks. .. .Bart: Doesn’t suit. Correct
the sign in the background if submitting
elsewhere D.W.M.: Strained humor. ...D.G.: Per-
haps the stupid old lady can’t see the picture. You
haven t drawn her face....A.S.: They depart peace-
fully under your flag of truce and banner of stamps.
. ...YV.C.: The people and fashions you invent are
wonderful. The uncle looks the quaintest of the lot.
(J.W.: First attempt foiled. Study hard and late.
Norma W.: It isn’t C.V.J.D.: If Uncle is
so bent on assisting the weak, hand him your draw-
ing N.: No gaiety in it Olive L.: Art suffer-
ing from nervous debility C.S'.W.: Can only
damn it with faint praise G.N.: Jones, Brown
and Smith make creaky jokes and are not built
right.
Australia being a country with very few
jobs available, because most of the manu-
factured goods it needs are made in other
countries, the Repatriation Department is
trying all sorts of dodges to get returned
soldiers off its hands. The latest is to offer
to pay up to three-fifths of the wages if an
employer will give an inefficient man a job,
the subsidy period being limited to three
months. There are obvious dangers in the
system, for there are heaps of employers
who won’t pay any man 60s. a week out of
their own pockets when they can get some-
body else to contribute 365. of it.


Shipping.
orient Tine
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabinea-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
prirnte Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding spiling
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 424 C,
4247,
4810.
2, 4. 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities,
NEXT SAILING, MAY 7,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Teleohone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Wan kin
I'iiblic Companies. &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES: E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Oilice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors —Geo, Edwd. Bunning, Esq, (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. •
Jas. Milne, Esq.; \V. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —TV. V. RALSTON,
HEAD OI'T'ICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
limited.
Authorised Capital £2,000 000
Capital Paid Up £1’198,679
Reserve Fund £145,000
Oirectori; MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD • FRANK N
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq ■ Hon F
JAGO SMITH. M.L.C. ' '
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (204 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street)
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. ' ~ £529 988
Preference Shares.. 750’000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000) ’
„ , 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
. , - i j , land, Fi ji> Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual
Banking business.
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
MACDONALD.
HAMILTON g CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian'United Steam Navigation
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. NIAGARA and R.M.S. MAKURA.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies —is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trij>.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe,
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Fox 1 illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
> £3,90-1,860
- £8,025,000
- £3,904,860
Direr,tors:
£10,834,720
The Hon. Sir Cnarles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
P. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors :S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Eaithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager : Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
330 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
JM ot ßustraKa
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL,
DENISON MILLER,
Governor
Deputy Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1881.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow,
Esq. M.L.A.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers—The Bank of England; The London County and Westminster and
Parr’s Bank, Limited; Barclays Basak, Limited e&iuuusrer and
agents and correspondents throughout the world.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Intending passengers for other States
are requested to inquire at Quarantine
Department, Customs House, Sydney,
regarding necessary permits required
before sailing. •
Permission to break journey at inter-
mediate Ports is suspended
Inter-State Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
j FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY AND
FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE
AND CAIRNS.
Huddart Parker LiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE. BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
10 include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FIXE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 0500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Arnra,"
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe, and Yokohama.
Steamer.
TANGO MARU.
NIKKO MARU.
AKI MARU
TANGO MARU'.
8000
-J CS CD
o o o
o o o
Tons.
Sails Noon.
2nd May.
30th May.
27th June,
j Ist August.
Passengers must obtain from the Quarantine
Authorities permits to leave New South Wales at least
three days before the steamer’s departure.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—AII Passengers proceeding' to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Monev,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE •
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL. £500,000.
Fire Insurances
i
Marine Risks
5 effected on ail classes of
■ Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.


I
ys\ u '•/■//
N\\ v.
•> N '/
0J( 0
BILLIARD&.SNOOKE
a
vm
M
In play they are resilient —faultless in running-—true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizes: i|in 2in. 2^in.
10/6 15/6 17/6 25/-set
(Postage on One Bet N.S.W., 9d.; Other States, 1/2).
SNOOKER BALES
Sizes; l|in. lfin 2in. 2,iin.
£4/5/- £4)15/" £5/5/- £B|B/- set
(We Pay Carriage on Snooker Balls).
Sole Australasian Distributers:
m 2
Headquarters— Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
Stella Power
sings for
The NEW EDISON
Australia's own brilli-
ant coloratura soprano
is an exclusive Edison
artist.
This gifted singer, in whose future
Dame Melba has become so pro-
foundly interested, has sung for The
NEW EDISON seven of her finest
concert numbers. These are con-
tained in three records, and those in
a position competent to judge pro-
claim that these “re-creations” could
not be better, as they are exactly like
the artist’s voice.
Madame Power is amongst us again, delighting audiences with her
great vocal gifts.
Hear her on The NEW EDlSON—then compare the “re-creation”
with the singer’s actual rendition.
Order from this list:—.
80400.
(a) BLACKBIRD’S SONG (Scott).
(b) SONGS MY MOTHER TAUGHT ME
(Dvorak).
UNA VOCE POCO FA (A Little Voice I
Hear). II Barbie re Di Siviglia (Ros-
sini). In Italian.
80401.
CHARMANT OISEAU (Thou Brilliant
33ird). La Perle Du Bresil (David).
i T n French.
SPRING (George Henschel).
80402.
BED HAGGIO lAJSINGHEIR (Bright
Oleam of Hope). Semiramide (Ros-
sini). In Italian.
XYMPHES ET SYBVAINS (H. Bemberg).
In 'French.
On sale NOW at all Edison dealers.
"ull details post free from
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Types - and tfieir pipes
&
V/
m
t*
1
Tfie favorite of
Artisan c Aristocrat
It is the pipe of the majority—a pipe
that most smokers prefer, and that they
can afford.
Pipe merit and pipe economy are
summed up and typified by the well-
known trade-mark :
G
D
MANY POPULAR SHAPES.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.


Another Mother
Praises Rexona
4r
FT;
MRS. E. BARKER
<from a photo).
We are such constant users of
both Rexona and Rexona Soap in
our family that I thought I would
write and tell you how highly we
think of it, and send you a pic-
ture of my little boy. Ever
since he was a baby I have bathed
him with Rexona Soap, and he
loves it, and whenever he hurts
himself he always comes running
to mamma for a little Rexona.
He has every faith in it. and it is
truly wonderful how useful it is,
and how quickly it cures up all
his little hurts and keeps them
from becoming serious.
In our family we would never
think of such a. thing as being with-
out Rexona and Rexona Soap, I
think it is most delightful, and
use it to shampoo my hair and
for the bath and toilet. It is cer-
tainly admirable for every pur-
pose.
Wishing Rexona every success,
Believe me, Sincerely yours,
( Sgd.) MRS. E. BAHKER,
Woodriff Street, Penrith.
Rexona and Rexona Soap
More Popular Than Ever
All the world over, everyone likes the Rexona Remedies. They are universal
favorites and never disappoint you. Rexona is the Rapid Healer and Rexona Soap
is the facial soap of the century. Care for yourself by using Rexona anid Rexona
Soap, and your skin and hair will reflect the improvement., from the first, and
you will delight yourself as well as your friends.
Rexona the Rapid Healer has always been famous for its wonderful healing
powers. Many people now thank Rexona for skin-health and comfort. It is a reli-
able remedy for cuts, burns and all irritations and eruptions of the skin.
Those who have once used Rexona and Rexona Soap wonder how they ever got
along without them. So don’t forget to take a pot of Rexona the Rapid Heatter and
a tablet of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap home to-night.
Rexona the Rapid Healer, 1/6 and 3/-. Rexona Soap, 1/-
o
o
0
TH
RAPI
D
E
EALER
mi l
m
m
m
(I Im
The All
\British.
dANIM
LIGHT CAR
Absolute simplicity longest
mileage for minimum petrol
consumption. Easy to start.
The ideal car for the Owner
Driver.
Send your enquiry for early delivery
of post-war model to —
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Standard Meter Co.
Ltd., Coventry.
the: touch tell
Glide smoothly, never grate .
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men —these are .just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
i
r
Made in 17 degrees, 6B to
9H, and & styles of Copying.
OP ALL STATIONERS AND ARTISTS’-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
I £ any
Bulletin
Mauager,
illustration appearing in The
takes your fancy, write to the
who will quote you price for it.
Wonder Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SCIENCE may seek to pigeonhole the
And lock the lightnings into cells and
jars;
To trap the rainbows in a prism and bill
The great bush-greeneries as chlorophyll;
To cross the plains of life and even tread
Those labyrinthine dreamways where the
dead
Loiter ahead.
Science may drag this universe asunder,
Sample the sun and analyse the thunder;
Creep to the windows of eternity
And peer below the blind and even see
Nature discard her dainty daytime dress
And all her tantalising lingerie;
Yet will she stand in native nakedness
More dazzling bright,
More wonder-clad than dreams had dared to
guess,
More garmented than lightnings are in light.
For all the gawky words of science—all
The ponderous periods that rise and fall
Where reason dodders and Philosophy
Coaxes his grandchild Folly to his knee,
And all the mumbled melancholy moan
Where superstitions drone:—
Are nothing but an echo of the croon
Of countless babies fumbling for the moon ;
Are nought but batwings beating on the bars
Of sundry night-lit lanterns of the stars.
And if those wings could reach the luring
flame
Still less they’d know the why or whence it
came.
Science has never plumbed, and never will,
The wonder of those wattles on the hill;
The funeral-trudge of the philosophies
Is laughed at by the joyous poise and ease
Of gumboughs on the breeze;
And reason huddles at the feet of chance
When summer moonbeams magically dance,
And love lies languid in a maiden glance.
So shall the world forever sing the wonder
Of teeming skies and of the life thereunder;
The marvel of the sun and stars and moon
Swinging in tune;
That everlasting marvel of the mud
Flaming to colors in an opening bud;
The mysteries of dirt distilled through root
And bole and branch to cleanly-tasting fruit;
The shining wonder of the silver trees;
Forests of seaweed tossing in tne breeze
Of moon-swung seas ;
The winging birds that singing greet the sun,
And all the friendly chatter never done
Where cascade waters run ;
The wonder of lascivious worlds that live
Drowsed in the poppy ; and the fugitive
Flutters of dream when daphne-scents entice
The soul to stroll again through wafts of
spice
i In some lost paradise;
Wonder of sorrows and of laughter too;
The laughing might of sunlight and the
wonder
Of lazing naked on the •warm world under
The days of blazing blue.
These, and the countless wonders more than
these—
Wonder that lightly joking roams at ease
In saddling-paddocks of the Pleiades;
W onder that rides a steeplechasing gale,
Flashes a lightning-whip.
Clatters to thunder, scatters dust of hail,
And dashes past against the cloudy rail
While shouting stars acclaim his horseman-
ship.
And quieter wonders: those that lilt along
The bushtrack ways of song;
The calm content of men and babes who rest
Lulled on the wonder of a woman’s breast;
Then the bewildering wonder more than this
Of lovers caught and lifted on a kiss,
Lifted and whirled across the life-abyss
To skies where sighs are flowers of flame, and
words
Are singing birds,
And eyes are vistas beckoning far, and
dreams
Are blossom-bordered streams,
And thoughts are meteor-flights, and flesh
and soul
Flush with a wine of opalescent fire,
And man and woman, marvellous and whole,
Fashion a new life from an old desire.
MAOBILAND.
BARTLETT ADAMSON.
Women’s Hearts and Women’s
Tongues.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.—Tongues.
I AM sitting on a box in the shade outside
Jim Grahame’s wide, hospitable kit-
chen door on the Yanko Irrigation
Area. Jim is at work along the Hay
Canal. I am smoking his hard tobacco
comfortably, and holding my end up in a
lazy conversation with Bonnie Grahame,
aged three. It is ten or eleven on an Octo-
ber morning.
Mrs. Pitehithard holds a neighboring block,
though it is in her husband’s name. He
doesn’t appear in this sketch at all. He
doesn’t appear anywhere except at work, and
then his appearance is mild, though his hands
and arms are capable and willing. Mrs. Pitch-
ithard can look comfortably right into Jim
Grahame’s kitchen, and see all that’s going
on there —especially on Saturday afternoons,
when Jim and I have a demijohn from an
ungodly township outside the prohibition
area. If Mrs. Pitehithard wants to see
nearer, or inspect the other neighbors, she
takes the children for a stroll alone the
three lanes and back home again by a short cut.
Mrs. Pitehithard is a big woman, or.
rather, a round woman. Like a barrel, like
a very big, round barrel. She always ap-
pears in a big. round, one-piece blue
dress and a great white apron which
looks _ as if it has been starched. Her
face is small—very small —for her figure,
and brick-burnt in the sun; and with no
expression whatsoever—except a sniff. Her
face seems screwed, but the nose does that—
it is always doing it. Her eyes are red-
brown and too close together, because her
forehead is too narrow and too high ; it ought
to be laid on its side to give the other features
a chance. Her eyes seldom look at you,
and never when she’s talking, whieb she doe*
rapidly; they look anywhere else and every-
where else in quick succession.
You might recognise her as one of those
women who can break up a dozen homes
without having one really evil or malicious
thought, or one spark of vindictiveness in
their composition.
About 11 o’clock and enter Mrs. Pitchit-
hard. She is very punctual and very
monotonous; and sh£ has no stops—only a
sort of half-gasp when her breath fails her
before she can get out a piece of “news.”
Let the dashes serve for the half-gasps.
Mrs. Pitchithard: “Well, good-mornin’
Mrs. Grahame I muster overslep’ meself this
mornin’ for it was six when I woke but I
got him his breckfist an’ sent ’im offter work
an’ I got the children their breckfists an’ I
—gottemoffter school an’ I washed up the
breckfist things an’ tidied up an’ ironed me
apron an’ me visitor’s blouse an’—an’ here
I am —an’ now I think arter dinner I’ll take
off me things an’ have a good”
I failed to catch exactly what she was
going to have —whether it was a good
cleanin’-up or a good turn at the mangle, or
a good swim in the irrigation channel; which
last would have cheered up the neighbors
and given them something to talk about.
We deaf ’uns overhear some comical things
sometimes; and some more comma] things
that we don’t overhear but think we do.
Bonnie (to me): “Uncle Harry! Old
Peter tallied down once an’ broke the
shaft!”
Mrs. Pitchithard (inside, to Mrs. Gra-
hame) : “An’ now what do you think that
woman’s bin goin’ round talkin’ about now
she says”
Mrs. P. lowers her voice and I fail to catch
what the other woman says.
Mrs. P. (I’ve missed a yard or two of it) :
“ so I says to her look at me you’d never
have thought to look at me that I had to
drink bullicks’ blood when I was a girl”
Mrs. Grahame: “I had a letter from my
niece at Mudgee to-day, and she mentioned
the Palmers. You told me once that you
knew the Palmers?” (Mrs. Pitchithard
holds herself in with one mighty effort, and
waits severely, her nose working and sniffing
at high pressure.) “She says Jimmy
Palmer’s wife has a baby boy—at last.”
Mrs. P. (with a full gasp) : “Why,
who”
Mrs. Grahame: “Her husband, of course.”
Mrs. P. (with a decided gasp) : “Why,
didn’t yer know” r
I get up quietly and slip away before
Mrs. Grahame remembers that she forgot I
was there. And so across the channel home.
Eastward the steel rails of the Hay line
run, glistening in the noonday heat, over the
first rise in that great red plain, and so
on, out of the Prohibition area, and through
the first cutting into the pretty, cool, ivy-
churched little • township of Narandera,
where the beer is, and so on over the hills
to the cities and the sea. But it can never
run east of tongues like Mrs. Pitchithard’s.
II. — Heabts.
Next day. Scene, the same. Time, a
little later.
Mrs. Pitchithard: “An’ what d’yer think
that woman’s goin’ about sayin’ now? Well
she can say what she likes about that blue-
bag, but / call it downright thievin’ an
I’ll allers say so—an’ the dorg wasn’t yer
husbin’s dorg at all as if I don’t know
Pincher it was a dorg that that friend of
her own husbin’s brought from Sydney an’
trained up to all sort of thievin’—them two
know all about it mark my word or I orter
said them three for she’s —in it right
ernough.... An’ arter all I done fer that
husbin’ of hers though she doesn’t know
anything about it the time that the mice
plague was here an’ he had to go to Sydney
to see the Headquarters about his block an’
the mice had ate all the trowsis off his
buttons —they was composition an’ how was
the poor man to go to Sydney like that—oh
you know what I mean all the buttons off
his trowsis—but my Walter slipped ’em inter
me jist before the train went an’ I sewed
buttons on for him while he waited in the
skillion amongst tlier pumpkins. Why
here’s Mrs. Peebles’s Annie cornin’ runnin’
whatever can be the matter if—her father’s
took a turn agen it’s all up with him pore
man I saw—Dr. Llewellyin goin’ past to
Witton in his mortor-car this mornin’ an’
if it’s the publican’s wife there he won’t be
back till all hours —but I was with him last
time Peebles was took bad an’ Dr. Llewel-
lyin told me what to do if ever it happened
again an’ he”
Enter Annie Peebles, a pathetically frail,
freckled girl with shoes but no stockings,
and a wild, seared air.
Annie: “Oh, Mrs. Grahame! Oh. Mrs.
Pitchithard! Father’s took bad agen. an’
mother’s in a’ awful state : an’ the doctor’s
away, and —and—mother says please will
yer come at once?”
Mrs. Grahame is already reaching behind
her for her apron-strings.
Mrs. Pitchithard (to Annie) : “Now
Annie stop that cryin’ an’ run across to my
place an’ tell Nellie where I’m gone, an’ if
I don’t git home in time she—must do the
best she can about her father’s tea an’ breck-
fist too if I’m not home to-night—an’ here,
Annie, yer’d better stay at my place yer
can help Nellie till me or Mrs. Grahame gits
back.”
The two women are running down the
road in the blazing heat and dust of that
red sirocco; but Mrs. Grahame, though
little, is built generously below—like one of
those weighted toys you can’t knock over on
the table—and gets along against the Hell-
gale smoothly and nicely. Mrs. Pitchithard
is rolling (horizontally) along in fine style,
her elbows working ludicrously like those of
an amateur boxer in training and out for a
run.
And I know that Mrs. Pitchithard’s
reddish-brown eyes, rather redder than the
whirling sand-dust, are not wandering
now. but have a fixed purpose in them and
are staring straight ahead to the cross-roads,
where, seen phantasmagorically through
rifts in the maddened drought-sails on this
sea of hell, is a white tin oven, called a
four-roomed cottage, where another woman
is going through the greatest trouble that
comes to a working woman—where another
woman’s working husband is in the grip of
(Continued on next page.)


Are You
Getting' Old
Faster than you oug'ht?
'N\
*
=S^>
£very Picture
A Story”
Watchfulness can add years
to anybody’s life. Some are
old at sixty, others are young
at eighty.
Your habits mean sound
kidneys or weak kidneys—
good blood or bad blood, for
weak kidneys let uric acid
collect in the blood to ruin
health.
Always keep the kidneys
active, but especially after
middle age. This is good in-
surance against nervous, rheu-
matic and urinary troubles,
stiff and swollen joints.
Rest the kidneys by avoid-
ing overwork, worry and
strong drinks. And at the
first sign of backache, rheu-
matic pain or urinary disorders
use Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.
What Sydney thinks of
Doan’s Pills is shown by grate-
ful tributes like the one given
here.
BACKACHE AND KIDNEY TROUBLE
CURED.
SYDNEY MAN SPEAKS.
Mr. Henry Francis, Oxford Street,
Burwood, Sydney, says: “Eighteen
months ago I commenced to feel off
color. A slight scalding of the secre-
tions began, and gradually grew worse,
until they were intensely painful and
I could not retain them. A pain
then crept up my back, and I suf-
fered torture. It felt as if I were being
drawn on a rack with a bar of hot iron
under to break the spine. Altogether I
felt very ill. I went into the hospital,
and was treated there for nine weeks, and
although I came out a little relieved, I
was still in pain, and a week later was
as bad as when I went in. They did not
tell me my case was hopeless, but must
have thought no remedy would give me
relief. By accident I came across a
pamphlet about Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and when I read it I resolved to
give them a trial, so sent for some at
once. They did not seem to do me much
good, but I persevered, and while taking
the second bottle I got a little ease, and
four bottles completely cured me.”
Sixteen years later, Mrs. Francis says:
“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured my
husband of a weak and aching back, also
urinary troubles, sixteen years ago, and
he has been as right as a bank ever since.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Stores at
2/9 per bottle, or posted by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
ours
Backache Kidney Pills
CURES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
ITCHING PILES.
Mrs. G. Gavin, Wanstead Street, Un-
dercliff, Sydney, says: “Three years ago
my husband was suffering terribly from
itching piles, an ailment that has troubled
him for a long time. One day he was
advised to use Doan’s Ointment, and this
remedy, I am pleased to say, relieved
him almost at once, and one pot effected
a complete and permanent cure. Before
he got Doan s Ointment he was alwavs
trying different remedies, but they were
powerless to _ give him ease, and he had
almost despaired of ever finding a cure.
Doan’s Ointment, however, banished the
complaint, and lie has had no return
since his cure was effected three vears
ago. We cannot speak too highly of
Doan’s Ointment, and strongly recom-
mend it as a cure for itching piles.”
« ECZEMA.
PERMANENT RELIEF.
Mrs. Horwitz, 75 Pitt Street, Redfern.
Sydney, says: “I sent for a pot of
Doan’s Ointment, and used it for eczema
on my little girl’s forehead. The rash
covered the brow, and it was round the
eye as well. The itching was frightful,
and it made her very fretful and kept
her from sleeping, which made it hard on
all o 'f us. I had used several prepara-
tions previous to getting Doan’s Oint-
ment, but none of them gave more than
passing relief. I am pleased to tell you
that Doan’s Ointment cured her com-
pletely. We have since used it on an-
other" little girl, with equally good re-
sults.”
Fourteen years later Mrs. Horwitz
states: “My daughter has not suffered
with eczema since Doan’s Ointment
cured her fourteen years ago.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Stores at 2/9 per pot, or
posted free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Death. And Mrs.l‘itchithard is going to
put up a tight.
And I am left in charge, to drag through
the long drowsy hours with Bonnie, till Jean,
the eldest daughter, conies home from school
and relieves me. So wo often drop into
doing cur little bits whether we try to 01
m>r.
Bonnie brings me three big, draggled,
dirty-white feathers which she “finded”
round at the "I’owld-hduse.” J smooth them
carefully and put them in my inner eoat-
pocket, to please Bonnie. I intend to wash
and press them and use them for bookmarks
-and reminders. We can pick np till the
leal hers we want, ourselves, for cleaning
1>
ill. Aftki; the Battle.
Three days later. Scene, same. Time,
mid-afternoon. Enter Mrs. ritebithard,
rather tired-looking, for her.
Mrs. Bitchitha id : ‘AVell, Mrs. (Jrahame,
I overslcp me.sell agon this mornin’ but no
wonder and you look a bit wore out too an’
,; o wonder what with wutollin' three nights
(urn an turn about an’ doin’ our own work
and t .at: pore woman's too for— she was all
broke up aid could do nothing pore tiling—
an most of yistmlay cleanin’ up artcr the
funeral n’t neglectin’ our own work but—
Dr. IJewoli.t in scz we done our best so it
c. -osa t matter. Ive jist run round to see
cow i.ie pore woman is giftin’ on an’—she
odd me you’ll be round this evenin’ I hear
>oiir I'.ushm is startin’ up the collection
already an—l 11 make my Walter give ten
s.ullin s it wi> haveter live on pun kin agen
all next winter an’ sleep under h: u-bushil
I lazily feel to see if the dust, pound-note
■ Ui my rear pocket.
Mrs. Pitchithard: “Aid now I think I’ll
D* home an take olf my things an’ have a
good wait-a-bit what d’yer think that other
womans .going, round talkin’ about now’”
T !"; rails of the May line run
m might and level, glistening redly, into the
n:nd hopelessness of the blood-red setting
sun; but they can never run west of hearts
Ilk,* these.
HENRY LAWSON.
Inward Grace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
r I THAT Molly was meant for Peter, and
I , Peter for Molly, the whole town knew.
Theirs was a heart-affair that liurra-
lioo was proud of, because it contained the
elements of a tragedy, and tragedy is a big
thing in the humdrum life of a bush com-
munity. In brief, between these two young-
people flowed a river—the river Boyne,
with Phelim O’Riley on one hank of it. a
blackthorn in his hand, and Archie McAnder-
son on the other, with bitter words on his
tongue for the Scarlet Woman and all her
followers.
As head of the local Orangemen, who did
iiot number many, but on certain occasions
made the noise of a great multitude, McAn-
derson had little love for O’Riley or any of
liis kin; and O’Riley reciprocated, with in-
terest added. It was seldom that they met,
hut when, as prominent townsmen, circum-
stances brought them together, they did not
tickle each other’s ears with honeyed words.
As a rule, they said little for fear of saying
too much. But in the privacy of their own
homes, or when they talked amongst cronies,
it was a different matter. Then it was that
Rome and O’Riley, on the one side, and
McAnderson and “Ould Billy of Orange,” on
the other, got what was coming to them.
Five-sixths of the town took sides with
neither. To them, being true Australians, it
seemed that the Battle of the Bovne, having
been once fought, had been fought, and there
was no sense in digging it up and fighting it
over and over again. No self-respecting
battle could be expected to maintain its repu-
tation under such treatment.
But there was no humor in the situation
for Molly and her lover. It affected them
too intimately to be anything but tragical.
Although they had pledged themselves to
each other, heart and hand, the future seemed
without a gleam, a black, hopeless void ; and
often, in quiet moments down by the creek,
witli stars above and the big plain in front
of them, Peter cursed the Boyne and all its
hitter waters, while Molly stood by, tears
in her blue eyes, and approved. And once
lie had up and told his father that the Boyne
was a no-account scrimmage compared with
the battles in France and Flanders that lie
and Terry O Riley and Martin Ilalloran and
Paddy Murphy and half a dozen other clean,
hefty hoys of the town had fought in. Where-
upon, having heard him to the end with a
hard glint in his eyes, the old man had said :
“Thim’s not your own words, Pether
They’re the girl OTuley’s, me b’y, an’ we
know where she got tliim.”
Between Peter, a big, likeable fellow, and
Molly’s father a friendship existed, and,’even
though the.son of his enemy, O’Riley would
have welcomed him as' his 'son-in-law. But
as the marriage of the young couple would
have meant a concession on O’Riley’s part,
which lie had no intention of making, he
refused to agree to it. To Peter lie would
say - “I like you. me boy. an’ there’s me hand
on it; but while your father thinks me an’
mine the Divil’s own, an’ refuses to agree to
the match, there's an end to it. There are
some things O’Riley can’t do, an’ wan of
them is to pocket his pride and ate dirt.”
And to Molly’s tearful appeals lie would
respond: “ ’Tis too much you’re asking,
Molly, an ’tis the poor thing I’d he making
of myself, bowing my knee to the likes of
him. Consint f hinges on consint. an’ divil
the step I’ll take towards him till he takes
the like towards me,”
Thus matters stood while the months went
on, for Molly would not marry without the
sanction of her father, and the granting of
that depended on the acquiescence of his
inflexible enemy. It was a hopeless position,
for, though Peter tried his utmost to bring
his dour parent to reason, the old man re-
mained adamant. Having heard him to the
end McAnderson would say: “Take her if
you will, an’ maybe she’ll sprinkle holy
watlier over ye, an’ make a good Roman of
ye. But word of mine will never help ye. to
her, an’ if ye do marry her it’ll be the closed
door and the empty plate from me.”
Adjacent to McAuderson’s store lay a
piece of vacant land. To meet its growing
requirements the store needed Enlargement,
and there was no way to do it save by utilis-
ing the land alongside. But the sore point,
that sent McAnderson grey with thinking,
was that the land belonged to O'Riley, it
was a great grief to him that it was so ; but
business was business, and neither hate nor
love should be allowed to put in its spoke.
So to a mutual friend McAnderson broached
the matter, and the mutual friend agreed to
act as go-between. To O’Riley he went with
fair words and a fair offer, which O'Riley,
being a shrewd angler, agreed to think over.
Having thought over it for some days, he
said: “If McAnderson wants tlie land, let
him come an’ talk it over wid me. I’ll be
here to-night an’ to-morrow night, an’ if he
doesn’t come, divil the foot of it will he
have.”
At O’Riley’s ultimatum McAnderson
clenched his fists. But they were unclenched
some time later when, under cover of dark-
ness and dodging the eyes of his fellows, he
crossed the street and knocked at O’Riley’s
door.
O’Riley met him there. “Come in,” said
he. “There’s no one in but our two selves.”
In the sitting-room, with the table between
rtiem, they sat and talked. When it came
to business they were men of a type—hard,
shrewd and capable, each with his eye on the
main chance and his hand ready to shoot out
and grasp it. In the piping of cunning
against cunning, old feuds were forgotten;
and in the end, having thrust and parried for
a good hour, they closed the deal.
“The land’s yours,” said O’Riley; and, as
ihe other nodded, lie continued: “And now.
McAnderson, what I want to say to you is
this. We’ve been townies for this twenty
years, an’ never has any hut the hitter word
passed between us? Why can’t we be friends?
You an Orangeman, if you like (though I
don't see why you should like), an’ me just
what I am. \\ hy should we be always fight-
ing and shlanderirig each other? Haven’t
things happened in France that should make
us take each other's hands, .and forget old
scores? There’s my boy Terry says he never
had a better mate than your son Petlier.
Think of it, mahn—isn’t that something that
should make us warm to each other?
For a moment McAnderson’s eyes softened.
For a moment only; then the hard, obstinate
light came back into them.
“I think I’ll be going.” lie said.
O'Riley flushed and rose to his feet.
“Thin go you won’t,” he said with a laugh
that, had steel in it, “without drinking
success to our deal, or by the Ten Com-
mandments there’ll be no deal to drink-
success to.”
Without; wailing for an answer he went
to thet cupboard and brought a black bottle.
“ Tis gin, an’ gin’s a drink I don’t fancy,”
be said. “ ’Tis iimonade I'll- be having
meself.” lie set glasses on the table and
resumed his chair. “But voursel’, fill up.
McAnderson, an’ drink good luck to our
meeting!”
The situation was little to McAnderson’s
iiking. He thought, groaning inwardly, of
the contemptible figure he was cutting’. If
Ins cronies could only see him now, how they
would revile him! Nevertheless, the situa-
tion bad to be faced, and seizing the glass
which stood before him he lifted it to his
mouth.
“Here’s to”—an ancient malediction came
to his tongue, but, looking in O’Riley’s eyes,
he did not utter the words of it. Instead
he said : “Here’s to ourselves !”
“ ’Tis something the same as Sinn Fein.”
nodded O’Riley with a twinkle. “An’ here’s
to your very good health, McAnderson !”
It was evident from McAnderson’s manner
of drinking that he was not thirsty—either
that or the liquor was not to liis liking.
Twice he took the glass from liis mouth, tast-
ing what lay upon his tongue with a little
sucking noise, and with a look of puzzlement
in liis eyes. At length he set the glass down
with still a drop in it, and looked at O’Riley
questiotlingly.
“Drink up, mahn, an’ have another,” said
the latter. “A good stuff has neither
hurt nor harm in it.”
McAnderson shook liis head. He did not
know what to say, but there was no need for
him to say anything; for the door opened
and Mrs. O’Riley, bright and good to look
on, with Molly and Peter at her heels, came
in.
M hen Mrs. O’Riley saw McAnderson
sitting, with her husband, and evidently on
convivial terms with him, amazement made
her eyes big. But when she saw the bottle
on the tableland the contents of McAnder-
son s glass, it was more than amazement
that took charge of her. Her gaze on the
bottle, she cried out: “Glory be, Phelim—
what are you doing with the holy water?”
In the silence the ticking of a watch was
heard, and then a groan from McAnderson.
<< i O’Riley, choking back his laughter:
As God’s above, I thought ’twas gin. But
hould me, hould me ! —whin the story gets
out there s not one in the town will believe
me! They’ll be saying, the rascals, that I
Jured poor owld Mac over to me house and
filled him up wid holy wather!”
With a,stunned look in his eyes, McAnder-
son rose, reached for his hat and moved
towards the doorway. But half-way
through it he paused, as though he had found
lnmself again, and. turning, re-entered the
roonv Already he heard the town laughing
at him.
O Riley,” he said, “do you remimberwhat
?on said a while back about forgetting ould
scores'*
“I do.”
“Does that still stand?”
“It does.”
“Shake!”
“Wid all me heart,” said O’Riley . “An’
mver a word of what happened to-night will
ye hear from now on.”
* * #
Within a month Molly and Peter were
ZT- e ’ Wit l' O’Riley s r.nd McindeTson
looking on. And when anyone, grown curi-
asks what wrought the amazing change,
c?oS‘ nnt Sh l-^ GS US A head . an d. says that he
does not know. At times, however, he
becomes enigmatical and murmurs something
about the workings of inward grace.
RODERIC QUINN.


u
'
Wm Mix
:■ ■ 1 -■
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE
OF
*•
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-10T Featheraton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office-9fl Queen Street, Melbourne.
i
w
£2
£
r
Years of practical
use produced the
finished Clydesdale,
WENTY years of
operating experi-
ence, perfecting
each minor part, is
the basis upon which the
Clydesdale Lorry is
designed.
It remained for the War,
with its gruelling exac-
tions, to enable the makers
to give the Lorry buyers
the finished Clydesdale.
H. I). VAN BRUNT, Factory Repre-
sentative, P.O. Box 3093, Sydney,
AUSTRALIA.
New South Wales Distributors:
HARDY-,JOHNSTON MOTOR CO..
54-56 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Distributors: INGUIS
BROS & CO. LTD., Harris Street,
WELLINGTON.
T. E. SHIEL & CO., Stafford Street,
DUNEDIN.
The Clyde Cars Company,
44 Whitehall Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address—CROMOTOR.
REMOIL
A BOTTLE of Rem Oil is not only a convenience but a matter of
_ ~ real economy to people who take price in keeping their firearms
in good condition. It will be found equally effective for all household
machinery. It is unaffected by climatic conditions and will not gum
or clog the most delicate mechanism.
Enquire of your dealer or write for special descriptive circular of Rem Oil,
also Paravaseline—a gun grease—and Remington UMC Rust Remover;
-6
r. « f EMINGT °N ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Manager Box 686 G. P. 0., Melbourne
BE PERSUADES
to try Beeehatn's Pills! All who have had experience of this preparation
unhesitatingly endorse the view long ago expressed that “ Beeeham’s
Pills are Worth a Guinea a Box”. This is what people say who have
taken them —who have proved their wonderful value for themselves.
Their opinion should go far to persuade you to try Beeeham’s Pills also.
They have cured others and will cure you. They have, brought the
desired relief in multitudes of eases —is it not highly probable that they
will do the same for you ? Beeeham’s Pills grew into fame years ago as
a digestive medici ie of the greatest value. They have maintained their
high reputation through the passing years, and, at the present time, they
are relieving, and curing vast numbers of people who suffer from
dyspeptic troubles all over the world. If you happen to be one of those
who need a tonic, purifying and cleansing medicine be persuaded
TO TRY
BEEGHM’S PILLS.
Prepared only t>y THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England
Sold in boxes, labelled price lOgd (36 pills), 1/1£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
YOU
1 I
U RE
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Jo you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This -is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
old, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt-
ing. Good for
old and young.
Purely
Vegetable.
Carters
ItTLk
SVER
PfLi.3,
Small Pill—Small Doss —Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
STER
Matchless Tackle
Easier pipe-screwing than you ever thought possible—that’s what
“Matchless” Screwing'Tackle gives you. Newly designed, it has
easy-cutting features never before offered you, which cannot be
obtained in any other tool.
You don’t know what it means to screw pipe easily unless you have
used Oster “Matchless” Screwing Tackle. A fair trial will convince
you.
Get a “Matchless” from your nearest dealer.
Made in Four Sizes
to Screw Pipes from
54 in. to 4in.
Carried in Stock,
with extra parts,
b y ironmongers,
machinery and
hardware and
plumbing supply
houses.
The Oster Manufacturing Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Australasian Representative—
CHARLES WRIGHT, Turner Chambers, 16 Hunter St., Sydney
[4
ht”
Strainer
Post Free
■
ands in Use.
( Patented )
tia >
|A/ each
l V / " Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
H c „ f,
f, 9 o
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE,


jWANGROVST
LEATHER
LTI
Transmits Full Power
That is why it wins out —it does not slip on
the pulleys and waste power. It is durable
and flexible under all conditions—try it on
your power plant. Let us give you expert
advice.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square (near C.P.O.),Sydney, N.S W
Western Australia: Gibbs, Brigtit & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379
26* Latrobe Street, Melbourne; Kalgoorlie and Fremantle, W.A.
Charles Atkins & Co., Adelaide. Paul & Gray Ltd., Newcastle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
I
•E
y
sitttc
HIGH-QUALIT I STEEL-CUTTING EDGES, with Iron Hacks., made to your order
from our own material.
When ordering: state size on cut, depth, thickness, lengrth and width of slots;
whether for Fixed Heads or Movable Holts. If Fixed Heads Template absolutely
necessary.
WHAT CHEMICALS
DO YOU REQUIRE?
We have ample stocks of the following' chemi-
cals at absolutely the lowest possible prices:
Caustic Soda, Soda Ash, Bi-carbonate of
Soda, Chloride of Calcium, Sulphide of
Sodium, Chloride of Ammonium.
Nai>hthaline, Carbolic Acid (98% pale
straw), Bieiomates Soda and Potash,
French Chalk, Dextrine, Aniline Byes,
Hematine and Fustic Extracts.
OlES—Whale, Cod and Herring.
Send your order to-day.
JAMES HARDIE and CO., LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cr. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (4 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Our Stocks of MOTOR ACCESSORIES and NECESSARIES
life); Gl
AJMJ3I£
sNITOK
jsr ci'i' l
'felGNlT^
l u red^Wr<l
3gsjOWALCAg§^>
OHI-
O“One of the few
reliable ones/’
are such that they will please the most exacting or the most economical motorists.
It lias always been our aim in supplying adjuncts for the aid of the every-day Car-owner to stock articles of
real service, and not merely spectacular-looking gadgets of doubtful utility, to mystify the curious onlooker.
ACCESSORIES.
•‘Neva Slip” Belt Dressing-, 1/10 lb.
Graphite Kim Compound, prevents the tyres sticking to the
rims, 1/0 per tin.
Radiator Cleaning Compound, 4/6 per tin.
Radiator Stop Heat, 4/6 per tin.
Valve Kilter lor fords, 2/0 each. ford fan Belts, 1/3 each.
“Columbia” Dry Cells, 3/6 each.
Round or Oval Copper and Asbestos Washers.
Irom lin. to 4in. diam., Id. to lOd. each.
“Klaxon” Motor Horns, 25/- and 27/6 each.
Huh Cap Wrenches for Fords, 1/6 each.
Stewart Vacuum Tanks, 65/- each.
ROBERT C.
The House for Motor
304 Pitt Street,
mwm®,
;
s:
MX
SPARKING PLUGS.
SPECIAL FOB FORDS.
Lodge, 5/-; Reflex, 2/9, 3/-; Champion “X,” 3/3; Hosier. 2/9.
SPECIAL FOR OVERLANDS.
Sphinx, 4/6; Champion “O,” 4/-; A. C. Cico, 3/6; Reflex No. J,
3/3.
SPECIAL FOR BUCKS.
Reflex, 3/3; A. C. Cico, 3/6; Reflex, 47-
SPECIAL FOR CHEVROLET AND OAKLAND.
A. C. Cico, 3/6; Titan, 4/6 each.
Also, large stocks of Sparking Pings for English and
Continental Cars.
Sphinx, 4/6; Sphinx Mica, 5/6; Apollo Mica, 6 6; A. C. Cico, 3/6.
SWAN & Co. Ltd.,
Engineers ' Supplies,
SYDNEY.
mi
om.
Prtmina
park
for
cold
weather
'darting
“STAR” Portable Lampless Oil Engines.
b^ omi “ g immensely popular for general Farm and Station work, such as
elient CUttmS ’ Shearm °» Chaff cuttmg, Pumping, etc., and each Engine supplied by us means another well-satisfied
The Price is exceptionally Low for
6 % -b.h.p £l7O
8-b.h.p £205
We can arrange easy Terms, and guarantee satisfaction in every instance.
DALGETY (Si CO. LTD., Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
Agents for TANCYES, CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH, WOLSELEY Shearing Machines, TRIUMPH Oil Engines, CANE Milking Machines, etc.
M THE
SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINES.
I
mm
on.
Repairs to
Handpieces.
We have Installed special machinery
for the sole purpose of repairing and
aujusting handpieces—each of which
is treated individually by an expert.
Send along YOUR repairs to-day, and
avoid disappointment due to delay.
DALGETY & GO.
LTD.
Australasian Agents:
ALL BRANCHES.
u 'J. f" I
Cl ‘V> >! ", r -“ “
»X >♦<>*.* > f ' 'ON fltvi
. S'-/ AT* rtv« *S»A•>( / . V CtMiO' i :
/ .. • ' '
.» V. -f.:
• -,V. . f At-.r .
BSSSS
DOUBLE PLATE TYPE
OIVINO BAC*SUPPORT
TO fiTU OS
CONSIDER THE ADVANTAGES
of being' able to obtain instantly without the removal of a single
gear, the ENTIRE RANGE of THREADS and corresponding FEED
CHANGES on your Lathe. We invite inspection of our StocK of
MODERN HIGH-SPEED LATHES
embodying tbis feature. It is essential in tbese days of
SPEEDING-UP, or where COST OF PRODUCTION MUST
BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT.
In Stock
also—
Shaping, Drilling, Grinding and Screwing Machines.
I PARKE LACY CO. LTD.,
engineers and Mrchinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
High-class Crushing Machinery
For Production of Cement Aggregate,
for Mining Plants, Quarries or any
other purpose.
We can quote you for
ROCK BREAKERS, ROLLS,
GRINDING PANS, DISINTEGRATORS,
“NIBSEN” INDEPENDENT STAMPS,
SCREENS (Revolving or Stationary).
AUTOMATIC FEEDERS,
Or any other accessory.
i
Asifc-s
15in. x Standard May tiros.’ Geared Rolls,
supplied recently to Sulphide Corporation, Boolooroo,
N.S.W.
As Specialists in Crushing
and Ore Dressing we can
advise you as to the Best
plant for your purpose, and
we quoteonlyonthe highest
class of machines.
We also manufacture Concentrating Tables and
Jigs, Classifiers, Thickeners, Agitators and all
Mining Goods.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Mining & Electrical Engineers, 350 George Street, Sydney
