

S—The Spirit of Geniality
9
WATKINS 00.
Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
tractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
for MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always avas. *> e.
mm
wrn
'■""Mm
IWWHUWmn*
\\\\W\\nnnuumil])>
umWillflflli;
llhi
\mm\\XHiwinmiuiil//l
yfc» '
\mfiiimn. ».!!!
ONT de PIETE D ft I C9T LIMITED.
. Castlereagh. Si-., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES-
lON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
faackejjt 215-17 Mansion st.,Melb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
29 King St, Newcastle. 186 Castlereaqh 5t.,s 159 George st,West.Sydney.
Capital s 200.000 ‘PWeCrty93Z5.
m
mwivv
"rnrnww j,
\W\W\U\ium imlllllllll
•"•mill
WWW"
Hllllllll
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
A City Sewage System
for Modern Homes.*
You simply cannot afford to take chances
with the disposal of your sewage. For
the sake of your own and your. children’s
health, study the merits of the
Montgomerie-Neilson
Sewage Disposal System
This modern system does away with the
okl-fasliioned cesspool or tin-pan style of
W.C. —the greatest sources of disease the
country knows.
The sewage is treated so perfectly that
absolutely no odor arises even on the
hottest days.
Over 600 are in use in N. S. Wales
alone, and the system has the O.K. of
experts the world, over.
Send for free booklet, which gives facts
in detail.
MONTGOMERIE - NEILS ON
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY
’Phone City 8976.
~0
W
O %
pPLE
B
Vllln
/MV
>< h;
<?
a
f
II
Nothing
to Arcui
About!'
/II 7
\
V
“ Arp, the Best
\OO-’-'
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
S E N’S
p<,r INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily alter
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Wolfes
Schnapps
Purchasers of Roofing—take note:
Malthoid surpasses all other roofings in the one great essential—durability.
There is no fear of a Malthoid roof ever becoming leaky or defective as a
protection to your property.
See that you get the genuine “Malthoid” when purchasing roofing material.
the roofing that lasts.
“ Not the same as others. ”
Actual samples and illustrated booklet post free from
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), ChaUis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L ? GR £!£w LE ’
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron <& Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
Arthur y&MUMthi&L 6 <3
MACHINERY.
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
Road-Graders for Building Good Roads,
MAKING AND GRADING EARTH ROADS, CEEANING OUT WATER TABEES.
Also for MAKING FIRE-BREAKS, Etc.
We carry large stocks of the best procurable and most up-to-date Machines.
SEVERAE DIFFERENT SIZES STOCKED, TO BE WORKED BY 2, 4 or 8
HORSES OR TRACTION-ENGINE POWER.
CATALOGUES AND FUEL PARTICULARS UPON APPLICATION.
Queensland Enquiries: The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH
Famous Brands of
HIGH-SPEED STEEL & DRILLS
“A.W.” “T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER.’*
MANUFACTURED by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Australian Representatives:
GILBERT LODGE & CO. street, Sydney.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED.
PLEASANT AND
A TRUE ANTISEPTIC-
TOOTH PASTE,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
The Bulletin
Vol t).—No. 2048.]
[Thursday, May 15, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


-
m
■
1
The proof is in
the smoßing'!
The GBD pipe smokes sweet from
the first light-up without trouble-
some, wasteful ‘'breaking in.”
That is because it is “London-
made” from SEASONED BRIAR.
—the Perfect Pipe!
Many popular shapes.
FOR SALE EVERYWHERE.
J '
.. ■ ■ 1
. )
Mirro
will giv<
you
the pleasing 7
assurance that
jourComplexion
IS'what It shoub.
be If you use
/s'
\f' \
FACE POWDER
It imports a delicate bloom to the
Complexion, so pure that it will
not barm the most sensitive skin.
SoU la Fit* Tints .
White. Cresa. Pink. Flesh end Panttls
by all Stores, Chemists, Perfumers aa4
first Class Drapery Houses
ENGLISH
Per
7f
box
PRICE
Wholesale Distributing Agente:-
Meesrs. ELLIOTT KUOS., LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
tANOON WHOLESALE AGENTS!-
HENRY C. QUELCH ti CO.,
4 fc 5. Ludgatc Sq.. London. Enj.
gmssra
For Your Liver
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
who are unnaturally drowsy and
sleepy, who lack ambition and
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and weariness.
They are effective without being
drastic and they have none of the
bad effects of strong purgatives.
Pinkettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use during colds
and fevers.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.”
inti ui. ifiiiidiiio mmircuu.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
“Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes.”
AN IDEAL REMEDY.
an®
ON
Sold by All Chemists, tins, 1/6.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the Pre-
vention of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “EUMENTHOL JU-
JUBES” do not interfere with the digestion; on
the contrary, they have a beneficial result, as their
antiseptic properties prevent abnormal fermentation
of the food when taken after meals. I*
The Red Page
Nouns, Verbs and Adjectives
When God made men wise He gave them
nouns and verbs. When they grew very
tired of being wise He gave them adjectives.
So the person who is wise and not tired still
plunges through the seas of language and
firmly grasps his idea with only the noun
and verb to aid him. But the tired person,
though very wise, sits on the shore and
waits for the adjectives that fall about him
in a shower from the broken waves of
language. If there are enough adjectives
he thinks he has got the idea. But he
hasn’t. The idea is a deep-water fish only
to be pullecT out by the stronger parts of
speech.
Captain Bill Adams His Book
Bill Adams has risen again. He comes
tt> ns described as “Captain David Fallon,
M. 0., Winner of the Military Cross,” authbr
of The Big Fight (W. J. Watt and Co., New
York). He makes no attempt to disguise
himself. He is still the same delightful
old Bill in it from the beginning to the end.
General Staff at the Defence Department
regards the handsome volume as one of the
finds of the war. General Staff loves it.
There is one point, though, upon which it
is rather at a loss. Captain Fallon refers
to the happy days which he spent as a
physical-training instructor at Duntroon
Military College, though he calls it the Mili-
tary Academy at Dunstroon. General Staff
remembers him well. It has his photo-
graph. But it didn’t know that its old
friend S/Sgt.-Major David Fallon left Aus-
tralia until January 28, 1916.
The Sergt.-Major Fallon whom General
Staff knew had invented a trench dagger,
and, though the Inventions Board here re-
jected it. Millen, Ilolman and W. H. Kelly
persuaded Pearce to send him to England.
He was given leave without pay, permission
to join the British army if he wished to,
and a free passage as far as Egvpt on the
Themistocles; and he loft Sydney on Janu-
ary 28, 1916.
That was Sergt.-Major LYilofc. But hear
the story of Capt. Fallon M'.C.
He begins by sugg&i that the his-
torians -oi ho future may ed the evidence,
information and material <> such men as he.
For the benefit, then, of posterity and in the
interests of historical accuracy, he sketches
the early days of the war in Australia. “In
the very beginning” he was “sent out to
Sydney and Melbourne, as a whip for enlist-
ment.” The manner in which his apnea Is
are answered is beautiful.
Take, for instance, John Wilson, gold prospector,
who came out of the wilderness, 1500 miles to Syd-
ney,. to join the colors, 400 of it on horseback, 100
of it literally hacking his way through a dense,
trackless forest of giant gum and eucalyptus trees,
until he got to Bourke, whence once a fortnight a
tram leaves for Sydney.
Australia undergoes some surprising-
changes and awakenings. “Mr. Pierce,
Minister for Defence,” is mentioned. The
mobilisation of the fleet of transports takes
place at Sydney instead of Albany, which
is a welcome change, and they are escorted
by “the Australian fleet, comprising some of
Britain’s greatest dreadnaughts.” The popu-
lace, m all the ports hold demonstrations, and
spend the rest of their days virtuously
“wrecking scores of German shops, battering
them into ruins and putting them to the
torch.”
But Captain Bill is with the first fleet.
He describes the voyage with zest, even to
the discovery of a girl in uniform aboard
the Themistocles. The fun grows fast in
Egypt, where 250 Australians are “assas-
sinated,” and the Battle of the Wazir is a
dreadful campaign full of bombs and paraf-
fin. In the flat, low-lying island of Lemnos
his keen imagination finds a strong resem-
blance to the heights of Gallipoli.
The Captain had gathered before leaving
Australia “ostrich and emu plumes.” and
these, with other valuables, he despatched to
Australia again by the Euripides before the
departure for the Peninsula. “Of course
the world knows the fate of the Euripides,”
he comments sadly in explaining their loss.
The foolish world does not know. The
Euripides was in Sydney a few weeks ago,
and absolutely denied any knowledge of the
bottom of the sea.
On to the Landing !
The Australian ships anchored off Anzac,
opposite the beach which was afterwards
designated X, Y and Z. (These beaches
were at Helles, on an entirely different sec-
tion of the Peninsula, where the 29th Divi-
sion landed, murmurs General Staff.) The
beach was 200 yards in width, with
gradually rising sand dunes. (Thirty feet
and no sand dunes, urges G.S.) The moon
had almost fallen behind the jagged jaws of
the black cliffs. (Thus the moon sets in
the East, breathes G.S.) ' In the silence
ol the night even the wrenching and groan-
mg of the cables and chains seemed subdued
and ghostly. (Ships did not anchor until
after daylight, growls G.S.) The barge
which took the party ashore contained 260
men. (Good barge, grins the covetous G.S.)
Ihe heavy Turkish guns opened. (Onlv
whinesoT) and rifle Gre Until
■ 80 °“ f 01 ‘ P a ge after page. Surpris-
SfnSJr^f?S ppen in th ? barbed wire which
General Staff says wasn’t there. The Cap-
tain strikes a novel way of getting ashore :
~n lj;be barbed wire] was too closely netted to a-et
through. Some possibly floated or were lifted over
it by the roll of the surf. I know onlv how I made
my own way out of the trap. And that' was by
mg myself down along the barbed strands until I
found a space some two feet between the wire and
the sea bottom, and 1 crawled through.
You sympathise with the Captain later
when he is “astonished” to find that he still
has his rifle and bayonet clutched in his
hand.
It is a nightmare war. Men crawl away
down tunnels which never existed and are
captured by the Turks in dozens (although
only two- prisoners of war were reported up
till August 7, 1915), and “to-day only 1000
men survive out of the 20,000 men who made
the landing on Gallipoli”—which is tragic
but untrue.
French soldiers fight at Suvla instead of
at Helles, Turkish prisoners crawl back to
their own lines to obtain water for their
captors, the Southland is beached on “a
rocky strand” instead of being towed into
Mudros harbor, and “Australia Will Be
There” is written by a British naval officer.
But Kitchener arrives to straighten things
out. “Ten thousand men parade on the
beach” to welcome him, and though it was
days later before word of the evacuation
came through, he “practically told us that
day.” (“He would,” remarks General
Staff.)
An “intermission” follows the Evacuation
in which he goes to England and joins the
Oxfords and Buffs immediately. The adven-
tures grow more amazing. Nurses are dis-
covered at first-aid posts immediately behind
the trenches, and the infantryman acquires
“an expert knowledge of wireless telegraphy,
photography and gunnery” and is sent up as
an observer in an aeroplane. A fight un-
equalled in the annals of the air forces
naturally follows at a height of 20,000 ft.
A tank mounting eight guns is the next
charge of the officer of light infantry. It is
a good sort, that tank. When its steering-
gear goes out of focus in an attack it rushes
straight through a sugar-mill loaded with
enemy artillery. Cement columns and
etceteras are swept away, and just as the
dear old thing comes out on the other side
the building collapses and crushes the artil-
lerymen into disgraceful fragments.
Two hundred pages or so further on, after
many equally commonplace happenings, the
Worst Ordeal comes. Sent out to recon-
noitre, the captain spends three hours un-
noticed in the German trenches, is wounded,
and to save himself from the searching Huns
sinks himself in the mud of a shell hole so
that only his nose is showing. One eye
peers out also, but when the enemy prowls
about he submerges that too. He spend-
three days hidden there—in the depth of the
worst winter Europe has known for 40
years—creeps back at night, has a drink of
water aim bustles.a way to report to his
U.G., to draw plans'and sketches and give the
details which he has stamped on his brain.
TJmre is a lot more. The publishers
remar;r: ‘ You will probably hear Captain
Fallon lecture.” We hope so.
Where Rhyme Came From
Ihe chief Irish contribution to the poetry
ot Europe was rhyme. Mathew Arnold’s
claim that the finer note in Milton, Keats
and our modern poets is Celtic, seems well
sustained by a comparison of the original
non-Celtic poetry with that derived from
Ireland, the. Highlands of Scotland and
Wales. It is possible to go even further
than this; for Virgil, the greatest of the
-Latin writers, was born in a Gallic district
of Italy and had a Celtic name; while in
the view of many scholars the event which
immediately preceded the literary and artis-
tic development of the greatest period of
Greek history was a Celtic invasion. If
the children .of II era kies who accompanied
the Dorians in their descent upon the South
were really Gauls, then it is to the new
Celtic inspiration that the greater Greek
tragedy, differing from all that went before
it, may reasonably be traced. Leaving all
these things out, however, as being still in
the realm of conjecture, the facts that rhyme
is Celtic and that in the main it came from
Ireland seem to be proved.
£ ti. me when Latin poetry had declined
and Celtic poetry was at its height, Latin
hymns_ with rhyming endings are for the
first time found. The earliest singers of
these were the choristers of the Milanese
Church, at the end of the fourth century.
In Latin poetry rhyme had never been used
—there was not even a name for it- —and
Milan .was then a Celtic city surrounded by
a Celtic district. On the face of it, rhymed
verse came from the Celts. But the evidence
goes much deeper than this. There are no
Irish verses which can with absolute cer-
tainty be traced back to the fourth century;
though there are some which, upon the
internal indications furnished by their con-
struction and matter, are generally regarded
as much older. Irish verse, however, by
the middle of the sixth century had more
elaborate and careful rhyme systems than
any verse written in any other country before
the eighteenth century. Is it, then, more
hkely that the Irish, taking the rude models
of rhyming stanzas from the Milanese
Church, could have developed the system to
a higher perfection in the course of 150 years
than the rest of the world did in 1400 years,
or that the Milanese Church borrowed a
Celtic method which first and last reached
its best form in Ireland ? Zeuss in his
“Grammatica Celtic-a” has no doubt upon the
point, and ascribes the advance made towards
rhyme in the Latin hymns of the Anglo-
Saxons to Irish influence.
It is possibly the Irish element in Aus-
tralia, coupled with the fact that you can
hardly find half a dozen verse-writers in the
whole Commonwealth who have not some
Irish connection, which makes rhyme so im-
portant a feature of our growing literature,
bo-called vers Hire makes little appeal; even
true blank verse, with all its strength and
delicacy, is rather foreign to the Australian
mind. Irishmen may have lost their lan-
guage while fighting for their freedom - but
in imposing rhyme upon the poetry of the
English they have taken a curiously artistic
T T * e Celt, of course, imposed other
such things as love, of the sea, love of the
horse and the wearing of trousers—but the
chain of rhyme binds fast. Wherever man
finds his soul he needs a song; anTin“h?
fine movement of thought rhyme adds lo
CromwenTnd 3 wraS a nr M,J ?TT “ d
T “ Ed wT„i a e
D.M.W.
(Continued on page 24.)


MEN’S COLD-WEATHER WEAR at Anthony Horderns’
kNIKIU&
(S-s«£W
JP*
At the change of the season you must be particular about your underwear. Your health demands that it be of the right warm texture.
Anthony Horderns’ offer woven underwear by the most reliable makers, correct as to weight, wearing qualities and price. These ugg
tions point the way to cosy comfort and economy:—
Golden Fleece Underwear.
ALL WOOL. AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE.
Undershirts, i-sleeves —
34 36 38 40 44
Medium Weight.. 13/G 14/- 16/- 17/3
Heavy Weight .. 17/- 17/6 18/- 19/6 22/-
U nderpants—
-34 36 38 40 44
Medium Weight.. 14/9 15/- 16/- 17/- 19/6
Heavy Weight . . 18/- 18/6 19/6 20/6 23/-
Underdravvers, for short, stout men—
-34 36 38 40
Heavy Weight .. 18/- 18/6 19/- 20/6
The Wolf Brand.
ALL WOOL, BRITISH MANUFACTURE.
Undershirts, t-sleeves, medium weight—
Sizes 34 36 40 44
13/6 14/9 16/6 18/3
Underpants, medium weight—
Sizes 34 36 40 44
15/6 16/- 17/6 19/6
Meridian InterlocK Cotton.
Undershirts,
Sizes (inches) 34 36 40 44
8/6 8/9 9/9
8/9 8/9 9/9 10/9
Underpants—
The Theta Brand.
I AND E. MORLEY’S, ALL WOOL.
Undershirts, 4-sleeves —
Sizes (inches) 34 36 40 44
Medium Weight .. 17/6 18/- 19/- 20/9
Heavyweight .... 17/- 17/6 19/- 21/-
Underpants—
Medium Weight .. 19/- 19/6 21/- 22/-
Heavy Weight ... 18/- 19/- 21/- 22/-
ALL.WOOL combinations.
THE JASON BRAND.
Sizes (inches) 34 36 40 44
Medium Weight,
24/6 25/- 27/6 30/-
OTHER COLD-WEATHER WANTS.
Men’s Coat Sweaters.
Our Men’s Coat Sweaters will keep you warm on
the coldest days, and will wear well, too. Add to
these good qualities the fact that they are economi-
cal, and the best of reasons is furnished for you to
interest yourself in these winter necessities. These
examples will be helpful in making your selections:
Men’s Knitted Coat Sweaters, all wool,
medium weight. In Dark Brown only.
Sizes 34 30 40 in. Chest.
V Front .... 21/6 22/- 23/-
Men’s Knitted Coat Sweaters, all wool,
heavier weight. In Brown, Grey, or Navy Blue.
Sizes 34 36 40 in. Chest.
V Front .... 29/6 32/6 35/6
Warm NecK Scarves.
Are you acquainted with those handsome and use-
ful Silk and Artificial Silk Scarves? They are un-
doubted scarves of merit. You will be surprised at
their elegance and utility. The prices are distinctly
economical, too.
Artificial Silk Scarves, size 53 inches long,
11 inches wide, in Tartan Stripe effects, a smart
assortment to select from. Price, 7/6 each.
Artificial Silk Scarves, size 56 inches long,
9in. wide, in self shades of Saxe, Wedgwood,
Wine, Grey, Ivory and Black.
Prices, 3/11, 8/6, 9/6 each.
Artificial Silk Scarves, size 56 inches long,
10 inches wide, in self shades of Wedgwood, Rose,
Wine, Nigger, and Green.
Prices, 10/6 and 13/6 each.
Cosy Pyjamas.
The materials of which Anthony Horderns’ Pyjamas
are made are specially selected from Stylish Stocks,
and are fashioned with a care and a skill that
ensure comfort and durability. Other points in
favor of our Pyjamas are their fulness of cut and
their economy. It is to your advantage to inspect
these: —
Men’s Striped Flannelette Pyjamas,
Medium Weight, 1.1/6 and 13/6 suit.
Heavier Weight, 11/6, 14/6 and 17/6.
Men’s Striped Ceylon Pyjamas, Medium
Weight, 15/6 and 18/6.
Men’s Striped Cotton Oxford Pyjamas.
Strong and Durable, 14/- and 15/6.
Men’s Mercerised Pyjamas, choice Striped,
Smart Wear, 16/6 and 17/6.
WE PAY CARRIAGE THROUGHOUT N.8.W.; ON INTER-STATE ORDERS TO NEAREST PORT.
ANTHONY HORDERN aSONS.Lr£
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
SB*
j&uvs' I '*;
Brickfield Hill,
fggggSi S.y d n ey .


I
■
m
■«
n
-r„
I
a
m
A \
OV
Q<?
W»
•Ml
Ea
7*
and roofmfh
ADAMAX
Oh, wonderful day ! That day when your “house o’ dreams ” comes
to life, and you and your architect actually begin its designing.
Ihe designs and plan are very important, and must be carefully
worked out, but of equal —if not greater —importance is the roofing.
When you think of roofings the name “Adamax” comes first to
your mind. I hat is because Adamax Roofing is known all over
Australia for Quality , Durability and Economy.
Ihe use of Adamax as a roofing will materially lessen the cost
oi vour building. It costs only one-third the price of galvamsed-
lron, and the additional saving in freight is a bio* item.
Ivor all-round economy roof with Adamax, the time-proof roofing
that means longer service and greater freedom from upkeep expense.
Send for Free Pamphlet, which gives full details - and valuable
information on Adamax Roofing and how to lay it. Ask also tor
Samples, Free !
Use LOTTOID PLASTER SHEETING for Interior Walls and Ceilings.
The use of Lottoid Plaster Sheeting means real Economy, for it is long-lasting, sanitary,
hygienic, germ- and vermin-proof.
The sheets ate fire retarding, have a clean white finish, and are well reinforced and
interwoven with a material that gives great strength—standing great strain and pressure.
Any handy-man with hammer, saw and nails can lay the.sheets quickly and easily, and once
laid they need practically no attention. Write to-day for particulars and prices.
SYDNEY . BRISBANE. MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH


ITZ’S
CIDER
KITTS
PURE SPARKLING APPLE JUICE
“ BOTTLES OF JOY.
»»
•Every glassful of “Kite’s” is a positive
thirst quencher; every bottle is a bottle
of joy and health. Have you ever hud
a longing for a drink that would
definitely quench your thirst? Just try
“Kite’s” Cider. It quenches and revives,
puts “pep” in you, and is healthful
and nutritious, too.
Get the Kitz Cider Habit—
It’s a Habit that won’t get you.
In Baby Bottles at Hotels and Cafes—
Quarts and Pints at Stores.
AGENTS-
SYDNEY: Tucker & Co. Ltd., Caldwell’s
Wines Ltd.
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co.
CAIRNS: Burns, Philp & Co.
GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co.
ROCKHAMPTON: J. M. Headrick & Co.
ADELAIDE: W. P. Auld & Sons Ltd.
PERTH: Philp Coyle.
HOBART: Ferguson & Co.
LAUNCESTON: John McKenzie & Co.
' The
New Sauce
from England
is a revelation
in sauce manu-
facture.
Your grocer sells
EE
will find “ Queen’s Arms ” a “ home from
home.” This hotel is in the heart of
the city—handy to everywhere.
The menu is excellent and
ample, the accommodation
modern. By the day, 10/6.
Write
'QUEEN'S ARMS*
HOTEL
C« SWANSTON ST
& FLINDERS
\ V
a
0* G X
J 4
p> J 3
S e
£
w
l«S
2$
&
ip
lg
$8
«*<
f-s*
sr
i
t»s
The
Holder
Top
Stick
The LaSt word
in Shaving
Soaps °
Williams
THE RETURN OF THE WANDERER.
Air—“ Willie We Have Missed You.”
Oh, Williams, is it you dear,
Here once again?
They did not tell me true, Bill, ,
They said you’d never come.
But 1 feel you on my face
And it, makes my heard rejoice,
For I know your lovely lather
And your somewhat higher price.
2- at all Chemists.
If your Chemist hasn’t got WILLIAMS’ HOLDER TOP, don’t blame us,
but send us 2/3 in stamps, and you will receive one by return mail.
WILLIAMS, Box 98 G.P.0., Sydney.
BOSTOCK’S LIQUID DRESSING
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
FOR
Black & Brown Suede.
You can make your Suede Shoes look smart and new always, by
the regular use of Bostock’s Liquid Dressing.
It is economical and DOES NOT RUB OFF.
OBTAINABLE ANYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLQ POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
“I’ve Struck It—
The Real Thing iri Razors.- Gets through the job
in a quarter the time, and makes the business a
pleasure. The ‘PLUM’S’ the Razor for me.”
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
• The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
PRAIP & AITIfEM 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ulirtiu Ot ttl I ntiS, Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM
Razor.
51
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bride.
Did I see a true thing that day,
Or did I dream on the. sand?
Oh, was it the white of the spray
That beckoned me like a hand?
The day lies gold on the sea,
But dark is the heart of me.
Down by a weeded rock I lay,
My lips by the salt rain stung ;
Watching the proud sea-horses play
In the snow their hooves had flung;
And never to mock my ear
Came echo of laughter clear.
Riding a royal steed he came
From out of his green sea-place.
Oh, singingly he called my name
Through the whirling spindrift’s race,
And his deep voice rose and fell
Like a golden, ringing bell.
With the free, high smile of a king
His heart leaned down to my eyes.
Rapture only the sea can bring
I knew with a soul grown wise.
Then I heard the silver cry
Of their laughter floating by!
White were the arms that drew him down,
And the flashing bodies gleamed ;
Bound by tresses yellow and brown
He sank while the sea-birds screamed;
And over my dead heart.fell
The sound of a wedding-bell.
Did I see a true thing that day
Who stand by the altar now?
And what is the word that I say
As I make my holy vow?
Oh, his deep voice rose and fell
Like a golden, ringing be 11....
Do you hear the silver cry
Of their laughter floating by?
N.S.W.
MARGARET FANE.
Transfiguration.
They matter not —the hearthclie, and the lips
All dumb with pain.
God sweeps earth’s brow with His own
finger-tips,
And tears are healing rain !
Not petty souls the greater anguish know.
Sorrows make deep
The soil wherein the big thoughts live and
grow—
Ferns o’er a well-side peep !
To world-grief bowed, and to a closer pain
The torn heart knows
Reflected sorrow, and salt tears that drain
The eyes of all repose.
Yet through the mist shines blue! God’s
smiles await
Love’s sacrifice.
And, maybe, on the snow-clad heights full
late
Will dawn.... a paradise !
VICTORIA.
M. B. PATON.
The Last Match.
I struck a match, and watched the coming
spark
If it would take the flame, or, sparking, die.
It died and left me in the visioned dark,
As if it were a ghost that glimmered by.
I had no other match, and fondly so
I gathered up my thoughts and went to
sleep;
When in a dream I saw a spirit show
A light that seemed immortal in a keep,
Where Life’s proud garrison in silence stood
As the besieging hordes still nearer drew:
Without, the very skies were raining blood.
And all the hours were dark and deadly,
too;
Within, the light lit by no mortal match
Was like the eyes of God upon the watch !
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFIRD.
Semiramis.
Upon the dark Euphrates’ bank there is a
sound of sighing—
A sound that might have ’scaped a grave or
left the slowly-dying;
And from the tombs beside the streams the
ghosts are rising slowly
And nodding towards the lordly piles the
. shrines and temples holy.
The signs of festival shine out from Baby-
lonia’s palace
Where, deep within, the wine is high in
many a golden chalice;
The spectres by the river-bank they watch
the lamps a-gleaming,
And seem to dance in that dim light that
plays above them streaming.
Said one: “They hold a feast to-night, and
she bedecks with roses
The hero of the day around whose neck her
fancy closes;
To-night they laugh and dance and quaff as
though ’twere joy for ever;
Before the noon the Queen bestows a lover
on the river.
“So let him drink in happiness; for soon the
careless rover
Will find, when Night hath passed away, his
joyous revels over.
Who loves the great Semiramis his love
can be but fleeting;
How many hath she loved before whose
hearts have ceased their beating!”
The spectres watch the palace gate, and
soon, with noise of thunder,
The iron hinges harshly ground, the portals
fall asunder.
The slaves bore forth a burden swathed, and
then without a quiver
Threw forth the lover of a queen to rest
within the river.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


TRUE TO REPUTATION
The following testimonial came to us from
Biturine Lavers Ltd.,
Flora Street, Erskineville,
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd., Sydney, 23rd Dec., 1918.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—Please supply four 765 x 105 covers. These are to replace those
purchased from you in October, 1917, and have been on the car over a year. The
average life of the set was over 9300 miles. There is no need for Australians to
send their money out of the country for imported tyres when they can get
Australian-made goods of such quality.
Yours faithfully,
BITURINE LAVERS LTD.
(Signed) Arthur D. Walker.
Perdriau Tyres are obtainable from your local Garage or from the Manufacturers■
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
a/s° Flinders Street, Melbourne
Adelaide Street 7 Brisbane
Gawler Place, Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
DENYERS
MOUTH GAG;
Keep your horses’ teeth in good con-
dition. Denyer’s Mouth Gag allows a
free and unhampered opportunity for
examination and operating in the mouth.
Built of the best steel throughout, it is
strong, durable and efficient. Can open
to any degree. Ratchet action. No
twitch required.
Price 60/- Postage 1/6 extra
Write for a copy of our Free Book on
Veterinary Dentistry.
DENYER BROS.,
The Veterinary House of Australia,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sill
Itlmn
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiuuiiuiiimiiiiii!
m
M
\
i
m
QJt'iLA'AP
%
RR
1
u
f,
%
7*
il
\
y
M
M
g?
> “REX’ ’
Camp Pie
For Mine
And for Miner, too.
You can open up a new lode of some-
thing good to eat by sending to your
store for a tin of—
e \REJT CAMP PIE
It is quite different and better than anything else ever
turned out under the name of pie. No pastry or crust about
it: No search party required to flu a the meat. “Rex Camp
Pie is made up of the best compou d d meats, seasoned and
cooked to perfection, and packed with a fine stiff jelly. *
Eat it with any kind of Salad. It is nourishing, pure and
wholesome.
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHEP 17 .
FOGG ITT, -JONES & CO LTD
Parkers of
‘Rex' Pure
Food
Products
Curers of
‘Rex' Flams
and Bacon.
J 775
m
[niiuiimmiimnir
feASEP on
Mg?
C2K
V
\T
T^ e 5
5S§&
M'J
SA fe
THE MOTOR
WORLD HAS
HANDED DOWN
ITS DECISION
GOODRICH
FULL-SIZE
Black SAFETY
ESHBBHHHBB
Tread Tyres.
m
m
Plljgflfj
SAFETY-
WHEN THE ROAD IS DRY YOU WON’T SKID—
CUT—WINTER BRINGS WITH IT THE RAIN, MUD
AND SLUSH.
Then comes that feeling of insecurity
when driving on wet and slippery roads,
with the sickening slide when rounding
corners, making motoring a nightmare.
WHY NOT STOP THE SKID?
GOODRICH has solved the
problem with
THE GOODRICH
SAFETY TREAD
JUST LOOK AT THE FINGERS
MOULDED ON THE TREAD.
THERE'S SENSE IN THE
PRINCIPLE.
THE FINGERS GRIP ON THE
MOST SLIPPERY ROADS.
THE SKID DOESN'T EVEN START.
RIDE CARE-FREE-AND SAFE.
EQUIP YOUR CAR WITH
GOODRICH SAFETY TREADS.
DUVAL ca CO.
145 Collins St.
MELBOURNE.
13 Castlereagh St,
SYDNEY.
300 Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 40.—N0. 2048.
THURSDAY, MAY 15, 1919.
Prtce On.
THE GIFT.
PRESIDENT WILSON: “Dear Madam, in token of our eternal friendship we offer for your protection this ferocious Dove of Peace, keeping only for
ourselves this timid and gentle Bird of Freedom.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. Cd. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to 'be
refused.
The. contents of this paper arc copyright, by the
publishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any
part of, the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence'’ column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tub Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current, event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are, those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dau son and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., h\l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal, ; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. — Home News Agency, 70S Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —-Ignace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Hoiing, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 1C Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland.
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id. ; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet—otherwise ; 80s., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz., 3d,;
lOoz. to IZoz., Sid.; elsewhere, joz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 15, 1919:
SHIPS AND WHARVES.
It is like getting back GO years to learn that
a fairly big sailing-vessel, and a foreign one
at that, has been chartered to carry cargo
from Sydney to Melbourne. It and a soli-
tary steamer, to start at a date marked “un-
certain,” were the only sailings announced
last week from Sydney to Melbourne. The
railways can’t carry all the freight on that
route, partly because the solitary line, which
is a single affair most of the way and is
reduced to the value of about half a line by
the break of gauge at the border, never could
carry it, and it is worse now than usual
because the supply of imported rolling-stock
and repair material ran short during the
war. So trade between the two biggest
cities is two or three months in arrear, and
but for the bad condition of the roads people
might almost be moved to disinter the old
bullock-dray or run a wheelbarrow service.
It is reckoned by pessimists that the position
may become worse before it improves, but
this is mere speculation. The apparent
inability of Australia to build ships, except
at the rate of about one per century, makes
the resumption of normal conditions depen-
dent on the convenience of outside parties.
It has been assumed for so long that railway
material shall be imported as a matter of
course and paid for out of loans, which now
cost nearly 6 per cent., and that ships should
be either imported or hired, that the nation
requires an entire re-birtli or a. new frame
of mind before it can adequately face a situa-
tion like this. The papers are filled with
schemes for settling returned soldiers on the''
land with loans of £625 each, backed by
weak security, the money being raised at
higher interest than the States have paid
since 1854. These soldiers are to be em-
ployed to a great extent in growing food for
export when even the export of a lump of
coal to the next State is a matter of diffi-
culty and when the supreme, overwhelming
need is the making of ships to carry produce,
not the making of produce to wait for ships
and moulder the while. This idea includes, of
course, the making of shipbuilding material.
And the next most urgent problem is the
making of-railway material, seeing that .one.
mode of transit is drifting into the same
trouble as the other. If the hiring of a
-Yankee windjammer to keep up communica-
tion between our two biggest cities can’t
convince Australia that it wants something
besides land settlement it requires a lot of
convincing.
It is part of the situation and quite in
keeping with the rest that at Fremantle,
the sixth port of the Commonwealth and the
principal outlet of the western half of the
continent, there has been a long and bitter
strike over the right to load and unload the
ships which have become almost too scarce
to be worth mentioning. The row almost
developed into a nivil war. It was under-
stood to be not a matter of sordid coin : it
was all about a point of honor. But the
reason why so many points of honor are
fought out on wharves instead of in iron-
works and cotton and silk factories is that the
parasites of the importing business are there
in great numbers, hanging round in quest
of hard jobs that require little skill, which
lead to no promotion, and which produce
nothing—neither food nor drink nor cloth-
ing nor goodness nor knowledge nor things
of beauty nor any better hope of a hereafter.
A great part of the work isn’t even dignified,
by necessity, like scavenging or being a gaol
warder. It is a dragging round of the
superfluities of rich people who are too self-
important to use goods made by mere cattle
like . the Australians. The lumper who
carries round the proud man’s raiment on a
wharf is own brother to the valet who does
the same thing in the proud man's dressing-
room, though he doesn’t know it. The
trouble is one that even the borrowing of
Yankee schooners for a high consideration
can’t mend, though it seems strange that
there should be any grief in Australia that
can’t be temporarily alleviated by borrowing
something for a big consideration.
Countries and political systems have gone
to pieces through wars of succession, wars
of religion, and wars of ambition and annexa-
tion. Australia has more chance of coming
one of these days to a very big smash over
a wharf-lumpers’ war, should it become
general, than any other place under the sun.
If the lumper won’t lump for good cause or
other cause, and won’t let others lump,
then under the present system it is the finish
of all things. There are industries here of
a sort, but if there is one that doesn’t de-
pend in some of its essential parts on things-
that the lumper brings ashore from vessels
that aren’t ours, the name of it escapes
memory. So the lumper is a power in the
land because he is so absurdly and insanely
numerous, being, like the importer, a
product of the system which not only
brings into the country all the goods
we can pay for—a thing that might
happen to any place—but all we can
borrow for. As Australia borrows more even
in peace time in proportion to its popula-
tion than any other community, it naturally
has the most lumpers in proportion to popu-
lation and the most exalted, essential and
all-pervading lumpers. They and the im-
porters and the people who lend us money
and the people who lend us ships are the
bosses of Australia. It is an unprecedented
conjunction of affairs that at the same
moment the money-lenders should have put
up their price to a figure that staggers
imagination, and that the lumpers should
have held up most of the trade of half Aus-
tralia, and that the ship-lenders, in addition
to raising their charges in a record fashion
—out) per cent, in some cases—should have
so far failed,us that a cadged sailing-vessel
should take up the running between our
biggest ports. _ Perhaps it is an omen that
Australia is going to do some jobs for itself
and put a damper on the fourth member of
the quadruple entente—the importer. He
has had a. happy time on the whole, for
he isn’t troubled, like the men on the land,
by droughts, floods, had. rabbits, grasshop-
pers, tick or anthrax. Nor is he compelled
like the manufacturer, to risk vast sums on
machinery that becomes obsolete or to put
all his eggs in one basket—he can rove over
the _ whole field of industry, from traction-
engines to camisoles at an hour’s notice, and
he can buy from all the scabs and niggers on
earth. He is little troubled bv wages boards
or price fixers, and his tent is more movable
than that of the man on the land or the man
m a factory when a move is desirable. lie
seems to have lots of money with which to
influence newspapers and Parliament—at all
events he has great luck both wavs. If the
fortunes of this nerson are giving out the
fall of Adam and Dagon and the Kaiser will
be hardly more astonishing.
COAL, THE KING.
“The Saap.. —ln compensation for the destruction
of the coal-mines in Northern France, and as pay-
ment on account of reparation, Germany cedes to
France full ownership of the coal-mines of the Saar
Basin, with their subsidiaries, accessories and
facilities.” —Peace terms.
In a recent speech Venizelos. of Greece,
marvelled at the power and wealth and teem-
ing population of Britain, “those misty little
islands in the North Sea.” He ascribed it,
courteously, to something phenomenal in the
spirit and genius of the race. There is
another factor —coal. Without coal there
can be no manufacturing on a large scale;
without manufactures the population remains
stationary or recedes. The American of the
Southern States was as good a man as the
Northerner. But while the North had the
coal the South only had the niggers. The
Irishmen of Go. Down are the equals of the
; Englishmen of Yorkshire. But Down only
Inis, cows. Yorkshire has coal. The
nation or State or country which re-
lies for wealth aiid progress on tear-
ing or persuading things out of the earth is
inevitably outdistanced, not to say lost, by
the one which makes things. On August
2. 1870, the French seized Saarbrucken.
Had they been able to hold it—which they
weren’t for more than four davs—thev would
have owned the Saar Valley, and the war
which is now in its death-throes would never
have been. Germany was made, for-pur-,
poses of aggression, not by its agriculture,
nor yet by its people’s undoubted capacity for
commerce* but by coal, a great-part of which
it has now lost.
* * '■* " -V" “ ■ ■ '
The handing over of the Saar Valiev to
France should have at least two results which
will be comforting to the world at large—
the removal from Germany of much of the
wealth on which the militarism of that trucu-
lent country battened, and the killing of the
old wowser gag about the degeneracy of tlie
French. The war did much in the latter
direction; the acquisition of the Saar Valley
ought to do the rest. When the steam-engine
was invented by the British the country
which was later to foment war for the de-
struction of Britain got the chance of its
life. It made uncountable millions out of
all the variants on Watt’s simple contri-
vance, and out of variants of variants of
them, because of the possession of cheap
fuel. And its population has increased
wonderfully, owing, in large part, to the same
asset. When the war began the Boehe was
estimated to own 423,356,000,000 tons of
coal. France had 17,583,000,000 tons —about
one ton to every 25 at the disposal of the
Hun.' Wherever in Germany during the last
half-century there has been a boom in wealth
and population there has been a coalfield
adjacent—always excepting Berlin, where the
coal and iron and manufacturing barons
went to spend their money. When the war
started Germany had 55 towns which might
bo called great, to France’s 17. The chief
coal cities of France are either lost or
maimed. Those of Germany—Dusseldorf.
Mainz, Hamburg, Essen and the rest —are
intact. Germany’s impressive birth-rate statis-
tics in recent years probably had a good deal
less to do with morality than with mineral:
I ranee’s decline in the same direction had
more to do with indigence than with perhaps
any other single factor. Poor people, when
they are as thrifty as the French, do not
run to large families, and for the last 50
years the French have been relatively
poor. They have been backward industri-
ally compared with the English, the Ger-
mans and the Americans of Pittsburg and
Chicago, not through kick of brains and
energy, but for the want of that which nowa-
days is the chief instrument in the creation
of national wealth. With the transference
to f ranee of the Saar Valley they will get
a chance to prove it.
Australia has its Saar Valley; in fact
several of them. It has paid, just as France
has, in the blood of the best of its sons, for
the right, amongst others, to hold and use
the material from which modern nations are
built. And the world will look as curiously
to Australia in the next decade or so as it
will to I ranee to see whether it is worthy
of its stewardship. Nothing stands in the
way of Australia becoming one of the
gieatest manufacturing nations in the world
but a section of the people in it. There is
still a remnant of the old Freetrade party.
Its members no longer advocate Freetrade.
But they maintain an instinctive opposition
to almost every measure which promises to
encourage local industries. They are like
the Royalists of France. They have given
up hope of seeing the old regime reestab-
lished, hut they are not going to do anything
to assist the new one. They have willing
allies m a certain class of employer and a
certain class of employee. The Bolshevik
employee is no commoner, proportionately,
than the Bolshevik employer. The bad
employee is congenitally wrong-headed: he
aims as much to foment trouble as he does
to earn money. The Bolshevik employer
usually has all the money he needs; he
foments trouble in the spirit in which he
would indulge in a new yacht or any other
expensive luxury. There is also a pacifist
humanitarian” section, the direct heirs of
the crowd which so nearly succeeded in ruin-
ing England at the beginning of the war.
lhese people call for disarmament, or, that
tailing for the nearest thing to it. If a
powerful neighbor, which conceivably may be
unfriendly at some future date, demands
nava l bases adjacent to the Commonwealth,
the pacifists of Australia urge that all such
maims should be granted. Yet all indus-
trial prosperity is a matter not merelv of
national security, but of evident national
security. The party politician does his bit
to choke industry, too. So does the
profiteer, and the food-adulterator, and the
prohibitionist and his friend the unscrupulous
publican, and many others. If the com-
munity will only make up its mind to root
these people out, coal and iron will do the
rest.
THE VACANT CHAIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a vacant chair at the Peace Con-
ference. and there promises to be a vacant
place in the League of Nations. Cuba and
Panama and Haiti, the little tame clients of
the United States, were represented. But
Mexico, the fourth in size of independent
American States, and the oldest site of Euro-
pean civilisation on the, continent, wasn’t
recognised even as a neutral, and its signa-
ture wasn’t asked for in any shape or form.
It is the Lost Dog Republic. Its trouble
u&tos back to before the middle of last cen-
tury, before the Civil War, before Abra-
ham Lincoln. Then the northern and
southern States of the Lmon were in a con-
dition of bitterness, and secession had already
been talked of. The North with its great
stores of coal and iron was developing big
factories. The vanguard of that Babel of
Hun and Dutch and Irish and Slav immigra-
ti°n, which reached its climax about 1885,
was just coming in to supply it with abund-
ant cheap labor and make it a polyglot com-
“unity. Because of its factories it leaned
to I rotection. The North was the great
original prop of slavery, but its slaves had
mostly died out through the climate, or had
been sold to the South because they were
more useful there.. So the North got a
hunch that slavery was sinful when it didn’t
pay, and began talking about its soul. The
South, on the other hand, was agricultural
because it was rather short of minerals. It
was Freetrade because it imported its. manu-
factured goods. It didn’t attract the poly-
glot immigrants of Europe to enlarge its
voting powers, because niggers, who had no
votes, though to some extent their owners
voted for them, did ■ the hard work. . So it
had an aristocracy of white men—to a great
extent long-established men of “old families”
—with votes, and a sort of democracy of
niggers without.
The United States, at the date of the Mexi-
can war in 1845. were about one-third their
present size, though there were great "waste”
lands not yet organised into States. Out of
11 Presidents the slave States had supplied
seven. Virginia, the great Mother State,
had furnished five. The South was pre-
dominant, but, owing to the influx of popula-
tion in the North, it was in a fair way to
lose its predominance. When it did it
intended to quit and set up for itself. Its
lofty, slave-owning gentry drew the line at
being ruled by the new immigrants from
Europe and the old pietists of New England.
A compromise was in existence by which
longitude 861 was fixed as a boundary. All
new States formed out of the ' waste
lands north of that line were to be
free. All south of it were to be slave.
Also it was understood that every time
a free State was formed a slave State
was to be formed also. Unfortunately
for the South, when Arkansas was formed
there . was no more land to the west
except Mexican land to which slavery could
spread, while free States could be con-
structed right w T est to the Pacific. Natu-
rally Mexico had to he looted. U.S. settlers
in the Spanish-Indian republic found at the
right moment that they were “oppressed”
because so much land had been given them,
so they revolted and declared Texas an inde-
pendent State. Then the independent State
joined the U.S. as a slave member of the
Union. In the row that ensued Mexico also
lost Arizona, New Mexico and California.
The last-named was bound to be lost quite
apart from the slave war. Mexico made
the same mistake that the Boers made
later—the mistake of being a weak people
in possession of the richest goldfield in
the world and having a strong people
alongside them. Mexico cursed under its
sombrero. It said that it had abolished
slavery itself—on paper, anyhow—and the
Land of Freedom had stolen its territory to
grow niggers on.
The annexation of the new slave country
postponed the final row between North and
South for 16 years. Two more slave-State
Presidents were elected. But when three
free-State Presidents were chosen in succes-
sion the South realised that the balance of
power had left it, and that its “old families”
were going to be ruled in future by the poly-
glot immigrants of the North and the goatee-
wearing Puritans of the Mayflower brand.
So it handed in its resignation. In the
trouble that ensued Texas, stolen from
Mexico for slave purposes, became free after
all.
Mexico has never settled down like Chili
and Argentina and Brazil. It has the tem-
porary feeling. Having lost half its terri-
tory to stop a hole in U.S. politics, it got
the sense of misfortune early. Having no
powerful mother country to back it like
Canada, Uncle Sam’s other neighbor, its
position is that once occupied by Burmah
and the Boer States, and earlier by the Pun-
jaub and still earlier by Ireland towards
Britain; w r hich was also the position of
Serbia towards Austria and old Finland
towards Russia. It is the Place that is Too
Near. The U.S. policy of “peaceful pene-
tration,” which used to be also the Hun
policy, has eaten out its vitals. Since it
became a great oil country the fresh interest
that the U.S. has taken in it—just like the
interest that British people took in the
Orange Free State when it became a diamond
country, and the Transvaal when it became
a gold country—has been immense. _ Yet
if the country shows any serious objection
it expects that a spontaneous local rising of
the strangers will cause the oil districts to
declare their independence, and afterwards
join on with the Union, as happened with
Texas, California and Hawaii and to some
extent with Panama. This was the sort of
thing that Dr. Jameson attempted in the
Transvaal. Mexico declares that even its
revolutions are sometimes manufactured in
the U.S.—that any military .adventurer with
a chance of success can get backing from
the oil or mineral magnates if he promises
concessions.
So the country seeks curious friendships
with Huns and Japanese even as a drown-
ing whale clutches at straws. And it holds
that it was left out of the list of neutrals
who were invited to join the League because
it is the policy of the U.S. bagmen and
concession-hunters to have it isolated. Its
people aren’t a very gorgeous folk, but
they deserve a certain sympathy; and much
worse specimens got the glad hand from the
Peace Conference.
S. M.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Clothed in a Little Brief Opportunity.
Up till a few years ago there was great
sympathy among decent people for all kinds
of strikers if they had even a moderate case.
There was no such thing as an Arbitration
Court or a Wages Board to appeal to, and
the strike was the only weapon. The com-
munity put up with a vast amount of loss
and inconvenience and used only a little
bad language, because it was understood that
the aim and purpose of the workers’ organ-
isations was to get arbitration in place of
the old strike evil. Now that they have
abundant arbitration laws, made or revised
and amended by their own representatives,
and yet strike more furiously than ever, the
position is different. The ' new generation
of leaders represents a temporary phase, like
Bolshevism and anti-Semitism and other
popular madnesses. They have laid it
down in effect that they have some sort of
divine dispensation which makes any breach
of faith honest and honorable provided it
promises to pay. No agreement that they
enter into is worth the paper it is written
on if it is worth while to break it; and when
the Arbitration Court goes through the polite
farce of granting better conditions provided
there will be no further demand for a fixed
period, it does so with the fullest knowledge
that a new upheaval may start any day just
the same. The- Fremantle wharf trouble
was a case in point. The matters at issue
were:
Whether, because a body of men had formed them-
selves into a union, with all the advantages of arbi-


tration they had the right to demand a monopoly of
a certain class of work whether they did it or not.
Whether they had a right, when they refused to do
the work, to prevent anyone else doing it.
th| had a rfgttofcj
-d to put the whole
people to immense loss and suffering, all of which
thev regarded with indifference.- C4-..+P
And whether, despite all the machinery ot State
anil Federal arbitration, largely devised by them-
selves thev were, simply because they had a certain
amount of power ainl no scruple about using it, the
sX judges ot whether they had a grievance or not
The row at Fremantle dated from 1917
when the union struck over a matter that
was mostly political. Only a crowd that
was crazed, like the llohenzollerns , with
the idea of power would have endeavored to
starve a whole State on such an issue. It
was defeated by the formation of a new
union, but it never forgot or forgave, am
when the chance came the old union pro
ceeded to drive the new one off the premises
with violence and to hold up the community.
So, as with the bigger stoppage of the
Broken Hill mines, the interests of the
nation were sacrificed to a shindy between
two unions. But at Broken Hill the case
was worse. It was merely a matter ot two
labor bodies which couldn’t agree, except
that they agreed to turn a big town into a
desolation and to hang up the biggest mining
industry of the principal State and all the
industries dependent on it, till they could
agree. As regards the Fremantle case, the
leader of the Labor party demanded in burn-
ing words that the “contemptible National
Parliament” should “find a solution of the
trouble without resorting to force,” which
was a trifle absurd seeing that the aggres-
sors would accept no settlement save their
own and had already resorted to force. In
the end the new union broke up and left,
so force won. It was a complete surren-
der, like Watt’s climb-down in the coal-
mining business. The Broken Hill trouble,
however, can’t be decided even by the public
surrendering everything 'that is asked for,
nothing being asked for of the public. It
is purely an internal disturbance, just as
with the one at Port Pirie, where the fuss
is made by a score or so of unionist carpen-
ters. These four gorgeous years, when
£400,000.000 of loan money and about
£50,000,000 of paper money were scattered
in the country, and war had depleted the
labor supply, have led to a period of elation,
when unions are ready to fight each other
and wreck the community’s affairs over a
grain of dust, and land-sharks sell suburban
wildernesses for their superficial area in
Government notes, and importers think they
own the earth, and nobody clothed in a
little brief opportunity is quite right in the
head.
•—♦
A Capital in Two Pieces.
Sydney Telegraph is still strenuous on at
least one thing—the urgency of shifting the
Australian Government and Parliament to
Canberra. It sees the cloven hoof o
“Melbourne influence” in everything that
happens these days. liven the action o
Acting Prime Minister Watt in fixing the
price of coal so that his own State, which
buys most of its coal from N. S. Wales and
is N. S. Wales’s best customer, will enrich
the Ma State by paying it 3s. a ton more,
is held to be a sign that “Melbourne influ-
ences” are at work. Yet even in its mad-
dest mood the Telegraph never says or
hints that Canberra is the best or the tenth-
best capital site that could be selected m
the interests of Australia. In fact, nobody
can find any striking merits in a capital site
which consists of 900 square miles in one
place and 28 square miles in another, with
an alley 130 miles long to connect them.
The big blob is inland, and has no special
advantages in the way of coalor iron (un-
known), water power (nil)) rainfall
(almost the smallest in the eastern dis-
trict), fertility (ordinary), scenery (just
like any other place), or commercial oppor-
tunities (except that it is on the road to
Rome if one goes far enough in the right
direction). The small blob is on the coast
without enough sea frontage to be much ot
a port, and the alley, 130 miles long, is just
a thread of land with more land on each side
of it. This disjointed place doesn’t attract
population. A sum of £988,070 was s Peat
on it between 1911 and 1918, or about £looo
per square mile, and the population in-
creased by 183 (from 1921 to 2104). It
reached the maximum in 1916 and then
began to diminish. Therefore it cost a
trifle over £5400 to attract a new inhabi-
tant, and when he arrived he was an official
on a salary. Apart from officials the popu-
lation fell away. Of the nine divisions of
the Commonwealth —six States, two Terri-
tories and one Possession —the Federal site
was the only one which showed a loss ot
population when the last official estimates
were made. The only thing that is ever
said in favor of the Capital in Two Pieces
is that it was part of the “bargain ’ made
when the Constitution was adopted. The
statement is such a glaring falsehood that it
hardly needs contradiction. The “bargain”
in the Constitution was that the Federal
metropolis should be anywhere in N. . 8.
Wales provided it was at least 100 miles
from Sydney. It was a petty swindle in
any case, and branded Ma State politicians
as a class of spielers and confidence-men.
For N. S. Wales accepted the original Con-
stitution, which left the capital site an open
question, by a majority of 5367, and the
affirmative vote (71,595) was 21.595 more
than the minimum required by the agree-
ment which N. S: Wales had made with
its partners in the movement. The paltry-
souled State politicians who raised the
minimum from 50,000 to 80,000 while
the Federal Convention was sitting, and
annulled the people’s decision, and then
haggled for possession of the capital before
they would resume business, were worthy of
the anti-Australian party to which they be-
longed. The clause fixing the capital in N.
S. Wales can be altered by a referendum
like any other clause, and is no more binding
than any other. As for the selection of the
wonderful Capital in Two Pieces, that was
done by a mere Act of Parliament, the de-
mand for a referendum being voted down,
largely by the Labor party, and an Act of
Parliament can undo-tlie absurdity. The
. choice was engineered by the anti-Federal-
ists, of whom Pumpkin Smith was the
prophet and Sydney Telegraph the mouth-
piece. The idea was to have a mean capital
which would bring Federation into discredit;
a small capital which wouldn’t overshadow
Sydney; yet one so near Sydney that what-
ever business it could supply would go to
that city. The conspirators overdid things
in their meanness and their malice, and
secured a capital that no one will go to.
It was in 1911 that Canberra was “founded.”
Since then there have been six Ministries,
two led by a Queenslander and four by
N. S. Wales men, both Freetraders from
Sydney, with never a Victorian in the lot.
Sydney men have run the show for just,
about five years out of the last six, yet they
evinced no enthusiasm and dodged the idea
of living at Canberra as if the place had a
pestilence. And unless a more attractive
place—one that isn’t obviously doomed _to
be a mere big village—is selected the dodging
may go on indefinitely and N. S. Wales may
wait. Many politicians hate the village
life, which they associate with thick boots
and mud and cows and early morning
roosters.
The Dependable Digger.
Ted Colles writes from England :
Some time ago I quoted experiences with Tommies
and Diggers under fire to prove that the latter were
the more truly disciplined troops of the two. Doings
in England during the early days of the armistice,
though under less exacting circumstances, further
proved that the Diggers have a greater sense of
individual and national responsibility.
At Folkestone, where the most exciting develop-
ments occurred, their refraining from joining in
under circumstances most tempting was proudly re-
ferred to even in A.I.F. departmental communica-
tions. In one case, where there was an inclina-
tion to make trouble, they asked for and got an
explanation of how matters really stood, and then
calmly carried on with their job—at the simple
request, be it understood, of one lonely Australian
officer.
On the morning of January 3 the staid Channel
town began to experience most startling happenings.
The Tommies broke all military bounds and paraded
the streets in thousands; expressing themselves in
variations from music-hall songs to denunciations of
militarism in all its aspects. Indignation meetings
were held around closed pubs and at street corners;
and voluble speakers announced their resignation
from the war and called for immediate and whole-
sale discharges. (Meanwhile Foch was anxiously
wondering whether the Allies hadn’t been too rash in
granting Fritz breathing space, and was holding
himself ready to throw the military machine into
action again should Fritz ask for it.) For two days
the Tommies struck against all military duties. The
majority had been transported to Folkestone for re-
turn to France. They refused to embark, picketed
the gangways of all boats, and prevented their breth-
ren of all ranks from proceeding overseas.
Now comes the Australian part. On the afternoon
of the second day the Australian Embarkation
Officer received a ’phone message from one of the
adjacent Rest camps that certain Australians therein
awaiting return to France were demanding their
return to London to arrange their passages to Aus-
tralia instead. The Tommy officer added that they
claimed this as they had been told that all early
1915 men were being returned, and he said he would
give them railway warrants if the E.O. would con-
firm their statement. The E.O. knew that the story
about the 1915 men was untrue, so he invited them
down to his office to state their case and quote their
authority. When the party arrived it numbered 25.
The E.O. met them and asked a spokesman or two to
come in. He convinced them that, taking advan-
tage of the general excitement, Rumor had gone on
the loose and was pulling good soldiers’ legs; he ■
assured them that, barring a few exceptional casrs,
1915 men had not yet commenced demobilisation.
They were advised to go back to France—where they
might be wanted to finish a- 'nasty job. With few
words —mostly of thanks to the ofiicer—they accepted
the situation and returned to the camp.
So presently Folkestone saw this: while the seeth-
ing mass of Tommies on -the wharf still refused to
perndt their own officers to go aboard or go aboard
themselves, the Diggers turned their grim, old
patient faces to the Channel and embarked, and the
boat moved off for the Land of Mud and Misery
again. An outburst of cheering drifted to them
across the misty waters.
•
The N.S.W. Wheat Shindy.
No doubt they are both right—those who say
that the long-held X. S. Wales wheat of the
1916-7 crop stinks and isn’t fit for flour-
making and those who produce a loaf of good
bread and say “Liar!” The N. S. Wales
wheat areas are hundreds of miles apart, and,
though generally speaking the 1916-7 crop
was poor, there was some very fair grain in
it. Also some of the stacks were attacked
by mice and weevil worse than usual; others
were not. Wlhw the Sun undertakes to lead
Holman to stacks that smell worse than poli-
tics it is perfectly safe: and when Holman
undertakes to lead the Sun to 2000 tons of
unimpeachable grain he is just as safe. The
miller who has to accept the 1916-7 wheat
that is shot into lvis mill naturally yells Lis
protest; and the farmer who sees perfectly
wholesome though light 1916-7 wheat dis-
carded and gradually losing quality and va]ue
naturally yells his protest, too. It would
be far more sensible if the Government and
evervbodv concerned in the sale of the
1916-7 wheat said frankly: “We know quite
well that a good deal of what is left of this
crop is not fit for human consumption, and.
knowing that, we will take every care that
it is not sent to the mills.” If they say that,
and give proof of their intention to carefully
discriminate, then the millers who refuse
accept the grain can be dealt with in • a
very sudden manner. They are entitled to
protection. They are not entitled at such
a time as this to cause further waste of some
millions of pounds’ worth of- the wealth of the
country.
T
Should We Wallop Our Nigger?
A protest and a plea from Rabaul, signed
by a member, of the A.N.M.E.F. and "en-
dorsed by half-a-dozen plantation-managers
and traders: —
Let me assure you that for some two years past
the Germans have been positively forbidden to Strike
a native. This rule, which is rigidly enforced by
Native Affairs, also applies to every other resident in
the Possessions.
If I inay be permitted to-express the views of the
large majority up here, this is about the stupidest
bit of pandering to the wowsers that the “heads”
down south have been guilty of. The men who
frame these laws have never had personal experience
of native's, and the result of their labors shrieks to
High Heaven from such'places as Port Moresby.
Heaven knows I hold no brief for the Germans, but
in common fairness let us tell the truth. The Ger-
mans, as a whole, were not cruel to the natives. The
German Administration saw to that. Also, their own
interests demanded that they should deal out fair
treatment. The plantations are manned entirely with
locally-recruited labor, and the big firms took good
care that their managers did not get their places a
bad name with the natives, otherwise it would have
been utterly impossible to recruit boys to work for
them.
Under the old German law plantation managers
situated beyond a certain distance from Kabanl could
obtain from the Governrtient a permit to inflict cor-
poral punishment, provided they could prove that
this was necessary for discipline, and had their appli-
cation backed by a responsible company. Any abuse
of this permit was severely punished. That, how-
ever, has now been repealed. No such permission
can be given to a manager.
The average nig., no matter what his age, is
simply a child, and has to be treated as a child. The
“flogging” is no more serious than the flogging we
all deserved, and got, at one time or another at
school. But instead of its being inflicted in the heat
of the moment by an. outraged master; it is doled out
by’an unbiased third party at. Native Affairs after
the evidence has been heard. And then it is laid
on with a cane.
Let us take the case of Corporal Blank. He is
the harried mate of one of the Government steamers
loading in Rabaul. His best boy suddenly leaves his
work, disappearing for two” or three days ashore.
“Roaring” and threatening have no effect; so Blank
takes him before the O.C. Native Affairs. The
0.C.N.A., having heard the case, awards the boy
“five.” The boy comes back to the ship and goes
tin with his work quite happily. He knew he
deserved to “get it,” and in consequence was sulky
and surly in anticipation. Now that it is all over he
is a good boy and perfectly happy until the wander-
lust strikes him again in a few months’ time, when
the performance is repeated. There is a movement
on foot now to do away with even this harmless cor-
poral punishment, under which conditions the only
option would be to sentence the boy to a couple of
months in the “calabush.” This is right into the
boy’s hands, as he wants to get away from the ship ;
but it is poor satisfaction to the mate, who, already
shorthanded, loses his best boy.
The calabush boys are given all the menial tasks,
and are, in addition, cut down in rations and given
no tobacco. Neither of these conditions worry them
in the slightest degree. They only have to go to a
“brother” (a bov from the same district) and he
shares out —fifty-fifty. There is one authentic case of
a boy who had finished his contract with the Govern-
ment, and offered to “make another paper,” provided
he was allowed to work in the calabush!
There are certain fatigues which are neccessary
in an army of occupation, and there can be no doubt
that the doing of these gave the niggers a bad
impression of our rank-and-file. The German has
never soiled his hands up here, either before the
war or after it, and in consequence is always looked
up to by the natives. Also, he lias retained their
respect and liking. 1 say liking 'advisedly, for no
one has a keener appreciation of justice and firmness
than the nigger, and he has always got this from the
average German. As a proof of the above, the boys
know that the Germans have been beaten ; yet you
can never see the slightest lack of respect displayed
by them to a German.
Many of the old hands in this force are seriously
thinking of taking up land here after the war, and,
though loyal Australians all, they voice the same
prayer: “Heaven forbid that these Possessions should
be administered by the wowsers down south!” If
they are, this place will be another Moresby. .Test
ask the first Island man you meet to tell you what a
happy place Papua is for a struggling white man!
The. Nigger there is King. .
Had German Kultur won the war Australia
would have been taken as one of the prizes.
The former German potentate had a large
contempt for the Australian. Extracts from
his books and reports show that he regarded
us as a lazy, undeveloped, undisciplined
people. Because the German had that opinion
of us, he would probably have flogged us.
Have we any better right to flog a people
whom tee regard as lazy, undeveloped and un-
disciplined? That we—or some of us—would
have worked harder for him under the lash
is highly probable. What should we have
said of the German if we had heard him justi-
fying the lash on that ground?
♦-
Melbourne’s Day of Gloom.
It is absurd to go on bemoaning the lack
of advanced musical taste in the Victorian
capital whilst the Victorian law denies
the masses the easiest means of acquiring
culture. The vast majority of the people
will never be educated musicians, or even
respectable amateur pianists. Heaven for-
bid that they should be! The pretentious
narrowness of the . average professor, his
disposition to regard knowledge of the
mechanics of music as the chief essential
of a “soul” in things artistic, his habit of
raging furiously and neglecting to get his
hair cut —these things would warn the
general public against desiring to read
Beethoven as one reads the newspaper.
The public must learn to feel the influence
of high-class compositions through the habit
of listening to efficient performances of
them. Its education, which cannot be
scholastic, must be wholly acoustic and non-
academic. In Melbourne the forces of
wowserism have ever been employed in pre-
venting this means of education. The few
orchestral concerts that happen during the
winter are fixed for Saturday afternoons,
when the Philistines are attending football
>matches, building fowldiouses "or going to
a funeral. Audiences are composed entirely
of genuine enthusiasts, plus make-believes,
while the public that has hardened its heart
against-sonatas .and symphonies finds enter-
tainment more to its. liking elsewhere. A
season of grand opera at one of the theatres
is the only attractive means of acquiring
higher notions of music that Tom, Dick and
Maudie ever get; therefore it may be argued
.that a.subsidised opera-house in -every capi-
tal city should be provided by the State
Governments, even as national galleries and
public libraries are provided. But a sub-
sidised opera-house is a costly thing which,
as a rule; makes little headway against its
popular rivals, the theatres. Also it
would be always closed on Sunday in this
country, and Sunday is the day of the week
when the mind of the proletariat is most
open to artistic instruction. The experi-
ment of running orchestral concerts on
the Sabbath was attempted in Melbourne
some years ago, and results, as far as they
went, were promising; but before they could
go very far, the voice of cant was raised in
protest and the high-class concerts were
declared unlawful. The same Phariseeism
that prohibits the publication of Sunday
newspapers in Melbourne was able to stop
t-he performances. Had they been allowed
to continue the taste of the public would
now be more advanced than it is likely to
be within the next 20 years. Sunday con-
certs, as London experience has proved,
catch the Philistines in a complaisant mood,
and pull them in to be educated up to an
appreciation of great masterpieces of mus/c.
Indeed, no movement for the cultivation of
popular taste can be quite sincere unless it
starts with a demand for a subsidised
Sunday orchestra, the members whereof shall
be adequately paid for their weekly perform-
ances. If good music is elevating- to the
minds of listeners, the prohibition of orches-
tral concerts on the day of the week when
they can do most good is manifestly wrong,
and the people who are loudest in pleading
for more “light” and culture among the
devotees of jingling melody should unite in
demanding an amendment of the puritanic
law.
—*
Victorian Railway Management.
Victoria thinks seriously of importing
another high-priced railway boss. Here
follows the advertisement:
To Prophets and Miracle Workers.
Genius wanted to make an Idiotic Railway system
sane without altering its idiocy. He will not be
allowed any Veto on the Construction of New Lines,
which is a Political Business. He may point out in
advance that they Can't Pay, but, all the same, he
must take them over and Make Them Pay. He will
not be allowed to Initiate New Line’s or Short Cuts
even though they would pay splendidly, if politicians
object on the ground that they would Divert Trade
from Melbourne, where most of the vote's are. Nor
will he be allowed to Direct Trade to Ports other
than the capital, as the English did with Liverpool
and Cardiff and Hull and even by making a canal
to Manchester, though he might show good results
by doing so.
He may Alter and Regulate Charges to a certain
extent, but the preference for Melbourne must be
always maintained.
All the experience he may have acquired in
Britain, the United States or Canada as to the im-
portance of cutting out Needless Haulage must be
thrown Overboard. Having been brought up under a
system in Which the First Object of the Directors
was to Earn Dividends for the Shareholders, he must
Forget It. In his new environment the Shareholders
don’t signify worth the Shadow of a Curse. The first
busin.-ss is’ to make the Directors solid for their
Parliamentary seats.
In all other respects, the Manager will have a
Free Hand. Provided he can Open up the Country,
and yet keep more than Half the Population in Mel-
bourne, he will give Satisfaction.
Women, Bolsheviks and the Devil.
The fulling Bolshevik power in Russia,
making a belated attempt to clear its reputa-
tion before the day of trial is fixed, has sent
out a statement that, though it aimed at
abolishing celibacy, it never dreamt ot en-
slaving women and making them common
property and females of the town by com-
pulsion. The slander, it says, was invented
by a capitalist or grand duke or the like.
Unfortunately some enthusiastic Soviets
went the whole hog, and by proclamation,
which was posted up for all the world to
read, they made every healthy female aged
between 17 and 32, married or unmarried,
provided she wasn’t the mother of five or
more children, a breeding animal to be owned
and kept by the State. She could be “used
by members of the working class in return
for a verv small tax. and by others on pay-
ment of £lO monthly. The rules as to the
“use” and payment and control of the female
Russian aged between 17 and 32, and the
bringing up of her children, were many and
elaborate. For a year or so, when it didn’t
seem as if outside opinion would ever matter
again in Russia, none of the bosses of the
movement thought it worth while to clear
their characters. In fact, they saw nothing
to clear them of. Woman was a chattel in
primitive communities, and wives were
bought as a matter of course, of which
custom the marriage settlement is a survival.
Even in 1870 the action of a Lancashire
miner in taking his consenting wife into
the market with her hands tied behind, her
and selling her to a friend, wasn’t so wildly
unusual as to excite much newspaper com-
ment, though it was mentioned as humorous.
The public sale and delivery, which were
unusually formal, were intended to prevent the
new family arrangement being regarded as
immoral. Men even pleaded the sale of the
first wife as evidence that a second marriage
wasn’t bigamous, and were astonished at
the judge’s narrow-mindedness. So, hold-
ing woman to be property and the private
ownership of property to be immoral, the
Bolsheviks sold the lady to the whole com-
munity instead of to a member of it. . Now
it appears that outside public opinion is
again going to count for a lot, so the Soviet
bosses hasten to bring their ideas up to date
and say they have never been otherwise. In
other words, the Devil, finding, that a war-
rant is out for his arrest, tries to pacify
public opinion by declaring that Sheol was
always 150 degrees cooler than represented,
and was rather a nice place adorned with
pot-plants.
The Sailorman’s Ticket.
“Mayne Stay” : The medical man who
wrote (B. 3/4/T9) “Should a Doctor be
Hanged Now and Then?” pleaded that medi-
cine wasn’t an exact science like navigation
and that doctors shouldn’t therefore be tried
like ship-captains if their charges come to
grief. This strikingly illustrates a mis-
apprehension which we sailor men are up
against all the time. Navigation is not
“an exact science.” The nautical astron-
omy part of it is-—on shore. There you
work with a transit instrument set on a


T- Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A u s3 1
The Workmen's Comgj ensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers. j
i • .
The Farmers’ and Sell lers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their j liability for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of the Man on the Land to support this,cooperative
company. 1
Write immediately for particulars.
Head Office: 129 PITT STREET \ SYDNEY.
BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRIA.
concrete platform, or a theodolite with spirit-
levels fore and aft and ’thwartships. At
sea all observations are taken from a
moving platform, and with the visible hori-
zon an uncertain quantity. Therefore
exactitude is impossible. And there are
other things. Take the Rule of the Road.
The makers of this—the Board of Trade —
after 26 Articles supposed to cover the whole
question, give for the 27th:
In obeying and construing these rules due regard
shall be had to all dangers of navigation and colli-
sion, and to any special circumstances which may
render a departure from the above rules necessary in
order to avoid immediate danger.
Further, Article 29 as a grand finale:
Nothing in these rules shall exonerate any vessel,
the owner, master or crew thereof, from the conse-
quences of neglect of any precaution required by the
ordinary practice of seamen or by the special cir-
cumstances of the case.
These don’t read like “unalterable laws.”
The ship herself is hardly “an inanimate
thing”; nor is the man on the other ship in
a collision; nor the sea itself. All these
have to be taken into consideration by the
shipmaster and should be by the Court try-
ing him. If we were tried by our peers
we wouldn’t growl so much. But we are
at the mercy of assessors who may be octo-
genarian and entirely out of touch —in some
cases who have been away from the sea for
years. Sometimes it is an R.N. man.
They are real good chaps, and mostly sym-
pathetic, but they don’t understand our con-
ditions and know nothing of undermanned
ships. A cruiser the size of my ark would
have 500 men—mostly trained. I have
three mates, five engineers and 12 (more or
less) A.B.’s. The other 60 or so are fire-
men, flunkies, spud-peelers and such—the
sort who are in the way when trouble is
on. Again, the assessors are only advisers
to a Judge, who often knows nothing about
ships, and can only be an amateur at best.
And the amateur can disregard their advice
altogether. How about the case of the man
who touched somewhere down Cronulla way
in a fog. backed off without damage anil
came to Sydney? The Department held an
inquiry and the Judge suspended his certifi-
cate for three months—not for what had
happened but for what might have liar
pence/, _ llow would a doctor like that? F ~t
the mam growl of the shipmaster at O.urts
of Inquiry is that they sit sometimes t!z
days, with all arguments for and /against
all possible charts, books and plan? n f
Hon and much skilled assistance* from ex-
perts. o decide a point which > e ha“ hnd
to tackle and dispose of instantly a
The Tangle of the; Law.
A city lawyer this time :—j
.it 'j! "°r f° T™"* as 10 t!le imminent
'■(Ctssin tor law reform m N./q w«i r c nw ; i
L-v and Equity should be fr\J ani the Cl' P
i ° f ; her s c ’ with
aTs/’iCcouw h requi rV end - l™-
pota,, District Co„rt —l_ 0 s'i,oc»tc'il, ! ,°s,sion‘oi
adoption as a base for Efficient law reform With its
«»', to grasp „a
7 th f‘- mcrdence than the Supreme Court
ules, and with its insistence in its forms on all
.ous of complicated, verbiage and archaic practices it
•s qujte out of .i/int with the times, and is unsatis-
etorv alike to/ litigant and solicitor. The scale of
ties allowed to, barristers by its rules are exorbitant
•ind, pro rata, Tinuch in excess of those in the superior
jurisdiction on- either its Equity or Common-law side.
Besides, numerous pinpricks antagonise all who-
court t™ t 0 d ° bllSineSS in this Particular
court. In all other jurisdictions and i n all other
tates, of which tiie writer has had considerable
experience a solicitor can file any document in any
form lie pleases, and if it does not comply with the
rules of the Court, he files it at his own risk. Not
I Sydney + , Dietric t C ™rt. A document is:
.n turned because the t’s are not crossed or the i’s:
not dotted. The procedure is so cumbersome and so-
irksome to practitioners that it lias become a by-
•\ord in Sydney, and no lawyer will institute pro-
ceedings there, unless by force of circumstances ho-
is compelled to do so.
If a model of simplicity in forms and procedure is:
w anted, go to the Local Courts of South Australia .
the nursery of so much efficient law-reform, e.a.. the-
>oai Property Act, which gave to the world the-
beneficent system of the Torrens Title In this
court forms are practically non-existent, solicitors’
costs so infinitesimal that the litigant never objects
to pay, and the course of a ease so expeditious as to
, e away 7° breath of anyone steeped in the legal
traditions of the Mother State. Some business-man
not a lawyer, with an aptitude for quickly assimi-
lating a few simple facts, should be commissioned to-
journey to South Australia to report both on the-
Local Court and Insolvency Acts there, and someone
again not a legal man, instructed to draft an Act on
similar lines which would meet the needs of the
public of N. S. Wales. Perhaps this is too much to
Snnh,nT "* **
Butler, Treasurer of S. Aus., took
it fighting, and has been formally pushed
otR of the Peake Ministry. To resign, he-
saio, would be to plead guilty to the mal-
administration of the Wheat Trust; and he
will do nothing of the sort. The Royal Com-
mission that sat on the matter got proof of
friction in the Department rather than of
anything definitely wrong. When suboi'di-
nate officials playfully recommend a visitor,
who claims to know the head, to “take the
old down to the Torrens and drown
him,” the public is not likely to be gotting
its work done to best advantage. Nearly
every charge in the recent inquiry* was laid
by those officials. The fact is that Butler
—whose honesty nobody doubts —bps always
been a hard, self-centred man. ctireless of
what enemies he made; and a politician has
to be very strong if that kind, of record
is not to become a deadly obstacle. His
first appearance in Parliament set him on
that track. He came in at a by-electfon in
IS9O, just as Px.ayfgrd, with equally-,
balanced numbers, was moving to turn out!
Cockburn. The Premier talked for the
newcomer’s vote; but Butler’s maiden;
speech began: “What I hate just listened to 1
from the Premier convinces me that the only \
thing I can do is to vote with the Opposi- i
tion”; and out Cockburn went. *
* <•—
“Pulex”: The city consultant (B. 24/4/T9) ’
forgets that if one man can learn ;a thing so’ :
can another. There is no mystery '
to the use of an ojjhthalinqscope, training '
THE DEFECIT AND THE REMEDY.
CURIOUS PASSER-BY : “ What did you blaw up your house for?"
WROLEHOG-BOLSHEVIK-I.W.W.-REVO[?]UTIONIST: "A[?]ka! There were a couple of leaks
in the roof."
and practice make a painstaking bstudent
■competent. There was a time whe|n even
this wild doctor was an unborn tfabe in
ophthalmoscopy. He had the routine lec-
tures at the ’Vajrsity, and (possibly) some
post-graduate trimming to boot. Tfue rest
. of his knowledge came from his faUpmres—
.just as with other people. Only \flhen he
failed his patient loist an eye. EvenJso long
ago as 1592 there wore non-medi<|il men
'■competent to thoroughly examine tl4> sight.
, ( I ide “Eyestrain.” Ernest Clarice, M.D.,
London.. 1892 ed.. p. 64.) For a m|an like
Ernest Clarice to make such a statement,
■especially in a book written for the (medical
profession, gives the city consultant's case
•away. And 1892 is (jack in hoary) antiquitv
as far as optometry is concerned. ' The opti-
cal world has moved since then. The medi-
cal world has move|3, too ; but the* prejudices
of certain medicoes never change.. 4 The up-
■ to-date ootometrist is a good foetid' to the
■oculist if. he only knew it—pends many
•cases to him that otherwise he would never
;see. *
“W.": I have just returned from a trip
round part of Germany. 'At Cologne 1
bought a guide-book printed pn English and
stating in the preface tkfit nt had been trdns-
lated by “Mr. JP. Spandau.vscfcnetime master”
at a suburban grammar sclifioi in “Melbourne.
Australia.” in the shops are plenty pf
“Bonza"’-brand mouth-organs and pocket-
knives, evidently newly msanufactured.
Some of the latter are mounted on cards
showing the Australian and British flags
intertwined and bearing the legend “Advance
Australia.” I don’t know how soon the
Hun expects to recapture, the trade he used
to have with the CommomveaJth ; but I do
know that all the factories along the Rhine
are working full capacity day and night, and
the country along the river seems well
ordered and prosperous.
A small manufacturer writes in bitterness:
If the Australian worker does not want work he
j :ls going the right way to escape it; and so are the
, manufacturer and the man who handles his wares,
j Pefore the war I prayed for Australian-made material.
11 have tried many lines and have wept for my
■' 'country. I bought American wheels before the war
| 'for 30s. per pair. They went to 70s. on account
yof the war. Australia started to make at 655., and
> anything so long as it had shape was passed on to
'"the purchaser. Varnish (imported) was 19s. 6d. per
; went to 325. The Australian went also to
* within a couple of shillings of the imported article
1 and was not within reach of the quality. Axles were
I3s. 6d. per set. They went to 51s. The Australian
went to 51s. also. Local competition does not keep down
I the price. There is no competition. Combination has
taken its place. I have scrapped a. lot of Australian
material, and for my own shall have to
; purchase goods I can depend on. Then, giving up
hope of rny country as g manufacturing proposition,
I shall put)in my spare time advocating the liteia-
tion of cofiiticted the encouragement _ ot '
prize-fights and gamtxling,- and the gettityt of Russian
and other windbags tct legislate for me ift £5OO per
annum.
John Hart, onee master'vPf the ® c^^?° er
Elizabeth, built and owned
of Launceston (Tas.), had s. > t ne^^n S " ,^ 0 ’
it seems, with fixing the site \ Adelaide.
He said in a lately-unearthed GoV-
ernor Latrobe that in December, while
sailing out of Launceston on a yw.ap
which extended as far as the Leei.' w ® J
visited a plain on the eastern shore
Vincent Gulf, and that in December, _
he went to London, where he told some
the South Australian Commissioners aboii
the country and furnished sailing directions
for Colonel Light, then about to sail for
South Aus. 0
The Railway Commission of S. Aus. has
issued a final report, which goes far beyond
that of Anthony, the expert who was brought
in last year to advise on technical matters.
The main point is a strong opinion that one
man canhot control the whole railway system.
McGuire, the new Commissioner of Railways,
is unequalled as a traffic manager, but has
not “abilities for the supreme control of a
service which includes many specialised de-
partments of which he can have at the most
only a very general knowledge.” Mean-
while, he is succeeded as traffic manager bj
a man with first-class experience of somethin*
else. So it is recommended that S. Aus
shall go back to the system of the eighteen-
nineties, with three commissioners, the firsl
a man of wide experience of railway
construction, the second McGuire himself, ant
the third an administrator. Compared with
the Broken Hill Prop, the S. Aus. railways
are a small, one-sided thing; yet the B. 11.
Prop, gets along very well with one general
manager. Moreover, it isn’t demanded of
Delprat that he shall have anything but “a
very general knowledge” of quite a lot of the
jobs that the big Broken Hill-Newcastle co.
does. What he has to do is to see (1) that
he gets the right men for those jobs, and (2)
that they work together. The S.A. Com-
mission proposes that the third man should lie
an administrator. The administrator should
be the first man; and if he is the right man
the other two will mostly be in the way.
Ad. in Adelaide Advertiser:
Matrimonial.—Bachelor, constant employment,
like meet friend, about 36, view marriage, child no
object.
It frequently isn’t.
Melbourne Uni. is overcrowded, and the
council is about to ask Premier Lawson,
who is purseholder while McPherson is
away, to provide £150,000 or £lOO,OOO.
Lawson seems inclined to give liberally,
and Minogue, Under-Treasurer, may suggest
a scheme for finding the money and charging
it to ordinary expenditure over a period of
three or five years.
Mostly about hookworm :
Though High Commissioner Fisher was lately
scandalised by a report published in London regard-
ing the prevalence of hookworm in Queensland, the
fact of its existence is well known, nevertheless.
Knibbs alluded to the matter in the 11th volume of
his Year Book, page 1070. He 'set forth that
13,720 white people were examined and 203 out of
every 1000 had the parasite, and out of 401 abori-
gines rather more than three-quarters. This was in
the region between Cooktown and Townsville. The
worst record was in Cardwell district, where over
43 p.c. of the people examined were infected. These
figures are pretty bad as mere figures, but the record
of the effect on the rising generation is the worst.
Hookworm retards both mental and physical growth,
and tiie backwardness gets worse with years. Thus it
was reckoned from an examination of children that the
hookworm child of 10 had the intellect and physical
dimensions of 8), while the one of 15 had the devel-
opment of 10L That is to say, he had grown two
years in size and intelligence for five years of life,
and was in a fair way to be a Bolshevik politician
with wild ideas of abolishing all government, or
some other sort of freak or criminal. He would get
the vote at the age of 21, and have the sense of 13
or 14 to use it with. The redeeming features of the
case are that the patient—presumably if not too old
—resumes his growth when cured and that the cure
isn’t especially difficult. But plainly there won’t be
a cure so long as we are bluffed into shutting our
eyes to the existence of the disease.
A fellow-officer tells a story of Major
Seton, who was shot by Rutherford in
London. Six or seven years ago there was
a big fire on the Strathbogie Ranges, in the
Vic. Kelly country. Seton was staying
with a squatter near Glenrowan, when news
came through that the wife of a jackeroo
away on the other side of the hills had been
bitten by a tiger snake. A boundary-rider,
hearing that Seton was in the district (the
local doctor was absent), came to beg his
help. “Where is the shortest track across
the Strathbogies?” asked Seton. “It's 20
miles round by the road, but if you cut
straight through you will only have to travel
seven.” he was told. Seton travelled seven.
But lie had to travel through fire. His
mare was killed, literally scorched to death.
But Seton saved the woman.
“O. Blin” on a matter of marketing: —
In the interests af the local manufacturer the con-
sumer and himself, “Hiron” ought to substantiate
the allegation (B. l/5/’l9) that “any customer of
mine can get Australian wire at the price I can."
Australian No. 8 black is £25 a ton to the store-
keeper and £27 to the outsider, and every reputable
wholesaler is bound by agreement to quote those
rates on application. “Hiron” says he asked a Mel-
bourne wire co. to quote direct. But the only wire
co. in Melbourne manufacturing No. 8 does not deal
direct with either storekeeper or consumer. To a cer-
tain extent there are admitted drawbacks about selling
through an importer, but “Hiron” does not correctly
estimate the influence of freight. A storekeeper can
get a truck-load for a freight disproportionately
cheaper than the charge for smaller quantities. Sell-
' jpg only wire through a central selling agency would
Wean dear freights for comparatively small orders,
by going to the wholesaler, who is also an
. 'GftcF, the storekeeper can buy as little as a coil
rml MP his truck with other hardware he needs,
i'. nf ‘ tvifig his pocket, while probably obtaining
US . , s >jus44eration for lodging his entire order
specia < ne jjp U g e _ “Hiron” should at least admit
'' l 0 iea ranee of the Australian wire at a
. 13 , i* p -, vrice is an excellent deterrent to pro-
no( ei a e fixe c( j inferior stuff. As for the
n* 0 !' 11 ,?'’, in lm P u wire, quoted at from £2 to £6
fact, that imported a j iflllj wa3 eventually supplied
dearer than the Aus, voe { feroug testimony to the
at tee same price, it . growing demand for {he
foreign-traders frenzy at e =
Australian article.


MAMMA, DADDY AND CHILDREN ALL
LOVE CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses the
stomach, liver and bowels without
any griping.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, in-
digestion, coated tongue, sallowness ; —take
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.” For
the cause of all this distress lies in a torpid
liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t, think of California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you are
drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely as
a robust man. It is a most harmless, effec-
tive stomach, liver and bowel regulator and
tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
•—California Syrup of Figs—which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold* by all chemists in two
sizes, 1/6 and 2/4. [6
gt»®i
er 1
as
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
If You Are
Run Down.
Builds up Health and Strength.
If you are run down from overwork, anxiety, illness, or
if your appetite and digestion are impaired and ycur
nervous system in need of a tonic, no treatment will give
such all-round good results as a course of Angier’s
Emulsion. It promotes appetite, soothes and slrengthens
the organs of digestion, overcomes nervous depression
and builds up health and strength. Angier’s Emulsion
has been prescribed by the medical profession for twenty-
five years ; it is a standard remedy of proved value.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Providence gives us food and the Devil
sends us profiteers.
This year, both in Britain and in Austra-
lia, war and repatriation account for nearly
two-thirds of the Central Government’s out-
goings. It is the way of paying the bill
that makes the difference. J. Bull reckons
this year (his year ends 30/3/’2O) to raise
about £25 per head in taxes and sundries
and £6 in loans. Australia (its year ends
30/6/Y9) reckons to raise £7 or £8 per
head by taxes and sundries and £l5 or £l6
out of loans. Of course the big effort will
have to be made one day unless the debt is
repudiated, but this country believes in let-
ting Posterity do it.
Germany is to be disarmed; and that is
as important a feature of the Peace Treaty
as any. “Universal disarmament is there-
fore now possible,” say the optimists; “for
who is there for the Allies to arm against
but one another?” At the moment when
the question was asked the cables were
telling of a descent upon India from
Afghanistan, unquestionably promoted by
influences outside the turbaned kingdom.
Germany may be disarmed ; a German mili-
tary caste may no longer be possible; but
the German may yet do a vast amount of
damage by operating outside Germany. And
Australia, if it is lulled into a false sense
of security, may be the very worst sufferer.
For the first 10 months of the war the
output of aeroplanes in Britain was only
530 machines, whilst the bombs they dropped
weighed no more than 201 b. each. For the
last 10 months the output of aeroplanes was
26,685, and a bomb weighing 30001 b. had been
arrived at. These are probably the most
important figures of the war. They mean
that except in very rare cases an invading
army’s country can be reached and the
people who stay at home given a taste of
war. Hitherto they have pushed others
into the fight: in the future they can be
called upon with sudden death themselves.
Aviation promises to change the whole
aspect of international disputes.
The British Government will probably
issue a stupendous loan to repay or convert
a lot of short-dated war debts. One Lon-
don bank-manager tells The Bulletin that
the nominal interest will be 4| pc., but that
with bonuses and other concessions the real
interest will be £5 Is. 3d. p.c. or more, and
that the repayment will happen about 57
years hence. The rate looks high ; but the
amount of short-dated loans which begin to
fall due in 1920 is appalling; and taking
one thing with another the 4| p.c. loan on
wjiich the real interest is about £5 4s. or
£5 ss. p.c. is quite feasible. This suggests
that the interest rate on our whole Aus-
tralian debt may go up to about £5 10s.
That will raise the interest on State debts
by about £6,000,000 a year, quite apart from
the interest on expensive Federal liabilities.
If J. Bull, who used to finance everyone
else, can be held up for terms like these
on a renewal operation, Australia had
better do some hard thinking, and meantime
cease getting further into debt.
The shrewdest criticism of the League of
Nations scheme to date is the agreement
made by the representatives of Britain and
the U.S.A. to recommend their nations to
enter into a separate undertaking to aid
France if she is attacked by Germany. In
other words, these nations, while piously
declaring that they have become disciples of
the faith cure, agree to connect up by tele-
phone with the old medical sawbones.
That we never had a real Australian Navy
is pretty clearly indicated by the fact that
flogging was one of the rules of the service.
What we did was to buy a few ships and take
over somebody else’s ancient methods-of run-
ning them; and while the somebody else was
throwing his ancient methods overboard, we
kept to the obsolete ways as if they wei - e
sacred. Fortunately the flogging rule has
gone, and with it one reason why we have
found it difficult to get recruits. But the
fact that so out-of-date a rule should have
THE NEWER CAMOUFLAGE.
BENEVOLENT OLD LADY ( looking up S.O.S. 'flu signals in the street ): “And how many
influenza cases have (you here, sonny?”
THE KID: “None, Missus. That's only to keep the landlord away.”
been in force ought to turn critical eyes on
the whole administration. A system to which
flogging seemed proper isn’t likely to be obso-
lete in but that one respect.
The Hun is to be strictly rationed in the
matter of raw material from overseas. Even
at this distance we can hear him piously ex-
claim “Thank God for Rotterdam!”
Australia may think itself lucky to
be allowed to use motor-cars, seeing that they
compete with the railways. The Federal
Cabinet has just decided that it won’t allow
private cos. to go in for long-distance wire-
less telegraphy—anyway, not until it “con-
fers with its partners in the Pacific Cable
enterprise to ascertain their views upon the
subject.”
In nosing around for ways of raising
money this year the Federal Government
might look into the question of selling annui-
ties. The plan has this at any rate to
recommend it—no huge sum by way of prin-
cipal will be called for in any one year; and
when the last annuitant is dead, the debt
will be entirely wiped out provided the pay-
ments have been made from revenue.
Perhaps it was bluff; it is to be hoped so,
anyway. Tired of waiting for some of the
Dorrigo land (N.S.W. North Coast! to be
made available for them, the local Returned
Soldiers advertised that Paddy’s Plain, a
rich tract on the plateau, would be balloted
for on a certain day. Government or no Gov-
ernment. Word came along pretty promptly
then that Paddy’s Flat would be made
officially available.
Australia, which doesn’t look like getting
the Hun to pay much of its war bill, might at
any rate save itself some of the pretty heavy
cost of governing New Guinea and the
Pacific islands. It might do that by secur-
ing the trade of those parts. But it won’t
get any worth mentioning if it allows the
control of the German plantations and other
properties to remain with the Huns. The
development of German New Guinea in par-
ticular was part of a great scheme for sup-
plying the Hun with the raw material which
he needed to make himself a world-beater;
and he will still get that raw material if his
agents are left in charge. Under the Peace
Treaty and the mandates Australia has the
power to take over the German properties
and then the raw material which they produce
can go the way they will do most good to
Australia and Britain. If they are not
taken over we shall have the expense of
government, and the Hun will still have the
benefits he designed to get.
Dear Bulletin. —l Holman says that
bread, good enough to answer all the tests
of the Poor Foods Act, was made wholly
out of wheat of the 1916-17 crop. So it
was. There is perfectly good 1916-17 wheat
to be found now—wheat that no Poor Foods
Act could object to —if you select a locality
where the mice didn’t occur. But as regards
the crop from the other places, there is too
much desiccated rodent and defunct pussy-
cat in it. When a country gets into the
habit of hoarding up its wheat in heaps by
the wayside during four years, for want of
ships, almost anything may happen. In
this case it naturally happened.—Yours, etc.,
Haystack.
The coal-miners’ executive having bluffed
Watt, with the approval and assistance ap-
parently of the proprietors, others holding
the whip-hand for the time being naturally
ask the same question : Why waste time and
money with Conciliation Boards and Arbitra-
tion Courts? Among those to get in early
were the sanitary employees of a N. S. Wales
South Coast shire. They had been for months
receiving ss. a wdfek in excess of award rates.
As soon as their neighbors, the coal-miners,
had scored, they applied to the council for
an increase of £1 per week. After considera-
tion by the finance committee the claim was
turned down. The men promptly handed in
notices to cease work. Result: A special
meeting of the council and an offer of 15s. a
week advance. And what has happened in
this case is going to happen in a hundred
oihers. As an underminer of law and order,
Watt is entitled to a first-class certificate.
Most of the Australian copper-mines have
closed. The great silver industry at the
Barrier (N.S.W.) has closed —for,the time,
at least. The safety-match industry is
closed. The wool-top industry is mostly
closed. The industry of building wooden ships
is closed. But, thank Heaven, Watt is still
open to receive subscriptions to the new
loan at £5 3s. p.c. interest free of income-
tax.
“Yeronga,” from the North :
Randolph Bedford (B. 1/5/Y9) ought to know,
must know, that the demonstration alleged by him to
have been against E. G. Theodore at Brisbane on
Anzac Day was not against Theodore personally.
Had Theodore not read a congratulatory cablegram
to the soldiers from T. J. Ryan the meeting would
have gone off quietly. Those men remember that the
demigod of the anti-Conscription gang in Australia
was T. J. Ryan. They remember that when things
were looking blue for the Allies a leading member of
a certain Perth Conference at which the Red Flag
song was sung, and cheers were given for Revolution
was T. J. Ryan. The same T. J. Ryan was responsi-
ble for throwing a block of ice at almost every move-
ment Started in Queensland calculated to assist or
comfort the soldiers, even to debarring school-children
from saving their pennies to help buy comforts for
the men. * I live in an undoubted National, or
Liberal, electorate, and there’s scarcely a man in it
who has bad words for E. G. Theodore personally.
He is everywhere regarded as a broad-minded, level-
headed man; one who, at least, will give another
man a square deal. The demonstration was most
emphatically not against E. G. Theodore. But it
was a very significant demonstraton, all the same.
As the Bowser section of the Vic. Cabinet
still seems intent on importing a Chief Rail-
way Commissioner, the A.N.A. and the Re-
turned Soldiers’ League are kicking vigor-
ously. Norman’s* term, as extended, _ will
expire in six weeks, and it looks as if the
Government will be compelled to make E. B.
Jones Acting Chief at least.
Sydney Telegraph, pleading for the con-
tinued free importation of bananas grown by
colored people who live on a few pence a day,
says that before the Fiji bananas came to
this market “an inferior fruit used to be pro-
duced here which would not sell in competi-
tion with them,” so the local product had to
be imnroved. This argument that any old
thing will do so long as there isn’t foreign
competition no doubt explains why. the
Telegraph is what it is. The competition of
the S. M. Herald doesn’t count.
The recent successful raid of the Chau-
tauqua performers from America is merely
another illustration of the disastrous hold
the importing madness
has upon Australia. Go
to the towns which put
up heavy guarantees for
these very ordinary
Yankee entertainers and
suggest that they sub-
sidise a co. from Sydney
or Melbourne, and they
would send for the police
to arrest you for insult-
ing behavior. The
Yankee has one lesson to
teach us, at any rate.
He does believe in his
own country and his own
people.
There was the usual
fierce howl when the
Westralian Midland
Railway Co. met in Lon-
don this year. The co.
got a land grant, and, in
the effort to force the
area into use, the Federal
Government taxes it.
“Since the Federal Land
Tax Act came into
force,” the chairman said,
“the co. had been assessed
for £89,787 in respect of
land which had mean-
while produced £7910 of revenue.” The
chairman regarded this as diabolical. That
an absentee co. should do so little with
land of such great value that it added only
£7910 to the wealth of the country in several
years is indeed diabolical.
In a number of lines now coming to hand
c.i.f. quotations for Japanese goods are
based on freight rates of 255. to 28s. per ton
hy tramp steamers. When the freight for
similar merchandise was up to 4185., Nippon
was a dangerous competitor. What hope
lias the local white workman now without a
sky-high tariff?
EXPENSIVE AGISTMENT.
“The interest bill on capital sunk at Canberra is
about £50,000 a year.”
“Did you observe anything particularly suc-
culent about that last blade of grass ice
found, my dear?”
“No, sweetheart, why ?”
“ Nothing. Only the ground it grew in costs
the landlord £50,000 per annum.”
NUNC DIMITTIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lord God, our work is done, I ween, so let us up
and' go
To where oui hearts have ever been —our islands in
the South,
Where Thou hast spread Thy blue above, Thy soft
green fern below ;
Where Southern -breezes speak of love with tender,
smiling mouth.
(Blue above and green below, breezes from the sea,
All the love of all the world, beckoning to me ;
All the sights and sounds of Home I have longed for
so —
Lord, who lovest soldier-men, let me up and go!)
Our bodies suffered grievous ill, our minds were
sore beset;
We used them both to work Thy will —behold, the
task is done!
And we would seek our native place, and presently
forget
The sights and sounds of war beneath our gracious
Southern Sun.
Our hearts are over-full, O Lord! Thou knowest
what we lack—
A goodly horse, a stretch of sward, the rata-thongs
above.
We weary, Lord, of Hate and Death; now let us
hasten back
To where the pines, with fragrant breath, speak soft
of Life and Love.
(Blue above and green below, soft caressing breeze,
Toi-plumes and tui-songs—-what compares with these f
Branches arching overhead, fragrant fern below —•
Lord who understandest well, suffer me to go!)
FKANCE.
EDMUND G. COUSINS.


“PEACE, PERFECT PEACE.”
“Signor Orlando has returned to Paris, and the Big Four are in harmony again.”— Cable.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered Brand -
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKKLL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E C. 2
A. .1. SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
PIONEER Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
mailers! J. c. LUDOWICI <SI son ltd.,
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALL STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
♦-
The Australian Mutual Fire Insur-
ance Society (now Ltd.), of Sydney:-
Bonus to Added Total
Policy- to Re-
Profits. Dividends. holders. Funds, serves.
M tl p ctj £ rfc< 'V
1907'. . 21,562 14} p.c. = 9,237 4238 8,087 137,243
£12.500 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 13*,<43
1908.. 21,230 14 p.c. = 10,430 4430 6,370 131,113
1909.. 18,277 11 „ ~10,553 4503 3,1/1 134,284
1910.. 22,337 14g „ ~10,983 4981 6,3/0 140,604
£15,000 Reserves transferred to Capital.l2s,bo4
1911.. 24,005 134 p.c. = 12,040 5140 6,820 132,4/9
1912.. 22,640 14 „ ~12,588 5388 4,064 137,143
1913.. 20,944 14} ~ ~13,497 629/ I,ljo 138,-93
1914.. 20,302 15} .. ~14,205 7000 13/,380
1915.. 18,271 10 ~ ~14,424 7224 134,008
1916.. 25,614 17{i ~ ~ 15,944 8744 920 134,934
1917.. 15.134 17H ~ „ 15,898 8698 125,4/2
1918.. 32,193 18J „ ~10,477 9277 6,409 131,911
£30,000 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 101,911
1919.. 29.848 16} p.c. = 17,400 9000 3,448 10o,3»9
This highly respectable 47-year-old ( office
calls itself a “society” instead of a "co. ;
and shareholders don't get dividends they
merely receive “interest,” at the rate of 8
p.e. p.a. But the shareholders are 311 st as
hungry as if there was no mutuality about
it. So that the 8 p.c. interest might be
worth something more to them. £30,000 /if
reserves were recently employed to purchase
a new issue of 40,000 shares paid to 15s.
each, shareholders getting one new share for
every three previously held. By this simple
shuffle the 8 p.c. interest is now equal to
lOf p.c. on the 19:18 capital. Shareholders
of 20 years’ standing no doubt exchange a
wink or two when thev hold out their hands
for their “8 p.c. interest.” In 1899 there
were 100,000 shares paid to ss. During
the following eight years four half-crown
calls were met out of reserves, making the
shares paid to 15s. each. Then, in 1910,
accumulated profits provided a bonus issue
of 20,000 shares similarly paid up, and now
40.000 more are given out in the same way.
So the present 8 p.c. means something over
38 p.c. to the moderately old hands.
The Bulletin doubts whether the new
bonus issue was advisable. The Australian
Mutual Fire makes its distributions to share-
holders and policyholders in an unusual way.
First, shareholders’ 8 p.c. is charged direct
against P. and L. every six months; then, at
the end of the year, they share £ for £ with
policyholders in a 20 p.c. cut of premium
income. So this bonus is calculated, not
on profits, hut on premiums, regardless of
losses. This method of distribution worked
out well enough when the concern was
handling very select business. But the posi-
tion has changed since, just over 10 years
ago, the management decided to trade in
assorted insurance (except life) and estab-
lished branches in other States. This policy
has, in 10 years, practically doubled the
income shown after the first 37 years’ opera-
tions. Profits have grown nicely, but the
proportion of underwriting surplus is
smaller. That the present method of dis-
tributing bonuses is on a false basis is
demonstrated by the fact that the funds at
March 31 last were £2700 less than seven
years ago. 111 other words, the society has
distributed more Ilian its visible earnings
during that period.
This helps to show the position in another
way : —•
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £29.415 £6,717 £12,828 22.8 p.c. 43.0 p.e.
1900.. 33,888 8,131 13,765 24.0 „ 40.7 ~
1905.. 36,088 7.149 15,009 19.8 „ 41.6 „
191 C. . 41,845 9,890 18,748 23.6 ~ 44.8 ~
1914.. 58,522 21.992 27,899 37.5 „ 47.7 ~
1915.. 00,538 24,518 28,498 40.5 ~ 47.1 „
1916.. 71,557 23,618 32,594 33.0 ~ 45.5 „
1917.. 72,621 36,255 31,466 49.9 ~ 43.3 ~
1918.. 77,867 22,366 33,234 28.7 „ 42.7 „
1919.. 73,861 20,941 33,886 25.3 „ 45.9 „
The past tw T o years have been particularly
favorable for insurance cos. —partly because
the moral hazard has been exceptionally
good, thanks to high prices ruling and the
artificial prosperity resulting from the Com-
monwealth’s method of financing our part in
the war. But take the past year’s figures
to demonstrate the unsoundness of the pre-
sent bonus distributions. The £73,861 of
premiums cost £33,886 to get. Income from
investments brought in £10,662, which easily
covers the increased dividend, £9600. The
20 p.c. bonus took £17,999. To provide for
all these outlays out of earnings, losses must
not exceed £23,038, or 31 p.c. of the premium
income. As the table shows, this is under
the average experience. Even if capital
had not been increased, no _ surplus could
have been shown on last year's operations if
losses had exceeded 34.5 p.c. of premium
income, unless the expense rate could have
been cut. And, as the table also shows, a
loss rate in excess of 34.5 p.c. would not be
an unusual experience. Obviously the bonus
share issue has only aggravated the evil.
The Bulletin suggests that shareholders
should not delay amending the Society’s
deed of settlement by making their bite
dependent on profits and not on income.
This would avert a possible awkward situa-
tion if the concern experienced a run of bad
years. Some day the directors might be
forced into making the alteration, and that
would be very unpleasant. It is solely a
matter for shareholders; the tender feelings
of the most touchy policyholder would not
be hurt, for though it is a “mutual” office,
policyholders are no better off than in any
of the high-class proprietary concerns so far
as the net cost of their insurance is con-
cerned.
From the point of view of safety the
Australian Mutual Fire shows exceptional
strength. Deducting current bonuses and
all liabilities, at March 31 last there were
funds amounting to £225,360, over 34 times
last year’s net premium income. Put an-
other way, the Society has net assets suffi-
cient to meet almost 11 times the losses
experienced last year.
* * * *
Burns, Piiilp and Co., Limited (Syd-
ney), ship-owners, Island traders, merchants,
etc. : - Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
March, £ £ £ £ £
]907.. 55,637 10pc.= 30,000 20,000 5,637 344,914
1908.. 69,787 10 „ ~30,000 10,000 29,787 374,701
1909.. 54,915 10 „ ~ 30,000 24,915 399,616
1910.. 70,107 10 ~ ~ 30,000 15,000 25,167 424,783
1911.. 79,890 10 „ ~30,000 49,890 474,673 .
£350,000 of reserves transferred to capital 124,673
1912.. 99,704 5 p.c. = 35,000 64,704 189,377
Cash bonus of 74 p.c., £52,500 .. 136,877
1913.. 109.389 5 p.c. = 40,000 09,389 200,266
Cash bonus of 5 p.c., £40,000 . . 16G,266
1914.. 115.401 64p.c.= 02,500 52,901 219,167
1915.. 98,317 6i „ ~62,500 35,817 254,984
1916.. 18.583 74 „ ~78,750 39,833 294,817
1917.. 101,466 74 „ ~78,750 82,710 377,533
191 S-. 199,747 7-| „ ~ 78,750 120,997 498,530
> £lOO.OOO of reserves transferred to capital 398,530
1919.. 227,488 p.c.= 93,750 133,738 532,268
Within a couple of years these people have
evolved from a very prosperous shipping and
trading co. into a concern of national im-
portance. The Peace Treaty has thrown
on the Commonwealth new responsibilities
in the Pacific, and at present 8.-P. is prac-
tically the only link connecting Island in-
terests with Australia. If the big concern
had grown several times larger it would have
been a good thing for the Commonwealth.
llow the problems ahead of the Australian
Government are going to be handed appa-
rently nobody knows. So far there are no
indications that it has even decided on a
Pacific policy; though other countries are
actually in the field. Japan, the U.S. and
the Dutch are out to exploit former German
territories, and it is certain that Germany
will again make big effort#* to restore some
of its lost trade. The wonderful activities
of Nippon are now well known to the public,
which would have been acquainted of the
facts of this trade-invasion long ago if it
had not been for the foolishness of the
Ilughes-Pearee censorship. Having estab-
lished themselves in the Marshalls and Caro-
lines, the clever little brown merchants have
already a big start in mobilising for the
Pacific trade war. Japan’s first move in
the Marshalls was to empty" out the Ger-
mans, and to-day only two harmless Fritzes
remain. Then the Nanyo Boyeka Kaisha
(South Seas Trading Co.) arrived on the
scene, and its representatives have not been
idle, even Australian-administered Rabaul
having acquired what bears every appear-
ance of a branch behind a different sign-
hoard.
If the Pacific territories which now come
under the Commonwealth's wing are to be
something more than a heavy burden on
Australia, Parliament will have to get busy
and see that our trade interests are not
grabbed from under our nose while we are
merely talking about what we are going to
do. But the future of Burns-Philp is full
of doubt and possible trouble. The indi-
cations are that the co. will shortly be en-
gaged in the fight of its life. The re-
sources of the Jap competitors can be
guessed from the fact that one shipping con-
cern, the Osaka Shosen Kaisha. was able
recently to shake out half-a-million pounds
as a bonus to its managing-director. The
Australian co. starts in the Pacific race
heavily handicapped: it has to conform to
exacting Australian navigation laws, while
the Jap lines trading to the Islands and
Australia, besides being free in this respect,
have also the advantages of cheap labor and
their Government subsidies. Further, their
vessels are able to handle two cargoes on the
one voyage to the Commonwealth; transport-
ing cheap-labor goods and requirements to
the Islands, and then bringing Island pro-
duce on to Australia.
So far Burns-Philp have nothing to com-
plain about. The co.’s interests have ex-
panded considerably during the past few
years, and the directors now announce that
“so soon as the opportunity is favorable it
is intended to improve the Eastern and
Island services, the cost of building ships
being already on the down-grade.” Recent
years have been wonderfully profitable. The
£lOO,OOO of new capital got in last October
had not time to affect the past year’s earn-
ings to any extent, and apart from that the
£50,000 got in in 1915 lias been the only
capital increase during the past six years.
But meantime gross profits have expanded
rapidly:—-
1914.. £341,629 | 1917.. £441,166
1915.. 352,141 | 1915.. 571,163
1916.. 394,514 | 1919.. 615,619
And that does not tell the full extent of the
improvement, for since 1915 additions to
the “insurance funds and sundry branch
and other reserves” which apparently are
not included in the gross profit figures have
increased that fund from £103,885 to
£298,004.
This shows how the balance-sheet figures
have been moving:—■
* Liabilities.
1910. 1915. 1918. 1919.
Capital . .£300,000 £1,000,000 £1,050,000 £1,250,000
Reserves .. 479,783 347,484 588,780 638,018
Other debts. . 195,435 261,095 622,725 754,479
Properties.. 155,000 177,000 176,000 180,000
Shipping .. 168,485 255.720 1
Cash and in- J- 556,731 574,015
vestments 54,340 187,088 J
Stock . . 180,551 250,808 450,586 538.625
Book debts.. 245,011 382,624 494,567 722.207
Other assets ltx,S3l 322,339 583,621 627,650
Capital and reserves in four years have to-
gether increased by £540,534, and all other
liabilities by £493,384. Tlie big increase
in the liabilities has been due to tlie strain
of financing stocks, which have grown by
£287,817, and island produce and advances,
which have expanded by £305,311, while,
book debts are now £339,583 more. These
increases account for all but £101,207 of the
growth of funds and liabilities. Meantime
fixed assets (ships, properties, freeholds,
etc:.), together with interests in other ship-
ping and insurance concerns, hava expanded
by £89,005, and cash by £42,202. As the
first table show's, the management has been
able to stoiv away £.377,284 of visible re-
serves in the four years, after handing out
£330,000 to shareholders. What is the
extent of the internal reserves cannot be
guessed, hut it is certain that the 38-year-old
co. is now in a very strong position and
capable of standing up against some hard
knocks. If everything works out all right
in the Pacific, 8.-P. should continue to
prosper and expand rapidly. Just at pre-
sent, however, prospects are not at all clear.
Paris House, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Writ-
ten
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
Sept., 1914.. £3152 Nil £667 £2SSB
Mar., 1915.. 1213 Nil 1194 2877
Sept., 1915.. 1072 5 p.e. =£l7s 566 3208
Written off Debenture Reserve 450 2758
Mar., 1916.. 154 10 p.e. = 350 300 2262
Written off Debenture Reserve 300 ( 11CQ
Written off ether Reserves .. 773 (
Sept., 1916.. 196 5 p.e. = 175 1210
Mar., 1917.. 454 10 „ „ 350 1314
Written off Debenture Reserve 500 814
Written off other Reserves .. 500 314
Sept., 1917.. 373 10 p.e. = 350 337
Mar., 1918.. 859 10 „ ~ 350 - 846
Sept., 1918.. 771 15 „ ~ 525 1092
Mar., 1919.. 907 15 „ ~ 525 1474
Tlie table goes back to the time when the eo.
got busy with a broom and tried to forget
that it had been led into paying £10.500
for tlie goodwill and fixings of a high-class
Sydney restaurant which hangs out its sign
on leased premises. Since tlie 10s. per £1
share w'as sw T ept aw r ay and tlie co.’s affairs
were placed on sound foundations, the posi-
tion has shifted this way :—-
1914. 1918. 1919.
Liquid assets . . . . £6308 £5082 £6538
Liabilities .. . . 8297 2562 2346
Excess liabilities .. £1989
Surplus assets .. £2520 £4192
That is a satisfactory performance. Besides
paying divs. the co. lias to provide against
wmsting assets. Leaseholds and plant now
stand in the books at £4SO6, compared with
£11.807 just after the clean-up. If the
£4BOO represents the true value of the fixed
assets at March 31. then there w r as 12s.
worth of assets to represent each 10s. share
after paying the. current div. Liquid assets
representing a little over ss. per share have
been piled up ; so there is another ss. to be
got if the w T ritten-down capital is to be
returned when the leases run out. Share-
holders got 15 p.e. for the past year—equal
to 7 2 p.e. on the money they originally put
up.' Still, over the five years they have
averaged only 8 p.c. on present capital.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors
and Trustees’ Association (.Launceston) :
Dividends and To lie- Re-
trofits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Sept., 1912. . £lOl4 10 n.c. - £561 £453 £10,283
Mar., 1913. . 996 10 „ „ 550 410 10,734
„ . \ 902 10 ~ ~ 545 357 11,091
Sept., 1913.. { Writtenoff( £6OO .. .. 10,591
Mar., 1914.. 1015 10 p.c. = 551 464 11,055
r ioia I 927 10 „ „ 550 377 11,432
Sept., 1914.. L Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,932
Alar., 1915.. 753 10 p.c. = 536 217 11,149
o . loir, f 891 15 „ „ 868 23 11,172
Se Pt.> 1915-Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,672
Mar., 1910.. 853 10 p.c, = 702 151 10,823
Sept., 1916.. 882 15 ~ „ 850 32 10,855
Mar., 1917.. 986 15 „ „ 850 136 10,991
Sept., 1917.. 1023 15 ~ ~ 787 236 11,227
Mar., 1918.. 856 15 „ „ 787 69 11,290
„ , ) 983 15 „ „ 795 188 11,484
Sept., 1918. . I Wl .itt e n off, £5OO . . . . 10,984
Mar., 1919.. 853 15 p.c. = 7C5 58 Jr,042
This little trustee co. has only a small field
to work on, so, though it was established in
3.887, its trusts have not yet quite touched
the million mark. Still it is performing
good service, and providing its shareholders
with regular divs., though the 15 p.c. is not:
worth much more than 7 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds. To protect clients it has a
paid capital of £lO,OOO, with a further
£40,000 callable if required, besides £11,042
of accumulated profit. At March 411 it
owed onlv £195, while its funds were distri-
buted in this way: Deposits, cash and War
Loan, £11,282; mortgages, £7089; premises,
£3000; and a few pounds in odds and ends.
* * * *
Broken lliix Block 10: —
Profit. Divs. I Profit. Divs.
Mar.,’o9 £39,284 £lO,OOO Mar., ’l4 £17,467 £30,000
Sept.,’o9 28,844 20,000! Loss.
Mar. ’lO 3,422 20,000 iSept., ’l4 4,692 12,500
Sept.,’lo 15,243 16,000 Mar., ’l5 16,846 Nil
Mar.,’ll 28,991 10,000 Sept., ’l5 9,892 Nil
Sept.,’ll 11,479 10,000 Mar., ’l6 4,107 Nil
Loss i ofit.
„ 07-1 moon Sept., ’l6 13,854 5,000
Mar., 12 B,Sol 10,000 j| ;l r., ’l7 21,137 10,001)
Profit. Sept., ’l7 28,613 10,009
Sept.,’l2 36,049 10,000 Mar., ’lB 27.873 10.000
Mar., ’l3 16,861 20,000 -Tpt., ’lB 20.212 12,500
Sept.,’l3 37,481 20,000 jMar., ’l9 16,860 15,00;)
Coming events cast their shadows before.
For 30 years Block 10, like most other 8.11.
cos., has issued reports of uniform size and
bound in the same colored wrapper. Now
Block 30 cuts its message to shareholders
down to about one-third of the old size ; and
the color has changed to green—a hint,
no doubt, of the grass that presently
will cover all. Until the war came to
hit lip metal prices Block 10 had fallen
into poor luck. There was then only
about 200,000 tons of ore known to be
available, and though other small bodies have
been opened up, there is probably a good
deal less than that now in reserve. And
much of what there is can only be got at
heavy cost and isn’t of great value when it
is got. Last half-year 27,762 tons were
treated at the mill of an average value of
9.G50z. silver, 11.03 p.c. lead and 10.80 p.c.
zinc. There is apparently nothing of value
underneath. The only development work
done far down in the mine last half-year was
at 1615 ft., where a few feet were driven in
ore worth 4.20 z. silver, 4.3 p.c. load and 5.6
p.c. zinc—valueless, of course. So they
are poking about in the upper levels; and,
though it takes a long while to thoroughly
work out a mine as big as Block 10, the
gleaning costs a lot, and is a hopeless pro-
position in a poor market. Two or three
years ago the two lame ducks, Ibis and Block
14, joined forces. Block 10 putting up a plant
to treat the ore from both mines. So, in addi-
tion to Block 10's 27,762 tons, the works
handled 18,447 tons for Block 34 in the last
six months. On the basis of Block 10 ore
alone the net profit was equal to only 12s. 2d.
per ton. 'This is approximately 19 p.c. of the
amount credited to P. and L. from the sale
of concentrates and by-prcducts. In other
words, without any of the threatened in-
crease in costs, a 20 p.c. fall in metals would
wipe out the profits. The outlook is not
hopeful.
Besides the mine and plant the co. has
liquid assets (including stores) £75,481 in
excess of liabilities, plus 69,666 shares in
Block 10 Misima Co., Papua. Nothing is
yet 'coming in from that source; but there
is.hope that something will when the bigger
mill gets to work, though on present appear-
ances it will not he anything gorgeous.
There are 100,000 shares in the parent co.
+■ * * *
Food for deep-thinking is supplied in the
Federal Government’s new scheme for bor-
rowing by the sale of frilled certificates, from
£1 upwards. They bear compound interest
at £5 3s. p.c. and are payable in a lump,
principal and interest, at the end of five or
10 years. No one may hold more than
£lOOO worth. The person who strikes a
financial snag or hears of a better investment
can get his money back within 12 months
and lose the interest, or he can get it back


There are many mornings when a fire is unneces-
sary, but when there is just enough chill in the air
to make you uncomfortable while dressing. Why run
a risk of catching cold when the turn of a switch,
connected to a G. E. Radiator, will send a warm, sun-
shiny glow through the room? We have in stock
G. E. Luminous Radiators in various sizes and pat-
terns. Let us demonstrate to you the value of this
modern electric comfort. Australian General Electric
Company,’ Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Water is a valuable asset in summer for drinking,
concentrating or boiler purposes. Why not use
Aluminoferric, and have it clear and crystalline?
Aluminoferric is thrown into the water as a solid
or added as a liquid. One pound clarifies from two
to three thousand gallons of most turbid water with-
in three hours. Write for full facts to William
Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Melbourne: 521-3 Collins Street. Adelaide: 96 Currie
Street. Brisbane: Corner Edward and Mary Streets.
Perth: 33 King Street. — Advt. [1
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—A Record Delivery!
An order for 2J miles of Bin. Pioneer Wood
Stave Pipe from the N. S. Wales Government
Railways and Tramways was recently completed
in a period of eight days. The above
pipes were required urgently to convey water to
the township of Goulburn, where the reservoir was
nearly depleted. We are prepared to supply large
quantities of Wood Stave Pipe at short notice. Send
for illustrated Catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co. Ltd. (Head Office), Burns Bav Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. P.O. Address: Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
» « * »
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent
Attorney, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Kink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
• * * •
Avoid painting a new article and you will
probably be able to put off the ultimate painting day
for years; and then it will only be a water paint
to freshen up your ceilings and walls. You can
only avoid this primary expense by using- the right
materials, viz., Lottoid Snow-white Plaster Sheets
for ceilings and inside walls, and Spriggs’ Asbestolite
for your exterior walls. Write for our price lists
B, which will also give you information re our
rooting materials —3-ply veneers, etc. • Spriggs’
Asbestolite Company, 338 Pitt Street (near Danlcs’).
—Advt.
* * # *
The manufacture of ‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
Advt.
Build “Leplastrier” long-lasting, modern machin-
ery-made roads. Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Head
Office, Sydney.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
* * * *
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing . engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective’ flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss oi Profits
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
CF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established J9lO.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. It. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Everything Electrical
whether for the production, distribution or application of electricity
for power and lighting purposes is manufactured by the British
Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd. They offer the advantage
of undivided responsibility for power and lighting equipments.
Their productions include; —Steam Turbines; Turbo-Generators;
Blowers and Compressors; Condensers; Gas, Oil and Diesel Engines;
A.C. and D.C. Generators and Motors; Electric Tramway and Railway
Equipments; Transformers and Converters; Switch and Control Gear;
Meters and Instruments; Lamps, Fans, and all Electrical Accessories.
fjUfgtinpfePusf
l Mancheste*
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
HI Works-Trafiord Park, Manchester, England.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine: Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
after 12 months but before the due date and
receive reduced interest. Also the interest
is free of both State and Federal income-tax.
No doubt a hard-pressed Government likes
to have plain and fancy stocks on the market
to suit all tastes, just as a milliner has a
multitude of different hats in the window.
But it means a peck of trouble and tends to
bring the Treasury official’s bald head to
the grave.
* * * #
About two years ago the N. S. Wales
Farmers and Settlers’ Conference decided on
a co-operative movement, so the F. and S.
Co-op. Grain Co. was formed. A year ago,
at the first balance, paid capital was
£13,048, and a profit of £5326 was shown
on 10 months’ easy operations in connection
with the Wheat Pool. At the annual meet-
ing it was decided to go out after wool,
meat, insurance and other lines, and the
name of the concern was changed to the un-
wieldy Farmers and Graziers’ Co-op. Grain,
Insurance and Agency Co. Ltd. Lately the
directors agreed that what the concern re-
quired chiefly was a ready-made organisa-
tion. so the N. S. Wales business of John
Bridge and Co., Ltd., has been acquired at a
figure said to be somewhere in the vicinity
of £200,000. How the purchase is being
financed The Bulletin does not know, for
the co-op. concern’s nominal capital at
latest was only £lOO,OOO, of which £77,000
had been subscribed. However, both lots of
shareholders will be meeting within a few
weeks and the cards will be laid on the
table. The Bulletin can remember only
one other case of a co-operative co. borrow-
ing heavily in order to run before it had
thoroughly learned how to walk. That was
in Melbourne —and there was a funeral
afterwards. _
Port Swettenliam Rubber, a nine-year-old
Melbourne co. with £61,790 laid out in
estates and plant in the F.M.S. and £11,340
spent in development to June last—all on
combined capital and reserves of £65,000
has decided to relieve itself of some of its
load of debt by issuing 20,500 S p.c. pref.
shares. The co. got going in the height of
the rubber boom, but it struck litigation and
a disastrous cyclone in addition to a busted
market. At June last the co. owed about
£13,000, and the current year’s expenditure,
including outlay on new areas, was estimated
at over £lO,OOO. Against that, however,
128,5001 b. rubber had been harvested to the
end of April.
* # * #
Broken Hill is now in trouble with its
lead, and since the end of March, when the,
British munitions contract expired, the
Associated Smelters have been able to unload
very little of their production. Advance pay-
ments on lead concentrates are therefore no
longer being made, and both the South and
North cos. have passed their usual quarterly
divs.
* * * *
The 10-year contract for the sale of Aus-
tralian zinc fo the British Government is
still a deep mystery. Baillieu, talking to
Amalgamated Zinc Co. shareholders in Mel-
bourne last week, said the terms were “secret
but eminently satisfactory.” No terms are
“eminently satisfactory” which a few in-
siders know and the bulk of the shareholders
don’t.
Marshall’s Caledonian, which was the first
flotation of the Marshall brothers when they
reckoned that they had found the lost Broken
Hill lode, is now talking about a mill. The
co. took over the old White Leads mine, on
which considerable capital had been spent
with poor results, and also acquired adjacent
leases, where the sand had obligingly blown
away to expose the lost lode after a million
had been spent in trying to locate it. Plenty of
second-hand plant being available at the Bar-
rier, a winding-engine and boiler were in-
stalled, and now, after about a year’s develop-
ment, it is claimed that “large bodies” of car-
bonate ore appear to exist. Now an old
mill suitable for treatment of carbonate ore
has been bought from Junction North.
When the B.H. Options made its find about
nine months back, Marshall’s Caledohian
shares were being traded for about 405.;
now it is difficult to sell forfeited shares.
Broken Hill Options and its progeny are
lying low until silver-lead looks up. Vari-
ous blocks are still being floated off* and
there is tall talk about taking them to Lon-
don when restrictions are lifted. But no
doubt London will ask why keen local mining
men are passing such an Eldorado over to
them.
* * * *
Great Cobar has been inspected by Pellew
Harvey, the English director, who says that
the ore has not petered out, and that opera-
tions will be resumed at some future date.
So far the water has been kept down in
both Great Cobar and Cobar Gold ; but now
it has been decided to give way to the flood
in Gt. Cobar, and all gear has been hoisted
to the No. 10 level, which the water
should not reach for six months. Applica-
tion for suspension of labor on Cobar Gold
m .ue will be necessary before long, and no
doubt some further ambitious scheme will be
again unfolded to the Warden; but opposi-
tion may be forthcoming this time. _Lhe
local contention is that this property is a
gold-mine and should be handled as a sepa-
rate proposition, as it used to be. So far
as Great Cobar is concerned, a combination
of circumstances rendered a close-up advis-
able. With the departure of G. H. Blake-
more efficiency took a holiday, notwithstand-
ing that a large and expensive staff was
introduced by the Yankee management.
English management followed, but things
had not improved-much when the knock-out
came. The contract system, under prevail-
ing conditions, became unwieldy, and, with
supervision too often taking the line of least
resistance, discipline gradually disappeared.
The stores department was also a weak
point. Pellew Harvey expects to have Ins
report before the debenture-holders within a
couple of months.
Westralia’s new Mines Minister Robinson
is being inundated with schemes for the re-
vival of mining. But everything depends
on the discovery of new mines, and very few
people are out looking for them at present.
In the days when Coolgardie boomed an
army of adventurers found all the mines that
have gone and most of those that are still
alive. A similar army should be again
mobilised. Men are wanted who will take
up the thousands of abandoned reefs find
search them for payable shoots. It is not
necessary to blow about good finds when they
are made in order to attract capital. As
Hoover once remarked, capital will be wait-
ing on the doorstep in millions if the pros-
pects are bright.
* * * *
Edna Deeps Stuckey proposes never to
again stop shaftsinking while he can shake
pay-dirt out of his claim. Another ambi-
tion is to keep Peacock’s office from putting
the co. on the div. list till £lO,OOO cash is
in reserve; but that is not in accord with the
Ballarat mining ways, in which Peacock
was brought up. To date Stuckey has won
£75,000 gold, and this shows the principal
outlay so far :
Mine expenditure .. ..£86,500
Flotation and general expenses 15,000
Dividends .. • • • • 12,500
Stuckey’s job lately has been to get the lay-
out of his mine to his liking. He now
says that he has nearly completed his task,
and noffe too soon, for many of the
old crew dropped out before he declared
that decreased costs and good gold will
soon put the co. again in the profit-
paying line. Reserves at the end of
Nov. last were 37,000 tons, worth £151,000,
or, ’ roughly, ounce stone. At No. 5
there was a shoot 191 ft. long by 10ft.
wide, worth 845., with stopes up 30ft. from
the rails. Since then Stuckey has opened
up 30ft. to the north on ore, and 30ft. west
on the branch reef. As a result he tacks
on 12,000 tons of 30s. dirt to his estimated
reserves, and by adding ore existing below
No. 5 as proved by winzes, he computes that
he has “more than doubled the reserve of ore
immediately available for milling.” This
looks good, but last six months it cost. over
£3 per ton to keep development and mining
going. According to all accounts there
isn’t likely to be much shaving-down of
capital outlay till the mine is open to 760iit.
and until it has pumping and cyanide equip-
ments. Later the outgo is to be got to
40s. per ton, with the hope afterwards of
reducing it to the 30s. mark. This is cheer-
ful reading, but costs will have to be cut
still further if the northern end of the shoot
is to go to the mill. Stuckey is emphatic
on the point that he has beaten the water.
He is lifting only 3000 gallons per hour, and
in addition hasn’t a trickle in the lower No.
6 level or crosscut or in the bottom of his
No. 2 winze at that point. All the same,
the pumps are to go in, and Stuckey won’t
take a ton of stone from the block on the
Edna May boundary line till the bottom of
Deeps is cleaned out.
* * * *
Edna May brought the Consolidated before
the Westonia Warden’s Court the other day
on a charge of refusing to pay £9BOO due for
drainage. Plaintiffs claimed that from the
day Consolidated got below water-level it
had derived benefit from the Edna May
pumps. Before' the Consolidated did any
draining at all the Edna May had raised
36,000,000 gallons, and when the big flow
was struck it pumped considerably over one
hundred million gallons out of the country
before any of the other cos. started to do
anything. Edna May was now raising
43,000 gallons a day, and claimed that
if it stopped Consolidated would be drowned.
Defendants contended that the claim was
monstrous, and defied anyone to prove
that Edna May was really draining its
workings. The Warden reserved his deci-
sion. The case in which Central demanded
from the Consolidated half of the monthly
drainage costs since June last was then
proceeded with, and after having a night to
think over things Consolidated next day
agreed to settle the claim by paying £4OO for
the nine months ended March and £5O a
month from that date.
A small party of gold-seekers left Meeka-
tharra (W.A.) recently for the Nor’-West.
There are big areas of auriferous country in
that part of the State which have never been
properly prospected, and big tracts that have
never been tried at all. Small but rich
patches of gold were being worked on the
Ashburton when Coolgardie was discovered,
but were nearly all abandoned when news
of the Londonderry and Wealth of Nations
came to hand. Further north, in the Leo-
pold Ranges, at the back of Derby, some
rich base-metal deposits are alleged to exist,
but so far their distance from the coast has
prevented their exploitation.
* * .* *
Greenfinch (W.A.) is again in trouble.
This time the forfeiture of one of its leases,
known as the Advance, has knocked on the
head its £20,000 reconstruction scheme, and
caused the management to reconsider its
position. The best thing to do would be to
wind up and relieve shareholders of any fur-
ther expense or worry.
* * * *
From j. L. Strevens: —
“Oof Bird’’ (B. 24/4/’l9) is unfortunate in his
selection of alleged Westralian oil discoveries with
which I have been connected, as I reported unfavor-
ably on the Pingelly show long before the recent
condemnation by a State geologist. The only dis-
trict which, to my mind, has a sporting chance is to
the south-east of Wonnerup. Others have testified to
the presence of oil on the Wilkinson property in that
neighborhood, but there are differences of opinion as
to the origin of the oil that undoubtedly occurs
there. Anyhow, G. D. Meudell has taken the propo-
sition to America, where oil magnates have been in-
terested in the discovery for some time past, and
there is every possibility of U.S. capital coming to
Westralia for the purpose of thoroughly boring the
district.
Out at last, the prospectus of Federation
Tin, the claim that, if The -Bulletin mis-
takes not, Sligo, of Zeehan, brought to Mel-
bourne for Bowes Kelly and Jamieson to
consider in pre-war days- R. W. Stringer
is handling the show these times. The
suggestion is a co. of 120,000 shares of 20s.
each, 15,000 going into reserve, thus leaving
105,000 to be cut up. Of these, 45,000 paid-
ups go to the vendors and promoters, “being
in full purchase consideration for the pro-
perty.” This leaves 60,000 shares for those
who have to find the cash. The idea is to
provide a 30-head mill of 12001 b. stamps at
a cost of £42,300. J. B. Lewis, of the
Anchor mine, is responsible for recom-
mendations as to plant, and he figures that
open-cut work will not cost more than 6s.
per ton, or stoping more than 16s. Lewis
talks of a million tons available of an
average of 1 p.c. oxide, with the lease then
only scratched. So, given tin at £2OO per
ton and a recovery of 75 p.c., and with
120,000 tons handled annually, £70,000 is
to drop yearly into the pockets of share-
holders. All this is spiffing, yet the pros-
pectus artist paints the lily by saying that
the old Bischoff under conditions no more
favorable than those at the Federation has
paid £2,500,000 in divs. Surely this can’t
be serious talk when one knows the ease of
mining at the Waratah show. The reports
from Stringer and Lewis read so well that
The Bulletin would like to know how it
is that Queen-street couldn’t spot this
Heemskirk treasure, or why Millen, at the
Bischoff, hasn’t reached out for it.
Melbourne is being introduced to Ravens-
wood Colossal Gold (N.Q.), a show in 340
shares of £5O each, of which the promoters
take 90 paids, thus proving that N. Queens-
land hasn’t forgotten the old tricks of float-
ing. The man who does the reporting is
R. H. Crozier, who has tussled with mines
in Westralia and Cloncurry. He reckons
on 260,000 tons averaging 245. 6d. down to
80ft., and out of this he wants to wrest a
profit of £130.000. The leases really cover
the old Far Fanning claims, out of which
in the ’nineties some 3000 tons gave £2 per
ton over the plates.
The Carbide Co., West Bay (Tas.), has
been in difficulties ever since it started,
owing to the impossibility of getting elec-
trodes ; but for some time the co. has been
experimenting in the hope of making its
own. As the co. fell into financial difficul-
ties the Government came to its assistance
with cash, and also detailed Professor Reg.
Glasson, of the University, to give a help-
ing hand. Under his supervision an elec-
trode was turned out which survived an
eight hours’ test. After receiving Glasson’s
report, the Government decided to let the
co. have £5OOO so that it could give some of
the hungriest creditors a bite to go on with.
This is. Gillies’s original co., which held the
concession for the Great Lake hydraulic
scheme, and want of money has been the
trouble all along. When the Government
took over the Great Lake enterprise, one of
the conditions was that the purchase money
had to be spent on these carbide works at
West Bay.


STILL JOY-RIDING.


rAU hDi v
ttKmawtwtnWßfrTn
8 SVQWfv
RTH AND LONDON
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDING’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lcwt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO..
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
Without good heaving you are greatly handi-
capped, and the fact is brought home to you
every day. Why remain deaf? Th<>
Acousticon
10 Days’
TRIM.
will safely and surely enable you to hear.
Over 330.000 delighted users, including the
Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, who is using
his “Acousticon” at the Peace Conference.
Write for 10 Days’ Free Trial. No deposit,
no obligation. Convince yourself at our
expense, and DON’T STAY DEAF! New stocks
arrived.
I amvnn Store r. 102 Dakingr House. SYD V EY
k-Jiovll-j, rv i(. e VU., oiderfleet, Col ins : tt.,MELß
N Z.: John Procter, 200 Ilicih St.. Christc'h.
IV.A.: 11. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
THE
Hotel Sydney
(SYDNEY)
Is one of the largest,- most modem
and best equipped in Australia.
It is situated opposite the Railway Station
and is central to everywhere.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 400 GUESTS.
Quiet, Cool and Comfortable.
Hot and Cold Water, Day and Night, in every
Bedroom.
Half an acre of Glorious Roof
Garden.
Tariff from 12/6 per day.
Have you Lunched or Dined at the “Sydney ’?
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
* sssaDessaiasa®
11
PL‘JG SUiCE
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
‘EDGEWORTH’’
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Colebatch is the first journalist to be-
come Premier of Westralia. llis predeces-
sors have included two lawyers, an explorer,
a farmer, a mining investor, a clerk, a
commercial man, an engine-driver and a
squatter.
Announced in London and then contra-
dicted that Princess Mary, King George’s
only daughter, was engaged to be married
to the Earl of Dalkeith, who will in time —
if he does not die before his father —be the
Duke of Buccleuch. Dad is now 55. The
Buccleuchs are more or less royal, too.
Anne, the second Countess, married James,
Duke of Monmouth, the son of giddy Charles
11. and Lucy, daughter of Richard Walters,
of Pembrokeshire. *
UNEXPECTED POLITENESS.
THE BO'SN'S MATE : “And what did you do
when you came across those Germans
struggling in the water?”
THE BO'SH: “Oh, we dropped 'em a line to
come aboard.”
THE BO'SN'S MATE: “Gracious! Did they
actually wait to be invited?”
Hughes’s attitude towards Wilson and
Wilson’s attitude towards Hughes has of
course colored most of the Yankee news-
paper references to the Australian Prime
Minister. A characteristic sketch is pub-
lished by the N’York Herald from
Guy Hickok's pen, under the headings:
“Australia’s Premier is Enfant Terrible
of Peace Congress. Deaf Hughes hears
nothing of procedure. Will not read.
Speaks most inopportunely.” In the course
of a column of wild exaggerations it
is explained that “Hughes aroused great
enthusiasm earlier in the war by walking
through the Australian area at the r rent
in utter disregard of shell-fire. Now the
faets are out. He is stone-deaf and couidn t
hear a shell unless it exploded inside his
head.” Australia can say this, anyhow.
Its Hughes wasn’t so deaf during the first
two and a half years of the war that he
could not hear the cry of Belgium and ot
France.
Villeneuve Smith, for many years one of
the best-known figures at the Bar in S. Aus.,
in his latter days dyed his hair a youthful
black. Paris Nesbit. opposing him in a case,
turned with charming deference and began
an argument with the words: ‘‘With all due
respect to what should be my learned friend s
grey hairs.”
Surgeon-General Williams died last week
at Caulfield military hospital. The old
warrior was director of medical services with
the A.I.F. abroad until he was invalided
home after the Evacuation; and he was an
old hand at the medical-military game when
he gave the Australian forces the most em-
cient ambulance service in the Boer W ar. In
fact, he helped the Soudan Contingent
bring home the famous donkey, which was
Sydney’s only war-trophy for years.
An old Glasca fren’ o’ Lauder’s, Jimmy
McArdle, who speaks the Haggis language
so fluently that his cobbers are never certain
whether he is quoting Burrms or craving
the loan of a bawbee, was put on by Mel-
bourne Herald to interview the little man,
and the result was “A Crack wi’ Lauder”
a column in the barbarous lingo that makes
everybody except Caledonia stern and wild.
Lauder sent McArdle a letter in which he
stated that he had been interviewed “thous-
ands and thousands of times,” but this was
the first time he recognised “the Harry
Lauder that I know.”
Big John Forrest’s remains have been
given a public funeral at Perth. Amongst
those present: in Karrakatta Cemetery were
Captain "Watson, a companion of Bigjohn’s
on his overland expedition, and 11. C.
Richardson, a member of the first Forrest
Ministry.
Of the G 5 members of the Vic. Leg.
Assembly four are sons of former members —
Bayles, A. A. Billsou, A. F. Cameron and
Everard. Norman Bayles’s dad was Min-
ister for Customs in the Sladen Government
(May to July, 18G8). Frank Clarke, Min-
ister for Lands, and liussell CJarke (re-
turned soldier), who sit in the Uppish
House, are sons of Baronet Clarke, who
occup’ed the same plush benches from 1878
till 1897. Davis represents the Gippsland
province in this House, as did his father,
who was Minister for Defence in the Shiels
team from March, 1892, till January, 1898.
“Rangan”: Bananaland Premier Ryan
is returning from England with two more
scalps won before the Privy Council. Ryan s
political cleverness has overshadowed h:s
ability as a lawyer. Yet there are few
wigs in Australia to-day fit to duel with him.
Ills ability to get. at essentials, his know-
ledge of the law and the tricks thereof and
his persuasive ways would make him. a
very rich man if he cared to drop politics.
On each, of his trips to England he has
saved the State many times more than he cost
it by his successful appearances before the
l’rivy Council. This time he won the
famous Mooraberrie cattle case and the
Gibson-Howes sugar appeal.
.Tames- Mitchell, MX.A. for Novtham
(W.A.), now brought into a prominent posi-
tion in the new Colebatch Cabinet as Lands
Minister, had the same job in the Wilson
Government that Scaddan’s Laborites routed
in 1911. Belief in his native State and
fervid interest in land settlement are almost
a vice with him. He made himself remark-
able in the Lands by a Pied Piper leader-
ship of a feiv hundred civil servants on 1o
a wild-cat special settlement scheme, and
again by luring, in his exuberant enthusiasm,
some thousands of battlers to take up wheat
land beyond the safe rainfall line. Withal,
he is a trier and may yet do Westralip a
good turn.
Wanted a kinsman to caretake a row of
medals. Maorilander Sergt. Richard Travis.
V.C., D.C.M., M.M., Croix de Guerre, crack
rider, dead shot, hero of innumerable
stunts and victim pf a stray shell, left no
discoverable relative to wear the honors or
mourn his death. Born in Gisborne, so
Gisborne claims, he was early left an orphan,
endowed only with a spirit of adventure that
landed him in Texas (U.S.A.). He was
horsebreaking in Southland when the war
began and joined the transport section of
the Otago Mounted Rifles. Left behind
with the horses when the regiment went to
Gallipoli, he cleared out and bobbed up cheer-
fully at No. 2 Outpost, which the regiment
was holding. Th.e C. 0., Colonel Bauchop,
killed afterwards on the ridge bearing his
name, steeled his heart and started the hard
case back to Alexandria. While waiting
for his guard to take him down to Anzac
Cove, Travis amused himself for an hour
by pumping lead into the Turkish positions.
They were expensive shots, for he was after-
wards convicted of the terrible offence on
his return to Egypt and received punishment
for “firing on the King’s enemies without
permission.” Good old Army !
Tiie Bulletin’s “Oldest Inhabitant”
turned into his SOth lap on May 9.
Died a few days ago. Herbert Robinson,
M.L.A. for Albany (W.A.) and brother
of R. T. Robinson, Colebatch’s Attorney-
General. Herbert Robinson, a Victorian by
birth, was Mayor of Albany for a good
many years, and was the man who at the
last general elections defeated ex-I’remier
Jack Scaddan.
J. C. Morrell, of the Vic. Public Works
Department, has been selected as Director
of Works in the Commonwealth Service
Homes Commission, and he will be called
upon to design and plan settlement areas.
Morrell was sent to Europe and America five
years ago by the State Works Department.
He did not see much of Europe owing to the
outbreak of war, but had a good look at the
United States. The only use made of liis
special knowledge was to lend him to the
Vic. Royal Commission on Housing, whose
report has been shelved.
Horace A. Wilcox, manager of Melbourne's
cable tramways, is in a queer position. He
was manager, and also a considerable share-
holder, in the old Tramway Co., which leased
the lines and had to hand them over in June.
1916, in good order. The Tramways Board,
which took them over, says they are not in
good order, and is therefore suing the co. to
recover £587,915. Now, Wilcox is also
manager for the Board, in which capacity he
has to assert that the lines are a disgrace
and that he can’t hope to run things properly
with such equipment, while as manager of
Ihe co. he leans to the view that the system
is perfection. Whether Mr. Jekyll or Mr.
Hyde wins, Costs will come out all right.
RISHOP
STEPHEV.
There i.s nothing of
the af terno.o n-tea
curate about Bishop
Stephen, late of Tas-
mania, who takes over
the Diocese of New-
castle in succession to
Dr. Stretch. He calls
things by their plain
names, whether he Is
dressing down Bung
or Bookie or talking
business with his lieu-
tenants. Along to
Lis time Bishops of
Tasmania had always
been selected by the
Archbishops of Can-
terbury and York;
1 ! s first chief that the
T isma u i a n synod
ev r elected was Reg-
inald Stephen, M.A.,
D.D. Born a Vic-
torian, lie is a nephew
o Alfred Stephen,
one-time Attorney-
General of the Speck,
af t e rwa r d s Chief
Justice of N. S.
Wales.
The success with
whi c h the Speck's
politicians produce
comic opera after they
are elected has in-
spired candidates with
the idea that a little
refined v a_n dev i 11 e
work might get them
into Parliament. At
u Labor election meeting at New Norfolk
one candidate made a speech and the other
sang “All is not Gold that Glitters.”
“Pollin'’ calls up the class :
R. K. Bush, of Bishop’s Knoll (B. 8/5/’l9), adds
another name to the list of Clifton boys intimately
connected with Australia. That fine school might
almost be adopted by Australia, or given an Honor-
ary Australianship. Here is a sample of its output:
Birdwood, of Anzac; Bean, the A.I.F. correspond-
ent ; Chambers, formerly of the Naval College; Ed-
win Bean, the correspondent’s father, once head of
a school at Bathurst; W. 11. Lang, handicapper to
the V.R.C.; Threlfall, quondam Professor of Physics
at Sydney; Newham, Lecturer in Mathematics; and
a host of smaller men. Add to the Australian names
those of Haig, the Field-Marshal; NewbOlt, of
“Admirals All”; Younghusband, of Tibet; and
Plunket Greene, the singer, and you get a remarkable
all-round lot. R. E. Bush himself is C'lifton-born.
At the school he occupied a unique position ; he
was not distinguished as a scholar, and in ordinary
circumstances would have dropped off when it be-
came evident that he was going no higher up the
educational ladder. But he was captain of the
eleven, and had an exceptional influence in the
school; and Percival, the greatest of modern head-
masters, broke all rules to keep him where he was
such a stimulus to the school’s character. He was,
like nearly all the Clifton Bushes, a great cricketer,
playing for his county while at school as well as
afterwards. A cousin, J. A. Bush, kept wicket for
Gloucestershire for 20 years, coming to Australia
with AY. G. Grace in 1873 ; being of huge size (“7ft.
lons' by 6ft. broad’’ was the usual estimate), he was
also valuable in a football scrum, and played for
England five years running. A family worth pre-
serving, and R.E., the Diggers’ friend, probably
best worth of all.
HEREDITARY, OF COURSE.
He (remarking on new bathing gown) : “By
Jove, that's rum-ti-tum, that is. Yon
look just like a nice bog!”
SHE: "Oh, well, dad was always a bit
masculine, you know.”
Cliarleville district (Q.) has three sisters
who have tilled up a good many blank spaces
on the Warrego. Mrs. F. G. Dighton has
(or has had) 15 children: Mrs. Lewis, 19;
and another Mrs. Lewis 14. The three sis-
ters have 97 grandchildren and seven great-
grandchildren—a total of 152 direct descend-
ants. And they are comparative youngsters
yet.
A century last week, according to his own
account —Joseph Morris, of Glenelg (S.A.).
He came to Australia at 35, in the Crimean
War time, and, after chasing gold in Maori-
land and Victoria, tried station life on the
Darling. He claims to have arrived at
Goolwa (S.A.) in a canoe made by himself
out of a tree, in which he, with his wife
and child, drifted all the way down from
Menindie on the Darling. His life in Adel-
aide has been spent as a horse-dealer, and
lie still never misses an Adelaide Cup.
Probably the first oranges taken to Europe
from Australia —certainly from S. Australia
—were grown by John Bailey, who exhibited
them at the London Horticultural Society’s
Show in 1859, and gained two prizes. John
Bailey’s orchard was at Hackney, only a
mile or two from the Adelaide Botanic
Gardens, over which his grandson, J. F.
Bailey, now presides.
The late T. R. Wilson, head of the Vic.
Chief Secretary’s Department, was absorbed
one morning in a paper he was preparing
for Langridge, the then Minister, when he
felt a grip on his shoulder and heard a
gruff voice breathing into his ear: “I’m the
hangman!” Startled, he looked up and
saw the ugly face of Upjohn. “Well, what
do you want with me?” demanded Wilson.
"I didn’t kill anybody.” Upjohn explained
that the larrikins were annoying him, and
asked for quarters at Melbourne Gaol.
Wilson fixed him up, but cautioned him not
to “sneak in” that way again. Upjohn did
not reply to Wilson, hut put it to the mes-
senger: “What sort of a chance would I
have had to see him if I hadn’t taken him on
the ’op?”
Harold Power, whose big Ypres picture
has been hung in the Royal Academy prior
to going into the Australian war museum,
is an Adelaide man. Hayley Lever, Will
Ashton and Power began their careers
together, but in at least one Bohemian effort
Power outdistanced the others. He painted
outdoor pictures and had an outdoor appe-
tite, and could eat more buns at a sitting
than any other artist on record. Adelaide
Gadfly, then struggling against infantile
paralysis, had its offices on the floor below
one of Power’s earliest studios. One day
it covered its passage from stairs to edi-
torial sanctum with bright-red second-hand
carpet. In the morning the carpet had
disappeared, and search revealed it in front
of Power’s office. Later on it was returned
with thanks. The young men of the Gadfly
guessed that the artist had expected clients
and wished to impress them. They had
bought it chiefly to impress the landlord, so
they forgave him, but retaliated by pinching
one of his fine horse sketches and using it
as a cover design.
THE MOON PATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The moon has found the path between the trees:
The moon lias peopled it with silver dreams,
And those who wake at night see in its gleams
The fragile wraiths of vanished destinies -
High' destinies that Time has diced away,
And then dissolved upon the board of Day.
Between the dusky wavering of the pines,
Between the subtle tenderness of leaves,
The queen who lost her heritage believes
That on her brow the vanished circlet shims.
And bears right proudly in that moonlit dell
The small white neck that met the axe so well.
Or the great Corsican, with hand inthrust,
Hides the still world with condescending smile
That keeps no shadow of a lonely isle,
Or broken battlefields where snapped swords rest,
As, hurrying, when friendly branches lean,
lie holds a passionate tryst with Josephine.
But there is one no silver path shall greet,
Nor whispering pines protect. A\ here he would
come
There stands a woman, and her mouth is dumb.
But she points always at the Bloody Feet
That led the legions in a devil’s dance
Across the fields of Belgium and of trance!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


c
l
*4 A
f\
\\i
tobacco
Always the Same
1 Distinctive SmoKe
To-morrow— and Everywhere!
Natural thing, is’nt it, for men to call it
Australia's- National SmoKe
)/ \ Cut (FlaKe or Mixture)
Also in PI Form.
THE
OF PEACE AND QUALITY
PIPE
400
m
•SMS
n
LMN
£V ery p 'P e G " ara "^


LADIES!
EVERY PEARL HAS ITS CHARM.
A Beautiful Woman is a Paradise to the Eyes.
THE PEARLS OF PRICELESS VALUE are to be found in
DENiaiCREfIM
mum am) preserves rne
toe/n amt imparts to rne
and detottoife tx/t/OK?'
of rone and flavour
ohn
S.a»*eW
inter’s
TOILET PREPARATIONS—for THE GODDESS OF BEAUTY.
They have won SIX GOLD MEDALS and are
USED BY ROYALTY. A SUFFICIENT GUARANTEE.
Dental Cream, a delightful antiseptic, for pearl-white teeth, with a
delicate piquancy of tone and flavor, Lakshmi Cream and Lotion,
New Face Cream (2 colors), Powder (3 tints), Soap, Carmine, Per-
spiration Powder, Hair Foods (Oily and Non-Oily), etc., etc.
All obtainable at the Civil Service, Horderns’, Washington H. Soul’s,
Farmer & Co.’s, Lassetter’s, David Jones’, W. T. Waters’, etc. All
Departmental Stores and leading Chemists.
Send 3d. stamp for sample of Soap, or Dental Cream, or Powder
(name the tint), to John Strange Winter (London, Paris,
Borne), 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street, Sydney. Branches in
all States.
AAeTtcmian
IT 1 HIGH-CLASS
ISPEpiALmS
Creams
lU
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN @ SONS? LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect •
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
“Hamer”: A.I.F. Headquarters, London,
has been talking very beautifully about tem-
porarily releasing men, who will not be re-
patriated for some time, for practical trade
courses in England. All the necessary and
unnecessary offices, office furniture, station-
ery, files, flappers, etc., for running the
business have been installed for months. But
the beautiful scheme is a dud. The man
who found this out got a sort of inspecting
job—going round the various works where
Australians are employed, and seeing that
their working conditions are fair. Having
been prominently concerned in Labor mat-
ters in Adelaide, he took the work seriously
and discovered that there are 81 men actu-
ally in jobs, which most of them had found
for themselves and only retained because
they were known to be men already skilled.
Apparently in all the glittering department
there is no one whose duty it is to find
places for the students of trade.
THE TIME IS RIPE.
“A house at the Liverpool military camp, the
property of the Commonwealth Government, was sold
for £10.” —Newspaper report.
MRS. SURURBIA: “Thirty guineas for that!
Well, I think it’s time the Government
took over clothing. Why, I read in the
paper where they sold a house for ten
pounds .”
“Blue Light”: Here in Belgium, where
the regimental doctors are now attending
more civilians than soldiers, a 1 1 -stone
madame of the village sailed in for overhaul.
It was discovered that she had a small
growth on the shoulder, and the young doctor
flashed some ugly-looking in
struments, and increased
madame’s weight by about
an ounce and a half of
cocaine pumped around the
seat of trouble. Then the
lady lost her nerve and de-
cided not to have the opera-
tion done. Persuasion (in
French) proved useless.
“Well, you’re not going to
waste my cocaine!” he
growled in good Australian.
Madame, eager to escape,
bade him “Bonjour.” “No!
No!” said the quack in his
best French. “It is very
dangerous for you to carry
that cocaine away with you.
I shall have to remove it.
Sit down, please.” The old
girl consented, and inno-
cently inhaled the anaes-
thetic he held to her nose.
When she was “off,” he
quickly bared her shoulder,
whipped out the tumor and
brought her round. She
was half-way home under
escort before she realised it was all over.
* * * *
“R.S.V.P.” : I sought a dark corner at the
movies the other afternoon. Presently a
young woman arrived, with a little boy and
a large quantity of shopping. She pro-
ceeded to pile on my lap the little boy’s coat
and hat, a parcel of dress-material, a toy
horse-and-cart and a large, knobby package
of groceries. As she went on to remove her
hat and lean the same against my chest,
watching the screen with intense interest
the while, I uttered a low moan. “My !'
she gasped. “Sorray. I thought you was
an empty chair.”
The In Memoriam notice b.egins to put
perfidious man away worse than ever. Two
different ladies mourned a recent deceased
as his fiancee, and that’s the second time it
has happened lately in Melbourne. True,
there is a sort of precedent. When Dion
Boucicault, the Irish playwright, _ died, the
event was advertised by his two rival wives
—Agnes Boucicault (mother of his numerous
family) and Louise Thorndyke.
* * * *
“H.M.”: The worst kind of a thud that
a Digger can come at present in England is
to fall ill and be put off a boat just as it
is leaving, or to take too long over the last
beer and miss the ship. The ordinary person
would imagine that it was the simplest
thing in the world to put the misser on the
next transport; but that is not the military
way. The soldier’s papers have gone, and
in the absence of papers the soldier ceases to
exist officially. He becomes a mystery ; a
sort of substantial ghost who has to be fed,
but is really where his papers are. The only
hope for the ghost is to start haunting till
he becomes a nuisance. Then somebody will
some day say “Damn !” and find a ship for
him.
“Britt”: When we blew into camp in
1915 our crowd had a big proportion of
hard cases, so the roar and crackle of our
curses was like a bush-fire. After a week
of it we found this notice pasted on the com-
pany office door:
Please Don’t Swear !
Not that We care a Damn,
bet
It sounds Hell to Strangers.
» » » *
“J.C.A.”: I met still another Australian
returned soldier here at Los Angeles yester-
day. He came across from Sydney think-
ing he wvrnld have no trouble to get work.
He finds he made a great mistake. South-
ern California is full of semi-invalids and
maimed soldiers who have come from the
cold States and Canada. Many of these
are prepared to work for a low wage—just
enough to keep body and soul together.
Thus all the light occupations are crowded,
and most of the heavy work is done by Mexi-
cans. Australian returned soldiers should
be warned against heeding this country’s
boosting papers, many of them controlled
by capitalists who wish to get in cheap
labor. And Australians will not receive
any favors from the Government, which has
its own returning men to provide for.
“Serg. S.”: During 1915-16 Egypt
changed color by reason of the number of
red-tabbed officers in the land. Even Lem-
nos Island was infested with them. One
afternoon a crowd of us were waiting for
the boat to take us back to the peninsula
after our spell on the island. We looked
more like suburban swagmen than Anzacs,
and, knowing the conditions on Gallipoli, we
were taking across as much tucker as possible.
Every man carried a bag of some kind, and
some had Primus stoves tied to their packs.
Of course, our uniforms were only fit for the
AFTER DUE INQUIRY.
MOTHER: “I hope you remembered that you
were not to tell anyone about your
birthday.”
BOBBY: “Mummy, I did tell Miss Smith —she
teas the only one that didn’t know.”
dust-box. Our officers were away, and we
were sprawled on the grass near the pier*
head in various attitudes not mentioned in
the text-books, When a Car full of fed-tabs
stopped in oUf midst. Not a fighting man
stirred. Then the fattest officer demanded in
his loudest Indian roar the address of our
officers. There was no answer for a second.
Then an unconcerned Digger shook himself
and turned over. “I think they went over to
the boozer for lunch,” he drawled, with a
jerk of his thumb. There was a succession
of official snorts from the Napoleons in the
car, and they drove off at top speed to avoid
apoplexy.
MISTAKEN PHILANTHROPY.
THE PHILANTHROPIST (to young lady airing her fifty-guinea Peruvian cocktail span-
iel): “Beg pardon, Miss, hut if ye're goin' ter drown the pore little thing I’ll
take it and give it a good home instead.”
“Tofa Soifua”: “Tusitala” (R.L.S.) re-
marks in his “Vailima Letters” that on his
first visit to Apia every second person was
“the ghost of himself and the place reeking
with the infection of influenza.” Thatrwas
on November 25, 1891. What would the
gentle author have thought had he been
spared to visit the same place, in the same
month, 27 years afterwards? Exactly 20
p.c. of its population mowed down by the
pandemic ! Beginning on Nov. 7, 1918, it
spread in a couple of days with cyclonic
rapidity and violence over both islands. The
Samoans are a very healthy race, but have
little resisting power to bronchial com-
plaints, and scarcely put up any fight. A
native dwelling, when the blinds are drawn
up, is an ideal place for the nursing of a
pneumonic patient. The natives spoilt
everything, though, and did the very thing
Which offered the household no loophole of
escape. When a Samoan became ill With
pain in the back and limbs, he lay down on
his sleeping-mat, and his relatives, out of
sympathy, pulled dow r n the blinds and fol-
lowed suit. Whole families became in-
fected in this way and died. Those who
didn't die at once tired of the recumbent
position, and usually got up and pulled up
the blinds on the fourth day, only to be
stricken down. Others, feeiing parched
with fever, discarded their lava lavas, and
walked into the sea to get cool, making their
end a certainty. In other cases the too-
assiduous attentions of witch-doctors soon
snapped the slender thread of existence.
They were handicapped in every possible
way, the wonder being that the mortality
was not greater. Tofa, soifua! (Sleep!
Long Life !) is the gentle farewell greeting
of these simple island people whom SteVen-
sbii lbved so well; and it is an appalling
thing to have to record that 7264 of them
will never again breathe the soft-sounding
syllables. The upshot is the disinclination
of the Samoans to be ruled by Maoriland.
They are never likely to forget that fatal
visit of an infected ship from the Dominion,
on Nov. 7, 1918, with all that it entailed!
“South Coast” : I know something of the
story of one farm on which three genera-
tions of returned soldiers have already
settled and then got off in disgust. At least
I know two soldiers who were in joint occu-
pation for a little while, and who had some
cows and hens and debts. They decided to
take a look at the Randwick races, so they
threw enough corn on the ground to la3t
the fowls three or more days. The cows,
they reckoned vaguely, would hold out. So
they went away with light hearts and
backed the wrong horse arid drank the Wrong
beer, When they came back the henS Were
mostly dead. 'They hadn’t been told that
the ratibns were to last three days, so they
had consumed them at a meal. The cows
were ripe for burial except those that were
missing. So the settlers said “blanky” and
left.
» # * «
“0.K.” : I watched a policewoman at work
in Melbourne the other day, and saw that
she made good. A female, full of drink and
disorderliness, was gathering a crowd at the
corner of Little Bourke and Swanston,
where the appearance of a policeman on the
scene would have swelled the audience and
excited the inebriate to combativeuess. The
lady bobby, in white costume and helmet,
went quietly up to noisy Jane, took her by
the arm in a kindly-enough way, and the
disturbance terminated. Off they went to-
gether, whil&t the crowd dispersed. The
clean woman, taking the dishevelled female
into her care, seemed to command the respect
of the captive and the sympathy of the on-
lookers. People turned away as though they
had nothing more to jeer at, whereas a man
arresting a staggering noisy Jane has always
a rowdy following. The sex had triumphed
over the situation.
(Continued on page 18.)
BELLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the high grey steeple
Clanging and swinging,
“God bless all people”
The bells are singing.
High music spilling
All over the city,
And the sweet air filling
With God’s great pity,
Now silver, now golden,
The notes are falling—
On the light airs holden,
On the swift airs calling.
Saint Mary to Saint Peter
A high word has spoken ;
The good saint will greet her
With bell-words for token.
Where bright sunlight glances
On roof-line and crosses,
To the dream of Saint Francis
The melody tosses.
Upsoaring and scorning
The wind that creeps after,
The chime fills the morning
With love and with laughter.
In the—high—grey—steeple—
Clanging—and—swinging—
“ God bless all the people”
The kind bells are singing.
N.s.w.
MARY McC.


I
SI
I¥WS
Wrfff
r.
f
M
&
SUil
©
P)l
ta
ta
m
a
fsP
e
slightest touch!
SENSITIVE in action, gentle, yet sure in execution, at the slightest touch of the daintiest feet
on the Pianola controlling pedals glorious tone volumes of enchanting music issue _
Distinctive mechanical perfections and superior simplicity of design make the operati
Pianola easy and natural as you instinctively beat time to the rhythm m music. a
effort-no tiresome monotony. Just the gentle, insistent pressure of the feet; and to, like a magic gio ,
fairy music charms your soul.
Beautiful
Catalog
Sent on
Request
Other Superior Features
of the Pianola Piano
THE METROSTYLE. —Amon£ other exclusive
features in the Pianola is the Metrostyle, an in-
genious patented device, which enables the player
to interpret music with the perception and feeling
of a skilled artist.
THE THEMODIST. —Next in importance to
the Metrostyle is the almost human Themodist.
This remarkable device brings out the melody or
theme in the music while subduing the accom-
paniment.
Just a Word More
nmmun-n mai l uihiimiii i Mini in 11 hi ibhb I'W'imiiniurn
Remember, the Pianola is the world's leading
modern music masters are so impressed with
ments that they do not hesitate to praise it
hungry. Don’t starve your soul. A Pianola
with an endless music feast.
player piano. The
its artistic achieve-
Don’t go music
Piano provides you
The Pianola Company!
PTY. LTD.
3&4 George Street, SYDNEY.
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
434 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
58 Run,tile Street, ADELAIDE.
«
H
•••
o ao
ffl


Tk Cowra Representative of Geo. Shirley Ltd., the well-known Fertiliser Manufacturers, writes (4/5/’18)
that as the result of using Clements Tonic he can only give it his heartfelt thanks for benefit received.
“ CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“ Please accept my heartfelt thanks for your Clements Tonic.
“It is rather soon to report regarding its good qualities. I
have only taken two bottles, yet I appear to have taken on a
new life. My appetite is now good, whereas before taking on
this “ wonder” tonic my stomach usually turned me against the
most appetising meal. Now lam ALWAYS ready for meal time •
not only this, but I now enjoy my meals without the usual sinking
feeling that for months past followed the taking of even the
lightest meal.
“ Friends advised me to ‘ diet ’ myself. Now there is no need
for it, as, by taking regular doses, either before or after meals, of
your tonic, 1 find I can eat AND DIGEST almost anything. At
irst I tried the Tonic BEFORE meals to induce an appetite; now
I am always ready for a good meal, and take it AFTER meals, just
to keep the stomach right.
“ Again thanking you, I am, yours sincerely,
'Rep. George Shirley Ltd.. Sydney.
Always keep this medicine on hand—it is
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
especially good for the man on the land.
All chemists and stores sell it everywhere.
Dial Sight”: An English illustrated
weekly recently had a photo of a young
French colonel presenting a medal to his
old dad, who was a private. In our divi-
sion, in close touch with one another, we
had a strange family triangle. The father
was a one-star artist in the 4..5.C., the
son a spruce artillery major with a
D. 5.0., and the youngster of the trio a
smutty-faced radical who was O.C. of the
stew-dixies in our battery.
“Color Line”: Back from the war, I
slipped into my groove in a Vic. Government
department the other day, and so far have
not received a “Glad to see you back” from
any of the chiefs I come in contact with. I
didn’t expect a triumphal arch and a brass
band, but a word of recognition and a hand-
shake would have made my start more cheer-
ful. I trust I haven’t offended anybody bv
going to the war!
* * * *
Bill Blank”: In most of the hospitals in
Blighty convalescent patients had to be up
and have their beds made before 8 o’clock.
Most of the Tommies housemaided meekly
but some of the Diggers found it a strain.
One of the latter, on being roused by the
nurse for the third time one morning, sat up.
“Strike me fat, sister,” lie said, “I’ll bet
there were no nurses about when old Rip
Van Winkle did his 20 years’ sleep
MISDIRECTED PRAYER.
“Young man, I trust that you did not take
liquor while you were away! I prayed
that you would he kept from all strong
drink.”
“So that’s why ice had such a job to take
that Messed brewery, is it ?”
i /^!’^ orius ” : “ The Ha PPy Historian” (B.
1/0/19) recalls the close shaves the Sheriff
mu S w h en the hangman was missing.
There was a ferment in Melbourne Gaol
before the execution of John Jackson on
January 24, 1916 —the occasion to which
H. Historian” refers as the one on which
the Finishing Schoolmaster appeared in rope
whiskers and a deacon’s hat. The operator
himself had known what it feels like to
stand in the dock and watch the Judge wear
the black cap; but he was lucky enough to
escape with a remission to 10 years’ penal
servitude. He had served nearly nine when
he was released on condition that he offici-
ated at Jackson’s send-off. Unfortunately
the authorities let him out a week or so
before the date fixed, and he disappeared in
a whirlpool of gaiety. Twenty-four hours
before the scragging he was still missing.
Those who know him say that on the day
preceding the execution the Sheriff was like
a man in a trance. But he revived wonder-
fully on tile Sunday night—the job was
arranged for the following Monday morning
—when news came that a couple of plain-
clothes men had found the hangman-elect, in
a Fitzroy den. Thereafter no chances were
taken with the Happy Despatcber, who was
locked up in Pentridge and handed over to
the medical officer for sobering-up purposes.
But so close a go had it been for the Sheriff
that on the Sunday afternoon he had begun
to jugsle with a sandbag and a measured
rope.
* » * «
“Copabella” : A racecourse manipulator of
a “Yankee sweat” wheel was roped in by a
Vic. country policeman, and fined. His
wheel was confiscated. Next day there was
a caller at the station. He bore a. copy of
the local paper containing an account of the
confiscation and trial, and had a request to
make. “We’re havin’ a bazaar in aid of the
church t’-morrow,” he explained, “an’ a bit
of a spin ’d be just the thing to bring in the
boys. Will you lend us—just f’r the night
—the wheel ye’ve taken from the man y’ ’ad
at the court yesterday?” The astonished
trooper gasped a refusal. “Well, well; an’
is that the law, now?” cooed the bazaar-
leader. “It was just to be among ourselves,
ye know; just among ourselves.” he said
sadly. The trooper thought it would be as
well to look in at that bazaar. There he
found a gift barrel of beer was being sold
out in pints for the good of the fund.
* * * *
“The Immature Male”: Arriving back at
billets after a long perish in the line, due to
the shelling of our supplies, Bill’s soul
craved for eggs. Anchoring at the
first estaminet he came to, he ad-
dressed the proprietress thus : “Givvus
four erfs, Missus.” “Oui, quatre
oeufs, M’sieu,” replied Missus politely.
“Naow, ya silly old blanker,” snarled
Bill, “not cat erfs— ’ en’s erfs !”
* « * •
“Cessen”: I’m not surprised to hear that
Birdwood was affable when handing out
•duckboards.” He always was affable.
Shortly after my arrival on the Peninsula I
was returning to my unit from Williams’s
Jetty, after helping to carry down a
stretcher-case. On rounding a
curve in the sap I met what I
took to be a little English lieu-
tenant in dingy khaki shorts,
shirt, cap and a battered Sam
Brown, but no stars. As he
grinned and nodded when we
met, I nodded back and we
started yarning. God onlv
knows what I said, but I re"-
member telling him how I
reckoned the Peninsula should
be taken. He seemed young
and willing to learn, so I let
him have all I knew. I found
out afterwards who he was, and
decided to open a correspon-
dence school for generals when
I got home.
* * *
“L.R.”: The war gave some
of us queer jobs. Once with
several cobbers I was put on to
gather cabbages from the gar-
dens bordering the Somme
canals. We punted an old
barge up and down, loading up
and returning to our head-
quarters. To dress the part
we wardrobed ourselves in
salvaged velveteen corduroy
pants, flannel shirts and broad
straw-hats, till you couldn’t tell
us from the locals. One day
two well-corned Diggers hailed
us from the bank: “Moosoo, voolee voo
tell me -if there’s a oeuf and chip
joint near ici?” In the worst French I
could muster I told them where a feed might
be had. As they tangoed "off I heard the
questioner boasting: “There y’are! I told
y’ I c’d talk Froggie if I ’ad a fair go.”
“Norbell”: Ma conscience! Sir Harry
Lauder, K.8.E.! Could Bobbie Burns ken
aboot it, he’d mak anither sang for Harry:
I m fou’ the noo wi’ mickle pride,
And unco’ joy, and a’ that;
King Geordie’s name be glorified
I’m K.B.E. and a’ that!
For a’ that, and a’ that,
My eantie sangs, and a’ that!
Though rank is but the guinea stamp,
A gaud’s an ad. for a’ that!
“Sub. Med.” : Yes, as The Bulletin said
last week, we’ve all got our troubles. At
2 o’clock the other morning a man hammered
on my door and begged me to go and see his
wife. The lady was suffering from violent
shivers and supposed ’flu. I hurried off to
the patient, but as soon as she heard the old
THE SNOBS.
“My sister's got a baby. I’m its aunty. It
was born last Tuesday, and it’s up in
Queensland.”
“My sister’s had a baby, too, and I’m its
aunty. It died last Christmas, and it’s
up in Heaven.”
man admit me she shrieked from somewhere
upstairs, “It’s all right, Doctor! I’ve put
an extra blanket on the bed, and the shivers
have gone. Of course you won’t call this
a visit, will you?”
* * # *
' The tucker hadn’t been too g-ood, and a
ruminative pair of Diggers were leaning
over the rail on the troopship, watching the
sun set. “That,” said Bill, is the finest
sight I have seen since I left home.” “Oh,
go to Hell!” says Jim. “Have a squiut
through the window at the officers’ mess.”
* * * *
The other day at Lithgow (N.S.W.) a
record was put up in the gaol. The kind-
hearted warder asked the prisoner if he
would like a cup of tea. He would. So
the waiter went to get it, leaving the shop
open. While he was straining the Pekoe
his guest slipped into the next-dpor cell, and
when Jeames entered the vacant cubby with
the tray his lordship slammed the door on
him, clamped the lock, and kissed his hand
good-bye. Moral: Make it a long-sleever—
no prisoner will run from that.
“Wazzir King” tells how the wicked paid:
The Australian wowser has an idea, I’m told,
that those who contracted V.D. in Egypt didn’t have
to pay for their fun, and were merely a burden
upon the Commonwealth. It is true that Diggers
who “fell in” after January, 1918, forfeited pay to
the extent of only. Is. Bd. per day. But the early
revellers (I was one of hundreds) got hit in the
pay-book all the time. I was stopped 68 days at
,ss. a day in Egypt, which cost me just £l7* and
made my book overdrawn to the extent of £lO
odd. Till that dead horse was worked off I got
only 2s. a week, and I went through the hottest
stoush in 1916 on five francs per fortnight. After
coming out of Flers in January, 1917, I was given
24 hours’ leave to Amiens, and was unlucky again.
This time it cost me 38 days at ss. I got out of
hospital just in time to go over with the battalion
at Bullecourt—once more on five francs a fortnight.
We were supposed to have leave to England about
every nine months, but if you contracted V.D. your
leave was forfeited for 12 months from the date
you lejoined your unit, so I served two years and
four months in France and Belgium without any
leave at all except the 24 hours mentioned above.
I would have waited longer for a spell only I got
trench fever. Out of that two years odd I was
just 38 days off duty, the rest of the time being
spent in the line. I don’t want anybodj' to think
I am squealing, for it doesn’t hurt me in the least
now. But let the unforgiving he- or she-wowser gloat
over this: many of the early sinners fought and won
the home-staying saints battles for next to nothing.
We were, so to speak, bargain battlers.
* » *
“D.F.”: The name “New Wales”
without the “South” was used as
far back as 1716 by a Captain John
Webbe, in proposals for carrying
on trade and settling colonies in
“Terra Australis,” and alsp for
working the mines of gold and sil-
ver which there abound.” Webbe.
who had sailed round the world
with Dampier, proposed to
go to the Solomon Islands,
and then to New Guinea,
which he thought to be part
of Terra Australis, having
never heard of Torres’s
voyage through the Straits.
He would have made a good
blackbirder, for he observes
casually that some of the
natives could be kidnapped
and sent to England, to serve
later as interpreters. Webbe
tried the South Sea bhbblers.
but they told him that his
ideas were too far off.
Webbe, by the way, was not
the first Englishman to think
about colonising Terra Aus-
tralis Incognita. In 1624
Sir Thomas Corteen, a London
shipowner and merchant, sent a
petition to James I. asking for
authority to start colonies there.
James put him off with some kind
of a grant in the West Indies.
Earlier still, James Lancaster, one
of the first Englishmen to visit
Sumatra, proposed, to send a ship
through Magellan Straits and then
across the South Seas to the Solo-
mons, which had been discovered
in 1567 by the Spaniard Mendana,
who tried to found a colony there
30 years later, but failed.
* * *
“Till. E.” samples Belgium’s capital:—
Brussels is now open to Aussies on leave, but
Monsieur le Diggare sometimes gets there without it.
Two of him recently stole a big locomotive, for-
merly used for dragging a 14in. naval gun and its
shells around, got steam up, and drove to the Bel-
gian capital, where they abandoned the vehicle and
went a.w.l. In Brussels the Digger scores heavily—the
admiration of the Belgese for him just stops short
of salaaming. You could fire a machine-gun down
the main streets in the daytime and be unlucky if
you got hanged for the experiment. But at mid-
night ! Imagine 200 White Cities Continentalised,
cabarets luring everywhere; scores of orchestras
competing in indescribable pandemonium; wine,
women and wobbly warriors. That’s Brussels from
11 p.m. onwards. In the cabarets the prices of
drinks are based on altitude—the more stairs you
CHECK.
VISITOR FROM TOWN ( patronisingly ): “Naice
place! Naice place! Yes, very naice
place! Pity about the vegetation,
though. No shade, doncherno. No —
er”-
HOSTESS (bored stiff) : “Oh, perhaps that's
only because the trees are so young. I
hope they'll have grown ever so much
bigger before your next visit."
climb the more you have to pay. We started on the
ground floor with coffee and cognac for one franc. It
was five francs for the same drink on the second
floor, and 20 francs on the fourth, which was the
last. The music improves as you go up, and the
morals get worse.
A MATTER OF MANDATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In spite of the mandate of Paris, dresses are
being worn longer.” —Fashion note.
Have we won freedom? Bitter thoughts still rankle
In hearts too sore to feel the balm of peace;
But this affair of curving calf and ankle
Appeals with force to every uncle's niece.
Though Paris thunder, these shall take the air
In any blessed thing they please to wear.
I rocks are worn longer. Forms of withe and willow
Bear the gay dimple down the sunlit street,
1\ hile round them extra yards of cloth shall billow
And clothe their sweetness almost to the feet.
Paris may frown; but freedom’s splendid face
Shines upon everything in silk and lace.
They wear their dresses longer. New devices
In Kelly green or fair Pacific blue
Have very long and very dreadful prices
That make a solemn hole in Edward’s screw.
The secret of the fashions is not hid:
They must wear dresses longer than they did.
And yet the mandate stands. Oh, League of Nations,
Where is the moral force that all obey?
Tried on the most delectable creations,
It melts in mist and passes quite away.
If such revolt can stir the maid and wife,
What mandate holds the person with a knife?
N.B.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


WORTH DOUBLE THE MONEY
I
s
r
& *
o
\ £ O
& vA
&
/
Cs&.
9>
.V"
11
£
V,
%
*x
lili
//
'll
§
//'
n
MW
itii'i/
We regret to announce that, owing to the exceptional increase in the landed cost of Linseed, we are
reluctantly compelled to raise the price of our famous Linseed Oil Meal £2 per ton. The increase
in @ will be effective on all orders accepted after May 1, 1919.
PAMPHLET NO. 2, INSTRUCTING HOW TO FEED, MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents: Messrs. It. S. Exton & Co., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Messrs. W. Adams & Co., King Street, Perth; Messrs. Clarkson Etd., Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and
Hobart; or
MEGGITT LTD.
WORKS: PARRAMATTA.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia),
26 King Street, SYDNEY
GGTTS
IIHSEEnoiiMEfI
m
/aecgitt L"
PARRAMATTA
The Boy on thfi Bag
guarantees quality .


HOME-MADE COUGH DROPS.
A RECIPE MOTHERS SHOULD KEEP.
Cough drops suitable for both children and
adults can easily and quickly be prepared at
home by pouring a few drops of titrate of
tar on a lump of sugar. Let this dissolve
slowly in the mouth, and as it dissolves so
the healing and soothing virtues of the pine
tar will penetrate to every part of the
throat, chest and lungs.
Bitrate of Tar is useful in many different
ailments, and it is no wonder chemists are
experiencing difficulty in meeting the de-
mand. Half a teaspoonful poured into a
bowl of boiling water produces a healing
vapor which, when inhaled, gives relief in
cases of cold in the head, bronchitis, asthma,
etc., while it is well known that 2oz. of
titrate of tar, Soz. of sugar and a half-pint
of hot water produce nearly a pint of cough
syrup superior to the ready-made mixtures
composed of harmful drugs, and at less cost.
Make a syrup by dissolving the sugar in the
hot water, and then add the titrate of tar.
Stir well, and when cold it is ready for use.
The pleasant flavor and aroma of this home-
made cough syrup make it very acceptable
to children, to whom it may be safely
given,—Advt.
SPORTING
CARTRIDGES
Our Special Offer.
The Celebrated
SOVEREIGN, 21/- per 100
SMOKELESS, 20/6 per 100 —in 500 lots
CARTRIDGE, 20/- per 100—miooo lots.
This is the finest smokeless cartridge made
12-Gauge, loaded, double-chilled shot, and
Nobel’s Empire Smokeless Powder.
Shot Nos. 2,3, 4,5, 6, 8 and 10.
We have the largest stocks in Victoria
of Winchester, Remington and Dominion
Cartridges. Send for special list
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St, Melbourne.
6fc
King Geqrge IV
Aun WHISKY
%
the TOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Werrimee”: The dingo plague in the
north-west corner of N. S. AVales has brought much
satisfaction to the • Halfpennys, who have kept the
old wayside pubbery at Connulpie, close to the
THE READY-MADE GARMENT.
TREGONING : “Nice suit thee he wearin’,
Billy—who made tin for ’eef”
TREGILGAS : “Rather hold queshun, Jimmy;
hut I’ll tell ’ee. ’E wadden made at
all. I bought un in shop made-an'-all.”
border, for about half a century, Peter Halfpenny,
who has been gathering a rich harvest of scalps for
months, the other day made a record haul. One of
his horses perished in the country which adjoins
Connulpie run, and, using the carcase for baits, he
killed 140 dogs. As the Milpsrinka P.P. Board pays
£1 per scalp, it was a good return for a dead moke.
Another hunter poisoned 160 dingoes thereabouts in
three weeks—over £53 a week.
“Lou": Another way to settle ants is to
pour a ring of thin tar round their nest, just narrow
enough to induce them to cross. Ring the tar out-
side with some knife-polish, and every ant that runs
the blockade will get his feet asphalted and become
anchored. Those that stay at- home will eat up
everything in the cupboard and then Bolshevism will
break out and grass will grow on the pads.
Another way is to heap rubbish over a nest and light
it. The inhabitants that survive take a fortnight off
to clean up the mess, and you get some peace. But
the best way is to feed your ants. Yes, feed ’em—
away from the house a bit. Then they won't worry
you.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: A very rare fish was landed
from the Fitzroy at Rockhampton (C.Q.) lately. It
was of a fawn-yellow color, and it wore side fins
resembling feet. The body was 44in. long and 2 Jin.
in girth. The stranger was brought before W. K.
Cleave, the local ichthyologist, who declared it to be
the angler-fish, better known as the fishing-frog. Its
greatest peculiarity is that it lures its prey by a
camouflage on top of its head which resembles the
food of the tempted. As the latter reaches for the
dainty, snap goes the angler’s jaws, and there endeth
the first lesson. Then the trap is set again.
“Rich Will”: For the benefit of bush-
whackers, dirt-scratchers, mad-liatters and such I’ll
blow the secret. An infallible cure for diarrhoea and
dysentery, when nothing else will help, is a teaspoon-
ful of blood wood gum (pure) dissolved in about
three-fourths of a cupful of warm Water. Drink
down, and thank your lucky stars that I haven’t for-
gotten my old friends in my ducal days,
* * * #.
“Aunty”: Advise “FY7” (B. 10/4/G9)
that bandicoot is better to eat when steWfed than
when roasted. Skin the ’coot, cut up and throw in
a few onions and spuds. Usher the lot into a sauce-
pan and partly cover with water. When well stewed
thicken with a little flour, simmer for a while, and
then loosen Out your vest and get to it.
* * * *
“Melos”: The subject was the sagacity of
cattle-dogs, and every man in the bar except Dan
Barry and Bill from Dead Horse Flat had joined in
the perjury. Finally Dan remarked: “All yer dorgs
is blanky dunces alongside a little slut I ’ad She
knowed every hoof on Coolamon. I ’ad ’er out on
the run with a ’arf-growed pup of ’ers one day, an’
she cleared out. I found ’er next day with a mob
of strays rounded up in a corner of the paddick. She
wus takin’ the pup around ’em showin’ ’im the
different cockies’ brands.”
‘Gouger”: The Black Mountains, a few
miles outside Cooktown (Q.), are huge mounds
of black granite—millions of
tons of boulders thrown one
on top of another in confusion.
There is not a hundredweight
of earth in the whole range. If
you do the wild-goat act and
try to clamber to the top,
you’ll find the spaces between
the stones open out to big
caverns, of unknown' depth,
and far below you will hear
the splashing of water. ' A
silly dog of mine chased a
wallaby into one of these
caverns. The expedition
never came out again. I
presume it’s in the middle of
the earth now. The local
blacks declare that dreadful
devils live among these rocks.
One bad-pfeller devil takes
the shape of a great owl, and
at night-time flies low at the
foot of the mountains, carry-
ing away any unwary abo.
who is out of his gunyah
after sundown. The blacks
have pointed out to me, from
a distance, this particular
spirit’s cave. Once this debil-
debil came to grief. It hap-
pened that he picked up a gin
in one claw and her Benjamin in
the other. While flying heavily
to his cave the frantic gin
tore at the evil thing’s tail,
tearing out merry-widow
feathers in large quantities.
With his rudder gone, the
debil lost his balance, and
crashed into the branches of
a tree. The gin and Benjamin
got away, while the big owl
had to clamber up the rocks
on foot and hide in his cave
until his tail grew again.
Ex-N.S.W. Premier Joey Carruthers, who
fathered the Birds’ Protection Act, and who
has a little place on the Snowy River, has
struck some Bolsheviks. “My friends, the birds,”
he says, “have eaten every grain of my maize crop,
have started on the field turnips, have cut off all my
young pine trees, and have stripped everything within
their reach. the birds have been white cockatoos,
which have been like snowstorms since December
last. I don t mind a fair thing, but these starving
wretches have gone beyond the limit. I intend to
strike the white cockatoo off my list of friends. No
bird can better protect itself, and the man who can
bag one has to outwit the cleverest scouts that exist.”
Moral: It s a wise politician who knows his own
friends.
“Billy T.” : Little Spicer declined to con-
tribute to the Tatt.’s syndicate. “Me luck’s too
rotten,” said he. “I’m always gettin’ within ’arf a
tick of winnin’, but I never win nothin’. Look at
the sweepstake fer Annie Mack in the bar at Pill-
bank. There was seven of us. in fer her, ’n’ I threw
17, ’n’ then didn’t get her. Oh, yeh didn't hear of
IN HYDE PARK.
OLD BILL (on visit from West o’ Sunday) : “ Gripes, Hokes, I’d ha’ thort yous would
ha’ finished clearin’ round here long ago!”
Annie? She was a boshter; and kind—s’elp me, she
was kinder than a mother. Minded all our money—
minded anythin’ we had. There wasn't never a better
woman livin'. She used to whisper: ‘Don’t go and
spend yer money on liquor; give it to me to mind
for yeh. It’ll come in ’andy when yer wantin' to
get married.’ That’s what she was like, ’n’ lovely to
look at —lovely. Of course, I give her mine, ’n’ she
put it in her bosom. I reckons I’m all right there ;
but when it comes to the pinch, I finds she’s actin'
the same fer six others. ‘I can’t marry you all,
boys,’ sez she at a sort iv general mectin’, ‘so what
I suggests is that you make a sweepstake of this,
winner take the lot. Come along,’ sez she, ‘be
sports. ‘Each have a throw, best out of three, and I
have one chance, too, for my trouble.’ There’s some
grumblin’ at first, but we all agrees. Banner tiirew
15 ; none of the others reached that. I threw 17.
’Struth, I was as certain it was mine as I wus I wus
a living man. Then it was Annie’s throw. I give you
me word, a gaudy miracle ’appened—Annie threw
18!” Here Spender put in a rvord in his mild,
casual way. “Yes, I knew Dice-Box Annie when she
was at Peter Bird’s in River Flats and at Johnson’s
Traveller’s Inn at Dry Crossing. She always threw
18 !”
* * * *
“Cas” : Re “Firepot’s” method of mending
a leaky tank (B. 20/3/’l9). It is well to remember
that white-lead, the basis of most paints, produces
lead-poisoning; and cloth becomes insanitary when
used as a plug. If the break refuses to “take”
solder, remove all trace of rust, etc., and patch with
galvanised iron. The operation is very simple if you
thoroughly scour the parts before soldering. To
mend a leak in an iron pipe, dry well and then fill
the break with iron filings mixed into a stiff paste
with vinegar. A thin iron plate may, by the same
mixture, be securely fixed over any hole or crack
that is too large to be stopped by filling. To patch
tinware neatly, cut out a piece of tinfoil the size of
the patch to be affixed, and, after wetting the sur-
faces of the tinware with a solution of sal-ammoniac,
place in position with the tinfoil between ; then apply
sufficient heat to melt the foil.
* * * *
“Leo Lear” : For shade, in western Vic-
toria nothing can equal the boobyalla, a handsome,
shapely and glossy green tree, that will grow to a
heignt of Bft. in two years. It is a native of coastal
Vic., and makes a fine hedge. In east Victoria
Pittosporum undulatum would fill the bill equally
well. Usually a hedge plant, it grows 60ft. sunward
down the Snowy River way. In the N.E. of the.
southern State I’d rather be under a currajong for
shelter than anywhere else when the wind comes
from Cloncurry. In the Mallee the Murray pine
fills all requirements; or, rather, it did before
settlement came along. Twenty years ago the pre-
sent site of Ouyen township was an oasis of lovely
pine. The}’ tell me it’s all wheat now, a vegetable
that is shady only when pooled.
* * * *
“The Wanderer’": A Sunday or two ago
another evidence of the regard snakes have for music
was forthcoming, this time at Wherrel Flat, near
Wingham (N.S.W.). The Lyon family was exercised
in mind as to how it could get a crawler to leave its
hiding place near the house. A violin was produced,
and hymns were played. The snake declined to budge
until “Abide with Me” was turned on. Then it came
forth and was sent to the abode with the co-opera-
tion of a waddy.
“Smoko”: “L.” (B. l/5/’l9) asks what
will keep his pipe from burning and cracking. This.
Get some mutton-fat and give the inside and outside
of the bowl a thorough „ rubbing with it. Let the
pipe stand for 24 hours. Wipe away all traces of the
fat and fill up. Do this before the pipe has been
smoked, or don't blame me if the scheme fails.
“Henry Horsecollar”: Nobody ever made
money out of hens as a staple industry, though the
bird sometimes pays as a parasite or scavenger. It
really was a parasite or flying bug in the old
economy of things, and walked about and laid eggs
on the hide of big animals when animals had feet the
size of the General Post Office. Its habit of roosting
was acquired through climbing to the top of a hair
to get away from the effluvium of its host, who
smelled just as any fowlhouse does to-day. Big
animals died out in time, and after an unsuccessful
attempt to live on the cow the hen had to look for
new quarters. Now it lives, like a true parasite, on
the returned soldier, and he is driven to live on his
sustenance money and the small pension he gets on
account of his v'ooden leg, and on the bill he owes to
the storekeeper.
“Gleniris” : The magpie can be a ferocious
bird, but he seems to make a good husband and
mother. A baby mag. lately adopted a neighbor of
mine as his foster-parent and lived happily for some
time among the opopanax-plants in the greenhouse.
The other day three-parts grown Percy went down to
the cow-paddock after a bite of beetle or cockchafer-
grub, and was presently discovered having his break-
ASKING TOO MUCH.
“What are you always growling at me for,
mother? You know I’d do anything
for you.”
“Well, do some work, then.”
“Oh, anything in reason, I mean.”
fast brought him by two perfectly strange maggies,
presumably mamma and papa, who hustled him all
the tucker he could eat. Then little Percy said good-
bye and hopped back to the greenhouse again, full of
food and merry melody.
(Continued on page 22.)
BLIGHTY IN TH’ MORNING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, I cleaned me blankv kit up
While th’ candle flickered low ;
An’ I got an old Boche ’elmet
For a tabby what I know.
Now I’m lyin’ .in me dugout,
But me bopceps sleep i3 scorning,
For I’m off to dear old Blighty,
I'm fer Blighty in th’ morning.
Yes, I’ve yanked me old felt hat out,
An’ I’ve drawn me wad o’ pay;
And I’ve got some dinkum trophies
For me little sweet’cart May.
Bill me cobber’s doin’ sentry,
And with blanks his prayers adorning,
As I lie an’ think o’ Blight}',
Dear ol’ Blighty in th’ morning!
Then th’ candle does a perish,
In a little pool o’ fat.
As I doze, across me dial
Runs a sleek ol’ father rat....
'“Stand to! Stand to! S.O.S. there!”
Crashing guns repeat the warning.
'Oh ! it’s imshi dreams o’ Blighty—
There’s no Blighty in th’ morning.
Quick we man th’ freezin’ trenches,
An’ we give the Sqiiare’eads hell,
But me tin ’at gets th’ knock-out,
From a jagged lump o’ shell....
When I ope’ me bleedin’ optics,
It’s a stretcher I’m adorning,
An’ the doc. says: “Cheer oh ! Digger,
You'll make Blighty in th’ morning.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


PALING’S for PLAYER PIANOS
We have the finest range of High-grade Player Pianos in A ustralia , and shall be glad to send you ,
free of cost, our Player Piano Art Catalogue and printed Price List if you cannot call to inspect.
THE BEHNING PLAYER PIANO
Makes Home-life Happier. America’s
most artistic Player, of exquisite tone-
quality and touch.
Buy one of these superb instruments,
and at once it opens a new world of
interest and pleasure. It brings you
into touch with the best and brightest
music. The BEHNING is undoubtedly
perfect Piano and a perfect Player.”
Easy terms arranged.
THE VICTOR PLAYER PIANO.
A banisher of lonely moments, a most
delightful instrument which everyone
can play.
It has long since earned a grand
reputation, on account of its exception-
ally fine type of Player action, no less
than from the splendid Victor Piano
which it plays and controls. It stands
true to the last. Sold on Easy Terms.
Send for particulars—they are free.
THE PLAYOTONE.
A very fine Player indeed* at a most
moderate price. The Piano itself fully
merits our recommendation for its fine
tonal quality* perfect balance and re-
sponsiveness of touch.
You can purchase a Playotone on
Easy Time Payment* your present
Piano taken in exchange at full, honest
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Toowoomba, Newcastle, Lismore.
STILL LEADING IN POPULARITY.
FROM. THE TIME THAT
Shearing Machinery
was first put on the market, a quarter of a century -ago, it lias enjoyed
eXtl Tet n h7yeC"this popularity has increased, until to-day Cooper Shearing
Machines are favorites among woolgrowers, contractors and shearers m every
country where wool is grown. There are many reasons for this uni versa
favor. Due to endless scientific study and research on the part of skilled
experts and up-to-date manufacturing facilities, Cooper Machines are tle
most modern, efficient and up-to-date machines on the mar vet.
practical and simple in construction, easy to operate, and represent economy m
the truest sense of the word.
The Cooper Improved Belt-driven
Shearing Machine
(illustrated to the left) is the
ideal shed plant. Requires no
expert to operate. All strain or
vibration is removed. The most
satisfactory overhead gear ever
constructed.
THE COOPER “BIG GUN”
Two-stand Shearing Plant (illustrated to the
right) has been specially constructed for the
man who requires a strong, heavy-duty engine
for all purposes about the farm or station.
The outfit includes a 3-B.H.P. Heavy-
duty Engine, two complete Shearing
Machines, Grinder and all extras, mounted
in one complete outfit ready for work.
PRlCE—Portable,
on Lorry,
£lOO.
Stationary,
on Bed,
£9O
COOPER “LITTLE WONDER”
Two-stand Shearing and Crutching Plant
(illustrated above) is strong, compact and
convenient. The world’s favorite machine
for shearing from 500 to 5000 sheep.
Comprises a strong, high-grade, 2-B.H.P.
Engine, two stands of Shearing Machinery,
Power Grinder, and all extras, mounted on
strong hand lorry, ready for immediate work.
PRICE-Portable, £75
Stationary, £65
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 Sussex Street, STDNEY.
480 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
, . 7 , . „,, - Afl p lnirlp . fiporffe P Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Perth; W. Hart & Sons, Launceston; Buchanan Davidson, Ltd.,
& H. Agaule, Zealand Loan and M . A. Co., Ltd., Hughenden, Townsville and Rockhampton.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Van der Taks Cocoa Essence
ABSOLUTELY PURE AND SOLUBLE.
Hanufactured in Australia from the finest selected Beans.
A Square MeaS In E¥ery Cup ß ”
Obtainable all Leading Grocers throughout the Commonwealth and N.Z.
Wholesale only from McINTYRE BROS., Sole Proprietors,
Agents: Mr. J. p. WILSON, Brisbane.
Mr - DAVID BLASHKI, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Vic.
Messrs. MADDOX & LAWRENCE, PERTH.
Mr. W. R. LANGSFORD. ADELAIDE.
[2
“Gleniris”: The lower orders of the insert
world seem to have their own mulga-wire system.
Lately a dozen separate swarms of the pestiferous
Uutherglen Bug family were sunning themselves along
40ft. of my fencing. I armed myself with a kettle
of hot water and proceeded to discourage the north-
ernmost section. Hardly had I got well going on the
second bunch of bugs when the whole of the tribe
cleared, the remoter ir.sects at the far south being
almost as quick off the mark as those near at hand.
“Almanac”: Gentlemen, “Big Mick”
O’Callaghan! During recent floods at Footscraj a
double-horse lorry had settled to its axles in the
roadway. The driver’s language attracted Big Mick
with his team. “Got a chain to haul us out of this
hole?” asked the bogged one. “Yei's,” said
Mick, scornfully, “an’ break the flamin’ chain!”
Crawling under the lorry the giant crouched for a
second. Then, liaunching his back, his legs straight-
ened, and lie lifted the lorry bodily. A sideways lurch,
and it was dropped down clear of the bog. Mount-
ing his lorry, he made his faiewell speech: “If any
of you s had any brains, you’d ’a’ done it that
way yourseh es!”
* * * *
“Doxite”: After being assured that phos-
phorised pollard would tempt nothing but rabbits, I
put down a few baits. Casualties: Several rabbits,
six sheep, 12 magpies, a fair number of magpie-larks
and parrots and 10 ’possums. My neighbor was not
so successful, but after the rain had washed the
phosphorus into his duck-pond he got a good bag of
Pekin- Aylesburys.
MIXING 'EM.
PERSISTENT SHOUTER: “Jesh one more, ol’
man, shement friendship.”
VICTIM: “Oh, orright, give's glass shement.”
“Centurion”: I’ve sampled goat’s, cocoa-
nut and mare’s milk, in addition to cow’s, since I
was weaned. The mare’s juice was tried in South
Africa, on the march to Bloemfontein. There were
no rations, and all we had to eat was Kaffir meal
made from millet. Boiled without salt or sugar, this
was a stiff hurdle even for a starving man. A mob
of veldt mares, rounded up in a kraal, gave some
genius the idea of milking them. That saved the
situation, for the milk, in addition to its pleasant
flavor, was as sweet as sugared condensed milk.
BLASE.
SNOWY : "Hullo, Bilboe, ain't yer goin' in? I thort yer never missed a race.”
BILBOE: “Well, yer sec, I know so many good fings for ter-day that it makes a bloke
tired ”
Here’s another bush cure you can
try. An old ox-tutor that I know used to stick a big
mustard-plaster on one of his fingers whenever he
had toothache or any other ache. He said that he
had not spent one copper on drugs in his life, and he
was in his 90th year of sin when I last saw him.
His argument was that the same nerves that were
playing aged Harry with, say, a tooth were also con-
nected with his fingers, and that a mustard dollop
would act there just as well as if it were clapped
adjacent to the seat of the trouble; further, that it
would not blister on the finger so much or be so pain-
ful as when applied to the soft flesh. I’m going to
try the dodge next time “East Lynne” is put on here
at One Tree.
* * * *
“Azac”: If “Tarwin” (B. 17/4/’l9) had
come round to our church last Sunday he’d have
learned why the trevalli (sometimes labelled silver-
bream) wears a crab at the far end of its mouth.
It is not the latest thing in ornaments, nor does the
fish carry the load through choice. The crab is one
of the many parasitic crustaceans which trouble fish,
and is known as a fish-louse. It is identical with
the Molucca crab or horseshoe crab of the East
Indies, and is attached to other fish besides trevalli,
particularly to blackfish and drummer. Also, it
hangs on to other places than the far end of the
inouth. Sometimes it is found as far down as Jonah
reached.
* * * *
“Centurion” ; “W.A.C. ” and his nosebag-
eucalyptus inhalation cure for strangle’s require
another word from me. He says that unstalled prads
will not stand a nosebag in the open. I have had to
do with thousands of horses that never inhabited a
stall in their lives, yet took to a nosebag : in the
open with loud applause. Further, I didn’t say that
only young horses were attacked by strangles. I
remarked that the disease was as incidental to the
young horse as distemper is to the young dog.
* * * ' °*
“Eddyson” : Johnnie Lockett was a hatter
at Yam, a dirty, hairy, little slattern of a man,
whose sole companions were a dropsical dog and an
uncountable jumble of hens. There was a thick
garden all rour.d the house, and a high fence all
round the garden. Johnnie was the accredited thief
of lam. Probably he stole nothing, but his reputa-
tion was of enormous advantage to those who stole
much. He went into Ballarat thrice weekly, a basket
slung before, a wicker coop hung behind, peddling
hens and eggs. Nobody in Yam spoke to him or had
dealings with him till the time when he fell seri-
ously ill, and was found on the point of starvation
on his bed of sacks and straw, with his starving dog
beside him. Then for the credit of the township a
door-to-door collection was made, and a quaint
gathering of all the out-worn coins in the district was
handed over to the invalid. And, after all, Lockett
died of want and neglect, and those who took over
the administration of the estate could not find a
penny or a scrap of food in the place. What had
become of the public offertory ? Gradually suspicion
gathered about Brother Himes, despite the fact that
Brother Himes had a class at Sunday-school, took
round the plate on Sundays, and was a pillar of the
chapel. Brother Himes had been seen coming from
Lockett’s gate at night two day's after the gift was
bestowed upon the invalid. A curious, almost in-
criminating action in itself. Then it was made
known that he had changed a quantity of damaged
coins at Paulton's Store, Cat.tleyards. Why had he
gone to Cattleyards to change this coin if he were a
guiltless person? He could not explain when the
bench of magistrates asked these and other pertinent
questions, and he went to gaol. In due course Yam
fell into decrepitude; but most of the old inhabi-
tants remained. All that was left of Johnnie
Lockett s property was one solitary prop of the four
uprights that had supported a bough shed at the
back of his house. This prop was a rough gum log.
One day a drover camped on the site, having need of
firewood, took an axe to the upright. It went
asunder at a stroke. It was hollow, and was packed
with baking-powder tins, the lids of which were
soldered on. These tins were full of money, silver,
copper and gold jumbled together, and the top tin
contained every penny of the public collection Yam
had presented to Lockett in his last moments. That
hollow prop was Johnnie Lockett’s private bank, and
the miserly little old wretch had got up from his
deathbed to solder the money Yam had given him for
his physical salvation into a tin and added it to his
fixed deposit. After which, no doubt, he died happy.
ABOVE HIS ENVIRONMENT.
NEW BOARDER: “I’ll have eggs to follow, please.”
BRIDGET: “ Phwat? Iggs, is it? Did yer bring ’em wid yer?”
“E.S.S.” : A blacks’ camp doesn’t appeal
to a white man as a place for trade, but the Afghan
hawker—who is mostly-.a Hindu—finds it a good
stand for a night or so. When the camp is near a
squattage, the young Binghis work on the run, some
of the gins work at the house, and others wash
clothes for the men; so most of the crowd have
money and none have the saving habit. Playing-
cards, looking-glasses, pocket-knives, pipes, print
dresses, beads and colored handkerchiefs are the
principal wares Hooknose unloads on the other
blackskins. A drovers’ camp is another good mark.
When tlie men have been long on the road many
little things are wanted—pipes, tobacco, hats and
clothes. They are not particular about the price, and
Ram Jamtin is not reluctant to make them pay
handsomely for the convenience of doing their shop-
ping at their own camp-fires.
“JRiom”: A few days ago while shooting T
“double rose” two quail, picked one up, turned to
gather the other, and was just in time to see a
jackass getting away with it. Is this a new stunt of
Jacks? I have often been robbed in this way by
hawks, but it is John’s first offence in my experi-
ence.
* * * *
“Cobber”: The near foreleg of Joe Wil-
son’s champion milker got mangled by a motor last
spring. Gus Conlan, the Tas. Government dairy
expert, amputated the pulp and subsequently fitted
a wooden leg. Kidman—that’s her name — still gives
18 quarts.
* * * *
“D.F.” : The first camel in Australia came
from the Canary Islands. Two brothers named
Phillips bought nine there in 1846 to bring to South
Aus., but eight died on the voyage. J. A. Honocks
bought the survivor and started out to explore the
Lake Torrens country with it. lie (Ilorrocks, not
the camel) came to a. bad end; his gun went off as
he was mounting, and he died from the wounds. The
next importation was in 1860, when the Vic. Govern-
ment got 24 from North-west India for the Burke
and Wills expedition. In 1866 Thomas Elder bought
120, and had them landed at Port Augusta, and in
1884 N. E. Phillipson (long associated with Elder)
imported 259. Most of the 10,000 or so camels in
Australia are descended from the Elder and Phillip-
son lots.
* * * *
“Lyola”: Is there anything on Wilson’s
earth that for effrontery can beat Willie Wagtail?
I was smoking on the verandah, when Willie sailed
down and took full-centre on the balustrade and
yawned. My companion, the black cat, observed the
act in pitying surprise and glanced at me politely,
apologising in advance for the mess. Then she
sprang up on the balustrade nine inches from centre.
William smiled politely and moved a foot away. He
yawned again and flirted his tail while the menacing
animal crouched and stalked. Suddenly Wag. flut-
tered upwards a few feet and then dropped on to the
astonished feline’s back, tore a tuft of fur out and
rose again. Then he flew* to a comfortable seat on
the fence, let the lock of hair float down the morning
breeze, and yawned once more. The cat looked at
me in piteous inquiry, but I had no suggestion to
offer.
* * # *
“Jim Carew”: A Sydney man recently
purchased a galah from a cocky near Cobargo (South
Coast) and brought it to the city. Two weeks later
it got away, and nearly three weeks after its good-
bye and you a letter arrived from the cocky to
say that the bird had reached its old home. It was
quite tame, although it had had nearly a fortnight's
freedom.
* * * *
“Boobook”: The deposition of “Book-
worm” that small birds build undfr eagles’ nests is
perfectly true. Out Longreaeli (Q.) way almost
every eagle’s nest I examined was studded with
finches’ nests, which were located in the spaces
amongst the bigger sticks underneath, I have never
seen them below kites’ nests. They have nothing to
fear from the eagles; those fliers hunt bigger game
than finch.
“En Zed”: The last of the moakins is
being looked for in Maoriland. A traveller in the
Urewere country recently declared that he was
attacked by one and severely mauled. His story so
moved the authorities that an expedition is on the
hunt for the giant bird. It is reckoned to be over
200 years old, so he will know a thing or two. A
couple of representatives of Melbourne Zoo are in
the party.
THE LAST MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He leant upon the sloppy bar;
Our beer ran gaily down his throat;
The five fair chevrons on his sleeve
Proclaimed a warrior of note ;
Upon his breast a “duckboard” shone;
His tongue ran at a racing clip,
The while he told the gaping throng
How he was last to see Gallip.
He'd hustled through the Landing’s hell;
At Lonesome Pine he’d saved the day;
Had just located Beachy Bill
When orders came to duck away;
For, when the Skoda “crumps” arrived,
He'd worded “Birdy” : “Time ter skip;
But don’t you fret yer ’eart, ol’ pal—
i’ll be the last ter see Gallip.”
A weedy clerk took up the tale
Who wore the Badge upon his coat:
“Dry up, yer blanky, maggin’ hum;
That yappin’ gets a feller’s goat.
I know your sort, til’ also-rans,
That’s fairly shanghaied on the ship;
Then depSt or the G.M.P.—•
The last, all right, to see Gallip.!”
N.S.YV.
J. B. H.


HIGH CLASS CIGARETTES AT MODERATE PRICES
Acutely on, 0
| «.inJbt>r dualities ..
Sea
*74 r?
US
CIGARETTES
VIRGINIA.
The Famous
Red Packet
10 for 8
STANDARD WEIGHT.
STATE EXPRESS CIGARETTES are made from
an exquisite blend of tobacco —of an established
individuality and a charm distinctly their own.
SOLE M/'MJFACTURERS-TVRDATH-TOBACCO COY L TO LONDON.ENGI .AND,


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd,
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
COLDS
COUCHS
%
LUNG
TROUBLE?
CROUP
V*
V-S*
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
- It
A Bachelor’s Picture
Tom Roberts once told me that D. G.
Rossetti’s poem “Jenny” was “a good
bachelor’s poem.” The phrase can be
aptly applied to Fragonard's picture,
labelled “The Swing,” to be seen in the
Wallace collection, in Mancliester-square,
London. (The French title is a happier one
—literally, “The Lucky Chances of the
Swing.”) This painting greets the aston-
ished gaze of the visitor almost immedi-
ately after he has climbed the gorgeous
Grand Staircase of Hertford House, which
once echoed to the feet of Thackeray’s Mar-
quis of Steyne. On reaching the landing
the visitor is in an atmosphere of 18th-Cen-
tury France, amidst; the glorious artistic
treasures of Watteau, Boucher and Fra-
gonard. The Wallace collection is richer
in the works of these three masters than any
other single gallery in the world; yet how
few Londoners have ever been inside Hert-
ford House! An English nurse told me a
few weeks ago that she had been for five
years at a nursing-home in Thayer-street,
almost next door to the collection ; yet had
never viewed its priceless treasures!
Two immense canvases of Francois
Boucher (11 feet by 9), on the grand stair-
case, once graced the splendid chateau of
Bellevue, which belonged to Antoinette Pois-
son, Marquise de Pompadour, patroness of
poets and artists. At the sale of La Pompa-
dour’s belongings on April 28, 1766, the two
pictures were sold for about £500, though the
painter regarded them as among his best
works. But Lord Hertford gave £1200 for
the Fragonard freak. The picture is dis-
creetly alluded to in the catalogue, but is
not described in English. Yet its history
.throws an interesting sidelight on the man-
ners and morals of the bloods at the Courts
of Louis XIV. and XV.
The idea originated in the feather brain
of the amorous Baron de St. Jitlien. The
Baron, having seen a picture by the histori-
cal painter Francois Doyen, wished him to
paint one for him, and sent for the artist to
discuss preliminary matters. The Baron, on
the arrival of the' artist, was at his
petite maison with a charming young
lady companion. St. Julien gleefully
unfolded his audacious scheme to the
horrified historical painter. It rendered
him speechless for a while. “I would like
you,” he said, “to paint Madame [pointing
out his lady-love] on a swing, with a bishop
giving it a push-off. You will place rue
where I can get a clear view of this lovely
Innocent’s legs.” Doyen extricated himself
from an embarrassing situation and handed
over the unsavory job to the less scrupulous
Fragonard, who carried out the scheme in
complete harmony with the libidinous
Baron’s scandalous line of thought.
The belle enfant of the story is perched
serenely and saucily in her aerial situation
for all time, in the cheekiest of unmaiden-
like postures. One Cinderella shoe has been
kicked off for the gloating gallant to sick
up. A dainty Dolly Varden hat tied round
the . chin with blue ribbon adorns the
pretty head, and very much in the landscape
appear a pair of the immodestest French
legs ever seen in a painting—all done by the
same hand that was responsible for the love-
liest face in the Louvre, that of the nymph
Callirkoe.
L. G. D.
Marcus Clarkes Desk
The Old Bc-11, the Speck’s most ancient
pub, is a dark and pokey shanty oddly out
of place in Hobart’s principal street. Its dark-
ness and pokiness have, however, been pre-
served as its greatest assets. It remains much
as it was a century ago. Its sawdust-covered
floors, grandfather’s clock and barrel seats
came to us from the English inn. while the
ornaments and incidentals are relics of the
vanished aborigines and of convict days. It
always has been the haven of Port Arthur
veterans who, over their blue-and-wbite beer
jugs, take morbid delight in recalling the
saddest and grimmest episodes of Van Die-
men’s Land’s history. Their ranks are now
attenuated, yet, occasionally, a group of ex-
Port Arthur veterans is to be found in The
Old Bell, pitting the tales of their sufferings
one against the other; each finding a pecu-
liar satisfaction in recalling the agony that
is past. Tourists are no leSs attracted
to the place because here it was that Marcus
Clarke collated tne material of “For the
Term of His Natural Life,” and wrote most
of it.
But The Old Bell has be gun to undergo a
change. The licensing laws, which have
just blotted out 13 of Hobart’s oldest pot-
houses, demand better conditions in those
that survive. So, for one thing, the old
wall-coverings—things which were in fashion
nearly a century ago—have had to come
down. It had long been a legend that Wain-
wright had produced pictures on several of
its bare walls. This London artist will he
remembered for his habit of disposing of
ladies whose thick ankles annoyed him. For
this little eccentricity he was transported for
life. The demolition of a wall-covering
authenticated the legend. One painting
represents a typical Tasmanian landscape
with Mt. Wellington in the background.
Years have faded the colors, though there
are traces still of fine workmanship. Being
on solid plaster, any attempt to remove the
picture would mean its destruction. Mary
Gardam—who will shortly be a centenarian
—recognised the scene after what she esti-
mates must be 80 years, and declares that
there used to'be several black-and-white por-
traits on the other walls. But these would
probably have been in charcoal, and time will
have obliterated them.
COBBER.
A Satchel of Books
The Azure Rose, by Reginald Wright Kauffmann
(T. Werner Laurie, London). A yarn about an
American artist in Paris and an Algerian lady. The
poorest sort of fiction, which can neither impress
nor amuse.
Captain Kettle’s Little Bit, by O. J. Cutcliffe Hyne
(Hodder and Stoughton, London). The Particular
Methodist adventurer of previous yarns goes on his
exciting and thoroughly unconvincing way. A quick-
moving book of cheerful impossibility.
The Coast landers, by Bernard Cronin (Hodder and
Stoughton, London). The yarn, by a well-known
Bulletin writer, is laid in Tasmania, and there is
skill and sincerity in the nature descriptions. The
plot is pretty impossible; but Cronin takes vou
along briskly over the doubtful places.
The Fugitive Sleuth, by Hulbert Footner (Hodder
and Stoughton, London). The exciting yarn of a
young sculptor’s escapes from the police while trying
to get rid of a body he has found in the heroine’s
room. Lnusually well written for a book of the
sort.
. r f .three Black Pcrinys, by Joseph Hergesheimer
(Hememann, London). The people are Philadelphia
folk of one family, traced through three epochs with
a lapse of a century between each. There is a lot
of literary power in the book, but it is a bit con-
fusing to the reader.
Germs from the German East, by Tlios. 11. Lewis.
Verses written by' a soldier during the campaign and
printed with type dug up from its German hiding-
lhe literary skill is not very great, but
chore is an occasional lift in the lines.
llear J’ b - v Agnes Grozier Herbertson
(Elkin Mathews, London). A booklet of pleasing
verse that, it it never soars very high, never falls
, v ,® ry A? 4 ' There 13 originality and a good deal of
thought, but less singing quality.
Rhymes 0/ the Red Triangle,' pictures by Joyce
Demiys and verses by Hampden Gordon (John Lane,
London). This is a Y.M.C.A. publication with
some excellent drawings in color more or less illus-
trative of the Association’s war work. But the
verses are very poor—some so bad as to be quite
meaningless. 1
The Inky Way
Harrison Owen, perpetrator of vast quan-
tities of assorted prose journalism and much
excellent verse, has made a book, ntitlcd
“The Mt. Marunga Mystery,” which the
Bookstall Co. has accepted, and which will
be loosed upon the company’s patrons at an
early date. “The Mt. Marunga Mystery”
is described as a deftly-woven story of the
detective type.
‘ Rosna”: Australian press-people and
others in London are raising a fund to the
memory of Mrs. Fawkner (Frances Fitz-
gerald), writer and journalist, and a general
favorite among them for the last 15 years.
It is intended that the Frances Fitzgerald
Fawkner Memorial Fund shall lend a helping
hand to the hard-up Australian or Maori-
lander in this Cold City, and the British
Australasian, 51 High Holborn, will
acknowledge and pass on to the committee
any sums Teceived.
There’s a prophetic significance in four
lines of rhyme published in Number 2 of the
Duntroon College Journal, June, 1914:
THE I.G.'S BENEDICTION.
God grant you luck, and may you see
Promotion well deserved and fast;
May bloody wars your portion be
Till fighting days are past.
Percy Rodda, lately of the Adelaide
Advertiser, has an Australian novel listed
for publication this year—“ The Fortunes of
Geoffrey Mayne,>'< a romance of the days of
Governor Macquarie in Australia: the tale
of an adventurous young Englishman trying
to live a new life. Rodda himself makes
for America by the Ventura.
George Black, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), free at
last of the film censorship in Sydney, has
settled down to complete the history of the
Labor movement in N. S. Wales. His work
will be divided into six periods—(l) The
Origin and Growth of the Labor Movement;
(2) Labor Enters Politics; (3) Labor on
the Cross Benches; (4) Labor in Direct
Opposition; (5) Labor in Power; (6)
Labor in the Melting Pot. Upon the com-
pletion of that job die author proposes to
publish “The Dream Child and Other
Verses,” a selection from his writings during
the last 40 years. His first published effort
of any note was entitled “The Breaking of
the Drought.” It was written at Denili-
quin (N.S.W.) in 1878, and was published
in the Hay Standard. A volume of
theatrical reminiscences and a collection of
political anecdotes may follow. Black has
also written a series of papers entitled
“The Amours of Great Folk,” which deals
with the love affairs of Napoleon, Catherine
of Russia, Charles 11., Nelson, Byron and
other hard cases.
“Ballandry”: “Sydney George” gives (B.
17/4/’l9) a few Digger songs. I marched
for miles and miles to this:
Drunk las'; night
Drunk the night before,
We are going to get drunk to-night
If we neve l- get drunk any more;
The further we go
The greater becomes our thirst;
For we belong
To the drunken Twenty-first.
“Student” on art (and other things) :
‘‘Melbourne Art Critic” attacks the Meldrum
“school” by throwing wilted bouquets at a
young Victorian painter, who is not and never
has been a student or disciple of Meldrum. He
blandly remarks that one picture of Wilson’s “is
not only a chant on Meldrumism, but the credo of a
disciple.” The only point on which Wilson has
anything in common with Meldrum. is in realising
that in using a medium with a rang’e extending from
white to black, it is absurd to attempt to depict
with it the violent contrasts-f-the ultra-white glare
-(-glitter of sunlight. Yet, when Wilson violates
this law, the critic foolishly describes the sketches
as “glittering sea-pieces”! But the last part of
the criticism is the funniest. After falsely blaming
Wilson’s sins on to Meldrum and judging his worst
work as his best, he tells U 3 that “Meldrum is an
extraordinarily capable painter.” So he is, but
the critic evidently doesn’t know why, otherwise
he wouldn’t congratulate a man for attempting the
impossible or remark that Meldrum is always attrac-
tive “through his own technical competence.” Ever
since Meldrum returned from Prance he hai been
preaching against the violation of the medium by
most of our “great” Australian artists, also against
this habit of proclaiming a man an artist because
of his technique. What makes Max Meldrum a great
painter is his power to define and depict truthfully
what the eye sees.
Business, Robbery, etc.
* * * *
“Doug”: Bruntnell, M.L.A., back from
helping the Maoriland prohibition party, says
the campaign cost £150,000. Hammond,
generalissimo of the N.S.W. Alliance, wrote
from Auckland that the figure was £155,000.
A Wellington wire said a conservative esti-
mate was £250,000, and added that wherevei
the money came from it didn’t come from
M.L. The fund was probably the result ol
a conspiracy between American exporters ol
luxuries and Maoriland importers of the
same. This may explain why Australia
is just now a paddock into which America
is turning loose her unemploved drink cranks.
Also why £1,000,000 of her dollar-hoard is
pledged to the cause of drought outside
U.S.A. American exporters are getting very
busy these days.
* * # *
“Till. E.”: The Digger is an inveterate
souvenir-hunter. While at Buckinguam
Palace one of the songbirds thought he
would like to carry away a small memento —
surreptitiously, of course; there’s nothing
fascinating about a souvenir that has been
doled out. His chance came during the tour
of inspection, and two of the royal towels
went into his kit-bag. But the Master of
the Bathtub was too vigilant, and at the
door the Digger’s bag was politely requested.
Now that lad knows exactly how the gilded
shoplifter feels when caught.
* * * *
“Iota”: “Jaymak” (B. 24/4/T9) is right
when he praises the Broken Hill Co.’s steels.
But the B.H. mild steel must improve a lot
before it reaches the high standard of certain
foreign brands. Machinists frequently com-
plain of the sandy nature of the B.H. pro-
duct and the way it affects machine toois.
When Thompson’s (Castlemaine) started on
the marine engines, the blooms supplied by
Newcastle were so full of flaws and of such
bad quality that the first propeller-shaft was
ordered abroad. The B.H. steel, however,
improved at such a rate, in six months, that
there is every likelihood of the shafts of the
Juture being made here. The shell steel of
1916-17 is being used by the same firm for the
manufacture of milling-cutters and taps.
We only want encouragement and a tariff
wall that the finest imported tool steels
can’t bore through, and Newcastle steel will
be able to hold its own with any.
* * * *
The ancient Burford soap-firm has been
induced to go out of Adelaide, after scent-
ing it for nearly 80 years. A big fire lately
made the question an open one, and now the
old Block 14 smelters at Dry Creek have
been secured, about 12 acres, close to the
North railway-line and not far from the
Port. Another 150 acres close by have been
acquired, with the idea of making a model
town for employees, something on Sunlight
lines. Bowen, the managing-director, leaves
at once for England and the U.S.A. to pick
up the latest ideas on the subject. The
greater part of the old Burford premises in
Adelaide will be kept on as central offices
and warehouses.
* * * *
“Kismet”: It is not only the mean private
employer who asks the returned soldier or
soldier’soependant, “But haven’t you your pen-
sion?” when he seeks to pay less a week than
he would give a civilian. The Administration
of the Northern Territory gave an officer’s
widow with a delicate child a billet at
£2OO a year. Her predecessor in the posi-
tion, a single man of military age who did
not go to the war, received £325. She did
the same work and did it better. The lady’s
husband had for some years before the war
been an officer of the N.T. civil service, O.C.
of local militia and a reserve officer of the
signal-engineers. Darwin remembers that
Dr. Gilruth got 10 months’ pay and three
guineas a day expenses for doing nothing in
Melbourne for 10 months. But, then, he
wasn't a warror.
#•* * *
“Deco”: Notwithstanding the sacrifices
and hardships endured by officers and men
of the merchant service during the war. the
average shipowner still looks upon them as
merely parts of the dividend-earning machin-
ery. Not only is every possible loophole in
the awards taken advantage of, but incred-
ible little meannesses are practised. Here
is an instance. When a vessel is in dock
and. the officers are standing by, an allow-
ance is to be made of from five to 10 shillings
per day (according to rating), in lieu of
board provided. To save payment of this
cash an officer is told to leave his ship and
go for his meals to any other vessel that the
company may have in port. Shipowners
know that in most cases he won’t do it, and
they play on the fact. If an officer insists
on the victualling allowance—actually part
of his wages—his chances of promotion are
Buckley’s.
THE CASE OF MARY AND THE BILLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Meat may be still dearer.” —Market report.
The mutton wanders o'er the shining plain,
The sun-warm beef grows mighty on the hills,
The fatted pork is ready to be slain;
Yet nought grows faster than the household bills
And Mary, scrawling figures in the night,
Observes domestic capital take flight.
Applied to cabbages or chops or bread,
She works it out that 2 and 2 make 4 ;
She broods awhile and shakes a doubtful head.
Imagining the dingo at the door.
Too well she knows the very narrow line
That separates his biting from his whine.
Wild war is hushed to sleep; and kindly peace
Musters the doves and olives in a League.
The orphan smiles; the widow’s wailings cease;
The world goes open-faced, without intrigue.
But beef and dripping still a treason plan,
Seeking the ruin of the frying-pan.
Ah, well, to the wide kindness of the suns
This confident, pale planet lightly leans,
Fearing no ill. Chops fail, but there are buns;
And splendid nourishment is found in beans.
Mary will sigh and let the mutton pass.
And piously remark that flesh is grass.
K.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


- ■
S\ MB y™ji *
!?»Jpf^d
■?snbL ~-<>
Wmt
fc/Mir
m.
v.
. ■
... s.
‘"■'v^A
•\
■::■
HMil^
> ,
'■?’ ft
M$ S -J*• .«}isT '*f ‘ , *V2^
1 . .
:' -a
■f . ?
A
rill Ms
/ • **s
/ #
WBB
•■ :.>
cl
jppffiHli
-I
L.
■9Wrri m V7*? 1
aWaMWIHi
S'.!S@*sSfSSaiiH^»J«>««
PS
« :v-V:
H ii
m
.
w V
if
i
111
■ i
-I J g uu
, \ - * mW.
”;- ’ t l fr *" *
.. J J. jV,
*--* * '/Lj
B
.
v. - •%;
i'r;
IMMai
«g sswagKW
/ -(2Lw ■■ j./
m
■i
■
■■ a ■
~t
;
/:
&<Mvv.V
B-
.•• ■■
ifff
■
H
.
. .;'
•'
f
| :
a
*•
f I
HI
a ■.?
Wm
~ ■" ■' •
*F.
■S'
"^SS
,;ft
1 s
11
If!
9
y
fra
|f||
■
:i
#■«&
Ml
v
- #.
1 :»v • v
■
•*:? ft’-
I
®g
Sa'y
V •
w
«
s,
■
m
m S 1
* . j
I
(A
m
■■ J'y-
tm
jrminrrnri i i ifliimi
:
m
■#af
m
m
■■ ■
in
■wW»M—'*
■
■>. A;
H
.* 1
m
i
■ I
■" A '
: Y O
i,.;-
• -.
Proof of G.T.M. Service
Example i always more efficacious
than precept.
To invite you to let the G.l .M. (Good-
year Technical Man) solve your power
transmission problems, and to aff r n
the principle of the correct application
of Goodyear Belting to your particular
needs, is one thing.
To demonstrate by actual example the greater effi-
ciency and economy of the G.T.M. Service in this
respect is quite another story.
This, however, is how we meet the test with proof.
Messrs. E. Sachs & Co. Ltd., of the Queensland Gal-
vanising Works, Brookes Street, Brisbane, used leather
belting throughout their extensive works until the
G.T.M. (Goodyear Technical Man) convinced the
Company’s engineers of the value of the Goodyear
plant analysis idea.
Let Mr. W. J. Sachs, Managing Director, tell of the
result in his own words :
“ After six months running in every department, we
are fully persuaded that there is no belt that gives
the even pull that the Goodyear Belt is always
capable of.”
u All machinery in the sheet metal factory is
equipped with Goodyear Belting, which gives satis-
faction hitherto never dreamt of by our engineers.
' The drives are exceptionally well proportioned,
having been designed by the Goodyear Technical
Man resident in Brisbane. Not one of the drives,
fluctuates more than % inch laterally on full load.”
“ To-day we have a mile of Goodyear Belts run-
ning, and as our leather belts wear out each drive
will be re-designed and equipped with Goodyear.
In our opinion no leather belt is equal to Goodyear
belting for our purposes.”
Goodyear Technical Men in every State are at your
call for similar service. Their specialised knowledge
and continuous experience of results will assist you to
secure not only the maximum service in belts and the
consequent economies of factory operation, but will ensure
the effective transmission of power with its accompaniment of
maximum output of machines or plant.
Our specification of Goodyear Belting carries with it the
acceptance of responsibility for its satisfactory operation and
wear. Write in to our nearest branch for particulars of the
G.T.M. Service, which are free for the asking.
1 — 30-H.P. Motor, driving Heavy Stamping Presses, all
equipped with Goodyear Belts.
2 Section of Sheet Metal Factory. All Drives designed by
the G.T.M.
3 Section of Sheet Metal Factory. Results obtained
demonstrate advantage of G.T.M. Service in designing
Power Drives.
4 Section of Hail Factory. Leather Belts have been taken
off machines, shewn in illustration ready for installation
of Goodyear Belts.
Stocks of Goodyear Mechanical Rubber Goods are now carried throughout Australia by
ELDER, SMITH & CO.
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY,
LIMITED
BRISBANE. PERTH.
I
G
N
LVE


SIRCHCOBBE CARSOI'Sp
Hjjk Prices lor Jkiisll™
m\<
a
BA.t,
The Enemy in Sight,
High Prices for Skins. If that’s
what you want, consign Rabbit,
Fox and all other skins to
WIttCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN ONLY, LTD.
Sydney OR Brisbane.
iwio^
! £
*Oll5
"OWHOHj
Forthe
Motor
Truck
NATIONAL
MOTOR OILS
are the best to use, because
they maintain in every
cylinder an unbroken wall of
protection against damaging,
power-stealing friction. They
are clean flowing, have high
flash-point and unmatched
viscosity.
Obtainable all Garages
and Storekeepers
in 1-gallon, 4-gallon Tins and
Barrels. Ask also for
National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Columbia
Dry Batteries
When Your Engine Stops
When family auto,, truck, tractor, or motor
boat chokes up and loses its gait, it is then that
you realize the advisability of carrying an extra
set of Columbias.
Columbian putithe spark of life into en-
gines, autos, trucks,! and tractors; they ring
Bells, give speech to /telephones, light lanterns,
make motor boats gcv.
Wherever batters power is needed, Colum-
bian are the simplest source—full of dnergy to
the very brim. Stealdy, reliable—proof against
trouble.
Special attention is/given tothe all-important
detail of packing for ertport.
lie Fahnestock Spring
Clip Binding Post, shown
i in the illustration, is a Co-
b lumbla feature that sells
fi batteries. With this Bind-
li ing Post it is a simply a mat-
•>. ter of pressing down tha
j spring and
i inserting
5 the wire
I— and the
connection
is made.
, Dealers— lmmediate de-
| liveries can be made. Write
j for catalogues and details.
f National Carbon ,
t Company, Inc.
\ Export Department
| Cleveland,Ohio,U.S.A.
l Cable A'd drees:
Carbon Cleveland - ’
PRESS
ere.
6
NO
tm
GN
DRY CELL
i*Mk» r.OR fi t him
GBffiRAMGNIIKE
Cfth
Electrical Wiremen
and Contractors.
Ask Your Supply House for
“Expanse” Conduit Fittings
Tees f" Elbows
f" Couplings
MALLEABLE GRIP FITTINGS EQUAL TO
THE BEST IfIPORTED.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE AIISTRALECTRIC COMPANY,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
’Phones: f\ CITY.
Telegrams: EXPANSE, SYDNEY.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various gradbs.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
line Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House," 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent: Adelaide Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. A. W. LEWIS, 62 Broolunan Buildings.
filh lb
m
lajK,
C aivno
I
ILegula
elf.
fti
cure
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
TO
H<M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
SPANISH INFLUENZA.
The best precautionary measure advised by Australia’s leading medical
men is an antiseptic condition of NOSE AND THROAT.
EVERYONE IS RECOMMENDED TO CARRY A BOX OF
NAZETHA PASTILLES
THE VERY. BEST NOSE AND THROAT ANTISEPTIC.
By their use the curative fumes are searchingly carried to all the breath-
ing passages.
J OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM ALL CHEMISTS Jjfo
A. P. MILLER & SON, CHemists, Hobart.
f *
“1.P.” • Though he served a term as eity
councillor at Wellington (MX,.), John
Fuller, brother aud partner of Ben can
still joke. When his firm had business rela-
tions with a company of Italians, the. lattei
did not keep strictly to the compact. It
was suspected that its finances were not or
the strongest, so John fared forth to the
country to report the position. He gave an
illuminating and concise opinion in a wue
which read: “Italian front broken; no
macaroni.” The Censor passed it, too.
Westralians are asking for a smoking pipe
of local wood. Over 20 years ago then Con-
servator of Forests Ednie Brown wrote con-
cerning the locally-known “raspberry jam
tree (Acacia acuminata) : “It is a beautiful
wood, eminently suitable for cabinet and
ornamental work of all kinds, and is some-
times turned into pipes and walking-sticks.
Imported pipes are very scarce at present,
and cherrywoods are unprocurable ; so there
ought to be enough encouragement to set
somebody at work on a local tobacco-burner.
South Aus. Public Service Review is
driven to reminiscence by a new biography
of a strikingly unworldly vice-regal family
of 20 years back :
Those dear, impossible Buxtons —who abdicated!
What memories G. W. E. Russell’s book has aroused
in local minds concerning' them! Who will forget
the first Buxton garden-party, when the refreshments
provided were buns cut in quarters and oranges cut
in sections! Or the first guest evening, when the
lion of the occasion was a passing missionary, who
opened the affair in a devotional manner. After the
port-wine-and-walnut regime of the Kintores, these
things provoked comment, until the Government
House “set" was changed. Then everything in the
garden was indeed lovely.
During the shipping strike of 1917 there
was a shortage of tiles in Westralia, and to
excuse their lack of enterprise the local
brickmakers told the Minister for Industries
that clay for making tiles was not available
in W.A. The Minister believed it was a
lie and put the Government Mineralogist
and Chemist on to the job of conducting
investigations. A practical potter and
chemist were added to the Department, and
they are now in a position to declare that
Westralia has every kind of clay required
by every kind of potter. And, more than
that, the loafing manufacturers are invited
to come and study a map which shows where
the clays occur.
The re-election unopposed of Jack Bailey,
M.L.A., and Aid. W. 11. Lambert, of Sydney
City Council, as president and sec. respec-
tively of the Central Branch of the A.W.U.,
ensures a continuity of the present admin-
istration, which is hostile to the 0.8. U. as
Garden and Judd see it. Under the con-
stitution the election is held during the
shearing season, the ballot closing on Decem-
ber 31 in each year, and the successful can-
didates are required to take up their jobs
on July 1 following. Bailey’s organising
ability has had a lot to do with the present
position of the Central Branch. When he
and Lambert ousted the old officials, the
membership was about 8000; it is now
15,000.
A Sydney business man’s tip :
I want to give the returned boys a chance when-
ever I can; but I find it difficult. Say I want a
man—l have wanted several men. Mostly some-
body has dropped out, as men do nowadays, without
giving more than two minutes’ notice. Their
places have to be filled quickly. I send to the
Repat. In four or five days they send me a man.
That’s no good. He ought to be here inside 24
hours at most. I applied to the Repat. the other
day and heard nothing for 48 hours. Then I
advertised. Next morning a dozen applicants were
waiting for me. I tpok the most likely-looking;
and next day got word from the Repat. that my
application was having attention. This way of
doing things is no good.
“Orphan Onn”: I remember a drama in
which a Board-room scene was concerned.
There had been a meeting of directors,
and as each magnate passed off the stage the
boss-cocky handed him a cigar. These,
never being smoked in view of the audience,
were kept, as their rightful perks, by the
recipients. After a bit the management
pair of Jews) decided that the cigar-bill
was a heavy one. “D’they doand’t s’thmoke
them thigarth on the thtage. Give ’em
vooden vuns!” And so, at the next per-
formance, painted fags were offered to the
players; but the mummer who “did” the
boss-cocky. took good care to rattle the box
hard at each presentation. One night some-
body yelled out: “Fatty, wairdger pinch the
clo’es-pegs?”—a remark which made the
management so mad that the wooden cigars
disappeared off the programme for ever.
“Yarriambiak” sounds the Last Post: —
Is it too late to say a word about Joe Baxter?
I have only just heard that he was killed outside
Estrees on October 5. I was at the same butchers’
picnic up till October 3, when a 5.9 issued me a
ticket to Blighty. Joe was a fighting man by instinct
and profession. Originally in the Scots Guards, he
saw service in China and S’Africa, annexing the
D.G'.M. in the latter disturbance. When the Hun
started to change the map he was over 60 and had
a wife and 10 children in a Western District (Vic.)
town. It did not keep him out of khaki. He
camouflaged his age and worried everybody in sight
until he was allowed to leave Australia. I v'as
in the same boat coming over, and Joe was our
quartermaster. We did not have to pay for any
shortages or breakages, thanks to his work. On
the last day he found that we were shy of about
20 blankets and that a number of towels were
missing. All other losses he had previously' made good.
The blankets and all the towels but one he wangled
somehow, but it seemed as if he would be stuck
for the towel. He was passing along one of the
gangways with the chief steward, when the latter
dropped the very thing Joe wanted. It never
reached the deck. Joe had it under his
tunic before the steward could turn round.
Thai, mystified individual was firmly convinced
that a spook must have collared his linen,
but the situation was saved for us,' and we were
probably the only company that escaped having some
chaiges placed in our books because of losses.
Arrived in training-camp in England, Joe was made
orderly-sergeant, the C.O. averring that he was
too old for the line. They kept him one week,
and it was a distressing week for the officers of his
company. So he turned up with the 21st Bat-
tahon (dropping his stripes to do so) ; and then, on
the last day the brigade was in the line, a machine-
gran bullet outed him. A better soldier, a whiter man
and a more loyal mate never humped a rifle.


KEEP YOUR FEET WARM AND DRY IN
Service Brand Footwear
vc|
$
*
$
V
o
Or,
TRADE
MARK
<
*
LONDON STORES
OPP. G.P.O.
•m
mg '
No. 588.
The Hercules.
MEN’S THREE-DECKER BOX CALF BOOTS.
For solid hard wear, Combined with good looks,
this boot will serve you right. Nothing but the
Finest Materials have entered into its construction.
Leather Lined from heel to toe. Easy-fitting
Shape, with Derby Fronts. Solid
Leather Three-decker Welted Soles.
Standardising in buying and manufac-
turing has brought down the price
from 25/- to
21 1-
No. 389.
The London.
MEN’S GLACE KID DERBY BALMORALS.
For men who have soft, tender feet “The London”
gives comfort from the first hour’s wear. Needs no
“breaking in.” Made on an Easy-fitting, Shapely
Last. Superfine-quality Glac6 Kid, with
Derby Fronts, Welted Soles & Leather
Lining. Expect to find a 25/- Boot,
and you won’t be disappointed.
SPECIAL MAIL-ORDER OFFER.
El/-
No. 3054.
The Excelsior.
MEN’S GLACE KID DERBY SHOES. They
are made of First-quality Leathers* designed by
master designers and built by expert shoemakers.
Note the crisp, trim lines of this model. It clings
snugly at the ankles, and has a
“Non-slip” Heel Lining. Fine
Plump Glace Kid, with Patent
Caps and Medium Wide Welted
Soles. ALL SIZES at
27/6
Same Model in _ Specially-selected Tan Willow
Calf, 25/-; and in American Sterling Patent Colt,
A TREAT for YOUR FEET
YOU can dodge the last two increases in the
Price of -Footwear by wearing Service
Brand Footwear, obtainable only at London
Stores, opp. G.P.0., Melbourne.
Ordered these boots at the old lower contract
prices. We sell as we buy —the saving is yours.
State size when ordering, and quote Boot
ISTumber and Name.
&
You can shop by post from London Stores
and get Boots that suit you just as if
they were fitted on by an expert. These
are the same perfect-fitting styles that have
satisfied our customers all over Australia.
An experienced shopper here buys for you
just as if you were personally in the Store.
Back of every transaction is our guarantee
of satisfaction or money refunded on return
of the purchase.
Carriage paid to any part
of Australia on £1 orders .
Grand Value Giving in
LEGGINGS
Before the leather market advanced to present
heights, we secured these leggings from a manufac-
turer w r ho only makes the highest grade of goods.
The prices we now quote are 2b per cent, under
to-day’s market quotations.
LEGGINGS,
PUTTEE
LEGGINGS,
as illustrated,
one solid piece
of leather
throughout, n o
joints or seams
to come apart,
strong spiral
strap with top
strap or buckle.
Obtainable i n
Tan or Black.
14/6
PLAIN
BLOCKED
LEGGINGS,
All solid black
leather in one
piece. Spring
front and bot-
tom clip with
with top strap
and buckle.
Shaped to fit
snugly around
the calf and into
the ankle.
16/6
No. 590.
The Scarborough.
MEN’S TAN WILLOW CALF DERBY BAL-
MORALS. Three essential features about these
Boots : Tan for Style; three Shades, Light, Medium
and Dark, to suit any taste; three Shapes, High,
Semi-high and Full Round Toes, to fit any foot
(illustration shows the High Toe) ;
Soft, Flexible, Durable Tan Willow
Uppers, with Derby Fronts and Leather
AVelted Soles. To-day’s value. 27/0.
OR EAT SIT OP-BY-POST OFFER.
21/-
No. 489.
The Service.
MEN’S BOX YEARLING PLAIN BAL-
MORALS. Mr. Farmer, here’s your Boot. The right
construction for country wear—Strong, Easy-
fitting and Wet-repelling. Made on a Comfortable
Broad Last from “first-pick” Box Yearling. Derby
Front and no Toecaps. Solid Leather
Three-decker Cork-filled Welted
Soles. All the worth of 25/- Boots
in this offer.
ORDER BY POST AT
21 -
No. 3045.
The Malford.
MEN’S IMPORTED PATENT COLT DERBY
BALMORALS. The finest and most exclusive
Footwear for dressy occasions. Made of the best
selected Patent Colt, with dull kid leg and the
new long toe that is now so popular. Solid
Leather close-welted Leather Soles
and Leather Blocked Patent Caps.
We class this Boot as 32/6 quality.
SPECIAL OFFER at
27/6
Also in Patent Colt with dull kid leg, and Round
or the new extended French Toe, 35/-
LIMITED,
Opposite G.P.O. MELBOURNE.
Our only address in Australia.


Misjfisiery
C PECIALIZED
methods in design-
and knitting pro-
duce in Luxite Hosiery
a closely woven tex-
ture of remarkable
durability and re-
splendent beauty un-
surpassed for the
money by any other
hosiery in the world.
Don't accept substitutes and think
you have “Luxite.” Insist upon
the genuine. If your dealer is
unable to supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty.Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
* Fencing Wire
Ahead of all imported wires for
strength and lasting qualities, yet
costs less.
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE, from
the Ore to the Fence Australian, is
guaranteed by the makers. Look
for the tag.
Order “Waratah” from your store-
keeper. We do not take orders for
direct supplies.
Send for Fencing Book N’i). Free
on request.
Austral Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Ferrara Street, South Melbourne, Vic.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LIP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
*
“ THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.*
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
pas ed merits. They know it to be a ‘afe
and perfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments; and the number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grassh: pper Oint-
ment positivelydraws the pois ons which pro-
duce these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should be taken in co 'junction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
dU-.\v! ? .!3CSH?W
■
f
iass-r*
'2l Hi
fIEED
m
Whythe Engineer should
specify S.K.F. Self-
Aligning Ball Bearings.
S.K.F. Ball-bearing Steel is carefully inspected and
tested on delivery from the steel works.
The utmost care is exercised in the selection and
calibration of every ball, and in the determining’ of its
hardness and homogeneity.
The processes of hardening and tempering the bearing
races are closely controlled. Only the highest skill is
employed in machining, grinding and finishing—thus
ensuring invariably perfect accuracy.
S.K.F. Ball Bearings' arc so designed that they are
instantaneously and automatically self-aligning.
SK F Ball Bearings give longer service than any
other bearings. They will “stand up under the
hardest conditions, and will maintain their accuiacy
throughout. „ _
ALWAYS SPECIFY S.K.F.
GARDNER,
W/ERN & GO.,
Power & Light Engineers,
MELBOURNE: 384 City Road.
(Showrooms): 369 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY : 225 Pitt Street.
BRISBANE: 367 Queen Street.
LOADING CHAFF BY GRAVITATION. (No power required.)
MANUFACTURERS OF LABOR-SAVING MACHINERY.
GRINDING, DRESSING, MIXING AND PACKING MACHINERY.
MACHINERY SPECIALISTS. FACTORY EXPERTS.
Sclmmacher Mill Furnishing' WorKs Pty. Ltd.
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [3
I
JJJJJJJJ
Ml
How to secure early
delivery of your post-war
SUNBEAM
The demand for Sunbeam cars for
delivery when we are again able
to attend to private requirements
is already such that early ship-
ment cannot be promised except
to motorists who order now.
Naturally it is our intention to
hasten production in every way
conducive with the maintenance
of Sunbeam quality. This
qualification, in itself, how-
ever, is sufficient to limit output
and to render impossible delivery
in vast numbers. Therefore order
your post-war Sunbeam to-day.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co. Ltd.,
Export Department: 54-62 Oxford Street,
LONDON. W.l. - - - ENGLAND
Head Office - Wolverhampton, England
Capt. “Max” Wright, just back as adju-
tant of the Ulimaroa, is one of the very few
-Australian officers holding the Order of the
Nile—a new. Egyptian decoration instituted
to replace the Turkish orders. \V right left
the family Herefords to go with the Ist
Light Horse in 1914.
The late Jim Gordon, S.M., brother of
present Judge Gordon of S.A., sat on a case
in which prisoner pleaded not guilty. is
counsel, however, immediately made a plea
for leniency. At the end of his speec 1
Gordon remarked to the prisoner: You have
pleaded not guilty, but the Court is inclined
to agree with your counsel.”
The new president of the Chamber of Com-
merce in Adelaide, David Gordon, has had
a curiously mixed experience. Starting as
a farmer, he became in turn a reporter, chief-
Of-staff on the Register and leader ot
IT ' -sard. Then he left the gallery to go
in. politics. First he was in the Federal
Reps; now he is an M.L.C. with half-a-dozen
equally mixed commercial interests to look
after in his spare time.
“Sere” : When we were hurrying Fritz out
of France we were asked one'day by a couple
of villagers if we would mind removing our
D.A.C. mules from the stable for an hour or
so. The Diggers, ever obliging, removed the
donks, and the Frenchmen bogged in in a
perfect frenzy with a couple of picks and a
shovel. Half an hour’s hard work brought
to light a small portmanteau containing the
family jewellery and some thousands ot
francs. “ ’Struth !” whispered the boys, and
went away to kick themselves.
“Billy B.”: This is how the messenger
kid told it to me when he returned from his
unsuccessful errand to the Federal Offices:
I said to the bloke at the door: “Is Mr. Hughes
in ?”
“No,” he says.
“Is Mr. Cook in?”
“No,” he says.
“Is Mr. Pearce in?”
“No,” he says.
“Blime, who is in ?”
“Nobody,” he says.
“Well, what about Mr. Webster?
“Oh, him,,’’ he says, “yes; but you d better tele-
phone him.”
“So,” said the jaded lad, “I wanter know
what about another six-months’ coptrack.
* The latest estimate is that 1,000,000 acres
of land in Queensland and 200,000 acres m
N S. Wales are being closely settled annu-
ally by a single tenant— Prickly Pear. Also
that in the Ma State the rabbit now equals
about 30,000,000 sheep in eating capacity.
These two great unnatural resources of the
country may yet stop a lot of argument by
leaving nothing to argue about. They are
abolishing the capitalistic system, while the
One Big Union only talks about it.
“Henri S.” on the order of the boot: —
A cable which tells us that a corps of South Afri-
can blacks attacked some Americans in Winchester
Repatriation Camp with sticks, killing three and
injuring 30, reinforces my idea that someone ought
to write a handbook, for inexperienced travellers,
entitled “Colored Persons Whom It Is Unsafe to
Kick.” The Yanks came straight from a land
where the nigger is kept under by means of periodi-
cal lynchings, and were deposited in France, which
was stiff at the time with Chows (of the coolie
class), Annamese and humble Indians. The bulk
of the Yanks were billeted in back areas, where
these harmless folk worked, or, rather,, .loafed, on
the roads. What more natural than that they
should think all blacks were the same as the only
ones they had met?
I travelled on a P. and O. ship once with an
English bagman who knew how to handle colored
brother. At Aden he gave a large, truculent Arab
an order, and on the latter pointedly ignoring it,
cuffed or kicked him—l forget which. The Son
of the Desert bounded with fury within his filthy
gaberdine, grabbed the representative of the ruling
race by the seat of the trousers and the hair, shook
him for a second or two, and then heaved him over
the sea-wall. Had the tide not been high and the
rocks consequently covered, Commerce would have
Ist one of its ornaments.
It is safe to kick a Cingalee but not a Tamil.
People who don’t know the difference often strike
trouble when they go (after a week or so at the
Gi.lle Face or the G.0.H., where the attendants,
despite the local laws to the contrary, almost look
for chastisement) up-country to a tea plantation.
The Tamils at one well-known place near Adam’s
Peak tied up the planter and his “creeper” to trees,
and after hideously defiling them departed en masse
for the coast. It was their protest against a little
assault and battery.
You can strike an Indian from the Plains but
not one from the Hills. To do anything of the
sort to a Jap is practically fatal. The size of the
subject is no insurance against injury. I knew a
hefty ship’s master who casually “landed” a dwarf-
ish representative of Nippon, and was unconscious
for many hours afterwards. One sort of Chinese
accepts physical rebuke with meekness (this applies
chiefly to the toilers in the Treaty ports and to
the clan which is exported as indentured labor),
whereas another sort (leisured Chows .and members
of the commercial classes) resent it to the death.
Egyptians can be flogged, chased, smitten, caned and
kicked with safety. Not so Turks. To do any-
thing of the sort to a desert Arab is equivalent to
suicide. The same applies to Soudanese, whether
full-, half- or quarter-bred. This made things very
awkward for our boys in the early days in Cairo,
which is a kind of potpourri of blacks of different
breeds and grades. A man had to put in several
weeks’ close ethnological study before he knew whom
1 he could comfortably rebuke.
South African and West Indian blacks—they
worked in some of the forward areas in France at
trench-digging, and also on the roads and on ammu-
nition-dumps are dangerous. Their strength, size
and immunity from pain make them willing, nay
eager, scrappers. One thing only frightens them—•
firearms. This is markedly the case with the
African blacks of the U.S. When Hugh D. Mclntosh
presided over the Stadium I saw him hurl Sam
Langford, v'ho had been impudent in a business dis-
cussion, out of the office and into the yard. Samuel
went with all the placid unresistancy of a bag of
coke. Questioned upon the phenomenon, Mclntosh
said that it was due to Langford’s knowledge that he
carried a revolver. Some dim hereditary influence,
possibly dating from the period when Great-great-
grand-uncle Tom Langford was chased at the point
of a shot-gun through the Mississippi swamps out-
side Lagrange (Tenn.).


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
fi Sijj 5 1 §'///
wirsm
: : rJj- ,■
66
I'? 1 -
i Vs,
S J ..
!
rf
~V I , ■ . •< ri' V
/&/ I
V : r
r dv ’ f r ,><.r
<" y> - & )
,-fi
S X *
y/ yyyx
/.-> ,/?,#" xxA^r
if/. ■/■ X? A Mri - f
A." Jiy'j' 1 -jy
/■/ y 4fy yA
/ A /s' if " -
/' i iifcj
\ \ j >
\ \ 5
/
> i I
■4
», ‘I
A* ’
<L-i
50
lift
s* I I
a ;
i ■
vT !
y >' «
i ;i
a
/t-1|
I-1
'i 1
; v
i
/ />
«i
Il’cvC
(i££p
dm
sm
S'
* .
*7
i / ,♦ /• /V
> '?{,/% ///.At-
I
v&>
~K
«T' >
y/.j#
ft
4#
/
W>
X
\ < .
44
A
to*
fid
,/rf/
%
is;
3#
X:
&
w:
fUt
•x
CRW
Mi
//>
m
>3
6,5-m
m
m
f y£
Wt&
A f s‘ < ' / v
m
&
M
.yyyy\ t */' s-
c
\
jJSfiW
'4/JmM
S4^J
N^sf
oO
o
s qQO
JZTfi*
■ / # 'x '|-
A
sfeij
&S®S«SBP
x£sM
m&
X'
<c.
C.^
s
ssa
rStg
mm
W£\
'ONIfU
H'
-
imma;
j/MtWXd'-f,
•'*
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Ushers in the
Germans, who
Stare in horror
At the bills
Lying there in
Heaps and hills.
“Gott in Himmel
Wail the Huns,
And a wave of
Laughter runs
Round the room
When Chunder adds,
“Theres a ‘COBRA*
Job, my lads!”


Thin Endy Hair
orThickandHealthy?
A scalp cared for by Cuticura usually
means thick, glossy hair. Frequent
shampoos with Cuticura Soap are ex-
cellent. Precede shampoos by touches
of Cuticura Ointment to spots of dan-
druff, itching and irritation of the
scalp. Nothing better for the com-
plexion, hair or skin.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to lwal.
**R. Town* & Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold
by dealen throughout the world.
Influenza.
“PLENTY OF MILK” is the doctors’
advice in all cases of influenza.
FRESH MILK modified by
Mellins Food
forms the best diet throughout the
course of the attack and in convales-
cence, because it is more palatable,
more easily digested and therefore
more nourishing than milk alone.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND
STORES.
Price 2/6 per large bottle.
Sample and booklet free on request.
Mellins Food L,td.,
Colling wood.
AGENTS:—
GOLLIN & CO. PROPY. LTD., Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
9
m
'tm
m
ELEY “ACHILLES’
A deep-shell, dark blue gaslight
Cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 g r -) Smokeless Powder and
ij oz. shot.
m
ELEY
’320 Revolver
ELEY
'32 Automatic
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale:
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON.
=s
=■
WAITING!
There is nothing so trying for a woman
these days as waiting —always waiting.
It needs a steady nerve and a strong heart to
carry on—do the day’s work with a cheerful face,
and have a smile handy.
Give yourself a chance to do this hij keeping
fit—a tonic that really helps is
Dhosformo
I • THE ROYAL TONIC
This is a nerve and cell food and strengthener
that is helping many folk over the worries, work
and waiting that the world is going through now.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 6C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
C-A-C'
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES:
VICTORIA—-Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane Phone 2382
HOTEL ESPLANADE,
PERTH'S PREMIER HOTEL.
Facing the Swan River and Indian Ocean. An ideal situation.
Close to Post Office, Banks, etc. ABE MODERN CONVENIENCES,
M. A. BEAVOR, Proprietress.
Neither Bad Roads nor Heavy
Loads Bother Federal Lorries
They are built to meet every need of haulage
—under the very conditions you are facing to-day.
They will work for you steadily—24 hours 'a
day every day in the year and will positively
reduce your delivery costs.
Why not get some facts-—and figures ?
1 Ton, $l9OO 2 Ton, $2600 5 Ton, $4400
1 y 2 Ton, $2350 Ton, $3350
Write for our interesting magazine “Traffic News”;
also full prices and discounts.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
Factory—Detroit, Mich., O.S.A. Foreign Department—lB Broadway, New York.
Shell-shock rendered 1882 Diggers unfit for
further service; and frost-bite laid a chill
hand on 67.
S. Australia’s oldest lady, Mrs. M. A.
Foote, claimed to be 106 on April 24. She
was certainly married before she arrived in
the State 81 years ago. And she has been
married twice since then.
“Bunbury” : When coincidences are trotted
out I always give this one an airing. The
Journal des Debats of February 21, 1846,
recorded that the parricide Jean Marie
Dubarry was ordered for execution at the
Court of Assize at Tarbes on February 12,
1846. His ancestor, of exactly the same
name, was executed on February 12, 1746,
for exactly the same sort of offence.
“Bert R.”: Another holy house which was
removed from grace was the old Methodist
church in Albert Park (Vic.). A syndi-
cate bought the building and turned it into
a picture "palace.” Joyful, joyful were
the meetings there after that! Congregations
grew so large that before long the place was
pulled down and a much bigger brick build-
ing erected on the site.
Webster can’t be blamed for this. Perth
has just delivered a telegram that was
lodged 10 years ago. Addressed to a man
in a northern goldfields town, it read:
“Como at once—father very ill”; but the
addressee having left before the wire
arrived, it found its way to the G.P.O. dead-
letter office. Going through the collection
the other day a zealous officer noticed the
name of a Perth resident known to him, and
the message was sent to the right owner.
Father had died eight years previously.
“Simon”: Four steeple-jacks have been
“strapping” one of Sydney’s highest chim-
neys. The other day one of them during
the luncheon hour got so well blithered that
he could scarcely find his way in through the
double gates that led to the works. All the
same, his swaying figure was presently seen
dragging itself up the narrow, unscaffolded
ladder. Step by step he mounted, until, a
mere mannikin at the height, he climbed over
the chimney-top cornice, stood erect upon
the parapet above and waved a drunken
salute to the little knot watching from below.
Not a soldier from Alexander to Napoleon
ever showed a finer nerve.
There’s an amazing story to be told of the
official treatment accorded to 25 nurses who
arrived in Melbourne from Maoriland the
other week to nurse influenza patients.
They came in response to an urgent call
from the Vic. Government, but it was the
Board of Health that took them in hand,
apparently, when they reached their destina-
tion. Nurses are cheerful battlers in this
w;orld of ailments —especially those who go
long journeys to meet epidemic requirements.
But these sisters from oversea must have
wondered what the meaning of “hospitality”
really is!
It is impossible to avoid Debrett in this
paragraph. A staunch old body, Mrs.
Rowan Hamilton, died, at 99, in Ireland, the
other day. She was the mother of Ilaroit,
Marchioness of Dufferin and Ava, who nobly
backed her marquis husband up during his
brilliant career as Viceroy of India and
Canada. Another of Mrs. Hamilton’s
daughters is wife of Sir Arthur Nicolson,
Ambassador at Madrid and Petrograd,
and Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs.
Amongst her grand-daughters are Lady
Plunkett, ex-Governess of Maoriland, and
our own Lady Helen. The late Earl of
Ava, who was killed at Ladysmith during
the Boer V/ar, and Lord Basil Blackwood,
killed in the present fracas, were also kins-
men of Mrs. Rowan Hamilton.
Harold Carson, dead of influenza in
France after several years with the A.1.F.,
was a grandson of the late David Carson,
whose place of business was until a few
years ago a landmark on the Block. The
late David, emigrating from the Cold Coun-
try in Melbourne’s early days, put his cash
into a shipment of boots and shoes. He
struck the Yarra village when footwear was
scarce and dear; and the sale gave him a
firm foundation for his later fortune.
Though he began with the ready-made pro-
duct, he presently clothed the most polite
and exclusive feet in the State with locally-
built goods; and did work of national im-
portance in breaking up the idea that the
outsider can always do things better. The
wool-handling Carsons, of Sydney, are family
connections.
Towards the end of last month, owing to
remarks dropped by Board of Health offi-
cials, Melbourne began to get the impression
that nursey wasn’t doing her duty. On the
last day of April, however, the fact was
disclosed that the turning-away of 100
urgent cases from the hospitals during the
previous 24 hours wasn’t caused by any
shortage of attendants. The Exhibition
Hospital actually had 200 beds vacant, and
required no more nurses to look after the
patients already bedded down. The Trained
Nurses Ass. had supplied all the helpers
asked for; and the reason why the Exhibi-
tion people couldn t take any more cases
however desperate, was that there was no-
where to put any additions to the staff!
I lu-attendants must be fed and housed, of
course; but a building ample for the needs
of several dozen extra bedsiders could surely
have been run up within two or three days.
Prime Minister Hughes has had the cus-
tomary _ trouble with the Yankee press.
said •—~ m Y ° lk hC W3S reported to have
The mines of Australia were entirely under the
to n be th nn r n Capital when the wal ' “me, and!
benelcial io us. n and Capital were
As The Bulletin reported in Sentember
M M ™ ! AND Engineering Jour-
nal—the worlds leading technical paper in
wovcU 1U p S^ qi n ted Hughes in the above
Iw wriL F f De ane, Hughes’s private sec.,
now wntes fipm Pans saying that on re-
BuLLETm ’ the p rime Minister
got into communication with the N’York
paper; and Ingalls, the editor, has accepted
Hughes s contradiction and published a re-
traction. Similar reports,” Ingalls <mvs
appeared in the chief New York moiling
papers of June 2 The reporters manifestll
m inks 1? rs^ood the Prime Minister’s re-


Stop Torturing
Toothache Quickly.
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
S .if
t*
U
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring; Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Corns Quickly.
At last a real 1 does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works.
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
Mi
vn.?‘ , h y ,5° m p ur e will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfoit.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
V- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
Bttftc*
■ -
x:
>
COUGHS
* *-7 *
L- COLDS-
fv
»r*
\ '
■9
l \
--zi
oTf
/ /
";■ s
«
*
*■*l
K
V
Q
fc»
G/J
w
2*
OX
2
Cb
CP
What are you taking home?
Disease to attack your
family ? —or Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy to protect
them and yourself ?
You owe it to your family to keep yourself
in good health—when influenza, coughs, colds
and bronchitis are about run no risk of infection
% COUCH REMEDY #
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
ratal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
ir.ay be avoided.
Be Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there > is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. " Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One battle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London,England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SAFEGUARD YOU* health
fifJ.Collis Bro^wis
CWorody»e
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts sjiort all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, I]S, S/-, 5/
Made in England.
The “different” Food!
Benger’s Food differs from all otners because it contains
the means to partially digest the fresh new milk with
which it is prepared. This means much, as the inability to
digest milk is very common among children and adults.
Therefore always use
Foed.
Important Announcement.— Bergers Food Ltd., regret to
announce a possible Shortage in the supplies of Benger’s Food arising from
shipping difficulties and restrictions consequent upon the War.
If customers, therefore, experience a temporary difficulty in securing Benger’s
Food, will they please understand that this is the cause. Any communications
on this subject should be addressed to our Sydney Office.
BENGER'S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U.S.A.} 90 Bcekman St. Depdts throughout Canada.
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High-class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 13/- per day inclusive.
8/= per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.


A. Saunders’ Writing Attache Case, complete with
Writing Requisites and hirer-size detachable Blotter,
52/G.
v ;
W
mciidl
S
mS■
•mV
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Work Basket, Morocco r eather
Top, 37/6-
A. Saunders’ Kit Bag, square opening, Nickel
Lock and Clips, Cloth-lined.
0/1
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Canteen, containing i doz. each Table and
Dessert Knives, 3-piece Carvers, £5.
u
2
5
A. Saunders’ 8-day Mnrbiette Clock, Bronze Mounts, Strikes hours on gong and
half-hours on bell. Reliable timekeeper, £2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station).
cjfodawTuLtAA
MA.ftan
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Real Ebony Brush Set, com-
plete with 2 Hair Brushes, Cloth and Hat Brushes
and Comb, finest-qualitv Bristles, Silver Mounts,
35/-
m
' ... =-. =■ l
~ ■ T^” 7
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Dressing Case, fitted with every
convenience, 25/-
=s >
. Saunders’
ith Nickel
Gladstone Bag, solid Leather,
Mounts, Canvas Lining, 52/6.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply —
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Build e r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
SAVOY HOTEL,
Hay Street, Perth, West Australia.
PERTH’S LEADING HOTEL.
Recommended to Visitors from Eastern States,
Tariff: £,4/4/* per weeSi, 12/0 per day.
J. M. QUIGLEY. Manager.
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS 1 BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL ANI) EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
the married, or those in-
tending TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
’No such Complete Panorama of the Mvsterie3
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
eiven to the world.
DP BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
M 917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
book. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 postecl. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurstons Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Kola’s including Nana. 2/- each posted.
Educating tiie Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen tub
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist.
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. SaN-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freethasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual.
(latest), 3/6. Tiib Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted.' How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle's
Card Caaies (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise. 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Kekpi.nl, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Rush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society. 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ llandybook, 2/-- Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide. 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lees Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, ll-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty. Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE .
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappiio, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Crevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers-' Assist-
ant 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and ITS Cure. 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pav 3 and i guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing 2/3 Dynamos, and Electric Motors. 2/3.
Moore's' Universal Assistant and Couplets
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, If- posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
the Molik of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock 21- Life's Shop Window. 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
the big book store, $7 g §9 Market Street, Sydney
BOOKSELLER TO
THE COMMONWEALTH. -*!


Friday, May 9, was the ISth anniversary
of th. opening of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment. Death has been busy since George, as
deputy for his royal dad, declared that first
session open. Barton, the Pri “® ll^ a • f
survives* but hardly another of the official
■‘notables.”
“Peg-Leg”: Since yarning with a returned
pal of" mine, I’m not so much inclined to
blame the Repatriation Department for its
inability to get jobs for some of our soldiers.
This chap was a farm-hand before the war,
hut put himself in as a commercial travelk .
Naturally he never gets a job, but draws two
guineas sustenance from the Department
every Monday morning. He lives well
enough on that, and intends doing so for as
long as the Government will stand it. lie
says there are scores of chaps'doing the same
thing.
“T. 0.1. ”: Away in the ’fifties there stood
on the eastern corner of Young-street and
Circular Quay, Sydney, where Goldsbrough-
jlort'S i§ now, a little stone store-house used
in the produce trade. For many years it
was occupied by Irwin and Turner. In the
first ’seventies John Bridge bought Turner
out, and in 1573 he became sole propriety Qf
the business and continued its head until his
death. That was the origin of the John
bridge and Co., Ltd., whose business has
just been sold to the Farmers’ Co-operative
concern of which Trethowan, M.L.C., is the
talkative frontispiece.
Death.
BRUCE. —On the 17th April, at London,
Major Ernest Bruce, eldest son of the
late J. M. Bruce, of Paterson, Laing and
Bruce, Ltd. (By cable.)
Missing Friends.
TO MARIA HARTSHORN, sister of
Henry Hartshorn deceased, and for-
merly of Auckland, NeW Zealand, alia all
brothers and sisters of the said Henry Hart-
shorn and all persons claiming by, through
or under them.
Pursuant to an Order made on the 14th
day of April, 1919, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the 31st day of July,
1919, your claim to the estate of Henry
Hartshorn who died intestate at Henderson,
New Zealand, on the 3rd day of December,
1917, failing which the estate will be distri-
buted among those entitled thereto disre-
garding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 17th day of
April, 1919.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington, New Zealand,
ANY information regarding JOSPIUA
MASON, formerly residing at Apsley,
Victoria, farmer, last heard of in 190 S,
will bh thankfully received by his wife, Mrs.
Masbn, of Narracbbrte, B.As
Legal Notice;
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
1 Matrimonial Jurisdictidn;
The Chief Justice.
No. 153 of 1919.
BETWEEN JAMES HUGH BOWMAN, Plaintiff,
and ROSINA JANE BOWMAN, Defendant.
To the abovenamed Rosina Jane Bowman.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the twenty-
fifth day of April 1919 commenced against you and
that the plaintiff by his petition and writ of
summons claims a dissolution of his marriage with
you and such further and other relief as to the Court |
mav seem meet and FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that the Court. has by order dated the twenty-eight
day of April 1919 authorised service of the said
petition and writ of summons on you by the inser-
tion of this notice in The Brisbane CbuRiER,
Gayndah Gazette and Sydney Bulletin newspapers
and FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired within thirty days from the publication of the
last of the said advertisements to cause an appear-
ance to be entered for you at the Registry of the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane and that
in default of your so doing the plaintiff may pro-
ceed with this action and judgment may be given
against you in your absence.
Dated this twenty-ninth day of April, 1919.
'(L.s.) CHAS. S. NORRIS,
Registrar.
Morris and Fletchcl',
Solicitors for plaintiff,
43 Queen Street, Brisbane,
MARY COOPER, Deceased.
’utsuant to an Order dated the 11th November,
8, of the High Court of Justice (England),
incery Division, made in re MARY COOPER,
nster, deceased, Cooper v. Battams, 1918, C. 770,
Inquiry was directed, who, upon the death of
abovenamed Mary Cooper, deceased, became bene-
illy entitled to any personal estate of the said
ry Cooper as to which she died intestate, and if
re than one in what shares and proportions, and
ether any such persons are since dead, and if so
en they died, and who are their legal personal
resentatives. All persons claiming to be entitled
ier the said inquiry are by themselves or their
icitors on or before the 30th day of June, 1919,
come in and enter their CLAIMS at the Chambers
Mr. Justice Sargant in a book kept for that pur-
e in Room No. 293, Royal Courts of Justice,
and, London, England, or in default thereof they
1 be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of
said Order.
Wednesday, the 9th day of July, 1919, at 12
lock noon, at the said Chambers (Room No. 292),
appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon the
ims.
Dated this 16th day of December, 1918.
R. T. WATKIN WILLIAMS,
Master.
NOTE. —The abovenamed Mary Cooper, deceased,
late of 23 Dufferne-road, Upper Tooting, Surrey,
England, died 10th November, 1917. She was the
daughter of Nathan Cooper and Elenor Cooper {nee
Battams). The following persons, if actually living
at the date of the death of the said Mary Cooper,
may be entitled to share in the distribution of the
estate: —(1) Romana Cade and Harriet Cade,
daughters of Julia Cooper and James Edward Cade.
(2) Caroline Cooper, who is believed to have mar-
ried one Dibben, or their children, if any, if the said
Caroline Cooper died before the said 10th November,
1917. (3) The children of Elizabeth Cooper and
William Shaw who in 1862 are believed to have
resided in Western Australia. (4) Sophia Cooper,
who married one Dixon, and who are believed to
have resided at Minworth Water, Orton. Birming-
ham, in the County of Warwick, or their children,
if the said Sophia Cooper died prior to the said
10th November, 1917.
Missing- Friends.
Victor Emanuel Niels Olsen,
Magnus Harold Olsen.
tF either of the above persons will communicate
J- with me they will learn something to their advan-
R. WYNN WILLIAMS,
Mosman Street, Charters Towers,
Solicitor for Margreta Leonora Alexandra Olsen,
Administratrix of the estate of Lauritz Elias
Karl Olsen.
Amusements.
■yiVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. MCINTOSH PRESENTS
THE FASCINATING MUSICAL PLAY,
MY LADY FRAYLE.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
HKIt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
AVIATION MUSICAL PLAY.
GOING UP.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Til EAT It E It OYA I„ MELBOURNE.
Direction J. 0. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. "WILLIAMSON LTD. present Everybody’s
Favorite,
MURIEL STARR, in
COMMON CLAY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
C INC.’S THEATRE, iU EI.HOCIt NT K.
Lessees: BAILEY k Gil ANT-
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT Present the ONLY
HARRY LAUDER.
Pfit6S: 10/*, 776, 5/-. 3/-. 2/• Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors—BEN and JOHN FULLER.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 17.
DENIS KEHOE'S IRISH PLAYERS in
HAPPY LARRY.
The Delightful Comedy Drama, with Songs.
Popular Prices. Plan at Pianola.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY’.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS in
REACHING FOR THE MOON.
DOROTHY DALTON in GREEN EYES.
Prices as usual.
fiLACIAKICM, MEE H O URN E.
ICE-SKATING
lEASON NOW OPEN.
DI GILIO’S BAND,
gf VERY REEL A REAL ATTRACTION.
METRO FILMS.
SHOWING THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
ihe productions of CITAPLTN, VITAGRAPH, PA'IIIL,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK,
gItITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING TTIE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
Business Notices.
A FAVORITE IN COUNTRY. — Two-bladed
Stock Knife (one blade eastrating, other ordinary
style), with tweezers and steel pricker for removing
splinters. Made by Charles Ibbotson & Co., A S
Sheffield, Eng. Post Free V 'U
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency, 8 Spring St., Sydney.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidentSocicty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed tor 19X8
exceeded
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds exceed
Annual Income over
£1,000,000
£1,700,000
£39,000,000
£5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
GAPILLARINE
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Con b mln,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Ravy men.
Used since 1506. CURES Write for Boot
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, England
Insist on “Singleton's”—refuse all substitutes.
Government Notices.
QOMMON WEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
EMPLOYMENT WANTED
for
RETURNED SOLDIERS.
4 Accountants.
2 Assemblers.
2 Assayers.
2 Blacksmiths.
3 Bakers.
9 Barmen.
6 Billiard-markers.
2 Bookkeepers.
3 Boundary-riders.
2 Canister-makers.
9 Commercial Travel-
lers.
79 Clerks (General).
3 Clerks (Shipping).
6 Clerks (Tally).
3 Cooks.
3 Cooks (Camp).
5 Cleaners.
20 Caretakers.
2 Cutters (Shirt).
197 Drivers (Single
Horse).
49 Drivers (Two or
more).
2 Deck Hands.
3 Drovers.
6 Dental Mechanics.
4 Dairy Hands.
4 Engineers’ Laborers.
15 Engine-drivers.
3 Fishermen.
3 Farm Overseers.
5 Fitters’ Laborers.
19 Farm Hands.
2 Farriers.
2 Grocers.
2 Greengrocers.
2 Hairdressers.
3 Hotel Porters.
2 Horse Breakers.
12 Hall Porters.
4 Iron Machinists.
227 Laborers (General).
223 Laborers (Light).
20 Lift Drivers.
84 Motor Drivers.
2 Overseers (Station).
3 Overseers (Planta-
tion).
5 Printers. '
2 Plasterers.
4 Press Hands (Tin).
7 Riggers.
25 Station Hands.
10 Salesmen (Mercery).
6 Salesmen (General).
68 Storemen.
10. Stewards (Club).
25 Stewards (Ship’s).
20 Seamen.
2 Stevedores.
30 Storemen (Laborers).
8 Storemen (Packers).
5 Storemen (Wool).
4 Teamsters.
3 Tailors.
3 Tailors’ Pressers.
2 Timber Ordermen.
2 Veterinary Surgeons.
35 Watchmen.
8 Wool-classers.
2 AVirers.
Employers are asked to write, telegraph or ’phone
the Deputv-Comptroller, Department of Repatriation,
Chalmers Street, if they are able to employ any of
the abovementioned. ’Phones: 990 Redfern (eig-it
lines). Extension No. 6 Employment Section.
Applicants please mention this paper.
A. G. FARR,
May 12, 1919. Deputy-Comptroller.
A Gentleman's Superb Country Residence .
COWRIE HEAD-STATION PROPERTY,
Darling 1 Downs, Queensland.
CLOSE to Kingsthorpe Railway Station, and distant twelve miles by road from
Toowoomba.
A superior, commodious house, built of stone; twelve-foot verandahs; ten
rooms, stables and numerous other detached offices; garden and orchard; well,
bore and mill, and a four-roomed cottage.
This ideal country home stands on an elevated position surrounded by a rich,
cultivabie, black-soil plain.
The land, which comprised the homestead block of the Gowrie Repurchased
Estate, being’portion 51. parish of Isaac, containing an area of 260 acres, is
open for Perpetual Lease Selection under the State land laws; capital value,
£2OBO ; annual rental, £72 165.; provisional valuation of improvements, £3346.
For further particulars concerning this valuable property apply,
personally or by letter, to the District Land Agent’s Office, Toowoomba, or
to the Land Settlement Inquiry Branch, Department of Public Lands,
Brisbane.
YOUR
FOOTWEAR
either makes or mars your appearance,
therefore you should exercise the utmost
care in its selection.
ABBEY SHOES
are always correct in style, perfect in fit,
and give the utmost in long service.
They are made in half and full sizes, and
in three fittings—narrow, medium and
wide.
We illustrate a special Patent Derby
Shoe, in a very smart, made-to-order style.
Price - 4 51-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same price.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
EXCLUSIVE STYLES
in
Gent.’s & Ladies’ Coats
MADE IN ANGOLAS and
homespuns.
Also in the CELEBRATED
BURBERRY GABARDINE.
PRICES FROM £6/10 j-
HUNT’S,
314 Georg'e Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration appearing _ in j-iia
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


WSSI**
%
fll
m
iu
:
m
m
m
yv*>
saB
t*v
A Good Opening
on Any Occasion
ABBOTS
LAGER
Prowod From
Pur© Malt 1 Only
Warrigal Sweaters
THE POPULAR KNITTED-COAT STYLES
lor cold days outdoors —for cold evenings about
the home—for vigorous sports and every holiday
occasion—this type of Sweater is the ideal. Slips
on and off like a coat—has two spacious outside
pockets for hands, or pipe, tobacco, etc. An all-
Australian make, carrying the Peapes “Warrigal”
trade-mark—a voucher for quality and style.
Buttoning to neck, turnover collar.
Men’s. Outsize. Ex. O.S.
19/6 21/- 22/6
lest style, button front but open at neck. Collar
and tie may be worn.
18/6 19/6 21/-
Brown, Grey, Navy or White.
Peapes’ pay postage.
Please state chest measurement.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
iIKK Majesty’s .' “Going Up”
Koval “Common Clay”
Kino’s Harry Lauder
Tivoli “Mv Lady Frayle”
Princess's "Happy Larry”
Hoyt's De Luxe k lou-mu Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britanni a Moving Pictures
Paramount Metro Films
OlacjariCm Ice Skating
-
Harry Lauder's voice is still tin 1 same
old agreeable mixture of parritch anti honey
that tickles liis countrymen by its nation-
ality and touches outsiders by its friendli-
ness; and he hasn’t lost his ability to dog-
grelise the sentiment of homely people and
harness his simple lines to a tune tluft gives
them an incredible musical glamor. “I’m
doing to Marry ’Arry in Jan-n-ary,” the
first item of his programme at Melbourne
King’s on Saturday, reads absurdly childish
in cold print, hut coming from under the
bunnet of Lauder, with all the artifices of
the artist in stressing its transports, it
gives Scawtch calf-love a rare flavor of
geniality. “Itoamin’ in the (Roamin',” an
old favorite included on Saturday, is much
in the same vein: Lauder seldom ventures
beyond the decorous bliss of a canoodle or
the pawky cheerfulness of an evening-out.
The latter system of sociability is celebrated
in “We a’ Go Ilame the Same Way,” a
new chorus song that threatens to stick to
the tongue like “A Wee Deocli an' Doris.”
The number entitled “Australia is the Land
for Me” is not a wonderful donation to
this country’s patriotic noises, and “Just
Let Us Sing a Song of Love,” a peace
song prefaced on Saturday by an impas-
sioned and rather superfluous address on
the war, has no stronger merit than its
obvious sincerity. The true Lauder, the
Lauder of the droll mannerisms and the
elastic countenance, is beheld under less
theatrical circumstances, more especially in
“I Love to Be a Sailor,” where the point
of the patter is doubled by the facial demon-
stration. Muriel Window, who heads Harry’s
support, has the large contract of devastat-
ing the prejudice of an audience that under
the best of present circumstances must show
a preference for humor that is simple and
Scotch. Muriel is neither simple nor Scotch.
She is a roguish little American whose
power of captivation would have been greatly
enhanced if her voice had been reinforced
by some wise teacher instead of being pulled
to pieces, as seems probable, by the neces-
sity of chanting ragtime in modern musical
melees. All the same, she does pretty well
Harry Lauder at
Melbourne King’s.
I’m Going to Marry
’Airy."
as a siffleuse, a
bird imitator and
a comedienne, and
has loads mo r e
personality tli a n
her neat little
figure seems able
to accommodate.
As regards her
habit of changing
her clothes with-
out leaving the
stage, it can only
be recommended
for imitation to
those wii < i have
her shoulders and
her piqua n c y.
Eddy Montrose, a
clown acrobat of
the f a 11-a bout
order, cleverly fdls
in his space on the
programme. So do
the Creighton
c,o me d y jugglers
and Heather Belle,
a twinldetoed ex-
ponent of Scotch
d a n c e s. Colin
Crane, baritone;
Laurie Kennedy
and I) oro t h y
Mcßride, in joint instrumental items; and
Sybil Warren, a classical dancer, assisted
b" one Boilean, toil very creditably for the
other salaries.
In “Common Clay” at Melbourne Royal
Muriel Starr is again informing us that Man
denies the repentant Magdalen practically
everything but the role of victim. Proof
is afforded in the sad case of Muriel’s special
protegee. Ellen Neal, who. after gazing at
Life giddily through a gin-glass, finds her
sudden yearn for respectability denied by
tile knowledge of her depreciated virtue.
Accordingly when she floats into the Fuller-
ton household as a Marianne, she cannot,
maintain-her new part for five minutes with
all the help of her tart tongue and relentless
jaw-line. Recognised by a guest who hap-
pens to be the author of her early downfall,
she is considered a fair mark for* the son of
the house, who celebrates a rash intrigue by
presenting her with a baby. After that
strange revelations occur to wring a few
warm tears for the distracted young mother.
Haughty Fullerton, sen., who tries to bury
the scandal under a pile of paper money, is
brutally exposed as a successful slum-landlord
receiving heavy rents from Mrs. Warren’s
Profession. Furthermore, the Fullerton
lawyer turns out to be Ellen’s illicit parent,
with some singular purple patches in his
bachelor past, whilst the young pup who first
instructed her in naughtiness is skilfully
ambushed on a criminal charge. White-
washing the defendant by mud-splashing the
prosecution is not an uncommon practice in
these American dramas, but in this instance
it is carried out with a fervor that enables
Ellen to emerge with a belated certificate of
character. Ellen, however, doesn’t get much
assistance from Muriel Starr. The warm-
est phases of her acting are merely tame
surrenders to her accumulating mannerisms.
She has now invented a queer stiff attitude,
topnetl off with a non-committal countenance,
which she finds a great convenience in very
solemn moments. Frank llarvey is not
less than 10 years too old for the juvenile
amour of Hugh Fullerton. Louis Kimbal
naturally swells to his full dramatic propor-
tions as the unspeakable Arthur Coakley,
flushed with whisky and weak intentions.
Fullerton, sen., is the sepulchre of Sidney
Stirling, but the make-up, including a little
grey imperial, gives a touch of splendor to
the funeral. Ethel Morrison well main-
tains Mrs. Fullerton’s incurable suspicion
that the Almighty is responsible for a social
system which has cast her as a mentor and
model to the rest of the universe. Anybody
hearing Miss Morrison talk would believe
that she habitually dines off gold plate with
a plush serviette. Atholwood has a few
emphatic minutes as Ellen’s attorney, and
Sty an is merciful to his big voice as Ellen’s
undutiful father. Norma Mitchell, Edwin
Lester and some others provide population
for the crude and sordid story.
At Melbourne Princess’s the “Irish
I layers” who started harping on Erin with
“Mother Machree” have now changed the
strain of domestic drama to “Irish Hearts.”
The story holds a full hand of this suit, and
one of ’em is as black as the bitter cloud of
sorrow that threatens the mortgaged farm
of the swate colleen’s poor ould father. The
name of the blackheart is Grasper Garry, a
wallower in wickedness and reveller in
wrong-doing, who is due for discomfiture
when the curtain rises. Discomfiture, in
fact, chases him round the ring and brings
him down at the end of every act, the final
floorer being a fair knock-out. Denis Ivehoe,
as the returned squire in disguise, appears
to dally with the downfall of Grasper in
order that he may warble meanwhile in a
manly baritone voice and assist Miss Colleen
Kayher in a duet. Firstly he changes iden-
tities with his secretary, and nextly he
assumes a wig and whiskers and goes to
extremes in character impersonation by pre-
tending to be C. R. Stanford, who does
dirthy work for the villain when he isn’t
soothing his sowl with whisky. The hero’s
masquerading as Grasper’s serio-comic myr-
midon provides openings for misunderstand-
ings which are partially novel and entirely
humorous, so the artless conventionality of
“Irish Hearts” in other respects may be for-
given it. Kehoe and co. get through their
work at a quicker pace than sintimintal
Irish drama is accustomed to, consequently
a critic doesn’t need to fall asleep in self-
defence when a^ love scene is about to begin.
All the same, Kehoe has to beware of grow-
f()o jsoft and mushy in his tender moments.
Miss Kayher lacks nothing in the heroine
part, save the confidence born of experience;
Miss Inman speaks feelingly; Stanford’s
efficiency goes without saying; Peter Mell-
ing, as the villain, looks and sounds very
like old friend Bellairs; Brian Ewart is a
tall and pleasing secretary, despite the arch
expression of his legs—and there are others
who escape censure. The bill for this
Saturday is “Happy Larry,” who also will
stay a week only.
At Melbourne Majesty’s Arthur Frith is
again “Going Up” for an incredible wager
which promises him. beside a bag of hard
cash, the responsibility of paying Ethel
Erskifie’s dressmaker.
At Melbourne Tivoli My Lady Fray-le Is
still slipping back from the soured maturity
of 50 to the blushing innocence of 18. with
the _ powerful assistance of Lucifer D.
Nation. Lucifer, deprived of his ancient
malignancy by Claude Flemming’s backwash
of pale hair and motion-picture attitudes, is
yet an uncertain devil to have about the
place. When he demands his pound of soul
as payment for Lady Frayle’s restored
juvenility he looks dangerous: but for the
most part he is a modern and inoffensive
chap hardly more sinful than a commercial
tra veller.
An overflowing eashbox at Melbourne
Majestic gives a clue to the whereabouts of
Gaby Deslys. The throne-wrecker paints
Paris a proud purple in the swagger Pathe
production, “Infatuation.” “A Girl of To-
Day.” showing the best sides of Corinne
Griffith and Marc MacDermott, is the cur-
rent trailer. At Hoyt’s, Douglas Fairbanks
has a dilly development from a clerk to an
autocrat in a bogus kingdom, with results
prejudicial to every vinegary countenance.
Dorothy Dalton is another Hoyt star and
seethes with jealousy in “Green Eyes.”
June Caprice, who trips on the same pro-
gramme as “M -ss Innocence,” has the un-
pleasant job of lapping up liquor to prove
an hereditary thirst. At the Paramount the
Metro, people make the usual demand on the
waterworks in a long sob called “The Re-
turn of Mary.” It is a case of a kidnapped
infant who suffers strange mishaps before
she gets back to her correct address.
“Garside’s Career,” with which Adelaide
Repertory Theatre began its new season at
the King’s, is something like “What Every
Woman Knows.” It is a triumph of the
commousense woman over the seemingly
superior man. Garside was a youth who,
having won his B.A. while a working
engineer, was pressed by his Labor comrades
to go into Parliament. Margaret was all
against it, even at the risk of breaking her
engagement to him. She was right. lie
got swelled head. He neglected his House
of Commons duties to philander with Gladys,
“GOING UP," AT
HER- MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
Alfred Frith as Street,, the man id to went
up, receiving a lesson from the mecha-
nician, Field Fisher.
who was slightly fascinated, but never forgot
that she was far “above” him. When he
had been bullied into resigning his seat, and
w r as moaning that his life was at an end,
Margaret set to work, with blistering sar-
casms, to rouse him, and finally he starts
work again, on a more modest basis, and
with her. Garside is a poor creature ; Mar-
garet is the real hero of the play. Whether
she was fundamentally right, whether he
need have failed but for the chance of meet-
ing Gladys, whether there would always have
been some Gladys or other in his life; —these
things are unsolved problems. It is a true
Repertory play, of the Lancashire type, but
Harold Brighouse has put into it more fun
Rian most of its kind offer. Ronald Simp-
son had most of this, as Gladys’s gilded
brother, who wanted to have the Labor
M.P. to dinner so as to “have sport with the
asparagus.” Muriel Graigie was Garside’s
mother, of the big heart and nagging tongue,
and Zoe Reid the uncertain Gladys. The
chief work fell on Beryl Kook, who rendered
the unsympathetic part in a quiet, earnest
manner, and Basil Harford, who always had
a line voice and is fast learning to act —it
was the best work he has done. The new
move to a regular theatre brought in an
unusually large audience.
“The Better ’Ole,” at Adelaide Tivoli,
Suffers from not being able to make up its
mind whether it is domestic comedy or comic
opera. Arnold Bell, as Old Bill, has no
doubt that it is the latter. It looks, as if
he has broadened the part on “Grumpy”
lines, retaining every trick that has in* a
long run proved good for a laugh. The
vorees, even the gestures, of his comrades are
humorously imitated; at a court-martial,
with everybody else, in deadly earnest, he
gets laughs by replying to serious questions
with a singsong “I dunno.” It is good act-
ing, but it is acting, all the time. The other
players take themselves more seriously,
Percy Cahill as the amorous Bert having
most of the chances, and the many musical
items .make, it a bright show. At the
Majestic, Winifred La France mixes in with
her personal efforts a batch of alleged signs
from Japanese shops (most of them too good
to be true), Campbell and Mavo combine
music with juggling, and-Gappelli has just
come with his fine voice. The Royal is
again filling in time with pictures. “Hearts
°.* World” is one of the best of its class.
At Wondergraph Lila Lee scores in a “Little
. irate” play, in which a monkey lias a good
part. At West’s Mildred Harris is the
convent-bred girl who learns to be a woman
of the world, in the rather absurdly-named
“For Husbands Only”; and the Grand
proudly announces that its attraction.
“Satan in Sydney,” was stopped by tlm
police but passed by the censors.
The Lister-Lister art show in Anthony
Horderns’ gallery consists of five oils anil
45 watercolors —landscape and seascape.
“Tall Gum Trees” is perhaps the artist's
happiest expression; and “The Bridge, Nar-
rabeen,” gets away from the stereotyped.
Mr. Lister's art has a pleasant calmness
that would soothe the morning after the
most extended night before.
Harry Lauder addressed a crowded meet-
ing in Melbourne on Sunday afternoon and
besought Australia to “play the game” as
regards its military invalids. After which
“a large sum of money was collected in aid
of disabled Scottish soldiers, sailors and
fishermen who took part in the war.” Money
which, if the audience had followed the self-
advertising genius’s advice, would have gone
to incapacitated Diggers.
Lawson’s round-table conference proposal
has been put in Ihe freezing chamber by
Melpou rne Trades Hall Council. It is taken
out occasionally and inspected, and, if the
Comic 1 feels in the humor, the Premier is
asked a question or two about it. The fact
seems to be that the Trades Hall wants to
find out what sort of a morsel Watt is going
to offer in the way of a Federal inquiry into
industrial unrest.
Sylvia Pankhurst has been at it again.
This time she rustled things before West-
minster as a protest “against the wars with
Russia and Hungary.” The police, who
must know every funnybone in the Pank-
hurst family by now, took her along to old
Bond-street, but there was nothing doing.
She refused to be bound over, and as nobody
seemed to want her she was discharged.
But Sylvia has her points. Couldn’t she
be raffled?
Edmond O’Donnell, a South Yarra dairy-
man, was prosecuted last week as St. Kilda
Police Court for having sold milk below the
legal standard. He had previously been con-
victed four times for selling inferior milk:
and the beaks fined him £l5 for this fifth
offence. Under the Metropolitan Board
system, in force, for many years in Adelaide,
O’Donnell would probably have gone to gaol,
but Melbourne prefers to have a higher
death-rate among its children and temper
mercy with injustice.
Gone to Peter, Richard Macguffin, of
Kenthurst (N.S.W.), after four score years
of ups and downs —bootmaker, pastoralist,
M.L.A. in the Parkes era, citrus grower.
He was notable for vigor of body and mind
up to the last, and preserved an overflow of
reminiscences of “Sir ’Enery.” The late
Alexander Hutchison, of Galston, also an
old M.L.A. and citrus grower, was another
volume of Parkes yarns. No personality in
our history made such an impression, favor-
able and otherwise, on those he came in con-
tact with as the Premier with the mislaid H.
Pneumonia killed Owen Tout, an old
North Coast miner, the other day, just
after his luck had turned. Tout lately dis-
covered what is regarded as a “splendid reef”
at Mummel River, near Cooplacurripa
(N.S.W.). He sold out to Johnston.
Cosgrove and Co., receiving a nice little
wad. While Cosgrove was up inspecting,
pneumonia struck him, he was taken to the
hospital at Taree, and died soon after.
Tout was seized a day or two later, and
lived only a fortnight.
Adelaide, where there is more solid pat-
riotism to the acre than in most places, is
going to hold an all-Australian exhibition
from March to May next year, and is offering
£l5O as the biggest prize, with £lOO for
second and third in the same competition.
This money is for the best exhibit showing
an Australian trade process in operation;
and there are other honors for goods of local
production. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment ought to make a date for attendance
at tills show, with a view to tariff adjust-
ments. The sort of Australian manufac-
turer who is proud enough of his goods lo
exhibit them in an open competition is
worth cultivating even if he never goes near
the lobbies of Parliament House.
There is nothing forgiving or “sporting”
about the Hun Big Union. The organisers
ol that perishing or still-born institution
have instructed the secretary to compile a
record for future use of all Labor politicians
who have disapproved of it; also of what
they said about it. And the Hun Big Union
bosses, if they ever come on top, will be able,
by means of this record, to pursue and vic-
timise those who didn't applaud them, and
to hunt them with blood and bones and
death s-heads _ and “blanky.” This sort of
thing is the infirmity of great minds. Nero,
who was One Considerable Union all by
himself, got _ wild about people who didn’t
appreciate his music.


Economy for the Wheat Grower
THE “ SUNDERCUT " STUMP-JUMP DISC CULTIVATOR. OR PLOUGH.
Farmers have had many difficulties to
contend against of recent years. During
the war there has been a shortage of reliable
labor, and prices for grain have not been
remunerative, because they have not risen
in proportion to the high values placed on
everything farmers have had to purchase.
Last harvest many crops failed, through lack
of moisture, and during seasons 1916 and
1917 thousands of acres of promising crops
were destroyed by hail, rainstorms, etc.
Up-to-date implements and machines have,
however, materially helped the man on the
land to produce profitable returns. The
accompanying illustration clearly shows the
comparatively easy and expeditious methods
of cultivation adopted by progressive agri-
culturists of to-day. Time was when it
A COMBINED CULTIVATOR, AND SEED AND FERTILISER DRILL.
Up-to-date farming methods are the rule
in the Temora district, and the accompany-
ing illustration depicts a 33 “Suntyne”
Grain and Fertiliser Drill, combined with
a spring tine cultivator, at work on Mr. ,T.
T. Aitken’s farm in that progressive cereal-
growing area. Referring to the “Suntyne”
on the day the photograph was taken, Mr.
Aitken said: “I am well satisfied with it in
every way. It works freely in ordinary-
stubble and thoroughly cuts out all growths,
cultivates the land and covers the seed well.
It clears much better in rubbish than the
ordinary drill does. I am quite satisfied
that its use means thorough cultivation of
the soil and even distribution of the seed
and fertiliser at a minimum cost. By work-
ing this combined implement a farmer saves
a man and team of horses, which means a
great deal when reliable labor is scarce and
wages high. Some of the land is full of
box- and pine-stumps, many of them showing
well over the surface. The ‘Suntyne,’
however, has worked as freely and success-
fully among them as an ordinary spring tine
cultivator would do. I expect to cultivate
and drill in 500 acres with my ‘Suntyne’
was considered good work for one man and
team to plough one acre per day. Under
present labor and other conditions it would
be impossible to make wheat-growing pay if
old-time implements and machines were
used. This accounts for the popularity of,
and extraordinary demand for, the “Sunder-
cut” Disc implement, here depicted.
Everywhere the “Sundercut” has been in-
troduced farmers refer to it in the highest
terms of praise. Mr. J. It. Maloney, of
Mogriguy, near Dubbo, who was driving his
team when the photograph was taken, re-
cently said: “If an implement works Well
I give it due praise, if it does not give satis-
faction the manufacturer hears all about it.
As I had 520 acres to plough, I intended to
work two ploughs and teams, but seeing the
‘Sundercut’ advertised, and being told that
it was a good implement, I decided to pur-
chase one. With the 14-disc ‘Sundercut’
I am ploughing, on the average. 90 acres a
week in heavy and light soils, amongst
this season, 300 acres of which is fallow.
It is practical results of this kind that
appeal to farmers.”
A report from Wyalong states that,
amongst others, Messrs. Walker Bros, are
working a “Suntyne” under most trying con-
ditions, as the ground is very rough, hard
and stumpy. They did not think it possible
for the “Suntyne” to work in the paddocks
they put it into. After about a week’s test
they state that it is standing up to its work
splendidly, and they are highly pleased with
results. Similar reports come from all
districts where the “Suntyne” has been
introduced.
As the picture indicates, the combined
implement is compact in form, and as it em-
bodies all the features of the “Sun” Grain
and Fertiliser Drill and Spring Tine Culti-
vator, its success is everywhere assured. It
can be equipped with 4in. or 24in. tine
points as found necessary, and these are
spaced apart from centre to centre;
thus they thoroughly stir the soil and cut
out all the weeds. The steel boots which
receive the seed from the conveyer tubes are
mounted on alternate tines, thus sowing the
grain and fertiliser 7in. apart. Both seed
stump's, roots and rocks. Eight good horses
could pull the 14-disc ‘Sundercut,’ but as
I am rushing along and have plenty of
horses I am using nine. I am not work-
ing long hours, and can plough two acres
per hour. The quality of the work is
superior to that done by any other disc im-
plement. It would take a good judge to
see any difference between ploughing done
by the ‘Sundercut’ and that done by a good
mouldboard plough, and with the ‘Sunder-
cut’ there are no shares to point. It is
strong and durable and a genuine labor-
saver, for I am doing as much work with
nine horses and one man as 16 horses and
two men could do with ordinary ploughs.
This fact speaks for itself.” Farmers every-
where who have seen the “Sundercut” at
work favor it. Mr. G. B. Fisher, of
Wyalong, recently said : “It does not scrape
or press the soil similar to ordinary dine
implements, but the undercutting action of
the discs causes them to enter the soil at
and fertiliser may be put in any desired
depth, and even with the shallowest sow-
ing are perfectly covered. In Victoria,
where splendid results have followed the use
of the “Suntyne,” practical farmers have
been favorably impressed with the fact that
the combined implement plants the seed on
a firmly pressed bottom, or sub-surface, and
covers it with a mulch of finely-pulverised
soil, which conserves moisture and aids
germination.
Each season brings its own problems in
cultivation and seeding, and the fact that
the “Suntyne” works well under practically
all soil conditions enhances its value to
farmers. A number of “Suntynes” were
used in the Wimmera district in Victoria
last year, and the efficient way in which
they sowed the seed and fertiliser in sticky
and also extremely wet and weedy land was
greatly .appreciated by growers. Good prac-
tical results followed, and no better evidence
could be given of this than the fact that Mr.
F. Reichelt, of Woorak Westj near Nhill,
who used a “Suntyne,” was awarded the
gold medal for the best 100 acres of crop
grown in that part of the Wimmera. Wher-
ever the “Suntyne” has been introduced
an easy angle and toss it over instead of
pressing it to one side.” Mr. J. P.
O’Donnell, of Wyalong, favors the “Sunder-
cut,” and said: "It does equal or better
work than that done by the best mouldboard
ploughs when the shares are newly pointed.”
The “Sundercut” always holds well into
hard land, and it would be impossible to keep
shares in good enough order to do satisfac-
tory work under the present dry weather
conditions. The excellent work done by
the “Sundercut” is due to the fact that the
discs work in pairs, the front disc of each
pair being 20iu. in diameter and the back
one 18in. Each pair of discs works on an
inclined axle, which causes them to cut the
same depth and gives them an undercutting
slicing action, instead of the scraping one
of ordinary disc cultivators. Practical
farmers assert that it produces work equal
to that done by the best mouldboard ploughs,
minus the trouble and expense of share-
pointing.
there has been a big demand for it, as
farmers quickly realise that its use is a
distinct step forward in efficient and
economical cultivation and seeding. They
have noted that quick and uniform germina-
tion of seed follows the use of the “Sun-
tyne,” which they attribute to the fact that
the soil is cultivated simultaneously with
the sowing, and is thus in the best possible
condition to receive the seed. The adapt-
ability of the “Sunt.vne” is an important
feature, for with slight adjustment it may
be used as an ordinary spring tine cultiva-
tor, as a cultivator and broadcast seeder,
or as a combined cultivator and drill. To
ensure success farmers must use implements
and machines that reduce labor, and thus en-
sure economical production. Thorough cul-
tivation of the soil and proper distribution
of the seed and fertiliser are also essential,
and this accounts for the popularity of the
“Suntyne” wherever it has been used.
The “Sundercut” Cultivator and “Sun-
tyne” Drill are made in Australia by Aus-
tralian workmen from Australian material,
by 11. V. McKay at the Sunshine Harvester
Works, Victoria, the Sydney office being at
27 to 39 George-street West.


£32 10 0
£l4 10 0
£25
£l3 10 0
mam
£l5
<r j
£l3 10 0
Largest Jewellers of the Empire.
Stewart Dawson’s Ten Establishments
are daily devoting their large resources to provide their clients with the
World’s Finest Values in Precious Stones.
INSIST ON QUALITY.
Pay due attention to the Quality of the Diamonds. You get value where it rests,
lhe purity and bnlliance of the stones in Stewart Dawson’s Diamond Rings proclaim
Quality tnnSlC c^arac^er ’ diffusing that light and lustre known only in Diamonds of First
Stewart ’t S r^ either , & iv , e satisfaction nor pleasure; to buy them is money wasted.
s Diamonds stand supreme. Their Quality is the highest water-mark
ALL DIAMONDS SET IN REAL PLATINUM.
Any of the above Rings can be purchased at any of the Stewart Dawson Establishments.
Catalogue with Ring-size Card will be sent Post Free if desired.
niiimimmotiiiiiima
£6 10 0
£lO
£l2 10
mi
£l3 10 0
£25
£32 10 0
YOUft CHOICE RESTS
IN THE QUALITY.
STEWART DAWSON & CO. (Aust.) Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
73-81 Regent Street,
19-21 Hatton Garden, London
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Gin Fiz”: Beaumont Smith, rusticating
in Adelaide, has held up his impending pro-
duction of- “The Man from Snowy River.”
The film exchanges dealing in Yankee stuff
control. most of the metropolitan picture-
houses in the Commonwealth, and unless the
local producer agrees to their terms for the
screening of his product they can practically
shut him out. Under the conditions that
existed in Sydney prior to the ’flu, if a local
film was a success the people controlling the
theatre got a rake-off that showed them a
bigger profit than the majority of their im-
PICTURES.
THE ARTIST: “It is all a matter of training.”
THE PUG : “Well, if I was to go into training
for a thousand years I'd never he able
to knock off a head like that. Though
I 'ave made a few blokes 'ardly recog-
nisable.”
ported movies, while they could hardly
lose on the deal if the film failed, which was
seldom. Smith, who has turned out more
winners than any other producer in this
country, reckons that unless fresh arrange-
ments are made by the booking houses the
day of the Australian film is numbered.
“Bill Bile”: What’s all this fuss about
styling a comic vocalist “Sir”? There was
once a circus proprietor in England whom
everybody knew as Lord George Sanger, and
a more affable peer one never met. True,
his name never appeared in Burke or Debrett,
for the man of sawdust, who was proud of
being “patronised by all the Crowned Heads
of Europe,” feeling that “Lord George San-
ger’s Circus” would look well on the hoard-
ings, just made it so. Nobody was one penny
the worse. But I think Sanger was a good
many pounds the better.
“A.J.P.”: I’m glad to hear the mummer
is becoming a unionist at last. Years ago,
when a concert tenor of some account in
my own town, I felt it my duty to go on
the boards with a view to leading-tenor
rOles later on. Chucked a good billet (like
a few other fools have done), went to
Sydney and was engaged in the chorus at
50s. a week, no pay for rehearsals or when
travelling. After some months the co.
finished its tour and, with the "rest of them,
I was requested to leave my address at the
office. Had several weeks admiring Sydney
and was then re-engaged for a new No. 2
co. and sent to Melbourne to rehearse. After
paying a week in advance (landlady in-
sisted), I had 3d. left. Invested in a drink
and. as much counter-lunch as I could stow
away. We had to rehearse two weeks with-
out pay, and I was stiff. Then a fellow-
chorister lent me 2s. Fed twice daily the
following four days at 3d. a time. Then
stiff again. Fifth day a fellow-chorister
took pity on a baritone and me. His people
lived in Melbourne and he brought in half
a loaf and some cold beef. We dined in the
gardens just off Spring-street, and left
nothing for the sparrows. Banquet over,
the baritone got up and sang “No more tea
until to-morrow” from “The Geisha,” one
of the operas we were rehearsing. Next
day the management gave us a small dole
to go on with. After the morning’s re-
hearsal we stormed a fourpenny hash foundry
and fed like vultures. The season lasted
three weeks; then the co. disbanded. Five
weeks for £7 10s., and learned and memorised
two new operas, rehearsing mornings, after-
noons and nights. A good friend in Sydney
secured me a passage for home and a decent
job. I grabbed both. An old fellow in the
chorus told me of a young recruit who was
horrified one night in the dressing-room at
the sight of the very large holes in the old
’un’s socks. Looking at him with a cold
eye, the old ’un growled: “My boy, if you
stay long at this game you’ll be d—d
lucky if you have any socks!” Long after-
wards he was hailed in the street by the
driver of a brewery waggon. It was the
recruit. “So you turned up the profession,
did you?” said the old ’un. “My oath!” said
the recruit. “I always thought of your
socles.”
“0.K.” : The whirligig of time brings its
revenges to the upbraided members of a
musical comedy co. Frith, the prime mover
in “Going Up,” was out of the show at
Melbourne Majesty’s lately, and, as the
understudy also was sick, the job of chief
funny man devolved upon Harry Burcher,
one of the “producers.” Instead of sitting
in front of a rehearsal to pass corrective
remarks to the performers, the unhappy pro-
ducer had to struggle with the leading part
whilst critics to right and left and rear
and in front of him jollied and wondered. It
is “nuts” for the minor principals and chorus
to get a chance of chuckling over teacher’s
shortcomings. Burcher commanded no rever-
ence as a working low-comedian. He didn’t
play and sing the part, but he “sang and
played at it,” as the late Pete Hughes once
said of a comic-opera tenor who was appear-
ing as Faust. Doubtless he was wishing he
could produce himself differently.
“Ike”: I told Briggs, who is a haber-
dasher, to rejoice at the coming of grand
opera to Sydney. “What’ll they play?” he
asked. “Oh. the usual repertoire,” I said.
“ ‘Pagliacci,’ ‘Cavalleria.’ Trovatore,’ and so
on.” “They’ve have been here before,” he
commented; “but I suppose they’ll change
the songs.”
Talking of the financial failure of most of
his Shakspearean productions in England,
Oscar Asche said the other day; “I am sick
of hearing Germany cited as an example in
regard to the treatment of Shakspeare. See
how he has been mishandled in Germany!
Whatever vulgarities or indecencies there
may be in the works were seized upon by
German producers and swallowed by German
audiences.” Asche must have spoken from
full knowledge of what the Huns did with
Divine William of recent years. The English
tradition of German artistic earnestness in
Shakspearean production originated with the
performances in London of the Duke of Saxe
Meiningen’s co. 40 years ago, or more. This
co. made its reputation in “Julius Caesar,”
which is free from vulgarities and indecen-
cies, and the crowning success of the produc-
tion was in the natural acting of the crowd
that listened to Brutus and Marc Antony.
It was just a lesson in stage-management.
“Stargazer” : “My Lady Frayle” is a little
more absurd than the average farce plus min-
strelsy ; yet somebody is attempting to im-
pose her Ladyship upon us as a deadly
serious adjunct. While the utterly unheard-
of butler is at Lady Frayle’s elbow, keyed in
a vein suitable to demented pantomime, Lady
Frayle preserves all the dignity and repose
of the Yere de Y’ere. Throughout, the effort
is to impress this character upon the audi-
ence as a streak of sanity in the whirl of
reckless absurdity. Of course, it won’t work,
and her Ladyship should be divorced from
the show on the ground of incompatibility
of temperament. The impression created is
that Miss Vera Pearce, amiably desirous of
showing that she can handle serious stuff,
has deliberately perverted the authors’ in-
tentions, assuming that the authors really
had some.
How’s this for a stock co. ? Leonard
Payne’s recent week’s programme at the
Opera House, Pretoria, was three nights of
“The Belle of New York,” two nights of a
dramatised version of Elinor Glyn’s “Three
Weeks” and one night of “East Lynne.”
“0.K.”: Lady Bancroft;, writing to a
journalist who had credited her with achiev-
ing an 80th birthday, complained that
chroniclers had overstated her age. But to
anyone who remembers the early days of
Robertsonian comedy (bright and sparkling
by comparison with much that had gone
before) it seems certain that Marie Wilton
Bancroft must be more than 80. She was
already an experienced young actress in
drama and burlesque, especially the latter,
when she appeared in London 63 years ago.
When she opened the little Prince of Wales
Theatre in partnership with H. J. Byron
WHEN AT LAST SYDNEY THEATRE RESTRICTIONS ARE LIFTED.
Montague Loveslush and his leading lady, Lulu De Vere, the stage's smartest dressers,
present themselves for re-employment.
she was beginning to look passee at close
quarters, and the world knew that Marie
was no chicken when she married young-man
Bancroft in 1867. Her mild protest against
being stamped as an octogenarian reminds
me of a yarn about Theodore Hook. He
and a friend were *in Fleet-street wondering
how long the average woman remained sus-
ceptible to the wiles of man. An old crea-
ture came hobbling along. Hook asked her
to settle the question. “You must ask
somebody older than me,” she said, and
passed on. Apparently if we want to know
the age at which a stage-lady freely owns
up to being 80 we must ask somebody older
than Lady Bancroft.
A film play .has been made in London out
of Edgar Wallace’s novel “Grey Timothy,”
an Anglo-Australian story not as well known
here as it deserves to be. The hero is a
sort of forecast of the Anzac. He goes
from this end to visit aristocratic relations
in England, and is rather scouted by all of
them except a pretty cousin. But he saves
them from ruin, and her from a particularly
villainous nobleman, who tries in revenge to
poison the Australian sportsman’s horse, and
only nobbles the wrong one. (Grey Tim-
othy is the name of the right horse.)
“Lou Par”: Took his last curtain in
Canada a few weeks back, Ronald Byram,
one of our most promising “young” juveniles.
Byram left Australia some months ago and
got set on what promised to be a most suc-
cessful stage career, but ’flu ended it. Here
Byram did good enough work, mainly with
the Julius Knight cos. Among other things
he played Bunny to the Raffles of amateur-
cracksman Julius Superbus.
“E.T.”: Associated with Australian
Dorothy Gumming in Belasco’s latest record-
breaker, “Tiger, Tiger,” in New York, is
Lionel Atwill, who will be remembered here
as the good-looking juvenile lead in “The
Whip.”
“Pollio”: When the Rigo Company and
“Faust” move on, Sydney will discover
something about the old gentleman—l
mean Dr. Faust, not the Devil —that seems
to have escaped notice hitherto. He dis-
covered Australia: more than that, he fore-
saw the stupid and embarrassing divisions of
it that curse the Commonwealth to-day. On
the learned gentleman’s study walls, the night
I saw him, there hung only one detachable
piece of scientific apparatus (the rest were
painted on) —and that-was a map with large
insets of the six Australian States.
( “E.K.”: Saw the players applaud the
“house” once. It was at Wyndham’s
Theatre, London, one night in October, 1915,
when Gerald du Maurier and Marie Lohr
were playing “The Ware Case.” During
the second act the bursting of bombs and
the response of the archies warned all hands
that a Zeppelin raid was in progress. The
players on stage carried on without a
tremor in their voices, and owing to this
coolness not a person left the theatre. Dur-
ing the interval preceding the third act, the
boss announced that the raid was over,
whereupon the entire co. trooped on stage
and gave the house a great hand-clap for
not getting panicky.
Envious old colleagues of Nancye Stewart
are suggesting that her quick engagement in
N’Yark was due to her red hair. There is.
perhaps, quite as much truth as malice in
the surmise. The manager, one supposes,
wanted her type of girl for one or two parts
he had in view. But Nancye Stewart had
something more than her hair and com-
plexion to recommend her. Her mother’s
reputation is known to the ’Murkan theatri-
cal world, and, anyhow, she was worth
eng;. o ement on her own artistic merits.
“0.K.”: R. G. Knowles, lately reported
dead, was a Canadian who made his mark
on the American variety stage long before
he got going in England. Of late years
he had toured as a lecturer, chatting of
places and things to a picture accompani-
ment ; but he was a singer, dancer, and,
above all, a patterer, when Australia thought
him the most original of vaudeville humor-
ists. Perhaps he is best remembered by
the refrain of his clever ditty—“ Time is
money and money is time, and don’t you be
forgetting it. Always get all the money
you can, but don’t get time for getting it.”
“Arab”: My mother’s sister was under-
study to Euphrasia Gwynn-Siddons when
that lady was starring in “Virtue Trium-
phant” at Kyneton (Vic.) in 1876. (Mrs.
Gwynn-Siddons would be, at that time, I
should say, about 54, and must have weighed
close to 16 stone.) I remember well how
my poor aunt, Darling Devine, who was thin
and 38, used to sigh on each occasion that
Euphrasia stepped over the top-storey win-
dow of a burning sheet of canvas and sank
slowly into the arms of two firemen below
(or rather one fireman; the other had to
hold the hose). Sank ‘slowly,” I say,
because the dear lady was hooked to a wire
at the back, which was counterweighted
with nearly half a ton of potatoes. One day
Mrs. Gwynn-Siddons had the bad luck to be
kicked at the Hanging Rock Races, so my
aunt got her opportunity. Everything went
well on the night of her performance. ■ At
last the signal came for the daring leap, and
my mother’s sister leapt. But she didn't
go down ; she went up. She went up, and
up, and finally looped a terrible loop among
the flies, carrying away three artificial chim-
neys and the frame of the .window she had
jumped through. Then, just as suddenly,
she shot to earth again, on top of the fire-
man with the hose; there was a loud report
from the left, and, amid a shower of kidney
potatoes, mingled with burning bits of night-
gown, the scene achieved its end. Every-
body agreed that it wasn’t a bit my
Aunt Darling’s fault; indeed, the Kyneton
Observer openly blamed Mr. Gwynn-Sid-
dons for not having adjusted the weights of
the jumping-machine.
OUT OF THE SHADES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Too oft these flays perplexed am I,
A living-picture patron,
When on the street she passes by,
The maiden or the matron.
I raise my hat and breathe: “How do?”
She scowls as black as thunder,
Twists up her nose and looks me through,
And cuts me to the brisket. l’hew!
I’ve made another blunder!
The tall, pale dame in well-cut gown
I casually glance over,
Who gives me for my bow a frown,
Is strangely like Petrova.
The smart lass whom I’m sure I’ve met
(The certainty brings trouble)
Is really no one of our set—
I see at length with grave regret
She’s Theda Bara’s double.
I bow to Mary Pickford here,
And there to Jewel Carmen.
My screen acquaintances, I fear,
Will bring the jolts that mar men.
Do actresses upon the screen
Reflect our life so nearly,
Or is it that the life as seen
Upon the Block of late has been
Reflecting players merely?
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
HIS REASON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The rag was down ; male victims in
The stalls had strolled out to enjoy
The interval. McLeod hailed Quinn:
“What are you doing here, old boy?
Some reason sound you must disclose —
You say you hate these Yankee shows.”
“And so I do,” replied McLeod;
“This ’flu scare, though, has got me cowed —
I came in here to dodge a crowd!”
VICTORIA.
H. C.


RE.E.P CLEAN
Inside and Out and Minimise the Risk of Influenza.
The public is warned to take no chances
with the Influenza epidemic which is at
present raging in Australia, and the first
essential is cleanliness inside and out.
Take Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills freely —nothing better
could be had at any price in an emergency of this kind. If
an attack of the real Influenza develops, send for the doctor
and go straight to bed. Don’t try to fight it. If you have
an attack of the real Influenza your digestion will be a wreck,
your head, legs and back will ache, your heart action may
be affected, and you will have a temperature. These con-
ditions need the attention of a skilled medical attendant.
It behoves every member of the community to so look after their general
health to prevent if possible becoming infected with this deadly germ, and
to accomplish this no better remedy could be taken than Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. They are a searching, cleansing remedy. They are
mild in their action, but highly effective in cleansing the system of all
impurities and preventing germs getting a chance to incubate. Petroleum
Oils, Salts, Tonics and other so-called remedies are of little use to cleanse
the system and keep these germs in check; in fact, they will have a
tendency to aggravate an already deranged gastric condition. It would
also be advisable to take from 5 to 10 grains of ASPIRIN two or three
times daily if feeling out of sorts, or 10 grains of QUININE on retiring at
night the same time as the pills are taken. A common cold can usually
be broken up if either ASPIRIN or QUININ E are taken with Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills on the first indication of a cold.
Following- these simple precautions may prevent an attack of serious
illness. If you get the real influenza do as already stated, send for the
doctor and go to bed. Don’t try to doctor yourself. The complaint is too
dangerous to take chances with. The doctor may or may not allow you
to continue taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. In any case follow his
directions both with medicine and food, and you will be on the safe side.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WiIITTY
qfyjtrfotsvLdiept*
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
The German Delegation would surely have been
able to face the pease problem with more confidence
and less bluff if they had taken a drop of King
George IV., the whisky that stimulates.— Advt.
-/A
m
$
6-
o
W/A
A.
m
to
ms
i
a
Si
///////////
yl
e®
in
o
3
Q
'///////////.
A
<
'////////////,
<c
4
<
o.
O'
3
»
1
o
i
/"////
o,
fax/
Bn nets
GJn 'and.
looH for
this label
You 11
be pleased
with the
result ——
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"NO TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
The Autumn Meeting of the A.J.O. will
occur on the 17th, 19th, 21st and 24th of this month.
* ■* * *
Entries close for the V.A.T.C. events on
•Tune 3. The acceptance for the Debutant Stakes has
been reduced from £25 to £15, and for the Toorak
Handicap from £20 to £10. The races will be
worth: Caulfield' Cup £5000, Caulfield Guineas
£2000, Debutant Stakes £1500, Toorak Handicap
£1200, Australian Hurdle £1500, Australian
Steeplechase £1750, 24th Caulfield Futurity Stakes
*(1921) £3000.
Buckwheat, sire of Royal Bucks, who won
the last City and Suburban for R. S. Sievier, is on
stud duty in N. S. Wales.
“S. A. Rawtlon" has bought a place in the
Goulburn Valley (Vic.), handy to the Chatsworth
Park Stud. Said that he proposes to make it his stud-
farm, with his recent 2500-g'uinea purchase, Panics,
as chief of the harem.
Bobby Lewis, Victoria’s veteran jockey,
paid a high price for a drink on Saturday. After
landing the Goodwood Handicap ( Ulelaide) on Tril-
lion he weighed in 2|lb. over—chiefly the effect of a
flagon or so of water. The judge’s verdict on his
indiscretion was £10.
*• -***
Surprises can always be safely predicted
for a big race-time, nothing but their absence being
surprising; but the long-delayed Sydney Cup meet-
ing has been in so much danger of not coming to
pass, and so many pre-arranged plans have been aban-
doned or modified, that the public at present can only
grope in the dark. Under the smoothest of condi-
tions a nag must be trained to the hour to pull off
a big handicap. At the coming A.J.C. meeting the
altered and unexpected hour will find some of the
early fancies ill-prepared for their jobs, whereas
others will have come along which were hardlv
among the possibles a month earlier. The first
day of the meeting seems bound to be rough on
backers of form. Ordinarily they can draw a lot
of reasonable conclusions from the results of the
Newmarket and other events at the V.R.C. Autumn
fixture, but this vear they have practically nothing
to go upon in trying to pick the pea for the Don-
caster. Perhaps a punter might do worse than
have a tote investment on each of the six that draw
the half-dozen inside places at file barrier.
Section, winner of the Katandra two-year-
old race at Caulfield, is out of Circle, who was
20 years old when she foaled the colt.
* * -X- -X-
In spite of ’flu, Vic. revenue from betting
tickets ( £51,885) for the nine months ended March
31 was greater by £2158 than for the same period
of the previous year.
Mistico won the Williamstown R.C.
w.f.a. race somewhat easily from Magpie. The
handsome black horse went a trifle short in the early
stages of the journey, which militated against his
chances. But he never really looked like winning,
anyhow.
At the S.A..T.C. Autumn Meeting the
Goodwood Handicap went to Trillion by 2S lengths.
His owner is J. E. Brewer, one of the best horsemen
across country, in his da}’, that Australia has known.
Nightwatcli had nothing much to beat in
the Peace Cup last week ; however, ho won, and as a
result is a fairly hot favorite for the Sydney Cup.
West Molong looks a better thing to this page than
tile St. Alwyne gelding. W. Duncan, the Vie. light-
weight, is to have the mount on Nightwatcli in Syd-
ney.
* * * *
The M.L. racing authorities treat their
ex-trainers and ex-jockeys well. F. McMinaroan, the
one-time trainer, is handicapper to the Auckland
R.C., and the club starter is C. O’Connor, the ex-
jockev. J. Cameron, the former steeplechase rider
file steered Jack’s the Lad. Volcanic and others in
Sydney and Melbourne), is a West. Coast judge.
Anyone heard of the V.R.C. or A..J.C. finding billets
of the sort for superannuated turfites of good
character and standing?
Two of the highest-priced yearlings dis-
posed of at the recent Sydney sales—one was from
Queensland and the other frcm M.L. —were owned
by sportsmen who are outside the N. S. Wales
breeders’ ring. It is worth noting in this connec-
tion that Golden Bubble (who is by Absurd from
Catchfly) brought a very high figure in M.L. re-
cently. Golden Bubble is one of two sires by
Absurd. As Catchfly never produced anything worth
talking about to any other sire, the Absurd yearlings
get a useful advt. in advance. And they are to be
sold in Sydney next year —outside the breedeis' ling.
* * * *
Percy Woodland —whom many Austra-
lians will remember at the Cairo races in 1915 and
the beginning of 1916—dead-heated 'in a steeple-
chase at Wolverhampton (Eng.) recently on Wild
Aster, who is 18 years old. This remarkable horse
has been racing over the big fences for about 14
.years; he has also done his bit as a charger in
France; and, despite it all, he is still sound. Wood-
land is no chicken either. He was a front-rank
professional steeplechase jockey over 20 years ago.
By the time the Turks captured him he had risen to
the rank of captain in the R.A.F.
A. W. Cox (“Mr. Fairie”), who died last
week, was an odd personality. He started as a black-
smith, and non pait of his share in the Broken Hill
goleondu over a game of euchre. He was an anti-
Australian of a type wh.en was very common in the
Union and Melbourne Clubs before the war; that is
to say, he considered Australians, and particularly
the workers, wasters, and tbt Commonwealth to lie
a place which was rushing to ruin owing to “Labor
legislation.” Nevertheless, lu was a genial, good-
hearted little man, according to his somewhat dim
lights. For quarter of a century he was npver,
unless asleep, without a cigar in his mouth and a
drink in his hand, or vice versa. He was one of
the luckiest men who ever raced —Lemberg, Bavardo
and Gay Crusader all belonged to him. Also Mani-
lardo, a third or fourth favorite for the coming
Derby. Manilardo's nomination is, of course, voided
by the idiotic Jockey Club lule regarding the pro-
cedure to be followed in the event of an owner's
death.
Mowbray (Tas.) had a race meeting on
Saturday for patriotic-fund purposes. The last event
on the programme was The Chat’s Handicap, won by
a gelding named The Lyre. It is the first time that
Hie fame of the Digger’s eager little friend has been
sung in this manner.
C. L. Macdonald achieved a £lOO gold
cup, as well as the stake, when Nightwatch won at
Williamstown. In thanking the donor, N. Falkiner,
lie remarked that his horse’s win was a vindication
of Wakeful as a dam. Odd that such a marvellous
mare should not nave produced something of class
\ pars ago. Nightwatch is a fhe-year-old.
Rosewny, who won the Newmarket
Guineas on Friday, looks like a good one—as she
should he on her breeding. (She is by Stornaway,
who is by Desmond.) The filly won, pulling up, by
six lengths from Britannia (Sunstar —Hod Lily) and
Glaciale, both of whom are performers of class..
Favorites had a bad time at the S.A.J.C.
meeting. Odds were freely laid on Elkin for the
S. Stakes, and he ran ; nowhere. Money was piled
cn King Bier in the w.f.a. event, and he never gave
his backers a ray of hope. On the other hand, the
tote divvy on Lomali in the Maiden Plate was £1 9s.
“Cobber”; Prompted by the wretched lot
of cross-country horses racing in the Sneck, Clem J.
Coyle recently took a half-draught out of one of
his bread-delivery waggons and put him in training.
The neddy had previously been in a wcodcart, and
subsequently did some jumping at up-country shows.
The baker christened the horse with his own initials —-
C.J.C. —and with him won the steeple -at the
T. May meeting. The portion of Miss Cannon
that did not remain on the fences was the only other
horse-flesh to finish. Two others —Boscastle and
Gangwav—made frantic efforts to gain third money
bv cantering around and jumping the fences.
Neither was up to the task,, however, although the
former shunted up and down the straight in a series
of attempts to negotiate a fence which he ultimately
galloped into and smashed, together with his jockey.
C.J.C. is a heavyweight edition of Pilot, and a good
jumper; but he could r.ot head a cow.
* * * *
Just before Sergeant Minear left England
both Captain Stanley Wootton and Sergeant Frank
Wootton returned home. Stanley is to take control
of the Wootton training establishment, while Frank
talks of steeplechase riding in France.
“Cobber” : Re veteran Tasmanian jumpers
(B. 24/4/’l9). Three of the horses mentioned- —•
Brilliant Mick, Sultan and Jack —have- since filled
the places in the Tas. G. N. Steeple. No others
finished. The first and third horses have previous
Nationals on their winning list, and it was Sultan’s
thirl second. Brilliant Mick, who collides with his
first name occasionally, was but a few yards behind
Jack when he passed the winning post—but .'ack
still had a lap to go. This is not surprising when
it is remembered that, after winning the 1914 event,
Jack was purchased for a little girl’s hack, but got
too slow for the kid.
It is likely that the Australian ring suf-
fered a _ tremendous loss last week when Frank
Darcy died at St. Vincent’s Hospital of pneumonia,
lie nad many of the qualities of his brother Les. He
was smaller—ha just about made the welter-weight
limit—but be was still developing. He had the dead
champion’s pluck and capacity to stand punishment,
and lie had a strong punch in both hands. He was
the biggest draw the Stadium had known for years.
A New York cable-message (13/5/T9)
states that the Willard-Dempsey matc-h —in Toledo,
Ohio —is to be limited to 12 rounds. If this is right,
the championship issue is not involved. Admission
prices are to be “from £2 to £12,” and “Willard’s
cut is £20,000.” Would the public roll up in suffi-
cient numbers to make the event a paying proposi-
tion on a 12-round basis? They certainly would not
in Australia. It is difficult nowadays for a promoter
to find a U.S. State in which he can stage a big
fight. Colorado, Louisiana and Maryland are the
only ones left where a 20-round fight, with decision,
is permitted. Twenty-round battles are allowed in
Ohio, but decisions are barred. Taking it all round,
it would seem that, unless the Ohio Boxing Act has
been suddenly amended, the most recent cable re the
Willard-Dempsey affair is a lie, circulated for adver-
tising purposes. To make a certainty of a real
championship match there are two things that Tex
Rickard might do. Either take the men to Mexico,
where there would be no great objection raised if
they engaged each other with shot-guns, or do as
Hugh D. Mclntosh meditated at one time—charter a
liner and bring the struggle off outside the three-mile
limit.
Benny Leonard, the 23-year-old Jew
whom the Yanks claim to be lightweight champion
of the world, gave Willie Ritchie a bad beating last
week. The former champion doesn’t appear to have
won a round, and by the eighth he was finished.
Ritchie is a Geiman —real name Steffen.
The street shooting which is going on in
Melbourne is a serial, the opening chapter of which
was supplied when ‘Ted” Whiting, the pug, was shot
seyen times a couple of months ago. Whiting is all
right again, but he walks warily, like Agag. There
is nothing physically delicate about the members of
this social set. F red Counsel was shot nine times;
his friend Bert Lewis was hammered on the head with
a piece of lead-piping until it bent; and on Monday
a man named Slater was taken to Melbourne Hospital
with five bullets in different parts of his anatomy.
None of the victims complain, and all refuse to give
the names of their assailants. Quick and accurate
gunmanship is the hall-mark of the band, and all use
the sawn-ofl revolvers with which straight shooting
is so difficult.
A South Aus. girl, Jean Bam-on, of no
very special tennis repute at home, has drifted into
Georgia, U.S.A., on Red Cross work, and writes to
her friends in Adelaide that she has won the
women’s tennis championship of that State, 6-2, 6-3.
JACK GREEN
(N.S.W.). bantam
champion of
Australia, who
recently defeated
Lcs Dawson
(Vic. ) and
Al Moore
(champion of
Vic.) at
Melbourne
Pavilion.
“Catkin” (Belgium): Horse-sales every-
where. Prices vary from 950 to 2200 francs ( 34
10s. to £B4 Os. Bd.) ; and donks up to 1200 francs
( £46). We expect to see clonks dragging farmers’
carts back to the stables at a gallop any time now.
The local mayor and padre each bought one. I’d
like to see the padre the first time his clonk kicks
him through the stable door. Already the old mayor
has been landed on his dignity in the mud. And I’d
walk miles to see them shoe some we sold yesterday.
We put them in a crush and tie up one leg at a
time; but Houdini doesn’t know a thing about get-
ting loose compared with the stiffest of them.
It was announced recently that J. M.
Chapman, of the U.S.A., proposed to hold a series of
bike-carnivals here; and now Emil J. Ohrt, another
Yank, is on the same lay. Cycling is pretty dead in
Australia just now, but tactful handling might
revivify it. F’rin'stance, a visit from ex-Australians
such as R. J. McNamara. Bob Spears, Alf Goullett,
Alf Grenda. Correy, Walker and Piercey—the world’s
best in their line nowadays.
A master bowler was Henry W. Lawson,
who died, aged 54, at. Ashfield (Sydney), last week.
He was in N. S'. Wales rep. teams v. Q. and Vie.,
and he skippered Ashfield’s rinks to victory in pen-
nant matches. He at one time held the champion-of-
champions title, and with Harry Moses landed the
champion pairs.
Both Cubitt and Horder, the League
cracks, played in Sydney premiership matches on
Saturday. Can they now legally play in Queensland
League football this season? This is a point in pro-
cedure which is exercising the minds of many ’ball
authorities at the moment,
’Wood and Saints provided a great game
at Victoria Park .(Melb.) on Saturday. Right up to
a few feet of the finish Saints had it all their own
way. Then ’Wood suddenly pulled itself together for
a final effort. In the minute or so It bar' left the
side very nearly achieved the impossible and dragged
Victory from the ravening jaws of Defeat. The score
at the finish was Saints 48 (5 goals 18 behinds),
’Wood 45 (5 goals 15 behinds). Essrndon beat
Carlton (65-53), and Souths destroved Melb. bv 79
to 28.
Itugby League started in Sydney on Satur-
day, and, with one exception, the expected happened.
In the star match Western Suburbs trampled on
Souths (1918 premiers)—2s-9. The galling part was
that McGowan, formerly of Souths, repeatedly fooled
his old cobbers, and was the big noise in most of the
point-producing stunts. Annanriale and Norths were
easy lambs for Glebe and Balmain resnectiveiy, and
Eastern Suburbs terminated Newtown by 19 to* 3.
Maoriland and Queensland arc: both send-
ing teams this year to meet N. S. Wales Rugbv
Leaguers. The Australian Rulers are to be visited
by Vie. and South Aus.
* * * *
Queensland premiership cricket had an odd
v/ind-up this year, the weather being to blame.
Between showers on the first day South Brisbane fell
for 37 ; and Valley amassed 46 for tnree wickets. On
the second day the wicket was submerged, and Valley
consequently took the title.
Vic. champion road-cyclist E. Tamme
scored an easy win at Edwardstown (S.A.) in the
134 miles race. Giving starts up to Gmin. 50sec. he
won as he liked, once, when over 300 yards in tin
lead, waiting for the others to catch up. His tinu
was 37min. 40sec.
In Sydney baseball on Saturday, Peter-
sham No. 2 (Association winter premiers) and Keg-
worth (League summer premiers) met at Petersham.
Kegworth won by five runs to four. Its four in the
second knock (chiefly the result of a wild throw) did
the trick. Same day Waverley wiped out University
by 11-0, while Bondi outed Nippon by’ seven to nil.
**-»■»
“Autolycus”: There is a great difference
between air speed and ground speed. By means of
a cunning little device, known as the pitot, the pilot
can tell his speed; but the speed at which he is
travelling over the ground depends on whether the
wind is behind him or against him. It' there is a
wind of 20 miles an hour —and this is usually the
minimum at a few thousand feet —the pitot will
show’, say, 100 miles an hour whichever way the
machine is travelling, though when the wind is
behind it the machine passes over the ground at
the rate of 120 miles an hour and when it is
head-on at 90. During a gale a machine mav actu-
allv be stationary though it is “travelling" at 100
miles an hour. A lot of the speed records flashed
from the other side are spurious. It is merly a
question of choosing a favorable wind. The onlv
reliable thing is the air speed, which is always
meant by the flying-man when he says his machine
can do a hundred, or whatever it may be.
“Peterkin” (London) : The heavy Austn-
lian pugs (if there are any) haven’t much to fear
from the English ditto, assuming Wells and Beckett
to be the best available for a championship bout.
The February affray between the pair at Ilolborn
proved another crash for Wells, but doesn’t place
Beckett among the top-nctchers. Temperamentally.
Wells isn't a pug. A pug has no business to possess
an imagination, and Billy ha's one. The fight is
easily described. Wells tried to mix it. which suited
Beckett, who solidly plugged away at the bread-
basket until his opponent was limp. The knock-out
happened early in the fifth round. Beckett’s next
engagement is with Goddard to compete for the
privilege of accepting stoush from Georges Carpentier
later in the year. The good-looking Frenchman was
a spectator at this melancholy event. Meanwhile the
chances are that Wells, who is a sort of national
darling, will presently emerge with yet another
apologia and be given another chance. Boxing is
booming here. C. B. Cochrane, who counts his
theatres and music-halls by the dozen, is the big
promoter; but it is said that Tex Rickard, who
staged the Johnson Jeffries bout and other big con-
tests, is about to invade those parts with a strong
VatiKee following.
“1 17” : It happened ’way back in T 4, when
we were all ncwchums in Egypt. Tried as marks-
men at the rifle-butts we scored decently—all except
cur troop cook. The range was short and the target
large; but after the babbler had sent off 10 rounds
without visible result the disgusted colonel wanted
to know where the —— bullets were going. “Can’t
sav, sir,’’ replied the stew-juggler; “they left ’ere
all right.’’
“Yarriambiak”: Wheeled into London
the other day, prior to returning to Australia, Cor-
poral Ted Savage, of the 22nd Battalion. Of late
years he lias been making a study of the Lewis gun ;
but Vie. used to know him as a road-aacing cyclist.
His best performance was in 1912, when he and four
other Cranbourne (Gippslaha) boys ran first, second,
third and fourth, and scored fastest time in the
Bendigo-Melbourne race. Ted was first, his brother
fourth, and Don Kirkham won the fastest-time prize.
■* •***
“Platman”; Here in Western Queensland
we were appealed to for funds to assist returned
soldiers. The people of Charleville, as usual; re-
sponded generously. Money was subscribed for
sports, and a two-days’ race-mec-ting and dance were
organised. Then the Federal Taxation Department
rushed in with its demand for amusement tax.
There are a lot of boiling patriots. here now asking
why they should be charged over 8 p.c. for doing the
Federal Government's work.
Another unusual family bowls match has
been played in Adelaide, a four composed of batsman
Clem Hill and three of his brothers playing together
and winning. The brothers have all been cricketers
only less notable than the left-hander. So was their
father, John Hill, who made the first century scored
on the Adelaide Oval, and who was kept out of the
present bowls match only by a slight accident of a
day or two before.
In South Aus. headlights on motor-cars
which dazzle or confuse the eyes 4ft. above the
ground at a distance of 100 ft. are now prohibited.
When lights are suspiciously bright the driver is
invited to the city watchhouse, where the car is
driven into the yard and stationed 100 ft. in front of
a white screen 4 ft. high. Then the Law decides
whether the dazzle is beyond the lawful limit.
There is a locally-popular device—the Australite
lens —which, while it reduces the glare, increases
the road light. It is the invention of a S. Aus-
tralian, Percy’ Correll, who was a member of the
Mawson Expedition to the Antarctic.
“J.F.11.” (London) : How avidly England
turned from war topics you can judge by the
way in which the forthcoming production of
Conrad’s “Victory’’ was advertised
Miss Lijhr is anxious to announce to those who
may not be conversant with the novel that there is
no suggestion of war in “Victory.” The conflict is
purely an emotional one.
TO FRITZ.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“They want to bring us to our knees. If they
want us to perish we shall perish with dignity.”
—Count Rantzau to French interviewer.
A year or two back you were winning.
Like a banner your brag was unfurled ;
All Prussia was blatantly grinning;
Bitter curses and insults were hurled
At all who suggested beginning
Any move to bring peace to the world.
The luck you had revelled in altered ;
Gone, at once were your attitudes fine,
Your Thinkers seemed mentally haltered,
And the great German Voice could but whine.
Your Pistol-like warriors faltered,
Then they bolted post-haste for the Rhine.
You won like a lialf-bred whose ration
Has rendered his l ead over-sized ;
You lost, and showed infantile passion,
Both rottenly staged and advised ;
If you die in a sportsman-like fashion,
Well, the world will be pleased—and surprised.
x.s.w.
10-8-4.


Why Wait Till You Get
a Thrashing
before you learn to box?
Why run the risk of being an easy prey to the first “bully” that crosses
your path ?
Why take the chance of losing vour prestige—your manliness, in the eves
of your fellows—through your inability to assert your rights when the
occasion occurs?
Why not learn to defend yourself and become a REAL man—a man always
to be reckoned with —looked up to —and respected?
I Teach Boxing by Post,
Teach you how to take your part—how to stand up
and deliver good hard punishment to any fellow who
daies to insult, or belittle you.
1 unfold to you my wide knowledge of the manly art
of self-defence —teach you every “hit,” “move” and
“stop” known to the world's leading boxers.
Mv instructions are very simple to follow, and you
will find my lessons both interesting 1 and beneficial.
You will be both pleased and surprised at the rapid
progress you will make under my personal guidance.
Write to-day for my interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods,
terms, etc. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement and send it to me, with three
penny stamps for postage. I will know what you
mean.
REG. L.
(“Snowy”)
BAKER,
“The all-round Champion Athlete of Australia,”
29 Municipal Building's.
82a Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
THE COMFORT
OF POWER
Is Your Dog Ready?
Training Kow in Full Swing.
m
TOXIC AND CONDITION BALLS
Purify the blood, prevent worms, produce
first-rate condition for coursing.
Price 2/0 per box.
STIMULATOR FOR RACING HOUNDS.
For external nse during coursing. Alleviates
stiffness and fatigue. Price 3/.> per bottle.
Booklet., “HINTS TO DOG OWNERS,”
Price 6d. Post. Free.
R. W. BEDDOME (Si CO.,
T)oy Medicine Specialists.
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable also from
JOHN BRUSH PTY. LTD., SYDNEY;
WALTHER & STEVENSON. 393 Ceorge St , SYDNEY
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY, THE GENERAL MANAGER, THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0., MOUNT MORGAN, Box 220 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE. QUEENSLAND. SYDNEY.
ft can’t be
done h^re
This is the
Only "Way
as
IF it had been possible to secure absolute motor-cycling comfort by any
method of saddle-springing, Indian would not have spent thousands
of pounds experimenting with and perfecting the Cradle Spring
Frame. But it wasn’t.
Ho amount of seat-springing will save the jar through the feet, nor the
shocks received by the machine itself.
There’s only one way to do that —spring the rear wheel. And only one
motor-cycle has the rear wheel sprung—the Cradle Spring Frame.
Catalogue with pleasure.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor-Cycle
Co. Pty., Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros., J td., 156
Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle and Motor
Agency, Ltd., Adelaide and Creek
Streets.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79
Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON: .John King & Sons,
Ltd., Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle & Motor
Agency, Hay Street.
A Good Cigar at a Moderate Price—
“CAROLA.”
MILD, BURNS FREELY, FINE AROMA.
SAMPLE BOXES POST FREE.
11/6 Box of 25. 22/6 Box of 50.
A Really Pure and Healthy
FULL-SIZE VIRGINIAN LEAF CIGARETTE
“SATIN FINISH.”
5/6 Box of 100. 2/9 Box of 50.
POST FREE.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
Reliable
OATING.
SetkQS
Marine Engines
For All Boats
Caille 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started,
Electric Lights
Callle 8 H.P. Unis Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Bass as Engine
m
Caille Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
Motor-boats, like motor-cars, are
as good as their engines. Break-
downs and stoppages on the water
are far worse than on hind, and
often mean disaster.
Safeguard your motor-boating out-
ings by installing an engine of
known reputation for reliability.
No engine has a greater reputation
than THE CAILLE —the engine clc
luxe for all sizes and types of
motor-boats. Complete range of
fCAILLE ENGINES in stock from
'2 to 30 h.p.. in one- to four-
cylinder designs, standard and
heavy-duty types. Full range of
spare parts. Write for Special
Booklet.
Benson
Brothers
Limited,
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
138 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
“Warrigal” Gap Bed Lathe
with Hollow Spindle.
. «C
EMBODIES ESSENTIAL QUALITIES—
ACCURACY, RIGIDITY, STRENGTH.
9f" Centre. 10' Bed.
SWINGS 34 INCHES IN GAP.
HOLLOW SPINDLE 2 9 m INCHES DIAMETER.
DELIVERY FROM STOCK. Inspection Invited.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd
490-492 Rent Street, SYDNEY.


SANITAX
HAIR BRUSH
'T’HE "SANITAX” HAIR
BRUSH should appeal to
all who seek a brush that is
absolutely clean, germ-proof
and durable.
The “ Sanitax" is the only
brush that can be thoroughly
washed or sterilized in a few
minutes. This is made possible
by the open construction of
its metal back.
“SANITAX” HAIR
BRUSHES, hygienic and
durable; finest selected Russian
bristles, set in metal back, hand
drawn with silvered wire.
Prices. 25/-, 27/6, 32/6.
We pay carriage on these goods.
FARMER’S
FARMER’S
Sole Agents
in Sydney
HENNALINE, Egyptian
Shampoo, a delightful prepar-
ation for cleansing the hair
and scalp, contains sufficient
Henna to glint the hair but
does not alter the shade.
Prices, per tin 1/6 and 2/6
CREME ELCAYA (non-
greasy Toilet Cream), will
protect and beautify the skin.
Price, per iar . . . 5/6
elcaya' complexion
POWDER, gives the skin a
velvety appearance, when used
in conjunction with Creme
Elcaya. Price, per box 4/6
Hairdressing Dept., 3rd Floor.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
The "Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night.
Tariff, from 10/6 per day, and
from £3/3/- per week.
Open to Discussion.
tT is an open question as to whether the Queen of
x Sheba wore Silk Gloves on the occasion of her
famous visit to King Solomon.
The Australian lady of to-day not only enhances
her charms bv wearing a Glove of Silk, "but, being
also possessed of good sense, she buys only those
Gloves that carry the maker’s guarantee.
Every pair of
VANITY FAIR
SILK GLOVES
contains the following guarantee:—
HERE IT IS :
“If these Gloves wear through at the finger-
tips any time before they are washed, and
before the rest of the Glove has’ had
reasonable wear, we will, upon receipt of
this ticket and your Gloves, replace them
with a new Pair.”
The Australian Agent for the Mill is personally re-
sponsible to the merchant for his fulfilment of this
Guarantee.
Schuylkill Silk Mills, Reading, Pa., U.S.A.
MELBOURNG CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proos
Corsets
The Peacock ballet designed by Frank
Williams has been given at a matinee at
King’s. The G.-G., in a costume which in-
cluded a wonderful striped waistcoat, was
with Lady Helen, who sported sand-color
from feather-tips to shoe's. Governor Stan-
ley was there, and every aide in sight
streaked along to view the society girls in
the show. Gaud Mayor Cahena and his
wife were in the imposing dress-circle row
with the vice-regals, and boxes had been
bought at 25 guineas apiece. The holders
crowded big parties in to get their money’s
worth. Ordinary seats were a guinea and
best seats two guineas. The robbery was
justified, for the money all goes to the appeal
for the Children’s Hospital.
Mrs. Fred Fairbairn was well placed to
watch daughter Jean, who had a leading-
part. She was the extreme Twentieth Cen-
tury beauty to whom the Peacock had to bow.
In the Frank Williams scheme of things,
each century of women *has tried to
vie with the Peacock in glad raiment.
Williams dresses six of the centuries
each in the costume of the period, and
the vain ones parade in turn before
the arrogant Peacock and bow humbly
when the verdict goes against them. When
fhe ballet is produced in Paris there will be
more centuries shown, and the dressing will
begin at zero with our naked mother Eve.
But Melbourne says gruffly, “That’s all right
—for Paris ! In this place the ballet-girls
are lucky if the police will allow them on
without their goloshes.” The present-century
brings the uppish Peacock to earth. She
flutters down from her throne and bows
before the extremest feminine pre-war
clothes. Jean Fairbairn and her maidens
were the triumphant parade. They wore
next-to-notliing but a yard or so of black
velvet and a huge powder-puff. Their
beautifully dressed hair was purple-, blue- or
gold-dusted, and the heels of their slippers
were jewelled. On their hands were as
many diamond rings as their fingers would
hold. Pages walked before them carrying
mirrors.
The pageant was a triumph scarcely to be
expected of amateurs. Mardi Andrews, a
clever Westralian, was the Peacock, and did
a delightful dance. She was-dressed in the
bird’s own blue —dull, feathery tulle tightly
bound —and her wings and tail were mounted
on gold tissue. Her legs were dull bronze.
When she took her place on the throne
she showed up against a full-moon of gold
and a vista background.
Before the gorgeous thing was staged, some
deserving medical students gave a vaudeville
show that was mostly nigger, while their
friends and enemies, herded in the gallery,
yowled as intellectual young men always do.
Leila Doubleday fiddled in forest green with
Hal Elvins at the piano. A Conservatorium
girl contributed a wet Sunday flavor to the
programme by singing oratorio in a small
voice and a pink frock. A sassiety damsel
who had evidently lost a lot of beauty sleep
studying Ada Reeve’s methods, gave three
songs-and-dance with dash and abandon, and
the rude boys up above howled. Her voice
faded away at intervals just like Ada’s; but
when it was brought back it came like a train
out of a tunnel.
When Governor Stanley leaves in August,
Chief Justice Irvine will take up the run-
ning for a few months as Lieut.-Gov. He
lives at Eltham, which is miles from the
ci£y. It has not been usual for the Acting-
Gov. of Victoria to occupy Government
House, but as it has to be kept up in any
case there is a doubt whether Irvine will
follow the Madden precedent.
Lady Helen lately gave an At Home at
Government House. It was really more of
a Plain Jane business meeting than a party,
and had to do with the appeal for the
Women’s Hospital. The very way the
refreshments were set out after the general
discussion showed that it was no frivolous
tea-pai*ty. Men servants placed thick cups,
saucers and plates in long rows down appa-
rently endless tables and then scattered a
few buns and cakes about.
The congregation gathered solemnly in the
State drawing-room, closed all the doors and
left their brollies in the hall —presumably in
case of fights. Lady Helen then explained
the need of the appeal. Some of the quar-
ters in this hospital are between GO and TO
years old. Dr. Reg. Morrison went into
figures and assured everybody that at least
£30,000 would be needed to bring the place
up to date.
The widow of big baronet W. B. Barttelot,
who streaked off from the Federal G.-G.’s
staff at the first sound of the war-drums and
didn’t see the end of it, won’t have to depend
on her pension. Her Walter left her
£02,000-odd.
The Victory Ball, which from its birth
seemed the sort of infant that was likely to
cause trouble among the Very Best People,
is definitely off. Although it was to be
called a “Victory” ball there was no inten-
tion of using it to further any patriotic or
charitable scheme. The idea was to sell
tickets among the naicest folk, and, if there
were not enough naiee people to finance the
affair, to admit a few outsaiders at a guinea
apiece. The opinion was expressed by sun-
dry dames that the sassiety damsels who had
“worked so hard during the war” should be
given a treat; but whatever form the treat
lakes it is not going to be a Victory Ball.
St. Kilda is delighted at the arrangement
that Jellicoe is to land there “officially.” The
committee of the municipal council ap-
pointed to arrange for the celebration of
peace iias been deputed to “do things pro-
perly” when the Admiral steps ashore. St.
Kilda has had a little practice at this sort
of ceremonial when welcoming new State
Governors.
The coming dis-
persal of Professor
Baldwin Spencer’s
great art collection
swings the spotlight
on the Melbourne
University scientist-
traveller who has
done such good ser-
vice to Australian
painters by hanging
up unto himself
treasures upon the
wall. In the years
that have 1 passed
since he began to
exercise his su r e
judgment, a picture-
buying public has
arisen and things
are now much easier
for the Australian who tries to scrape a
living off his palette. But a vote of thanks
will go from the studios to the man who
spent his guineas wisely in the days when
Australian art was mostly struggling to pay
the rent. The big private buyers will come
to the sale armed with cheque-books; but
the many who love pictures and are unable
to pay big prices will be disappointed if too
many of the plums are carried away to
private collections.
It is now taken for granted that Walter
Manifold will be made President of the Vic.
Mouse of Landlords, in succession to John
Davies, when Parliament assembles early in
July. Melbourne Club will thus acquire
another prominent, if not very lucrative,
post—the salary is only £750. The Gram-
pians seat for Jowett, the Lands portfolio
for Frank Clarke, the Chief Justiceship for
Irvine, and knighthoods for E. F. Mitchell,
L. Mackinnon and J. W. Barrett are only a
few of the. things which have gone lately to
the exclusive set who occupy the freezing
chamber at the top of Collins-street.
The decorative Mrs George Chirnside is
coming back to cheer this desolate city; so
are daughter Audrey and her husband.
Audrey, the good snort, is now Mrs. John
Pape, wife of a “ventleman trainer.” And
you might call Audrey a lady trainer. Dogs
and horses follow her about like kittens.
Squatter Fred Fairbairn and his wife are
re-modelling a house they bought in Domain-
ioad. A porch has been added here and a
pretty gable there, while a tower that
offended their artistic sense has vanished.
The house is No. 13, but that does not worry
Mrs. Fred. In fact, it will have no other
name. Just No. 13.
Dr. Peter Bennie has strong professional
reasons for objecting to be dead and buried
(in print) before his time. He is a special-
ist in children’s ailments, and for the last 30
years has been hon. physician and surgeotn to
the Melbourne Children’s Hospital. At his
rooms in Collins-street he remains open to
consultations as before; hence his desire to
be called early rather than “late.”
Christian Jollie Smith, good democrat and
brilliant girl (she was one of the first of our
women barristers), is leaving for Sydney,
where she is to help various industrial
organisations with her advice on arbitration
and other matters. Her friends farewelled
her at the Forerunners’ Club, where Mrs.
Vance Palmer made a bouquet from her
choicest flowers of speech and handed it to
the departing sister.
Eighty pressmen dropped their engage-
ments for an hour on Friday afternoon to
do honor to Charlie Bean, the'official Austra-
lian war correspondent, who was lured to
the Press Club in Flinders-lane by the
Central and District Committees of the
Journalists’ Association. There has not
been such a muster of scribes for years.
The only ones that have approached it in
size were the dinner to the same guest when
he was appointed (Sept., 1914) and the
spread in 1916 to Kathy Prichard, who is
now home-making for Tlirossell, V.C., in
Westralia. Innes (editor of the Herald),
news editors, subs, leader-writers and chiefs
of staff joined with the rank and file to wel-
come the long, lank, red-headed, freckled,
spectacled golden-heart. Chiefs of staff
pretended not to see men who, according to
the duty book, ought to have been else-
where. Innes, Charlie Smith, Biggs and
Harry Brennan, following the example set
by Bennett, the A.J.A. President, nut-shelled
their speeches so as to conserve for the
guest the time available. Bean did not go
in for a comprehensive review of his 4J
years’ work; he told a yarn or two, men-
tioned fellow-correspondents he had met,
gave four years as liis estimate of the time
he would be occupied in writing his history,
hinted at lectures to aid his war-museum
movement, and thanked the A.J.A. for
snatching for him the chance of his life by
nominating him for the job.
When Bean left for the Front as official
war correspondent he was dubbed captain;
but in Europe he shed the three stars
because they were an embarrassment to
him, rather than an advantage. As a
war correspondent he could sidle up and
talk to a general, but as a mere captain he
was constantly in danger of transgressing
military etiquette. Gilbert seems to have
anticipated a difficulty like Bean’s when
writing “The Gondoliers.”
Two cavaliers of a decade ago are out of
action just now. Jack Fisken is seriously
ill at Toorak, and widely-popular Everard
Browne is still having his badly-fractured
head mended at Colac. (His horse was
scared by a motor-cyclist, the reins snapped
and his buggy overturned.) Dr. Syrne went
to Colac to lend a hand with the case.
Dr. Andy Brenan returns this week to
Melbourne, where seven or eight sisters are
waiting to fall on his khakied chest.
Edward Dyson is among the latest ’flu suf-
ferers. Last week he was a very sick man,
but at the week-end he had improved some-
what.
The Melbourne Uni. Association will give
a reception in the Wilson Hall on Wednes-
day evening, May 21, to welcome back re-
turned soldier grads, and under-grads.
Aoung Mrs. Binnie, who took a second
flutter at matrimony the other day, is one of
the Titian-haired daughters of lawyer Wood-
ford Evans, of Elsternwick. From their
extreme childhood the unusual pair appeared
frequently before the cameras of the illus-
trated weeklies; and in their flapperhood
Melbourne often had its glad-eye on them as
they danced at charity matinees. Their only
professional performance was as a pirouet-
ting duo in “The Blue Moon.” Then the
prophetically-named Zephyr, a beautiful
little thing with a Grecian profile of the
purest chiselling, forsook the toe-partner-
ship and wedded her sheep-owning Binnie.
Now she is Mrs. John Ord. of Singapore, the
double-harness having lately been adjusted
at the C. of E. Cathedral of that tropical
village.
This is a May
Moore impression of
Percy Lindsay, of
the famous brother-
hood, who has been
charmed away from
Melbourne by the
Sydney sunlight.
Percy resisted the
siren for years,
painting away
quietly in a Mel-
bourne suburb and
putting his signa-
ture to many delect-
able pictures. But
when the Port Jack-
son beauty put on
a mask and fired up
a witch’s cauldron
disguised as an in-
haler, he had to pack his easel and get over
the border. He has camped in one of the
North Shore hill suburbs, and his journalist
friends were recently excited about a canvas
of his full of cool morning shadows and cows
sedately walking towards the south-east
corner of the frame to be milked.
Adelaide lights up :
On Saturday following the inter-college athletics of
the week before, St. Peter's and Prince Alfred’s each
had their own sports on grounds lined with flapper
friends and relatives. Ainslie Caterer, who has been
acting headmaster of St. Peter’s since Mr. Girdle-
stone’s resignation, has just finished his 33rd vear
with the school.
The Society Maternelle, which only came into
existence in this State in February of last year, gave
an account of its activities at its first annual meet-
ing’. Eight thousand garments have been sent to
France and £5OO in cash, while sewing circles have
been whirring in the suburbs and country. Local
town-planners have also had their annual meeting,
and are full of schemes for the future. Children's
playgrounds are to be one of the first considerations.
They would win three cheers and a lot of support hv
a strong pretest against the wholesale destruction of
timber in the Mt. Lofty ranges. Whole hills are
being laid bare, not for settlement or cultivation, but
to get easy timber, and there is never a hint of
planting to make good the waste.
We are to have a Scotch College added to our
public schools. Kyre College is to be bought and
taken over, and £lO,OOO is to be raised to give the
scheme a clear financial start. And Mt. Gambier is
to have a new girls’ school, thanks to £7OOO or so
left by the late James Umpherston for that purpose.
Tiie news that Jellicoe is really to land here has
led to a hasty overhaul of 1914 finery and a deluge
of orders to dressmakers. Already invitations are out
for a Mayor’s Ball on May 27, and there are threats
and rumors of ether festivities.
Douglas Mawson came on from Melbourne on
Saturday, and was lunched by the Commonwealth
Club a few days later. He goes back to his worn at
the University—he is lecturer in geology—almost at
once.
Director of Education Maughan is so far con-
valescent that he expects to go back to work at the
end of the month.
Adelaide has had some rain at last. There were
two damp days together in February, and a wet
Sunday in October; otherwise, there had not been
any moisture worth mentioning since August.
After a strenuous bout with ’flu, etcher
John Shirlow has been discharged from the
Exhibition hospital, and is seeking his lost
flesh at the Belgrave home of “Garry”
Roberts, the tramway magnate, where “Den”
wrote many of his best verses.
Artist Ethel Spcwers, of Melbourne, has
had a water-color bought by Sydney National
Gallery. The Melbourne Arts and Crafts
sent a collection of paintings to the Sydney
A. and C., and the Spowers success was in
the group. ■»
Mrs. Ida Rentoul Outhwaite, who runs the
fairy factory, gave a show of pictures in
Hobart the other day. Governor Newdegate
not only “opened” it, but flung off his coat
and helped hang the pictures. Afterwards
Mrs. Outhwaite took everybody to tea at
Hadley’s. Artist Ida got rid of many fairies,
gnomes, etc., at fancy prices. Two were,
donated to the Hobart Gallery by Mrs. Sam
Lyons, whose husband is president of the local
racing club.
Miss Coulston, who used to lead the choir
at Scots’ Church, has just returned to Mel-
bourne fit and well. A nervous breakdown
cost her her voice for a time; but a long,
quiet holiday in the restful Apple Island has
restored the warble.
An “Apollonic competition” has been
organised in Port Melbourne in connection
with a patriotic fund, and Brig.-General
Brand, State Commandant, nominated as a
contestant. An “Aphrodisian contest” is
now suggested in the same quarter. The
promoters mean well, but they don’t mean
all that the proposed title implies.
Lauder’s opening house at the King’s on
Saturday was a reunion of Scots. The Taits
had the usual collection of friends and rela-
tions, and boxes brimmed over with other
sections of the family mixed with assorted
actors and actorines, including Bai’ry Lupino
and Emelie Polini. Barring Muriel Win-
dow, whose glad rags ranged from a red,
white and blue sheath-garmenx to a trivial
pink impromptu that seemed determined to
make both ends meet, the most pictorial
feature of the programme was Lauder.
Nearly all the clans met in the kilts of the
tireless songster, who, after an hour of
patient warbling and patter, had no com-
punction about holding out his hat for the
Harry Lauder Fund for Disabled Scots Sol-
diers and Sailors. The cadge yielded a little
siller at the exits, but it was not a tremen-
dous success. If the appeal is persisted in
every evening, the congregation will rapidly
lose its Scotch complexion.
Though only in her twenties, Muriel
Window, the bright young thing who
twinkles in the Lauder programme like a
diamond in a bun, has been twice to the
altar and once to the divorce court, and un-
successfully fought an action for breach of
promise launched bv a youth who wanted to
make her “his meal-ticket for life.” Having
exhausted all the excitement on the matri-
monial plane, Muriel professed a desire to
go suffragetting with a keg of dynamite. At
the King’s she is allaying the general yawn
between the overture and Lauder by spotting
several frocks that seem more like accidents
than designs. One dream makes the decol-
lete look Wesleyan, but the brevity is so
artistic that it is robbed of impropriety.
Muriel is also the author of a fad that is
likely to be adopted by sassiety. She wears
gummed on her shoulder like a strident birth-
mark a dark velvet silhouette of some animal
or bird.


* *
BLACK WHITE
9 9
iSSSS
(tw; \ /* y ;
••. ■,
tv-irtsfe:.»
•v
?:■■s
m
m
:V€V*V
*« w
Wmz'M
.
IteEr - - ■
a
S?j
•• *
-
“* '
Vfl
• • ••
iifsSSS
-,v . :
tf!
*••
sv
. -*
;
9M
m
■:
WM
fl
t;'
i .
■'
S s’-'.-i
.
.
•'
«
*
~ ‘
-v :< -v '""
\*&V- &*
Bii IB
: / •
: ::.v
V
• v
» ; •■■ >' '
; ■ -
■»'.•••-’•-•-••
SBgBBBS - V
*-i
fiNfeni .i.*' j
.
m
WeM&Zm&GSM
i-V»?
K
HH
S®ts
sVg
"7Y/E BLACK WATCH.
WHISKY
GUARANTEED ONE QUALITY ONLY.
Obtainable in
BOTTLES FLASKS
HALF-BOTTLES
HALF-FLASKS
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.


CIMRLES
lEIDSIECKS
Vintage 1906
CMflMf
HE PLUS DLTRfI
38H?
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
f tw ,o " o ' ,iW
ate Sp-
ring
; re obtai^ c ? SWPa-
. tsB gydne?
9 \ B Geovg| S^ydney
Y«« lying Sydney ,
t°° £nt st- sy , lU6 on
•gSSSt
fnolvVn«!
point
l|g§f^
tot oxf° rl }.f Sydnes' „y
•tion
it»t
s»“sls«r^” a ” M
jgcsstf’Sr.
K - Shop
!
•**E£*.
T^»-
Your Autumn Gown
Tailored by Shave
will enable yon to
enjoy all the little re-
finements of style to-
gether with ..perfect
fit which mark the
Tailored garment,
without having to
undergo the trials of
many fittings.
The Shave system of
Model Fitting makes
this nossible.
Visitors to Melbourne
are invited to call.
We visit Sydney and
Adelaide twice, and Bris-
bane once, each year.
SHAVE
"Ladies’ Tailors & Dressmakers,”
, CENTREWAY—MELBOURNE. _
PAULINE et CIE
Announce their Autumn and Winter
Show of Millinery on & after March 11
Miss Gray will show Model Frocks, Coats and
Skirts, Blouses, etc., on and after March 25.
3rd Floor,Denison House Chambers
Telephone 10167. George Street? SYDNEY.
LADIES, PLEASE!
We do not want you to pass this advertise-
ment by. as it concerns every one of you.
The Dove Hosiery Stores, recently eorfi-
menced, is the only store selling single pairs
of Hosiery and Gloves at wholesale prices.
We defy competition. Those who can, visit
our showroom; others, mail us your require-
ments. We guarantee every satisfaction.
Here are a few values: —
HOSIERY.
“American Beauty,” Pure Silk Hose, full-
fashioned, seam, black or white, full-length
silk 13/6 pair.
“L 37” Heavy Pure Silk Hose, full-fashioned,
seam, will not ladder, sold in shops at 21/-
pair, black only. Our Price, 14/11 pair.
Pure Silk, Ankle Hose, all Colors, very
superior 7/6 pair.
“OUR” Ribbed Silk Ankle Hose, black or
white, equal to any 7/6 hose, wholesale
price .... ..' 3/6 pair.
Black or White only.
The Dove Hosiery Stores
(Take Lift to 4th Floor),
Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sassiety folk who are planning entertain-
ments for Jellicoe are in danger of disap-
pointment. It is not likely that he will
accept any invitations other than those from
Governors and Governments. He writes
that he doesn’t want to be entertained lav-
ishly, thank you. for he’s coming to work.
No definite arrangements are therefore to be
made for even “official” entertainments until
he arrives in Melbourne.
His Ex. was doing fancy strokes when he
collapsed while swimming the other day—a
reminder that he’s not so young as he was.
He has been very ill, but has made such a
good recovery that he and Lady Davidson
will give a dinner party at Government
House this (Thursday) evening. About 17
guests are bidden, including the arc lights
of the A.J.C.
Next Tuesday the Parramatta and de-
stroyers will arrive. The G.-G. will be here
to welcome the officers and crews, who v.ill
also be given a citizens’ welcome in the Town
Hall.
Captain Saltmarsli, late A.D.C. to the
Governor, is camphor at the Warrigal Club.
He will leave for England early next month.
Miss Henderson, sister of the one-time
Commodore of the Australian station, will
stay for some time with his Ex. and Lady
Davidson. She is still engaged as travelling-
sec. of the Women’s Auxiliary of the Board
of Missions, and had intended leaving for
England in September, but the Mission has
persuaded her to stay until March. Miss
Thea Milner Stephen has lately been ap-
pointed office secretary of the same agency
for gathering in the heathen.
The Union Club, or as much of it
as Was in Sydney, entertained Consett
Stephen at dinner last week. He is the presi-
dent and has been a member for 40 years.
The Club has never had so skilled an after-
dinner speaker for president as this member
of the big Stephen family. As a matter of
fact, he is among the best at the art in Aus-
tralia. One of his two sons was the bril-
liant youngster who was killed on the Ypres
sector last year.
A connection of the Stephens died on Satur-
day—General Williams, who was Neville
Howse’s predecessor as head of the A.I.F.
medical service. He married a sister of
Monty Severn, whose wife is a daughter of
the late Chief Justice Stephen.
Mrs. Antill has still another gift to pack
into Tudoi\ It is the attache case presented
to her last week by Lady Davidson on behalf
of the District Nurses’ Association, Darling-
hurst, of which Mrs. Antill has been sec. for
many a year. The drawing-room of the home
was crowded with smiling well-wishers, while
Matron Dawson radiated gladness from the
doorway. Mrs. Antill in a check suit
made a neat little speech in which she en-
compassed thanks for the gift, regret at retir-
ing, eulogy of new secretary Miss Bundock,
and a hope of rejoining the council in a
year or two’s time. Miss Bundock, in nig-
ger-brown costume, carried the conviction of
quiet efficiency.
Police-magistrate Arnott recently handed
Phyllis Maud, his eldest flower, to Lindon
Suttor, of Warragunyah, at St. Saviour’s
Cathedral, Goulburn, where Archdeacon
Bartlett and a churchful of friends and re-
lations saw that everything was in order.
Pink was the shade chosen by the three
bridesmaids, while the bride’s mother donned
biscuit-colored cloth for the wedding recep-
tion at Cooeyana, the Arnott home.
“Brownie” Andrews, who married Lieut.
Masson in St. George’s Cathedral, Palestine,
and afterwards motored to Jaffa for the
honeymoon, by the most remarkable set of
coincidences managed to have some of her
own and her mother’s oldest friends at her
wedding in a far land. First of all she was
married by the chaplain who went out to
Egypt on the Ayrshire with her. She was
given away by Sister Taylor Williams, under
whom she had trained at the Coast Hospital,
and who, quite by chance, had arrived in
Palestine in charge of a batch of nurses from
Salonika. Also present, by another series of
lucky accidents, Sister Linda S. Kelman, a
cousin of the bride’s mother. “Brownie’s”
was the first military wedding in Palestine
since its occupation by our troops.
The Stormy Petrel hoisted sail last Satur-
day for its blow in island seas. Thursday
Island and New r Guinea are to be visited by
yachtsman Dempster and his party. The
P.A.Y.C. gave them a great send-off dinner
at the Australia.
One dainty comer-out at the Peace Ball
will be Dorothy, the flapper daughter of the
Frank Coffees. She’s to make her first
grown-up curtsey in one of the debutantes’
sets. Then in July she trips off to the
U. with her sister, Mrs. Kelly, whose
doctor-husband is packing her off on a sea-
trip to blow away the last ’flu germ.
On Friday evening A. J. Willgoss, who
is at the manager’s desk at Gordon and
Gotch’s when he is not at Cremorne, gave
away both his daughters at St. Philip’s.
Lilian linked up with A. Leeson Prince;
Alice Edith married Basil King. The two
Brownlovv sisters were the bridesmaids.
Storkey, V.C.. and Mr. H. Horn were next-
best men. Gold tissue over satin clothed
the King bride, but the Prince bride con-
tented herself with silver tissue over satin.
Usher’s Hotel served the wedding dinner.
Rumor says there will shortly be another
wedding in the Willgoss household.
Storkey, Y.C., has been made associate to
Justice Owen. Young Kenny, another
V. since his return has become country
traveller for a big merchant firm. Cheese
is his specialty; and his first trip brought
the record number of orders to his firm’s
books.
Lieut. Kathleen Ussher, the Sydney girl
with the “Wrens” (otherwise the Woman’s
Royal Naval Service), has been decorated
with the Special Service Cross. She left
Gibraltar, where she was in charge of the
first section sent abroad, just after Christ-
mas, on a Visit to her married sister in Los
Angeles. Mrs. Ussher also travelled thither
from England.
From an Aussie girl at Gibraltar:—•
We spent Christmas at Gib., amid a whirl of
festivities, the best thing among them a ball at
Government House, when all the Australians from
the Brisbane blew in, and we had a priceless pow-
wow. Lt. Creer (Watson’s Bay) was rather dis-
mayed because he couldn’t try all the latest fox-
trots, lame-ducks, etc., but anything more modern
than a one-step is taboo at Government House. Lt.-
Commander Langford (Sydney) shepherded the flock
of Australian swans, which included Paymaster
White (Adelaide), Lt. Bond (Melbourne). They
slipped away at dawn next morning, taking the
Governor’s wife (Lady Smith-Dorrien) with them,
and were expecting to be reviewed with the Aus-
tralian T.B.D.’s (six left the previous day) at
Devonport.
Brisbane writer Edith Shirley says that a
Sydney Sunday paper’s announcement of her
marriage brought down such a shower of
congratulations and inquiries that she had to
put up her umbrella and fly for shelter. And
she had to lose one whole working day ex-
plaining to callers that she was not married,
and was still at her old inkstained job.
Private Rennie, a Digger blinded in France,
has been done in marble by the Irish sculp-
tress, Clare Sheridan. Rennie is at St.
Dunstan’s, the hostel founded by Sir Arthur
Pearson (himself blind), who has bought the
Irish girl’s work for the establishment.
Winifred James, the South Aus. fiction
writer, who changed her name to de Jan a
few years ago, and lives in the Panama Cr al
zone, is in London just now. She exp a
to return home by way of Australia, a long
way round, she says, but worth it.
Talking of returned soldiers brings up a
vision of textile-worker Mrs. McCracken, who
looks down on the wilds of Market-street
from the big room which she hopes is the
nucleus of the most successful Textile
College in the world. At the moment she is
weaving a suit-length of good Australian
homespun for a soldier who otherwise would
wear one of the 30-shilling broad-arrow
suits provided by a grateful country. The
suit-length is light brown, with a dark line
running through; and the lady sits at ker
loom and throws the shuttle back and forth,
and explains that it is the easiest and most
interesting work in the world. Mrs.
McCracken sees a future Australia whose
every backblocks home is fitted with spin-
ning-wheel and loom—not the operatic, Mar-
guerite wheel, but a hefty machine capable of
turning 561 b. of the local wool-clip in one
week into the fleecy blanket or the length of
homespun for suit and costume. In odd
corners of the room are balls of twine made
from Australian grasses; jute; millinery
flowers and berries made from seaweed; and
various by-products of the prickly-pear, from
which vegetable Mrs. McCracken declares
Australia might at least get some compensat-
ing benefits.
Margaret Baxter, a Sydney presswoman
who left her native couch-grass a good few
years ago now*, has been commissioned by
the Education Committee of the War Office
to talk to Tommy in France about the social
and industrial aspect of things in Aussie.
She carried in her kit-bag a set of lantern-
slides to illustrate her talks, and after the
French tour is over will lecture to the in-
mates of military hospitals in Blighty. She
is the third woman to be retained for this
sort of work.
A soldier puts a devoted woman’s name on
the honor-boai’d :
Having undergone repairs after Pozieres, I was in
the base camp at Etaples, and one afternoon was
wandering round the rapidly-growing cemetery there,
when I saw a lady tending the graves. In conversa-
tion I found that she was a Miss Love, and came
from Sydney, but had lived in France many years.
The shock of the German advance had killed her
invalid mother, and she had since given her time
to the care of the graves of Australians. The flowers
blooming everywhere showed how she had worked.
This duty she continued until the Government took it
over. It was a quiet, unobtrusive labor of love that
many an Australian woman can thank her for. I
saluted the slim black figure when I left with more
reverence than I have ever shown to a brass-hat
There’s a doubtful welcome awaiting the
procession of our well-to-do’s who are
hurrying to England. When the last
mail left, the third wave of ’flu was
sweeping the land, and in 0(3 great
towns (exclusive of London) the death-
roll for the current week was 3889.
London’s tally was 1234. The Chronicle
gloomily pointed out that the only victory
that laid been gained over the fiendish thing
had been in Australia !
Longstaff, J. F. Scott, Benson and Frank
Crozier have a studio in the neighborhood of
St. John’s Wood (London), where they are
painting pictures for War Records. Their
contract is to supply six big canvases a year
depicting Digger exploits, which seems like
selling Art by the yard; but all four are
said to be putting their actual experiences at
the Front into good brushwork.
With this is the portrait of Cumbrae
Stewart, by Cumbrae Stewart. It is known
as “Reflections,” and is the property of Mr.
C. E. Waters, St. Mervyns, Double Bay. It
will be remembered by all who visited the
Loan Collection at the National Art Gallery.
The Cumbrae Stewart pastels at Gayfield
Shaw’s rooms at Penzance Chambers are as
softly beautiful as the Melbourne young
woman’s name. Girl is mainly the subject
of the lady’s art; and the female back as she
sees it is a thing of rounded, dimpled flesh
that makes the lean beholder feel that the
knobs on her own spinal column might be
used as a hat-rack. The most enchanting back
of all is owned by the girl in the bathing-box.
There’s a girl by the pool with little moths
of sunlight on her warm flesh, and you know
that she is listening to the pipes of Pan tell-
ing her that all the world is young and
green. In “Bath Time” Miss Stewart has
reproduced another delightful back-view.
The “Green Blouse” is a piece of color to
rend even the most superstitious woman with
envy. “Romance” is more ambitious; here
Miss Stewart has so cunningly woven light
and shade that the picture glows like the
tenderly-insistent ghost of the past that
creeps out with the twilight and the firegleam.
There are 37 exhibits altogether, all breathing
the spirit of youth and freshness.
The artist herself is young and good-
looking. She owes her training to Bernard
Hall of Melbourne. Three of her pictures
hang in the Adelaide Art Gallery, three have
been purchased by the Sydney Gallery, but
strangely enough Melbourne has none of its
own artist’s work.
After a severe bout with the ’flu in Sydney
Beatrice Holloway is convalescing in the
mountain air of Victoria. The epidemic also
caught her big and popular husband. Rumor
persists that the Greigs take a holiday-busi-
ness jaunt to the U.S.A. and other spots
where the limelight shines about the end of
the year for rhe Tivoli folk.
The usual solemn procedure of those whom
the official assignee has gathered together was
broken up last week by the introduction of
beauty and romance. The meeting had been
called in the estate of a certain debonair
one wffio had managed to deduct some capital
from most astute business men. It is even
whispered that the Church did not escape.
The liabilities and assets had been gone into
with set and stony glare, when the assignee,
with a dramatic flourish, produced a fac
simile of as much female loveliness as it is
possible for the lens of a camera to compass.
“Here, gentlemen,” said he, “is the cause of
some of our friend’s money-troubles.” The
photograph was passed from hand to hand.
For the next two days the man of accounts
was kept busy answering inquiries for the
lady’s address, and the number of inquiries
tallied with the number of creditors at the
meeting.
The Bush Book Club had a word of wel-
come, to the accompaniment of tea cups, for
Mrs. David and daughter Mollie. Governor
Davidson’s lady added her pretty pink-and-
whiteness to the picture, and the wife of
Chief Justice Cullen came from the wilds of
Mosman. Mrs. Aubrey Withers stayed her
pursuit of the ’flu germ for half an hour, and
Miss Montefiore switched off work at the old-
paper depot to lend her support.
Brisbane gazes into the magic inkwell: —
Eddie Cahill and George Brooke gave a concert in
aid of the Children’s Hospital Nurses’ Home last
Monday evening. The ’flu scare and the rain kept
away a few people, but there was a good audience,
including the viee-regals. The two concert-givers
were assisted by singer Molly Wheeler and organist
Lilian Clancy.
On Saturday night Leon and Charles Berliner, Mrs.
S. B. Harris and Miss Driver gave a recital at Beale's
salon. The place was packed. Leon played several
solos, including a fantastic march of his own. Mrs.
Harris (once Evelyn Selig, of Sydney) sang a Leon
lullaby very sweetly, and Charles B. recited.
Ronald Byram, only son of bank-manager It. W.
Byram, died in Canada about a fortnight ago.
Ronnie was well known in Brisbane and Sydney. He
began his stage work in Australia, then went to
America and joined Elsie Ferguson’s co.
E. L. Buzacott, a Clayfleld boy who became a
munition-worker when lie found he could not get into
the A.1.F., is bringing home an English bride. The
lady was Miss Prescott, daughter of an engineer who
has provided West Africa with bridges and railways.
The wedding took place at Bristol, where the bride-
groom was chief .engineer of the Instructional Aero-
plane Factory.
Betty Wooleoek, the pretty younger daughter of
barrister .T. L. Wooleoek, sports the usual diamond
ring. The lucky man is Ragnar Ilyne, whose parents
came from Christiana.
The long-forecasted divorce between the two
young people with all the money is not com-
ing off. after all. For one thing she is a
Catholic. Sydney provides several other
instances of well-known couples who don’t
quite agree, but are nevertheless bound by
the irrefragable tie of Mother Church.
There has been plenty of dancing in the
last few days. The Harry Austins gave
an entertainment which almost reached the
dimensions of a ball at Eastbourne, their
beautiful Darling Point house, on Friday.
The dancing occurs there in a large, glassed-
in apartment looking over the garden and
harbor —an ideal place. Mrs. Sep Levy’s
dance was at the Wentworth, and most of
the people who were at the one went to the
other. The Peter liabetts, who live at
52 Macleay-street, are among the other
dance-givers in the same set.
The Tim Iveigwins are back again. He
met the lady first in London, where she was
acting in a company that included beautiful
Elsie Beerbohm, formerly of Sydney. How-
ever, she is no stranger to these parts. As
Gwen Hughes, a very tall, slim, flower-faced
girl,, she was well known to Australian
musical-comedy audiences three or four years
ago.
Jean, the elder of the two pretty Morton
girls, has been blind or thereabouts for over
a week. She and her sister work in a hospi-
tal ward, and on a recent morning she got
some ash into her eye, which poisoned it.
Another well-known convalescent is Mrs.
Henry Hill Osborne, who came down from
her husband’s Queensland station to go into
Ivirketon.
There was a flutter when in the passenger
list of the Euripides printed in the daily
papers occurred the name of the Hon. Adrian
Earl Hope Lewis. Tuft-hunters were con-
triving each to outdo the other cat in secur-
ing his honorable presence for a bit of din-
ner or a cup of tea. But alas! it was all
a shipboard joke which by accident got as
far as the passenger list. He’s the lieut.
son of the late Arthur Lewis of Sydney.


LIMITED
resenranon Olivers
B » E I
■
suyjcrjrf
Richh) chasocl heavy silver Tea &
Co/fee J<
ervico, in case, lea
holds Iwo pin is.
'-a
Toapoi
£B5-0'
ik
it feati
-.ii 7 mai<e a special teal urc
olid h ilverware, suitable for
[Lrdy Brothers
0/ their stock of\
WeddiriQ & other presentations , each article
beinjof finest Quality & finish throughout:
Special terms to Fresentation Committees,
fartieulars on application.
Hardy Brothers Li?
13 HUNTER ST
SYDNEY.
298 COLLINS ST
MELBOURNE..
offers
116118 QUEEN ST
BRISBANE..
AND AT
LONDON..
It’s Easy to be
a Good Photographer
with aa ANSCO.
Daylight Loading—For Roll Films.
The Quality and Large Aperture of the Lens, the
Accurate and Efficient Shutter with Varying
Speeds, the Micrometer Focussing Device with
which the Vest-Pocket Models Nos. 0 and 2 are equipped (no other vest-
pocket cameras have this) —these arc the features that make good
photography easy with an Ansco.
A FULL RANGE at HARRINGTONS’.
We have just opened a large ship'ment of the latest models.
IN ALL SIZES, from V.-P. to POSTCARD.
Ansco Vest-Pocket Cameras, £2, £2/5/-, • £2/12/6 to £l3/15/-
Ansco Juniors, £4, £4/17/6, £5/12/6, £6/10/-
Folding AnscoS, £4/17/6, £5/12/6, £5/17/6 to £l3/15/-
Other well=Rnown makes include
ENSIGN S —BROWNIES —KODAKS
At Prices to Suit Every Requirement*
Call and inspect them, or send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Metal-Workers’
SWEEPS and RESIDUES
EFFICIENTLY TREATED at
Harring'tons’ Laboratories
The latest scientific appliances and highest skill are employed in the treatment of
Residues, Sweeps and other Waste Products of Jewellers, Dentists and other Metal
Workers, every grain of precious metal being extracted, at a small cost.
We Collect Material for Treatment
in City or Suburbs, free of charge.
us
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney.
New Hupmobile Car.
THE COMFORT CAR.
WHEN we speak of comfort, you naturally think first of bodily comfort. There is
comfort also in knowing that your Hubmobile conserves fuel by making every
gallon go farther. In the hands of owners it actually gives 26 miles to the
gallon of petrol.
Specifications.
BODY TYPES—Five-passenger, two- or three-passenger single seater.
WHEELBASE—II 2 inches.
CYLINDERS—Four, oast, e.n bloc, removable head—B2 mm. bore x 140 mm. stroke.
STARTING —Two unit system Automatic release.
IGNITION —Dixie high-tension magneto.
CARBURETTER —Special Strcmberg, with two adjustments.
PETROL SYSTEM —Stewart-Warner vacuum feed. 13 Imperial gall m tank—two gallon
reserve.
LUBRICATION—Pressure system. Gear pump driven from cam shaft.
COOLING —Thermo-syphon, extra radiator capacity.
CLUTCH—Dry-disc type. Seven steel plates faced with asbestos fabric. Fully housed.
REAR AXLE—Floating type. Spiral bevel gears.
TYRES—BIS x 105 mm. clincher type. Plain in front, all-weather tread on rear.
UPHOLSTERY—Genuine leather, stuffed with real curled hair.
TOP —Neverleek, khaki.
Rain-vision windshield; head, tail and instrument-board lights; petrol gauge; motor-
driven horn; ammeter; foot and robe rails; tyre carrier; extra rim; side curtains;
tonneau carpet; hood cover ; pump, jack, full set of tools and tyre-repair outfit.
Write for complete illustrated manual and prices.
DEALERS.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.,
Brisbane.
DALGETY & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.,
Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO-
LTD., Perth.
lfo?CU>c«k
The Comfort Car.
VN
i\t I
n
'V-;
Wi
< L
DEALERS.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE,
LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO., LTD., Wan-
ganui, New Zealand.
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’
CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
OF CANTERBURY, LTD.,
Cashel Street, Christchurch,
New Zealand.
iTk
f J/
The Comfort Car.


WITH the .first PE LA CO Collar
purchased , you commence a
definite immunity from collar
shortcomings.
You have only to remember that name
—PELA CO in order to secure the
utmost in Collar-quality and style.
Sold by good Mercers everywhere.
Mu r m A user • ia
IVear also Shirts and Pyjamas
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.'
T-H
m
The above
ia the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing
122 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN* & OFFICE USE.
...
t
m
mm
MADE
Perfection
f> us k: rubber
Pen Points for Parents
■pOOR Pens are plentiful. Good Penmanship is
rare. Your boy wants to excel. Give him a
chance. ESTERBROOK’S arc made for him. You
can have free samples by writing—
ESTERBROOK. Box 08 G.P.0., Sydney.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
The Brand that guarantees
British make and best value.
u
Underwear
To see the Jason Brand on a garment
is to know that Australasian wool, skilled
British labour, and expert tashiji.ing have-
gone to its making.
New ‘■Olympic” Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the tegular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Go., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 67 <i>
Hotel de Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/6 per day, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: Y3OOI, 3002.
Apply Manager.
Brookes
Coffee essence
y c
ou
Like
Joo
jsest
/brflamreStrengfl^
YOU
CAN MAKE
<£2o
WEEKLY!
without
experience by
showing
MOVING PICTURES
We sell complete Moving Picture Out-
fits, including Biogranh Machine, Light,
and Films, FROM £25 UP WARDS bv EAS’i
INSTALMENTS. No matter what coun-
'rv you live in, you can have one. SHOW-
MEN, write for our special list and terms.
500,000 FEET OF FILM AT id. A FOOT.
Send To-Day for Free Catalog
Jt shows how to start a first c’ass Picture
Show by paying a small depo. it, and then
weekly instalments.
WORLD’S BIOGRAPH CO.
110 Bathurst St., Sydney, N.S.W.
u
m
WEAR
5
7"
ASH
LL
• :
■
.
■ '
'
07V
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK
SEE THAT YOURS GETS IT.
You will be rewarded by the way
in which he (or she) responds to
its strengthening qualities.
Delicious. Palatable. Easily Digested.
Made in a Moment. No Cooking.
Full particulars and sample sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps by
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26, Jamieson St., Sydney.
* s
S 3S
!i
ns
JVo Shortage. Ample Supplies.
S.B.
I
/QUEENSLAND^
THE KEY TO 1
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND i
L opens the door to §
prosperity tor those
requiring land .
f
Queensland Government
lateHise&ce »ftd Tourist Bt»re»u
BRISBANE /
Particulars ot the
millions ot acres ot
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE
IS amt ■
Address
George hotel,
St. Hilda. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Xo notice {except of cl hostile character') uill be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Xame and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
R.P.A.: Torrens wasn’t a surveyor?
Probably he wasn't. But he was a very fine mathe-
matician—a Dublin M.A., by the way—and, anyhow,
what he was as long as he wasn't a lawyer doesn't
affect “Country Lawyer’s” argument Audion:
Make it a little less cocksure and a lot less dull and
try again Alarm Clock: You sent something to us
and we didn’t print it! Perhaps we didn’t.
Roughly, one-twentieth of what is offered goes to
make The B Sapper (Belgium) : Son, that was
the first story sent us by a Digger from France.
Butt in with a new one from where you are, and
we’ll sign a peace treaty with you... .H.C.: Nothing
new about that name for them. It’s as old as the
wrong turning the girl t00k.... Everybody: If you
want to be sure that the answer is meant for you,
take a pen-name E.O’K.: The verse doesn’t quite
do it. Anyhow, fruit-blossom out of season is common
enough here. .. .Bill Blank: Better done before....
K. : Not quite. .. . A.E.K.: Doesn't thrill u 5....
D.P.M.: Don't like sleep taking “merry leaps”....
Aspirer: Get away from those abstractions. We’re
not much interested in “Love” and “Care.” Tell us
the name of the chap and what the trouble i 5....
Toby C.: Misses. ... A.T.C.: Same old commonplaces.
. ...E.M.: The Kaiser yarn is no g00d.... J.H.:
“Mellow Wine” came nearest, but the octet was too
strained... .M.C.: Don't like the lovesick Chinaman
with an English girl in his heart. .. .E.A.A.: Some
real feeling, bit: misses... .O.B.: That's the stuff:—
The sun rose that morn so lovely and bright,
Everything moved like magic in sight;
People were astir loosed lovely in white,
They were going to see a couple unite.
Motor-cars were lined up in grand style,
Now the bride will be here in a while;
A prettier bride never walked the ile,
Linked arm in arm her father’s child.
Here comes the bridegroom, an Anzac, an Anzac.
To hear the people shout and quack:
“Why, don’t you know it’s Mack, it's Mack,
And everyone was in the track.
After the ceremony was over,
The train they had to meet;
They wished themselves in Dover,
And flew to their carriage seat.
. ...M.S.W.: She couldn’t find clean lodgings in
Adelaide. All right, we'll take a tent with us when
we go. .. . Espero: They don't, say anything. ... H .M.:
Your love and kisses and squeezes rejected with edi-
torial regret.... Grand Opera: No yarn in it....
A.W.0.: Nice, but old and weary:.. .T.M. (with the
kite-string): Not well enough told. .. .T.O. : Nothing
in it. . . .M.J.L.: No use....M. Bittered : Verse
doesn't carry it... .Musterin’: Wooden... .J.P.
(M.L.) : Hell and the Kaiser don’t move us.... Man
in the Street: We’re glad to forget it. .. .Simon
Luke: They miss, hut by very little. .. .F.V.E.: Not
up 8.T.0.N.: Heavy fooling... .C.E.H.: N 0....
Riverina: An idea, but poorly handled.... Wim-
mera: No, it doesn't work. .. . W.H.C.: Can't make
head or tail of it. .. . Squinty: Too wild and whirl-
ing; and much too badly written... .L.E.F. : The
logic of “Beery Bill” and “Whisky .Jack” is mud in
that sort of verse. .. ..Just a Schoolboy: Just com-
monplace. .. .A.D.8.: Pretty bad. . . .M.G.8.: “Har-
mony” is all out of tune... .Little White Cross:
Sorry, but it’s very wooden.... F.H.T.: More Anzac
verse—and no better... .Me: We refuse to ask “Belle-
rive.”.... St. George: N0,...L.R.: Nothing in “Two
in the Bush.”... .The Gadfly: Shoo !.... Edward :
Says nothing new.... Queen Waratah: Doesn’t strike
us.... Tyro: Very poor sonnet.... Live Wire: No
humor there... .J.G. (Leichhard' : Poor relatives!
So you inflicted that on them, and think it hasn’t
yet had sufficient publicity !. .. . Betty C.: Light-
weight with a bad wobble at the end.... La
France: Why suggest that Australian skies
are “cold and grey” compared with those of Italy?
, ....F.M.8.: Nothing there... .D.W.0.F.: This one
must go back... .Pearl Fishers: Too easy and thin.
... .C.G. (Bathurst) : Yarn too slight. . . .Ethics:
Haven’t the faintest idea what any of it means....
L. : “London Jews” yarn doesn’t make itself
clear. .. .Little Blue Mist: What about the rhymes?
The jiggetty-jig alone can’t carry it. .. .0.A.5.:
Neither prose nor verse anywhere near....M.R.
(Windsor): Seems mad enough but lacks other
qualities.... J.W.M.: You don’t seem to have much
sense of rhythm.... Bailey Junior: “Wanted a better
finish... ..J.A.W.: Have grave doubts about your
artistic calling. One gem :
Poor “Gorev,” gazing o’er the roofs,
His eyes got “stuffed” with flies;
H'S horse did bolt when he screamed: “’Strath!”
Bewildered by his cries.
The swagman! ’neath his thund'ring hoofs
Got killed, to his surprise.
. . . .H.S. (Hereford) : How do you expect to identify
your answer from the common initials H.S. ? Verse
not interesting W.C.K.: Sounds like a draught-
horse chasing a butterfly. .. .D.J.H.: Sorry, it doesn’t
hit us.... Orion: “Sacked” not. up... .11.A.M.: The
craftsmanship not good enough to carry it....
A.C.8.: “Down and Out” just misses as a shocking
example... .Brolga : It's a sorry attempt. . . .K.A.H.:
Why the change from the Stately metre to the jumpy
one with the bad rhymes?. .. .M. Nc-L.: Very poor
stuff. .. .Magda: A lot of ragged verse to reach a
very small point.... Bendigonian: Same old ideas in
the same old setting... .E.N. (Williamstown) : . Yes,
there are brains under some hats, but what about
it?. .. .Knighthood: The “C.8.E.” idea isn’t true,
and is expressed in very bad verse. .. . A.W.H.:
“Blazes Hollow” doesn’t strike us.. . .H.M.F.: Sorry,
no use... .M.McD.: Those “Petals” are too frail....
A.1.P.: What on earth does it mean ?.... J.11.T.: No,
we don't consider Marie Corelli first-class, nor likely
to become a classic. Fourth-class, if there is no
chance of going lower.. ..K. (Kooringa) : Not
enough in the sketch J.A.M.: Awful handwriting
and bumpy verse.... D.B. J.: Very poor little thing.
. ...M.6.C.: We don't reply by letter. Dull stuff,
poorly written.... G.H.W.: No use T.G.W.:
They’re not up; but you may well go on trying....
W.M. (Murchison) : Hopeless.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.T.: Their e3 r es are too large and their mouths
are misplaced... .Cecil: Are you just starting your
artistic career or just ending it ?... .11.J.8.: Sad
little drawings.... C. 8.: And then Smith knocked his
idiotic friend down—or he would have done so if you
had drawn a good arm for 1iim....5.8.: Apparently
many trams have run over Pa's feet. And why is he
sitting on a one-sided armchair glued to the wall?
. ...Howa: All ready to go home... .R.E.: Lucky
you sent stamps. They have no feet to walk home
0n... .William D.: No rum to-day... .Thomas G.:
\ou’re the raw beginner of this week. ...A.S.P.:
Swept out. Only clean humor wanted... .H.M:N.:
It suggested the basket.... G.McH.: You should have
obliterated the fat policeman.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-ae -
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
•bites, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd,,
Tel. —City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
till'. Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 4,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Hanking. Public Companies, Ac.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, j
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIJLP, I
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Ollice: Brisbane.
Sydney Ollice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .(tine 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 180.000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W 7 . V. RALSTON.
lIKAI* OlllCli ... UK IS it A NIC.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney mid
tb rough out Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £145,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOI), Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; (lon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector foi
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the M 7 orld.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. . . 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
AustralasiariUnited Steam Navigation C“w,
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, 6th JUNE.
R.M.S. MAKURA, EARLY JULY.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Fails and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey aeross America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona. Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palis, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK Or NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paitl-up Capital
Keserve l uml
Reserve Liability
Established 1817.
Directors:
£3,904,860
£3,025,000
£3,904,860
£10,834,720
The Hon. Sir Lnarles K. Macliellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buekland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Eaitht'ull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Auditors : S."e. Laidley, Esq.’; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager : Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
Sank*'Australia
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR SAVING
are offered by this Bank —absolute security, liberal interest, and
the convenience of a Branch or Agency in almost every locality.
Deposits
Withdrawals
Interest
accepted from one shilling upwards.
payable on demand at the Branch where the account is
kept.
allowed at 3?4 per cent, per annum on every £ up to
£5OO.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
I THE BANK that PAYS 31% INTEREST on SAVINGS I
ShtiHttnr
■ ‘a**-*
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service
Manila, Hong Kong, Japan and
the East. Transhipment cargo
accepted for all Eastern ports,
Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
KOSO MARU, sailing early May.
MADRAS MARU, sailing middle of May.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
As Agents for Osaka Shosen Kaisha,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Intending passengers for other States
are requested to inquire at Quarantine
Department, Customs House, Sydney,
regarding necessary permits required
before sailing.
Permission to break journey at inter-
mediate Ports is suspended
Inter=State Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
Huddart Parker LIM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
ST 1C AME US TO NliW ZEALAND. —Regular sail
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
'application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per Week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney.
"THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
T\VEI£D. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BY HON BAY. CODE’S
HA I! BOH and WOOEGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillnmhah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company * up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 6s.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA-.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
bv this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe, and Yokohama.
Passengers must obtain from the Quarantine
Authorities permits to leave New South Wales at least
three days before the steamer’s departure.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD..
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.


An exclusive Edison artiste.
Hear
Madame
Stella
Power’s
3 fine Records on
1
-It is as a protegee of Dame Melba that Madame Power is best
known, and music-lovers throughout her native land acclaim her
the premier exponent of coloratura vocalisation in Australia. Her
clear, flute-like tones, particularly in. the upper register and perfect
mastery of cadenza and trill, have delighted audiences throughout
the United States, during a most successful concert tour, and is
meeting with the greatest enthusiasm at the present time in her
homeland.
Hear The MEW EDISON perfectly “re-create” the singer’s voice—
three records, comprising seven charming songs.
80400.
(a) BLACKBIRD'S SONG (Scott).
(b) SONGS MY MOTHER TAUGHT ME
(Dvorak).
UNA VOCE BOCO FA (A Little Voice I
Hear). II Barbiere Di Siviglia (Ros-
sini). In Italian.
80401.
CHAKMANT OISEAU (Thou Brilliant
Bird). La Perle Du Bresil iDavid).
In French.
SPRING (George Henschel).
80402.
BEE RAGGIO EUSINGHEIR (Bright
Gleam of Hope). Semiramide (Ros-
sini). In Italian.
NYMPHES EX SYEVAINS (11. Bemberg).
In French.
On sale now at all Edison dealers.
Full details post free from
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 3G4-372 Kent Street, Sydney
r-
NS
||f§jli|jgi Ui*l
~~‘ — r rJ| BSS*
4-f-
-fSff
K L ll
V-1
!hF
mt-IL fc| «-
—, * ,'TS
r ( /
;.?T ,
aV
COVER
THE
EARTH
Sherwin-Williams
Paint
f=>fpezf=>a*f?e:d
Paint your house with “S=W=P” and
the woodwork will last longer -free
from decay, warp and cracks. This
paint gives thorough PROTECTION,
resisting the Australian climate under
all conditions because it is scientifically
made for the purpose.
The Sherwin- Williams Co (Australia>Lm
Paint, Color & Varnish Makers,
63 Pitt Street Sydney.
Agents everywhere.
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Mb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
22/6
“Splendid for all small game."
I*3l. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model
24in. octagon or round barrel, 22 calibre rim fire,
magazine takes —o short, —0 long, or 18 long 1 rifle cartridges case*
hardened receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; X? B li e /
weight sJlb. takedown Freight paid,
| WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES. I
as
810.
short
plain
over
which
“Simple and extra strong in construction
Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model for *>•>
or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel"
trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight* lenetl. of
all 37Mn ; bead front sight, with patent flloyed tin
will not tarnish; weight, about 41b. *; tlp *
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
"Suitable for small game and target shooting.”
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short., 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round barrel ;
length over all, 35in.; weight 441 b. ; slide action, blade £ /
front and screwrear sights Freight paid,
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
grip, 21 in.
adjustable i
“A perfect r abb iter's rifle.”
837. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
Model 12A, 22 calibre, solid breech, side ejector, straight
round barrel, handles 15 short, 12 long or 11 long rifle cartridges ;
rear and open front sights; weight 4jlb QAI
Freight paid, vVyj
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
Kl 3, Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 16-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles -2
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; "eight, a^S^tDaid ’
90/-
■//A
“EVER READY” PATENT
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one. fQST FREE
“A suitable weapon for the boy.”
132. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight. 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
One of the hardest-liitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
839. Remington Automatic Hammer less
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight 5J11). _ _
Freight paid, Si* 4
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
1892
With Round Darrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about ojlb Freight paid,
£5/10/-
£5/15/-
£5/5/-
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any add) ess.
3C
mJSTRMm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
AND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Newcastle d Brisbane j


They Go Together—BEAUTY
and REXONA. Why not be a
Rexona Girl, too?
Rexona and Rexona Soap ensure that clear,
fresh skin and beautiful hair which go so far to
give any girl that natural charm and beauty
which is her rightful heritage.
To shampoo or wash the hair with Rexona
Soap is an easy task, but the results are
startling. It leaves the hair in such a beauti-
ful condition, the scalp perfectly clean and
wholesome. The hair becomes light and fluffy,
waving about the face in abundance, as beauti-
ful hair should always appear. Rexona Soap
leaves a delicate perfume, invigorating the
roots of the hair, which prevents greyness. A
few shampoos with Rexona Soap effectively
remove every trace of dandruff or loose and
falling hair. Ladies who use it for the hair
say that Rexona Soap is far better than any of
the so-called hair tonics.
I have been using your Rexona
and Rexona Soap for some time, and
think the world of them. I am a
real Rexona Girl and am sending
you one of my photographs. Never
have I come across anything so
healing as Rexona, and so good to
use as a rub-down. I am a fancy
skater, and have used your Rexona
as a Rubdown, with the best results.
Rexona Soap is simply lovely for
the skin and hair, and I am sure
my complexion reflects the use of
same. I use it constantly, and am
sure I can never get along without
it again.
Wishing Rexona every success,
I am,
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) BERYL, NOVAK,
22 Trouton Street. Balmain.
REXONA
.1/6 and 3/-
REXONA
SOAP
1/-
MISS
BERYL
NOVAK,
a charming
Rexona Girl
(f :om a photo
by Sidney
Riley).
stsi
’ -• V
f i
a
1
:
Try the Rexona
Treatment
Rexona Soap and Ointment
are universal favorites with
everyone who values a pure
and healthy skin. The longer
you neglect your skin the
harder it will be to care for
it. Delay may result in Ec-
zema, Ringworm, Running
Sores, or some of the many
and unpleasant forms that
skin trouble so often assumes.
Rexona the Rapid Healer and
Rexona Soap are sure pre-
servatives for the health and
Skin. Rexona Soap keeps the
skin soft and pure, and Rex-
ona the Rapid Healer will
immediately eradicate any disease
which may be apparent, for it arouses
the skin to healthy activity, so that
it quickly recuperates.
Buy a Tablet of Rexona Soap from
your Chemist or Storekeeper. It is
beautifully put up, and sold at 1/- per
tablet, or you can get it in boxes, con-
taining three tablets in a box. Rexona
is supplied only in triangular pots, at
1/6, or in larger pots, holding nearly
four times the quantity, at 3/-
f* C 0...
pyr-in«3 Aosciafely
* H«al s J Relm&.e
**•
X,.N Ct>WV * ■*
e*ai**» I\W //AN a v -- — r
c^—u ji—<p>>
t'ean^V
SHtH & FAC »»U
Pr,
nESRpHSMINC SOOTH IN
SOAP
£OIC ATE.i> OH THE same PfUHOPL
AS THi.FAMOUS REXOKA o’RT*Ji.HJj6*g^
m
m
MERIT
In Fountain Pens, as in everything
else, it is merit that tells, and that is
why the “ Swan ” has for a quarter
of a century gained more users every
year. When you buy a “Swan’
you know you have a guarantee of
excellence in workmanship, perfection
of detail, and that absolute reliability
which has been the consistent keynote
of “ Swan ” manufacture for a
generation.
“SWAN"
P6NS
Hold by Stationers and Jewellers E very where.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with Safety Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 12/6 Screw-on Cap, from 1 Si-
Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79-80, High Holbom, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—
(Wholesale only) 225 a, George St. London Factory—
-3}9~3 2 9< Weston St., S.E. Associate House —Mabie,
Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch: J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 265 a George Street, Sydney.
THE, PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
-T7IOR our sick and wounded
r BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Spain in Bohemia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
QUIET, and close the door!
Here, bv the leaping lire, .
Walled from the darkness behind,
before,
Is our City of Heart’s Desire.
Draw yet a little nigher;
Ilark to the beat of the rain
And the lift of the blind, where the bandit
wind
Batters the streaming pane!
Fashion, as only you can for me, girl.
Castles of cobweb and mother-of-pearl!
Under the window-ledge,
Soberly small and white,
Is the little couch, on whose sturdy edge
We sat but yesternight,
Seeing, against the light,.
Distant trees and a spire,
And the roof-tops a-sheen that lay between
Washed in a silver fire ;
While the muttering voice of the farther
town
Droned to us, softened by distance down.
Every minutest thing
Limned in the half-light here
Renders, to love and its wondering,
This castle of dreaming dear;
Even the things you -wear,
Your two small shoes by the wall,
Are of magic kissed, in the marvel-mist
Of the charm that covers all;
And the glass of my living may run its sands,
>*o it bo cupped in your two white hands.
Hardly deeming you near,
’Mid a litter of columns clipped
I sat, last week, at the table here,
Deep in a manuscript;
Out of the silence slipped
(Fearing to break the spell)
A hand to my chair, and rested there
Till I turned, and the paper fell.
For who could be dumb to the deep distress
Of your woman-heart in its loneliness?
What shall it profit a man,
How shall the earth atone,
If he win to the uttermost ocean’s span
Yet stand, at the last, alone?
Ashes and smokedrift blown
Are his years who has known not this —
The worshipping grace of a woman’s face
When it lifts, at the dusk, to his,
And the fluttering touch of her hand that
lies
Soft on his lips and his tired eyes.
There was a fret in me,
Never so long ago,
To follow the trail of that phantasy
The feet of the restless know —
Glamor of spells that throw
Nets for the hearts of men,
Luring them on where their kin have gone
And their kind shall go again,
Groping for star-dust, seeking in vain
Chateaus of gossamer, castles in Spain !
Manlike, and even so
Strange, and a thing apart,
That man should go seeking, and never
know
His castle is in his heart!
Here, where the flame-wraiths start
In glory about your head,
From the lure of the track I have turned me
back.
And the fret of the road is dead.
I have done with the • deeps and the outer
star—-
My castle of Spain is where you are!
Victoria.
J. ALEX. ALLAN
The Rebels.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[ln the United Irishman movement at the close
of the 18th century Catholics and Protestants fought
side by side for the establishment of an Irish repub-
lic. The town of Antrim was taken by - the rebels,
but they were driven out again by superior forces.
About this time there were great heartburnings in
the Irish Presbyterian churches over the question of
conformity to the Westminster Confession. One
whole Presbytery broke into open rebellion and
became Unitarian.]
Act I.
Tlw garden in front of Ballynagarth manse
in the north of Ireland. To the right is a
pear-tree in blossom and to the left are the
gable and spare windows of the meeting-
house, surrounded by dark firs. The manse
itself is a long, low-thatched building with
several doors and numerous ill-glazed win-
dows. The walls are whitewashed and a few
straggling plants are groiving in the garden
beds.
The Reverend John MacCabe and James
Todd are standing near the gate on the path
leading to the meeting-house. The former is
a Presbyterian minister under suspicion of
heresy; the latter an elder of Ballynagarth
church. MacCabe is a man of almost giant
proportions who speaks in a soft, low
voice; Todd is short and heavy, with severe
ccclesiasticism expressed in the cut of his
whiskers. The time is evening.
Todd : ’Tis no better than a Papish you are.
John MacCabe, and you headstrong to have
your own way.
MacCabe : Och, ay, maybe that, maybe that.
’Tis an easy thing to take the easy road.
Och, ay, maybe I am a blasphemer, too,
and a divil forbye.
Todd : ’Tis a blasphemer I doubt you are,
John, but a divil you are not. ’Tis a good
man you are, surely, for all you have no
hold on the truth.
MacCabe : Och, ay ! And it would maybe be
the truth, according to the apostle William
McLellan, that the Son was His own
Father, and Him praying to Him for grace.
Are you a fool, man, or have you two eyes
in your own head to read your own Testa-
ment?
Todd: ’Tis a sore day this for Ballyna-
garth, and you not willing to sign with the
rest.
MacCabe : And why would I sign with Wil-
liam McLellan? Is the Word of God in
him only and no other? Are there not two-
score of men, ministers and elders, in
Ulster this day that will not sign? But I
will not* sign. Will you take that plain
word from me, James Todd? I will not
sign !
Todd ( shaking his head) : Ay, I know you;
you will not sign. Och, ’tis a sore day for
Ballynagarth. ’Tis myself must look for
another minister to sit under, if I walk five
miles to meeting, for you are headstrong
and will not be controlled.
Todd walks slowly away and MacCabe
watches him as lie goes.
MacCabe : ’Tis the truth itself is as a sword
of the Lord drawn between men. But I
will not sign. (He comes to the middle door
of the manse.) Bridget, will you set out
my supper with the stirabout and the sweet
milk, for I will be back soon.
Bridget opens the door.
Bridget : ’Tis not far you will be going; for
the Orangemen, bad cess to them, are out
on the roads, and there will be brack mur-
der this night.
MacCabe (laughing): Sure, Bridget, ’tis
queer you are in your wits this day. Would
an Orangeman be pushing me with a pike,
and me a minister and a Protestant?
Bridget : Och, ’tis the Protestants them-
selves that they do be after. Sure, the
Protestants fought like men with never a
curse of the holy Pope on their lips.
MacCabe: I doubt it was a bad ploy, Brid-
get, and them breaking the law and fight-
ing with rones round their necks.
Bridget: Hech. sir, and ’tis a fine law. Will
you tell me this? Has the law not broken
them before they started to break it?
MacCabe : Och, well, the Orangemen will not
hurt a hair of my head, and me only going
to shut the gate of the long field and keep
the black cow in.
He goes out. Bridget watches him pass
through the gale and then goes into the
manse, closing the door behind her.
Act II.
The same place half an hour later. I'lie
evening has darkened and the twilight thick-
ens as the scene proceeds. Henry MacAlister,
a Protestant, and Pat Kelly, a Caiholic, both
fugitives from the battle of Antrim, come in
through the shrubs below the pear-tree. A
clatter of galloping horses is heard in the
distance.
Pat : ’Tis the black Protestant he is and
maybe worse than the troopers.
Henry: Whisht, you fool Papish, you! He’s
no good Protestant at all, but a man that
will not sign. Am I not a Protestant my-
self? You and your black Protestant!
Sure, wasn’t it the Protestant boys mostly
that near took Antrim? He’s coming now.
Will we be asking him? (MacCabe comes
in.) ’Tis a fine evening, sir; and they’re
after us to hang us for the fight at Antrim.
You can hear the horses coming down by
the cross-roads.
Pat : ’Tis no time we have at all, sir, to be
telling you. Will you hide us now?
MacCabe : Will I be hiding lawbreakers and
rebels, is it?
Pat : ’Twas for liberty we fought, and us
with no guns. *
MacCabe (looking black): Liberty! For
liberty to hang them that are coming to
hang you.
Henry : No, sir; but for liberty to think a
small thought in honor and it maybe not
to the liking of some man in Dublin.
The horsemen are heard nearer.
Pat : For the love of God, tall man, hide us.
MacCabe : And for what would I hide
rebels? To get the thatch burned over
my own head?
Henry (with great dignity) : We will be
going on and a kind thought to you !
MacCabe : Stop! Up into the barn loft with
you ! Pull the ladder up after you and get
under the hay. (Pat and Henry go out.)
“Liberty to think a small thought,” did the
whelp say? Is it a rebel you are in your
own soul, John MacCabe?
Three troopers of the Orange yeomanry
appear at the gate.
First Trooper : A fine evening to you, sir.
MacCabe : A fine evening for a bitter, black
work. v
First Trooper : ’Tis black work, surely, with
• traitors and rebels scheming off into the
dark, and us not finding them.
MacCabe : Is it Orangemen you are, looking
for them that tried to fight you with a
thorn-stick and no guns?
Second Trooper: Hech, sir, ’twas a sore
fight, surely; and ’tis them that have
escaped would burn the meeting-houses on
the Sabbath over our heads and give Ire-
land to the French Pope!
Other troopers come up.
First Trooper : ’Tis two that came this way,
sir. Maybe you would be seeing them going
past?
MacCabe; I am a minister of God’s word;
and would I be seeing them that might
die for me setting eyes on them?
First Trooper : ’Tis the King’s work, sir.
MacCabe: I doubt ’tis the Divil’s work,
some of it.
The darkness has been closing down, and
there is now scarcely light to see the speak-
ers. An English officer has come up and
joined the troopers.
Officer: What is the cause of this delay,
Mulligan? You, sir, what do you know
of the fugitives? Two men were seen to
enter this place. In the King’s name, I
demand their surrender!
First Trooper (in a loud, impressive
whisner) : ’Tis the minister of Ballyna-
garth meeting-house, sir.
Officer; The what? Oh, I see—a clergy-
man. Excuse me, sir, but the night is
coming on and our time is short. I must
ask you to surrender the men in hiding
here.
MacCabe : Och, maybe that, maybe that.
Bridget throws the door open, revealing a
table set for a frugal supper, lighted by two
tallow candles in long candlesticks.
Bridget : Will you come in now to your
supper. (Discovering the presence of the
troopers.) Mother of Mercy, ’tis the black
Orangemen!
Officer: Come, sir, I must do my duty. In
the King’s name, sir.
MacCabe : And what would be the King’s
will?
Officer : That you disclose the hiding-place
of the men who took shelter here.
(Continued on next page.)


Wounds, Bruises and all Superficial Injuries
Zam-Buk is Unequalled for Every - day Hurts.
N°Lto y ht yi ™j th ? U £ 1 SO f e m . emb T ° f the family setting hurt. Maybe the breadwinner’s work
mother with bunfns and n h * ble t 0 ° r la cerations; the boisterous youngsters are always running in to
sprains pai »™ k ™ cks ’ ’ -aids and
too, S h of£ er kome constantly supplied with Zam-Buk. Wise,
chest, or in his pocket! P Pt th puie and efte ctive first-aid handy in his desk-drawer, in his tool
ing by * firstTntention "*Z-i rrf llift h ain less healing lies in the fact that it imitates Nature’s own “heal-
combfneJami “nitrated ttf ttv l P t S - d t ° f Pare sap ? and j uic es, so highly refined and so scientifically
pores of the skin round about snrvfhmo S fh« VC i ry Vi and . c y e vice of a wound, as well as through the
germicidal action. DOUt ’ sootilin S the pain and allaying inflammation by effective antiseptic and
l>laceTactinS I ”ift U L a NMure hera»f?w?uia h L? e ff h ,f° Sether V ° r i , ° ’’S' I ,'? no" 1 cells of healthy skin In the
her—or If thoughtless nennle 2S act . f the unnatural conditions of modern life didn’t prevent
rancid aniiS? f«sormfnerll P her "° l ' k bf “ sing ordi " ar J ointments, salves, etc., made of
but(S^ t i?fith^Ji^which t i s o hl^,g b ’ s “i°ngMd e aitoepU?.' ort ’ beaUty a " d heal * h of your skln ’
r
•
s -s
V
r-V.
f l:
Mr. Rose,
■
who has
had iride
expert-
ence
with
jZam-Buk.
I
<53
99
/
Beware of
Substitutes
and Insist
on Zam-Buk
Zam-Buk is proved
unequalled for cuts, bruises, scalds,
burns, sores, bad legs, ulcers, abrasions,
mosquito bites, proud flesh, peeling skin, summer rash,
Dimples, blisters, children’s sores, boils, festering sores, piles sprains
scabs, barcoo rot, insect stings, eczema, stiffness, and injured and diseased -«>. -
conditions of the skin generally. From all Chemists and Stores, at 1/6 and 3/6 ner
pot, or post free, direct from C. E. Fulford (Aust.) Ltd., 39 Pitt Street Sydnej
“THE AXE SLIPPED
while chopping poles and caught m.v
right foot, severing the sinews and . - mam
disabling me for six weeks,” says Mr. James Rose, of 12 tienty Street.
Richmond, Victoria. “It was fully this period before I could put my
foot to the ground. I put oil on it, and this healed it. but the nerve
was injured and I suffered fearful pain, so I applied Zam-Buk on
the injury; the first application took the pain away and seemed to
soothe it. Then it started to heal properly, knitting the
sinews and also the severed nerves. The sinews were
protruding from the wound, but they joined up again
in the process of healing.
“My son Robert had a knock on' both his legs, and
these injuries inflamed and festered, and were most pain-
ful. Zam-Buk was applied, and the treatment persisted
in until the legs were completely healed.
“My eldest son, Thomas, had a cut of a very severe
nature on the leg, with an axe also, and Zam-Buk proved
valuable in healing it, too.”
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK
Bridget; What men is it at all? There
are no men here, surely, only Andy, and
him away since morning carting turf.
First Trooper : Maybe they went on down
the loanen at the back, and us wasting
the good time.
MacCabe: Maybe that, maybe that. The
gate in the long field was open till I shut
it a while ago.
Officer : Do I understand that the fugi-
tives have not been seen? Of course, sir,
if you give me your word, of honor as a
clergyman that the men are not here, we
must accept it.
Bridget : There are no men here, surely.
Would the minister be telling you lies?
Officer; Is that so, sir?
MacCabe: Och, maybe that, maybe that.
But the loanen gate was open.
Officer : Back to your horses, men!
MacCabe (to officer) : Will you not come
in and taste a small sup? I doubt this is
sore work both for them that hunt and
them that run.
Officer: I thank you, no. My duty is a
disagreeable one; but we must lose no
time. Avery good-night to you. (Turn-
ing away and addressing a trooper.)
Damn this delay, Mulligan. Why didn’t
you explain to me that the parson said,
there was no one here? I low can I
understand a man who talks like that?
The officer and troopers go out.
Bridget: Will you come in now to your
supper? What for would they be saying
there were men hid here?
MacCabe : Whisht! There are two men in
the loft.
Bridget : Och, the poor boys!
The troopers are heard to mount their
horses.
MacCabe : Whisht, woman ! ’Tis rebels and
lawbreakers they are ; but they have John
MacCabe to deal with. Will you bring
me the new car-whip? It is on Matthew
Henry’s book.
Bridget: ’Deed and I will not. Is it hurt
the poor boys you, would for not being
hanged by the black Orangemen?
MacCabe: Woman, bring me that whip.
(Bridget goes out.) “For the right to
think a small thought,” did the whelp say?
The troopers are heard in the distance.
Bridget returns with the whip.
Bridget : Och, sir, be easy with them.
MacCabe: Have they not broken the law?
Act 111.
The barn loft in almost total darkness.
When the light appears it is seen to be stored
with liay and a great heap of newly-threshed
oats lies on the floor.
Pat : They have gone, surely. ’Tis the
great man he is hiding us and putting them
off. I will never speak bad of a Protestant
again.
Henry ; ’Tis no Protestant he is, I tell you.
Would a good Protestant not sign? ’Tis
little better he is than a Papisli.
Pat : Och, ’tis gone they are, and we can
sleep sound this night.
Voice from below : Put down the ladder!
Henry: Are they away? Did you put them
on the wrong road?
Voice from below : Put down the ladder !
• P'at puts the ladder over, and a light gradu-
ally fills the open space in the floor.
Pat : The blessing of God on you for this
•night’s work, sir.
MacCabe appears at the top of the ladder
holding a stable-lantern and a whip. He
hangs the lantern on a beam.
Henry: Are they clean gone away?
MacCabe : Stand out, you whelps, and
answer for your lawbreaking to John
MacCabe. (He brings the icliip down
with a slashing cut across Henry’s shoul-
der.)
Henry : Bad cess to you, is it fight you
would, and you after saving us from the
law-board ?
He pulls off his coal and squares up at
MacCabe.
Pat (tearing off his own coat) ; Fight! But
you will not fight the man that put the
Orangemen off. Fight me !
MacCabe’s lash descends ■mercilessly on
Pat's back.
Henry : Stand back, you fool Papisli, and
let me at him !
Pat (to Henry, as a' second cut reaches
, him) : Fight, you Protestant hound!
Pat and Henry exchange clumsy blows
while the whip descends with impartial regu-
larity on both. Pat knocks Henry down in
the hay and stands over him, yelling defiance
when his own share of the whip comes, but
never turning on MacCabe.
MacCabe : You lawbreakers! You rebels !
Henry : ’Tis yourself is the rebel, you that
would not sign with the Presbytery. Will
you tell me this now? Is it worse to be
a rebel to man or a rebel to God ? Will
you please answer me that?
MacCabe (suspending the lashing opera-
tions and plunged in sudden thought) :
Och, maybe that.
Henry; What was it you wouldn’t sign
for?
MacCabe; ’Twas, surely, for the liberty to
think a true thought.
Henry (bitterly) : ’Twas no true thought,
but: the divil in your own heart. ’Tis a
rebel you are against the Presbytery, with
no right to preach at all.
MacCabe ( fingering the whip) : Have I
not? Is William McLellan the sum of all
truth?
Henry : ’Tis a rebel you are. For why did
I fight at Antrim? Was it not for
liberty? Why wouldn’t you sign? May-
be it wasn’t for liberty? Bad cess to you,
with that whip on my sore shoulder.
MacCabe : Maybe I hit you too hard.
Pat ; Och, sir, ’twas a great fight at Antrim.
’Tis not a whip you should have, but a
good old pike in your strong hand and you
cheering for Ireland and liberty.
Henry : Och, no. How would the likes of
him know what to fight for? ’Tis on the
other side he would be with the black
Orangemen. ’Tis them that would under-
stand the whip.
Pat : But ’twas the fight of the world, sir.
Them with the cannon and us with pikes
and sticks. And we took it—och, sir, we
took the town of Antrim itself.
Henry : Bad cess to them that drove us out
again with guns and horses!
Pat : And there -was big Tim Ballance, sir,
a Protestant—God forgive him—that put
his arm up to the shoulder in the cannon.
“Come on, boys,” says he, “come on! I’ve
got her mouth stopped”—rest his soul!
Henry : He was a rebel and a lawbreaker.
He ought to have lived for the whip.
MacCabe : Maybe I hit you too hard.
Henry ; Och, no, you were for the law—the
law of the whip—you that wouldn’t sign
the law of the Presbytery.
Voice of Bridget below : Och, will you not
come down to your supper and bring the
men with you? How can I keep the stir-
about hot all night, and Andy home from
the bog?
MacCabe : Put out the bottle, Bridget. We
will be needing a small sup this night.
(To Henry.) I doubt I was wrong. I
am a rebel. ( MacCabe slowly takes his
coat oft.)
Henry ( rising from the hay) : Will you
fight me?
Pat : He will not, surely. ’Tis myself will
fight you all the long night!
MacCabe (handing the whip to Henry) :
I will not fight you, but I think a small
tasting of the whip would, maybe, do me
good.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Reardon’s Rhapsodies.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LAST week an old friend of mine burst
out of France as if he was soda from
a bottle and poured his enthusiasm
over me.
“Glad to meet you, old fellow!” he cried.
“Couldn’t run across you anywhere in
France. And we’ve been busy! I’ve been
in twenty-nine hop-overs in five months.”
I knew him at once ; but it was when he
said this that I remembered, also, his idio-
syncrasies. One of the best fellows in the
world, he likes to talk to an audience ; and
he does things worth talking about, too.
It was just as well the hotels were open,
because he obviously wanted something to
mix with his soda.
“A tankard, please, miss,” he said. “I’ve
had twenty-nine hop-overs in five months.”
He spoke as though he had forgotten to
refresh himself between the acts, and had
just arrived from the last exploit with a
large thirst.
I forget what it was that caused the civil-
ian to join in the conversation ; but it was a
glorious opportunity.
“My dear sir,” said Reardon, “I’ve been
in twenty-nine hop-overs during the last five
months”
The civilian was so impressed that he
ordered drinks—twice. Then a friend of the
civilian came in.
“My friend here, if I may call him so,”
said the First Citizen, “has* just come over
from France.”
“Twenty-nine hop-overs in five months,”
said Reardon.
I thought he had done very well there and
might like a new stage-setting for his master-
piece ; so shortly I drew him away.
Reardon thought of a hostelry of his own,
but had grown hazy about its location. At
least he said he had; but, as he took the
opportunity to tell the policeman about what
had happened in France during the last five
months, and then went his way without
listening to the policeman’s directions, I
have some doubts.
The landlady evidently knew him.
“You said you were going to write,” she
remarked coldly.
“My dear lady, I’ve had twenty-nine hop-
overs in the last five months,” began Rear-
don ; and was completely forgiven. Subse-
quently he gave the tally to different people
—until I losl count. I was not annoyed for
a long time. I love my friends’ peculiarities
because I like to laugh at them. But when
he bumped into a set of statuary and apolo-
gised by saying that he had only just
come from France, and had had twenty-nine
hop-overs in five months, I got tired.
He tried to be good. We visited a tavern
which has historical associations, and I Was
quite pleased with him. A board mention-
ing some of the associations caught his eye.
“Boswell and Johnson used to dine here,”
he said. “It’s very interesting to come to
these old places.”
I liked this.
“I wonder,” he said, musingly—“l wonder
what these old beggars would think of
twenty-nine hop-overs in five months!”
I firmly took him to his train. And, any-
way, the hotels were closing.
Reardon had a little trouble over his
change.
“What’s wrong?” I asked.
“Oh, it’s my fault—it’s all right.” he said,
hastily; and turned apologetically to th°
girl ticket-seller. “You see, I’ve been used
to counting in francs. I’ve just come from
France; and I’ve been in”
He was inclined to resent the push, until
I explained that the crowd was shoving be-
hind me.
His compartment had other occupants,
mostly women ; but he secured a corner seat.
“Well, good-bye, old man.” he said. “It
was good to have met you. When a man”——
“Yes, I know,” I said quickly. “You
needn’t mention it.”
“Of course you do!” he said, heartily.
“You know what it is like in France; but
you have never”
“I haven’t!” I chipped in. “But all the
same. I can understand what it’s been like.”
“Twenty” he began.
“No ; sixteen minutes to,” I interrupted.
He sighed in a baffled manner, and became
grave.
“You remember that grey-haired lady we
passed?” he said sentimentally. “She re-
minded me of my mother.”
“We all think of home sometimes,” I said
sympathetically.
“Yes.” he mused. “I wonder what she
would think of me being in twenty-nine hop-
overs in five months.”
The train steamed out. but I fancied I
detected a smile of triumph in a corner of it.
HAMER.


WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
ARE YOU
Ruptu reO
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Uo you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
undei’straps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Don't wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins <0
flag, or a sour stomach ar
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter’s Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
cures
For your health's sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Prioa.
GENUINE must bear signature
i
rm
m
m
m
WRIGLEYS
6 big bars in each packet for 3d.
The best buy in lasting refresh-
ment and benefit you can possibly
find.
WRIGLEYS is sealed tight
kept right. You get it always
fresh, full flavoured, clean.
The Flavour Lasts
Made by
Wm. Wrigiey Jr. Co. Prop. Ltd.,
Rosebery, Sydney. N.S.W.
535 if(
St
o!2
£O5
cSI
503
@3
KEEP FIT
BY
USING
m
r
Beechams Pills
<■**
o
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMP
w. Box 686. G, P. 0
THE fascination of
field shooting is due to
the uncertainty of getting the
game. The interest in shooting is the
ability to reduce those uncertainties to the mini-
A well trained dog, a good gun and
mum.
cartridges are among the necessary elements.
Produced by experienced makers and re-
cognized everywhere by keen sportsmen
as of unsurpassed quality, Remington
UMC cartridges will help you to com-
ements which make a good
shot and which bring home
the full bag.
Catalogue postpaid
upon request.
bine the e
A Brooks will
make a ‘ ‘ bounce’ ’
impossible, the
Brooks compensating v
springs will see to that
and only a
BROOKS
has these. Therefore whate'er may be
your choice of mount, never be influenced
to accept any other make of saddle than
this the world’s acknowledged best.
Ask your Agent.
F BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
I)ep6t. Wynvard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will qsote you price for it.


NGRovrr
LEATHER
LTI
Proof of Power
Mangrovite Leather Belting is the best for
all power-transmission purposes because it
transmits maximum power and is strong and
durable.
Put it to the test on your power plant. Our
expert engineer will be pleased to advise you
about your transmission problems.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square (near C.P. o.),Sydney,N.S.W.
Western Australia: Cibbs, Bright* Co. Perth
S th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd., 379
264 Xiatrobe Street, Melbourne; Kalgoorlie and Fremantle, W.A.
Paul & Gray Ltd., Newcastle.
. Charles Atkins & Co., Adelaide.
John Beid & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
HIGH-QUALITY STEEL-CUTTING EDGES, with Iron Backs',—made to your order
from our own material.
When ordering state size on cut, depth, thickness, length and width of slots;
whether for Fixed Heads or Movable Bolts. If Fixed Heads Template absolutely
necessary.
Great Main Drives connecting long aisles of
ingenious machines, every turn of each
machine dependent upon a belt and its
ability to continuously transmit power.
A
Link of
Strength
Dick’s
Batata Belting
(Original and Genuine)
Bears the biggest load with
the utmost ease.
No power waste when Dick’s
Balata Belting is on the job.
Ask your men—they know.
Write us to-day.
JAMES HARDIE &. CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. Wyrsyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
Phone 845 G (4 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even. under . the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial' expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
Building, 97 Pitt
Streel
dne!
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z-
i
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2% inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Bails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
PUMPS -Good Pumps Only
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12in. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include: —
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
ran
JWTt \
SM3
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS.
ALL TYPES ALL SIZES
FOR.
Town Lighting, Country House Lighting, etc.
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
BOX; P.O. 2550.
TELEPHONE; CITY 8931
(Australasian Offioo)—
Culwtilla Chambers,
CASTLEREAGH STREET SYDNEY.
DELGO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4% hours.
PULL PARTICULARS PROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
NEW DISCOVERY FOR THE “LISTER” HANDPIECE.
The Tension Nut with Taper Crown Plate is the latest improvement in the “Lister”
Handpiece,, and means friuch to users, experts and owners. The old style of Crown
Plate was a constant source of annoyance, owing- to grit entering the tension-nut and
throwing it off the level —it bulges the tension-nut and is generally considered the most
difficult part of the handpiece to correctly adjust, necessitating special tools for this pur-
pose. The new Taper Crown Plate requires no careful fitting, but simply drops into
place in a firm, tapered seat in the actual head of the tension-nut. No grit or cuttings
4 ■ / T« e
A V*;,
F
? i
ms
can get in to affect the level —it can be made glass-hard, to increase durability, and
outlasts 10 old-style Crown Plates. It is easy to remove, and does away with the
necessity of buying ring tool, 7/6; reamer, 7/6; and adjuster, 15/-
The new Taper Crown Plate is self-levelling, owing to the tapered seat, and saves 90%
in fitting time as compared with old type.
Have your “Lister” or other makes of Handpieces brought up to date—order the new
Tension Nut with Tapered Crown Plate.
DAN GAR, GEDYE (£L Co. LTD., Sole Agents for Australia, 9-13 Young Street,
SUB-AGENTS: Winchcomfoe, Carson Utd., Brisbane (Central and South Queensland); Burns, Philp & Co. Utd., Townsville (North Queensland); Mitchell & Co.
Footscray, Victoria; A. G. Webster & Sons Utd., Hobart; Malloch Bros., Perth.
SYDNEY.
Pty. Utd., West
Mining and Milling Machinery “ f •»£
As practical and technically trained
mining engineers are on our staff,
we are able to advise clients to
their best advantage with regard to
any proposed installation, and to
quote them for the supply and
erection of any class of milling plant.
IE
..;.V
, y
• S 'ifc*
If your milling extraction is not
satisfactory, we will report on the
plant and suggest changes—often
quite inexpensive— which will in
many cases improve your output
from 10 to 20 per cent., and
increase the capacity of your plant.
Correspondence invited on this, or any
other subject connected with mining or
milling machinery.
DORR PATENT CLASSIFIER.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Mining (St Electrical
Engineers,
350 George Street, Sydney.
