

Ti'^ , W'Al^ 3 S —The Spirit of Harmony.
R. G-. WATKINS «S& CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOK—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
/.mi
W®fe\\\MTOUuin>
lim*
Uluiuiiliiillii//
\xm\\mm///nnmi/j
ymmj
N S W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74* SL., 74. Sydney.
“ADVANCE S -
ON ALL CLASSES
OF 'SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
UUHUUttttl
/fcMfojj? 215-17Swadon St.,tlelb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane. "
29 King St,Newcastle 186 Castlereaqh 5t.,& 159 George St.,'West, Sydney.
CAPITAL S, 200, 000 ‘Phone City 932s .
£u j-t&ce JZs’jntjrte , Gesiej~&y jPfsi-rt&Grej-.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
for Modern
¥ou simply cannot afford to take chances
with the disposal of your sewage. For
the sake of your own and your children’s
health, study the merits of the
iison
Sewage Disposal System
This modern system does away with the
old-fashioned cesspool or tin-pan style of
W.C.—the greatest sources of disease the
country knows.
The sewage is treated so perfectly that
absolutely no odor arises even on the
hottest days.
Over 600 arf in use in N. S. Wales
alone, and the system has the O.K. of
experts the world over.
Send for free booklet, which gives facts
in detail.
MONTGOMERIE - NEILS ON
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY
'Phone City 8976.
pFLE
©
Nothing
to Arcuc
About!
iiiite^
Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
sa
dsad
ad
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
It pays to discriminate:
Get the roofing: that is
“Not the same as others
m
All roofings seem alike. So they are—except Malthoid, which is entirely
different from and superior to all others. Samples and illustrated booklet
post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (P. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
■juppr&f*
10TIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
D
GRANVILLE
N.S.W.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy iron «& Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc .
Arthur
lead Office
SYDNEY.
MACHINERY.
Modern Elevating and Conveying Machinery
TO SUIT ALL PURPOSES.
PLANS AND ESTIMATES PREPARED.
QUEENSLAND ENQUIRIES: The AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO.
LTD., 218-220 Mary Street, BRISBANE.
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH
Famous Brands of
HIGH-SPEED STEEL & DRILLS
“A.W.*» “T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER.”
manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Australian Representatives:
Gilbert
e 8 Co.
sda
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED.
ďsa
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
dsa
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2068.
Thursday, October 2, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
Foreign
& n
Languages
THE I.C.S. LANGUAGE OUTFIT.
The most practical, easiest and most rapid method of Learning Languages.
FRENCH, ITALIAN, SPANISH, GERMAN.
Learn at Home—Phonograph plays Edison Records, i
The I.C.S. SUPPLY EXPEItT ADVICE FREE. PLAN YOUR FUTURE.
International Correspondence Schools
(The World’s School house),
LONDON, SCRANTON, PARIS, NEW YORK.
183 Pitt St., Sydney. 03 Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z.
79 Swanston St., Melbourne. 330 Queen St., Brisbane
[YllTTr7»TsnTniliT»»^ffllifrYmM
Information supplied without obligation
to enquirers and a Free Booklet posted.
. .Advertisement Writer
. .Agriculturist
. .Architect
>.. Artificer
. .Accountant (prelim.)
. .Boilermaker
. .Book-keeper
. .Bridge Engineer
.. Builder
..Chauffeur
. .Chemist
. .Carpenter
..Carriage Builder
. .Civil Engineer
. .Clerk of Works
.. Coke-oven Manager
. .Concrete Engineer
. .Die-maker
~ Draughtsman
. .Dynamo Attendant
. .Electrical Engineer
. .Electrician
. .Engine Driver
, .Fireman
. .Furniture-maker
. .Gas-power Engineer
. .General Education
. .Illustrator
. .Livestock Breeder
. .Mathematician
, .Marine Engineer
. .Mechanical Engineer
..Metallurgist
. . Metal Prospector
. . Mine Electrician
.. Mine Foreman
. .Mine Manager
. .Mine Surveyor
.. Motor-body Builder
. .Motor Engineer
. .Motor Mechanic
.. Moulder
.. Municipal Engineer
. .Navigator
.. Patternmaker
. .Plumber
. .Poultry Farmer
. .Publicity Manager
. .Quantity Surveyor
. .Railway Engineer
. .Refrigeration Engineer
.. Salesman
.. Secretary
. . Sheet-metal Worker
. .Shorthand-Typist
. .Show-card Writer
. .Sign Pailiter
. . Smelter
..Steam Engineer
. .Structural Engineer
. .Surveyor
. .Telegraph Engineer
. .Telephone Engineer
..Templatet
.. Toolmaker
. .Window Dresser
. .Wireless Expert
. .Woollen Worker
. .Works Engineer
Foreign Languages—French, Italian, Spanish, German, by Phonograph.
KINDLY PRINT NAME CLEARLY.
m
r\
/s
V
7\VJ'
m
U»S
£nf«j
NAVYii
fflß
•a
The Most Simple Motor Lorry to Operate
Every part of the Federal Motor Lorry is built to operate with
the minimum of care and attention.
This means that the Federal will give the maximum of service
over any kind of road, and with any kind of load.
The Federal is dependable, economical and easiest to operata
Let us send you our free magazine, “Traffic News.”
Also ask for price lists and discounts.
H, W. CROUCH, Sole N.S.W. Agent,
26-28 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Federal Motor Truck Company
Kaetonr—Detroit, Mich. U. S*A. Foreign Dept.* 18 Broadway* New York, U. S. A*
dsa
d
sad
AN ALL-BRITISH PRODUCT. Made in Australia.
Contains no Cocaine or other poisonous drugs.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
The Great Antiseptic for
Coughs! Colds! Influenza!
Prevention of Consumption!
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Tins, 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.
The Lancet (London), The Practitioner, etc. [5
V>U j
■y '
•Hooujwion.
ro\£
HU
SOM
The Red Page.
Man, the Beast of Prey
In a letter which The Bulletin received
from Callan Park when the Great War was
going against us, and when it seemed that
the fight was “all in,” the writer proposed
that venomous snakes should be dropped by
aeroplanes along the German lines. Apart
from that the Red Page does not remember
any warlike suggestion made by any zoolo-
gist during the great struggle. The zoolo-
gists themselves felt that they were rather
out of it. The most that the directors of
our own Zoological Gardens could do was
to propose enlistment in the Veterinary
Corps. Hence, no doubt, the determination
of the Imperial Studies Committee of the
University of London to promote a series of
lectures “to bring before the public in as
convincing a manner as possible the claims
of zoological science to recognition on terms
of equality with other departments of learn-
ing.” These lectures have been put into a
fascinating volume with the title Animal
Life and Human Progress (Constable and
Co.).
Professor Dendy, of the University of
London, delivered the introductory lecture,
and described man as “essentially a parasite
and beast of prey.” And that is really
the keynote of what is of most interest and
value in the volume. Man, though he pre-
tends to be improving various breeds, and
no doubt is doing it, is waging warfare
against a vastly greater number of enemies;
and the zoologist is directing him. Aus-
tralia had an example of it lately in connec-
tion with the wheat weevil. But when you
meet a weevil the zoologist is apt to startle
you with the information that there are
more distinct varieties of the little beast
than there are people in a good-sized suburb.
Of chalcid parasites, which themselves prey
upon weevils and such like, there are over
5000 species. And apparently they are in
no danger of running short of hosts; for
in .an experiment made after Professor
Dendy’s introductory lecture was delivered,
a single pair of Calandra or,yzae gave 1501
adult weevils in 111 days. A parent with
a family like that has some reason to be
perturbed about the high cost of living.
The zoologist claims that even from the
base, economic point of view, lie is worth
his salt because of the enormous destruction of
food, as well as of human life, more directly
through the depredations of the little beasts
whose acquaintance it is his work to make.
Australia is particularly free, as a rule, from
the wheat weevils, probably because they
like damp conditions as well as consider-
able heat. Our grain is very dry, and in
our wheat belts summer rains are com-
paratively rare. In India, on the other
hand, it is calculated that from 2f to 5 p.e.
of the total wheat crop is annually de-
stroyed, representing a value of more than
£1,000,000 ; and it is further reckoned that
the world’s total loss is about 10 times that
amount per annum. Ten million pounds’
worth of wheat employed every year to feed
weevils—the zoologist certainly makes out a
case for himself! Incidentally, the figures
might also be taken to prove that he hasn’t
made much of a job so far with the destruc-
tion of this enemy of man. If he pleads that
Nature unfairly handicapped him by setting
him up ’ against a foe who can multi-
ply himself by 750 in less than four months,
he has the right to be listehed to.
Against another enemy—a far more for-
midable one so far as Australia is concerned
—he can, however, claim to be fighting a
more patently-successful campaign. But
probably that is because this enemy’s attack
is made directly against man, and has
turned him into a less efficient workman.
It was this feature which no doubt sent
John D. Rockefeller, the American oil
millionaire, on the trail of hookworm. In
1909 the Rockefeller Sanitary Commission
found that in the preceding five years “more
than two million people in the Southern
States [of the U.S.A.] were infected with
hookworn, involving vast suffering, par-
tial arrest of physical, mental and moral
growth, great loss in life, and noticeable de-
crease in economic efficiency over vast re-
gions.” It found, too, that in the inhabited
territory of the ' earth between 30 degrees
north and south of the equator more than
a thousand million people harbor the para-
site ; and in 1913, following the publication
of this remarkable collection of facts and
surmises, Rockefeller endowed the Inter-
national Health Board with 100 million
dollars “to extend to other countries and
peoples the work of eradicating hookworm
disease,” and generally to promote public
sanitation and the spread of scientific
medicine. In co-operation ’ with the Com-
monwealth and Queensland State Govern-
ments this Board has commenced operations
in Queensland; and. in view of the ascer-
tained prevalence of the disease in the nor-
thern half of the State, and of the appalling
results of the disease among “the poor white
trash” in the southern States of U.S.A., the
success of the fight in other countries is.
tremendously important to Australia. As
a matter of fact, the disease is singularly
open to successful attack. The intestinal
worm itself is peculiarly susceptible to cer-
tain drugs. But because persons who
harbor only a few worms feel no ill effects,
although they are continually voiding living
eggs, the disease can only be met by a
serious campaign and general public enlight-
enment. Perhaps the most potent weapon in
the latter regard is the fact that in Porto
Rico, for example, over 30 p.c. of the deaths
wore at ofie time due to the disease. And,
for encouragement, there is the other sort
of fact that in British Guiana 94 p.e. of the
population within an infected area were
examined, 62 p.c.. of these were found to be
infected, and 84 p.c. of the infected were
cured.
Our copy comes through the Australasian
Publishing Co. ,
1914
WlJf, being the story of the beginnings of
the British campaign in France, doesn’t mark
General French as a brilliant writer. Still
the same might be said about General Grant;
and General Caesar was an over-rated jour-
nalist. French tells his story simply and
plainly, and some of the charges of unfair-
ness thrown at hint so lavishly seem ground-
less. Others don’t. Four features stand
out: —•
(1) His immense admiration for General Joffre,
whom he regards as one of the inspired leaders of
history.
(2) His profound and unveiled dislike of Lanrezac.
(3) His smothered dislike of Smith-Dorrien.
(4) His ferocious frankness about the shortage of
ammunition.
As regards Joffre, the world has a high opinion ;
and French probably knows his business in
rating him still higher. The tragic Lanrezac
is a subject on which writers are fairly
unanimous. Having had no big war for 43
years, France started with a few aged
veterans like Pau and a crowd of book
generals. Jofifre’s own reputation rested
largely on his march across the Sahara to
Timbuctoo, which was more pioneering than
war. Foch, who was entirely booky, and
had never seen a skirmish before 1914, proved
a Napoleon or a Hannibal when his chance
came. Lanrezac, big and imposing, and with
a vast reputation in manoeuvres, started as an
accepted Napoleon and proved a sort of
General Boom. He commanded the most ad-
vanced corps in the first battle, and before
anyone had time to interfere he lost Namur,
the line of the Meuse, the bridges over the
Sambre, his reputation and the road home.
He started the retreat from Mons, and the
transfer of the war to France, and made his-
tory generally.
French’s instructions from Kitchener, as
printed, were depressing. They dwelt so
carefully on the fact that he was to take
orders from no one as almost to suggest that
he should cultivate a suspicion of his French
colleague. They were solid on the fact that
little was to be expected in the way of rein-
forcements, and, almost implied that he was
to consider in battle that he was
risking Britain’s only army, and was
to nurse it like a baby or a basket
of eggs. When 15,000 men were lost
in five days the baby-and-egg theory must
have become a burden. It is in the retreat
from Mons that the melancholy figure of
Smith-Dorrien first appears. First he was
unduly optimistic and jibbed or dug his hoofs
into the ground, and didn’t retire fast enough.
Later he was unduly pessimistic and thought
the battered army would have to be shipped
back to England for repair. After that he
always appears as a pessimist. He isn’t
charged with cold feet or the white feather
or inefficiency, and if the poor man was born
bilious, as is he couldn’t help his
low spirits. As the book goes on it almost
seems as if. French felt his own breakfast
disagree with him whenever he met his
hyphenated subordinate. He is filled with
admiration for Joffre, Foch, Sourdet, Cavan,
Gough and many others —in fact, he is a
copious for this one man his
remarks are like these
Smith-Dorrien arrived.
Orders were sent to Smith-Dorrien.
Sir Horace need not have feared an imminent turn-
ing movement.
Staff-officers were sent to General Smith-Dorrien,
carrying peremptory orders.
I could get no satisfactory report from that General
[Smith-Dorrien],
I then went to Smith-Dorrien.
Smith-Dorrien was instructed accordingly.
I then instructed Smith-Dorrien.
I returned to Smith-Dorrien and begged him to
hasten.
I met Smith-Dorrien.
Smith-Dorrien was in one of those fits of deep
depression....
I found Smith-Dorrien.
The finding of Smith-Dorrien was one of
French’s chief occupations. That officer was
“wished” on to him when he had asked for
Plumer, which perhaps accounts for some
things. The one bright remark on this sub-
ject is “Sir Horace determined to fight”
(page 76), but just then French didn’t want
Horace to fight.
French’s indictment re the munition
famine is scathing. He says that the early
shortage of heavy guns was pitiable and that
when the French were working their big-
gun factories night and day and even strip-
ping their older war-vessels of large artil-
lery to drag it into the field, the Asquith Min-
istry refused to realise that the British guns
were hopelessly outclassed. He says he got
20 rounds per gun per day when 50 were
wanted; that he commenced a battle with
only enough stuff to throw at the enemy
for 40 minutes, and that men were
sacrificed lavishly doing work that high ex-
plosives should have done. He alleges that he
ran semi-official munition-factories of his own
in France to avert calamity. Finally he pub-
lished his indictment in the press and lost
his command. But a new Ministry was
formed in haste. McKenna took the Trea-
sury where. Lloyd George had been finding
money at such a slow rate that the war
didn’t seem to be taken seriously. A Min-
ister of Munitions was appointed, whereas
munitions had previously been a side-show.
And the old sign “Business as Usual” was
taken down. Britain'started all at once to be
. unusual. Fierce denials have been made
about the munition famine, but then it was
such a ghastly subject that even an arch-
angel might become reckless in his denials.
French leaves the impression of a good
second-rate general, a strenuous patriot, and
a man with a long, long memory for fancied
wrongs. And Smith-Dorrien, whom he got
when he wanted Plumer, was one of them.
Rawlinson, who was appointed without con-
sultation with French, is also a person about
whom he plainly feels hurt. The chief re-
marks about him are that “his troops made
little progress,” and “he did not, however,
march” or “more might have been done.”
Still, that may not have been Rawlinson’s
fault. At any rate, when later on he was
in command of the army which included the
Australians, he certainly did some quick
moving. Or they did. And so did the Hun.
(Constable and Co.. London.)
(Continued on page 28.)


A
V
Practical Economy in Quality Silverplate
CXI 13.—Dinner Cruet,
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
Cut-glass bottles—•
4 bottles 80/-
6 £5/5/-
The more costly the purchase, the more necessary to
buy from a Reputable House. The Silver-plate at Anthony
Horderns’ bears the stamp of the World’s Best Makers, and
added to elegance and real artistic merit there is the better
service arising from indisputable QUALITY.
Christmas is coming! These few suggestions will
help you to select a Gift that is useful, pleasing and truly
economical.
«JXl22.—Sugar Scuttle and
Scoop, Silver-plated on Britan-
nia metal, pretty Chased design—
-27/6
Inkstand, Silver-plated, Chased design,
size sin. square, with Cut-glass Bottle,
25/-
Cake Basket, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
Chased design, size 9in. x 6|in 30/-
CXl6B.—Bake Dish, Silver-plated, with loose Enam-
elled lining 38/6
"2?j& ,„ t 'u f 3
: ; v
ms
V 5
9*
mm
CXls7.—Case Serve-Alls, Silver-plated 20/-
Toast Racks, Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver .. .... 12/6,
15/6, 16/6, 17/6, 20/-
0X65. —Cake Basket, Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver, size llin. x Biin., Chased design . . 35/-
Breakfast Cruet,
Sil v e r-plated on
Nickel Silver, with
3 Cut-glass Bottles,
including Spo r
25/-
B
OXI2B. — Teapot, Silver-plated on
Britannia Metal, 2-pint size, choice de-
sign 45/-
Entree Dish, SHvcr-pls.ted cm Kldfad
Silver, Chased design, size lOin. x 7Jin.,
Handle removable to convert cover into
separate dish 55/-
Send for our
illustrated
Price List of
Silverplate.
Posted Free.
Write for it
now.
CXIS6. — Tea Spoons and Sugar
Spoon, in Case, Silver-plated, assorted
designs 21/”, 22/6
Our Silverplate
Department is
well stocked
with Goods
that combine
utility and
elegance.
CXlBo. — Rose Bowl, Silver-plated on Britan-
nia metal, standing on Oak Plinth. Height over
all, Bin. ; diameter, 6in 42/-
We Pay Carriage on Plated Ware to any
part of N.S.W.; to the nearest port in
other States.
.
CXl4o.—Biscuit Barrel,
Silver-plated Mounts, flora 1
design 20/-
CXI2I. —Sugar and Cream Stand,
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver .. 38/6
CXI73. Bake Dish, Silver-plated, with loose Enam-
elled lining 38/ 6
CXI4S. — Silver-plated Toaster, complete with
separate aluminium plate, size Bin. x 6in 37/6
ANTHONY HORDERNS
605 B RICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.


FOR AUSTRALIA. It’s Time That Painting Was Commenced
%
Painters help to make Australia prosperous by using only MEGGITT LIMITED’S
PURE LINSEED OIL, made by good Australian workmen at Parramatta.
CATALOGUE NO. 2 MAILED FREE.
Me ss rsT r W U A*d a ins °& €<?*'bln reel: Bo “ rke street > Melbourne; Messrs. Clarkson Ltd., Rundle Street, Adelaide;
and Hobart or- ’ ' Messls - B ' »• Exton & Co., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston
M EGG ITT
WORKS! PARRAMATTA.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia),
26 King Street, SYDNEY
PNSKD«U®||
AVECOITT U«
y PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.


A
m
'
A
ABBEY
SHOES!
Expressly Designed
for smart, dressy men. They give all
that can be asked of Footwear —style, fit,
comfort, durability.
The boot illustrated is a smart made-to-
order style in Tan Willow Calf.
Price 351- & 45/-
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
sd
A Dainty Laxative
The day of harsh purgatives, of
big cathartic pills is over —gone for
ever. No need any longer to
swallow a nauseating dose, to give
nature the gentle assistance re-
quired. Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are little pink sugar-coated ovals,
easy to take and pleasant in their
action. They are not drastic,
although certain and thorough.
Pinkettes are designed to
arouse the sluggish bowels and tor-
pid liver, to correct bad breath,
clear the complexion, and banish
biliousness and headache.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK., which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure —■
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley. Worando Buildings. Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, 16 City Bui dings. Brisbane,
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [1
sad
LOADING CHAFF BY GRAVITATION. (No power required.)
MANUFACTURERS OF LABOR-SAVING MACHINERY.
GRINDING, DRESSING, MIXING AND PACKING MACHINERY.
MACHINERY SPECIALISTS. FACTORY EXPERTS.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing'Worßs Piy. Ltd.
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [3
sad
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
sdsda
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
sd
ď
sd
The Brand that guarantees
British make and best value.
- 99
Underwear
1 o see the Jason Brand on a garment
is to know that Australasian wool, skilled
British labour, and expert fashi.yt.ing have
gone to its making.
New "Olympic** Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 6 7 <3?
r"
r
iffustrated aboVe is
tfe croWruhy result
of ’eicffteen years of
SLLCcessfuf motor
car erigiriQQrincj. It
rs the post-War
sad
Z/ncompambfo in.
eVer>y r>espGcZ.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD.
Export Department: 62, Oxford St., London, W.I.
Head Office ; - *»■ Wolverhampton. England-
To the unique reputation gained
in competition successes previous
to the war, must be added that
achieved by the renowned
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
Sole Agents for New
AVales: FRASER & WIIXSFORD, 822 George Street,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Spade.
The old man stoops above the spade,
The brown soil laughs in golden sun
Ah, spade, how pink the worms that run
To hide themselves in earthly shade.
Swiftly their living graves are made,
The'death in yellow light to shun.
Turn the sweet sods. Green life is won
For the small price the worms have paid.
Moist with the simple tears of God,
This scented dust is garden soil.
Old man, lie down. The spade goes deep.
The wonder of the worm and sod
Gives a wise answer to your toil —
The crops will ripen while you sleep.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Moon Lover.
“For whom the moon lias kist loves long and late,
Yet never finds the maid to be his mate.’
I have grown weary of the scent of roses
And of the cloying sweetness of the hours;
Here in the garden as the lotus closes
I wander, aimlessly, among the flowers.
I wish her eyes were not so full of sadness,
Pierrette I’ve loved the golden summer
long,
Through pulsing days and nights of hot
moon-madness,
The whole world ringing with her happy
song; ,
I have grown fevered for the gleam ot lights,
The lilt of laughter in a crowded street,
The touch of other lips, the brilliant nights,
The light tap-tap of tiny dancing feet.
To-night the white moon shines above the
trees,
And all my soul is urging me to go.
The harbor lights are beckoning oer the seas
lake girls’ white hands— -Pierrette, forget
Pierrot!
Oh, moon, who kissed me once, to you the
blame!
I must love long and late, though eyes are
wet; , ~
My heart is but a passionate red flame,
Scorching my soul. Good-bye, goodbye,
Pierrette!
N.S.W'.
LOLA GREIVE.
Lust.
Hark ! Through the cold, lewd night a low-
voice calls-, ~ ,
Calls till, with surging pulse and throat
abeat,
I —X, there where each secret shadow falls,
White-faced, hot-eyed, go swaying down
the street. _ .
My strained mouth aches with centuries ot
lusts;
Cheek, breast and brain flame with a
blinding fire;
Trembling, I shake ’neath Passion’s windy
gusts,
While stricken Reason flies before Desire.
Yea, through the evil dark I swiftly speed,
To where, in some dark corner of the night,
Another lies, quiescent to my need,
Slender and languorous, terrible and
white.
Then, with the dreary Dawn, on shanifed feet,
I wend my wistful way along the street.
QUEENSLAND.
PETER AUSTEN.
Experientia Docet.
Oh, love, do you remember those dear days
Of kisses, caramels and dicky birds,
How I would sit and gaze into your face
And hang upon your words?
No kisses now, but fuller eloquence,
And ripe experience this truth affords:
If juries took wives’ talk as evidence
I’d hang upon your words.
N.S.W.
INVER G.
The Sea’s Master.
I said, as I watched the great sea sleeping,
Its waters tinted to pearl and rose:
“There lies a wonder within its keeping
That all men long for, and no man knows.
“Its peace is a peace undimmed by sorrows,
It owns no master, and toils for none;
The same to-day and the same to-morrow,
It sways forever from sun to sun.”
I said: “If the earth’s tired sons and
daughters
Wei’e free of service, as it is free,
Their eyes would shine like its shining
waters,
Their joy would rival the joy of the sea.”
•» * * , *
On lonely white beaches and cliffs forsaken
The billows, growling and grinding, leapt;
The deep heaved up, to its deep heart shaken,
And no land-thing in the tumult slept.
In clefts of the cliffs, and caves that swallow
The green tide-waters, the foam swirled
w r hite;
And hollow cried in the gloom to hollow,
And height cried out in the dark to height.
I hearkening thus in the darkness lying
Beheld a vision that daunted me—-
A vision dread of a wet hull flying
With naked poles o’er the Tasman Sea.
I said, as the scud flew fast and faster,
And fretful cries from the shoreland rose:
“The sea bows down to its lord and master —
A hound, it cowers from his cruel blows.”
From storm and the tumult of things in
motion
And night, grown awesome, this thought
emerged—
The will of the wind is the law of the
ocean,
And even the waters go not unscourged.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


For Stubborn Chest Colds
Don’t let a cold run its course—check it in
its first stages. Rub chest, throat or
back with “Vaseline” Capsicum, the. clean
counter-irritant. Better than a mustard
plaster—easier to apply—won’t blister the
skin. Also relieves gout pains, muscle
strains and lumbago. In handy tin tubes.
Recommended by doctors everywhere. For
sale at chemists and general stores.
Other “Vaseline” Products
“VASELINE” OXIDE OF ZINC OINT-
MENT—for eczema, sores, etc.
“VASELINE” ANALGIC-for toothache,
neuralgia, rheumatism.
CHESEBROUGH MANUFACTURING CO.
(Consolidated)
New York London Montreal
Vaseline
Trade Mark
Capsicum
Petroleum Jelly
rase
*
apsic
itroleu*
OmiNii: **»i
HHIINWtHII
NOHMIIHMI
llHOlOdMh'
S'fHtMlliM
nit ihi>nM**i
Ivhft
I tun ht'ftUiii'
Wt
JtsebroughK*
i£W YORft-fc
Helps for Physical Inconvenience.
Elastic Abdominal Belt.
Helpful in cases of Abdominal protrusion,
made of silk elastic. Soft, comfortable
efficient.
Well
and
If it is necessary for you to use
Crutches or Artificial Limbs, or
■wear Surgical Appliances, our
advice on the matter would be
highly important to you. We
carry a most complete assortment
of the necessary helps to minimise
physical inconvenience. Call and
let us advise you, or write with
every confidence, giving full par-
ticulars.
Denyer’s Patent Spring-Head Crutches are supplied to the lied
Cross Society and N.S.W. Government. Unexcelled for lightness
and strength combined.
DENVER BROS.
Makers of Trusses, Artificial
Limbs and Abdominal Belts.
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
sa
you may
Jerve
Till! nmc
Sp
h^m
iiiiiiiinltl
dsa
Have You Tried It Hot?
Here is a new treat. A new hot dish that
needs no preparation or cooking. Just .heat
the tin in boiling water for 20 minutes.
An enthusiastic user of
“Rex” Camp Pie
put the idea up to us. We tried it and want
you to try it also. “Rex” Camp Pie — hot —is
a decided success. It comes out of the tin
quite firm with a fine, rich gravy that is
most inviting.
Try it Hot To-Night /
Always keep a tin handy for emergency
occasions .
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LIMITED
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products,
Curers of “Rex ” Hams and Bacon.
»9
m"
m
6r-
m l
§W
»
%?t
J
>’o
€?
0T
n
'\syts
'~S\j
v. c.
' Cl J C ; f O. 'r*(* t\ >
d
D EMINGTON UMC cartridges
are made and tested for every
standard make of pistol and revolver.
Their uniform accuracy and absolute
reliability make them the favourites
among shooters of this class of fire*
arm, whether used by the expert marks-
man or by the casual purchaser for
self-defence and safety.
Write for special booklet
pee upon request
RtmVER-'PISTOL
CARTRIDGES
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
Box 636. G. P. 0.. MELBOURNE
sd
J
*7
M
say-
do yoo know
' WHOXAM?—
1 XK BUMP—
TH’ ROUGHEST/
, Joirr )M
\ TH' COUNTY//
(zatJotV
WELL DO j
YOO KNOW, \
WHO XAN )
tin GOODRICH-)
TH TOUGHEST /
HJIRErfN {
YTH’WORI J>j
Goodrich Safety Tread Tyres
QUALITY FIRST is ever the upper-
most thought in the production of
Goodrich Tyres, and governs every step
of procedure, from the purchase of the
raw materials to the final inspection.
THE RESULT is Ty res of such super-
excellence that they SERVE BETTER,
LAST LONGER, and give much greater
satisfaction than those made to sell on
price.
GOODRICH TYRES are practical
tyres, big mileage producers and
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN”
ONE TRIAL WILL WIN YOU.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
DUVAL CO.
124 Russell St, 13 Castlereagh St
HORSHAM HOUSE,
Adelaide St.,
SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Tol. 40—No. 2068.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1919.
Pbxce 6d.
“MEND YOUR UMBRELLA, SIR!”
“Mr. Hughes will, it is understood, ask the country to sanction an amendment of the Constitution enabling him to deal with profiteering.”
—News from the Federal lobbies.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Jlan.”
Printed and published by William .Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosrnan, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
/<or £} 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you, every week for a year , to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc.., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications Jo be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
ref used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and. where practic-
able, acknoioledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
. Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MSj cannot receive
attention. Tub Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to. distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Thu Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
■illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgale Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
toivn, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — -Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., 181/0 Conway Buildings,
Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu ,—llome News Agency, ~63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Fapua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10os., Id:; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; Boz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elseivhere, )oz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1919.
PAPER-CHASE DAY, THE 23rd.
of one who joined in the game:—
On September 23 I read in the paper that it was
the Last Day of Grace, and that next day would be
the Day of Judgment. So I went to a friendly
bank and filled in a paper, and a man gave me
some paper money of no earthly use to anybody out-
side Australia. Thereupon 1 went to a Government
department and handed over my paper money, and
received in return a huge paper of many colors.
This paper isn’t saleable anywhere save here, and
isn’t saleable here except at a heavy loss, because
it only promises to pay me twice a year a lot of
paper money with which I couldn’t buy anything
outside this country (though we seem to want to
buy almost everything outside), and with which I
couldn’t pay a farthing of my share of the outside
debt, which is very big. In fact, if I tried to pass
any of that paper money outside I would probably
find myself inside a gaol. There was an awful waste
of time and exertion and office-space and of wages'
and rent and coloring matter about all this swap-
ping of paper and manufacture of internal credit.
And all of it didn’t plough up one acre of land
or sole one pair of boots.
Children have a game nowadays in which they
cut up their mother’s notepaper into strips and mark
them “10s.” or “£1” or “ £5” or “£100” and
gamble or dicker for them. This currency is good
for the purchase of imaginary commodities inside
the orbit where it circulates, and some of the kids
are amazing rich in it and neglect an amazing
number of lessons while acquiring it. Which is
just what their elders are doing.
Nobody knows how much our paper has de-
preciated in terms of gold, which is the only
measure the world has. During a long time nobody
save the Federal Treasury has beer, allowed to buy
gold, and it bought at its own price with its own
paper. Judging by the price of commodities, the
value of our paper must be horribly low. And it
would be surprising if it wasn’t. When the banks
are forced to take and give value for £26,000,000
of £lOOO notes which they can’t use and aren't
allowed to use, it is a violent form of making
imaginary wealth, to be used for the purpose of
fcreping up for a while longer the giddy fiction that
this is such a rich country that people needn’t work.
This playing of the giddy ox or the dizzy goat
leads, of course, to depreciation.
The other day there was an open sale of South
African refined gold—the first since early in the
war. It cost £4 18s, 6d. in paper to buy an
ounce of it instead of the old £4 4s. lOd. That
presumably measures the depreciation of British
paper. As Australia, in the heat of work-dodging,
issued in proportion to population almost exactly
twice as much Government paper currency as Britain
did, presumably the depreciation will prove worse
here when it can be inspected. Germany is regarded
as a hard-working country which will ultimately pay
up because debt with it is only an incident of war—
not a fixed habit of peace as with us. And the Ger-
man 20-mark ( £1) note when last heard of was
worth 2s. 6d. in gold, which meant that the old
fourpenny loaf was worth 2s. Sd. in local money
without anybody profiting by the rise. Heaven
only knows what a loaf would cost here if Australia
adopted dear little Dr. Maloney’s scheme by which
ail returned soldiers and sailors, also widows and
nurses, are to be furnished with houses for life
at a rental of Is. per month, and the cost of the
houses paid by issuing notes—say 300,000 houses
at £5OO each (£150,000,000), or even 200,000
( £100,000,000). The community is actually using
about £20,000,000 worth of notes —that is to say,
it can take that amount without depreciation. It
is the other £36,000,000 which makes the deprecia-
tion and the high prices. With an extra
£150,000,000 the people would think so little of
them that it might easily cost £5 of them to buy
a loaf.
Long before there was any Commonwealth The
Bulletin was the solitary Australian advocate of
a Government paper currency on honest lines. It
was a still more strenuous advocate when the Com-
monwealth came in sight. The idea wars that the
banks should be required, as in Canada, to keep
at least 40 per cent, of their cash in Government
notes- —not to lock up a single' penny of their funds
in Government notes, but to have a certain propor-
tion of notes among the cash that is of necessity
kept idle and unprofitable to meet hourly demands;
also that, as in Canada, they should always be
ready to pay demands in Government notes; also,
as doesn’t happen in Canada, that the profits should
be used in buying up existing debtsi, the securities
to accumulate at compound interest, so that, when
the 34 per cent. State loan fell due, instead of the
State having to renew with the private capitalist
at 54 per cent., it might find that the Federal bank
was the chief holder, it having bought up the security
with the note-issue profits, and was ready to renew
on easy terms. Events have shown that the com-
munity, small as it yet is, can easily use
£20,000,0*00 worth of paper. (The banks keep
another £9,000,000 or so voluntarily, but that is
left out of the account.) Deducting 10 per cent,
for a gold reserve, which is the British Govern-
ment’s figure, and would be ample under the cir-
cumstances, that would have left £18,000,000 to be
invested in buying up old 4 per cent, bonds (plen-
tiful enough then), which would mean about
£720,000 of interest in the first year, all made out
of nothing, and vastly more afterwards, all avail-
able for buying up more of the public debt. If the
country had adopted this idea at t,h e founding of
the Commonwealth it could already have some
£20,000,0*00 made out of nothing in reduction of
its old debts, and might have avoided some *hock-
iugly bad bargains in the way of loan renewals.
The daily papers ignored the idea because it
wasn’t a scheme that had been approved by their
grandfathers, and because the idea of paying off debt,
even if it cost nothing to do it, was unprecedented.
Politicians of all sorts ignored it because they
couldn’t rouse the slightest interest in paying off
old debts, even out of nothing. Even heaven-born
financiers like McMillan couldn’t see that a heavily-
burdened country whose debts all fall due at fixed
dates (unlike British Consols, which go on for ever),
and must be renewed at any price unless it has
funds of its own, is in desperate need of a sinking
fund. Nor did the most heaven-born of the Tory
crowd realise that if they didn’t seize the idea and
make it their own and turn it in a safe direction
some gang of political “shysters” would annex it
sooner or later for very different purposes.
The political “shysters” arrived in due course.
They devoted the note issue to keeping up the razzle
of the public jobs policy which has made Australia
forget how to do honest work, instead of using it and
the profit of it as a sort of provision against the Day
of Wrath, which has now arrived—the day when 34
per cent, loans are falling due without a penny to
meet them, and the absentee says that he is willing
to renew for a short term at 54 per cent., after
which he may want six or even seven. And the
crowd which was shocked at the idea of requiring
the banks to hold 40 per cent, of their loose cash
in Government notes only left the problem to a gang
which makes them hold more than that in £lOOO
notes, which are of no more use than leaves torn
out of the Bible.
Still it was a nice bit of paper f bought, printed
in at least six colors. And it promises me 5 per
cent, interest payable in paper, which is no good
outside this country, for an Arab would scoff at it
and a Chinaman despise it, and which buys less and
less every day inside the country.
FREETRADE AND THE HOUSING
PROBLEM.
The lofty-mannerecl expositor of the national
advantages of importing things has a hard
nut to crack when the Australian timber
industry is put on the table. And the
timber industry is the backbone of the hous-
ing question, on which depends the health,
moral and material, of civilised communi-
ties. Up to 1914 the Commonwealth im-
ported yearly about 455,550,000 super feet
of timber for structural purposes, or about
five-sevenths of the total requirements. Dur-
ing all the years that commonsense might
have suggested, and a protective tariff would
have compelled, conservation and afforesta-
tion, such as the Australian army saw in
progress in France and Belgium, the axe and
the firestick were at work, and ships were
dragging from Canada and Norway products
that should have originated on the spot.
Then the Great War came, and with the
Hun’s submarine campaign—some form of
which may be looked for in every future
war —there arrived the shipping shortage.
In 1914 Australia was still able to import
326.248.5.27 super feet of soft timber. In
1915 257,079.115 super feet were imported.
Next year 60,000.000 feet less arrived. In
1917 the figure was down 159,189,590 feet.
The position might be gratifying to a Pro-
tectionist if it were not that, owing to re-
liance in the past on the importing habit
and the consequent failure to develop a local
trade, nothing like the requisite amount of
timber is now available in any of the States.
The protective effect of the war has acted
on our timber supply as it did on the food
supply of England, the land of the cheap
breakfast table; and the building trade is
starving. Not everyone who curses at
profiteering when he is asked an apparently
exorbitant rent for a house realises that one
factor in the seeming swindle is the cir-
cumstance that, during the last half-century,
this country has drifted into the habit of
importing annually £5.000,000 worth of
timber that might have been grown here, and
that the demand for houses is chiefly due to
the short supply of the stuff during and since
the war. Nor is the situation likely to get
easier quickly. On the contrary. A large
portion of Western Europe is frenziedly re-
building ; and for the first time in their
histories France and Belgium are importing
timber on a large scale, many of their
forests having been devastated by the gentle
Boche at the same time as thousands of their
towns were destroyed. So far as Australia
is concerned it has two classes to house in
addition to those at present in the country :
the returned and returning soldiers, and the
immigrants who will presently arrive. It
is essentially the moment for the Freetrade
economist to come forward and explain the
advantages of his theory .if he can.
* * * *
Of all the States N. S. Wales is in the
worst situation as regards housing. Sydney
is alleged to be 32,000 houses short, as
against Melbourne’s 9000; and it is at least
significant that N. S. Wales, with 310,372
square miles of territory, protects only
3,000,000 acres more of forest land than Vic-
toria does with but 87,884 square miles to
work on. The N. S. Wales Forestry Com-
missioners want certain land for planting-
purposes—most of it is round about Newnes
and Tingha—but the Mines Department ob-
jects. No one knows exactly why. The
mountains thereabouts are particularly
suited for the growth of pine; and it is
hard to see what harm the planting and
growing of trees on the slopes and tops of
hills can do to the industry which is con-
cerned with getting things out of the interior.
In other parts of the State ringbarking is
going on vigorously, as it has been doing
for a century; preventable bush-fires are
doing their share of destruction: nominally
protected forest areas are constantly being
alienated—-90,000 acres were sacrificed last
week. It is not surprising that the Com-
monwealth Housing Commissioner was
moved to remark recently that, “at the
present rate, in 10 years the country will
not have a stick of soft wood suitable for
building purposes.” Meanwhile every house
built under the War Service Homes Act
requires an average of 10,000 super feet
of soft wood: and as an outcome of the
good old arrangement of depending on
foreign countries for this necessary of civi-
lised existence Australia is now not only
importing the raw material, but is trying
to get from Canada and elsewhere the
manufactured article in the form of win-
dow-sashes and doors. This to accommodate
the men who in Europe were considered
the most resourceful soldiers that had ever
fought in Flanders! To sum up the posi-
tion, after generations of importing what
might easily have been produced on the
'spot—
(l) There are not nearly enough houses for the
inhabitants. Because of this, to quote the report of
the recent inter-State Commission on Housing Accom-
modation, “the life of the young in the poorer neigh-
borhoods is greatly menaced both as to physique
and as to morals.”
(2) Such houses as there are are villainously ex-
pensive to rent. A bankrupt swore last week that
in the past five years he had had to pay 10s. a
week for a two-roomed cottage in which he lived
with a wife and three children.
(3) The State is the poorer by as many jobs as
it would have to offer if a lumber industry had been
fostered locally in the past.
(4) Hundreds of thousands of pounds sterling are
going abroad every year to overseas employers and
workers which might have either stayed here and
enriched Australians or been despatched abroad in
the shape of goods produced by our own people
to meet the nation’s war and other commitments.
Freetrade and laissez-faire in general have
had a fair spin in the timber trade. It
seems about time to give other methods a
trial.
HUGHES, PARIS AND PEACE.
So far the only criticism of the Hughes
policy at the Peace Conference is the sub-
versive statement of Mr. Ryan (Q.). This
criticism proceeds from motives which are
dubious and is in any case founded on igno-
rance. If, however, the Hughes policy
prove to be unsound Mr. Ryan will score
when Mr. Hughes’s chickens come home to
roost. It will, therefore, be a disaster if the
Ryan criticism holds the field alone and the
rest of Australia remains silent through
ignorance or through hysteria hails Mr.
Hughes as “saviour of his country.” So
far the Australian democracy has proved
itself more than usually competent in mat-
ters of foreign policy. There are few in-
stances of equal devotion to a great national
ideal like White Australia; and such
sacrifices as Australia has imposed on her-
self _ in support of that ideal—compulsory
service and the naval establishment —have
few parallels.
The intense nationalism which Australia
has exhibited is not greater than is neces-
sary if she is to hold her own against the
alien forces surrounding her. At the present
moment Mr. Hughes symbolises that nation-
alism. The welcome given to him is a crude
outburst of national feeling. In many re-
spects he is well fitted for the part. He is
a sincere patriot. He has damned the Kaiser
and brandished his fist in the face of
all possible enemies. But this alone
does not establish his claim to statesman-
ship. Something more is required of a states-
man than merely to vocalise the public mind.
If you employ a barrister you want inde-
pendent and critical advice. You do not put
him up to go to court and merely reflect
your own views. Ginger Mick does not
need Billy Hughes to “stoush a Chow”
for him —lie can do that better himself.
What Australia requires is sagacious and
far-seeing leadership into security. Aus-
tralia has always realised that her own re-
sources are altogether insufficient to guar-
antee this safety and that, to protect her
great ideals, statesmanship of no ordinary
kind must be displayed. No intelligent Aus-
tralian believes that Australia’s safety will
be secured merely by shouting at Japan
across the ocean. Australia needs all the
resources of diplomacy, all the friends she
can muster and all the strategic protection
that can be devised.
In his speech before the House the other
day Mr. Hughes claimed" that he had secured
Australia’s safety. That claim is false. The
facts are that as the sequel to his diplomacy
the position in relation to Japan is worse
than it ever was. He returned with a few
showy trophies strapped to his triumphal
car. but they cannot conceal the real danger
of the situation. He performed at Paris
a brilliant stunt in the mood of Ginger
Mick, but his diplomacy lacked foresight
and finesse, and the fruits of his mission
are “danger ahead.” This is becoming ap-
parent to every far-seeing Australian, and
as there are more far-seeing citizens in
Australia than in any other democracy it
may be surmised that already Mr. Hugiies’s
chickens are on the wing.
Mr. Hughes has admittted that he is not
a god, and it does not follow that the full
responsibility of the situation lies upon his
shoulders. He is not responsible for the
ignorance of European nations as to Pacific
questions nor the hostility of our enemies.
You can only judge him by estimating the
situation as lie found it and ascertaining
whether he has used his opportunities well.
Viewed in this light 'his record is one of
opportunities missed, friendship spurned,
enemies provoked and supports kicked away.
His policy would be folly if he were the
Minister of a powerful State which could
afford to make mistakes. For a small nation
of five millions it is a disaster. Whatever
allowances be made, his conduct has been
marked by an ineptitude and a lack of judg-
ment extraordinary in a man with his Par-
liamentary and political experience. Every-
thing has been sacrificed to securing a few
spectacular triumphs. The ulterior moves
have been completely neglected.
Eet us take, in the first place, the situa-
tion as regards the Pacific islands. This
entirely turned upon the agreement which
was made by Britain during the war to sup-
port Japan’s claim to all the islands taken
from Germany north of the Equator. Now,
this agreement was a disaster to Australia.
But it is understood that Australia was con-
sulted _ with regard to it. That was
the time to brandish one’s fist; that
was the time for Australia to stand
up against the British Government and
ask it to say whether the services of Australia
were of more value to. the Empire than
those of Japan. So far as Australia is con-
cerned the dangers to her are infinitely
greater than any benefits which the islands
confer on Japan, unless it be assumed that
Japan has designs on Australia. But pos-
sibly the gift of the islands to Japan was
inevitable. If so Mr. Hughes’s duty was
to frame his course accordingly. lie must
endeavor, if possible, to so limit the occu-
pation of the islands by Japan that their use
for military purposes would be impossible.
Now, the British proposal of a mandatory
system provided an excellent opportunity
for this; but this opportunity Mr. Hughes
spurned. He went bald-headed for annexa-
tion. It must, of course, be clear to the
most undeveloped mind that if Australia
won on the question of annexation Japan
must succeed in her claim for annexation of
the northern islands. This would involve
their unrestricted use by Japan for fortifi-
cation and naval bases. It is quite true
that Australia would have the right to for-
tify the southern islands. But such advant-
age would be entirely illusory, inasmuch as
Australia cannot afford to fortify her own
coasts. The protection of the islands would
involve a dispersal of Australian forces, and
from a military point of view would be an
added burden. Iler only interest was to
keep hostile Powers out of them. This claim
for annexation, in fact, rules Mr. Hughes
out for ever as a diplomatist. In sober
truth he was merely the catspaw of other
nations. All Australia wondered why the
Pacific islands occupied so early a place
on the notice paper of the Conference. The
reason seems plain. Other nations were in-
terested in annexation —-France and Italy.
The bait was thrown out—Mr. Hughes
snapped at it. He was used , as he has so
often been used during the last few years,
by people who profit by his eagerness to
“go over the top,” but who prefer to remain
in the background themselves. It is quite
possible, as has been suggested, that Mr.
Hughes, by going for annexation, secured
a very full mandate; but here, again, his
gain has its reverse side. Australia gets a
full mandate for the islands, and has the
right to administer them as if they were
integral parts of her territory. This is the
appropriate mandate for a country which
has islands very close to her. It is stated,
however, that Japan’s mandate for the
islands in the north is in precisely similar
terms, although they are several thousands
of miles from her territory. Why should
Japan be treated in this way? The fact is
that Mr. Hughes had asked so much that
he was morally incapable of resisting the
Japanese claim.
The other point relied on by Mr. Hughes
is that he has defeated the Japanese pro-
posal for racial equality in the League of
Nations. The real diplomatic crux of this
situation turns on the League of Nations,
lake an arbitration system the League tends
to promote litigation. Nations can raise
causes of international dispute where
they would not previously have threat-
ened war. They lose nothing, and may get
a verdict. This is peculiarly dangerous to
Australia, so deeply concerned in controlling
her immigration. Such right may at any
time be challenged before the Court of the
League'by any nation offended at discrimina-
tion. In other respects the Covenant was
conspicuously favorable to small nations,
and the policy of Mr. Hughes was to have
it clearly stated in the Covenant that con-
trol of immigration was a matter of domestic
concern, which could not be referred, as an
international dispute, to the Council of the
League. It is difficult to believe that he
would have been unsuccessful if he had tried
to get this amendment. The opinion of the
world is setting against, the mixture of races,
which is. indeed, one of the main causes of
war. Most States have strengthened
their exclusion laws. At the moment opinion
was very strong owing to the outbreak of
Bolshevism. Up to within a fortnight ago


it was impossible to find from Mr. Hughes’s
speeches whether he ever tried to get such
a proviso in the Covenant. He now says
that during consultations with the Japanese
as to the amendment of the Covenant, he sug-
gested it as an addendum to their proposal,
but when they would not agree he accepted
their refusal as final and dropped it. It is
clear that he never realised the crucial im-
portance of the point. But there is
absolutely nothing to prevent Japan raising
the point in the future, and indeed there is
everything to encourage her. No formula
has ever been devised to meet the vital in-
terest of Australia on the point. So far from
being successful Mr. Hughes has, then, only
allowed Japan to get another footing on the
outworks of Australia. These are the facts
of the situation. To what extent did Mr.
Hughes’s diplomacy contribute to this re-
sult? Assuming that success for him was
possible, it must be said that his tactics
were such as to convert his chances of suc-
cess into a certainty of failure. It has
been alleged by Japanese newspapers that
he displayed marked discourtesy towards the
Japanese delegates. Whether this be true
or not there was no doubt that his speeches
and interviews in America and England
were provocative to a degree, and that his
way of stating the.case for alien exclusion
was tactless. Instead of basing our case
solely on the economic ground on which it
is very strong, he put his case to Baron
Makino as follows: “I may select whom I
please to enter my houses —that has always
been regarded as the right of every free man.
Your ideas, your institutions, your stand-
ards are not ours. We do not say that ours
are greater or better than yours. We only
say they are different.”
But the most conspicuous failure of Mr.
Hltgiies in Paris was his inability to
mobilise the nations interested in the policy
of racial exclusion. It is a cardinal point
of the policy of America and South Africa
as well as Australia. Yet Mr. Hughes
rushed into the breach and took upon him-
self the whole onus of the defence. Aus-
tralia, least fitted to meet the danger, is
placed in the most exposed and isolated posi-
tion. A diplomatic parallel to this would
be to picture the Swiss Republic or Belgium
coming out into the open and leading the
resistance to Germany or France. But Mr.
Hughes is not content to be leader of the
Opposition: he must play the lone hand.
America is fanatically hostile to Japan. She
practically commands the Pacific. America
is marked out as the natural ally of Aus-
tralia in the Pacific. Any qualms we may have
about her war manners should be set aside.
But, as is well known, Mr. Hughes’s hos-
tility to the American delegation was such
that amicable co-operation between the rwo
countries will be difficult for some time. On
the other hand, by claiming and securing
separate and independent representation for
the Dominions in the League, he weakens the
support of Britain for the burden which Aus-
tralia cannot carry herself. The democracy
of England is no longer responsible for Aus-
tralian policy, and therefore hot hound to
make the sacrifices necessary to see her
through. The Englishman knows little of
our conditions. To him the White Australia
policy is a luxury. Will he conscript him-
self and tax himself to maintain it?
There is no prospect of an intelligent
debate on these questions in the Federal
House. Mr. Tudok’s reply to Mr. Hughes
does not betray a glimmering of apprecia-
tion of the issues involved. The man in the
street may regard the points taken in this
article as over-subtle. But the man in the
street is proverbially a bad diplomatist, and
it is because Mr. Hughes at Paris was
merely the man in the street that he failed
in his diplomacy.
AMESRURY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Poor, Who Need Not Be Always
with Us.
“Small Wages and Large Families” is the
sort of heading that becomes common in
the daily papers as Courts and Commissions
sit inquiring into the cost of living. It is
their business to listen all day to things like
this: —•
My husband is a woolwasher earning £3 6s. a
week, out of which 11s. is paid aS rent for a cottage
containing two rooms and a kitchen.... It is about
12 years since my husband bought a new suit....l
got my last skirt 21 years ago The children
have not a second change.
A laborer’s wife said she had to pay 11s. a week
for a two-roomed cottage The children never had
meat or eggs.
Dr. Arthur examined the witnesses.
The wife and family of a suburban picture-show
musician had to depend on others for clothes.
And so on ad infinitum, including especially
the stories of the shifts and devices to
which nice girls are put to buy enough im-
ported clothes to preserve even an appear-
ance of respectability. A striking feature
of these tales of mean streets is that an
amazing proportion of the people were not
brought up to the highly-skilled trades which
bring big wages, but to primitive things like
woolwashing or parasitic jobs like serving in
shops or blowing through a hollow object at
a cheap show, or, most of all, at doing the
lifting and carrying and jobs of burden that
should be done by machinery. In fact, many
of them shouldn’t be done at all. and in this
category comes a great deal of the wharf-
lumping in the oversea trade—the pushing
of £106.805,000 worth of our raw material
on to other neople’s ships to avoid the profit
of making it up, and the dragging of
£93,485,000 worth off other people’s ships to
prevent our people having the advantage of
constructing the articles. Yet the wages
on which people starve in mean streets are
much larger than those on which they lived
in fair comfort not so long ago. In 1885
the average price of butter in Sydney was
Is. 9d. per lb.; cheese, Is.; bacon, ICHd. (it
was 12i§d. in 1890) ; eggs. Is. lOd. per
dozen; bread, 3d. per 21b. loaf (but it was
an unusually cheap year, the ordinary price
being 3Jd.). Beef, it is true, was 4d., and
it isn’t 4d. now. but then in 1885 the State
didn’t export. It ate all the meat it could,
and threw the rest away, whereas now it has
to export everything it can to pay for the
ever-increasing imports of fluff and to cover
interest on the gigantic foreign debt, and it
lives on the scraps, for which there is fieice
competition. Again, 1885 was before the
day of combines, and the time hadn’t arrived
when One Big Union of foreign capitalists
could, by a stroke of the pen, treble the cost
of the clothes required by a casual country
which won’t make its own clothes, but pre-
fers to build 5J per cent, loan railways that
can’t pay, and to wharf-lump for the alien.
In 1885 Australia only wharf-lumped about
one-third as much as it does now. Further,
.Sydney and its suburbs had only about
320,000 people in 1885 instead of nearly
SOO.OUO, and houses weren’t as scarce as
Freetraders’ brains,and a five-roomed dwelling
with a garden cost just about as much as is
naid now for two rooms with neither garden
nor bath. Sydney has no business to have
more than 300,000 people to-day, but the im-
porting and wharf-lumping policy and the
policy of killing the small towns made it
ridiculously large and sent the price of a
two-roomed hencoop in a mean street
absurdly high, and it also made the distance
between the hencoop and the bencoopcr’s
place of employment absurdly long. Canada,
with nearly twice Australia’s population, has
only 500.000 people in its biggest city; but,
then, Canada manufactures more than we
do, and congests and wlmrf-lumps less, so
it hasn’t to live so exclusively alongside a
dock. From all of which the general in-
ferences to be drawn are these:—
The cost of local products hasn’t increased in any
remarkable way during the last 34 years—not so
fast, at any rate, as the increase of wages.
The cost of city congestion has gone up enor-
mously.
The cost of imported goods has gone up out of all
reason, because we use more and more of them,
are more dependent on them, our helplessness is bet-
ter known, and the people we depend on for the
things we ought to make ourselves are better organ-
ised for profiteering purposes.
Wages are higher and the cost of cramped dwell-
ings in crowded streets is lower than might be
expected in the circumstances, seeing that in pro-
portion to population no other country comes near
Australia for importing, borrowing and centralising.
There is no permanent relief in price-fixing, seeing
that people beyond our reach fix more and more of
the prices; nor in declaring a living wage, unless
the man in England or the U.S. will pledge himself
to let us live on that wage; nor in anything at all
until Australia faces the fact that it is held to
ransom abroad just as much as Germany is and has
even less say in the matter.
And it may be added that the case calls for
strenuous political economists, not habitual
philanthropists of the sort who weep over
an ill-fed child with an odd pair of legs, or
rush to give first aid whenever a poor widow
has been bitten by a prawn. These people
have their uses, but. in a business sense
they get nowhere, like the Society for the
Conversion of the Jews.
Sale of a Few Ships and Five Million
People.
The way the daily papers put it was that
the E. and A. Steamship Co. had sold out to
the far-reaching combination of which Inch-
cape is head ; so another step has been taken
towards making the seas a close corporation
over which Australia has no control worth a
grain of dust. The E. and A. Co. is owned
in London, as a matter of course; for Aus-
tralia. though its oversea trade is stupendous,
has had wonderful success in avoiding owner-
ship of the vessels that carried the trade. The
fact is that its workers would neither accept
cheap competitive wages nor protect their
carrying industry against them, so we have
had no oversea carrying industry, but have
been mere hirers of cheap labor which proved
very dear labor in the end. The E. and A.
concern traded between Australia and Asia,
and it also did some coastal work for Aus-
tralia. It was quite a small affair. But
during the war it did very well, making 30
per cent, or more on its capital in a year,
while Australia was borrowing, building
hopeless railways, putting settlers on dry
lands with the aid of high-priced loans, issu-
ing paper money, watching its wheat rot and
trading in suburban lands—but never getting
its shipbuilding programme in motion, though
the debates with the unions about ship-
builders’ wages were long and the tribunal to
settle troubles in the business was a marvel.
The price at which the co. sells out to
the combine is said to be £4O for every
£lO share. The surplus over visible assets is
goodwill, and the goodwill lies in the right
of the combine, when it has bought up the
seas, to charge its own rates to a feckless
people who are the natural property of any
enterprising folk. Australia’s people, in fact,
are the goodwill. They are sold with the pro-
perty just as Uncle Tom might be sold with
the plantation, though there is something in-
congruous about the idea of selling such a
big country as a side-line with such a small
fleet. Evidently the shipping combine has no
idea of returning to pre-war rates and con-
ditions. The fact that the £lOO shares of
one big co. which trades here are selling at
£6OO and the purchase of the £lO shares of
a small one for £4O shows clearly enough
that big profits are looked for. Evi-
dently. too, the competition of the Com-
monwealth fleet isn’t taken seriously. But,
then, business men aren’t very serious about
a country which buys a few of its ships
abroad with loan money at an exorbitant
figure, and builds a very few locally with
loan money, and builds them largely out of
imported materials. The constant interfer-
ence of labor leaders, who make importation
a fetich and the discouragement of Austra-
lian industry a religion, is a further reason
for taking a mirthful view of the Hughes
mercantile navy. Besides, the supply of
loan money is giving out. and that is regarded
as the end of the business. Sydney is nearly
as large as Glasgow, and some little time be-
fore the war stopped the publication of
details the 10 orineipal shipbuilding yards
of the Clyde built 82 vessels of 421.000 tons.
All Australia in the same year (1911) built
67 craft, including pontoons and oil-launches,
and the total was 2659 tons. In 1917, when
the war was on and Australia simply raved
about shipbuilding, its ouput was six Vessels,
total 191 tons! When a country has a stu-
pepdous foreign trade and yet is so utterly
dependent on foreign ships it is natural that
foreign shipping combines should consider it
merely as something that can be squeezed in
safety and comfort.
John Bull’s Railways.
The British Isles have seen a railway strike
looming for some time, and now it "has ar-
rived. There are about 24,000 miles of line
in the three kingdoms, which is 2000 more
miles than Australia possesses, so it is no
small strike. The trouble is, of course, over
wages, which, in the year before the war,
averaged £1 7s. ll|d. per week. To call
that miserable is putting things mildly. Yet
the average profits of the proprietors were
about 34 p.c. on the money invested, which
looks miserable too. The Government took
possession of the lines in wartime and paid
an average war wage of 51s. per week
(nearly thrice the old figure) out of loans
and paper money; also, it paid the old
average humble dividends. It didn’t profess
to make the railways pay any more than
the army, and a loss of £40,000,000 in a
year was all in the day’s work. Now the
railway employees want the war wages con-
tinued, and even improved to 60s. in view
of the increased cost of living, and have no
use for the old £1 7s. lTjd. per week. No-
body has any use for £1 7s. ll£d. per week.
But the Government which offers 40s. per
week and a bonus up to 10s. can’t pay the
loss permanently by the manufacture of
paper money; if it tried, paper would be-
come so plentiful as to have no value. And
the old shareholders can’t take back their
railways and pay the now wages except by
doubling or trebling the charges. One thing,
however, is certain ; there is a fund of wealth
in Britain to meet extra wages and charges
with. The War Profits Tax yielded nearly
£300,000,000 in a year; and Britain lately
discovered that its peerage and baronetage
and squirearchy takes about £10,000,000 a
year out of the coal business alone —not by
working coal-mines, but for looking on. By
an extension of the principle—quite new in
Bull’s country—of special taxation on big
unearned incomes, and by graduated land
taxation to break up big estates —hitherto
regarded rather as desirable than otherwise —
it may be possible to reduce the number of
lookers-on. And by this process money may be
found to supplement the railway man’s
£1 7s. 11 Jd. per week. The position isn’t,
therefore, as hopeless as it looks. But the
way out is going to be very uncomfortable
for some people.
»
Easy Honest Government.
N. S. Wales Opposition-loader Storey told
the people of Newcastle lately that, “he knew
Parliamentary procedure, and, after all, the
government, of the country was easy if one
was honest.” It was, presumably, in the
nature of a self-presented testimonial, and
it is the sort that makes a reasoning com-
munity tired. The country doesn’t want to
be governed easily. That is done by taking
the line of least resistance, which in Aus-
tralia is always the line to the pawnshop, and
the old easy down-at-heel methods are too
ruinous and too exasperating. Australia
wants to be governed with difficulty—a heap
of difficulty. And it doesn’t want to be ruled
by men who think ruling is easy, because
they are apt to be men who know little, or
nothing, who don’t think knowledge is neces-
sary, and who very often don’t understand
that knowledge exists. Nobody ever dreams
that Alfred the Great or Colbert or Bis-
marck, all great builders of national indus-
try and prosperity, ruled easily, for such men
knew that it was necessary to grapple with
ten thousand things that the Storey kind of
man never troubles about. On the other
hand, Heliogabalus and Louis XV., the
man who reckoned things would last his
time, could run an empire in an odd hour
after supper. No sane community puts hon-
esty first among a ruler’s qualifications, still
less does it think it a sufficient qualification
by itself. The lower ranks of the Salvation
Army, a body supposed to be more enthusi-
astic than brilliant, are replete with honest
men, and there are plenty of them in the
lunatic asylums suffering from religious
mania and other developments. A highly in-
tellectual, patriotic, unscrupulous political
adventurer, who saves or makes scores of
millions for the country he serves and steals
half a million for himself, is worth more
than all the honest fools who ever went to
Heaven after buying gold-bricks with the
public money. In addition to all else the
community demands that honesty should be
defined by someone besides the man who
says he owns the article. When a person is
so "limited in his mind that he thinks govern-
ment —the kind worth having—is easy, his
definition of honesty may likewise be easy.
For instance, if John Storey holds, on
mature deliberation, that having a joyous
time of high wages and charging the bill to
posterity is honesty, this paper for one
would rather select a really competent em-
bezzler out of a gaol and try liim as
Treasurer. He at least knows what isn't
honesty, for a judge and jury have explained
it to him. xYgain, if Mr. Storey thinks the
remarks that the Auditor-General made
about the outrageous Norton-Grifitiis syn-
dicate business, for which bis party was
wholly and individually responsible, were
meant as a certificate of political honesty,
then his idea of what constitutes the virtue is
unsatisfactory. If the justly irritated official
had been asked for some definitions of an
honest politician, he might have given these :
The honest politician is one who doesn’t hand
down debts to helpless children simply because they
are weak and defenceless, unless he leaves assets
that are yielding at least enough to pay interest
and depreciation, and if he is a very generous man
he doesn’t hand them down even then. (This is the
definition of probity which the N, S. Wales Labor
party put in its programme, but chucked very
early.)
He doesn’t buy or attempt to buy votes with im-
possible promises, such as saying that his prospec-
tive Government’s activities will only be limited by
the supply of labor, money being no object. A very
scrupulous man would as soon pass a valueless
cheque on a blind woman.
He doesn’t manufacture imaginary facts and
bogus statistics to discredit his political opponents
and to fill in a halting speech.
A man who abstains from these sins doesn’t
find the business of government easv • the
fewer of them he practises the more difficult
he finds it.
The Stupidity of Flying Over Cities.
In the last few weeks almost every Aus-
tralian city has repeatedly been flown over
by daring youths in aeroplanes. The loop
has been looped, and manoeuvres have been
performed in the vicinity of steeples and
even telegraph wires which have moved the
daily papers to lyric praise. One of the
means used to attract a crowd to hear W.
A. Holman in Centennial Park on a recent
Saturday was the announcement that he
would make a flight “over Sydney and the
harbor and the coast.'’ The Australian
Aero Club is now affiliated with the R.A.C.,
which is “the sole authority under the pro-
visions of the Federation Adronautique In-
ternationale for regulating all matters re-
lating to aeronautics and aviation in the
British Empire.” Rule I. of the F.A.I. is:
Plying to the danger of the public is hereby pro-
hibited : particularly unnecessary flights over towns
or thickly-populated areas dr over places where
crowds are temporarily assembled, or over public
enclosures at aerodromes at such height as to in-
volve danger to the public.
Disregard of this rule renders the aviator
liable to censure, and tine not exceeding £2O,
suspension of his certificate, removal from
the competitors’ register, and ineligibility
to be put back there. In London the other
day an irresponsible pilot did stunts over
the marching Diggers, lie was reprimanded
for his foolishness, and further action was
only foregone because the occasion was re-
cognised by the War Office to be “Aus-
tralia’s day out.” In Australia the prac-
tice threatens to become chronic. Last
n)onth a balloon dropped through the roof
of a New York bank and killed seven people
—a trifle compared with what might happen
in a city like Sydney if, through engine
failure, or illness or loss of nerve on the-
part of the pilot, or any one of a hundred
possible causes, an aeroplane crashed in a
street or a building. Anyone who has
watched such an occurrence in France or
Egypt will picture the scores who would
be killed and the record conflagration that
would follow. The flue carelessness which
impels certain pilots to risk the lives of their
fellow-countrymen is understandable, though
no greater disservice could bo done by them
to the cause of aviation. A reckless attitude'
towards life is an essential part of the flying
man’s temperament. But when the insanity
is condoned and oven participated in by the;
Premier of the State where it occurs, the
matter takes on a different complexion.
Holman’s proper place is on the ground
rushing through legislation to debar mad-
headed youths from engaging in this some-
what “flash” brand of sport rather than in
the air as a party to it.
Clouding the V.D. Issue.
A booklet called “The Prophylaxis of
Venereal Disease” lias been issued by a body
which styles itself “The Association to Com-
bat the Social Evil.” It purports to be a
reply to Lieut.-Colonel Barrett, of Mel-
bourne, who recently read a paper on ven-
ereal, disease before the Royal Society of
Medicine. Actually it is a call to arms
directed not only at every purist and crank
in the country, but at every citizen who may
be personally affected by such restraints' as
are necessary in fighting this disease. Dr.
Barrett, out of the wealth of his experience
in Egypt and elsewhere, advocated the in-
troduction of primary prophylaxis in civil
life, lie based his demand on the fact that
“out of 4580 reported exposures to infection
(where prophylaxis had been applied) only
13 infections resulted.” The A.C.S.E. pub-
lication begins, disingenuously, with the alle-
gation that prophylaxis is “claimed to be the
only certain remedy.” Now, no one has ever
claimed that there is any one “certain
remedy” for the Y.D. evil. But prophylaxis
should help. Lord Burnham stated in the
House of Lords recently that “prophylactic
measures had reduced Y.D. in the American
Army to one-tenth of 1 per cent”; and there
was little more compulsion on the Yanks in
this respect than if they had been civilians.
Indeed, every weapon, whether of preven-
tion or eradication, helps, and there are
thousands of them. Compulsory notification
would do a lot of good if it were carried out
regardless of fear or favor; as in the case of
plague here and trypanosomiasis in Africa.
So would the ruthless prosecution of those
who knowingly infect others with V.D. Four
Australian States provide, for this; yet, while
there have been nearly 11,000 reported infec-
tions since the different Acts came into force,
there has not been one prosecution. It indi-
cates a disastrous lack of ruthlessness some-
where. Further, the registration of public
women is a necessity if the curse is to be
got under. Always, everywhere, registration
minimises disease. The British War Office
authorised the publication of these figures
shortly before the Armistice:—
V.D. Infections per 1000.
France . . . . . . 22
England . . . . . . 48
The discrepancy was attributed entirely to
France’s control (feeble as it was, owing to
war exigencies) as opposed to England’s lack
of control; and it so impressed General
Richardson of the M.L. Army (which force
suffered heavily from V.D.) that- he and the
M.L. High Commissioner demanded—
(l) That properly licensed houses should be pro-
vided in England.
(2) That the law of segregation for infected
soldiers should apply also to women.
The typical social-purity enthusiast believes
either in none of such measures, or in very
few of them. That is why, if the cause of
Y.D. eradication is left to him, or if his
criticisms of the constructive work of others
are taken seriously, the horror will be with
us for all time. It is essentially a trouble
whose removal calls for the application of
Cromwell’s famous rule, “Neglect No
Means.” For its part The Bulletin cordi-
ally welcomes even the social purist who
preaches “continence.” But that social
purist becomes a public danger when he de-
nounces all the other means that have the
same general objective, and struggles to pre-
vent their use.
—♦
The Voiceless Citizen.
This is the story told by a miner, of (say)
Dead Dog Creek, somewhere about the middle
of Australia: —
He — Brown will do for a name—fell out with the
mounted constable who was in charge of his portion


Tfe Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A”!!” 1 ?
EACH YEAR A RECORD !
The following figures indicate the progress of the Company—
Year.
PREMIUMS ... 1916 Each year the
1917 £.20,336 Income has been
1918 £42,807 more than doubled.
The figures for 1919 will also be a record.
Insurances
transacted
'FIRE (Homesteads, Woolsheds, Crops 8 Stacks).
HAILSTONE.
WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT.
'motor CAR.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders.
EVERY Farmer and Grazier should join
Full Particulars on application to HEAD OFFICE ; 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
this Progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
of the Northern Territory. The constable —call him
Smith —wanted Brown to buy 100 goats at his
(Smith’s) price, and Brown declined. Whatever the
cause, more unpleasantnesses followed. Smith
arrested Brown on a charge of insanity. Brown
was handcuffed, and the cavalcade started for
Blank station, the abode of the nearest J.P.,
110 miles away. After a six days ride,
during which Brown was manacled, they arrived
and the hearing occurred. Brown was dis-
charged and allowed to ride home, where he was
shortly after arrested for maliciously shooting an
aboriginal’s dog. The 140 miles ride was re-
peated, but this time there was no prosecution. A
week or so later Brown was given the tip by a mate
that the next charge against him would be one of
tampering with a lubra. Under Ordinance 9 of the
Territory’s regulation this is a six-months’ affair.
Disproof is difficult, not to say impossible if the
accuser means business, since much of the settlers’
and miners’ domestic work is necessarily done by
gins, and the mere fact of a colored lady being about
a single man’s camp is held to be evidence of guilt.
Brown decided to sever his connection with the place
for life.
So the Territory lost one more white inhabi-
tant. Pf justice is to be done between man
and man the residents must be given larger
citizen rights than they at present possess.
For that purpose the recently-constituted
Advisory Council is farcical. If the Terri-
tory cannot immediately have a Federal
member, the residents should at least be
granted the franchise and the power to exer-
cise it in the election of the four non-official
members of the Council. Larger powers
even than that are given by the Federal
Constitutions of Canada and the U.S.A. to
the inhabitants of Territories. Yukon,
though it has no representative in the
Canadian Senate, is permitted a voice in
the Dominion’s House of Commons, and it
has an elective Council. Newfoundland and
Labrador, though without any representa-
tion in the Federal Parliament, has its own
elective Assembly. The United States’ Ter-
ritories of Hawaii and Alaska, though with-
out direct representation in the U.S. Senate,
have each a local elected Legislature. Even
Porto Rico, though not technically even a
Territory, is permitted a measure of self-
government. In Canada and the United
States the only district, in fact, whose
people are as absolutely voiceless as those of
the Northern Territory, is Columbia ; and
that is the seat of the Government of the
U.S.A., so that there is no analogy whatever
between it and our vast, remote Northern
Territory. It is of the greatest national im-
portance that the Territory should be
peopled; and The Bulletin can conceive
few things more likely to deter Australians
from settling there than the knowledge that,
no matter how they may be misgoverned, no
matter what grievances they may have as
regards administration, they are ciphers,
without any voice in making the laws under
which they must live, nor any as to the
appointment or dismissal of thoSe who ad-
minister them.
Mildura and the A.D.F.A.
Dear Bulletin, —To be attacked by Grant
I-lervey (G. Madison Harvey, B. 25/9/’l9)
is surely .a proof of fame achieved. My
estimable antagonist has, however, grown sud-
denly modest. In recent letters to Melbourne
papers he has proclaimed himself “King of
Mildura.” In one he likens himself to Goo-
and me to the Devil. Every letter of his to-
date I have ignored because I really believe
the man does not know what he is writing
(and I have one or two other items of cor-
respondence to deal with) ; but this epistle
of his goes beyond comment on myself, and,
therefore, requires an answer. I will take
his statements in their order: —
(1) A meeting of Mildura business men did agree
to confer again as to the wisdom of securing the
services of Grant Madison Harvey. He urged the
A.D.F.A. to employ him at once, and my attitude
of inquiry accounts for his subsequent venom.
(2) The “American” did tell us he was “The
Voice of Mildura’s Destiny,” and he did agree to
accept £IOOO a year. This was his fatal error: his
price was so ridiculously small for the big things
he offered that from that minute he “fell flat.”
(3) Since then he has told Mildura that Mildura
must have him to guide her. His price as pilot
has risen from the original thousand with great
rapidity. There has been no wild rush to clinch
a bargain.
(4) At the meeting called at my suggestion,
Hervey-Harvey propounded questions which I said I
would answer when asked by the people concerned
(viz., the growers). Since then a meeting of 1600
people, mostly growers, passed a unanimous vote of
confidence in me. These questions he reiterates in
your columns, and they need reply. The answers
are: —
(a) It does no*.
(b) No.
(c) The A.D.F.A. is a growers’ organisation, and,
though not claiming to be perfect, is moving towards
that ideal more surely by legislating its own affairs
than by listening to the half-baked ideas of a new-
comer who knows nothing of the industry.
(d) An agent gets 5 p.c. on net proceeds, out of
which he has to pay insurances, cartage, brokerages,
storages and bear all risks of del credere. No agent
nets more than 3 p.c. after paying these charges,
all of which would have to be paid by the grower
even if there were no agents.
(e) The wholesale merchants’ profits used to be
made by the merchants long before the A.D.F.A.
came into existence, and then there was no control
over the merchants, their profits or operations.
They could buy as cheaply as they liked and sell
as dearly as they wished, with no one to interfere.
Now these same merchants’ profits are held by the
growers for three to 12 months as a guarantee that
there shall be no speculation in dried fruits and
no sudden inflation of prices because of short sup-
plies. The wisdom of this has been seen during the
last five years. Without this precaution merchants
could have bought at A.D.F.A. Commonwealth prices
and exported overseas at a big profit, leaving Aus-
tralia short; but, because the growers (A.D.F.A.)
were in control, this was impossible, and the Aus-
tralian public benefited through all their require-
ments being held in Australia at prices much below
export parit}\
(f) The retailer’s 4d. per lb. is also part of his
regular previous profit, and causes no increase to
the consumer.
(g) Previous answers automatically reply to this
and show there are no profiteers. The prices of
currants, sultanas and lexias have risen only 15 p.c.
in the last seven years' (1912-19), although costs of
production have increased considerably over 50 p.c.
(h) All these facts ate fully known to various
Prices Commissions, which have confirmed the
A.D.F.A. prices. Three successive Federal Attorney-
Generals (including Mr. Hughes) have studied and
approved the Rules and Constitution of the A.D.F.A.
We did not know then that Grant Madison llarvky
should also have been consulted. In fact, we did
not have his address.
(i) The A.D.F.A. is a growers’ concern, consisting
of 2000 growers, who own 95 p.c. of Australian
dried-fruit products.
(j) I would have no objection.
(k) It is explained in (a) to (j) inclusive. As
a matter of fact, no one has been keener for a
THE BREAD LINE.
Greater Mildura—in fact, a Greater Inland Australia
—than I; and, lese-majeste though it may be,
I venture to assert that my motives are at least as
worthy as those of our self-appointed, self-anointed
and uninvited king, Grant Madison Harvey.
Yours, C. J. De Garis.
“Nic” : Process-engravers, among others,
suffered from the Australian habit of sending
our raw products to the far end of the
world, and dragging them back in foreign
ships as manufactured articles. Throughout
Australasia vast quantities of zinc and cop-
per are used for the production of engravings,
and every ounce of it comes from abroad.
Several countries used to manufacture the
metal sheets —Germany, Belgium, France,.
England and U.S.A. The German article
produced from Australian metal was flawless.
When war broke out European plates became
a memory, and the Australian process-
engraver had to appeal to the U.S.A. The
Yank has since been obliging us with in-
ferior, badly-finished metal, charging a mere
three and a quarter times more than pre-war
prices. Now it is rumored that Japan is be-
ginning the manufacture of sheet metal for
this work from Australian spelter. If this is
so, the ktuff will probably be bought, not be-
cause it will be cheaper, but in the hope that
it may be better. But why should the money
go out of the country at all? The metal is
here—copper and zinc of the highest quality
—and surely to Heaven the country that can
roll railway steel and railway axles can do
this comparatively elementary job of rolling
plates! It is mostly because we pay through
the nose for a thousand things of foreign
production, the majority of which we could
make at home, that the cost of living has so
increased.
Sydney “D.T.” shipping item :
The coal will be transhipped into Mcllwraith,
McEacharn and Co.’s sulks in Fremantle Harbor.
Perhaps it’s right.
“William Young”: The next war will see
some peculiar monikers. The present ar-
rangement of the alphabet doesn’t give us
tail-enders a chance in the army, where
everything excepting enlisting and becoming
casualties is done alphabetically. We board
the transport alphabetically, we leave it
ditto. During pay parade we Y’s and Z’s
stand at the tail-end of a queue until the
money, runs out. During inoculation and
vaccination the jabs and scratches get more
vicious as they reach ns. I’m going to the
next war as Abraham Aarons.
“Nulla” : The Repat. Department’s favor-
ite cards seem to be “the land” and “busi-
ness” —said business being represented
mostly by small general stores and back-
street green-grocery shops. In Australia
there were far too many shopkeepers already
—a people can’t make much progress by
selling one another tins of treacle. How
would it be if the Repat., for a change,
started an engineering works run on co-
operative lines? According to Vicars, of
the Marrickville Woollen Mills, his machin-
ery bill has risen 400 p.c. during the war.
That gives an idea of the chances.
A note from a Sydney baker: —
I’m a baker out on strike and enjoying the Spring
sunshine and fresh air, Especially the fresh air
breathed through clean nostrils. It may not be
generally known that bakers’ ovens very often have
a floor-space equal to that of the workshop. As all
the air coining out of ovens has been through the
fire and is vitiated and deprived of its oxygen, it
is incapable of supporting life. Then there is the
dust floating in the atmosphere. When I am out
in the fresh air after working I have to keep my
mouth open because of the congested state of the
nasal 'passages. It is hard lines when you can’t
get a full supply of air. Any other worker can
sleep sound; not s 6 the baker. Being unable to
breathe through the nose, but only through the
mouth, the latter becomes dry and inerusted after
an hour or so of sleep. That means broken rest
and consequent exhaustion.
And the stronger the case the bakers can
make out, the stronger the reason why they
should have gone to arbitration courts and
wages-boards, instead of robbing themselves
of public symp|thy by going out on strike.
“Billiken”: Japan isn’t the only colored
compet'd tor White Australia has to fear. The
Tata Iron and Steel Co., at Salcohi, India,
in 1914 employed 7000 natives and 168
Europeans. A lot of the natives were women
at 3id. a day. The men were rated at 4d.
a day. The 168 white men walked off with
nearly as much as the whole black army.
The Tata Co. in 1914 turned out 150,000
tons of pig-iron, 110,000 tons of ingots and
575,000 tons of finished materials. The
pig-iron was produced at 255. per ton, as
against about 80s. Australian cost. With
railway freights much less than Australian
rates, and cheap sea carriage, it was easy
to dump 15,427 tons of Indian pig-iron on us
in 1916-17. If we’re so keen to keep out
colored brother with his 4d. a day and rice
bowl, what about his products?
A line from General French’s book,
“1914” :
Judging from my own experience we never had a
more chivalrous or generous foe than the Boers of
South Africa, and I can recall numerous proofs of it.
All the same, when financial sharks in Eng-
land, mostly Jew, wanted to overwhelm and
steal the Boer republics so that they
might introduce Chinese labor, and had
bought all the S’Afriean press save the
Standard- and Diggers’ News (which
Kruger bought), a very different tale was
told. And when the inefficient brigand
Jameson went on his famous Raid, England
snuffled over a very bad poem with the line:
“There are girls in the goldreef city,” the
implication being that the Boers were a race
with whom rape and abduction were daily
occurrences. The shameless pretence was
that Cohenstein’s armed emissary was a
Galahad. Even the fact that General
Cronje, who lost his son in the Raid, didn’t
make Jameson climb a tree by his neck, but
treated him well, wasn’t counted to the Boer
for righteousness. Sermons have been
preached and tears shed and wreaths voted
over smaller acts of generosity than that of
Cronje.
The first move made towards public life
by poet-postman Webster was an attempt to
win a seat in a Sydney suburban council. He
was defeated, but he took the defeat to the
Pull Court on the ground that Returning-
officer Russell' Jones rubber-stamped the
ballot-papers instead of signing them with
ink and pen. The Court held that, seeing
there were thousands of papers, a rubber-
stamp was pardonable. Incidentally, Darkey,
C.J., complimented Webster on the way he
handled his case.
“O. Blin”: When Uncle Sam’s army of
occupation reached Cologne, Fritz started to
get a bit back by supplying war souvenirs.
Anything from a bloodstained shoulder-knot
to a battered helmet could be exchanged for
a few marks, and soon the U.S. parcel post
was working overtime. Presently, however,
souvenirs grew scarce, and a couple of Hun
manufacturers “regretted that order’s were
being delayed owing to a shortage of
material.”
The alleluias of an old administrator: —
Papua is a great country—a second Java, with
rich jungle landsi, bounteous Rainfall, navigable
rivers, and great hinterland above the malarial re-
gion on the littoral. If the casual Australian knew
the immense possibilities of the Commonwealth’s first
oversea colony he would rush the New Guineas —
Papua and (late) German New Guinea—in his hun-
dreds to invest in the cocoariut, rubber, hemp and
coffee industries alone, such other investments as
timber, pearl-fishing and mining being yet un-
developed except at one or two places in Papua.
The climate is healthy when the settler lives under
proper conditions of food and housing, and does not
ruin his system with booze—the real cause. of most
malaria. Land is plentiful, labor is to be had in
adequate supplies that will meet all demands for
many years to come, and the markets of Aus-
tralia for raw products like rubber are only four
days’ steam from the ports at Samara! and Moresby.
Papua is a land of promise for the young and virile
Australian. A modest capital is all that is required
to make the settler independent within a decade
if he properly utilises his coin, and works.
“Broker”: The question of the nomen-
clature of Australian wines is still unsettled ;
and this is prejudicing the future of the
industry. W. B. Wilkinson, Director of
the Commonwealth Laboratory, has ad-
vanced a series of names, and they have
been gazetted by the Commonwealth Regis-
try of Trade Marks. Burgundy becomes
Burgalia; Chablis, Chabalia; Champagne,
Champalia; Claret, Claralia; and so on.
Britain recently gave Portugal the exclusive
right to use the word “Port,” and this may
yet mean that unless we re-name our wines
many excellent markets now opening up may
be shut against us. The worst feature of
all, perhaps, is that we have applied
a European geographical name to Australian
wine of quite a different character from
that qf the European wine of the same
name; so that when in Britain a man
wants, say, Tokay, and tries the Australian
article, he is apt to rebel. It may be a
perfectly good wine that he gets, but if it
isn’t the wine he wants the quality doesn’t
save it from his condemnation.
~ ‘,‘koyal Australian” on the manners of a
British field-marshal
Allenby’s recent complimentary remarks about
the A.L.H. and N.Z.M.R. do not wipe out the insult
he handed them at the Peace dinner in Cairo. At
that function, in thanking those troops which had
brought him success, he mentioned every unit under
his command except the Australians and Maorilanders,
and this though Generals Charnel and Chayton
were sitting at the table. It wouldn’t have mat-
tered if he hadn’t gone thrpugh the list with such
studied and meticulous care, sweeping in even the
Gyppy Labor Corps and the colored West Indians.
To learn that a man of Allenby’s standing could
be capable of such pettiness pame as a great shock
to most of us. His reason, of course, was the
behavior of the Anzac Mounted Division (Ist and
2nd L.H. Brigades and N.Z.M.R. Brigade) at
Surapend, a small mud village about five miles
S.E. of Jaffa, where the troops took into their own
hands the matter of avenging the murdef- of one of
their number by a native. However much their
action in this matter may be deplored, it does not
excuse Allenby’s conduct in Cairo. In fact, had
G.H.Q. taken proper action in the case ’of a
previous murder by a native, the Surapend affair
would never have happened. Right through Pales-
tine no serious effort was ever made by G.H.Q. to
seek out either the thieves who stole whatever they
could lay their hands on, or the other “friendly”
natives who committed still worse villainies. The
result was that the exasperated troops at last took
the law into their own hands. In any case, Allenbv
directly punished the Anzac Mounted Division by
ignoring all recommendations for gallantry in the
field during the operations from September 17 on-
wards, and by cancelling all leave to Cairo after
the Armistice.


sa
dsa
THE NEW MOHAIR SUITS
ARE IDEAL FOR SUMMER WEATHER
Made in the style illustrated, but with vest. Coat has 3-button
front and three patch pockets outside. Mohair material is a wool
and cotton mixture, very light, and pre-shrunk for washing. Jjo
lining or shoulder padding in coat. The trousers have side, hip and
fob pockets and permanent turn-up.
In a plain, Biscuit-colored Mohair —
Ready to Wear,
75/-
We quote also a two-piece suit in same shade, with white hair-
line stripes close-set 07/o
We pay postage. Please state height, chest, waist and inside-leg
measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney.
a
tor
vfrffln
55"
am
■mm
tm
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
The Perfect
Emulsion
Prescribed by the Medical Profession.
fi ngier’s Emulsion is the most palatable, the most
cream-like, the most perfect of all Emulsions. Even the
most fastidious take it with pleasure, and it agrees
perfectly with delicate, sensitive stomachs. Those who
have found other Emulsions distasteful, should try
Angier’s, and note the difference; it always pleases.
Prescribed by the Medical Profession for twenty-five
i years, it is a standard remedy of proved value, equally
■ useful for adults or children.
’ Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
■ ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD , 233, Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
The United States propose to exclude
Japanese, who are occupying the Western
States in such numbers that Uncle Sam
begins to talk of them in millions. If he
does the Japs’ need for another outlet will
be intensified. Tropical Australia is an
empty sort-of place, unlike the U.S. Pacific
Coast, and it isn’t even organised into States,
but is governed like a foreign dependency
or remote failure from the cold-weather capi-
tals down south. So a case may be laid
before the League of Nations, if the Fiume
trouble hasn't already knocked all the heart
out of that dejected institution. When the
crowded brown person wants the U.S. Paci-
fic Coast so badly it is no use pretending
(hat he couldn’t do with an outlet in much
more adjacent Australia.
The Australian Covernment has nominal
control over defence, and when the Consti-
tution was drafted it was intended to give
it control over trade and commerce also.
Flying is now one Of the most important
defence arms, and it promises to be a big
factor commercially. Yet Vic. might be
stocked with dangerous machines—-and, in
fact, it has a number of this class, as was
evidenced when long-distance flights were
attempted recently—and the Australian Par-
liament could not forbid their use. N. S.
Wales civilian instructors might be incom-
petent and their pupils reckless, and the
methods of both might differ from the
methods in vogue in the other States; and
the Australian Government would have no
say in the matter. The National Parlia-
ment sitting in Victoria can’t even prevent
a Victorian airman from flying over the roof,
and so endangering- the priceless lives of the
legislators inside.
In N. S. Wales and Vic. hon. members are
busy catching the eye of Mr. Elector. So
that they may presently pose as patriots
strong in the faith that is in them, five mem-
bers of the Vic. Assembly have thus far this
session managed to get themselves suspended ;
and the same number contrived it in a single
sitting in N. S. Wales, amid the delighted
cackle of the other patriots. Parliament
was designed not so much to do things as
to pretoned to do them ; and the sergeant-at-
arms is one of the aids to the deception. An
assembly that was really serious about busi-
ness of great importance wouldn’t cackle
with joy when one of its members was treated
like a naughty kid who was being sent home
till the morning by the junior mistress.
The disaster which overtook the National
Federation at Echuca (Vic.), when William
Hill, of Colbinabbin, president of the
Farmers’ Union, romped into the Reps, by
a tremendous majority, will probably cry-
stallise the intentions of some hesitating
Nationalist M’s.H.R. who have farms of
their own. Even before the Echuca by-
election the farmers’ body reckoned itse
strong enough throughout Australia to
ply some 2 doz. cockies to the Reps, at trie
next general election. Now it 1S
stood that Pigott (N.S.W.), Fie g
(N.S.W.) and McWilliams (Tas.) are all
preparing to follow the lead of Edmund
Jowett (Vic.), who took his Nationalist
principles into the V.F.TJ. early this year,
and has just been selected farmers candidate
for the next Federal contest. Farmers ought
to be heard in the House like every. othei
sizeable body; all the same, by insisting on
the acceptance of a large bunch of Freetrade
principles, their union has played a dirty
trick on its own members, whose one hope
of getting a decent price for their produce
is by an increase of the local market, thus
cutting out the unholy expense of reaching
a foreign market where they must compete
with the cheap nigger.
Victoria talks of importing a £5OOO-per-
annum genius to put the railways on a better
footing. For one thing, the average Vic-
torian truck carries only 350 tons in a year,
while the U.S. truck carries 800 and the Ger-
man vehicle 950 tons. The poor Victorian
figure is set down to bad management, but it
may be due to the fact that the truck has
further to go, and so makes fewer journeys.
Thus in Germany, between 1880 and 1910,
there were 26 cities which showed a vastly
bigger proportionate increase than the capi-
tal—26 places for a sane, healthy-minded
truck to go to so that it could promptly sell
its contents to a growing, busy population.
In Victoria there wasn’t one such place, so a
vast proportion of the trucks had to make
the journey to Melbourne, no matter how re-
mote the station from which they started.
GRAVITATION.
“The total cost of the N.S.W. State Departmental motor-cars was £26,912. The cost of upkeep
was: wages, £11,848; repairs, etc., £14,755.” — Auditor-General’s report.
THE CHAUFFEUR: “The gent, whose family uses the car sent me to the bloke who pays
for the car, and told me to collect my account.”
Now that it is all over and certain parties
are patting their own backs and telling the
seamen that, though they lost £lOO,OOO in
wages during the late strike, the increased
wages they gained mean £lOO,OOO a year, it
might be as well to point out that these latter
increases are passed on; also, the £3,000,000
or so that the workers of Australia
lost has to be suffered for in one
way and another. It meant so much
idleness, so much less production, and,
therefore, so 1 much more increase in
the cost of living. Always the public pays,
including the seamen themselves. And they
could have got almost all they wanted, cer-
tainly all they have got, and perhaps more,
without losing a penny.
As an alternative to the One-Big-Union
idea, which has been rejected by Melbourne
Trades Hall Council, that body has approved
of “One Industry, One Union,” and confer-
ences of allied unions are to be called with
amalgamation in view. If the idea is that,
for instance, the Clerks’ Union shall assist
the Office-Cleaners’ Union to get justice, the
movement calls for cheers. But the Trades
Hall will miss a chance if it doesn’t incor-
porate a proposal to appoint committees to
discuss with the employers things of interest
to the industry in which tffey are both con-
cerned. If the directors of a business never
consulted things would soon be in col-
lision ; and it is almost as inevitable if em-
ployers and employed in an industry don’t
consult. The trouble hitherto has been that
the employees have never had a single mind
and haven’t possessed a voice, but the new
scheme supplies these things.
In his campaign of economy P.M.G. Web-
ster has sacked the Observer of Passing
Events. Hence the sundering of Finland
from Russia has been overlooked, and for a
year or so mails for the former country have
been piling up in bags addressed to Petro-
grad, through which boiling city the Finnish
letters used to travel. The Finnish Consul,
who discovered the paralysed mail, was quite
annoyed about it. He seemed to think that
Webster should have known there had been
a war on.
The Westralian Government’s announce-
ment that the State Sawmills were to be sold
to French buyers, contingent upon the ap-
proval of Parliament—a statutory require-
ment —raised a storm. During the debate
in the Leg. Assembbly the Labor Opposition
to a man condemned the deal and challenged
the Government to dispose of the State im-
plement Works, which, unlike the timber
mills, are run at a substantial loss in the
interests of cocky; but they didn’t show
where the buyer of a losing concern w-as to
come from. The Opposition Laborites would
command more sympathy if they hadn’t them-
selves been chiefly responsible for the
wretched showing made by nearly every
State enterprise. The lunatic tendency of
the worker on a State job to loaf and strike
against himself is unchecked by time-serving
Labor legislators and trade-union leaders,
whose cowardice is one of the greatest ob-
stacles to successful public enterprpise.
All votes count the same at an election; so
the Massey Government in M.L. has decided
to give every soldier who embarked for the
other side a war-gratuity of eighteen-pence
per day of service. Of course the money will
be borrowed. That is to say, there will be
a further issue of paper to further artificially
increase the cost of living. A tax to pro-
vide a war gratuity would be arguable; a
loan, while it will do probably two-thirds of
the soldiers no good, will certainly further
fatten a few profiteers, whose increased
prices will continue long after the bulk of
the soldiers have spent the last bean of their
gratuity. However, there’s a general elec-
tion coming; sq what’s the use of talking?
Last Saturday Sydney Telegraph de-
fined Protectionists as people who protest
“against Parliament stirring from the spot
until effective provision is made against the
public being allowed to benefit by the re-
turn of normal shipping conditions.” Well,
the Telegraph and Herald, the two great
anti-Protectionist organs, have put up their
price 50 per cent, on the ground that nor-
mal shipping (i.e., importing) conditions
haven’t returned and aren’t going to return
as regards paper and ink and machinery and
freights, and that there is no remedy under
existing conditions against the foreign pro-
fiteer, who must just be put up with. Every
morning these two papers are a living evi-
dence that it is time this country began to
shift for itself—unless, of course, they are
just profiteering outrageously.
Webster’s latest exercise of poetic license
at the G.P.O. was the curtailment of the
postal service last Thursday because (ye
gods!) it was Show Day in Melbourne.
South Aus. Labor doesn’t look like losing
its head. F. W. Birrell, who argued for con-
stitutional methods in settling the Seamen’s
strike, was recently elected president of the
Adelaide Trades and Labor Council; and at
the Adelaide Conferenc of the S. Aus. branch
of the Australian Labor Party he was elected
secretary. He has been long enough a trade
unionist to be able to compare industrial
conditions now and 30 years ago; and
methods that have produced such mar-
vellous changes in that time arc, he believes,
too good to monkey with. He learned his
trade (he is a compositor) on the Register,
and is an old president of the Typographical
Society.
Vic. Treasurer McPherson has taken off
his cap and cheered Hughes for purchasing
a fleet of ships. Not only that, but he has
induced some of his Liberal-Conservative
friends at Hawthorn to cheer with him.
McPherson, with some feeling, declared that
more harm had been done to British industry
by the shipping ring than by anything else,
and he rejoiced that it was getting the
wind up because of the things that Hughes
was doing. The most deplorable feature is
that nothing of any consequence is being
done in England, where there is a body
of combined shipping and coal interests in
the House of Commons so powerful that
thus far every Government has been afraid
to tackle it.
After nine months’ Cabinet cogitation the
Vic. Forestry Act has been proclaimed. The
world was searched for three men to con-
stitute the commission of control, and now
a start is being made witli 11. R. Mackay
and W. J. Code as second and third com-
missioners. .Owen .Tories, the Welsh-Oxonian
who was picked as first commissioner, won’t
arrive till late in November. Mackay and
Code were hitherto respectively conserva-
tor and assistant conservator. There is
magic, evidently, in the name “commis-
sioner.” At any rate, call a man a clerk or
even a conservator and he is rich on five
hundred a year. Make him a commissioner
and he is underpaid at a thousand.
Perth is short of meat, and 200 liquor
barrels were lately sent to the State meat-
works at Wyndham to be filled. They fcame
back empty, with an intimation that they
were imported barrels, which had paid no duty
and were objected to. It is good to know that
a union is making its protest against the
importing curse, if it was a genuine protest,
but the kick was badly timed. Unionists had
unloaded the imported barrels which paid no
duty from the imported ship which paid
no duty either. And by delaying their pro-
test till the imported barrels did the long
and costly journey by imported ship to
Wyndham they made things gratuitously
nasty for the meatless people of Perth, who
deserved better treatment.
N.S.W. Government has bought some
50.000 acres of high-priced Riverina sheen-
land in one block to settle soldiers on, arid
has paid for it with debentures. This makes
some temporary extra wealth of a sort, for
the land is there as before and the deben-
tures are there, which they weren’t before.
If the Government resumed the whole State
in one act after this fashion, there would
lie so much paper wealth that one couldn’t
go round the corner without falling over
debentures. If the late owner, having lost his
occupation, decides to go abroad with his
debentures, then this country will have an-
other absentee to support. The new men.
who shove out the old men, will presumably
proceed to grow one of the things that Aus-
tralia is more than sufficiently supplied with
already—wheat or wool. If they had been
set to growing ships in a fertile local dock-
yard they would produce something which
this country wants badly, and for w r ant of
which it is profiteered remorselessly by out-
siders, and there would have been no risk
of creating a new absentee, arid a now-
industry would have been established instead
of an old one being tured over, and the pay
would have been more reliable. But it re-
quires business capacity—not Walsh Island
capacity—to do that sort of thing.
PEACE HATH HER VICTORIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“English Labor leaders are insisting on the neces-
sity for greater production.” — Cable.
Black England lifts a smutty hand
To smite the iron bars of trade,
That Peace in pride may understand
Her heart is high and unafraid;
And draggled England at the loom
Speeds fast the shuttle to and fro,
Lest idleness reverse the doom
Her guns pronounced upon the foe.
Back to the ragged trench of toil!
Hold fast the gains whate’er betide ■
Save we are masters of our soil,
In vain our bravest strove and died.
Save we reclaim the wasted years
And fill with deeds the triumph hour,
Vain were the seas of woman tears
That nerved a nation’s arm to power 1
Black England bends her mighty will;
The wheels are loud, the furnace roars;
Her heart is strong and eager still
As when the foe was at her doors.
Black England bends above her task
By war’s long wastage undismayed,
Lest that new, whiter England ask
Why sons of hers their trust betrayed.
Back to the trenches of our toil !
Shall young Australia tamely yield
Her splendid share of manhood’s spoil
Won grimly on the stricken field?
The right to prove our nation’s worth
Is ours by stress of blood and tears;
Where Man is victor over Earth
We claim our place among our peers!
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


THE POOD PROVIDER.
LITTLE AUSTRALIA: “I’m hungry, Daddy —give me a penny!”
BILLY: “Hungry! You shouldn’t feel hungry. Ain’t I making plans and speeches with millions and millions in them!”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED
Registered
<BHAS>
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments,' Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-I.ead Ores., Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOUKNE-
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
IONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALE, AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. A. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
PIONEER Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLE . .
MAKERS,
J. C. lAJDOWICI <a SON LTD.
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
AIL STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
A Safe Investment, or money returned if better value can be obtained elsewhere-—the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de It
Circular
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Wien the Federal Treasurer set out to
raise 25 millions for the Peace Loan, the
likelihood of the issue being subscribed volun-
tarily was not promising. Heavy importa-
tions since the Armistice have put a very
heavy strain on many people, while there
were still considerable instalments due to
the banks on account of previous loans.
Under these and other adverse conditions the
Treasury did well to get in something over
20 millions by the closing-date originally de-
cided upon (Sept. 23). However, the
Treasury must have the remaining five mil-
lions, so the time for receiving subscrip-
tions has been extended to Tuesday next
(Oct. 7). If the issue is then not fully
subscribed, the Cabinet threatens to go ahead
with its compulsory subscription bill, mak-
ing all taxpayers with a taxable income of
£250 liable to contribute. This should not be
necessary, if the better-off do their bit. The
shirkers certainly should be got at. To do
this a Qommission should be appointed with
power to examine income-tax returns and
make all other necessary inquiries, and there-
upon make an assessment upon any person
who cannot produce a good reason why he
does not hold his quota of war debt. Pos-
sibly the whole of the present 25 millions
will be subscribed ; but this amount will not
meet the Commonwealth’s war commitments,
and a further substantial loan is a certainty.
John Bridge and Co., Limited, wool and
pastoral produce salesmen, of Sydney and
elsewhere: —
, Dividends.
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 0 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
Premium on new shares ..£29,660 £33,262
1911. .£18,886 £1320 20p.e.=£15,600 1,965 35,227
Premium on new shares . . 7,675 42,902
1912.. 13,824 1320 10p.c.= 8,576 3,928 46,830
Assets written down, £14,000 .. 32,830
1913.. 11,779 1320 10p.c.= 8,807 1,652 34,482
1914.. 21,198 1320 124 ~,, 11,009 43,351.
1915.. 16,762 1320 5 „„ 4.404 11,038 54,389
Written off securities, £6OOO . . 48,389
1916.. 10,608 1320 10p.c.= 8,808 480 48.869
Written off, £3869 . . . . 45,000
1917.. 17,281 1320 10p.c.= 8,808 7,153 52,153
1918.. 16,878 1320 10 „ „ 8,808 6,750 58,903
June,
1919.. 17,329 1650 10 „ ~11,009. 4,670 63,573
After almost half a century in the
business—the last 22 years as a public co.—-
Bridges have sold the whole of their N. S.
Wales interests, and will in future confine
themselves ,to Queensland. The purchaser
was the latest co-operative infant—the two-
year-old Farmers and Graziers’ Co-operative
Grain, etc., etc., Co., Ltd. Over a year ago,
besides handling wheat, that co. decided to go
in for wool, produce and fat stock, and since
“the policy advocated by the directors of
the F. and G. Co-0p.,” John Bridge’s chair-
man recently told his shareholders, “was in
such complete accord with what had already
been adopted by your own directors, the F.
and G. met with ready sympathy on our
part.” Naturally, then, when the co-op. con-
cern looked round for a ready-made organisa-
tion, Bridges obliged with an offer to part
with their business. So “the illogical posi-
tion of remaining in the trade to compete
with producers themselves was thus
avoided.”
The F. and G. Co-op. has undertaken to
pay Bridges £210,847. Whether the. farmers
made a good bargain is a matter for discus-
sion in the review of their co.’s affairs which
follows. Certainly the Bridge co. appears to
have done very well out of the sale—particu-
larly well considering that a large proportion
of its clients were small men, many of whom
might easily be captured by a co-op. enter-
prise. The purchase price is made up this
way:—
Pyrmont freehold stores and Circular Quay
freehold offices . . . . . , . . £140,000
Plant and furniture . . . . . . . . 5,900
Leasehold warehouse .. . . .. . . 7,500
Immediately-realisable trading accounts .. 33,347
Goodwill .. . . .. , . . . 24,100
Freeholds, stores, plant, etc., were taken over
at valuation. Apparently for its freehold
stores alone Bridges realised something like
£40,000 more than the figures at which
they stood in the books, and this, together with
the £24.100 which is being paid for goodwill
(equivalent to about 18 months’ net profits)
and anything in excess of the book values of
plant, is responsible for the surpluses and
profits which now show up in John Bridge’s
accounts as a result of the sale.
The disposal of the N. S. Wales business
and the liquidation of accounts not taken over
have brought afcbut these changes in Bridge’s
balance-sheet figures:—
June 30. Sept.
Mortgages . . £45,577 Nil
Overdraft . . 107,763 Nil
Sundry creditors. . 142,678 £4,378
Depositors . . 41,518 39,293
Freeholds . . 162,392 22,392
Leaseholds . . 2,105 Nil
Advances . . 316,173 103,508
Plant, etc. . . 23,422 5,056
War Loan . . 20,037 20,037
Investments . . 518 518
Cash .. . . 381 Not ascertainable.
It is not possible to give an accurate estimate
of the present cash holding. However,
Bridges have unloaded £373,000 of freeholds,
leaseholds, plant and advances, and meantime
reduced its liabilities by £293,800. while
cash assets have been built up, and £lOO,OOO
is owing by the purchaser. The little
I', and G. Co-op., of course, could not pay
dash down, but £110,847 of the purchase
price was met in this way:—
Taking over mortgage on freeholds . . . . £45,000
Taking over cost of lease and new store 7,500
Purchasing “immediately realisable” accounts 33,347
Cash payment .. .. .. . . .. 25,000
The remaining £lOO,OOO is to be met by
annual instalments of not less than £25,000,
unpaid balances bearing interest at 6 p.c.
Bridges have, of course, protected themselves
by fastening on to securities to cover this
£lOO,OOO.
Since the measure of the co.’s present
cash assets is obscure, a precise statement
of shareholders’ position is not ascertain-
able. But a little further light is thrown
on the subject by this statement in the direc-
tors’ report:—
The purchase money will permit of the return of
capital of £1 per share, but.it is not .yet practicable
to state definitely when this money will be dis-
tributed. The known value of your co.’s Queens-
land assets establishes the present value of the co.’s
shares at more than £2 each, including the above-
mentioned £1 per share, and your directors advise
the holders not to sell at less than £2 ss.
Paid capital is £110,075 (88,075 ordinaries
and 22,000 G p<c. prefs.), and at June 30
there were assets over and above liabilities
of a book value equal to £1 13s. lOd. to
represent each £1 of paid capital. Viewing
all the circumstances—particularly the
chances of a co.-op. concern growing strong
enough to cut into the proprietary cos.—
John Bridge’s get-out has been a profitable
one. For several years the old co. has not
been on very friendly terms with the rest
of the trade. It has planted thorns in the
track of the Sydney Woolbrokers’ Associa-
tion ; when that body was arranging to lift
charges, Bridge’s was at the same time fight-
ing to have them reduced. Two years ago
troubles came to a head, and the co. was
expelled from the Association —which
may not have been in any way to
its discredit. Since then it has re-
fused to link up with another com-
bination, the Federated Woolselling Brokers
of Australia. Though it played a lone hand,
the co. has been able to go on making good
profits, but it would probably have done
better if it had remained on friendly terms/
with the other middlemen. Even during the
past year it got into trouble with the ship-
ping people over a wool dumping plant it
had installed; but the Central Wool Com-
mittee came to the rescue and backed up
the co.’s enterprise. However, John Bridge
and Co. now retire to the Northern State,
where the directors sniff good prospects.
Whether this final act of handing over its
organisation and clients to a co-op. concern
is going to administer a blow to its old
competitors depends on the new management.
* * * #
The Farmers and Graziers’ Co-opera-
tive Grain, Insurance and Agency Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney) :—■
Bonus to Written
April, Profits. Dividends. Consignors, off. Reserves.
1918.. £10,563 10 p.c.= £1379 -- £5384 ) „ OQ . a
Preliminary exes. 852 j
1919.. 19,978 10 p.c.= 4298 £5667 7961 5000
Probably no farmers’ co-operative co. ever
got into business under more favorable con-
ditions. It started under the wing of the
Farmers and Settlers’ Association, and at
the very beginning was presented with a
large volume of business in which there was
practically a guaranteed profit. As the F.
and S. Co-op. Grain Co. it was appointed
receiving agent for 12.2 p.c. of the 1917-18
N. S. Wales wheat crop. This represented
a gift of £27,193 in commissions, and all
the co. had to do was provide the materials
and labor for stacking. Having thus estab-
lished itself, during the following y6ar, with
open competition, it handled almost double
the volume of grain, representing about
half the entire crop of the State, with the
result shown in the last line of the table.
Shareholding clients have had their first
taste of the value of Co-operation in the
£5667 bonuses which are being distributed
in addition to the 10 p.c. div.
Twelve months ago shareholders felt so
pleased witli themselves that they readily
agreed to the management’s proposal to go
out after farm produce, wool, livestock, in-
surance and various other lines, and a start
was made by adopting the present cumber-
some title. The Bulletin at the time ex-
pressed the hope that the management would
proceed cautiously, for it has the records
of so many promising co-op. enterprises that
have tripped over their own feet because
they were in too great a hurry to build up
big figures. The concern is still an infant
which has been spoonfed by a Government
acquisition scheme, and the management has
not had a chance to prove itself under nor-
mal trading conditions. But before teaching
the infant to walk the directors have de-
cided to make it leap. The balance-sheet as
at April 30 is of little value now, except
to illustrate the co.’s position when it de-
cided to acquire the John Bridge business.
At that date paid capital was only £41,452,
and the management was working on £lO,OOO
of debentures. After payment of the divs.
and bonuses, etc., the co. had £5OOO of
reserves, and its surplus cash assets
amounted to £34,764. The little concern was
thus in a very comfortable position. But
to secure stores and a ready-made organisa-
tion to handle wool, meat,/etc:, the directors
committed the co. to purchasing the assets
detailed in the John Bridge review which
precedes these remarks. The actual cash
to be paid, apart from the “immediately-
realisable” book debts, amounted to £125,000;
but at the same time the co. took over
mortgages on properties, £45,000; and lia-
bility for the outlay on the new store (£7500
had been spent at June 30). Since the F.
and G.’s accounts closed some new capital
has been got in: 113,563 shares had been
issued up to a few days ago compared with
85,670 five months ago. Assuming that all
these shares are fully-paid to 10s. (which
is unlikely, seeing that over 3 p.c. of the
April subscribed capital represented unpaid
calls), and allowing that the first £25,000
cash payment has been made to John Bridge
and Co., then this approximate balance-sheet
can be got by combining the F. and G.
April figures (after paying divs., etc.) with
the Bridge purchase transactions:- —
Liabilities. | Assets.
Paid Capital .. £56,781 | Freeholds .. £140,000
Reserve Fund 5,000 | New Premises . . 7,500
Taxation Reserve 3,650 | Plant, etc. . . 15,509
John Bridge & Co. 100,000 | Bridge’s good-
Mortgages .. 45,000 | will .. .. 24,100
Bank debit . . 20,186 ) Stocks . . . . 1,753
New building .. 7,500 | Sundry debtors 61,501
Debentures . . 10,000 | Sundries . . 317
Sundry creditors 12,783 | War Loan .. 10,220
£260,900 £260,900
Funds, £61,781 (at the very outside) : lia-
bilities, apart from possible taxes, £195,469;
excess liabilities over more or loss liquid
assets, £121,678 —and in a business in which
clients require financial support when con-
ditions are unfavorable! Where is it all
leading?
The F. and G. may have got good value
in freeholds, stores and plant; but very
clearly it was not in a position to undertake
such a purchase. It probably would not
have been possible at all but for the Com-
monwealth Bank. But certainly not one
penny should have been paid by a co-op.
concern for the business of a proprietary.
The F. and G. paid £24,100 under the im-
pression that it was going to hold on to the
whole of the John Bridge organisation and
all the old co.’s clients. This is what has
happened:—
(1) Though John Bridge’s chairman recently told
his shareholders that “the whole of the expert staff
lately in their employment are loyally assisting the
purchasing c 0.,” Clarence Bridge, who was the
principal man in the old co.’s wool business, " has
gone over to Hill, dark’s, his contract having ex-
pired. How much business he is likely to take with
him is unknown, of course; but the position was
serious enough for the F. and G. to apply to the
Courts for an injunction to restrain him from
attempting to influence old clients to transfer their
business.
(2) The very day the sale of Bridge’s business
was announced, it is well known that other cos. put
their travellers on the roads to get in touch with old
Bridge clients and try to convince them that they
would no longer be dealing with the Bridges, but
with another crowd who were more or less new-
chums to the game.
How much damage has been done in this
way cannot be ascertained ; but if, under the
circumstances, the F. and G. holds on to all
the Bridge business The Bulletin will be
surprised. Yet any value there may have
been in getting hold of the Bridge business
lay in the F. and G.’s ability to at once rope
in the old co.’s customers as co-operators.
It would be interesting to know how many
have taken up shares in the new concern.
This side of “by far and away the largest
transaction which has taken place in the
stock-and-station business in Australia”
seems to have been overlooked. In other
words, the co. has rushed into purchasing
wool-stores, plant, etc., without first ascer-
taining who are its customers. Incidentally,
the co-op. movement in the wool-trade is
not new to N. S. Wales; there are already
two concerns in business —the Co-op. Wool
and Produce and the Country Producers’
Selling Co. —and there has been no rush on
the part of graziers to become co-operators,
despite the good work these offices have done.
The Bulletin can come to -no other con-
clusion than that this farmers’ co. has got
considerably ahead of itself.
Present paid capital is quite inadequate
to finance the responsibilities the directors
have undertaken; and the co. will have to
go its hardest to attract customers who will
also becomq shareholders. How the directors
hope to meet even the four instalments of
£25,000 per annum due to John Bridge and
Co. without a guarantee of this support and
without making the wheat co-operator suffer
for the wool-and-meat venture this paper
does not know. Possibly everything will
work out all right: The Bulletin hopes so,
for a big successful co-op. co. can perform
greater service to the man on the land than
all the politicians.
* * * *
The Austral Hat Mills, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) :—•
, Dividends Re-
June, Profits. Prof. Ord. Off. serves.
1909.. £1612 7 p.c.=£ll9o 34 p.c.rr£l7s £174 £1324
1910.. 2559 7 „ „ 1190 10 „ „ 500 269 1924
1911.. 2678 74 „ „ 1275 104 „ „ 025 412 2390
Premiums on new shares, £BOO .. 3190
On all shares.
1912.. 5019 9 p.c. = £2201 999 5009
1913.. 4400 9 „ „ 2700 1018 5751
1914.. 968 4 „ „ 1200 318 5201
1915.. 1512 Nil 435 6278
1916.. 3629 10 p.c. = 3000 425 6482
1917.. 4144 10 „ „ 3000 517 7109
1918.. 4798 10 ~ „ 3000 812 8095
1919.. 4551 10 ~ „ 3000 725 8921
War conditions do not appear to have
helped this co. to the extent that might
have been expected. Certainly profits have
been steadier; but the balance-sheets do not
disclose evidence of any expansion of busi-
ness. The accounts are not talkative, and
give no indication of working profit move-
ments or of the growth of exes. One line,
“Profits for 12 months, £.‘>210,” contains all
that the P. and L. account says, while the
directors’ report confines, itself to the dis-
tribution of these profits. But what the
balance-sheet does clearly show is that the
co. has*more funds than it actually requires
for manufacturing headgear. Capital is
£30,000, and there were reserves, before pay-
ment of the div., of £11,921, together
£4l 921; but an amount equal to almost
half of these funds was in War Loan, de-
posits and cash. At June 30 last a few
thousands less were in plant, stock and
book-debts than 10 years previously, when
the co. was working on a smaller capital.
Here is a more detailed comparison
1909. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities .. .. £1,211 £2,005 £2,641
Freeholds, plant, etc... 6,514, 10,569 9,944
Stock 15,152 13,431 11,091
Book debts . . . . 3,063 2,229 2,893
Cash and investments.. 401 16,871 20,634
Since 1909 £BOOO of additional capital has
been got in and also £BOO by way of share
premiums. Liabilities over the same period
have increased by £1430, though some of
this includes provision for contingencies
which may not be called for. Meantime,
assets have expanded by £19,259. So over
the 10 years the visible improvement has
been £9029, after paying divs. averaging a
little over 8 p.c. p.a. The present 10 p.c.
on total funds, however, is equal to a return
of only about 7f p.c. One effect of the
large holding of War Loan and deposits has
been to dilute the return from manufactur-
ing. Assuming that these assets earned as
much as 5 p.c. net (=£9o3), then capital
and reserves not represented by these items,
and which may be regarded as the funds
actually employed in liat-making, earned
about il p.c. last year.
Silver, soared to a record ss. 3§d. per oz.
a few days ago. Even as late as 1915 the
year’s average was under 2s. The best
price offered last year was 4s. lid., and
it never got below 3s. Old. On the
other hand, lead continues around the £25-
per-ton mark, compared with an average of
over £3O for the past three years—as much
as £4l was paid in 1918. So if the silver-
lining is brighter the cloud is heavier.
* * * *
“Jackar,” on the woes of tin producers:—
It is a common supposition that the tin-producers
got the full benefit of the high values which ruled
during the war, and that they are still pocketing
enormous profits. The facts are quite otherwise.
Tlie tin-producers were not put on the same favored
footing as the molybdenite, wolfram and zinc men—
they had no abnormally high fixed-prices for delivery
at port of shipment, but they had to meet world-
competition, war-time freightage and profiteering.
With all these disabilities to contend with they
were very little, if any, better off for the high
values than they were under pre-war conditions. On
the conclusion of the war they expected changes
which would be to their advantage, but, so far.


The British Westinghouse Electric 81 Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse
Magnetic Brakes
With improved. skid-proof attachment, absolutely
prevents skidding even at the highest speeds.
SPECIAL FEATURES i-
Immediate and powerful action.
The wheels cannot be skidded.
Prevents motor “ flashing over.”
Reduces destructive arcing in the controller, and
materially reduces the strain or the car insu-
lation by preventing the voltage in the braking
circuit from reaching dangerously high values.
Head Office for Australia:—
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
ds
Works-Trafford Park, Manchester. England.
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Aluminoferric works wonders! One pound will
clarify 2000 gallons of water. You throw it into
the water and allow it to dissolve. In about two
hours all the impurities will start to precipitate and
the water will be left clear and pure. Will not
harm cattle or stock. Use it in very small propor-
tions when clearing water for household use. Sold
by storekeepers everywhere—or direct from William
Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Perth.— Advt. [2
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
• * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Letter received from G.
H. Olding, Parramatta Road, Sydney, 26th March,
1919: “In reply to your inquiry we have pleasure in
stating that the wood pipe laid down in our smiths'
shop, which conveys the blast from the fans to the
smiths’ forges, has proved in every way satisfactory.
We have not had to renew any part, and the pipe 'is
as good as when laid down five (6) years ago.—(Sgd.)
G. H. Olding.” Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., (H. 0.) Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W'. P.O. Add.: Box 1570
G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
* * * #
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
# *
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
lasmama, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
Ihe workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com--
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
The high rates of wages now being paid make it
necessary for companies handling material to adopt
the latest labor-saving devices, and Arthur Leplas-
tner & Co., Circular Quay, Sydney, who maintain an
engineering department specially for the design of
elevating and conveying machinery with a view to
minimising hand-labor, thus reducing the cost of
handling, are prepared to submit proposals for plants
suitable for any service. Queensland inquiries: The
Australian Machinery Co., Mary Street, Brisbane.—
Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * # »
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bone!
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt
* * * .
. r^- .Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing _ engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collm3 House, Melbourne; and" 79 Pitt
Melbournc!”-ADVT. CableS “ d Tele » rams: “ Remla P-
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tk ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Income (Gross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia,
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in
Australia.
Losses from Fire., Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation, Motor
Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops,
Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
claims promptly and equitably settled.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOW NS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
these have not been made. They are still faced with
profiteers on land and sea.
The table following- has been ‘compiled from rhe
books of one of the largest tin-producers in N. S.
Wales, and deals with six recent parcels of ore. The
London quotations are “three months forward, ’* on
which all ore-buyers base their transactions:—
London, Sydney, Difference
per ton. per ton. per ton.
£ s. d. £ s. d. £ 9. d.
254 7 6 213 15 0 40 12 6
236 5 0 207 10 0 28 15 0
233 7 6 198 0 0 35 7 6
268 15 0 232 10 0 36 5 0
276 5 0 242 10 0 33 15 0
273 12 6 240 16 0 32 16 6
The unit values for the lots were:—sos. 9d.=
42a. 9d. ; 475. 3d.=4ls. 6d.; 465. Bd.=39s. Bd. ;
535. 9d.=465. 6d. ; 555. 3d.=4Bs. 7d. ; 545. 7d.=
48s. 2d.
The figures for Sydney are “net at the mine.”
The several charges ftom mine to smelter in this
ease are, at the outside, £4 per ton on the basis
of metallic tin. The average of the difference be-
tween London and Sydney values on the six lots is
£34 12s. per ton, so that over £3O per ton would
be available to cover smelting and realisation charges,
assuming that the smelter sold “forward.” But,
obviously, in such a well-established business as this,
with regular shipments going forward, the seller will
take advantage of the London “spot” price, which
is generally £5 in advance of the three-months
quotation. An occasional shipment might be against
him, but on an average the “spot” system must be
materially in his favor. It must be noted that the
figures quoted put the position in the best light for
the purchaser, as they relate to large regular con-
signments, which bring the producer under the
“best-favored” principle; with small, irregular con-
signors, the local units quotation would be ever so
much lower.
I have no figures available as to pre-war values,
but from practical working experience I know that
it was an average calculation that all charges
amounted to £l5 per ton of metallic tin, and then
there was a continuous growl at the cupidity of
buyers.
Making all reasonable allowance for extra freight,
it is almost a certainty that nearly half of the
difference between the local purchasing price and
London “spot” value is clear profit to the trader at
present. Generally, it is safe to state that the
local traders in tin ore aggregate more profits than
are earned by the actual producers, which is mani-
festly an unjust reversal of positions—the producer,
who has many risks to face, has to be content.with
the shell, while the prudent purchaser, who has
few risks, if any, takes the oyster.
Another striking anomaly is that, while ingot tin
which is made here is sold in London at £2BO per
ton, the local user of the local product has to pay
2s. lid. per lb., or £326 per ton (quotations for
September 23). If this does not constitute shame-
less profiteering then there is no ,meaning attached
to the word. And it is the worst form of profiteer-
ing in that it must be directly detrimental to local
industry.
Those indisputable facts point to the advisableness
of either the Federal authorities taking such steps
as will ensure to the producer protection from ore-
purchasing monopolists, or the producers combining
to do their own smelting and selling. As to the
former, a promise was made some two years ago
that the Government would fix the difference between
London and Australian prices, and a so-called Tin-
Producers’ Association was consulted, but the dis-
covery that the “producers” were solely purchasers,
and the real producers could not agree among
themselves, caused the Treasurer to drop the busi-
ness.
A producers’ co-operative organisation would un-
doubtedly be preferable. Tin-smelting is the simplest
of metallurgical processes, and the plant is the least
expensive of all; the capital which would be required
to establish up-to-date works at Newcastle or Sydney
and to provide for initial financing would be a
trifle compared with the profits bagged by ore-
smelters and purchasers in a year. It is stated in
no sense of disparagement of the ore-smelters and
purchasers, but it is a well-known fact that not
one penny of their large risklessly-earned profits goes
back to productive or prospecting mining enter-
prises. A properly organised tin-producers’ associa-
tion would lead to the return of these profits to
people who in the vast majority of instances would
apply them to extension of the enterprise. A co-op.
project has been long talked of in tin-producers’
circles, but petty jealousies have stood in the way
of its materialisation.
* * * #
The belief of the tin-man that ere long
£3OO per ton will be a low price, because
while production steadily decreases consump-
tion is increasing, is to be badly upset if
there is truth in a report which is current
in Sydney. It is that an Australian cor-
poration, which is credited with several suc-
cessful flotations, has completed a “scout”
sampling, “somewhere in the East,” over 300
acres of easily-worked ground, of an average
depth of 50ft., for from 71b. to 141 b. tin
oxide per cub. yd. This would represent
25,000,000 cub. yds. and 250,000,0001 b. of
tin. But this is not all. There are said to
be hundreds of acres of side-ground carrying
high values. A world-wonder, truly! Syd-
ney is to get the benefit of this “dream of
avarice” when it materialises.
* * * •
Carpathia (N.S.W.) has just had its half-
yearly interchange of incivilities. A wag
suggests that if the physical energy’ which is
expended at a meeting of the co. were ap-
plied to pulverising ore at the mine the
battery would go on strike as an anti-sweat-
ing protest. The plant is described as
enough to make one weep.” What a go-
slow affair it has been altogether—ls,ooo
tons treated in close on 10 years! The man-
ager estimates ore reserves at 20,886 tons,
averaging 4.77 per cent. Whether oxide or
metallic is not stated, nor is any statement
made as to probable recoveries. On this
showing* it is one of the most over-valued
stocks dealt _ in on the Sydney Exchange—
with apologies to some gold shows which
likewise have been waiting for water to
proclaim their mighty potentialities.
* * * .
The Sydney effort to resuscitate Mammoth
Molybdenite (N.S.W.) seems to be progress-
ing. It is said that arrangements have been
made with the receiver for the purchase of
the old co.’s rights, all debts to be liquidated
by the purchasers. The latter claim that
they have received satisfactory promises
from contrib. shareholders in the old co.,
and also that others who got scrip for the
use of their names are coming forward as
subscribers.. If the projected co. is formed
it will go in for vigorous development, so
that when the mill is re-started it may run
full time. On such low-grade material this
is essential. The mystery of the business is
that the B. H. Prop., which had only re-
cently arranged for an extension of it*
option over portion of the area, did not step
in and secure the whole proposition. Per-
haps it is speculating on the chance of
another failure.
<< * * *
“J.R.”: Re Milburn Creek (B. 25/9/T9).
In addition to the distinctions stated
the mine is responsible for a legal
decision as startling as novel, yet seemingly
correct, as it was not challenged by the
Crown Law authorities. The Milburn
syndicate raised a big pile of mixed ore
which remained untouched until quite re-
cently, when a party of men, without asking
tor the permission of the owner of the free-
hold, set to work to pick out the clean ore,
a large parcel of which was consigned to
smelting works. They were charged with
theft, but were acquitted on the Judge up-
holding the plea that as it had not been
proved that the owner of the laud broke the
ore, or paid the cost of doing so, lie could
not claim> it as his property.
* * # •
Two or three miles south of the Celebra-
tion line, Hampton Plains (W.A.), is Speak-
man’s old mine, where thousands of pounds
were frittered away in trying to make money
out of an unpayable porphyry formation and
thousands. more were wasted on imposing
surface trimmings. The ground has again
been pegged, and it will be interesting to
learn the new owner’s intentions in view of
the old disaster. Another possible resurrection
is the King, a couple of miles south of Speak-
man’s. About £170,000 was spent on this
delusion, and after the battery had run a
month or two the curtain was abruptly rung
down. There are other busted ventures on
the Plains which promoters will again, no
doubt, attempt to foist on an unsuspecting
public if the boom is sustained.
Bullfinch shares have appreciated on the
off-chance of getting a new mine at Hamp-
ton Plains or elsewhere. Manager Hay and
Charlie Jones, the prospector of the co.’s
present property, have been nosing about
Block 50, and news comes from Broad Arrow
that Borland and Rudd’s specimen claim, the
Oversight, has been offered to managing-
director Dorrie Doolette. Since the present
owners got hold of the Oversight, they have
taken out about £20,000 from Boz. to 9oz. ore,
and a neighboring show has done even better.
Both claims are on one of the richest speci-
men gold-bearing lines in the West, but so
far the field has not proved to be worth
much at depth.
* * • *
A hill of copper is reported to have been
discovered in inaccessible country about 200
miles north-west of Meekatharra (W.A.).
The ridge is 300 ft. high, and from a bold
outcrop on its summit specimen ore, mostly
cuprite, averaging 64 p.c. copper, is claimed
to have been obtained. The New Commo-
dore is said to have been given the first
refusal of the show.
Judging from recent returns, Sons of
Gwalia, Associated, Kalgurli and South Kal-
gurli are barely paying their way, and are
making nothing for shareholders. The first
and the last will do better when normal con-
ditions again prevail, but the other two are
merely existing.
* * * *
Official reports indicate that the Mararoa’s
Light of Asia mine at Cue (W.A.) is looking
better, but the visible value of the show is
still far short of what it was represented
to be when the purchase was made.
* * * *
Riverina South (W.A.) pitifully perseveres
with small veins of erratic value. Prospects
of the mine paying appear more hopeless
than ever.
With a. bit of cash in the Bendigo Amal-
gamated’s stocking, Dyason intends to keep
things humming with a broad scheme of
development. This has been made possible
by the bonanza found in the Constellation.
There the last 1300 tons returned 1445. per
ton, while a parcel from the Unity spurs
has worked out at 455. per ton. The Car-
lisle, next door, now gives 16s. stone; but
if this pays it will be due to the size of
the formation and skill in handling. Her-
cules, the only other big producer, is get-
ting to the end of the stopes below the
800 ft. south level, but with a new reef being
opened up at 1200 ft. something may help
things along. Tributors are in six of
the co.’s mines, and their stuff helps. The
chief point of interest just now is how long
the Constellation shoot can last. North of
the face of the 622 ft. level the reef is intact
for 750 ft. to the northern shaft. There
development is being resumed to find if, after
all, the shoot does not last into that pro-
perty. If it does, well and good; if not,
there will be the old scurry after fresh
shoots.
* * * *
When stone runs poor at Bendigo the
cold is intense. Not long since. Golden
1 leece occupied a cheerful position on the
divvy list. Now the talk is of handing over
the property to the tributor. The latest
record is 114 oz. from 1365 tons, less than
~dwt. The co. has been believing that it
could make profits on 3dwt. stone, but that
is a difficult undertaking. The Golden Fleece
was doing well out of a good grade patch
b0 j ' on a fault between the 650 ft.
and 690 ft. levels. When it was worked
out, the last of the gilt on the gingerbread
vanished.. Another show on low-grade
material is the Tambour Major, which, be-
cause a parcel gave a 4dwt. return, bought
Cohen s Long Tunnel battery.
* * * *
Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), has had to cut
down its labor team as well as get on to
the call-list. This is because the co. cannot
hope to do better than crush stone
for some time. Of course, that grade will
not pay. though by letting ground on tribute
some small profits may trickle into the till.
The co. has distributed £4 3s. in divs. with-
out making a call, so it ought to be able to
shoulder its bit of adversity better than its
weaker neighbors. Among these, Ajax
North has just put out 5955 forfeited shares
at about 3s. 6d., thus lifting the co. out of
financial worry for a time. Manager Han-
sen is rising into a big body of quartz above
the drive on the Eastern reef at No. 8 after
living followed medium-grade material for
3(X)it. north. The country here is heavily
faulted, but the 3hoot of quartz in places
is 15ft. wide. As Hansen was trained to
conditions suc'h as these at Berringa he
looks ahead hopefully. Most of the stone
lies on the hanging wall, but Hansen counts
on getting a main footwall carrying quartz,
so crosscuts go out to hunt for this stone
to the east. Prospects are sufficiently good
for him to push further ahead north at No.
8. Afterwards he will see if the big slide
has influenced the stone well beyond the
present limits of his pick. The best Hansen
has done of late has been to net only a
paltry 5970 z., with mineral included, from
2883 tons sent to the battery.
*** * .
“Bendigonian”: “Jackar” (B. 25/9/T9)
assumes that mining in Bendigo can be
carried on only by dressing the shop window
to persuade people to‘pay calls. The possi-
bility of the industry again becoming self-
contained and profitable, as it was for over
60 years, does not seem to be considered.
The statement is made that the- formation
which is yielding so well, the one at the
Constellation, cannot last. Why? It has
been opened up for something over 500 ft. in
length, and a great dehl of the stone over
that length is still standing. Ahead of the
north face there is a distance of 800 ft., over
the whole or part of which it is possible that
the. gold shoot continues. There is no indi-
cation at the moment of the gold cutting
out; on the contrary, it appears to improve
going northward. Then “Jackar” makes a
still more illogical statement, that under the
old system the Constellation would have a
fortnightly dividend distributed among hun-
dreds of enthusiasts who would launch out
in prospecting enterprises in all directions.
Many of those “enterprises” would have but
little connection with mining. The profit
derived from the Constellation reef by Ben-
digo Amalgamated will all be used in de-
veloping other promising prospects, unless,
of course, the profits are so substantial-
that it enables the co., first, to establish a
satisfactory reserve fund, and then to enter
the dividend list. A lot of people, who have
been busy giving this dog a bad name, are
gradually awakening to the fact that it can
not only wag its tail and bark, but may
soon be able to bite some of them.
7 h l^U- S -. A - Bureau of Mines is sending
out SOS signals about the world’s supply
of radium, which has lately been used in
making luminous paint, on the hands of
watches, and particularly on gun-sights for
night work. The quantity used is micro-
scopic, but it mounts up, considering that
the world’s visible supply at the moment is
“somewhere around three ounces.” The car-
notite deposits of Colorado and Utah, which
have supplied about half of all the radium
secured so far, are estimated to produce
about another three ounces; and it is all
wanted for use in cancer cases. Mesothorium
would do just as well for illuminating, the
Bureau claims.
(Continued on page 22.)


This DISCONTENTED DOC SUFFERED FROH\
a VACUUM IN THE INTELLECT, WMUM
HADE HINA HATE WORK-
So H£ SAvID TO THE ©OSS.
** Do VCR Owrx Bcoohin’
Ba.TR kin c,. T’na or. f
HayinC, nothinQ to OP, he
Cot Gui\ with A Banner
Til-L he NVET a CONTtNTEP Cow, To wnorv, HE
SAID .. don-t be An economic slay£ , grown;
meat For bloated capitalists To eat. Cet a
Banner And Join
"To THE CorsTENTEb HORSE H£ oil. J P OK S ~ T '^ Ui
A N. 816 AH.M.O.H «“ —^
PuU. uTpIooCH AbOPT. CETAOO.-SP
Chuck -work. *
ovlnßt £ WCNT
(&) the CRANP PRbCESiIOfS OP iHDEPENOCrS! WoNT -
(y)
vy Aubo , ST BFC.A.HH6. HUNGRY, AMD
Said To THE Doc
" THIS WALKING /ABOUT VVITM
Danners 'S ail vcry vueu, But
Wnat a6ou7 FOOD’'
I was G>E C inn iin C. To THINK
/about S<sn£ v Myself “ saio the
Doc.
f-ihacuy. they put
T«e case To a wise Biro,
who spoke THUS.
"IF T h£ HORSE. REFUSES To
PUOUCH THE CROurso That CRO/n
THE CKAIN that FEED s THE
Cow that CRows the at
That feeds the doc, vvHY The ££T ’i_
(NOTHiNtUFT FOR A~Tooov To
Fat fspe o • a> the Doc
WHAT . r
ca')
Vvhat REAuoy happened To T«e Do<;
HAS HO*! Bee/M AiCERTAiNSD. But AS
fn£ cor-inuniTY can* oo' vvitmout
oarkinc i But hot without rooo, jr
Phoba6i.x Pot »Ti Foot oowhi •■■• on th€ Doq;
THE TALE OF A DOG.


• •
/
dsa
_lf you could shave yourself in three
minutes as well as the barber does, wouldn’t
you rather always shave yourself than waste
,■ valuable time waiting your turn at a barber’s shop?
Then try a
PERFORATED HONE.
lt puts easy shaving within reach of every man.
The Perforated Hone requires no skill or experience to
use. You cannot over-set your razor with it. Give
six strokes or a hundred —you simply can’t hurt your
razor, for the perforations prevent wire-edge and
automatically produce a perfect, keen shaving edge.
Try one- —if it doesn’t make your razor shave to your
satisfaction, return it to us within thirty da vs and get
your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants at 4/6, or post
free, 5/-, from
THE PERFORATED HONE CO.,
Dept. 16, 123 Sussex Street, Sydney. [4
\Aeltoman
/▼ 1 HIGH-CLASS
iSPEfIALTEES
Creams
ire
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
ds
E. DROWN @ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
.Managing Director.
All the best Society “Catering Functions”
are regularly carried out by the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
Society
MINCHINBURY
Little Sister ’: The life of the military
nurse is not all lavender and roses. Re-
cently a convalescing Billjim indulged in a
bath unknown to the nurse in charge, who
noting his prolonged absence, became
alarmed. A search was made, and the missing
Digger located in the bathroom. The delay
he explained in lurid language, was due to
the absence of towels to dry on. “Well,”
snapped nursie, “haven’t you got a tongue’”
, Yams,” responded Billjim, “but I ain’t a
blanky contortionist.”
“AND GOOD IN EVERYTHING."
“Male is more conceited than ever since her
divorce suit.”
“Good gracious! Whatever about?”
“She poses note as a Court beauty."
Glen H. ’: The seeds of trouble between
Bodgett and his wife were sown when Mrs.
Podgett, observing a coat, price 40 guineas,
in the shop of a, furrier with whom she
had done business, suggested that as her
birthday was due the shopkeeper should ring
up her husband, mention the wonderful bar-
gain and ask if he left inclined to take it.
About a week after a furless birthday Mrs.
Podgett was again in the shop. “What did
my husband say when you rang him up?”
she asked. The shopman beamed. “Oh, he
was quite affable about it, madam,” he an-
nounced—“sent his cheque round next day
and took delivery of the furs; and a very
handsome present, if I may say so.” Which
was true, but indiscreet.
* * » »
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: A Sydney cor-
ner with some history to it has just changed
hands —the 'south-west corner of Hunter and
Pitt streets, where stands the Empire Hotel —
the buyer being the Q. N. Bank. In the
first days of N. S. Wales this corner was
occupied by the first Anglican parson, Rich-
ard Johnson, who had his house there, and
planted about it the first orchard in Aus-
tralia. A few years after the parson’s de-
parture for England Simeon Lord, earliest
of auctioneers, was taking bids there. Eighty
years ago the Currency Lass Inn was on
the corner, with John Sims in charge; and
*? as had a beer-pull ever since. Many
landlords have come and gone, the most not-
able being Dan Tierney who, helped greatly
by the ‘ companionship” of the S. M. Herald,
Kept it from the mid-’fifties to the mid-
seventies. In 1884 the Colonial Mutual Life
onice became interested in the property, de-
molished the old Currency Lass and built
the present premises. In 1868 the Currency
Lass came under observation, as the lunatic
O Farrell, who shot the Duke of Edinburgh,
patronised it; but no one in the hostelry was
implicated. The Q. N. Bank, which is under-
stood to have paid £52.000 for the property,
will have to stand back for two years while
the lease runs out.
* * * *
“Copabella”: The brass-liat does at times
have a human heart beneath it. A lad
named King won a D.C.M. by an act of
notable daring in the last push, and in due
time he was told that his presence was de-
sired at Buckingham Palace. The Digger
refused the honor. ‘‘Buckingham Palace is
no good to me!” he said. ‘‘But, man, it’s
for the King to decorate you!” gasped the
appalled brass-hat. “King?” said Billjim.
“There’s only one king for me —or queen
either—and that’s Mrs. King, in • street,
South . If there’s going to be any
pinning of medals on me she’s the King
who’s going to do it!” She is, too. He
stuck out for his own giver of the accolade,
and the hats, human for once, gave way—
perhaps his Gracious insisted; he’s very
far-seeing—and the medal reached the
mother a week or so back. The boy
himself is on a transport drawing
nearer home every day. It seems to be
another of thos.e cases of want of discip-
line that .Allenby relented in the men who
pushed him before them into Jerusalem.
* * * *
“S.”: Even Sing Fat thinks that the coun-
try is going to the dogs. When police poured
into his home in Melbourne last week and
grabbed a lot of sly grog Sing’s only com-
plaint was an indignant: “You makee this
countlee too muchee wowser!”
* * * *
“John Drayman” : Tas. Director of Educa-
tion McCoy, speaking on the eve of his
emigration to his new job in South Aus.,
mentioned that in 1910 the Speck’s teachers,
567 in number, drew an average of £95 155.;
this year the
teachers numbered
67 2, and their
average pay was
£146 9s. per annum.
As these figures xlo
not include the
monitors, junior
teachers, teachers
of subsidised
schools and some
others, the position
disclosed hardly
seems worth boast-
ing of. The fact is
that, though there
is a slight improve-
ment of late years,
Tasmanian State-
school teachers still
remain about the
lowest-paid profes-
sional workers in
the Commonwealth.
They have a sort
of union, but, largely because of the nature
of the employment, which imposes isolation,
it has not yet developed a . punch.
* * * #
“Dear Me”; Our villa, up for sale, was
being inspected by a lady-purchaser. Obvi-
ously the property suited her; but as she
was leaving she said: “If you don’t mind,
I’ll send my maid along to-morrow. She is
a bid faddy, . you know, and I would like
her to be satisfied.” Next day the retainer
arrived. She was critical, but the house
scored a pass, so we’re moving out next
week.
* * * *
“Jobber”: In the “Gunner” v. “Digger”
mill re the officer caste in the army in Egypt,
I am in “Digger’s” corner. Like many others
I was compelled to travel on the railways,
not with niggers, but in a stinking carriage
labelled “Reserved for Military.” It had been
occupied on the trip to Maadi by Abdul, and
smelt like a sty. The yarn that nurses were
debarred from associating with private sol-
diers is not foolishness, as “.Gunner” asserts
(B. 14/8/T9). Most of the time she and I
had to work all sorts of stunts to spend an
evening together. Before the snobbish order
was issued, I used to take her to dinner at
the St. James Cafd, in Cairo. There was
no dining out for us later. “Gunner” goes
from Cairo to London, where things were
very different; anyhow, there were no Aus-
tralian nurses in London till late in 1913 1 ,
and when I arrived in 1916 our nurses
wore mufti when on leave in the city.
“Skipper”: It was not until Yon Tirpitz
decided on ruthless submarine warfare that
food economy was practised in the English
camps. Then it came with a vengeance. A
major-general from the War Office toured
the country, and special officers were ap-
pointed in each unit to spin the ration out
NO SCAB, THANK GOD!
THE MISSUS: "Aren't you goin' to bake us some bread, or will I have to line up like
the others?"
HURRY (on strike) : “Oh, you'll have to line up. I’m no scab."
and prevent waste. Cooks were sent to
schools to learn how to work up fragments,
and sentries were placed over swill-tubs. To
throw away bread or fat became a crime of
the first magnitude. We thought we were
doing well; but the brasshat wasn’t satisfied.
One day he swooped down on the swill
sentry and ordered him to remove the lid.
He stirred vivnmuslv with his stick, and a
tiny piece of white flabby substance adhered
to its point. Then hell broke loose. The
C. 0., M. 0., Adjutant, Q.-M. and sergeant cook
were sent for, and the General, holding his
exhibit aloft, gave us to understand that we
had simply thrown the war away—thrown it
away into the swill-tub. Did we realise
that on the end of. his stick was propulsive
THE LIQUID ASSET.
“Lost a valuable roll of drawings, have you?
Sorry, but we haven't seen them. Can't
you do them again?"
“Yes. B-but they were round a bottle of
beer."
sufficient for two, perhaps three, 18-pounder
shells? The doc. had adjusted his spectacles
and was peering in his short-sighted way
at the specimen. He gripped the stick and
held it close to his face. A low chuckle
escaped him. “What the devil do you mean?”
thundered the General. “I’m glad, sir—we
may be able to win the war, after all. What
you have on your stick is not fat, sir, but
partly-decomposed potato-peeling.”
“Rangan”: The other day the military
people in Brisbane advertised for a lieutenant
they had mislaid. The soldier concerned,
who had been an inmate of a military hos-
pital since his return, got leave to report
at headquarters, and after the brasshat had
thanked him for not really being lost, and
had told him that there was no reward, the
caller remarked quietly: “I though t there
was something wrong; I’ve been drawing
double pay for the lasjt six or seven weeks.”
* * * »
“Lex” on pies and the law:—
Thfe origin of the Pie ,cases, which have been con-
vulsing Sydney, was Chaproniere v. Mason. Here the
plaintiff bought a bun, bit at it, and smashed a
tooth. A piece of stone had got into the refreshment.
He collected damages without difficulty. No one
has followed suit, because even the most dishonest
are loth to sacrifice their teeth on the off-chance of
a verdict and damages on such an issue.
The pie device was conceived in Australia. It is
significant of the conservatism of a certain type of
mind that it has been exploited, without material
variation, for many years. One who was determined
to get easy money out of purveyors of allegedly im-
pure food would stand a better chance of convincing
a modern jury if he broke entirely new ground—if
say, he substituted a decayed fish for the sound
portion given him in a restaurant; or bought a tin
of cream and filled it with soap ; or performed any of
a hundred tricks of the sort that might be suggested.
One of society’s chief safeguards, however, is the
blank unoriginality of the “crook.” The gaols are
teeming with specialists who stick to one line of
villainy because they can’t bring themselves to start
on another. At Parramatta there are actually inde-
terminate sentence men who are in for “snow-
dropping,” or stealing linen off clothes-lines. Their
habits being known, they are always visited by the
police as soon as a batch of washing goes astrav.
Yet, with the perseverance of imbecility, they go on.
* * * *
‘\V. J. Digger”: Brig.-General Helphire,
C. 8., was fond of haunting the outposts
by night. On a quiet sector he would some-
times stroll boldly out into No Man’s Land
for 10 or 12 yards and gaze with a super-
cilious air upon the invisible barb wire.
Jumping back into the trench on one occa-
sion, he landed on the distended haversack
of Private Henry Hardcase, reclining at ease
after a hearty meal of “stoo an’ tea.” “Git
orf me , yer clumsy »”
observed Henry, unable to discern the scarlet
and gold ornaments of his assailant. “Tut.
tut! Tut, tut!” gasped Helphire. “It’s
no good blowin’ yer horn after ye’ve
run over a bloke!” Hardcase replied, still
vigorously rubbing his haversack.
OCTOBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
October, in her pinafore, is worn
AVith many duties of her household born.
Her god-child Spring, with world-wide roving feet,
And glad hands filled with floral trophies sweet,
Is coming home, a-thrill with young desires,
And she must sweep her hearth, whose winter fires
Lie in a heap of ashes that offend.
For this young beauty at her journey’s end
Must find, resplendent in new livery
A house in order and expectancy!
Strange and excited little rumors pass
h rom blade to blade along the secret grass.
And all the watchful, curious leaves among
Themselves whisper her advent in a tongue
Whose speech, like music in the solitude
Of woods embayed, by Echo is pursued.
October’s breast is stirred to memory
In swift and elemental ecstasy •
Upon her clean-swept porch she smiles and waits
Spring’s flower-decked chariot at her wide-flung gates.'
N.S.W.
LOLA GORNALL.


A Distinguished Member of the Great Cast of the Williamson Grand Opera Co., Sydney,
Gount Ercole Filippini, writes of the Value of Clements Tonic for the Nerves:
“Fulfilling extended operatic engagements without sufficient recreation brought
on nervous depression , which I found could only be relieved by the use of a
good stimulating medicine , and that I found to be Clements Tonic.
“This I have proved beyond all doubt, (signed) jy FILIPPINI
All professional people should keep this medicine on hand.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
It does good because it is good.
“Hambone”: A captain who climbed high
un the ladder when war came was in charge
of a C.M.F. battery at driving manoeuvres
during the last camp before Germany went
mad. A hot and breathless day, the ground
churned up till the choking dust rose like
a curtain, the horses hard as nails, the men’s
tongues like brick walls —no wonder the
driving became slack! At last the skipper
drew the teams up into close column, halted
them, and finished an oration with : “You’ll
stay out here till you learn to drive
straight!” In the middle of the manceu-
vring-ground stood the usual hessian-sur-
rounded camp latrine, and this loomed up
in the direct path of a gun-team. Bill, the
lead-driver, turned round to the wheel, and
said: “Going^straight, Tom?” “My oath!”
was Tom’s answer, and straight they went.
Bill’s prads took the obstacle at the artillery
trot and the rest came after them. The
protecting hessian went down. The limber
(with a scared gunner clinging to it) fol-
lowed with a crash, and three figures fled
headlong from the avalanche. The grinning
skipper halted the battery. “Take charge,
sergeant-major, and take them back to
camp.” Then, as a parting shot: “That’s
the best damn driving I have seen since I’ve
been a soldier.”
* * * *
“Alienist” is scornful: —
A sensational cable appeared in the Australian
daily press of September 22 headed “Amazing Human
Document” or “The Road to Endor.” It appears
that Lieut. Jones and Lieut. Hill, the latter an
Australian airman, were shot down in Syria by the
Turks, and for some reason depided to sham in-
sanity. According to the cable they were brilliantly
successful throughout, and succeeded in bamboozling
all the Ottoman mental experts. They assumed with
the greatest ease the roles of incipient general
paralysis and melancholia. They read the Bible for
seven months, and memorised .whole chapters, paying
special attention to the Witch of Endor story.
Nov,-, they could not have picked worse roles; and
their playing of tjiem would have no ex-
pert. In the first place, the onset of G.P. is extra-
ordinarily insidious: the changes are so slow that
a front-rank alienist might be in doubt as to the
real nature of the affection for a year or more. He
AN ADEPT.
“That Miss Blank is very clever with her
fingers, isn’t she?"
“Yes; every time she sticks her finger into
anybody’s pie she gets a plum."
can only suspect its presence, as a rule, until some
extravagant act on the part of the victim gives him
further light. It is due to V.D. in 90 p.c. of the
cases, and occurs in middle age. And the Turks
know just as much about it as the British. In
melancholia, again, no mental actions are performed,
such as would be necessary in memorising pages of
the Bible. Such patients usually spend their time
in purposeless weeping at having committed the un-
pardonable sin, or some other silly stuff, and are
quite incapable of serious study. I suppose readers
must be entertained ; but the worst of this class
of “news” is that it is swallowed by the ordinary
citizen as gospel truth, and conveys entirely wrong
and possibly dangerous ideas regarding two, mental
ills.
THE SILENT WOMAN.
“You said you would never mention it to
anyone.”
“Well, I never said a word about it for a
whole 'Week. What d'you think I am —
dead and buried?”
“Kyon”: Little is known about the splen-
did work performed in the Pacific Islands by
a score of the wireless men of the Aus-
tralian mercantile marine. The Fleet Wire-
less Officer walked into the Sydney office
of the Amalgamated Wireless Go. a few
hours after the declaration of war. Later
he made the rounds of all the
ships in port and practically com-
mandeered all the operators he
could lay hands on. (I don’t think
any of them w r ere ever properly
enlisted; I know they didn’t get
uniforms.) Next day, with about
half a dozen ragtime wireless sets,
18 operators left by the cruiser
Melbourne. One set and two
operators were dropped at Noumea.
The way that station handled all
the traffic of the island after the
cable broke down is wireless his-
tory. Another set was dropped at
Yadang (Frederick Wilhelms-
haven). Here the work done was
even better, considering the con-
ditions. This set was an ordinary
11 k.w., designed to work off ships’
power mains. Between bouts of
malaria, Peake, the operator in
charge, assistant Giles and a Chow r
mechanic had the time of their
lives fitting up a launch engine to
drive a rotary converter as a
dynamo for generating power; but
it was child’s play compared with
the job of getting the saplings
down from the jungle for masts.
Then there was the work done by
the Nusa, the launch which was
sent to capture the Komet. The
aerial was only a dwarf, yet com-
munication was established and
maintained. The story is the same right
through with the whole bunch, except those
unfortunate enough to be stationed at
Rabaul under the Naval head.
* * *•
“The Starving Dentist”: He was a raw-
looking country chap, and wanted to know
if his fluffy-looking wife could have a tooth
out with gas. I took him aside and asked
in the usual manner if she—well, if his wife
was expecting anything. He didn’t follow
me at first; then, when the question was re-
peated. he grinned sheepishly and said: “He,
he! I dunno. I’ll ask her.”
* -X- * *
“Naming”: Spent a week-end recently
with a country doctor-friend, at whose home,
after Sunday-night patients and congrega-
tions have been duly doped, the local priest
and parson rendezvous for a smoke. The
slim, spectacled Methodist told me he had a
wife who barred tobacco in all forms, and
this was his one permitted weekly indul-
gence. “Ah, McTigue,” said the jovial
father, “I told you the true church always
scores in the end. My wife never interferes
with my smoking.”
Dear B., —“Aerocus” (B. 4/9/T9) writes
of an optical illusion.
When looking at an-
other chap's propeller
in the air the blades
seem to slow down.
But I presume this
only occurs when the
looker is looking
through his own
moving propeller. If
this be so the ex-
planation is simple.
The same illusion
can be produced by
rapidly “blinking”
the eye while look-
ing at any revolving
spokes. When the
rate of revolution
and the rate of
“blinking”' 'approxi-
mate each other the
spokes will appear
to slow down, and
if the rates synchro-
nise they will
appear to sfop. If
the “blinking” rate
overtakes that of
the revolutions the
spokes will appear to
reverse. The same
effects are produced
by watching a mov-
ing vehicle through a
pidket fence. Like-
wise when the vam-
pire’s motor wheels
revolve synchro-
nously with the
shutter of the camera in the moving-picture
they appear to skid. —Yours, I)r. Nil.^
“Old Wig”: In the discussion of “The
Dirty Girl and the Muddled Law” I agree
with' “Romilly” (B. 18/9/’l9) to this ex-
tent—-that the less responsibility we throw
upon the judge at a trial the better. The
High Court in the “dirty girl’ case found
that a judge had erred because he had not
warned a jury of the danger of accepting
certain evidence. One of the judges ot the
High Court bench that so found was the
learned and astute Isaacs: yet surely in the
Ryan case he had himself just supplied us
with a striking instance of the great danger
of judicial interference with a jury. “Muzzle
the judge” is a very good watchword—far
better than “Fuzzle the jury.” Overload the
jury with directions, and you’ll get disagree-
ments —and we lawyers get more Costs.
* * * *
“S.L.Q.”: They died in all sorts of ways.
It was just daylight and an unusually still,
clear morning for the Somme. The battery
balloon had just gone up a few thousand
feet when a Fritz ’plane suddenly appeared
spitting phosphorus bullets, and soon had
the old gas-bag ablaze. The man aloft
jumped with his parachute, and everything
seemed O.K. But there was not enough wind,
even up aloft, to carry him a few yards
out of the track of the burning balloon.
As the envelope burned and the resistance
decreased, the pace of the flaming rum in-
creased. The poor chap was caught halt-
way to the ground, and in an instant there
was a roaring mass of flame around him.
* * * *
“Phillip Street” on the “unwritten law” :
There is no reason why the so-called “unwritten
law” should remain unwritten. It is simply a
license to break the existing laws under certain
conditions; and it is possible to set out the lattei
with a good deal of accuracy. Numerous judgments
have laid down that a man has no property in his
wife. Still, he may safely kill or maim her or her
“betrayer” (1) if he is serving his country on land
or sea when the wrong is done; (2) if he is a
“good husband” and has tried to keep her straight;
(3) if the “betrayer” is a waster or a foreigner.
In the Malcolm case in England the murdered lover
of the wife was a German Jew and a criminal. In
the recent tar-and-feathers affair at Cambridge the
young man had been frequently warned to leave
the lady alone. In the case of Private 4 Cross, who
shot his wife dead on an English railway station
as he was returning to France at the end of his
leave, the whole defence consisted in a letter
written by the accused to his wife. It was a
masterpiece, presenting the man as a loving hus-
band and father, struggling to keep his family
together against the machinations of a stay-at-home
cur. A less articulate writer would have been
hanged; but Cross was acquitted with the approval
of the Judge. A father will be excused for killing
his daughter’s lover (1) if the girl is very young
and innocent; (2) if the man is elderly, affluent and
wicked. In the event of any of these conditions
being absent the slayer will probably be hanged.
The “unwritten law” as applied to murderers is
a better defence for a rich man than for a poor one
(both judges and juries are afflicted with a vague
idea that the working classes have a greater natural
leaning, as it were, in the direction of assassination
than those above them financially) ; and a lot
depends on the personality and appearance of the
accused. Given equal merits, Julius Knight or
Archbishop Wright would get off where W. M.
Hughes or Phil Smith would fail.
But the “unwritten law” principle is not applied
only to bloodshed. Freedom of speech is an estab-
lished right of the British citizen. Yet, during the
war, a meeting of “conscientious objectors” was
rushed in London, several of them were half-killed
and the only persons arrested were the assaulted.
Perjury is one of the most heinous crimes. But a
co-re. who perjures himself in divorce is never in-
dicted. And if he were he would stand a 50-to-
one-on chance of an acquittal. Juries often perjure
themselves by bringing in verdicts of “not guilty”
dead against the weight of the evidence in certain
cases where they know that a conviction will mean
the death sentence. It is the “unwritten law”
again.
To put the position briefly, the law is disregarded
by juries, and often by the police, and even by
judges where it operates either against the public
interest or against the popular feeling at the
time. The latter is the most important factor of
all. That is why the crime passionel which would
be bloody murder in peace time is transformed by
a world war into a gesture expressive of sober
morality and patriotism.
“Oglamite”: I’d like to know if Broncho
was a man or a myth. The A.I.F. romancers
will have it that he was an original Anzac
who avoided action throughout the war and
was continuously adrift running two-up
schools. In tlie ballad, or whatever it is,
he was always flush, carried a revolver and
made a wonderful escape from the old French
prison at Amiens. Ultimately, according to
one story, he was run to earth at Charleroi
after the Armistice, and when requested to
put up his hands reached hurriedly for
his gun. But he was too late and died of
that lateness. It sounds like a grand-opera
plot. What is the strength of it all?
* * # #
“Otira”: Many of Maoriland’s beautiful
places are only reached after arduous travel.
Stewart Island, lying off the shores of
Southland, is one such. It is so beautiful
that it tempts weak mortals to cross Foveaux
Straits in an athletic old tug called the
Teresa Ward. Sometimes the sea between
the island and the mainland is calm. It
is this sporting chance which lures people
on board. But mostly the voyage is a four-
hour horror, with Teresa surging powerfully
up green slopes and slithering down dizzy
hills, and giving a wild lurch on the crest to
get her balance. At such times a deckhand
distributes buckets about the decks and
THE MARCH OF MEDICAL SCIENCE.
THE DOCTOR: “I suppose you think I’m an
old humbug ?”
THE PATIENT : “Good gracious, doctor, can
you tell what I'm thinking about by feel-
ing my pulse?”
saloons. The suggestion usually works
well; and then he makes another tour and
lashes the victims to fixed seats and other
immovable objects. But Teresa, indifferent
to human paroxysms, roots away to the
solemn Bluff, where her passengers, as a
rule, are carried on to the wharf like first-
aid cases. On one violent voyage a per-
sistent poet sat in the saloon and
wrote sonnets throughout the run. He
had a fountain-pen and a bucket. When
Teresa leaned against the wharf at last the
pen was empty and the bucket wasn’t, and
the poet was carried ashore along with the
other casualties. They took him to the
mental asylum.
L’AMOUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I caught a glance across your shoulders white —
A challenge to adventure in the night.
The ribbon that you slipped within my sleeve
I smothered as a lady-lover’s leave ,
To climb the stair,
Anon to kiss your hair.
Tip-toe I grope within the gloom—
I wish I knew the number of your room.
x.s.w.
BILLY B.


THE
Union Trustee Company
of Australia Limited
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees,
etc.
New South Wales: Victoria: Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan
Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
CALL OR SEND FOR COMPANY’S BOOKLET.
dsad
deaf?
You can HEAR,
and we prove it
by sending you,
post free, an
easy * to - wear
uoDijsnoDv
ON 10 DAYS’
FREE TRIAL.
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
Over 330,000 delighted users, including the
Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, who has
been using the ‘Acousticon” for more
than five years! The “Acousticon” will
6afely and surely enable you to heart
Convince yourself at our expense, and
DON’T STAY DEAF.
Lamson service Co.
102 Daking House, SYDNEY
Older-fleet, Collins St.,MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St., Christc’h.
W.A.: 11. Little & Co., SSI Hay Street, Perth.
The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
tJ)GEWO]
EXTRA HIGH GRADE/4
Drubbed
3]
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARTIING ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
The Bar in N. S. Wales in 1890 numbered
six Q.C.'s and 124
others. Of the
"silks”. four are
dead ; one (Rogers)
has retired from
the D.C. Bench,
and one (Barton)
is a High Court
Judge. Of the
“stuffs” over one-
half have gone
west. Eight reached
the Supreme Court
Bench, one (Rich)
is in the High
Court, three
reached minor
judgeships and
nine are in “silk,”
six of them still in
active practice. Of
the Supreme Court
judges of that year
but one, Mathew
Henry Stephen, re-
mains. He, now
91, may be accoun-
ted the Father of
the Australian Bar.
The late
J. M. DAVIES.
President of the
Vic Leg. Council.
October birthdays : John Grice, Melbourne,
69, on 6th ; N.S.W. Justice Ferguson, 58, on
7th; Mt. Lyell .manager Sticlit, 63. on Bth;
Bertram Stevens. 47. on 9th; Judge Rolin
(N.S.W.), 56, and Fred Chappie (S.A.), 74,
on 12th ; Walter Gill (Conservator of Forests,
S. Aus.). 68, on 13th; Rangdon Bonython
(Adelaide Advertiser), 71, and N. G. Bell
(Commonwealth Railways Commissioner),
58, on 15th; Commodore Glossop, 48, on
23rd; Major-General Sinclair-Maclagan, 51,
on 24th; Surgeon-General Ilowse, Y.C., 55,
and Geologist W. H. Twelvetrees (Speck),
71, on 26tli; Elliot Lewis (Speck's Trea-
surer), 61, on 27th; poet J. B. O'Hara, 55,
on 29th; A. J. Thynne, M.L.C. (Q.). 72, on
30th; ex-banker Tom Dibbs (Sydney), 87,
on 31st.
J. E. Scantlebury, the man who invented
the title of The Bulletin’s "Wild Cat
Column,” died in Sydney last week. Born
at the Burra copper-mine (S.A.), he spent
his boyhood among the dumps of Bendigo,
then got into journalism, and crossed over
to Sydney the year The Bulletin was born.
He soon afterwards began waiting mining
paragraphs, and presently suggested the
“Wild Cat Column,” which thereafter for
more than 20 years was conducted by James
Edmond. Scantlebury, though never a mem-
ber of the staff, was a valued contributor
until the late 'nineties. Thenceforward he
devoted himself exclusively to mining specu-
lation, his last large venture being the
resuscitation of Hill End.
In 1880, when the career of the Kelly
gang was ended at Glenrowan, just-dead
John Sadlier was a superintendent, and took
charge of the attack on Jones’s Hotel, where
the outlaws were at bay, after Superinten-
dent Hare was wounded. The Police Com-
mission, which sat
in 1881 to inquire
into the pursuit of
the Kellys, was
rather uncompli-
mentary to Sad-
lier. It considered
that he erred in
judgment during
the pursuit, that
his conduct of
operations at Glen-
rowan was -not
judicious or cal-
culated to raise
the force in public
estimation, and
that his treatment
of senior-constables
Kelly and John-
son was harsh.
But he lived down
this criticism, and
was Acting-Chief
Commissioner more
than once before
he retired 23 years
ago.
BRIG.-GENERAT
“POMPEY”
ELLIOTT, C. B.,
D.S.O., D.C.M.
etc.
Ernest Joyce, of Sydney, who was on
South Polar expeditions with Scott and
Shackleton, has been appointed second in
command of Dr. J. L. Cope’s forthcoming
venture to the Far South. Cope proposes to
map the Polar region from an aeroplane,
which is being specially built for the job.
Shackleton, by the way, believes in the prac-
ticability of employing the ’plane usefully in
the work.
William Hill, the new Farmers’ Union
M.H.R. for Echuca, lias earned a crust as
telegraph operator, assistant-stationmaster,
fellmonger, grazier and farmer. He was
secretary of the Colbinabin AVheat Pool
Vigilance Committee, out of which the
Farmers’ Union grew. He is president of
the Vic. branch of the Union, represents the
farmers of the State on the Wheat Board,
is chairman of the ITarmers’ Advocate, cap-
tain of the Colbinabin Rifle Club , and a lead-
ing panjandrum of the no-drink movement.
Tom Poole, of Adelaide, did not retain
his silk gown much longer than Hughes
kept his “stuff” one in London. In less
than a week after being made K.C., he was
a judge. Among his seniors at the S. Aus.
Bar Syrnon, Nesbit and Grundy are rather
old; Angas Parsons’s ambition is political;
Piper, Cleland and Isbister might not be
tempted by the office or the pay. Poole’s is
a popular appointment among the profes-
sion, where he has not an enemy. He is
little known to the general public. Quite
different is the dashing Villeneuve Smith,
who has succeeded him as a K.C. His bril-
liant and somewhat reckless oratory creates
a general feeling that it is better to have
him on your side than against. He has a
special reputation in defending criminal
cases—a business which quite half of the
South Aus. K.C.’s never touch.
Walter AVearne, Nationalist M.L.A. for
the Namoi (N.S.W.), though no wowser, is
probably the champion teetotaller of the
Commonwealth. His claim to the distinction
was recently contested. Said the challenger:
“I’ve never had spirits as much as rubbed
on me as a liniment.” Neither had Wearne.
“I never even licked the cork of a beer
bottle in my youth.” Neither had Wearne.
"In fact,” wound up the competitor, “the
only time I’ve smelt the stuff was when I
rushed my horse past a brewery.” “Beat
you there,” put in Wearne: “I’ve not even
smelt it in passing,” which was quite true.
To Wearne a bunch of violets, a snide wheat
contract and an extra-dead gohanna mean
nothing to his nostrils.
Westralia claims the Commonwealth’s
two oldest fliers —G. P. Paterson, of Pin-
jarra, well over 70; and Mrs. H. Seeligson,
60. Aviator-Major Brearley escorted them
heavenwards in his monoplane.
“Boorooloola”: Though Frank Jardine
has gone now, there is still one left of the
adventurers who made that wonderful trip
up Cape York Peninsula to Somerset with
cattle in 1861. This is old-man Scrutton,
now ope of the seven or so white citizens of
Boorooloola (N.T.).
Garibaldi, junior, grandson presumably of
the hero, says that he was going to grab
Fiume, on the strength of the old man’s
reputation, if D’Annunzio hadn’t gone fili-
bustering ahead of him. Marvellous how
many things the grandsons of great men
have nearly done!
Major Giblin, the only Tasmanian M.P.
lo go to the war, will probably quit politics.
He is first favorite for the vacant position
of State Statistician. He was for a time
lecturer in mathematics. Failing Giblin, it
is likely that Laird Smith, M.ILR., will
have to fight King O’Malley.
Francis H. Snow, the representative of
the Hirsch firm of German metal-buyers, has
bowed to a fine of £2OOO for “attempted
trading with the enemy,” and agreed that
there shall be no more appeals. So the liti-
gation which has dragged on for nearly five
years is at an end. Isaacs, J., who
presided at the last trial, said he was satis-
fied that “defendant did not attempt to
benefit Germany” ; all he was after was to
keep his business organisation together so
that the trade might be resumed after the
war. How much more blamable Snow was
for that than others were for giving German
trade preference before the war, when the
Hun was obviously making vast military
preparations, seems quite worth considera-
tion.
A Hobart carter has been discovered who
is the father of 30 children. His first wife
assisted him to bring the tally up to 21
and then died. A second has added nine.
The last of a great pioneering family
went west the other day at Melbourne—
Mitchell Kilgour Beveridge, aged 88. He
was brought to Vic. in 1839, and six years
later his elder brothers, Andrew and George,
pioneered the Tyntynder station, which once
had a frontage of 300 miles on the River
Murray. Andrew was killed by the abo-
rigines in 1846 and buried at Tyntynder,
and in 1847 the whole Beveridge family
moved up there.
Frank Wyndham, dead at Tamworth
(N.S.W.), aged 85, was the fourth of the
10 sons of George Wyndham, of Dalwood
(N.S.W.). Long ago he squatted on the
Barwon, where he bred some noteworthy
racehorses, among them Kingfisher, winner
of the Sydney Cup of 1877. He was a great
connoisseur of cattle, and had been engaged
as judge at most shows in Queensland and
northern N. S. Wales. Mr. Wyndham died
on September 22; next day his wife rejoined
him—they had been married 61 years.
Kerr, president of the Broken Hill A.M.A.,
who was in Melbourne last week as one of
the strikers’ delegates to the conference with
the mineowners, struck the press-gang there
as a man above the average in intelligence,
who, if he had not such a good conceit of
hixnself, might have some claims to leader-
ship. He is ready to take charge of the
navy, run a newspaper, settle intricate
economic problems—anything. The fact
that he does things very indifferently—out-
side mining, perhaps—does not disturb him.
In his judgment he can “get through” in a
way that will serve for the moment, and
that is enough. Life is ephemeral, anyhow,
so why bother? Excelsior be blowed!
John M. Dent, who died at Port Elliot,
the other day, aged 84, arrived in 8. Aus. by
the first immigrant ship to land passengers
at Port Adelaide. John watched the trials
of the first Ridley stripper (father of all
modern wheat-harvesting machines), dnd liis
dad helped to build it.
The Yilleneuve Smiths have a way of col-
lecting high distinctions in the law. One
was formerly Chief Justice of Tasmania, one
is K.G. in Westralia, and one has just
“taken sjlk” in S.A. at the unusually early
age of 35. The father of the last two was a
veteran barrister of English training, who
ended his career in Adelaide.
J. A. O’Neill, who mixed journalism and
music, died at Marriekville, Sydney, last
week, of ’flu. Some years ago he had inter-
ests in several provincial journals, notably
at Milton. Nyngan and Gunning ; while as a
musician he was master of the Ulladulla and
Milton Band, and one of the finest cornet
soloists in N. S. Wales. He was a native of
Queanbeyan, and 58 at the end.
Thomas Dawson, of Adelaide, Peter’s
father, was 77 on September 20. Born in
i oJ?’ wen t to sea as a youth, but in
ISol settled down in Australia. In 1870
i j kopgbt a small ironworking business in
Adelaide, and bit by bit turned it into a
big metal-work factory. In 1914 he handed
control over to his sons, and retired to his
beloved books. Peter is the youngest of four
boys.
“T. 0.1. : Apropos James Harrison,
journalist and pioneer ice-maker of Aus-
tralia (B. 25/9/T9).
Harrison com-
menced his experi-
ments in the early
’fifties, while in
Geelong. Later lie
was on the editorial
staff of the Age,
and in. 1861 suc-
ceeded in producing
ice in bars resemb-
ling pig-iron. I was
present at the works
a t Franklyn-street,
off Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne, when the
first ‘‘pigs” were
turned out. Com-
mercially the manu-
facture was no't a
success, ( and Har-
rison died a poor
man. At one time
he represented Gee-
long in the Leg.
Assembly.
GENERAL GELLI-
BRAND recently
appointed Public
Service Commissioner
of Tasmania.
G. W. Rocke, of Morley Johnson and Co.,
who died in Sydney recently, was a Mel-
bourne man, whose father, W. H. .Rocke, was
part of one of the oldest furnishing firms
in the South. Sixty years ago Horatio
Beauchamp started business as auctioneer
and furniture salesman. Later he took into
partnership Robert Byrne, and when Byrne
went into politics (he became Treasurer in
the MaePherson Ministry of 18(59-70) the
firm became Beauchamp and Rocke.
Mrs. Annie Butler Fulton has died in her
80th year at historic Penrith (N.S.W.). The
first of the Penrith Fulton 3 was an Anglican
minister who came from Ireland in 1800,
exiled for his share in the ’9B rebellion. After
some years of probation be was given a.
colonial chaplaincy, and in the days of Major
Johnston and John Mnoartliur lie was the
only parson in Australasia. He was the first,
incumbent of St. Stephen’s, at Penrith, and
there is a tablet to his memory in the old
church.
Sir George Arthur, the biographer of Kit-
chener, whose private secretary he was, is a
grandson of that Arthur who was Governor
of Van Diemen’s Land from 1824 to 1836.
“B.J.’’: “Mr. Ocky” (B. 25/9/’l9) men-
tions that it is recorded on the tombstone
of John Harrison, an early editor of the
Geelong Advertiser, that he was the first to
make a commercial success of the manufac-
ture of ice. The success was made possible
by Harrison, but he himself died poor, and
his tombstone was provided by public sub-
scription. Harrison arrived from England
in 1837, and after a spell on the Inky Way
started, in 1850, to work out a scheme for
making ice. He established his first factory
on the Barwon River, and in the following
year Glasgow and Co., Bendigo brewers,
installed one of his refrigerators, the first
of its kind in the world. After a visit to
London Harrison devoted himself to meat-
freezing. Like Mort, he failed when his
process came up against the test of a sea-
voyage. A shipment of 20 tons, loaded in
two tanks on the steamer Norfolk, was sent
from Melbourne on July 18, 1873, but the
tanks leaked, and when the cargo arrived
in London in October it was unsaleable.
Harrison had put all his capital into his
experiments, and their failure ruined him.
H. J. Kingsmill has been chosen as Tas-
manian Rhodes scholar for 1918. Before
enlisting (he was in khaki for three years)
he was regarded as the most brilliant science
student the local Uni. had ever had. He is
a son of the ex-State Meteorologist (now a
lecturer at the University), and grandson
of the late Col. Schofield, for many years
Uni. Registrar. llis favorite sport is rowing.
The house on the Brisbane-road, Launces-
ton, in which Johnny Fawkner lived and
printed his Advertiser is now a summer-
house, covered with creepers, in Eardley Wil-
mot’s ground. After Fawkner left Launces-
ton to found Melbourne, a Mr. Reckitts lived
there and used the ground as a market-
garden. It was cut up into building allot-
ments subsequently.
A LEWIS-GUNNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thick banks of cloud .shut out the waning- moon,
But on the dead white snow a ghostly light
Flickers and fades. I shiver by my gun
And strive to pierce the gloom. My mate is sick.
’Tis best to let him sleep, to watch alone.
Far off there sounds the droning of a ’plane.
Hun searchlights play upon the weeping clouds,
And Archies crack. Ah ! Now he drops his eggs—
Zum-zoom, zum-zoom, and quickly makes for home.
I hear his engine whirring overhead.
1 he snow is peopled with a thousand forms
lliat move towards me, and as swift retreat.
Huge running men I see, and some that crawl.
A thin rain wets my cheek. The night is still.
A single flare lights up the murky sky.
1 see again those silent eerie shapes.
My God! Can they be men ? All swathed in white
I hey creep upon me, vicious with intent.
New melted ice runs slowly down my spine,
And every quaking pore exudes cold sweat.
They’re creeping nearer, line on line they come;
I mark them down precisely, note each move,
And when the moon peeps out, and all is still,
1 catch the gleam of bayonets in the snow.
Pale Fear has gripped my hands. [ cannot shoot!
I n twenty seconds more the crash of bombs,
My mate all ripped and torn with Essen ’steel!
Stand to! Stand to!” —no sound escapes my lips.
“Now let. them have it, boy.” Old Sergeant Ned
Has snapt the spell. I seize the pistol grip
And scatter death among them, drum on drum.
A murderous fire breaks out. The SOS,
Three blazing stars of white and green and red,
t loats high above me. Guns sit up and curse,
And thicker than the leaves in Autumn’s blast
Their shells come whirling down in No Man’s Land.
The fleeing Huns run swiftly through the snow.
And as they run, my little, leaden friends
Drop neatly from the loaded magazine
Into the breech. Drum after drum I fire,
Until the gun grows smoking hot and jambs.
* # • • • •
The Colonel calls my name out on parade ;
And Birdie pins a riband on my chest,
While all my cobbers cheer. I feel a mug.
“Brave hearts of gold,” he says. My face goes red,
Matching the scarlet trimmings of his staff,
tor right behind him and the glittering throng
I see again those silent, crawling Huns
Amidst the haunted waste of No Man’s Land.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


1
m
m
, /
■ /a
■jr Ms„
r-,.
■y.s', ;av. 'v.
HB '
Pr
?N& *m).
i
/
-*■-
m
YA
Wi
TAB
CCO
In the crowded city street, by the lone
camp fire the never failing friend
of every man who smokes—a cool
tobacco with a flavour famed throughout
a continent.
CUT (IN TINS) FLAKE OR MIXTURE
ALSO IN PLUG FORM
tr- J
riSoj
d:Zl^
DCOQ
SQE7S
vi;
6413
THE
PIPE
OF PEACE AND QUALITY
LMN)
400
p,pe Quara,,,^
*
v
LMN
.


“SUNTYNE”
It COMBINES the GRAIN and FERTILIZER
DRILL and the SPRING TINE CULTI-
VATOR in ONE IMPLEMENT.
130
Several hundreds went to
work last seeding with
splendid satisfaction and
great economy to their users.
Many farmers expressed the opinion that this
is the greatest improvement in farming tools
since the Stripper and Winnower were
combined.
Sole Patentee and Manufacturer
H. V. McKAY,
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
Branch Offices
and Showrooms
rStanley Street, South Brisbane.
■ 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
ICorner Collins and Spencer Streets, Melbourne.
Corner York and St. John Streets, Launceston.
53 North Terrace, Adelaide.
36 Pier Street, Perth.
Illustrated Catalogues of Sunshine Implements and Engines sent post free on request.
The immediate results of supporting home
industry are well demonstrated at Sunshine,
seven miles from Melbourne. A few years
ago the location was a bleak plain, with no
house in sight. To-day there is a flourishing
township of some 2500 people, and the num-
ber increases year by year. This is no mean
addition to the list of those that buy what-
ever is produced by our orchards, gardens
and farms. The prosperity of this new town
is the direct result of the support given to
the Sunshine Harvester Works, by the grain-
growers of Australia, and similar develop-
ments are bound to take place elsewhere as
our producers come to realise the advantage
to themselves of supporting industries that
in turn will support them. Until a year or
two ago the Sunshine works were best known
as purveyors of the larger types of imple-
ments used by the wheat-grower, but it is
good to know that this big plant (said to be
the largest in the Southern Hemisphere) is
devoting some of its energies to producing
small ploughs and cultivators, suitable for
orchards and garden work. Judging by the
reputation that its big farming implements
have attained, it can safely be assumed that
its orchard tools will also excel, and that
orchardists will benefit by this big concern's
entry into this new field. Sunshine is just
one instance of what can be done towards
building up the prosperity of the nation by
the simple process of sunj>orting home manu-
factures.— Advt.
Glimpses are caught occasionally of Mur-
ray Smith, one of the leaders of the old Vic.
Constitutional Party, and a history-maker of
the ’seventies and early ’eighties. Though
he never held Cabinet rank he had a status
in the Assembly such as was only granted to
men who had been Premier or Attorney-Gen-
eral. Uncompromising Conservative and
Freetrader, he was out of touch with the
majority in the House, but he was a great
Parliamentarian nevertheless. There were
times when he became almost eloquent and
he had cultivated the graces as well. In 1881.
having been then in Parliament slightly
over eight years, he helped Bryan O’Loghlen
to turn out Berry. In the following year he
accepted the Agent-Generalship. Returning
to Melbourne in 1886, he had to wait eight
years for a seat in the Assembly. Then
Hawthorn stood to him till he retired volun-
tarily 19 years ago. He is now close on
88, and living in quiet retirement at Toorak.
Portraits of Palmer, Mitchell, Macßain.
Zeal and Wrixon, the five Presidents of
the Vic. House of Landlords from 1856 to
1901, are shown on the walls of the lounge
handy to the crimson-plush chamber. Palmer
is only a memory. Mitchell (father of the
Vic. Bar leader), who laid down the baton
of Chief of Police to enter the House in
1856, is still a full-sized figure in the recol-
lections of people who in their youth saw
him drive through Kyneton on his way to
his country home at Barfold. Macßain
was president of the Melbourne Exhibition
32 years ago, when Iliginbotham pulled out
because Softgoods Snrgood wished to “apply
yardstick principles” to the conduct of
business. Zeal tvas a benevolent autocrat;
who made a mistake when he left the chair
to go to the Senate; and Wrixon, K.C.,
earned fame for himself in the Ah Toy case
relating to the right of the State to exclude
aliens. There will be a sixth portrait added
soon—that of Davies, who retired in June.
Three old Westralian mining men lately
pegged out claims over the river. Gus
Whitehead, one of the State’s oldest and
best prospectors, discovered Field’s Find,
Woodley’s Reward and - other Murchison
shows, and then got on to some good things
at Kanowna, Laverton and Burtville. He
managed to forget a few years, and fell
"in with the 39th Battalion, but owing to
illness the game old battler didn’t get past
Salisbury Plains. The pair to join him in
the West were Monty Chapman, successively
shift boss, underground manager and acting-
manager of the South Ixalgurli; and Alf
Morgan, for 20 years underground manager
of Golden Horseshoe —a brother of Fred
Morgan, who died while in charge of the
Bullfinch
Rania MacPliillamy, the N. S. Wales girl
who organised the Rest Club for the Diggers
at Jerusalem, is a grand-daughter of the late
poet Henry Halloran, and a great-grand-
daughter of Dr. Laurence Halloran. the pio-
neer of higher education in N. S. Wales.
Tas. Labor party used to worry because it
was desperately short of law ; and ii was
sorely puzzled once what it would do for an
Attor n e y-
General if the
Governor called
it in. It is less
nervou s now.
Albert George
Ogilvie, who has
r e presenle d
Labor bodies?
professionally for
some years, won
an Assembly seal
for Franklin at
last election: so
he is right on
hand now. lie
came from St.
Pat.’s, Ballarat,
v i a Melbourne
Uni.
ALBERT
OGILVIE ,
recently elected
to Tasmanian
Assembly.
David T.aidlaw, entering upon his second
term as Mayor of Newtown and Chilwell,
illustrates the possibilities of the Australian
democracy. This borough is the Toorak of
Geelong, and Cr. Laidlaw for over 20 years,
and up to about four years ago, was
one of the three policemen who watched over
its placid existence. Not a big, brass-
hatted officer, but a bobby on the beat. Fail-
ing sight caused him to seek retirement on
pension, and in a desire not to be a mere
idler he offered himself as a candidate for
the borough council. Two years later his
colleagues put him in the mayoral chair.
“Ox”: Harry Webster, who faced nine
elections before he became a councillor at
Forbes (N.S.W.), has now settled down
comfortably at Rockdale, near Sydney. He’s
a man with a heart. Years ago. when he
was the barber at Dubbo. a little peddler
hobbled info his shop. Webster sat him
down, took off his boots, and got him into
walking shape. The peddler was Billy
Huglies.
“James M.”: In 1885 the Lusitania
brought J. F. Archibald back to Australia
after a twelve-months’ holiday in England.
During that pleasant time he had been in
treaty for the purchase of Reynolds’s News-
paper, which was then for sale at a very
moderate figure. On the voyage he was a
moody man, silent and wrapt up in his own
thoughts, a companion at times of Tom
Roberts, the painter, who, after a tour in
Spain, was coming home to Australia. His
beard was worn long and rather tangled,
his clothes were rough, and the whole effect
was that of a man indifferent to personal
appearance. llis talk was engaging if
cynical, his language incisive; lie was im-
patient of all affectation and pretension. In
liis young Victorian days lie was something
of an oarsman, arid formed one of a crew
on the Yarra in the year before lie went
to Queensland. It was the only exercise
he ever took. He was, however, fond of
snapper fishing, and had a cottage near
Cronullu, where Mark Twain spent many
pleasant hours during his too-short stay in
X. S. Wales.
“Rio”: “Digger” (B. 21/S/T9) says that
“the ex-sergeant-major type, British or local,
proved himself almost without exception a
failure abroad.” This is absolutely false.
The local ex-sergeant-major was a great suc-
cess abroad, and one of the present problems
of the Defence Department is what to do
with the large number who earned high pro-
motion and distinction with the A.I.F. When
Billy Hughes landed in Fremantle he was
met by a deputation of Diggers from the
R.S.A.. who asked that those sergeant-majors
who had earned promotion abroad be
allowed to retain their commissions; so
their experience is different from "Digger’s.”
I am at present away from records, but the
following distinguished officers of the A.1.F.,
all ex-sergeant-majors, are personally known
to me: Jess. Alderman, Durrant, McColl,
Whitham. Williams, Tracey. Brown, Bushell.
Bilton, Weick, Stantke, Hutehin, Ordish,
Southby, Newland and Longmore. Of these
Jess is a general, two more have been acting-
generals, the others are or have been colonels,
majors and captains. Brown died leading
his battalion at Lone Pine, and Southby his
company at Passchendaele. Hutehin is at
the Staff College, Newlar.d has the Y\C.,
and all the others are decorated, some two
or three times. “Digger" calls these men
failures. How is it that to people of his
cast of mind the Australian private is the
pattern of all the military virtues, but as
soon as he acquires stripes or stars he be-
comes everything undesirable?
N.S.W. Shipwreck Relief Society had to
use a microscope to detect three lifesavers
to whom it lately gave merit certificates.
Frederic Leahy Lister (aged 11) saved a
child from drowning; Arthur Pether (12)
rescued a boy; and Arthur Fergie (13) re-
trieved a married woman.
Dr. Delaney, R.C. Archbishop of Hobart,
came to Australia 35 years ago as a young
priest of 31, on a
search for funds
for All Hallows'
College, Dublin.
Before the job was
finished he got word
that the college,
where he occupied
the chair of Civil
History, had
changed hands. The
job of chancellor to
Bishop Moore, of
Ballarat, was of-
fered him. and he
stayed. Six years
later he became
coadjutor to Bishop
Murphy, of Hobart,
and in 190 S he suc-
ceeded that patri-
arch. lie is fonder
of study than of
anything else, and
can be proud of
Ireland in four
languages.
Archbishop
DELANEY ,
of Hobart.
“J.F.H.” (London) : There are still old
boys in Melbourne who can recall the little
two-storeyed restaurant at the top of Bourke-
street, next door to the Wooden Scotchman,
where Spiers and Pond started in modest
fashion their brilliant and amazingly enter-
prising career. Their satisfying “shilling
lunch" captured the town, and they were
soon able to move down to the more central
and commodious Cafe de Paris. While there
they brought out the first team of English
cricketers, who persuaded them to book then-
passages for the larger opportunities of Lon-
don. They soon made a big splash with
their palatial hotels, gorgeous restaurants
and stylish barmaids. There is a legend that
the first batch of these beauties were brought
from Melbourne to dazzle the Cockneys. The
original .Spiers and Pond were semi-
millionaires when they left London for
eternity, and the business, largely developed
into colossal stores, has since been carried
on by a limited liability co. The annual
meeting has just been held, and shareholders
were gleeful at a record trading profit of
£128.519 —-not counting a lot of money
claimed from the Government for comman-
deering some of their best hotels during the
war.
Primary producers are awaking to the fact
that it is their duty to help to build up their
own best market —the home market. What-
ever the primary producer does to support
the manufacturing industries of Australia re-
acts in his favor in the way of increasing
the number of his own customers. Larger
local consumption queans better and steadier
prices for the grower, and this applies in the
present stage of our evolution, most particu-
larly to orchard and garden products. The
expansion of our towns and cities necessarily
implies a greater demand for the fruits of
the soil, and such expansion can only be
looked for as a result of the growth of opr
manufactures.
Abraham Lincoln is credited with saying
that if we buy from the foreigner we get the
goods and the foreigner gets the money:
whereas if we buy at home we get the goods,
also the work and the profit and keep the
money within our own country. Australians
will do well to take a leaf out of the book of
this great American statesman, whose policy
did so much towards building the United
States into the great nation that it has be-
come. The home market of the United States
is absolutely the best market in the world,
and the primary producer of that country
appreciates it and cultivates it to the limit.
That is to say, he buys practically nothing
that is not manufactured by his own people
—his own customers.
HOMEWARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s many a blossomy <le!l I have loved,
Where nevermore 1 shall roam.
There’s many a girl I have kissed I'll kiss
No more till 1 taste the loam.
But, oh, for the warmth o’ the western sky,
For the stars that sing and the shades that sigh,
For the memories gold of gold days gone by!
The heart o’ me’s light, though the tired feet plod,
And I’m fearless with men as I’m honest with God,
As I start on the saunter home.
There are friends over there in the dark, and they
wait
And have waited full long for my hail.
Ah, dim is the sea I must voyage on now,
And cranky the craft I must sail;
But the spirit laughs in me, and always shall laugh,
Till the last of the suns turns pale.
For a man I have lived, with the sins of a man,
And never I’ve funked any race that 1 ran ;
I’ve steered by my star every inch of my span.
So I’ll not pass as Nothingness into the clod,
For I’ve tasted delight, and I’ve tasted the rod,
And the heart o’ me lives, and the heart o’ ine's
God,
And the hope and the faith that have carried me
through,
Whatever fools say, or whatever fools do,
Can’t fail, friends o' mine— can’t fail!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


sw
&
m
m.
1
120,000 others would he supported
in one way or another by these 30,000 workers in the Australian Iron and Steel Industry.
w
W:
C 5
A
&
i
ff
30,000 Men would receive more than £5,000,000 Per Year
if all the Iron and Steel Products required in Australia were made in the Commonwealth.
b
wm
%
-40
L/AN
5Tc t U
IM&L/SITRV
Mi
/
in
fij
Nrn-<x/l
Worß for Australians
and
Security for Australia
Australia’s first duty is to provide employment for her soldier
sons. Only by making here goods now imported cam such
additional employment be given. If all the Iron and Steel
Products now imported were made by our own people, work
at Australian rates of wages would be given to not less than
30,000 Men
who would receive in wages more than
' £5,000.000 Per Year
These 30,000 workers in turn would give support to over
120,000 Others
By these means large numbers of skilled mechanics would be
available as munition-workers in time of need.
Every Australian should realise that
The Australian Iron & Steel Industry
is a NATURAL Industry, a KEY Industry, a BASIC Industry.


tC* m«. N > '■“■.’.nFi,''.,. T
TRADE
MARK
s
&
m
Js.4-
n
m
fi.H-
-■ •
_
:■, -.
Wmm
‘
§«*¥«,&»;,
:■■
<•
y ■•'•■•
w
ttKri
■ ■ ■
a
m
*i^«ss» l i^«^iK«»as«SB!a«ts
-'V'
' '
HI.
.:• £
V
■ ' :
■:&
W
,
mmam
111
Mg—|
■
mmmm.
.
1
las
i,k> *!*'*•«•» “
' ■'
20% more
Power - Speed - Mileage
from any Car
Automobile drivers air agree that
the engines of their cars run much better,
have more power, speed and flexibility at night
or when the weather is damp. The Apco Manu-
facturing Co has taken advantage of this phe-
nomenon, and designed the extremely simple
"APCO” ENERGISER to create and main-
tain this condition at all times, in all cars.
The principle used is that of injecting a limited
cjuanrity of live steam into the combustion chamber
ol the engine. This decomposes all carbon, causing
it to be ejected as a gas. The "APCO” is absolutely
automatic in its action, and the occasional filling of
the container with water is all the attention it requires.
The "APCO” ENERGISER is guaranteed to do
everything that any similar device on the market will
do. irrespective of price , and a conservative estimate
is 20 ° 0 more power, 20 0 0 more speed, 20 0 0 more
mileage than before use, with the absolute elimrna
tion of troublous carbon deposits.
The outfit comes complete and ready to instal, with
'exception of the container, which is ah ordinary fruit
jar obtainable anywhere It is made in two kinds, so
that it is suitable for other cars as well as Fords.
Get your garage man to put one on your car You’ll
be delighted with the additional energy in your car.
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS FOR "APCO”
nsw UNION ACCESSORY CO
1 1 G Brown| Pitt St Sydney, (near Hotel Sydney)
VICTORIA
J J MEh ER, 117 Elizabeth St, MELBOURNE
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
CORNELL'S LTD, Adelaide
ANTI-RATTLERS
Tighten Steering Gear
GLASS OIL GAUGE
HORN BUTTON
Right under the fingers
—a great improvement
OVER ELEVEN
YEARS as manu-
facturers of "Apco”
Equipment for Ford
Cars is the record of
the Apco manufac
turing Company
Made complete in
the Apco” Factory,
all Equipment is sold
under guarantee by
the manufacturers
Manufactured by the
Largest Manufacturers of"7ordequipment in the'World.
The Sea is God’s.
Seamen’s troubles are not only chronic, but
also deep-rooted—so deep-rooted that the
International Boring Co.' has not a drill
that could touch the bottom of them. They
began in the days at the back of days, when
men fought with one another for dugouts
wherewith to tight water, their foe. The
truculent spirit has been handed on through
ages of shipowners; while sailors have been
mere adventurers seeking for spoil and the
trouble that goes with it.
When the adventurous spirit became com-
mercialised the trouble increased. .At the
beginning of this new era of sailor ltg
the skipper of a merchant vessel was a real
shareholder in the owner’s concern, sharing
profits by always being owner’s agent over-
sea, and getting substantial commissions on
freights. This enabled him to retire in a
few years in affluence. The "call of the sea"
troubled him not, or else lie feigned deafness.
But how did the underdogs fare —the
mates and other ratings? They were taught
by experience that the only job worth hav-
ing was that of a skipper—to be an owner’s
man and share in his profits. They envied
the top-dog with iiis perks; and as qualified
certificated men were in those days a negli-
gible quantity, it: only required brawn, com-
bined with ability to do the dirty work for
tin' holders of the purse, to enable the fore-
the-mast man to become a qualified tyrant,
with unlimited power. And many jumped at
the chance, as history has shown. Once on
top they hazed and abused their former
fo’c’s’le mates in a manner indescribable, and
profiteered in a way that would (make the
present-day trader blush. Their stock-in-
trade was in the slop chest. Sea-boots cost-
ing them 10s. were sold to the shellback for
.‘los. Captains were pushed into this line by
their owners, who themselves, believed in a
system of robbery and encouraged it in
their masters to ensure cheap labor for the
next voyage.
No monarch ashore was ever the tyrant
that a skipper afloat has power to be. The
skipper is king; tin* chief made on a sail-
ing-ship a sort of equerry; the second
mate a gold-stick-in-waiting, only the gold-
stick is often a belaying-pin. At the table in
the “cabin” it is customary for the captain
and chief-officer to take the "first table.”
The second mate and carpenter usually fol-
low the skipper and mate, with the sail-
maker running a bad third. They seldom
speak to one another, there being nothing
much to speak about. At “sun-time” the
captain comes up aggressively and snorts
whilst getting the, meridian altitude of the
sun. Ha ving done this, he retires down the
cuddy with the air of a man who is aggrieved
with the universe. The second mate says
carefully to th!e mate as the old man retires:
“He’s a ;. ■ j!” The mate snorts and says,
“64deg. 28min. —what do you make it?” The
old man’s altitude is all right. He has
taken it awa)y with him !
But what/are the ’fore-mast hands doing
in the meantime? They are probably call-
ing the skipper more decorative names than
the second mate wots of. At the same time
they are, lijke the after-guard, envying the
tyrant on top. Poor devils, they' are envy-
ing now a shadow, if they only knew ! Still,
they eat their rotten food, and stand their
uncomfortable quarters, and growl, growl,
growl, like dogs that have been whipped for
nothing, but daren’t let their master see
them show resentment. Their accommoda-
tion shrieks for adjustment. Housed in a
space where they have to breathe their own
foul breath whilst asleep, with all kinds of
sweaty clothing hanging under their noses,
is it any wonder they seek amelioration of
conditions? In contact all the .time with
men who are perfect strangers at the out-
set of the voyage, eating, sleeping and (in
bad weather) washing in the same meagre
space, with latrines part and parcel of
the sleeping quarters, for a dole per month
that would not keep the owner in cigars—
surely the ’fore-the-mast sailor who has stood
these things so long is a very tolerant per-
son !
of people know that these con-
ditions exist—know them nearly as well as
T. a master-mariner with 30 years of the
sea behind me. Yet the conditions, improved
here and there as they have been, are still
abominable. The people of the earth huddle
in cities which can grow nothing, and they
demand that all that they need to eat and
wear and all the things for their comfort
shall be dragged from far places. And the
seaman is their slave. If justice was done
to _ him —if he lived under tolerable con-
ditions—a vast proportion of the sea-traffic
of the world would be impracticable. But
the world could readjust itself to do with-
out it. Why should any man be compelled
to live as the seaman lives in order that
grain should be .carried at a ridiculously
cheap rale from Australia to England to
feed people who send their product back to
Australia?
We speak proudly of “the flow of com-
merce.’' If it means, as if does mean, that,
because much of the work is unnecessary,
it has to be done at a price that implies
wretchedness for those who do it. surely the
world calls for a change!
ALBATROSS.
“Billy T.": We were talking in front
of a sporting club in Bourke-street. when*
a tall, thin, shabby man pushed his way
into the crowd of bookies and their satellites.
The bankrupt spoke to a fat pencilled who
shouldered him off, and sent a scathing
word after him. The broken Philistine then
put it to another book. The second sport
snarled like a soured dog. The tall gentle-
man in distress next came to the pleasant
young Hebrew with whom I was talking, and
whispered. My friend pushed him off. "Who
is he?” I asked. “That's Perthy.7 was the
reply—“don't you know Pert by?” I did
not know Percy. "Fanthy anybody not
knowjn’ Perthy the Bitcontinued the
book. "He was one of the beth friends we
ever had. Host fifty-five thoutliand poundth
in three yearth !” “He did?” I gasped. “Well,
you might have given the poor devil the
half-crown he asked for.” The book shook
his head. “Vot's the good?” he said. “He’d
only gamble it avay.”


DID YOU SEE THESE MACHINES
AT THE MELBOURNE SHOW?
Cooper Spray Plant.
Complete, ready for work, as
illustrated £BO
Can be supplied with 2 stands of
shearing machines for £3O extra.
Cooper Improved
Overhead Belt-driven
Machine.
Simple, efficient and trouble-proof.
Can be supplied in any number
of stands.
Cooper Air-cooled
Handpiece
(as fitted on all Cooper Machines),
THE DEMAND in old and new
sheds alike throughout Australia.
Cooper “Little Giant.”
Australia’s most popular deep-well
pumping outfit.
PRICE £47/10/-
If so, did you not coiasiider them the most laudable machines of
their kind you have ever had the pleasure to inspect? There
is every reason why they should be.
Shearing Machines, Pumping Plants,
Crutching Outfits and Spray Plants,
*! ■
illustrated on this page, didn’t just happen or arrive over-
night. Every single oratfit is the ultimate result of several
years’ closest study of Australian conditions, and the Machines
have been designed and built to meet those conditions by
our experts and engineers, who have had more than 30 years’
constant experience in manufacturing and distributing shearing
machinery to practically every country on the globe.
Take the “Little Wonder” Crutching and Shearing Plant,
illustrated above. It is strong, compact and efficient. Conveni-
ence of operation is written in every line of its construction.
The hundreds that are put into use every month in the four
corners of Australia are testimony enough to its unusual merits
and attractive features.
The “Ideal,” for one man to do his own work, or the “Big
Gun,” with the Heavy-duty Engine, are equally attractive, and
have been thoroughly worked out to meet the demands for
just such a plant.
The Improved Overhead Gear with the Cooper master Air-
cooled Handpieces has established a reputation, not only in
Australia, but other countries, for genuine economy in upkeep
and solid, straight-ahead work that has proved a marvel both
to shearers and woolgrowers alike.
The “Perfect Balance” Spray Plant is purely an Australian idea to
meet Australian conditions, but it has brought forth compli-
mentary letters from New Zealand, Canada and various territories
through the advts. that have appeared in the old “Bully.”
If you are requiring Shearing Machinery of any description,
Oil Engines for any purpose, either Sheep or Fruit-spraying
Plants, or Pumping Machinery, write us to-day. Let us send
you a catalogue with full particulars of an outfit to suit your
requirements. You are sure of getting a thoroughly practical
plant that has stood the test throughout Australia and proved
a success. In addition, you will have a Company back. of it
that has an enviable reputation throughout the world for
square dealing and satisfactory service to their clients.
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.,
134 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY. 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ist. Imp. & H. F. Co., ADELAIDE. Clarke * Fauset, Ltd.. BRISHANE.
P Harris Scarfe & Co., PERTH. N.Z. Loan and M. A. Co., Eta.,
)CKHAMPTON, TOWNSVILLE, HUGHENDEN. Buchanan, Davidson
d Co., HOBART. Hart & Sons, LAUNCESTON.
- >* V;
.
£9O.
Cooper “Perfect
Balance” Orchard
Spraying Outfit.
Contains every feature that has
ever proved essential for per-
fect, effective spraying.
Cooper Little Wonder.
2-St.and Shearing and Crutching
Outfit. Tlie world’s favorite 2-
stand portable outfit.
£75 Portable —£65 Stationary.
The Cooper “Ideal
1-Stand Shearing and Crutching
Plant. Specially constructed for
the small flock-owner, £45.
Cooper “Big Gun’
Fitted with 3-H.P. Heavy Duty
Engine, 2 stands shearing
machines, grinder and all extras.
£lOO Portable —£90 Stationary.
Cooper Standard
Vertical Oil Engine.
trong, sturdy, reliable. The ideal
farm engine. Made in all sizes.


Your Rind of an Electric Light Plant
res
,
IS
m
a
X-
Jt SMS
m
ry
SS&
im
S'
a
«c
jpgs
■
m
m I
■HR
Why go on suffering the inconvenience and risk of kerosene and gas lamps, on account of you:
isolated position, when we can place a home electric light and power plant at your disposal without
a large outlay of funds?
Throw in a switch and Presto! A flood of pure, steady, brilliant light flashes instantly in any room
m the house, or every room; in the stable or outbuildings; anywhere, any time you say, for you
are now the master and electricity is your servant—loyal, willing, untiring.
The Dyneto Lighting Plant is the Finest and Cheapest on the market.
Write us at once for particulars.
Agents:
THE GENERAL TRADING C 0.,«
Hunter Street, Sydney
’Phone : CITY 11279.
Arthur Cocks & Co., Ltd., wholesale
traders in optical goods, etc.: —
r- —Dividends. N To Re- De-
July, Profit. Pref. 7 p.c. Ordinary, serves. ficit.
1911.. —— £12,844
1912. . £lO,BOl £lO9O 10 p.c.= £5404 £4367 8,477
1913.. 7,373 1112 8 „„ 4327 1934 6,543
1914.. 7,333 1414 4 ~ „ 2164 3765 2,788
1915.. 6,648 1503 74,, „ 4057 1088 1,700
Reserves.
1916.. 10,532 1503 10 „„ 5409 3620 1,920
1917.. 11,945 1503 10 „„ 5409 5033 6,953
Transferred from contingency reserves 1700 8,653
1918.. 13,077 1503 124 p'.c.= 6762 4812 13,465
1919.. 10,110 1503 124,,,, 6996 1611 15,076
Twelve months ago record net profits of
£13,077 were disclosed; but the past year
has not been nearly so golden. Probably
the dislocation of trade as a result of the
’flu was the chief trouble. Certainly there
has been no general slump; the feeling of
prosperity created by war financing, which
produced a larger crowd of purchasers of
jewellery and other gauds, is as prevalent as
ever. Possibly, also, because of the heavy
stocks which have suddenly flowed in. the
discounting of bills and other exes, have run
away with a few hundreds of this co.’s money.
Still, after paying the prefs.’ 7 p.c. the co.
was able to show profits equal to over 15 p.c.
of the ordinary capital. The heavy import-
ations ran stocks up from £68,941 a year
ago to £102,797 at July 31 last, and since
paid capital is only £78,563, the co. has bad
to depend a good deal on outside support.
This comparison goes back to the end of the
co.’s first year—it took over the old Arthur
Cocks proprietary business in 1911: —
1912. 1918. 1919.
Deposits £18,458 £4,139 £16,847
Other liabilities.. .. 22,293 15,867 23,486
Stocks 59,507 68,941 102,798
Book debts . . .. 42,889 43,295 34,435
Riant, etc. . . . . 2,132 2,938 2,922
Cash, investments, etc... 1,808 7,139 5,923
The management has come to the conclusion
that it can do with more capital, and as all
but £1437 of the present nominal £BO,OOO
has been got in, shareholders are being asked
to agree to the creation of 20,000 new shares.
So far the copcern has done very well.
During the past seven years £B9OO of new
capital has been paid up, and, though
liabilities have been greatly increased during
the past year, since 1912 they have been
reduced by £4lB. Meantime stocks have been
built up by £43,29.1, but other assets have
decreased £3549. So after paying the prefs.
7 p.c. and the ordinaries an average of over
9 p.c. the co.’s position has been improved
by £31,260, taking the figures as they stood
at the balance at each date, and not reckon-
ing insurance and other small funds, total-
ling about £5OOO, as liabilities. To begin
with £12,000 was paid in scrip for goodwill,
but very properly this intangible asset has
been written off out of profits. The result is
that nowadays the balance-sheet is quite
clean, and there were, after payment of the
current divs., assets with a book value of over
£15,000 in excess of paid capital. The very
heavy stocks, however, attract attention.
Under ordinary circumstances danger may
lurk behind these rapidly-acquired accumula-
tions; but, apparently, instead of a slump in
prices, the tendency is still the other way.
In which case the large purchases are all to
the good, particularly since the co. apparently
got its ’Alurkan goods before the collapse in
exchange. Still, though immediate pro-
spects look all right, The Bulletin will not
be surprised if the jewellery and other
luxury traders hit a cold time before long.
The Australian public still does not directly
feel any of the weight of the huge war debt
it has acquired. But if the pressure is
applied suddenly it will be liable to develop
a morning-after head and take out a pro-
hibition order against itself.
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative
Society, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Bonus
Net to Con- To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. signors, serves, serves,
1909.. £9,924 6 p.c. = £704 £9,186 £34 £1124
1910.. 10,144 6 „ „ 865 10,403
1911.. 9,221 6 „ „ 946 8.244 31 31
1912.. 12,667 6 „ „ 1032 11,571 64 95
1913.. 17,718 6 „ „ 1222 14,948 1548 1643
1914.. 15,522 6 ~ „ 1446 14,056 20 1663
1915.. 18,993 6 „ „ 1605 16,681 707 2370
1916.. 19,557 6 „ ~ 1892 18,325 1710
1917.. 20,199 6 „ „ 2170 18,118 1621
1918.. 25,993 7 „ ~ 2839 22,768 386 2007
1919.. 25,233 7 „ „ 4320 21,279 1641
Though a dry summer reduced the year’s
butter supplies to this co. by 40,000 boxes
and 37,000 fewer cheeses were handled, good
prices and the grow T th of the grain and fruit
and vegetable branches increased the turn-
over by £138,478, carrying it up to
£2,777,305. Heavier expenses are being ex-
perienced in the dairying as in every other
industry—the cost of factory requisites has
jumped at least 50 p.c. during the war years,
and as much as 200 p.c. in some cases, and
wages have also increased —so, despite the
improved turnover, the latest accounts show
a slight falling-off in net profits. Still the
co. is doing wonderfully well, and has been
able to rebate 25 p.c. of its dairy produce
commissions, and 15 p.c. on grain and 10 p.c.
on fruit and vegetable charges. These re-
bates represent, in part, the cash benefits
which the producers get from their associa-
tion with this co-op. concern. On the little
they have put into the co. by way of capital,
interest at the rate of G p.c., and 7 p.c.
lately, has been distributed : and though paid
capital is now only £OI,GOG (it has been in-
creased from £11.735 since 1009), during the
past 10 years £156,393 has been rebated on
commission charges. But the amount thus
handed back does not necessarily tell the full
tale of the financial benefits secured by co-
operators. A co-op. concern could, if it wished,
make its figures look big by maintaining its
commission charges on an unnecessarily high
scale. Recent profits have been made from
charging 34 p.c. on butter and 5 p.c. on
bacon: but since there seems every likeli-
hood of high prices being maintained the
management has decided to clip these moder-
ate rates to 3 p.c. on butter and 4 p.c. on
bacon as from July 1 last.
The feature of the C.F.S.’s financing has
been the vast volume of produce handled on
a very small capital. This shows the pro-
portion of paid capital to turnover in vari-
ous steps of the eo.’s progress
Capital p.c.
Paid Capital. Turnover. of Turnover.
1904 . . £5,328 £323,381 1.64
1909 . . 11,735 875,547 1.34
1914 . . 24,089 1,499,857 1.60
1919 .. 61,696 2,777,305 2.22
Trading on this basis without incurring
heavy liabilities has been possible only by
working on a prompt-cash plan. Last year
the society sold over 2f millions’ worth of
produce; but at March 31 last book debts
amounted to only £164,713, which repre-
sented just over a fortnight’s sales.
And since the co. gets in its money quickly
it can settle with its suppliers prpmptiy.
too; at the balancing date dnij- £127,80i
was due to consignors. During recent years,
however* the higher prices of commodities
has put a greater strain on the co.’s re-
sources, and this and the necessity for pro-
viding more suitable accommodation for
handling and marketing produce sent the
directors on the roads looking for further
capital. The result of their efforts lifted
the subscribed capital from £46,889 a year
ago to £78,143 a couple of months ago, and
the extra £21.131 which has been paid up
has nicely covered the outlay on new
premises.
The C.F.S. is now in its 20th year—it
started off in 1900 with seven enthusiasts
who put up £l3O between them —and has
grown into a big, influential concern. The
reduced commissions and the cash bonusef
which it has paid represent only a part of
the service which it has rendered the dairy
farmer. For through his society the pro-
ducer has had a voice in the management
of his own affairs which he would never
have had if the middlemen and speculators
had had the field to themselves. Still the
co-op. movement in Australia is yet only in
its infancy; though there is every promise
of its getting a big lift in the near future
as a result of Minister for Customs Massy
Greene’s proposed Federal control of the
dairying industry. A conference is to meet
in Melbourne shortly to discuss the scheme,
which is so comprehensive that, if agree-
ment can be reached, the whole co-operative
movement will, as C.F.S. general-manager
Meares puts it, be advanced in a few months
as far as any other effort could land it in
10 years.
* * * e
“Wayth”: The British Columbia (Canada)
Mines report for 1918 is of interest because
it shows the advance made by mines in a
province where there was no Billy Hughes to
solve the metal problem. Gold shows a
decrease ; but the values of other metals have
increased to this extent since 1914: Silver,
$1,340,000; lead, $1,160,000; copper,
$9,020,000; zinc, $2,550,000; and coal and
coke, $5,090,000. The two metals which show
the largest increased production over the
period were copper 8000 tons, and zinc
17.000 tons. The coal output increased
492.000 tons, with a foreign export trade of
800,000 tons (a 100 p.c. increase). This fine
record was accomplished under grave labor
shortage by a conscript country. One factor
which undoubtedly assists output is the tine
tariff of the customs smelters, especially the
silver-lead works, where ore containing up to
25 p.c. zinc is accepted on the following
sliding basis of payment. For ores in which
the zinc content is from 4 to 25 p.c. gold is
paid for in full, silver 95 p.c. down to
p.c., lead 9U p.c. down to 69 p.c.—with
prompt settlements at New York prices. The
smelting-charge basis is $7.5 per ton, which
with clean ore comes as low as $4, and never
exceeds $ll per ton of ore. This brings within
smelting scope many a complex ore that in
Australia to-day is valueless.
* * i i
‘M ayth” scouts the likelihood of the old
lasmania mine, Beaconstield (Tas.). being
re-opened when cheap power is available:—
The ore body was proved to be shortening with
every sink, and the shoot of better-grade ore
(loz. and thereabouts) was shortening still more
quickly. The tribute party found this out when,
with assistance from the Tas. Government, it earned
only 50 pa:, wages.
That the advent of cheap electrical power would
reduce working costs and centrifugal pumps give
increased efficiency is granted. But the facts can-
not be overlooked that the main pumping shaft
(Grubb s) has come together, the mine has been
worked out to the 1500 ft. level, ore refractoriness
increases with depth, ventilation is very difficult
(more so now with no Grubb shaft to assist),
and the fluming in Blythe Creek is practically use=
less, necessitating an increase in the pumping duty
to ii million gallons per day, But, most important
of all, to resume sinking in Hart's shaft wduitl
mean going down on the lode, ft difficulty that C. F;
Heathcote Reckoned required ,1 crosscut into the
footwall country, with an inclined shaft to tap the
lode at 1800 ft., and the installation of a large
pumping unit there to make sinking possible at all.
In addition to the outlay required for all this
work, any new go would have to meet the further
cost of hoisting and poppet equipment, unwatering,
etc., to reach the 1500 ft. level again. All this
for a very doubtful return.
An agitation has been started in London
for the registration of mining engineers, and
the matter has been taken up by the Insti-
tution of Mining and Metallurgy. It Is
tune similar action was taken in Australia,
Scores of worthless mines have been floated
on the reports of mining quacks, many
thousands of pounds have been laid out iri
a way no qualified mining-engineer would
have dared to recommend, and for want of
scientific direction it is highly probable that
many good properties have been scuttled.
* * * *
Mount Peliofq the Tas. tin, wolfram, com-
plex-ore show, is out after £2OOO by the
issue of 2000 shares in reserve, James
Mackay now runs the co. A lode formation
2ft. wide, tunnelled on of late for 120 ft., is
claimed i by the mine-manager to carry “high
values.” West of the tunnel is a 14ft. tin
lode, “showing tin freely,” and on the east
flank sft. “carrying satisfactory values.”
Then below the mountain spur is an “ex-
tensive flat” where “prospects have been very
encouraging.” In addition to these rather
vague riches, another lease holds out hopes of
tin and wolfram.


■A
■L
4
/*
w
i fv
MOTORISTS !
Here’s a Battery that can’t LEAK
The construction of the Eveready Storage Battery comprises many new features
not found in other types. The plates used (in addition to having staggered ribs
with "keystone” locking design and grid, and being made of pure antimony-
lead) are cast with feet on bottoms of plates which rest alternately on tops ol the
four bridges in hard rubber jars.
The Eveready Storage Battery is made of the best materials the makers can furnish
assembled by specially trained electrical experts. The handles furnished with these
Batteries are designed to fit the "hold-down” arrangements of any and all types of cars.
A DEFINITE GUARANTEE-—Each EVEREADY Storage Battery
is sold with a definite guarantee against ruinous sulphation (leakage),
which means the hottest spark and a minimum of attention.
□
n
n
STORAGE BATTERIES
Efficient EVEREADY Engineering methods have given
the motoring world its finest battery at a moderate
price—-£9
Have your dealer demonstrate an EVEREADY
beside its more expensive rivals
The Field Telephonist says :
Absolute dependability under adverse circumstances—that
is the summing-up of the EVEREADY SERVICE.
Whenever the utmost in dependability is absolutely es-
sential, the EVEREADY Storage Battery "makes good.”
Whenever used on the battlefield in urgently telephoning the fluctuations of attack
and defence'; in the timed firing of mines ; in driving the chief-of-staff’s fast car,
in the rigour of the motor transport’s heavy service , in these, and in the kindred
other uses in which Batteries were used —the EVEREADY Battery demonstrated
its absolute dependability under the most exacting demands. Is it any wonder,
then, that the EVEREADY stands pre-eminent to-day.
i* .'
at-
■
■
m
%
w
.
a
m
%
mM
m WM ;:
<:** ■’' 4
..; v
'.m. - - •'. . .■■
7Z*V*
355
I
>av.
viX!"
§gjg§§
i i
&
m
ins
m
..a,
5
6-Volt regular long assembly of plates
Nrs.w. AGENTS:
MOODY & CO.
343 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
VICTORIAN AGENTS:
HOLLAND PROPRIETARY LTD.
17 McKILLOP ST, MELBOURNE
THOMPSON. MEGGITT & CO. LTD.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES,
DAILY TELEGRAPH BUILDINGS, SYDNEY
iiiiiiiiiii
tinitiiuii
12-Volt regular long assembly 6( plates


OK
Price 17/-. also Onoto Valveless
for those whodonotwantaSelf-
Flliing Safety Pen 12/6 and up-
wards of all Stationers, Jewellers,
and Stores. Manufacturers: Thus
De La Rue & Co., Ltd., Sunhill
Row. London, E.C. Managing
Ag nts: Norman Baker & Long-
hurst, Sydney and Melbourne.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK —
BEST FOR ALU PENS.
Get the Pen that regulates
its ink fIow—FAST or SLOW. \
The Onoto. A simple turn of the
“head" regulates the flow of ink
exactly as you want it. Another
“turn”renders the Onoto a sealed
tube in your pocket, so that it
cannot possibly leak. It is the
onlySelf-Filling Pen in which Ink
Pellets can be used.
ds
The Self fiffiac
Safety Fountain Pea.
King IV
11,11 WHISKY
11
th E TOPJNOTCHscotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES- LINSEED OIL
J. 8.0. ’: Talking about the damage done
by water-fowl, the black pests did thousands of
pounds’ worth last year on the big river from
Mildura to Murray Bridge. They were particularly
affectionate to grapes, and many growers lost tons
of the fruit. The raiders also gorged on peaches
and apricots, and great numbers were slain by
poisoned fruit-baits. So numerous were the fowl
that it was a common thing to drop 15 or 20
with one shot. The birds are protected, and if I
had been prosecuted my fines would have been some-
where in the region of £l5OO. And then I couldn’t
protect my 'grapes.
* * * •
“Pick”: “Agricola” (B. 4/9/T9) says
that the wombat is an angel or something like
that. The sheepmen along the western base of
the Gourock Range think differently. During the
late drought, when food supplies in the wombat
cities failed, foragers raided the plains of Carwoola
and Foxlow nightly. They tore down the wire-
netted fences and kept the boundary-riders doing
overtime to dam back the flood of bunnies that
poured through the gaps into the paddocks. The
squatters have a standing offer to any man who
may devise an effective means of strafing Womby.
Steel traps are a joke to him ; he drags them home
for the young-uns to play with. Bit traps he makes
the entrance to a new tenement. Poison he dis-
dains. Wouldn t like to say anything rude to
Agricola, but if he isn't that —well, he’s mis-
taken.
* * * *
“Schoolma’ain”: Up Bombala (N.S.W.)
way a married couple made .COO in two weeks
at rabbiting. Some boys earn a tidy bit at the
game and spend the money in tobacco, soft drinks,
confectionery and doing the grand in a hobbledehoy
fashion. . There is great discussion as to the effect
of labbiting on the character and disposition of
lads. Speaking as a teacher of experience I cannot
considei it makes for the good of growing
children. It certainly tends to blunt their suscepti-
bilities and stultify their kinder feelings. In a
shoit. time they begin to consider all bush animals
vermin, and to be treated as such. Many parents
absolutely forbid their daughters to rabbit. I have
seen a gill catch a bunny and break its neck with
her hands without turning a hair. Perhaos these
are the girls who in later years settle the unwanted
baby so off-handedly.
“Prilled Lizard”: This is to oblige “800
Part, ’ who wants to know how to take the hair
off, and to tan, kangaroo skins for plaiting. Soak
the skin in water until quite soft; then put it,
bail upwards, into a mixture of six parts of lime,
one part of sulphide of sodium and ten parts of
water. After two hours’ immersion, take the skin
out and agitate the mixture. Replace the skin
while the mixture is still working—that is to say.
before it begins to settle. After 24 hours the hair
can be swept off with a broom or
brush. Now soak the skin in water
for half an hour. Next comes the
fleshing of it, which is done with
a blunt knife for kangaroo or wal-
laby skins, and a sharp, double-edged
blade for cow or bullock hides. After
all flesh is removed, take the untanned
skin and lay it, flesh side down, on a
flat board, and with a piece of hoop-
iron or long, blunt knife, take all the
yolk out of the grain of the skin by
scraping'. This is called “scudding,”
and must not be neglected. Having
removed all the scud or yolk, make a
boiling mixture of six parts of pigeon-
or fowl-dung and eight parts of water.
Stir up well, and when it is cool enough
lot to scald, put the skin in and
keep stirring for one hour. At the end
of that time you will have removed the
lime out of the skin and it is then
ready to be placed in the wattle-bark
liquor. Another way of removing the
lime from the hide is to soak it in
fermented bran for 48 hours, but in
my opinion the pigeon- or fowl-manure
is far better. When the skin is
thoroughly tanned take it out of the
liquor and soak it for an hour in water
to which has been added loz. alum
and ioz. sulphuric acid to the
gallon. Let the skin dry. Cut a cake of
Sunlight soap into shavings. Melt it together with
41b. of mutton-suet over a slow fire —but don’t let
it boil. Rub in well on the flesh side of the
skin. To give the article plaited a good finish,
after plaiting, rub over well with equal parts of
shellac and methylated spirits.
* * * »
“Enanemee”: Few know that the strange-
looking boat shown on postage-stamps of Papua
represents the Lakatoi, a vessel used* for Island
trading by the hereditary workers in savage pot-
tery of Hanuabada, a little village built on piles
in the water opposite Port Moresby. The boat is
no leviathan, but she carries two enormous sails
of light plaited grasses. The natives, a branch of
the Papuans, are an alert crowd, and manage their
ungainly craft with a skill that no white man
can equal. Tattooing is very popular at Hanua-
bada, especially amongst ,the girls, who are de-
corated all over and elsewhere. The men are
treated only on the face, as a rule, but
occasionally on the legs also. Besides their water-
side villages, the people build quaint structures
of bark, leaves and grasses, bound together by
vines, on the treetops, originally for protection
from cannibal raids.
“D.F.”: There’s any quantity of evidence
going back to 1840 in favor of the comparatively
recent existence of the Tasmanian devil in Vic.,
though the books say that it is confined to the
Speck and only found in fossil form on the main-
land. It is true that a deal of the evidence
isn’t worth much. But as far astern as 1840 George
Arden, once editor of the Port Phillip Gazette,
WHEN DINKUM MEETS DINKUM.
MRS. BARKER: “ Don't you use such language
to me, Bill Barker! Don't you think
you can Muff me the way you Muffed
them ’Uns in France.”
affirmed that both the Tasmanian “tiger” and the
d6vil. were found at Port Phillip. Most of the people
then at Port Phillip had come from Tas., and
plenty of them ought to have known these animals,
which were a lot more common on the island than
they are now. Careless observers might mix the
tiger up with the dingo, but is there anything else
under Heaven that could he mistaken for the Tas-
manian devil? For later times we have the
authority of a Vic. Year Book for the discovery of a
“devil” near Kilmore and a variety of yarns about
the beast being seen i n the North-East and else-
where.
* * * *
Sand Seeker” : Working on a dredge on
the Nambucca (N.S.W.), about seven years ago, one
of Newcastle’s best boilermakers used nothing else
to knock a big boiler-patch—6ft. x 6ft. x fin. —into
shape but a maul made from the much-despised man-
grove. It took me a whole day to find a suitable
tree, but it was worth it. For a handle he had a
young gum sapling. The maul was still in use
when I left the job this year.
* * * *
“Kitty Kitty”: You can’t better the old
bush style of removing the strong taste from a pipe.
Totally immerse it in cold milk and allow to boil
for five minutes, but don’t be mug enough to put it
into boiling milk straight away. Another effective
way is to fill the pipe with olive-oil and allow it
to stand overnight. In the morning pour out the
oil, wash through with lukewarm water and allow
to dry. The application of either of these methods
will leave your gun as sweet as the day you bought
it.
* * * *
From the annual report of P. Cahill, man-
ager and protector of the aboriginal station at East
Alligator River, Northern Territory:—
The station-hands and their families seem very
contented, and all disputes are referred to me. I
have had great trouble in preventing wife-beating.
.... The mode is thus: Should a woman become
sulky or jealous, the husband, instead of knocking
her down with a stick (and then having to fight
her relations), brings his wife up before me. Very
often I can fix the matter at once. At other times'
I have to let the husband take a piece of leather
and give her a few strokes.... The men now see
the matter in its proper light, and often in a
camp when a lubra is out for trouble, a voice will
call out, “Take her up to the boss,” and she is
quiet at once. As a sequel, there has not been one
fight with clubs or spears this year.
The Northern Territory—the married man’s paradise.
* * * *
“Ida D.”: Why do large trees often fall
in calm weather before heavy rains? Before the
big floods at the end of February last we healrd
them crashing down in the jungle, and again, be-
fore the seven and a half inches we had recently
in our part of N. S. Wales, one big vegetable began
to creak and groan right beside me, and I hastily
departed to a safe place and watched his top half
break off. Generally the trees come up by the roots.
“Kitty Kitty”: Can any timber-getter beat
this ? An ironbark log recently drawn from the
head of Black Flat Creek and taken to the Wyom-
ing mill, Manning River (N.S.W.), was cut into
a 24-inch gilder 51ft. long. Mind, I said ironbark.
“Chloe" : A recent writer in Aboriginalities
refers to a curious animal
or vegetable growth noticed
on the coral reefs of Torres
Strait and amongst the
islets of the Great Barrier.
From the description of
this curiosity I believe that
it is the valuable large
variety of beche-de-mer.
The long, tentacle-like
feelers are the slugs them-
selves, which congregate
and hang in bunches just
below low-water level.
They are slimy, pale-
greenish and carnivorous,
and form a most valuable
article of commerce with
Malays, Chinese and Japs.
The method of fishing for
this breed of bBche-de-mer
practised in the Malay
States is this. The fisher
descends the face of a cliff
by a rope ladder, his ap-
paratus a long, sharp
knife and a sack with a
fairly wide mouth. He
detaches the slimy mass,
which resists with great
gripping of the rock sur-
face, needing a skilful hand
on the knife. The bag
must be slung to the
wearer’s neck in such a
way that the open mouth
receives the mass of wrig-
gling slugs as they fall.
For export the masses are
well washed in salt water,
separated into small
groups, dried and smoked,
and packed either ,n sacks or in casks.
* t * *
“Xela” : From the Illawarra railway ter-
minus at Nowra (N.S.W.) a new road is being
constructed to Jervis Bay. It runs through Wollum-
boola station, on the lower reaches of the Crookhaven
River, thence cutting across to Jervis Bay through
virgin bush country. Practically all the trees within
dozens of yards of the projected track have been
felled,' and a road which might have been bordered
with magnificent eucalypts merely by a process of
elimination has been cleared of everything that grows.
California and the French Riviera import thousands
of Australian gums for ornamental planting. We
destroy them, apparently for the mere purpose oi
giving somebody a job that won’t take too much
thinking up.
* * * *
“Zanthus”: Federal Treasurer Watt
acquired a magnificent black dingo-skin during hi.s
recent run over to Westralia. The beast was caught
near Loongana, out on the Nullarbor Plain, 330 mile;
or so east of Kalgoorlie. The lorr„ thick fur is a
deep, glossy black except for yellowish-white patche,
and markings on the belly and legs. If a black
dingo isn’t as rare as a white crow it’s not com
mon.
THE PROFITEER.
MOTORIST: “Tut-tut! This is dreadful—run-
ning over your dolly like that! But
don't cry, I'll buy you a nice new one."
BONNY JEAN: “If you please, and you don't
mind, I'd rather have twins this time."
Lantana” : The N. JS. Wales Government
has declared the carpet-snake, iguana, eagle-hawk
and brown hawk to be natural enemies of the rabbit,
and has prohibited the wilful wounding, killing or
capturing of them within the Pastures Protection
district of Grafton, on the North Coast.
(Continued on page 26.)
WAITING FOR MY SHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the sand in the Orient heat
Of the midsummer season of June,
I am resting, my work is complete,
And the hopes of me all are in tune.
There’s a ship in the harbor, they say.
Almost ready to welcome her freight,
So I’ll gladly keep watch for the day,
And deliver a song while 1 wait.
I am strong, I am fit, and the sky
Is a reflex of all that is clean,
While the laugh that dismisses the sigh
Is a hint of the joy that 1 mean.
Galling ages and ages it seems
Since the day I embarked for the strife;
But I live, and the best of my dreams
Are most certainly true unto life.
They have taken my waler to spell
In the straw-woven shade of his shed.
He’s nigh spent, but he’s taking it well,
For the sun cannot strike at his head.
I will leave him anon—gallant mate
That delivered me out of the sand
To the hills, where a vine-netted gate
Gave access to a happier land 1
It is good to remember the best,
To forget that which reeks and is vile,
To preserve the firm will, and the zest
That still goes with the heart-warming smile.
It were better by far to recall
Things attuned by the Spring's honeyed breath,
Than to brood on defeat, or the fall
That foreruns raving fever and death.
Oh, I see through the mists of long years
Crowded days that scribes may not record—
Catch the gale of swift hoofs in my ears,
See the gleam of the sun on the sword.
On far slopes there are poppies a-bloom,
In my head there are echoes of guns
That have spoken, thrice sealing the doom
Of the Turks and the pitiless Huns.
THE PERORATION.
THE ORATOR: “ 'Aving said all I'm gointer
say, I will return to what I teas coming
to when I teas interrupted and repeat
what. I teas prevented from sayin'."
Oh, much better than all, I have love
For my country that sent me afar
To stand up as a man to help prove
She were worthy to live through the war.
We have struck for her freedom, and won,
So I hope to return to her soon,
When I’ll toil for my bread in her sun,
And I’ll sing ’neath her stars and her moon.
And I’ll wait on the sand, in the heat,
With a patience that tempered has been,
For the clouds that once drizzled defeat
Are dissolved, and the heavens are clean.
And the ship that is fitting for sea,
May she welcome me into her hold,
And deliver me happy and free
To the love that is richer than gold!
EGYPT.
GERARDY.


Catalogues
Post Free
CALL AT PALING’S.
m■
&
We cordially invite you to call at our Show-
rooms —you will be delighted and charmed with
the beautiful models of Pianos and Player Pianos
to select from.
There, on three floors, you may see the very
finest and most perfect products of leading
factories of the world. In their various grades they
represent the very best value for the money.
Remember, you can rely upon getting perfect
satisfaction, as we sell only instruments we know
to be honestly built and thoroughly reliable. We
are not satisfied unless you are.
We sell Pianos, Organs, Player Pianos, Violins, Banjos,
Cornets, Flutes, Concertinas, Gramophones, Phonographs,
Music and Musical Sundries, Band and Orchestral Instruments
of every description, at lowest possible prices. Catalogues
free for asking. Will you call to-day?
We Sell on
Time Payment
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD.
338 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Chappell, Sames, Estey Vi<slor Pianos,
Also Behning, Laffargue, Estey (Si Virftor Player Pianos.
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Bracelet, 15ct.
Gold, £35.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-c u t Dia-
mond Necklet,
15ct. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders 15ct. Gold
Links, set pure double-cut
Diamond, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Dia-'
mond Single-stone
A. Saunders’ fine
double-e u t Dia-
mond Single-stone
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-c u t Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £3/15/-
A. Saunders’ fine
double-c u t Di a-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ fine
Diamond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ loct. Gold
Pendant, set Diamond,
£35. Very effective.
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Knife-
edge Bar Broocch, 15ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 15et. Gold, £3/10/*
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold pure double-cut Diamond
Set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement,
£35. others, £2O, £25, £3O, £4O, £5O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond
Scarf Pin,
loot. Gold,
£7/10/-
SM
m
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Hunting
Waltham or Elgin Lever Watch,
£lO, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O,
£25, £3O, £35, £4O, £5O.
We guarantee all our Watches.
A. Saunders’
fine Diamond
Scarf Pin,
15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold double-cut
Diamond Set Expanding Watch Wristlet, full-
jewelled lever movement, compensation bal-
ance, £l7/10/-
Extra quality, £25.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-Sl5 George Street (Opp. Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Cluster Brace-
let, 15ct. Gold, £l5.
\. Saunders’ Gent.’s
fine double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £5O.
Smaller, £lO,
£l5, £2O, £3O.
A. Saunders loot. Gold
Links, set pure double-cut
Diamond, £4.
Larger Diamond, £5,
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £2O, £25,
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Dia-
mond King', 18ct.
Gold, £25.
Others, £lO,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Diamond
Cluster King, 18ct.
Gold, £lO, £l5,
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond r
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Diamond
Necklet, 15ct. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch, 15et.
Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ 15et. Gold
Locket, set Diamond
and Rubies, or Sap-
phires, £5/10/-
All Diamonds,
£7/10/-


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE —
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COFFINS ST., MEFBOURNE.
QUEENSFAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGFE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIFDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADEFAIDE.
Van der Taks Cocoa Essence
ABSOLUTELY PURE AND SOLUBLE.
Hanufactured in Australia from the finest selected Beans.
“A Square Meal in Every Gup.”
Obtainable all Leading Grocers throughout the Commonwealth and N.Z.
Wholesale only from McINTYRE BROS., Sole Proprietors, Melbourne, Vic.
Agents:
Mr. J. P. WILSON, Brisbane.
Mr. DAVID BLASHKI, Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Messrs.
Mr. W.
MADDOX & LAWRENCE, PERTH.
R. DANGS FORD, ADERAIDE. [2
“Pick”: Getting down to studs, what is
a champion roughrider? In my time on Monaro, Jack
Caiman, Jack Lloyd, George Harris, Jim Flavelle and
Os Wrightson were top of the class in the horse-
breaking business. Either with or without a saddle
no horse could spill any one of them fairly. What more
than that could Waite, Skuthorpe or the other oft-
quoted champions do? Of course, if gracefulness and
style are considerations, I admit that some riders are
more prominent. Skuthorpe, for one. Caiman
would traverse his steed’s arched back from wither
to tail and back several times during a bucking
bout, and Lloyd would stand high in his stirrups,
swaying in the direction of every lurch, while Wright-
son would crouch with his head pressed against the
horse’s shoulder.
“Scaler”: Here’s the information for
“A.M.1.” (B. 11/9/’l9), who wishes to stop his
collie from rushing in and biting sheep. If he
can catch the offender practically in the act it
is only necessary to drop him in his tracks, using
as a weapon a stick or the butt of a whip. This
method appears cruel, but if a young dog is knocked
down and out when in the act of rushing in and
biting it seems to make an indelible impression
on his memory, and he won't offend again. Half
the battle in the breaking-in of a sheep-dog is to
get a good dog to work with him and show him
the finer points of the game. If “A.M.l’s.” dog
is old, I suggest losing or pensioning him, as it is
practically impossible to change an old dog’s habits.
Most of the really discreet sheep-dogs, by the way,
are bitches.
* « * #
“Eddyson”: He drifted on to Blare’s
property at Blueroot, dropped his swag by the fence,
peered in at the kitchen window, peeped in at the
door, then peeled off his coat and vest, and, taking
up the axe, set to work. Mrs. Blare called old
Cocky Blare’s attention to the man about 20 minutes
later. He was still cutting wood. Blare looked at
him incuriously through the blind for a space of
four minutes, and then said: “I dunno. Maybe he
ain’t right in his mind.” But the work the stranger
was doing was very desirable, and Blare made no
move to interfere. He was perhaps 20 years of
age, a tallish, thin youth, with no discoverable
interest in life. This was Mrs. Blare’s impression
of him after he had been doing odd jobs about the
place for three days, without making any claim or
disclosing his object or his identity. Cocky re-
garded him with a sort of dull wonder, pausing now
and then with a knife-load of vegetables on the way
to his face, and gazing at the intruder, tranced
and motionless. Harry made a bed for himself on
some bags in the loft, and when Blare arose in the
morning, although it was still almost dark, the
invader was busy slicing carrots. He cleaned all
the harness, and put the garden into better trim
than ever it had been. At last he found his voice.
“When’s the boss cornin’ home?” he asked. “What
boss?” demanded Blare. “Old Mr. Vickers, of course.
I went to him fer a job down et Jim Crow, ’n’ he tole
me to come up here, and get to work.” Blare
ruminated a minute, and then he said: “Vickers
don’t live here. Vickers’s place is two mile
further up the line.” “Gorstruth!” gasped Harry,
“then I ain’t workin’ here?” Blare shook his head.
“Not as I know of,” he said. “And don’t I get
paid for what I’ve done?” “Not as I’ve heard of,”
Blare replied. “It ain’t no affair of mine. You
ain’t bin workin’ fer me.” “But why didn’t you
tell me?” wailed Harry. “Young feller,” Blare
replied impressively, “I got enough to do to mind
my own business! ” Harry drifted out and col-
lected his belongings, and was making for the slip-
panels when Blare overtook him. “I s’pose yer
broke?” he said, not unkindly. “Stony!” said
Henry. “Oh, very well, in that case you can pay
me for them meals you’ve had when you draw some-
thin’ from Vickers.” Harry moved off a pace, then
had a sunburst of intelligence. “How much for me
bed?” said he. Blare scratched his head. “I
dunno exactly,” he answered. “What are the Mel-
buorne hotels chargin’ now?”
"Skibbo”: “Azac’s” recipe for tarpaulins
(B. 4/9/’l9) is all right, but the finished article
will be much lighter, and there will be a saving
in the dressing, if the material is first soaked in a
tub of water to which some soft soap has been
added. It will also be much softer.
“A.G.P.”: I was doing a convoy through
the Khyber (India) the other day, when I came
across a couple of Johnnies trying to induce a
pair of mules to tighten the traces. The best
Australian bullocky had no effect on them, so 1
tried the sand-under-the-tail trick, recommended by
an Abograph a while ago. Two Ghurkas fastened
to the tails while the Johnnies climbed into the
cart. The sand was dashed in and the tails jambed
down, but still the long-ears refused to budge. I
then decided to try the sand-in-the-mouth act. Got
a fair-sized handful of hot, crushed blue-metal and
pelted it in, and before we could realise it the
mules had turned the corner at a gallop, with two
very excited hook-noses shouting to Allah to have
mercy on them. I cantered after them for a
couple of miles, but didn’t see them again.
• # * *
“Joe Blow”: Let me back in another Aus-
tralian for the endurance championship. His name
was Barney, and he belonged to Sergeant Ekin, of
the 6th Light Horse. Barney was Monaro-bred, was
right through the Palestine campaign, and after
standing a good six weeks’ training finished third in
the two miles at the Military Races at Heliopolis in
March, 1918. The course was soft sand, weight
12st. 31b. Time not taken, but too fast for any
of the chargers of the swaggah Tommy officers.
Barney enlisted in September, 1914, was never seen
on sick parade, and received his discharge per bullet
on Feb. 5, 1919.
CLASSIFICATION.
“Hang it all, Edith, it's sheer hypocrisy to pretend one man's as good as another.
Y’know what the old johnny says, ‘Some are horn great, some achieve greatness,
and some’ ”-
“Merely grate upon people.”
HE’D FOUND OUT SOMEHOW.
BOARDINGHOUSE-KEEPER: “ Leaving, Mr. Thirty-bob? No complaints I hope?”
THIRTY-BOB: "Yes, I have! Someone’s blocked up the keyhole of the ladies’ bathroom.
I’m the only man in the house just now, and it’s a reflection I won't put up
with.”
“Johnno”: Jimmy Susu, from Torres
Strait, described for me a surgical operation in which
he had played the star part:—
“You savee lump he grow first time along head
belonga me. All same pigeon-egg ? When I go
along Thursday Island, Protekita he give me paper
for show dokita. By-’n’-bye me look along that
dokita and he tell me ‘All right, Jimmy, to-morrow 10
o’clock you come along, bring two friend belonga
you.’ Next morning 1 no been kai-kai brekfus —
dokita he tell me that way. I go ’long big house
belonga dokita. He tell me, ‘You lie down ’longa
table.’ Then dokita he speak along one girl and
he tell me, ‘I got some good ting for you to smell;
you try.’ I smell that ting, my eye he shut and I
go sleep, sleep, sleep ; no tink ’bout anyting. Then
dokita he come close up (my friend he tell me this
one; I no savee myself, I been sleep), he take chisel
belonga him, cut that lump on my head. When he
put finger along that place and pull out rope belong
inside. That girl she slew my head round, for cap-
size that blood. I no savee all time—l been sleep.
Dokita he take one needle, all same sail-needle, and
one piece ting, he all same wire, but he no wire,
and he sew, sew, sew, make fast. Then that girl she
capsize water long my head and make fast towel.
B’-’n’-bye I wake up. I tink which way? My head
he all same that time I been drink grog. Dokita
he show me stone, all same pigeon-egg, he take him
from that place. I show you mark,along my head.
My word! S’pose I got that smell ting all same
dokita got, I show you fella someting!”
‘•Zanthus”: Griffiths Taylor gives the
stretch of country from Perth to the Leeuwin the
prize for the least variability in rainfall in Aus-
tralia. He puts its average deviation from the
mean at 10 per cent. The Adelaide coast strip comes
next with 15 per cent., and so far as observations have
gone the Nullarbor Plain, along the East-West line,
runs a dead-heat with Adelaide. Of course the
average is a lot less on the Nullarbor, going about
nine inches. In the Oodnadatta country the varia-
bility reaches its maximum, 50 per cent., and the
average drops to five or six inches.
* * * *
“Dusty Fellow” : The finest type of black
brother now left in Australia is to be found in parts
of the Kimberley (W.A.) district. Not long since
surveyor Durack went through over 200 miles of
unknown country to find a stock route from the
Fitzroy River country to Wyndham. Along the
creek he saw scores, occasionally hundreds, of black-
fellows, and most of the bucks were well over 6ft.
high. Besides height the majority had a very fair
muscular development. Their polished spearheads,
which used to find their way by barter far to the
south and east, prove that they are fine craftsmen,
too, with such tools as they have.
“Azac”: Better than sand for extinguish-
ing a fire is sawdust, either wet or dry. It will
be found A 1 for quenching oil fires and superior
to sand for putting out fires in tanks of inflammable
liquids. The floating sawdust' forms a blanket
which excludes the air from the flames. If you
mix sodium bi-carbonate with it its efficiency is
materially increased.
“P.R.A.”: Met a travelling tinker in a
pub in Strathalbyn (S.A.). He informed me between
drinks that he had been employed until recently
by some cockies in Tasmania cutting rugs for pigs
out of kerosene-tins. He mentioned confidentially
that the rugs were a complete success until a hail-
storm hit the locality, when the noise of the fall-
ing stones sent the pigs mad, and they bolted
into the unknown, and another Australian industry
was counted out.
* * * *
“O’North” : From the fibre of the aloe a
Townsville citizen has made several strong, durable
ropes equal to any Manila production. The aloes
grow very prolifically in North Q’land, and are gener-
ally regarded as a pest. In this case the vegetable
was treated by the centuries-old hand method of the
Manila natives in working the wild-banana plant.
The high wages here would militate against the com-
mercial success of the venture if the primitive
Manila method were adopted, but labor-saving
machinery might help to reduce costs.
* * * *
“Chev” : A mammoth turtle was captured
the other day in the Brunswick River (N.S.W.).
There were no handy scales, but the catch must
have weighed over 2cwt. What age he had attained
was more obscure. Anybody got any record of
big turtles in the northern part of the east coast,
N. S. Wales?
* * * *
“Melos” : To my eye the most handsome of
the eucalypts is the red-gum (E. rostrata) , which
also appears to have been Thomas Mitchell’s favor-
ite. He gave it this reference: —
Its huge, gnarled trunk, wild, romantic-framed
branches, often twisting in coils, shining-white or
red bark, and dark masses of foliage, with consequent
streaks of shadow below, frequently produced effects
equal to the wildest forest scenery of Ruysdael or
Waterloo.
Our most beautiful trees, however, are those of the
brush forest, particularly the white-cedar, satin-
wood, nut-tree, native ebony, red-apple, feather-wood,
light sycamore, Moreton Bay chestnut, blue-ash, sas-
safras, native laurel, tamarind, coachwood, maiden’s
blush, coral-tree, black apple and flame-tree. The
last-named often grows to a height of 100 ft., with
leaves from 8 to 10 inches in width. In full bloom
it is a magnificent spectacle.
* * * *
“Saxby”: In 1917 a rat-plague swept
down from the Lower Gulf district, and spread
right through to Barcaldine (Q.). It is still flourishing
in spots. The rodents eat pack bags, vegetable gar-
dens, drovers’ noses and sundries. At Julia Creek
they ate the stores in the railway goods-shed and
chewed up the navvies’ I.W.W. literature. By sit-
ting near a flour-bag in the moonlight, armed with
a piece of wire, one can kill 50 rats in an hour.
Following them came a plague of snakes. After staying
a year, these plagues are apt to vanish in a week.
That's how we console ourselves.


r\
a
rx
w
/
/
A
dd
<g^]>
\
m
C/Q
Wc.
©
” vSolc/f
e/
C/A
<>
*tfx>
%
££
£s
pp>
c/GAWK?,
s^SSr*
<s>
o
o
Co
-V
<ro
.
HE
CIGARETTES
"Something different —something better —
tban you Have ever smoked before.”
NUMBER®
D
O
THE RED PACKET


Every farmer engine-user
can now use kerosene fuel!
Get a TYPE Z FAIRBANKS MORSE ENGINE
NO farmer should buy an engine that eats up the most expensive fuel, when the Type “Z” Fairbanks Morse Engine
is ready to give better service on kerosene —the cheapest fuel you can buy. In the Type Z Engine, the
Fairbanks Morse Co. have solved the problem of using kerosene in a farm-engine without messing up the valves
and plugs—a common feature of most so-called kerosene engines. The use of kerosene in itself will save you many
pounds during the year, and when you consider the other wonderful features of the Type “Z” Engine you will
understand why it is popularly known throughout the world as “a wonder at the price.
THROTTLING GOVERNOR. —Guarantees continuous, reliable power on
varying loads, even in cold weather, and without attention. Gets greatest
power from fuel, and less fuel is required.
BUILT-IN, OSCILLATING MAGNETO. —No batteries needed; makes
engine a quick starter.
PUMP FEED for fuel eliminates fire risk and gives positive supply under
all conditions, with no readjustment.
SPEED CONTROLLER.—Gives clxange of speed while the engine is
running. Two balanced Flywheels help to give speed control.
The Type “Z” also has Guard for Crank-case, making the engine clean
and safe. Water Hopper, Water-jacketed Valves, Removable Cylinder
Heads and many other important features.
And, remember this! There are many times when you will want your
engine to give you more power, and if you buy the Type Z jou will
get it. Whether it is a 3, 6, 10 or 15 B.H.P. Type “Z” Engine —that’s
only a name-plate capacity. You always get more horse-power than }ou
pay for. You also get every advantage you w r ant. Get booklet and all
—particulars from any of the following l —
m ■
wsSt Im
1 . m
aw *>
K •
I
: 3
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., 9-13 Young Street, SYDNEY.
J. BARTRAM & SON PTY., LTD., 583-586 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., 99 Eagle Street, BRISBANE,
J. WARDLE & CO., Victoria Square Street, ADELAIDE.
MALLOCH BROS., 52-54 William Street, PERTH.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., HOBART.
[E253
All Friends
In exhortation George Fox so often told
his newly-founded Society of Friends to
“Tremble! Tremble!” that they came to be
called Quakers. It is an unhappy name;
the Friends cannot be accused of cowardice,
or, indeed, of any definite quality save that
of friendliness. Fox’s violence, his imprison-
ments and all the troubles that he suffered
in the 17th century make historical high
lights in the grey and tranquil story which
do not suggest mere amicability. There is
a gentle steadfastness now, monotonous in
its quiet power; and there is a sweet —a
perhaps too soft and sweet —reasonableness.
But, in spite of the ancient stress, I think
it is tolerably certain that no one of the
Friends, in or out of prison, trembles over-
much.
The imprisonment and the turmoil were
suffered for a good hope—for a hope not
in the least neutral, or even semi-toned, like
the cool grey of the present story. Out of
a whirlpool of inter-denominational mud and
counter-mud, the spirit of George Fox steps,
saying that lie is tired of it all. Whoever
among them was right, no one seemed to
be trying to let a man think, which,’ as far
as he could see, was, or should be, the motive
of the whole thing. So he made a commu-
nity of thought, where each man could warm
himself at his own Inner Light, and which
became in the end a family of friends. “No
formal connexion whatever vvith the State.
No infallible creed. Governed by no authori-
tative hierarchy. No essential forms, rites,
ritual or ceremonies. A fellowship, a com-
munion—all born of God, and travailing for
the Kingdom of God, belong to His church.”
That was the dictum made in the old days
of fighting for the chance to be friendly.
In the Meeting House to-day any one of
the equal friends present rises and addresses
the others “as the Spirit moves him.” The
voice of the Spirit comes authoritatively, or
it comes not at all. In the latter case it is
a silent meeting, which is not uncommon —•
a meeting of friends whose business becomes
silent prayer and nothing else. Perhaps no-
thing else is wanted very much.
Out in the world the Friends come and
go in the little American and English towns.
Their soft speech, the occasional use of the
old “thee” and “thou,” the unworldly gentle-
nesses —all these are smiled at by the neigh-
bors, but not sincerely; the neighbors know
that the mildness, the tireless friendliness, be-
come an iron strength of impregnability, if
injustice make the need. The Friends will
not swear upon oath. Up to 1833 they were
punished by law for this refusal; but by
then the neighbors knew that in general
there was no need. The Friends’ word is
the strongest of all oaths and bonds.
William Penn took the grey simplicity
of the “church” whose membership in-
cluded “all born of God” to America in
1682. It is bad form for a rich Friend to
be “well-dressed” in Pennsylvania; it is un-
happy for a Friend to be noticeably rich.
In Philadelphia it is much better to be care-
ful and economical than to be lavish and
careless. And if Penn is responsible for this
(and I think lie is), it cannot be charged
to him in mock-humility or in revolt against
be j uc kier men, inasmuch as he was a
landed-gentry person, the son of an admiral
a nd very rich. After he left Oxford, not
being able to distinguish satisfactorily be-
tween the whites and blacks of the denomina-
tions, he chose the grey twilight of neither
and both, the sanctuary of friendly silence,
This rich safety, under special grant from
Charles 11., he took across the Atlantic;
on its foundations Pennsylvania was built,
the Keystone State of the Union. There
Philadelphia beckons to New TUrk City and
points to much good and big business; there
Pittsburg makes nearly all the iron and
steel that Harrisburg cannot furnish. That
is another aspect of the mildness and sweet-
ness, and of the moving spirit!
Truly, that Inner Light was the mystic
banner of an unbreakable individualism, to
which friends, and the silence or speech of
friends, were nothing. George Fox fought
f or eac h man’s right to think for himself
a nd himself alone. He suffered for a non-
conformity governed only by each man’s
inner light, and under no communal-spiritual
obligation, even that of a name for the
Church and its beliefs. Historic justice has
made that individualism lean in these days
upou the hearts and minds of the others,
That is right enough ; no man can really go
ou thinking for himself all his life; in time
he must have a friend or two to think with
him. Perhaps George Fox was really work-
ing for that from the beginning,
The Keystone State of the Union is one
manifestation of the ultimate activity of
the individual assisted by his friends. I
know another which is in its humbler way
as significant. Some miles from Clifden
j n Galway there is a Quaker village, Letter-
frack. Clifden is dirty, happy, royally and
boisterously inconsequent; full ■of hunger
which is unsatisfied and of thirst which is
unsatisfiable. No man not Irish could go
there without a feeling of imminent tragedy,
“Surely soon all these people, drunk and
sober, will die in their rags in the dirt and
squalor of the street,” he thinks, not being
Irish. Along the tumbling road he makes
his way to Letterfrack. This is a haven of
endless peace, sitting in silence in the midst
of the Irish turmoil. Little white houses,
snug and sober in little orderly gardens;
quiet, grave people going about their busi-
ness ;an a j r 0 f certainty, of assured mental,
physical and social health—the place comes
quietly into the astonished vision as a rnonu-
ment of inexplicable, deadly prosperity and
cleanliness, rising, cold and white, out of a
dunghill. The monument lacks the true
dunghill friendliness and enthusiasm, no
doubt; but you can’t have everything,
HILARY LOFTING.
A Satchel of Books
j n Wilds, by Charles Barrett, C.M.Z.S.,
j s g] ea nings of a naturalist.” Very interesting
gleanings, too. Not so technically dressed that they
may be pleasurably thumbed only in the library of
the Linnean Society, but related in a “popular’
form that wlll make the book wldely r ? ad—by the
savants (handsome o ld word, that!) who refer to
magpies as Gymnorhinoz leuconotce, and the bush-kids
w ho call them “maggies.” Barrett’s wanderings
took him into the wild places of Victoria, South
Aus., Bass Strait, N. S. Wales, Cape York Peninsula
and the Great Barrier Reef. Every second page is
illustrated with unique photographs taken by him-
self (beautifully printed, by the way), often sought
and obtained with patience and tribulation that
make Job’s trials appear mere picnic incidents.
(Our copy from Melbourne Publishing Co.)
New Fallacies of Midas, by Cyril E. Robinson
(Headley Bros., London), is “a survey of industrial
and, economic problems.” The survey covers a lot of
ground, but it doesn’t lead to many very definite
conclusions. And when it does lead somewhere the
conclusion is liable to be in a ditch. For instance:
“We may expect, therefore, that in the future not
only we ourselves, but other nations, too, will wel-
come more and more a free interchange of commerce,
each producing that which by its resources and
ability it is best fitted to produce. Freetrade is,
after all, the economic counterpart of a league of
free peoples. The wise Government, therefore, will
allow national industry to follow its natural course. ’
This is the law of the jungle. If the lion’s claws
are sharper than yours, he should have your flesh.
If your neighbor is satisfied with a poorer standard
of living than you, the “natural course” is that
he should get your job and you should starve—or
come down to his standard. Midas has his fallacies.
So have Midas’s reprovers. And they are not all
to the disadvantage of Midas. In fact, Cyril E.
Robinson doesn’t reprove Midas half as much as he
thinks he does. The author is, apparently, connected
in some way with the Statist, whose editor, Sir
George Paish, writes an introduction.
Widgee, by Stanley Kingsmill (Westall and Co.,
London), is a boy’s book about things that might
happen to a boy in Australia if lie were 50
boys. Still, as such books go, the incidents are not
seriously overdrawn, and there is a deal of observa-
tion in it, and even the Australian bush kid will
learn a few things that may come useful to him.
For the benefit of the ignorant English the careful
Kingsmill adds a “glossary of Australian terms,” in
which he includes “cove: fellow; often used by a
boy when addressing a stranger,” though why “cove”
should be fastened on to Australia Heaven only
knows. And “cove” doesn’t stand alone. As to real
Australian words, Mr. Kingsmill doesn’t seem to have
any great amount of information. “Gin,” meaning
black woman, was “coined by white people.” It
may have been ; but the word for “woman” in the
Port Jackson dialect, as near as that great authority
John Mathew (“Eaglehawk and Crow”) could get it,
was “din”; and among the neighboring Kamilrois
it was “yinar.” Incidentally, “lubra” was the
Tasmanian word. However, Widgee isn’t a treatise
on ethnology ; and for these superfluous remarks
Kingsmill’s superfluous glossary is responsible.
The Last Million, by lan Hay (Ilodder and Stough-
ton), isn’t as thrilling as “The First Hundred
Thousand.” But it is good reading. The Last
Million were Dough-boys, Yanks, Sammies—they
never got a settled name. After lan Hay had done
his bit, wearing his major’s crown, he was given a
job, for which he was splendidly fitted, by the Min-
istry of Information—he was sent across the Atlan-
tic to make the U.S.A. a better friend of Britain. It
was very necessary work. The German propaganda
in the U.S.A. had been very thorough. Even after
Uncle Sam had “come in,” the Hun didn’t lose hope.
He was no longer permitted to make rude remarks
about the Allies; but he got in some fine work by
trying to make mischief between England and France,
and one of his plans was to belittle the British effort
and magnify the French. It was lan Hay’s job to
counteract that campaign; and The Last Million is
the result —-a story, or a succession of stories, of
the U.S.A. preparations, of the transport across the
Atlantic, the welcome in England, the arrival in
France, and the brief experience of the Sammy in
the actual fighting; on to the time when, the
Armistice having been signed, Paris was Paris again,
“and resolved itself into processions, mainly of sol-
diers and girls intertwined,” with the Sammy sing-
ing “a ditty with the mysterious refrain”:
Would you rather be a Colonel, with an eagle on
your shoulder,
Or a private, with a chicken on your knee ?
It was all written with a view to making friends.
So there is no plain speech here. There is no criti-
eism. There is really no permanent value. On the
contrary, much of such stuff, written during the war
for a special purpose, has less than no value to the
historian. We have an illustration of that in what
was written during the war —or, at any rate, what
passed the Censor during the war—about the grace-
less Allenby.
The Inky Way
The remarkable Frederic Harrison recalls,
in a new book, that he was a contributor
to the first number of the Fortnightly, in
May, 1865, with the long-dead Trollope,
George Eliot and Huxley. Later came in
Lecky, Herbert Spencer, Mark Pattison and
Pater. He even remembers (or professes
to) the new books of 1545. And he is still
writing hard.
A visiting English art critic tells the story.
In Melbourne a reporter came along. to
pump him for art copy, and the visitor
yielded a pint or two about the old masters.
But he stipulated that he should be shown
a proof of the interview. When it came he
found that dear old Fra Angelico hud been
split in two and made “Fra and Jellicoe. ’
The worst isn’t to happen —“Bleeds that
Won the Empire” Fitchett isn’t going to
write a book about the Great War. r !o the
inquiries of several publishers he has re-
plied that the event is too big and too recent.
It is safest to stick to events at least a
hundred years old. Very few people live a
hundred years on purpose to contradict you.
“Zanthus”: Doctors are supposed to be
educated men, are usually intelligent and
see a lot of life. Why do they make such
a poor showing in English literature, lake
out Sir Thomas Browne, whose stuff is
rather bizarre and precious; Smollett, who
was once a ship’s surgeon, but probably not
much of a doctor; and Oliver Wendell
Holmes, who had a nice style but was hardly
a great writer, and what is there left.' 1 Wil-
liam James was one of the masters of the
English language, and he was a medical
student, but he' turned to psychology and
never practised, so that he does not count.
Of course, there’s Conan Doyle.
The Institutes’ Association of S. Aus.,
which claims that there isn’t anything quite
like it in Australia or (so far as is known)
elsewhere, held its annual meeting in Adel-
aide lately. There are now over 240 insti-
tutes —really libraries —in the State. Each
manages its own affairs, but a central body
in the city (half elected by themselves, half
appointed by the Government) gives advice
when wanted, collects the Government sub-
sidy (15s. in the fl on subscriptions), pub-
lishes the Institutes’ Journal, maintains
a reference library (any volume can be sent
anywhere on demand) and circulates boxes
of'new books (no fiction) and engravings.
Reporters are now accommodated on the
floor of the House in S. Aus. Assembly.
IIANSARD-leader Fred Johns represented to
Mr. Speaker that much of wliat goes on
during debate —particularly the quick inter-
change of remarks, making the most interest-
ing part of the discussion—is lost up in the
old Press gallery. So they are to have a
trial on the flat, to the left of the Speaker s
chair.


Barnes’ Linseed Oil
B E- V'
o
5s
IINStUP
ANNOUNCEMENT.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
B|HE proprietors of Barnes’ Linseed Oil and Cake Mills desire
} to thank their many hundreds of clients for their fine support
over the past twelve months, and trust that the same support
will be forthcoming during the next year. The position with regard to
the Linseed Oil market, although unsteady, is in no way alarming. In
the past the proprietors have purchased steadily in the best markets,
which has enabled them to sell at a reasonable price while maintaining
a regular output.
The proprietors will proceed in the same careful manner,
and the same regular output will be solidly maintained right
along, the mill being kept working steadily, and clients may
rest assured that their interests as to price will be carefully
guarded. It has never been the manufacturers’ policy to overload
the trade. On the contrary, the position is one which demands
conservative purchases by all concerned.
Again thanking our innumerable clients,
Yours faithfully,
JAMES BARNES LTD.,
Linseed Oil and Meal Manufacturers, Alexandria, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agent : HAROLD MEQQITT, Daily Telegraph Buildings, Sydney.


Y\
ai
ww;
ijfl
3dm/
ww
You will find hhe besf possible
'advice fo Sheepowners.
ttiuZLZ
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Hotel de Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDEN TIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOMS built over the water —
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mos-
man. Amphitheatre Swimming-
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
BRQ?SS
FSSENCt
COFftt
•° r 3 flavour
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Reams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS* HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S RRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
684 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Legal Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
1 MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION.
IN FORMA PAUPERIS.
1919 No. 273.
MR. JUSTICE REAL.
BETWEEN
JOHN JOSEPH LEACH, Plaintiff,
and
MARGARET ALAOOQUE CECILIA LEACH,
Defendant.
To the abovenamed Margaret Alacoque Cecilia Leach.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the tenth
day of July 1919 commenced against you and that
the plaintiff bv his petition and writ of summons
claims a dissolution of his marriage with you and
such further relief as to this Honorable Court may
seem meet. AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
this Honorable Court has by Order dated the seven-
teenth day of September 1919 authorised service on
you of the said petition and writ of summons by the
insertion of this notice .in the Sydney Bulletin and
in the Sydney Morning Herald newspapers. AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that you are required
within thirty days from the publication of the last
of the said advertisements to cause an appearance to
be entered for you at the Registry of this Honorable
Court at Brisbane and that in default of your so
doing the plaintiff may proceed with this action and
iudoment may be given against you in your absence.
Dated this eighteenth day of September 1919.
(1.5.) CHAS. S. NORRIS,
Registrar.
THYNNE & MACARTNEY, .
Solicitors for the above-named plaintiff,
A.M.P. Chambers,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
MARCONI SCHOOLS
THE MARCONI SCHOOLS are the only schools in Australia
that have actual Wireless Stations installed. Daily our students
manipulate Marconi Ship Stations, Aircraft Apparatus and
Magnifying Valve Receivers.
Our Courses of Instruction are absolutely complete in every
detail.
DAY AND EVENING CLASSES.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENCE COURSES.
The Correspondence Courses have been compiled by Wireless
Experts and are thoroughly up-to-date.
Our students have priority of appointment to all vessels of
the Australasian Mercantile Marine.
DON’T DELAY!
Write or call—
THE SUPERINTENDENT,
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
And—
-422 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE, Victoria.
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
da
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
d
QNVMB
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES— Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agrent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
a, xy. LEWIS, 02 Brooliman Buildings.
the: palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERLH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWUEY, Proprietor.
Sold by
Stationers and
Jewellers
Everywhere.
Australian Price#:
S ifety Pattern
with slip ■ on
cap from 15/-
Standard Pat-
tern with slip-on
cap from 12/6
Illustrated
Catalogue sent
Post Free on
request.
You can have a a Swan ” that
will suit you better than any
other pen you are using .
Every person s handwriting is peculiar. Every-
one feels that only one type of pen point will
suit his own style of writing. After obtaining
the point he likes, he becomes so attached to
his pen that he cannot write without it. No
other pen will serve his purpose.
sd
I®
Get one to-day and it becomes in a few days
not A fountain pen but YOUR pen—a writing
instrument peculiarly your ov/n.
TODD & CO., LTD.,
High Holborn, London, Eng.
MABIE,
79 & 80. .
Manchester; Paris, Zuricf, Toronto, only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory 319-329, Weston
Street, S.E. Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co.,
Inc., New York and Chicago.
c,P»r
/Z^L
**>»
Australian Branch:
3. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings. 255 a George Street, Sydney.
“Zantlius” : Sandalwood-getting provides a
little traffic for about 100 miles of the Kal-
goorlie end of the East-West railway. Quite
a lot of truckloads go from there to give
the Chinaman something to burn in his
joss-house. And nowadays a good deal of
sandalwood-oil is used in Y.D. cases.
Sabine, S.M., of Adelaide Police Court,
has been looking into the frequent plea of
returned soldiers that a conviction would be
worse for them than other men. He finds
that imprisonment will not be a bar to appli-
cation for a home under the repatriation
scheme, nor will a military pension be lost.
So a “very bad” case of stealing, from a
friend who had found the returned man a
home, was allowed to carry its proper
• onalty of a year’s hard.
“S.S.”: I was standing in front of a
Melbourne theatre the other Saturday even-
ing at about nine o’clock, when a disgusted-
looking man, with his hat on the back of his
head, came down the stairs from the circle.
After pausing a moment, surveying the
“House Full” sign, the escapee took a blue
pencil from his pocket, and made an adden-
dum. When he had finished the sign read:
HOUSE FULL.
AUDIENCE
Brig.-General Drake-Brockman, who re-
cently returned to Perth with a fine war
record, pays a great tribute to General
Monasli, whose abilities, he thinks, are but
half realised at this end. Monash was a
great soldier, and after the call of time
proved himself an equally able organiser.
Before he left France he sketched out his
scheme of demobilisation to his principal
officers, and, according to Drake-Brockman,
the details were followed practically with-
out alteration even after War-Lord Pearce
turned up with his wife and his family, his
secretary and his bodyguard.
“Country Pod”: The head teacher of the
Mildura (Vic.) State school, with 575 child-
ren, receives £340 per annum. The h.t.
of the Mulwala (N.S.W.) Public School,
in charge of 60 children, receives £336. i
am the h.t. of a similar number of Vic.
youngsters, and get £2lO. No wonder
teachers are turning anxious eyes to N. S.
Wales. If a rush sets in, the N. S. Wales
Department will raise its standard, and will
naturally get only the best teachers. Which
will mean, in the long run, that N. S.
Wales children will receive a better educa-
tion than those of Victoria. We shall yet
have to make the education of Australia an
Australian matter. As, of course, it is.
Randolph Bedford writes :
All these Freetraders and lovers of Jap and Ger-
man goods should be chloroformed till the job’s done,
so that real patriots who stand for high Protection
can do their work without interruption. Japanese
war freights to Australia were as high as £l5 a ton:
now in the attempt to out other shipping the
Jap lines are cutting freight to 15s. a ton, the Jap
Government making up some of the difference, on
the old German subsidy lines. Japanese coal, sold
to the shipping of all the world at 13s. 6d. a ton
before the war, has been increased to 555. a ton for
all foreign shipping; but the Jap lines get coal
nearer the old rate. Japan has thus lost the Manila
coal trade, which has gone to Borneo, and British
shipping coals at Sandakan. The Chinese boycott
of Japanese goods is the best and simplest of
patriotism—it lets its pocket suffer to express its
love of a country in danger. But Australia not
only fattens Nippon with its ’ridiculously low tariff,
but also for quick monetary gain sells ships to
Japan. There are some people in Australia who
would sell strychnine to poison their sainted mother
if they were offered 10 p.c. on market prices for
the drug.
“Norbell”: The “effects” man, like the
wearisome lecturer, has been dropped alto-
gether by the picture-shows. A few years
ago every picture had to have a noise-maker
who followed the action of the flicker and
simulated the striking of a match, or the
roar of Big Bertha, as occasion required.
Behind the screen this artist usually had a
■weird museum of wind machines, revolvers,
horse-hoofs, drums, whistles, rattles, door-
knockers, gongs and motor-horns. He could
counterfeit, with great fidelity, the murmur
of the sad, meandering sea-waves, or one
Chaplin breaking his fast. Some experts
went further, and like Sloppy in “Our
Mutual Friend,” who “did the police in
different voices,” supplied the dialogue as
well. I saw a film of “East Lynne” in His
Majesty’s, Perth, which introduced a delight-
ful effect. An ambitious understudy had got
busy during the temporary absence of hia
principal at the threepenny bar, and he
squeaked in a shrill falsetto for Lady Isabel:
“Francis Livingstone, ’ow dare you come
’ere neow?” Sir F. Levison replied in gruff,
polished accents: “W’y do I come ’ere? I’ll
jolly soon tell yer! I’m goin’ ter get spliced
t’ another woman, see? Your name’s Mud!
Youse wimmin” And then there was a
flat, sickening sound of biff. The “regular”
had returned.
“Diaphragm”: The pearler is still having
a rotten time, expenses having increased out
of all proportion to revenue. Canvas, once
Is. 9d. per yard, at present costs 6s. 6d.
Chain for anchors has gone from £3 11s. to
£lO 10s. per shackle. Diving-dresses (rub-
ber) at £7 15s. have floated to £l4 10s.;
air-piping (rubber), £5 15s. to £l2 10s. The
crews (Malay, Jap and sundries) now de-
mand £3 to £4 where a while ago £1 10s.
to £2 10s. was the ruling wage. Mother-o’-
pearl shell is selling at £l6O per ton for
big. and £175 for small or “chicken.”
The cost is anything from £l6O per ton on-
wards. The pre-war selling price was from
£220 to £3OO. Big advances to the divers
make too much of a hole in the capital of
the small pearler, consequently the big man
gets a monopoly of the experts. Advances
as high as £250 are paid to Japs before they
go outside on the grounds. Over and above
the “lay” (tonnage) the diver contracts to
get, he is given a percentage. In many cases
the advance is lost in gambling-dens before
the diver proceeds to sea; and then the
master is appealed to for more, and gener-
ally it is given, otherwise the diver will
nof be a satisfied worker. I-f it weren’t for
the occasional good “stone” that turns up
and gets to the pearler, the game would cer-
tainly not be worth while at present.


The Winning of Public Confidence.
In spending large sums of money in
seeking the goodwill of the public for
any article unless the quality is behind
the goods the money is wasted. It costs
%
much more than the profit on any article
of common sale to induce the first pur-
chase. The profit comes when the person is satisfied and
continues a customer. This is the secret of the success of
Dr. Morse s Indian Root Pills. People once try them and
then continue to use them regularly. From time to
time other so-called remedies are boomed and tried, but
soon found to be ineffective, and prompt return to
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills is made with gratifying
results. For many years this remedy has been in constant
use in Australia. Families have grown up with scarcely
any other medicine in the house, and the present generation
looks back from childhood to having had their mothers give
Dr. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
if they showed indications of being out of sorts. To-day
the remedy stands higher than ever before in the esteem of
thousands as a good dependable article of the highest class,
sold at a reasonable price within the reach of all classes.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.


o
$
ose
-J
Cr/7>
Jl<*
of/uocite
Begin to Wear
Them !
Hose of Luxite excel
because of specialized
methods of knitting.
For more than 16
gears these Hose have
amazed the public bp
their durability, arid
they are just as dur-
able to-day as ever,
besides being more
beautiful.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
THORNYCROFT
MOTOR LORRIES
The War Men Know Them.
Just like the “Digger,” they plugged alpng,
taking the rough with the smooth—ln-
domitable, Steady and Irresistible. Wherever
work was to be done, work that called for the
highest standards of Reliability, Staunchness
and Cheerful Performance, there they were
found.
The experience of War has now been applied
to the Commerce of Peace, and the same
qualities keep the “Thornycroft” in its assigned
position at the head of affairs.
For certainty of Performance and low running
Cost, in union with work well performed, the
“Thornycroft” has no equal. A note to us
will bring you full particulars of this Veteran
Lorry. In 4 classes, from 35cwt. to 5 tons.
COMPLETE SETS OF DUPLICATE PARTS
GUARANTEED.
McArthur engineering co.
(Sydney) Ltd.
13 Macquarie Place, SYDNEY.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
Eor our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
3d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at. home.
\ustralians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
K! Speed
Motor
WITH STARTER
c
\
»
f*
wmmsmmM*
7 s *
mmmm
m
E 3
f*
SwS&kiS
■;&£. , ;;
> Sa-
NK
"
mm
■m ?
-t
mm
.
See how
easy the
Caille Row-
boat Motor is
to carry about.
It gives you the
convenience and speed of a
upkeep.
big power boat, without all the expense for
Double your
Sport this Summer!
Get a CAILLE
Rowboat Motor.
You’ll have wonderful fun this Summer by
getting a Caille Rowboat Motor. Take it with you
at week-ends on sea or river—take it on your
holidays. You’ll have double the sport on the
water with all the hard rowing left out.
Just clamp the sturdy, powerful little Caille on the
back of your own or hired rowboat, and off you go
anywhere, at a speed up to 9 miles per hour. There are
5 speeds in all, and the whole outfit only weighs 751 b
easy to take anywhere.
The Caille Rowboat Motor is a wonderful engineer-
ing job, complete with Flywheel Magneto, Float Feed
Carburetter, efficient cooling system, and all parts high-
grade metal. For Professional Fishermen who cannot
afford a big power boat the Caille fills the gap and gives
them a wider field and bigger catches. Write for price
of this splendid little motor outfit.
Caille Engines for all
types of Motor Boats
Caille Marine Engines are world famed
for dependability. We have a regular stock
of various types, in 1- to 4-cylinder designs
from 2to 30 H.P. Get particu-
lars of Caille Engines if you
want reliable engine service.
Benson
Brothers Lu.
76-78 Liverpool St., Sydney.
71-75 Queen’s Bridge St., Melbourne.
138 Currie St., Adelaide.
C 234
“Priscilla Prink” : Two tilings the mother
with an eye to the future teaches her
daughter: (i) How to dress; (2) with whom
to undress.
Perth has produced the most casual liti-
gant of the last week or two. He was the
defendant, and while in the witness-box and
in the middle of his cross-examination he
lifted a bottle from his pocket and took a
“refresher.” The scandalised magistrate he
pacified with an assurance that it was only
soda-water—to steady his nerves.
“Copy Boy”: The law which provides
that prior appearances in the dock by the
accused must not be mentioned until accused
has been found guilty of the charge brought
against him received a quaint upper-
cut from a lady at Melbourne City Court
the other day. At the beginning of the
case she announced naively: “Mr. Sonnen-
berg usually defends me, but he isn’t here
to-day.”
The Law has distinguished itself again.
Two residents of the Vic. hills country
claimed the same horse. Jones proceeded
against McLeod for illegal detention. Both
swore they had owned the neddy since it
was foaled. Solomon gave a verdict for
McLeod with five guineas costs because
“McLeod’s brand was visible beneath the
brand used by complainant.” A few days
later McLeod’s horse turned up. so he de-
cided that the horse awarded him by the
Court was not his, and returned the animal
to Jones with a cheque for five guineas.
South Aus., which is being urged to buy
land, and still more land, for returned sol-
diers, is waking up to the fact that it already
has a lot which is not put to good use. Old
William Gilbert, of Pewsey Vale, declares
that 3500 acres taken over from him a year
ago are now “a vermin preserve, where rab-
bits revel under peace conditions,” and he
predicts widespread disaster if “when the
Government takes possession it assumes no
landowner responsibility.” The point is
worth keeping in mind in other States,
especially at this time when foxes and other
vermin seem to be extraordinarily prolific.
“Centurion”: Re that nurse-Digger con-
troversy. A young cousin of mine who has
been nursing in Prance and England since
1915 wrote the other day that she had been
tripping about London with a party of
soldier friends. She forwarded a copy of the
Daily Sketch with a photo of herself and
half a dozen Diggers talking to the King
and Prince of Wales at Windsor. The party
ran into George and young Edward as they
rode down the Long Walk, and the Wind-
sors, spotting the Aussie hats, pulled up for
a pitch. That doesn’t suggest that the
official ban on the association of nurses with
soldiers is observed very rigidly.
“Troop-horse”: Right Hon. J. M. Robert-
son, quoted scornfully by “Centurion” (B.
4/9/19), knows little about the rising in
Egypt and less about the Aussies whom he
slanders. I was in Cairo when the trouble
started. They were students who first de-
monstrated, wrecking shops, and leaving
Chareh Bulac in a horrible mess. At this
time very few Diggers were in Cairo,
the regiments being busy handing in gear,
horses, etc. The local garrison of Tommies
was called out to quell the disturbance, but
the Gyppos reckoned they could hold their
own with them, and did for several days,
until the Aussies came in from the Canal
and started to patrol the streets. The
Gyppos immediately quietened down.
In the Reps, the other night Dr. Maloney
produced a lump of timber alleged to have
been sawn from the second plank below the
load line of the Speedway, one of the
wooden tubs built for Australia by Uncle
Sam, when Australia was tired and Sam was
very busy building good ships for himself.
The timber is spruce, commonly used for
box-making, and though it has had a com-
paratively brief nautical career, it has
already been tunnelled by teredo. Maloney
naturally wants to know why spi’uce has
been used instead of Oregon, and also de-
sires to learn whether the same understudy
appeared in the rest of the arks. The Speed-
way recently ventured its nose outside Port
Phillip Heads, but had to scoot back and be
patched at a cost of £3OOO more of Aus-
tralia’s good borrowed money.
“Plumber”: Will Lawson’s fireman (R.
11/9/T9), explaining why boiler manholes
are oval instead of round, understood the
reason why, though his explanation wasn’t
as clear as gin. It is necessary to have the
manhole cover or door inside, otherwise the
steam (1301 b. to the sq. in.) would blow it
out, wherefore the cover has a flange or rim
about an inch wider than the manhole. To
get in you hold it sideways and turn it when
inside. You couldn’t get it in a round hole.
I wish, by the way, that the ordinary water
tank was made with an oval hole instead of
a round one. A cross-section through a
man’s shoulders gives an oval figure, not a
round one, and I have to sandpaper myself
to get into these utensils and do worse to
get out of some of them.
Every Australian ought to paste in his
hat, for frequent reference, the statement
made by Auckland Geddes with reference to
Britain’s immediate problem:—
The price of food next winter will reach an un-
dreamt-of level. Money is being squandered on a
colossal scale. The more money we send overseas for
things that do not matter, the more we pay for
things that do matter, for the international ex-
changes are steadily moving against us. .. .The nation
is now poor, but it is living as if it was wealthy.
If foreign markets go, credit will break, and we
shall be in the same position as Russia. We must
develop our export trade. The policy of a limita-
tion of output is stark, staring lunacy .If the
great masses of the people go on buying things from
overseas, they may not be able to buy bread next
winter.
In other words, the country is loafing, and
the further it falls into the hands of America
the less it gets for its p.n.—just as happens
to any spendthrift who falls into the hands
of any money-lender. The time comes when
the spendthrift, having exhausted his credit
in buying things he could do without, goes
hungry because he has got out of the habit
of working and can’t borrow any more. Aus-
tralia won’t starve; but the further exchange
goes against us the more we shall have to
pay for imported goods, and the more urgent
the need for getting to work to supply our
own requirements.


'"SUi
''■'"wik
“'ll,.
4 >i
"“"A,
‘"“"A
\
""4,, \
\ y 4, \
y m ~\
\
Hi
4
44
44 V
5 4*4
"4L ; •/
.“H * >
\ '"'"A,,
•H 4
I
-4 I X,
txi x .
•4„ i *X4
I X 5
! 44 £ '"•
i Xt ..
X 4 (%i*
XL iX
X i
X, IX
-.4 X%l
'"'"A,,,
f"%\
"‘M,
4
Ua
H
"""4
:%4 \
4 >i.
4 "%4 "'"""V
_i
•W
: ■'///,„
"%// ' ""
%/
X- * X//
%
nXX
4 N^,
1.: >- ■
Goodyear-grade
THE term “High-grade,” when
applied to an article of commerce,
is expressive of merit or value.
Most manufacturers would rest content
when they had brought their commodities
to the point when “high-grade” would be
a just prefix. Not so with Goodyear,
however.
In connection with Goodyear products
“high-grade” is not enough. Everything
must be Goodyear-grade! And that
means: The present high-water mark of
human judgment and ingenuity.
The rubber that is grown or bought by Goodyear must
be Goodyear-grade, or it will not be used in Goodyear
Tyres. Similarly with the fine long-staple cotton, grown
or bought by Goodyear for the pjanufacture of Goodyear
fabric—the fabric of world’s-record strength.
Every stage of manufacture—every little detail and
every big operation—and every one of the hundred-
odd inspections to which a Goodyear Tyre is subjected
during its construction must be effected by men who are
Goodyear-grade.
Well, what shall one expect from the combination of
Goodyear-grade materials handled by Goodyear-grade
men?
The only answer is—Goodyear Tyres!
Buy your Goodyear Tyres,
Heavy Tourist Tubes and
Tyre-Save Accessories at the
Goodyear Service Station.
There is one in your locality.
Branches and Agencies
all Principal Cities.
Service Stations and
Dealers Everywhere.
~/<3-


Cuticura Treatment'
For Pimples
Smear them with thef Oint-
ment and bathe with the
Soap. This easy way 'quickly
removes them often when all
else fails.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
R. Towns & Co.. Sydney. N. S. W."
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
s
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
“ THEY COME AS A BOON * A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.'
'i&HORROCKSES HORROCKSES AORROCKSES’MORROCKSES^I
HORROCKSES'MQRROCKSES’MORROCKSES*
rtORROCKSES'
*
{/y/ii/e £>/ac/crf , 4’i/ S/czcfes
LINGERIE DRESSES and BLOUSES
SEEHORROCKSES OIAPHALENE"
dsa
dMORROCKSES-MORROCKSFS’MORROCKSeS'MORROCKSES’SgI
IrtORftOCKSES’fIORROCKSES’ftORROCKSES'
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his little way. He likes,
and must have, the best.
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the
battle. Then, what a boon to the
mother to use a food which requires
no tiresome cooking or preparation.
Mellin’s
Food
is made in a dash—needs no cooking
Send for sample of MeUin’s Food and Hand-
book for Mothers ‘The Care of Infants’—Freo
Messrs. Goldin & Co. Proprietary
Ltd., Sydney
AFTER A HARD DAY’S
WORK
You want something to tone you up, help
you enjoy and digest your dinner and have
a good night’s rest. Try a few drops of
Dhosformo
I THE ROYAL TONIC
This is a real nerve invigorator, and will tune up
your whole system, so you can tackle the work
and worry of these days, with ease and certainty.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- . 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 6C Parsons Ltcl.
London and Melbourne
| "cxr>
J C A C-
d
sa
NIGH-GRADE SNEET METALS
BRAND
c-A-c- prr^
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFtCES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane Phone 2382
-crxicv^c]!
C-A-C-
CA-C-
ds
SKF
.ir
©
V h
179*
S.K.F. Self-aligning Ball Bearings
The Perfecfl Ball-Bearing
Equipment for Every Car.
The mechanic and the car-owner alike will find it distinctly
advantageous to specify, and see that they get, S.K.F. Ball Bearings
installed in every part of the car that needs bearings.
The S.K.F. Ball Bearing is self-contained, self-aligning, capable of
withstanding axial as well as radial loads, offers no resistance to
valve flexure, and is so designed that the load is sustained by the
maximum number of bearings.
S.K.F. is the only Ball Bearing that embodies all points of perfec-
tion, and this fact has made them the specified bearing equipment
by the great majority of car makers all over the world.
Specify S.K.F. Ball Bearings Always.
GARDNER, WJERN & Co.
Power and Light Engineers,
MELBOURNE: 384 City Road.
(Showrooms): 360 Flinders Street.
BYDNEY: 226 Pitt Street
BRISBANE: 367 Queen Street.
“J.AV.A.”: Who has been selling horses
to the Filipinos? The Manila authorities
bought 153 lately. It is publicly reported
there that 20 of the mob were too old to
work, and the rest “so wild that an
American horse-trainer is being hired to
train them, costing the city 10 dollars a
day.” This sort of thing is no good to
Australia.
“Optic”: N. S. Wales railway detectives
have been busy lately, and three men at
one big country junction have been convicted
of pilfering and pitched out. Recently a
coil of wire-netting vanished, and the sleuths
got on the right track the day after the
robbery. They knew their man and searched
hard, but had to give up. The joker had
hidden the spoil in his vegetable garden, lift-
ing out several young cabbages and replanting
them over the temporary grave of the wire.
“A.E.W.”: No wonder The Bulletin guf-
fawed when Hughes used to declare that
there would be no more export of Australian
raw materials to Germany. New York
advices are that foreign buyers are operating
in the U.S.A. to stock the barren leather
markets of Europe. Germany, according to
N. Y. Tribune, has only enough light upper-
leather to equip one-seventh of her shoe-
wearing population of 70,000,000 persons.
Judging by the phenomenal jump in Aus-
tralian prices, due mainly to purchases on
American account, it thus looks as if every
good boot-wearing citizen of the Common-
wealth is already suffering from the export
of raw material to Germany.
“H. Horsecollar” : I have a theory that the
financial behavior of a State may to some
extent be gauged by the number of men
named MacSometliing in the Ministry. Thus
turning over a year-book (rather belated —
date 1917) I discovered in the Assembly
Mackey, Maekinnon, McCutcheon, McGregor.
McKenzie (Hugh), McKenzie (Kenneth),
McLachlan, McLeod and McPherson. In
the Council were Mcßryde, McDonald,
McLellan, McNamara and McWhae —14
Macs. The other five States had only 17
Macs among them. Victoria paid off a
million of debt the other day, and it was
Treasurer McPherson who did it. I am
mostly Scotch myself.
“Blanc”: On bridges at present under con-
struction in Eastern Riverina (AVagga,
Tumut, Holbrook and Gundagai districts)
they are using American hardwood. There
is plenty of suitable timber on the South
Coast and Southern Tablelands of N. S.
Wales, but the American hardwood is
cheaper because the timber hewn within 200
miles of the district has first of all to be
dragged 300 or 400 miles to Sydney, and
then the same distance back to Culcairn or
Tumut. This dragging about increases its
original cost well over 500 per cent, and
lets the foreigner in. It is part of the enor-
mous price Australia pays for its policy of
centralisation.
“Brighton”: This is what made me run
into the tram while driving home: —
TO THE ADVITISER.
Dear Sir, —Seeing your advt. in the paper re
Talbot Motor Car for sale, I am in need of a good
second-hand car, but the price you are asking seems
pretty high. At present I cannot afford to pay
more than £7O, and could pay £5 down and the
balance by instalments of say ss. per week, and
probably later on I might be able to make it
7s. 6d. weekly. Kindly state how many spare
tires and tubes go with the car and if they are
in perfect order. Could you tell me how many
years the car has been in service or how many
miles she has run, and has it ever been in an
accident, because sometimes owners want to sell
their cars because the undercarriage is bent. P.S. —
We are seven in family—my wife, self and five
children. Will the car carry us all ?
It won’t.
“Namron”: Just before leaving for home
our brigade was dumped at Ivantara. Here
two ladies ran “The Blighty Tea Rooms,”
where Tommies and Diggers could get a
cheap feed and drink of tea. Mugs were pro-
vided with the tea, but they soon began to
disappear, and somehow the Aussie wet can-
teeen was never short. Miss Blighty noticed
her shortage, and issued a routine order that
in future tea would be two piastres, with five
piastres deposit on the mug. Our pay was
overdue, and everyone was “muskeen”
(poor). But a way out was found. Every
mug in Kantara was mustered and, awaiting
the busy hour, the boys one by one came up
and collected five piastres each. Miss
Blighty’s finances were badly strained, but
we all got a fresh start in life.
“Narrung”: The following shows what has
been accomplished by S. Aus. viticulturists
in the last five years:—
Grapes Total Average Estim’t’d
used, in per ton, value, Stock in
Vintage, tons. gallons, gallons. £ gallons.
1914.. 18,572 2,759,665 145 258,818 4,776,863
1915.. 9.991 1,507.196 151 126,105 3,695,808
1916.. 23,579 3,709.878 15S 350,430 4,588,607
1917.. 18,956 2,951,048 155 318,532 4.447,285
1918.. 32,804 5.331,166 163 516,999 6,642,330
1919.. 40,507 6,544,125 162 694,319 7,789,790
Last year only 170,036 gallons were sent
fro_m all Australia to Britain —less than
£75,000 worth, out of a total of nearly eight
million pounds paid by J. Bull for wine!
Yet Australian vintages are everywhere
sought for, and “burgundy” is increasingly
prescribed by British doctors for invalids.
If Wade were only a wine-traveller instead
of a K.C., he might be earning three times
his salary at present!
“Quelques Mots” : The undertaker dashed
up to me as I was waiting at the intessec-
tion of Collins and Swanston streets. His
battered belltopper was jammed on the back
of his head and his creased coat-tails flapped
despairingly. “Seen a funeral anywhere
about?” he cried. I shook my head. “Gor-
struth, I’ve lost it. At Queen’s Bridge I
see a friend on the road, and hand the reins
to my man, hop off the hearse and we come
up to Champion’s for a pot. I been waitin’
to pick the funeral up for 25 minutes. It’s
got to pass here, because they’re goin’ to
Kew. Wonder what the ’ell’s become of it?”
I suggested that it had probably gone by
while he refreshed. “No chance! I come
along with my pal in his car. He was
driving when I seen him. Oh, there's the
thing!” I saw him sidle up to the
hearse like a furtive raven, climb aboard
and mop the beer-sweat from his brow.
When it’s my turn to go the undertaker shall
be presented with a flask as an inducement
to stay on the job.


Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tdoth.-
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
u
Let StOP/UN Stop fhat BcHng Pain.
It fills up the Cavity, fexCluding tlife aiiq arid
Stopping the mouth afcids from afcting On thfe‘
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a pet-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine Vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon feCeipt of price by
sUnset drug go.,
520-528 RilMy Stßtefetj SYbfciEY, N.S.W.
Corns Quickly.
At last a real 1 does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfort.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
2 sa
i <
t .
or
m
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in Way Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. ..£39,000.000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
CAPILLARINE
ds
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Ilair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIL-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPTLLARINE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
■ A
C'QijO’h
** P*
> o
■■■
ifV
* -.CO LD
v '
/
. *
.IiSV
<"-V
A *
oO
rwA
ai%s Ikl
;eMl»=©
iCiJSSMS*
sWai’/oHe.
v*"*
•sar-*
<si
C/3
>
yv
What are you taking home?
Disease to attack your
family ? —or Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy to protect
them and yourself?
You owe it to your family to keep yourself
in good health —when influenza, coughs, colds
and bronchitis are about run no risk of infection
tyjpuhz J'jfecJtA -
tS E CS MW
\ COUGH REMEDY I
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
:his disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain's Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges ti e stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
it. ay be avoided.
Be Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain's
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
The “different” Food!
Benger’s Food differs from all others because it contains
the means to partially digest the fresh new milk with
which it is prepared.
This means much, because the inability to digest milk—
and only by proper digestion is its nourishment obtained
—is very common. Always use
Y
Food
for backward Infants, Invalids, and Aged persons because
even the weakliest among these obtain the full benefit of
the milk, and all enjoy and thrive upon it.
Penger’s Food is entirely British in origin, ownership and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc, everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when preparing it.
Booklet and fall particulars post free from :
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England-
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U S.A.) 90, Beekman St.. Depots throughout Canada.
Safeguard YOUR HEALTH
o?J.€ollis BroiiiD^
CWorodyw
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COT.IC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CIIARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, l/'S, Sl-, 5/-.
Hade in England.
|rQUEENSLANI>?|
f THE KEY TO 1
PROSPERITY.
I
ML
QUEENSLAND
opens (he door (o
prosperity lor those
requiring land
Particulars of the
millions of iacres of
Crown HLand
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE
I /Vame ■—
f Address ——
Queenslaad Goveranea?
IfiteMijeace and Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE /
%
8$
S.B.
Used the
World Over
d
sad
MOTOR
...CARS


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME, At the War,
ft"
>. F '■
ft t Sk
j mm
r—t'tJi I
• I *«,s ' V V#
I#;'
, s^f=^9s!J
-<A«.
/
fl
X
\x
»
/fii
P ;
m\
Rs 3
NS'
l.\
j:
VKI
&u
ft
i is,
vV
m
mM.
s>
!< ' - *•
vO
&
X-v.--
z
■v/
>3
Igga
m#
1
■iy'Wm
m
*s&
s* .‘ <sT
1
■
»
f, r^j
umH*
E^Vvf-y>rpy .■>
P* Ag
:
fflSß^aßagalHßß < y-.V^BE«!
aßßgMraafaß
Vfjys
{*3}
■* ,
1
wmmte#®,
iSJrf
“SSWipgdL--*
3®
i-.tfßWP*-
*£
SB
>■
■
V’
_y, ••
;
* /
&c*
&
& /
Cobra,” Sfre Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim F 00,
Dives in waters
Deep and blue.
Soon the ships will
F loat once more
And the p-uns
In triumph roar.
With his wide and
Happy smile
Chunder works in
Darkness while
Brother tars send
D own the air.
“All goes well
‘COBRA’ s
now!
there!”


Travelling Requisites
“Made by David Jones. ”
: ; -V * " /
t • •*
4 & ■'«* •
*
fit ac w ■ i 1 J
• ••
1' V,¥ 0; . * -•■
: . , f?*. * * jc
1•- * & ~-r * wC •. ,y ‘
""’C*. ‘,{ * "
v ;^' s : *<> -y, i ~v
.• **sL ' ‘ • ’ a*- i-
--'.i *n i.: *t
JT
*'»■ "9fc.Vi.3K ,
: mi Up
f, : 5*5,.
* • :* ■ ■' ■■..;;/■ 4 J V
r < 4 J
fr.. •
&|g
_•
«!»>
' W*
Vv
(’onibination Wardrobe Trunk for men or women.
Made of three-ply veneer, covered and bound’ with
brown, hard vulcanised fibre and strengthened with
steel corners. Fitted 6 clothes hangers on one side;
other side with 4 drawers. Lined shadow tissue.
Cabin size, 40 x 22 x 14 inches. J J Qns,
THOROUGH efficiency in workman-
ship, the employment of best
materials, and strict adherence to
moderation of price, have established
David Jones’ reputation for supplying
travelling goods that represent the maxi-
mum of value. Your personal inspection
of our large and varied assortment is
request. ed.
Lady’s Fitted Suit Case, of tan hide leather on
strong steel frame. Lined moirette and fitted two-
good sliding nozzle locks. Fitted with best quality
white Xylonite Hair Brush. Cloth Brush. Mirror,
Comb and Set of 5 Class Toilet Bottles with nickel-
plated tops.
Size, 20 x 15 x 7 inches.
11 Gns.
Opp. G.p.o. SYDNEY We Pay Carriage.
SI
'm
m
■
RWA
II
■ :-y
■
m
iHSI
........
'ft
ass
m
Arrow Push Switches
vice
Set
\us
TVve
, ot
\M pv
QUOTATIONS ON APPLICATION
Sole Distributing Agents for Australia & New Zealand:
pW
J
It VPplfglLtd
*
#p
IP
PP
p-
sp
-SXS
'W
Fle<flr ! ral ImnOrtrs
and Suppliers : : ::
253-285 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
THOMPSON, MEGGITT & CO., LTD.,
Factory Attorneys,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, SYDNEY.
ARROW
SWITCHES
We have large stocks of
the following types: —
Cat. Xt>. Description.
6211—5 Amp, Double Pole
Indicating Rotary Switches
6218—10 Amp. Double Pole
Indicating Rotary Switches
6123—20 Amp. Double Pole
Indicating Rotary Switches
6628 —30 Amp. Double Pole
Indicating Rotary Switches
6202—3 Amp. Single Pole
Non-Indicating Switches
6206—5 Amp. Single Pole
Non-Indicating Switches
5 Amp. Ceiling Switches, Single Pole
10 Amp. Ceiling Switches, Two Way
Ceiling Switch Rosettes.
Arrow Service Switches.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Zaxithus” : The first hint of the existence
of gold in Australia goes back exactly 300
years. In 1019 three Dutch snips touched
on the Westralian coast opposite the Abrol-
hos. Edel, the supercargo of one of these
vessels, after whom the region was named
Edel’s land (a name still preserved by one
of tln> divisions of the Murchison area V.
remarks that they saw a red. muddy coast
‘‘which, according to the relations of nine of
us, might be not unlikely to prove to be gold-
bearing.” Eighty years later Dumpier
noticed tin* existence of the pearl oyster
in the seas along this coast, but it was
long before anyone worked either the gold
or the pearls.
* * * *
“Barcoo” : Can't we have a native meer-
schaum pipe? The necessary clay is found
in the far west of Bananaland. round about
Toololmck. 70U miles west of Rockhampton.
When Binghi of those parts was first intro-
duced to tobacco lie soon utilised the easily-
worked deposit in the crude manufacture of
smoking pipes, and was imitated by shep-
herds, stockmen and other bush workers.
The material (yellow rather than white)
makes a delightfully cool howl for tobacco-
burning. It will not “color 1 ” such a deep,
shade as the ordinary imported meerschaum,
but it colors quite as well as the “Irish clay"
and is of a finer quality and much lighter.
* * * *
“Murkah” : A Private Enterprise idea
that Government departments should have
forced on them is the use of code telegraph-
addresses. For instance, in these days of
telegraph congestion an essay like “Deputy-
Comptroller, Department of Repatriation,
Strawberry Hills, Sydney,” could with ad-
vantage and equal certainty be condensed
to (say) ‘‘Loiter, Sydney.” The same code-
indicator could be used for every .Repatri-
ation committee in the land. Some time
ago the gambling address of the Taxation
Department was sub-edited from 35 words
or. ag> to one. “Depcomtax” is its telegraphic
haMle. Its retention must indicate sat-
isfaction, therefore let’s have more of it.
“Dido”: A moving act in real life was
witnessed on the sands at St. Kilda (Vic.)
one afternoon recently. First came two
very earnest small boys with a dog, ,an in-
definite dog. The boys led the tyke 'out, to
the end of a pier, and began to hang iron-
mongery about his neck. At this stage a
female intervened. “Ah, go on!” snorted
one of tiie boys, “we gutter drownd him.
We’re paid to. He’s Mr. pollard’s dog, and
Mr. Collard’s sick and tired of him. and
wants him done away with for I wo shillin’s.
There’s the money if you don’t believe me.”
In the face of this irrefutable evidence the
stern lady withdrew her opposition, and the
lads pushed the doomed tyke off into deep
water. At this juncture interest was diverted
by the appearance of a tall man streaking
across the strand, without coat, vest or
hat. He tore along the pier, and plunged
straight into the sea. Eventually he re-
appeared with the dog. which he stripped
of its penalty, and hoisted on to the pier,
dragging himself up after. “I changed my
mind.” he ’said. It was Collat'd.
* * * *
“Arapawa”: The hunting of whales oil
Kaikoura (ALL.) described by Will Lawson
(B. 14/S/T9) is a quiet business compared
with the gav tussles with leviathans which
take place 'outside Tory Channel. Queen
Charlotte Sound. Old Te Awaite whaling
station is just inside the channel, and the
modern whalers have their look-out station
on a ridge overlooking Cook Strait. When
the word “Whale!" is yelled by (be look-
out on the skyline two fast launches are got
ready. By (In* time (lie man on the bill has
raced down to the waterside, the 100-horse
engines of the boats are coughing and splut-
tering. At a word, away they go, through
the entrance and out into flu* chops of the
Straits. They are 30-foot boats, built with
V-shaped bottoms forward. When they pile-
drive across the seas they don’t suffer any
injury, and they have enough flat bottom aft
to keep them steady. Their speed is 30
knots, but they don’t need it once they are
on level terms with a whale, because that
bulk can’t steam more than 12 knots at any
time. The difference between flic “Tar-
White” and Kaikoura methods is that the
Tar-White men always make fast with the
harpoon before bombing. And when a whale
gets a heavy iron punched into him by a
gun, the cruise of the Cachalot is not in it
with the modern whaleboat. Sometimes
when a school of whales comes along, ex-
citing contretemps between the boats and un-
official whales occur. Once a whale came up
right under the launch that w*as carrying a
moving-picture man who was taking views
of this industry. The launch jumped clean
over the whale and spilt the camera man :
but he got up and went on winding. A*t
accomplice in a slower launch got him as he
looped the loop, and the film has been
shown. Another time a whale charged a
launch and put every man overboard. But
the cleverest whale was the one that thrust
his tail through the bottom of the boat and
stopped the engine. The delay enabled him
to escape. The families of the whalers often
watch the Olympic games from the dress-
cirele of the Tar-White hills.
WALKIN'.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Coin’ nowhere special, soakin’ in th’ view,
Walkin for th’ sake of it —nothin’ else to do.
Milkin’ easy work of it, none to say me nay,
Doin' Three an 'our, or less, whistlin’ all th’ way.
When th’ sun’s nigh overhead I eases up me knot,
An’ stops a while ter boil th’ quart in a shady spot.
Then l lie with face upturned toward an azure sky,
Smokin’, watchin’, curly sprites Avaft away an’ die.
Feelin’ drowsy nosy I pull to chill th' midday glare
Me lid well down upon a brow unfurrowed still by
care,
An’ sleep until th- cooling breeze that tells o'
settin' sun
Just blows a kiss against me . cheek—then me day’s
yakker's done.
MAORIT.AXU.
K EMO.


&
m
m
wm
m
't
\
1
IWB
Wm
m,
mm
m
i
m
Q
OBRALCO
r
REOB
All Genuine Tobral o is
name-stamped on selvedge.
Buy none without —l
OTHER TOOTAL GUARANTEED FABRICS
Each carries name on selvedge
TARANTULLE (RegdJ : The quality Cotton Fabric for Home-sewn
Lingerie and baby Wear. 40 inches wide. Three weights:
Standard 2/3, Fine 2/6. Superfine 2/9 per yard.
i OOTAL PIQUE —Double width. 43/44 inches wide. Superior, soft
and subtle, specially strengthened between ribs. White and
indelible colors, 5/6 per yard.
TOOTAL SHIRTING for ladies' and children’s wear. 32 inches
wide. Woven indelible color »tripes. TOOTAL SHIRTS for
men, made of Tootal Shirting. |
NAMRIT—The Indelible Voile. Double width, 40 inches wide
White and indelible colors, 3/6 per yard.
TOOTAL CLOTH —The Guaranteed Velvet Fabric. Plain and cord.
27 inches wide. also
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.) for Men. Correct self-white
and exclusive color-border designs. Pyramid label on each.
l/4i each.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.) for Ladies. Exquisite self-white
and indelible color border designs. Lissue label on each.
I/- each.
THE BRITISH COTTON WASH DRESS FABRIC IN WORLD-WIDE US
BETTER to make one Frock of Tobralco than two of any inferior
wash cotton. Tobralco is made of the world s finest cotton and
guaranteed absolutely indelible. Whether you wear white or colored
Tobralco you can rely upon it to retain its delightful freshness and
charm. Neither washing nor sunlight will spoil it. The hardest of all
tests, children’s wear, only makes Tobralco a greater favorite in every
country where wash-fabrics are worn.
Try Tobralco for one frock, and you will use it for all. See the name
on selvedge when you buy it.
2/6
per yard. 27/8 inches wide. White, colors, and
printed designs. All colors guaranteed indelible.
TO BE HAD OF ALL STORES
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE COMPANY LTD., MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO G.P.O. BOX 1035 MELBOURNE
One Night in France.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE brigade was “resting.” Something
had happened which called for cele-
bration. The Alajor had not cele-
brated for some time. The finger of Destiny
pointed steadily, insistently, in the direction
of Baillieres.
The misty winter afternoon was merging
into dusk as we picked our way, dressed in
our best, and gleaming as to boots, buttons
and badges, along the duck-boards to where
the horses and grooms waited in the mud.
The outing was to be no scamped or scurried
diversion from the rigors of waggon-lines
warfare, and so arrangements had been made
for the cook’s cart to follow and wait, while
the horses were taken back.
Was it indeed nearly two years ago that
we rode out so buoyantly on to the Steenmel-
road? I can see, as if it had all happened
last night, the weeping trees; the long line
of motor-lorries; the big, dismantled guns,
with their names, “Captain Fryatt” and
“Nurse Cavell,” scrawled on the carriages;
and to right and left the cheerless fields and
the beerless estaminets. In front trots the
Major, cheeriest, bravest, and. off duty,
maddest and most irresponsible of youngsters.
Beside him, in defiance of all British army
tradition, is his groom. Behind are other
grooms and three subalterns —one, at least,
of them afflicted with the feeling as of some-
thing dreadful about to happen. For the
Alajor, as a celebrant, belonged to another
period: he should have lived in the 18tli
century, and been a Corinthian.
Imagine that we have clattered through
the main square of the kindly little town so
soon to be devastated, and past the incred-
ibly old church whose famous square tower
was presently to be razed to the ground by
the Hun’s high explosives. W~e halt at the
club, ascend the steps, and pass from chill
and foggy darkness into an atmosphere of
warmth and light and laughter; comfort,
companionship and alcohol. Especially
alcohol.
The first procedure on such occasions
always was to book a table in the dining-
room ; the next to repair to the bar. We
followed the usual custom and cordially
toasted one another, and drank to the down-
fall of Prussianism. The Alajor, happening
to bump against a Scotch captain, apologised
.and drank to the Scotch nation, and in par-
ticular to the inimitable Scotch soldiers.
The captain held up his hand impressively,
summoned the waiter, ordered drinks all
round, and drank to Australia. The pro-
cedure was grave—almost sacramental. He
then invited us all to stay with him in
Inverness-shire, if the war should ever end,
shook hands, blessed us, and faded out into
the night. After one more round of refresh-
ments we went in to dinner.
Civilian life can supply nothing like those
rare meals which were sometimes to be had
in Flanders. The food was poor. But what
did the watery soup and the tasteless, tepid
veal matter when seven out of 10 of the
diners were relations, friends or acquaint-
ances, met, perhaps, after a separation of
weeks, months or years? The effect on the
Major was exhilarating. But our friend
Buntte became gloomy. He stopped eating
and brooded upon the grave.
“What,” he asked hopelessly, “is the good
of it all? Here am I fit and well —so called.
To-morrow, as I ride along the road, a five-
nine may get me. And me an engaged man!”
The Alajor made a sincere effort to find
a way out. “Chuck her,” he said eagerly;
“I expect she’ll be rather glad, really. You’re
so damn sad sometimes, if you know what I
mean.”
“O my God!” moaned Buntte. “No
heart, no soul—none whatever !”
The unfortunate outcome of this discus-
cussion was that the Alajor volunteered to
present us and particularly Buntte to “the
best and most beautiful girl in Baillieres.”
She lived with her mother at 15 Rue des
Rois. or if it wasn’t that number it was
another like it. Anyhow, he would know the
house as soon as he saw it.
As we reached the street and its damp and
icy air, a sudden change came over Buntte :
without warning he foundered gently upon
the pavement. The Alajor looked at him
critically. “Blithered,” he remarked. “Hoist
him into the cook’s cart.” A military
cook’s cart is like a large box on two wheels.
Being doorless, it is ill-adapted for the
reception of twelve stone of inert humanity.
However, we got our friend in eventually,
and walked, followed by the cart, to the Rue
des Rois.
Each flat-faced house looked exactly like
its neighbor; but the Alajor was not the man
to be stopped by a difficulty of that sort. He
halted at the door of a building dimly visible
by the light of a cautiously-shaded street-
lamp, and said “She lives here. I'd know
the place amongst a million.”
It was feebly represented to him that the
lady and her parent would be in bed at such
an hour.
“Rot!” he cried. “Anyhow, I'll knock and
see.”
He did so, with vigor. After a while
movements were heard, and as the result of
further knocking the door was slowly, ner-
vously opened. But not by any flower-faced
daughter of France. A pale, spotty youth
in a martial-looking overcoat and carpet slip-
pers peered at us with disfavor and said,
impudently: “Now then! Wodderyerwant?”
“Aladame and Aladdermerselle Defarge,”
answered the Alajor.
“They don’t live ’ere. Never ’eard of ’em.
You get out, see.”
The Major became nettled. Pushing his
way into the narrow hall he said: “How
dare you speak in that manner to a field-
officer ! Stand to attention, sir. and answer
my questions. What is your rank?”
The other, though hampered by the fact
that his trousers were coming down, at-
tempted to comply, and explained that he
was a Y.AI.C.A. lieutenant. He added that
he lived there with another Y.AI.C.A. officer,
and once more urged us to get out. But the
Alajor had become suspicious. “He’s trying
to hide something from us,” he said. “I
intend to probe this matter to the bottom.
Follow me inside.”
"Air. ’Opkins,” wailed the suspect, “they’re
coming in. They’ve broken into the draw-
ing-room.”
“What I fear,” said the Alajor, as the
Y.M.C.A. representative galloped distrac-
tedly upstairs, “is that they are spies and
have somehow made away with these un-
fortunate ladies. In justice to my friends,
as well as to poor old Buntte. whom I
mean to wake up and introduce to them,
provided they are alive, we must clear this
thing up.”
It all seemed very involved, but there was
nothing to do but obey.
Air. Hopkins proved to be a little older
than his friend. He was strong on gentle-
manliness.
“As one gentleman to another,” he said.
“I have but one remark to make. Get out!
You bin drinking.”
“Drinking!” shouted the Alajor, scandal-
ised : “Me drinking!» Why, you cold-footed,
snuffling bligh”
"You heard his words, Air. Bingle. Put
them all down in your notebook. Ungentle-
manly, coarse. Oh, very!”
“Look here, did you call me coarse?” in-
quired the major tensely.
“I did. ‘Coarse’ was the expression. Oh,
most certainly yes. And I will go further
and add the word Vulgar.”
“Well,” said the Alajor, “what the Devil
do you mean by it? Hey;
“Alore cursin’, Air. ’Opkins,” cried Bingle.
“I ’eard ’im use the word ‘Devil’.”
“When I used the word ‘vulgar,! ” said
Hopkins, disregaruine his friend. "I meant
it. See any dictionary. U-O-A-R-S-E—
-vulgar.”
“Now you’ve put the lid on it properly.”
said the Alajor. “Consider yourself both
under arrest.”
“Oh! we're arrested,” moaned Bingle.
“Disgraced! And me without a stain on
me character!”
“Yes, my boy,” said the Alajor, ominously,
but vaguely, “and it’ll be a good deal worse
before I’ve finished with you. Get dressed
at once and follow me to the A.P.AI.’s
office.”
I shuddered. The A.P.AI. had met the
Alajor before when revelry was afoot.
“Just what I was going to suggest my-
self,” said, Air. Hopkins, with the confidence
of one whose cause is pure.
Through the inky, cobbled streets t he.
inimical little band proceeded, followed
always by the cook’s cart with its uncon-
scious cargo, and halted at the A.P.AI.’s
door. He was in bed. but there was a fire,
in his office and the Alajor motioned to us
to gather round it. excluding the enemy by
a scornful wave of the hand.
Ihe A.P.AI. was a subaltern; he looked re-
markably -like Mr. Hopkins; and my worst
fears were confirmed when I heard him
address the latter as “Bert.”
“The Major here has acted,” said Mr.
Hopkins, “well—'ungentlemanly’ is the mi d-
est term I can apply to it. Ask Mr. Bingle
here about his language. Mr. Bingle, your
notebook, if you please. I thank you.”
Bursting with fury the Major interrupted.
“Look here,” he said, “I’ve had quite enough
of this foolery. I simply go quietly along
with my friends here to call on some ladies
and I find these suspicious characters living
in their house.”
“It isn’t,” broke in the A.P.M. “It’s the
billets belonging to these gentlemen.”
“What the blazes do you mean by inter-
rupting me like that?” shouted the Major
fiercely. “Stand to attention all of you.
Ten-SHOWN!”
A situation in the nature of a deadlock
was relieved by the A.P.M. telephoning for
the Town Major. Gloomily we composed our-
selves to await" the arrival of the last word
in local authority. Nearly an hour passed
in silence, broken only by an occasional snort
or expletive from the Major, followed at
once by a request from Air. Hopkins that
Air. Bingle would take a note of the language
used. A car stopped outside; the dictator
entered. He was small and middle-aged;
at a sharp angle on the side of his head was
a tiny glengarry cap, the streamers of which
fluttered in the draught. His face was crim-
son, front either rage or drink. (I diag-
nosed, later, that it "was a dash of both.) His
method was admirable as regards brevity. lie
did not wish to hear Air. Hopkins, and he
spurned Air. Bingle’s notes. He treated the
Major’s theories about the fate of the
Defarges, mother and daughter, with scorn.
I the way to the street he pointed to
the cook’s cart.
“That is your motor-car awaiting you
there, Sir, I presume?” he inquired fiercely
of the Major.
The Major hesitated, and then saluted
assent! ugly.
“You will enter your motor-car, with your
officers, and you will leave my TOWN!”
Again the Alajor hesitated.
“Do so, Sir, and without delay.”
The Alajor glanced at the small gloved
hand, imneratively extended in the direction
of the shadowy vehicle, walked down the
steps, and fell hastily over the back. A
piercing scream rent the night, and Buutte.
whose nose had been accidentally trampled
upon, thrust a blood-stained face over the
side. Still the Town Alajor pointed relent-
lessly. He no doubt thought that such mani-
festations were common in cars owned by
Australians.
At length we were all inside. As we
bumped and crashed away over the cobble-
stones, neither the moans of Buntte, nor
the Alajor’s stern whispers of “Shut up,
damyer!” diverted my rapt gaze from the
slightly unsteady figure of the little soldier
on the steps, implacably hounding us from
his Paradise'.
10-2-4.


■
A
r
t
&
m
WfAm
Time to
X
m
!
m
TRA&C MASK
'*% j *' ~ i» Y S
.(I
infill x
SwLm m
IK
N
ir/ii r ■
t.
'VI
s**
3r
■ . \
■ -,
V
c
» prem :
m
: =■'■
I
I.
In All Sizes
On Any
road —in Any
weather “FISK”
Non-Skids will give
a maximum service
of Miles and Comfort
and
A Road Grip of Safety
that NEVER FAILS.
AGENTS -
NEW SOUTH WALES —
JAMES WARDLE & CO., 4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA — M _
JAMES WARDLE & CO.. West Victoria Square. Adelaide.
VICTORIA AND RIVERINA—
JOHN P. GOULDING, 515 Collins Street. Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA —JAMES WARDLE & CO-
WEST AUSTRALIA—W. F. S. BARDON. Hay Street, Perth.


Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should he most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most soaps
and ready-mixed shampoos contain excessive
quantities of alkali. This dries the scalp,
makes the hair brittle and is very injurious.
Just ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure,
saponified, hut quite greaseless liquid) is far
better than * the most costly soap you could
possibly use for a slntmpoo, for this cabin,*
possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and
rub it on. A couple of teaspooufuls makt
a perfect flood of rich, thick, cream r
lather, and cleanses both hair and scalp
thoroughly. The lather rinses out easily,
and takes with it every trace of dust, dirt,
dandruff or excessive oiliness. The hair
dries nuickly and evenly, and comes out fine
and silky, bright, glossy and fluffy, appear-
ing, to be heavier than it is. And best of a'l
this colinated coacoanut oil leaves the hair
as easy to dress again, as though you hadn’t
washed it at ail. You can get colinated cocoa-
nut oil at most any chemist, but be sure it’s
“colinated.” which is not expensive—a few
ounces lasting a-long, long time.
INSTANTLY! Corn Pains Vanish!
Corns Loosen! Lift Right Off!
No Hurts ! Few Drops Loosen Corns and Callouses
so they Brush off—Never Let Corns Pain
Twice—No Joke !
sd
For a few pence you may ob-
tain a little phial of wizard
invention. Frozoi-lce. recently dis-
covered by. an eminent chemist'.
Merely inquire of any
chemist for a tiny bottle
of Frozol-Ice. Put a few
drops on to. a sensitive,
throbbing corn or callous and.
like a flasu. all soreness goes
away, and soon you find , the corn or
allous so t loose that you Can lift -it
ight out-with the fingers.
nig Frozol-Ice. or
slightest inflammation
flesh.
afterward. Not the
of surrounding healthy
Corns between the toes, hard corns, soft
corns, also toughened callouses on the bottom
of the feet wither up and fall off without
hurting one wee bit. Frozol-lee is a scientific
substance manufactured from ether, and the
genuine is always sold in these little bottles,
inside a round, green carton.
Ilefuse" false' imitations with similar names.
Drinking Water
With Meals Stops
Stomach Disorders
Thou.sail (Is of unfortunate people suffer
almost daily from dyspepsia, indigestion fer-
mentation. sour acid stomach, flatulence
gases or distress after eating, if they would
mily form the agreeable habit of slowly drink-
ing with each meal a glassful of hot water
containing a teaspoonful of pure Salix Mag-
nesia. they would soon find their stomach so
much strengthened and improved that thev
might eat the richest and most satisfying
meats without the least symptom of indiges
balix Magnesia is highly effective in stomach
and intestinal disorders, and is very p easlnt
to the taste, and in the form of fine powder
-—never liquid or milk, and is not a laxative
rids-£mx°MagmS iSt 7 °"
Happy Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ITnst'eii. little Muse ! .
Here's a pleasing dhty
You will not refuse:
Sing my lady’s grace, hymn my lady’s
beauty!
Eyes! Delicious pools
Where light dances, smiling.
Lips! Despair of fools
Tempted by their sweets, stung by their
beguiling.
Sing, dear Muse, the bond
That no use can sever!
Fair she is, and -fond,
But the truth of hem seals my thrall for
ever!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Nutters and Squashers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f INHERE is a vast iron shed that vibrates;
I and echoes to the roar and clang of!
machinery. In this shed stand rows
of jostling women nutting peaches. Most
of these “operatives” are practised. But I
- r I am a hesitating novice, losing valuable
moments in consideration of the fruit’s 'fit-
ness for human food. Shall I put this
pulpy peach frankly into the rubbish bucket
or shall I doctor it —cut out the canker, trim
it to shape? Or shall I smuggle the bad
thing in with the good, running the gauntlet •
of the forewoman’s eye? Thus, the victim
of indecision, I lose payable time —already
a pennyworth has flown.
Not so the grubby woman on my right.
She falters not. Either the fruit is fit or
it is not. With her it is Judgment Day
and she is Jehovah. Her fruit she div.des 5
unerringly—sheep and goats. Is the peach
good? Then it is a sheep. Into the '
rapidly-filling fruit-bucket with it; and into
the rubbish-tin with the goat! Yet this
dirty Judge is not absolutely relentless in
her judgments. In her patient moods she
can, and does, make allowance for those
which may he said to liay.s (he attributes of
both animals. There is a : sort of half-
way house for such, and she tempers justice
with mercy and commits them therein —a
tin of salt water. Into this the lmlf-and-
halfer splashes to soak lest it become all
goat before it becomes all jam. For a full
tin of half-breeds she will receive one pound
of jam from the proprietors. In this way
the Aurora Borealis Jam Co. fosters the
spirit of thrift among its toilers. And 1
like this dirty Judge for her tolerance of
those poor peaches, almost human as they are
in their mixed and muddled condition of
being neither very good nor very bad, and
their tendency to become more and more
goat without her helping hand.
■But her mercy'stopped at inanimate mat-
ter. I found ; for when her supply of fruit
ran out temporarily she raided m.v bench.
She is of the bandit class that flourishes
here, preying upon the timid newcomer.
Thus, under cover of “I’ll pay you back, I
don't think,” she cheekily runs her arms
through my peach mound, quickly selecting
all my “first quality.” Being afraid of her
hard, compelling eye. 1 cower in spirit, while
essaying a de’il-may-eare manner of cama-
raderie. We are Socialists. “What’s mine
is yours', brother,” I say in effect. “Ila.
ha, comrade,” says she (also in effect) “of
course it is.” When I am not worth rob-
bing any more she goes hemdf to the vat
for supplies.
The vat is a big. square cauldron contain-
ng caustic solution into which peaches fall
through an iron contrivance like a wind
vane. 1 call this thing Cornucopia. The
bandit and I meet here, but she does not
avail herself of the opportunity the vat-full
of bobbing fruit affords to fill her tin.
Instead, she leans forward at a dangerous
angle, holding the vessel right beneath Cor-
nucopia. But she catches nothing, for the
horn of plenty is not bestowing largesse at
present. It seems to have run dry. Other
bandits are cheek-by-jowl, jostling and push-
ing in the same way, ho’ding their tins light
under Plenty’s horn. Oh, well, it only
proves how foolish even a bandit may be.
Not so I. My wish is to fill my tin with
a view to nutting the peaches and eventu-
ally netting the proceeds; but with these
Women three deep round the vat. how is it
to be done? With hostility they let me in;
then seem anxious to let me out again. My
bandit fishes up a wire scoop from the
depths of the vat and hands it to me. “You
first,” I say politely. “No. no!” she de-
clares hotly, in reply. “You ’ave it. you’re
noo. I’ll take me charnce.” So I take the
thing and literally scoop the pool, ladling
great heaps of fruit from the vat into my
bucket. Flushed with pleasure at so much
accomplished toward a competence, I offer
the scoop to the crowding, bandits. They
refuse it en masse, and w fh a dispirited
"Z-zook” it sinks to the bottom.
The battlers were still surrounding
1 lentys horn as I left. They were awaiting
something. What? Xu.’ matter ; I at least
have a good bucketful. Suddenly there is a
crashing and whirring of wheels overhead.
A big belt stiffens and flogs the air. and
Cornucopia begins to spout again—good
peaches; clean peaches, slip-stones 1 A perfect
downpour Now are. my eves opened. 1 see
the bandits guiding their' tins 'skilfully, to
be filled as by magic with good stuff. Other
tins, till now • concealed, are floated along
the vat s waters.; Guided to the cataract,
they too are instantly filled with slip-stones,
so that many of the women have now half
a dozen tins full \of "first duality." Others
of the banditti ini their rapacity even seek
to tear aside. Cornucopia’s whiskers. Did
I say that the Horn wore a beard? It does'.
A ragged affair which, being analysed./proves
to be half a sack that partly shrouds the
mouth, thus allowing; the fruit ,to fall dis-
creetly. whereas, were the Horn, shaved,
so to speak, the fruit-yield would,/be rough
and unseemly. Bitter.ly I go on nutting,
finding scarcely a good pekeh in, my lot. now
seeing plainly that I filled my vessel with
the rejects of Cornucopia’s last spouting.
Later on we neweomeirs try the same
trick of trade. We have borne down upon
,< ornucopia s vat just as the ' bandits have
left it. when “Here, , herd, vousT assails
our ears. The voice sten'toiflan, - bull-like,
smashes what little cooddenW we have left.
It emerges from the short. {wide neck of a
forewoman. We, who have, hitherto lived
blameless lives as regards “picking over, - ’
have been led astray by example. Like the
■departed bandit wo are tholdi'n/g our tins right
under the Horn’s whisiker,'hoping the god-
dess may spout again, /and,, not wily enough
to gull the forewoman, anycaught in the act.
She beats our vessels-aside with the scoop
and gnashes her strong'teeth at the tyros.
“Stand in’ there all day,” she bellows.
“ pickin'. D’.vous know L can stick yous at
a minit’s notice f’ that?/' nickin'! An’ any-
one can see if they’ve got a duck’s sense
that th’ tool)” (she knows it not as Cor-
nucopia) "ain’t workin’l Carn’t y’seo Bill’s
gone f more casus?, You nhght wait.
Here!” Ruthlessly she seizes the scoop arid
loads us with “sawifts” and “splits”——stuff
that wouldn’t be payable at treble the 21 d.
which is the rate.
Returning to my bench I find it piled with
rubbish—more bandit trickery. Now I shall
need waste twopence 1 ha’penny worth of time
carrying tins to the tip. It is no use com-
plaining—the forewoman wouldn’t hear me
in the din: and rather than tackle the offen-
der I would be a scavenger for aye. So I
avenge myself by snubbing my left-hand
neighbor, a. limpet-like, creature who asks my
poor advice on everything. She has a peach
poised on a cutter. “D’you think this’ll he
good enough?” she asks. “J’think I better
edit that mark off?”
Oh. bother.'’ I bawl hack through
the noise. “Don’t you ever paddle your own
canoe?”
“My wha-at?”
“Canoe!”
"What’s that?”
"( -A-N-O-E,” T yell- -“boat.” \
She stares mystified, then makes answer:
"Is it a transport? Because, me brother’s
on a transport with a name like that, an’
it’s”——
“Oh. shut up.” I gibber, as I stagger off to
the tip.
“Jest give me a couple to top me tin,”
says another voice opposite a while later.
‘‘Carn’t get near the vat with that lot.”
She indicates Cornucopia and the shoving,
crowd around her. and projects a naw. sticky,
cracked with caustic, and bleeding from a
gash on the nalrn. This is an obese woman
whose many contours rest slothfuliy upon
the fruit and framework impartially. In
common with most, she is spattered with
juices, and her apron is glazed with sac-
charine. But among her tousled hair she
wears, all unconscious, an oldish peach, with
tropical effect.. And somehow a recollection
of “Carmen” comes to me, and amid the thud
and clang the Toreador’s song.
Just then I peel mv hand in mistake
lor the fruit, and am laid un for repairs.
Awakening. I find myself in an alley amid
a school of tubs full of nuts and peeling
Lvery few minutes a Goliath pair of iron
clips, belonging apparently to sonic monster
on the roof, swing past me and. putting their
feelers round a tub. carry it away through
an orifice in the wall, returning again for
moie and more tubs——seemingly something in
there is insatiable. “Where tubs going?” I
listlessly impure of a youth. “Jelly b’use.
Ah’, if you don’t shift you'll be going there
To. I thank the kindly lad for the hint,
.uivmg myself noticed something personal
about the feelers—as though they- were
searching for someone, possibly me.
Through openings in the wall * I see a
strange panorama of moving, swaying, re-
volving. sliding, champing metals.. Not a
toot o, snace but some iron demon is doing
ns n 1 toward breaking down the nervous
system of all within earshot. In that iron
smd the god of Madhine'iy is rmtrom
(Ilearning palely among its dark mysteries
are the faces of its captives—girls and boys,
crouched, vibrating incessantly. All are busy
appeasing Machinery. Some are feeding its
many mouths with square bits of tin, or
dropping vile-sme.ling chemicals into its
valves. One. perched in Machinery's interior,
is drawing yards of tin ribbon from its in-
ternals and winding it round a crank br-
other mechanism. Smutty boys are lifting
with glor ed hands sheets of tin and putting
them on a roller. A .revolution or sou and
the flat material emerges the round and
shapely makings of a jam-tin; then starts
to slide away to where another smutty o.»y
shall make a complete job oft it.
There are ropes and ropes of tliese sus-
Pended and partly-made tins. The effect is
elegant, suggestive of Peace decorations or
the mating of royalties. A faint jangling of
the tinware not unlike the sound of a Japan-
ese wind-bell filters through the clangor, and
I think dreamily of that lovely thing,
.“Wind Among the Boilers.” by Jan Str.v-
kiski. Through apertures I see boys build-
ing obelisks.of tinned goods and forming hol-
low squares of boxes. Piles of glass jars
ascend to the roof and monoliths of pickle-
bottles gleam in stately beauty.
Sitting there, all n-jig on my vibrating box,
memory awakes, and again I tread on
weary feet the arcades and annexes of the
sreat Exhibition. As I pass some “hand ’
gives me a memento even as in that carnival
time of long ago. Then it was. a glass pear
in which was cm b alded a model of the Exhi-
bition. ' Now, it is a pear again, in which is
embedded; a worm. History ever repeats
itself I muse, wiping the scattered fruit
from my features.
As I sit and recover strength for the fur-
ther conquest of Peach, other illusions assail
me. Not many paces away a row of girls
stand before a “race”—-a moving belt w. ioh
gl'di'S through the centre of their work-bencli.
carrying upon its surface innumerable tins
°‘ preserves. The girls snatch these as they
arrive, add hot water, and the tins proceed
on their way. The “race” unalterable,
stealthy in its action, changes under my
eyes into the ancient Nile. Upon its bosom,
not tins, but swans, glide by in stately
"Heigh, Miss! D’you want to get run
over? Better get!”
The vision of old grey Nile, of stately
birds and Egyptian slaves, fades, as the
voice of the lorry-driver brings me back, and
I “get.”
The air is rent by a screech. Another ! It
is dinner-time.
The luncheon hour is a horror of" strug-
gling women lighting for hot water round a
furnace. Women from the bottle-room, from
the packing-room, from the machine-room.
Nutters -squashers—peelers. The “din.ing-
room” is crowded, so the new hands sit any-
where. poised upon great vegetable marrows
or nestling into crates full of bottles. Over
the great building a calm lias fallen. The
looped belts of tins are motionless. Those
upon, the race are still. Cornucopia, too, is
silent —her whiskers full of fruit arrested in
the very moment of evacuation.
Thirty minutes. The god’s nap is over.
He gives a shriek and resumes his meal of
tin. Men deal clanging blows upon -his iron
limbs. Pale devotees dive into his internals
with oil bottles and black rags. The -
pended tins traverse the belts again, and the
“race” glides on with its burden.
“Pet me through, you bandits.” I cry. as
I grab a tin and push it under Cornucopia’s
beard.
M. S.
Devil’s Breath.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ASKS to bo useful for war purposes
have to bo (1) lethal or irritating,
12) heavier than air. and (3)' easily
manufactured and handled. The gases used
in the earlier part of the (ireat War did not
fill all these requirements. Because they
were experimental the Iluns probably did
not care to spend very much money upon
them, and therefore at first used chlorine,
with which they slaughtered the Canadians
at Ypres. This is a cheap gas. capable of
being manufactured by the ton by 'the elec-
trolysis of sea-water. The British chemists
saw at once that, if gas was to be a weapon
of warfare, something that would give Fritz
a lot more trouble could be produced. Chlo-
rine weighs only 21 atmospheres and is effec-
tive 1 oart in 10.000. Now. a 21 atmosphere
gas is too light for propulsion in a shell, as
the explosion necessarv to burst the metal
container dissipates it too - rapidly. More-
over cloud-gas attacks, for which alone it
was suitable, became for llie most part use-
less against helmets and masks. They also
were frequently impracticable because of the
weight ot the cylinders, the number neces-
sary. the danger to one’s own side, and the
uncertainty of getting the proper breeze at
the proper time to blow the gas across.
So it came about that both sides got down
to shell and projector gas. the former being
iired from any gun or howitzer in almost
any kind of shell; the latter propelled from
hundreds of mortars I short lengths of metal
tubing closed at the base) connected with
electric batteries. The advantages of shell
and projector gas over cloud gas were that
nothing was wasted in the journey over No
Man s Land, it could be dropped right on
the required spot without regard to the
strength or direction of the wind, and an at-
tack of unlimited intensify or duration was
possible.
The principal enemy gases for shells and
projectors were phosgene, diphosgene, chloro-
picrin. 25 forms of mustard gas, sneezing or
Blue Cross gas. Green Cross gas and tear gas.
The lethal phosgene weighed 3J atmos?
phe res. its minimum effective concentration
(M.E.C.) was lin 20,000. it was practically
colorless —sometimes slightly whitish—and
smelt rather like musty hay. It was mixed
with tear, sneezing, irritating and vomiting
gases.
Diphosgene was totally different from phos-
gene. It weighed 74 atmospheres, and there-
fore hung about near the ground longer,
was colorless and odorless, and had ah
M.E.C. of 1 in .40,000. Its proper name is
trichlormethylchloroformate. It also was
mixed with the irritants, A good whiff of
it meant lifelong misery, and two good
breaths a little wooden cross in France.
Chloropicrin smelt like bad honey, weighed
S atmospheres, and had an M.E.C. of 1 in
SO.OOO. It was not lethal, but as it instan-
taneously produced violent coughing and
vomiting:; it caused one to get rid of his mask
and breathe in the phosgene or diphosgene.
Blue Cross gas came over in a shell with
a yellow head, on which was stamped a blue
cross. It whs a nasal and throat irritant,
and was, like chloropicrin, sent over to make
men tear off their masks and breathe in
death. Thousands of Diggers at Zonnebeko
lost their voices for weeks with Blue Cross
»as. Its proper name is diphenylchlorarsine.
The tear gases were the first ones used
m shells. They were generally scented, like
pineapple or something else as pleasant. They
weighed 84 atmospheres, and had an M.E.C.
of 1 in 1,000,(XX). Their Sunday names
benzyle bromide and xylyle bromide.
1 lie 2;> mustard gases were variants of
the two principal ones—diehtorethvlsulphide.
or Mustard (las No. 1; and efhyldichlorar-
sinc. or Mustard (las No. 2. No.' 1 M. 6.
weighed 71 atmospheres, and had an M.E.C.
of I in 600.000: It was often 3een lying
about as a thick, heavy liquid, waiting for
someone to disturb it. It was carried on
hoots and clothes into warm dugouts. when
it immediately vaporised and played hell.
Nu. 2 M.(l. weighed 74 atmospheres. One
part in .>O,OOO parts of air was extremely
ciangerous. Any mustard gas affected the
skin, nerves, lungs, air-passages, eyes, and
practically every part of the body.' It was
common to see men in delirium from the
effects of it. Each blister formed by it
caused other blasters. Blisters on the lungs
caused bronchitis and broncho-pneumonia
and dreadful agony, until the, blistering of
(he whole lung killed the sufferer. Photo-
phobia. or set pupil, conjunctivitis, blind-
ness through rubbing (in consequence of the
dreadful irritation), and a .lackadaisical,
tii cd-of-l’fe-feehng were also among the
cherts el this invention, of Kultur.
The British gases are still sdcrcts. but
our famous “B.B.” gas beat in devilishness
anything the Bermans had. It was invented
during the war. and nlayed a tremendous
part in smashing, the enemy morale. On the
burst of the ‘•B.B.” shell a heavy drifting
cloud hung about, or was carried on the
wind, remaining close to the ground, lmw-
over. In the shell it was liquid, and some of
this liquid remained on the ground, sfowlv
vaporising for days. The cloud on at least
one occasion drifted a mile, with a 12-mile-
per-liour wind, and then caused serious'
casualties. It attacked the eyes and resph'a-
ton organs mainly, and a concentration of
1 pait in more than a million caused blind-
ness and loss mf voice. Its M.E.C. point was
1 in 100,000.000. One characteristic was
the absence of immediate effect. Whole Gor-
man battalions had to be evacuated a dav or
oven two days after our gas-shell bombard-
Wl thout anyone noticing any earlier
meet, and on many occasions, as \vo know
on° m on (,ermau (]o< ' nmp nts. hundreds fell dead
-0 .40. or. even 40 hours after breathing in
a little of our 8.8.’’
Many men, after long periods of excellent
service m the field, suddenly started to soil
their conduct-sheets, and even to receive
ap . n^ nt ' es - Mv opinion, formed
ng three waiters of gas work in France
Wlth [ ,l ' r Infantry, is that many of these
of P H,a eteil °!- ntPrl ,- ils nn unrecognised result
on rL° Pera - tlo i n ° f Solllf> of the above poisons
Dte tn 4 1,11,1 ’ ,,i(l ’’ eS ' 11 not too
reviewed * ‘ lne " S c:,s, ' s sympathetically
BLANC.


Major
rm
jL_
~rl
V-L. L-*^
W±
ii
Begs’** *a
-
y*?r*sm
jIH
nn 0i3!19 5MMff" vSfr
no l}lsl'J!^l* | V'' , ' , ' ,,,
»K- ft
V:
m
Q
r:*o^-
-Jl—>
fcC
N
i£SJUH
m
A Technical
Industry that
assisted
Australasia to
become Self-
supporting during
the war period.
We manufacture at our two modern factories
under expert supervision
High-grade
Paints and C^olors
of Every Description.
Proved by analysis and Government test to be equal to the world s best in quality, price
and attractive appearance.
The following are a few of our 220 lines of manufactures. Ask your storekeeper, painter
or merchant, or write to us direct.
“Majora” Mill White.
A Sanitary Paste Water Paint. Only requires mixing with
cold water. Gives a beautiful, hard, porcelain finish on
w r alls, plaster, brick and stone, also for ceilings, dairies, sheds,
factories or homesteads. The cheapest and most intense
white produced. Ask for pamphlet. A 1 41b. tin covers 800
square feet.
“BBB” Prepared Paint.
READY MIXED PAlNT.—Contains no useless or weighted
sediment, but is a full tin of good, reliable paint, which is
offered at a price sufficiently low to enable the man with
limited means to protect his property against corrosion and
decay. “The absolute minimum of cost. For interior and
exterior.” One gallon covers 850 square feet.
Majora Chemically-Pure Mixed Paint
Prepared Paints (chemically pure, ready for the brush).—
Prepared in 24 beautiful shades, also Black and White. This
paint gives absolutely sure results. The most inexperienced
person readily obtains the highest decorative and lasting
results on both interior and exterior work. Suited to cottage,
homestead and mansion. One gallon covers 9 0 square feet.
(See color card.) This line is noted for its excellence of
manufacture.
“Galvo” Roof Paint.
Patent Oil Paint (ready for the brush). —The best non-
poisonous, protective paint yet discovered for roofs, galvan-
ised or black iron and other metal work. Red, Grey, White
and Bangor Slate. Used by Government departments. One
gallon covers 900 square feet. (See color chart.)
Testimony of our Products.
MIIX WHITE. —Used on Sydney Art Gallery,, Hotel Australia, etc. ■ . , , .
“MAJORA” PREPARED PAINTS.—Used on railway station buildings throughout Australasia. Tested and approved of by Ginernment Analyst.
“GAUVO” PATENT ROOF PAINT.—Used on Queensland’s largest bridge—Queen s Bridge, Brisbane; also by N.S.W. and Queensland Railvvays.
“B.B.B.” BRAND PREPARED PAINT.—Used extensively throughout Australia and New Zealand. Sold by all up-to-date storekeepers.
Manufacturers of Stainers, Dryers, Colors in Oil, Putty, Enamels,. Ships’ Anti-fouling
Compositions, all Marine Paints, Cement Paints, Kalsomine Water-paints, Engineers and
Decorators’ Paints; also for Railway Rolling Stock Makers.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS:
James D. Sloan & Co.,
259 Albert Square,
Brisbane.
VICTORIAN AGENTS:
Henry Olsen & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Collins Street,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
George Evans & Co.,
Cliff Street,
Fremantle.
NEW ZEALAND AGENT:
Harry A. Jenkins,
Baker’s Buildings,
Wellington.
Contractors to the Navy, the Principal Government Departments throughout Australasia.
MAJOR BRO*S. CO
Paint, Color and Chemical Manufacturers,
Paint and Chemical Works: Snails Bay.
Color Works: Johnston’s Bay.
Exchange Corner, Sydney.


*WSS.
Qsezy Occasion.
ABBOTS LAGER
c 7Ap73eer MitAout a Vdtia/
BREWED rcon TORE MAET§IIORy ONiy
\
Amusements.
T° WN HAiTE; MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY, OCTOBER 4.
E. J. CARROLL presents
the sentimental bloke,
a Screen Classic ill eight Acts, adapted from
0. J. Dennis’s world-famous verses.
rrir J r( ie author writes: ‘‘lt is a marvellous achieve-
ment. The characters I created are living- on the
screen.” 6
Plans at Allan’s.
LARGE SUPPLIES OF MACHINE TOOLS, representing
e very latest Practice in Manufacturing, have now arrived and are
being prepared for exhibition in our Showrooms.
CHAS. E. YOUNG,
Sole Agent for ALBERT HERBERT, LTD
MACHINE TOOL MAKERS AND IMPORTERS (Coventry, England)**
57 GEORGE ST. NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY (Aust.).
MACHINE TOOLS IN STOCK OR ON THE WATER.-
Hexagon Turret Lathes,
Combination Turret Lathes,
Capstan Lathes,
Vertical Milling Machines,
Universal and Plain Horizontal Millers
Bail Bearing Drills,
Cylindrical Grinders,
Internal Grinders,
Oscillating Tool Grinders,
Tool Grinding Machines,
Surface Grinders,
Universal Tool and Cutter Grinders
Sheet Metal Cutting- Machines,
Universal Wood Working Machines
Screw Machines,
High Speed Uathes,
Dieheads and Dies,
Grinding Wheels,
Small Tools.
\ri?rp^Sc EX F^S T AT YOUR COMMAND TO ADVISE ON MODERN MANUFACTTTRmn
SUPPLIED. AND T ° INSTRUCT 0N THE EFFICIENT HANDLING OF AL^PLANT
rwit ph ° ne fi : ( Aur. M’ 1 ' 0 , 9, , 101 , 10 - Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Lathe,” Sydney
U°d es used: ABC, Lieber g, Western Union, an d Private. " ''
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Going Up”
Criterion “A Tailor-made Man”
“ OTAL “ ’Possum Paddock”
“Daddies”
livoli “The Officers’ Mess”
„ Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOll COMING WEEK
Her Majesty’s “Maytime”
yfZii “Lightnin”’
T IVOLI “Old Lady 31”
MAiE R S Trc ELUSE&LU ECM Moving Pictures
Melb! Moving Pictures
Town Hall “The Sentimental Bloke”
The Tarts’ severely domestic play is a
barrel ot molasses, and should draw every
sentimental fly in Sydney to the Palace.
i.iuaJ’ „ , y 18 ev,en sweeter than dear
old Maw who used to make jam in “Turn
to the Right.’’ Parker, the aged butler, is
good and kind to the verge of idiocy, and
"Going Up," at Sydncy
Majesty's.
Frith after his flying
victory.
when he is openly
referred to as “dear
old faithful
Parker” he doesn’t
give notice as an
ordinary human
would. And as for
dear che-ildren, the
author simply pelts
hi s unfortunate
audience with
them, then piles
the stage with toys,
and dares every
parent in the
house to dry the
starting tear. The
play was written
lor the higlily-emo-
tional United
States when that
country had de-
cided to show what
a Great Big Heart
it possessed. But
author John L.
Hobble’s nursery
raid now look’s
rather silly in Aus-
tralia. The kids
are all right, but
the stage bachelors
seem to know they
, are making them-
selves look foolish. The female char-
acters demand the contrast of one vinegary
aunt; though if such a character had been
introduced she would have been turned into
a bag of candy in the last act.
Beatrice Esmond smiles and looks hand-
sonie as Mrs. Audrey, mother of the petted
author- the latter played quietly by Jerome
Jratriek. George Bryant, as the oldest
bachelor, snarls naturally until reduced to
tond imbecility by his adopted child. Cyril
Mack ay is the next best father. Grade
JJorran makes a gentle appeal for sympathy
as the flapper into whose hands the young
author is delivered, gagged and bound. Greta
rjrunelle, as the American daughter of the
house, flits through the story in pretty
dresses, and Roland Rushton dodders as the
aged butler without whom no family play
is complete. G. Kay Souper towers behind
a living rampart of three children and en-
deavors to pat three small heads at once.
And little Elva Powrie cries so naturally
that scores yearn to spank her. The piece
is brightly mounted.
_ Th e Sydney season of the J. C. W. Grand
Opera Co. ended on Wednesday night with
a mixed bill. Director Frank Rigo has
tabulated the performances, and the score-
sheet reads this way: “Cavalleria” and
H aghacci,” 7; “Bolieme,” 9; “Trovatore.”
7; “Faust,” 8; “Lucia,” 6; “Rigeletto,” 3;
"Butterfly,” 7; “Carmen,” 0; Total, 53.
On Monday night Amy Castles was unable
to appear as Mimi in “Bolieme,” so Parti
Russell sang and died successfully as the
little Bohemian. The graceful young singer
scored well earlier in the season as Nedda
in “Pagliacci.” “Going Up” begins at Her
Majesty’s to-night (Thursday)..
t!« * *
Many sober and l substantial citizens of
Sydney will pad along to have another look
at “The Officers' Mess” and see how the new
dancing pair do the modern gyrations that
everyone is learning. The latest experts
are billed as “Valentine Adami and Andree
Flo, the Acme of Grace and Perfection.”
Innumerable stout men and women want to
be acmes, so trade at the Tivoli should be
brisk.
M. B. Figman and lxilita Robertson re-
move to Sydney Cri. next Saturday night
with “A Tailor-made Man.”
:I:
“The Little Lost Sister” finds her way
home nightly for this week only at Sydney
Opera House.
Little sister was lost one day ;
To Chicago the bad man lured her;
But the high cost of living the city way
Of the cabaret taste quite cured her.
** * *
“’Possum Paddock” is still being sprinkled
with shillings at Sydney _Royal, and Fred
“Going Up,” at Sydney
Majesty's.
Harry Wooton as
Gordon, inn manager.
Macdonald raises a
yell every night
when, with a side-
glance at the shy
bush-girls, he an-
nounces his inten-
tion of “puttin’ the
acid on ’em.’’
Sydney Crystal
Palace is still
throwing the high
lights on the after-
business hours of
the superior typist.
Alice Brady is the
girl with the beer
income and the
champagne taste.
Put does she come
a cropper in the
end? And does she
embezzle the office
stamp-money to pay
for her jewels?
She does not. She
gets two bona-
fide offers of marriage,' and end's (with-
out consequences) in “The World to
Live In.” The Lyceum feature, “The
White Heather,” brings to memory the
days of Bland Holt bellow-drama. Mrs.
Wiggs, of the Cabbage Patch, is a
cool, green spot in the hectic atmos-
phere of the week’s screenings. Marguerite
Clark is the Lovey Mary who learns the
philosophy of the patch with her adopted
orphan brother. The Haymarket shows the
picture, and at the same house Wm. Hart
falls in love with a girl in a wheat-loaf
shop during the bread shortage. “Branding
Broadway” is the title. Brieux’s “Damaged
Goods,” at the Australian Palace Theatre,
is the same compelling story as it was in
the spoken version; but for some reason
known only to the producers the scenes have
an American background.
The Taits stress the fact that “Old Lady
31” at Melbourne King’s is an “out-of-the-
way play.” In this instance the tongue of
bold advertisement wags truly. It is a play
of familiar types of character applied to an
entirely new idea; and with even less pre-
tence of plot than “Mrs. Wiggs of the Cab-
bage Patch, ’ it has a better distribution of
good acting parts. People get a good many
laughs out of “Old Lady 31.” They don’t
burst into roars of merriment or go into
convulsions as when a low comedian falls
downstairs, but they have the same sort
of feeling of being amused that steals gently
o’er us when the curate tells a really funny
story about the parishoner with a glass-eye.
Everybody’s sense of humor has a better
side than, say, the annual pantomime dame
appeals to, and it is to this better side that
“Old Lady 81” turns. If .theatres were
open on Sundays the romance of Abe and
Angie and her 29 elderly sisters would be
a standard attraction. By the way, only
10 of the other seasoned nymphs are pre-
sented, but the residue are there in the
spirit.
** * *
“Lightnin’,” at Melbourne Royal, con-
tinues- to offer suggestions of “Rip Van
v\ inkle, ‘Struck Oil.” “Trial by Jury” and
a few other things. Not that Bill, the'white-
haired boozer of uncertain age, gets lost for
—0 years, or that the lease of his pub is
ever secreted under the hearthstone,' or that
witnesses burst into song in Judge Towns-
end’s court—it is only a gentle reminder of
the plays aforementioned that one gets from
•Lightnin’.” As to whether its solid busi-
ness success is due to the long-winded char-
acter of old Bill, or the ingeniously-con-
structed court scene where the course of his
Honor s love is made smooth by a decree
absolute—opinion seems to be divided. This
journal votes for the court scene, on account
ot its adroit mingling of interests.
** * *
nr uzz I ,llzz h as speeded up at Melbourne
livoli, and the earnest endeavors of Minnie
“Buzz-Buss," at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Steff Macdonald sings
"K-K-K-Katie.”
Love, Phil Smith
and co. raise much
approving dust. In
the penultimate
sketch Smith
almost loses his
identity in the dis-
guise of a Yankee
play-producer who
muses behind half
a yard of cigar,
but in “Coupons
for Kisses” lie is
the same Smith as
usu a 1, frivolling
with Minnie under
conditions that
finally speak for
themselves in a
shower of coupons.
Also, he happens
as Shamlock in a
brief burlesque of
the Trial Scene
from “The Mer-
chant,” where the
leading lady limits
him to his pound
of meat, and Laur-
ence Ha rdi n g e
gives a dignified
impersonation of
Ilambonio.
The nights of
La u d e r at Mel-
bourne Princess’s
last till Saturday, when the braw Scawtch
comedian will invite his audience to
a really final deoch and doris. Mean-
while he is loving to be a sailor, and dis-
coursing in song and patter of the days when
he was 21. Eddy Montrose seems to have
surpassed all previous clowns in Melbourne
estimation, and the imminent departure of
Muriel indow, with her new amazements
m, sc f nt apparel, is spoken of regretfully.
Ihe loss of two or three other items in
the Lauder programme can be borne with-
out a shudder or a sigh.
At Melbourne Town Hall the Verbrugghen
orchestra gives one more performance to-
night, and matinees to-morrow and Satur-
day, after which the stage will bo devoted
to the screening of “The Sentimental Bloke.”
* * *
The run of “Maytime” at Melbourne
Majesty s has settled down into a jog-trot,
but the announcement of Last Nights is not
yet out.
?■ * * *
Charlie Chaplin has come into his own
again at Melbourne Majestic. Charlie is
leading a rural life——milking the cow and
performing with an active and intelligent
buH. A!so at the Majestic, Mitchell Lewis
in Life s Greatest Problem,” a Chester
outing picture, and a pleasing moral exhor-
tation which confirms even the most thought-
less in a growing conviction that babies
are made to be saved.
Hoyt’s Pictures in Melbourne are show-
ing Theda Bara in “Under the Yoke”—
matinees at the De Luxe and evenings at
the _ Lyceum; also, Vivian Martin goes a-
wooing at both theatres. Douglas Fair-
banks, however, is appearing at the De Luxe
only. Douglas is something of a returned
inodigal as far as pictures are concerned,
and his adventures “In Arizona” are fea-
re Tj OutsMe of these chief attractions
the Hoyt programmes range from the intense
to the instructive.
As the Critic sees Miss Allen’s show :- —
Two or three doubtful canvases in Mary Allen’s
show at the Fine Art Society, Melbourne, tend to
lower the average of achievement. Student stuflf is,
of course, inevitable from a young performer; but
Golden Girl” and “Indian Fancy” needn’t have been
included. Of later portraits the study of Edward
Goll is a capital example of a likeness seized and set
down swiftly without the slightest flattery or com-
promise. The same quality is visible in Miss Allen’s
view of Marcus Collins, and she only damages the
likeness of G. R. Mayers by muddling the shadow on
the left side of the face. That weakness in the hand-
ling of shadows is responsible for the minor casualties
in the exhibition. An ill-considered facial shadow
weighs rather heavily on “The Lady with a Glove,”
and the otherwise charming study of Rosemary
(No. 38) is marred by a shadow giving the throat
the appearance of an anatomical curiosity. But she
has large possibilities as a colorist, and when she
fully exerts her talent and imagination she produces
canvases of repose and sweetness that the hardest
critic would be happy to live with. “The Straw
Hat,’ “Beatrice,” “The Steel Mirror,” “Study in
Grey and Gold” and one or two others easily com-
pensate for the failures.
The Muriel Starr success continues at
Adelaide Royal. “The Silent Witness” is
"Buzz-Buzz” at
Melbourne, Tivoli.
Minnie Love as
Matilda.
a poor thing for two
acts; then it brisks
up for the murder-
trial. The actual
homicide, however, is
not convincing. When
a man’s head has to
be smashed against a
tree the film manages
it much more?- realisti-
cally than the stage
can. Frank Harvey is
no w b e i n g brought
back from scenes of
dissipation in
Shanghai, Honolulu
and elsewhere by the
Patented Starr
method. The Majestic
bill is much as before,
except that Florence
Fox replaces Peggy
Pryde, and the “Boy
Blue” panto, at the
King’s is an Unassum-
ing success for a lot
of cle v e rly-trained
kiddie s. Wonder-
graph shows Wallace
Be id, Ethel Clayton
an d Mac k Scnnett
three times a day, and
West’s have a remark-
able tragedy of a man
who supposes himself
engaged to the niece
v on •it is really the
aunt who lias written to accept him.
Musical Adelaide is particularly well
catered for at the moment. The J. C. W.
Opei’a Co. is coming in at the Royal; and
Verbrugghen’s 80 players have a series of
concerts at the same time. Locally, Brew-
ster Jones has introduced at the Town Hall
the London plan of “promenading” during a
performance, and at the Conservatorium
1 rof Harold Davies gives lectures illus-
trated by music—or performances illumi-
nated by clever talk.
On Thursday, Sept. 25, while Hughes’s
stirring slogan, “Australia’s only salvation
is work, work, work!” was sounding its
loudest through, the land, the House of Reps,
knocked off because there was an agricul-
tural show in Melbourne. Hughes himself
asked it to do the loaf.
Lots of Sydney people still remember Will
barnes, who got his first chance in Aus-
tralia when he designed the dresses for “Djin
Hjm. Will is now a leading theatrical
designer in New York, and lias been work-
mg since March on the Hippodrome show
called Happy Land,” which was the Sep-
tember rage. Of the 500 performers in the pro-
duction one is Tasmanian Arthur Geary •
another is Bert Levy, who is quite an in-
stitution at this vast amusement hall.
h rom this paper’s Melbourne art critic:
In the notice of the Meldnim art show the other
day I unwittingly confused young A. Colquhoun with
his celebrated dad. When, a son bears the same
initial as his father, it is. usual to distinguish him
by dubbing him “Junior” ; but the Meldrum school,
original even in its contempt for these useful con-
ventions, simply printed the offspring on the cata-
logue as “A. Colquhoun,” and thereby left room for
the error aforesaid.
“DADDIES.”
There were five foolish bachelors who swore they’d
never marry;
They dined together now and then and gave then-
college cry ;
A screaming infant was a load they guessed they’d
never carry.
But good old Mother fed the lot and winked the other
eye.
(She wanted children round the house, for she was
sweet as pie.)
Her handsome son was peevish and he spent his days
in writing
Sweet stories for the papers, in a study far too
clean.
His playmates danced around him of his prowess
fondly skiting;
It seemed a trifle stupid, for he didn’t earn a bean.
Girls played up with his spelling—breakfast simply
turned him green.
Then came the war in Europe, and the sentimental
Mother
Urged all to father orphans, which they had to do
as sports.
The author drew a flapper, and the fact I cannot
smother
That Mumma’s petted scribbler could no "more re-
strain his snorts ;
His blessed “inspirations” had set sail for other
ports.
His mates were swamped with children while he
played at making “copy” ;
His flapper sang around the house, his mother
fondly smiled ;
The audience sat and wondered, for the play was
very sloppy,
And every doting bachelor was sat on by a child.
(A play of toys and nursery joys : —a play marked
“extra mild.”)
Of course dear Mother’s author took the flapper she
intended ;
Ihe oldest bachelor went mad and pranced ir
reins and bells ;
The tallest man got three strange kids, and so 'me
orgy ended
With orange-blossom in the air, and whooping-cough
and yells.
(In this line of weird dramatic goods the U.S.A.
excels.)
N.S.W.
KODAK.


A Titan Among Tyres!
i g 3 ■"
&
m
u
c.
m
i
m
: : ;
m
m l
6}
a
.
/
m
v
W
MADE IN
CANADA.
Dominion tyres are built to wear—to
give you the kind of economical service
you want. And that’s just what they do.
Regular users vouch for that.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES and
Queensland-
Metropolitan GARAGE & MOTOR AGENCY,
George Street, Brisbane .
VICTORIA & TASMANIA—
DOMINION TYRE AGENCY,
27-31 Little Bourke Street,
Melbourne .
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —
CHENEY MOTOR CO. LTD.,
42-8 Way mouth Street, Adelaide .
WEST AUSTRALIA—
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.) LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES: 53 York Street, SYDNEY.


£l3/10/-
£3O.
£3O
£l5/10/-
£B/10/-
£9/10/-
£lB/10/
£135.
Quality Diamond Ring's
from Stewart Dawson’s.
The combination of Cash and Purchasing Power is the factor which counts in the Value
of Stewart Dawson’s Diamond Rings. The vast requirements for their Ten Establish-
ments in London and Australasia command purchase of the World’s Finest Values in
Precious Stones.
The Purity and Brilliance of the Stones in Stewart Dawson’s Diamond Rings diffuse that
light and lustre known only in
DIAMONDS OF FIRST QUALITY.
To buy inferior Diamonds is money wasted. The firm’s long-standing reputation is a
guarantee of confidence for every buyer, and YOUR choice may safely rest upon this
Guarantee.
ALL DIAMONDS SET IN REAL PLATINUM.
Cal] and Inspect at anv of the Stewart- Dawson Establishments, or Write for Latest
CATALOGUE.
Stewart Dawson & Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Also Regent Street and Hatton Garden, London.
£lO/10/-
£lO/10/-
£l4/10/-
£llO.
£l6/10/-
mimismsm.
£3O.
£l7/10/
£l4/10/-
From Poverty Point to Luxury— a meal at the “PAVlLlON”—Sydney's Dining Rooms de luxe, Circular Quay.
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exguaste
Celia Mavis, who made her beginnings in
the show business with John F. Sheridan,
came back to Australia aboard the Sonoma.
She spent, most of the seven years’ absence
in entertaining Unc. Sam in musical comedy.
“Eastward Ho!” has been selected as the
title of Oscar Asche’s next production, the
story of which begins in Piccadilly and gets
to the Egyptian desert via Cairo. Austra-
lian dancers Eddie and Decima Mac Lean
are to be in the cast. Old-friend Madge
Mclntosh is to head a “Chu Chin Chow”
co., comprising 150 members, which is to
tour the English provinces.
“LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR .”
Cacialli, Filippmi, Lois and others
sextetling.
“8.J.” : In a letter to an Australian friend
Robert Courtneidge talks of revisiting tins
country next year with a comedy co. of his
own, headed by popular George Tully. If
Courtneidge makes the trip he will bring
with him daughter Cecily, who was born in
Sydney and is now a bright ornament of the
London stage.
Ethel Erskine, the last leading lady im-
ported from England by the Firm, made her
first Australian appearance in Melbourne a
few months back in “Going Up.” She was
missing from the eo.’s next production (her
place in the lead being filled by a mere Aus-
tralian), and has now gone home.
: Adelaide is feeling enthusiastic
over the soprano voice of Ada Wordie, who
recently took a leading part in the Chamber
Music recital of the Elder Conservatorium.
Ada was born in Adelaide, her father being
a negro of African birth, a man of consider-
ability and a fine elocutionist—
a Methodist preacher, among other things,
lie dmd in Adelaide some years ago, leaving
a white wife with a large family. A brother
ot , Aaas aa s just returned from the Front,
and he, too, promises to be a singer. They
are studying under Frederick Bevan.
~ : tramping back to “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin Ike Pagliacci” (B. IS/9/T9) trips
on the mat when he says that Nellie Fer-
guson was the original Australian child-
actress to play the part of Eva. Little
.Belie Bussell (long since passed away)
the part 41 years ago last June
at Melbourne Princess’s. The production ran
tor over 17 weeks. Her father, Ted Rus-
sell, was Legree, and that exceptionally
clever artiste Fanny Wiseman played Topsy.
Norbell ’: The reference by “Stargazer”
to the late Charles Arnold and the hig dog
that played an important role in “Hans the
Boatman” (B. IS/9/T9) recalls the end of
J non s professional career. As he was get-
ting too old to work, an understudv was
trained for the part. At Jo’burg (S’Africa)
the new dog made his ddbut at a matinee,
a 5. Professional jealousy or something* so
ailected the old chap, who was lying in
Arnolds dressing-room, that lie howled dis-
mally all the time his rival was on. The
dog s grief was so distressing that it upset
the whole show. Cyanide brought him a
painless end soon after.
t, : ‘‘OW Lady 31,” written by
Rachel Crothers at the suggestion of a novel
by Louise Forsslund, is interesting in the
evidence it offers of feminine authorship.
There is. no grit in the story, nor virility
the dialogue, but the play has a number
or light character sketches and many woman-
philosophy touches in its decorations, as well
? s a s °tt sexual moral. It is a play the
late Sumner Locke could have handled more
cleverly had she hit upon the idea. Tim
moral that woman is never too old or sad
to make a. fuss of an old man, or break out
in jealousy of his apparent carryings-on with
the other cat, is ever in the mind of all
the sistern. Men, young and middle-aged,
are apt to think that old girls outlive that
? aC o hel and Louise know
maioritv S nf ° ld Idy ol ” wiu a PPeal,to the
“the? f ° De S6X and a minorit y of the
“Stargazer”: How many actors, especially
broad comedians, have found an accidental
strange noise of tremendous advantage in
ropng public favor! Here is Billy Rego’s
falsetto squeak that came by chance in a
talking part of seven sentences when he was
new to the boards, and winning the inju-
dicious guffaw with every yap. Connie Ed'iss
had quite a presentable warble till she came
accidentally on that weird pipe she found so
effective when pitching “Here Come the Mar-
ried Mem into the pit. The original Bron-
son of “The Belle of New York” sang his
melodious material as a raucous chant which
the crowd found so funny that the poor com-
edian once said to a couple of local pressmen :
“Do you know, I’m afraid of getting better
tor fear I d lose my voice!” He was dying
of consumption, and did die at Adelaide
within a few months, but others who came
after had to get something of the unhappy
original’s death-rattle into their rendering of
Of Course You Can Never Be Like Us.”
H.”: “0.K.” mentions (B.
10/d/ 19) . that when Wallace Brownlow first
appeared in Melbourne the women called him
“the silvery baritone.” In his early days
Brownlow fancied he was a tenor. When he
sought an engagement Francis Cellier, then
conductor of the Savoy orchestra, asked him
what sort of a voice he had and was told a
tenor. Cellier heard him sing and informed
him he was a baritone. Wallace reckoned
that, as it was his voice, he ought to know.
D’Oyley Carte, however, confirmed Cellier’s
opinion; but it was some time before Brown-
low allowed himself to be convinced, and the
“silvery baritone” description pleased him
mightily.
“Harrison O.” : “Buzz Buzz” is the nearest
approach to a real revue seen in Melbourne.
Locally-employed imported producers have
mostly retained the title of a London show,
imitated its haberdashery and mislaid the
“book,” filling in the gaps with vaudeville.
Most of the London “book” of “Buzz Buzz”
has been retaiued. It was doubtless divert-
ing when and where it was written, but
effluxion of time and change of venue have
blunted its satire. It is only necessary to
mention Horatio Bottomley to win either a
laugh or a cheer in London, but Horatio
counts for nothing in our philosophy, so re-
ferences to him and other Cockney circum-
stances fall flat. Even if it is thought
necessary to purchase the name and fame
of an English or American success, common-
sense should suggest the need for grafting
some Austi'alian meat on to the bones. But
it has never been considered worth while to
hand to an Australian writer the “book”
of a London revue to be heeled and soled.
The managerial view is that if “Footscray”
is substituted for “Margate” there is un-
likely to be anything incongruous or inex-
plicable in a gag offered for Australian con-
sumption. The English uppers are retained
and a mere alteration of names mistaken for
the sole of wit.
“Glen H.”: It is suggested by “S.S.” (B.
11/9/T9) that “Lightnin’ ” and “Old Lady
31,” the heroes of which wear the wrinkles
of old, were conceived when Uncle Sam made
his late entry into the Great Scrap, and it
became necessary for eligible mummers to
exchange grease-paint for warpaint. Although
“Lightnin’,” in its present form, was not
seen on the Yankee stage until the middle
of 1918, it was popular as a music-hall
sketch years earlier, and was subsequently
REG WYKEHAM MEETS HIMSELF.
turned into a screen comedy, which, how-
ever, was not produced. “Old Lady 31” was
staged in N’Yark in 1916, and was manu-
factured when Wilson was still fighting the
Hun only with his typewriter. Long before
the war American dramatists showed a fond-
ness for elderly heroes and heroines; wit-
ness “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” “Struck Oil,”
“Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch.” “The
Lion and the Mouse,” “Grumpy” (of which
an American was part-author) and many
others.
“Yallah”; Put on the entertainers’ honor
board the 2nd Australian Stationary Hos-
pital Orchestra. This little mob struck up
after we arrived back from the Peninsula
and played right through the Sinai and
Palestine stunts. Unlike some concert
parties, this one did full hospital duty—l 2
hours a day when we weren’t arguing with
Abdul, and 18 or £0 when we were. They
played the best of music, and gave us songs,
as well, for most of the members could
do a double turn. After the argument, when
the unit was brought down to the base
(Moascar), the orchestra played every Sun-
day afternoon at the M.L. canteen in Ismailia,
and between times at the various detail
camps. All this was done gratis. If a
gratuity followed for playing, say, at an
officers’ mess, the money was used to pur-
chase new music, strings, etc. Tlig conductor
was Cpl. F. W. Spargo, and the leads were
Pte. 11. W. Willis (who went "west in Egypt
from pneumonia) and Cpl. R. Schoenheimer
(flautist). I’m more grateful than I can
say for the happy hours they gave us, and
would willingly pay half a crown now to
listen to this little band of good fellows.
“Fax” : The old and the young schools of
Australian acting were represented in the
brief London run of “Bantam, V.C.”
Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis, or Rose Edouin as
she now calls herself, played a heavy parent,
and Dorothy Brunton got the best part in
the piece—a festive chorus-girl who some-
times disguised herself in changes of raiment
and voice.
“Aisle Seat”: Ben Fuller is acting as a
repatriation agent in the U.S.A. Austra-
lian. vaudeville acts which have acquired
foreign polish are getting his first considera-
tion. Ben’s initial contratct, made in ’Frisco,
was with an Australian girl, Rita Murphy,
who has been engaged to book acts for the
firm’s vaudeville circuit. Probably she is
the first -woman to butt into the vaudeville
agency business—certainly the first to book
acts for a continent.'
“Petramos”: The real doors demanded in
stage settings by pampered modern audiences
have robbed the melodrama villain of half
his stealth. Laurence Dunbar now opens
doors by hand—an unheard of procedure in
the good old days when he strode from one
stage entrance to another. Keeping time to
the mystery music, he would push open the
obstruction with his walking-stick and peer
through the aperture. Doors in those days
always opened outwards, and there was no
finicky young patron to remark on it.
“Fax”: A lot depends on the financial
result of an experiment in London with a
revival of “Madame Angot” in a revised
form. Dialogue and song words were re-
written, and the plot elaborated where Clay-
ton Calthrop found it too thin. Calthrop,
who is Art Director of a big film co. and a
playwright of some importance, ought to be
a skilful restorer of ancient-
opera libretti. He’s a son of
the late John Clayton, and
grandson of Calthrop, R.A., on
the one side, and of the original
Dion Boucicault, the Irish
dramatist, on his mother’s side,
(John Clayton married Eve
Boucicault, the elder sister of
“Dot.”) Talking of the
“Angot” job, he said: “The
music of most of these old
operas remains fresh and spark-
ling, and it does seem a pity not
to give such delightful scores a
fresh lease of life with new
‘books.’ ” The restoration treat-
ment of old English ballad
operas has been suggested in
The Bulletin any time during
the past 25 years. Why should
“Maritana’’ remain a tunefully
sad reminder of a foolish liter-
ary age, and “The Bohemian
Girl” be left to perish of ne-
glect as regards its plot and
dialogue? Think of the heroine
coining out of a gipsy tent and
saying to her fancy-dressed
lover, “Thaddeus, I had a dream
last night. Shall 1 tell it to
you?” which is the cue for the
band to strike up “I Dreamt
That I Dwelt in Marble Halls” !
The fact that such operas have
lived all these years is a fine testimony to
their musical character. They would have
been buried long ago but for the melodies.
“Ike Pagliacci”: It was one time almost
my painful duty to order the arrest of
Stampini, mentioned in a recent Poverty
Point par. At a Sydney apartment-house
the steel-skinned man and Ilayati Hassid,
a three-feet-high midget of 57 years, pro-
mised me to concoct some outlandish dish
which both agreed was the last word in per-
fect food. I sat dozing in a chair, wait-
ing. Suddenly there was a foreign uproar
from the gas stove, where the cooks had
quarrelled as to the pirecise moment to
insert the salt. The steel-skinned man waved
a big spoon threateningly, but the midget
gallantly dragged a chair into position,
climbed upon it, and publicly insulted the
mess in the saucepan; whereupon Stampini
lifted Ilayati high in the air, and, upend-
ing him, held the terrified little man over
the bubbling stew. I interfered then. It
seemed a pity to spoil a dish that had begun
to smell well.
“C. Oekney”: Bernard Fagan, the play-
wright, has made a sensational start as a
theatrical manager in London. He began
with “Twelfth Night” at the Court, and after
a record run tried “The School for Scan-
dal, which is still winning. He is now put-
ting up at matinee performances a newly-
acquired play by an author connected with
the noted Abbey Theatre, Dublin. It is
called “The Lost Leader.” and is founded on
the re-appearance in the flesh (his death hav-
ing been greatly exaggerated) of Charlea
Stewart Parnell.
- “London”: The new Eden Phillpotts play,
St. George and the Dragons,” is getting
fitted with new names, now that Lillah
McCarthy is making a success of it. It is a
light comedy of a bishop who gets rid of two
‘middle-class”, (and therefore objectionable)
suitors for his aristocratic nieces. It is
straining language to call the girls dragons,
arid the bishop has been given the name of St.
George quite arbitrarily. A temporary title
was something about Foolish Virgins, but
this was thought to be in doubtful taste, and
the latest is “The Bishop’s Night Out” —
which suggests a French farce.
“Lorenzo” ; Responding for the Actors’ As-
sociation at a banquet given by the O.P.
Club in London, Sidney Valentine said it
was the actor and actress who made the
value of the bricks and mortar for which
managers 4/ere called upon to pay the land-
lords the present tremendous rents" No doubt,
the landlord is robbing the actor and actress;
but the bigger question is whether the public
isn’t being robbed by both.
THE OVERCROWDED HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Astor lived next door to me,
An actor in the ruck.
His income was not said to be
Two thousand. No such luck!
He got, perhaps, five pounds a week,
When now and then in work.
And nothing of the artist’s cheek
Marked John; his style was mild and meek —
Much like a faded clerk.
John Astor was a married man.
His wife was short and broad.
His little children over-ran
The street, an ill-kempt horde.
1 saw the pro his house before
With all his brood one day.
He told the dirty faces o’er,
And said: “There comes one rascal more
If I but turn away.”
Then came another glad event
(I think they call them glad),
The doctor-man for Astor sent,
And said “A girl and lad! ”
John bowed his head, his fingers tore
Deep in his tousled wool.
When forth he went he grimly bore
A sign to nail beside the door,
Which simply said: “HOUSE FULL!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


mm
.
or
r
m
i
| ''Sm
A
■- ' >
si
y
m
■
h
m
.
'■:■ :r" : :
m
m
m
i
I-
> ■*
■
K. j
/
m
i p
r
H
■
i
■
■:V : M
:• %
«l :
li
¥
r ?#
,■£
Sf
■
a
; 25
Seieii
•>*;<.-
■—
|
Obtainable only
Opp. G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
Smart Men’s Styles for
the Summer Calendar.
It’s life in the open these Summer days, and London Stores, Opp. G.P.O.
Melbourne, have evolved distinctive types of Men’s apparel to meet the
requirements of the hot weather.
Free styles that fairly invite a man to tramp over the golf links, appear
on the sands, or to be comfortably and smartly clad in the city streets.
You can order these Clothes from London Stores by post. Simply give your
measurements, and mention the materials. You are assured of satisfaction
and an accurate fit-—otherwise we undertake to refund your money on
return of the purchase.
Pinch-Back—a
two-piece suit
with -belt pleated on to the coat.
See how it “hugs” at the waistline.
Smart, isn’t it? Three patch pockets
in front that button; cuff bottoms, side
and hip pockets in trousers.
Sports Shirt has
convertible collar
that can be worn two ways. A Low-cut,
V-shaped Neck for the activity of Sport,
which may be converted in a “twinkle”
to a soft double, striped collar for “dress-
up” use.
Medium Grey
Diagonal Tweeds,
70/-
Fancy Mixtures
and Brown Tweeds,
84
White Body with
Striped Collar,
7/11
White Matte Body,
Block Striped Collar,
9/11
WHEN ORDERING
Please give the following measures
so that we may determine your
exact size:—
SUlTS—Chest, waist, inside-leg
measures and length of Coat.
SHIRT S—Chest and Collar
measures.
CARRIAGE PAID throughout Aus-
tralia on Orders of £1 or over.
OPP'.Q'PQ-
Opp. G.P.0.,
etes
Ltd.
MELBOURNE.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WhITTY
(aurtOK
MELBOURNE &SYDNEY
a
mm
1077
a
m
kr
□
n
jvoov
PURE
MALT
cm
like Lt f
-its so mellow*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
for
SPORTING
NEEDS
The two most noticeable events of last
week incidental to the A.J.C. Derby were the scratch-
ing of Bigaroon and an announcement that Elfacre
had gone wrong aft. Bigaroon got so badly wal-
loped in a mile-and-a-quarter trial with Pershore that
hopes of his getting the Derby distance with a
Derby weight exploded on the spot. These happen-
ings also burst the castles built in Spain by num-
berless punters, for Bigaroon had been rushed for
weeks and many tickets were purchased on Elfacre.
And still the Derby looks as open as Sydney Harbor.
On disclosed galloping ability the hardest to beat
should be Artilleryman. On what thev have been
doing on the track Richmond Main, Milleme and
Pershore ought to have something to say. The rest
range from possibles to iinprobables. Anything
might happen, really—except that Milleme should
finish out of a place.
Early speculators on the Epsom and
Metrop. have been having a bad time. Booster,
favorite for the Metrop. since the weights came out,
was scratched the other day. Three trials in public
had shown his habit of running like a mule to be
ineradicable. Shaded Light, for a long time short-
priced for the Epsom, has been knocked well back.
In a frame of mind that is merely speculative the
writer wonders whether Laddie Blue, Pah King and
Dick Meagher will stick to their job towards the end
of ti>e Epsom this time. In the Metrop. the best-
liandicapped horses are Kenilford and British Arch,
though the latter may not be class enough for such
a race. Eric Connelly is very confident about
Toison d’Or. There are people who would be even
more confident about Carbern if they were sure he
would see the distance out. Take it all round as
good a way as any to find the name of the winner
of the Metrop. is to draw it from a hat. But it
would be just as well to throw out those that haven’t
done well over 10 furlongs or more.
* * * *
Quaestor showed none of his “quitting”
habits at Ilawkesbury (N.S.W.) in the Rowley Mile
last week. He was challenged by Panacre (that game
old battler is finding the extra furlong harder than
ever, to negotiate), but he ran an honest race under
41b. less than he has been allotted for the Epsom.
The vaunted Willie Ploma’s poor performance in
the same race made the “coalies’ ” long journey
home a gloomy ride, though the depression was
mitigated somewhat by Varcotine’s very respectable
effort in taking the Guineas. Another filly, Shapely,
ran third.
* * * *
Wedding Day’s full-brother Tonio
(Antonio—-Wedding Present) achieved the expected
when he won the Second Division Handicap (6Jf.)
at Albion Park (Q.) on Saturday. He did it with
7st. 7lb. up. Fairy Bob (Bernard, imp.—Fairy
Gold) ran third in the same race and won the
Park Purse later —losing at 4’s and winning at 6’s.
* * * *
The President’s Handicap (IJm.) at the
Adelaide Hunt Club’s meeting was a cakewalk for
the Pendil gelding Dependence. He carried 9st.
21b., and in the Caulfield Cup he will hump 171 b.
less. As distance does not trouble him (he won
the last Adelaide Cup—lm. 5f.) the extra quarter-
mile in the big race won’t matter. He is one of
the most aptly-named nags before the public.
* * * *
Adelaide Hunt Club has been celebrating
the jubilee of its Cu« race. ’The only representative
left of the early crowd is Seth Ferry, who rode the
winner, Gipsy Girl. He became Master of the
Hunt in due course, and is still known to his in-
timates as “Master.” Sid and Arnold Ferry, famous
a few years ago as amateur jockeys, were sons.
**■■**#
“0.K.”: Toison d’Or is as well worth
backing as any of them for the Metropolitan. The
English horse ran well enough in the Rosehill Handi-
cap (Ist div.) the other Saturday, and has been so
patiently kept for a coup that one naturally assumes
that he has given his people encouragement. He
wouldn’t need to be brilliant to win with 7st. 41b.
and the assistance of a bit of luck. The bit of luck
is indispensable. Nothing wins a big handicap race
w'ithout it, and if it could be always 'ensured for
the first favorite-—well, backing favorites would be
a pleasing pastime rather than a ruinous pursuit!
* * * *
Tragic Star disappointed pessimistic ex-
pectations by winning a race at Moonee Valley last
Saturday. He won it meritoriously, too, as though
he were a stout-hearted sprinter, rather than one who
has usually died away at the finish. This time he
was never in the lead until he beat Eudoxus on the
post, by a head.
* * * *
The exceptional beauty of Tragic Star
has proved fatal to Melbourne punters a good many
times. On account of his good looks, rather than
his in-and-out performances as a juvenile, the
black son of Comedy King was reckoned a Derby
and Cup horse until he had been tried in public
as a young- three-year-old and found wanting in
stamina or pluck. Then he deceived his friends
some more by running second in a sprint race on
Melbourne Cup day, and the Newmarket was expected
to be his dart. But the picture horse continued to
slip his backers up. His appearance is probably too
good to be true, and his worst performances seem
too bad to be true, so it only remains for the much-
talked-about dandy to run away with a race when
nobody is “on.”
* * * *
Adelaide rumors are hinting at Clever
Jim for the two Cups, though on paper this gelded
offspring of Comedy King has a very outside chance.
Clever Jim is a four-vear-old with 7st. 91b. in the
Caulfield and 7st. in the long race. Last season he
had a go for both events, also for the Guineas and
Derby in Melbourne, and his second to Eusebius for
the Guineas was his best performance. He is
entered for the*Eclipse Stakes, run at Caulfield on
the Wednesday before the Cup, so he looks like a
starter for the big race.
* * * #
At just about the time when the Epsom
is being run at Randwick a number of Cup fancies
will be tested, more or less, over the 12 furlongs
at Flemington. The V.R.C. October meeting comes
due next Saturday, and the October Stakes promises
to be as good a guide for punters as it was last
year ; when King Offa beat Eusebius. Sir Ibex,
Menin, Night Watch, Star Comedian and Chrome are
five of the 10 entrants, and the question as to whether
Sir Ibex, the sprinter, can go a mile and a half
will be practically settled. Also the condition of
Menin, early fancy for Melbourne Cup, will interest
all good sports who hope to see the tender-foot
English horse fit and seasoned for the passage in
November.
* * * »
Amanus, as was anticipated iu this column
when the imported gee won a race reeentlv, proved
a hopeless proposition for the Caulfield Cup, and
was scratchd for all engagements last week. The
books made a little money out of the infirm nag
when they started betting on the Cups, for he
had the reputation of being a possible. The older
he grew, and the more he didn’t appear in public,
the greater “rod in pickle” he was supposed to
be, whereas the rarity of his outings—about six in
four years—was due to his never being a promising
subject for a thorough preparation.
The early odds-merchants over-reached
themselves as regards Gloaming for th@ Caulfield
Cup. There never was any money to be obtained
about the champion at a decent price, and at
the first hint of the Caulfield Cup being his likely
journey the books marked him down to 14 to 1.
This seemed a false price, considering that only
one horse in 40 years has carried Gloaming’s
weight (9.4) to the front. Paris, the dual C.C.
winner, had 9.4 up the second time he did the
trick, and Poseidon, another nag that repeated
itself on the honor roll, carried 9.3 on the second
occasion. Poseidon, as it happened, would not
have won if his stable-
companion Apologue
had not been playing
second fiddle, with the
Melbourne Cup in view.
The double —Poseidon
and Apologue—duly
came off. But, tb get
back to Gloaming and
hi s Caulfield Cup
chance, had the market
offered a fair induce-
ment for the stable to
let the great horse
chance a knocking
about in the crowded
handicap field, Gloam-
ing might have helped
to make business better
on the day than it
promises to be. He’d
have been a favorite,
which must have at-
tracted a large follow-
ing, without dishearten-
ing the multitude of
prmters that say:
“Look at the weight!”
Now he is scratched for
the event, and at time
of writing Lucknow
and Night Watch are
more confirmed favor-
ites than ever.
CAMPBELL
WOOD,
Owner of Panacre,
Elfacre, etc.
The favorite for the England-Australia
flight is G. C. Matthews, of the Sopwith Larkin Co.
He enlisted in the Light Horse in August, ’l4, and
transferred in Egypt to the A.F.C. He turned out
to be one of the finest pilots in any army, and after
two visits to France he was sent back to England to
instruct. One of the things that should stand to
him is the fact that he is a trained navigator. He
was a merchant sailor before the war. He is Scotch
by birth and no chicken.
“Billy T.”: The scrap was between a
Sydney lad, the best in his State at his weight, and
a Melbourne lightweight of promise who had been
boxing with exceptional cleverness, and had nothing
between him and the inter-State championship but
the yellow streak that ran down his spine. He was of
Dago blood, and had cultivated ferocity while jabbing
oysters at a city fish shop. Up against something
he could lick Frankai was a regular little devil;
when it was otherwise he curled up and pleaded
sleeping sickness. Alas, this night the third round
saw the Cocktail Champion limp on the floor of
the ring, giving an imitation of a dead gladiator.
Spottalini, his boss, danced like one frantic, and
whooped in modern Greek for the sleeper to awake.
arise, but there was no
awakening for Frankai
till he was quite cer-
tain his opponent had
left the building. The
management had pre-
pared for such a con-
tingency, and the con-
tract contained a clause
whereby the loser’s half
should go to charity
if, in the opinion of
the referee, he had
failed to put up a rea-
sonable fight. So when
Frankai put in his
claim for the second
cut, the manager said
bluntly there was
nothing coming, and
slid in a counter claim
for one shilling.
“What ?” cried Frankai.
“I getta none the mon!
I owe you one shilla!
What-a for the shilla?”
“That,” replied the
bland manager, “is for
your bed.”
JAMITO, Fili-
pino pug.
Nine Chinese were fined 20s. each (in
default seven days) for playing poker in Sydney last
week. The police “found nine shillings scattered
among the players.” Poker is played in every social
club in the State. If the police ruided some of
these institutions they would find, not shillings,
but notes, IOU’S and cheques to the value of hundreds
of pounds lying about. Similarly, small, scuffling
citizens are continually being arrested for wagering
paltry sums in “public” places. But consider tlie
gambling that occurs publicly in what may be called
the licensed gambling hells of the nation! Pony-
racing is useless for the purpose of improving the
breed of the friend of man. Most of the shares in
the Associated Clubs are held by people who never
go near a pony meeting: and a large number of
the equine weeds which figure at such festivals are
leased. The whole concern is a huge instrument
for gambling, primarily on the courses, and in a
secondary sense in the “shops,” all of which are at
least as well known to the police as they are to the
public. The same magistrate who fines a batch
of citizens for playing “two-up” has himself, no
doubt, played “bank,” roulette or “chemin-de-fer” ;
and, if he is a traveller - , “petits chevaux.” In fact,
an atmosphere of cant and humbug surrounds the
whole official attitude towards a diversion which is
either nationally harmful (in which case it should be
suppressed altogether) or innocuous (in which case
it ought to be treated as such).
* * * *
Cabled that Alf Felton has £5OO backing
against Ernest Barry for the sculling championship
of the world. Jim Paddon has beaten Felton (he
did it in 1913 on the Parramatta) and Barry beat
Paddon somewhat easily. On the other hand’ Barry
is close on 40 and the Australian is in his twenties.
Felton is a fair waterman—though still, in this
respect, Barry’s inferior—and he will need all his
knowledge of that side of the game. The long
Thames course—a mile longer than Parramatta —is
broken water all the way nine days out of ten.
* * * *
Just passed out at Wellington (M.L.),
aged 90, Rev. H. E. Tuckey, who rowed for Cam-
bridge against Oxford in the eight-oar race of 1862.
* # * *
The final (so-called —there must be two
more matches to follow) of this year’s Adelaide
football was as surprising as anything ever played
under Australian rules. North Adelaide and West
Torrens struggled in the mud with perfectly-equal
inability to get the ball home. The result was a
tie—a very rare thing under these free-scoring
rules; 2 goals 3 behinds each. It is about equal
to two first-class cricket teams tieing with a score
o* 35.
* * * #
N.S.W. Rugby • League season ended on
Saturday, when Newcastle tackled Sydney on the
Agricultural Ground. About a thousand perspiring
barrackers watched the gladiators shedding weight
in a temperature of 92deg. The Northerners went
down, 17—19.
*, * * *
N.S.W. Rugby League XIII defeated
Queensland at Brisbane on Saturday by 24 points to
10. The absence of the reps, team in Maoriland
gave the lesser stars a show, and they delved in
with vim. The mishap to Flanagan (the brilliant
■ A.I.F. half-back) was a tragedy: he has found foot-
ball more harmful than the Hun.
* * * *
The wandering Australian Rugby Leaguers
over-ran Hawkes Bay on Saturday by 67 points to
four —the latter penalty goals. For Australia L.
Cubitt scored seven tries and Oxford booted 10 goals
—4l points of the total.
* * * *
Another 50,000 crowd squeezed itself into
Melbourne Cricket Ground on Saturday to watch the
second League semi-final. The bill of fare—Carlton
v. ’Wood —promised well, but panned out poorly.
For the first three quarters the ’Wood 18 played
clever, concerted, pretty ball, while the enemy bog-
ged in relentlessly but to little purpose. The scores
at lemon-time were ’Wood 9.9, Carlton 2.8. It
looked hopeless. Then the old Blues added 26 points
in 15 minutes, and the barrackers roared in hope.
But the Magpies realised that their best defence
against long kicking with a high wind was to
attack with ground play, and thereafter the ball
was kept hovering around Carlton’s goal, so that,
when the end came ’Wood owned 64 points to Carl-
ton’s 46. Next Saturday ’Wood encounters Rich-
mond, and that should settle the issue for this
season.
* * » *
The mathematician who demonstrated as
an axiomatic fact that Footscray must necessarily
beat North Melbourne, because it had thrashed
Brunswick, which had downed North, proved correct,
and the Ass. pennant was collared by ’Scrav on
Saturday. The break in the long succession of its
victories had got on North’s nerves, and though it
battled hard against the lusty youths from the suburb
of smells, it just battled and that was all. There
was little skill and less system about its effort,
which resulted in 43 points to ’Scray’s 65. About
20,000 persons parted with £771 to witness the
catastrophe.
* * * *
The old theory that the blackfellow is a
good sprinter but a poor stayer was confirmed by the
football premiership match of Yorke Peninsula (S.A.).
The Point Pearce natives journeyed from the south
end to meet the Wallaroo miners of the north. They
scored the first two goals, and had a look in till
three-quarter time; after that they did not score
a point, and were finally beaten 8 goals 15 behinds
to 4 goals 1 behind.
* * • •
Petersham is king in the N. S. Wales
lacrosse world of 1919. The Club’s A team won
the First-grade Competition, with one defeat, and
also the Hurst Cup Competition, while B team
won the Second-grade Competition, undefeated.
* * * *
Professional sculling tried to come to life
again on the classic Parramatta course on Satur-
day, when McDevitt (late A.1.F.) and Petersen met
in a match for £5O a side. As a trial of skill the
affair was hardly in the Towns-Stanbury class.
McDevitt is a finished sculler: Petersen emphatically
is not. On this occasion he didn’t even finish.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: W. G. Grace “was at home
practically anywhere in the field” (B. 18/9/’l9).
He was; but Frank Iredale, lately constructing the
ideal XI of cricket history, seemed worried what
to do with Grace if he took him away from point
to put Noble there. This must be because Iredale
knew him only as a veteran. I myself saw Grace,
when Murdoch and Co. were giving England a
tremendous leather-hunting in 1884, take up in turn
every possible position in the field, just by way of
exercise. This included going behind the wicket,
which he did when Alfred Lyttelton took off the
gloves to go on successfully as about Bth change-
bowler.
“Fax”: In test-match bowling Frank Laver
bore out the .adage “An old dog for a hard road.”
He was in his 40th year when he took eight
wickets for 31, and his second-best average in a
Test was registered when he had turned 35. As a
younger man he might, perhaps, have done big
things with the ball on the congenial English
wickets, but he wasn’t much called upon in the
1899 tour, when Jones, Trumble, Noble, Howell and
Charlie Macleod took precedence of the good-looking
skipper of the E.M.C.C.
* * * •
Jimmy Clabby fought one of the most
creditable battles of his career on Saturday night
at Sydney Stadium. He weighed list. 31b.; his
opponent, George Cook, was 13st. 51b. Cook is a
youngster: Clabby is 30, and has been boxing in
public since he was 16. Yet the Yank easily held
the local lad for the first 10 rounds, and during
the second half of the engagement he outskilled
and outfought him in every session. In fact, in
round 16 Cook was lucky to evade a k.o.
*' * * *
On Monday night. Tommy Uren met
(‘Curly” Rarkes over the 10-round route —a chal-
lenge affair based on a hallucination on the part
of Parkes that he could knock the middleweight
champion out in a short-distance event. He might
have done so had one or two of his punches landed.
But they didn’t, and Uren won with ease.
* * * *
Queensland obliterated the touring N. S.
Wales bowlers at Brisbane, last week, by 109—86,
102—79 and 134—16. The effete Northeners won
eight rinks out of 12. The aggregates of unbeaten
rinks skippered by G. Colledge (122 —43) and T.
Bouchard (91 —48) were the efforts of the test.
* * * *
The jumping was the feature of Sydney
Grammar School Championships last week. E. R.
Zlotkowski and A. Little tied at sft. 3in. in the
high jump. The former, who has a fine, easy
style and plenty of leg, won the event last year
with sft. 2in. and took the G.P.S. Championship
with 6ft. 4in. Doug Munro put the 161 b.-shot
39ft. s Jin. —a record for the school, and within
2in. of Ryan’s all-schools’ record. He also won the
broad jump (19ft. lOin.) and 120yds. hurdles
(16 4-ssec.). The sprints were split up between
N. S. Langdon (100yds, in 10 3-ssec., and 440yds.
in 56 l-ssec.) and A. C. Wallace (220yds. in
24 4-5 sec.). In the “under 16” class, F. W.
Bayldon won 100yds., 220yds. and broad jump, and
was second in the 121 b.-shot event.
* * * *
At Newington, A. O. Ellison (last year’s
junior' champion) lifted the College Cup, winning
the 440yds., 880yds. and mile, and running second
in 100yds., and 220yds. In the sprints, H. S.
Beveridge took the 100yds. and 220yds., and among
the juniors Hodgson cleaned the slate.
Marist Brothers (Darlinghurst) cham-
pionships were a tussle between D. Bernutt, P.
Little and A. Callose, and Bernutt took the all-
round title with broad jump (19ft. 8 Jin.) and
220yds. (25sec.), and second in 100yds., hurdles
and high jump.
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union 40-mile road cham-
pionship on the Burwood-Bankstown highway on
Saturday provided exercise for Cecil Walker (holder
of the title), who won in 2hr. Bmin. 37sec. Fifteen
started, but only the winner and veteran Dick
Munro (Enfield) finished. A bad advt. (or the
machines—or, possibly, for the roads. The previous
week-end Walker won the 10-mile Marrickville Club
championship in 59min. 57 l-ssee. He is easily
the smartest pedaller in the amateur camp nowa-
days.
A PUGILISTIC PAEAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Uren made great play to the solar plexus with
a delightful left hook* and at times lifted it from
there to the chin.” —Snowy Baker in the Sunday
News.
A sanguinary scrap I love,
A zest to life it seems to give.
1 feel with joy the cushioned glove
Thud, hammerlike, upon my chiv.
To some a left-hook may seem frightful,
To me it’s soothing and delightful.
How sweet to feel a dirty left,
That makes all my bicuspids crunch!
I swoon with bliss when knuckles deft
Administer a kidney punch.
A right rip makes me reel with glee,
A left occasions ecstasy.
A savage jolt, well on the point,
Transports of gladness will evoke;
• A vicious jab, that would disjoint
The average unathletic bloke,
But serves to pleasantly excite,
And makes me stagger with delight.
Ah, little does the layman know
The rapture of an uppercut,
The sweet sensation of a blow
That gets well landed on the nut!
AVe’d soon forget the ills that vex us,
If well stoushed in the solar plexus.
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


Avoid the Thrashing—be a Good Boxer.
In other words, a real man —a man
able to stand up for his rights, if
need he, and deal out more than he
receives.
You've surely seen many cases where
MIGHT WAS RIGHT, where a great,
rough “bully” unjustly' attacked an
inoffensive individual.
Just imagine if you were to be
goaded by the insults of a “bully”
until your self-respect could stand no
more. How would you get on in the
“scrap” that followed ? Could you
stand up to your man, confident o f
your ability to “out” him, or would
you be nervous on account of your lack of knowledge
of the noble art?
Now to be forewarned is to be forearmed. You will
do well in learning to box —in knowing just when
and how to hit —how to stop a rusher—how to land
a knock-out.
I TEACH BOXING BY POST,
and will quickly develop your natural skill. Why
not be one of my pupils? The instruction is prac-
tical, simple and easily understood. It thoroughly
explains and illustrates every serviceable “move”
iu Scientific Boxing. You reap the benefit of my
many years’ experience and keen observation of the
best “moves” of the world’s best boxers.
Write for my FREE BOOKLET, “Scientific Boxing
in your Home.’,’ Send three stamps for postage.
“SNOWY BAKER K. 0.” BOXING GLOVES, in two grades,
15/6 and 21/- per set of four Gloves, POST I’REE. Every
set personally selected and guaranteed.
REG. L. (“SNOWY”) BAKER
“ The Champion All-round Athlete of Australia,”
124 Municipal Buildings, Oxford St. (Cor. Crown St.), Sydney.
m
: ■■■ ■ ■.
-/T THE GREAT ,
AtLANTIGFUGHT
r.
yy,
HP* /»
ISHELS.
BENZINE
WAS USED
in the Vlckers-Vimy Bombing:
Aeroplane flown by Capt.
Aleock and Ineut. A. W.
Brown.
0
o
2L***t*
■ ■
This is a Food-Drink (Milk, \
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
< INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
J
»
The Secret of Success
when applied to Dipping is to be found by using
POWDER SHEEP DIP
the Standard of Efficiency.
DECIDE TO-DAY TO TEST ITS VALUE.
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE.
A Well-matured Tobacco at Last!
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is Too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
10/8 per lb. 5/ 4 P er ilk. 2/8 per ilb.
Postage—N.S.W.: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/3, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
<fri
Edison BlueAmberol
Records for September.
sa
The September list is well up to the highest standard,
and “We’d Better Bide a Wee” (Christine Miller),
“Danny Deever” (Arthur Middleton), and “E lucevan le
stelle” (Guido Ciccolini) will meet a very wide demand.
Among the Regular Records, very popular items include
“Huckleberry Finn” (Premier Quartet), “They Go Wild,
Simply Wild Over Me” (Billy Murray and Chorus of
Girls), “Everybody’s Crazy ’Bout the Doggone Blues,
but I’m Happy” (Arthur Collins and Byron G. Harlan),
and “Darktown Strutters’ Ball,” Fox Trot (Jaudas’
Society Orchestra). The N.Y. Military Baud con-
tributes “Wisconsin Forward Forever March.”
Blue Amberol Concert Records*
28271 —We’d Better Bide a Wee. Contralto,
orch. acc. Christine Miller
28272 —Danny Deever. Bass, oreh. acc.
Arthur Middleton
28276 —E lucevan ie stelle (The Stars Were
Shining), Tosca. Tenor, in Italian,
orch. acc. Guido Ciceolini
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
3322 —Huckleberry Finn. Male Voices, orcli.
ace. Premier Quartet
3361 —Medley of Irish Jigs. Accordion, Piano
accompaniment by Dennis L. Smith.
Patrick J. Scanlon
3381—I’d Feel at Home If They’d Let Me Join
the Army. Comic Song. orch. acc.
M. J. O’Connell
3402 —Camp Songs, U.S. Army—No. 1.
Chorus of Male Voices
3426 They Go Wild, Simply Wild, Over Me i
Tenor, orch. acc.
Billy Murray and Chorus of Girls
3427 Laughing Song, orch. acc.
Ed. Meeker and Empire Vaudeville Co.
3452 — Just as Your Mother Was. Male Voices,
orch. ace. Harmony Four
3453 — Daddy, I Want to Go. Male Voices,
orch. acc. Premier Quartet
3457 —Laddie in Khaki (The Girl Who AVaits
at Home). Orch. acc. Glen Ellison
3462 — Darktown Strutters’ Ball —Fox Trot for
Dancing. Jaudas’ Society Orchestra
3463 — Li’l Liza Jane —One-step for Dancing.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra
3472—Mother’s Old Sweet Lullaby. Counter-
tenor, orch. acc. Will Oakland & Chorus
3475 —There’s a Wideness in God’s Morey.
Contralto, orch. acc. May E., Wright
3477 I’m Going to Follow the Boys. Conver-
sational Duet, orch. acc.
Rachael Grant and Billy Murray
3478 Everybody’s Crazy ’Bout the Doggone
Blues, but I’m Hapnv. • Orch. nee.
Arthur Collins and Byron G. Harlan
3480 ’Round Her Neck She Wears a Yeller
Ribbon (For Her Lover Who is Fur, Fur
Away). Tenor,.orch. ace.
Byron G. Harlan and! Chorus
3481 — Wisconsin Forward Forever March.
New York Military Band
3482 Watermelon Whispers, Fox Trot. Xylo-
phone, orch. acc. George Hamilton Green
3486 — Old Dog Tray. Tenor, orch. acc.
Walter Van Brunt and Chorus
3487 — Safe in the Arms of Jesus. Mixed Voices,
orch. acc. Calvary Choir
3495 —Just Dreaming of You. Tenor, orch. acc.
Ralpin Errolle
3498 —K-K-K-Katy. Orch. acc.
Billy Murray an d Chorus
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street,


EXPERT SERVICES FOR THE BUSINESS MAN
"CARMER’S recently established Gentlemen’s Manicure, Boot Polishing and Foot
Specialist services will be found very convenient by the busy city business man.
GENTLEMEN’S MANICURE ROOMS—Expert Service from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., daily
(Saturday till 1 p.m.). If desired, appointments may be made either personally or by phone to
suit the convenience of customers.
BOOT POLISHING SERVICE-Prompt and able attention is given to clients in the Boot
Polishing Section, which is open daily from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. (Saturday to 1 p.m.)
DR. SCHOLL’S FOOT APPLIANCES—Every Wednesday from 2.30. to 5 p.m. a specialist
demonstrates the value of Dr. Scholl’s well known foot appliances. Dr. Scholl’s appliances
and remedies are effective in the treatment of all ailments or deformities of the feet.
Services for Qenilemen, Ground Floor, ‘Pitt Street.
FARMER'S
SYDNEY
c Uhe Store for fftCen
'PHONE. CITY, ELEVEN THOUSAND
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.,
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night.
Tariff, from 10/6 per day, and
from £3/3/- per week.
s
GARTERS
No mefal
can touch you^
&he name “Paris”
is the endorsement
of comfort, and your
guarantee of Garter
quality.
Obtainable all Mercers.
Indents and Wholesale:
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney.
VISITORS-. Don’t miss one of the city’s greatest attractions-—the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
Tasmanians are quite sure that their
Governor Newdegate is down for the job of
Governor-General at some future date.
There were some bush-race fashions
amongst the Show visitors. The winner was
a tall lady in a shirred pink-silk dress
topped with a rusty black woollen golfer
and a rose-pink hat. She also wore a con-
fident smile and carried a thin walking-
stick on top of which sat a green kewpie.
As a froeker she had a close rival in a
buxom dame in royal-blue plush cut like
the tunic of a grand-opera page. Royal
blue seems to be the rage in the rnulga and
the mallee. One cheery lass would have
done as an advertisement for somebody’s
washing-day.
Country girls in riding togs smartened
things up at Flemington Showground. They
were good to look at in their tailored coats
and riding pants, finished with leather leg-
gings, which some of them never ceased
to smite with their little whips as long as
they were out of the saddle.
The Agricultural Pavilion had a mag-
netic attraction in a huge pool of grain
open to handling. Everybody felt impelled
to take up a handful and let the precious
stuff run through the fingers. Domesticity
is evidently not yet dead in women, for the
butter-making demonstrations drew as well
as a drapery-bargain sale. And such a re-
yolnt’on these people witnessed. No turn-
ing way now at a churn for an hour to
make obstinate butter! The thing can be
done easily in three minutes.
Premier Lawson once whispered to the
press as he was handed a silver key' or
trowel or something on the occasion of an
official “opening” : “I’ve got dozens of ’em !”
He has now something different, anyhow ; for
the Ocean-road people at Lome passed him
a presentation electric button for a change.
The opening of the road was in itself novel:
it followed a triple explosion of mined rock,
fired by the Premier. Jobbins. Geelong
manager of the Melbourne Electric Supply,
devised a contact-switch with which to set
the mines going. This, in a silver shield
engraved with a record of the event, and
mounted on a fiddleback . blackwood base
carved out of a burnt log found alongside
the track, was adopted as the token.
Solid Sam Hordern has been in Melbourne
among the Show crowds trying to pick up
hints for the improvement of the little
affair of the same sort that Sydney runs
at Easter.
The George Chirnsides’ farewell jazz to
the Harold Pape pair, who steamed off by
the Ulysses, was a gorgeous affair which
happened in Prahran’s old Town Hall.
The floral decorations represented the loot
of many gardens. The hostess received in
all-black draperies, while daughter Audrey
Pape was a symphony in green. The sup-
per was of the lavish pre-war order, and the
function was short of only one thing—
dancing men.
Some people never know when to stop.
One Australian matron who has been watch-
ing the rich unemployed do it in London
has been earning undying unpopularity by
following the London-season habit of send-
ing in her visiting-card by the chauffeur
instead of delivering it in person, or stay-
ing at home and cooking the dinner.
Reggie Power comes down from his
Albury sheep-station this week to go into
Dr. Fred Bird’s private hospital. There
the leg which was so seriously injured in
Salonika will be overhauled and repaired.
Mrs. Reggie and the baby are to be back
in Australia shortly.
Shipping man John Sanderson, who jour-
neyed to England early this year to collect
his handsome wife, sent a cable the other
week desiring his son and heir Jack to be
forwarded by the Ulysses. Which has been
done. The Sandersons are seemingly lost to
Australia, worse luck! Mrs. John sang
beautifully: played the violin with almost
professional skill, and showed great ability
in certain repertory productions.
The Mermaid Society is alive and flap-
ping its tail. It has nothing to do with
the coming bathing season, but is a high-
brow amateur theatrical association. The
University folk and members of classical
societies are in it up to the neck, led by
the austere Lady Helen, who is chief patron.
They take their fishy name from the cele-
brated tavern, and aim at dredging up master-
pieces of the Elizabethan only
plays but dances and doings of the same
breezy period. The first outbreak by the
society was a Beaumont and Fletcher play
given for three nights in the hall of Merton
College. Lady Helen and all her close fol-
lowers turned up to the first performance.
The University dames and their escorts
arrived in their usual uniform of full even-
ing dress and good, sensible walking boots.
Mrs. Ball, who died lately at Redcourt.
the old family-house at Jolimont. was the
widow of Charles Ball, who helped to found
Melbourne’s ancient drapery firm <>>’ Ball
and Welch. Though nowadays the concern
is a proprietary, with its main Melbourne
works in a choice city shopping centre, it
had its origin in a quiet, tree-lined street
at Carlton, where it had a remarkably
“polite” trade, with sedate broughams and
victorias trundling up every afternoon to
stop under the elms and deposit sabled
dowagers in search of a nice line of sixpenny
calico for sid. Mrs. Ball herself was an
Australian, born in Melbourne in 1542.
The dear old Argus has been finding out
things about us. Our legs, it says, “are
mostly much too big, much too fat, much
too shapeless.” It’s la guerre that is to
blame. “The war has destroyed a myth and
has made women’s legs absurd and amusing
and grotesque.” But don’t you believe it.
All that’s the matter is that the Argus isn’t
20 or even 30 any longer.
The A. O. Barretts, of Lalbert, Orrong-
road, gave a ball with extra musical trim-
mings on September 19 to celebrate the re-
turn of their soldier son. The decorations
and refreshments were fine, and all the
girls had plenty of soldier partners. The
musical programme included songs with the
harp by Louise Metters, violin efforts by
Tarczynski, and songs by Gibson Young.
When the Old Girls of Loretto Convent
raked in a couple of hundred pounds for
their old school by means of an August
dance, the present pupils were goaded on
to emulation, and gave a dance, too. The
poor young things ended up with a debt of
£3O. The nuns paid the £3O and told the
youngsters not to grieve. But it was a
tragic business.
The Festival Ball of the perenniall.v-fes-
tive Hyams ladies is due in the St. Kilda
Town Hall on Wednesday, October 15.
Stephen Hart, the new Dean of Mel-
bourne and St. Paul’s Cathedral, is an old
Brighton boy who
collected many de-
grees from Melbourne
University before he
“read for the Church.”
He is a scholar and
a teacher of repute,
with a convincing
speech-making man-
n e r. Intellectual
church-goers find him
attractive. He has
had a place on many
diocesan committees,
is warden of St.
John’s Theological
College at St. Kilda,
and has written
several “works”
which are not in the
circulating libraries.
Ordained in 1893 he was a canon in 1908,
and was lifted to rural dean of South Mel-
bourne in 1912; formerly he was incum-
bent of Benalla and Hawthorn. His wife
was one of the BuckhurstS of Goodrest,
South Yarra —they were married in the
days when he was curate at Christ Church.
Poor Frank Laver, just clean-bowled,
used to be the adored of Block girls in his
earlier cricketing days. He began as a
farmer-producer some five years ago, and
with his brother grew vegetables and potted
them for export. Tons of their stuff went
to the A.I.F. Dr. Springthorpe waxed elo-
quent about the value of the brothers’ pro-
ducts when he dashed home for three weeks
after Gallipoli.
Moncton Bowes Kelly, the tall youngster
who has just returned from the war, is
established in a seat on ’Change, where he
keeps busy on mining affairs, like dad. He
left college and the tennis-court for the
war, and saw it through.
W. B. Bartlam, an old Melbourne
Grammar boy, who died at Townsville on
September 22, was one of the best-known
business men and cheeriest hosts in his part
of Bananaland. Starting life as a jackeroo
on Perricoota station, the big Australian
migrated north 25 years ago and built up
the firm of Bartlam’s, Ltd., which made
money out of shipping, wool and meat. At
one time he owned racehorses, and he gen-
erally joined Melbourne Club circles at Cup-
time. He married a daughter of Coroner
Youl. Two soldier sons returned a few
months back.
Mrs. Major James gives a luncheon party
on Friday as a welcome to Mrs. Billy
Hughes and a farewell to herself. She is
off to England.
Hobart has just been to a big party
at Hadley’s. Tom Murdoch, honorary Con-
sul for Belgium, and his wife gave the
party in gratitude for local assistance ren-
dered to Belgium during the war. Amongst
the chief guests were the W. T. McCoys,
who are departing for Adelaide, and the
Rev. J. B. Rentoul and Mrs. Rentoul. now-
packing their household goods for Geelong.
Adelaide watches the social whirlpool:—
The Munro Ferguson tour ended with an inspec-
tion of the Military Consumptive Hospital at Bed-
ford Park in the morning, and visits to the School
of Mines and the Cheer-Up Hut in the afternoon.
All three Excellencies went to Bedford Park, where
the Red Cross has done good work, but the vice-
regals divided in the afternoon, the two Governors
going to the School and Lady Helen to the Cheer-
Up Hut and the Soldiers’ Hostel close by. President
Sowden and vice-president George McEwin were
there to receive her, with Mrs. Seagar.
Lady Galway’s work for the Belgian Relief Fund
has brought her the not-too-common Medaille de la
Reine Elizabeth.
The Dansants have really ended for this season.
But jazz devotees are bearing up, for the'-manage-
ment of the Grand Central has arranged for festivities
on Tuesdays and Fridays.
Brewster Jones’s third symphony concert, in which
he was assisted by Sylvia Whitington as leader of
the orchestra and Harold Parsons as assistant con-
ductor, drew a big crowd to the Town Hall on
Saturday night. Things were done in a truly
Continental way—lowered lights, a promenade in the
interval, and smoking allowed on the main floor.
The Orsova’s passengers included Mrs. J. S. Proctor.
She will join her doctor-husband in England, where
he is helping to patch up damaged Diggers. The
pair will return to South Aus. early next year.
Recently returned medicoes include Lieut.-Col. Low-
ther Clarke, a son of Melbourne’s archbishop.
The W.C.T.U. conference has sprinkled this town
with severe-looking females, and the papers with
shafts of unconscious humor. A wholesale burning of
hotel bars is one suggested remedy for the Demon
Drink. One scandalised dame finds in the frequent
use of the phrase “I bet” in casual conversation a
sure sign of young Australia’s degeneracy.
The Red Cross has bought the Lady Galway
Clubhouse at Henley Beach from the Y.M.C.A. for
£2600, and will run it, with the No. 2 Red Cross
Hospital, as the Lady Galway Convalescent Home.
The death of Rear-Admiral Tickell has taken the
H. K. Hendersons to Melbourne. Mrs. Henderson
is a daughter of the late naval officer.
The Governor was a guest at the cinema pro-
prietors’ complimentary evening to members of
the Adelaide Press Club at the Town Hall on
Thursday. It was his Ex.’s birthday, and he found
on his chair a congratulatory letter from the Press
Club’s president, D. J. Gordon.
Adelaide gets back Watson Brown, who served
his articles under Judge Gordon, but went straight
to Westralia in the goldfield days, when there were
bigger chances there. Latterly he has been on
Salisbury Plains; he enlisted for active service, but
G.H.Q. thought it could make better use of him
in legal work in camp.
Lady Helen, who gave an address at the Aus-
tralian Inland Mission Fete in aid of a hostel at
Alice Springs, was curious as to who “Alice” was.
No one at the meeting knew, but her Ex. was told
afterwards. Alice was the wife of the late Charles
Todd, the P.M.G. of S. Aus. who built the Over-
land telegraph line. The lady’s maiden name was
Alice Bell, and she came from Cambridge, where
her husband was assistant at the Observatory.
Sigrid Dannevig, who is presently to per-
mit the Voice to breathe o’er her in com-
pany with lawyer Cyril Davjes, of the
Crown Solicitor’s office, is the only daughter
of Harold Dannevig. who was lost at sea
while on his job as Commonwealth Director
of Fisheries. The ’groom-to-be is a son
of the late Walter Davies, a well-remem-
bered Melbourne family solicitor.
Adelina Patti, who died last week at a
great age, was an example of England’s tra-
ditional loyalty to old stage favorites.
Long after she was finished as an operatic
star, and at a time when Melba was at
her glorious best, Covent Garden was regu-
larly packed on Patti nights—and by no
means rushed on Melba nights. Patti was
charming in appearance—small and plump,
with large dark eyes and a tiny mouth which
appeared even smaller than it was while
she was singing. She lost one husband by
divorce and one by death. Her third ven-
ture, Baron Cederstrom, was an impover-
ished Norwegian nobleman who had at one
time been her masseur.
Leila Doubleday and her devoted mother
depart for the other side of the world and
more music-study by next month’s boat.
Picture-lovers derived a lot of quiet en-
joyment from the water-colors of Henri
Hoile showing at the Decoration Co.’s gal-
lery in Collins-street last week. Henri’s
pleasing color disarms the critic who finds
the painter’s choice of subject rather trivial.
Some of his impressions of trees against
rare, delicate skies suggest an attitude to
Nature that is almost Japanese, but now and
then he spoils the poetry of a scene by in-
trading the human element. This is-the ease
in “The Valley of the Yarra” and “The
Quiet Road” —two studies that would be no
less happy without the loungers in the
middle distance.
Lionel Lindsay has undertaken to . design
a certificate for issue to Red Cross workers
who have completed three years’ service.
The artist has already designed a V.A.D.
certificate which has been approved and
adopted by the Government House Red
Grosser.*.
Matron Davies, of the King George Hos-
pital, London, writes that the nursing staff
have had a memorial erected in the ancient
churchyard of St. John’s, Waterloo, to
the Australian soldiers who died in their
hospital. It is a large crucifix on a stone
base. A parchment roll of honor in the
church contains full particulars of the dead
heroes. Dowager-Queen Alexandra endorsed
the roll and unveiled the memorial.
Marion Jones, pictured here by Jessie
Mackintosh, of Hawthorn, is the clever girl
who captured the National Gallery scholar-
ship in 1917, but
owing to the war
had to postpone the
free study which the
prize conveys.. She
starts off next year
for England, France
and Spain, and as
under the terms of
the scholarship she
has to furnish a life-
size nude, an origi-
nal canvas, and pro-
bably a copy of an
old master, she is
likely to be kept
busy. Marion is a
Bendigo product who
learnt the rudiments
of her art af the
.Joe a 1 School of
Mines, and subsequently- ventured to Mel-
bourne to do five years at the Melbourne
Gallery. Petite, earnest and ambitious, she
has that capacity for self-criticism which
is sound evidence of an artistic temperament.
Undoubtedly she is destined for big achieve-
ments; indeed, there is already more tnan
promise in some of her performances. Marion
is the.daughter of a prominent solicitor, and
is the sister of “Lallie” .Tones, Bendigo’s
most thriving lady barrister.
A walk round a cookery class
It is not the fault of the State Schools that
swarms of rising Cissies can’t tell one end of a
joint from the other, much less make it fit for
consumption. Each school has its own cooking-
centre, where pupils are instructed in (kitchen
arts, from the buying of the food to the final act
of washing up. The headquarters of the Cookery
Department at Brunswick are under, the direction
of an ex-Queenslander Miss Lee, sister of actor
Norman Lee. Here a bevy of little Australians,
neatly aproned, with their plaits bobbed up under
caps, may be seen preparing lunches. Having-
marketed the meat; and vegetables, etc., before-
hand, they can speak with heartfelt emotion of the
sins of the profiteers, although prices are compara-
tively low in the Brunswick district. At one end
of the big room the little maids serve a three-
course meal. The customers are the general public
at Is a head, children half-price. The girlies learn
how to lay a table attractively, and become expert
waitresses'. From soup, thick or thin, to the final
cup of tea, the food would not disgrace a fashion-
able club. On the wall you see the Department’s
proverb: “Cooking is not a servile occupation but
a science,’’ which is intended to correct the popular
doctrine that cookery is a too homely job. Of
course the teachers have their trials. For instance,
a number of the mothers, though they may recog-
nise cooking as an art, are horrified to think of
their offspring being asked to wash the pots and
scrub the floor i However, no branch of instruction
is neglected in the Cookery School. The little
housewives even bake their own bread in gas-
stoves. The loaves would put some of the pro-
fessional bakers to the blush—if they could raise
one. The one blot on the system is that the course
is not compulsory.
Charley Workman, who, since he first ap-
peared in Australia as the little scent-manu-
facturer in “The Girl in the Taxi.” has pro-
vided patrons of the Firm’s musical shows
with much amusement, is to replace Bob
Greig as associate-director of the Tivoli en-
terprises. Kobert goes to London on Mcln-
tosh’s behalf, taking his wife, Beatrice Hol-
loway, who has never quite got over her
bout with the ’flu.
Hobart has cleared the decks in readiness
for its expected second wave of ’Hu. The
blind children have been turned out of the
institution and taken into the kindly" car-
of various residents, and .their building has
been fitted as a hospital; numerous other
places have also been made ready for emer-
gencies. Soup kitchens, relief depots and
emergency depots are all prepared. Th ■
Apple Island has a fine batch of public-
spirited women who look after it as if i'
were a baby. You can’t poultice a con-
tinent in quite the same way.


THE REXONA REMEDIES
Produces of Quality.
DE.X
ucr
dOO
Wm.
prop
Re«> n ,,,ra |l#
C?
Reduced Facsimile of the Triangular Stick.
FOR years Rexona has been a household name in thousands of Australian homes, and has
always stood for purity and excellence of quality. We hear daily from people all over
the Commonwealth, telling how Rexona has healed their cuts, sores, eczema, piles, bad
legs, and every kind of skin disease, after many other remedies have failed. Rexona Skm and
Facial Soap is just as well and favorably known as Rexona the Rapid Healer, and is unequalled
for the Toilet, Nursfery and Bath. Those who have once used Rexona Soap love it and want
ReX °W e a now e wk™ e to bring a new Rexona product to your notice; something for the men of
th« family this time. Can you guess what it is? Why, Rexona Shaving Soap, of course. We
know how most men dislike shaving, so we have employed our knowledge and medical skill
in making a shaving stick which is of triangular shape, something much in advance of the old-
fashioned round stick. It is a worthy companion for Rexona the Rapid Healer and Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap. Can we give you a better guarantee for quality?
Rexona, the Triangular Shaving Stick.
A New Rexona Product.
is an other idea in Shaving Soap—another Rexona triumph—one this time which will be appreci-
ntcri hv men wherever beards grow. Rexona Shaving Soap contains the same Oils and Essences that have
made the world <>ver, and is made on the Rexona formula, and thus makes a Shaving Stick
soap S lotion combined. It makes for comfort and hygiene in shaving, and tempers the skm
jigainst,
creamv lather which will soften the beard and improve the skin at the same time. It is delicately per-
Hand medicated on the same principles as Rexona, and not only produces a lasting lather but purifies
ind leaves the Skin in perfect condition. Being an antiseptic Medicated Soap, it has a tendency to quickly
heal aSy cut you may have the misfortune to get, and if troubled with pimples or blotches of any kind
wiU »FX y ONA fI SHAVING V SOAp n is the highest standard of Shaving Soap that it is possible to produce,
SMSAWi £ ass «
srjKSSr A*,,x ßexona 8 “
soaps of superlative quality which represent the highest possible standard that we can offer to the public, regaidless of expense.
Watch for the Triangular SticK.
RTVYnv i ctr\vttvg «OAP will ho found the most economical Shaving Stick on the market, but care should be exercised not to dip the Stick in ths
water, but wet the face and apply the Shaving
shlvingffor?a°f?lJ toe fwe a mzor ami removing the y beard,'the skin needs a protection from the germs carried by the dust which every-
° ne R S pvm,i aC |h»vin ? soan somethin*? entirelv new in every respect. Watch for the triangular enamelled
box, like the old-fashioned kinds, but triangular, and packed in a trian-
gular enamelled box, tasty and neat, easy to hold, and in every resp c . f t f
Rexona Shaving Stick is sold everywhere at 1/6, or, if unable to I ’ iqi k Clarence Street
upon receipt of the price, 1/6, by the Sole Proprietors, Rexona Proprietaiy Company, 131 o Clarence Stieet,
Sydney.
REXONA THE RAPID HEALER.
REXONA is the up-to-date Rapid Healer, and is well known as the King of Omtments. This
famous Healer is entirely different from all other ointments, and infinitely more efficacious,
is composed of the purest vegetable juices and rare medicinal herbs, nf ?he
equalled antiseptic, cooling, soothing and healing ointment. It is the greatest, slun rem y .
age. Thousands of people thank Rexona for skin health and comfort after enduung years of suite
mg ' If you suffer from Piles, Eczema, Bad Leg, Varicose Ulcers, Ringworm, Hives, Sores on the Head,
Falling Hair, Dandruff, Chilblains, Chapped Hands, Cuts, Burns, or any eruption or irritation of the
Skin, Rexona will bring you prompt relief. If you have tried many remedies and been disap
pointed, try Rexona, and you will be delighted with the results.
REXONA, &/>e RING of OINTMENTS.
REXONA soothes and stimulates the parts affected, and, although the sufferer may be _ quite
unconscious of it, Rexona never ceases to exercise its healing powers, and so builds up the tissues,
and makes your skin sound and healthy. „a onn i v
Rexona fills a long-felt need. There is no better treatment than to get a tin of Rexona and apply
this rapid healer night and morning. First clean the sore or bruise with warm water Rexona Soap,
then apply a little Rexona Ointment, and protect the wound from contact with the clothing with a
soft bandage. The most troublesome sore will heal under this treatment in a few days. The wlse
mother will always be prepared for emergencies by keeping a pot of Rexona handy. »old in
triangular pots at 1/6, or in larger size, holding nearly four times the quantity, price 3/-
r 'Coolin.o,.
, -
Healing
%%niiseplic Ointment
Q jibjol(Jtely N
6 Heals j Reliable
mom
A Reliable Remedy for all eruptions and irritations of the
Eczema. Pimples, Sores, Chilblains. Chapped Hands,
rj^-'Sciatica, itching or Bleeding Piles. Cuts, Burns. Bruises. Scalds.
Bad Legs. Slings of Insects and all kinds of Inflammation i
Rexona in Triangular pots only.
REXONA SOAP for the SKIN 8 SCALP
THAT natural beauty of skin and hair which cannot be imitated can be obtained by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap.
Ordinary Toilet Soaps do not assert this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skm and destroy
its delicate texture. Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse—they cannot heal and protect the skm. Rexona Soap
contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams as Kexona the
Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin affections
is known throughout the world. Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap
regularly once or twice a day, and see if it does not quickly soothe and
cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency to pimples, and leave the
complexion clear, fresh and velvety.
REXONA, the Soap of Purity.
REXONA SOAP stands for Purity, Cleanliness, Health and Beauty. By
its use the texture of the skin is at once refined, and all disease-laden germs
are washed away. A clean body repels disease and invites admiration. The
refreshing glow of the skin, and the security from germ contamination, which
Rexona Soap ensures to the user, are a revelation in skin comforts. The re-
sulting beauty is evidence of the intrinsic truth of the old saying, “Beauty is
only skin deep.”
REXONA, the Aristocrat of Soaps.
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap will do more to improve your skin than
you ever thought a soap could do. It is medicated, on the same principle as the
famous Rexona Ointment. Thus it is able to exert the hygienic effects of
Rexona upon the skin with every cleansing operation. Prevents roughness,
beautifies complexions, soothes tender skins, protects from infection and
disease, unexcelled for shampooing, purifies the scaln, removes dandruff, and
brings health to the hair. Try Rexona Skin and Facial Soap and prove its
superior benefits.
//// *// /y///y////^uy///////////////////Ss*
'MtWj..
'&m.
s/
mm
YV///
WM
wm
i
V»s
V/ A
m
m.
mm
I WA
mm
Wm
wm
%
A SKIN & F/
For the
toilet, bath
& NURSERY.
Cleanses
HEALS AND
Purifies
FACIAL
✓ z'
MEDICATED SOAP
rf
VA
m.
m
Rexona Proprietary Company
Sydney, N.S.W.
c
%
i
/ '
f
%
'4
Large and Lasting Tablet, price Is.


CHARLES
IIEIDSIECKS
Vintage'l9o6
omc
NE PLUS ULTR/J
sad
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Race Gowns.
The creation of smart attire for
Randwick or Flemington is under-
taken by the Shave designers with
C'dat, for it is an art in which
they excel. By the Shave Model-
fitting System much inconvenience
is saved to many in their clientele.
SHAVE
Centreway,
Melbourne.
Dressmakers,
Ladies’ Tailors.
sa
HOSIERY!
GLOVES!
UNDERWEAR!
“OUR” SPECIAL MILANESE SIL/v
GLOVES, double-tipped' guaranteed, all col/rs,
4/9 pair.
Other qualities 5/6, 7/6 pair
“DOVE” HEAVY-WEIGHT PURE SILK
HOSE, every pair guaranteed ladder-proof. Sold
in shops 25/- pair. From us, in black only—
-16/6 Pair
“OMI” ARTIFICIAL SILK ANKLE
HOSE, Australian made, noted for splendid dye
and good wear. In black,' white and brown—•
3/6 pair
“DOVE” AMERICAN COTTON SING-
LETS, very long and full size. Short sleeves.
4/11 value for 2/11 each
KAVSER MILANESE HOSE, in Mastic,
Navy and White 16/11 pair
MAIL ORDERS SPECIALLY CATERED FOR.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
The Dove Hosiery Stores,
Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
f
LOOK!
I've Split my
NEW GLOVES.
This is just one of
those articles which
could neatly be
repaired with
ftOend-a-Tsaj:
THE WONDERFUL NEW
MATERIAL WHICH SO
SIMPLY - SO NEATLY-
REPAIRS ALMOST ALL WEARING APPAREL
WITHOUT STITCHES.
V
Sample Outfit
post free on
receipt of 1/4.
v-
CEL ii
Sole Wholesale Distributors for N.S.W. and'
Queensland —
Bennett # Barkell Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
Buy Peace Bonds.
The Dainty Afternoon Teas served at the “PAVILION,” Circular Quay, Sydney, are patronised by the best people.
Orchestral performances daily.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
The catholicity of J. F. Archibald’s sym-
pathies was well expressed in his will. He
loved good pictures, and he made a hobby of
portraiture, so a tenth of his estate—after
certain works have been handed to the N. S.
Wales Gallery-—is allocated to the encourage-
ment of portrait-painting. He had a par-
ticular horror of cancer, and an abounding
pity for those attacked by it, so the Sydney
Uni. gets £4OOO or £5OOO for cancer re-
search work. The A.J.A. has been left, some-
thing : he was always a friend of the working
journalist. Also the Sydney and Melbourne
hospitals; and a characteristic touch was
liis remembrance of the tobacco-hungry old
people in the Warrnambool Benevolent Asy-
iuru. Seven of the 50 shares into which the
estate is divided go to pay for a memorial
of the fact that Australian and French
soldiers fought together in the Great War.
Archibald was French in temperament and
wit; and if he hadn't been born in Aus-
tralia he would have liked to have been a
native of France.
Saturday was hanging day for the Society
ot Artists, and in the steamy afternoon they
were all busy at it, shirt-sleeved and bare-
headed except Howard Ashton, who stuck to
his felt hat with great solicitude. Urbane B E
Minns constituted himself head of the social
department, and murmured introductions to
aitist oi pictuie without prejudice. Florence
Rodway measured and readjusted in a sort
of patient frenzy. Norman Carter and
Gruner viewed a line of pictures on the floor,
plainly worried that they and the wall
couldn’t be brought into spontaneous contact.
Reason, gentlest of mortals, trotted industri-
ously about with a measuring-rod and a
smile. Sid Ure Smith, in spite of the dust
and grit, turned an unsmudged countenance
to all. A Dazzle Ball beauty-judge was there
making anxious investigations on skin tex-
tures and figure proportions. A jeering
brotherhood turned their backs on him and
Ins bitterness of spirit. Nearly half of the
pictures submitted for the show had to be
thrown out; but the Education Department
Gallery contains good stuff. On Wednesday
the Trustees of the National Gallery have
the first look at the Show ; on Thursday the
press and its pencil are admitted; Friday is
private-view day ; and on Saturday Governor
Davidson makes Sydney officially aware that
the Show is open.
At the Victory Ball in Paddington Town
Hall four debutantes were led forward by
Mrs. Earp, who in her heavy gold embroi-
deries suggested Pekin rather than Poland.
The affable Chief Justice Cullen and
his wife shook hands with them; and that
was “the presentation” ! One of the debs.,
who had a curl falling from a Psyche-like
knob of black hair, looked almost babylike,
with her gently scooped-out frock and her
wide-apart eyes. The Rose Ball decorations
cropped up again, a little bit tired, maybe,
but bravely smiling as they looped and
trailed themselves about the softly-lighted
hall. The floor was in great condition, and
everybody danced, even the nurses, rather
hot-looking in their starched bibs and tuck-
ers on that warm September night. The
doctors turned up with their wives or best
girls. Mrs. Backhouse, representing her
judge, who is President of the Board of the
Crown-street Hospital, was there in pale
blue and black dress with Limerick lace.
Among the mighty also sat the Barton lady
in the coloring of a fuchsia; Mrs. Sly tem-
pered her black net with silver; Mona Daley
flung her cares to the wind, and stepped out
in a frock mainly Oriental panels: Miss
Newsom in white came with Commander and
Mrs. Canning. And the money in the hat
goes to the Crown-street Women’s Hospital,
which is always hungry.
At the 14th and 15th Light Horse re-
union last week, after Allenby had been
classed as a “mean kind of bloke,” the boys
forgot all about him. The Oxford Hall was
all trails of pink roses and monster lanterns
for the party, and after the flashlight photo-
graph had been taken everybody danced.
Some of the young giants who hadn’t taken
the floor for five years tried to fit the old
steps to the new music; but everybody was
happy—happiest perhaps of all, Brigadier-
General Onslow, who beamed on his boys,
and between outbursts of enthusiasm for
their work and for the wonders of the Kan-
tara canteen, confessed to feeling lonely now
that they faced this parting of the ways.
Also present, £olonel and Mrs. Mills.
To glaze the dancing-floor in the "garden”
of the Wentworth an electric polisher has
been installed, and the surface is now like a
frozen lake. But there are no "dangerous”
corners where the ice has worn thin.
Sixth and 7th Light Horsemen are to
link up at the Oxford Hall on October 13.
Cards from D. R. Waddell. Bull’s Chambers,
or J. Austin, Edgecliff-road.
There were three original Anzacs at St.
James’s when North 'Shore liner Olive Mat-
thews married her Sergeant Reggie Cox of
Wagga. Besides the bridegroom, best-man
Leslie Goldring and groomsman Cameron
were at the scaling of Gallipoli. Tulle
and silver lace and georgette went to the
making of the bridal dress, which was
flanked by the shell-pink and powder-blue of
bridesmaids Olive Cox and Enid Matthews.
Petty’s received the small family party.
Actress Olive Godwin, whose name was
always welcome on a J.C.W. programme,
wore navy tailorings and trig mole-colored
hose and shoes when she married Ernest
John Roberts from Birmingham at St.
Andrew’s, with Dean Talbot to tie the knot
and niece Meta Waterman as attendant.
This is May Moore’s photograph of Mrs.
Baker, wife of the new headmaster of the
King’s School. Mrs. Baker was one of Bris-
bane’s most popular
wom e n, an d a n
ardent war-worker.
She was Command-
ant of No. 1 V. A.
Detachment, and
with their h e 1 p
started a buffet in
• the grounds of No. 6
Military Hospital,
Kangaroo Poi n t,
Where they worked
until January of this
year; she was the
mother, too, of the
buffet at No. 17
Military Hospital,
Euoggera. As to
sports, she has been
so busy for years
watching her hus-
band make and break records that she simply
hasn’t had time to become expert in any
herself.
The youngest Castles sister, Eileen, is
engaged to the American birdman Irving
Stone. Irving is said to be a cross between
a Greek god and a Dana Gibson hero, and is
spoken of as the handsomest man in the
U.S. Army. He has brains, too; his gradua-
tion from Yale was one of the most brilliant
of its year.
Mildred Mort, of Franklin Vale station
(Q.), is, at the moment, letting Leura see
the engagement circlet that Kenneth McCon-
nell, of Cressbrook station, has persuaded
her to wear.
Brisbane girl Jean Ridgw’ay will soon
leave her home at Hamilton to go as Mrs.
Cecil Paul to the Federated Malay States.
Cecil is a planter at Kuala Lumpur. Until
a few years ago the Ridgways belonged to
Ivyneton (Vic.). Mrs. Ridgway was one of
the well-known Hyndman family.
Amy Castles sang for the boys at Rand-
wick last week. The concert was in the
recreation hall, because that held the most;
amh the cot and chair cases were in the
front rows. Sister Eileen and Natalie Daw-
son swelled the programme. Another small
windfall came the boys’ way when the Tivoli
entertained 50 of them at “The Officers’
Mess,” and you should have heard them
shout over Marie Lc Varre and Lottie Sar-
gent.
Soprano Josie Westaway is another Syd-
ney girl who went away last week with tin?
Freddie Shipman concert companies. She ■
will see Java, India and South Africa before
she returns. A pupil of Asprey’s, she has
been soloing in St. Mary’s choir for seme
time.
The orchestral concert on Saturday night
was in the nature of an ovation to the Little
Master. The Town Hall was crammed, and
when Verbrugghen appeared he was greeted
with an outburst as thunderous as anything
Wagner could have scored. The Tschai-
kowsky “Pathetique” and the beloved “Peer
Gynt” suite were the charms of the even-
ing. Trombones, violins, cymbals and wind
instruments are now giving Melbourne a
ration of their music.
St. Margaret’s Hospital for Women sends
Sydney its bill for the services its nurses
rendered during the epidemic in the poorest
corners of Surry Hills. It’s a very reason-
able bill—the price of a ticket to the Blos-
som dance in aid of the hospital, to be held
at Paddington Town Hall on October 14.
The big private dance of the season will
be given by the Hunter Whites, of Havilah,
Mudgee, who have taken Harry Austin’s
Darling Point house.
On a fine Spring afternoon last week the
shining little Tivoli had its stage polished
up and tables with tea equipment lined right
entrance and left exit. Half-mast high in
the background the banjos and the trombone
wrenched out chunks of double syncopation
and flung them to the floor to be twinkled
upon, sleekly caressed, or trodden by some
who of old might have been in the blanket-
washing industry! Marie Le Varre and
Goodie Reeve chucked a handful of song into
the fun-making scale, and handsome Vera
Pearce, descending upon the house in pink
silk pyjamas, declared she could find a cosy
corner in the heart of the boy she loved. But
whether Vera will be able to squeeze in is
quite another matter. Dancers Valentine
Adami and Andree Flo fled about the stage
like a rumor, she demonstrating a free-arm
movement that looks as though her finger-
tips are superciliously pointing to a tacking
thread that has been left by error in her
partner’s shoulder seam. These jazz teas
happen Mondays and Thursdays.
Amy Castles, grey-frocked and black-
hatted, and little sister Eileen drank a dish
of tea at the invitation of bright-cheeked
Mrs. Smith, whose husband is a Somebody
at Port Moresby. It was quite a large
kettledrum, and the singing sisters were the
stars. One end of the Mary Elizabeth,
marked off with suspended baskets of foliage
and sweet-pea, harbored the art and writing
girls that the invitations had gathered to-
gether. Mrs. Smith had a tall, broad lieu-
tenant son returned to her last week by the
war, in place of tile stripling who left school
four years ago to join the colors.
Mrs. Collins, of Queensland, gave the
smartest dinner-dance of the week at the
Wentworth on Thursday. She had with
her a M.L. debutante niece, Miss McAndrew,
All the members of the Knox family who go
in for jazzing were there; also Jean Morton
and her fianc6, and the just-returned Owen
boy, who enlisted in an English regiment at
the early age of 17 or thereabouts.
Jazzing has long since routed bridge in
Sydney. Epicures claim that it is also de-
stroying the art of dining. In private homes,
as well as at restaurants, people have begun
to dance between the courses, to the annoy-
ance and bewilderment of the cooks. Now,
with the summer coming on, the doctors
forecast epileptic fits and other unpleasant-
nesses for the stout-und-old jazz fiends who
persist in treating their digestions as if the
latter were still young.
There’s to be a monster Battle of Flowers
at the Show Ground on October 11 to give
Bush Week its send-off. Five thousand girls,
every maid of them representing Flow in
some garb or other, are to be let loose on the
crowd. Confetti and petals are to be their
munitions and they expect to take captives
by the hundred. It’s to be a great day, and
what it is going to do for the bush-wife,
straifaing weary eyes for the breaking of the
drought, may make itself apparent later on.
Here’s Jean Stevenson, known from Auck-
land to the Bluff as “Pet” Stevenson, whose
dad has a Maoriland jam factory and a
quiverful of popular daughters. It was in
helping with father’s publicity work that
Jean had her first taste of organising, and
this brought with it a desire to go in for
welfare work. The Y.W.C.A. gave her her
first chance in Adelaide, then she was secre-
tary in Bendigo for
three years, and next
became the first in-
dustrial secretary in
Melbourne. She went
off to the National
Training School in
America after that,
and found herself
studying with young
women of such far-
tlung distances as
Japan, Arme n i a.
Syria, Finland and
Norway. She, knew
old-Australian Alme
Henry very well, and
her work brought her
in touch with the
Raymond Robbins
couple, who live in
what used to be one of the lowest and
poorest quarters of New York, but which
now, through the influence of the woman
and man in their midst, has become a neigh-
borhood that wears its poverty with a dig-
nity. Miss Stevenson is on the National
Committee of a big push which the Y.W.C.A.
is now making. The photo, is by Bernice
Agar.
The Automobile Club has lost one of its
brightest members, Charles J. Kaye, the
yeast of any doughy party he happened to
fall into. The cut of his clothes was an
inspiration, too: but finance was his
metier, not fashion. The widow has the deep
sympathy of a host of friends. Mother,
father and husband have been taken from
her within a few months.
Melbourne’s surgeon O’Hara is about to
retire. He and his wife find the rooftree
very lonely now that their offspring have
found their wings. The doctor mentions
.that Portsea will be his resting-place during
the summer, and in the winter he will seek a
warmer spot—possibly Sydney. By the way,
son Clive, whose clipper-built figure caused
such admiring comment when he toured Aus-
tralia some years back in the black satin knee-
breeches of a juggler under the name of
Henry Clive, has left the stage, having dis-
covered himself to be a clever figure artist.
At the moment he is in Europe as art director
to Sydney Chaplin, .brother to Charlie. Their
intention is to open a movie studio outside
Paris, and another in Algiers. His wife is
a good-looker - , too, in addition to having
many accomplishments. She was Dore
Plowden, daughter of the almost-famous
police-magistrate of Ixmdon, and niece to
Lady Paget.
The Arthur Coxes have discovered the one
certain way of beating the British profiteer.
They have bought a house and settled down
in Jersey, the beautiful Channel island where
Mrs. Langtry was born. There are no taxes
in Jersey worth mentioning, and all the food
is produced on the spot. During the war
Arthur Cox did strenuous work, first in
France and afterwards in London. He has
a boy in the R.N. and a pretty and clever-
daughter who has just grown up.
Two former editors of the S. M. Herald,
Dr. Garran and Mr. Gurnow, left widows
who have long passed the “allotted span.”
Mrs. Garran reached her !)Oth year a
few days ago, and Mrs. Curnow is not far
off that age. Both ladies, though very deaf,
still take a keen interest in life.
Surely the proudest entry in the annual
report of the N.S.W. Home for Incurables
was that £3OO had been obtained from the
inmates’ sale of work. After an avalanche
of figures had fallen on the company a re-
solution to build an extra wing to hold 45
beds was loudly applauded.
George Black has presented the J. S. Wat-
kins portrait of Mrs. Black to the Lady
Edeline Hospital. It will be remembered
that this picture was one of the successes of
the Art Society’s Exhibition of 1918. Min-
ister for Health David Storey is to unveil
the portrait in the Rosalind Black Ward
when the hospital is re-opened next month.
Commander Maxwell Scott has been trans-
ferred from the Encounter to Jervis Bay.
Mrs. Scott’s swanky frocks will surely sur-
prise the natives.
Wilfred Stead, the M.L. turf magnate,
6wner of Sasanof, Golden Bubble and other
expensive horseflesh, has brought the missus
and five children across for the Randwick
carnival. He has taken a humpy at Wool-
lahra.
The Hugh Macneils, with one of their sol-
dier sons, returned from England the other
day and went to 52 Macleay-street.
John Ferguson, of St. Stephen’s Scotsby-
terian kirk, whose heart is as big as his
congregation, overdid his good works at ’flu
time, and has been for a time blind. He
has recovered his sight, but wears awesome-
looking goggles.
It was evidently their determination to
keep Australia white that took nearly a whole
Parliament to the opening dinner of the
Pekin Cafe. The first name on the toast
list was that of Levy, Speaker of the Leg.
Assembly; following came the names of
Fitzpatrick, Carmichael, David Hall, Storey,
Black and Mclntosh. The circular of the
Chop Suey puts forward the bait that within
its walls one can be surrounded by the
tapestries and the atmosphere of "the East,’’
and can eat after the Oriental manner if one
desires it. Either some of the Parliamentary
speakers were great hypocrites, or it is time
Australia looked for others to take their
place in its public affairs.
Mrs. George Sargent got a pat on the back
lately from the Prisoners of 'War Com-
forts Committee. The pat embodied itself
in an illuminated address handed over by
Minister Davey Hall, and his speech was
punctuated by the applause of nearly 100
guests. Altogether £2OOO was forwarded
to make things a little less dreary for our
boys prisoned in Hun camps, and Mrs. Sar-
gent was responsible for most of it.
The Carrington-street Fruit and Vegetable
Dep6t is turning the key in the door after
four years’ active service. Generalissimo
Pontey was given three cheers by the Fund’s
Committee one evening last week.
Mr. and Mrs. Roland Foster, of the Con-
servatorium, were the guests of Clara Butt
and Kennerley Rumford on their houseboat
at this year’s Henley Regatta. Ethel Hook
(another Butt sister) was with the party.
Elsa Stralia, Mr. and Mrs. W. 11. Squire
(he’s the composer), Fanny Davies, Sir
Henry Wood and Mr. and Mrs. Fairbairn.
of the London School of Opera, and the
Society of English Singers, have been other
hosts of the Fosters since they reached
London.


LIMITED
TRAVELLING DAGS
■ i ■
■ • J 'T '. /
t '.!
«»#■ /-Mi-
• ; . B; L
Solid fnglish Leather Travelling Bad
24 inches long, leather-lined , Lilted with pair oB
Sbonu Hat Brushes, Sbomj Hat & Clothes Brushes,
four Silver 711 onnted Bottles, Soap Box. Tllirror
favors. & Strop. Receptacle for Shirts filed
into hack oL lid.
£2O~O~O
5% discount allowed
on all cash purchases.
Hardy Brothers I™
13 HUNTER ST
SYDNEY.
298 COLLINS ST
MELBOURNE..
ds
116118 QUEENS!
BRISBANE...
AND AT
LONDON..
LEARN TO TAKE PHOTOS
WITH AN ENSIGN CAMERA
BRITISH-MADE.
There is nothing that adds so much to the pleasure of your Spring and
Summer outings and holiday trips, as to be able to take photos of the
beauty spots you visit and of your friends in happy groups and merry poses.
We Will Teach You
How to Use It—Free.
The simplest camera to begin with is the
Ensign Box-Form Camera, as illustrated. It
is strong and serviceable, takes good photos,
and is inexpensive. The body of the camera
is made of seasoned wood, covered Leather-
ette with Nickel Fittings and it is fitted with
a Rapid Achromatic Lens, built-in "View-
finder, and Shutter giving Time and Instan-
taneous Exposures.
DAYLIGHT-LOADING
FOR ROLL FILMS.
Made in Four Sizes as under :
ENSIGN BOX-FORM CAMERA:
No. 2}A.
Takes Photos 2}- x 2i
PRICE— 10/-
2JB.
2i x U
14/6
2-1 X 4:1
18/6
31.
31 x 41 in.
237-
FILMS, per roll of 6 Exposures:
-/7 -/10 1/1 1/0
Call and let us show you how easy it is to use. Send for Catalogue if
you live out of town.
Jewellers, Dentists and Engravers Residues
Treated at HARRINGTONS*.
We have the latest Scientific Appliances for the Economical Treatment of Ores,
Residues, Sweepings and other Waste Products, every grain of precious metal tl at is of
value being extracted and paid for at market rates, less a small charge for refinement.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver, Platinum and other 1 recious Metals, and
can supply Pilose metals and their alloys in plate, granulated or wire. We specialise in
Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis. A note or phone message to any of
our branches will receive prompt attention.
up
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
m
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland;
206 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale.
-.y
tm
1
ri
a
‘i Ik II
m
"Well, it’s a sreat investment!”
EVERY CITY CONVENIENCE for the Country
Don’t spend your money on a luxury plant which only gives you light—buy a plant that is a real engine power
outfit as well, one that you will use every day, one that will pay for its cost over and over again. Western
Electric Power and Light is a 32 volt outfit consisting of a 31/4 h.p. engine direct-coupled to a 1500 watt genera-
tor, and fitted with a pulley which enables the engine to be used for driving all farm machinery. The battery
has a capacity of 180 ampere hours (5400 watt hours), and the whole outfit is automatic and fool-proo ,
with 40 years of electrical experience behind it.
ELECTRIC LIGHT 4- ELECTRIC POWER -j- ENGINE Power
ELECTRIC LIGHT. It gives a plentiful
supply of cheerful, safe Electric Light for the
home and. all outlying buildings, and also for
halls, institutes, stores, etc.
ELECTRIC POWER. Powerful Electric
current for utility motors, washing machines,
sewing machines, fans, irons, suction cleaners,
and toasters.
ENGINE POWER. A 314 h.p. Kerosene
Engine 4-cycle, throttle governed, air cooled,
arid splash oiled, that drives sawbenches
separators, feed mills, shearing outfits, etc’
No matter how small your farm, we make it easy for you to have WESTERN ELECTRIC POWER AND LIGHT. Write for par-
ticulars of our plan, abo 20 page Book (post free), to your nearest of the following :
WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. (Australia) LTD.
192 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY 262 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE
AGENTS—T. Tonks, Elizabeth St., Brisbane; Newton McLaren, Leigh St., Adelaide: Medhurst Electric Co., n Argyle Street, Hobart;
A. D. Riley & Co., Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.,; also at Christchurch, Auckland, and Dunedin, N.Z.
&
-cl
immm
. ■
'f
■Si
v
tm
0
p— jg
f
wm.
¥
■
*
%
pis
m


COLLARS
THE first func-
tion of a
PEL A CO
Collar is to wear
longer.
AND IT DOESt
PELACO Collars
reveal superior qual-
ity and stamina.
Buying them means
economy of the right
sort.
PELACO Shirts,
Collars & Pyjamas
are sold by reliable
Mercers everywhere
Made in
Australia
It isn’t
much
trouble
to look
for the
name
adsa
"THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN."
m i
The above
is the titl
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities ™
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what' the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J, WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
151 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Esterbrook’s Pens.
AT OTHING is so good but there may be a better.
The thousands of folk who like our Relief Pen might
do well to write us for a sample of our No. 908.
Worth a trial. Send 2-id. in stamps for cost of
postage on free samples to
ESTERBROOK, Box 98 G.P.0., Sydney.
AGNES PLATT,
4 Manchester St., London, W. England.
Advice given on plays, novels, cinemas.
Manuscripts placed. Plays produced.
Correspondence course in stage, novel
and cinema technique.
BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL
Mini
Hr
The last word in comfort.
Convenient to Theatres,
G.P.0., Rail, and all tram
routes
THE GRESHAM
BRISBANE
T. M. AHERN, Prop.
FOR
ARCHITECTS ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN'& OFFICE USE.
1 AO
Perfection
F>mM: RUBBER.
BOSTOCK’S—the Sign of a Good Shine—i
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
The present being times for the practise of economy, no better preservative of
leather can be recommended than
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
This well-known Shoe Polish possesses all the qualities for enhancing the wear of
footwear, keeping the leather soft, pliable and brilliant. Shoes regularly cleaned
with Bostoek’s give added service.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brov.n. Ox Blood and White. In Tins, Bottles and Tubes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
sd
KM S HOHROCKSES HORROCKStS'
THE WORLD'S
90 BEST VALUE
(SarEsasaasQ
caS
ď
C\r\Mr£
Wlffl
R
fE/NCiflc Wire a
FREE!
A Handy Fence Book.
It is a guide to every man
who buys fencing-wire. Its
pages supply useful informa-
tion that represents savings
in pounds to purchasers.
Ask for Book N. 19. Your store-
keeper sells “Waratah ’ we
supply the trade only.
Austral Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Ferrara Street. South Melbourne.
in these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to soli.
Personal Attention.
Offloe—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ad
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating: SURFING Resort.
Tel., Kogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years, also a wonderful
Cure for Rheumatism.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £ 1/2/-. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
in" mu
$
Williams
Talc
Ponder
CARNfITIOr
k
II"!
s*
o'?
AFTER the game, the ride, the
swim, the brisk walk, or a day
L at the seashore, turn for comfort
to
Williams’
Talc Powder
Open the hinged cover and let this
pure, light, fragrant, cooling powder
fall upon the skin. Discomfort dis-
appears instantly at its grateful touch,
and the one drawback to the active,
health-giving, out-of-doors life is
quickly and pleasantly removed.
Get WILLIAMS’ Talc, in the gener-
ous can with the handy, hinged top
that prevents leaking of the powder or
escape of the perfume.
WILLIAMS’ Talc gives you a wide
choice —Violet, Carnation, English
Lilac, La Tosca Rose and Matinee
(new). Also, Baby Talc, practically
nnscented.
If your Chemist hasn’t got it don’t
blame us, but send us 1/6 in stamps
and we will post you a full-size, hand-
some canister. Name the odor you
prefer.
“WILLIAMS,”
Box 98 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SHALL
IKVtST
ipwcly
BOB?
&A 3
V
r i
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTSc
PRIZES value €3,500
'Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 1, 1919.
Ist PRIZE, value £750
2nd PRIZE, value £3OO
3rd PRIZE, value £2OO
and 397 other
Valuable Prizes.
CHANCE FOR 1919.
TRY IT. •
Ist Prize in 1918 won by Mrs. Murtough, Ken- ShiSlmcr
sington, Sydney, N.S.W., for modest outlay of
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1919.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper, November 6, 1919. To
any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will
be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct from —
Trades Hall, Sydney. ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. be
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted j and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
R. 0.8.: There is a certain logic in your
remarks about the absurdity of spending money c r
trouble (per tariff or otherwise) to support an Aus-
tralian infant industry which in its beginnings pro-
duces an inferior article, while a more serviceable
article can be imported at the same price or less.
There is also logic in our remark (which we haven’t
made yet, but will in a minute) that it is worth
while struggling with your own infant, even though
you might now and again borrow the sturdier kid
next d00r... .Quivis: You say about the League of
Nations that “it' is probably the greatest attempt at
practical idealism that the world has yet seen.’’
Don’t know what “practical idealism” is; but it’s
a curse if it induces this country to be less prepared
for trouble than any potential enemy.... Daybreak:
“The Best” is not your worst. No man has ever
done his worst.... A.G.R.: Both gone to their long
home... .Kemo: “My Fancy” isn’t ours... .L.
Carter: Have a copy of it (or some of it) in print.
If you want the MS. it’s here.... St. G.A.D.: No
g00d... .Z.R.: No use to us... .L.W.: “Departing
Steamer” is sunk before it leaves its moorings....
A. C. Yarra: “The Bachelor” is condemned by the
Lady Editress as hopeless... .Venus: “The Hempen
Rope” is returned. You know what to do with
it.... Sylvester Smith: “October’s morn I greet on
glad, expectant feet.” Sending feet back. Put
them in your hip pocket... .A. 8.0.: “Love’s dainty
charms ar e shorn.” Sorry, but if she would be a
nanny-goat this is no place to mention it Tom
Harris: “The Bird Girl” has been mentioned as
a likely waitress to the Dago who runs a cook-
house next door Kay Kimbal: This much will
do:—
And I’m thinking of the kisses
Hot with love and moist with joy
Of the heaving of your bosom
As you fondly whispered “Royl”
Must have been a great night Yanko: Much
obliged. As you say, the medical contributor erred.
It was John, not Sam, McCaughey who went to
India for the operation for cataract W. V. Jazz:
It hesitated a while before it fell on the wrong side
of the basket....C. Coral: Newspaper reporters over-
come that difficulty by using the words “full stop”
or full point ... .Charles Henry: Charles, it will
go back F.C.K.: “Drought” not wanted’.... Bush
Hora: Have asked him to commmunieate with you.
V • -L.M. (Malvern): Not even an honorable men-
tion. ...N.M.W.: Too slender Fanuela: Very dull.
... .R.M. (Kew) : Commonplace P.G. (Corrimal) :
It’s not brilliant even for a schoolgirl. .. .1.R.M.:
The school-paper • may have it. . . .W.J.T.: How
often has all that been said before?... .F.J.C.:
Doesn’t make an attractive yarn... .D.J.D.: The
verse is only middling, anyhow. And we doubt the
yarn that is attached to it... .D.M.R.: Answer evi-
dently not meant for you. If only people would
adopt pen-names! Sulla: It’s quite usual to dis-
cover it is night when it gets dark E.R.D. :
Don t want Rum”... .A.W.V.K.: Doesn’t make
much of a yarn Veritas: It’s about the 369th
story of the same good old heroic coward. .. .L.M.8.:
Hasn’t enough movement for us F.V.C.: Covers
very old ground. .. . W.R.E.: A thing like that should
be done with thought and care. A lot of the points
overlap Moreover: Not enough skill N.V.P.:
Misses Aspiration: Keep on aspiring. You’ll pro-
bably get somewhere C.H.S. : Verse very lumpy.
. ...E.M.J.: Wants better verse to carry it....
W.A.L.: No freshness about it. . . .R.0.W.: The
“Violin” doesn’t set the type dancing... .Bob Me:
You can only rhyme “deary” with “theory” by dis-
locating something Larry G.: Mild verse without
punch or charm T. J.L.: They both miss El
Dorado: You can’t bark a sonnet.... Chick: Far too
many words J.A.M.: Less difficulty in agreeing
'with you than with any other poet this week:—-'
Politicians have promised many things,
Including an effective tax;
What have we found when the party bell rings?
That their talk is not backed up by facts.
The imported man comes out with a tale
About progress if he is returned.
But that sort of story is just about stale;
Our distrust is all he has earned.
. ...M.J.Y.: Four times too 10ng... .Hannibal: “The
Graveyard” made us yawn... .M. 8.: “Harp in Pawn”
must Stay there so far as we are concerned. .. .E.M.
(Castlemaine) : “Vikings” doesn’t thrill us... .T.J.L.:
Yarn rather too mechanical. .. .R.S.Y.S.: “Dreams”
won’t d 0... .A.L.N.: Nothing there.. .-.N.5.L.: No
merit in it... .Eleanor: Doesn’t get anywhere near.
... .E.D. (Lldcombe) : Not up F.M.C.: No earthly
use.... Sub-ed: Feeble, with an occasional j01t....
F.F. (Launceston) : The “Toadstool” is a bit poison-
ous.... Babette, C.I. (Glenferrie) and Iota: Not
this time.... A.E.Y.: Even verse is the better for
a little constructive skill... .E.G. (Adelaide): Don’t
like your “Pa 1”.... J.A.W.: Nice little thing:—
Every man for himself,
That’s the way o’ the world ;
Grab your share of the pelf,
As long through space you’re whirled!
Don’t sit down and dream;
Writers exist in scores
To thrash up every theme,
To keep the wolf from their doors.
It’s a fact that’s remarkably sad,
All literary people are mad!
But probably not quite accurate. The rule applies
only to editors. .. .A.R.S.: You’ll have to punch
harder to beat that man... .M.H.L.: Need a course
of Havelock Ellis.... The Stickit Playwright: The
Peace Loan is at the moment about £5,000,000
short; take “Booking” round to the Commonwealth
Bank and make an offer... .F.R.M.: One —the un-
dressed one—is not bare enough to shock the
Anglican Synod. The other is almost as dull.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Keira: One of them submitted to artist... .E.H.8.:
There is no gaiety in it... .E.L.: Idea unseaworthy.
. ...D.G.: Old Brown’s funeral passes... .D.W.H.:
A dud... .E.M.A.: Home they go. ... Simon L. :
Evidently not the famous Simple Simon. Your
drawing’s bad C.H.C.: Billy would have to be
searched for with a microscope.... Pupa: Don’t
like the small Jap with the hand growing out of
the middle of his back... .R.F.0.: Your attempt
to make a flapper out of the hind-leg of a horse is
foiled. We want no repetition of the famous rib
trick that was worked on Adam... .A.L.K.: Don’t
admife your choice in chestnuts.... F.J.T.: Very
neat, but you can't draw much.... Hector C.: Same
will pot prove satisfactory. Same are too small.
. ...M.G.: Haven’t met that one for 25 years....
R.W.: You are back in the Stone Agle of art....
P.J.D.: Acquire another barrowload of knowledge
and try again.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINK
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities,
NEXT SAILING, OCTOBER 8.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons. 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company e magnificent Steamers trade regu
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, DELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COKE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or 6ecoud-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—-steamer to Murwillmnbuh,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.-First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 6s.
For Qnide and all particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY.
Blinking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000,
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lvt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .tune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 691,850 10 0
Reserve Fund .. . . .. .. 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1S!)S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; tames Love. Esq.;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HICAI) OI'TTCIS - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager-. C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. ‘ Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the AVorld.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
grants drafts
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, October 30.
R.M.S. MAKURA, November.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all he visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wei lington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Fails, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 250 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
*i m r~
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD.. 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALKS.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£4,000,000
3,100,000
4,000,000
£11,100,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MaclCellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F.'B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.B.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors : S. E.' Laidlev, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. .James T. Walker.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Gable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
A T+WJ'qStf
\Jsjrkfi(p£&rgt
JSanfe or Hnstralia
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
BUY PEACE BONDS.
The Commissioners are prepared to advance investors 90% of
the amount taken up by them in the Peace Loan.
4% interest charged for the advance
while the Bonds will return the Investor 5%%.
Only 10% of the investment need be paid on application, and the
balance by instalments in 18 months.
Advances on these terms will be made at all the Bank’s
Branches.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
The State Saving's Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
Osaka Shosen Kaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipi>ing at Japan.
GANGES MARU, sailing October.
LIMITED ACCOMMODATION AVAILABLE
FOR FIRST-CLASS PASSENGERS.
MITSUKI MARU, sailing November.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
'Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
INTER-STATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOH MELBOURNE.
thddart Parker UM'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMER'S TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application. ’ „ _ ,
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Y 7 ia Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address: Cable Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton S Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Eimited.
Fitzroy Estates Eimited.
Blacklieath Collieries Etd.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart PaTker Ltd. (at Queensland Pqrts).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Auction Sale.
Important Sale of
Dredging Machinery.
Messrs. McGregor and bloxham,
Auctioneers, of Glen Innes, in con-
junction with Thomas Brydon, of Emma-
ville, have been instructed by E. Sturtridge,
Esq.,
To Sell by Public Auction,
on the ground, 2 miles from Emmaville,
on SATURDAY, 11th OCTOBER,
SALE STARTING AT 11 a.m. SHARP.
The whole of E. Sturtridge’s complete
Dredging Plant, which includes (among
other things) two 20-horsepower Compound
Portable Engines (Richard Garrett and
Sons), working pressure 1401 b.; one 12-
horsepower Double Cylinder Engine (Brown
and May), working pressure 801 b. ; also
piping, 1 to 10 inch. —pumps, nozzles, belts,
etc., etc.
Full inventory upon application to Auc-
tioneers.
NOTICE TO BUYERS. —Everything is
for absolute sale, and will be sold in separate
lots as per inventory.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
-|- IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinGes Wednesday and Saturday,' at 2.30.
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
The Latest and Greatest Musical Play.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
-J-IVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
LONDON’S LATEST DAZZLING REVUE,
BUZZ, BUZZ.
Prices as usual.
CR ITER I O N TII EA T It 15. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 4.
MatinGes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
AGAIN THE LAUGH MAKERS,
M. B. FIGMAN and
LOLITA ROBERTSON in
A TAILOR-MADE MAN.
A HIGH-SPEED COMEDY,
ENTIRELY IN THE FIGMAN MANNER.
Plan at Paling’s.
HE It MA.IES T Y ' S, SYI)N 15 X.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinGes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
THE
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
GOING UP.
Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
pALACE TH E A TItE, SYDNE Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinGes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
J. & N. TAIT present
DADDIES.
A Fragrant Romance. A Sparkling Comedy.
A New Comedy Featuring a New Company.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
Theatre roy a e, Sydney.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
Direction KATE HOWARDE
Sole Rep. for Kate Howarde GORDON CONRAD
The RIOTOUS COMEDY SUCCESS that’s setting
all Sydney laughing.
’POSSUM PADDOCK.
Written, produced and presented by Kate Howarde.
Brilliant Compariv includes FRED MACDONALD and
JACK KIRBY.
Prices: 4/-, 3/- t 2/- and 1/. Plans at Paling’s.
ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Amusements.
u
NION PICTURE T H E A T RKS
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
H
EU MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MEUiOURPiE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Exquisite
Musical Play,
MAYTIME.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
•II E A T It IS It O Y A E, MEUiOUUNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Famous Play
of Sentiment, Pathos and Humor,
LIGHTNIN’.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
K
ING’S THEATRE. M E J, 15 O VJ It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY Jfc GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
.1. & N. TAIT present the Delightful Comedy,
OLD LADY 31.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
H
Ol'T’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKK STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
DOUG. FAIRBANKS in ARIZONA.
THEDA BARA in UNDER THE YOKE.
Prices as usual.
lACIARICM, MELBOURNE.
JAZZ PALAIS
OPENS
SATURDAY,
11th OCTOBER, 1919.
i ItITANN IA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
M LXU23P
Easy to Keep
Hair Trimmed
Distance from a barber’s need not matter when
you have a good pair of hair-clippers. The hair-
clippers illustrated are made by one of the best
known firms in U.S.A., and are thoroughly reli-
able. Solidly made of steel and with extra combs
to slide over end, enabling hair to be cut in
different lengths. Simple to use. Post free. .
12/6
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
An Unique Statement
BUT TRUE.
The celebrated “Ross” Prismatic Race Glasses are the best
Race Glasses made in any part of the world.
Ross Glasses were adopted for the British Navy and British
Army after trials of all other makes of glasses.
They are hermetically sealed, and so withstand all condi-
tions of weather.
They have wonderful definition, light, and extra large
field.
We sell all the glasses at Ross Catalogue English prices,
plus only landing charges.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
Prescriptions
Our Specialty.
Vice-Regrai Opticians for 25 Years,
Sight«testing Rooms Upstairs,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
A SEASONED SHAVER.
‘‘Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big- crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/G-POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
M.S. DEPENDABLE SPORTS GOODS
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation
Catered for.
2
*‘Quality Goods at
Honest Prices.”
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS
M.S. Handicap 7/6
M.S. Champion 12/6
C. 8.8., Leather Handle. . 12/6
0.8.8., Cork Handle .. 15/6
s
(Postage on Racket: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Specialists in
All Kinds of
RACKET REPAIRS
BALLS
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation -/9 8/6
Challenge Covered 1/4 15/-
Dunlop Regulation 1/4. 15/-_
Each. Doz.
Dunlop’s Champion 2/7 30/-
Ayre’s 1919 Champion 3/- 35/-
Slazenger’s 1919 Champion 3/- 35/-
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size, 40/-, 50/-, GO/-, 70/-
Tennis Court Markers . 30/-
Tennis Tapes 22 / 6
Racket Covers 2/6, 4/0
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
Central AVood Press 1/9
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets bottle -/9
Each.
The “H” Racket Press 2/9
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Covers... .... 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/-
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils,
2/-, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6 coil.
Tracey’s Gut, 21ft. coils,
4/-, 6/9, 9/- coil.
d
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S' GLOVES. Set of 4.
real leather, special value 9/-, 10/6
C. 8.8., Fighting-, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 0Z....12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting-, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
C or 8 oz 14/6, 16/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
G or 8 oz 18/6, 20/-, 22/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz 24/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz. 26/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 27/6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
FIGHTING, rapa leather, hair stuffed 7/-
„ Best napa, ~ ~ 7/6
„ Tan Leather, ~ „ 8/6
„ very superior, ~ ~ .... 10/6
„ Laced, „ „ 15/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
7in. wide (Post 4d) 9/6 each.
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 6/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3joz. (Post 6id.) 17/6 pair.
Keep your razor
keen by using—
STROPOLINE, 9d.
TIN
(Post Free).
7
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous BEACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Bunching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work, .. •... 9/-, 10/6, 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast —
18/6, 22/6, 25/-
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 12/6, 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings .. 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-
PORTABLE BALL/, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.... 60/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 vy- Mitts .... 2/9 pr.
Punching Platforms 40/-, 60/-, 90/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6 »
Ball-bearing Swivels 3/9, 4/6, 5/-
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges.
Send for copies of “Can't B Beat" Sportsman's Guide (Bl) and “Sure Catch" 1919
Angler's Guide (B 2). All sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
1C
!Z
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS
7WD TOBACCONISTS
a
City Sports Depot
99 King St also at
Newcastle l Brisbane j


Dr. Sheldon’s DigestiveTabules
“The Real Thing for Indigestion,”
says Mr. Wallace Nelson.
I just recently returned from the Front by the Sardinia, and when I arrived
here I was certainly feeling: very much out of sorts indeed. The bad food on the
trip upset not only me, but many of my pals, and we were all of us suffering
from gastric troubles and very severe indigestion, and generally feeling very
run down.
Before I left Australia from
the Perth “Sunday Times,”
two and a half years ago, I
knew I)r. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules as a thoroughly
sound and reliable remedy for
such ailments, and in my
worries my thoughts recurred
to them and I at once ob-
tained a tin of the Tabules
and started to use them. I
felt the benefit of them from
the first, and am pleased to
say that my digestion is now
quite normal and I think the
world of the Tabules, for
they certainly fixed me right
again, as they did some of my
pals to whom I recommended
them.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules are certainly the
real thing for indigestion,
and I can honestly recom-
mend them to anyone suffer-
ing from gastric troubles or
indigestion 'of any nature.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) WALLACE NEESON,
“Sunday Times,”
Perth, W.A.
i!S
IK
«;
msm
■
m
Mr. WALLACE NELSON (from a photo by
Perfect Digestion Means Perfect Health.
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES are sold everywhere at 1/6, or in larger tins
holding more than twice the quantity, price 2/6. Buy a tin, eat a good square meal, and then
take the Tabules according to directions, and note the result. You will forget all about it if
you are not careful, for there will be no pain or disturbance and the food will be digested, just
as it used to be when your stomach was well and strong. Furthermore, your stomach will
soon be restored again, if you keep on taking them, just as thousands of other stomachs have
been, by the sole and exclusive use of DR. SHELDON'S DIGESTIVE TABULES.
) •
Price
.-cfc
VVUi 9WS Pfll
PREPnaup-
Paint
—and Pounds!
The one saves the other! Every provident property-owner
now realises that paint is NECESSARY to prevent decay
and ruin; and more and more every day are realising
that the best paint is
SfiE/fW/N-W/LUAMS
Paint
prepared.
COVER
THE
EARTH
It covers and clings—-beautifies and preserves-—SAVES
money for you because it saves your property!
Made in many beautiful colors and lasting White.
Agents in all principal towns throughout Australasia.
The Sherwin-Williams Co( Australia i Ltd.
Paint, Color and Varnish Makers,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Well.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There shall be hewers of wood and drawers of
srater.”
I MUST go back to the well,
Though the well drown me,
If all that the world could tell
Waited to crowm me!
Dreams and the heart’s desire
Are a fool’s finding;
Who are we that should tire
Of the mill’s grinding?
Who are we that should turn
From the sharp leaven,
Feeling our hearts buim
For some lost heaven?
Seeing all dreams burn pale
When the dreamers waken,
That all must utterly fail
In the tale taken!
Wonders and signs shall come—
Who shall reveal them?
Seeing all lips are dumb—
Shall these unseal them?
One shall hear tongues in the wind,
Mighty with meaning,
Elegies muffled and thinned
To a reed’s keening;
When all that speaks to the throng
Is the wind’s blowing,
Or the lift of a wild swan’s song,
Or the wave’s flowing.
One shall see thoughts by the way,
Blown from far places,
With the light of eternal Day
In their veiled faces;
When all that the throng shall see
For its faith’s saving
Is the bough of a broken tree
In the wind waving.
There are tears that unbidden start
When the ways sever;
There are tears that hide in the heart
■ And hurt for ever.
Hope and the morning star,
And the lark’s winging,
And the sea on the outer bar
Sobbing and singing—
These shall be things too fleet
For us to bind them ;
Flagging on heavy feet,
Falling behind them.
But the faith of a friend shall Stand
In the fierce questing,
As a rock in a weary land,
For the soul’s resting.
And love shall be fairy gold
For a little heaping,
Till dusk, and the hands fold
For the long sleeping.
Haply shall there remain
Of all w r e cherished
That which we wrought with pain
Lest our souls perished.
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
Mr. Pilkington.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WITH the exception of the world-
stirring news of Waterloo, which
had reached Sydney in January,
seven months after the event, there can be
little doubt that the arrival of Mr. Arthur
lloorefield Pilkington was the most notable
event of 1816 in the distant settlement. To
not a few of those who formed the. upper
stratum of the curious agglomeration of
humanity constituting the society of the
place, and especially amongst the younger
members of it, his advent gave a date similar
to the advent of Christianity, before and
after which other dates were reckoned.
Mr. Pilkington had come to N. S. Wales to
take up a civil appointment under Govern-
ment, and was an Acting-Deputy-Assistant-
Coifimissary-General, with the somewhat in-
adequate remuneration of five shillings per
diem, with quarters, fuel and light. It was
well for the young gentleman that he did
not wholly depend upon this stipend, for, had
he been compelled to do so, there is no
question but that the effulgence of his glory
would have been considerably dimmer than
it was.
He was the only son of Mr. Alderman
Pilkington, a very noteworthy Common
Councillor of the City of London, who was
subsequently knighted, upon the accession
to the throne of his glorious Majesty King
George the Fourth. He had been a buck of
such notoriety that his worthy parent had
petitioned his friend Earl Bathurst, Secre-
tary for the Colonies, for the lad’s appoint-
ment to some position that would remove
him from the disturbing diversions of Lon-
don. and instil into him a sense of respon-
sibility.
Young, athletic and good-looking, he was
admirably adapted by nature for the wearing
of such splendid raiment as had never before
teen visible in the South Seas. His clothing
was Bond-street’s last word. The extrava-
gant affectations of the Regency period
seemed to come naturally to him. He lisped
and he drawled, and had all the attributes
of the complete fop.
But one or two people had found, when
they sought to presume upon what they
assumed to be his lack of manliness, that
hs was a very terror with his hands, and as
Srong as a young bull, and that there were
limits to his easy-going good nature. You
night go a certain length with him safely,
lut beyond that he was dangerous. “A most
(eceptive character,” remarked Lieutenant
Gregory Wicks, R.N. —“a d —d fine fellow,
ly gad!” This was after Mr. Pilkington
lad blackened both Mr. Wicks’s eyes by way
of defining the limit of his appreciation of
the joke practical. Subsequent to this
epochal event, Messrs. Pilkington and Wicks
and Ensign Patrick Calder, of the 46tli. had
become inseparable in so far as the perform-
ance of their respective duties to the realm
permitted.
It was a warm afternoon in November,
and the hot sun shone through the window
of Mr. Pilkington’s little office on the Georg’e-
street side of the Commissariat fetores, and
illuminated a meeting of this remarkable
triumvirate. Mr. Calder and Mr. Wicks
were in a difficulty, and had called upon
their exquisite friend seeking counsel.
Mr. Pilkington stood beside a high desk,
on which lay an open ledger, and addressed
the meeting.' Over the desk hung a litho-
graphed portrait of the famous Isaac Sim-
mons, the Tilbury Trifle, whose most pro-
mising pupil numbered it amongst his price-
less possessions.
“Well, Patrick,” he was saying gravely,
and with the air of one who carefully weighs
his words—“you thee, ith thith way. There
can be no doubt but that you an’ Panthy
here did buy the horthe. Thith fellow Nut-
ting—thith Black Tom—ith unquethionably
a vewy gweat thcoundwel”
“A rogue!” interjected Mr. Wicks,
gloomily.
“Quite tho—ath you tho gwatliefully put
it. Panthy. But he’th got the thick end of
the thtick thith time. He hath you by the
tliort hairth, tho to thpeak—an’ you can’t
wiggle out of it. He’th given you a wetheit,
an’ all’th in pwoper order. You can’t get
at him legally. Caveat emptor, you know
-—the purchather thould keep hith eyth
thkinned. A high pwinthiple of commerth,
me deah fellowth —a bathic pwinthiple.
What?”
"I was just going to say,” observed Mr.
Calder with bitterness, “ ’tis damned un-
grateful of Tom. Here, I use my influence
with Bill Blake, our adjutant, to have his
infernal pothouse, the Good Intent, not put
out of bounds to soldiers —and Pansy does
the same yvith his skipper regarding the
crew of his ship—and the miserable black-
guard goes and sells us a racehorse that is
not only aged, but has ringbone, and is a
roarer—and, as far as I can see, we’re
without a remedy. Of course, we could
get his license taken away—on any amount
of grounds. But the swine knows too much
about us—he could make bad trouble for
both me and Pansy here. Couldn’t he,
Pansy ?”
“Yes, sink him, he could!” assented Mr.
Wicks. “Far as I can see, all we might
do would be to go and burn his house down
some night. I)—n him! Blast him!”
Mr. Pilkington shook his head disapprov-
ingly. “No, no—nothing like that, degr
ladth. ’Tith a matter for diplomatic
action, wather than violenth. Now, I have
a plan of my own. Leave the buthineth
to me, I pway you. I think I can get your
money back for you, and at the thame time
punith thith wuffian in a way he won’t
like.”
“Why, what are you thinking of, Brum-
mell?” This had inevitably become Mr.
Pilkington’s nickname in Sydney, and was
one in which he rather delighted than other-
wise.
With a certain mysterious air of grandeur
Mr. Pilkington stepped out in the middle
of the floor, and stood before his visitors,
who sat smoking upon chairs. Here, with
extreme elegance, he took snuff, and when
the ceremony was complete announced his
intention—his somewhat startling intention.
“I thall,” he said impressively—“l thall
speak to hith Ecthellenthy about it.”
“Good God!” ejaculated the astonished
Mr. Calder. “Are you mad?”
“Save us!” muttered Mr. Wicks. j
Mr. Pilkington waved their astounded
objections aside. “Pway, don’t be alarmed,”
he begged them. “I am quite well aware
that neither of you, ath we thay in the
clathicth, ith perthona gwata with hith
Ecthellenthy, and that you both avoid liith
augutht pwethenth ath much ath pothible.
But lie ith a fwiend of mine, with whom I
potheth conthiderwable influenthe, and I
pwopothe making uthe of it on your behalf,
and to the dithcomfiture of Black Tom Nut-
ting—the wetched wogue ! No, don’t athk
me. Potheth your thoultli in patienth, and
evewything will come wight. I dine at
Government Ilouthe thith evening, an’ will
thee to the buthineth then. In the mean-
time, leth adjourn to the Thpotted Dog and
wefwesh ourthelveth. Leave it to me, my
good fwiendth-—leave it to me.”
* * * *
But it was not Macquarie who was so
much the friend of Mr. Pilkington as Mrs.
Macquarie. That gentle creature, kindly
and humorous, found something of the
extremest interest in this translated hot-
house plant. It seemed to her something
of a pitiful and pathetic thing that one so
exquisite, so ultra-fashionable, so mani-
festly out of place in the rough life of the
new settlement, should ever have been
treated so inappropriately by an unkind
fate, as to be placed in his present position
in Sydney. Fortune seemed to her to have
treated him with an inartistic carelessness.
So she made it her good-natured business to
entertain him as frequently as possible at
Government House, to make it known to
him that she had a motherly—or sisterly—
interest in his career, and to endeavor, in
half a score of ways, to make his lot as
agreeable as was in her power to do.
The Governor himself had at first looked
askance at “this Pall Mall dandy,” as he
styled him somewhat contemptuously. But
when Mr. Pilkington had distinguished him-
self by effecting, single-handed, the capture
of two evildoers who broke into the Stores
on a wet night—being unaware that Mr.
Pilkington was engaged therein in posting
up ledgers that should have tjeen posted
up a week before—his Excellency modified
his opinion of him.
“There is possibly something in the young
Corinthian, my dear. I am told that he
can box. He certainly broke Smithers’s jaw
and Holroyd’s leg. They will often recall
him whilst they are at the Coal River. By
all means, have him here as often as you
please. I must confess that I find his airs
and graces not un-entertaining.”
“And how well he dresses, my dear Mac-
quarie !” smiled the gentle lady. “You
know, it really is something to see a well-
dressed man occasionally—here.”
So his Excellency Major-General Lachlan
Macquarie, C. 8., Mr. John Thomas Camp-
bell —that sly Scots wag—and Mr. Pilking-
ton sat over their wine that evening, whilst
Mrs. Macquarie accompanied her own sing-
ing of Caledonian ballads upon the harp
(Continued on next pngs.)


SPRING SKIN
TROUBLES.
£
. -o**
■
J.'ff »• o\ ~
P>..
O'.
«\i >.*%.* T^IU.
•-/o . .«r»v•ill*
• .Af ,7IV
• * * r *. S - i»| U\
C 23
V/////A
m
i
m
ft':
I
few
.1^
A-V*
ZAM«W
I
r
i
REFUSE WORTHLESS
SUBSTITUTES.
Pimples, Boils, Rashes, Spots, Eruptions and
all Spring Skin Troubles Soothed and Healed.
WITH the arrival of Spring do you find little rough patches on your forehead, or cheek, or chin?
Is your skin disfigured by nasty pimples, boils, blotches, abscesses or eruptions? Have you a raw,
tender feeling where your skin creases—or are you very liable to chafing about the neck?
These “danger signals” should never be neglected. Following in their train are all the tortures of
fiery eczema, wide-reaching blood-poison and ulcerous sores.
Nothing is more important than the way we should treat this skin disease. It is not the slightest use relying
upon any internal remedy or external application if these do not reach the impurity itself, which is the
cause of the disorganisation in our delicate and intricate tissues.
Zam-Buk is the ideal Spring Skin-Balm. Zam-Buk is so refined that the tissues absorb it readily, and
its medicinal essences at once attack the disease below the surface. Wherever the skin has been injured by accident
or eaten by disease, Zam-Buk promotes the growth of new and healthy tissues in a quick and natural manner.
PIMPLES ON HIS PACE.
Mr. J. Parish, of Berry Street, Spring Hill, Bris-
bane, writes: —“Pimples broke out on my face and
merged into one another until the whole of my face
was in a very inflamed and unsightly condition. I
tried various remedies, but the eruptions got worse,
and made me worry fearfully. Then someone recom-
mended Zam-Buk. As I continued the treatment
the irritation was stopped, and the sore places dried
up and gradually disappeared.”
PAINFUL BOILS CURED.
Mrs. H. Martin, Hastings, Despointes Street, Mar-
rickville, Sydney, writes: —“Some time ago my hus-
band had an outbreak of boils on his shoulder. The
boils were much inflamed, but after bathing them we
found that the most soothing treatment we could
adopt was to apply Zam-Buk to the swollen surface.
When they had discharged, and the cores had been
extracted, the places healed nicely under Zam-Buk’s
soothing influence.”
CHILD’S FACE SORES.
Mrs. W. Donnelly, 183 Stanley Street, West Mel-
bourne, says:—“A number of very irritable running
sores broke out on my little boy Jack’s face and be-
hind his ears. The outbreak became very serious, and
caused no end of concern. Being recommended to
use Zam-Buk, I purchased a pot and applied the
balm to the sores. All the matter was drawn out,
the inflammation was allayed, and the eruption healed
nicely without leaving any marks behind.”
Zain-Buk is a speedy cure for
Piles, Eczema, Boils, Running Sores,
Sore Legs, Sore Feet, Ringworm,
Barcoo, etc. As an Embrocation for
Strained Muscles and Tendons, Zam-
Buk, rubbed well into the parts af-
fected, is unequalled. As a House-
hold Balm for Cuts, Burns, Bruises,
Pimples, Blackheads, Rash and Bites
of Insects, Zam-Buk is invaluable.
From all Chemists and Stores, at
1/6, or 3/6 large family size.
V->'-
m
SOOTHES AIMD
in the drawing-room. Mr, Pilkington had
been invited to a purely family repast.
‘But, my dear Mr. Pilkington,” the Gover-
nor was saying, “I know something of the
characters of our two youug friends, and
what I know does not edify—does
not edify me in the least. It seems
to me that if they engage in trans-
actions with such people as this man Nut-
SSJ S&ttfiJS&g&SSvg 2$
a ? a^®°jia . tes , peisons wh? rank
amongst the least desirable ot the mhabi-
ww 0 L t le coIo “ y ’ wb at ese can they expect?
What say you, Campbell.-'
S H re l U '- y Smiled a littla grimiy, and
spoke with obvious sarcasm. Possibly there
was a suspicion of malice.
; YY eel, y r Excellency, I’m just conseeder-
in whether it s no’ verra har-rd that twa
sucn innocent lambs should be devoured by
yon wolt. btili, if Mr. Calder and Mr. Wicks
will shake hands wi auld Nick—why, they
IUJ AT n bor-rn their fingers.”
Air. Jriikmgton bowed gravely to the
shretary in turn, and
r ls P° rt , to . bis ll P s - He
»ippea it a little and put it down. I hen
he made this remarkable and lofty speech.
winch, without doubt, had an impressive
f,, JJP on both Macquarie and Mr. Camp-
bell. Commenting on it to Mrs. Macquarie
suDsequentiy, her husband said—“l think
deceived, my dear. There is a
moiL m °™ in taat J' oim S man than
meets the eye.”
Ah, but your Ecthellenthy, he turned
GWrnor aLone-S'thmigh TSttle rlsent-
thli° ctu? 9 am Pbell’s remarks, a fact which
that satuinine wit noted with enjoyment -
we of the wuling clatheth mutht ecther-
thithe our pwewogative with dithcwethion.
a ,b laut ' ; b eab m m rpi? li Ul at/L
gncn to uth, heah m New Thouth Waleth,
/hifT , a r°ii }° ■ } he det l\! ,n^ th ?!
k new outpotht of Lwitain in the lliouth
thnthL'n nLrhtAwifv we__ah ~ thow »
• A P ot btewity weap.
n 1 nkmgton—quite so,
n?n eC a Excellency encouragingly, ilns
exalted sentiment, of a sort that was after
ivr!>™ Wri .- ea1 ’ Ar lS n . en Vy a S re ® a ble to
Macquiine, as Mr. I lllungton well knew,
Proceed, sir pray, continue.
Ikmgtcin bowed politely, and went
on. We mutht be ecthtwemely careful ath
dithcouwaee °tli??!thioLiV vnrtJ
, ' i . Lhat ’ yoa 1
in? nSinfhfnle“ wenUUU our gUld '
“Indeed yes,' Mr. Pilkington.”
“I am flattered at your Eethellenthy’th
agweement with me. It encouwageth me to
point out to your Ecthellenthv that, in the
cathe of thith man Nutting and hith deal-
ingth with two pothibly mithguided young
men, we have an apt illuthtwation of what
we are agweed upon.”
“Weel, but”—began Mr. Campbell. Mr.
Pilkington made a courteous gesture of in-
terruption.
“One moment, Mithter Campbell—l beg
of you. One moment. I wath about to
obtherve that thith fellow—tliitli innkeeper
of evil weputation, the landlord of the Good
Intent, whoth-e intent ith never by any
chanthe any good at all —ith ethentially one
of thothe vithiouth eweatureth who mutht
be kept in their plathe by—ah—ourthelveth,
ath wepwethentative of the wuling clath
here in the colony. He mutht not be allowed
to cheat and thwindle ofliitherth of Hith
Majethty’th Army and Navy any more than
he thould be allowed to defraud the
thervithe to which I mythelf have the honor
to belong, were he to attempt to do tho. By
no meanth. He mutht be dithcountenanthed
in hith villainouth behavior. He mutht be
forthed to dilhgorge hith ill-gotten gainth.
Otherwithe, your Ecthellenthy, a thtate of
anarchy ith liable to thupervene, ath dan-
gerwouth to good government ath it ith—
ah—tntolerwable. Do you not agwee with
me, thir?”
The amazing daring of this exhortation
was not without its effect upon Macquarie.
Its plain truthfulness impressed him. There
were few people in Australia who would
have had the courage to dictate thus to
its absolute autocrat what his policy should
be. And he was amused. The aspect of
the immaculate Mr. Pilkington—this very
junior clerk in the office of the Commissary-
General —quizzing him with his eyeglass, as
he laid dowji the law, tickled him a little.
Well, sir, and, pray, how would you force
this fellow Nutting to make restitution?”
“Your Ecthellenthy, I am of opinion that
morwal pwessure might he bwought to bear
with good effect. Legally, of courthe, hith
pothition ith unathailable. But he might
be perthuaded—if he were appwoached in
the wight way—to make wethtitution in
full.”
“And what would your argument be, Mr.
Pilkington? It seems to me, from what I
hear of the fellow, that it would need to
be convincing—convincing in the extreme.”
“If your Ecthellenthy will, ath it were,
indemnify me againtht any complainth by
Nutting, I am thure that I will be able
to convinthe him it ith only wight he thould
dithgorge—thould hand back the money he
hath tho wongfully obtained. Have I your
Ecthellenthy’th thanction to take thuch
meanth ath may be ecthpedient?”
The' Governor looked at him for a little
while with a twinkle in his eye. Then he
smiled openly. Mr. Campbell was grinning.
“Oh, very well, Mr. Pilkington—do what
you can. I will not ask questions, but in
the event of your success perhaps you will
have something for my private ear?”
“Oh, thertainly, your Ecthellenthy. Ther-
tainly.”
As the Governor led the way to the draw-
ing-room, Mr. Secretary Campbell took Mr.
Pilkington by the elbow.
“Ma young friend,” he whispered, “ye wud
be weel adapted for the poseetion which I
mysel’ occupy.”
* * • «,
It was Mr. Wicks who ecstatically ex-
plained Mr. Pilkington’s ingenuous method
of moral suasion to an admiring audience
of subalterns of the 46tli in the ante-room
of the officers’ mess of that gallant regiment.
“Well, you know, I hadn’t a notion what
he was taking us out there for the other
afternoon —the devil a ' suspicion. Our
friend Brummell’s a mysterious individual
when he chooses. He solemnly assures us
that he’s going to dive from the top of
those cliffs into the sea, and says we’ll need
about a hundred-fathom of rope to pull him
out. Of course, the gallant Tom Nutting’s
delighted to come to see the great feat —
quite ready to give the odds against it, too.
“So out w T e ride along the South Head
road. Carrying the rope over his shoulders,
Brum, leads us down to the top of the
cliffs.
“If you look at that wall of rocks from
the sea you’ll notice that it’s sheer for a
couple of hundred feet, and that in one or
two places the top overhangs the base of
the cliff where deep water comes right up
to the rocks. It was to one of these spots
that Brummy leads us. Here he suddenly
grabs Black Tom from behind, trips him
up. and has him on his face in an instant,
and ties his wrists together behind him.
Tom curses like a duke. Yells like blazes.
Brum, hardly says a word, but puts the
end of the rope round Tom’s body, takes a
turn with it round a tree, and tells Tom he’s
going to give him a bath.
“Well, you know, it was lucky for Mr.
Black Tom that I was there, for, of course,
I saw that the rope would chafe on the rock
unless we had something to run it over.
So I looks round for a log, and fixes it
close to the edge, so’s the rope could run
over it. Then, actin’ under Brummy’s
orders, we lower away, and there’s Black
Tom a-swinging between Brum, and the deep
sea, you know. Most diverting sight I’d
ever seen, and Tom’s language—oh, it was
good!
“We let him right down to the water. It
was dead calm, and the funniest thing ye
ever saw —Tom swunniin’ about away down
there, and gettin’ lmlf-drowned because his
hands were tied. We gave him about ten
minutes of it, and then hauled him up again
-pretty slow, and with plenty of rests to
ease ourselves, and to give him time to
think it over.
“When he’s about 10ft. below the edge
of the cliff, Brummell lies down on his
belly, so’s he can look over, and has a con-
versation with him. You know the queer
way Brummy talks? Well, I can’t do it—
but, anyhow, he asks Tom if he’s had enough.
Tom sort of howls that he’s half dead—
begs for mercy, and curses, all in the same
breath. Then Brum asks him does he want
to buy a horse? ’Cos, he says, some friends
of his have one for sale, and the price is
£3O. Then I drop to what this little picnic’s
all for—and I’atsy and I nearly died a-
laughing.
“Tom Nutting sings out: ‘Oh, yes. For
the love o’ God, yes, Mr. Pilkington. For
God’s sake pull me up out o’ this.’
“ ‘Well,’ says Brum, ‘have you plenty of
money with you, Tom?’ ‘Pull him up close,’
he says to us. We hauled him up to a foot
or two from the edge. You know what an
ugly devil Tom is—with his one eye? By
the Lord, you ought to have seen him then !
“ ‘Oh, I’ve £5O, Mr. Pilkington, sir,’ he
whines. ‘l’ll buy the horse—faithful, I will.
Only let me out of this,’ he says, ‘and you
can have the fifty. By God, ye can,’ he
says.
“ ‘All right—pull him up,’ says Brummy,
an’ we hauled him over the edge. Before
he unties his hands, Brummell searches his
pockets, and, sure enough, finds £5O in bank
notes. He passes £3O of ’em to Patsy, and
puts the rest back in Tom’s pocket. Then
we let him go—and he fairly took to his
heels. Pat here says to Brummy that he’s
overdone it—we only gave Black Tom £2O
for his old crock. What was it he says,
Patsy? You can do him better than I can.
Tell ’em.”
“He said,” replied Mr. Calder, giving an
admirable imitation of the exquisite’s mode
of speaking: ‘Me deah fellowth, I’ve fined
him £lO for hith impudenth.”
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Honey Time.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fINHERE is magic abroad in the Bush to-
day,
And, drawing me on, I vow
I can feel the spell that the Druids wove—
The charm of the Quicken Bough.
The butterflies on their painted wings,
Like wonderful pansies soar,
And, back from chasing the summer North,
The swallows are here once more.
And many a brown bee searches for spoil
In the green, the nectarous bowers,
Where the honeysucker drinks his fill
From the wine-filled flasks of the flowers.
More sweet than the odor of roses rich
In gardens ordered and gay
Is the wildwood fragrance filling the air
From the red boronia spray.
The tips of the sapling gums, how red,
How vivid among the green !
The wattle is gold on a hundred hills,
In a hundred hollows between.
It may be fancy, but yet it seems
From many a bush and tree
The sermon St. Francis preached to the birds
The birds are preaching to me.
Now here I will lie on this bed of leaves,
And tarry a whole hour long,
For who would not choose to stay awhile
In this guest-house of scent and song?
Through the leafy curtains I catch a glimpse
Of a blue immensity,
The ocean, always a miracle,
Since the first man stared at the sea.
When slumber deserted the weary eyes
Of Maecenas, the Roman lord,
’Twas the sound of a distant waterfall
The sweetness of sleep restored.
Like him I hearken the woven song
Of waters that hurry and leap;
The w T hile I listen they weave their spell,
And my eyes are dusted with sleep.
N.S.W,
P. E. QUINN.


ďs
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BAI 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane,
w.z, Office—93-107 Featiierston Street, Wellington.
-Y.lptortaw Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CO. OF AUSTRALAStA LTD.,
N. S. WALES.
iunidn
HOA 3H¥
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbe some spring trasses? Do you
Want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
„ AIR cushion appliance.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY - NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE - APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chaffing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rabber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE bn the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
. WE GIVE A FREE TRTAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
T A N K S
When we speak of a tank we picture a huge
cumbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter’s Little
Liver Pills, one of the
smallest and most success-
ful pill ;n the world,
can be compared to
tanks in action, for
they surely and
gently touch the
Liver, curing
Bilious Headache,
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks sur-
mount obstacles and clear trenches of the
enemy. Iry them to-day, your chemist has
tnem. Good for man, woman and child.
Small Pill -Small Dose-Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
ada
CARTERS!
m ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
&
in the World!
WRIGLEYS
6 big bars in each packet for 3d.
The best buy in lasting refresh-
ment and benefit you can possibly
find.
WRIGLEYS is sealed tight-
kept right. You get it always
fresh, full flavoured, clean.
The Flavour Lasts
m
S 3
Made by
Wrigley Jr. Co. Prop. Ltd..
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W-
LET ME EXPLAIN!
BEECHAMS PILLS
V
WILL KEEP YOU ID THE PINK.
Complete tube screwing outfit
in one tooll
d
f Oster Bull-dog Ratchet
Die Stock No. 102 R
screws |, 1 and 11-
inch tube. One of 1 1 sizes
with and without ratchet, each
screwing 4 to 8 sizes of tube.
Screws 6 Sizes
of Tube.
Oster Bull-dog Die Stocks take
the bother and perspiration out
of tube screwing. Popular the
world over for the 5 Big Oster
Features. (1 ) Self-locking
dies. (2) Self-centring guides.
(3) Dies open after cut, no
backing off. Dies reset in-
stantly to size. (4) No loose
bushings to lose. (5) No
breakable small parts.
Made with ratchet handle for
use in cramped space.
Carried with extra parts by ironmongers, machinery and
plumbing supply houses. /
The Oster Mfg. Co., Cleveland, 0., U.S.A.
Australasian Representative: CHAS. WRIGHT,
Turner Chambers, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
y
OSTER Bull dog
Screwing Tackle


BjwANCßovrra
śda
s
BpTllWffl
Cuts Out Waste Power.
It grips the pulleys and transmits maximum
power. Strong, durable and flexible, it
stands the strain of the most difficult drive
and keeps output up to efficiency standard.
Let us prove it to you.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowioi, Managing Director),
49 York St. (Wynyard Square), Sydney, N.S.W.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
CHAFF AT FAMINE PRICES.
Chaf! all the straw possible while prices are high. Kun your mac me
to capacity. Use
An ‘Eagle on a Globe” Chaffcutter Knives
They wear longer without sharpening and save time, which
is money. .
Wade in all sizes to fit Bentall, Cliff and Bunting, Buncle,
and Richmond and Chandler machines. (
For prompt attention address all inquiries to Desk - •
THE EAGLE & CLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra Capital High-speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgoorlle.
Cliff St, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
v. W .
■v;
CHEMICALS?
We always have large stocks on hand, and
our prices are absolutely the lowest.
Our stocks include:—
Caustic Soda, Soda-Ash, Chloride _of
Calcium, Sulphide ot Sodium, Chloride
of Ammonium, Naphthaline, Car-
bolic Acid (98% pale straw), Bichromate
Soda and Potash, French Chalk, Dex-
trine, Aniline Dyes, Hematine and
Fustic Extracts;
Large quantities of Whale, Cod and
Herring Oil always on hand.
Write for prices and particulars NOW.
James Hardie&Co.Ltd.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 845 G (6 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide,
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN GUNNING. —which is pertinent to the times
-their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even ui.der the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only tO*accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
Ail
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
dsa
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N-Z.
%
/
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2 % inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oauoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS
for All Purposes.
THE PIONEER PLANTE PLATE.
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
P.O. BOX 2560.
TELEPHONE: CITY 8931.
CHaniboPSf
ST
PUMPS -Good Pumps Only
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from l£in. to Bin. in diameter, by any strobe required. Other Pumps
manufactured include: —
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRA CT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDIGE LTD., Warrnambool
sd
sd
A complete Electric Light Lower
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
e
'M
wm*mmswww,
r
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe,
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosona
will tight 32 Lamps for 4% hours.
LTD
FRANKI LTD.,
380 Bourke Street,
Brisbane.
Melbourne.
'One
/<&<
a* 4
t,
All British— Nothing Better
Substantial, solid British Engineering right through gives Lister
Shearing Machines the sweet-running, quick-cutting and interminable
durability which have made them famous among the greatest centres
of shearing in the world.
THE LISTER HANDPIECE—This celebrated leader of all handpieces is
now further improved by the Adjustable Lid Bush and Self-levelling Crown
Plate—two great money-saving features which delight shearers and owner
alike.
Get the greatest value for your money by installing the All-British Lister
Equipment. Estimates and all particulars from your nearest of the following:
Chief
adsa
9-13 Young Street,
SYDNEY.
SUB-AGENTS.—Winchcombe, Carson. Ltd. (Central and South Queensland); Burns. Philp & Co.. TOWNSVILLE (North Queensland) ; Mitchell & Co. Pty., Ltd.. FOOTSCRAY. VIC.;
A. G. Webster & Sons, HOBART; Malloch Bros., PERTH.
mj
. fife
'■ ' •
A Sliding Gate, Full Bore, Self-regrinding, High-Pressure
Made in the following types:—
Heavy Gunmetal Marine, flanged.
Locomotive, flanged and screwed.
Cast-iron Bodies, bronze-fitted.
Quick opening, Slow opening.
Back and Pinion Geared, Worm Geared.
Guaranteed to remain “Leak-proof” for TWO
YEARS without attention.
Suitable for all Pressures, Steam, Gas, Oil Tar, Water,
Ammonia, etc.
AGENTS Victoria Ramsay & Treganowan, Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
W.A.—Denny Bros., Perth.
Tasmania—%/as. H. Edwards, Newtown.
MADE
IN
M
'
If
Valve of Particular Merit and Faultless Workmanship
METAL.
Used and endorsed by:—
Commonwealth and State Dockyards.
N.S.W. Locomotive Department.
All the large Collieries and Mines.
Leading Boilermakers.
Gas Works, Perries, Shipping Companies,
Meat Works.
Write us for complete reference lists, booklets, data and
prices.
We are valve specialists. Bring us your problems.
S, Aus.—Chits. Atkins Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
South Queensland—T. B. Wallis & Co., Brisbane.
N.Z.-W. T. Johnson & Co., Wellington.
Sole Manufacturers
In Australasia—
N. GUTHRIDQE LTD., Milling and Electrical Engineers, 350 George Street, Sydney.
