

S- —The Spirit of
R. G. WA.TKIKTS «S£ CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mmmg and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty: AUCIIONEEES FOK MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in aii parts of New-South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
N-S W' MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITEDT
74? St>,74. Sydney.
-1 ' • • I
nwmi limit
mm\w
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
mi
timiim
m
WWW
tlllllll
clll
mWWiWUItm mlllllll
‘“"“Ulllh
WWW"'
MtUIIIII
’2ls*l7Swansion St,flelb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane
29 Kinq St. Newcastle. 186 Castlereaqh St., & 159 George St,West, Sydney.
CAPITAL &200, OCX) ‘Phone City 932s.
JZuj'tace j&errztestt, {resiejrzzJ
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not l>e laid at .the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
A City Sewage System
for Modern Homes.
You simply cannot afford to take chances
with the disposal of your sewage. For
the sake of your own and your children’s
health, study the merits of the
Montgomerie-Neilson
Sewage Disposal System
This modern system does away with the
old-fashioned cesspool or tin-pan style of
W.C.—the greatest sources of disease the
country knows.
The sewage is treated so perfectly that
absolutely no odor arises even on the
hottest days.
Over 600 are in use in N. S. Wales
alone, and the system has the O.li. of
experts the world over.
Send for free booklet, which gives facts
in detail.
MONTGOMERIE NEILS ON
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY
’Phone City 8976.
Dorit Arg, Je -"
0
pPLE
6
-0
Notnwo
TO Aleut
About!'
6 Bh C °
Are the Best *
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
ĥ
■TF32EOEE
ħ
For INDIGESTION
atui DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded ISO First-Class Prize Medals.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
Artistic Panelling
Amiwpd has proved itself a wonderfnlly satisfactory panelling for walls,
partitions and ceilings, and also splendid for dadoes, friezes, skirtings, etc.
Ideal for homes, offices, picture-theatres, shops, hotels, shop-windows, etc.,
and may be affixed to wood framing or over existing walls. Ample stocks now
available.
Write now for samples of Amlwnd. and illustrated booklet, post free.-
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
w
n
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
PASTORALISTS AND TANK SINKERS
having ideas of MECHANICAL APPLIANCES for making and cleaning out Station Tanks, Wool-washing and other Station Utilities,
should communicate with firm of Manufacturing Engineers with view of Patenting and Manufacturing, to mutual advantage. HIGHEST BANK REFERENCES GIVEN
Apply in first instance to BOX 2547 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH
* f amous Brands of
HIGH-SPEED STEEL & DRILLS
“T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER."
manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD
Manchester, England.
Sole Australian Representatives:
•I
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED
h
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
ĥ
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2060.]
[Thursday, August 7, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


5007 Q
ħ
TRADE FOX. MARK
WE desire to thank our many friends
for the patience and consideration
shown us during the War.
We placed our entire services at the disposal of
BRITISH and ALLIED GOVERNMENTS
and supplied
8,479 MILES OF CLOTH.
We are now in a position to resume our civilian
Trade, and desire to inform our Customers that
FOX’S
Guaranteed Serges
ALL PURE WOOL FAST DYE
Are once more available
FOX BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Wellington, Somerset, England.
No. 1
h
ĥ
ħ
The censorship always suppressed the or
number of any unit in the field. Gallant <lee <*
done, actions, now famous, were fought to’
hut beyond a general, vague aee<mnt little was
known by the public. THIS IS THE FlfeST BOOK
TO GIVE DETAILS OF THE PART „ PI, f YB ®
EVERY UNIT in the final great offensive wnicn
led to victory.
The Australians.
Their Final Campaign, 1918.
By F. M. CUTBACK
(An Official Correspondent with
the A.1.F.).
This is the only detailed account of DeraS.'
Australians in the Spring Campaign. It M . t Quentin etc. The
*“ ““ SMUon -
With 15 Maps and Plans.
Price 10/6; postage 4d.
Melville Mullen Pty.
202-264 Collins Street, Melbourne
THE, PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OP PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
rnmi rp «T.AWT?T7.V Prnr»riA*fur.
afraid of food.
Sufferers from Indigestion very often become faddists as regards their
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson s Humenthol
Juiubescorrect aciditv of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of the food, thus allowing the
natural digestive ferments to act, and it
taken regularly after meals they so improve
the digestion that a strict diet becomes
unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
are most useful to those who suffer from
Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
Sold Everywhere, Tins 1/6
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.:
Tnfe Lancet, The Practitioner, etc. U-
k~*v*u*«rv*
mo so n h o
mmaww -jiuiawiM* ow
i*wo «• voMrmom,
yyyyKyi jiWCVTW <«** U«
-miMTiUM iSOW —^
«vrt iixav* Tf*av*
90s 4V&
r.nr
The Red Page
Can We Write short Stories?
I)IV ISlbsson, literary-editor of the New
York 'lndependent, doesn’t think much of
Australian short stories. The Red Page re-
turns the compliment by thinking much
of American short stories. Both are right
in spots. Dr. Slosson, correctly I think, rates
the short stories below other forms of Aus-
tralian literature lor “vividness and original-
ity.” The Red t age -judges accurately that
“American taste*in short stories is different
from Let us go into the mattei
a little farther, ‘remembering always that
sound dictum of Matthew Arnold that a
foreigner’s judgments about the intrinsic
merits of a nation’s authors will generally,
when at complete variance with that nation s
own, be wrong.” .
In the first place it is necessary to under-
stand clearly what a short story is. The
brevity insisted on by, say, The Bulletin
does not necess.arly guarantee a good short
story. It does not ev’en guarantee a real
short story at all. Conversely, the American
length of from 8000 to 12,000 words, which,
I assume, •is the type of story Australian
taste finds rather wearisome, does not
necessarily involve dullness. Too many young
writers have taken Stevenson’s ruling—that
the whole art fff short-story making is. in
knowing what to reject—as the be-all and
end-all of the business. There is a good deal
more in it than that. Stevenson’s own
“Markheim” and “The Merry Men” prove
that he himself knew this to be so. Far too
many so-called Australian short stories prove
that their authors hold the popular lay idea
that anything is a short story that does not
run over 4000 or 5000 words. Many Aus-
tralian writers try to compress into short-
story form subjects entirely unsuited to that
medium. The result too often is an episode,
a storyette, a sketch, a precis of a novel or
novelette— anything you will but a short
story.
Different .as the Russian, English, French,
AustrO-German and American short stories
may be in form, structure and genius, they all
pass the acid test of the true short story:
they produce a single, clearcut impression or
effect. Turgeniev, Kipling, Maupassant,
Schnitzler,' O. Henry alike pass the test with
honor. Of how many Australian short
stories—always excepting Henry Lawson’s
best —can this be said? Poe, one of the great
masters of the medium, asserted that the
really artistic short story must produce a
unified impression” on the reader. Brander
Matthews thinks the ideal short story ful-
fils the three-false unities of the French clas-
sic drama: it shows or action m one place
in one day. A short story deals with a single
character, a single event, a single situation.”
That, of course, is an ideal all but unattain-
able : not one story idea in 50 can De
compressed within these rigid limits. Still,
every really good short story should reason-
ably approximate at least two of the three
conditions laid down —“the three false-
unities:” And that for the simple reason
that violation destroys the “unified impress-
ion” —the single, clearcut effect.
British writers—l use the term in its
widest application—suffer from the fact that
there is no'accepted standard of short-story
excellence as there is in France, where
writers like Maupassant and Daudet have
brought the vehicle to the Tevel of a high art.
As Matthew Arnold put it: “The French
have a literary conscience.” And the British
have not. If they had they would have
instituted an Academy long ago. Most people
will agree with Chesterton’s statement in n’S
“Heretics” —that the most brilliant British
short-story writer is Kipling at his best.
The mass of Australian short stories would
suffer bv that comparison. Lawson is saved
by sheer genius. But an overwhelming
number of writers have not that safeguard:
they need the aid and stimulus of some
recognised standard, of some accepted tech-
nique. , . . ,
I think there are signs that an original,
distinctive type of short story is being evolved
in Australia. Perhaps it is the failure to
recognise this transitional stage for what it
is that has led Dr. Slosson to be so harsh.
It has seemed to me that a certain common
type of so-called short story in Australia is
merely a stage between the somewhat vague
British standard alluded to and an original
Australian form not vet given its final struc-
ture. But. whatever that final form and
structure, it will have to conform to some ex-
tent with the generally accepted standard;
otherwise it will not be able to claim serious
attention as Short-story matter at all.
Commercial necessity produced the modern
American short story. But commercial neces-
sity also, produced Maupassant’s marvellous
contes. Certain American editors demand
8000- to 12,000-word stories because they
must be long enough to break over into
the advertising section, advertisers’ contracts
calling for fiction to run beside their adver-
tisements. . On the. other hand, Maupassant
wrote his masterpieces of condensation for
a journal which quoted a rigid space limit.
Eventually the American 8000 to 12.000
word-story may receive the . same impress of
excellence as Maupassant stamped upon the
conte of between 1800 and 3000 words.
Meanwhile American writers are turning out
short stories that do not run to 8000 words.
In fact, O. Henry’s best, which did not run
nearlv that long, are generally accepted m
America - to-day as the real modern short-
story standard. The same holds true m the
case of Poe, considered by his countrymen as
their best short-story writer of a past day.
Neither O’. Henrv nor Poe can be accused
of prolixity. So that America has an
accepted ideal, though the last five years has
seen the development of a type of magazine
—modelled on the Saturday Evening Post.
and Collier’s— which calls for much longer
stories than the masterpieces of O. Henry
and Poe. Commercial necessity has caused
viol-tion of that ideal. , ,
When it comes to subject matter and treat-
ment the American writer is under a handi-
cap from which 'his brethren in Australia
and nearly every other country under the
sun—are free. Certain subjects and treat-
ment—and those of a kind to provide authors
with excellent story material —are absolutely
taboo, for business reasons, American edi-
tors give their readers exactly what they
think those readers want; they will not risk
offending them, shocking them, or offering
them anything they regard as ‘unpleasant.
This having to write to order, as it were, un-
doubtedly does to a great extent'ktU vigor,
freshness, originality and that noble fearless-
ness which is the hallmark of all really great
art I regard this'proscription of matter as
a far worse handicap than the prescription
of story length. Both are due to the gieat
gcd-Commercial Necessity. . And between
them this proscription and this prescription
have dethroned the Muse in the interests ot
at almost any big bookseller’s shop
in Sydney will reveal the fact that Amencan
magazines are in far greater demand than
English magazines. The same is even more
true of Canada. And now they are pene-
trating” even England itself. Whether he
is corrupting the literary taste of the peoples
or not, the American editor does seem to
know what the public wants. And as lorn;
as a magazine is regarded as being as much
a business as a drapery shop, the editor is
right to consider only sales. That, at least,
is the American idea. And it is producing
the type of story to which The Bulletin •
with a good deal of justice—takes exception.
But the fault is not wholly with the writer.
He must live—and to live he has to obey
those editorial prescriptions and proscrip-
tions we have been
HARRY C. DOUGLAS.
Early Georgian Wit
Among books entertaining on account o£
their characters and dialogue, as well as in-
structive in their mirroring of the times the
characters lived in, Dean Swifts Polite
Conversations” has been much written aoout,
yet insufficiently moralised upon -The essay-
ists have spread themselves on Swift s satiri-
cal intentions. But what to us is more in-
teresting is the evidence that the satire was
wasted; for the “flash” expressions used by
his very uppah-middle-class people survive by
the score, almost the hundred, among people
of the same order of education, though two
centuries have elapsed since their vulgarity
was scoffed at. His “polite” people talked,
much in the style and spirit of the modein
girl or 'boy, whose reply to an inquiry about
his, or her, health is “Just able to sit up
and take a little nourishment” ; and the re-
joinder will probably be in vogue among a cor-
resnonding type of Bert and Bertha m A.D.
2119, judging from the endurance ot the cut-
and-dried apologies for conversation with
which Swift’s satire bristles, and which were
of uncertain age even when he collected them.
Some of them certainly dated back to bhak-
speare’s time. One of proved age was the
pert reply, “Queen Elizabeth is dead . which
couldn’t have been older than the decease of
the red-headed virgin queen. Probably by de-
grees Queen Anne succeeded Elizabeth in the
expression, and Victoria will take Anne s
place in the “repartee” of generations to
Interesting as the “Polite Conversations
may be to literary essayists it is less instruc-
tive than a quaintly absurd old book of anec-
dotes which, was popular for a century or so
ere it began to drop into oblivion.. To get a
full understanding of the coarseness ot
polite society in, say, 1739 one must read the
first edition of “Joe Miller’s Jests,” published
in that year. The long-winded title breathes
the stodginess of the age:
JOE MILLER’S JESTS:
or, the
WITS’
VADE-MECUM,
being
A Collection of the most brilliant Jests; the
politest REPARTEES ; the most Elegant BONS
MOTS, and the most pleasant short Stories in
the Ene-lish Language.
First carefully collected in the Company, and many
of them transcribed from the mouth, of the facetious
Gentleman whose Name they bear; and now set foit.i
and published by his lamentable Friend and former
Companion, Elijah Jenkins, Esq.
Most humbly INSCRIBED
TO those Choice Spirits of the Age, Captain Bodens,
Mr. Alexander Pope, Mr. Professor Lacy, Mr. Orator
Henley and Job Baker, the Kettle-drummer.
The rigrharole was omitted from subse-
quent editions of Joe Miller’s Jest Book, as it
came to be called, whilst a lot of new “jests”
were introduced and the book was padded out
with a number of rhymed epitaphs and verses
which evidently then passed as witty and epi
grammatic. The dates of these later editions
are, unfortunately, not printed, so it is hard
to say for how many years Joe Millensm in-
fected English society, or at what period the
coarsest of the original pieces were deleted
as being already somewhat. ‘ over the fence.”
Nobody, nowadays, can imagine how coarse
was the wit of 1739 without having read
Miller in the original, or realise how heavy
was the burden of the dull anecdotal style
which the professional raconteurs of Alex-
ander Pope’s time laid upon the mind of
succeeding generations.
Take the opening jest in all the editions of
this volume of sparkling humor:
The Duke of A 11, who says more good things
than anybody, being behind the scenes the first night
of “The Beggar’s Opera,” and meeting Cibber there.
“Well. Colley,” he said, “how do you like ‘The Beg-
gar’s Opera’?” “Why, it makes one laugh, my lord,”
answered he, “on the stage; hut how will it do in
print?” “Oh, very well. I’ll answer for it,” said
the Duke, “if you don’t write a preface to it.”
Or this:
A certain Poet and Player, remarkable for his
impudence and cowardice, happening many years
ago to have a quarrel with Mr. Powell, another
idayer, received from him a smart box of the ear;
a few days after, the Poetical Player having lost his
Snuffbox,' and making strict inquiry if anybody had
seen his box, “What,” said another of the Buskin’*
Wits, “that which George Powell gave you t’other
night?”
Or this, taken from a revised edition:
A rich farmer’s son, who had been bred at the
University, coming borne to visit his father and
mother, they being one night at supper on a couple
of fowls, he told them that by logic and arithmetic
he could prove those fowls to be three. “Well, let
us hear,” said the old man. “Whv, this,” cried
the scholar “is one, and this,” continued he, “is
two, and two and one, you know, make three.” “Since
you have made it out so well,” answered the old
man, “your mother shall have the first fowl, I will
have the second, and the third you may keep your-
self for your great learning.”
So much, for the solemnly respectable items
in the “Wits’ Vade-Mecum.” But in the
original edition there are from 30 to 40 un-
quotables. Some former owner of the rare
copy which I possess seems to have spared
posterity the trouble of sifting the thick
(Continued on page 24.)


ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SALE.
Abundant Footwear Clearances
L299.—WOMEN’S GLACE DERBY
SHOES, medium toes, Patent toecaps,
welted soles, leather Cuban heels.
REDUCED FROM 15/3 TO 13/9.
Also in Patent Colt,
REDUCED FROM 21/- TO 18/9.
h
LO32Ix.—WOMEN’S PATENT COLT
COURT SHOES, Mole Suede inlay,
small tongue and buckle, Celluloid-
covered Cuban heels, pump soles.
REDUCED FROM 25/- TO 21/-
Our Mail-Order Service.
Hail your Sale Orders to
Anthony Horderns’, and
you will find that our
well=trained and effi=
cient staff will cope witji
your order and give you
pleasurable satisfaction.
LSO7S.—WOMEN’S GLACE KID WHOLE-
GOLOSHED LACE SHOES, medium
toes, Patent toecaps, welted soles,
leather Cuban heels.
REDUCED FROM 21/- TO 18/9.
LO32.—WOMEN’S PATENT COLT
COURT SHOES, medium toes, tongue
and side buckle, pump soles, Cuban
Louis heels.
REDUCED FROM 27/6 TO 23/6.
You will save money on your foot-
wear by making' your purchases at
Anthony Horderns’ while the re-
duced prices prevail. The Sale will
close on Saturday, 16th inst. Do not let
this opportunity pass. Prices of boots
and shoes are bound to rise further.
I %>.
V
LI92O.—MEN’S TAN WILLOW CALF
DERBY LACE BOOTS, medium toes,
welted soles. Very comfortable.
REDUCED FROM 27/6 TO 24/6.
ĥ
LIS2O.—MEN’S BOX CALF DERBY
LACE BOOTS, round toes, welted
soles. Grand wearers.
REDUCED FROM 22/6 TO 19/9.
a*
L76I.—MEN’S BOX CALF LACE BOOTS
no toecap. sewn solos. Easy fitting.
REDUCED FROM 17/6 TO 15/9.
ħ
LAI92O.—MEN’S TAN WILLOW CALF
LACE BOOTS, full medium toes,
welted soles. Solid leather.
REDUCED FROM 26/6 TO 23/6.
L34S3.—MEN’S GLACE KID LACE
BOOTS, welted soles. Stylish shape,
light make.
REDUCED FROM 23/6 TO 21/-
L34SS.—MEN’S TAN WILLOW CALF
WHOLE-GOLOSIIED DERBY LACE
BOOTS, latest shape, welted soles.
Excellent value.
REDUCED FROM 25/6 TO 22/6.
We pay carriage on Footwear to any part
of New South Wales; to the nearest port
in any of the other States.
LBIOS.—WOMEN’S PATENT COURT
SHOES, medium soles, toes, Black
buckle, wood Louis heels, sizes 5 and 0
only.
REDUCED FROM 25/- TO 21/-
I,SO3.—WOMEN’S TAN CALF DERBY
SHOES, medium toes, toecaps, welted
soles, leather Cuban heels.
REDUCED FROM 16/9 TO 15/6.
Our Sale Catalogue.
Send for a free copy of
our Sale Catalogue—you
still have time to par=
ticipate in the big
bargains.
LS39f.—WOMEN'S TAN AND WHITE
BROGUE RACE SHOES, extend’d
last, welted soles, leather Cuban heels.
REDUCED FROM 18/6 TO 16/6.
m
L22IS—WOMEN'S PATENT COLT
DERBY SHOES, medium toes,
caps, welted soles, leather Cuban heels.
REDUCED FROM 22/6 TO 21/-
jsj'j sssji?? .
ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM
BRICKFIELD HILL
• • SYDNEY • •


VM'.S.'XWMSI I /////A>\\\\\\\///////<^
#
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
ML
7^
&
'//w
<S
/
1
Hl!.'
Hi
s SSSJU
s:
!!■!!■■» ■iuiiii
SSSSKSS iiiiii
■ imiia iiiiiiSi 1
Si!!
■■■■■aBRMBf9*VaSSSS*B*!SSS
uiiiiiiH: iiIHIJS?*
a
■ iiMiiao
0
4
1
/»
/
1
i
u
m
U>
&
V/
I I N//
i
Nte
k
k
m
a
k
I
For Interiors Use Lottoid
Plaster Sheets.
Very pleasing effects can be secured if your interior
walls and ceilings are of Eottoid. These, economical
plaster-sheets have a smooth, glossy finish and are
to-day used extensively because of their many advan-
tages over ordinary ceilings and wall materials.
Write to our Brisbane or Sydney office for full
details. We are agents in N.S.W. and Queensland.
Lessen Building Costs —
Use Durasbestos Cement
Sheets and Slates.
These hydraulically-compressed slates and sheets
mean building economy for you. Easy to erect,
they give a lifetime of good service at a reasonable
outlay.
THE Universal Favor which “Adamax” Asphaltum Roofing
finds everywhere is due to the undoubted quality that runs
through every fibre of the roofing.
For Factory Roofs it has no equal, for its fire-retarding qualities
minimise risk and mean real insurance for you.
Climatic changes, which play havoc on galvanised-iron and other
roofings, have no ill-effect on “Adamax,” for it resists all the
elements.
♦
Rain, heat, cold, wind, etc., harm it not. Neither do sea-air,
gases, acids or chemical fumes, so that “Adamax" is without a
doubt the best roofing for all classes of buildings handy to mines
or sea coast.
As a roofing for farm buildings it holds first place. Not alone
because it is so easy to lav, but because of its low first cost, lessened
freight charges, and great freedom from repair expense.
To get the facts about the money-saving roofing send for the
“Adamax” free descriptive pamphlet and free sample.
William Adams & Co. Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
521-3 Collins Street, Melbourne.
96 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Cr. Edward &. Mary Streets, Brisbane,
33 King' Street, Perth.
jm
k L
4
h
ĥ


BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN 8c '
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
4
THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN."
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
THE
CRITERION
OF STYLE.
For every man there is an Abbey Shoe
giving style and ease from first to last
day’s wear—distinctly desigrecl and cor-
rectly modelled to give comfort, to eve ry
part of the foot, and to render long and
satisfactory service.
We illustrate a choice Patent Golish Bal.,
with, dull Calf Legs, a smart made-to-
order style.
Price - 47/6
A very distinctive boot for Dress Wear.
In half and full sizes, and three fittings
—narrow, medium and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A BBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between U.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
lIIIS' W.siter<? .jL><^ur
ĥ
ħ
h
Or 8. Aujeh’s
ĥ
AGNES PLATT,
4 Manchester St., London, W. England.
Advice given on plays, novels, cinemas.
Manuscripts placed. Plays produced.
Correspondence course in stage, novel
and cinema technique.
WARATAH ;
"cncinc Wire
STAND
WBTfi
Fencing Wlrc
Ahead of all imported wires for
strength and lasting qualities, yet
costs less.
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE, from
the Ore to the Fence Australian, is
guaranteed by the makers. Look
for the tag.
Order “Waratah” from your store-
keeper. We do not take orders for
direct supplies.
Send for Fencing Book Nl9. Free
on request.
Austral Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Farrars Street, South Melbourne, Vic.
MURPHY'S PILE PILLS
( N on-aperient)
Have- permanently cured thousands of eases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years, also a wonderful
Cure for Rheumatism.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l/2/-. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Biiitisu Austral-
asian, Ud. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the Earns it Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
HUNT’S
Special Models.
KNOX
AND
STETSON
AMERICAN HATS.
prices— 39/6 to 105/=
English and Australian
Fur Felts.
FLAT BRIMS.
PRICES— IS/6 to 70/=
HUNT’S,
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
qYJ.CoIIis Bro«^els
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE HESST MEDICINE I'Olt
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in tiie Cough of HKONCIIITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, Sl-, 5/
Made in England.
Sold by
Stationers and
Jewellers
Everywhere.
Australian Price*:
Safety Pattern
with slip • on
cap from 15/-
Standard Pat-
ternwith slip-on
cap from 12/6
Illustrated
Catalogue sent
Post Free on
request.
You can have a “Swan” that
will suit you better than any
other pen you are using.
Every person s handwriting is peculiar. Every-
one feels that only one type of pen point will
suit his own style of writing. After obtaining
the point he likes, he becomes so attached to
his pen that he cannot write without it. No
other pen will serve his purpose.
>WAN
ħ
Get one to-day and it becomes in a few days
not A fountain pen but YOUR pen —a writing
instrument peculiarly your own.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester; Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney— (Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory—3l9-329, Weston
Street, S.E. Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co.,
Inc., New York and Chicago.
m
aim*
Australian Branch:
, A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings. 255 a George Street, Sydney. *
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Uncharted.
“Full many a flower is born to blush unseen
And waste its sweetness on the desert air.”
All emerald writhes the uncharted Pacific,
where, under the moon,
Beachward it beats to the furze on the dune,
Bursting to foam-crust and breaking in spin-
drift rain
That chequers the sea-paths mosaic, green
cobble and ivory vein.
Unkempt is the couche on the dunes, and the
white of the sand is untrod.
So was it ever since Nature began.
So may it be even after the Kingdom of Man !
Can nought possess Beauty unless he be pre-
sent to patronise Cod?
There’s never an island uncharted, whose
loveliness mariners seek,
But the seagull can reach in a week ;
For Nature built shrines ere she fashioned
your jellyfish sire,
And always the sun shall rise splendidly
over your funeral pyre!
N.S.W.
KENNETH SLESSOR.
The New Years.
' “The old faiths loosen and fall; the new years ruin
and rend."
The new years ruin and rend? Aye, but
their days are strong,
And in their strife shall blend chant of a
triumph song.
What that the gods lie cold? Quenched be
their altar (lame!
Ours be the power foretold of a thing they
groped to name.
What that an old year’s hush has shrouded
the nymphs with sleep,
And of their sacred bush left not a bough
to keep?
Oracle, rod and creed —aye, let their days
be mute!
Set from their ancient seed ripens the
promised fruit.
They of deities dead, 'groping in symboled
trust;
We of the word that is read out from the
common dust—
Elements wrought of the sun, breath of a
ceaseless sea,
Seed of a past that is done, blossom of fruit
to be.
Faith’s was a year long told, in a blindness
torture-racked ;
But now shall her eyes behold the face of
her daughter—Fact.
And Hope’s was a sullen wit, fickle and
false of mood,
Until men breathed on it, and lo! it was
understood.
And Love! aye, Love is kind, and ever shall
Love endure;
Yet shall not the darkening blind be lifted
from her door!
Flinch we not to the rods if such shall our
sowing reap ;
Plaint we not to the gods of fruit not theirs
to keep.
"The new years ruin and rend,” yet shall
the fool, the sage,
Mark in the thing they send proof of his
heritage.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
L. KENNY.
Fate.
We drove a furrow straight
And we planted a seed well;
These were the deeds of Fate
That a wise world should tell.
We set a fire at the gate
And the foe to our sword fell ;
This they remember who wait
To the last ember of Hell.
We came to a grave late.
When the brown leaves fell;
And there were tears for a hate
That was buried deep and well.
Shall blood and a dream mate?
Shall Heaven he compassed by Hell?
Strange are the deeds of Fate
That the wise angels tell.
The heralds cry in the gate.
In the flying tongue of the bell
There is joy golden and great
Where peace has come to dwell.
N.s.w.
GEORGE STREET.
The Idols.
It lies, a broken thing, upon
My heart, poor scattered clay
Of fancy, all its beauty gone ;
While each prosaic day
Assists the rust
That wears illusionment away,
Transmuting it to dust!
When love within my heart was young
My idol in its shrine
I set, and tribute to it flung
Of all 'hopes that were mine.
But it was she
Whom I had fancied half-divine
Destroyed it carelessly.
The dullness of oppressive years,
The hurt as love expires.
The petulance of needless tears,
The dust of old desires
Within my shrine
Lie like the ashes of old fires
Over that dream of mine.
And in my soul a sullen smart
Persists. ’Tis She has wrought
This desolation in my heart. . ..
And yet, a tender thought
Stirs; for she'who
Has brought my fancied dream to nought
May mourn an idol too.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


■**
O'
v «s
f „\ -***
•’ '. r
- >*vri
m*e
V^..%S3&.Sj£
-Ti'-X. K
-
TLyrrJaLrrz^Z,
BBS
8 558
llliiifgM
~ : ?}
■M
ssaip
4.
PERDRIAU
for FORD
TYRES
CARS.
30 X 3:.
REDUCED PRICE-
Cover - - - - £6|s
Heavy Red Tube - £ll2
Guaranteed 4000 miles to all Ford Owners.
Obtainable from your local garage or from the manufacturers —
PERDRIAU RUBBER GO. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
307 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
122 Flinders Street, Melbourne
69 Gawler Place, Adelaide
312 Murray Street, Perth
m:* *JR
3
Elastic
Ti
uss
Send for Private Truss
Pamphlet-free, in plain
envelope, to your address.
Supports
and Protects
In DENYER'S ELASTIC TRUSS new and im-
proved features are embodied that ensure the great-
est measure of protection possible in a truss.
It never fails to function properly—supporting the rup-
tured part and safeguarding the wearer against develop-
ment of the trouble.
It is light, comfortable, properly-fitting and thoroughly
efficient.
Ruptured persons should not hesitate to wear a truss
and the choice of a DENYER’S ELASTIC TRUSS will show
good judgment on your part.
Single, 20/-; Double, 27/6.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 George Street, Sydney.
• n~i i
uiuiumm
B®
IN
8*
b>
tong
bacon
VEAL
ND
UE
Cheaper Than
Fresh Meat
“REX”
CAMP PIE
It consists ot the
best selected meats,
seasoned, cooked
and packed in a firm
jelly—ready to be
served.
No cooking, no
waste, no trouble.
Always keep a tin
on hand.
“REX” CAMP PIE
may be served hot by immersing
the tin in boiling water for 20
minutes. You will enjoy it this
way too.
Sold by Grocers everywhere.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Carers of “Rex" Hams and Bacon
Packers of 1 Rex’ Pure Food Products
J 596
-.V;
UP*
W'
Something Worth While
Looking Into.
O vvners have been reporting to us the suc-
cess they are having with GOO 13RICH
TYRES.
THEY CLAIM MORE THAN WE 80.
Service is the very backbone of our business. Without
it, nothing we can do in the way of advertising would be
of any lasting benefit.
GOODRICH Tyres MUST fulfil this high Service Good-
rich pledges for them. When one fails, we are more
eager than the buyer that its shortcomings be made good.
We invite every Goodrich patron with a vestige of a
grievance against a Goodrich Tyre to send in his
grievance with the tyre.
We will make these adjustments gladly and generously.
Let Your Next Tyre
be a GOODRICH.
DUVAL CO.
POCKETBOOK
PICKET DUTY
145 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
300 Adelaide St,
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at <he General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a T^ewspaper.
Voi. 40.— N0. 2010.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 7, 1919.
I’KXCE 6d.
TWO JOBS NOBLY DONE.
“The influenza epidemic in N. S. Wales has been got so thoroughly under control that for the last three days of the week only two deaths have been
reported from the hospitals.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod; of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. Gd. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special 'Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in fhe form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
8006 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Rlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-draWn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The, conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban arid Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. 5. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. —.V. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., 1849 Conway Buildings,
Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. — Home News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.— lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
IlounQ, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.—lT. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samaras.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin {registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord IJowe Islands,
lOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: 802., lid.; SJoz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 40z., lid., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
'^e'^xxlljdzn.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 7, 1919.
THE REVOLUTIONARY IN THE
SOUP-PLATE HAT.
The Bolshevik by no means stands alone
among the horrors of peace: we also have the
Total Prohibitionist. His policy, like that
of all fanatics, is destructive; and he will
have no palliatives. The prohibitionist’s
aim is to ruin certain defined classes in the
name of humanity; and that also is the
aim of the Russian brethren who, being
temporarily in power, have exchanged the
soft word for the sword. All reformers of
the howling, tearing, irreconcilable variety
speak the same language right down the
ages; and they are all alike under the skin.
The tongue of the holy man has always been
noted for its acerbity, not to say oltensive-
ness, as soon as its owner has judged it safe
to speak out; and his whirling, provocative
remarks all aim at direct action of one sort
or another. Lenin was a law-abiding State
Socialist before the Revolution of 1917 gave
him the chance to institute bloody anarchy.
Carrie Nation taught children in a U.S.
Sunday-school to, amongst other things, re-
spect people’s rights before she took to
smashing up the bars of America with an
axe in the name of reform. Going a couple
of thousand years further back, Cato, in his
candidature for the Roman Censorship,
claimed that if elected he would “destroy by
knife and cautery the hydra of luxury and .
effeminacy.” He was elected, and the public
and private vices, for the extermination of
which he had claimed to possess the only re-
cipe, continued as before. The most notable
change was in the reformer himself. From
being a poor farmer he became a profiteer
in wood-selling, marsh-draining, marine as-
surance and other commercial activities.
He developed into a capitalist in slaves, and
he acquired such a taste for the luxury
which he had set out to scotch that he had
his attendants periodically flogged when their
cooking or serving fell below the mark.
And, finally, the fraudulent old saint, still
shouting of his virtues and of the wickedness
of others, made a youthful member of the
household his mistress. In every age reformers
appear who by unprecedentedly drastic
action are going to alter the face of human
nature, but invariably, after they have done
a great deal of dafilage and caused much
misery and suffering, they vanish, leaving
nothing behind but a rather unpleasant smell.
The prohibitionists argue now that because
the U.S.A. recently decided to go dry, during
a time of war hysteria, and as the outcome of
voting, not by the people but by their State
Legislatures, therefore the world is going
to be bluffed into following suit—that the
French nation, for example, is going to sac-
rifice its 4.000,000 acres under vines and its
million and a half vignerons, and their em-
ployees, and with them the country’s last hope
of national security and solvency, because the
Yankees have taken a step which may mean
the sacrifice of their one-State low-grade
wine industry, and their mostly Boche-owned
beer trade; that Italy, Portugal and Ger-
many, all menaced as they are by the un-
employment spectre, will perform a similar
suicidal act, and that Britain, which was
paying for the war as wmll a's bleed-
ing in it. when America was safely
making millions out of it. is now
going to finally settle its financial prospects
by sacrificing two of its best-paying in-
dustries. As regards the Commonwealth, it
has incurred a vast, war-debt which no one
imagines will be even fractionally met by any
indemnity; it has lost 60,000 priceless
workers; and it has on its hands, roughly,
another 60,000 who are incapacitated from
pulling their industrial weight and who, in
some cases, will have to be supported by
the State they served so well till they die.
Its future depends on more production and
more population, and during the past quarter
of a century every year has shown more,
and more clearly that one of the things
nature intended it to be was a great wine-
growing country. It is absurd to suppose
that a reasonable country will sacrifice one
of its most valuable assets at the behest of a
number of individuals who, though they wear
the flat hats of a blameless life, are as im-
practical and irresponsible as any other
brand of destructive agitator who lives on
the game.
* * « *
The tactics of this type of expert in the
uplifting of humanity—whether he is a Bol-
shevik, or a social purity worker of the
sort that roamed the London West End
music-halls 20 years ago, or a temperance
reformer such as the world has known ever
since wine was first found to be a mocker —
are always the same : to confuse the issues.
In the same way as the Bolshevik puts all
the afflictions of humanity down to capital-
ism, so the prohibitionist ascribes them to
drink. Total abolition is the only cure,, and,
since extremism can only be justified by ex-
tremism, the language used and the argu-
ments advanced are the limit in the way of
extravagance. On the drink issue the re-
formers allow their eyes to wander over the
world, and wherever they see improved con-
ditions they ascribe them to a decrease in the
consumption of stimulants. The world is
no doubt relatively soberer than it was in
the days of the English three-bottle men and
the Australian Hum Corps—a time when
about the only diversion at the disposal of
a large class was to get drunk. And also,
no doubt, the temperance enthusiasts have
put in a lot of good work in the interval.
But so have others. Education and travel
have done more than anything else to set
a new standard for the rich. A thousand
modern developments have helped to lure the
poor man from his beer —chiefly, in a coun-
try like Australia, the tremendous range of
amusements which are at the disposal of
everyone. Surfing, cricket, football, pic-
nicking—there are all sorts of outdoor
diversions to help people to keep sober.
Trains, ferry steamers, bicycles, motor-cycles
and cars have done their share. So have the
theatres, the picture-shows and the parks, the
libraries and the Schools of Art. Wherever
housing is improved the worker tends to stay
at home in preference to seeking comfort in
mean pubs. The press has probably done
more for temperance, off its own bat, than
all the abolitionists that ever blithered.
But, it is objected, there is still an appal-
ling amount of drunkenness. The streets of
every big town are polluted at all sorts of
hours by degraded inebriates old and young.
What is to become of them if the sober pro-
portion of the population shirks the self-
denying ordinance which is demanded of it,
and sticks selfishly to its alcohol? The non-
boozer or moderate refreshment-taker mildly
remarks that the drink position can be
altered for the better in the same way as
industrial conditions, and the conduct of
lunatic asylums, and the position of debtors
as regards imprisonment, and many other
bygone scandals of a public nature, have
been —more especially if the . anti-drink
crowd will only give honest help in the mat-
ter. The suggestion is. met by the aboli-
tionist in the same spirit as Tom Walsh
meets talk on the Arbitration, question.
Nothing so reasonable and practical as an
arrangement likely to ultimately satisfy all
parties is thinkable. The temperance.whole-
hogger regards the helpless drunk with the
benevolent eye that the anarchist turns upon
the profiteer; these are the Arguments, the
Means of Livelihood. The rage and scorn
of both are reserved for the traitors who pro-
pose to ruin the show, so far as they are
concerned, by making the horrors on .which
they batten negligible. World-prohibition
will never come, of course, any more than
world-revolution, but in the meanwhile there
is a lot of money and limelight in talking
about them. .
THE GENTLE ART OF WORK-
STOPPING.
The people are fools to stand on ceremony. If
the Trades Hall Council he sincere and determined
that the people should have the full product of
their toil, then let all declare themselves prepared
to take any action that may he necessary.- The
General Secretary (imported Jrom Enaland) of the
Australian Seamen’s Union.
In a very large number of industries the
Australian worker already gets the full pro-
duct of his labor, with the upside-down re-
sult that the industries don’t exist and the
worker gets nothing. These are the indus-
tries which don’t exist in Australia because
nobody dares to start them —industries that
are open to Labor to monopolise, thereby
getting ahead of the capitalist. By compari-
son the number that the local profiteer ex-
ploits is hardly worth all the fuss. It only
requires a glance at the import returns jo
show that the field is very wide and very
empty. If co-operative labor would only
come in and occupy it, and take every penny
of the profit, the blessing to the community
would be enormous, for no decent person
wants to live on foreign goods made
by foreign workers who are exploited
by foreign profiteers. Certainly Aus-
tralia can show more co-operative effort
by comparison with individual effort than
any other country. But none of it was
organised by the sort of men who run the
Labor movement nowadays. The life assur-
ance offices (funds about £50,000,000),
savings banks (about £120,000,000), note
issue (about £55,000,000), the Treasury gold
reserve, the railways (worth on paper about
£220,000,000), nearly all of the tramways,
the telegraph and telephone services, the
Commonwealth shipping line, the public
lands (something like 95 ner cent, of the
continent), the Public Trustee departments
—these are a few of the things that are the
property of the people, barring, of course,
the mortgage. Also, the people own the big-
gest bank, the deposits in private banks (the
shareholders’ interest is infinitesimal), the
Federal capital, the waterworks, docks,
thousands of public buildings, a lot of small
and not very successful industries, a quan-
tity of dwelling-houses, and many sundries.
As regards the biggest of these items, the
railways, the workers get the entire net pro-
ceeds and a bonus which is made up by taxa-
tion, and it is the same with many minor
State activities. In regard to the rest, the
people only get the whole earnings. There
is no fund except loans to subsidise them
out of.
* * * *
The individual capitalist plays quite a
minor part in Australia. 'The country
simply had to have some industries, or else
go naked and eat its food raw. Coal, gas,
electricity, houses and other things couldn’t
be imported, and had to be made or got on
the spot; and as co-operative labor wouldn't
do these jobs, and still refuses to do them,
they fell into the hands of men who were
often just as poor as the present-day wharf-
laborer when they started, though they had
energy, and some of them have grown rich.
But the biggest of these affairs are in the
hands of co-operators—otherwise companies
—and the great individual skipper of indus-
try is scarce. The movement now is towards
securing for labor the whole output of all
industries while someone else originates
them without payment, standing the loss
when there is a loss and getting no profit.
Industries must be originated, for the coun-
try can’t live for ever on the handful that
don’t half supply the wants of its present
5,000,000 people, and the party which runs
the Labor movement has given up originat-
ing. Its last great effort was the world-
famous New Australia in Paraguay. This
commenced with a big grant of rich land,
exemption from taxes and military service,
some cash aid from a friendly foreign Gov-
ernment, the complete elimination of the
capitalist, and the exclusion of unfriendly
critics, for only true believers (with a fair
amount of ready money) were enrolled. And
it got rid of the last semblance of tyranny—
the working boss, like a Railway Commis-
sioner or Commonwealth Bank manager or
Public Trustee, who is appointed by the
people for a fixed term. It didn’t believe in
a president fixed for four years; it believed
in one removable every four minutes. It had
the initiative and recall on its programme,
but it initiated nothing and recalled every-
body. _ The workers had the whole product
of their toil, but the product dropped to a
value of about 4s. per week per head. Then
not being in a position to issue paper-money
or float a foreign loan New Australia came
home.
* * * *
The attempt to revive New Australia in
Old Australia moves slowly because it is im-
possible here to eliminate all who don’t think
on anarchist lines. Still it moves. In the
early days of the war the Labor party con-
trolled the Federal Parliament, as well as
the State Legislatures of N. S. Wales and
Westralia; and it presently climbed into
office in S. Australia and Queensland, in
which latter State it still holds office. It
didn’t go in for the active destruction of in-
dustries while in office, though under its care
employment both in manufactures and in
agriculture steadily diminished. But it was
utterly unable to start industries, and it
mssed the chance that comes once in 1000
years. Of the big States that went into the
war the two Hun empires were blockaded ;
Russia was partly blockaded and partly
crippled by revolution and invasion; while
France and Italy were disabled by invasion,
and Britain was in a condition of partial
blockade and occasional bombardment. Of
the other four the United States, Canada
and Japan made immense fortunes by open-
ing new industries and expanding old ones
to meet the demands of a hungry world.
Australia made less than nothing, because
its leaders regarded work as an evil, and
didn’t know enough or care enough to organ-
ise even the smallest workshop. They knew
all the literature of all the dreamers, but
they regarded the organisation of industry
as a surreptitious attempt to interfere with
liberty ’ as expressed by big loans, increased
old age and invalid pensions, diminished
hours and platitudes. The newer men carry
the policy further and are active work-stop-
pers. Tliev are against four things in par-
ticular: (1) Private or individual capitalistic
enterprise; (2) the kind of enterprise which
is partly capitalistic and partly co-operative,
as in the case of the joint-stock banks, where
one crowd of partners collects interest and
another crowd collects dividends, and any-
body can be a partner on the same terms as
anybody else; (3) enterprise that is wholly
co-operative and open to everybody, as in
the case of mutual life assurance offices —
the £30,000.000 or so; qf the A.M.P. Society
is the property of about 400,000 co-opera-
tors, but it is generally sooken of as a sign
of capitalism; (4) purely public enterprise,
like the Commonwealth Bank or the railways,
in which the people’s representative in charge
has a fixed appointment instead of bbing
removable by indignation meetings which
could appoint Garden and Walsh to take
his place till they were also thrown out on
their respective ears. The present men have
shown a marvellous capacity for work-stop-
ping of late —silver-mines, copper-mines, rail-
ways. shipping, meat-works, beer-drinking ;n
the Northern Territory, wharf-lumping,-and
the supply of houses are a few of the things
that have left off. But nothing has been
founded or created or organised—even the
Labor daily in Sydney, for which capital
was put up years .ago, doesn’t come out to
provide employment for deserving unionists.
With time and luck the new men may yet
reproduce New Australia—the place where
everybody forgot how to do anything except
defend himself against encroachment on his
rights—but on a bigger scale. Then in the
inevitable progress of things time will work
a remedy and the boss anarchists will be ex-
posed in all their incapacity. But the pro-
cess costs money. It has lately cost the
world about £30,000,000,000 to expose one
imperial fool in all his incapacity, and the
fool isn’t convinced even yet.
JAPAN’S PAN-ASIAN DREAM.
All nations suffer from dreams, visions,
hallucinations or nightmares, according to
their racial temperaments, but not all of
them translate these things into deeds with
the same amount of resolute activity.
Japan’s dream began to take shape during
the Russo-Japanese War. “With the strong
position that we must have in Manchuria,
it will be easy for us to take, or at least
to govern, China at need. We shall be
able, moreover, to go still further, and to
penetrate Siberia. In the present war it:
will be sufficient to go as far as Lake Baikal,
but in the next war Japan must plant her
flag on the Urals, and our troops must water
their horses at the Volga.” These, the words
of a Japanese professor, were echoed in the
Japanese press and in the speeches of respon-
sible statesmen. Europe was to be driven
out of Asia. Elated with their Russian
victory, the Japanese chauvinists believed
that peace would realise the first part ot
their programme; but the intervention of
the European Powers prevented them getting
the full measure of their demands. They
had to be content with lighter spoils until
the Great War brought them a further
opportunity.
Professors —German, English or Japanese
—are liable to flamboyant fancies of
national aggrandisement. But that the
Japanese dreamers had their feet planted on
solid foundations is vividly revealed by the
nature of the famous 21 demands which
it was endeavored to bring within the juris-
diction of Versailles. The demands have
two obvious motives. First, to obtain such
a stranglehold on China that her develop-
ment must fall into Japanese hands. Second,
to prevent the further financial, territorial
and diplomatic expansion of foreigners, and
to develop a strong but submissive China,
so that with her help Japan may be able
to establish her supremacy in the Asiatic
continent. Thus China is to purchase 50
per cent, of her munitions from Japan. She
is to employ Japanese police instructors and
advisers in finance, politics and military
affairs. No concessions are to be given to
foreigners without Japanese consent. Her.
foreign policy is to be practically under
Japanese supervision. Strategically China
is to be enclosed within a ring of half-
disguised conquests which at the right
moment will make her subjugation by force
a simple operation.
By the retention of Iviaochow Japan put
her foot firmly into the Prussian jackboot.
Meantime the Allies have been pulling chest-
nuts out of the Bolshevik fire for her. One
of them is Mongolia. It is about 10 times
the size of Japan and half as big as Aus-
tralia. Manchuria is another. China may
gain a temporary respite by moving her
capital from Peking to the old southern
capital. Nanking. But the North is stra-
tegically in Japanese hands. The Gulf of
Pechili is dominated by Port Arthur and
Tsingtao. Japan holds the railway to
Tsinan, which cuts across the route between
South and North. Her Manchurian territory,
which is Japanese in all but name, sweeps
round in a wide arc to the east. In the
Yangtsze Valley, which is called a British
sphere of interest, Japanese capital and in-
fluence are now dominant. Conflicting re-
ports come from Mongolia, where the recent
declaration of independence under the pro-
tection of the amazing Cossack adventurer
Siminiov is generally believed to be a last
despairing effort to raise a barrier against
Japanese penetration. The veil of the mili-
tary censor is drawn across Siberia, but it
is known that Japanese troops are zealously
stamping out Bolshevism in every village.
This Pan-Asian dream is the expression of
a rabid racialism somewhat drunk with the
saki of success. But. besides, a very real
and very urgent problem faces Japan to-
day. She has a population of 60 millions,
which is rapidly increasing. The territory
they live on fails to increase; in fact, vol-
canic eruptions occasionally blow bits of
it away. Its productivity has been stimu-
lated to the point of exhaustion. Vast quan-
tities of raw materials must be imported to
maintain its expanding industries. There is
no Back of Beyond for the Japanese unless
they try to plant ricefields on perpendicular
mountain-sides. An intensified struggle for
existence internally makes .Japanese states-
men look outwards. It is the line of least
resistance. Korea, howmver, has only
absorbed a quarter of a million immigrants.
Manchuria a hundred thousand. Shantung
already has a Chinese population of. nearly
600 to the square mile. Mongolia. and
Siberia offer a wide field, rich in promise.
Yet —and this may be of deep significance
to Australia —Japan’s experience in Mon-
golia has been unfortunate. The Chinese is
a better coloniser than the Japanese. He
can work for lower wages and under worse
donditions. He is a more successful mer-
chant. Given equal opportunity under
decent government he will drive all com-
petitors out of the field. While Japan has
gone forward with the political invasion of
Manchuria, the Chinese market-gardener has
peacefully invaded the Mongolian, desert.
Nomadic life is gradually disappearing, and
agricultural life taking its place. Villages
are being built, schools erected,. and the
whole paraphernalia of Chinese civilisation
transplanted. This resolute invasion, under
Chinese official encouragement, proceeds at
the rate of four miles per annum along a


front of 500 miles. The advance tends to
quicken, and it is expected that in 10 years’
time an extent of territory 200 miles wide
by 700 miles long will have been reclaimed
by Chinese settlers. The same process on a
smaller scale is going on in Siberia.
By the terms of the Peace Treaty, though
she did not obtain the merely formal recogni-
tion of her racial equality that she asked for,
Japan has.realised the first stage of her Pan-
Asian dream.. Whether her control of China
will make for her own strength or weakness
’-—whether China, whose awakening, because
of her vast bulk, is slower though none the
less an re. will take from her the Asiatic
leadership—is a question you may ask the
Sphinx. What is fairly certain is that the
tide of European aggression, which for 200
years has swept over Asia, has reached its
height. When it recedes it will leave little
on those ancient sands but a trade-case or
two, and perhaps the stranded Ark of the
Covenant of the League of Nations.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Canberra.
A special “Federal Capital” lunch was
given last week by the Millions Club in
Sydney, for the most enthusiastic Federal
Capitalist never goes to Canberra with his
meeting. And the usual facts or half-facts
were told and the usual essentials over-
looked. Austin Chapman had something
to say about the Federal Parliament being
"illegally” in Melbourne. What makes it
illegal? The Constitution says that the Par-
liament will be in Melbourne “until it meets
at the Seat of Government,” and it hasn’t
met there yet. Justice lleydon said that
N. S. Wales rejected the first Constitution,
which didn’t fix the capital in N. S. Wales,
and only accepted the second one, which
did so fix it. His Honor told the truth,
but not being on oath he wasn’t bound to
tell the whole truth. N. S. Wales accepted
the _ first Constitution, which didn’t fix the
capital in any particular State, by a
majority of 5367, and the “yes” vote was
21,595 more than the 50,000 which N. S.
Wales declared, in the bargain it made with
its neighbors, would be sufficient. A number
of disreputable politicians broke the agree-
ment, and induced the State Parliament to
raise the minimum to 80,000, and so turned
an honest acceptance into a technical rejec-
tion ; but that is another matter. The point
of real present importance, however, is that
neither lleydon nor Chapman seems to have
bad the courage to say anything in favor of
the Canberra site. The Millionaires were
willing to say, or imply, that it is a con-
stitutional obligation, which it isn’t—the
place isn’t mentioned in the Constitution; it
is only mentioned in an Act of Parliament
which can be repealed any day. They were
willing to say that Parliament is illegally
kept away from it, which is childish absur-
dity. But they didn't say
(1) That it is the best site, or even a good site.
(2) That it was selected on its merits.
(3) That there weren’t, behind the selection of
Canberra, all those who hated Federation, and
wanted to bring it and its capital and everything
connected with it into derision. (There were cer-
tain people in Sydney who called themselves “Pru-
dent Federationists” and ran candidates for the
Convention. They might know something on this
subject.)
(4) That it is worthy of a continent—the only
continent that has ever been under a single Govern-
ment —to have its metropolis in two fragments 130
miles apart—a big fragment very bare of known
minerals, short of water power and scarce of rain,
and a detached scrap with an area of 28 square
miles for a secondary city, naval headquarters and
sea outlet. The seaside fragment is about 30 miles
further away from the other bit of the capital than
Newcastle is from Sydney.
The Bulletin has an aversion to tin* Can-
berra business with its parentage of anti-'
Federal malevolence, because this paper
thinks Australia should have a capital which
is capable of growing to be worthy of its
position as the one Continental Metropolis
of the world. Possibly, however, the Millions
Club never heard of Australia.
Some Time? Never?
The N.S.W. Government talked extensively
last year of the anti-venereal legislation
which it proposed to enact. As the months
passed and nothing was done, interested
parties grew restive. The council of the
University of Sydney Society for Combating
Venereal Diseases wrote to the papers as
follows:
We deem it a public duty to press upon the Gov-
ernment the extreme u gency of the need for placing
anti-venereal legislation upon the Statute Book with-
out delay. Not only is such legislation urgently
required to enable us to deal effectively with the
two fell diseases of gonorrhoea and syphilis that are
always prevalent in the community; but it is still
more necessary and indispensable if we are to cope
adequately with the situation which will presently
develop under post-war conditions.
Lashed into unwilling action, the Govern-
ment rushed through the Venereal Diseases
Bill at the end of 1918. It provided for
drastic reforms. Notification and treatment
were made compulsory. The infected could
be treated either privately by their own
doctors, or without payment in a public hos-
pital. Infected persons were debarred from
marrying. And it was made a criminal
offence to pass on venereal disease. In the
course of the second reading in the Legisla-
tive Assembly Premier Holman observed :
“Scientific developments in recent years,
have proved that it is possible to stamp out
this disease altogether.” The Act was
scheduled to come into operation on May 1
last. The influenza epidemic arrived, and
the then Health Minister (J. D. Fitz-
gerald) was so absorbed experimenting with
masks and sprays that he had no time for
the V.D. Act. It was postponed as an opera-
tive measure till last Friday. And it is
now, for no given reason, postponed till next
year! Eight months ago Professor Ander-
son Stuart, Professor Wilson and Pro-
fessor Welsh urged expedition for a specific
reason—because “in all our big cities there is
likely to be an accumulation of a floating
population of men of a military age under
conditions predisposing to excitement and
irresponsibility.” Since then most of the
Army has returned, and long before January,
1920, all of it will be back. And it is then,
if ever, that the Government proposes to
start to get the State clean. The Govern-
ment has a natural disinclination to tackle
this problem. There are big vested interests
which have all to lose by any real change,
and the V.D. vote is a big one. But N. S.
Wales is now the only State in the Common-
wealth without operative anti-venereal legis-
lation. And the llolman Government has
issued promises in the matter by the barrel-
ful in the past couple of years. Are all
these assurances to be dishonored, and is the
State to remain unclean indefinitely, be-
cause inaction happens to be good tactics
from the Party standpoint?
The Court-Martial System Finds a
Champion.
“Phillip Street” enters the Box:
J. W. Abigail, a Sydney police-court attorney,
undertook a more hopeless defence than that of any
“drunk and disorderly” on record when ho lately
set out to demonstrate that “trial by court-martial
is fairer than civil trial.” After remarking that
“the officer appointed as prosecutor is especially
selected for his worldly experience and knowledge
of military law,” while “in very many cases both
the president of the Court and the prosecuting offi-
cer have been by civil profession barristers and
solicitors,” he wound up: “Let me, in conclusion,
unequivocally and strenuously deny the allegation
that courts-martial have been guilty of unjust
findings.” Big words, these but explicable, in part,
anyhow, no doubt by the facts that Mr. Abigail
is not. and never has been in any army; that the
whole of his experience of courts-martial consists
of an occasional appearance at Victoria Barracks,
when the press was in attendance; and that his
justice-standard is presumably that of the police-
courts.
I am a barrister of some experience, and in the
course of three years’ service in the A.I.F. I de-
fended between 60 and 70 men in training-camps
and in the field. The president and other mem-
bers of a military court are not chosen for their
capacity or knowledge of law, military or other-
wise. The qualification is wholly a matter of
rank. 1 appeared before a court-martial at Querrieu,
on the Somme, consisting of a grocer (president),
an auctioneer and a farmer. The “legal expert”
was a very young Tasmanian solicitor, and his
clerk was an N.C.0., who in civil life is a barrister.
The “legal expert,” by the way, was an official
suggested to the War Office by (I believe) Sir John
Simon, K.C., after he joined the Army and saw what
went on there. He was introduced in 1918 in the
A.I.F. His whole job was to instruct the Court
in its law and procedure.
At a time when E. M. Brissenden (recently
appointed a N. S. Wales District Court Judge) was
in camp, not a quarter of a mile away, I defended
an artillery corporal before a farmer (president),
an indentor of fancy goods, and a permanent soldier
(who was the only member of this particular Court
with a glimmering of legal knowledge. Brissenden
was, of course, unavailable to assist the Court
in any way, since he was then a N.C.O. The
prisoner’s camp-adjutant (in private life an assist-
ant in a wine and spirit business) had made out
the Summary of Evidence, and he strongly urged
me not to defend the accused. “The man's as
guilty as he can be,” he said vehemently. Before
the case came on this adjutant privately interviewed
the Court, and the _ effect was evident in its subse-
quent attitude.
To detail half the imbecilities arising from
attempts in the A.I.F. on the part of amateurs to
handle the technicalities of the law would require
a newspaper the size of an encyclopaedia. Injustice
was done, usually not of malice prepense, but
through ignorance. As, for example, in a notorious
case at Lark Hill (Milts), where, through errors
real and alleged in the taking of Enquiries and
Summaries of Evidence, a man originally charged
with being 11 days A.W.L. waited 90 days for his
trial, and finally broke gaol and disappeared for
good.
Soldiers will smile with particular zest at Mr.
Abigail’s announcement that “an officer appointed
as prosecutor is especially selected for his worldly
experience and knowledge of military law.” What
actually happens is this. A brigade or battalion is
requisitioned for a prosecutor. The senior officers
are exempt of right: the idea of a field-officer or
even a captain prosecuting in any but a F.G.C.-M.
would strike the military mind as grotesque. None
of the subalterns want, the job, so all those with
any feasible excuse in the way of a “duty” are
crossed off the list. The choice usually devolves on
the rawest lad in the unit. I have had the odd
experience, as defender, of being asked by the
prosecutor what he ought to do on entering the
court. He had never been inside one before!
The average military court, like the average
police-court magistrate, begins with a weary assump-
tion that the accused is guilty and that his de-
fence will be a farrago of untruths. Unlike a
magistrate the average Court-martial is extremely
impatient of a legal point, which is commonly de-
scribed by the members as “damned lawyers’
trickery.” It is most circumspect, and therefore
at its best, when its proceedings are likely to be
reported in the papers. When they are not —as
was the case in Egypt, England and France—it
is a fearsome thing indeed for the innocent man
who faces it. Not all the Abigails in Sydney could
alter the opinion on that score of one who has
watched the system in operation.
800,000.
Glad tidings are to hand that the popula-
tion of Sydney is now reliably estimated at
800,000, that of N. S. Wales at 2.000,000,
and that of Australia at 5,000,000. The
Commonwealth thus puts up some records.
Sydney now stands about 24tli or 25th on
the list of world cities. There are States
like Hamburg. Bremen and Lubeck which
are cities and don’t pretend to be anything
else: but among those States which profess
to be ordinary and human, with agricultural,
pastoral and industrial interests, there isn’t
another with the scanty population of N. S.
Wales which has grown so big a city. In
other words, there is none with so much pre-
tentious front door and so little house and
garden at the back. And in all the world out-
side Australia there is no State where the
gap between the biggest city and the second
and third biggest is so vast that the big
place is 16 times greater than the second
one and about 25 times greater than the
third. It is doubtful also whether it would
be possible to discover a big commercial
State with a long coastline and good harbors
where the population of the leading port is
growing about 10 times as fast as that of
all the other ports put together. N. S.
Wales has thevfurther distinction of being
the one place on earth where every political
party has put decentralisation on its pro-
gramme without any of them having the
slightest desire to decentralise. In fact,
they have nil put the thing on their pro-
gramme to prevent any real decentralisation
party annexing the war cry, just as a book-
maker's friend might persistently introduce
(and mislay) a Totalisator Bill to prevent
a bookmaker’s enemy getting in with it.
Also it has a town-planning organisation—
probably the only one in the world which is
so centralised that there is only a single
affair of the kind in 810,000 square miles —
which never puts up a serious struggle for
a chance to go out and plan towns. Sydney
citizens have a habit of drifting back from
California and other places (Thomas
Hughes drifted back eloquently the other
day) with stories about how up-to-date
towns which, put this country to shame are
being town-planned there. But these are
new cities—places like Los Angeles, which
was a poor second- or third-rate affair in
1900, and was the biggest city of its State
in 1917, having been practically town-
planned and built in the interval. And
other smaller towns are arising plentifully.
If the Californian town-planners mouldered
in San Francisco, they would probably make
as little progress as their contemporaries ,n
N. S. Wales. The fact is that a mere
8,000,000 people can’t afford to reconstruct
a very badly-devised metropolis of SOO,OOO
population, and no other community on
earth is even talking of such a gigantic act.
The rebuilding of London, if Britain decided
on having a 20th-century capital on the old
.lst-century spot, would be less than half as
massive a job in proportion to the number
of people available to pay for it. The re-
construction of Glasgow, even if little Scot-
land took on the work single-handed, would
only be a trifle by comparison, though the
reconstruction of London and Glasgow would
be no mean undertakings. Which is, per-
haps, why the N. S. Wqles town-planners
wear a despairing look and do little save
hold meetings. Cain is the first town-
planner mentioned in Holy Writ, and even
with his limited experience he knew enough
to select a fresh site and start from the
beginning, instead of confining his energies
to the old spot which was already cluttered
up with Adam and Eve and the serpent.
Nominated M’s.L.A.
Tiie programme of N. S. Wales State Gov-
vernment for the session which begins on
August 19 includes an Electoral Bill of
which it is reported:—
They [Holman and Co.] have also devised a
scheme by means of which, in the case of a seat
becoming vacant by death or resignation, there
shall be no by-election, but that the new member
shall be nominated by the leader of the party to
which the deceased or retiring member belonged. In
this way it is hoped to preserve the representative
character of Parliament.
The proposal is a very beautiful one for
party leaders, for it would give them valu-
able patronage _ to dispose of —not unpaid
Upper House billets, but really good things.
Quite a lot might be done, even if members
wouldn't die and showed no desire to resign,
in the way of buying them out, especially
if they were poor or precarious members, or
of pushing them out by sheer annoyance, bully-
ragging and boycotting. Then room’ might
be made in a time of trouble and unreason
for Tom Walsh and his friends Le Cornu
and S. A. Kosa ; also for Mrs. Pankiiurst
Walsh and her kin, for women must arrive
in the t Legislature some day. And if the
“recall” becomes law, vacancies may be more
numerous than they are now, and the leader’s
patronage would increase. Then a venal
and impecunious leader would have seats to
sell, and considering an old-time scandal
about the sale of the N. S. Wales Speaker-
ship and some scandals about the sale
of portfolios, this is a matter of importance.
Another point about the proposal which
would appeal to the vanity of party leaders
is that it ignores the independent member.
He is the masterless man who won’t swear
that everything one crowd does is right and
that everything the other crowd does is wrong ;
who doesn’t swallow a programme whole,
and change his views every time his party
caucus or convention changes the pro-
gramme ; who acknowledges no superior save
the electors who appointed him. Whether
it is proposed that the seat of the deceased
or retired independent should go to the
nearest villain, as the intestate estate does
in the melodrama, or that the leaders of the
branded and disciplined and enslaved parties
should grab such seats turn about, or
whether they would be the perquisite of the
Speaker or the Governor doesn’t appear. But
there would assuredly be an unseemly scuffle
at the grave of the independent, each leader
claiming that the late lamented was with
him in spirit and demanding his bones and
his inheritance. He would have a long
funeral, for both crowds would be there to
see the last of their political brother —unless
he was so uncompromisingly independent
that the claim was ridiculous. Then he
would probably have no funeral at all, bar-
ring a solitary mourner in an obsolete
hansom-cab. By-elections are a nuisance.
So are general elections. So - are most
other things. But rather than have
them replaced by the proposed nomina-
tion system it might be better to let . the
seat remain vacant till Parliament expires,
which can’t be more than three years, any-
how. Still, the nomination proposal, if it
comes before Parliament, will probably be
carried. Any idea for stealing even a scrap
of power from the people and giving it to the
party-leader or caucus will have as many
friends as a new Loan Bill.
Soaring Youth anti Cellared Age.
A few words from a Digger:—
I wish I could think, with “0.K.” (B. 31/7/’l9),
that' the flying-machine will act as a deterrent to
war-making by causing the old men in high places
to fear for their own skins. But there are many
reasons why nothing of the sort is, likely. In the
first place, a particular palace or chancellery, or
any other building, is hard to hit under the most
favorable conditions. Bombs burst upwards and
sideways, so that if the old men stayed in the
cellars (as they used to do durirg the German
air-raids on London) their chances would be good.
If they lived in the country or in a suburb, and
occasionally repaired to a cellar there, their risk
of injury or destruction by bomb would be in-
calculably small. As a matter of fact, the German
air-raiders rarely attempted *to hit a palace or
other official building in England, and in Flanders
apparently never tried for a headquarters. When
the A.I.E. was on the Somme the last time Bird-
wood’s chateau was in a wood many miles Boehe-
ward from Abbeville. Yet the Hun aviators used to
fly over him and reserve practically the whole of
their cargoes for the chief square in Abbeville,
which, in consequence, was devastated. An explana-
tion (if one rejects the theory that the old men
deliberately refrained from injuring one another) is
that the air-raider has only two real uses: (1) to
destroy the morale of the civil population, as hap-
pened largely in the East End of London, where
the cellars are few and shallow; and (2) to keep
a large defensive in the invaded country.
Taking one thing with another, youth is sacrificed
more freely at the behest of age under the new
conditions than under the old. In England die
minute the Boche raiders were signalled from the
Channel, clouds of fliers (mostly boys in the ’teens,
or just out of them) had to ascend to engage them.
Simultaneously other hundreds went to their anti-
aircraft guns and put up an aerial barrage of
shrapnel. The streets of London were unhealthy
during those periods, not so much from the enemy’s
bombs as from the defender’s shrap. ; but infinitely
more so, of course, was the air.
There has been talk, of late, of super-bombers
which were to have gone to Berlin had peace not
been arranged. Taking a line by what happened
in the case of the Taubes and their pilots, one can
say what the result would have been. On every
mile of their tremendous journey across the Hano-
verian plains they would have encountered A.\.
barrages and fighting enemy airmen, the opposition
increasing as they approached their objective.
Arrived over the West End of Berlin (if they ever
did arrive) they would have let their explosives go
in the same haphazard way the Germans did when
they arrived over Poplar, the Mile End Road, Liver-
pool-street station and similar places. Thousands of
poor people, with no deep cellars or underground
railways available, might, be killed or injured. But
the odds would be hundreds to one against any
person of importance being hit. The only case of a
well-to-do London victim that I ever heard of
occurred in “The Pretty Lady,’’ a novel by Arnold
Bennett: the deceased was a duke’s daughter, and
she was hit by a piece of shrap., aimed at the
Huns, while she was rashly sitting on the ancestral
roof during a raid.
And, finally, warfare on land is not over, and it
probably never will be. The earth is where we live,
and in the last resort it is the earth that has io
be fought for and held. Judging from what went
on in France, the aeroplane’s power, as a deciding
factor in battle, consists in making things bloodier
and more unpleasant than ever for the armies. It
is so far little more than a sort of gigantic irritant.
And however it grows in power and efficiency, and
however dreadful wars become, this at least is cer-
tain: that the delightful old gentlemen who make
them will, as heretofore, be comfortably ensconced
where war is not.
Matrimony and Madness.
A Bill to amend the Marriage Act will
shortly be introduced by the Vic. Govern-
ment in the Leg. Council, it having failed as
a private member’s Bill in the other House.
It proposes to make five years of insanity a
ground for divorce, and will need particular
consideration from the women’s point of
view. First comes the medical question as
to the permanency, or otherwise, of the
mental incapacity, which is more likely to
be otherwise with a wife than with a 'hus-
band. A man who has been too mad to earn
any housekeeping money for five years is
practically hopeless, except in rare instances,
whereas a nervously broken-down wife is
not unlikely to recover her health after a
like period. Law for the goose should not
be law for the gander as regards mental in-
firmity. And when the lunacy of a wife is
judged to be hopelessly incurable, and the
Law in its new wisdom puts the unfortunate
husband at liberty to try his luck in another
venture, the decree must require him to do
the fair thing in providing maintenance for
the woman ; also it must safeguard the male
lunatic who has for five years been an en-
cumbrance on a wife with a fortune of her
own and a sane suitor in waiting. The whole
matter is one for extra-careful judicial con-
sideration. Insanity for five years is not
necessarily as good a reason for divorce as
desertion for 12 months, or a sentence of
penal servitude for attempted wife-murder
or husband-poisoning, since many a woman
has gone crazy through the systematic cruelty
of her lord. Nevertheless, from the stand-
point of utilitarianism, the need is undeni-
able of an amendment of the Act. The
churches may talk of an indestructible bond
between those whom God has joined together,
but the interests of the State demand that
insanity which has come to stay shall be
ground for divorce —where the petitioner is
not yet old. The Bill should, of course, con-
tain a clause to invalidate the claim of an
aged .Tank whose husband has lapsed into
second childhood or vice versa.
The Sale of the Wool Clip.
Octavius C. Beale in reply :—-
To controvert an anonymous writer is about as
level a game as a Digger in the open opposing a
Boche sniper in a pill-box. “A Lazy Head” on the
great wool deal (B. 24/7/’l9) gives only his initials,
but we all know him well and meet him often.
He won’t allow any comparison of the prices
of wool and cotton —says you might as well compare
wool and ’possum-skins. Well, wool and cotton are,
mixed and separate, worn by the human animal.
Usually the wool during manufacture is far too
much mixed. Nor can he see any relation between
flannel and flannelette. Normally and rationally
cotton is very much cheaper than wool, or conversely
stated when cotton is dear wool shopld be very much
dearer were there not unnatural and stepfatherlv
pressure by the heavy boot of a Wool Committee
constituted to act in external interests.
“Lazy Head” say's: “I thought that the British
Government, which is purchasing our wool on f.o.b.
basis, was paying the freight [on the dirt] to
Europe. It was stupid of me.” Sure kid ! Britain
is not buying dirt, nor paying freight on it, but
wool. When Australian Lazy Heads insist upon our
wool being shipped in the dirt, then out of the


Ti e Farmers’ & Settlers' Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustraIia
Limited
EACH YEAR A RECORD !
The following figures indicate the progress of the Company —
PREMIUMS ... 1916 £8,849 Each year the
1917 £20,330 Income has been
1918 £42,807 more than doubled.
The figures for 1919 will also be a record.
Insurances
transacted
FIRE (Homesteads, Woolsheds, Crops 8 Stacks).
HAILSTONE.
WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT.
'motor CAR.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders.
EVERY Farmer and Grazier should join this Progressive Company.
Full Particulars on application to HEAD OFFICE ; 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
•space and weight of one million bales the space and
'weight (taken together) of 600,000 bales is wasted.
Jt would be hard for a Lazy Head to convince even
anost sluggish minds that Britain really wants Ihe
'dirt. No; when she pays for the carting of it
•home and the washing of it out afterwards, the
•price of the wool is reduced accordingly.
Wool-growers are not on a good wicket, though
“A Lazy Head” asserts they are, and immediately
proceeds to prove the contrary. He says:—
Wool is selling in London at about 75 per cent,
above the local (Australian) appraisement of 15id.
all round. Now 75 per cent, profit on 15 Jd. is
llsd., 50 per cent, of which is ssd. Thus, pro-
viding that the world’s prices are maintained, the
ultimate guaranteed return to the Australian
(grower for his next clip will not be 151 d. per lb.,
but something over 21d., or nearly three times his
pre-war price.
The painful facts are these: (1) There is no such
guarantee. There is no guarantee at all that the
wool won’t be sold —for beautiful reasons—to the
Briton, the Yank or the Boche, or anybody, at low
prices, inasmuch as the control of the producer is
eliminated. (2) Half a loaf of bread is not as good
as a whole loaf, though “A Lazy Head” would
have us rejoice. My contention is that the whole
price (less charges) should go to the Australian, as
it would if Australians were free to deal with their
own produce.
My friend is “still in the dark as to what con-
nection the price of the Australian sovereign in
Ceylon has with the price of Australian wool in
either Australia or Europe.” Inasmuch as in Ceylon
and elsewhere an English one-pound Treasury note
with the King’s head printed on it, plus an English
ten-shilling Treasury note, also of unquestionable
authenticity, being SO shillings in currency, are
eagerly offered and exchanged for one golden
sovereign, even the laziest brain will sniff a de-
preciated currency. It is all far beyond a joke.
When I was in London a few months ago the
British Government was commandeering gold—all
the gold—and issuing notes as “sterling” at £4 ss.
for the ounce fine. A proportion is used for the
arts, jewellery chiefly, but the Treasury notes were
not honored at face-value for the gold. No; for
an ounce £5 15s. was required. According to the
Melbourne Age correspondent in London (May 27),
the price to jewellers is now £6 55., which re-
presents a huge depreciation in currency. But it
is in that currency— not gold —that the wool is paid
for. A still stronger reason for Australia to get all
she can for her produce.
The Australian Parliament has now before it a
Bill “relating to Certain Commercial Activities car-
ried on by the Commonwealth in Time of War.”
That Bill must become an Act before Australia can
he got into the shackles again. There is no talk
of repudiation. The British Government, by negotia-
tion, or somehow, relieved itself of war contracts as
soon as the war stopped. The United (States did the
came with England. Australia alone, it is suggested,
must be supine. And by to-day's cablegrams we read
that even the London owners of Australian estates
have “commented strongly on the action of the
Chairman of the Wool Committee, Melbourne, in
persisting in an attempt to force on the woolgrowers
an extension of the State control of wool for five
years after June, 1920.” If the aforesaid Bill passes
into law it will remain a criminal offence for any
Australian citizen in Australia to take the wool off
a sheepskin (as previously sold for the purpose by
millions), scour it, spin it and ship it. So a host of
citizens are idle, and developing bad tempers.
*
The wearisome Edward Carson’s cabled
statement that “Ulstermen will have nothing
to dp with Home Rule,” and that if it comes
m sight on the farthest horizon he will “call
out the Ulster volunteers,” should assuredly
land him in a cell for six months. Walsh’s
sentence was three months, but Carson is
a much older offender. Also his pose as a
condottiere or swashbucker who carries a
private army about with him is too much
like that of a captain of the push. Apart
from everything else the blatant 65-year-old
lawyer deserves six months for topographical
inaccuracy. There are nine counties in
Ulster. Carson’s crowd holds all the seats
in two and has a majority in tw r o more, so
it commands four. In three countries its
opponents hold every seat, and in one they
hold two seats out of three, which makes four
counties against Carson. The ninth county
is evenly divided, which makes 4\ counties
each. As for the two boroughs, Belfast and
Londonderry, the Unionists hold six out of
nine seats at Belfast, and a plain Sinn
Feiner bolds the only seat at Derry; also
the walls thereof, and the gates and the
Walker statue. That is the province which
Carson talks of as if it were his private
property. In the rest of the country, apart
from the Universities, which hardly count,
Carson’s party gathered in one seat. As a
man with no fighting record and with half
of a quarter of the country behind him, he
would be merely absurd if so many people
outside Ireland didn’t take him seriously.
4.
“Solomon Malaprop” writes:—
At one time a man with one leg shorter than
the other used to go heavily past my house about
four every morning. He became such an institu-
tion that I took to waking at 3.55, because I knew
he was coming, and then I would fall asleep again
at 4.5 because I knew he wouldn’t be around again
for 24 hours. He may have been a morning-paper
man who had finished work, or an early railway
man going to work, or any sort of person. Certainly
he was some sort of gentleman, for he never
stopped outside to blast and blight me and all my
family, and denounce us as public enemies, and
promise that everything we had would be confiscated,
and our votes taken from us, and that we would
be taught subservience to him and his friends. Now
a different sort of man, also with one leg shorter
than the other, stumps past—or, rather, he stumps
but doesn’t pass: he remains. He drifts out of
the mists of Irish history, where some English people
(who are no relations of mine, for there is no
English blood in me) did grievous wrong to some
Irish people (who are no relations either). One
leg of his mind is shorter than the other because his
brain is warped with thinking about tilings at the
other end of the globe. He is the enemy of every
Government because one Government annoyed him,
and he sees King Charles's head up every tree. I
can’t sleep for his roar and blither against the politi-
cal system in which I have a 0,000,000 th share the
same as anybody else. As I mentioned already, I
have no Irish or English ancestors that I know of,
but I have plenty of Scottish and French ones. Pos-
sibly some of the fonner lost their lives and their
money fighting in Ireland for the ancestors of
the man with one long mental leg and one short
one, for his country was considerable of a graveyard
for foreign helpers. Along with this noisy appari-
tion is a woman, also with one sawn-off extremity.
She is a London woman, I understand, and her
grief and madness against all civilisation started
THE FINANCIERS.
THE CHORUS: “There goes another profiteer!”
THE SOAP-BOX ORATOR: “ No; he’s merely a savings hank for the Revolution. When
we want an argument we draw on him.”
with her mother being run in in London for breaking
windows. I never ran her mother in—l wouldn’t
touch the lady. Still I have to put up with the
racket. These people with the different legs refuse
to move on unless their supremacy is acknowledged
and they get everything they want, whatever that
may be. Logie is of no avail. You can appeal on a
sane basis to people with the same legs, but people
with various legs who see the head of the late
Chakles I. in every shadow are as impervious as
an Orange Lodger when addressed by a Jesuit.
Simon Fraser, over whom the grave
closed just as he was about to complete his
87th year, was a Vic. political veteran with-
out any performances to his credit. He was
associated, however, with men who did score,
and sometimes he helped to sustain them
with a cheer. In forming his Cabinet at
Cup time in 1890 Munro invited Fraser,
who was then in the House of Landlords, to
join as an honorary Minister. He accepted,
and though he was Grand Master of the
Orange Lodge at the time, he and John
Gavan Duffy, who was the P.M.G. in the
Cabinet, managed to pull together very well.
He went out in February, 1892, when Munro
retired to take the Agent-Generalship. From
1874 to 1883 he was in the Assembly, but
was a mere onlooker in a stormy period
when Kerferd, Berry, McCulloch, Service
and O’T.oghlen struggled for power. He was
more at home when he got into the Council
in 1883, and held on there till, through the
good services of David Syme, a block vote
in 1901 put him into the Federal Senate,
where he did nothing in particular for nine
years.
The League of Nations threatens to be-
come the shadow of a ghost before it is
born. Proposals before the U. S. Senate
include these: (1) The members of the
League shall not be bound to protect any
member against attack and dismemberment
or even complete annexation ; (2) that self-
governing Dominions skull not be repre-
sented “simultaneously with the moLker
country,” so that if the Australian represen-
tative is admitted to a Leagiie meeting when
an Australian question is on deck, ike
British man shall be shut out; (3) that the
U.S. shall have a free hand, League or no
League, in North America, which is largely
hers; and also in Central America, where
she owns the canal; and in South America,
where she doesn’t own an acre of land,
though France, Holland and Britain do.
With so many reservations it almost looks
as if there might be more League if there
wasn’t any League.
“Exile” (San Francisco) : One certain
thing to emerge from the war is a new
Protective Tariff here in the United States
deliberately aimed at Japan, the other nation
which has- gained financially by the war.
The inroads made by Japan upon American
trade, the grip Japanese farmers are getting
on western land, the constant smuggling of
Japanese laborers into the United States
from Mexico, and the aggressiveness of
Japanese living here are the chief causes, of
the coming fight between the two countries.
Japanese goods are to be singled out for
special duties to counteract the effect of
Japanese cheap labor. Some vivid figures
have been compiled by the Japanese Depart-
ment of Finance. The yearly wage of a
Japanese male farm-laborer is about
£4 10s. 6d., and of a female farm-laborer
£3 4s. 9d. Shoemakers, brickmakers, har-
nessmakers and blacksmiths earn Is. Ocl.,
paperhangers and cabinet-makers Is. 7d.,
carpenters Is 9Jd., and bricklayers 2s. 3d. a
Say. And the news of an eight-hour day has
not yet reached Japan. These figures are
authentic. They should cause our politicians
to think furiously and act rapidly.
The great Lancashire doctor Sir James
Barr, vice-president of the 8.M.A., praises
the Australians for that very limitation of
families which only a few years ago was
supposed to mean national ruin. It is the
nations with large families, Dr. Barr points
out, that did not win the war. He is
arguing that “parents have no moral right
to bring more children info the world than
they can properly support,” and illustrates :
The Anzacs have a low birth-rate, and a still lower
death-rate; they do not breed a race of wastrels,
paupers and criminals. Witness the fine fighting
stock who have always been in the front fighting-
line.
Yet somehow it doesn’t make us feel at all
jubilant. A low birth-rate is indeed nothing
to be proud of. Among enlightened people
it is likely to proceed from bad government
—government, for instance, which allows
profiteering and which sends away millions
of pounds’ worth of employment. Witn
better government this country could in-
crease its birthrate from 30 to 50 per cent,
and have just as low a death-rate and just
as little hunger, and just as few wastrels.
And, incidentally, it would have from 30 to
50 per cent, larger population to help pay
for the old man’s extravagances.
“H.H.”: A break-up of the country into
some 20 divisions might supply a few States
with no overwhelming city and they might
furnish a new political outlook. When one
wanders, through a hundred Sydney streets,
and considers that it is these, at the last
resort, which rule N. S. Wales, he is sur-
prised that N. S. Wales’s political views
aren’t even narrower than they are. It is
a mistake to say that a corporation has no
soul. An incorporated city is a soul, and
if it is a narrow, crooked, over-crowded, ill-
drained, ill-ventilated, cobble-stoned, soured,
warped, cantankerous, disappointed soul, so
much the worse for the body. A mean-
street, back-street, back-yard, lane-and-alley
Government or Legislature or Trades Par-
liament does strange, mad, mean things.
Australia badly wants to build some new
souls on civilised lines ; in uther words, some
new cities. The old cities can be recon-
structed, but not while all the new popula-
tion is being poured into them.
“Plain Digger” : Here is the compliment
that should be written inside every slouch
hat before it goes up on the wall. On April
25, 1918, when the Boche seemed certain
to drive his wedge between the British and
French, and his onward rush had penetrated
past Villers-Bretonneux and was threaten-
ing the vitally-important Amiens, a council
of war was held and Haig issued his memor-
able army order to stand fast at all costs.
Foch said “I will guarantee Amiens!” and
immediately sent up four Australian divi-
sions to hold it.
“The North”: All these newspaper sobs
about “flour for the starving North” never
mention the peculiarities of freight arrange-
ments for such ships as offer. One leaving
Brisbane lately with some flour aboard re-
fused more flour because it wanted the space
for tomato-sauce and beer. The northern
merchants want beer and other things on
which they can make most profit; and two
firms have pull enough to control allocation
of freight. All the stuff about “starvation”
helps the profiteer. A northern merchant
lately took delivery of a ton of butter
brought overland at an extra cost of £6 a
ton. To get the £6 back he raised the price
£42 a ton, and the newspaper talk about
“scarcity” and “starvation” helped him to it.
“Two Pip”: It was common report in
our battery that shell-fuses made in Ger-
many were accepted by the British Wax-
Office in fulfilment of a Swiss co.’s contract.
So late as the first Somme stunt almost the
first work our batteries did after taking up
a new position was to erect a wall behind
each field-gun because of the danger from
premature bursting of shells from the heavies
in rear. In July, T 6, at Sausage Gully, a
prem. smashed an oilcan on one of the guns
of my battery; and the same day at another
field-battery 200 yards in advance I saw a
gunner blown to glory by a shell from some
heavies behind us. No office-wallahs have
been court-martialled and shot over the
affair; in fact, in Blighty the responsible
office is still regarded as the Ark of the
Covenant.
“Gunner”: It was announced the other
day that the Defence authorities were
“giving permission to all eligible troops to
wear the riband of the British war medal,
1914-19.” This illustrates one of the many
imbecilities of the decoration business; no
ribbons —except those of decorations awarded
for good field (or office) work —are available
till about seven-tenths of the troops engaged
are out of uniform. The Mons ribbon has
never been worn by men who, having fought
at Mons or Gallipoli, were then sent back
to civil life on account of their wounds. It
came out too late. The general-service
ribbon has only been worn by those who
were in England when its design was dis-
closed. It also came out too late. The
official explanation of the delay is always
the same: that unless the ribbons are issued
all together there will be ribbon-profiteering
on the part of private firms. But the
authorities could obviate that by getting
their breast ornaments made at the beginning
instead of months after the end of cam-
paigns.
The full text of William Watt’s scheme
for pooling the war debts of the British Em-
pire has been published; and it seems to
amount to this :
(1) The debts won’t be pooled. Canada owing
£37 per head and Australia owing £6O have no
desire to go equal shares with Britain, which owes
£l4l.
(2) That the States of the Empire won’t guaran-
tee each other’s debts. There is no reason why
the United Kingdom should guarantee Maoriland’s
debt of £70,000,000, having enough troubles already.
On the other hand the spectacle of Maoriland guaran-
teeing Britain’s debt of £6,500,000,000 would be
an ant going bail for the Alps.
(3) There will be a common management which
will naturally be in England, where almost all the
debt is, and an agreement about interest and sinking
fund payments, which the common management will
collect. If it fails to collect them nothing will
happen which wouldn’t have happened in any case.
Certainly the common management won’t be so un-
common as to bombard Melbourne on account of
arrears.
(4) In fact, nothing will tanspire except that a
tired Australian Treasurer will pass the work of re-
newing loans on to somebody else, and what are
now local liabilities may pass out of our hands and
become absentee liabilities.
In few words, the one thing amiss with
the scheme is that it isn’t a scheme, although
it may be something of a shirk.


IF BILIOUS OR CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels
without griping or
discomfort.
An acid stomach, clogged with fermenting,
ill-digested food, means that the liver is not
doing its duty. Nature provided ripe fruit
juices to keep the liver up to its work.
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—is a
deliciously refreshing fruit laxative w r hich is
always in season. You can keep it at hand,
and it will be an unfailing friend whenever
the tongue is coated, bowels sluggish, breath
foul, throat dry or sore, stomach full of
wind, and head hot and aching. You can
take a dose whenever it is needed, as safely
as you could eat fresh fruit. In a short
while you will feel the benefit. The bowels
will be gently relieved, and the stomach
cleansed and sweetened as the undigested
food is moved on and got rid of. The tongue
will grow clean again and the head will be
cooled and cleared. There is no mistaking
the beneficial effects of California Syrup of
Figs—“Califig.” Directions are with it for
adults and children of all ages. This
pleasant laxative is good for all' and canno!
possibly harm even the most delicate, but
you must ask for “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade-mark of the California Fig Syrup Co,
All chemists sell “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—in two sizes, 1/6 and 2/4. [1
fit
assy
hrtotaV*!!^
ivA«»
sggva
If You Are
Run Down.
Builds up Health and Strength.
If you are run down from overwork, anxiety, illness, or
if your appetite and digestion are impaired and y> ur
nervous system in need of a tonic, no treatment will give
such all-round good results as a course of Angier’s
Emulsion. It promotes appetite, soothes and strengthens
the organs of digestion, overcomes nervous depression
and builds up health and strength. Angier’s Emulsion
has been prescribed by the medical profession for twenty-
five years ; it is a standard remedy of proved value.
name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clajrence St., Sydney,
paper.
N.S.W.
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
POLITICAL
POINTS
Ages and terms of membership of some of
Queensland’s House of Fossils: F. T. Brent-
nall, ae-e 87, 83 years in the House ; Cowli-
shaw, 87. and 41 years in Parliament; G. 8.
Curtis, 78 and 5; B. Fahey, 8b and 16;
Angus Gibson, 79 and 20; G. W. Gray. 77
and 25; James Lalor, 91 and 31 ; E. D.
Miles, 76 and 17; B. B. Moreton, 87 and
31; A. H. Parnell, 75 and 11; E. H. T.
Plant, 77 and 14; E. G. Stevens, 76 and
20; W. F. Taylor. 81 and 33 ; A. J. Thynne,
74 and 30; H. Turner, 77 and 11. With a
nominee Chamber like this in existence, what
answer can we make to the Bolshevik who
tells us it is a lie that the people in Queens-
land govern themselves through their Par-
liament? For that reason there is no greater
enemy of order in Australia, no better friend
of Bolshevism and Direct Action, than these
ancient nominee Houses.
Mention is made of a big “campaign of
sentiment” to be inaugurated in favor of the
use of Australian goods. It is a great idea
provided the sentiment, when it is worked
up. is to be put on paper in the form of a
prohibitive tariff. Otherwise it is liable to
die out. not because people think the less
of it, but because they can’t live all the
time in a state of sleepless vigilance and
high emotion. Then, when the public is
tired and unobservant, the crowd against
which the movement was directed, and which
has been kept awake by self-interest, gets
back to its old ways, and there is all the
trouble of heating up the emotion again.
The people who objected to slavery, to the
maintenance of private armies, to polygamy,
to all-night pubs "nd such things all started
with a sentiment, but when they got enough
of the article they passed a law and Handed
over the work to the unsentimental police,
and switched off to some other job.
Watt and his Ministers don’t deserve the
bricks that have been thrown at them for
refusing the call of some of the daily papers
“man the ships” with “loyalist” crews.
Walsh’s scheme was to get a general strike
going, and he was doing his best to drag the
miners and the watersiders into the trouble.
Watt knew this, and knew, too, that the
easiest way to make chaos would be to put
non-union crews aboard the deserted vessels.
Had he done this nothing could have kept
the miners at work. The watersiders would
have refused to load or unload the ships.
The trolleymen and draymen would have
knocked oft almost to a man. The end
might have been the same, but the happen-
ings in the meantime would have been very
different. The person who demands re-
course to arbitration with one side of his
mouth and with the other clamors for action
that must inflame the disputants and lead
to additional assaults upon arbitration by
extending the area of disturbance, is just as
dangerous as the gentleman who bluffed the
seamen with hot air.
No plain word of a syllable or so will
serve with the new Labor party when some
Irgh-sounding rigmarole can be substituted.
The latest programme issued in N. S. Wales
proposes to give greater State help to women
in confinement. But “confinement” wouldn’t
do. It had to be “accouchement.” More and
more it becomes true that the people ask
for bread and the Labor-leader gives a word
that weighs a stone.
The Federal Parliament, making a washy
protest against the high-handed way Hughes
is spending millions in England on his own
responsibility, was met by the usual answer:
“If you don’t like it you can put us out and
let Tudor in. Then if he does worse things
than we do you can put him out and let us
in again on our own terms.” If Ministers
were elected by Parliament then Parliament,
could remove one of them when he did
riotous things and put another in his place
without the whole' caravan making a sensa-
tional exit like Moses coming out of Egypt.
NOT YET.
“The State National Government had, accordingly, refrained from imposing additional taxation and
from floating loans ill Australia, both of which it could constitutionally have done.” — N.S.W. Premier
Willie Holman.
GEORGE WASHINGTON HOLMAN: “Pop, I cannot tell a lie—I have not chopped the
cherry-tree down. At least not for some time. But I am likely to do it at any
minute.”
John Storey, Parliamentary Labor-leader
in N. S. Wales, made Premier Holman and
the Liberal party feel uncomfortable for a
few minutes last week. Said John ;
Who were the people who accused Holman of
being pro-German and keeping Germans in the Public
Service ? Of spending money recklessly ? Of enter-
ing into the contract with Norton Griffiths? Of gerry-
mandering the electoral rolls? Of ordering well-
meaning enthusiasts to falsify the rolls? Who was
it stated in Parliament that Holman’s word could
never again be taken by any self-respecting citizen?
Who was it accused Holman of shielding members
of the I.W.W. ?
Here John paused for breath, and, clapping
the stout Liberal heartily on the shoulder,
exclaimed : “Why, none but your new little
playmate!” And the stout Liberal was too
staggered to up-end the story and ask:
“Who is it you now attack? Why, the man
who was for years,” etc., etc. This party
warfare is a pretty game.
There will be a smash in the few industries
w r e have if the Federal Government doesn’t
get a move on with the tariff. During the
war freight from Japan went to £l5 per ton ;
and that was fair-sized Protection. Now
three Japanese shipping lines are in hot
competition, and freights to Sydney are down
to 15s. per ton—about 10s. less than the
normal pre-war rate
Thomas Walsh, who is a trifle more trucu-
lent than the general run of imported Labor-
masters, went to gaol strictly at his own re-
quest. In fact, his demand for admission
was so overbearing that it would almost
have driven a saint to put an apostle in
gaol. In the first place he specified that he
had broken the law made for the benefit of
his class by the common Australian people
who don’t count, and would go on breaking
it. Then he explained that if the Govern-
ment made by the people of Australia didn’t
enforce the law by putting him in gaol it
was a coward. The smallest, mildest curate
might be provoked to swipe at Goliath with
his Umbrella if Goliath stuck out his tongue
at him in that way. Going in at his own
request he left orders with his servants that
the strike was lo proceed until he came out.
Even if all other points were settled the
Starvation of mere Australian women and
mere dashed Australian children was to go
on until the people’s Government made an
abject surrender. His followers promised,
just as they would probably have promised
to turn Mormons had the imported man so
commanded. They agreed that the no-
account Australian baby might starve and
die rather than Tom Walsh should not have
his triumph. It was a case of Walsh versus
the majority of the people and the majority’s
self-governing rights, and they decided tliat
the right of self-government was of no im-
portance.
In forming a new political party, Arthur
Rae, Willis, and the other N.S.W. “militant
industrialists” are at any rate more honest
than the National party, which has decided
to defeat the intentions of the new pre-
ferential voting law by selecting Nationalist
candidates in advance and running only just
enough to win' the available seats. The new
Labor party, says of the old one that its
executive is “politically corrupt and dis-
honest” and a “parasitic growth upon the
Labor movement” ; and it needn’t have said
half as much to justify itself. If the two
don't see eye to eye an attempt to rope them
into one party and make the electors believe
that they all believe alike, and ask for votes
on that ground, is dishonest; and it is just
as dishonest for the National party to do
the same thing. The party machines have
been throttling democracy. The people don’t
govern. The real governing is done by the
small coteries, meeting in secret in some
cellar, which select the candidates.
The Speck’s Parliament, just elected,
looked after itself first, putting up members'
salaries from £2OO to £250 and giving Minis-
ters a rise of £lOO. They are worth it if
they are worth anything at all; but the in-
creases should have been made before ap-
plications were lately called for the jobs.
Lawson has tabled a bill in the A r ic. As-
sembly to remove the “neglected” brand now
placed on children when mothers, forced by
poverty, have their infants boarded out to
them by the State. Under the measure a
“young-age” pension system will be recog-
nised, and the youngsters will no longer be
wards of the State. The mothers will be
required to write to the Children’s Main-
tenance Branch, which will assemble the
details and place them before a police magis-
trate. lie will make an inquiry and a re-
commendation, and, if the Chief Secretary
agrees, the mother will get from 4s. to 12s.
a week for each child. But the imported
“reformer” will continue to rage, instead
of thanking God that there is one country
in the world where there is something for
the poor besides the workhouse and the
gutter.
Backed up by the Railway Standing Com-
mittee, the Vic. Railway Commissioners
claimed £70,000 from the Treasury for losses
in running non-paying lines. In McPher-
son’s absence the Cabinet decided to recog-
nise the little bill and have the requisite
cross-entry made in the account books. Of
course the consolidated revenue totals will
not be affected. It is now expected that
there will be a surplus on ordinary revenue
of nearly half a million, and that, aft t
providing for the £70,000 mentioned and a
railway deficit of £140,000, or thereabouts,
there will be a net surplus for 1918-19 of
£250,000 or so. Which sounds quite goad
until you hear (which you won’t do from
the Government) that Vic. State taxation
has been increased per head by 110 p.c. in
10 years.
On returning to Melbourne from his trip
to* England, Norris, Vic. Auditor-General,
issued a warning that if Australia wants
cheap loan-money it had better look for it
at home, as there won’t be any available
in London for 10 years or so. Norris was
formerly accountant of the State Treasury'
and knows a lot about Cohen and the money
market. He went to England with Watt,
then State Premier, six years ago, and he
sees tremendous changes. By cheap money he
says he means anything less than 54 p.c.,’ the
price McPherson paid for the Vic. conversion
loan of £3,000,000. And unfortunately
that little lot was a mere drop in the bucker.
Lie?, alone has £28,000,000 falling due in
1920 and the three years following; and an
extra lj p.c. on that little lot alone is going
to take £420,000 more out of taxpayers’
pockets every year.
“A.G.M.”: Apparently another old Free-
trade leopard gets ready to change its spots.
A Goulburn (N.S.W.) paper, with a Free-
trade complexion hitherto, whoops because a
local firm will. have the making of some of
the 100,000 pairs of Australian boots ordered
for Europe, and says it will be “a big
thing for the city.” There is always hope
for a Freetrader who picks the fruit of one
branch of the Protectionist tree and finds it
good.
C. E. D. Meares, President of the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce, advocating the trans-
ference of the Federal Capital to Canberra,
remarked last week, in support of his claim,
that “Alexandria waxed rich on the desert
banks of the Nile.” It would be hard to
think out a more unhappy comparison.
When Alexandria grew to greatness it was
(1) at the mouth of the most important
river in the world; (2) on a harbor; and
(3) midway between the civilisations of
West and East. The “desert banks of the
Nile” were then, as now, the most pro-
ductive of lands because they had what Can-
berra lacks—a vast and regular supply of
water. Egypt was a great manufacturing
country. Across the Mediterranean there
came the raw materials which Egypt lacked
—tin. iron, lead, wood, oil and the like.
Cities grow like healthy trees under such
conditions. If Mr. Meares must drag Egypt
into the matter he should compare Canberra
with Alexandria after Vasco de Gama had
doubled the .Cape and Alexandria became the
middle of nowhere. Civilisation went
north; the Atlantic became the world’s
ocean, and the once Imperial city died.
CIPHERING IT OCT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Members of Parliament, during the war, had
been nothing but ciphers. There were about 100
elected at £6OO a year, and all they had done
since the passing of the War Precautions Act was
talk.”— Boyd, M.H.R.
A cipher is a gentle thing-,
A thing complete in nothingness;
The song of silence it should sing
Is like a long and sweet caress.
While 8,9, 5 their course pursue
Of plunder mixed with heavy toil,
The cipher, like a bead of dew,
Reeks not of profit, loot or spoil.
A bubble lighter than the air.
The circle of an empty dream,
It does not heed, it does not care.
It does not even want to seem.
If sixty thousand ciphers stood
All in a black and solemn row,
They would not shout of “must” or “should”
Nor even of “1 told you so!”
But four of them in simple state
Pushed forward by a quiet (i
Are tall and eloquent and great
And full of smart financial tricks.
These ciphers talk in language clear,
Each circle fills with dream and deed;
They catch old wisdom by the ear
And cry to fact “Awake and heed!”
Oh, ciphers of our Parliament,
The war is done, the sides are blue;
We pay your brains an ample rent
For using them on problems new!
Awake ! Arise ! Get up ! Move on !
No longer let your light be hid!
Your job is now to face the dawn,
Cash down, for sixty thousand quid !
N.S.W.
MARY MEC.


*tsnWp^d^ e
out, one of Ike crew died.
6nd at Air. ’
Srekking in 2i batch.
of Fords for Station,
work.
In. Ike hsridlingpiiw
of live stock.
will no longer
necessary-
Note Ike fifty
dog)-power
bombs* • w\V
Kids, Ike station pony,
and Ike good old /
ShmgkM. L
Oil Bill Sundown rokking) for
the nearest to
more petrol-
Bringin g> in
/Apiece of Cloud
to dry hxah,
'* Ga<L Spot ' Come. '<zx<z R&ngjer
Gee ! you blh.ck !!!i -A- 4$ of &
*- !!m:V
Yif/ poor JArs Dooley Kad
no <zggs:inlhe Market
that: Tuesday.
Yov n-g) Crow : v FatTcr what do wo stay tvzre for 7
why dont we move over to Papua or Somewhere"
THE FUTURE OF THE AEROPLANE.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms - ■ , , ~
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, S ags, e
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary. _ _
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL, AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. ~—
A. .T. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent). '
Alt EL AIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWTS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI- N.S.W.
"PIONEER” Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLE . .
MAKERS,
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL
SON LTD.,
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALL, STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Banking Co. of Syd-
ney :—-
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., TO.. 117,955 10 p.c.= 75,000 42,955 1,457,565
June, ’ll.. 118,095 10 „ „ 75,000 43,095 1,500,660
Dec., ’ll.. 119,897 10 „ ~ 75,000 44,897 1,545,557
June, T 2.. 123,983 10 „ „ 75,000 48,983 1,594,540
Dec., T 2. . 132,011 10 „ „ 86,302 45,709 1,640,249
June, T 3. . 134,122 10 ~ „ 87,383 46,739 1,680,988
Dec., ’l?.'. 138,242 10 ~ „ 87,500 50,742 1,737,730
June, T 4.. 149,382 10 „ „ 99,258 50,124 1,787,854
Dec., T 4.. 138,107 10 „ ~100,000 38,107 1,825,961
June, T 5.. 126,773 10 „ ~100,000 26,773 1,852,734
Dec., T 5. . 128,236 10 „ ~100,000 28,236 1,880.970
June, T 6.. 133,568 10 „ ~ 100,000 33,568 1,914,538
Dec., T 6.. 138,220 10 „ ~100,000 38,220 1,952,758
June, ’17.. 146,336 10 „ ~ 100,000 46,336 1,999,094
Dec., T 7. . 151,160 10 „ ~ 100,000 51,160 2,050,254
June, ’lB.. 140,989 10 „ ~ 100,000 40,989 2,097,243
Dec., TB.. 148,874 10 „ ~100,000 48,874 2,146,117
June, T 9.. 152,697 10 „ ~100,000 52,097 2,198,814
The Commercial of Sydney has been getting
in the half-million of new capital which the
directors six months ago announced they
intended issuing, and by the end of June
£382,019 had been paid up. Since, as on
previous occasions, holders were let in at
par (the shares are paid to £l2 10s.), while
the market is at present offering £2O 15s.
per share, and a continuance of a 10 p.c.
div. seems assured, they are on a very good
wicket. Already profits have jumped a few
thousands, though the new capital can have
had very little to do with that. Conditions
have been very favorable for the disclosure
of better profits apart from any increase in
capital. Peace having been signed, many
war worries have disappeared, and there is
no longer necessity for calling upon the
trading surplus for such large contributions
for contingencies. Certainly Commercial of
Sydney’s disclosed profits during the war
period did not sag like those of many Aus-
tralian banks. This was due partly to the
new capital which had been got in when
Wilhelm was preparing to throw his loaded
dice; also, perhaps, the management had
already acquired such great internal strength
that no extra-severe cuts at profits were
thought necessary.
But though the Australian banks hare
survived the war without any knocks, and
while everything is at present apparently
Well with all, or very nearly all, of them,
there are serious problems. The public still
does not realise that it has not yet really
begun to pay for its share in the war. From
the beginning of hostilities the Common-
wealth Government resorted to the policy of
depending almost entirely on loans to pay
war exes., instead of charging a fair pro-
portion to revenue. For the first two years
only Is. sd. in the £ of the 56 millions
spent came from revenue. The proportion
has been slightly improved since then, but
at June 30 last no less than 222 J millions
of the total of 2t>B millions had been met
out of loans. If this policy merely had
the effect of DOstponing the settling day, the
trouble would be bad enough; but with the
expansion of credit came an inflation of
currency. Early in the proceedings the
Government withdrew gold coin from cir-
culation, and for four years the public has
seen nothing but paper money. The demands
on the currency to meet the scattering of
the War Loans is reflected in the Australian
Note-issue figures. The detailed com-
parison is interesting:—
Denomination. 1914. 1919.
10s £22,874 £1,995,779
£1 .. .. 3,068,570 13,178,099
£5 .. .. 3,430,365 7,601,495
£lO .. .. 1,702,210 3,551,330
£2O .. .. 365.440 595,220
£5O .. .. 852,200 1,327,000
£lOO .. .. 465,600 1,206,500
£lOOO .. .. 26,112,000
£9,907,259 £55,567,423
Gold reserve .. 44.82 p.c. 43.68 p.c.
During the five years £25,826,832 of paper
currency over and above the increased gold
holding has been issued. This inflation of
currency has been followed by higher prices,
an experience common to Britain and other
countries where credit has expanded—not
overlooking Russia, where the gold backing
dropped from 9S p.c. before the war to a
decimal point at the latest guess, and where
it takes a sackful of roubles now to purchase
a loaf of bread. Other causes have helped
to produce the high cost of living. The
Government having decided to buy popu-
larity by financing the Army almost entirely
by loans, the public has been deluded into
fancying itself more prosperous than ever,
and has not only maintained but actually
increased its demand for luxuries. The de-
mand having been created and stocks being
scarce, the advent of the profiteer was only
to be expected. As the cost of living climbed
the wages-man had to go in pursuit, and the
game still goes on; and these conditions
have brought into existence a greater curse
—the Go-slow Bolshie, who, likewise de-
luded, eases up on production and further
lifts the cost of living.
The position to-day is that the Common-
wealth is loaded with a huge war debt and
its interest bill, while ahead there are big
calls for pensions and repatriation. On
top of all this we have an inflated currency.
The Government has so far given no hint as
to how it proposes to meet these financial
problems. Anyhow, whatever is done the
taxpayer will ultimately have to find the
money. And the only way the taxpayer can
meet the demands of the Treasury is by
economising and getting down to work as
he has never worked before.. Until popula-
tion is greatly increased, which can only be
done by the development of new industries,
there is no other method of lightening the
load. . / ...
All these problems are directly linked with
the banks. A big responsibility lies with
the caretakers of the nation’s uninvested
cash in seeing that assistance on reason-
able terms is afforded the men who are
making a genuine effort to help lift the
debt burden by increased production. So
far as the Commercial of Sydney is. con-
cerned it is in a good position to give a
helping hand. The balance-sheet figures
help to explain : —■
Liabilities.
June, ’l4. June, ’lB. June, T 9.
Notes .. .. £21.804 £11.830 £ll,OBB
Bills .. .. 1,113,851 1,262,746 1,312,047
Denosits and other
liabilities .. 22,278,511 27,109,804 28,627,157
Assets.
Liquid assets.. 12,770,278 15,770,091 15,232,230
Advances . . 13,962,748 16.204,998 18,785.695
Premises' .. 568,253 606,535 613,200
Some of the expansion over the five years
has been due to Government operations. But
on the present figures the Commercial shows
that of its total liabilities of almost 30
millions over 50 p.c. is in liquid form, a
very strong proportion. Of the advances no
less than £2,414,753 represents War Loan
accommodation to customers, while £642,483
is on loan to the Wheat Pool. There is
thus a further three millions which will
gradually become available for investment in
other directions. The Commercial of Sydney
is also well placed to undertake additional
responsibilities. With a paid capital of 2\
millions and reserves of almost £2,200,009.
the management can acquire liabilities of
over 37f millions before what is regarded as
the limit of safety is reached. At present
it is holding not quite 30 millions.
* * # #
The Bank of Victoria: —
Dividends.
f A Added
Pref. Qrd. to Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.
£■ £ £■ £ £
June, 1911.. 55,266 12,503 31,837 10,926 273,276
Dec., 1911.. 58,829 12,503 31,837 14,489 287,765
June, 1912.. 61,685 12,503 31,837 17,345 305,110
Dec, 1912.. 67,073 12,503 31,837 22,733 327,843
June, 1913.. 61,980. 12,503 31,837 17,640 345,483
Dec, 1913.. 61,972 12.503 31.837 17,032 303.115
June, 1914.. 64,567 12,503 31,837 20,227 383,342
5 p.c. 5 p.c.
Dec., 1914.. 69,756 10,419 26,531 22,806 406,148
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
June, 1915.. 52,646 12,503 31,837 8,300 414,454
Dec., 1915.. 52,660 12,503 31,837 8,320 422,774
June, 1916.. 52,277 12,503 31,837 7,937 430,711
Dec., 1916.. 53,784 12,503 31,837 9,444 440,155
June, 1917,. 53,143 12,503 31,837 8,803 448,958
Dec 1917.. 56,190 12,503 31,837 11,850 460,808
June, 1918.. 61,076 12,503 31,837 16,736 477,544
7 p.c. 7 p.c.
Dec., 1918.. 61,905 14,587 37,144 10,174 487,718
June, 1919.. 72,073 34,587 37,144 20,342 508,060
Six months ago, though disclosed profits
were still less than in pre-war terms, the
directors decided that everything was so
satisfactory that they could risk lifting both
pref. and ordinary divs. a point. Now, for
the six months to June 30, they disclose
record results. But the improvement over
the figures for the previous half is not so
great as the comparison above would indi-
cate. Votes to the staff provident fund and
depreciation of premises (if any) are
charged against the Dec. terms, and from
the surnlus shown six months ago £7OOO was
clipped in this way.
*••••»
But were the actual net profits for the
past half £ll,OOO more than for the similar
term of last year and £19,000 more than
two years ago? The P. and L. account
doesn’t give much help in answering the
question. It furnishes, however, this com-
parison :
Gross Ex- Gross Ex-
June, Profits, penses. June, Profits, penses.
1914. . £119,245 £54.679 1917. . £100.004 £55,861
1915.. 106,922 54,276 I 1918.. 117,693 56,617
1916.. 106,936 54,658 j 1919.. 137,415 65,343
Gross profits are shown less taxes and pro-
visions for contingencies. The former have
been calling for much more in recent terms,
and if these figures could be tacked on to
those in the table the gross profits would
show even a longer stride. The sag in the
middle of the column was doubtless caused
in part by exceptional provision for con-
tingencies. The outlook was gloomy in those
days: anything might have happened, and
the inner reserves were strengthened accord-
ingly. Things have turned out much better
than they might have done; and as the
dreaded sudden slump in values hasn’t
occurred, banks have been relieved of at
least one nightmare, and are no doubt
troubling a little less about building up
internal reserves. Hence in part the
apparent recovery in gross profits.
Still, larger profits are justified on the
balance-sheets. Here are the figures for five
years:—•
Liabilities.
June,’l4. June,’lB. June,’l9.
Notes £9,138 £7,028 £6,842
Bills, etc 667,466 783,533 678,675
Deposits at interest . . 4,366,077 4,430.212 4,893,381
Free deposits .. . . 2,481,461 2,845,438 3,260,615
Assets.
Liquid assets . . . . 2,654,948 3,119,860 3,390,667
Advances .. .. 6,431,156 6,610,942 7,152,004
Premises, etc. . . . . 343,728 335,634 334,627
At June 30 the Victoria thus held £1,306,458
more deposits than in 1914, and of the in-
crease no less than £779,154 ivas carrying
no interest. Disregarding the £647,962
growth of Government deposits (which, in-
cidentally, might include some cheap money
to help the bank finance War Loan), private
current accounts alone provided the manage-
ment with over three-quarters of a million
more, the. interest-bearing private deposits
meantime shrinking by £96,435. Over the
five years advances, including War Loan
and wheat accommodation, have increased by
£720,848; meantime liquid assets have ex-
panded by £735,719, half of this increase
being represented by additional investments
in Government securities. It is thus obvious
that the bank is in a position to earn more
than it used to. But it is less obvious that
the bank will earn it all for the share-
holders. The bank clerk is stirring, and
nothing in the wide world is surer than that
if he stirs hard enough he will get vastly
improved conditions. Boards have had a lot
to say about the bonuses which they have
paid, but they have not mentioned that
many salary increases have been held up,
and that wnat increases have been granted
have not kept pace with the cost of living.
One awkward fact which Boards face is
that, whereas at one time they might easily
have passed on extra working costs, the Com-
monwealth Bank’s competition makes that
course now rather dangerous. Australian
banks have really for many years made poor
profits considering their resources; the pub-
lic has had very cheap accommodation in-
deed. Now it looks as if it is too late to
charge much more even in order to meet
increased expenses. The banks’ best hope
is to greatly extend their commercial con-
nections, putting less and less dependence
upon mortgages, which are poor banking
business at best.
Though liabilities have increased by
£1,815,3 < l during the five years, the Vic-
toria is still working well within its trading
limit. For every £1 of its own funds (capi-
tal and reserves) it holds only £4 Bs. of the
public’s money. A further gratifying feature
of its later balance-sheets has been that,
while most hanks have had to cut into their
liquid assets, this one has strengthened its
holding. Five years ago only 35.1 p.c. of
all liabilities was held within fairly easy
reach ; at June 30 the proportion had grown
to 38.3 p.c. apart from the Commonwealth
guaranteed wheat advances, which the Vic-
toria management also regards as liquid. In-
cluding the loans to the Government, the
proportion of liquid assets is 46.2 p.c.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. (Syd-
ney). The co. started in 1909 with a deficit
of £7462, representing patents and other
goodwill items, plus preliminary exes.: —
Paid Net Pro-
for fit avail-
Goqd- able for De-
June, Profits. Dividends. will. Reserves, firit.
1911.. £4,277 10p.e.= £1983 £ll £2294 £4819
1912.. 4,813 10 „ „ 2870 28 1943 2904
1913.. 6,713 10 „ „ 4660 90 2053 941
Reserves.
1914.. 13,056 lli„ „ 7058 129 5998 4928
1915.. 2,540 5 „ „ 3500 40 3928
1916.. 4,230 "6 „ „ 4200 25 30 3933
1917.. 3,683 6 „ „ 4200 "63 3353
1918. ." 4,221 6 „ ~ 4200 35 21 3339
1919.. 4,248 6 „ „ 4200 52 48 3335
The war hit this co. heavily, for not only
have water schemes in which it was in-
terested been held up, but a number of pros-
pective jobs have disappeared altogether.
The result has been that net profits over the ,
war period have averaged only 5.7 p.c. of
paid capital, and since the directors have
nersisted in paying 6 p.c. (except in one
year, when 5 p.c. was handed out) the
reserves which had been accumulated in the
profitable pre-war years have been reduced
by £1593. This- shows in another way the
co.’s progress (or otherwise) :
1911. 1914. 1919.
Capital £21,701 £65,728 £70,000
Liaoilities . . .. .. 1,019 33,613 3,087
Property and plant .. 6,160 28,466 40,790
Liquid assets (inc. stocks) 12,826 79,910 37,732
Thus between 1911-14 the co. improved its
position by £12,769 before payment of the
final div. in the latter year. Since then the
more or less liquid surplus has shrunk from
£46,297 to £34,645, partly because just be-
fore the war the management acquired a
freehold property on the Lane Cove and put
in new plant to cope with the orders which
threatened to pour in. Still, the co.’s
position is by no means uncomfortable. And
things are looking up, too. “Some important
contracts have recently been received,”
amongst them a £17,000 job from the Vic.
Water Supply Commission, which was
secured in competition with both metal and
concrete pipes. But though immediate pros-
pects are brighter, the farther future is
uncertain. There is very little likelihood of
a construction boom on borrowed money on
the pre-war scale; though Australia is
waking up to the possibilities of harnessing
its water-power and solving the drought
problem in some districts by irrigation
schemes. If money can be found for such
enterprises the Australian Wood Pipe Co.
will be kept busy, but until the Federal
Treasurer explains how the huge war debt
and its interest bill are to be met, water
schemes and wood pipes occupy an obscure
place on the programme.
* * * *
J. B. Holme, of N.S.W. Board of Trade,
chairman of the Commission which is inquir-
ing into the operations of Sydney Ferries, is
turning that concern more completely inside
out than it was ever turned before. After six
days’ digging, he got from the financial ad-
viser of the co. the information that some
of the co.’s vessels, though they have been
written down 75 p.c. or more out of profits,
are at present worth what they cost 25 to
30 years ago. This, of course, has a bear-
ing upon the net profits out of which the
dividends are paid, which profits, it is al-
leged, are not sufficient to provide a fair
dividend; wherefore the recent great and
sudden increase in the price of season
tickets. In ordinary circumstances such
hard writing-down ought to mean a big
present profit by comparison with the visible
capital; for such a co. has a lot more capital
than it shows. When that is the case a
co.’s dividend on its visible capital gradually
creeps up, as a rule, until finally (as has
so often happened with the C.S.K., for in-
stance) there has to be an issue of bonus
shares in order to distribute the profit with-
out making the rate of dividend look ex-
cessive. Sydney Ferries isn’t in that diffi-
culty at present. The gist of the matter,
so far as it is concerned, is whether the
present deductions to cover depreciation are
too great; and it is as throwing some light
on this point that the financial adviser’s dis-
closure is important.
# * * *
“Cassio” : Freetrade J. Bull until recently
bolstered up American exchange so that £1
stood at about $4.75. The other day he
tumbled to the fact that he was not only
granting Uncle Sam Freetrade, but was
actually helping him to compete against
British manufactures. Accordingly, J. Bull
withdrew his support, with the l’esult that
exchange between Australia and the U.$.A.
fell back to 4.27 or 4.29. The point that
concerns us is that surely Australia, pro-
fessedly Protectionist, can improve on the
mere withdrawal of support on a foreign
exchange. The writer has “costed” many
Yankee invoices and has seen how the value
for duty is arrived at. The Customs agent
divides the number of cents by two and carls
them pennies, which is equivalent to S4.S()
to £1; and as the mint par of exchange is
4.86, this is hear enough. But why should
not the Yank be charged duty on the
equivalent of his currency at the actual rate
of exchange? $500.00 worth is £lO4 3s. 4d.
at 4.80, whilst at 4.27 it is £ll7 Is. 10d.,
and the Australian Customs ought to get
the duty on the extra £l3.
* * # *
There is a commotion among bank staffs
in Maoriland too; and at the annual meet-
ing of the B.N.Z. a good deal was said about
it. Chairman Beauchamp of course defended
his Board and its policy, but didn’t show
that increases in pay had even kept pace
with increases in cost of living. However,
there was a promise of further sympathetic
consideration, which may explain why, in-
stead of a union, M.L. bank-clerks have
formed a “guild.” registered as an incorpo-
rated society and not under the Arbitration
►Act. Female clerks are excluded from mem-
bership. Presumably the gallant idea is
that if they don’t get a fair thing it serves
'them right for trying to get anything.


The British Westinghouse Electric & M?g. Co., Ltd. ,
Westinghouse
Magnetic Brakes
With improved skid-proof attachment, absolutely
prevents skidding' even the highest speeds.
SPECIAL FEATURES
lm lediate and powerful action.
Th wheels cannot be skidded.
Prevents motor “flashing over."
Reduces destructive arcing in the controller, and
materially reduces the strain oft the car insu-
lation by preventing the voltage in the braking
circuit from reaching dangerously high values.
Head Office for Australia
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
ĥ
Works -Traiford Park, Manchester, England.
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.K. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few .weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company. Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Aluminoferric is necessary where cattle turn up
the mud in the drinking water. A little distributed
over the water will quickly precipitate all impuri-
ties, thus clarifying and purifying the water for your
stock. Use it in your reservoirs, your wells and
your house tanks. If your storekeeper cannot sup-
ply you send direct to us for free leaflets, particulars
and prices. William Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney.
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. Advt. [3
The latest copper-smelting plant to bo erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present. — Advt. [2
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the most satisfacto y pipe to
instal. This letter comes from the Anchor Tin
Mine, Ltd., Lottah, dated June 23, 1914: “Dear
Sirs,—The wood pipes supplied by you in May.
1910, have proved satisfactory in every way. They
were easily handled, took little labor or skill to lay,
developed no leaks, and show no sign Of deteriora-
tion. Yours faithfully (Sgd.) James B. Lewis,
General Manager.” Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Aust alian Wood Pipe Company, Ltd. (H. 0.),
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. Add.:
Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney,; 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fjpk’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office;.tel, Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place,’Sydney ; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
Lottoid Hard Wall Plaster Sheets for inner walls,
ceilings and partitions, are the best material for
such purposes possible of attainment. The surface
of these- sheets is snow-white and glass-smooth, will
not rub off, and shows no trace of fibre. Lottoid
Sheets never crack or fall like old-fashioned plaster,
but are artistic, durable and economical, whiteant-
and vermin-proof. Made in 24 convenient sizes.
Price, 2/6 per sq. yd., or we will be pleased to
quote you Lottoid fixed by our experts. Write for
post free Catalor “B.” Spriggs’ Asbestolite Com-
pany, 338 Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt. [1
The manufacture of ‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the-enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian . “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
Advt.
Pastoralists and tank-sinkers having ideas of
mechanical appliances for making and cleaning out
station tanks, wool-washing and other station utili-
ties, should communicate with firm of manufactur-
ing engineers with view of patenting and manufac-
turing to mutual advantage. Highest bank refer-
ences given. Apply in first instance to Box 2547
G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commomvealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”—Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
CF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Income (Cross') 1918 .. 457,852
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\V. U. CAV]:, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON —3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street Melbourne.
"Mainshaft”: Coal is a disappearing
asset, and the methods of owners are hasten-
ing the disappearance. Coal is not my mining ;
but engineers whose bread it is tell me that
there are more than a million' tons lost for
ever in the old Borehole workings, and that
the same methods are being at
Maitland with the certain result that 25 or
30 years will see the best gas-coal of Aus-
tralia near its finish. N. S. Wales mining
regulations make collieries leave 50 p.c. of
the seam in the first workings. In subse-
quent workings .the pillars are taken out,
and the owners are supposed to draw all
possible coal. In Maitland, of a 30ft. seam
less than 9ft. is extracted in the first work-
ing, leaving tops and pillars, of which not
more than 50 per cent, is removed, or a
total of 21ft. out of 30ft. of seam. A
French method of working would be ideal
for Maitland owing to the pitch of the
measures. But the best method of all is to
drive out to the dip as far as haulage is
easy, say a mile, working it in slices by
retreating long-wall, with hydraulic stow-
ing of the “goaf.” The method, including
grinding material for filling in, may cost
2s. per ton of coal more than under the
present wasteful system; but there is the
saving to the nation of having no lost coal.
Only ignorance and hatred of dead work
and mining regulations that hate to change
themselves prevent the use of a method
which would be cheaper in the long run, and
vastly safer. In Pelaw Main, engineers tell
me, the pillars are now being “robbed, all
the coal won being cheap and easy, and
the lost coal already aggregates millions of
tons. And it isn’t only Maitland. There
are other coalfields in Australia where con-
tinuous waste is substituted for courage in
facing initial expense. The courage should
be provided by legal regulation. A great
seam like Blair Athol (Q.), with only about
70ft. of overburden and a 04ft. seam, or
72,000 tons to the acre, should not be
mined; it should be compulsory for the
collieries to strip the cover and work by
open cut. As to th-e long-wall, Stockton
works the system, and takes all; and Mt.
Mulligan (Q-), with its 2ft 6in. and 4tt.
Gin. seams, does the same. It should be
compulsory for the wasteful coal barons ot
Maitland to do likewise.
* * * *
Mount Boppy (N.S.W.) has had a recon-
struction in England lately, and a new co.
with a capital of £125,000 has now taken
over a show that is by no means flush ot
ore. Some of the parties deeply interested m
Mount Boppy negotiated for the purchase of
the Occidental gold-mine; but the Imperial
Government raised objections to money
going out of England to make the deal.
Possibly the reconstruction has provided a
way out of the difficulty.
* * * *
Great Cobar is not making any visible
move to profit by the improved market;
and nearly all the old staff have drifted away.
The water is still, however, being kept out
of Cobar Gold. Pellew Harvey’s report on
the properties should be available shortly.
* * * *
The promoters of Cobar Exploration, the
co. which proposes to tooth-comb the Cobar
field, had to extend the time for receipt of
share applications: of 2000 of 10s. only
1300 were applied for. However, the co.
has been registered, and G. Grey, lately of
Great Cobar staff, has begun a geological
survey, commencing from the old Bee Moun-
tain property and making south.
Cobar Gladstone (N.S.W.) is being un-
watered, so apparently someone thinks
there’s a chance of making a rise.
Cope’s Creek Central (N.S.W.) shows a
loss of £2021 on the past six months’ work
This is explained by the cost of supplies and
labor, hard ground and a drought. These
factors operated most at the No. 1 plant,
which sluiced 85,884 cubic yards for 31't
tons oxide, with costs panning out on this
exorbitant scale: —
Stores, timber, etc. . . • ■ 1.509 d.
Fuel .. 3.351 d
Wages and salaries . . . . ■ • < .s™.
General, etc. • • • • - -1.493 d.
Total .. • ■ ■ • • • 13.929 d.
Bv comparison No. 2 plant at Skeleton
Creek did wonders, as it handled 130.-ou
cubic yards for 464 tons oxide at a cost ot
9 464 d.; but its companion, No. 3 plant,
rushed up costs to 14*d. Easier ground and
better results may be ahead of No. 1 dredge,
but No. 3 is being used by_ a party of
tributors who think that a bit more than
wages should be knocked out. Though the
co. owes a tidy bit to its bankers, it is in
a position to pull along till it knows whether
the bores ahead of the dredges are shoddy
or not.
* * *
“Tailioa” re Big Ileef, Gundagai
(N.S.W.) -
After many years’ mining experiences, outside
Waihi and Golden Mile show's 1 question if a
better proposition or a better prospective goldfield
has been found in Australasia. Dimensions and
consistent payable values wherever quartz has been
broken over a length of 2000 ft. on the mine justify
this opinion, while for a mile north and south of
it along the strike pay values are being exposed.
Metallurgicallv the ore presents no difficulties. Also
witness Bendigo buyers’ anxiety to be supplied with
arsenical gold ores. Proposed plant to treat 4000
tons per month certainly includes plant to treat
the 3 p.c. of concentrates contained, saving the
arsenic by-product. The mismanaged mines cited by
“Wild Cat’’ are hardly reasons for swatting Big
Beef, which, it may be added, has had the approval
of Boulder engineers. If capital could be got to re-
open these mines, it is not the amount of arsenic in
their ores which would spell failure. Modern mining
practice does not baulk at arsenic.
Well, if the property is so valuable, why
have so many wise ones passed it after
inspection?
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) is now drilling
eastwards- from Horseshoe ground at 2480 ft.
across the southern portion of its own pro-
perty and underneath what were known in
the early days as the Lane shaft workings.
It was in this part of the mine that the main
lode, after yielding some good patches of ore.
became impoverished at depth, and except
for occasional drives and boreholes was not
prospected much in deep ground. It yielded
several rich patches of telluride in the
Boulder Main Reef further south, but there
also values dwindled to almost nothing at
depth. In the early days when the rush and
bustle of lease-pegging was at its height,
the Boulder Main Reef block, which lies
end-on to the Boulder, was overlooked, and
it was not until a year or so later that an
official in the Government survey office dis-
covered that it remained unpegged. A friend
of his applied for it, and when it was floated
in London later the official left his job.
Last year Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) pro-
duced gold worth £332,621, and after meet-
ing all exes-, including £24,549 for taxation,
and writing off £20,000 for development,
showed a net profit of £57,410. A 2s. 6d.
dividend absorbed £37,500. and £23,404 re-
mained to the credit of P. & L. account.
During the year the debenture debt was re-
duced by £25,900, and now stands at £5400.
Ore reserves are well maintained, the latest
estimate being 733.102 tons of a gross value
of about £1,445,000.
Associated Northern is again looking for
a new mine in Westralia, and has lately
been inquiring into prospects around Norse-
man. It has proved a risky locality, _ the
reefs and lodes going wrong at comparatively
shallow depths. Except for the Mararoa
and a few smaller shows that have paid divs.
it has been a graveyard for capital.
Black Range Pinnacles .(W.A.) turned up
in Cue the other day and secured a further
six months’ exemption. on its delusion at
Jasper Hill on the grounds of want of capi-
tal and excessive mining, costs. Negotiations
are in progress for the acquisition of another
lease in the same neighborhood, but pros-
pects of success are anything but bright.
“O.B.” : Kalgoorlie struck serious trouble
the, other day through the cutters employed
by the woodline cos. downing tools for more
pay. About 3000 mine-workers lost their
jobs owing to the want of fuel to keep the
ore treatment plants running. It has always
been a mystery to me why the mine-owners
don’t get their own firewood instead of pay-
ing the woodline cos. to get it for them. If
these middlemen were brushed on one side
and the wood obtained by a co-operative
effort on the part of the cos. several pence
per ton could be chipped off costs.
* * * *
Reading between the lines it looks as if
there was a real need for John Friel to pro-
claim his faith in the Loch Fyne, Matlock
(Vic.). Water and snow have hindered
development work ; and as the 7ft. make of
stone picked up while driving north from the
shaft split in two overhead, one does not
need a microscope to see that it will take a
lot of plugging to build up reserves. _ One
good thing is that the shoot of stone is out
of the zone whence came the gold in the old
days, so there is plenty of room to hunt
round in the big dyke basin. Friel’s present
programme is to shaft-sink and see if the
new shoot lives down, as he thinks that the
A 1 experience ought to be repeated at the
Loch Fyne. But makes of stone m the
mountain dvkes are tricky. Because they
are not in full bloom at either the Fyne or
the Al, call-paying and solid prospecting
are ahead. Still, with a fair bit of stone
overhead on the No. 2 reef Friel ought to be
able to keep calls low. # #
Manager Telford, hot from the tropics,
puts the life of the present leases worked by
the Philippine Dredging Co. at five years,
unless little brown brother next door will
part up some of his blocks at a reasonable
figure. The best area held by the co. is
ahead of No. 2 plant, but it is clear that,
quite apart from the wail over high costs,
there has to be a bigger wail over dis-
appointing gold-winning. Even with brown
labor costs work out at between 350 z. and
40oz. gold per week, and that is on a par
with the Adelong charges with white labor.
It looks as if the first job to be tackled is to
get the dredges into trim : next, to wipe out
the debenture debt of £40,000: last of all,
if profits are available, to pack either
McWhae or Showers off to the north to pick
up some adjoining ground at Paracale or
elsewhere. Rut to throw up the sponge till
the present leases are exhausted would be
a fool's game so long as profits flow into the
till.
The old Bisclioff-Balfour silver-lead lode.
Waratali (Tas.), is to be given another
trial, this time by the Persic Prospecting
Syndicate, in 800 shares of £5, 400 fully
paids going to the vendor (T. 11. Rest),
300 being issued, and the rest held in re-
serve. Well-defined gossan outcrops with
good silver and lead contents in the some-
what streaky pay-shoots are a feature of
the deposit. Under the guidance of
“Rhodesian” Guv Wood the syndicate pro-
poses to tap the lode at 250 ft. by means of
a crosscut, and if everything works out all
right there is to be a co.
The battered old Tasmanian Hydro-
Electric Co. has a new lease of life. A
circular to shareholders states that a new
issue of 45,000 pref. shares has been taken
up in London and allotted, and that the
holders of the existing 70,000 pref. shares
are desired to exchange them for new shares
paid up to £1 each. These new ones will
carry a cumulative pref. dividend at 10 p.c.
and a right to share on equal terms with
the ordinary capital in any surplus profits
left after eating up the 10 p.c. Shareholders
are also told that with electrodes of the co. s
own making carbide of the highest grade has
been produced at Electrona.
* * * #
Welfare work at Mt. Lyell mine is pro-
ducing startling results. Meat has been re-
duced from Is. 4d, to Bd. per lb. since the co.
took over the supply. One of the big
savings effected is in distribution, for where
eight delivery carts were required under
private competition two suffice. The co. is
now arranging to supply its employees with
other necessities at reduced prices. Con-
trast this with the attitude of the _ Mt.
Bischoff Co., which has recently made a
charge on the local hospital management
for the doctor’s residence of 30s. per week
plus lighting—and this after supplying a
residence free for 26 years! The hospital
is supported entirely by voluntary subscrip-
tion of Waratah and Magnet residents, some
of whom feel pretty sore about the little bit
of meanness.
Starting from the Donaldson River (las)
and running south, cutting the Savage, White
and Pieman rivers, and traceable down
towards Mt. Heemskirk, is a band of iron
ore, averaging about 500 ft. in width, out-
cropping for 32 miles, and rising above sea
level from 300 ft. at the Tinto to 1300 ft. at
the old Specimen Reef workings. Recent
assays taken from the Tinto outcrop have
given 68 p.c. iron, with only a trace _of
sulphur and phosphorus, the ore being
slightly magnetic. Millions of tons are
available for shipment via the Pie-
man River. Speck, Govt, geologists are in-
vestigating, and there seems every possibility
of this immense deposit receiving attention.
* * * *
“Meba”: The Government bore at
Stuart’s Range opal field (S.A.) has struck
water at about 250 ft. The field, which
covers something like 100 square miles, has
been hardly looked at, yet some of the
old hands have made nice cheques. The
find is situated about 350 miles nor’-west
of Port Augusta and 150 from Tarcoola, the
nearest point on the East-West line. About
120 diggers are trying their luck at present,
and as the water now found is drinkable
the number will soon increase. As things
are it takes a fair wad for a digger to
establish himself, and I should not advise
anyone to tackle it unless he can find the
necessary to purchase a couple of camels, a
buggv and a fly-net, as well as a couple of
months’ damper.
**• * *
Maoriland’s famous Waihi mine handed
out four divs. of Is. each last year, totalling
£99,181 The year’s revenue was £414,838.
of which £387,065 came from sales of gold
and silver. Exes, ran away with £215,564.
leaving a balance of £199,274. and of this
taxes took £42.851 and depreciation £16.724.
Ore reserves have been considerably reduced
by the year’s operations, as very little de-
velopment work was done.
* .* *
“Orallo” : At the Roma (Q.) bore recently
a lump of the drilling implement broke off,
and this has again delayed operations. This
bore has become notorious for the number of
times operations have ceased. Something or
other seems to be eternally dropping down ;
but. as the Government is footing the bill,
why worry? The bore has now reached a
depth of 3705 ft.. which is sft. greater than
that at which gas was struck in the old
boring, but still there is no gas here.. And
no oil.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 26.)


THE OUTCAST.
“Take him in, Peter, We’ve got no machinery to deal with him.”


fAUbDINgg
SYDHey
PERTH AND LONDON
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDIN G*S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in lo::. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lcwt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
ħ
deaf?
You can HEAR —and
we prove it by sending
you, post paid, an easy-
to-wear
Acousticon
on 10 Days’
FREE TRIAL
Co.
The “Aeousticon” will safely and surely enable
you to hear. Over 330,000 delighted users,
including the Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, who
has been using the “Aeousticon” for nearly five
years! Write for 10 Da>s’ Free Trial. No
deposit, no obligation, no expense. Convince
yourself at our expense, and DON’T STAY
DEAF !
Lamson
Storei
‘Service
102 Daking Hi’Jse, SYDNEY
Olderfleet, o) ins St.,MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St., Christc’h.
W.A.: H. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
THE
Hotel Sydney
(SYDNEY)
Is one of the largest, most modern
and best equipped in Australia.
It is situated opposite the Railway Station
and is centra] to everywhere.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 400 GUESTS.
Quiet, Cool and Comfortable.
Hot and Cold Water, Day and Night, in every
Bedroom.
Half an acre of Glorious Roof
Garden.
Tariff from 12/6 per day.
Have you Lunched or Dined at the “Sydney”?
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
SLICE.
PMmk
THe
finest
TOBACCO
Will Not
Bite the
Tongue.
EDGEWORTH”
PERSONAL
ITEMS
As a legislator N.S.W. Premier Holman
lias just come of age. He was first elected
for Grenfell —where he had formerly been
engaged in press work —on July 27, 1898.
Just-dead Simon Fraser served his adopted
country better than most old identities
who die rich. Scotch-Canadian by birth, he
was a good Australian in most respects. He
took contracts for making roads and rough
bridges when he was a verv young fellow,
and made his first big rise out of a railway
line in Victoria. In Queensland he bored
deep for water, in Vic. he built waterworks
and in S. Aus. he had made a railway line
ere he settled down in Melbourne as a hard-
shell politician. Rightly or otherwise, it
was vaguely understood in Melbourne’s least
religious circles that his one-time, violent
animosity towards Roman Catholicism was
the result of his having got on badly with
an R.C., dead long ago. Obituary notices
spoke of the wife who survives him as
though she were the only wife he ever had,
but the story about a mixed marriage that
proved a failure may explain why such a
good old sort as Fraser was so heated an
Orange Lodger for 20 years.
Melbourne Uni. will most likely have Aus-
tralia’s first woman professor, unless the
craze for an imported person is too strong.
Dr. Georgina Sweet is well in the run-
ning for the chair of Zoology left vacant by
the retirement of Prof. Baldwin Snencer.
She has it against her that she was born
in Victoria and graduated at Melbourne;
but she has done some extraordinarily good
research work, nevertheless.
HIS EXCELLENCY LIVERPOOL,
of Maoriland.
Millionaire Sam McCaughey atoned for
his social crime of celibacy by bequeathing
for public purposes a million and a half of
the money he didn’t spend in bringing up a
family. Sydney Uni. gets about £465,000 —
the most it has ever had in a lump, the next-
best being the Challis bequest of £276.000 —
and Brisbane Uni. £232,000; £250,000 goes
to the Scotchbyterians, £lOO,OOO or so to
various schools and hospitals, about £465 000
for the benefit of soldiers and their widows
and orphans; and what the Salvation Army
did for the boys in France earned it £5OOO.
There were three McCaughey brothers in
Australia. Two are dead now; John, the
third, along with 'Matthew Robinson, of
Toorale, and James Ashton are the executors
and trustees. For a good many years past
McCaughey has turned more and more to
Ashton for guidance; and there is evidence
of it in some of the magnificent benefactions
of the will.
“Gallery” : Tassy is not over well adver-
tised in the House of Reps. The best of the
Tasmanians is W. J. McWilliams, who sits
in the Corner and annoys the Government
with flank attacks. McWilliams’s complete
indifference to the ideal of party solidarity
would mark him out for honorable mention
if his independence were not robbed of its
full weight in affairs by an imperturbable
manner that is obviously affected. All the
same, he has plenty of courage and acumen,
and shares with Gregory and Fowler the
“stigma” of being opposed to W. M. Hughes.
Atkinson, member for Franklin, and an
assistant Chairman of Committees, is a
mere “Hear, Hear” to authority, and derives
his opinions from the Biggest Stick. Laird
Smith, personally a good fellow, has become
definitely “liberalised"
by the new company
he keeps, and he is
now approaching by
easy stages the mental
corpulence of his lion,
namesake from Parkes.
Laird Smith, like
Atkinson, is one of
the faithful “gallopers”
of the Ministry, and
his rather tame tongue
is quick to smite the
“Bolsheviks” of the
Corner. As regards
Jensen, he is now a
zero, and poor old
Spence is not much
more. Still a good
Labor man, the latter
charming old battler
reveals in every
speech his fearful con-
sciousness of the fact
that he has been
foisted on the elec-
torate of Darwin. Al-
together Tassy ought
to demand some new
blood, if only to give
louder voice to its in-
numerable grievances.
W. J. McWILLIAMS.
Tasmanian M.H.R.
When Bill Lyne was Premier of N. S.
Wales he fallowed the usual custom of mak-
ing a -trip to London. On his return his
bill of costs was being discussed in the
House. Among the items was one of some
£2OO paid to a gentleman who went with him
as a sort of supernumerary nrivate sec. This
item had been questioned, and, according to
promise, Lvne prepared and was reading a
long statement in connection with the
gentleman’s services. Lyne was not a good
writer, and used to have some difficulty in
reading his own notes. In this instance" he
got as far as “£75, cost of visiting France
to report on the Parisian—-the Parisian”
Then Lyne lost liis place, and while fumbling
to find the next word Griffith interjected
“demi-monde.” The missing word was realty
“charities,” but it was 10 minutes before
the rocking Chamber permitted Lyne to sup-
ply it.
James Ashton has gone a good way since
he ran his little paper out in the McCaughey
country of N. S. Wales. It wasn’t a squat-
ters’ paper, and Sam McCaughey didn’t like
it; but he had a good opinioq of the young-
ster who wrote it. Twenty-five years ago,
when Hay sent him to the Leg. Assembly,
he landed in Sydney with much the same
reputation as Tom Heney, who passed from
Wilcannia to. the S. M. Herald at about
the same time: they were both supposed to
know all about the land question. Ashton
was one of the young Liberals who rebelled
against Parkes and favored the Land Tax;
and 10 years later he became Carruthers’s
Minister for Lands. He might have gone
on climbing in politics; but he found there
were people prepared to pay him a lot more
than the State would for his brains and the
experience he had picked up in the back-
country ; and, in the quality of a large,
solid adviser of large, solid men he went
into the Council instead. To-day his name
is a good deal in the papers as the one city
man among the three McCaughey executors
and trustees; and besides having a hand in
the control of that million or two' he is the
N. S. Wales advisory Board of one of the
biggest of the old English land cos., and one
of the two outside-the-office directors of the
M.L.C., with its 14 million of investments.
A bomb has been dropped among the Old
Families of Groperdom by the public
announcement of Captain Hugo Throssell,
V.C., that he is a convert to Socialism, lhe
dreadful fact was divulged at a Peace cel-
ebration gathering in Throssell’s native town
of Northam in a speech inveighing against
profiteering and declaring generally that the
existing social system is mud. The hero,
who faced his audience as dauotlessly as
when he earned his bit of bronze, intimated
that the war had produced the change in
him. But it is suggested that there is an-
other influence beginning with w. Thros-
sell’s wife, formerly Miss Kathie Prichard,
the writer, is an apostle of Sosh.
There was an innovation in the S. Aus.
Industrial Court last week: the President
(Dr. Jethro Brown) had the assistance of
two women, Miss E. Mitchell (for em-
ployees) and Miss Muriel Farr (for em-
ployers) in fixing a basic living-wage for
women. Women assessors were suggested
in the cardboaru-box and carton-makers’
case, as practically all the employees con-
cerned are women, and the President thought
it a good idea. It was the first occasion on
which the power under the industrial legis-
lation of 1912 to call in assessors has been
used.
Of the down-south editors who called at
Windsor last year the first of the un-knighted
ones to be labelled is George Fenwick,
managing-director of the Otago Daily
Times (M.L.). He is a sturdy old pioneer
of 72, who, with his English parents, arrived
in Dunedin (after a look-in at the Vic. gold
hunt) in 1556. Ten years later he started
to earn his salt as an apprentice on the
Otago Witness (now the weekly edition of
the 0.D.T.). In 1877, with a partner, he
bought the Times and Witness, and floated
the concern into a co. If knights went
forth in shining armor in these days George
Fenwick’s favorite weapon would be a gar-
dening fork.
The Probate Office of South Australia is
looking hard at a will. Many German-
descended citizens of that State are good
Australians; but A. L. Brunkhorst, a jewel-
ler, just dead, proclaims himself by his will
a good German. Except for a few small
local legacies, he left all his estate, £25,000,
to a friend “to make disposition thereof,
whether in Australia or elsewhere, as he
may decide to be most in keeping with my
wishes, and in this respect I confer upon
him an unfettered discretion, and free
from the control -or interference of any pub-
lic or private person.” This sounds all
right; but it is merely a codicil to the will
of a month earlier, in which everything was
left for charitable or educational purposes
in “my native town of Nienburg.” The
testator died on July 6, so there are some
nice points to be considered.
J. B. Ronald was the member for South-
ern Melbourne in the first Federal House
of Reps., and Edward VII. created him
along with the other 74 an “Honorable for
life.” According to gossip in the State Par-
liamentary lobbies, Ronald in his letter to
Mat Baird applying to be appointed a re-
gistrar of marriages signed himself “The
Hon. and Rev. J. B. Ronald,” apparently
with the view of having himself thus de-
scribed in the Gazette when his appoint-
ment is notified.
S. Australian Parliament will probably
pass the Fourth Judge Bill this session ; in
which case A. W. Piper, K.C., is likely to
be his Honor before the end of the year.
A cable received in the Speck lately men-
tioned that Lord Roachdale had made
arrangements for establishing woollen-mills
there. Roachdale is managing-director of
Kemp and Kelsall’s flannel-factory at
Roachdale (Eng.). He was in Tasmania be-
fore the war and bought the old penitentiary
at the Cascades, Hobart. The Tasmanian
Government established a woollen-mill at the
old Cascade building in 1850, and it turned
out the first tweeds and blankets manufac-
tured in the colony. The material was ex-
hibited at the London Exhibition in 1851.
But the works ran only a year or two be-
cause they interfered with the sacred rights
of the importers. William Whitaker, the
manager, found no other job available in his
line, and became a missionary.
After reading the report of the language
concerning George V. which earned Consi-
dine, M.H.R., a sentence of 21 days, the
general verdict in bullock-driving circles will
be that Considine can’t swear worth a cent.
N.S.W.’s 1918 Rhodes scholar, just ap-
pointed, is Lieut. R. N. Kershaw, M.C., a
son of Sydney’s best-known professional
rose-grower. Born in May, 1898. he was
educated at Sydney Boys’ High School, went
to the Uni. in 1915 and to France in 1916,
and won his M.C. as a machine-gun officer
at Villers-Bretonneux.
Lieut.-Colonel A. C. Boddam-Whetham,
D. 5.0., killed lately while flying in Egypt,
where he was surveying an aerial route from
Cairo to the Cape, was formerly A.D.C. to
S.A. Governor Le Hunte, with whom he went
to Trinidad. He was in S’Africa when the
Big Stunt began, and did some guerilla fight-
ing in German East Africa with a mixed
force. As he held a flying ticket he was
recalled to England, and got the D.S.O. Cor
aviation work in France. Later he was in
Palestine, and then in charge of an experi-
mental aerodrome in Blighty.
JUDGING BY APPEARANCES.
PETE: “ ’Ullo, Ben, mot's that?”
B EN: “Well, I ain't too sure, but from the
look of ’im I reckon ’e’s one of them
Bolsheviks.”
Died on July 28, Canon Allnutt, for 36
years rector of the ancient parish of Cobbitty
(X.S.W.), aged 76. A church was built at
Cobbitty in 18*6 by liev. Thomas Hassall,
who had purchased the adjacent property,
Denbigh. That old church still stands, and
is used as a public school. The new one
went up in 1840. In its 93 years the
parish has had but three ministers—Tnomas
Hassall, ex-Bishop Pain (still living) and
the recently-dead G. H. Allnutt.
Judge Armstrong (N.S.’VV.) last week
sentenced an elderly man who had pleaded
guilty to common assault to 15 minutes’ im-
prisonment. But it is not a State record.
Backhouse once sentenced two young women
to be imprisoned for one minute; and at
Broken Hill Justice Water-jug Forster
passed on the same punishment to a mal-
efactor.
“Chasuble” : Principal Behan, the Austra-
lian head of Melbourne’s Trinity College,
would never have taken that billet if he had
guessed the word had gbne forth that no
Victorian diocese should in future be given
to an Australian. Three Englishmen, Lees,
Granswick and Gnmbleton, have snapped
Bendigo, Gippsland and Ballarat. They re-
placed men of Australian training —Langley,
Pain and Green. What hope has Trinity of
attracting the best men to train for the
Church if the prizes are to be withheld from
them? If the practice is established, there
can be only one result —the genuine Aus-
tralian will cut from a Church that so
pointedly despises him.
Gone over the hill at Wellington .(M.L.),
Luke N. Nattrass, 75. He was native-born.
His dad journeyed to M.L. as far back as
1836, on a mission from Earl Derby and
Lord John Russell. On his return to Eng-
land he collected a party of skilful workmen
(mostly Irish) and took them to M.L. to
develop the flax industry. Luke, senior, was
an artist in various lines. Some of his
valuable sketches of Wellington are still
preserved, lithos. of them bearing the im-
print: “Published for the proprietors at
Huggins’s Marine Mart, 105 Leadenhall-
street, London.
Frank Lyons, president of the Vic. Im-
plement Makers’ Union, who died the other
day, joined his union at its formation, 49
years ago, and proceshed with the first Eight
Hours’ Day demonstration in Melbourne.
Donald Robertson, chairman of Maoriiand’s
Public Service Board, who is dropping the
job for a pension, has been a hard mgn for
Red Tape to argue with about a rise. He
happens to be as deaf as a kauri. Born in
Dunedin he joined the Postal Department at
13, and had been 15 years chief clerk when
William Grey, the man who made the M.L.
Post and Telegraph service what it is, killed
himself with overwork. Robertson slid into
his old chief’s chair, and stayed there until
the coming of the Massey Government, when
he was lifted out to sit at the head of the
Public Service Board. He is staid and rubi-
cund, conspicuously respectable, and pas-
sionately addicted to the framing of rules
and regulations. A Rhodes scholar son
specialises in chemistry.
THE MINISTERIAL PUNTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Grahame, Minister of Agriculture, giving
evidence before the N. S. Wales Wheat Commission,
said he had been connected with the turf for 30
years. Explaining numerous recent deposits in his
bank account, he supplied evidence regarding vari-
ous betting, wins.”
The Minister’s luck was in.
Do we envy himV Heaven forbid it!
It is good that a man should win;
But we’re wondering just how h? did it.
Bookies are hard to skin,
Punters take kindly to losing;
It is good that a man should win,
But winners are difficult, choosing.
Sweet are the apples of sin,
But many and many have missed ’em;
It is good tlutt a man should win,
But we wish lie would tell us his system.
The Minister’s luck was in ;
His wealth seems safe where he hid it.
It is good that a man should win;
But we’re hungry to know how he did it.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


m
/
M
w
m
AUSTRALIA'S
MRfnOMAL
SMOKE
1 7/
f/UJ
m
,
/m/i
TOB
In the crowded city street, by the lone
camp fire the never failing friend
of every man who smokes—a cool
tobacco with a flavour famed throughout
a continent.
CUT FLAKE OR MIXTURE
ALSO IN PLUG FORM
fMm
6413
LAST WORD
PIPES
LMN
400
h
tv er/ p 'P e Guar »ntee (J
m
LMN
fTrniiTTlT[||ffllWH’|||l|l
. • ■


9
M
'£k
m,
w
To Keep Young
Self-
Heating
Use a
ROYAL IRON
The “ROYAL” does Better
Work in Less Time with
Less Effort than any other
iron on the market.
ASK TO SEE IT.
In SYDNEY—The Civil Service Stores.
Mark Foy’s Ltd.
Nock & Kirby Ltd.
Alex. Smith Ltd.
In BRISBANE —Barry & Roberts.
In PERTH —William Sandoyer & Co.
MiG It on i an
T 1 HIGH-CLASS
jSPECIALTIES
Creams
?r A
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a I'erfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Hath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director-
SOCIETY
“Piwa”: The pensions granted to the
widows and orphans of Maoris who passed
out from ’flu have been setting a premium
on the bereaved parties, especially the
orphans. One of the latter was fastened
upon by two contending factions, the win-
ning side bearing off the prize minus his
wardrobe. The rush to adopt the widows
has been less keen since a local Henare
annexed an elderly damsel with a whole tribe
of tamaiti (children), and brought the lot
along at the end of the month to collect.
There was a geyser-burst of language when
the enterprising one was informed that the
matrimonial alliance had cancelled the pen-
sion. “W’y te prurry Cuvernment no terra
WITHIN LIMITS.
THE VISTOR: “Are you fond of indoor sports yourself?”
THE A RTIST: “Yes — if they know when to go home.”
to man before?” Henare demanded. “T’at's
to tirtv trick ehoa And he departed, pre-
snmahlv to institute divorce proceedings.
sumably to institute c * 1
“B.B.B.”: Despite repeated orders draw-
ing attention to the slackness of guard work
in our - training-camp matters did not im-
prove to the C.O.’s satisfaction. So the C.O.
decided to take a hand himself. At midnight
he reached the entrance to the main guard
and walked past the sentry on duty, who
was busy tearing a crayfish to pieces and
eating it. When the C.O. returned to ques-
tion him on his duties, the camp guardian
had a complete nervous breakdown and
•ejaculated, “Gorstruth, I didn’t recognise
you. Here, hold this cray! 1 got to
present arms to you!”
“Munga Munga’’: Distributed throughout
Egypt during the native revolt, the Austra-
lian mounted troops, unhampered by red
tape, became the virtual rulers of various
districts. The omdars, whose
position combines those of
magistrate and mayor, have
tremendous influence and
power over the Gyppos, whom
they rook mercilessly. For
instance, one omdar, who had
to find four men for the
Egyptian Labor Corps, called
up 200 and then allowed all
but the four poorest to buy
themselves out. Shielding
criminals is perhaps their
most remunerative line;
wherefore one Australian
captain always followed the
order for an arrest by fining
the omdar a sheep an hour
until the malefactor was pro-
duced. Justice and our mut-
ton supply had never previously reached
such a high mark.
* * * *
“The Cabbage” : When the visiting medico
-was examining the State-school children at
(say) Wild Dog Gully (Vic.), he found
some difficulty in disrobing one small boy
sufficiently to . sound him, and discovered
several layers of flannel apparently sewn in
place. He gave the. living mummy a polite
note to his mother, requesting that she
would, before his return to school in the
afternoon, loosen his garments so that an
examination might be made. At the after-
noon session young Raineses handed up
Mum’s reply :
Sir,' —-Little Johnny is sowed up for the winter
and arn’t gone be onpict for you ner nobody
Mrs. Wl RE FENCE.
* # * *
“Rewa” : We’re easily panicked, we girls.
The other day when a Maoriland transport
unloaded its human freight a damsel was mi
the wharf waiting to welcome her promised-
husband. Presently the young man came
down the gangway carrying a baby, and fol-
lowing in his wako'* was a smiling young
mamma. Miss Maoriland promptly threw
her length on the planks and Went into
hysterics. After she had been brought to
her senses with a generous helping of the
Pacific, a scowling Digger explained to her
that it was tough if a fellow couldn’t help
his wounded mate’s missus and kid ashore !
* * * #
Melbourne justice scored another failure
in its efforts to sort out the affairs of the
two pushes which slay each other silently
around Fitzroy. A while- ago sundry polite
thugs called at a house and inquired for
Lewis. Hearing that he was upstairs, two
of them went aloft on noiseless feet and
damaged Lewis, while the third remained
below and scared the wits out of Miss Smith,
Lewis spent a while in hospital, but pro-
fesscd not to know who had struck him. In
fact he was half-inclined to think he had
struck himself. Then he vanished while the
police weren't looking. Whether he went or
was taken nobody knows. The police have
some suspects in hand, and they have the
bloodstains; also they have Miss Smith, who
mav fade, too, if not carefully watched. She
would be a loss, for she is described as a
domestic servant—the only one left in Aus-
tralia. According to the rules of fiction six
bright young detectives should be imported
from a far country, so that the criminal
classes won’t know them, and be established
as rising young bottle-ohs and strenuous
pushites. They might get at the inner
secrets of the organisation, if it has any
secrets apart from throwing half-bricks. Not
that it would make much difference, for no
AT REST.
S HE: “He talks a lot about his wife's first
husband. Is he jealous ?”
HE: “No, envious!”
Melbourne J.P. dare fine a robust push more
than 405., and does that with fear and
trembling.
* 4 * *
“ Veebee”: Talking of compliments paid
us by the French, I like none better than
the bluff message scut by the C.O. of the
Ninth Colonial Zouaves. 11 is lot was sent
to hold a reserve line behind the Diggers
after they had been brought down to Villers-
Bret. After a few days’ ennui he sent a
message to his chief begging to be put some
place where he would have a chance of a
cut at the Boche.
“T.O.I.”The Commonwealth Bank has
bought the land in Collins-street on which
stands the Old Exchange Building, with The
Bulletin’s Melbourne office in the warren.
The frontage is 53ft., with a depth of about
235 ft.; and the price £70,000. At the first
land sale on June 1, 1837, land here went
cheap. One Willis got two chains fronting
Collins-street, on the corner of Queen-street,
where the Union Bank stood for years, for
£42. John Batman bought the next half-
acre for £23; and on 53 feet of this the
Commonwealth Bank will build. The Old
Exchange was a notable place in its time.
In the mid-’fifties the Electric Telegraph
Office was there. Eater it was the meeting
place of Australia’s hungriest mining sharks.
Right opposite J. S. with his part-
ner Baillie, had an pliice. ‘‘Under the veran-
dah” you could meet nearly everybody, hear
almost anything: and The Australasian
used it as the heading for the gossipy articles
which it published for many years. The old
place was part of the Money Miller estate.
A Chappel-street (M'elb.) furrier is look-
ing for a nice little girl of not more than
20, fair, blue-eyed and petite, with a simple,
engaging manner, and answering (perhaps)
to the name of Elise. A letter reached the
furrier one morning recently from Elise Hill-
wood, ordering a fur coat, and giving a
well-known St. Kilda establishment as the
address. The furrier, being a cautious
man, took a taxi and called in person, bear-
ing two fur coats, one priced 85 guineas, the
other 75. He found Miss Hillwood in her
flat—a mere girl, dainty, shy, nicely-spoken.
Miss Hillwood was delighted with the 85-
guinea article; she would just take it into
her room and try it on. Elise went into
the adjoining room, and the furrier waited
without a tremor —waited and waited ana
waited —and then became clamorous. Elise
had taken the back way out, wearing an 85-
guinea fur coat. The furrier’s lamentations
brought on the proprietress of the establish-
ment, who explained that Miss Elise had
occupied the flat for one week only, and was
a perfect stranger. Later, when the police
went out after Elise in the furrier’s in-
terests, they found that a furniture dealer
had also turned up. After paying cash to
the nice girl for the furniture of her flat, he
had just discovered that the flats were let
furnished.
* * * *
“Bill o’ Costs” : The Full Court of 8.
Aus. was lately considering an appeal in a
case in which the Municipal Tramways Trust
was sued by a passenger for damages for
unlawful arrest by the Trust’s servants, con-
sequent upon his failure to give his name
and address upon demand. The plaintiff
contended that as he had paid his fare and
done nothing wrong, the Trust was not en-
titled to have his name, much less lay hands
on him. The Trust’s advocate made the
point that the plaintiff might have swallowed
his dignity. “It was so easy to say two
or three words and avoid all the knock-about
business.” “Why should he?” inquired Gor-
don, ,7., and then fell back on Shakspeare:
Thrice is he armed that hath his quarrel just.
Then a couplet apparently suggested itself
and he added:
He may defy the —
His Honor hesitated momentarily, as if in
search of the appropriate adjective; then
finished the line without it:
He may defy the —— Tramway Trust.
The plaintiff no doubt supplied the missing
word.
“Billy B.” at the end of August 1:
Two soldier boys came singing up the stairs,
And burst into the room, a-griri like native-bears.
“Come out,” cried Bill, “for thish is Bottle Day.”
“Hic-scuse,” says Jim. “He means ish Wattle
Day!”
“F.E.W.”: Something unusual happened
at the last Broken Hill Quarter Sessions
when Judge Bevan, most humane of District
Court judges, refused to accept the bond of
a woman who was prepared to go bail for
the accused, on the ground that it was too
great a risk for a person in comparatively
poor circumstances to take. Then he turned
around and let the convicted party go merely
en his personal security. The case was one
in which a youth pleaded guilty to breaking
and entering. The kid was pitifully
frightened of going to gaol, and his Honor
said that if he could get a bondsman he
would consider the matter of giving him
another chance. All the people named by
the prisoner (he had a pretty bad police re-
port) shied, until a distant relative, the
woman before mentioned, came to the rescue.
She was prepared to take the risk; but
RUDE OF HIM TO MENTION IT.
“What do they mean by ‘Freedom of the
Seas'?”
“Oh, haven't you ever done any surfing?”
Bevan didn’t think she ought to. His Honor
had a heart-to-heart talk with the youngster.
“I am going to sentence, you to two years’
imprisonment with hard labor in Goulbnrn
Gaol,” he said, “but the sentence is sus-
pended on your entering into a personal
recognisance of £25 to be of good behavior
for two years. You know what will happen
to you if you do not go straight in the
future,” and a very relieved youth left the
dock.
(Continued on page JS.)
THE EVILDOERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“For centuries now the old men have been mak-
ing the wars and the young ones have been fighting
them.”—B. 17/7/’l9.
It has been wrong since when the world began
That young men should go out and die in war,
And lie face down in the dust for a brief span,
And be not good to look at any more.
It is the old men, hid in secret rooms,
Feign wisdom while they sign our peace away,
And turn fair meadows into reeking tombs
And passionate bridegrooms into bloodied clay.
It is the old men should be sent to fight!
The old men grown so wise they have forgot
The touch of mouth on mouth in the still night;
The tenderness that wedded lovers wot;
The dreams that dwell in the eyes of a young bride;
The secret beauty of things said and done;
The hope of children coming, and the pride
Of little homes and gardens in the sun.
This is the bitterest wrong the world wide —
That young men on the battlefield should rot
And I be widowed who was scarce a bride,
While prattling old men sit at ease and plot.
N.S.W.
N. M.


Pianola Marwifa ct\iri s?
W'l
(S'
. !
a%
m,
1
n
mwwwin'iwiwiiiiiwim
m
miiriiiiiiKiiiiitmiirttdidtiidiiiiiiDiiimiiuiiiiiiimiiiimiiiiuiiimiiiutiiiiiiiiiiiriiiKM’niiii
inmnumiiimiiimmniniiiiliinnniimiKnuniumumimtimHimnHiinniiiHuiiiiuimiimiuiHifiiiriHiitiinmiimiif
m
M
ta
I JL
%
cr
t
nil
%
1W
M
2*4.
ITS
niimiimi»wm»»nnimiM>MH»HiiH»i»nmn»»m*»iJiiHmiwH«niiiwuim««w»»»yn»i»tn««n»»ni«M»niii»nninimM»wMi«»iii
ptofito
v rjtl/nu/iuited!
Piciixos are
so nwick better Vahie.
is obviously a considerable saving when you can purchase direct from the manu-
factory, avoiding all substantial middleman profits, hence, in buying first hand from
the Pianola Company who produce all their own instruments, you must receive ever
so much better value. The middleman’s profit is saved for your benefit.
1853
The makers of the Pianola Piano are a world wide
concern which has pioneered the way introducing
many valuable and ingenious ideas, making possible
everyone participating in ihe greatest of all pleasures—
piano-playing without effort or the need of laborious
learning,
Thus from this self-contained organisation unusual
advantages are enjoyed by all who patronise it for
it adopts exclusive methods of making and dis-
tributing, producing a magnificent instrument, as
perfect as human skill and money can mak<* it.
You have therefore everything to gain by purchasing a Pianola Piano which comes direct from
the manufactory to your sitCMig-room. Thus you will save many pounds and you gain the pro-
tection of buying from a CoiL'tpany that knows the intrinsic value of the article itself, and this
guarantee means so much to )ou.
PIANOLA PIANO MODELS are in
The Steinway, Steck, Stroud, Aeolian, Farrand and the English-made cber.
The Pianola Co
PTY.
LTD.
11 The Centre for the World's Greatest
Achievements in Musical Instruments
384 George Street
Sydney
••
o©
Mail Us This Coupon
The PIANOLA Company.
Please send me Pianola Piano Illustrated
Catalog and the price and terms of pur-
chasing.
Name
Address


Mr. William Holman, recognised as one of the finest teachers of dramatic art
in Australia, writes his conscientious opinion of Clements Tonic—that it is
invaluable for the general health and strength.
MR. HOLMAN has been associated with many of the world’s greatest tragedians, and his
influence in all things pertaining to the success of true art and drama is publicly
recognised. He writes the letter published below. His successes extend beyond a
period when he was stage-manager for Wilson Barrett and other world-famed celebrities and
artists.
Conservatorinm of Music,
Macquarie Street, Sydney,
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD. October, 1918.
Some time since—after a prolonged cold and sore throat, I experi-
enced great nervous depression, loss of appetite, and want of energy.
I tried many medicines to relieve this condition, but without much
success.
Latterly I tried Clements Tonic, and am feeling now greatly bene-
fited—appetite returning, voice restored to a great extent, and a general
feeling cf good health and spirits.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
I can confidently recommend Clements Tonic.
You may use my testimonial throughout the press of Australasia.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) WILLIAM HOLMAN, Sen.
Professional People in any calling, especially Scholars, Students studying for examinations,
■where good health is essential. Should always keep this splendid medicine on hand for the
relief of weakness due to Over-study, Want of Sleep, Poor Appetite, Unstrung Nerves,
A mem i a or Poor Blood, Headache, Neuralgic Affections, Indigestion or Impaired Digestive Pro-
cesses. It should always be kept in the house.
All Chemists and Stores sell it in Australia and New Zealand.
It doss good because it is good. Get it tc-day and health at the same time.
You will not regret it.
“Dam” fights his battles o’er again
This happened near Poperinghe. We had moved
from Ridge Wood, and when we settled down we
spotted a rather old-looking Tommy doing “pack
drill.”’ He was under the care of a corporal, a regi-
mental sergeant-major and a Tommy officer. The
boys watched for awhile; then it began to get on
their nerves. “Give him a spell!” they roared.
The Tommies took no notice of this, and kept their
man going for an hour and a half. By this time
they had a rather large audience of angry Diggers
and the remarks passed were good to hear. A g eat
cheer went up when the old chap was taken off the
parade ground. But imagine the feelings of the
boys when the “criminal” was tied up to a pole
by the wrists in such a way that his toes barely
touched the ground! It was too much for them.
“Say, old son,” they yelled, “we’re going to let
you go.” “Don’t, boys!” he pleaded. “They’ll
only make it worse for me if you do.” “Oh, damn
them!” yelled the Australians. They untied him,
pulled up the post and erected a cross on the
spot. On the cross was written, “Here lies Mili-
tarism.” The post went to the cooker. That night,
under cover of darkness, a raiding party surrounded
the R.S.M.’s dugout. To their disappointment che
bird had flown. But they took his bunk and blan-
kets and dumped them in a neighboring shellhole.
Vte heard no more about it.
And it was all splendid except the inscrip-
tion on the cross. It was non-militarism
which produced such R.S.M.’s- —the old de-
pendence of Britain upon its sweepings; and
having sweepings to deal with, the system
naturally produced R.S.M.’s like this brute.
“0.L.”: If house-owners could be sup-
pressed for a time pending the passing of a
suitable bill by the Vic. Parliament, some-
thing might be done to minimise the death-
rate from phthsis and other diseases acquired
through infected dwellings. A neighbor of
mine, owning a house in which two succes-
sive holders have died of lung trouble, is now
putting the place on the market and going off
to die comfortably in a warmer climate. He
knew nothing of the history of the place
until recently; and the law doesn’t compel
him to pass on his dearly-acquired know-
ledge when selling. Another recent case is
that of a man in the best of health until
THE INCONVENIENCE OF IT.
“Tell me, Jane, has the chemist sent that
sleeping draught yet?”
“No, madam."
“Well, ring him up and ask him if he expects
me to keep awake all night waiting for
it!"
he went to occupy an infected house at
Malvern. This unfortunate died lately,
making the fourth casualty, three sons of
the previous owner having gone under from
the same plague. This buyer was also
ignorant of the history of his purchase.
Such experiences can be duplicated by most
citizens; and medical men have piles of
evidence in the same direction. At any
rate, to meet the existing position, there
should at least be a keener application of
the regulations administered by local muni-
cipal councils for the disinfection of disease-
spots ; and the Board of Health should see
to that matter.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : A pioneer has
recently been giving his reminiscences of
Armidale (N.S.W.), but omits to say how
it got its name. In a paper read before
the Colonial Institute in 1890, Sir Arthur
SAFE.
“Come away from that filthy tin, you horrid
boy, and help me find your little sister."
“S' all right, Mummy—I got her in here."
Hodgson supplied the genesis. “On arriving
at Armidale (1889),” he said, “I could
recall the evening when, in 1839. I camped
in the bush with George James MacDonald,
the Commissioner of Crown Lands for New
England, an excellent Government officer, a
scholar and a poet; and I can remember his
orderly being told to bring him his saddle-
bag, out of which a bottle of champagne was
produced. I willingly assisted him to
christen the spot Armidale, in honor of the
home of his ancestors. Lords of the Isles.”
Macdonald was afterwards transferred, to
another district, and died from starvation,
being lost in the bush.
“G.P.” : In view of the Bulletin article
(17/7/T9) on the new Pasteur play in
Paris, it may be worth mention that Britain
drew on the Pasteur Institute for the vac-
cine for an intensive
treatment of the recent
London and Plymouth
cases of rabies. Not-
withstanding the con-
tinual researches of the
Institute, this disease is
still involved in mystery.
And, one might add, in
misunderstanding. Thus
the man on the street
thinks that mad dogs
suffer from fear of water
(hydrophobia), though
such is not the case.
The symptom is confined
to man, and is due to
the painful contractions
of the muscles of swal-
lowing and respiration
present in the disease.
Eventually the victim'
refuses all nourishment.
Also, it is not necessary to be bitten by a
mad animal in order to develop rallies; the
mere contact of its saliva with a scratch or
abrasion is sufficient.
* * * *
“Gregorius”: Can the “Happy Historian”
or any other gallows writer mention an
execution in which the star actor had to be
either buoyed up with stimulants or else
doped for the performance? There is a
widespread belief that every hangee is sup-
plied with a liberal nip of tincture of opium
or laudanum just prior to the event; but
the practice is not sanctioned by either gaol
regulations or instructions to medical-officers,
and certainly no trace of opium influence was
shown by the principal leads at the two
executions I have witnessed. In America,
where they use electrocution instead of the
rope, a fairly large dose of either aconite or
pilocarpine is given to the condemned just
before his execution. Both these drugs are
powerful cardiac depressants, and their effect
is to make the victim more susceptible to the
current, and consequently to make a certainty
of the job.
“The Immature Male”: The Maoriland
Soldiers’ Club at Ismailia, mentioned by
“F.R.” (B. 17/7/T9), was founded by Miss
Ettie Rout, that dinkum pal of the Diggers.
She was assisted in the Egyptian venture,
first at Tel-el-Kebir,
later in the Canal
Zone, by three
other M.L. ladies,
the Misses Jones,
McClure and Jopp.
“The Home Touch”
was the institution’s
watchword, and the
Australians and
Maorilanders rolled
up like hungry
schoolboys to de-
molish scones, sand-
wiches,. and other
toothsome home-
made things. The
club’s books showed
some interesting
figures. At Tel-el-
Kebir, just before
we left for France,
a battalion of Dig-
gers came down and
accounted for one
ton of fruit-salad,
with sundries. On
another occasion the
Ist A.L.H. Regiment
surrounded three-
quarters of a ton of
the same delicacy.
And although the
club endeavored to
sell goods as near to
cost as possible, yet
at Tel it showed a
profit of £5OO in 11
weeks, the money
being utilised to spread the good work lo
other camps.
The story of~No. 5: —
From Houplines to Ploegsteert, at Fleurbaix, Bois
Grenier and Neuve Eglise, nothing about No. 5 was
remarkable. It, was at Ovillers she became as the
man-eating mares of Diomedes. There one solitary-
shell fell on the battery—it was on No. s—and5 —and only
grotesquely huddled bodies remained of the crew of
lithe, hard-bitten Australians. “The blighters must
have spotted her,” said the Captain, and next day
he had her shifted to the extreme right of the bat-
tery, and in what he then regarded as an excess
of caution he ordered that when she was not in
action the crew was to camp away from her. Two
gunners went to a shell-hole 50 yards to the right
and one to a dugout in rear. Out of thousands of
shells (Pozieres was in full blast) only two fell
near No. s’s battery. The men in shell-hole and
dugout never knew, but one shell brought the grey
hairs of a mother to the grave; the other was the
cynical answer of the God of Battles ro the prayers
of a fiancee in Molong and a wife and kiddy at
Coonamble. The now sinister reputation of No. 5
made the Captain, instead of telling off a crew,
call for volunteers; and on went the gun to Cpn-
talmaison. Enemy shells were falling round her
like hail when* she bogged, and in getting her out
four gunners went west. Killed outright, they
were fortunate; it was the fifth, left a legless
cripple, who drained the cup to its dregs. The
battery-sergeant, the sole survivor of the crew,
got his D.C.M. for sticking to the vixen and her
team and getting them safely to her gun-pit. But
it was for No. 5 the fall of the curtain. Scarcely
had she been placed in the pit before a salvo struck
her. The battery-sergeant spun round, sank to the
ground, and lay still ; one gunner bent caressingly
over her mud-spattered trail, and never moved
again; another, pressing back protruding entrails,
ran stumblingly a score of yards toward the enemy
lines before he collapsed in a kicking heap. The
Captain stared at the twisted ironwork and bloody
fragments which were all that were left of the,gun
and the crew. “Thank God,” he said, “it is’ the
end of that bitch!”
“Trot”: The allegation that Hughes was
lately struggling by cable to secure the
assent of the Commonwealth Ministry to a
project for erecting a great monument to
Australia in France may not be true. But
it has not been denied, which is ominous.
The little man is accused of yearning to com-
mission some celebrity in London to design
an edifice costing £lOO.OOO and of having
brushed aside remonstrance against the cost
with the remark that “no Parliament would
count the, pence in such a matter.” As I
have never been able to find a Parliament
which counted anything hut noses Hughes is
probably right. But whether there is justi-
fication for this outlay is another matter.
The erection by France of a permanent
memorial to the Digger could he understood
and appreciated. But for Australia to spend
a vast sum of borrowed money on flamboyant
national glorification in a foreign country is
ill-mannered, to say the least of it.
“Fair Dinkum” : Casual? Why, my next-
door bed-neighbor, on obtaining his discharge
from hospital the other day, went off leaving
his wooden leg hanging on the wall!
“Fivebar,” from Egypt:—
Of all the rotten negligence to be charged to
the Defence Department that in connection with
the clothing of Australian troops in the Egyptian
theatre stands out conspicuously. On numerous
occasions when administrative heads have been
passing, on their way to or from Australia,
notably Generals Anderson and Griffiths and Colonels
W T right and Wilson, their assistance has been sought
to make some impression on the crowd at home.
Yet to-day, with bare two divisions, we couldn’t
equip a squadron with a decent Australian rigout.
If it had not been for the Imperial authorities, who
have kept us supplied with various articles, we
would have been in a sorry plight indeed. Owing
to the fact that Australia couldn’t keep up supplies
of hats, A.1.F., London, was prevailed upon to come
to our aid. This they did with 10,000 of British
manufacture. The article is miles behind our own,
but still it was a bit of a lift. However, as the
life of this makeshift was about two months the
position was not materially improved. When de-
mobilisation started we were confronted with the
job of sending Billjim home a bit respectable as
far as clothes were concerned, and early in Jan-
uary the Defence Department, evidently with the
same idea, forwarded information that two con-
signments were on the way. But as these were
long overdue and were required to meet unsatisfied
demands the position was still very unsatisfactory.
In March the Department was again asked whether
the supplies had been despatched. The reply to
this was to the effect that supplies were awaiting
shipment, but space was not available. No further-
advice for a month, and again an appeal went out
advising that the two consignments referred to had
arrived and had been absorbed immediately on
landing-. Further delay of a fortnight and no re-
sponse, so once again this incompetent crowd of
muddlers was begged to take prompt action. A
fortnight later some sleepy soul awoke and cabled
that the delay was still due to lack of shipping, and
that every effort had been made Since January to
obtain shipping space for clothing packed ready
for despatch. Only a delay of five months! Mean-
while we looked and often felt like an army of
ragged beggars. There’s a kick coming for some-
body.
* * * -tt
“Tarwin” : The other evening, in Flinders-
street (Melb.), a driver hopped off his load
and entered a shop, forgetting to put the
chain on the lorry wheels as directed by
law. A constable sauntering along spotted
the omission, and went in after his prey.
A Digger who was supporting an adjacent
EFFECT OF BEAUTY.
MISS P LANE: “Yes, dear. I had to give up
nursing. They said the poor impression-
able soldiers couldn't get any sleep with
me in the ward."
wall stepped lightly to the lorry, put the
chain on and went his way. When I left
a very bamboozled-looking llop was scratch-
ing his ear with a pencil and trying to
conceal his notebook.
“Christian Berriel” : The Defence Depart-
ment allows the relatives of an invalided
soldier dying in Australia £lO for his burial
expenses. The relatives are required to send
in the receipt of the undertaking firm : very
few documents reach Victoria Barracks for
less than £2O, and some go to a much higher
figure. The Department knows all about
the prices charged, and if it thinks they are
fair and reasonable, then it admits that it
doesn’t bury the Digger at all. Its £lO
only half buries him.
“S.A.P.”: Reference to the inscription
“Here lies a Hun who met a Digger” (B.
20/6/’l9) reminds me of a cross near
Peronne. The epitaph is :—-
Here lies a Hun who once met an Aussie.
We don’t know his name, but this is his possie.
AN APOLOGY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, little girl, with eyes so true,
Who palely crept beneath the stars,
I ask of Heaven where are you!
All tremulous you broke the oars,
And with what sweet timidity
In summer dark you stole to me!
Our every meeting had the stress
Of dear adventure. Like a maid
Of olden tales from some duress
You came, deliciously afraid.
Where have you flown? Our wonder o’er,
Your little fingers cling no more.
All sweet things were forbidden then:
Like happy thieves we stole a share,
And o’er the hill and down the glen
Blessed dangers met us everywhere.
Serene, secure, I sit and rue,
My love, that e’er I married you!
VICTORIA.
Y. Z.


The Linseed Oil for Australasia
supplied by
ar
*9
X
/
T
Worßs :
Parramatta
/
1
)//M
U/
r
i
Then Why Pse IMPORTED?
Meggitt Ltd.’s Linseed Oil—Maturity Guaranteed.
CATALOG No. 2 MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents: Messrs. Harrisons,, Ramsay Ltd., 6G6 Bourke Street, Melbourne Messrs r? c e.
festnTnd HXrt W 0^ damS&CO ' J Perth * Messrs ' Clarkson Limited, Bundle Street, Adelaide. Messrs/ W Heritage *C™, Laum
MEGGITT LTD.
WORKS: PARRAMATTA
(THe Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia),
26 King' Street, SYDNEY
The Boy on the Bay
guarantees quality.


Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Reaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/0 per day, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002.
Apply Manager.
ħ
SPORTING
CARTRIDGES
Our Special Offer.
The Celebrated
SOVEREIGN, 21- per 100
SMOKELESS, 20 6 per 100-*nsooiots
CARTRIDGE, 20 - per 100-imooo lots.
This is the finest smokeless cartridge made.
12-Gauge, loaded, double-chilled shot, and
Nobel's Empire Smokeless Powder.
Shot Nos. 2,3, 4,5, 6, 8 and 10.
We have the largest stocks in Victoria
of Winchester, Remington and Dominion
Cartridges. Send for special list.
McEWAIM’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St, Melbourne.
King Geqrgi
theTOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Hargo”: “Mol Bourne’s” wharfie (B.
26/6/T9), who objected to 281 b. overweight in the
slings, had his prototype on Jim Crow diggings
(Vic.) half a century ago. Two Cousin Jacks,
father and son, were on a shallow sinking show
Jack junior at the windlass and Jack senior down
below. The boy struck against the old pasty-eater
bringing tlic tools up with him for sharpening. Final
notice of intention to strike against the practice
was given, but next day the old man showed up
near the surface with the tools as usual. “Go 'ee
back,” howled the boy; “I towld ’ee I wudd’n pull
’ee an’ the tools too!” And he reversed the handles
■and sent the old chap to the bottom, compelling him
to-send his picks and gads up first.
* * * #
“Melos” : In listing the world’s most ven-
omous snakes, “H.V.E.” (B. 26/6/T9) omits the
feu-de-lancc, deadliest of all, and our tiger. And
Australia’s brown, red-bellied black and copperhead
are in the honorable-mention class at least. Experi-
ments conducted by Prof. C. J. Martin prove that
the venom of the red-bellied devil is much more
potent than that of the cobra —that 1-1000th part
of a grain of the dried poison dissolved in 1 per
cent, of salt solution and injected into the vein of
a full-grown rabbit stops the machinery in less
than two minutes. But the cobra and rattlesnake
void, at a single bite, eight or nine times as much
as do any of our reptiles under similar conditions.
Their fangs, too, are longer than those of the Aus-
tralian crawlers and have a better chance of per-
forating a vein, which mode of introducing the
poison is alleged to be 10 times more deadly than a
subcutaneous injection. For a long time the death-
adder was considered our most expert poisoner ; now
the tiger, holds the title, I believe, i have seen
the brindle demon kill a dog in less than 15 minutes.
Compared with the common krait and the spectacled
cobras, our champion is more wicked and outs its
enemy in less time. Incidentally Prof. Martin and
J. M. Smith, in their experiments, found that, when
the poison is mixed with twice its weight of caustic
soda dissolved in a few drops of water and injected
subcutaneously, the effect is nil. This gives weight
to the ammonia treatment suggested by Prof. Hal-
ford.
* * * *
“Kiwi”: I have been droving sheep in
Maoriland for years, and have always found that
1 could do bigger stages against the wind, and that
the sheep were fresher than when the breeze was
going with us. My mate was crossing a mob of
a thousand store ewes at the mouth of the Hicks
Bay Hiver, when all of a sudden up sprang an
easterly squall. The jumbucks got into the sea, and
started swimming cut against the wind. We lost 20.
And, while I’m on the job, can any Abo. beat this?
A well-known drover on the east coast of M.L.
was camped on the road. During the night one of
ins assistants went to sleep and let the sheep get
away. At daybreak the boss sent his heading clog
after them. He halted them; but they had mean-
time travelled 10 miles.
* * * *
“Honrajci”.: “S. S. Severn’s” old gin (T’».
22/5/T9), who considered ttie piccaninnies sale
from the local alligator for that day because “he
bin eatchem one this morning,” was taking chances.
The ’gator never bolts his food fresh unless it is
very small stuff' like fish, lie much prefers to bury
it in the mud until it is sufficiently matured for
his! discriminating palate. He will go on collect-
ing provender in this fashion as long as opportunity
offers, much as a dog buries bones in the garden
bed to be dug up as required. That is probably
why alligators are so difficult to feed in captivity
and usually die of starvation in the end. If the
captives were given a bit of mud-bank in their
tanks and an occasional deceased dog or cat to
ripen, life might he much brighter for them and
the gate-money more enduring.
* * * *
“Khamsoen” (from Upper Egypt) ; May
1 resurrect the automatic-pistol controversy for a
minute? Carried a .32 Colt automatic through
Gallipoli, Egypt, Sinai, Palestine and Syria. In
SUFFICIENT CAUSE.
McBOOZELY ( who has just returned from
his wife's funeral, to portrait of de-
ceased): “My love, you musht forgive
me —it woszer (hie) speshul occasion!”
four years I have put through over 300 rounds, with-
out a single stoppage, and have yet to strike a de-
fective round. Magazine has been loaded nearly all
the time, and the spring is still O.K. T use onlv
a barrel holster, with the stock and working parts
exposed; and its treatment at times was d —d bad.
For a small wager at - Bayud my cobber loaded a
clip, threw the pistol in the sand and covered it
over. Without any cleaning the old gun slipped
the eight shots through like a Vickers. A bullet
in the forehead stopped a mad bull camel in his
tracks, though he had .just waltzed through a double-
apron entanglement without a falter.
* * * *
“Pick”: This is how one hush genius in-
veigles the fox. With his other camp equipment he carts
around a miniature wire-netted poultry-yard contain-
ing three or four roosters. The chooks, secure against
molestation, are temporarily domiciled in likely fox
haunts, with the earth around their enclosure
loosened up to show tracks of nocturnal visitors. At
intervals during the night the hunter starts . his
poultry-farm orchestra going by prodding up the
fowls and leading off with a crow or two himself.
Nothing brings a fox more hastily than a bird crow,
ing in a lonesome spot, and when paw marks show
that his nibs had been nosing around, dog-traps are
set in readiness for his next call. An average of
15 weekly has been secured by the bloke who holds
letters patent for the trick.
NO HOPE.
DIGGER (to O.C. cool-house): “How about
a mugful of water for a wash Joe.'"
JOE: “Can't be done. Digger. Had to pinch, some of the colonel's bath-water to make
tea this morning."
“T. 0.1.”: Here’s another instance of
sudden “swearing off.” lie was a drunken little
tailor of Fitzroy (Vic.), who spent every three-
pence he earned in beer. It was Warrior’s Mel-
bourne Cup year, and the little tailor (who had a
relative in the Saqui stable) was never tired of
naming the horse as the coming Cup winner. At
his favorite pub. of an evening he would hold
forth and advise all and Sundry to back Warrior.
One night the landlord said :* “If you are so con-
fident about Saqui’s Warrior, why don’t you stop
this” —tapping a pint measure—“and back him for
a bit ?” The tailor thought a second, exclaimed
“Good advice!” backed Saqui’s nomination with his
savings, and with the money he won made a good
start. Years later lie hadn't renegged and was still
doing well.
* * * *
“Six and Eight”: The serious drought
reported from the cattle country of North America
brings to mind one odd effect of a forme* drought
there. In the Western States are swamps frequented
by immense numbers of wild duck. From wealthy
sportsmen, who come for the shooting, the nearby
residents derive a considerable income, but during
this droughty season it was much diminished by
reason of the ducks dying in large numbe s from a
mysterious disease which caused, first, the loss of
the use of their wings, and then death. As the
same thing happened some years previously during a
similar dry spell, scientists were told off to investi-
gate, and the result of their researches showed mat
the ducks were dying from lead poisoning. The
swamps had been shot over so much that the ducks,
fo aging for stones to fill into their gizzards, as
aids -to digestion, had, on account of the lowness
of the swamps, picked up quantities of shot. When
swallowed the shot becomes disintegrated by the
action of the stones in the gizzards and lead poison-
ing follows. Fi\e grains were found sufficient to
cause death.
* * * ♦
“FY7” : The Angora rabbit, recently men-
tioned, is one of the big fancy breeds which were
common in Europe before the war. Breeders had
special shows, where gold medals, cups, etc., wei e
competed for. Like the Belgian hare and the
Dutch and others, the Angora rabbit has been bred
for table use till he has more than doubled the
weight of his wild brothers. His long blue fur gives
him an additional value, much of the “Chinchilla”
and other fancy-priced furs coming from his hutch.
Don’t understand what an Angora bunny is doing
down Bungendore (N.S.W.) way, as “Pick” recently
announced in The Bulletin. Perhaps some enter-
prising trapper has turned a few bucks loose with
the idea of bringing the local cottontail standard
up a bit. But they would take some getting into
Australia.
* * * *
“The Ofis'der” : This is how our cook in
a Darling River shed won a bet of £5 from the
boss. He wagered that he could evolve a synthetic
tripe out of old brown boots and other ingredients
and that the unsuspecting mob would clear the pot.
He sliced the uppers of four old pairs of crabs
and soaked the leather in relays of hot water for
36 hours. The material swelled and softened. Then
he steeped it in strong vinegar. A soaking in con-
densed milk followed, and the preparation, includ-
ing onions and the ordinary ingredients, was ready
for the pot. The dish was served up to five
hungry “guns,” with the cook's explanation that
the tripe was a tinned variety which he had pur-
chased from the hawking boat. There was none
left for breakfast.
“D.F.”: The eucalypts are not half ap-
preciated as flowering trees. Both in form and in scent
many of the blooms are hard to beat, and there is a
wide range of colors, from scarlet through pink and
yellow to the white of the great majority of species
—a white often tipped or tinged with cream. A
tree of the E. ficifolia, the scarlet-flowered gum of
W.A., such as that in the garden of G. W. Robin-
son, of Nar e Warren (Vic.), is a magnificent sight
when its masses of deep scarlet flowers are fully out.
This tree, which is over 50 years old, is 14ft. in
circumference at the butt, and the spread of its
boughs is over 50ft. As a result of hybridisation
and cultivation specimens of the E. ficifolia are now
found with flowers in various shades of pink, crim-
son and orange, as well as the original scarlet.
That a good deal could be done in this way with
other gums is shown by the fact that in the wild
state two trees which normally have white flowers,
the E. calophylla and the E. leucoxylon, have vari-
ant forms, with rose-pink flowers, passing some-
times in the leucoxylon into deep crimson. There
are several other varieties of eucalypts with red or
scarlet flowers, including the E. lansdoivnea of S.
Aus., which does not seem to have been cultivated
yet; the E. macrocarpa of W.A. ; the E. pyriformis
(golden mallee gum), with its yellow or crimson
flowers and seed-vessels as big as a small pear; and
two or three others. Both the E. pressiana and the
/•;. erythocorys have . rich yellow flowers, and the
flowers of the E. lehmanni (Lehmann’s gum) are
sometimes yellow and sometimes white. As the
eucalypts are probably a comparatively young race
and still in prog ess of rapid evolution, they offer
a great field for scientific “breeding.” Their
specific characters are not nearly so fixed as those
of many other plants, and they respond more readily
to the influence of environment. To this variation
is largely due the difficulty of determining the
species of many of them.
USED UP HIS AMMUNITION.
THE T ART: “ Don't hit I in. Bill; answer ’im
lack!”
HER BILL: “'Ow can I? ’ E’s said all the
lest words.”
“Buggy”: Be “Mrs. Lance Rawson’s”
par (B. 17/7/’l9) re use of the skin of a blaqk
snake as a cure for headache. I have been told,
too, on abo. authority, that if a black snake’s
envelope is wrapped round the body of a woman
in the early stages of labor a painless birth ensues.
(Continued on page 22.)
NOWADAYS AND OLDEN DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M'e toast our feet at a polished grate,
And sleep in a brass-bound bed,
W ith a square of carpet underneath
And a curtain overhead.
W’e eat our food with a silver fork
From a plate that is white and gold,
But it tastes less sweet than the bread and meat
Of the roving days of old.
W’e sleep no longer nor yet so sound
As we did when the years were lean,
In the rough old times and the tough old times
And the times that were in between,
When we camped on the lee of a fallen tree,
And dossed on a gum-leaf bed,
With a blazing fire beyond our feet,
And the stars shone overhead.
W’e sit on a sea-grass lounge and read
The news of the daily press —
Of the miner’s pay at a pound a day,
And the nation in distress.
And we’re glad to read of a peace that's signed—•
A peace that the world desires;
But it hasn’t the sting and it hasn’t the ring
Of the new's of the mulga wires.
W’e draw at a pipe of the latest make,
And the stem has a silver band,
As we sit in a flood of electric light
From a globe that is close at hand.
We watch the smoke in its spiral wreaths,
Or a floating filmy mist ;
But it hasn’t the balm and it hasn’t the calm
That we got from the raven twist.
We have day dreams, too, in our well-fed ease,
As we rest where the roses creep ;
But they're not the dreams that we used to have
In the days when we followed sheep—
When we followed the sheep on the western runs
Where the bluegrass decked the plains ;
And we haven’t the gleams of the fairy schemes
That are born of the early rains.
>Ve sometimes ride in a motor-car,
And scorch on a level track ;
But we don't feel the pleasure that once we felt
As we rode on the old bush hack.
W’e shiver and shake in our padded seat,
For the south wind cuts like a knife,
And there isn't the swing and there isn’t the fling,
And-there isn’t the joy of life.
And we sometimes go to a Charily Ball,
And waddle and roll and strut ;
’Twas a different rate and a different gait
That we danced in the shearers' hut.
And we hear a song and we say “Encore,”
And clap till the rafters ring;
But it hasn’t the sway and it hasn’t the way
Of the songs that the shearers sing.
We will die some day in a smug old way,
And be buried with pomp and style ;
And some will forget when we’re put away,
And some will mourn for a while.
But we’ll sleep no longer nor yet so sound
As those in the graves out west
W’ith the rough-cut lines on the stunted pines
That mark where the bushmen rest.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


PALING’S for
VICTOR PIANOS.
VICTOR PIANOS are undoubtedly the most popular Pianos
in Australia, and so they ought to be, as no other Piano has
given such grand satisfaction to their owners.
VICTOR PIANOS.
You will find them in the torrid climate of Port Darwin, and
in the snowy Kosciusko —it makes not the slightest difference
to them, they stand like rocks.
VICTOR PIANOS.
Thousands of our clients have written us after they have had a
VICTOR PIANO for many years telling us how glad they are
that they bought it, as it has given them remarkable satisfaction.
VICTOR PIANOS.
Can you afford to ignore such grand testimony? No, we
are positive you cannot. Then please call and try them, or
write to-day for free Catalogue and Easy Payment Price List.
PIANOS.
The VICTOR PLAYER PIANO.
A Most Delightful Instrument which
everyone can play.
Your old piano taken in part pay
ment and full value allowed.
H. PALING & CO. LTD
J
Est'd.
1853.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, NEWCASTLE and LISMORE.
THE “BOSS” HANDPIECE!
Its Marvellous Record for Economy has made it the Favorite with Woolgrowers throughout Australia.
Its Cool, Light Running and its Fast, Clean Cutting has made it popular with Shearers the world over.
The above are not advertising catch phrases—they are absolute facts that stand unquestioned to=day among
woolgrowers, contractors and shearers throughout the world.
h
During the past seasons we have been unable to supply one-tenth the demand for the
AIR-COOLED HANDPIECE.
5
■
-
- -
The fork drives from behind the bearing with a strong, easy leverage. Ihe tension-pin
never gets out of balance. Everything is self-levelling. Heat and friction are reduced
to a minimum. Wear is almost nil. Runs for months before it is necessaiv to tatve it
apart.
RESULT! Saves time in experting, and enables the shearer to put through more sheep
right along with less effort and reduces his outlay for combs and cutters considerably.
Hastens the cut-out, which pleases both the woolgrower and contractor, and, as testified
by numerous contractors, saves them at least 75% in cost of upkeep as against any ot ier
handpiece they have ever used.
Not only contractors, but woolgrowers throughout Australia are finding it decidedly profitable to install new
Cooper Air-cooled Handpieces, which can be placed on any make of overhead gear. The expert problem is
simplified, as anyone can do what little experting is necessary on the Cooper Air-cooled Handpiece, and last,
but not least, the saving in the cost of duplicates and upkeep IN ONE SEASON practically pays for the price
of new handpieces.
If you are fitting your shed with new machines, put in a Cooper Plant throughout.
If your old Handpieces need Repairing, fit your shed with new Cooper Air-cooled Handpieces.
It will pay you to write to us to-day for Catalog and full particulars.
Cooper Engineering' Co. Ltd.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
480 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Clarke & Fauset Ltd., Brisbane. N.Z. Loan & M.A. Co., Ltd., Hughenden, Townsville and Rockhampton. Australasian Implement & H.F. Co.,
Adelaide. G. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Perth. W. Hart & Sons, Launceston. Buchanan, Davidson & Son Ltd., Hobart.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY..
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COI.LINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH —
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH .AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Van der Talks Cocoa Essence
ABSOLUTELY PURE AND SOLUBLE.
Hanufactured in Australia from the finest selected Beans.
“A Square Meal in Every Cup."
Obtainable all Leading Grocers throughout the Commonwealth and N.Z.
Wholesale only from McINTYRE BROS., Sole Proprietors, Melbourne, Vic.
Agents:
Mr. .1. TP. WILSON. Brisbane.
Mr. DAVID BLASHKI, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Messrs. MADDOX & LAWRENCE, PERTH.
Mr. AY. R. LAXGSFORD, ADELAIDE. [2
“Mercury”: The strangest mates I have
ever seen were a cat and two big green frogs. Every
night at dusk puss would lie down at the door,
which was swung about an inch above the floor,
and put his paw through the crack with a stroking
movement. In a few seconds a frog’s nose would
appear, and in half a minute the cat would have en-
ticed the green fellow through the opening. A
little more stroking on the part of the cat and the
frog would hop a few feet away, watching, while the
cat, lying down at the door again, produced another
amphibian in the same way. The three would then
commence to play, the cat stroking and the frogs
hopping away a few inches, until pussy, tiring of
the sport, would wander off, and the frogs, after
waiting a few minutes, would get away through
the window.
THE COURTESY OF THE CORNER.
BILL: “I always say what I bloomin’ well
think, and bust ’em!”
JIM : “Cripes, Bill, you must do a lot o’
thinkin’.”
“Werrimee” : They were talking of lucky
finds when Bill the Battler told his yarn. “I had
a great misfortune once,” he said gloomily. “Was
ridin’ along on a cattle-pad when I finds a heap of
human bones, with a swag partly open and pretty
rotten alongside. Didn’t like to touch it. Some
men keep a look-out for corpses, an’ overhaul any-
thing like that. But I was off it. Reported it at
the police-station and led a constable and a tracker
out to the spot. The tracker overhauled the swag,
and may I never move further ’n Hell if there
wasn’t a pickle-bottle o’ gold, a heap of sovereigns
and a roll of bank-notes wrapped in shammy and
packed in a leather bag—altogether about £7OO.
And me as poor as wood! It’s a misfortune like
that what drives a man to drink. That swag’s
haunted me ever since. When I’m on the bust
’tain’t decent snakes and gohannas what does the
circus tricks; its swags! They come rollin’ and
bowlin’ and upendin’ at me from all manner o’
places. I tumble over ’em no matter where I
turn. An’ the one I’m carryin’ gets bigger and
bigger, and clings like an octopus. That’s one of
the jumpin’ things coinin’ round the corner now.
Let’s have a wet.”
* * * *
“C. Coral”: The talk about aboriginal
twins recalls a humorous incident at Stephen
Island up north. A woman named Eded gave birth
to an infant, and shortly after, in accordance with
custom, went into the • sea to swim. While in the
water she was astonished to find number two arrive.
The latest babe, like the first, did not live long.
Just as the islanders were agog with excitement
over this very unusual happening, a cutter hove in
sight, bound for Thursday Island, having amongst
her crowd a European. As the boat came
within hailing distance, a native ashore bellowed
to the abo. crew: “Eded been born two piccaninny.
They dead!” The white man gasped and on arrival
at • Thursday reported that a native woman had
burnt a couple of infants. The Protector at once
ordered out the Government boat, put some police
on board and despatched the turnout to bring in
the unnatural mother. It was a very inconspicuous
crowd that paddled back a few days later.
“Jobber”: I have never seen the ’possum-
cat mentioned by “Ginger” (B. 19/6/’l9), but a
bloque near me at G.ifflth (N.S.W.) owns a rabbit-
cat, which came out of the bush and attached itself
‘to him for rations. The hind part is rabbit, and
the fore part is just plain pussy.
* * * •
“Wandi”: Scrub yams ( Macroyamia ) are
good substitutes for potatoes when roasted or boiled.
The tubers are usuully very deep in the ground,
which means a good deal of hard labor to obtain
them, especially as they grow in the deepest jungles
where interlacing roots are encountered. Black gins
dig them up with yam sticks, which are like short
spears. The women work on their knees and dig
long trenches, following a root sometimes for hours.
The vines themselves when chopped up and boiled
make an excellent dish. On the Manning (N.S.W.)
and the rivers farther north a palatable forest yam,
or tulculli, which grows under a small plant with a
pink, velvety flower, was abundant in open, short -
grassed spaces. It was eaten raw, and could be
dug up with a penknife.
* * * *•
“Moobitta”: “Jim Carew” (B. 3/7/T9)
a&ks whether a dingo can be properly civilised.
The drawback seems to be his inherent cussedness
and his dim ideas about kultur. I reared one near
the Cooper years ago, a big handsome rotter, in
throwing him a' bone I chanced to stoop down
within the limit of his chain. He
grabbed me by the back of the
skull. Man is not often proud of
having a thick head, but just at
that moment I thought my old
dad was right. Otherwise that
dingo’s teeth would have reached
the brain. I gave him the wal-
loping that I thought would
steady him in any further attack
on my dignity, but I had hardly
flung him from me and reached
i again for the bone when he
attempted to repeat his act. I was
so astounded that I absolutely sat
down and looked at the fool.
There was not one glimmer of
humor or shame in his eye. He
was tame all right—would follow
me for miles; but if he saw a
stranger on the track he’d lope
off until the stranger had passed.
Then he would come back to me.
I took him to Port Augusta to
finish his education. One night
he got loose. I searched for him
along the shore next day, and just
as I was about to give him best
1 happened to look behind. There
he was, blood-stained slightly,
and he never let on he was glad
to see me. I don’t suppose it
entered his thick head that there
might be such a thing as strained
relations. However, I saw a feather
sjicking out of his coat. That decided me. Placing
a strap round his neck I took him up-town and sold
him to an admiring public ’ouse. I learnt after
that the town offered £lO reward for him, and
then increased it to £2O. I could have earned
that reward, but my modesty forbade. I returned
to the Diamantina to ponder.
* * * *
“Pick”; “Jim Carew” (B. 3/7/’l9) asks
if a real dingo can be properly tamed. He can.
Jack McKane, a Shoalhaven (N.S.W.) settler and
drover, once reared a full-blood that he had secured
as a pup. The warrigal was educated as a sheep-
dog, and, although he invariably exhibited symptoms
of his inherent wildness in the presence of strangers
or when near unknown dwellings, he was, to his
owner, a faithful and serviceable companion. Having
great stamina and feet of leathery toughness he
could outlast the domestic collies on long muster-
ing or droving trips; but he possessed one evil
propensity—an incurable habit of raiding and lay-
ing waste the poultry-yards along the stock routes.
“Gouger” : The old hatter gazed musingly
into the lire. On the rude hearth, showing no fear
of the flames, a fat bush rat was heartily nibbling a
stale piece of damper. “Well, Joe,” said the hatter,
“yer havin' a mighty good feed ter-night. Better
than huntin’ fer nuts down in the scrub. Hear ther
wind howlin’ outside ? Reminds me of a woman
singin’. That’s another blessin’ you’ve got ter be
thankful for, Joe. You ain’t got ter put up with
wimmen’s frills an’ fancies. I s’pose when you go
courtin’ you just scruff her, an’ if she says ‘Go ’way’
you nips ’er with those little teeth o’ yours! I
HOME.
LOWER BERTH : "'Struth! Footscray!”
wonder if your wimmen-folk bites back. Human
wimmen does, sometimes. I remember one bit me
once.” The old man looked very thoughtful. The
rat, having finished his damper, ran over his friend’s
bare feet, sniffed curiously at the hairy legs, hopped
on to the camp-oven, and began nosing around in
search of stray pieces of fat. “H’m, she bit me
all right,” resumed the hatter suddenly. “What do
you think of a woman like that, Joe? She could
’ave come up ’ere with me, an’ lived in a dry
humpy, with a stone hearth, an’ had. plenty of
tucker. So long as the rivers ain’t up I’ve got
plenty of salt beef; anyway, there’s whips o’ wild
pigs an’ wallabies in ther scrub, an’ tons o’ galahs.
Galahs is great poultry. An’ there’s plenty o’ peace
an’ quiet. It’s three year now since a white man
was up here. He shot himself soon, though. Good
job, too. Ther place was gettin’ overcrowded.” A
burnt-through log on the hearth crackled, snapped.
A shower of sparks flew up the rough chimney. The
rat, startled, leaped from where he had climbed to
the roof and landed on the old man’s bald head.
He slid down over the hatter’s forehead, clung for a
second in the matted sheaf of gingery whiskers,
hopped on the old chap’s knee, and slid
down his shinbone to the hearth. With a
sudden yell, the hatter lashed out simultaneously
with both feet. But the rat had slipped into a hole
beneath the hearthstone. “Hell take yer an’ all yer
damn family!” said the old pot furiously. “Hain’t
I told yer ther next time yer comes that trick I’ll
skin yer alive, yer squint-eyed little cow. St ike me,
wot with you an’ the blanky gohanna, a man’s life
ain’t worth livin’. Damn yer; I’m goin’ ter bunk.
When yer come out agen yer can talk ter ther
cockroaches. They’re the only company yer fit for.”
Still growling, the old man banked up the fire, then
turned towards his bag couch.
* * * *
“W.P.L.”: Here’s another simple way to
prevent a pipe from burning and cracking. Keep
four pea-size pieces of coke in the bottom of the
bowl, and, further, go gently when scraping it out.
Wedge the pieces of coke in firmly for a start and
they will not come out at each refill.
• • * •
“Azac”: For pride of place as a decorative
native tree I nominate the spotted gum ( E. macu-
lata). It is one of our most shapely gums; its foliage
has a very good, glossy appearance, and its wonder-
fully blotched and mottled bark is an outstanding
feature. Towards the close of each year it sheds its
old skin, which flakes off in irregular patches, dis-
closing colorations of brown, cream and pure white.
Another ornament that is worthy of mention is
that valuable timber tree, the river red-gum
( E. rostrata), which is found all over the Common-
wealth. Among the dwarf gums possessing decorative
bark the snow-gum is, perhaps, the finest. It in-
habits the high, cold mountains, yet it will grow
well in the lower and warmer spots. The member
of the family most popularly grown, especially for
shade, is the sugar-gum. In Horsham (Vic.) there
are magnificent avenues of these trees. Perhaps the
fastest grower is the mahogany-grim of Gippsland,
which has been known to rise at the rate of a foot
a month for 12 months in a suitable locality.
“X.Y.”: Bisulphide of carbon will deal
with any ant pest. Locate the main entrance to
the ants’ home and carefully pour into it an ounce
or two of the chemical; then close the entrance with
some moist earth or clay. The vapor arising from
this chemical, being heavier than air, permeates
every burrow and gallery,
and being a powerful nar-
cotic poison it kills with
certainty. Some people
apply a light to the en-
trance after the bi-carbon
has been introduced. This
is not only unnecessary,
but dangerous, as it may
lead to an explosion quite
capable of blinding the
operator. Above all, the
nests of sugar-ants are not
to be fired, as these crea-
tures construct great
caverns, usually under a
path, so that a match
applied to the entrance to
their nest may wreck a
large portion of the path.
For black ants it is best
to treat the nest just be-
fo:e dark, as by that time
all the inmates will have
returned. For bull-ants,
meat-ants and sugar-ants
daytime is the best. These
insects usually have sev-
eral entrances to their
hills, so that a small
quantity may be poured
in each, and a wet bag
placed over the hill. I
have not tried the chemi-
cal on white ants, but see
no leason why it should
not be useful if the nest
in the ground has been
located. One objection
to the use of carbon bi-
sulphide in a dwelling is
its vile smell; its danger is the explosive nature of
its vapor, which means that it should never be used
near a naked light.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: When we were building the
railway bridge over Deep Creek, near Lake George
(N.S.W.), the ganger worked ont a new scheme for
replenishing the oven with game. On a gravel
spit that extended into a pond the ducks used to
assemble in quacking mobs at night. Kemp liber-
ally broadcasted the point with maize that had been
well soaked in rum. In the morning the birds that
hadn’t sufficiently recovered from the jag were run in.
* * * *
“Trooper 202” : In captivity at a pub in
Murgon (O.) for the past six years is a fine speci-
men of eagle-hawk, tame enough to be handled
freely. It eats a couple of pounds of raw steak
daily, but has never been known to touch water
or any other liquid. I can underptand it refusing
water —but good beer !
THERE'LL COME A TIME.
STOREKEEPER (to new assistam): “Now.
didn’t I warn you to keep inside when
the mail was passing?”
“Sue” : Dad was at his last gasp, and the
family was assembled. He was making arrangements
for his funeral. “Git it over before milkin’ time.”
he said. Then, with a gesture of dismissal, he
feebly snorted: “I know it won’t be done right—
none of ’em can do a thing right if I ain’t there to
see to it meself.”
THE RAFTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The curlew calls to his cheerless mate,
The she-oaks sigh where the wood-doves woo,
As down the stream, dark . aim 'desolate,
The pine-raft drifts with its phantom crew.
Gaunt figures, still as the night, chest-bared,
Their faces wan in the fading light—
The lean, brown men of the bush who dared
The wind-whipped storms on mountain height
And swollen stream, as it seaward bore
Their plunging craft in a whirl of white,
With driftwood swept with a- sullen roar
Down dark ravines in the inky night.
No cheering thought of the journey’s end,
Or stirring song that would lend it wings;
No clinking chains as they turn “the bend” ;
No lantern lit at the for’ard swings
To light them safe o’er the sandy bars
That scorn the sway of the straining craft;
No smoke-wreaths waft to the watching stars ;
No gladsome glow' in the galley aft.
A brooding duck in the dank sedge-grass,
With . wings outspread on her downy nest,
Sits trembling low as she sees them pass,
And Woos her brood to her shielding breast.
The long years pass with their fret and pain;
The grass grows lank where the pine-tree sways ;
The tent-poles bleach on the sunlit plain
Where camp-fires gleamed in the far-off days.
The “blaze” may dim on the piner’s track ;
The pine-tree pass to the earth again ;
But these brave sons of the bush outback
Will live for aye in the hearts of men.
N.S.W.
G. D. MACDONALD.


»Ss
\
\
\
m
©
'Absol
<*kA
%yo.
°S// A
%
sRS
r%
S®gsi
11 —' ....
1
0
ST4Tfi(KPRfSS
CIGARETTES
Possess that charming' individuality that
is so appealing to many thousands of our
Australasian friends.— Quality same as usual.
“JUST PERFECT.”
®NUMBERS
O
jO
THE RED PACKET


Tried all other engines.
Replaced most of them
with the TYPE “Z”
FAIRBANKS MORSE.
s
m
u
■
“ A WONDER at the price.” That is the universal opinion among users
A
“Z.” Here is a letter which no engine
it shows clearly that when you buy a
of the dependable TYPE
buyer can afford to ignore
TYPE “Z” ENGINE you get dependable power and more than you really pay for
3,6, 10, 15 Brake-Horsepower Type “Z.” Kerosene driven.
Here is what Messrs. Lindley Walker & Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, have to say about the TYPE “Z”
“We have 10 of jour Type ‘Z’ Fairbanks Morse-Engines in use
driving our wheat elevators at the various depots throughout the State.
These engines are in almost daily use, some of them since J anuary,
1918, and we have found them thoroughly reliable and economical on
fuel. Our gangs have elevated about five million bushels since
January, 1918. We have tried all other makes of engines and replaced
most of them with the Type Z’ Fairbanks Morse Engine, which shows
that we think tl;at the engine is highly satisfactory.”
Water-Cooled
Hopper
Speed
Regulator
Built-in
Magneto
Crank Casa
Shield
Outside Igniter
Support
Protected
Fuel Tank
Pressed Steel
Skids
la Brake-Horsepower Type “Z.” Uses Petrol.
There are scores of other equally high opinions of the Type “Z”
from farmers who have tried it on all jobs under all conditions. It
has Built-in Oscillating Magneto, which guarantees quick start in all
weather. Throttling Governor guarantees smooth, steady running
under all loads. 3,6, 10, 15 Brake-Horsepower Type “Z” Engines use
kerosene —and use it without the excessive fouling of valves and plugs
that is common to ordinary kerosene-driven engines.
Every type “Z” is more than rated horse-power—there is always
more power when you want it for the unusual job. The type “Z”
is built simply, it is easily understood and there is nothing to get
out of order. You can only judge an engine on results, by the
experience of actual users. Write to any of the following agents
for Special Booklet, fully describing the type “Z” and giving the
opinions of some of its many users.
Dangar, Gedye & Co. Ltd., 9-13 Young Street,
Sydney; J. Bart ram & Son Pty. Ltd., 586-588
Bourke Street, Melbourne ; Winchcombe,
Carson Ltd., 99 Eagle Street, Brisbane; Jas.
Ward Ie & Co., Victoria Square West, Adelaide ;
Mai loch Bros., 52-54 William Street, Perth;
A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart.
from the thin by indexing the naughty jests.
They range from the crudely indecent to the
vulgarly obscene, though it must be admitted
that Joe Miller’s admiring Boswell was re-
sponsible for at least two or three “blue”
stories which were subsequently brightened
and put into decent smoking-room circula-
tion. The mildest of all it is, perhaps, par-
donable to reprint an account of its literary
character:
Mr. Drvden, once at a dinner, being offered by a
lady the Rump of a Fowl, and refusing it, the lady
said: “Pray, Mr. Dryden, take it ; the Rump is the
best part of the Fowl.” “Yes, Madam,” says he,
“and so I think it is of the Fair.”
Rougher repartee than that can be found in
Swift’s “Polite Conversations,” which,
although published only a year previous to
the appearance of “Joe Miller’s Jests,” was
probably written 20 years earlier. But the
Drydenic anecdote gives no idea of the moral
tone of some of the gems in the antique vol-
ume. And they were issued, we must re-
member, for the equipment of wits, diners-
out, shining lights of sassiety, in the early
Georgian era. They were given, in all seri-
ousness, to the methodical Yoricks who
memorise yarns with a view to setting the
table in a roar. The question they raise to-
day is: Were the Miller Jests ever regarded
as bright by the intellectual society that
laughed over Dean Swift’s satire when it
was new to the world?
O.K.
Problems of the Pacific
Problems of the Pacific, by C. brunsdon
Fletcher, is an up-to-date work (the pre-
face was written in May, 191,8) which covers
a fair amount of time and a great deal of
water. It has no extraordinary literary
graces, and the arrangement of the facts
is rather haphazard, and the writer has dug
out nothing very new. Still, he has got
together a considerable amount of weather-
beaten information which was worth collect-
ing.
The problem is, of course, the one that is
everywhere and has always been everywhere
since there were enough people to make an
argument —that of ownership. It is so
hackneyed that it is hardly worth calling a
problem. It is always being solved, and
the solution leaves it as insoluble as ever.
In the Mediterranean it was settled when
Tyre and Sidon fixed matters to their own
satisfaction for ever and a day, and it has
been settled so often since then that the list
of settlements reads like a catalogue of aban-
doned selections or intestate estates. The
Pacific interrogation may be set forth as
follows: —-
Will the existing Great Powers that sit beside
Balboa’s puddle, the United States and Japan (pre-
sent in person) and Great Britain (represented by
its agents, Australia and Co.), stick to the policy
of a peaceful division of the spoil? (Incidentally,
how will France and Holland come out in this con-
nection ?)
Or will there be a violent division among them ?
Will one of them be shunted out by force or in-
ternal decay, leaving two ?
Will two be shoved out, leaving one?
Who will shove, and who will be shoved?
Will one or both of the Great Wrecked Powers
(China and Russia) recover and take a hand?
Will the very big man who is always liable to
happen turn the republics of South America into a
solid Federation, and throw a bigger United States
into the scale?
Will the totally unforeseen happen ?
And after all these things have happened, and the
totally unforeseen has happened, and when the totally
unforeseen is played out or worn out and makes
room for the entirely unexpected, will the ultimate
Problem of the Pacific be fairly started?
C. Bnmsdon Fletcher , supplies interesting
scraps about defunct German intrigues
among the islands, but he doesn’t really de-
fine liis problem, nor explain what he thinks
will happen to it. He is solid, however, on
the point that a great deal of the world’s
politics have moved to the Pacific, which is
so obvious that anybody might see it. World
politics are very movable. They only began
to really exist on the Atlantic coast of
America within the memory of people still
living, and they didn’t really move into the
Pacific till the rise of Japan and the open-
ing of the Panama Canal, which are both
recent events. Before that, petty war vessels
from afar merely carried round a few loose
politics as ballast. Mr. Fletcher is also solid
on the point—which is really as apparent
as a meat-safe —that the Pacific is coming
into the inheritance of its job as a sea battle-
field. Any centenarian can remember when
the native fighting force of Balboa’s bit of
water was almost wholly junks, and junk
battles don’t count. Now there are four
battle-fleets of the sort that count —those of
Japan, the U.S., Australia and Chile —owned
in these parts. Where four lions —to say
nothing of prospective lions —roar along a
shore which formerly had only prawns on
it, it requires no outsize in prophets to see
that the locality is more liable to accidents
than it used to be.
(William Ileinemann, London.)
Verse and Poetry
“D.M.W.” and Mr. Furnley Maurice (B.
3/7/’l9) have accused me, in effect, of being
a supporter of “awful crudities” in rhyme
and an “apostle of the slatternly,” when the
only thing I was trying to do was to give
poor Pegasus his head, so that, if lie felt
inclined to gallop, he could gallop. Yet at
the same time both these writers agree that
the old horse should be encouraged to do his
best. F. Maurice says that folk who cannot
conform to the set rules of verse “should
write poetry, and be forgiven their prosodic
sins” in the great uplift which their work
would give us. How does he distinguish
between writing verse and writing poetry, at
the time of writing? Except to those who
do verse as others do puzzles and acrostics
or a job in plumbing, every inspiration is
a poem in embryo, to the writer of it, until
it is printed—and very often after that. My
argument was not to make writing poetry or
verse easier, but to encourage freedom and
swing and dash, and all the characteristics
which make for life. Everyone recognises
that there are certain set forms • of verse,
such as the sonnet, the rondeau and the
triolet, in which the rules of rhyme are cast-
iron. But in the ballad, rhythm carries the
rhyme very often, and makes the latter less
important, although indispensable. And here
is where “D.M.W.’s” line of argument runs
neck and neck with mine. He says that
the idea that “wind” is a mere visual rhyme
when coupled with such words as “mind” is
“one of the indications that the reading of
poetry aloud is becoming a lost art.” It is
purely on a sound test that “wind” has been
challenged in countries where it is pro-
nounced “winn’d.” And it is by the same
test that I dai;ed to suggest the rhyming of
“galloping” with “enveloping”—by the sound
of the line as well as the rhyme. “D.M.W.”
holds that there are no poetic qualities in
“enveloping,” and perhaps he is right. But
many words are like individuals in the
matter of hidden qualities. And I ask him
to read aloud the lines below. They cover
two questionable rhymes, according to recog-
nised authority. But are the discrepancies
really glaringV—
In the song of big seas there’s the sound of hoofs
galloping,
With voices of multitudes urging them on.
From each crest in the breeze bursts a glory en-
veloping
Heaven and earth and the stars and the sun.
Only in special circumstances would a word
like “galloping” be used. And in this
instance it seems to have been imperative
that the lines should close with a rhyme.
Both on a sound basis and on the ground
of appropriateness, “enveloping” was used.
Though not au exact rhyme it does not offend
the ear. And I remind both gentlemen that
I said: “If galloping and enveloping come
into the straight together, let them go for
their lives.” The idea to be conveyed was
of a happy accident of meeting—one of rare
occurrence. I had no idea that anyone would
be after them with an axe. However, since
all debatable points in verse-writing—and
undebatable, too —are to be settled by the
writing of poetry, the only matter to be
stressed is that Furnley Maurice and others
need no more fear that Australia will
“contrive a prosody founded upon the comic
song of the music-halls” than he need have
feared that Australian soldiers would light
their battles in ragtime. They did not
adhere to British army practice, it is true;
but they did better. What is there to stop
Australian poets from doing better likewise?
This brings us to the very pertinent question
suggested by Maurice, “What are our poets
saying?” The wild waves said “Sister”
the whole day long. All the verse which is
being written in Australia just now isn’t
like that; still, a great deal of it is. There
is nothing Australian about it. One of the
conditions under which literature is entitled
to live is that it shall be national, reputable
and recent. It is the spirit which makes for
nationality. The works of Kendall, Daley,
Barcroiit Boake, Brunton Stephens. Essex
Evans, Henry Lawson, “Banjo” Paterson,
Roderic Quinn (at his best), E. J. Brady
Ogilvie and others who were writing 15
years ago breathed Australia, the Australia
they knew. Are the poets of to-day, with
all their observance of rules of prosody, re-
flecting the Australia of to-day? The ques-
tion conveys no reflection on the quality of
their work. Most of it is reputable; but is
it recent and is it national? Freedom is the
first characteristic of anything Australian.
And if Pegasus is held in to the trot all the
time, will he remember that he has the
power to gallop somewhere in his system?
WILL LAWSON.
A Satchel of Books
Stewarts’ Handbook oj the Pacific Islands, 1919
(seventh) edition. Percy S. Allen, the compiler of
this excellent handbook, is congratulated. His his-
torical and descriptive sketches are attractively
written, and, wherever possible, he has added lists
of the officials, principal residents, tariffs, trade
statistics, etc., which make the book useful to the
business man as well as the tourist. Another feature
is the bibliography of Pacific Islands literature.
There is also a handy map.
The Land Girl’s Story, by Bertha Buck (Ilodder
and Stoughton, London). The city girl goes on
the land in the stress of war-time. A nicely-written
yarn for the young person, but with no special
literary merit.
The Love Spinner, by Clara Turnbull (Methuen,
London). The heroine is “haughty” and “superb
in her insolence.” The central figure is the spinner,
“a sweet old maid” who goes about helping people
and matchmaking. The book is pretentious and
badly written, with stiff, impossible dialogue; and
there is ho saving salt of humor in it.
Little Houses, by George Woden (Methuen, Lon-
don). A mid-Victorian yarn of a quiet sort. There
is a setting of poverty and struggle; and very
ordinary domestic events take on a lot of interest
through the sympathetic touch of the writer. There
is real power in the book, which is by a new author.
Fruit of Earth, by J. Mills Whitham (Methuen,
London). A gloomy drama of English country and
farming life. The work is well done and convincing,
but the atmosphere is too depressing.
The Valley of the Giants, by Peter B. Ivyne
(Hodder and Stoughton, London). There is plenty
of good color in this book, which is a yarn of the
timber-getters in the redwood belt of California.
But the dialogue is a bit stiff; and the characters
are too exaggerated to convince.
Nothing but praise can be given to the technical
production of Domestic Architecture in Australia,
the latest number of “Art in Australia.” The
letterpress is delightful, too. But little else can
be said ill its favor. Really Australia, as a whole,
is not so stupidly un-Australian as one would think
who did not know that the illustrations here do
not illustrate typical Australian architecture. Here
you have Europe, with its suggestion of snow an.l
bitter cold; not Australia, with its need of broad
verandahs. Even the gardens of which glimnses
are given are English; and the English garden,
however beautiful it may be, isn’t Australian.
“Veva B.” (London) : Still another Digger
artist enters the Fleet-street arena. Will
Hope, a Maoriland disciple of Will Dyson,
has joined the staff of the Herald, London’s
Labor daily. Hope was for some time in
America with New York and Chicago papers.
“Brod”: Victorian W. J. Turner, who
wrote a pretty book of verse, “Dark Fires,”
is shortly to embark on the turbulent sea
of magazine proprietorship in London. His
partner in the venture is Nicholson, one of
the original Beggarstaff Brothers. It is to
be a quarterly, and Walter de la Mare, John
Masefield, Siegfreid Sasoon, Thomas Hardy,
Robert Nicholls, Robert Graves and W. H.
Davis are to be contributors. Turner has
just recently been demobilised from the
Garrison Artillery.


H
ome
'witlia
om
rox'i
Radiator
ĥ
s®
SK
m
i to#
w
m
m
!: 7///
'm
///
•/Mk
f
I
§a|
8
With a G.E. Luminous Electric
Radiator you can have the cosiest
corner in any room in the house.
Its cheerful glow produces a
pleasing warmth without ashes,
dust or danger from fire or ex-
plosion. Just place the Radia-
tor wherever you desire, attach
the plug, and the cosiest corner
will be right there, filled with the
warmth of glowing electric fires.
We stock these convenient and ornamental
Radiators in a variety of attractive designs.
COME IN AND SEE THEM.
ħ
Wentworth Avenue
SYDNEY
h
Cr. of* Queen 'S> Little Collins Sts.
MELBOURNE ™


i £
SUCH COMBE C'lBSpjTS
I Prices tor Elios, .\
-
The Enemy in Sight.
High Prices for Skins. If that’s
what you want, consign Rabbit,
Fox and all other skins to
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN ONLY, LTD.
Sydney OR Brisbane.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mulled Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his little way. He likes,
and must have, the best.
Mellin's Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother's Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the
battle. Then, what a boon to the
mother to use a food which requires
no tiresome cooking or preparation.
Mellin’s
Fbod
U made in a flash— needs no cooking
Send for sample of Mellin’s Food and Hand-
Look for Mothers ’The Care of Infants’—Free
Messrs. Gollin & Co. Proprietary
Ltd., Sydney
HpRBOCKSES - HORROCKSES' HORROCKSt
ĥh
HORROCKSES’
V
St
IN USE
ALL OVER THE WORLD
I AWARDED THE CERTIFICATE OF THE
[incorporated INSTITUTE OF HYGIENE
HQRROC KSE 5 HORRQCKSES'HORROCKSt S|
ĥ
WILL SURPRISE YOU.
STOCKED BY
PERROT, 334 Rent Street, Sydney.
BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
PERROT, 883 Hay Street, Perth.
2-9
After reading, will you please send this paper to
the Red Cross Book, Magazine and Newspaper Dep6t,
5 Wynyard Street, Sydney, or place it in one of the
receptacles provided for the purpose. All copies thus
received are divided equally between the Red Cross
Society and the War Chest Fund, and are posted
weekly to our soldiers abroad.
Peace or War.
The big demand for Wireless Operators continues —and must
continue.
THE MAGNIFYING
VALVE RECEIVER,
with its enormous range of 12,000 miles, has annihilated
space and made Wireless Telegraphy the most efficient system
of Communication.
Now is the time to fit yourself for these positions.
DAY AND EVENING CLASSES.
Specialised Correspondence Course.
Our Correspondence Course was written and is directed by
Experts who know the full scope of the Government Examina-
tion for the First-class Certificate —the only Certificate for
which we train you.
We invite you to call and see our Wireless Stations in operation.
Full particulars supplied on application.
SUPERINTENDENT,
Marconi School of Wireless
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
And 422-424 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
“SEA, LAND AND AIR.”
Topical Australian monthly. On aM bookstalls. 9d. per copy; 9/- per
• annum post free. Get a copy to-day.
aHiii
mwmm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
A-Z
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
ijHAS^
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES-Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“ Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Acent z Adelaide A§ent ■
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. A. W. LEWIS, 62 Brockman Buildings
ftgff
For b Flavour.
Used the
World Over
E 5
MOTOR
...CARS
ħ
a c£e>jr>o,<2
e/iLCfin. © <3 nL tjlcjr
efficient cy~ <arJLd
aenarctf eXc?eflencG
UNBEAM
rxisiV £>q itLcfgGcL
by Ag of lj^s
ejCfe/xsiVe clsg tn.
a.ll bfiQofres' ofwon
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD.
Export Department: 62, Oxford St., London, W.l.
Head Office» . Wolverhampton. England.
To the unique reputation gained
in competition successes previous
4o the war, must be added that
achieved by the renowned
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
Heiron and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney) :
To Deficit
f -Dividends v Reduce(Good-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. Deficit, will).
Mar., __ £ £ 60,000
lql = 6 p.c.— 3220 8 p.c.= 4800 4269 55,731
ISIS;! 058 6 ~ „ 3220 6 ~ ~ 3600 2038 53,693
1917 . 9 793 6 ~ ~ 3220 8 ■„ •„ 4800 1773 51.9-0
’ Goodwill items added £B7 .. 52,007
1918.. 9,988 6 p.c.= 3220 8 p.c.= 4800 1968 60,039
Goodwill item added, £j ••
1919.. 13,470 6 p.c.=3370 10 p.c.=6000 4100 40,944
Six years ago the people who were run-
ning the old Heiron and Smith and Alcock
billiard businesses decided that they could
both score better if they gave up trying to
snooker each other. So the two concerns
were amalgamated and Alcock s was potted.
The new co. also acquired the Sherwood, Ltd-
wallpaper business, and set out not only to
sell billiard-tables, but also to provide the
trimmings. Later on it went further into the
problem of how to make a man happy though
married, and undertook the manufacture, and
sale of a singing-machine, and has seemingly
done well out of it. Further, during the
war period the management, apparently
fearing that the demand for luxuries might
. fall off, decided to go in for manufacturing
1 various necessities which had been previously
imported. But what the directors did not
reckon on was that the politicians would
resort almost entirely to loans to pay the
war bill, with the result that instead ot
billiard-tables and talking-machines not being
in demand, the artificial prosperity brought
along customers H. and S. never hoped to
sight. So one way and another gross profits
on trading have been pushed along: 191 •>
£19,411; 1916, £17,375; 1917, £.21,049; 1918,
£22,601; 1919, £26,474. Many of the co. s
sales are made on the t.p. plan, and an
amount not far short of half the paid capital
is due by sundry debtors. Capital being
insufficient to finance the business and the
whole of these debts, the co. had, at March
31, to lean on the bank to the extent of
£23,793.
The balance-sheet figures have moved this
way since the end of the co.’s first year:
1915. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities .. .. £9,951 £25,903 £33,188
Sundry debtors .. 39,605 4 5,570
Stock . . • • 20,654 28,072 37,210
Property and plant. . 12,041 21,000 20,803
Odds and ends . . 485 2,180 2,322
Capital is £117.164; £60,000 in ordinaries
and £57,164 in prefs. Since 1915 £3500 < f
fresh capital has been got in, and liabilities
have increased by £23,237. Meantime book-
debts have expanded by £10,458, stock by
£16,656, property and plant by £8762 and
other assets by £1847. Providing the stock
is worth all the books say it is, then the co.
has in four years improved in position by
about £ll,OOO after paying the prefs. their
6 p.c. and giving the ordinaries an average
8 p.c. p.a. In other words, since 1915 the
ordinaries have left in the business profit
eoual to another 44 p.c. on their capital
each year. The old interests have done very
well 'indeed out of the amalgamation, for
though the current 10 p.c. div. looks nothing
out of the way, the big wad of shares passed
out for goodwill (£60,000) makes their re-
turn handsome.
* * * *
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1911.. £1826 10 p.c. = £750 £1076 £18,433
Dec 1911.. 1907 12 „ 900 1007 19,440
( 1838 10 „ „ 750 1088
June, 1912.. j Transferred to capital, £ 5000 / 15,5 - 8
Dec., 1912.. 1732 12 p.c. = 1200 532 16,060
June, 1913.. 1528 10 „ „ 1000 528 16.588
Dec., 1913.. 1758 12 „ „ 1200 558 17,146
June, 1914.. 1610 10 „„ 1000 610 17,756
Dec 1914.. 1878 12 „ „ 1200 678 18,434
June, 1915.. 1488 10 ” „ 1000 488 18,922
Dec., 1915.. 1679 12 „ „ 1200 4-9 19,401
June, 1916.. 1503 10 „„ 1000 503 19,904
Dec., 1910.. 1656 12 „ „ 1200 406 20,360
June, 1917.. 1453 10 „ „ 1000 453 20,813
Dec., 1917.. 1771 12 „„ 1200 571 21,384
June, 1918.. 1673 10 ~,, 1000 673 22,057
Dec., 1918.. 2188 12 „ 1200 988 23,045
June, 1919.. 1964 10 „ „ 1000 964 24,009
This progressive little co. decided a couple of
years ago that its future in the home town
was too limited, so it extended the good work
to Geelong. As a result, since 1917 the
trust funds in its care have expanded by
£515,863, compared with £345,686 for the
previous two years. In 10 years trusts under
administration have moved on from
£1,412,977 to £2,803,145 ; in other words, since
1909 the co. has doubled the business which
had taken 22 years to accumulate. Since the
war the estates have, of course, been earn-
ing more, and that and the growth of the
funds have helped commission earnings. So
gross profits have improved from an average
of £3745 per half for the five years to June,
’l4, to £5050 since then. But exes, have
been mounting, too: an average of__£323o is
now called for compared with £1970 in the
earlier period. Hence the margin left for
shareholders has shown very slight improve-
ment. But they can’t complain; average
net profits since 1914 have been equal to 18
p.c. p.a. on paid capital of £20,000. Still,
there are £24,000 of reserves to help. The
reserve fund for several years has stood at
£20,000, and other accumulated profit is
nowadays stored in the P. and L. account,
but is to be tapped later on to provide
bonus additions to shares. There are 20,000
shares of £2 10s. paid to £l. Only ss. more
is callable for investment, as 255. per share
is earmarked as a reserve liability to pro-
tect clients. The co.’s own funds are well
quartered. Of the £45.009 of assets, no less
than £36,447 is in Government and municipal
securities and cash, and the rest in free-
holds, etc. At June 30 it did not owe any-
body a penny.
* * * *
The Central and West Boulder Co. re-
norts that its Nigerian tin venture is an
investment “of a most promising character.'’
Co. still hangs on to a couple of blocks at
Boulder, which the Board says are being
“protected and preserved” by tributors.


)
Opp. G.P.0., Melbourne.
Ever Wear
Guaranteed
Working 9
Trousers ■
That’s what we do with
London working trousers
guarantee them to wear
well. If you are not satis-
tied you get another pair
FREE. What could be
fairer than that?
SAMSON TWIST
TROUSERS
are extra strongly made
from extra strong material
—hence their name. Try
a pair yourself.
BUCKSKIN TWIST
TROUSERS.
You simply can’t tear
them—they hold together
like iron. Have non-split
seams—riveted buttons
and Denim pockets.|J ’ j
6
12/6
m
r
■
I
-
fc
H
Order Your
Size by Post.
State your waist, seat,
inside leg and calf meas-
ures and we’ll fit you just
as if you were personally
in the Store—-Opp. G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
BLOCKED PUTTEE LEG-
GINGS, as illustrated,
one solid piece of leather
throughout, no joints or
seams to come apart,
strong spiral strap with
top strap and buckle.
Obtainable in tan or
black.
London Opp. G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
14/6
Sound Wear and Perfect
Comfort for the Horseman
Three essential features about London Riding Breeches and Trousers
—CUT right to fit right and give freedom in the saddIe—TAILORED
in our own workrooms by a staff experienced in making garments of
this character; all seams strongly sewn —and the MATERIALS have
been carefully chosen for their sound wearing capacity.
Cfq crej
Mr. Horseman, London Opp. G.P.O. Riding Breeches and Trousers
are the last word in good wear, good fit and good Tailoring. As a
uarantee of good faith and satisfaction we put our own Brand on the
arments we make. Carriage paid to any part of Australia on orders
amounting to £l. Please state your measurements when ordering.
THE LONDON DRAB DRILL RIDING
BREECHES.—You can get this material
between your fingers and try to tear it—but
it holds together like iron. A medium-weight
cloth with a tremendous wearing capacity—
just ideal for Riding Breeches.
A free easy cut tailored in our own work-
rooms, full seat, self strapped, laced at knee,
and pockets of same material. Every pair
guaranteed. A new pair free if you are not
satisfied after a fair test of wear.
London Opp. G.P.O.,
Melbourne.
21
THE LONDON CANTON MOLE RIDING
BREECHES.—Now here’s a Material for real
hard service—and the way the Breeches are
made they’ll hold together quite as long as
the fabric.
A beautiful soft satin-finish surface. Seams
are strongly sewn and taped for extra strength.
Tailor-cut and Tailor-made in our own work-
rooms. A perfect fit guaranteed. Strapped
at knee with same material and laced. Fast
color, olive shade.
London Opp.
G.P.0., Melbourne
30/-
LONDON RIDING TROUSERS. Which will
you have—Satin-finish Canton Mole, in Grey
and Olive shades, or Fawn Cotton Cord?
Your choice of both materials in stockman’s
cut Riding Trousers at the same price.
These are Trousers Tailor-made in our own
workrooms. Good strong pockets have been
used and the bottoms sewn on to stay on.
Good for horse-riding, sheep-drafting or any
stockman’s work.
London Opp. G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
21/-
Opp. G.P.0., Melbourne.
Our Only Address in Australia.


h
ĥ
hosiery
C PECIALIZED
methods in desi&n-
in& and knitting pro-
duce in Luxite Hosiery
a closely woven tex-
ture of remarkable
durability and re-
splendent beauty un-
surpassed for the
money by any other
hosiery in the world.
Don’t accept substitutes and think
you have “Luxite.” Insist upon
the genuine. If your dealer is
unable to supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty.Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
Edison Blue Amberol
Records for July.
ħ
Every taste is catered for, and the usual high Edison
standard is'consistently maintained by the records listed
below.
Marie Sundelius and Giovanni Polese contribute the two
delightful concert records.
Particularly popular items include: “Over There (Billy
Murray and Chorus) ; “My. Sunshine Jane”(M. Remain) ;
“Is it Nothing to You” (B. L. Shepherd) ; “Royal
Italian March” (New York Military Bandl ; and
“Nightingale and the Frog” (W. A. Moor and R. Kohou).
Make your selections at once.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28118—Thais —Alexander ! Massenet.
In Italian. Giovanni Polese
28283—fa) Vallat, (b) Fjorton ar.
Soprano, in Swedish, oreh. ace.
Marie Sundelius
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
3275 —Over There, Tenor and Chorus, orch ace.
Billy Murray
3340 —Mother, Dixie and You. Baritone, orch acc.
Arthur Fields
3372 —Royal Italian March
New York Military Band
3304 —Is it Nothing to You ? Soprano, orch acc.
Betsy Lane Shepherd
3398 —So Long, Mother ! Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard and Male Chorus
3408 —Waltz Memories—for Dancing.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra
3412 —-Dixieland Memories —No. 1. Orch. acc.
Orpheus Male Chorus
3417 —Medley of Irish Reels
Accordion, piano accompaniment by
Denis L. Smith. Patrick J. Scanlon
3424 —When You Hear That flaggy Refrain.
Tenor, orch acc.
Billy Murray and Male Chorus
3430 — Tho’ I Had a Bit o’ the Devil in Me.
Tenor, orch. acc. George McFadden
3431 — Favorite Hymns of Fanny Crosby—-No. 1.
Mixed Voices, orch. acc.
, Calvary Choir
3432 — Nightingale and the Frog—Op. 119, No. 2.
Piccolo and Bassoon, orch. acc.
Weyert A. Moor and Benjamin liohon
3433 — Are You Prom Heaven ?
Tenor, orch. acc. Vernon Dalhart
3434 — Blackthorn-stick Medley of Jigs.
Violin, orch. acc. Charles D’Almaine
3435- —Katy Mahone.
Male Voices, orch. acc.
Shannon Quartet
3438 — Shepherd, Show Me How to Go.
Mezzo-Contralto, orch. acc.
Nevada Van der Veer
3439 Garden of Love —Caprice.
Peerless Orchestra
3440 —‘Gatden of Allah.
Tenor, orch. acc.
Vernon Dalhart
34 ll—Life’s Railway to Heaven.
Baritone and Tenor, orch. acc.
Edward Allen, Charles Hart and Chorus
3442 — Rambler Rose —One-stop, for Dancing.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra
3443 — VVe Want the Flowers Now
Tenor and Baritone, orch. acc.
Vernon Dalhart and Lawrence E. Gilbert
3445—Mv Sunshine Jane. Tenor, orch. acc.
Manuel Domain
3440 —Kolmla March,
Instrumental Trio.
Ford Hawaiians
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
-a/urjEi;
Every productive branch of the
war department — ordnance, air-
craft, navy, emergency fleet—
called into service the Leßlond
Rapid Production Lathe, for the
quantity production of bar stock
and simple chucking operations.
They did great War Work.
LE BLOND LATHES
MANY were called, but few lathes stood up to the strain of war work and
justified themselves like the LE BLOND RAPID PRODUCTION LATHE.
These are the features which enabled it to “ do its bit ” without jibbing:—lnstant start and stop
to spindle, provided by a powerful friction clutch in largest step of the cone pulley; and a friction
brake operated by same lever. A driving cone 50 per cent. larger than usual on a lathe of this
size. Patented Heavy Duty Bed, positive clutch, one=piece apron, feed unit of all steel, heat
treated gears. Its general simplicity and solidity always enable it to outlast all other Lathes.
Le Blond Catalogue will be mailed on request, or representative will call. Send us your enquiries for machine
tools. We are sole Agents for Le Blond Lathes, Warner & Swasey Turret Lathes, Gisholt Turret Lathes,
South Bend Lathes, Prentice Radial Drills, Heald Grinders, Landis Screwers, and other hig i-gi at e oo s.
BENSON BROTHERS Ltd.
76-78 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
71-75 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, MELBOURNE.
138 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
Reconstruction of Vic. Ministry has re-
sulted in a gain of £5O a year to Lawson.
He will now draw £l4OO, and the other
seven salaried Ministers £lOOO a year each.
When Bowser was Chief Sec. he was allotted
£lO5O, and Lawson £1350.
It is a tradition among kings with shaky
thrones to invest part of their steals in a
neutral country as an insurance against
disaster; but only a fool-king declares war
against the country where his nest-egg is
hidden. Ferdinand of Bulgaria, however,
having less sense than his wonderful nose
suggested, made war on Britain, and now
the £400,000 which lie managed to save by
strict inattention to business has been seized
towards the indemnity.
, “Jim Carew” : I have two pipes made from
the root of the wild cherry, and 1 can
honestly say that they are the best I have
ever’ smoked. The wood does not crack, and
you get a good, cqol smoke. They were made
for me at the Morisset (N.S.W.) saw-mills.
Incidentally, these saw-mills make a large
number of tool handles, and export them to
Maorilaml, where they are in great demand.
I am told there is no Australian market for
them. I wonder why .
The curse of the imported Labor boss is
on Canada, too. Following trouble in the
metal trade there was a call for a general
strike. Then somebody analysed the com-
mittee of 15 which was running the busi-
ness, and found that all but four came from
the old countries of Europe —including
Russia —whose industrial conditions breed
rebels. They are not to he blamed for
what they are: the fault lies with the home-
grown workers who accept them as leaders.
“Dial Sight”: Fritz played his dirtiest trick
when he placed dummies in No Man’s Land,
and, manipulating them from his trench,
caused the stuffed Bodies to make appealing
motions to our trenches. When I first
heard it I was inclined to think it was a
pure iirpliy; later I read the official warn-
ing in an officers’ book of instructions de-
voted to the latest enemy ruses, etc. The
booklet related several instances of res-
eufers being shot, and instructed all Wood-
bines to be careful.
Milleft, Minister for Repatriation, points
with “not a little pride” to the fact that 98
per cent, of his departmental staff consists
of returned men. It would interest a lot
of people to have an equally frank state-
ment from other Federal departments.
Another acceptable set of figures, suggested
by recent rumors of sackings and sub-
stitutions in a Commonwealth department,
would show (1) the Billjim percentage of a
year ago in each department ; and (2) the
percentage at work in the same offices to-
day. The war is over; but Australia’s
promises to Billjim remain.
“O. Blin”: The curious jealousy of Vic-
toria shown by some N.S.W. politicians may
be usually a contemptible grovel to a con-
siderable public feeling, but there are one
or two gentlemen in whom the sentiment is
personally strong. Hector Lamond, the
grey-haired cherub who represents Illawarra
in the Reps., is one who is genuinely resent-
ful of Victoria’s place in the Commonwealth
system.. Hector is never tired of pointing
to the alleged overwhelming influence of the
Cabbage Garden, and he actually revels in
the thought that poor old Ma “lias become
a suburb” of her arrogant neighbor.
“Kliamseen”; In the Egri Flat (Jordan
Valley) stunt, when we were going back fa-4
and four waves of Germans and Turks were
busy flanking us, there were numerous
isolated little scraps. One of those to whom
adventure come was a mounted orderly, who,
suddenly rounding a spur, was pounced on.
and his bridle grabbed, by a couple of hefty
Jackos. “Finish Australia!” they yelled.
“Finish be damned!” snarled the trooper.
Passing the Jacko on the right a backhander,
and sinking in the spurs, he lit out for
home and safety; and, although well pelted
with lead, he got there. Afterwards asked
what his sensations were at the moment, he
said he had a vision of himself breaking
stones for Abdul on a handful of dates a
day, and reckoned any risk better than that.
From Rabaul:-
Far from being downhearted, the Germans here
are as arrogant as ever. They boast of bringing
Dr. Hahl, ex-Governor, back to Rabaul as manager
of the wealthy German New Guinea Co. It isn't
impossible; for the Australian Administration has
already given permission for several Germans to
return from internment. (One of these, by the way,
assisted in the flogging of the Methodist missionary
Cox.) Australians won’t get many jobs here: the
Germans, who are about the only ones with jobs
to give, will employ Germans. From early July a
new Jap line of steamers is to trade; but a wire-
less message from Melbourne prohibits the export
of copra in anything but a British bottom. As the
new co. is alleged to be American and Australian
as well as Jap there is likely to be trouble.
Certainly if “8.P.” is to have a monopoly it should
be under close Government control.
“0.K.”: I see a time coming when
Webster’s postal service will be denied to the
public for a whole .week at Christmas and
Easter, that P.O. employees may have a
unanimous holiday. Webster is unpopular
with his public servants, yet of all the
P.M.G.’s that ever were he tries hardest to
win their favor at the expense of public
convenience. By his holiday extensions he
has, however, earned only further disrespect.
Other public conveniences are reasonably
maintained whilst the general community is
off duty. Train and tram services are kept
going. Even the telegraph service is not
entirely suspended. But Webster has out-
rivalled all his predecessors in cutting off
means of communication by the post. The
old stereotyped line “inter-State mails des-
patched and received as usual,” appears no
more in the tables of holiday postal arrange-
ments. It is as though postal employees
differed from railway employees in needing
to be all let off the chain at once, in which
false assumption the Government of this
country stands alone.


_ . 1
.. ••' : 7
' m
? *V■
.
■HHftMiiipi
gt *, yij" i* h*7. f * V! '■ > t*'."' '
r
91
'i’ V fV ",,;18
vsJj
(SI m 8
am V\ Si 1
■uni
r * •*
-
W
mm
f
*.. j
m
m
, ■ /
s■<. if
B
7
r
■
ptr
■
%
m
SB
J*
I
IS
.
m
mm
wemm
wM^i
. Ji
t *l7
777.,.,
r.
K
# 7
.
1.
i iflligg
■ i
sft
XV
■7*7; 7
111
m
fcd
fciW
j|l
i'4®W •-•< 5» . !
a
If
a . IE
*
• • V
77777777
HP
,
.7 V
* !
J
:
HI
■
■
>
■
Vm
m
m
m
■
7
■ • .
m
7,777:77
'L
K
• t - .'•-
a
Can they be bettered?
motorist who uses Goodyear
-L Tyres, believes them to be the best
that can be bought and the best that
can be made. In both senses he is right.
At any given time in their history Goodyear
Tyres representthe highest point of achievement.
Assuredly there will be improvement revealed
by future research. And when it is—the very
instant it is—the Goodyear Company will apply
it to their product.
In this search for betterment the Goodyear organisation
never rests. There is a ceaseless cudgelling of inventive
brains; an endless ferment of laboratory activity; a tireless
application of trial and test and experiment; an everlasting
ferreting after the most deeply hidden truth.
Nothing but the best will satisfy Goodyear. And because of that
high ideal the motorist can rest assured that in Goodyear Tyres he
will obtain, now and henceforth, ■ the best that is humanly possible.
Buy your Goodyear Tyres, Heavy Tourist Tubes
and Tyre Saver Accessories from the Goodyear
Service Station. There is one in your iocality.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES
IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES
SERVICE STATIONS AND
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
-c^O"


h
BABY
Itching
and Chafing
Soothed
ndHeakdfoj
Cuticura
Mothers, don’t let your little ones
i suffer because of eczemas, rashes,
irritations, itchlngs, burnings or
! chafings. Cuticura will afford in-
stant relief, permit rest and sleep
and point to speedy healment often
! when all else seems to fail. Bathe
| with hot water and Cuticura Soap,
I using plenty of soap, dry and anoint
| gently with Cuticura Ointment.
These super-creamy emollients are
a boon to tired, fretted mothers of
skin-tortured infants.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
"*R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
m
SAUCE)
Rich Thick
Fruity
Just try a few drops
with cold meat, or
even bread and cheese
you have never
tasted anything so fine.
Of all Grocers.
CHARM OF MANNER
may be enhanced by beauty of the face. A ‘
touch of SWAN DOWN gives just that
delicacy and purity to the complexion which,"
being scarcely perceptible, is admired the more.
TETLOW’S
m
FACE POWDER.
Imparts a delicate bloom to
the complexion. So 'Pare that
it -willnot Harm the most ,
delicate Shin..
ENGLISH
PRICE
ĥ
, per
box.
In Five Tints:
White. Cream, Pink,
Flesh and Brunette.
OTStores. Chemists
First C/ass Drapery Houses'
% Perfijmers everywhere
SS
Wholesale DisfribuKng Agente-
Messrs. ELLIOTT EROS.. LIT)., ,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY/ HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney. i
LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS!- 1
Quelch & Co. 4 & 5. Ludg»t« Sq.. London, E.C.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.,
ħ
.
rrywmraeqa
rat*vy»
=2J
Ess
AFTER A HARD DAY’S
WORK
You want something to tone you up, help
you enjoy and digest your dinner and have
a good night’s rest. Try a few drops of
Dhosforino
I THE ROYAL TONIC
This is a real nerve invigorator, and will tune up
your whole system, so you can tackle the work
and worry of these days, with ease and certainty.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton &C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
SI
C AO
C-A-C- L
:CXI c-A-c-
-:<r fic-A-c-
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
C-A-C'
GNvaa
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - * Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
ret
«vN\\\\W
50 Drops
of Oil
Three
Times
a Year
is all that is required to keep an
h
Self-aligning
Ball Bearing
in excellent condition. Think what your annual
saving would be in lubricant alone were your
plant equipped with S.K.F
ALWAYS SPECIFY S.K.F.
ĥ
MELBOURNE SYD NEY B RISBANE
Business. Bobbery, etc.
“Werri”: Bought some corn (maize) at a
Marrickville (N.S.W.) produce store, the
other day, at the rate of 14s. per bushel.
Noticing the poor quality and the very
short grain, 1 asked what kind it was.
“African,” was the reply. “What!’’ I said,
“is this country importing corn now ?” “Yes,”
he answered, in a matter-of-fact way, “from
South Africa.”
* * * #
“P.T.0.”: The manufacturers and re-
tailers of grocery lines in Vic. are trying
to get together on the lines of the Pro-
prietary Articles Trade Association. The
members of this body fix both wholesale and
retail prices, and if they catch a retailer
selling any line at below the fixed minimum,
all the members are bound to refuse to
supply him in future. Nothing is said about
selling above the minimum. The Association
controls many articles handled by chemists,
and every once in a while it issues a price-
list giving the wholesale and retail mini-
mums for about 300 articles. ( On some of
them the retailers’ margin of profit is small,
but on one line it runs up to close on 100
p.c. The wholesale price of the stuff, which
is intended to keep off mosquitoes, is sd.
less not more than 2$ per cent., and the
public can’t get it below 9d.
* * * #
W. M. Billings has built a model factory
at Footscray, where he is turning out twine,
rope, sacking, bagging, etc., made from
eucalyptus bark. The staple is of good
length, the fibre is strong and durable, and
the cost of production less than that of im-
ported twine and bagging. As the bark of
many species of eucalypts can be employed,
and as this bark is at present the mere
waste product of the suppliers of palings,
posts, telegraph poles, etc., the cost of the
raw material is very little. Binder twine,
ships’ hawsers, bran-bags, coir mats —all are
turned out for less than the imported
article costs. Even the waste fibre goes
to stuff furniture or caulk ships or help
make fibrous plaster or mouldings or cork-
board. Billings wants the new industry re-
served for returned Diggers, which is quite
right; but all hands will have to reckon
with the blandishments of the jute, hessian
and bag importers.
* * » *
Jack Scaddan, who, as Westralian Minis-
ter for Industries, has been investigating the
matter, finds that Australia supplies nearly
four-fifths of the world’s mother-of-pearl
shell, and Westralia contributes about half
of that. Practically the whole of the raw
material is sent overseas to be made into
buttons, knife-handles, etc., a proportion of
which the Commonwealth itself buys.
Happy Jack reckons that, having control of
the raw product, Australia has control of
the market, and he has asked Millen,. Minis-
ter for Repatriation, why partially-in-
capacitated soldiers shouldn’t have the
work. Millen is considering the matter. If
Millen could supply jobs by considering the
matter there wouldn’t be a Digger in Aus-
tralia without the chance of a job.
* * * *
“Comm”: Auckland land-sales have been
registering big figures, the tallest being
£lOBO per foot for a 51ft. Queen-street block
hacking on to High-street. Still, this isn’t
quite an Auckland record, for John Fuller
and Sons, in 1912, paid £l2OO per foot for
the 33ft. Queen-street frontage known as
Tanton’s block.
* * * *
“Joe Blow”: The settlement of a soldier’s
account on discharge is now made through
any bank, and a nominal roll is compiled
prior to disembarkation stating the bank
which each Billjim desires his money to be
paid into. A recent Victorian draft com-
prised 503 all ranks, and the banks were
favored thus :—•
Trading Banks .. .. .. 92
Commonwealth . . . . . . 11l
State Savings . . . . . . 300
Did the atmosphere of the Commonwealth
Bank on the other side savor too much of
military officialdom?
# * * *
It is solemnly recorded in the Vic.
Government Gazette that the tender of
C. C. Baker for the supply of rations lo
the Murtoa lock-up at 6d. a time for No. 7
and 18d. a time for No. 8 has been accepted.
If Baker has any political ambitions this
contract may be his undoing. There is an
instance on record of a Vic. storekeeper who
was persuaded to enter into a bargain to
supply a loaf of bread and a mug of tea
to the rare drunk who was shot into the
local lock-up. He forgot all about it till he
was lodging his nomination paper for the
Assembly. . Then the returning-officer tipped
him the wink, and he got busy on the wires
denouncing his contract
THE TEMPLE OF SHAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“T. Walsh, sec. of the Seamen’s Union, says that
he looks upon the Arbitration Court as the most
degrading institution in this country. Women are
required to go before it and give evidence legarding
the cost of their clothing.”
Why should this monstrous thing survive?
Unless we are quite dead to shame
We will with ceaseless fervor strive
To tear it down, in Freedom’s name—
This House of Degradation where
Our wives are called on to declare
The purchase price of boots per pair!
The Inquisition seems quite pale
Beside this Horror! Friends, arouse
Yourselves! What woman would not quail
When asked the value of a blouse?
How futile is the claim that we
Live in a country of the free
While such debasing things can be!
Let Want be felt throughout the land;
No ship shall leave an Austral port,
Though Hunger stalk on ev’vy hand,
Until the Arbitration Court
Is turned into the sort of place
Ladies may with their presence grace,
Knowing no blush need mount tue face!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


Stop Torturing
Toothache Quickly.
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
U
Let STOPAIN Stop That Borins Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quicklv, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
Cjr
m
rrt
yo a J d h a vß or^f ,,r **^ ri,, get rid of ©very corr
got without pain or discomfoi t.
neSr ndy -w rn Cure is remar kable because il
raw |f ltate , s or . the true flesh sore or
harmlef Ca " t '” lt ’ s tha t antiseptic, safe and
armless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
Bo * everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
/ 7
n
-S3
K
•JS
• l*4«»
x *msm
<r~>
a-*;s» i
a2~O ?
o i.*T\n ;o
2»SC" II
§ ?
*§S3s*B
§£*!"
o
o c=s
Oiß
2®.
O o« o
Co
”0 S-
go
CT ?==:
a
*•<
COUGH
REMEDY
Cougtis.Colds.
CROUP.
WHOOPING COUGH
f HOARSENESS.
BRONCHITIS
SORE THROAT
INFLUENZA
OND OTHER AFfECTJONS OF THf
THROAT and LUNGS.
Couchs
COA.Q
/
N 5
i/
Happy, Healthy Children
are those who are protected
from winter ailments with
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy.
Their mothers know the danger of coughs
and colds and how to heed the warning of
an approaching attack of croup.
At the very first hint of any of these ail-
ments they are given Chamberlain s Cough
Remedy, which wards off the attack and
keeps tnem happy and healthy. There is no
better medicine for children.
COUGH REMEDY
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. Tne great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Chara-
berjain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenlv
and when this remedy is at hand ail danger
may be avoided.
Ce Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysen'ery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
the married, or those in-
tending TO 3IARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
OtSpr ASK FOR IT ’ AND TAKE NO
UIHER ' PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
1/6'pasted 0 LS nf'’T 2y/ '' Ho ' v 10 Get Rich,
l/fi n Br ‘ Lamartine’s Silent Feiend,
larged edit?or' E 40 Y 8 ART - 0P BoXIN<3 > new en ’
DaScp i/« "’ *2 en » ravi,1 f?s, 1/6. How to
Mom Vr /vn,?° te / ' How T 0 Wrestle, 1/6.
S/ t (a rare book b - v Defoe), 1/3
• Card Tricks, 1/3. All
K D uCATivo nC T, J il ln? W NANA ’ 2/G each Posted.
Made East Horse. 1/3. Ventriloquism
l/'6
Memory 1/r JI OW , J° Strengthen the
’ s Standard Elocutionist,
SIR ROBERT
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle of the Oni-
veuse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Tea Cup Fortune Telling, 1/3.
How to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. The Australian Fruit
Gardener, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
bt Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free
Fowler's Science of. Life, 12/6. - Australia
Miners' Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-
Mahomet's Fortune-Telling Book of Fat
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3
How to Become Quick at Figures. 1/3. Wil
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San
dow's Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughter
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook. 5/6
Motor Mechanics, 3/9. Motor Manua
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog
Raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Maki
Sweets, Jams and Syrups. 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting ani
™ IRISC ' 2/3. Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
~T„„dC STRALTAX Pastrycooks’ Guide. 1/6.
r?i-cVv S i^cc. FO f^ rUNE telling CARDS—LOVE.
Hmfs IN i E /fi S ’ ™TUUITY, etc ’> with full direc-
tions. 1/6 posted. Gamblers' Secrets and How
Wp/rl C o?° S ’ V 6 ’ How T 0 r ead Faces
9/3 H ’ U 2/ ’ - Sold ekikg, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated.
i T /g RaS * A 5 Gttstave ’ I/*! 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
n*G, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. HotleM
Caku Games (iiules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man fkoai snowy Uivek,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Rush-
Rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner's Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society. 1/6.
Cabinetmakers' Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide. 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON'T BE FOOLED
INTO PA Y/NG MORE.
New Tricks with Cards. 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine. 1/3. Odd Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted
VEST-POCKET DICTIONARY, 1/6 posted. TOKOLOGY,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
I'Ruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
IvECII A J lONS AND HEADINGS, 1/3. NERVOUSNESS
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary. 1700 pages. IGOO ilins
leather bound, ray price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors. 2/3.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. 1/3 posted."
Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses. 1/3 The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasi-utin"
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life's Shop Window. 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted, the Escaped Nun, 2/- Six
Women (by Victoria Cross), 2/-. The Black
Prophet, 5/3. Tom -Tones (Fieiding), 3/-. Aus-
tralian Miners and Prospectors’ Guide, 2/-
Adventukes of John Johns, 2/6.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
0 B ° OK STORE ' « 8 » Market Street, Sydney «u>
BOOKSELLER TO THE CO MM ON WE A L TH.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP
HOME
At the War
.V. V,';
m
a?
><: / ■: h. m-Jr
•'* • * .••' / a
y ; /*•*/■■' ■
w
sfe
CjtfHjfiSi
W’/
m
■ ' v -Wjklik•:- v.'' -.-: < ?>b
/'U
m s
.. ■*
m
m
m
■ tim
;• .
■>.
a.
«
_££2
V ')-M.-r
v£v;< .\
&S
BHH
VL
£
-V
' :
y
IS 08
h
fv
i?
-tyKi
V
ass
«=D
mmm^
<*■
’sm
3
VT
\r
cr
’ JS..-i
Sb
<sX
dm
.-■■-'-i
t-J
' O /vl Vr*
*n?ww
44
Cobra, Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Flags the guardship
Off the blue.
So he ends
The lon o' blockade
o
And the seas
Are free to trade.
All the pirates
Gone below,
Home at last
The Sailors go
H ear the cheers
Upon the breeze:
“Hurrah! COBRAS
Cleaned the seas!


iIWM
Mania
alula
'
nauaa
fc'J
A. Saunders’ Inkstand, pure Silver-plated, hand burnished,
Cut Glass Bottle, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Real Ebony
Hair Brush, solid Silver
Mounts, fi last-quality
Bristles, 25 /-
A. Saunders’ Stun iiux. pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, hand engraved,
Ribbon design, Silk-lined, 12/0.
A. Saunders’ Shaving Cup, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, hand en-
graved and burnished, 30/-
A. Saunders' Gent.’s Collar Box, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, beautifully burnished and engraved,
Silk-lined, £3/15/-
TOILET GIFTS
A. Saunders' Solid Silver Toilet Brush Set, comprising Mirror,
Brush and Comb, hand burnished and engraved, in Silk-lined
Case, £4/10/-
—*
A. Saunders’ Glove Box, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, richly
engraved “Ribbon” design, Silk-lined, £5.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
305-815 George Street
(Opp. Railway
Station).
Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Jewel (Jaskei, A 1 quality, pure Silver-
plated, highly burnished, Silk-lined, 30/ -
A. Saunderc Puff Jar, hand engraved,
Ribbon design, pure Silver-plated Lid,
Crystal Glass Jar, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Head Silts
Bottles, solid Silver
Mounts, Cut Glass Bottles,
7/6, 10/6, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver
Hair Brush, fir.ext-quality
Bristles, Empire Design,
at
iii
A. Saunders’ Gent.'s Ebony Brush Set, Sterling
Silver Shields, finest-quality Bristles, in solid
Leather Case, 25/-
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli l'lieatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
■piTOLI I' II 13 ATH K, SYI) N K V
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
A BOX O’ TRICKS.
Another Sparkling Musical Cocktail.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
-piVOUI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH PRESENTS
THE FASCINATING MUSICAL PLAY,
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
1~l K It .VI A .1 K S T Y ’ S, S V I) N E I
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 9.
A SEASON OF GRAND OPERA BEGINS.
CAVALIERLY RUSTICANA and I PAGLIACCI
Saturday and Wednesday.
LA BOHEME,
-Monday, Wednesday Matinee, and Thursday.
IL TROVATORE,
Tuesday and Fiiday.
QUEENSLAND:
THE KEY TO
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars of the
millions ol acres of
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE
/Vame
Address
Queensland Government
lateHigence and Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE
h
S.B.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Dep6t, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Cl! I T I? It IO N TII 15 A T It 15. SVI)NICY
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
and FLORENCE YOUNG.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE PINK LADY.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 9,
OH, OH, DELPHINE!
Plan at Paling’s.
PA I, A 0.15 TIIEAT It E. SYDNT E Y.
Sole Direction —J. & N. TAIT.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays.
HARRY LAUDER,
the World's Greatest Entertainer,
and
INTERNATIONAL COMPANY OF ARTISTS.
Prices: 10/-, 7/6, 5/-, 3/-, 2/-
Plans at Nicholson’s.
UNION PICTI'It E TIIISAT It E s
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM
STRAND. GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
C 5 T. K I X, D A BEACH,
Melbourne, Victoria.
THE ENGLISH PIERROTS’ PAVILION
TO LET FOR COMING SEASON.
The Most Commodious and Up-to-date
ALFRESCO THEATRE in AUSTRALASIA.
SEATING ACCOMMODATION, about 1800.
£425 per annum. Lease three years.
SYDNEY ARNOLD. BEST & CO.
16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
HER MA.J ESTY’S Til EATRE, M ELHOU It N i
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 9.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. revive the Ever Popular
OH, BOY!
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Til RAT UR It OY A J,, \l ICLISOU KN !'.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present America’s
Notable Comedian,
M. B. FI OMAN, in a Revival of
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
CJNG’S Til RAT KB. MELIS«C It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT Present the Sparkling Comedy,
DADDIES.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
BILL FARNUM in FOR FREEDOM.
DOROTHY GISH in THE HOPE CHEST.
Prices as usual.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Why “Fx & R” SPOONS?
Ist—Because of their special
value.
2nd—Because they will wear 40
years.
3rd —Because they are made by
the new process that gives
them extra hardness and per-
fect symmetry.
4th—Because only the extra
quality is stocked.
5th —Because they have been
tested fov over 40 years and
found to look perfect after
that use.
6th—Because, weight of silver-
plating considered, they are
the cheapest spoons offered.
7th—Because they may be pur-
chased singlv or in dozens,
in case or out of case.
Bth—Because all designs are
shown.
A 1 Old English Table Forks and Spoons and Soup Spoons,
per doz 65/-
Less 20 per cent 18/-
52/-"
Dessert Spoons and Forks . 55 /-
Less 20 per cent 11/-
44/-'
Tea Spoons, per doz 28/6
Less 20 per cent 5/6
23/-
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain Figures—Cash Only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
Amusements.
V.IKSTIC Til HAT It E. MISLHOUItNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
NORMA TALMADGE
in
THE HEART OF WETONA.
Plans at Allan’s.
I, A C I A It IU M, MELIIO C K N E.
ICE-SKATING.
SEASON NOW OPEN.
DI GILIO’S BAND.
DUITANMA Til K A Til IS. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ICI.lt A Til HAT UK. JIELIIOUHXE
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including:
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Medical.
B
For Kiddies
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


I
s>
i£t
S3-*"*
*9*s.
Wor £bery Occasion-
ABBOTS LAGER
ciAcffieer without a VtiUa/
BREWED FROM PURE ONES'
BUILT for the STIRRUPS
The Peapes Riding Boot is built on a last of special design and is
so modelled that it gives resistance to stirrup-friction, although of
light construction throughout. The soles are light and flexible
but very tough. The welts are close, as required for the stirrups.
Uppers in one piece, without seams. Strong elastic sides —leather
pull-on tags. Smooth leather lining.
Black or Tan 32/6
Cheaper quality; black ... 18/6
Peapes’ par' postage. Please state size and width of fitting.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 3U GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ĥ
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHtWrS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Grand Opera
Criterion .. “Oh, Oh, Delphinet”
Palace Harry Lauder
Tivoli ~,, “A Box o’ Tricks”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Mpving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Oh, Boy!”
Royal “Nothing but the Truth”
King’s “Daddies”
Tivoli “The Officers’ Mess”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
lce Skating
As Leasop’s team of airplanes pulls this
Bulletin to press “The Pink Lady” (who in
private life is Gladys Moncrieff) is at work
at Sydney Cri. preparing to pack away her
distracting parasol and become “Oh, Oh, Del-
phine !” It is difficult to c.atch up with musical
comedy, critically speaking, on such hurried
lines. All that can be done is to mention
that the members of the old reliable R.C.O.
Firm—comprising such persons as Leslie
Holland, Flo Young, Phil Smith, Addie
Lennard, Olive Godwin and Reg Roberts —
are all there and all going strong. They
will be on view for the last time this sea-
son in “Delphine,” which opens on Saturday
night.
* # :J: *
“The Silent Witness” will be ungagged
until Saturday at Sydney Majesty’s. Then
the Firm’s re-organised company will begin
its grand opera career.
Saturday night found Sydney Opera
House crowded out, for a play “with a plot”
was on the boards. “The Night Side of
London” is simply sticky with plot, and puts
the business girl right into a box-seat as
regards the white-slave traffic. Rosslyn
Vane is the flesh and blood which Rutland
Beckett as the villain Steinberg has deter-
mined to immolate. However, Manuel
Errington (Roland Conway) steps to the
rescue, and snatches the tempting morsel
from under the crimson villain’s nose. The
company continues its propaganda work all
the week.
* * *
Lauder, at the Palace (Sydney), keeps
doling out the old favorite songs about sen-
timent and whisky, and Muriel Window in-
tones “When the Preacher Makes You
Mine” and “Mr, Jazz Himself.” These are
the things that lure the not-too-elderly citi-
zen away from his winter fireside while meet-
ings languish for quorums and other strange
animals.
Waller’s bright show at Sydney Tivoli has
changed the label on the chocolate box to
“A Box o’ Tricks”; hut the smiles on the
girls are the same old smiles and nobody
would mistake it for an utterly different
show. Archie and Gertie Falls are > still
making accident insurance experts gasp, and
comedian George Welch remains a standing
annoyance to Prohibition lecturers.
* * S|S *
The J.C.W. grand opera season begins on
Saturday at Sydney Majesty’s. The bill
for the first week offers “Cavalleria Rusti-
cana” and “I Pagliacci” on Saturday and
Wednesday nights; “La Boh&me” on Mon-
day night, at the Wednesday matinee, and
on Thursday night; and “II Trovatore” on
Tuesday and Friday.
“THE PINK LADY." AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Phil Smith as Dondidier and Addie Lennard
as Madame Dondidier.
“The Passing of the Third Floor Back”
is t]he big picture of the week in Sydney,
with Forbes-Robertson in the star part.
The Lyceum is showing the film, which
conveys its lesson of spirituality. At Hoyt’s
and the Havmarket Dorothy Gish helps to
discQver, “The Hun Within.” This mainly
concerns' a German father 1 , who has become
a loyal American citizen, and his horror in
finding that his ’ son is a throw-hack to
Prussianism. The same theatres picture a
scamp of an Irish boy kidnapping another
man’s girl for him, with results verging on
the disastrous for the other fellow. Moral:
Never be proxied by Patrick in an affair
of the heart. Crystal Palace and Strand
are held in thrall by gutta-percha Alice
Brady, who bounces from one thing to
another with such rapidity that she seems
to have fathomed the secret of perpetual
motion. In despair an easy-going husband
throws off his sloth and carries ’"The Indes-
tructible Wife” to. a cave, where he tames
his shrew and has mental visions of a life-
long siesta. At the Globe the Vernon
Castles pair dance all the latest steps in
“The Whirl of Life” ; and on the same
sheet Ethel Bennetto and George Irving give
a heel-and-toe reply to the query "Does the
Jazz Lead to Destruction?”
“Daddies” at Melbourne King’s continues
to offer the magnificent spectacle of Jerome
Patrick writing Best Yellers for about a
dollar a word, while Margaret Nybloc lingers
about waiting for the confession that means
jam to her soul. No female ever stalked a
prospective husband with the same bashful
tenacity as Margaret. She haunts his room,
seeming the more vociferous by the very
quiet of her attentions, until in self-defence
he has to hug her to his heart and hoard —
he can only banish her from his study by
giving her a permanent job in the kitchen.
Another revival of “You’re in Love” at
Melbourne Majesty’s is offering the same
quantity of Girl to the eye, but leaves the
ear with its old grievance against the “book”
and the score. This time further food for
protest is afforded by a couple of notable
alterations in the cast. Ethel Erskine,
playing Georgiana, never attempts to follow
the precedent of half-whimsical wickedness
set by Maud Fane. She skims over the
mildly-giddy patches in Georgiana’s career
and makes her progress to her chosen man a
most uneventful journey. Maud Beatty, re-
placing Connie Ediss as Auntie Payton,
“The Pink Lady" at
Sydney Criterion.
Percy Claridge as
Bonevol, the detective.
hardly reaches the
Connie standard of
avoirdupois, and
her style isn’t an
agreeable change
from Connie’s
peevish pugnacity.
Fred Maguire
tootles the love-
ditties of Lacey
Hart without
giving the impres-
sion, like Talleur
Andrews, of seek-
ing a little warm
hand in the dark.
Also massive Cecil
Bradley isn’t half
the girl for
Dorothy, though
she would be double
the. same for “Dot.”
For the rest, there
are William
Green’s heartache
as Bobby Douglas,
Frith’s grin as
the hungry wowser,
and the legs of
Madge Elliott and
the Exquisite Eight. The dimpled dam-
sels panted in numerous encores on Satur-
day : it was sheer cruelty to keep them
prancing on one foot. Next Saturday “Oh,
Boy!” will be given another turn.
M. B. Figman finally drops his Tailor-
made manner at Melbourne Royal to-morrow
night. On Saturday he will refuse to mix
his veracity with diplomacy in a brief re-
production of “Nothing but the Truth.”
# i’; sfc
“The Officers’ Mess” is stated by the advt.
to have reached “the zenith of its success”
at Melbourne Tivoli. So many other shows
have achieved the same position that the
poor zenith must be getting overcrowded.
** * *
One of Hoyt’s cash-gatherers in Melbourne
this week is the popular Charles Ray in
“String Beans.” Charles is a poetic Reuben
who discovers a Wild Cat and saves his
credulous friends from being clawed. A more
primitive specimen of masculine virtue is
afforded by Bill Farnum in “For Freedom.”
where Bill attains the old objective by sav-
ing his meat and muscle for the critical
moments. Hoyt’s third attraction is Dorothy
Gish, who in “The Hope Chest” marries in
haste and leaves her relatives to dissent at
leisure. “Virtuous Wives,” the movie-de-
luxe at the Majestic, is a flashlight of the
American supper classes. According to the
argument of the author, the Marriage Tie
in Sassiety is mostly a slip-knot. The prin-
cipal follow-ons are' “Suspense,” with Mollie
King in front, and some snaps of Hawker
after attempting the Atlantic flight.
:i; if if
Mclntosh has changed the policy of Adel-
aide Tivoli, which, originally a home of
variety, has lately been occupied for months
at a time by Andersonian melodrama. Robert
Greig visited Adelaide lately and made
arrangements for running it as a comedy
house. A start has been made with the frayed
“Message from Mars,” with Wheeler in
Gregan McMahon’s old part; Nodin is the
messenger, and Charles Brown the tramp.
At the Majestic the nine acrobatic kiddies
bearing Fuller’s name are bright spots on the
programme, which otherwise' is mostly musi-
"DADDIES," AT MELBOURNE KING'S.
Tal Ordell as Rivers and Reg Wykeham as
Walters.
cal. In the second half, Burgess, Warton,
juashbrooke and Gus Franks make a strong
team, with Lola Hunt, but their plays are
mostly old friends. West’s pictures, back in
their renovated home, appeal chiefly to
women, with “ vVives of Men.” The Royal
relies on Bex Beach in a Mexican story
where the hero has the thrill of watching
his own grave dug. Needless to say, being
a hero, he has no use for it. At Wonder-
graph Douglas Fairbanks is in “Arizona,”
and Vivian Martin, equally adventurous in
her feminine way, is Jane, who does her own
wooing. The Pav. and the Grand, low-priced
and open all day, get the advantage of the
city’s tramless condition of an evening.
Senator Pearce, who dreads to face the
music that is going to play on his return,
is to be carefully stage-managed through an
embarrassing situation. General Birdwood
is to make his entrance with him. “Come,
Birdie, Come” is the favorite song of On-
his-Defence Minister at the moment.
“Gas Pedal”: One time I was heaved into
Bab-el-Hadid clink, and whilst awaiting my
turn to go before the heads found the fol-
lowing verse scrawled on the wall: —
Women and wine, cards and dice,
C. 8., pack-drill and blanky lice—
I’ve had all these and paid the price:
If that’s not life, Gord blime.
“Minim”: John McCormack is another
tenor who, like Tom Burke (B. 31/7/T9),
remained an Irishman on the hills when he
went to Covent Garden. “Signor Foli”
(born Foley), the basso, was not so par-
ticular. But Foli lived in the days when
it was unpatriotic to be a patriot, so to
speak. It is good to know that the atmos-
phere surrounding opera in Britain is be-
coming a little less snobbish these post-war
days.
•’Sarn-Major”: At Tel-el-Kebir our two
worst nuisances made a habit of breaking
camp and going to Cairo. After their second
offence they were given 14 days’ F.P. No. 2,
which meant reporting every hour when off
duty and performing manual labor during
parade hours. Pay was also stopped, but
regulations provided that they should receive
Is. per fortnight. In thinking out a job
for them a brilliant idea struck me. Why
not have a sand-proof cookhouse? I had
moulds made, procured some tibbin (Egyp-
tian fodder) and set the “birds” making sun-
dried bricks. One day, noticing their absence
from toil, I made a bee-line for their tent.
Nearing it I heard Bill’s familiar voice:
“And how old is your boy now?” Joe re-
plied : “He’s four.” “When you get back,”
remarked Bill, “he’ll say, ‘Daddy, what did
you do in the great war?’” Joe’s big voice
drawled: “I’ll say, ‘My boy, I made bricks
of sand and straw in the desert of Egypt,
like the coves in the Bible, for a penny
a day!”
Poor old Bridges, British poet laureate,
feebly damned when interrupted in his
Oxford garden by an interviewer who wanted
to know what he thought of a discussion in
the House of Commons concerning the lack
of an official Ode to Peace. The cultured
old man whose poetic fires are out is entitled
to curse this time. The best poetic boiler
can’t raise steam to order like the British
Navy, and when the boiler has rust-holes
in it and never -was much of a boiler any-
how, the owner would be justified in murdei’-
ing any politician or journalist who suddenly
called for a screaming song of Empiah.
“Machete”: C. A. Bernaya hasn’t got the
little story in his book, “Sixty Years of
Queensland Politics.” This statesman did
a good deal of special-article writing for a
paper of which I was then acting-editor. We
had over a tenner in hand for him, when
one day he turned up with hops in his hair.
For his own sake he was put off with a
couple of pounds, and nothing more was
heard of him for several days. Then came
a cabby with a note: “Give bearer any
money coming to me.” Inquiries from the
cabby showed that the M.L.A. was holding
high revel at a suburban villa dedicated to
that line of business. An answer was writ-
ten declining to part Up, but adding that he
could have it whenever he could pull him-
self together and call for it. Two hours
later the cabby returned with an agonised
note: “Damn it, you don’t understand—l’m
in pawn; can’t get my clothes till I square
up.” That melted our cashbox ahd the
cabby went off with the money. Next morn-
ing’s Courier reported some eloquent re-
marks on the sanctity of the home by the
Member for Asterisks in the House that
night.
“W. ,J. Digger”: On Gallipoli, when things
settled down, the slanguage question became
a burning one, and pointed remarks appeared
in corps and divisional orders. So the trench
lawyer got busy and one morning the Com-
pany notice-board offered the boys a warn-
ing and these picturesque substitutes:—
Gadzooks!
Go to, thou scurvy knave 1
Odds bodkin!
By my halberd!
Odds fish!
Out upon thee!
Some of them were used for a bit, inter-
larded, of course, with the red word. “Odds
fish” and ‘‘Gad zooks” floated
over the parapet in the cool of the evening,
and the Digger swore “By his halberd”
when he “stood-to” on a damp morning.
“Snell”: We have had many authentic
stories of the extraordinary resource of the
actor when adverse circumstances have
thrown the drama out of its stride, and I am
able to add to the number. The late Bill
Holloway was playing one of those hair-
raising but easily manipulated melodramas
peculiar to a needy time. He had reached
the sensational scene where the villain and
the hero struggle for life on the brink of
what has already been described as a ter-
rible precipice with a fall of seven thou-
sand feet to the rocks below. It was neces-
sary to the proper working of the plot for
the hero to hurl the villain over, but acci-
dents will happen, and presently, to the
horror of the co., the hero toppled, and went
headlong over the beetling cliff. There fol-
lowed a terrible pause during which every-
body wondered what was going to happen
now, and then the head of the hero re-
appeared above the fearful precipice, his
arms clutched the neck of the prostrate vil-
lain, and, dragging the wretch over, he
cried: “At least I shall not die alone!”
After which the hero (played by the gifted
management) disappeared into 'the terrible
depths once more. But the hero was wanted
in the next act, so the curtain was raised
again, showing the hero—then about 14
s to?e— lying panting on the brink of the
cliff- 'Saved,” he murmured, “ and by an
eagle!"
From an Australian girl in N’York:—
Dressmakers are working overtime, milliners are
racking their brains, bathing-gown experts are
simply crushed under the responsibility put on
them by clients to make something wonderful for
Newport, for word has gone forth that Edward of
Wales is to spend part of the season there. An Eng-
lish-American alliance is already an accomplished
fact in the minds of the lounger Set, and even the
matrons are ready to believe there may be something
in it. He is to be the guest of General Cornelius
Vanderbilt, with whom he is already acquainted, and
as there is a charming daughter just about to make
her formal bow, can you wonder conjecture is rife?
I here is Prince Aage, too, a nephew of the King of
Denma: k; but in the excitement of Wales’s pro-
jected visit the Dane only walks on. Still, some
enterprising heiress will look into the matter, as he
also is a Prince. With Wales and Aage there will
be a galaxy of English aristocracy, and the social
columns these days read like Debrett. The Duchess
of Marlborough and her eldest son, the Marquis of
Blandford (she, of course, was the first American
duchess and a Vanderbilt), are among the stars.
Meantime New York is empty—empty, that is, of all
but the 5,000,000 people who don’t figure in that
charming little emblem of democracy, the Social
Register. Yet New York is solving the problem
of comfort in summer entertainment. High above
the whirl of the city, on the Astor roof, one eats
in a tropical garden. The orchestra —one of the
best in town —plays, while energetically-inclined
couples jazz on the perfect dancing-floor in the
centre. The fashionable fad of the moment, though,
is the Japanese Garden at the Ritz. And the first
days of June are the signal for the appearance on
the streets, for hire, of little horse-drawn Victorias,
whose leisurely gait around the Park fits in with
the general languor. Taken all around, New York is
not such a bad summer resort if one can’t run to
Newport or the like.


«
ate
\
sss
y?r J - c ,:L1
/ pi %
//
/ S
nn f.f
# R
'A
V-
r ei
\Vy^
Fjoyv B-n
* \
ssffifls£ii*WH»ifp v‘ >.',r
sarx
m
n®
■
’%N V -
m
m
J&2
m
W/A
m
ft
u u
O
©
-:.
' <
%
/
Ji
//:■ -
yrjk
is),
1
I
United States Tyres
are Good Tyres.
Thousands of experienced Motorists buy United
States Tyres because experience has taught them
to eliminate speculation from Tyre Buying.
Obtainable from all leading garages and
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited,
53 York Street, SYDNEY; and 130-2 William Street, MELBOURNE .
W. A. SORRELL, 157 Casrlereagh Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
HOBART : Irvine <& McEachern.
LAUNCESTON: Buchanan, Davidson & Co. Ltd.
NEW ZEALAND: Magnus, Sanderson & Co. Ltd., Wellington
~ ~ Dexter & Crazier Ltd., Christchurch.


On Choosing Diamonds.
Diamonds are la reel v bought on trust, and it behoves the purchaser, whether expert
or novice, to select from an establishment of proved dependability in Diamond-
selling. The slightest flaw will discount the value of a Diamond as an investment.
STEWART DAWSON QUALITY IN DIAMONDS
is the criterion of value throughout the Commonwealth, and our long-standing
reputation is a guarantee of confidence for every buyer.
OUR TEN HUGE ESTABLISHMENTS
are daily devoting their Ready Cash resources to provide their clients with the
World’s Best Values in Precious Stones, Jewellery. Silverware, etc.
ALL DIAMONDS SET IN REAL PLATINUM.
Any of these designs can be purchased at any of the Stewart Dawson Establish-
ments. Catalogue sent Post Free if desired.
Stewart Dawson & Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Also Resent Btreet and Hatton Garden, London.
• r -
©3
K 923 —Dandsome
New Design
Finest Quality
Diamond Cluster
TiiiiS, Real
Platinum and
ISct. Gold Set-
ting, £35.
K917—5-stone
Diamond, Set Deal
Platinum and
lSet. Gold.
£l2/10/-
We stock a very fine selection of Diamond
let Watches, similar to illustration.
Purest Diamonds, and fully-jewelled,
movements.
Set Brace-
Guaranteed
high-grade
Ml 00—Handsome
Diamond Bow
Brooch, £5O.
K6l1 —Dainty
Pearl and Diamond
Set Brooch, 15ct.
Gold & Platinum,
£3/15/-
KlO21 —All Diamond Bow Brooch,
Platinum and loot. Gold, £4O.
SB
K 677 Fine Diamond and Platinum Brooch,
£B/10/-
MOET &
CHANSON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
[?]
POVERTY
POINT
“Norbell” : Nellie Stewart —prima donna
of grand opera, opera bouffe and plain comic
opera, for so long the musical star of Gilbert
and Sullivan productions in Australia, and
principal boy or girl in dozens of pantos,
from here to Drury Lane—-last sang on the
stage in June, 1911. It was at Cairns
(N.Q.). She was doing “Sweet Nell of Old
Drury,” and her daughter Nancye, then
leader of the orchestra, dared her mother to
sing in public once more. Accordingly, to
the amazement of the company, Sweet Nell
broke into song in the last act, and warbled
a verse of Nell Gwynne’s song, unaccom-
panied.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Nat Gould almost came
back to Australia as a lecturer. A few
years ago Beaumont Smith was in
London with good money for good
talk. He tried H. G. Wells, who
replied in ten written words: “I have
neither the time nor inclination to visit Aus-
tralia.” Smith then went to Bernard Shaw,
“THE NIGHT SIDE OF LONDON." AT
SYDNEY GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
The villain (Rutland Beckett) shatters
tradition by Uncarting the comie relief
(William Stewart) .
who poked his red whiskers round the door
and asked truculently: “Why should I leave
civilisation?” After that the Australian
gave up highbrows and suggested to Nat
Gould that he should go and talk gee-gees.
Nat couldn’t arrange it immediately, but
promised a later visit. Smith couldn’t wait,
and finding Muriel Matters (the Adelaide
suffragette) tired of tying herself to the
House of Commons grille and anxious to go
home, fixed with her. It was a frosty en-
gagement.
“T. D. Emdee” : Australia has produced
just as good ventriloquists as Sydney James,
but except in two cases, where the dis-
ciples of Valentine Vox returned with repu-
tations acouired in England, they didn't get
much publicity. The three I remember best
were Fred Millis. Walter Keane and Bob
Croft. Millis and Keane were convinced
that the Cold Country would treat them bet-
ter than their own, so they skipped and
found they were not mistaken. Harry Rick-
ards afterwards engaged them both and
starred them. Keane, long since gone west,
was a brother of the late Lance Lenton, actor
and pressman and father of the clever Olive.
Unlike the other two he had no “doll,” un-
less his hands made up as a figure could be
termed one, but he got some fine effects.
Croft, who invented many "dolls,” was best
known in the provinces, where his baritone
voice was a feature of his figures’ business.
He has ventriloquised all over Australia.
“T.D.”: During the past 3G years there
has been, I believe, only one Camille with
black hair. That was Margaret Anglin, and
she decided to depart from tradition as the
result of a chat with a critic friend and a
study of the book.
“Make-up”: “Deco” (B. 31/7/T9) men-
tions Nellie Mortyne’s brother Charlie. It
should be husband Charlie, and he is no
longer on the Clarence River, having again
fallen under the spell of the footlights--,
this time with Fuller. For 69 he is acting
well, in some parts damn well.
“Snell”: Maud Williamson was running
a season of lurid drama at the Bijou. In
act two of “Her Early Sins”
the brisk young hero, who
rather fancied himself as a
boxer, had interpolated a glove-
fight with a village tough who
was assisting to further the
nefarious schemes of the prin-
cipal villain. The village tough
was hired from the pug school
which Mat Daly was then run-
ning in the arcade below. lie
was a hefty Port Melbourne
lightweight, with an unreliable
temper, but he proved quite an
acceptable actor up to the point
where he had to engage in com-
bat with the brave young fellow
who was out to avenge the
heroine’s wrongs. Then, hurt
by one or two blows which
seemed to him to be beyond the
limit agreed upon, he cut loose,
and wading in knocked the actor
all about the ring, and outed
him with a right cross. There
was trouble, of course; and
rapid abuse poured upon the
nug from the tearful f heroine.
The lightweight, virtuously in-
dignant, burning to put himself
right with the audience, ad-
vanced to the footlights, one
glove on his heart, one indicating
the prostrate hero. “Gents,” said he with
pathos, yet with the strength of, one con-
scious of his own rectitude, *”e wanted me to
fight a schlanter!”
“Bally Who”: The alleged lion that has
been giving heart disease to residents of
Molong district (N.S.W.) is s-d to have
escaped from a circus at Peak Hill. The kids
of that town are lucky. They have a circus
or part of one all the year round, for the
place is the winter shelter of the Perrys,
long established in the Australian tinsel and
sawdust biz. I don’t think the Perrys can
be as methodical in their winter quarters
as, say. Barnum and Bailey. During the
recess B. and B.’s huge canvas goes up,
every day to keen the tent-hands in trim.
They have system down to fine art. My
pal Christian got the job of iooking after
their camels. It was easy. Every day,
opposite his stalls, a big man lifted a bigger
box to his shoulder and staggered off. One
morning Christian helped him load up. An
overseer popped up from nowhere. “What’s
your job?” he asked. “Camels,” said Chris.
“Stick to it,” said the overseer. “If this
man needs help he’ll get it; but if you take
your eyes off the camels again you quit.”
“Glug”: Little Grade Lavers got a big
chance last week, when she played the prin-
cipal part in “Going Up.” The originality
and natural charm of her acting has made
Grade one of the J.C.W. favorites, and
she got a great reception when she took
over Ethel Erskine’s job. When the local
girls get a show they make you wonder why
the theatrical firms keep on hitching their
waggons to imported stars.
One clause of the Bailey-Davis agreement
for the English rights of “On Our. Selection”
reads: “The purchaser covenants with the
author that the purchaser shall, on all pro-
grammes, posters and advertisements in con-
nection with such play, refer to ‘Steele Rudd’
as the author.”
The barn in Hindley-street, Adelaide, built
for a eyclorama 30 years ago, afterwards
used as a skating rink, and for long past
occupied by West's pictures, has been
brought up to date. Coulter, of Sydney, got
to work on the walls, and decorated them
with large paintings of Maoriland scenery,
and in general the place now delights the
eye.
“Fax”: The Japanese claim to equality
with “the nations of the West” has one
weakness. Japan reads not, writes not,
speaks not the universal language of music—
the music of Verdi, Beethoven, Gounod.
Arthur Sullivan, Sneezowsky and the rest.
The Japanese muv imitate the finest Euro-
pean craftsmanship, as their own artistic
productions might be imitated by laborious
foreign craftsmen, but thev lack the sense
of the one language which is universal
among the others Russia is 200 years be-
hind the “Western” times in higher civilisa-
tion ; but the educated Russian sits with a
band of Britishers, Frenchmen, Scandi-
navians, Germans. Spaniards, etc., to read
and render an Italian composition. The
Japanese is an alien. Me can’t play in the
orchestra.
“J.F.11.” (London) : Marie Lohr has
completed 18 months’ management at the
London Globe. She has never had a dull
moment, she says, in that time. Plays are
the trouble; she has received hundreds, but
not one has suited her requirements. She
confesses to a great admiration for the
stock-company system so successfully carried
out by the Bancrofts and the Kendals, and
intends doing her best to introduce it at the
Globe. “The difficulty is that dramatic
authors nowadays are exacting persons, and
FEET OF CLAY.
"Billy was my ideal until the show closed
up.”
"You don't mean your ideal is shattered?”
"No! Broke!”
insist on choosing their own casts, so that
it is almost impossible to satisfy them and
at the same time keep a company intact.”
She has her plans made for the near future;
for afterwards she has Shakspearean aspira-
tions—wants to do Rosalind and Beatrice
and Portia, and (but only when she’s older!
Katherine in “The Taming of the Shrew.”
“Spoilt Actor”: .George Titheradge was
once Denvering in Auckland. That is to
say, he was conscientiously doing his best
with the part which, so he confided to me,
he never liked. At the fall of the act-drop
after his big scene with the corpse of Geof-
frey Ware, the mummer who played the
latter character rose to his feet, forgetting
that the curtain went up again to show a
“picture” of him hidden underneath a table-
cover and Denver backing out horror-
stricken through the doorway. A roar from
the front unsettled him and he simply bolted
from the scene. “Tith” brought the news to
the dressing-room. “Not much use going on
any further with the piece to-night,” said
he dismally. “What’s the good of me pre-
tending to be a conscience-stricken murderer
through four more acts when the dashed
corpse has come to life amidst the cheers of
the audience?” It says much for the ever-
green “Silver King” that in spite of the
very awkward contretemps it “held” the
house right to the end.
“0.K.”: In Courtneidge’s latest musical
comedy (himself the author of the libretto)
four principal parts are filled by people
with Australian experience. Three of our
old “Hook of Holland” co. are in it —Edwin
Brett and his wife, Emmeline Orford, get
rather more to do than William Cromwell;
and the heroine is Jessie Lonnen. One
notice describes Jessie as “that delightful
actress, singer and dancer,” which suggests
that she has developed since she was an angu-
lar panto, boy in Australia.
“T.D.”: Should Forbes Robertson come
to Australia, as in-
dicated by J.C.W.,
Ltd., he will include
in his repertory “The
Admirable Crichton,”
which Cuyler Hastings
played here. Then we
shall see what can be
done with the part by
an artist. Hastings
was at best a poor
actor, but he contrived,
by slow and deliberate
methods and an Ameri-
can accent, to make
people believe he was
high-class. In “Sher-
lock Holmes,” his
greatest success, he
had all Gillette’s Busi-
ness, and he deliber-
ately kept down Pro-
fessor .LUl'llll i,V 111 li.e
big scene until Jimmy
Atholwood writhed. It
was in "If 1 Were
King” that Hastings
really went to pieces.
Even his admirers
couldn’t stand his
Yankee Francois Vil-
lon. Atholwood in
that was the star as
Louis, just as he was
in “Oliver Twist” as
the Artful Dodger to
Nance O’Neil’s Nancy.
I happened to say so
in the notice I wrote,
and Nance in future
was “Not at home.”
“The Pink Lady,”at
Sydney Criterion.
Leslie Holland as
"Baby.”
“Plus Tax”: In a quiet way E. J. Carroll
is a theatrical plunger. He likes Scotch
shows: he was interested in Lauder’s first
tour and will shortly pilot him through
Africa ; and Graham Moffat’s co. of pleasant
memory was his venture. He is also bring-
ing to Sydney an American producer at a
fat salary to guide local pictures in the way
they should go.
“Norbell”: Speaking of imported actors.
“0.K.” incidentally refers to “Marie Lohr,
who never acted in this country at all” (B.
Sl/7/’lO). In George Rignold’s “Faust” at
Sydney Majesty’s, on April 13, 1895, “Baby"
Lohr and Stella Tracey (daughter of dancer
Dan) duly came on together lovingly from
the cathedral, were then tempted of Mephisto
Rignold, quarrelled violently over a hot-
cross bun, and were bustled off R., still fight-
ing furiously. The play ran for four weeks.
Kate Bishop, Marie’s mother, was the Dame
Martha of that show. “Daddy” Lohr was
running Kennedy the Hypnotist at. the time.
“Lady Clivebrook”: I was a member of
Nellie Stewart’s co. throughout the compre-
hensive “Sweet Nell” tour of the Maoriland
and Australian “smalls.” Our big crowd
travelled by special train everywhere, and
we were “received” by country mayors, and
entertained by shire presidents and other
potentates; but my most abiding memory
of the long jaunt concerns washing-day. We
were doing a town a day most of the trip-
out of one bed at Lithgow in the morning
and into another at Maitland at night—and
to get into touch with a laundry was out
of the question. So on Sundays the full
strength of the cast usually gathered at‘the
Mechanics or School of Arts to do the
weekly washing. I have often seen Sweet
Nell sharing the blue-bag with her l'ival, the
Duchess of Portsmouth (Nella Campbell),
and King Charles (“Harky” Beatty) help-
ing Lady Castlemaine (Madeline Meredith)
wring a nightie, whilst Olivia (Gwen Bur-
roughs) swapped the soap with Lord Jefi
freys (Charles Lawrence), Lords Rochester
and Lovelace pegged out the clothes, and
“father” (George Musgrove) stoked the cop-
per. It was a. strenuous tour, but it had its
•compensations, for we were a very happy
family.
“SEE ADVTS.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Yankee drama “Was She Gay ?”
Was on. The posters said
It was the \ cry linest play,
The greatest piece in every way,
The management had read.
In praise of “How She Lived” to sing
The posters next engaged;
'they proved it was the noblest thing,
The loftiest intellectual spring,
The best play ever staged.
Then came “Her Past.” Its virtues thus
Advertisements arrayed:
“This is indeed most glorious
Of all that yet have come to us —
The finest ever played !”
They next dubbed “Mabel’s Second Crime”
With confidence serene
“Most wondrous drama of all time,”
“Unequalled, glorious, sublime,”
“The grandest ever seen.”
So soars the drama, rising fast,
By failures nothing vext.
Though swiftly to the dust-heap cast
Successive plays are unsurpassed
By any but the next.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
A VAUDEVILLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Vaudeville.—Wanted, immediately, Girl, able sine,
musical preferred. Tour, Herald Office.”
Oh! sing to me,
And let me hear your voice;
And let it be
A tuneful one, for choice !
For
I’m weary of the squalling,
And the yelling, and the bawling,
The discordant caterwauling
That’s considered so enthralling
By pert serios appalling!
So
Your lay will be,
If musical, preferred.
Oh, sing to me!
Sing, or you’ll get the bi d!
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have
been manufactured in Australia for
the past seventeen years. Everything,
from the grinding of the crude drugs to
the packing of the finished article, is done
under the supervision of the proprietors
in their own factory, and it is safe to say
that nowhere In any country is a better pill made, as regards
high-grade ingredients, splendid efficiency and general
appearance. They are packed in the well-known Amber
Bottle, not in cheap wooden or cardboard-boxes, and there-
fore are unaffected by climatic changes, and reach the public
in perfect condition. It may be stated, also, the ownership of
this preparation is British, but it is not for these reasons the
merits of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are urged on the
attention of the public (although good in themselves),
but rather for the reason that they are a high-grade
preparation effective for all classes of the community both
rich and poor. A millionaire can get nothing better at
any price to aid in the digestion and assimilation of his food.
purify the blood, and are a safe, certain and reliable remedy for all
complaints arising from over-eating or over-drinking, and from any other
cause that has dislocated the digestive machine. They are sold at a price
within the reach of all.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special li i
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WHITTY
ħ
MfLISOURNf: & SYDNEY.
min
ia
Lei* l*his label guide you
ho a perfect drinK. »
Blinds Gin
A of" SO Years* Experience
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICĶ SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
The “good thing” nearly came off at Caul-
field last Saturday, and backers of the favorite
were almost justified in rejoicing before the long
race was over. In making the turn for home Sn
Mnemon, Beltane, Cuffs and Captain VV. overtook
Tinana, the tiring topweight, and entered the straight
in that order. Ere they reached the last hurdle
Beltane ran past the rank outsider and cleared the
little obstacle in a seemingly victorious style. Then
Sir Mnemon, with a final effort, put Beltane’S pluck
to the test, and, lo! the favorite wasn’t game when
the pinch came. The despised one beat the “good
thing” half a neck, with Cuffs and the Captain a
couple of lengths further back. The winner’s con-
stitutional willingness was too much for half-hearted
Beltane, and, besides, the winner had a 131 b. ad-
vantage. The progeny pf Mnemon are great stayers,
it seems. He was the pnly sire with two repre-
sentatives in the race, and the Other one, Mneon,
battled into fifth place.
The Australian Hurdle Race might have been run
on the flat for all that the jumps mattered to most
of the 15 starters.- None of them fell, and only
Montauk was absurdly tailed off. Waymea, thought
to be sound enough for the job,, and backed down
to 8 to 1, appeared to go wrong at an early stage
of the journey ; nevertheless he took all the hurdles,
like the outpaced Jack Rice. Even lOst. 101 b. was too
rmjch for Jack Rice, in his present form, with 34
miles to go and the lightweights mostly sticking to
their work. With the exception of Beltane (lOst. 31b.)
nothing carrying as much as lOst. was in at the
finish.
Sir Mnemon was recognised as a possibility for
the Caulfield event, though punters were choked off
the country-bred gee by his rotten performance in
the Jumpers’ Flat Race which Fastolf won a week
previously-. But' he was meeting Fastolf on 211 b.
better terms over the hurdles, and the pace for the
long journey wasn’t too fast.
Sir Mnemon and Cuffs look as likely as anything
to be placed for the Steeplechase next Saturday.
Cuffs jumped well enough to win last year, and the
other fellow is, presumably, equal to fences of the
Caulfield sort. Belief in Old Mungindi got another
severe shaking last Saturday, when he was sent out
at 6 to 4 for the Moondah Steeple and came in a poor
third. Nags from N.S.W. seem to be disimproving
rather than otherwise since they came to Melbourne
this winter, and any reversal of form that brought
one or more of them to the fore at this late hour
of the season would be a staggerer indeed.
* * * *
Beltane, who was “pipped” on the post by
Sir Mnemon in the Australian Hurdles, is beauti-
fully bred, being a grandson of Soult by his sire
Elysian, whose dam was Dreamland. Elysian has
not had many chances to sire winners, his best-
thrown to date being Sutala, who made Desert Gold
shake herself up a couple of times in Maoriland.
* * * *
The Goodwood Cup. which is about the
most strenuous flat-race run in England (it has
been won in the past by such great ones as St.
Simon, Martagon and Doncaster), went this year to
Queen’s Square. , The mare was bred by “Mr.
Fairie” (A. W. Cox. of Broken Hill), and ran in
the colors of A. R. Cox. The famous old race was
won about 20 years ago by Merman, a typical
waler. Allison,* the Special Commissioner of the
London Sportsman, bought him for Mrs. Langtry
at a time when there was a boom in Australian
horses in England owing to the recent arrival of
Carbine. _ .
» * *• *
Urncy (imp.) took his fifth Suburban
Handicap in six weeks at Moorefield (N.S.W.) on
Saturday. This time he carried 9st. 71b. On Monday
he had 9st. 131 b. aboard, and starting at B’s was
just tipped off by the 20 to 1 chance Kenilera. The
Lillyman family was, of course, associated with the
proceedings. A week before, at Warwick Farm. Bill
Lillyman on Yarico just snatched the Handicap from
his apprentice brother on Urney. On Saturday Bill
changed over to Urney, and won. On Monday he
was up again, but this time the (technical) beginner
showed his more experienced relation the way home.
« * * ■*
Three races for new three-year-olds were
run on Sydney courses on Saturday. There were 28
starters, and of the nine placed horses all but one
were by imported blood. Of the 13 races run on
Saturday and Monday, 12 winners had “imp.” about
them one way or another. The exception was the
winner of one of the hurdles. On the other hand,
in 10 pony-races run on the same day at Victoria
Park only four winners were by aliens.
* * * *
Remarkable how the fact of being beaten
out of a place helps a horse to hurry up next time.
For example, take Wolaroi’s half-brother Portrait. On
Saturday this nag, with 9st. 81b., was scarcely in the
betting for the Flying at Moorefield, and never
looked like a winner. On Monday, with 9st. 61b., in a
rather better field, he won without serious effort.
He was at 100’s to 6 and 7 on Saturday ; on Monday
the law of financial gravitation brought him to 9
to 2.
* * * *
The work done by Cetigne on the tracks
lately suggests that he is being prepared for a
distance. He is in the betting for the Metrop.
already. The Tartan gelding Booster remains a firm
favorite, though The Spanner, who is the property
of M.L.’s biggest punter, is the shortest quote with
Ike for the Epsom.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The story (B. 24/7/M9) of
the torn-up or thrown-away tickets on a non-starter,
hunted for in Flcmington mud, recalls the experi-
ence of an Adelaide lawyer. lie had the not un-
common habit of tearing up and throwing away los-
ing tickets when the post was passed, and did so
with a £5 ticket on a 2nd. (There was no 2nd
dividend in those days.) It was the last race of
the day, and he went home. In town that evening
he heard there had been a disqualification, with a
handsome dividend to follow; in short, his ticket
was now worth something over £65. Living at
Glenelg, iie sent his daughters on the short journey
to Morphettville early on Sunday morning, promising
them everything over £5O if they recovered the
pasteboard. Five-pound tickets have a stripe dis-
tinguishing them from others, and the first half
of the missing security was soon found. The other
turned up only after an hour’s sorting of waste-paper.
Something is likely to be hoard of a
Totalise tor Pill in the Vic. Assembly this session,
but there is not much likelihood of a measure pass-
ing with such a Scotchbyterian Ministry in power.
* * * *
On leaving Australia in 1895 just-doad
sporting writer Nat Gould had Carbine as a fellow-
passenger on the Orizaba. Carbine, for whom the
Duke of Portland had given £13,000, was in charge
of Ernest Day, who had with him a whole retinue
of horse-butlers and nursemaids.
* * *
Racing horses are very ant to win after
being advertised for sale, but it isn’t often that
the estate of a deceased sport is swelled by as much
ready cash as Sir Prim brought to the executors of
his late owner. The G. N. Steeplechase winner was
sold last week for f>oo guineas, a lot more than he
would have fetched during his late owner’s life-
time. F. S. Reynolds, the Indian trader who made
the last bid, has a good chance of getting his money
back with interest at the Caulfield meeting. On
the other hand, Sir Prim, being a gelding, may fall
valueless at the next fence. It is hard to estimate
the value of an elderly steeplechaser that has an
important engagement nearly due and a good chance
of being there or thereabouts at the finish. A flat
racer loses value every year for raciing purposes,
but a seasoned ’chaser is less likely than a young
beginner to break his neck or his leg next week,
and the difference between leg and neck doesn’t
matter twopence to the owner.
* * * »
Red Mitchell has improved out of sight as
a boxer since he went to the war. On his last
appearance at Sydney Stadium he was a rangy boy
with a lot to learn. He still has something to learn
as a scientist, or Tommy Uren, who met him at
Sydney Stadium as a welter on Saturday night,
would never, have lived with him for 20 rounds.
But, on the physical side, while he was winning
his M.M. and otherwise distinguishing himself, Mit-
chell has changed into a fast, hard-hitting man.
After the first few rounds he belted his sallow-
faced opponent all round the ring. But he couldn’t
land a knock-out; and, that failing, the more ex-
perienced boxer was inevitably the referee’s choice.
In a 10-round prelim, between bantams, Wright
stopped Davis in the third.
*' * * *
Jack Britton, the Irish-American welter,
met “Kid” Lewis for the ninth time since March,
1915, last week. The bout was an eight-round one;
and on this occasion Britton got the verdict. Three
of their previous encounters had been “no. de.”;
one a draw; and each pug had won two of the
other eight. The clever Cockney albino boxed here
•as a lightweight.
* * * *
Matt Murphy and Larry Lasher were
making a great go of it at the big Sydney ren-
dezvous on Monday night when, with a brief howl
or bark of agony” the latter went down, hit low.
Matt had won easily on points up to the happening
of the tragedy—which was in the ninth round —so
the misfortune was more or less mutual.
Billy Tingle, the N.S.W. bantam whom
Moore (Vic.) beat the other day, met Sandy McVea,
the hurricane Abo. scrapper, in Brisbane on Satur-
day night. The struggle went the full distance, the
pale-face winning on points.
* * *
Ledoux, the famous French bantam, had
another win last week, when he knocked out the
far heftier Tommy Noble in 10 rounds. There is
talk of Ledoux coming to Australia, where he will
box as a bantam or lightweight as required.
* * * *
The Diggers never played better Rugby
than they did in Sydney v. Australia (or, rather,
N.S.W. and Q.) on Saturday, or else they never met
a worse team. Probably the latter. The civvies
suffered from nerves, and did not make any real
effort until near the end, when the Diggers had
lost most of their dash. The forwards of the losing
side were too light, and so were men in the other
departments. Mingay, for example, the Manly five-
eighth, was regularly shaken off like some meddle-
some insect. Also, the usually brilliant Sheppard
had no show on the day. The fast soldier t oris ar s
were on top of him all the time, and he was further
hampered bv the deficiencies of less able players.
For the winners Buchanan (half-back) covered a
lot of ground and saved many situations. Seigt.
See is certainly the heftiest forward seen for some
time; but weight is a characteristic of all the
A.I.F. forwards. The Diggers scored the whole of
their 22 points in the first half; and the civilians
should never have been allowed to amass the six
points they did in the final moments of the game.
P. MURPHY, the
old Australian Rep.
forward who skip-
pered Queensland
against N.B.W. on
Monday (Rugby
Union).
In the N.S.W. v. Q.
game on Monday at
the Sydney Uni. oval
the home team won
with no great diffi-
culty. Scores 32 to
14. Flanagan, of the
A.1.F., was a tower
of strength to the
Bananalanders, but
most of his colleagues
failed to tower with
him. Sheppard was
prominent on the win-
ning side, and amongst
the forwards W. T.
Watson (the captain)
and Bradley.
The demolition of Wests by Newtown
(10 —5) in N. S. Wales Rugby League football
on Satu day narrowed the rush ior the premiership to
ualmain (present score 17 points) and Easts (16
points). The losers gave an inimitable exhibition
of how the game should not be played. Simul-
taneously, or thereabouts, Balmain destroyed Annan-
dale (26 —5) ; Glebe wiped out Souths (22 —10) ;
and Easts overwhelmed Norths (33—0). Wally
Messenger booted six goals in the last-named struggle.
* * * -K-
The return match, at Melbourne, between
the Vic. and S. Aus ’ball teams provided the 30,000
enthusiasts who watched it with the game of a life-
time. The pace was t emendous all through, and
the cleverness was equally notable on both sides.
All the Vic cracks, old and new, were prominent,
particularly Lee, who kicked six goals, and Carew,
the new Richmond man. No one showed up better
for S. Aus. than Treadrea, who must now' be nearing
the forties ; and Congear, Moriarty and Leahey also
played a great game. Vic. won by a goal (74 —08),
the final whistle sounding as the enemy were in the
midst of a last despe ate effort to even matters up.
The A.I.F. XI last week piled up 43G
against Surrey, which is probably as strong a county
as England possesses this year. After five Surrey
wickets had been downed for 26, S. Australia’s re-
liable old friend Crawford got with Wilkinson, and
together they made respectively 144 n.o. and 103.
Wilkinson, like Crawford, is a veteran; he learnt
his Cricket at Blundells, the great Devon school, 20
years ago.
» .* * *
Australia’s old friend Len Braund, the
tricky bowler, sound bat and brilliant short-slip of
various visiting English elevens, has reached the
veteran stage. He turned out to assist Somerset
in the first match of the English summer, and made
one and 44 ; but in a losing game, and with five
bowlers tried, he did not bowl a ball. An interest-
ing figure on the other side was Hayes, the former
Surrey pro., who, bringing back from the war the
title of captain, has become a “Gentleman,” and
now uses a different gate.
* * # *
Major Goddard, of the R.A.F., is here on
a mission that deserves to succeed. Briefly, he is
out to boom the British motor-car industry. As a
result of the tremendous part it played in the war,
Britain had to practically go out of business as a
maker, much less exporter of civilian cars. For
years its factories went from 18 to 24 hours a day
on munitions. Meantime America has practically
collared the Australian market. Major Goddard
wants first to find out what sort of car—touring,
commercial and so on —is best adapted to Australian
conditions; then get it standardised in Britain; and
finally see that Australians buy it in large quantities.
* * * *
D. Macdonald, of Goulburn (N.S.W.), has
just had a record stroke of bad luck. He undertook
to pay £lOO to anyone belonging to the district who
won a V.C. It was many thousands to one against
any particular country district scoring this, the
rarest of decorations, so if the advt. was worth
anything at all Macdonald was on a good bet.
Back came Private Leary, however, with the ribbon
up, and the £lOO was duly paid. It now turns
out that Leary never won the V.C. Yet Macdonald
loses his money all the same. He has, so to speak,
been double-crossed by Fate.
* * * *
H. Gray is the leading M.L. horseman this
year with 79i wins, C. Emerson coming second and
B. Deeley fifth. The leading amateur is S. Howard,
who takes 61st place with six wins. No amateur
has ever done so well in Australia. In fact, no
Australian amateur ever does anything notable
against the pros., except very occasionally in Vic.
and S. Aus. In N.S.W. Ken Austin, owner of
Bibbenluke, is the only performer of class over
fences, and since he smashed his leg three years
ago he has stopped riding in public. About the best-
remembered of the older division is Colin Smith,
who rode his own horses now and then, and at one
time possessed the one-eyed Beverage.
* * * *
J. H. Kirkwood put up an astonishing per-
formance at Killara (N.S.W.) on Saturday. He
beat all local records by going round in 70 and 67
respectively, his afternoon effort being 10 strokes
better than “bogey.” Solidity and a complete
absence of nerve are the features of Kirkwood's play.
He is a pro. from Riversdale (Vic.), and formerly
belonged to Manly (N.S.W.).
* * * *
From the Argus (4/8/’l9) :—“Coloniel
G. S. Jackson, D. 5.0., the former Northumberland
county cricketer, has been appointed chairman of
the committee to inquire into profiteering.” It is
the kind of thing that is calculated to put F. S.
Jackson, M.P., the famous Test-match bat and
Yorkshire skipper, who is actually the chairman,
in his place. Jackson’s complacency is notorious.
He “came off” in a big match, in his early cricket-
ing days, at a time when his father —afterwards
Lord Allerton —had just been given a small Minis-
terial job. “I'm glad,” said “F.S.” ; “it will help
my father so in his political career.”
* * * *
At the East Torrens tennis tournament;
the leading hard-courts affair in South All's., the
singles championship (Ron Thomas was a former
holder) was won by J. L. O’Dea, an inter-State rep.,
The runner-up was a brilliant youngster, Roy Bill-
ing. By remarkable driving and volleying ho took
the first set 7 —5, and had the second set well in
hand at 5 —3. Then lack of condition told and the
more experienced player ran out a winner. The
same club has another possible coming champion in
Milligan.
* * •* *
McLachlan, State member for North
Gippsland, who when he smartens up for special
occasions bears a slight resemblance to the late
Duke of Edinburgh when Victoria’s second son was
an Englishman, makes coursing a hobby. He helped
to promote the recent meeting in his district which
resulted in Benometer winning the champion stakes,
worth £125 and a silver cup.
•**■**
“TJndercliffe” : It was at an Outback race
meeting and the bushmen were having the time of
their lives. Just before the betting on the third
race began a young fellow was seen walking towards
one of the bookies. “Hullo,” said Bill Sunset,
“there’s somethin’ doin’ ’ere. That bloke wassellin’
tickets at No. 2 winder on the last race. ’E must
be la-yin’ orf for the tote now. I’m gonner see wot
’e’s on.”
* * # *
A whisper from the booby hatch: —
Sydney ferry skippers complained to the Haibor
Trust* at the end of last season that sailing boats
were interfering with their timetables and causing
them inconvenience. It is partly the fault of the
ferry-masters themselves. They are in many cases
ignorant of sailing and do not understand where the
sailing-boat intends to go. Many when passing a
-ailing race do so on the windward side, thus caus-
ing a lee which results in one or two competitors
gaining at'the expense of the others. The Harbor
Trust saw that, taking one thing with another, it
was advisable to arrange matters amicably, and the
sailing clubs were invited to send representatives to
meet the Harbor Trust Commissioners. One of
the causes of annoyance —that of racing through the
Quay—was decried by the sailing men themselves,
and the practice will be prohibited both in the in-
terests of the ferry services and for the safety of
sailing craft. The matter of greatest moment was
the interference of ferrv-boats in the vicinity of
Bradley’s Head. The Manly ferry masters invari-
ably stop to allow a race to pass ahead and clear
of them if occasion arises, ail’d they are able to
make up the time on the rest of the trip. The other
masters can’t or don’t; the Watson’s Bay admirals in
particular. It is only by the vigilance and skill of the
sailing f.aternity that some of the Watson’s Bay
skippers continue to hold their certificates. And
then there is the problem of the ever-increasing
crowd of launches following the races. It was sug-
gested to the Commissioners that if the followers
were restricted to ferry-boats under the patronage
of the sailing clubs, this annoyance would be elim-
inated. The suggestion was taken up by the Harbo ■
Trust, which intends to give it a trial next season.
* * * *
“Chev’s” vindication:—«
“M.P.A.” (B. 10/7/’l9) asks about a rumor cir-
lated in Melbourne that Ilackenschmidt was not in-
terned in Germany, but was actually a guard over
Allied p isoners. Hack., who is a Russian, bom at
Dorpat, happened to be in Germany at the start of
the war, holidaying, and incidentally looking after
some money he had tied up at Neuss (the bulk of,,
his earnings were with the Public Trustee in Eng-
land), and he was held up in Berlin. He certainly
was not interned, but, again, he was no M.P. The
truth is he had charge of a big open-air exercise
ground on the outskirts of Berlin, called the “son-
nenbad” (sun-bath), where the youths and boys of
the adjoining schools were taught gymnastics and
calisthenics under ideal conditions. Hack, wrote
me from Berlin telling me this, and enclosed a photo
of the sonnenbad showing himself and pupils, all
in swimming drawers, sun-bathing and exercising.
He said he was allowed to live in a fiat in Berlin
and had to report himself officially twice weekly to
the police.
All of which seems to indicate that Hackenschmidt
did get preferential treatment from the Huns —due
doubtless to the fact that, though born in the Baltic
provinces of Russia, his father was a German and
his mother a Dane. He is now threatening a lec-
turing season in England on labor questions; and
there is a not unnatural uneasiness locally as to
what his new game is.
“Welles” : Died of ’flu on the Aborigines’
Reserve at Karuah, Port Stephens (N.S.W.), “King"
William Ridgeway, otherwise “Wirrung.” Billy was
one of the identities of the Port, and was well
known along the coast from Sydney to the Manning
for his skill both in handling and building boats.
His fliers have carried all before them on various
occasions at Mungo Brush and Forster, the Dove
last year winning the Port Stephens Cup outright.
His boats have also sailed, in Newcastle and Svdney.
and crews trained by him have been in request
among Sydney and Newcastle boat-owners during
recent years.
THE PUNTER’S PETITION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lord, in the year just started, of strong essential
Hope,
To keep me still stout-hearted, grant me my daily
dope.
Teach me to pick the rider who does his best to win,
And back the rough outsider that now and then
romps in.
Teach me to seek the sources of “information
Straight”
Concerning all the horses which rumor swears are
great;
May I have luck in betting, as well as wise advice,
And not be left regretting the poorness of the price.
Thou knowest I’m unable temptation to repel
On learning from the stable , how Boshter’s doing
well,
Although his legs look dicky, whilst Barebones is a
cert,
“Wot likes the goin’ sticky, and revels in the dirt!”
Enlighten me, and nerve me, when things are pretty
sick ;
From dead ’uns, Lord, preserve me, arid put me on
the quick—
The Cup horse, or the sprinter, or timber-topping
gee,
Spring, summer, autumn, winter, have mercy upon
me!
victoria, Aug. 1.
O.K.


flow’d You Liße to
L
Get a Thrashing
from a man smaller than yourself? It would be a mighty uncomfortable
experience—an experience that many a man has gone through, to his
sorrow. Make no mistake about it, size does not protect a man when
he is called upon to defend himself.
The man who KNOWS the art of scientific boxing has it “all over” his
opponent.
I TEACH BOXING BY POST
—teach it in a thorough, scientific and practical
manner. Now, don’t get the idea that I teach you
only the theory, because that’s not so. Under my
guidance you will learn how to make all the “hits,”
“stops,” and “rrtbves” of the world’s most scien-
tific boxers,
“SNOWY BAKER K. 0.” BOXING GLOVES.
In Two Grades. 15/6 and 21/- per set of Four
Gloves. Post Free. Every pair personally selected
and Guaranteed.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and post it to me, and I will send you my
interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in You*-
Home,” which tells all about my methods, terms,
etc. Please send three stamps for postage.
Those Desiring to Avail Themselves of Personal
Instruction at Mg Institute are Invited to Call and
Have a Chat with Me and to See a Demonstration.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
Australia’s Leading Physical Culture Institute,
82 Municipal Buildings,
82a Oxford St. (Cor. Crown St.), Sydney.
A Well-matured Tobacco at L-ast!
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is Too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not affect the nerves!
burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
10/8 per lb. 5/4 per ilb. 2/8 per ilb.
Postage—N.S.W.: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/3, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
NLY a Healthy Dog can be a Good
Courser.
Bedilome's Dog: Medicines keep
your Dog: in Good Health,
DISTEMPER POWDERS.—Absolutely"
equalled for this complaint, so prevalent at
present. Price 2/6 per Packet.
TONIC AND CONDITION BALLS.—Purify
the Blood. Produce a smooth, velvety ap-
pearance in the dog’s coat. Price 2/6 per box.
STIMULATOR FOR RACING GREY-
HOUNDS.—To alleviate stiffness and fatigue
during coursing. Used by best trainers.
Price 3/6 per Bottle.
Now ready. New edition. “HINTS TO DOG
OWNERS.” Price 6d. Post Free.
R. W. BEDDOME (EL CO.,
Chemists, (Dogr Medicine a Specialty),
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable also from JOHN BRUSH Ptv. Ltd.,
Sydney; WALTIIER & STEVENSON, George
Street. Sydney.
itfl'L
INE
jP*
*3*
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS,
USE IT- AND PROVE IT.
MM fopoial 08 Ck Lit
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND machinery for sale
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
'INCLUDING
STEAfI ENGINES of alf descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
I HE SECRETARY,
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
99
“ VALLO
Sheep Dips
(Fluid and Powder)
Absolute Protection tor your Flocks
Destroys Ticßs and Lice.
Prevents Fly StriKe.
Promotes Growth and Improves
Lustre of Wool.
ALL DEALERS SUPPLY.
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS;—
SYDNEY Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.
ADELAIDE James Wardle & Co.
BRISBANE Brabant & Co.
ROCKHAMPTON.WaIter Reid & Co., Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE. . .Cummins & Campbell, Ltd.
PERTH Malloch Bros.
WELLINGTON... Farmers’ Co.-op. Wholesale Federation (N.Z.), Ltd.
MANUFACTURERS;-
A. VICTOR LEGGO CO.
Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.
■>73755
mm
m
mm
)Sm
mss 5
zWm
KgfedS
SMB
3g@am
mmm
*&&
m
M
,,,,:
&i f
;-T-
ES K
gH*-
mi
S&
Svr<
SKM&sS
wmmmm?k:
mstmimmi
■*%KA •« fefcfl*
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
“PRIM AX” and “B ONA X”
CARTRIDGES—KYNOCH made
and loaded. Both possess excellent shoot-
ing qualities, “PRXMAX” being the
highest-grade cartridge in a 2i-incSi case
sold on the Australasian market, while
“BONAX” enjoys the largest sale of
any individual cartridge in the world.
Always specify KYNOCH Ammunition
when ordering from your dealer.
British-made
Throughout.
PS®
oQ>
t>?>
yrjy
Wholesale only—Scottish House, 90 William Street, Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Universal Milling Machine
'
, <
m
m.
mgm
.jinn
SPECIAL FEATURES
Square over-arm.
Constant speed single pulley
drive.
Sixteen changes of speed.
Sixteen changes of feed.
All sliding gears, no tumbler
gears.
All gears and shafts hardened
and ground.
Feed-box in knee.
All operating levers within
easy reach of operator.
Bronze bearings throughout.
One-piece elevating screw for
knee.
No universal joint for feed
drive.
Column and knee automatically
lubricated.
Delivery from StocK.
Lathes, Drilling Machines, Hacksaws, etc.
Woodworking Machines and Supplies.
Engineers’ Tools, Packings, Jointing and Waste.
Valves, Cocks and Enginee: s’ Brasswork of every description.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.
490-492 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Telephone., City 1753, two lines. When ordering please mention this paper.


i i-
nee Lnoeoiate.
SPECIAL“ p RESH MADE"
SWEETS a i FARMERS
Farmer’s pay carriage on Confectionery only
to the extent of 5 per cent., except when
inclusion with other goods does not affect
the total cost of carriage.
THE NEWEST
HIGH-GRADE CONFECTION.
“Matinee” Chocolates, highest
grade. “Fresh-made” Chocolates
with delicious fillings and centres
of fruits, nuts and creams. Made
especially for Farmer’s, and very
attractively boxed. In two sizes.
Alb 8/-
11b. box 5/6
Confectionery Section , GroundF oor.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night.
Tariff, from 1.0/6 per day, and
from £3/3/- per week.
VANITY FAIR
SILK GLOVES
THE proof is in the washing. Vanity Fair Silk
Gloves will wash and wash. Follow the directions
enclosed with each pair. They will slip on just as
comfortably, have the same silky look as the first
time you wore them.
Double tips—do you remember the first ones?
Every Silk Glove improvement, from those origi-
nal double tips to the latest-style innovations, were
introduced by the Vanity Fair Silk Mills.
Every pair contains this Guarantee:- —-
“If these Gloves wear through at the finger-
tips at any time before they are washed, and
before the rest of the Glove has had reasonable
wear, we will, upon receipt of this ticket
and your Gloves, replace them with a new
pair.”
THE AGENT FOR THE MILL IS
EMPOWERED TO REDEEM THIS GUARANTEE
TO THE MERCHANT. U
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
§p the former tutor at Geelong College,
now loaded with honors and emoluments,
enters into residence at Government House,
Malvern. As soon as Sir Arthur Stanley
crossed the border into South Aus. on Thurs-
day morning, on his way to embark on the
Nestor, the dormant commission of Irvine,
0.J., became active, and he assumed all the
dignities usually held by an imported wearer
of a cocked hat. Public-school heads point
to him as an example of what is possible
in a democratic State. When Irvine came
to Melbourne nearly 40 years ago with the
equipment of an arts degree', obtained at
Trinity College, necessity compelled him to
take any position offering for which he was
suitable, and he accepted a tutorship at Gee-
long College. An old boy declares that Irvine
dreaded the morning when it came his turn
to say the prayers, so retiring was he at
that period. He grew bolder before he left,
however. After getting through his law
course at Melbourne Uni. he was admitted to
the Bar in 1884, and while waiting for
briefs wrote a still-classic guide for Justices
of the Peace. He was brown-haired, youth-
ful ahd good-looking when he captured
Lowan and became a member of the
Assembly in 1894. It was Allan McLean
who lifted him into office first, making him
Vic. Attorney-General 20 years ago. It was
also Allan who mafie way for him as a
party-leader by going out of State politics.
Because there appeared to be an aloofness in
the attitude of members on his side,
Irvine threw up the leadership in 1901, but
was persuaded to retain it. Then came the
State Premiership* a break of ill-health, a
£2OOO gift from his party to his wife, a trip
to Britain, a earedr in Federal politics, in-
cluding 11 months’ tenure of the Attorney-
General’s office, knighthood, fatter briefs,
the Vic.. Chief Justiceship, and the cocked
hat.
Cartoonist David Low’s friends have been
plying him with food and superfluous oratory
prior to his departure for London. Most of
the guests at a dinner given him at the
Grand Hotel claimed to have been David’s
“discoverers,” there being scarcely a man
present who had not been absolutely the first
to recognise the artist’s talent while he was
in Maorifand. At another function his
fellow Savage Clubites handed him a cigar-
case ; and, Governor Stanley, who was pre-
sent, complained that the young man was
following him to England with the intention
of pursuing the vendetta he had begun in
Melbourne. As a brother Savage he craved
mercy.
Dorothy Low will journey through
America to England with brother David.
Dad came over from Maoriland, and waits
in Sydney to see them off.
The name of Miss Garlick, who died in
Melbourne last week, will live for years in
connection with the hospital where she
passed away. It was the first of the kind
established in the city, and came to be
known as Miss Garlick’s Hospital, after its
first matron. Her personality and good
management counted for much in the matter
apart from her remembersome name.
Dr. Reggie Weigall, the Automobile Club
president, who sold his Elsternwick practice
to accompany his wife and daughter Helen
to England, has been getting fresh carpets
and chairs for the smart bungalow he has
put up in Glenferrie-road, Hawthorn. The
projected family trip was hurriedly post-
poned until the ships are less crowded.
The John Grice pair are preparing to
welcome a daughter-in-law into the family,
returned soldier son Jack having persuaded
Julie Reid to say the word. Julie is the
second daughter of the J. S. Reids, of
Macedon.
’Flu robbed Victoria of a man it could
not spare when it took Edward Bond Jones,
the second Railway Commissioner. The
son of a schoolmaster, he started in the ser-
vice with no influence behind him; but his
merits took him to the front, and would cer-
tainly have made him Chief Commissioner
on Norman’s retirement in a few months. It
was in Jones’s interests that the Canadian
Tait gave the Bowser Government
one of the hardest smacks any Australian
Ministry has had. Bowser appealed to the
American, asking if he could recommend
one of bis countrymen for the Chief Com-
missionership. “There is no greater expert
in the world than you’ve got,” replied Tait.
Of course society saw little of him. The
only relaxation from work that the da.pper
little man allowed himself was an occasional
turn on the tennis court. He was only
49.
Major Vivian de Crespigny, a soldier son
of the Bank of Victoria’s general manager,
is one of the bird men who flew from London
io India by way of Cairo. He was given
a farewell dinner by his cousin, Sir Claude
de Crespigny, and one of the guests was
Lord Kin to re. Young Vivian, who got into
flying rig on his 18th birthday, has the M.C.,
Croix-de-Guerre with palm and the D.F.C.
Capt. O. W. Pleasants, _ M.C., who is
returning on the Ivarmala, is a son of. the
late Lieut.-Colonel, and was the apple of his
father’s eye. Unfortunately the gallant old
soldier did not live to see his boy come safely
home from his second war. (He fought in
S’Africa when only 16.) This time he left
Australia in February, 1915, and served
most of his time in France with the 16th
Light Horse. Like his brother-in-law, Brig.
General Lloyd, he works in the National
Bank.
There was a bright little function at
Cliveden last week, when the McAnstreys’
flat flared up in the early hours. All the
Cliveden inmates turned out to a woman —
there seemed to be hundreds of them, and
every kind of boudoir cap.
Guy Madden, back from the war, is about
town looking the shadow of his old plump
self. Illness has given him the complexion
of a seasoned Anglo-Indian.
Dr. Barry Thompson, of the beautiful
bedside manner, has just got through an
attack of pneumonia. His room in Somer-
set House hospital was more like a florist’s
than any other patient’s on record. The
young man is now back at Cliveden.
If you must have an accident, be fashion-
able and fall in the hunting-field. Both the
newly-wed Laidlaws came a cropper lately—
but they’re mending nicely, thank you. Mrs.
Laidlaw’s mount “caught the fdnce” and
gave her a spill, and hubby came tumbling
after. The Laidlaws are at the North Wood-
lands sheepery, at Navarre, the old home-
stead of the McCullaghs. Mrs. Laidlaw was
Alice McCullagh, the large, fair, sporty girl
who brought her hack to town for use in
Collins-street and on the tan of Alexandra-
avenue. North Woodlands was a special
haunt of the late Hopetoun.
The Mayor of Fitzroy and Mrs. Robert
Barr are getting ready to celebrate Peace
with a dance scheduled for August 14. There
will be a reception before the music begins.
The newest jazz step or “roll” is a very
slow step. So far only the fast venture
on it.
This thoughtful girl in the mortar-board is
Maude Puddy, Mus. Bac., who was lately
appointed a teacher in the pianoforte division
of the Elder Conservatorium, Adelaide. She
will act as locum-
tenens for her old
teacher, Reimann,
who is going to visit
Europe next year. As
all Adelaide knows,
Maude is one of the
most accomplished
pianists in the Com
monwealth, and her
name is chalked up
for future genera-
tions of musicians by
Leschetizky’s compli-
ment in dedicating
to her his Valse
Prelude Op. 49 No,
2. At the great
teacher’s concert
classes in Vienna the
Australian girl was
a soloist as well as an orchestral playe’’.
During the war she did Red Cross work in
England and cheered the Diggers witb
concerts.
Warrant-officer Colin H. Campbell is set-
tling back into his old home, Taine, in
Toorak-road, which the Mcßeaths rented
while he was at the war. Colin on his re-
turn was received by a three-year-old daugh-
ter as well as by a growing son who was an
infant when he left for France.
Mrs. C- C. Kingston, who died in Adelaide
last week, was a lady whose masterful ways
compelled even Charles Cameron’s respect.
Once in the Reps, she wanted her man in a
hurry and demanded of an usher to bring
him out “at once.’’ The official faded into
the interior and presently returned with a
message that Mr. Kingston would be there
in a minute. “A minute !’’ shrieked the im-
perious lady. “I said ‘at once.’ Go and
bring him.” The unhappy official crept
dreadfully into the House once more and
this time returned with his quarry. All the
House staff tried to dodge Mrs. Kingston,
and the late Speaker Holder trembled at her
tread. He once personally advised a mes-
senger not to irritate her under any circum-
stances, as her temper was doubtful and her
manner sudden. All the same, she was big-
hearted and faithful, and served Kingston
dutifully through many years of struggle-
The story that she lacked education was a
fabrication. Charley had her at school tor
years before he married her. They had no
children.
Poet Rupert Atkinson, who is here studied
by Monteath, has invented a .m# of W'l
billing the cinema
with the spoke n
drama, and is ar-
ranging to exploit his
idea in America. The
young man has com-
posed “A Nocturne”
in seven thrills for
production by the
new method, and
Edward Vidler, who
is publishing the
little piece with some
striking designs by
Napier Waller, is
also helping with two
tragedies on his own
account. Later on a
Pierrotic gambol,
with gallant Hugh
McCrae as M.C., will
take the same daring road to publicity.
Rupert Atkinson, who is responsible for “A
Modern Magdalene” and “Wayside Poems,”
is one of the wealthiest trippers on Par-
nassus. Undoubtedly he would find his
proper vocation as Poet Laureate to the
Mint or the Stock Exchange.
Prof. Spencer and his wife are making pre-
parations for a protracted visit, if not a
settling down in England. The gems of the
great Spencer art collection are cased ready
for transport. Mrs. Gilruth is giving a big
farewell party to the Spencer lady at the
Lyceum Club.
Maggie Niall, the petted daughter of wool-
wealthy J. M. Niall, used the mail linens
between here and England as other girls
use trains or ferry-boats. Then she married
genthelp Burnham, of G.-G. Denman's staff,
and has been Settled in England for years.
Melbourne pals are now preparing for a
visit from her about Spring race-meeting
time.
Lady Newdegate and the younger daughter
are visiting at Federal Government House.
They go to England on the Osterley for a
short sprint, following the bride-daughter,
Mrs. Fitzroy.
Mrs. Stewart Balmain is due here shortly
with her bunch of young children. Papa—
George Fairbairn—- is preparing a beautiful
home for daughter Alison and his English-
born grandchildren. The place is near
Albury, and formerly belonged to the. Clarkes.
Adelaide’s cup of gossip :; —
The Gifford Tates’ younger son has rejoined the
Sydney after brief leave. He is still in his teens, but
can claim two years’ war experience in the North
Sea, and had the luck to be present at the surrender
of the German fleet.
The Spring Show, arranged after much conference
and discussion for September 2, is to be postponed
another fortnight, as the Exhibition is still a ’flu
isolation hospital.
The Y.W.C.A.’s annual meeting (the 40th in this
State) was Set to a minor key, with good-byes to
the retiring secretary, Miss Thomson. The Board
handed her a cheque for £l3O and the girl mem-
bers added a wristlet watch.
A. E. Dawkins, B.Sc., is to be the 1920 Research
Scholar. Since August, 1915, he has been engaged
in the chemical adviser’s branch of the Defence De-
partment, in research work for this State’s Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and on the staff of the Banana-
land Government Analyst’s food and drugs section.
Russian is to be added to the subjects you may
study at the Adelaide University, if there are
enough students to warrant the establishment of a
readership. And a deputation, headed by Dr. Verco,
has asked the Government to add a Dental College
to- the Adelaide. Hospital. S. Aus. students have to
go out of the State to qualify for their dental degree.
A granite lonic cross is to be erected at the
entrance to St. Peter’s Cathedral as a memorial to
S. Australians who served in the war.
Victoria’s departing Governor put in a few days
with our own Ex. while waiting for the Nestor.
He and his wife were guests of the Galways once or
twice, and were better known here than any of the
other States’ vice-regals.
The Ormonde’s passengers included Ethel Hall, who
has for three years been V.A.D.-ing in military hos-
pitals in England and France.
One of Adelaide’s oldest inhabitants has just
passed away, deeply regretted. It was the vine
which grew up the walls of the Napoleon Hotel,
now being remodelled. It ran the length of the
building, both ways, and obligingly pushed fresh fruit
in at the windows of all the boarders. The altera-
tions now proceeding will result in a far better hotel,
but not such another vine.
Dorothy Pearce, daughter of the Defence
Pearces, has said “Yes” to a good Austra-
lian in England. Lieut. Elison, of Sydney,
is the lucky soldier.
Dorothy Schlesinger packed her brides-
maid’s frock and hat and hurried off _to
Sydney to attend Valerie Davenport during
the wedding march on Tuesday. Valerie’s
bridegroom is the surgeon of the New Zea-
land.
Bridegroom-elect “Buck” Kncx is still
running a ’flu temperature. As soon as
the doctor allows the patient to walk to the
altar the nostponed wedding with Mildred
Syme will be celebrated.
Dr. Mills, one of our authorities on
economics, who returned on a recent trans-
port, brought back an Irish bride.
When Melbourne opened its Akgus the
other morning it acquired the impression
that an. Abode of Love had been established
in the stainless city. An advertisement an-
nounced a meeting of the “Fondling Hos-
pital and Infants’ Home.” Of course, it
was the comp, again.
The Old Exchange, just sold to the Com-
monwealth Bank, was built in 1851 by
baronet Daniel Cooper, and was the first
home of the telephone in Australia. Byron
Moore, the present hoary secretary of the
V.R.C., who started as a commission agent
in the Exchange in 1878, got into touch with
Edison, in America, and as the result of
their negotiations one of Edison’s managers
installed a telephone exchange two years
before one was opened in London. The
original subscription was £2O a year, half of
which went to the Government, and Byron
Moore recalls how he had to toil to get the
first 20 subscribers. Moore afterwards
established exchanges in Bendigo and Bal-
larat, and once started a homing pigeon ser-
vice; with a pigeon-house on the roof of the
Exchange, for the purpose of acquainting
the Melbourne sports with the first results
of coursing matches. The birds, which were
sent out to the matches in crates, were
obtained from Germany through {he conni-
vance of the local German Consul and
Count von Moltke, the old war-dog who was
then in charge of the pigeon branch of the
German Army.
The sale will shortly compel The Bul-
letin to change its Melbourne address. The
Commonwealth Bank has acquired the site
from the Miller clan for a trifle of £70,000
and it intends to hurry a massive pile to
Heaven. The first clod of the new edifice
will not nrobably be shovelled until 1920.
but as soon as oracticable various Bank
officials will invade the Old Exchange to
ease the pressure in the temporary premises
at the 1 Equitable Building. Just now the
bank sthff feels like Chapel-street, P’ran, on
Friday night.
There has been a lot of fuss lately about
the indiscriminate use and abuse of flags.
The Union Jack is frequently flown wrong-
side up, and at one junketing a Bavarian
flag was discovered. At the lime of the
armistice a popular old-clo’ dyer and cleaner
could not get through her customers’ ordi-
nary work. She explained that she was jusr
rushed off her feet dyeing old bunting.
Amongst other jobs, she was converting a
number of German flags to a plain blue or
red. On to these grounds were sewn the
Southern Cross stars with a tiny Jack tacked
to one corner.
J. O’Hara, who has come here as producer
and leading man for the Firm’s new play,
“Lightilin’,” is accompanied by liis wife, who
is an American star, but prefers to be out
of the spotlight rather than be separated
from her husband and break a record of
constant companionship that is 25 years old.
Alwyn Buesst, who laid down a conduc-
tor’s baton tp go to the war, is now
at Covent. Garden, in London, where lie has
some sort of instructional job. Mrs. Buesst.
his devoted mother, is packing her bags, and
leaves Melbourne in a week or two.
Tenor Kirby intends to celebrate Peace
by making a visit to his beloved Italy.
Walter thought so much of Italy after his
studies there that on his return to Australia
he used to speak like an ice-cream merchant.
Plumpton Wilson, who used to be -with
the Allan Wilkie co., has blossomed into an
actor-manager. Fie has just completed a
Westralian season, which included a stay in
Perth and a tour. He played only good stuff
like “The Gay Lord Quex.” Wilson sent
across for several Australian actresses then
in Melbourne. Miss Claudius and Esther
Mitchell were two of the group. Harcoprt
Hare, son of the Commissioner of Police,
was in the co., which scored a rattling suc-
cess.
Twenty Melbourne painters are giving a
show in the Athenaeum from August 5 to
August 16. Colquhoun, Frater, McCann,
Sweatman, Merfield, Edwell and Anderson
are the committee.
The departure of Mr. Knibbs for Europe
matters less to most people than the fact
that Meteorologist Hunt went in the Statis-
tician’s company. Mr. Hunt will be sadly
missed. When he warned them of imminent
rain many women wore their extra-best hat
into town, and when he assured them that
the weather was clearing up they gave the
rain-cloak an afternoon out. Now there is
a deputy weather-prophet, -and nobody will
know what to expect. Unless Dr. GFffitb-
is a devoted lover of chess, like Mr. Hunt,
his predictions may be frequently misleading.


BSC
• : A-. V
mm®
m
‘s '
:
v:
) . i«5
■ _ j,
x V
' .
v>
■<-:
1
r
A***
m
m
m
~rBS|
Gf.h.swW.Birwvood
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of General Sir W. Birdwood is one of a new series of drawings specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir
Douglas Haig, General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W.
Robertson, General Foch, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D.
Sturdee, will be sent to any address on receipt of six penny (Commonwealth)
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
%
IN
WaJ%>oriA>
-V&-
<Scotdi Whit#
ftsr
m,
'WalwnJifcP
""*" Oujndpa “"""
J
1
Y/Y%


Charles
HeidsieckS
Vintage 1906
CMM«
NE PLUS ULTRA
ħ
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Tour
Figure
Re-created
By the SHAVE
system of model fit-
ting it is -possible
to have your-figure
re-created in the
Shave Workrooms
and upon the re-
creation per fect
gowns built without any fittings.
The name “Shave” is an assurance
of vogue.
Visits to Sydney and Adelaide twice
and to Brisbane once yearly
SHAVE
h
Ladies' Tailors
Dressmakers
Centreway
Melbourne
May we invite you to our next Display ?
HOSIERY!
GLOVES!
UNDERWEAR!
“OUR” SPECIAL MILANESE SILK
GLOVES, double-tipped guaranteed, all colors,
4/9 pair.
Other qualities 5/6, 7/6 pair
“DOVE” HEAVY-WEIGHT PURE SILK
HOSE, every pair guaranteed ladder-proof. Sold
in shops 25/- pair. From us, in black only—
-16/6 Pair
“OMI” ARITTFICIAL SILK ANKLE
HOSE, Australian made, noted for splendid dye
and good wear. In black,' white and brown—
-3/6 pair
“DOVE” AMERICAN COTTON SING-
LETS, very long and full size. Short sleeves.
4/11 value for 2/11 each
KAYSER MILANESE HOSE, in Mastic,
Navv and White 16/11 pair
MAIL ORDERS SPECIALLY CATERED FOR.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
The Dove Hosiery Stores,
Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne-
ĥ
Easy to Keep
Hair Trimmed
Distance from a barber’s need not matter when
you have a good pair of hair-clippers. The hair-
clippers illustrated are made by one of the be c t
known firms in U.S.A., and are thoroughly reli-
able. Solidly made of steel and with extra combs
to slide over end, enabling hair to be cut in
different lengths. Simple to use. Post free..
12/6
Manufacturers ’ Selling Agency
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Missing T-'riends.
WANTED to know the whereabouts of CATHER-
INE COUGHLIN, daughter of FRANCIS
COUGHLIN, of Clonlyne, and BETTY WHALEN, of
Newtown, King’s County, Ireland. In case that she
is dead, then I would like to hear from any of
her descendants, or friends who may be able to give
me any information of her. She left Clonasearra.
King’s County, for Australia many years ago.
MELBOURNE AND OTHER AUSTRALIAN
PAPERS PLEASE COPY.
Any information of her will be appreciated by her
nephew, son of her sister Dorothy (generally called
“Dora”).
Address: FRANCIS J. CLARKE,
3-1 Wall Street.
Brockton, Mass., United States of America.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
This season the styles favor the young:
organdie muslin dresses, with muslin river
hats—the sort we wore when we were 17.
Tucks and little frills will climb all over the
skirts, which will also carry sash effects.
The dimpled arm will revel in short sleeves,
and the neat ankle in strap shoes. Leghorn
hats; and for the swankier dressers slashed
skirts and lots of fringe and embroideries.
In bringing down Lord Athlumney Miss
Margery Boan, of W.A., has bagged, matri-
monially, one of the rarest specimens in the
U.K. For the past quarter of a century
which is to say, ever since he came of age—
he has been one of the most popular Irish-
men in London society. He is a Guardsman,
and wears the ribbon of every campaign
since the S’African one, in which he fought
as a machine-gunner. The parent Boan,
Harry, is one of two Sydney brothers who
30 years ago opened a store at Broken Hill,
made —one of them —a jugful of money
there and passed to Perth, where it became
a barrel-full. For a while after ttUir
affluence the family lived in Sydney and
ran a racehorse or two.
Sydney accountant David Fell, who has
been going backwards and forwards between
Australia and England straightening out the
tangles of the Commonwealth Oil Corpora-
tion and other concerns, surprised his friends
the other day by marrying into the
family of my Lord Elibanks. For 300
years or so this Murray family had
a Scotch title; but seven years ago the
Scotch baron, being then 70 or more, became
a viscount. Among his numerous brothers-
in-law Fell will have one pretty famous man
- —Major-General Seely, who was once Sec-
retary of State for War, and was after-
wards, during the Great Fight, the head
of the Munitions Department.
The dance that Lady Helen gave at Ad-
miralty House last week was not the howl-
ing success the girls favored with an in-
vitation had expected. Yet only one in-
gredient was lacking—partners. But with-
out that the cake was dough.
The Peace Offering Ball is receiving every
encouragement. All the women actively in-
terested (nearly 150) have promised to sell
10 tickets each. These tickets are quite art-
bursts. Two doves coyly flirt with a scroll
bearing the legend “Peace Offering Ball”;
and across the left-hand lower corner is a
band of pale blue. The programmes have
been designed by .Tardine, and carry all the
panoply of Peace—doves and upturned
swords and the broken casque of Mars, all
in pale blue and white. The League of
Nations’ pale blue and white are to be the
keynotes throughout—except that the strings
of lights from pillar to pillar at the Town
Hall will be amber, so that complexions
may have a fair start.
The burning question at Government
House is whether the newly-appointed
private sec. is to be addressed as Major or
plain Mister. Mr. Lamb received the title
of Major as a Red Cross Commissioner dur-
ing the war. The majority think that Red
Cross agents are entitled to their military
designation only while they are actually
Red Crossing, no commission being issued to
them.
The Sonoma on her trip over had the
Hughes atmosphere, and a very good Aus-
tralian one it was. On board were the
Thomas Hugheses, with M.C.-son Geoffrey
Forrest, whom they had picked up in
America ; Mrs. John Hughes, with her lieu-
tenant son and her daughter Mary (younger
son Maurice returned to Sydney some time
ago). But there was one missing—Brian,
who had fought bravely alongside his brothers
and his cousins in France. Mrs. John
Hughes and her two daughters ieft Sydney
three and a half years ago. For some time
they worked at the Coulter Hospital; then
Major Willie Redmond lent them his home
in Wicklow. Here amid calm and peace that
Avas heavenly by contrast with the fever of
air-raided London, the. Australians found
something of home; for their host, in happy
memory of Australia, had planted the flower-
ing gum of the land he owned to loving best
next to his own country. He used to say
the one thing that he looked forward to after
the war was to go up to Bourlce and lie in
the sun till he was baked through and
through. Before leaving for Australia Mrs.
Hughes was allowed to go to France to
visit the graves of her nephews and her son.
and she wants Australian mothers to know
how beautiful the sleeping-places of their
dead are kept. Brian Hughes (he was of
the Dublin Fusiliers), with his comrades,
lies in a little orchard on the slope of a
hill. Beyond are riddled and battle-torn
fields, but in that spot there is nothing but
quiet dignity and holy calm.
Greenknowe, the Tooliey stronghold at
Potts Point, was thrown open to about 50
guests one evening last week, when Mrs.
Toohey, in black lace over soft white satin,
welcomed the Thomas and the John
Hugheses and farewelled the Mark Shel-
dons. There was bridge and much talking
and a young man at the piano, while on the
wide verandahs the young people (lots of
naval boys among them) who had been in-
vited to keep the Sheldon girls company
tried over the newest steps.
Last week Japanese Consul Shimizu and
his wife gave many farewell parties—little
lunches and dinners at which the more in-
timate farewells were uttered; but it was
the Queen’s Club mantle that was flung
over the general au revoir. The Consul
manfully stood beside his beautifully-frocked
madame and faced the tide of femininity
that surged into the reception-room. The
hostess’s smile never grew weary, and each
guest had the comforting feeling that she
was the one person the Shimizus really
would have missed from the party. The
little Consulina’s dress was of black geor-
gette with side panels richly embroidered
in nasturtiums ; a soft black hat framed her
child-like face, and she carried a bouquet of
violets. After the last oyster sandwich had
slipped inside its human shell, a swagger
travelling-case was handed to Madame
by a group of women friends, and out
of their joint savings the wives of Ministers
Fuller and Holman had bought a manicure
set. American Consul Brittain’s wife was
there in navy; Mrs. D. R. Hall carried
ermine and mixed green and gold upon her
mole frock ; Minister James’s wife stuck to
two shades of blue; Mrs. Ferrari-Passmore
was a reminder of the Wentworth kinder-
garten fete, and Mrs. Ellis Gulliver and
Mrs. Wunderlich seized an opportunity to
calculate just how many more million buds
they needed for their Rose Balls.
We all saw and loved Sara Allgood in
“Peg o’ My Heart,” but it was a picked
bunch from Sydney’s musical and literary
sets that was invited by Beatrice Mac-
donald to hear the little artist from the
Irish Players sing and recite old Irish and
French poems. Miss Allgood knows and
loves these friends in song and story; their
sorrows are her sorrows, and their exulta-
tions stir her soul. There was the story of
Wandering Angus, the fisher who sees the
silver trout he has just placed on the live
embers turn to a woman gracious of limb
and warm of flesh : In a twinkling she js
outside the door and away, and the
rest of his life is spent searching for
her. Then came the terrible Ballade of
Moll McGhee, the tragedy of a mother so
worn out with her work of salting down
herrings that she smothers her baby in a
sleep of exhaustion. The most charming,
perhaps, was the miracle-song of Joseph and
Mary and the wild-cherry tree. Poetess
Dorothea Mackellar turned an attentive ear;
and Justice Gordon’s musical little wife and
Mrs. Herrick Knowles were other en-
thusiasts.
This is the photograph of Yvonne Des-
champs, born in Atherton, in beautiful North
Queensland. At 8
years of age she be-
gan to pluck the
honors on the highest
branches of the tree
of harmony. For the
past eight years Mel-
bourne teachers have
been training her in
a whole orchestra of
instruments. At the
moment she is a
large-eyed flapper
who seems to catch
the whispers of Or-
pheus and Theocritus
even in the din of
city streets. The
Osterley bore the
clever youngster to-
wards Rome, where
the City of the World will have the next
three years to stamp its seal upon her
artistic desires. Dad is an artist—in steel
—and the atmosphere of Alexandria is be-
loved of his soul, for that is the cradle of
his newest baby, the Australian Electric
Steel Works.
Colonel Boddam-Whetham, who was acci-
dentally killed last week after a brilliant
career in the R.F.C. and R.A.F., was a
good deal in Sydney—at 52 Macleay-street
—before the war. He was a Manning (the
legal, not the William Patrick family) on
his mother’s side.
Henry Parkes’s baby, Cobden, is one of
the homers by the Tliemistocles. The hairy
wonder who was so often Premier was well
on in the ’seventies when he welcomed the
little stranger; and shortly afterwards the
mite’s mother died. The old man soon had
his third wedding; and the lady, who was
buried a few weeks ago, was a devoted
mother to the brood.
In his garden-circled home near Wil-
loughby, Mr. Hector works unceasingly to
prove his theory that there is color in
sound. Already this inventor’s efforts have
attained a measure of success, although he
admits that the results are very far from per-
fect. His invention gives every key in the
octave a color value, the tones are graded to
semitones and so on. He has fitted the attach-
ment to a piano and an organ in his drawing-
room, and when an octave or any part of an
octave is struck on either instrument its
color value is flashed across a small stage
at the end of the drawing-room. Artist de
Mestre, too, works at his theory of sound
in color, or, as he expresses it, harmony in
color, in a \tiny studio high above .the
mystery of Little George-street. The basis
of his paintings is a keyboard in’ which
each color has a relative harmonic value, and
he looks towards the day that is coming
when we shall be educated to love color
quite apart from form. His idea seems par-
ticularly suited to interior decoration. One
design for a room in the key of E
major is extremely effective. Color and
sound, sound and color —can they be
separated so long as the wind and the sun
gladden the same earth? At all events, you
will be given a chance to judge the Sydney
boy’s theory at Gayfield Shaw’s rooms this
week. And if you go to jeer, remember
that at the ends of the world many brilliant
names are associated with the synchronists,
the cubists and the colorists, all working
towards the evolution of color harmony.
By the way, there is a color room in
Russell Lee, at Five Dock, where the medi-
cal fraternity are watching the healing effect
of color on shell-shock patients. Good Fairy
Eadith Walker waved her fountain-pen wand
once more in the interests of an experiment
that they are making in the older countries.
Colorist de Mestre supervised the work.
The walls are in primrose, the floors in
blue green, the ceiling suggests violets, the
beds aluminium, and the sum total Spring.
On the same boat go Mrs. Titheradge and
daughter Nina. They are to join Madge
amid the late beauties of a Kent autumn.
Singer Dorothy Helmrich travels on the
same ship with her best repertoire.
One of the daily papers, in mentioning
that Lieut. D’Oyley Hughes, R.N., had
broken his leg while riding up-country, put
up the somewhat cruel heading. “A Sailor
on Horseback.” As a matter of fact, some
of the best imported riders Australia has
seen have been sailors. For example, Lieut.
de_ Crespigny, R.N., who rode with much
skill and valor in steeplechases at Rand-
wick ; and Dr. Shepherd, who was a pro-
minent figure with the Sydney Hunt Club
before he married G. M. Merivale’s eldest
daughter and left the Navy for civil prac-
tice.
Pretty little Maude Fane is on her way
back to star in musical comedy with the
Firm.
The young lions of the Royal Art Society
have hung the best of their year’s work
around the walls of their Pitt-street lair,
and all day long groups of twos and threes
are dropping in to compare the competitive
work, or mark the progress of budding Nor-
man Lindsays and liilders. The outstand-
ing youngster of the year is Percy Eagles,
whose drawing from life is virile ‘ and ani-
mated, and whose design for a Commemora-
tive medal shows imagination and dignity.
Percy carries off the prize for the medal
and a 12 scholarship in the “life”
class.. Miss Wilkinson comes a close second
in this section. Marjorie Shaw wins her
scholarship on the strength of an old man’s
profile; and prying on the reddening apple
has no disastrous effect on Miss Lenthall,
for three healthy reminders of Eve’s down-
fall, in addition to some landscape, win her
a prize. Percy Eagles is unwavering in his
determination to become an artist. As far
back as three years ago The Bulletin
published two or three of his joke draw-
ings, and three years ago he must have been
a very infantile proposition.
There’s to be an alliance between the
Goulburn Rankens and the hop-family
Tooths. Young Dr. Tooth is the happv
man.
The Ormonde will carry Mrs. Macarthur
Onslow, daughter Betty and son .Tin' to
England, where they will learn all about
the Feudal system.
Returning at the end of the year from
England, Mrs. George Yivers, who was the
beautiful Irene Marks.
Died in a consumptive sanatorium, Betty
Osborne, daughter of the Hope Osbornes.
Her mother remarried some time back, and
in her second innings became Mrs. Norton,
wife of a captain in the Navy. They were
for a time at Monte Video, but lately Mrs.
Norton has been one of the smart matron-
of London. So it must have been a ver
lonely little girl who whispered good-bye v
life in Australia while brothers and sisters
and mother were in far-away England.
The Voluntary Workers’ Cafe in Eliza-
beth-street is very happy over its continued
success. It handed over its thirteenth cot-
tage to a soldier the other day, and in spit-
of the number it carries no mortgage. The
little cafe has a great turnover —£15 and
£2O on some afternoons —and Mrs. Ames
and her co-workers radiate happiness and
mentally lay the foundation-stone of still
another soldier’s home.
Sergeant F. G. N. Nott, of the 11th
Machine-gun Section and Greyeliffe station,
returned after four years’ service by the
Sonoma last- week, and went into another
engagement immediately, aided and abetted
by the quartermaster of the Darlinghurst
V. A. Detachment, Tempe Woodyatt.
youngest daughter of Mrs. Walter Woodyatt,
late of Gympie (Q.).
The picture of W. J. Bradley—lie was
lately admitted to the N.S.W. Bar—is seut
you because while at
the Uni. he was
nea r 1 y everything
useful that an under-
grad can be. In the
Unio n he held
practically every
position from that of
ordinary member to
president. In the
Undergrads’ Associa-
tion—which is the
official organisation
of the students—he
has been a represern
tative from his year
and his faculty; and
since 1913 he has
been a member if
the staff of the Uni.
magazine Hermes,
holding successively every position from edi-
torial sec. to chief editor. The magazine was
founded on the lines of the Oxford Gadfly.
and for most of its years had a precarious
existence as a purely student publication.
Under Bradley’s editorship the make-up was
changed, and it appealed to a wider public
as a general magazine. And during 1917.
1918 and the early part of 1919, the editor
found time to be associate to Justice Sly, of
the Supreme Court.
Years ago there was, if not a feud, at
least an aloofness between the more
militant section of the men students and
the women. Of late this has disappeared,
principally because men and women joined
wholeheartedly in every University war-
effort. As a climax to this better feeling
the women students made application to the
men Undergrads’ Association, which owns
and controls Hermes, for representation-on
the literary staff. The student body en-
dorsed the. request, and Bradley’s staff on
the magazine last year contained two reps,
from the women.
‘‘The .strain of making both ends meet,"
writes a little Sydney widow from New
loi-k. “is so great that life is not worth
living. So I’m coming back. A shoulder
of lamb, 12s. 6d.; butter 3s. lOid. a pound:
chicken, 3s. 4d. a pound; beans and peas,
over 3s. a pound. Yesterday was the last
day of any liquor-buying, so the cafes kept
open all night, and people had a mad New
Years Eve.. . .Australian residents here
have a room in Madison-avenue to welcome
our soldier boys coming through on their
way home. ‘Coo-ee’ is over the door. The
other night I was at a musicale there and
heard Signaller Skeyhill (the once blind
soldier) speak most entertainingly. Marie
Narelle, Eva Mylott and Harry Sweeney
(last has been playing lead in ‘The Red
Rady, a Broadway production) were amongst
the item-providers.”
Poverty Pointers held their dance in the
Southern Cross Hall last week, and prin-
cipals and small-parts had equal share in
the cast;_ in fact, some of the ladies of the
chorus wiped the floor with their star sisters
when it came to a matter of heel and toe.
The Katinka girls were there, and the girls
of the Mclnsplosh management. Muriel
\v mdow came, too, after her show. Wall-
flowers'.' Not one had so much as time to
bud.
Haro’d J. Gardener, of Brisbane, quietly
took to himself Winnie Lipscomb, of Napier,
at St. _.Tames’s late last month. Brisbane is
to be their address.
From Ivinta, Perak, C. Alma Baker drops
a line of thanks to Sydney on behalf of now-
closed Australian Air Squadron Fund. Total
subscribed, £.109,021, all remitted to the War
Office except £l2l, the cost of cabling names.
The Union Bank sent the money.
Amy Castles and sister Mrs. Finn carry
their favorite cushions to Narbethong, at
Double Bay, where they will shelter during
the grand opera season.


Hardy Brothers Ltd.,
JEWELLERS.
Established 1853.
A WEDDING PRESENT.
A Special. Feature of the Company’s Large and Comprehensive Stock
is Their Collection of “Royal Doulton” Crown Derby. Coalport and
Royal Worcester China. Choice in Design, and of Finest Quality, the
Display Affords an Unequalled Opportunity for Choosing Useful and
Acceptable Wedding Presents.
ST "T
■ Mam* e«o».tS i
f > J !3- ;
/
-I 1
v Sfctfg
V '• I.
Si
nmbmkw
Set of Six "Royal Doulton” Afternoon Tea Cups and Saucers, with
Australian Wattle-flower Design, and Six Solid Silver Teaspoons,
; n Morocco Case,
£9 10 O.
FIVE PER CENT. DISCOUNT ON ALU CASH PURCHASES.
Orders by Mail Receive Prompt
and Careful Attention.
Selections Sent on Approval to any
Address in the Commonwealth.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298 Collins Street, Melbourne. 116-118 Queen Street, Brisbane
The ANSCO V.P. SPEEDEX No. 3
is the Aristocrat
of Vest-Pocket Cameras.
The owner of an ANSCO V.P. SPEEDEX no. 3 possesses an instrument
of wonderful precision, that will enable him to take photos under almost any
circumstances.
!
«K>
mm
m:w%
ic* v ',
It is the Smallest ami lightest
Camera Made, to take 2-1 x 3l in. photos,
and is fitted with the highest-grade
Anastigmat Lenses capable of taking
snapshots on dull days, or rapidly mov-
ing objects can be taken without show-
ing the slightest trace of movement.
FOR HOME PORTRAITURE, too, it
will take photos, either bust or full
size, that can be enlarged up to 20 x l(i
inches, and larger if desired.
It is made of Aluminium, covered
with Fine Long-grain Leather, Nickel-
plated Fittings, Collapsible Reversible
View-finder and Acme Speedex Shutter,
giving exposures up to 1-300th of a
second.
With F 7.5 Modico Anastigmat Lens.
£B/10/-
With F 6.3 Ansco, Anastigmat Lens,
£lO/10/-
Other Ansco Models from 40/-, also
a full range of
ENSIGNS (British-made), KODAKS,
BROWNIES and other makes.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue if you live out of town.
METALLURGICAL and ASSAY WORK.
Our Laboratories are equipped with the most up-to-date appliances for
ail classes of Metallurgical and Assay Work, Ore-testing and Chemical Analysis.
We specialise in the treatment of Jewellers’, Dentists’ and other Metal-
workers’ Sweeps, Residues and Waste Products, every grain of metal that is
of value being extracted.
WE RESERVE REFERENCE SAMPLES of every order until settle-
ment is complete, and collect material to be treated in city or suburbs
free of charge. A note or ’phone message to any of our branches will
receive prompt attention.
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney. 266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane. 43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland. 42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney.
T
1
7
Means n Navy-Curtiss”
The NC-i, NO3, and NC-4- re-christened the
"Pmta,” "Nina,” and "Santa Maria” the second
on their Columbus-voyage to the Azores were
“3
"<3
*u uiuuiil
I'luiiiiniiiii
#!«
Huniii I
as
'urn
''^WiSWliiijligj
FLYING
BOATS
A modified type of Curtiss Flying Boats rhat made the epoch-
marking trip across the Atlantic Ocean is available in smaller
models suitable for either commercial or individual use,
EQUIPPED WITH EITHER LIBERTY
MOTORS OR CURTISS MOTORS.
Ninety per cent, of the United States Navy and
Flying Boats are Curtiss type. In war cime they proved them-
selves one of the most successful types, and now m peace,
in this momentous journey across the ocean, they again
proved themselves not only pioneers, but practical, every-
day successful Air Boats for individual and commercial use.
Orders should be PLACED NOW to ensure getting a Curtiss Flymg Boat this Summer
THOMPSON, M EGG ITT & CO. LTD.
"DAILY TELEGRAPH” BUILDINGS, SYDNEY
SPECIAL NOTICE ! All interested in the Curtiss Aeroplane and the Australian Branch ot the Curtiss Aero-
plane Company should write or call on THOMPSON, M EGG ITT & CO LTD Daily Telegraph Buildings. Sydney


ħ
WITH the first '.PELA CO Collar
purchased. , you commence a
definite immunity from collar
shortcomings.
You have onlv to remember that name
—PELA CO -in order to secure the
utmost in Collar-quality and style.
Sold by good Mercers everywhere.
h
COLLARS
Made in A ustralia
Wear also Shirts and Pyjamas
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
bv HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DIiAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.*'
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.
R
7.
the HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
138 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
£STERBROOK’S
PEN NIBS.
Asa business-man
you like a smooth,
rapid correspond-
■ ence Pen.
Write—“Esterbrook,” Box 98 G.P.0., Sydney,
for samples of ESTERB ROOK’S Swan,
Federal and Commercial Nibs.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
■ BRITI S H :
Perfection
PUSR RUBBER
Legal Notices.
TO HANS CHRISTIAN MADSEN, hus-
band of Maria Kristina Madsen (also
known as Mary Kyerstine Madsen), who left
New Zealand for Australia in 1593, and to all
persons claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the sth
day of June, 1919, by a Judge of the Su-
preme Court of New Zealand, you are hereby
called upon to send in to the undersigned
on ©r before the Ist day of December, 1919,
your claim to share in the estate of Maria
Kristina Madsen, late of Makino. New Zea-
land, deceased, who died on the 21st Septem-
ber, 1916, failing which the estate will be
distributed among those entitled thereto dis-
rfegarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington the 7th day of June,
1919.
-«•- - - - G. G. ROSE.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Does This Interest You?
The Lightning
Package Packer
will accurately pack 1000
packages per hour:—Self=
raising Flour, Corn Flour,
Cocoa & Powdered Materials.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues.
Schumacher
Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.
Port Melbourne, VICTORIA.
mm
19
: ,
: i,
im
:-*s-
‘ i
ffe
WiHHi
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
CHEMICALS.
OUR business is primarily that of exporting American
chemicals —heavy and fine pharmaceutical products and dyes.
We are manufacturers of caustic soda, soda ash, chloride of
lime, carbon tetrachloride, bichromate of soda, epsom salts,
permanganate of potash and carbon bisulphide.
Pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals and drugs—standardised and
repacked in retail containers at our own plant.
Dyes—Our Pyramid Aniline Colors represent quality, net
cheapness.
Importers of raw materials for American industries, oils, foodstuffs, el c.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT, Inc.,
80 Maiden Lane, • 'Holbrook Building,
New York, U.S.A. San Francisco.
Gable Address (Both Offices) “ Beachfred .”
BUSH, BEACH & GENT me.
New York San Francisco, U.SA.
HE DOCTOR KNOWS
how necessary it is to have a pen that will write
anywhere anytime. The fountain pen that does is
the Onoto Pen —the greatest convenience a doctor can carry.
It fi Is itself in a flash from any ink supply—it can not
leak. Get one to-day.
Price 17/-, also Onoto
Valveless for those who do
not want a .'-e f-Filling
Safety Pen 12/6 and up-
wards at all stationers,
stores, jewellers, etc.
Manufacturers :
Thos. De La Rue & Co. Ltd.
Bunhill Row, E C.
Managing Agents :
Norman Baker &
Longhurst,
Sydney and Melbourne.
noto
Self-Filling * -
Safety Fountain
Pen
ĥ
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all Pens.
Produced entirely under
the British Flag
ħ
FI?l1iW Lf33a
h
Underwear
Made in England from fine Australasian Wool, Jason Underwear
gives greater comfort than any other you ever wore.
New “Olympic” Brand
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which Jason All-wool goods are
made, the manufacturers have introduced temporarily lower lines containing a
percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee of quality as the regular lines.
Your dealer will supply you. Sole manufacturers
JASON UNDERWEAR CO.. LEICESTER. ENG.
Ab7i <£>
Bostock’s Shoe Dressing.
The pre-eminent feature of Bostock’s Polish is its remarkable
LEATHER-PRESERVING QUALITY.
With the present high cost of Shoes it is important that a
dressing should have this essential.
BOSTOCK’S SHOE CREAMS not only impart a brilliant and lasting shine, but
add greater life to Shoes by nourishing the leather, keeping it soft and pliable,
and preventing cracks.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Bottles and Tubes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
ĥ
ħ
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
■Vo notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unlcss stamps accompany.
Mag : Names and dates, please. The same
story, with variations, was told in Sydney; but
the bottom fell out of it when it was probed
Merops: Thanks. It’s far better than using-
initials G. Williams: If you type it we’ll read
it.... Jill: Down the hill.... Erie: N0....J.D.
(Manly): Keep it to yourself.. .Jonie: Won’t d 0...
By Pisces: “A Message from Herr Boche” is
blocked Seebee: That villainous rhythm will be
made a penal offence yet....J. Orton R.: All
right; we’re in agreement... .L. for Leather Jack:
Read it to the Minister for Labor... .W.E.W.: “The
sun rose in the east!” Righto; wire us when it rises
off Fremantle. .. .Nemo: What is it all about?....
Entomos: It’s difficult to manage it. The Abo.
pages have to squeeze within them a continent —and
more. Glad to hear from you, though... .Milles
Bombs: They’re hot up—that’s all. The last par.
you wrote was as dead as the beer that Noah spilt....
Shanghai: Doesn’t seem quite a fair thing. Return-
ing them. You should be able to write up some-
thing worth while from your side of it.... Eliza
W.: Considering a “Prayer for Rain.” The other
is not good enough. Try again... .The Chief
Apostle: Go forth into the highways and the by-
ways—and never return... .Oliver B. (1) “Peace
Medals” gone into the melting pot; (2) “Oh,
should these few lines give ‘one pain,” etc. They
did. The lady poet in residence had to supply
a drop out of her special eau-de-Cologne flask....
A.H.L.: You might trade it somewhere else....
Maybe: You “went through the gates of Dreamland
to a land below.” What’s the name of the party
that let you come back ?.... Bottelius: “The Bush”
has been set fire to.... Gecko: “Old Mother Kooka-
burra” very flat... .Bush: Nothing in it....Hexa-
hedron : Sorry “The Old Swaggie” has to be outed
—too feeble for this track.... Ethel J. W.: Can’t
recall it. We can't return paragraphs; stamps
should not be sent with them... .8.G.5.: Very poor
verse... .H.C.D.: “McGann” doesn’t move a whisker.
. ...C.D.C.: Too vague and wobbly... .M.G.J.:
“Mailani” doesn’t shock or attract or do any of the
things a yarn of the sort should do. .. . J.V. (S.A.) :
We’ve had a lot of better mules. ... E.S.: (Mal-
vern): No story there.... L.W. (Murramurrang) :
There is stuff in it, but you have buried it beyond
resurrection... .A. S. (Balmain): Straighten out the
most notable bumps and try it again.... J.H.J.:
The method isn’t very fresh and there isn’t any
story... .A.C.L.: Misses by only about a quarter of a
a mile... .R.W.11.: Feeble little flutter... .Hector
C.: You seem very young, but you have some idea
of telling a story.... Seedy: “The Widow” is no
good. .. .1.A.N.: Nothing at all there... .P.H.1.:
The “dawn”-“morn” rhyme again!... .Clancy: A
far-off hint of better things.... Beragoon: Too weak
and thin.... Tripe: Boil it.... J.C.S.: You say they
are poems. We’re afraid you’re mistaken. .. .B.R.
(Elstermvick) : Grow up... .C.W.8.: Example:—
Darkness —
Stars and broken trees,
Guns, bodies, iron and wire;
And silence over all.
Peace, Peace,
Where man has been.
Why do you bark at us like that?... .Webfoot: One
might do.. . .G.E.M.: “His Eyes” won’t do. Easy verse
like that must have more in it... .F.C.8.: Can’t
you find anything better to say to a river than “Roll
along” ?.... W.C. (Cheltenham): N,o merit in it....
Rebecca: Couldn’t judge from samples whether you
can write or not. Little commonplaces of that
sort are no good.. . . Dorrie W. or K. or some other
letter (Croydon) : Without skill or the beginning of
an idea.... Francis D.: Not nearly... .J. A. W.:
1 Avaunt!... .A.B. (Epping) : Say it’s cold and dark
and have done with it A.W. (Bellerive) : Not up.
L.L. (Macleod) : As to the verse, No. Don’t
remember the things referred t 0.,. ..Grizzly: Couldn’t
be much worse.... G.F.D.: Useless Walnut: Here
it is in all its tender beauty:—
A Bolshevist once met a Nationalist
In a train by himself, so he took up his fist.
And he said," “We don’t want you in this Sunny
South,
So I’ll shift the position of your mouth.”
The Nationalist got up on his feet,
The Villain knew not he was athlete.
He struck the blow
Our friend ducked low.
That the Nationalist was the one who had struck
The Bolshevist found out after the Duck.
. ...F.M.: Hasn’t anything like enough interest to
carry its irregularity... .A. N. 11.: Yes; it will get
a fair hearing; and if you. want it back enclose
stamps R.Iv.C.: You can’t rhyme “morning”
with “dawning.” N.A. (Wrightville) : Sent to
the Home for Incurables Deloraine: Common-
place verse on wooden legs.... Neil G.: Verse falls
out of step too much.... J.C.A.: No good at a 11...
Rumeater: Nowhere near....L.K. (S.A.): Force in
it, but not well enough done... . Bellerive: It’s a
sad story, but there’s no mistaking the quality of
the verse:—
111-starred from mv early boyhood,
Unhappy were my days at school;
Severely would the teachers cane me
And call me dunce and little fool,
When my mother dear predicted.
When my gift was but a spark,
From a flicker it would flasheth,
Like a searchlight in the dark;
So the years did rolleth onward,
Like the breakers of the tide
To the ordeals fate ordained me,
Sink or swim I’d to abide.
.... J.M.W.: It first livened up a wet evening In
the Ark.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.G.: The young man stands like a broken-down
cab-horse W.A.: The lobster-dressing idea is
living on the Old Age Pension. The other belongs
to a land \Vhere they still use footmen in plush....
H. 8.: Don’t deliver any more horse-faced people.
Get to an art school. .. .Hector C.: You started your
art career only about five minutes ago. Be patient.
L.H.: Ye,’, but many generations have made the
same mistake. Even the brightest mistakes become
dull in time. .. .Roy C.: Listen less and draw better.
E.D.M.: Mildew on it T.C.: And then the
doctor stunned him Cecil M.: In the cartoon
you’re treading on Low’s heels. Use your own feet.
L.W.B.: Don’t like the sort of picture that
has to be read.... Blue Drawing-book: You must
serve your apprenticeship first W.G.C.: Nothing
for us amongst tihe indelible pencillings... .J.M.W.:
Mrs. Snorts is presentable, but Mr. Snorks requires
ironing out... .T.J.M.: No severed heads to-day,
thanks.., ,G,H.: Cow lost in the ranges.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
tvith Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms. 1
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Lid.,
Tel.— City 4246, n, 4, 6 Spring Street,
4Sio! Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, SEPTEMBER 10.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Unliking, Public Companies. &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Hoad Cilice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 691,850 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love. Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Afrioa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up ....... £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH. M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. IT. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Now Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
suvud siNvaa
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON S CO.
Managing Agents for
AustralasiariUnited Steam Navigation Cu d .
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadiaii-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. MAKURA, AUGUST.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, AUGUST.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies —is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.. 259 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
H
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Inability
Directors
£3,912,440
£3,100,000
£3,912,440
£10,934,880
The Hon. Sir Cnarles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G..
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald ,T. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors :S. E. Eaidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Thomas Buekland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
h
3M o( BiiotraKa
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (Newßritain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR SAVING
are offered by this Bank—absolute security, liberal interest, and
the convenience of a Branch or Agency in almost every locality.
Deposits
accepted from one shilling upwards.
Withdrawals
payable on demand at the Branch where the account is
kept.
Interest
allowed at 394 per cent, per annum on every £ up to
£5OO.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Tt\e STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BANK that PAYS 31% INTEREST on SAVINGS
Shipping.
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service
Manila, Hong Kong, Japan and
the East. Transhipment cargo
accepted for all Eastern ports,
Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
KOHSO MARU, sailing August.
MADRAS MARU, sailing September.
GANGES MARU, sailing October.
LIMITED ACCOMMODATION AVAILABLE
FOR FIRST-CLASS PASSENGERS.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET. SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4160, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
INTER-STATE SAILINGS SUSPENDED
OWING TO STRIKE.
Huddart Parker Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar Bail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to. Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Us.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe, and Yokohama.
Passengers must obtain from the Quarantine
Authorities permits to leave New South Wales at least
three days before the steamer’s departure.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although' over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. 11. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
Iho Standard Remedy which has outlived the Cantuirrrjn,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and .Navy men.
Used since 15»6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALI.INC EYELASHES. WEAK SIGHT.
& GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s"—refuse all substitutes.


rrrtjSs
X3VSC’ ZilTiZriM iIiTT
- v tc/.-A
m
mm
l !
K
» »v
|
Q
Paint Before
the Summer Comes.
Give all woodwork two protective coat-
ings of S.W.P. and you will effectually
safeguard it against the severe rays of the
Sun in Summer. Apart altogether from the
beautifying effect of paint, which undoubtedly
increases the selling=value of property, its necessity
as a protector should not be overlooked any longer
than should insurance. Both are safeguards. Decide
fora good-quality paint containing White Lead, Zinc
Oxide, Linseed Oil and Turps in correct proportions.
You will get the RIGHT paint if you order
COVES?
THE
EARTH
Paint
PREPARED.
THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS CO. (AUSTRALIA) LTD.
Head Offices 63 Pitt St. f Sydney, Agents everywhere.
A SEASONED SHAVER.
“Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands olf others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE, “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6-POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM
Razor,
ĥ
fteminGtofl,
UMC
Remington umc cartridges
are made and tested for ever y
standard make of pistol and revolver.
Their uniform accuracy and absolute
reliability make them the favourites
among shooters of this class of fire-
arm, whether used by the expert marks-
man or by the casual purchaser for
self-defence and safety.
Write for special booklet
free upon request.
ana
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
Box 656, G. P. 0., MELBOURNE
h
Missing Friends.
F\ WART, HENRY, deceased, late of
i Adelaide River, N.T., intestate. The
relatiyes of deceased, or any person knowing
their whereabouts, are requested to com-
municate with
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Darwin, Northern Territory.
Missing Friends.
T~\ AVID MELDRUM, son of Mary Audi
terlonie, late of Neeriin South, Vic-
toria, deceased, communicate with her
Executors, The Equity Trustees Co., Ltd.,
85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
M.S. DEPENDABLE SPORTS GOODS.
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
2
7
~~pk
ħ
RACKETS,
M.S. Handicap 7/6
M.S. Champion 12/6
C. 8.8., Leather Handle. . 11/6
C. 8.8., Cork Handle .. 15/6
C. 8.8., Double Strung- .. 18/6
Spalding Vantage 26/-
Dreadnought 25/-
Invincible 27 /6
Conqueror ... 30/-
Slazenger’s La Belle 21/-
Slazenger’s Player .... 24/-
Slazenger’s Whitehouse . 45 /-
Slazenger’s E.G.M 57/0
Slazenger’s Stadium .. 05/-
Lambcrt Chambers ..... 05/-
Prosser’s Phenomenon .. 67 /O
Davis Risley Hexagon.. 07/0
(Postage on Racket: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Specialists in
All Kinds of
RACKET REPAIRS
BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation -/9 8/6
Challenge Covered 1/3.15/-
Dunlop Regulation 1/4 15/-_
i Each. Doz.
Dunlop’s Champion 2/7 30/-
Ayre’s 1919 Champion 3/- 35/-
Slazenger’s 1919 Champion 3/- 35/-
(Postage on one doz.N.S.W., 1/-f other States, 1/8.)
. SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Tenriis Court Markers 30/-
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Racket Covers 2/6 4/6
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
Central Wood Press 1/9
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets bottle -/9
Each.
The “H” Racket Press 2/9
The “Grip” Racket Press ... 3/6, 5/-
Raclcet Handle Covers 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1 /-
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils,
2/-, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6 coil.
Tracey’s Gut, 21ft. coils,
3/9, 6/9, 9/- coil.
h
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value •••• 9/6, 10/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 0z...-12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
6 or 8 oz .14/6, 17/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz 20/-, 22/6
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz 24/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, G or 8 oz 26/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” 'made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”-) Baker 27/6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 6/6
~ Best napa, ~ ~ 7/6
~ Tan Leather, ~ „ 8/6
„ very superior, ~ ~ . ... 10/6
~ Laced, ~ ~ 15/-
(Post.age on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
7in. wide (Post 4d) 9/6 each.
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) .. / 6/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3ioz. (Post 6£d.) 17/6 pair.
Keep your razor
keen by using—
STROPOLINE, 9d.
TIN
(Post Free).
ĥ
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Bail Punching will
keep you in good condition.
A lv.M \ , Swinging Ball, regulation siz.-, soft leather, iigut
make, for fast work . . 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 21/-
“REACH” ARMY, Swing ing Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast —
18/6, 22/6, 25/-, 27/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling .., 10/6, 12/6, 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/, 25/-, 30/-
EXPRRT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings . . .... 22/6, 25/-, 80/-
PORTARLE BALE, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.... 60/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders. ■
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves . 3/9, 4/9 pr. Mitts .... 2/9 pr.
Punching Platforms 40/-, 60/-, 90/- each
Rail anti Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6 „
Ball-bearing Swivels 3/9, 4/6, 5/- »»
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Gplf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Pishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges. ,
’end for copies of “Can't B Beat" Sportsman’s Guide (Bl) and “Sure Catch" 1919
Angler's Guide (B 2). All sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
1C
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
AND TOBACCONISTS
ħ
City Sports Di’pot
99 King St, d/50
Newcastle l Brisbane.


f
i
MISS MARIAN
MARCUS-CLARKE
(from a photo).
Another Tribute to Rexona
Miss Marian Marcus-Clarke, the favorite actress, is the youngest daughter of Marcus ciarke,
whose thrilling novel, “FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAE LIFE,” has made him world
famous.
Miss Marcus-Clarke made her name in America, and, returning to her native land, Australia,
she has played many principal-character parts, including .Sarah Blakely in “THE SILENT
AV'ITNESS.”
Read the following letter written to us by Miss Marcus-Clarke in praise of Rexona:—
lam dropping you a line to tell you how good I have found Rexona Soap. As a
skin beautifter and as a shampoo for the hair I have never found anything nearly so
good, and it is delightfully refreshing. Everyone I have recommended it to has been
so pleased with it. 1 have also used Rexona Ointment. It is excellent, and I think
there is nothing on the market that in any way approaches the Rexona Remedies.
I wish you much success with them. Yours faithfully,
(Sard.)' MARIAN MARCUS-CLARKE.
REXONA —The FAMILY FRIEND.
Rexona Soap and Ointment are universal favorites with everyone who values a pure and healthy
skin. The longer you neglect
your skin the harder it will be to
care for it. Delay may result in
Eczema. Psoriasis. Ringworm,
Running Sores, or some of the
many and unpleasant forms that
skin trouble so often assumes.
Rexona the Rapid Healer and
Rexcna Soap are sure preserva-
tives for the health and skin.
Rexona Soap keeps the skin soft,
and pure, and Rexona the Rapid
Healer will immediately eradi-
cate any disease which may be
apparent, for it arouses the skin
to healthy activity so that it
quickly recuperates and the
diseased skin becomes once more
sound and healthy. Rexona is
sold everywhere, in triangular
pots at 1/6, or in larger pot's,
holding nearly four times the
quantity, at 3/-. Rexona Soap is
sold at 1/- a tablet.
mm
m
m
%
m
yy
m
I
i
h
'/ : 7 1
' Cleanses
HEALS ANp
Pushes •
ft
MEDICATED SOAP
Rexona Proprietary Company
Sydney.N.S.W.
'Fop the '
toilet. Bath
8. NURSERY
BUSINESS PROGRESS DEMANDS
THE MOTOR LORRY TODAY
The motor lorry is rapidly supplanting animal power—
for every hauling purpose—in every part of the world.
The Federal Motor Lorry is the choice of men who
have carefully investigated the comparative merits of
motor lorries. It is practically indestructible.
Write us for “Traffic News” magazine—free. Also for full prices and discounts.
H. W. C ' UZH, Sole N.S.W. Agent,
26=28 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Federal Motor Truck Company
Factory—Detroit. Mich. U. S. A. Foreism Dept., 18 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
ħ
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
m
Singing up the Sounds.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rn HE Tarwhite hills, like hump-back
whales,
Swam in the floods of night.
The tide that hid their fins and tails
Was dim with distant light.
As though the radiant, starry blaze
Of heavenly picture-shows
Had lit the winding waterways
Where dreaming cow-fish doze.
And here and there a solemn star
Wheeled on its watchful rounds;
We saw them from our gondola,
A-singing up the sounds.
There were no lights on earth at all
And none upon the tide.
We heard the strong ebb’s voices call
To bid our engine bide ;
The current leaned against our bows
With Picton leagues away.
Perhaps our music woke the cows
That drowsed by some dark bay.
Oh, it was loud, and full of joy
That in free hearts abounds,
When we dug up “The Minstrel Boy”
And sang him in the Sounds!
“Bear in towards the shadows there,”
The phantom soundsman said,
Standing against the starlight fair —
“Bear in beneath the head,
And miss the ebb and beat the kelp ;
God knows she’s pulling hard !”
“Join in our song,” we cried, “and help
To sing it like a bard.”
Hoarse-voiced he was, and used to shout
Loud words on little ground,
Yet welcome music he sent out
A-singing up the Sound.
“I had a little hen,” he trolled,
“She had a wooden leg.
There never was a chicken bold
That laid so large an egg.
She laid the very largest ones
Of any on the farm —
Another little drink, my sons,
Won’t do us any harm.”
So in the dimness, hand to hand,
t We passed a bottle round,
Upon the sea, between the land,
A-singing up the Sound.
We sang the songs of Araby
With tears in every eye;
We set the slaves of Pharaoh free
Beneath the boundless sky ;
The flags of all the Allies flew—
About a mile apart—
Along the wake our sobbing screw
Churned up with breaking heart.
And fair maids paced the waterway
With radiant colors bound.
When, like a flame, the Marseillaise
Rolled up the quiet Sound.
The Nelson packet passed us like
A lighted cocktail bar.
We heard her seven bell-notes strike
And saw the mate’s cigar
Behind the windbreak glowing, ere
Her wave came up astern
And made our tired propeller flare
And lift and sob and churn.
We heard the coaster’s lookout tell
The bridge that he had found
Whence came the noise that seemed to swell
Like singing up the Sound.
When chiming bells in cities far
Were beating midnight’s strokes.
A beacon flashed, as though a star
'Were whirled on spinning spokes.
“That’s Diffenbach, we’re half-way home.
Haul round her close, my son!”
We saw across the heavens’ dome
Red lights of comets run,
And with her starbo’d yoke-line slack
We sailed her round and. round,
And serenaded Diffenbach.
A-singing up the Sound.
The Picton hills, like st'-anded whales,
Loomed in the gloom of night.
The tide that washed their fins and tails
Was white with that cold light
Which shines in streets when well abed
All decent folk should be.
In each heart grew a misty dread.
A kind of prophecy :
White like policemen of the sky
The big. bright stars paced round,
And far away the echoes died.
Out seaward, down the Sound.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
The Incomparable Rosalind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HORACE FABER’S Avonian Drama-
tic Company, “fresh from extraor-
dinary triumphs in America, Eng-
land and on the Continent,” came into exist-
ence on the first of April, and entered
upon its enormously successful provincial
tour on the fourteenth of the same month
in the same year, with a leading lady whose
chief grievance against fate and the business
theatre was that in 15 years she had not
been given an opportunity of demonstrating
the truth of her favorite theory, the idea
that she was far and away the finest Rosa-
lind that had graced the Australian stage.
If Horace Faber’s excellent father, who
had prospered in the manufacture and sale
of FabeFs celebrated non-corrosive frying
and stew pans, had died a year earlier, the
Avonian Dramatic Co. might never have
come into existence, and Mr. Horace Faber’s
ambition to carry the noblest expositions
of the finest dramatic literature of all time
to non-metropolitan centres would, in all
probability, not have been formulated at all.
While -waiting for the interesting domes-
tic event that was to give him unrestricted
access to the firm’s till. Master Horace in-
dulged himself in a little harmless suburban
amateur theatricals, and Miss Miriam Pob-
joy caught him at it.
Miriam Pobjoy, her black cat perched on
her shoulder, put a hand on the left arm
of Robert Faber, and said she had never
seen anything like his performance of
Romeo in the whole course of her profes-
sional career —so scholarly, so strong, so
very artistic. “Andiyou are without excep-
tion, Mr. Faber, the handsomest Romeo we
have had in twenty years. You possess the
grace, the distinction, and the —-what shall I
call it? —the gentility with which, I am
sure, the celebrated author wished to see the
character invested.”
Naturally Horace was mightily pleased to
have this unsolicited testimonial from a pro-
fessional lady of Miss Miriam Pobjoy’s
eccentricity, experience and acknowledged
genius. Then Miss Pobjoy hoped she might
have the pleasure of seeing a further demon-
stration of Mr. Faber’s original talent. She
even hinted that she would be delighted to
act with him and his amateurs. Here, she
said, were exceptional circumstances: the
extraordinary native ability of the leading
gentleman would satisfy the most captious
that she was justified in taking any course
which might hasten the professional advent
of a great actor. Miss Pobjoy leaned her
cheek to that of her black cat, and looked
up at Horace with those great, soulful eyes.
Within a week they were talking of the
Avonian Dramatic Co. as a possibility of
the near future. Already Papa Faber’s
health was promisingly precarious, and
Horace was feeling that if anything could
console him for the loss of a fat, indulgent
father it was the chance of his immediately
taking that place on the legitimate stage to
which his great gifts entitled him.
By this time Horace Faber had discovered
Miss Miriam Pobjoy to be the most beauti-
ful and most fascinating, as she was the
most brilliant, woman of her period. It
was not a discovery that entitled the finder
to pioneering rights, but, all the same, young
Horace wondered that so many were so
blind to the dazzling fact that had, as it
were, lit up his young life with an effulgent
glow. Horace was now 22, small and slim
of build, a rather tepid blonde, with a pale
golden moustache like a reticent eyebrow, a
backward nose slightly tilted, and a faint
lisp.
Faber, senior, could hardly have done bet-
ter had he felt it incumbent upon him to
hasten the realisation of his son’s great
ambition. He died. Three roods of stale
scenery were purchased out of cold storage
from a retiring manager who, because he
was a personal friend of Miriam’s, did not
charge a penny more than twice its value;
and the company was carefully collected,
with two important objects always in mind
—firstly, the necessity of excluding any
actress whose youth and good looks might
tend to suggest something of Miriam’s well-
concealed maturity; and, secondly, the un-
wisdom of engaging any actor whose ability
could in any way rob Miss Pobjoy of the
full advantage of strong contrast.
The Avonian Dramatic Company was to
open its first Australian season in “As You
Like It” at the Academy of Music, Ballarat,
and no effort was spared to keep the people
of the Garden City and the surrounding dis-
tricts awake to the fact. A coquettish stock
poster, representing Rosalind in sportive
daPi'ince with Phebe, flaunted it on all the
hoardings. Each fence and rock and tree
had its streamer. The local papers pro-
vided a continuous downpour of paragraphs
expressing pleased amazement at the daily
discovery of some new excellence in the cele-
brated Miss Miriam Pobjoy. Photographs of
Miss Miriam Pobjoy as Rosalind, or as just
Miss Pobjoy (with cat), or of Miss Miriam
Pobjoy in the many classic characters she
had made peculiarly her own, smiled,
frowned, or just glowered at you from every
second window; and interviews with Miss
Miriam Pobjoy, the famous Shakspearean
actress, on “Sbakspeare’s Place on the
Modern Stage.” reprinted from the New
York Herald and London 'Times, appeared
in the various Saturday supplements.
Public expectation ran high. Ballarat had
a dim sense of being honored beyond its
deserts, and filled the Academy far past the
legal limit of its capacity on the opening
night. Conceive if you can the disappoint-
ment and disgust of the audience on dis-
covering in its programme a little pink slip
which read :
The management regrets to have to announce
that in consequence of a sudden and painful illness
Miss Miriam Pobjoy will be unable to appear in
her wonderful interpretation of the part of Rosalind
to-night, and craves the indulgence of the audience
for Miss Josephine Colwater, who at a few hours’
notice takes upon herself this important r6le.
For some little time it seemed that the
pit was about to make a serious demonstra-
tion, but after much murmuring, and a
sirocco of catcalls and democratic imperti-
nence, contented itself with an attack upon
the orchestra as the only visible and ap-
proachable simulacrum of authority. But
the musicians, a hardened band of large and
varied theatrical experience, bore showers of
peanuts and orange-skin with the fortitude
of zoo monkevs.
However, Miss Josephine Colwater had a
favorable reception; her manifest youth
and her undeniable prettiness broke down
the last _ suggestion of resentment, and her
scene with Celia was so fresh and girlish
that the front stalls broke in with frequent
demonstrations of superior approval.
This the management accepted as an
acknowledgment of entire forgiveness, and
on the conclusion of Act 1 sent Irvine Hols-
worthy, the veteran comedian, out before
the curtain to express the gratitude every
member of the company felt, in common
with Mr. Horace Faber, for the generous
forbearance Ballarat had shown. Mr. Irvine
Holsworthy then cleared his throat, and in
his deepest, richest notes, and in a voice
trembling between anguish and felicity, ex-
pressed the fond hope that Monday would
find the incomparable artist and woman.
Miss Miriam Pobjoy, completelv recovered
from the distressing affliction that had
robbed her of the pleasure of appearing be-
fore them that night.
In pojnt of fact. Miss Miriam Pobjoy.
taking advantage of the comparatively un-
limited resources placed at her disposal by
her new manager, Mr. Horace Faber, had
quickly exhausted the delights of mere shop-
(Continued on next page.)


c>
IB
VI
“I became completely
run down, and life
was a misery
$2
"A.
/A
BECAUSE OF THE UNIQUE WAY
IN WHICH ZAM-BUK’S HERBAL
INGREDIENTS ARE BLENDED
TOGETHER, ZAM-BUK IS A
PREPARATION UNPARALLELED
FOR ITS SOOTHING, HEALING,
ANTISEPTIC AND GERMICIDAL
PROPERTIES.
AVOID
SUBSTITUTION.
When you askforZam-
Buk, see that you get it.
Do not be put off with
something which is
claimed by your trader
as “just as good,” be-
cause it returns him
more profit. There is
NOTHING “just as
good ” as the proved,
reliable Zam-Buk,
A Grateful Mother Tells How ZAM-BUK
Completely Cured After All Other Treatments Failed.
HOW terrible are the tortures of Piles, and how great are the Soothing, Curative Powers of
Zam-Buk, is forcefully illustrated in the case of Mrs. Russell, of 4 Macquarie Street, Annan-
dale, Sydney, who says :—“ I suffered torture from piles for four years. I could not sleep from
the extreme pain and irritation, and they nearly drove me mad. I lost weight through the loss of
blood, and grew thin. I tried everything to give me ease from this nerve-racking torment, but the
treatment was absolutely useless. I got special ointment made up, but it also proved a failure, and
the malady became worse instead of better. 1 became completely run-down, and life was a burden.
1 was recommended to go to the hospital for treatment, but, as they wished to operate with a knife,
to this 1 objected.
“Afterwards, while visiting my brother, he persuaded me to use Zam-Buk, from his own and family’s
successful experience with it, so 1 obtained a pot from him. I applied Zam-Buk three or four times each day.
and the first night following application I obtained my first complete night’s rest for nearly four years. I
continued with the treatment with Zam-Buk, and all congestion and inflammation disappeared, the bleeding
ceased, and I feel splendid. I found Zam-Buk most soothing and cooling, and all irritation disappeared almost
on application, so I can speak most highly of it, and trust it will do others as much good as it has done me.”
THE EVER-READY HOME HEALER.
A NURSE’S EXPERIENCE.
Mrs. C. Scott, a well-known nurse, of William-
son Street, North Hobart, Tas., says:—“Whilst
visiting my patients I have witnessed the useful-
ness of Zam-Buk in innumerable eases. Besides, I
have used it personally in my own home for cuts,
burns, bruises, and simila- every-day injuries.”
SORE HANDS IN COED WEATHER.
Mr. C. J. West, 141 Gillies Street, Adelaide,
says:—“During the cold weather, while working
up-country, my hands became affected by the cold.
The pain was awful and I cijuld not get any-
thing to do permanent good. However, I am
pleased to say that, after using Zam-Buk for a
short time, the cracks completely healed up.”
COVERED WITH ERUPTIONS.
Mrs. M. McVicar, Kendal Street, Lambton, New-
castle, N.S.W., says:—“For two months my little
girl .Maggie was simply covered with eruptions all
over her body. Nothing gave her any relief
until we tried Zam-Buk, which quickly soothed
the painful irritation, and in a short time com-
pletely healed her skin and made it perfectly
healthy.”
S 3
SOOTHES AND HEALS
Zam-Buk is proved unexcelled
for chilblains, chapped hands,
cuts, bruises, scalds, burns,
sores, bad legs, ulcers, abra-
sions, pimples, blisters, chil-
dren’s sores, abscesses, ring-
worm, barber’s rash, and in-
jured and diseased conditions
of the skin generally. From
all Chemists and Stores at 1/6
and 3/6 per pot, or post free
from C. E. Fulford (Aust.),
Ltd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ping, and then taken to her old and unfail-
ing comfort, London gin, and was now lying
in a condition that had prevailed for three
days, utterly dead to her long-cherished am-
bition, careless what might become of Horace
Faber or the Avonian Dramatic Co., or
of the fate of any other person, place or
thing anart from the large, pale bottle from
the label of which smiled at her the black
cat that had made her the devoted friend of
black cats for nearly a generation.
It was in her first scene in the forest of
Arden that the new Rosalind was most
effective and scored her deepest impression.
She looked so deliciously maidenly in the
boyish garb, she was so tantalisingly coquet-
tish, amusingly quizzical, tender, derisive,
capricious and loving by turns that she
quite captured the liking of the whole house.
One man in the orchestra stalls set the
pace. He was enraptured by little Miss
Josephine Colwater, and heartily demonstra-
tive throughout, applauding wildly with his
hands high in the air, and crying “Brava!
Brava! Brava!” with such gusto that the
whole audience caught up the unusual word,
and the house rang with it.
The man in the orchestra stalls was
William Andrew Manning, a bachelor citizen
of some standing and modest affluence, un-
affectedly prominent in the El Dorado
Literature Association, and an accepted
authority on all matters of art.
“’Ron my soul, I never saw a Rosaliud
like her, and I have not missed a perform-
ance of ‘As You Like It,’ either here or in
Melbourne, for 20 years!” Manning, although
rather a reticent man, was addressing
strangers to the right and left of him with a
kind of rapture. “She carries me away.
Look at the fling of the leg, the throw of
an arm. Hear that laugh! Boyish, boyish
every movement, every note. Think of the
intelligence, the observation behind it all.
And she looks a child. Brava! Brava!”
When that act ended Manning led the
applause. He worked it up like a conscien-
tious usher, and when Josephine came,
smiling and bowing before the curtain, he
stood in his place, and took deliberate aim
at. her with a gorgeous hot-house bouquet,
originally intended for Miriam I'objoy.
Josephine lifted the flowers, kissed them,
smiled straight into the eyes of William
Andrew Manning, and withdrew with a
graceful curtsey.
Monday’s papers were most appreciative
of the performance of Miss Josephine Col-
vvater. The .Courier printed a long letter
signed “William A. Manning,” expressing
some sense of the great obligation under
which Mr. Horace Faber had placed Ballarat
in giving that city the privilege of being
first to welcome to Australia an artist of
such genius, such vivacity, such exhilarating-
charm, and such youth and beauty as Miss
Josephine Colwater.
Later in the day Mr. Manning, dressed
with meticulous care, and carrying a beauti-
ful bouquet, of tuberoses, presented him-
self at the office, and asked to see Mr.
Horace Faber. The gifted manager was
delighted to make Mr. Manning’s acquaint-
ance.
“You are very good,” said Manning. “My
desire is that you will present me to Miss
Colwater, that I may endeavor to express
to that young lady in person the deep debt
of gratitude I feel I owe her for the exquisite
pleasure she gave me on Saturday night.”
Mr. Faber was eloquently apologetic and
very sorry. “But, sir, Miss Colwater is
not now in the theatre. She is with her
mother, who, in point of fact, Mr. Manning,
never leaves her side.”
“Quite right. Quite right. Very proper,
I am sure,” said Mr. Manning.
“Our little girl is very young, very un-
conscious of the world, sir, wholly unspoiled.
We are all of us most anxious to keep her
so.”
“I applaud your sentiments, Mr. Faber.”
“We feel that excess of praise, admiration,
flattery, however well intended, can only be
harmful to her at this stage of her career.”
“I have no doubt you are acting wisely
and kindly. At least you will convey this
bunch of flowers from an anonymous friend
who is at the same time a devout, and, may
I say, fatherly worshipper,. Mr. Faber?”
So, with a fine verbal flourish, Mr.' Man-
ning departed. He was in the front stalls
again that evening, and his appreciation was
as cordial and as manifest as on the opening
night. On the third night Mr. Manning
came again, and on the fourth night he
was one of the hundreds who were sent
empty away. There was an announcement
hung on the outward wall in Lidiard-street
briefly intimating that in consequence of
unforeseen circumstances the Ballarat season
of the Avonian Dramatic Co. had come to an
abrupt termination.
Really the circumstances were not unfore-
seen : Miss Miriam I'objoy had given more
than a hint of them on the Sunday following
the d6but of Josephine Colwater. On the
Monday evening she had attended the
theatre, accompanied by her black cat,
threatening drastic action and exposure that
would have blighted Josephine’s bright pros-
pects and brought the management into
public contempt. Miriam was only re-
strained by violence. She was removed
from the rear of the house, she and her
cat spitting venom, and clawing with such
ferocity that the vanman felt justified in
charging 200 per cent, excess rates.
On the Thursday, as early and as quietly
as possible, the company stole away.
Horace Faber’s ticket was first-class to
Melbourne, but, since truth will prevail, he
was really travelling to the Devil at a pace
the railway commissioners could never hope
to attain, and with a companion who gave
the trip all the impressiveness of a
personally-conducted excursion.
William Andrew Manning remained to
keep the memory of Miss Josephine Col-
water an evergreen in Ballarat. He held
all the available photographs of the beauti-
ful Colwater, two simple cabinets, presented
as a special favor by the manager of the
late Avonian Dramatic Company: one dis-
playing Josephine’s graceful, if somewhat
immature, proportions in the tights of
Rosalind in Arden ; the other the picture of
a prettyish girl in short skirts, with two
Marguerita plaits hanging down in front,
and tied with large, blue bows.
Mr. Manning never lost an iota of his
enthusiasm. He remained possessed with
the glory of Josephine when years had
sped, and never wearied of spreading praise
of all her superfine qualities broadcast in
the town. She was to him the embodiment
of an epoch in art. He turned the Litera-
ture Association into a Shakspearean
Society, afid delivered endless lectures,
speeches and addresses on “As You Like
It,” the master’s most perfect play, with
special, almost ecstatic, references to Miss
Josephine Colwater’s Rosalind, which per-
formance he insisted had made a better man
of him.
The good man had made an effort to
keep in touch with Miss Colwater, in the
fond hope that he might seize any oppor-
tunity of seeing her act that offered itself,
but could discover no further mention of
his divinity. He even wrote to Mr. Horace
Faber at the office of the Faber Non-Cor-
rosive Frying and Saucepan Co., and after
a delay of weeks received a curt reply,
informing him that Miss Colwater’s parents
had withdrawn that young lady from the
stage for the time being. The writer added
that further pursuit would be discouraged.
William was hurt, but he still had his
glorious memories. He must have been a
shocking bore to his friends in the years
that followed, with his insistent poetical
praises of the incomparable Colwater, but
the joy of his appreciation was a very real
thing to him, and when he died, as he did
10 years after the disruption of the
Avonian Dramatic Co., he left the Rosalind
photograph of Josephine to the Ballarat
Shakspearean Society, and ordered that the
other picture be buried in his coffin.
Horace Faber had by this parted with his
interest in the Non-Corrosive Pans, and
was already out of gaol, whither he had
gone, after a fairly successful endeavor to
use the firm’s bank account as his own. He
now spent his leisure wondering where his
next drink was to come from. Horace was
not recognisable as the dapper youth who
promoted the Avonians. He had aged badly;
disgracefully, in fact. He had fattened
with a marked bloat; his lips had thickened,
there was a dirty stubble on his face; and
his outst.atiding eyes had a forced stare un-
comfortably suggestive of goitre. Mr.
Faber’s suit was greasy, and burst, toes
peeked from his boots as he walked, and
wherever the flesh of the man was visible
it had the appearance of dough that has
stood over two days and caked.
Horace was reading the “Situations
Vacant” column outside the Age office when
he discovered Messrs. Wart and Kennel-
man’s advertisement. Mr. Faber often read
the “Situations Vacant” column; I cannot
say why, unless it was to learn which
streets to avoid. The advertisement of
Messrs. Wart and Kennelman was in an
adjacent department, and caught his eye by
chance. It inquired briefly concerning the
whereabouts of a Miss Josephine Colwater
who played Rosalind in Ballarat on a given
date.
Horace cut the advertisement out and
went home. His home was on the second
floor over a stable in Port Melbourne. Here
Horace carefully re-arranged himself. He
borrowed the materials for a wash, he care-
fully brushed his suit with a handful of
straw.; then, buttoned to bursting point, he
went forth, and purchased a clean shave
with his last coin.
A cold, proud clerk sniffed at Mr. Faber
in the outer office of Wart and Kennelman,
and demanded “Well?” Horace offered the
newspaper cutting.
“Do you know anything of this person?”
demanded the sniffing clerk suspiciously.
“I may,” said Horace, “if it’s worth my
while.”
The clerk took the cutting to a higher
power. “Mr. Wart will see you person-
ally,” he said on reappearing. His manner
implied that Horace was the recipient of a
great favor often denied to princes.
Horace went in to Mr. Wart. The hard-
faced lawyer looked him over and pointed
to a chair, the cheap wooden one. “Sit
down.” he said. “1 may tell you we are
seeking this Miss Josephine Colwater as
executors of the late William Andrew Man-
ning, of Ballarat.”
Horace! moistened his lips, and turned a
shade paler; his hands trembled so in his lap
they seemed almost to jumn. “Is —is she
left money?” he ventured in a voice that
broke and croaked.
“She is. Mr. Manning bequeathed her
five thousand pounds in consideration of the
fact that for ten years remembrance of her
girlish sweetness, her beautv and her genius
had been a source of pleasure even when
pain was upon him. That is his own word-
ing of the will, I may tell you.”
“Five thousand pounds!” said Horace.
“Oh!” It seemed he might faint. “I know
where Miss Josephine Colwater is to be
found.”
“Well, you will be handsomely rewarded.
Mr. Manning made every provision for a
search.”
“I know where Josephine Colwater is at
this moment. Could —could this money be
drawn at once?”
“By Miss Colwater, almost immediately.”
“I can produce Josephine here.” Horace
had risen, but could not stand without the
assistance of Mr. Wart’s table. His shak-
ing hands drew something wrapped in dirty
paper from his pocket. He offered the law-
yer two stained photographs. “That is
Josephine Colwater” —he pointed to one pic-
ture. “The other is myself, Horace Faber,
taken at the same time.”
The lawyer looked at them. “Well?” he
inquired.
“Well, can’t you see I want that, five thou-
sand. I am Josephine Colwater.”
EDWARD DYSON.


h
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WfcSTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office— 93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
RuptureD
ARE YOU
Have you grown tired of weaving useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? 00 you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
In fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a OENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on tbe CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
PROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
849 Collins St., Melbourne. Vie.
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and hopeful
thoughts are required. The man who is de-
spondent or irritable always fails.
Low spirits and irritability of
temper are often caused by y
a dull, 'torpid liver. /
Wake up your liver /
with Carter'* Little
Liver Pills and start
the day with a bright
cheerful face. Both
your health and'
business will bene-
fit. No pain, no
ĥ
CARTERS]
F ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
discomfort. Thousands recommend them.
Good for old and young-purely vegetable.
%
Small Pill-Small Dose-Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
ħ
WMOfTS
The Greatest Name
In Goody-Land
//
\RIGLEYS PS
SP£A/?ff//vr
PERFECT GUM
SVRIGLEYS,
§§ .
EWIN6 GUM
I
I
I
•K
1
m
■»
■<3«
SEALED
TIGHT
KEPT
RIGHT
6 big bars
in eacb
packet
for 3d.
h
Made by
Wm. Wriaiey Jr. Co. Prop. Ltd..
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W.
94
h
ME
an
Bill
■ill! Ill]
ORLICKS
HALTED
m
SSP^cTm
OKMSU
o>t^.
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat,
and Malt). K«
for years and nevei 8
becomes stale or loses
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made
in a moment, any-
where. Only water,
is needed. In hot climates it is,
invaluable.
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
ĥ
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIL-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPILLARINE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over 5U years.
ħ
Protects and Softens the Skin
Before and after exposure to skin-chapping winds
and burning sun apply “Vaseline’ ’ Camphor Ice.
Keeps the skin smooth and comfortable, prevents
oracking.
“Vaseline” Petroleum Jelly combined with gum
camphor. Put up in tin boxes and tubes.
Try “ Vaseline” Borated for irritated membranes
and ‘‘Vaseline” Hair Tonic to invigorate and
clean the scalp.
* For sale at chemists and general stores.
Refuse substitutes.
CHESEBROUGH MFG. GO.
. (Consolidated)
New York London Montreal
s&zr-
Vaseline
Trade MarkJ
Camphor Ice


h
"MANGROVITE??
LEATHER
ĥ
ħ
Full Driving Power.
That is what every power-plant owner desires
from the belting he uses.
It is absolutely assured when you use Man-
grovite Leather or Rawhide Belting. It
grips the pulleys and transmits maximum
power to the machine, y. Prove it on your
power plant.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney, N.S.W.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaids
Motor-car Spring Steel in Big Supply.
No scarcity now. Wo can fill all demands from the large shipment just
landed. This spring-steel is of especially good quality. Sizes as follows: —
•Jin. x Jin., fin., fin., fin., lin., ljin.
fin. x lfin., ljin., lfin., 2in., 2fin., 3in. Flat
pin. xfin., lin., lfin., lfin.,lfin., lfin., 2in. Flat
fin. x lfin., lfin., lfin., 2in., 2fin., 2fin. 4in. Flat
xfin. x lfin., lfin., lfin., 2in., 2fin. Flat
Place your orders early. Immediate delivery given.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel, 379-381 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
h
ĥ
“Fibrolite” has achieved everythin." that you require
of a modern building material, it has stood the
test of time—is proof against Fire, ltust, Rot
White Ants, Acid Fumes, etc.
Send for the ‘‘Fibrolite” Booklet, which tells all
about “Fibrolite” and its many advantages over
other building materials, ihe book is fiee. Write
for it to-day.
James fiardie & Co. Ltd.
“Asbestos House,”
Cr. York and Wynyard Streets, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8450 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their stiong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, hut to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience vie place at your service.
AH
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
Alliance
Building,
97
Pitt Street, Sydney
And at
Perth;
Melbourne, Brisbane,
and Auckland, NX
i
L A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2% inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly fot attach-
ing to fish mg'-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6to 8 miles per hour. <
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat, or Rails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
ħ
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS
for All Purposes.
THE. PIONEER. PLANTE PLATE.
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO,, LTD,
- (Australasian Office)—
P.O. BOX 2550.
TELEPHONE: CITY S9SI
Culwulla Chambers,
CASTLEREAGH STREET— SYDNEY,
a
h
We manufacture wbat is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
i cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12in. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include: —
BORE PUMPS, all sixes anti strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRA CT WORK—Send Specifications
4k'
ALDERDIGE LTD., Warrnambool
ĥ
A complete lilectric Li»ht Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Houses, Stations, Stores
Schools of Arts, etc.
□
.COB:!
Ml
m
Mi. ~,A
Rum on
Kerosene
Safe,
[Reliable
Gallon of Kerosene*
will light 32 Lamps for 4% hours
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBLTftTON,
309 Kent Street, Sydney;
& CO. I/TD.,
FKANKI IjTI).,
380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Brisbane.
\ ■
' “"S' P;
Jr*?;
-I'P?
t
ma
s,
h
ĥ
.
Si-
THE capacity of the LISTER 2-Stand Shearing Plant is remarkable. One user put through
15,000 sheep on 13 cases of kerosene, making over £3OO profit in 12 weeks, and that performance
was no “flash in the pan.” Hard-headed sheepmen swear by LISTER Shearing Machines
because they stand up to the hard job day after day, year after year, with maxinytini tallies
all the time and low cost for upkeep. In LISTER SHEARING OUTFITS you get the ideal combina-
tion of Australian brains and British Engineering skill. Lister 2-Stand,Rlants, »re quipped
either 3-8.11. P. Type “Z” kerosene engines; 134-8.H.l . Type Z Petiol, or l/z-B.H.P. LISTER
PETROL ENGINE. Write for Booklet 109 A to any of the following:—
CHIEF AGENTS —
Dc&ngciT, Gedye & Go. li-td., 9-13 Young street, Sydney.
E 222
SUB-AGENTS—Winchcombe, Carson Etd., 99 Eagle Street. Brisbane; Mallocli Bros., 52-54 William Street, Perth;
A. G. Webster & Sons, lit«l., Hobart.
The Keyston
a,
For WELL BORING, PROSPECTING
and BLASTHOLE BORING.
TRACTION and NON-TRACTION.
FRICTION and COO HOIST.
The KEYSTONE is famed for
FAST DRILLING and
ECONOMY IN UPKEEP.
Its Stroke is Long, Quick and Positive.
Bore any Depth to 3500 ft.
ħ
Sole Agents for Australasia
Electrical, Mining, Metallurgical and Designing Engineers, 350 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Keystone Traction Excavator
A Light, General Utility Steam Shovel for
Contractors’ Use.
CAPACITY 150 to 300 WAGGON=LQADS IN 10 HOURS,
As used by the Commonwealth Government.
Three kinds of Scoops can be used for
STREET GRADING
SIDE-HILL EMBANKMENTS.
TRENCHES, IRRIGATION DITCHES, etc.
Made in two sizes, 10 and 15 tons. Will move on its own power anywhere.
Much more economical than heavy steam shovels.
